Numerous agents with differing biological properties and central nervous system (CNS) effects can induce panic attacks in predisposed individuals. A potential explanation of this finding is that panic disorder patients are more likely to panic than normal control subjects when given a panicogen due to an excessive fear response to somatic arousal. We test this hypothesis by using doxapram, a panicogen with minimal CNS effects, to induce panic in patients and control subjects. Doxapram was given to six subjects with panic disorder with or without agoraphobia and four healthy volunteers. Measures comprised the Acute Panic Inventory, the Borg Exertion scale, the 10-point Anxiety Scale, the 10-point Apprehension Scale, cortisol, prolactin, and MHPG, all obtained at baseline and multiple time points after the doxapram infusion. All panic disorder patients panicked with doxapram, whereas no control subjects had a panic attack. Panic patients had similar levels of breathlessness with doxapram compared with control subjects. Although panic patients had higher levels of anxiety and apprehension, these did not change significantly with doxapram compared with control levels. Doxapram led to similar increases in cortisol and prolactin in both groups, and MHPG was consistently elevated in panic patients, but unaffected by doxapram. These results show that doxapram is a useful panicogen in the study of panic disorder. Since the panic patients and control subjects had similar levels of physiological and psychological arousal, but the panic patients were more likely to have a panic attack, this lends support to the concept of a sensitized fear network in panic disorder patients.
Ethambutol (EMB) is one of the first-line drugs in the treatment against tuberculosis (TB). Side-effects are infrequent, but its main adverse effect, optical neuropathy, has long been recognised. The mechanisms of action and predisposing factors have not yet been fully understood.
We conducted a retrospective study (1992--2007) in an attempt to find predisposing factors for optical neuropathy.
Visual disturbance was reported in 1.3% of the 760 patients treated with EMB; of these, 0.8% were EMB-related. We present the six cases; four were clearly overdosed, but in two obese patients dosage was correctly calculated for total body weight (TBW).
Analysis of the case histories and previous reports suggest that optical neuropathy may at least partly be caused by EMB overdosing due to daily dosing based on TBW instead of dosing on lean body mass.
This study investigated the hepatoprotective effects of N-acetylcysteine and different doses of S-adenosyl-L-methionine after a single intraperitoneal overdose of paracetamol in mice. Plasma concentrations of paracetamol metabolites were also determined. Female mice (Souris OFl strain) 16 weeks old and weighing 30 g were fasted for 18 h prior to intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of 375 mg/kg (2.5 mmol/kg) of paracetamol. Experimental subgroups included mice administered paracetamol only (control group), those given of N-acetylcysteine 1 g/kg (6.13 mmol/kg) i.p. immediately after paracetamol overdose (T0) and 6 h after dosing (T6) and those administered S-adenosyl-L-methionine at doses of 20 mg/kg (0.05 mmol/kg) and 1 g/kg (2.5 mmol/kg) i.p. at T0 and T6. Twenty-four hours after paracetamol overdose, mortality and liver necrosis were significantly lower (p < 0.01) in mice treated with 2.5 mmol/kg of S-adenosyl-L-methionine and N-acetylcysteine at T0 as compared with the remaining subgroups. Plasma ALT concentrations were significantly lower (p < 0.01) in mice treated with 2.5 mmol/kg of S-adenosyl-L-methionine than in those given N-acetylcysteine. Plasma concentrations of paracetamol metabolites showed an increase in the glucuronide conjugate and a decrease in the mercapturic acid conjugate in N-acetylcysteine-treated mice and an overall decrease in the conjugation pathway without changes in the oxidative pathway in S-adenosyl-L-methionine-treated animals. We conclude that S-adenosyl-L-methionine at doses of 1 g/kg (2.5 mmol/kg) i.p. was equally effective as 1 g/kg (6.13 mmol/kg) N-acetylcysteine for preventing hepatotoxicity after paracetamol overdose in mice. S-adenosyl-L-methionine may be a therapeutic alternative to N-acetylcysteine as an antidote for poisoning with paracetamol.
A 72-year-old patient with esophageal carcinoma developed a severe hand-foot syndrome during second-line therapy with the oral fluoropyrimidine capecitabine. We also summarize the current knowledge with regard to the hand-foot syndrome and distinguish it from palmoplantar erythrodysesthesia.
Meningitis due to methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus is a rare clinical presentation but has been well documented in postneurosurgical patients. To our knowledge, no case of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus meningitis has been previously reported in a nonneurosurgical patient with AIDS. In this case report we describe a person with AIDS who had no history of a neurosurgical procedure, shunt devices, head trauma, or recent hospitalization that presented with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus meningitis. The infection was successfully treated. Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureusshould be considered in the differential of meningitis in people with AIDS.
Adult male Long-Evans rats and White Leghorn hens were given 30 mg/kg mipafox ip. Administration of this organophosphorus ester resulted in > or = 89% inhibition of brain and spinal cord neurotoxic esterase activity in both species 4 hr after dosing. Our sequential, comparative study of the bilateral mipafox-induced neuropathy in the medulla and cervical spinal cord in hens and rats demonstrated that the rats had well-developed, vacuolar axonopathic lesions in the fasciculus gracilis by post-dosing day 7. Severely affected rats with such lesions were noted through day 21, but not subsequently (days 28 and 35). The hen had a slower developing, but more severe, consistent and longer lasting neuropathy than the rat. In these birds, lesions in the medulla and rostral cervical spinal cord levels were more extensive, involving large regions of both the spinocerebellar tracts and fasciculus gracilis. Neuropathic changes, including myelinated fiber axonopathy and Wallerian-like degeneration, were prominent from days 14 - 35 in hens, and were associated with prominent gliosis in the later stages.
A 41-year-old woman, who presented with (apparent) essential hypertension, was treated with atenolol and candesartan. This treatment, however, was unsuccessful. After the addition of hydrochlorothiazide (HCT) to the combination, she developed hypokalaemia with muscle cramps and weakness. This hypokalaemia persisted for more than 4 weeks after discontinuation of HCT and starting potassium suppletion. As a result of polyuria (> 4000 ml/day) found in a 24-hour urine collection, it was discovered that the patient drank at least 3 litres of liquorice tea a day. She had denied eating liquorice sweets, a well-known cause of hypertension in the Netherlands, but no one had thought of asking her if she drank liquorice tea. Blood pressure and serum potassium normalized about 2 months after she stopped drinking liquorice tea, and medication was withdrawn. In a patient presenting with hypertension and hypokalaemia, who denies eating liquorice sweets, one should consider the consumption of other products containing liquorice such as liquorice tea. In the Netherlands liquorice tea is increasingly popular and has recently become available on a large scale. Therefore more cases such as the one described may be expected in coming years.
The predominant neuronal glutamate transporter, EAAC1 (for excitatory amino acid carrier-1), is localized to the dendrites and somata of many neurons. Rare presynaptic localization is restricted to GABA terminals. Because glutamate is a precursor for GABA synthesis, we hypothesized that EAAC1 may play a role in regulating GABA synthesis and, thus, could cause epilepsy in rats when inactivated. Reduced expression of EAAC1 by antisense treatment led to behavioral abnormalities, including staring-freezing episodes and electrographic (EEG) seizures. Extracellular hippocampal and thalamocortical slice recordings showed excessive excitability in antisense-treated rats. Patch-clamp recordings of miniature IPSCs (mIPSCs) conducted in CA1 pyramidal neurons in slices from EAAC1 antisense-treated animals demonstrated a significant decrease in mIPSC amplitude, indicating decreased tonic inhibition. There was a 50% loss of hippocampal GABA levels associated with knockdown of EAAC1, and newly synthesized GABA from extracellular glutamate was significantly impaired by reduction of EAAC1 expression. EAAC1 may participate in normal GABA neurosynthesis and limbic hyperexcitability, whereas epilepsy can result from a disruption of the interaction between EAAC1 and GABA metabolism.
Previous studies have shown that group II metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are present on the peripheral terminals of primary sensory neurons, suggesting that they might be involved in nociception. In this study, we investigated the modulation of nociception by peripheral group II mGluRs and the molecular basis of this modulation. Subcutaneous injection of a group II mGluR agonist, 2R,4R 4-aminopyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate (APDC), did not alter thermal sensitivity but blocked prostaglandin E2 (PGE2)-induced thermal hyperalgesia. This effect was blocked by (2s)-2-amino-2-[(1s,2s)-2-carboxycycloprop-1-yl]-3-(xanth-9-yl) propanoic acid, a selective group II mGluR antagonist. In cultured primary sensory neurons, APDC blocked PGE2-induced potentiation of capsaicin responses, which was abolished when neurons were pretreated with pertussis toxin. Similar potentiating effects induced by forskolin but not 8-bromo-cAMP were also blocked by the activation of group II mGluRs. These results indicate that peripheral group II mGluRs act via inhibition of adenylyl cyclase to reverse the sensitization of capsaicin receptors and the thermal hyperalgesia induced by PGE2, and suggest that peripheral group II mGluRs might be targeted for therapeutic intervention in inflammatory pain states.
Blockade of CD40-CD40 ligand (CD154) interactions protects against renal injury in adriamycin nephropathy (AN) in immunocompetent mice. To investigate whether this protection relied on adaptive or cognate immunity, we tested the effect of CD40-CD154 blockade in severe combined immunodeficient (SCID) mice.
SCID mice were divided into three groups: normal, AN + hamster IgG (ADR+IgG group) and AN + anti-CD154 antibody (MR1) (ADR+MR1 group). AN was induced by tail vein injection of 5.2 mg/kg of adriamycin (ADR). Hamster IgG (control Ab) or MR1 was administered intraperitoneally on days 5, 7, 9 and 11 after ADR injection. Histological and functional data were collected 4 weeks after ADR injection. In vitro experiments tested the effect of soluble and cell-bound CD154 co-cultured with CD40-expressing cells [macrophages, mesangial cells and renal tubular epithelial cells (RTEC)].
All experimental animals developed nephropathy. Compared to the ADR+IgG group, ADR+MR1 animals had significantly less histological injury (glomerulosclerosis and tubular atrophy) and functional injury (creatinine clearance). Kidneys of ADR+MR1 animals had significantly less macrophage infiltration than those of ADR+IgG animals. Interestingly, expression of CD40 and CD41 (a platelet-specific marker) was significantly less in ADR+MR1 animals compared to ADR+IgG animals. In vitro, CD154 blockade significantly attenuated upregulation of CCL2 gene expression by RTEC stimulated by activated macrophage-conditioned medium. In contrast, platelet-induced upregulation of macrophage and mesangial cell proinflammatory cytokine gene expression were not CD154-dependent.
CD40-CD154 blockade has a significant innate renoprotective effect in ADR nephrosis. This is potentially due to inhibition of macrophage-derived soluble CD154.
Necrotizing vasculitis is a complex phenomenon because of an inflammation of small and larger vessels with polymorph infiltration within the vessel walls and leukocytoclasis, occurring in several autoimmune diseases. Propylthiouracil (PTU) is a medication commonly used to treat hyperthyroidism, but it is associated with various rare side effects, such as antineutrophil cytoplasm antibody-positive vasculitis. In the last decades, multiple cases of PTU causing antineutrophilic cytoplasmic antibody have been reported, some of them fatal. The present authors report the case of a 34-year-old Caucasian female affected by autoimmune hyperthyroidism treated with PTU, presenting an antineutrophil cytoplasm antibody-positive necrotizing vasculitis, with high levels of anticardiolipin antibodies that involved the upper arms and buttocks. The clinical manifestations improved after discontinuing of PTU and immunosuppressant treatment.
Twenty-five patients affected by 30 episodes of tic douloureux were treated with a new anticonvulsant, clonazepam. In 40% there was complete control of the neuralgia and an additional 23.3% were significantly helped by the drug. Sixteen patients had previously been resistant to carbamazepine, and eight of them were completely and one partially relieved by clonazepam. The side-effects, somnolence and unsteadiness of gait, were present to some extent in 80 and 88% of the cases respectively, being severe in about half of them. It is concluded that clonazepam can be considered as a second choice for the treatment of this condition, after proven failure with carbamazepine. Possible mechanisms of action are discussed.
Midazolam is a short-acting, water-soluble benzodiazepine used for induction and maintenance of general anesthesia and as an adjunct to regional anesthesia. This substance produces several types of untoward reactions, including agitated excitement, mental confusion, and uncooperativeness, as well as dystonic extrapyramidal reactions, such as tonic clonic movements, muscle tremor, and athetoid movements. We describe two patients who developed akinesthesia with athetoid movements of the lower extremities after receiving midazolam as a premedication and as an adjunct to epidural anesthesia. These movements occurred with a sensory level of T4 as assessed by pinprick, even though the patients were unable to move their lower extremities.
A system of postmarketing surveillance of antirheumatic drugs employing prospective protocol based consecutive patient cohorts is described, together with use of recursive partitioning techniques for statistical adjustment for potentially confounding variables. An analysis of 2 side effects (purpura and upper abdominal pain) is presented. Purpura was found to be associated with age, sex, disease duration, and amount of disability. The combination of aspirin and prednisone was associated with the highest prevalence of purpura. Upper abdominal pain also varied across drug classes. Within the nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug category, there were clinically important differences in the relative prevalence of upper gastrointestinal pain between specific drugs.
We report a case of rhabdomyolysis and acute compartment syndrome of the lower extremity in a schizophrenic patient taking risperidone following the addition of simvastatin to treat hyperlipidemia. We suspect that disrupted drug metabolism, resulting from interactions with cytochrome P450 enzymes, rapidly elevated drug plasma levels, which then led to muscle toxicity. Clinicians who pharmacologically treat medical comorbidities in patients receiving atypical antipsychotics must be proactive in anticipating potential drug-drug interactions.
Non-ketotic hyperglycinaemia (NKH) is a rare, severe brain disease caused by deficient glycine cleavage enzyme complex activity resulting in elevated glycine concentrations. Recent experience suggests that factors in addition to glycine kinetics are involved in its pathogenesis. The glycine cleavage reaction through the formation of methylenetetrahydrofolate is an important one-methyl group donor. A deficiency in one-methyl group metabolites, in particular of choline, has been hypothesized in NKH. We investigated metabolites involved in one-methyl group metabolism in plasma and CSF of 8 patients with NKH, and monitored the effect of treatment with choline in one patient. Plasma and CSF choline and phosphatidylcholine concentrations were normal, except for a low plasma choline in the single neonate studied. Choline treatment did not change brain choline content, and was not associated with clinical or radiological improvement. Methionine concentrations and, in one-patient, S-adenosylmethionine and 5-methyltetrahydrofolate concentrations were normal in CSF. Homocysteine concentrations in CSF, however, were slightly but consistently elevated in all four patients examined, but cysteine, cysteinylglycine and glutathione were normal. Serine is important in the transfer of one-methyl groups from mitochondria to cytosol. Serine concentrations were normal in plasma and CSF, but dropped to below normal in CSF in three patients on benzoate treatment. These observations add to our understanding of the complex metabolic disturbances in NKH.
The antipsychotic efficacy of aripiprazole is not generally associated with extrapyramidal symptoms, cardiovascular effects, sedation or elevations in serum prolactin that characterize typical or atypical antipsychotics. The aim of this study was to clarify the mechanism of action of aripiprazole that underlies its favourable clinical profiles. The preclinical efficacy and side-effect profiles of aripiprazole were evaluated using several pharmaco-behavioural test systems in mice and rats, both in vivo and ex vivo, and compared with those of other conventional and atypical antipsychotics. Each of the antipsychotics induced catalepsy and inhibited apomorphine-induced stereotypy. The catalepsy liability ratios for these drugs were 6.5 for aripiprazole, 4.7 for both olanzapine and risperidone. The ptosis liability ratios for aripiprazole, olanzapine and risperidone were 14, 7.2 and 3.3, respectively. Aripiprazole slightly increased DOPA accumulation in the forebrain of reserpinised mice, reduced 5-HTP accumulation at the highest dose and exhibited a weaker inhibition of 5-methoxy-N,N-dimethyl-tryptamine-induced head twitches. Aripiprazole did not inhibit physostigmine- or norepinephrine-induced lethality in rats. In conclusion, aripiprazole shows a favourable preclinical efficacy and side-effect profile compared to a typical antipsychotics. This profile may result from its high affinity partial agonist activity at D2 and 5-HT1A receptors and its antagonism of 5-HT2A receptors.
The objective of the present study was to examine some factors involved in follicular development of women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). Women with PCOS showed increased levels of serum luteinizing hormone (LH) but decreased follicular production of progesterone and estradiol by pre-ovulatory follicles. The mRNA expression corresponding to steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR), and 20alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (20α-HSD) was increased, while that corresponding to cytochrome P450 aromatase (P450arom) was decreased in PCOS follicles as compared to controls. No changes in the mRNA expression for 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 2 (3β-HSD2), cytochrome P450 side-chain cleavage (P450scc), cytochrome P450 17 alpha hydroxylase/lyase (P450c17), cyclooxygenase 2 (COX2), and transcription factors (GATA-4 and GATA-6) were found. We conclude that despite the hyper-luteinized environment of PCOS follicles, these follicles produce lower levels of progesterone and estradiol, and that this is characterized by increased degradation of progesterone and decreased estradiol synthesis. Our data demonstrate that the synthesis of prostaglandin F2α (PGF2α) may be affected in PCOS-follicles and that the transcription factors GATA-4 and GATA-6 are present in PCOS-follicles but they are not involved in the abnormal transcription observed in the steroidogenic enzymes.
Electroconvulsive therapy is considered to be an effective treatment for severe depression. We have already shown that the antidepressant-like effects of tricyclic antidepressants in the rat forced swim test are blocked by repeated treatment with adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). In the present study, we investigated the effect of repeated electroconvulsive stimuli on the forced swim test and on brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) protein levels in ACTH-treated rats. Electroconvulsive stimuli (50 mA, 0.2 s) was administered 30 min after ACTH treatment (100 microg/rat, s.c.) once daily for 14 days. In both saline and ACTH-treated rats, repeated electroconvulsive stimuli for 6 or 14 days decreased the immobility time in the forced swim test and increased the BDNF protein levels in the hippocampus. However, repeated imipramine administration (10 mg/kg, i.p. for 14 days) had no effect on the hippocampus BDNF protein levels in ACTH-treated rats. These results suggest that electroconvulsive stimuli has decreasing effects of immobility time in the forced swim test in the tricyclic antidepressant-resistant depressive model of rats induced by repeated ACTH treatment, and that increased BDNF may be involved in this phenomenon.
Acute cholestatic hepatitis developed in two patients, a 58-year-old man and a 54-year-old woman, who had been treated for hypercholesterolaemia with the cholesterol-synthesis inhibitor lovastatin for 3 years and 2 months, respectively. Both of them at first complained only of tiredness and loss of appetite, but then developed jaundice with colourless stool and dark urine. Alkaline phosphatase concentration rose up to maximally 1227 and 569 U/l, gamma-GT to 403 and 410 U/l, respectively. The transaminases and glutamate dehydrogenase were also elevated, while serum cholinesterase had fallen to 2346 and 2418 U/l, respectively. Histological examination of liver biopsies 6 months and 4 weeks, respectively, after onset of jaundice also suggested drug-toxic liver damage. There was no evidence for other causes. After lovastatin had been discontinued the various cholestasis parameters regressed only slowly.
We describe 3 cases of antibiotic-induced hemolysis associated with cefotetan prophylaxis during cesarean delivery. Each of the 3 patients showed development of significant anemia with documented cefotetan-induced hemolysis. When postpartum anemia is associated with antibiotic use, immune hemolytic anemia should be considered and included in the differential diagnosis.
Methamphetamine (mAMPH) is an addictive drug that produces memory and recall impairments in humans. Animals subjected to a binge mAMPH dosing regimen that damages brain dopamine and serotonin terminals show impairments in an object recognition (OR) task. Earlier research demonstrated that preceding a single-day mAMPH binge regimen with several days of increasing mAMPH doses greatly attenuates its neurotoxicity in rats. The escalating dose (ED) paradigm appears to mimic the human pattern of escalating drug intake. The current aim was to test whether an ED plus binge mAMPH regimen produces OR impairments. In addition to its translational value, this experiment helps address whether monoaminergic neurotoxicity accounts for OR impairments seen after mAMPH administration. To further address this issue, a separate experiment investigated both OR impairments and monoamine transporter integrity in groups of rats treated with a range of mAMPH doses during a single day. An ED mAMPH regimen attenuated the acute hyperthermic response to the subsequent mAMPH binge and prevented the OR impairments and reductions in [125 I]RTI-55 binding to monoamine transporters in striatum, hippocampus (HC), and perirhinal cortex (pRh) that otherwise occur 1 week after the mAMPH binge. Single-day mAMPH regimens (4 x 1mg/kg to 4 x 4 mg/kg, s.c.) dose-dependently produced acute hyperthermia and, 1 week post-mAMPH, produced dose-dependent impairments in OR and reductions in monoamine transporter binding. The OR impairments of single-day mAMPH-treated rats correlated with monoaminergic transporter loss in ventral caudate-putamen, HC, and pRh. In aggregate, these findings suggest a correspondence between mAMPH-induced monoaminergic injury and the resulting OR deficits.
Drugs that are administered to man may be biotransformed to yield metabolites that are pharmacologically active. The therapeutic and toxic activities of drug metabolites and the species in which this activity was demonstrated are compiled for the metabolites of 58 drugs. The metabolite to parent drug ratio in the plasma of non-uraemic man and the percentage urinary excretion of the metabolite in non-uraemic man are also tabulated. Those active metabolites with significant pharmacological activity and high plasma levels, both relative to that of the parent drug, will probably contribute substantially to the pharmacological effect ascribed to the parent drug. Active metabolites may accumulate in patients with end stage renal disease if renal excretion is a major elimination pathway for the metabolite. This is true even if the active metabolite is a minor metabolite of the parent drug, as long as the minor metabolite is not further biotransformed and is mainly excreted in the urine. Minor metabolite accumulation may also occur if it is further biotransformed by a pathway inhibited in uraemia. Some clinical examples of the accumulation of active drug metabolites in patients with renal failure are: (a) The abolition of premature ventricular contractions and prevention of paroxysmal atrial tachycardia in some cardiac patients with poor renal function treated with procainamide are associated with high levels of N-acetylprocainamide. (b) The severe irritability and twitching seen in a uraemic patient treated with pethidine (meperidine) are associated with high levels of norpethidine. (c) The severe muscle weakness and tenderness seen in patients with renal failure receiving clofibrate are associated with excessive accumulation of the free acid metabolite of clofibrate. (d) Patients with severe renal insufficiency taking allopurinol appear to experience a higher incidence of side reactions, possibly due to the accumulation of oxipurinol. (e) Accumulation of free and acetylated sulphonamides in patients with renal failure is associated with an increase in toxic side-effects (severe nausea and vomiting, evanescent macular rash). (f) Peripheral neuritis seen after nitrofurantoin therapy in patients with impaired renal function is thought to be due to accumulation of a toxic metabolite. The high incidence of adverse drug reactions seen in patients with renal failure may for some drugs be explained in part, as the above examples illustrate, by the accumulation of active drug metabolites. Monitoring plasma levels of drugs can be an important guide to therapy. However, if a drug has an active metabolite, determination of parent drug alone may cause misleading interpretations of blood level measurements. The plasma level of the active metabolite should also be determined and its time-action characteristics taken into account in any clinical decisions based on drug level monitoring.
