Normeperidine, a major metabolite of meperidine, is half as potent as meperidine as an analgesic but two to three times more potent as a convulsant. Renal failure significantly increases the plasma half-life of normeperidine. The intensity of the central nervous system excitation is highly correlated with the plasma concentration of normeperidine. Moreover, normeperidine toxicity is not reversed by naloxone, which may exacerbate it. We report a patient with end-stage renal disease undergoing maintenance continuous cycler peritoneal dialysis who had been receiving meperidine for pain control. The patient subsequently developed myoclonic contractions and a grand mal seizure. The patient was successfully treated with hemodialysis (using an F8 dialyzer) for presumed normeperidine-induced seizure. During hemodialysis, normeperidine average blood clearance was 73 mL/min, average plasma clearance was 50 mL/min, and average percentage of plasma extraction was 24%. There also was a 26% reduction in plasma concentration of normeperidine over 3 hours of hemodialysis. In conclusion, our findings suggest that hemodialysis may be used effectively for treating patients with suspected normeperidine-induced neurotoxicity.
The purpose was to investigate the role of immunophilin ligands in ischemia/reperfusion (I/R)-induced germ cell apoptosis in the rat.
Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into five groups with ten animals in each. In animals undergoing torsion/detorsion, right testes were rotated 720 degrees for 1 h. A baseline group was for basal normal values. The sham-operated group served as a control group. The TD group underwent torsion/detorsion surgery alone; the cyclosporine-A group (TD-CsA) received intravenous cyclosporine injection (5 mg/kg) at the time of detorsion, and the FK-506 group (TD-FK) received intravenous FK-506 (3.5 mg/kg) at the time of detorsion. For measurement of lipid peroxidation and antioxidant enzyme activities, the right testes of five animals in each group were excised after 4-h reperfusion. Germ cell apoptosis indices were determined 24 h following detorsion in the right testes of the remaining five animals in each group.
Malondialdehyde (MDA) levels in the TD group were significantly higher compared to control and baseline groups. Moreover, testicular MDA values in TD-CsA and TD-FK groups were significantly lower than in TD. There were also significant decreases in catalase and superxide dismutase activities in the TD group compared to control and baseline groups. These values in TD-CsA and TD-FK groups were significantly higher than in TD. The mean germ cell apoptosis scores were significantly higher in TD animals compared to control and baseline groups; however, CsA and FK-506 treatment significantly reduced the apoptosis compared with the TD group.
We have shown that administration of immunophilin ligands in testicular torsion decreases ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) cellular damage. The results of biochemical studies suggest that reduction of oxidative stress along with attenuated neutrophil accumulation by immunophilin ligands may have a major role in their cytoprotective effects.
Diabetic neuropathic pain is an important microvascular complication in diabetes mellitus and oxidative stress plays a vital role in associated neural and vascular complications. The present study investigated flavonoid rich fruit extract (ethyl acetate:methanol fraction) of E. officinalis (10 mg/kg), in type II diabetes (high fat diet fed/low dose streptozotocin) induced diabetic neuropathy in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Diabetic rats exhibited a significant hyperalgesia (nociception) as compared to control rats. Treatment with E. officinalis extract (EOE) and quercetin in diabetic rats showed significant increase in tail flick latency in hot immersion test and pain threshold level in hot plate test compared to control rats. The changes in lipid peroxidation status and anti-oxidant enzymes (superoxide dismutase and catalase) levels observed in diabetic rats were significantly restored by E. officinalis extract and quercetin treatment. Both, E. officinalis extract and quercetin attenuated diabetic induced axonal degeneration. The study provides experimental evidence of the preventive and curative effect of E. officinalis on nerve function and oxidative stress in animal model of diabetic neuropathy. Since, E. officinalis fruit is already in clinical use for diabetic patients it may be evaluated for preventive therapy in diabetic patients at risk of developing neuropathy.
It is known that chewing Betel quid with tobacco (BQT) or without tobacco (BQ) is a major etiological factor for cardiovascular complications and calcium channel blockers (CCBs) are the major class of drugs prescribed widely for myocardial disturbances. The possible pharmacodynamic interaction between CCBs (verapamil, amlodipine and diltiazem) and BQ/BQT was studied on isoproterenol (ISO)-induced myocardial necrosis in mice. Influence of (CCBs) therapy on pretreated animals at times of myocardial stress were determined by estimating diagnostic marker enzymes such as lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and creatine phosphokinase isoenzyme (CK-MB) in serum and heart tissue homogenate (HTH). Administration of CCBs to mice pretreated with BQ produced a significant decrease and increase in biomarker enzyme levels in serum and HTH respectively. Further, incorporation of diltiazem and amlodipine in BQT pretreated mice significantly elevated enzyme levels in HTH, whereas, amlodipine administration during BQT treatment showed significant fall in enzyme levels in serum. The results indicated that BQT is cardiotoxic and its effect cannot be reversed using CCBs while BQ is cardioprotective, whose activity was further augmented by amlodipine. Histopathological studies confirmed the biochemical findings.
We assessed the changes in atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and its messenger RNA (mRNA) levels in atria and ventricles in relation to hemodynamic factors during antihypertensive treatments in two-kidney, one-clip renovascular hypertensive rats (RHRs). Hypertension of 10-week duration caused a twofold increase in the left ventricular weight/body weight ratio, a significant increase in left ventricular end-diastolic pressure, and an eightfold increase in left ventricular ANP mRNA levels in RHRs, as compared with the levels in control rats. Uninephrectomy or 4 weeks of treatment with the converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril reduced the blood pressure to the control level, with the complete reversal of left ventricular hypertrophy, left ventricular end-diastolic pressure, and ANP mRNA levels. Four weeks of treatment with the arterial vasodilator hydralazine significantly, but not completely, reduced the high blood pressure, but it did not influence left ventricular hypertrophy, end-diastolic pressure, and ANP mRNA levels. The increased ANP synthesis observed in the right ventricles of RHRs also reverted to the control level by uninephrectomy or enalapril treatment, but not by hydralazine, with a time course similar to that of left ventricular ANP. In addition, uninephrectomy caused the left and right ventricular ANP and ANP mRNA levels of RHRs to fall to the levels of control rats as early as 1 week, despite persistent left ventricular hypertrophy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Sertraline is generally used for the treatment of depression and is also approved for the treatment of panic, obsessive-compulsive, and posttraumatic stress disorders. Previously, using rat primary hepatocytes and isolated mitochondria, we demonstrated that sertraline caused hepatic cytotoxicity and mitochondrial impairment. In the current study, we investigated and characterized molecular mechanisms of sertraline toxicity in human hepatoma HepG2 cells. Sertraline decreased cell viability and induced apoptosis in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Sertraline activated the intrinsic checkpoint protein caspase-9 and caused the release of cytochrome c from mitochondria to cytosol; this process was Bcl-2 family dependent because antiapoptotic Bcl-2 family proteins were decreased. Pretreatment of the HepG2 cells with caspase-3, caspase-8, and caspase-9 inhibitors partially but significantly reduced the release of lactate dehydrogenase, indicating that sertraline-induced apoptosis is mediated by both intrinsic and extrinsic apoptotic pathways. Moreover, sertraline markedly increased the expression of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and the phosphorylation of JNK, extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK1/2), and p38. In sertraline-treated cells, the induction of apoptosis and cell death was shown to be the result of activation of JNK, but not ERK1/2 or p38 in the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway. Furthermore, silencing MAP4K4, the upstream kinase of JNK, attenuated both apoptosis and cell death caused by sertraline. Taken together, our findings suggest that sertraline induced apoptosis in HepG2 cells at least partially via activation of the TNF-MAP4K4-JNK cascade signaling pathway.
Relative effects of equihypotensive doses (-35 mmHg) of adenosine (5.0 mumol/kg) and nitroglycerin (25 micrograms/kg) on heart rate and, therefore, baroreflex sensitivity were studied in conscious dogs. Nitroglycerin increased heart rate 133 +/- 24% from 78 +/- 5.5 beats/min, whereas adenosine increased heart rate only 79 +/- 16% from 78 +/- 5.2 beats/min (P less than 0.01). Injection of nitroglycerin during combined beta-adrenergic and muscarinic receptor blockades caused arterial pressure to fall 38 +/- 3.4% from 107 +/- 3.2 mmHg without any significant change in heart rate (3.8 +/- 3.8 from 162 +/- 9.2 beats/min). During combined beta-adrenergic and muscarinic receptor blockades adenosine also reduced arterial pressure 45 +/- 2.7% from 106 +/- 2.9 mmHg but unexpectedly reduced heart rate as well by 37 +/- 1.7% from 160 +/- 9.7 beats/min. This bradycardia reflected an effect on the sinoatrial (SA) node rather than an induction of heart block, since the R-R interval increased by 70 +/- 7.8% from 371 +/- 20 ms (P less than 0.01), while the P-R interval increased only 13 +/- 2.3% from 97 +/- 7.2 ms (P less than 0.05) with no electrocardiographic evidence of nonconducted beats. Arterial plasma adenosine levels were 43 +/- 5 nmol/ml at this time. Adenosine also caused bradycardia during muscarinic blockade alone (-43 +/- 3.4% from 201 +/- 6.4 beats/min) and following bilateral vagal section (-33 +/- 1.9% from 151 +/- 5.9 beats/min). In summary, adenosine appears to alter normal baroreflex function in the conscious dog by reducing the tachycardia that normally follows a fall in systemic arterial pressure.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Investigation of the hypotensive action of minipress, a drug belonging to the group of selective blockers of alpha 1-adrenoreceptors, shows its efficacy in 56.3 percent of patients with stage II essential hypertension. The side-effects were recorded in 16.6 percent of the patients. It is noted that application of minipress at a mean daily dose of 3.4 ml for a long time reduces the total peripheral vascular resistance without inducing any substantial changes in the stroke volume of the heart or in the pulse rate. At the same time minipress produces a beneficial effect on the microcirculatory blood flow.
The relationship between asthma and traffic-related pollutants has received considerable attention. The use of individual-level exposure measures, such as residence location or proximity to emission sources, may avoid ecological biases.
This study focused on the pediatric Medicaid population in Detroit, MI, a high-risk population for asthma-related events. A population-based matched case-control analysis was used to investigate associations between acute asthma outcomes and proximity of residence to major roads, including freeways. Asthma cases were identified as all children who made at least one asthma claim, including inpatient and emergency department visits, during the three-year study period, 2004-06. Individually matched controls were randomly selected from the rest of the Medicaid population on the basis of non-respiratory related illness. We used conditional logistic regression with distance as both categorical and continuous variables, and examined non-linear relationships with distance using polynomial splines. The conditional logistic regression models were then extended by considering multiple asthma states (based on the frequency of acute asthma outcomes) using polychotomous conditional logistic regression.
Asthma events were associated with proximity to primary roads with an odds ratio of 0.97 (95% CI: 0.94, 0.99) for a 1 km increase in distance using conditional logistic regression, implying that asthma events are less likely as the distance between the residence and a primary road increases. Similar relationships and effect sizes were found using polychotomous conditional logistic regression. Another plausible exposure metric, a reduced form response surface model that represents atmospheric dispersion of pollutants from roads, was not associated under that exposure model.
There is moderately strong evidence of elevated risk of asthma close to major roads based on the results obtained in this population-based matched case-control study.
Twenty-four patients classified as having Raynaud's disease or Raynaud's phenomenon were given bilateral brachial artery injections of reserpine or saline in a double-blind fashion. In the six weeks following injection, there was no indication that reserpine produced clinical improvement or changed vasomotor reactivity in the treated patients. However, intra-arterial reserpine did produce systemic cardiovascular effects lasting up to six weeks. It is concluded that intra-arterial reserpine as used in this study is an ineffective treatment for Raynaud's disease or Raynaud's phenomenon and may have significant adverse effects.
Acute renal failure (ARF) can occur as a complication of cocaine abuse. We present a case of microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, ARF, and thrombocytopenia after inhalation of crack cocaine in a 38-year-old woman. Her renal failure ultimately required dialysis. She underwent renal biopsy because of persistent renal failure, hematuria, and thrombocytopenia. The biopsy findings consisted of thrombotic microangiopathy and glomerular ischemia. After treatment with fresh frozen plasma, her platelet count and bleeding resolved. The possible mechanisms involved in cocaine-induced thrombotic microangiopathy include: (1) endothelial injury, (2) vasoconstriction and/or impairment of vasodilatation, (3) procoagulant activity, and (4) antiplatelet activity. Although our patient survived after hemodialysis and transfusion of fresh frozen plasma, she continued to have residual renal insufficiency. One month later, the patient again used cocaine and presented with worsening ARF, anemia, and thrombocytopenia.
Spontaneous breathing during mechanical ventilation improves arterial oxygenation and cardiovascular function, but is depressed by opioids during critical care. Opioid-induced ventilatory depression was shown to be counteracted in anesthetized rats by serotonin(1A)-receptor (5-HT(1A)-R)-agonist 8-OH-DPAT, which cannot be applied to humans. Repinotan hydrochloride is a selective 5-HT(1A)-R-agonist already investigated in humans, but the effects on ventilation and nociception are unknown. In this study, we sought to establish (a) the effects of repinotan on spontaneous breathing and nociception, and (b) the interaction with the standard opiate morphine.
The dose-dependent effects of repinotan, given alone or in combination with morphine, on spontaneous minute ventilation (MV) and nociceptive tail-flick reflex latencies (TFLs) were measured simultaneously in spontaneously breathing anesthetized rats. An additional series with NaCl 0.9% and the 5-HT(1A)-R-antagonist WAY 100 135 served as controls.
(a) Repinotan dose-dependently activated spontaneous breathing (MV, mean [95% confidence interval]; 53% [29%-77%]) of pretreatment level) and suppressed nociception (TLF, 91% maximum possible effect [68%-114%]) with higher doses of repinotan (2-200 μg/kg). On the contrary, nociception was enhanced with a small dose of repinotan (0.2 μg/kg; TFL, -47% maximum possible effect [-95% to 2%]). Effects were prevented by 5-HT(1A)-antagonist WAY 100 135. (B) Morphine-induced depression of ventilation (MV, -72% [-100% to -44%]) was reversed by repinotan (20 μg/kg), which returned spontaneous ventilation to pretreatment levels (MV, 18% [-40% to 77%]). The morphine-induced complete depression of nociception was sustained throughout repinotan and NaCl 0.9% administration. Despite a mild decrease in mean arterial blood pressure, there were no serious cardiovascular side effects from repinotan.
The 5-HT(1A)-R-agonist repinotan activates spontaneous breathing in anesthetized rats even in morphine-induced ventilatory depression. The potency of 5-HT(1A)-R-agonists to stimulate spontaneous breathing and their antinociceptive effects should be researched further.
The basal ganglia may contribute to extrapyramidal movement disorders, affective disturbances, and cognitive deficits in schizophrenia. Basal ganglia volumes are putatively affected by antipsychotic medications. The purpose of this study was to determine the long-term effects of risperidone treatment in a cohort of first-episode patients with schizophrenia.
The subjects were 30 patients with first-episode schizophrenia, 12 patients chronically treated with typical antipsychotics, and 23 healthy comparison subjects. They were scanned by magnetic resonance imaging at baseline. The first-episode patients received 1 year of continuous risperidone treatment, after which they and the comparison subjects were rescanned. Caudate, putamen, and globus pallidus volumes were determined from coronal images.
The baseline caudate, putamen, and globus pallidus volumes were significantly larger in the chronically treated patients than in the untreated first-episode subjects and comparison subjects. These volumes did not differ between the first-episode patients and healthy comparison subjects. Basal ganglia volumes were unchanged after 1 year of exposure to risperidone in the first-episode subjects. Extrapyramidal movement disorders were present in the majority of chronically treated patients and more than one-third of the never-medicated first-episode patients at baseline.
This group of first-episode patients did not exhibit abnormalities of basal ganglia volumes, nor were basal ganglia volumes affected by exposure to risperidone. Movement disorders were observed in both first-episode and chronically treated patients, suggesting effects of both illness and medications.
The present study extends previous reports of hepatic damage 24 h after halothane anaesthesia in the phenobarbitone pretreated hypoxic rat model by fully characterizing the lesion during the time course of its onset and recovery. Phenobarbitone treated animals exposed to halothane (1% for 2 h in 14% inspired oxygen) were killed 1, 2, 4, 6, 12 and 24 h and 2, 3, 5, 10, 15 and 30 days after commencement of the anaesthetic period. Blood was collected 1 day before the administration of halothane and at the time of killing for determination of serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT), a biochemical index of hepatic damage. Liver tissue was obtained immediately at post-mortem for histological examination. Serum ALT was increased at the end of the anaesthetic period, i.e. 2 h, with peak levels occurring at 12-24 h and remaining elevated for 3 days after exposure. Minor changes in liver histology were evident at 2 h in 50% of the animals and by 6 h all animals had mild hepatic injury. The extent of the necrosis was maximal at 24 h and this was sustained until 3 days. By 5 days after exposure minimal evidence of liver damage was observed and animals killed at 30 days had morphologically normal livers. Elevation of serum ALT or changes in liver histology were not observed in other treatment groups. The early onset of damage at 2-6 h is in keeping with direct hepatotoxicity associated with the biotransformation of halothane.
The association of cocaine and amphetamine use with hemorrhagic and ischemic stroke is based almost solely on data from case series. The limited number of epidemiologic studies of stroke and use of cocaine and/or amphetamine have been done in settings that serve mostly the poor and/or minorities. This case-control study was conducted in the defined population comprising members of Kaiser Permanente of Northern and Southern California. We attempted to identify all incident strokes in women ages 15-44 years during a 3-year period using hospital admission and discharge records, emergency department logs, and payment requests for out-of-plan hospitalizations. We selected controls, matched on age and facility of usual care, at random from healthy members of the health plan. We obtained information in face-to-face interviews. There were 347 confirmed stroke cases and 1,021 controls. The univariate matched odds ratio for stroke in women who admitted to using cocaine and/or amphetamine was 8.5 (95% confidence interval = 3.6-20.0). After further adjustment for potential confounders, the odds ratio in women who reported using cocaine and/or amphetamine was 7.0 (95% confidence interval = 2.8-17.9). The use of cocaine and/or amphetamine is a strong risk factor for stroke in this socioeconomically heterogeneous, insured urban population.
Toxicity of anticancer agents on normal neural cells during chemotherapy of primary or secondary brain tumors is a clinical problem of increasing relevance and concern. In this perspective, here we used primary cultures of rat cortical microglia as an in vitro paradigm of normal glia to investigate the neurotoxicity of anticancer agents. The effects of two compounds frequently used for treatment of brain tumors, methotrexate (MTX) and temozolomide (TMZ), were compared to those of a known microglial activator, bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS); cell viability and metabolism was assessed by the MTS assay. We found that LPS, in the low-intermediate range of concentrations, strongly activates microglia cells, but a highly significant decrease in viability was observed from 100 ng/ml onward. TMZ has no effect at concentrations of clinical interest, whereas MTX significantly increases cell metabolism at 30 microM, a phenomenon possibly reflecting MTX neurotoxicity observed in patients.
Arsenic is an effective therapeutic agent for the treatment of patients with refractory or relapsed acute promyelocytic leukemia. The use of arsenic for treating solid tumors, particularly in combination with other chemotherapeutic agents, has been extensively studied. Here, we report that arsenite-resistant human lung cancer CL3R15 cells constitutively overexpress NAD(P)H quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1), an enzyme responsible for activation of mitomycin C (MMC), and are more susceptible to MMC cytotoxicity than parental CL3 cells. The effects of arsenite pretreatment on NQO1 induction were examined in CL3, H1299, H460, and MC-T2 cells. Arsenite pretreatment significantly enhanced the expression of NQO1 and susceptibility to MMC in CL3, H1299, and MC-T2 cells, but not in H460 cells that express high endogenous levels of NQO1. Alternatively, arsenic pretreatment reduced adriamycin sensitivity of CL3 cells. Arsenite-mediated MMC susceptibility was abrogated by dicumarol (DIC), an NQO1 inhibitor, indicating that NQO1 is one of the key regulators of arsenite-mediated MMC susceptibility. Various cancer cell lines showed different basal levels of NQO1 activity and a different capacity for NQO1 induction in response to arsenite treatment. However, overall, there was a positive correlation between induced NQO1 activity and MMC susceptibility in cells pretreated with various doses of arsenite. These results suggest that arsenite may increase NQO1 activity and thus enhance the antineoplastic activity of MMC. In addition, our results also showed that inhibition of NQO1 activity by DIC reversed the arsenite resistance of CL3R15 cells.
In the present investigation we studied the effect of caffeine on memory task inhibitory avoidance and habituation to a new environment. Caffeine impaired retention scores in mice submitted to inhibitory avoidance and habituation when administered 30 min before training at the doses of 10-30 mg/kg. These effects cannot be explained by state-dependency since the administration of caffeine 30 min before the test session did not reverse the effect of pre-training caffeine administration, but can more probably be explained by an impairment in the acquisition or by interference with attentional processes. On the other hand, caffeine improved the inhibitory avoidance (but not habituation) retention scores when administered immediately after the training or 30 min before the test session at the doses of 1-30 mg/kg or 3-10 mg/kg, respectively. These results suggest that caffeine differentially affects the different stages of memory processing and that this effect depends on particularities of the memory task under study.
We evaluated the activity and expression of antioxidant enzymes in the cerebellum and cortex of Swiss adult male mice exposed to methylmercury (MeHg) in drinking water (40mg/L) during 21 days. The activity of glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione reductase (GR), glutathione S-transferase (GST), catalase (CAT), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and thioredoxin reductase (TrxR) were determined spectrophotometrically. The expression (protein levels) of GPx1 and GPx4 isoforms, TrxR1 as well as heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) were evaluated using specific antibodies and normalized by actin levels. The exposure of mice to MeHg caused a significant impairment in locomotors performance in the open field test (crossings and rearing). This result was followed by a significant reduction of GPx and TrxR activities in the cerebellum and cortex when compared to untreated animals. We also observed a substantial decrease in GPx1, GPx4 and TrxR1 protein levels in the cerebellum, while in the cerebral cortex, only GPx4 and TrxR1 were decreased after MeHg treatment. The activities of the antioxidant enzymes GR, GST, CAT and SOD were increased in the cerebellum after MeHg administration to mice. In contrast, only CAT was increased in the cerebral cortex of MeHg-treated animals. The expression of HSP70 was up-regulated only in the cerebellum where MeHg-exposed mice showed a significant increase in the immunocontent of HSP70 when compared to controls. This is the first report showing a role for GPx4 in the neurotoxicity induced by MeHg in vivo. In addition, our data indicates that the selenoproteins GPx and TrxR as main targets during MeHg exposure, which may be considered in biomarker studies.
We report the case of a 19-year-old Laotian patient affected by fulminant hepatitis during the third trimester of her pregnancy after a 1-month administration of quinidine phenylethylbarbiturate. After delivery, the patient underwent orthotopic liver transplantation. The patient was in good condition 16 months after liver transplantation. Quinidine itself or phenylethylbarbiturate may be responsible for fulminant hepatitis in this patient.
A patient with ocular hypertension was treated with acetazolamide. Acute renal failure developed rapidly and renal biopsy showed mild tubular lesions and crystal formation in a tubular lumen. By immunofluorescence studies with a monoclonal antibody, Tamm-Horsfall protein, normally absent from the proximal segments of the nephron, was detected in most glomeruli. This strongly suggests that tubular obstruction plays a major part in some cases of acetazolamide-induced acute renal failure.
Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) seems to have an important protective role in acute and chronic inflammation. The products of heme catalysis, biliverdin/bilirubin, carbon monoxide (CO), and iron (that induces apoferritin) mediate the beneficial effects of HO-1. Blockade of HO-1 activity results in exacerbation of experimental colitis. We tested whether HO-1 has protective effects in the development of colitis and determined that specific enzymatic products of HO-1 are responsible for these effects.
Colitis was induced by oral administration of dextran sodium sulfate (5%) to C57BL/6 mice for 7 days. HO-1 was up-regulated by cobalt-protoporphyrin (5 mg/kg, intraperitoneally). Biliverdin, exogenous CO, or the iron chelator desferrioxamine was administered to other groups.
Cobalt-protoporphyrin treatment resulted in significant up-regulation of HO-1 protein in mucosal and submucosal cells. Induction of HO-1 was associated with significantly less loss of body weight in mice with induced colitis (-12% versus -22% in the control animals, P < 0.001). Development of diarrhea and gastrointestinal hemorrhage was substantially delayed in animals in which HO-1 was induced, and mucosal injury was significantly attenuated. Administration of CO or desferrioxamine alone had no significant effects, whereas enhanced protection with lesser evidence of bowel inflammation was observed with systemic biliverdin administration (50 micromol/kg, 3 times per day, intraperitoneally).
We conclude that heightened HO-1 expression or administration of biliverdin ameliorates dextran sodium sulfate-induced experimental colitis. Novel therapeutic strategies based on HO-1 and/or biliverdin administration may have use in inflammatory bowel disease.
Extensive clinical studies have demonstrated that beta-adrenoceptor blocking agents (beta-blockers) are beneficial in the treatment of chronic heart failure, which is due to various aetiologies, including idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) and ischaemic heart disease. However, little is known about the therapeutic efficacy of beta-blockers in the treatment of the inherited form of DCM, of which causative mutations have recently been identified in various genes, including those encoding cardiac sarcomeric proteins. Using a mouse model of inherited DCM with a troponin mutation, we aim to study the treatment benefits of beta-blockers.
Three different types of beta-blockers, carvedilol, metoprolol, and atenolol, were orally administered to a knock-in mouse model of inherited DCM with a deletion mutation DeltaK210 in the cardiac troponin T gene (TNNT2). Therapeutic effects were examined on the basis of survival and myocardial remodelling. The lipophilic beta(1)-selective beta-blocker metoprolol was found to prevent cardiac dysfunction and remodelling and extend the survival of knock-in mice. Conversely, both the non-selective beta-blocker carvedilol and the hydrophilic beta(1)-selective beta-blocker atenolol had no beneficial effects on survival and myocardial remodelling in this mouse model of inherited DCM.
The highly lipophilic beta(1)-selective beta-blocker metoprolol, known to prevent ventricular fibrillation via central nervous system-mediated vagal activation, may be especially beneficial to DCM patients showing a family history of frequent sudden cardiac death, such as those with a deletion mutation DeltaK210 in the TNNT2 gene.
The primary objective of the study was to prospectively determine possible noradrenergic dysregulation in cocaine addicts by assessing biochemical, behavioral, and cardiovascular responses to intravenous yohimbine hydrochloride during early and late discontinuation of cocaine use.
Twelve male and two female hospitalized cocaine-dependent subjects (mean +/- SD age, 30.9 +/- 7.3 years) who were not seeking primary treatment for addiction participated voluntarily for monetary remuneration. Following an initial test dose of intranasal cocaine, 2 mg/kg, cocaine addicts received single-blind, monitored cocaine insufflation, 2 mg/kg three times each day, for 3 consecutive days. One to two days (early discontinuation) and 15 to 16 days (late discontinuation) after the last dose of cocaine, subjects received double-blind, randomized intravenous infusions of yohimbine hydrochloride, 0.4 mg/kg, or placebo. Plasma 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylethylene glycol (MHPG) and plasma cortisol levels, anxiety-related symptoms on clinician- and subject-rated scales, blood pressure, and heart rate were measured throughout each test day. Ten of 14 subjects completed the entire study.
Subjects had a significantly greater placebo-corrected MHPG response to yohimbine during early compared with late discontinuation. Subjects rated themselves significantly more nervous following yohimbine administration during early compared with late discontinuation. Seventy-one percent of subjects experienced a yohimbine-induced panic attack during early discontinuation compared with none during late discontinuation.
The results of this study provide evidence of an underlying dysregulation in noradrenergic function and a vulnerability to panic anxiety during early discontinuation of cocaine use in addicts. Additional investigations of noradrenergic function appear warranted to further clarify derangements associated with cocaine addiction.
The present study was undertaken to gain insights into the mechanism of action of diazepam in focally-evoked pilocarpine-induced seizures by concomitantly assessing the changes produced in the extracellular levels of glutamate, GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) and dopamine. In vivo microdialysis, coupled to continuous monitoring of electrocorticographic (ECoG) recordings, was performed in freely moving rats. Intrahippocampal perfusion with 10 mM pilocarpine (40 min, 2 microl/min) produced limbic seizures. A single dose of intraperitoneal diazepam (5 mg/kg) was administered 2 h after pilocarpine perfusion was started. Dialysates were sampled both from hippocampus and cerebellum and analysed by microbore liquid chromatography. Diazepam produced instant inhibition of behavioural and ECoG seizure activity. Pilocarpine-induced increases in the extracellular levels of glutamate and dopamine in hippocampus were promptly reduced by diazepam. No concurrent alterations in pilocarpine-induced increases in the extracellular levels of GABA in either hippocampus or cerebellum were seen. Pilocarpine enhanced cerebellar glutamate levels only transiently and levels returned to baseline before diazepam administration. No further changes in cerebellar glutamate levels were observed with diazepam. Our findings suggest that the anti-convulsant action of diazepam against pilocarpine-induced seizures is associated with a prompt attenuation of extracellular hippocampal glutamate overflow without concurrent alteration of pilocarpine-induced increases in endogenous GABA levels. Diazepam also significantly decreased pilocarpine-induced increases in extracellular dopamine levels within the hippocampus. No immediate alterations of the basal levels of the neurotransmitters monitored were observed with diazepam.
The effectiveness of atypical antipsychotic agents in the treatment of acute schizophrenic episodes is still a subject of controversial debate. The objective, therefore, was to investigate the efficacy and tolerability of an initial therapy with the atypical antipsychotic agent risperidone in acutely exacerbated patients under the conditions of clinical practice. A sub-analysis was performed to show if highly agitated and aggressive patients may profit from an initial risperidone therapy as well.
In a still ongoing prospective multicentre observational trial, schizophrenic patients with acute exacerbations treated with risperidone within 24 hours of in-patient admission were observed for six weeks. Patients showing a total score of > or = 15 in the items "excitement", "hostility" and "uncooperativeness" of the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) were defined as highly agitated patients. Evaluation of efficacy was carried out according to a modified PANSS, the Clinical Global Impression (CGI) and the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS).
1,117 patients were evaluated. An improvement of all parameters was shown in the whole study group (51 % males, age 39.8 + 14.3 years, paranoid schizophrenia in 70.1 % of cases) and in particular in the subgroup of highly agitated patients. In these patients (n = 163), a greater improvement of symptoms was observed. Only in 4,1 % of cases was risperidone discontinued because of side effects. At the end of the observation, the mean dosage was 5.1 mg/day in both groups. More than 50 % of the patients were finally treated with a risperidone monotherapy.
The initial acute treatment with risperidone proves to be effective and safe even for highly agitated schizophrenic patients under the conditions of clinical practice.
Pendred syndrome, characterized by congenital sensorineural hearing loss and goiter, is one of the most common forms of syndromic deafness. The gene causing Pendred syndrome (PDS) encodes a protein designated pendrin, which is expressed in the thyroid, kidney, and fetal cochlea. Pendrin functions as an iodide and chloride transporter, but its role in the development of hearing loss and goiter is unknown. In this study, we examined the mechanism of pendrin-mediated anion transport in Xenopus laevis oocytes. Unlabeled formate added to the uptake medium inhibited pendrin-mediated (36)Cl uptake in X. laevis oocytes. In addition, the uptake of [(14)C]formate was stimulated in oocytes injected with PDS cRNA compared with water-injected controls. These results indicate that formate is a substrate for pendrin. Furthermore, chloride stimulated the efflux of [(14)C]formate and formate stimulated the efflux of (36)Cl in oocytes expressing pendrin, results consistent with pendrin-mediated chloride/formate exchange. These data demonstrate that pendrin is functionally similar to the renal chloride/formate exchanger, which serves as an important mechanism of chloride transport in the proximal tubule. A similar process could participate in the development of ion gradients within the inner ear.
This study was designed to clarify the cardioprotective effects of various class I antiarrhythmic drugs, i.e., aprindine, disopyramide, flecainide, lidocaine, mexiletine, pentisomide and propafenone, on the ischemic heart. Sixty-one adult mongrel dogs were classified into eight groups according to premedication: 1) control group, physiologic saline solution was administered intravenously 25 min before left anterior descending coronary artery ligation; 2) aprindine group, 3 mg/kg body weight of aprindine intravenously; 3) disopyramide group, 2 mg/kg of disopyramide intravenously; 4) flecainide group, 2 mg/kg of flecainide intravenously followed by drip infusion of 100 micrograms/kg per min; 5) lidocaine group, 2 mg/kg of lidocaine intravenously followed by drip infusion of 100 micrograms/kg per min; 6) mexiletine group, 3 mg/kg per min of mexiletine intravenously followed by drip infusion of 15 micrograms/kg per min; 7) pentisomide group, 5 mg/kg intravenously; and 8) propafenone group, 2 mg/kg intravenously. Arterial blood pressure and electrocardiogram were monitored throughout the experiment. Two hours after coronary occlusion, the heart was excised. Myocardial mitochondria were prepared and mitochondrial function (the respiratory control index and the rate of oxygen consumption in state III) was measured polarographically. Fractionation of myocardial tissues was performed and the lysosomal enzyme (N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase and beta-glucuronidase) activities among fractions were measured. No significant hemodynamic changes were observed compared with the control group except for those in the disopyramide and flecainide groups; that is, decrease in heart rate without changes in blood pressure compared with the control group was observed. All antiarrhythmic drugs effectively prevented the development of ventricular arrhythmias associated with ischemia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
This open-label phase III study assessed the addition of Toll-like receptor 9-activating oligodeoxynucleotide PF-3512676 to gemcitabine/cisplatin chemotherapy in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Chemotherapy-naive patients with stage IIIB or IV NSCLC were randomized (1:1) to receive six or fewer 3-week cycles of i.v. gemcitabine (1250 mg/m2 on days 1 and 8) and cisplatin alone (75 mg/m2 on day 1, control arm) or combined with s.c. PF-3512676 0.2 mg/kg on days 8 and 15 of each chemotherapy cycle and weekly thereafter until progression or unacceptable toxicity (experimental arm). No crossover was planned. The primary end point was overall survival (OS).
A total of 839 patients were randomized. Baseline demographics were well balanced. Median OS (11.0 versus 10.7 months; P=0.98) and median progression-free survival (PFS) (both 5.1 months) were similar between groups. Grade≥3 hematologic adverse events (AEs), injection-site reactions, and influenza-like symptoms were more frequently reported among patients receiving PF-3512676. At the first-interim analysis, the Data Safety Monitoring Committee recommended study discontinuation. Administration of PF-3512676 was halted based on efficacy futility and increased grade≥3 AEs (experimental arm).
Addition of PF-3512676 to gemcitabine/cisplatin chemotherapy did not improve OS or PFS but did increase toxicity.
