We report the case of a 46-day-old boy with a fulminant vincristine-induced peripheral neuropathy after treatment for congenital acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Flaccid paralysis developed at the end of the first phase of induction, requiring intubation and ventilation for 51 days. Treatment was initiated with levocarnitine, N-acetylcysteine, and pyridoxine and progressive reversal of the neuropathy occurred over the next 4 months. Potential differences in pathogenesis and presentation of vincristine neurotoxicity and Guillian-Barre syndrome in the neonate are discussed.
Wistar rats were exposed to dichlorvos [CAS number 62737]. Doses were 1/25; 1/50; and 1/100 LD50, that is 3.88; 1.94; 1.46; and 0.97 mg kg-1 DDVP, respectively, throughout gestation (GD1-birth) and during suckling via oral dosing to the dams, and then via the same doses by gavage for the rest of their lives. The offspring were tested in an open field (OF), a multiple T-maze, and in a 'novelty-induced-grooming' test to assess behavioural competence as adults. Dose-related increases in running time and incorrect choices in the maze were observed during the first 2 weeks of a 3-week study at 9-11 weeks of age. Horizontal activity was increased, vertical activity decreased, and defecation decreased in the OF at 9-12 weeks of age; these changes were again dose-related. Sleep was also affected at 12 weeks of age. AChE activity in the brain and in blood at sacrifice was roughly 40% to 65% of control, again reflecting the doses administered. The significantly changed behavioural profile of DDVP treated rats may serve as a useful biomarker to judge functional damage of CNS properties.
Bisphenol-A is an important environmental contaminant due to the increased early-life exposure that may pose significant health-risks to various organisms including humans. This study aimed to use zebrafish as a toxicogenomic model to capture transcriptomic and phenotypic changes for inference of signaling pathways, biological processes, physiological systems and identify potential biomarker genes that are affected by early-life exposure to bisphenol-A. Phenotypic analysis using wild-type zebrafish larvae revealed BPA early-life exposure toxicity caused cardiac edema, cranio-facial abnormality, failure of swimbladder inflation and poor tactile response. Fluorescent imaging analysis using three transgenic lines revealed suppressed neuron branching from the spinal cord, abnormal development of neuromast cells, and suppressed vascularization in the abdominal region. Using knowledge-based data mining algorithms, transcriptome analysis suggests that several signaling pathways involving ephrin receptor, clathrin-mediated endocytosis, synaptic long-term potentiation, axonal guidance, vascular endothelial growth factor, integrin and tight junction were deregulated. Physiological systems with related disorders associated with the nervous, cardiovascular, skeletal-muscular, blood and reproductive systems were implicated, hence corroborated with the phenotypic analysis. Further analysis identified a common set of BPA-targeted genes and revealed a plausible mechanism involving disruption of endocrine-regulated genes and processes in known susceptible tissue-organs. The expression of 28 genes were validated in a separate experiment using quantitative real-time PCR and 6 genes, ncl1, apoeb, mdm1, mycl1b, sp4, U1SNRNPBP homolog, were found to be sensitive and robust biomarkers for BPA early-life exposure toxicity. The susceptibility of sp4 to BPA perturbation suggests its role in altering brain development, function and subsequently behavior observed in laboratory animals exposed to BPA during early life, which is a health-risk concern of early life exposure in humans. The present study further established zebrafish as a model for toxicogenomic inference of early-life chemical exposure toxicity.
Grape seed extract, primarily a mixture of proanthocyanidins, has been shown to modulate a wide-range of biological, pharmacological and toxicological effects which are mainly cytoprotective. This study assessed the ability of IH636 grape seed proanthocyanidin extract (GSPE) to prevent acetaminophen (AAP)-induced nephrotoxicity, amiodarone (AMI)-induced lung toxicity, and doxorubicin (DOX)-induced cardiotoxicity in mice. Experimental design consisted of four groups: control (vehicle alone), GSPE alone, drug alone and GSPE+drug. For the cytoprotection study, animals were orally gavaged 100 mg/Kg GSPE for 7-10 days followed by i.p. injections of organ specific three drugs (AAP: 500 mg/Kg for 24 h; AMI: 50 mg/Kg/day for four days; DOX: 20 mg/Kg for 48 h). Parameters of study included analysis of serum chemistry (ALT, BUN and CPK), and orderly fragmentation of genomic DNA (both endonuclease-dependent and independent) in addition to microscopic evaluation of damage and/or protection in corresponding PAS stained tissues. Results indicate that GSPE preexposure prior to AAP, AMI and DOX, provided near complete protection in terms of serum chemistry changes (ALT, BUN and CPK), and significantly reduced DNA fragmentation. Histopathological examination of kidney, heart and lung sections revealed moderate to massive tissue damage with a variety of morphological aberrations by all the three drugs in the absence of GSPE preexposure than in its presence. GSPE+drug exposed tissues exhibited minor residual damage or near total recovery. Additionally, histopathological alterations mirrored both serum chemistry changes and the pattern of DNA fragmentation. Interestingly, all the drugs, such as, AAP, AMI and DOX induced apoptotic death in addition to necrosis in the respective organs which was very effectively blocked by GSPE. Since AAP, AMI and DOX undergo biotransformation and are known to produce damaging radicals in vivo, the protection by GSPE may be linked to both inhibition of metabolism and/or detoxification of cytotoxic radicals. In addition, its' presumed contribution to DNA repair may be another important attribute, which played a role in the chemoprevention process. Additionally, this may have been the first report on AMI-induced apoptotic death in the lung tissue. Taken together, these events undoubtedly establish GSPE's abundant bioavailability, and the power to defend multiple target organs from toxic assaults induced by structurally diverse and functionally different entities in vivo.
Transforming growth factor beta1 (TGFbeta1) expression is elevated by tumor promoters in the mouse skin, but its role in tumor promotion has not been well defined. To investigate this, we have compared TGFbeta1+/+ and +/- mice in a two-stage skin chemical carcinogenesis protocol. Surprisingly, TGFbeta1+/- mice had fewer number and incidence of benign papillomas, reduced epidermal and tumor cell proliferation and reduced epidermal TGFbeta1 and nuclear p-Smad2 localization in response to the tumor promoter 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (TPA) compared with TGFbeta1+/+ mice. Maximal TPA activation of protein kinase C (PKCalpha) as measured by activity assays and activation of target genes and induction of cornified envelopes correlated with TGFbeta1 gene dosage in keratinocytes and addition of exogenous TGFbeta1 restored the cornification defect in TGFbeta1+/- keratinocytes. Similarly, inhibition of ALK5-suppressed TPA-mediated PKCalpha activation suggesting that physiological levels of TGFbeta1 are required for maximal activation of PKC-dependent mitogenic responses. Paradoxically, the TPA-induced inflammatory response was greater in TGFbeta1+/- skin, but TGFbeta1+/+ papillomas had more tumor infiltrating myeloperoxidase-positive cells and pro-inflammatory gene expression was elevated in v-ras(Ha)-transduced TGFbeta1+/+ but not TGFbeta1+/- keratinocytes. Thus, ras activation switches TGFbeta1 to a pro-inflammatory cytokine. Despite this differential proliferative and inflammatory response to TPA and enhanced papilloma formation in the TGFbeta1+/+ mice, the frequency of malignant conversion was reduced compared with TGFbeta1+/- mice. Therefore, TGFbeta1 promotes benign tumors by modifying tumor promoter-induced cell proliferation and inflammation but retains a suppressive function for malignant conversion.
We recently demonstrated that SA13353 [1-[2-(1-adamantyl)ethyl]-1-pentyl-3-[3-(4-pyridyl)propyl]urea], a novel transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) agonist, inhibits TNF-alpha production through the activation of capsaicin-sensitive afferent neurons. In the present study, we investigated the effects of SA13353 on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced cytokine production and a murine model of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). SA13353 inhibited LPS-induced TNF-alpha and interleukin (IL)-1beta production while augmenting IL-10 production in mice. It also inhibited TNF-alpha and IL-1beta mRNA expression, and increased IL-10 mRNA expression in LPS-treated murine liver. These effects were not observed in TRPV1 KO and sensory denervated mice. Capsaicin and SA13353 increased serum neuropeptide levels, and calcitonin gene-related peptide fragment 8-37 (CGRP(8)(-)(37)), a CGRP antagonist, partially blocked the inhibitory effects of capsaicin and SA13353 on LPS-induced TNF-alpha production. These results suggest that the TPPV1 agonistic effects inhibit TNF-alpha production, at least partially, via neuropeptide release. SA13353 did not directly affect LPS-induced cytokine production in vitro using RAW264.7 macrophages, which do not express TRPV1. Therefore, we consider SA13353 to be a good tool for the investigation of the value of TRPV1 agonists for the treatment of chronic inflammation. In a murine EAE model, SA13353 attenuated clinical signs and histopathological changes. SA13353 attenuated cytokine levels, including TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, IL-12p40, IL-17, and interferon (IFN)-gamma, after proteolipid protein (PLP) immunization. In addition, SA13353 attenuated the increase of IL-17-producing cells. These results suggest that TRPV1 agonists may act as anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory agents in vivo in certain inflammatory diseases.
Sex differences in analgesic responses to mu opioid agonists have been reported, although the direction of these differences varies across studies. To further characterize sex differences in responses to mu opioids, the analgesic effects of intravenous morphine (0.08 mg/kg) were determined in healthy women (n = 61) and men (n = 39) by using 3 experimental pain models, heat pain, pressure pain, and ischemic pain. Each pain procedure was conducted before and after double-blind administration of both morphine and saline, which occurred on separate days in counterbalanced order. Although morphine produced significant analgesic effects for all pain stimuli, no significant sex differences in morphine analgesia emerged. However, morphine attenuated cardiovascular reactivity to the ischemic pain task in men but not women, and women reported significantly more drug-related adverse effects than men. These findings are in contrast with some recent clinical and experimental results suggesting more robust analgesic response to mu opioids among women compared to men, although the data indicate that sex differences in non-analgesic effects of morphine were present. These results suggest that sex differences in responses to morphine might depend on the pain model and/or drug dose as well as the specific end point assessed.
This study examines morphine responses in women and men by using laboratory pain measures. The results indicate no sex differences in analgesia, but women reported greater side effects, and morphine attenuated cardiovascular responses more strongly among men than women. These results add to the literature regarding sex differences in response to opioids.
The effects of antisense FosB and CREB intra-striatum injection on the expression of prodynorphin (PDyn) gene in striatal neurons of Levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LID) rats with Parkinson disease (PD) were explored. PD model in rats was established by 6-OHDA microinjection stereotaxically. The rats were treated with chronic intermittent Levodopa celiac injection for 28 days to get the LID rats. Antisense FosB and cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) were injected into striatum of all rats respectively. In situ hybridization was used to measure the changes in the expression of PDyn mRNA in striatum and behavior changes were observed. The results showed after administration of antisense FosB, abnormal involuntary movement (AIM) was decreased and the expression of PDyn mRNA in striatum was increased in LID rats as compared with sense FosB group (P<0.01, respectively). As compared with the control group, the expression of PDyn mRNA in striatum was decreased by antisense CREB-treated LID group (P<0.01) and compared with sense CREB treated LID group, antisense CREB-treated LID group showed no changes in AIM scores and the expressions of PDyn mRNA (both P>0.05). In conclusion, FosB protein, which replaced the CREG, could regulate the expression of PDyn mRNA and play critical role in the pathogenesis of LID.
Antipsychotic drugs are the best means available for symptomatically treating individuals suffering from schizophrenia; however, there is a significant variability in clinical response to these psychotropic medications. Previous findings connect oxytocin (OXT) with schizophrenia and antipsychotic action. Therefore, we evaluated if OXT and OXT receptor (OXTR) genes might play a role in the symptom severity and clozapine treatment response in schizophrenia subjects. The rs2740204 variant in the OXT gene was significantly associated with treatment response (after 1000 permutations p=0.042) and nominally associated with negative symptoms in our sample. Furthermore, variants in the OXTR were nominally associated with severity of overall symptoms accessed using the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (rs237885, rs237887) as well as on the improvement of the positive symptoms (rs11706648, rs4686301, rs237899). Additional association studies in independent samples will be able evaluate whether OXT and OXTR genes are truly playing a role in the clozapine treatment outcome.
Although a number of measures of pain qualities exist, little research has examined the potential for these measures to identify the unique effects of pain treatments on different pain qualities. We examined the utility of the Neuropathic Pain Scale (NPS) for assessing changes in pain qualities after open label lidocaine patch 5% in 3 samples of patients: patients with peripheral neuropathic pain, low back pain, and osteoarthritis. With one exception ("cold" pain in subjects with low back pain), each of the NPS items showed significant change after open label lidocaine patch. In addition, significantly larger changes were observed for the NPS items reflecting global pain intensity and pain unpleasantness and for items assessing sharp and deep pain than for items assessing cold, sensitive, and itchy pain. The pattern of changes in pain qualities did not differ across the 3 diagnostic groups, but it did differ from the patterns of changes in pain qualities associated with other analgesic treatments. The results support the potential utility of the NPS for assessing the patterns of changes in pain qualities that can be observed after pain treatment.
Pain clinical trials that include measures of pain qualities, such as the NPS, might identify distinct patterns of treatment effects on those pain qualities. This research might be used to help clinicians target analgesics to match the specific qualities associated with a patient's pain and to better understand the mechanisms of analgesic effects in drug development programs.
Calcium chloride (280 mg/kg intravenously) provokes arrhythmia, heart fibrillation and death of mice. Pretreatment with isoptin, etmozine, lidocaine, trimecaine, quinidine and novocainamide prevents rhythm disorders and animals' death. Isoptin, etmozine, lidocaine and trimecaine have been found the most effective. Atropine does not produce any protective action. The simplicity and availability of the method described enables one to apply it as a model for search of new antiarrhythmic drugs.
A prospective study of the relationship between literacy rate and emergence phenomena with ketamine anaesthesia was carried out among Pathans on Pakistan's Afghan frontier. Findings support both a strong link between the literacy of the patient and the occurrence of emergence phenomena, and the acceptability and value of ketamine in this type of population.
Amantadine is an antiviral agent that is also used in the treatment of parkinsonism and neuroleptic-induced extrapyramidal symptoms. Toxic effects of amantadine relate primarily to the central nervous system and range from mild symptoms to disorientation and hallucinations. Anti-cholinergic agents may exacerbate these effects. We report a case of unsuspected amantadine overdose in a previously healthy 35-year-old woman who presented with acute psychosis manifested by delirium and visual hallucinations. Concomitant use of diphenhydramine contributed to the clinical presentation. Amantadine toxicity should be considered in the differential diagnosis of altered mental status in patients known to be taking the drug or with conditions commonly treated with amantadine.
Dyslipidemia is one of the main risk factors for atherosclerosis, usually the underlying cause of cardiovascular diseases which are the major cause of morbidity and mortality in developed countries. The aim of this study was to assess the effects and the advantages of a combined dietary supplementation with PUFA n-3, vitamin E, niacin and gamma-oryzanol on lipid profile, inflammatory status and oxidative balance.
Fifty-seven dyslipidemic volunteers were randomly assigned to receive: placebo (group A, 19 subjects); PUFA n-3 and vitamin E (group B, 18 subjects); the same as B plus gamma-oryzanol and niacin (group C, 20 subjects). Lipid profile, reactive oxygen species (ROS), total antioxidant capacity (TAC), vitamin E, interleukin 1-beta (IL1-beta), tumor necrosis factor (TNF-alpha) and thromboxane B2 (TXB2) were determined at baseline (T0) and after four months (T1). All dyslipidemic subjects showed, at baseline, oxidative stress and, after four months, all biochemical markers improved significantly in groups treated with dietary supplementation. Particularly in group C all lipid patterns improved significantly.
Our findings demonstrate that the strategy of combining different compounds, which protect each other and act together at different levels of the lipid chain production, improves lipid profile, inflammatory and oxidative status, allowing us to reduce the dose of each compound under the threshold of its side effects.
Stimulants are an effective treatment frequently prescribed for attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), but they commonly are believed to lower the threshold for seizures. Although several studies have revealed that stimulants do not exacerbate well-controlled epilepsy, there is a paucity of data about seizure risk in nonepileptic children treated with stimulants. Two hundred thirty-four children (179 males, 9.1 +/- 3.6 years of age; 55 females, 9.6 +/- 3.9 years of age) with uncomplicated ADHD received electroencephalograms (EEGs) performed in our institution. Thirty-six patients (15.4%) demonstrated epileptiform abnormalities, and 198 (84.6%) demonstrated normal or nonepileptiform EEGs. Rolandic spikes accounted for 40% of the abnormal EEGs and 60% of those with focal abnormalities. Stimulant therapy was elected by 205 of 234 patients (87.6%). Seizures occurred only in the treated group, in one of 175 patients with a normal EEG (incidence 0.6%, 95% confidence intervals 0%-1.7%) and three of 30 treated patients with epileptiform EEGs (incidence 10%, 95% confidence interval 0%-20.7%). Seizures occurred in two of 12 children (16.7%) with rolandic spikes. These data suggest that a normal EEG can be used to assign children with ADHD to a category of minimal risk for seizure. In contrast, an epileptiform EEG in neurologically normal children with ADHD predicts considerable risk for the eventual occurrence of seizure. The risk, however, is not necessarily attributable to stimulant use.
Polybrominated diphenyl ethers are manufactured for use as flame retardants in commercial plastics and textiles in Europe and North America. These studies investigated the acute and subchronic immunotoxicity and endocrine effects of a commercial pentabromodiphenyl either mixture, DE-71, in female C57BL/6 mice. Mice were orally exposed to acute single doses of DE-71 of 0, 0.8, 4.0, 20, 100, or 500 mg/kg, or to subchronic daily doses totaling 0, 250, 500, or 1000 mg/kg over a 14 day period. Immunotoxicity was assessed by measuring the plaque-forming cell response to sheep erythrocytes (SRBC) and natural killer cell (NKC) activity (basal and poly I:C stimulated) to YAC-1 target cells. Liver cytochrome P450 content and activities (ethoxyresorufin-o-deethylase (EROD) and pentoxyresorufin-o-deethylase (PROD)) as well as corticosterone (CS) and thyroxine (T4) concentrations were also measured. PROD activity was induced 3-5-fold in mice exposed acutely or subchronically to DE-71 at doses > 250 mg/kg. EROD activity and total microsomal cytochrome P450 content were significantly induced only in mice treated subchronically with DE-71; maximum induction of EROD was 3.3-fold. Total serum T4 concentrations were significantly lower in mice treated acutely with DE-71 at all doses except the 100 mg/kg dose. Total and free T4 concentrations were dose-dependently decreased in DE-71-treated mice following subchronic exposure. Plasma CS levels were elevated following subchronic exposure to DE-71. The elevation of CS was correlated with order of capture at necropsy, suggesting an interactive effect of DE-71 and stress. In regard to immunotoxicity, significant suppression of the anti-SRBC response was seen only in mice exposed subchronically to 1000 mg DE-71/kg, an exposure that also resulted in decreased thymus weight. NKC activity was not altered by exposure to DE-71.
Neuroprotection can be achieved by preventing apoptotic death of postmitotic cells. Apoptotic death can occur by either a caspase-dependent mechanism, involving cytochrome c, apoptosis protease-activating factor-1 (Apaf-1), and caspase-9, or a caspase-independent mechanism, involving apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF). HIV protease inhibitors (PIs) avert apoptosis in part by preventing mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization (MOMP), but the precise mechanism by which they work is not known. Here, we evaluated the impact of the PIs in a mouse model of retinal detachment (RD) in vivo and in murine primary retinal cell cultures in vitro. Oral administration of the PIs nelfinavir and ritonavir significantly inhibited photoreceptor apoptosis, while preventing the translocation of AIF from mitochondria to the nucleus as well as the activation of caspase-9. RD-induced photoreceptor apoptosis was similarly inhibited in mice carrying hypomorphic mutations of the genes encoding AIF or Apaf-1. Nelfinavir attenuated apoptosis as well as mitochondrial release of AIF and cytochrome c, and subsequent activation of caspase-9 in vitro, in photoreceptor cultures exposed to starvation or monocyte chemoattractant protein-1-stimulated (MCP-1-stimulated) macrophages. Our results suggest that the MOMP inhibition by PIs involved interruption of both caspase-dependent and caspase-independent apoptosis pathways and that PIs may be clinically useful for the treatment of diseases caused by excessive apoptosis.
Previous studies have shown that cardiac-specific metallothionein (MT)-overexpressing transgenic mice are highly resistant to acute cardiotoxicity induced by doxorubicin (DOX), a most effective anticancer agent. However, cumulative dose-dependent chronic cardiotoxicity attributable to long-term administration of DOX is a significant clinical problem. Because MT is a potent antioxidant and oxidative stress is critically involved in DOX-induced heart injury, the present study was undertaken to test the hypothesis that MT also provides protection against DOX chronic cardiotoxicity. Transgenic mice containing high levels of cardiac MT and nontransgenic controls were treated with a cumulative dose of 40 mg/kg of DOX in 10 equal i.v. injections over a period of 7 weeks. Three weeks after the last injection, the mice were killed for an analysis of cardiotoxicity. As compared with nontransgenic controls, DOX-induced cardiac hypertrophy was significantly inhibited in the transgenic mice. Light microscopic examination revealed that DOX-induced myocardial morphological changes were markedly suppressed or almost eliminated in the transgenic mice. Under electron microscopy, extensive sarcoplasmic vacuolization and severe disruption of mitochondrial fine structure were observed in nontransgenic cardiomyocytes, but almost no sarcoplasmic vacuolization was observed, and the mitochondrial structural changes were almost completely prevented in the transgenic cardiomyocytes. The results thus indicate that MT elevation is a highly effective approach to prevent chronic cardiomyopathy attributable to DOX. This study also suggests that oxidative stress is critically involved in the DOX-induced chronic cardiotoxicity.
We wished to determine the effects of octreotide acetate, a somatostatin analogue, on gall-bladder function during treatment of acromegaly.
We used a prospective, open label trial of somatostatin analogue.
Seventeen patients with acromegaly took part.
Ultrasonographic evaluation of gall-bladder contents were performed pretreatment, after 1 month, and subsequently at intervals of 3-6 months.
Non-shadowing floating echogenic particles were observed in the gall-bladder in 12 of 17 patients after (mean +/- SEM) 2.5 +/- 0.6 months of treatment. During long-term treatment (mean 20.8 +/- 4.3, median 13, range 1-59 months), ultrasound evidence for cholelithiasis was observed in four patients after 20 +/- 4 months (range 4.2-43) months of octreotide therapy. No symptoms of biliary tract disease have been observed. Duration of acromegaly, average GH, average IGF-I, gender, age at entry, dose of analogue, and concurrent use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs did not affect the occurrence of sludge or gallstones.
Formation of non-shadowing, floating echogenic particles occurs commonly during the first 6 months of treatment with octreotide acetate. Cholelithiasis is a risk of long-term treatment.
Obesity treatment with single drugs produces weight losses of about 8-10% of initial body weight. Few studies of combinations of drugs for treating obesity have been published. The combination of phentermine, an adrenergic agent, and fenfluramine, a serotonergic agent, (phen-fen) produced weight losses of about 15% of initial body weight. Fenfluramine is no longer available because it was associated with cardiac valve lesions. Phentermine-fluoxetine (phen-flu) has been proposed as an alternative for phen-fen.
To compare the efficacy of treatment and prevalence of cardiac valve abnormalities on phen-flu vs phen-fen.
Retrospective chart review of all patients treated for at least 3 months with phen-flu (N=97) to a random sample of patients treated with phen-fen (N=98) in the Clinical Nutrition Clinic at the University of Wisconsin. Comparison of echocardiograms in all patients treated solely with phen-flu (N=21) to a random sample of patients treated with phen-fen (N=47), and to a group of subjects never treated with obesity drugs (N=26).
With last observation carried forward analysis (LOCF), at 6 months of treatment the phen-fen patients lost 12.6+/-0.6% of baseline weight and phen-flu patients lost 9.0+/-0.6% (P<0.001). With completers analysis, there were no significant differences in weight loss as a percent of baseline weight at 6 months (14.4+/-0.6 vs 13.3+/-0.9%). LOCF decreases in body mass index (BMI) at 6 months were -5.3 and -3.6 kg/m(2) for phen-fen and phen-flu, respectively (P<0.001), and 6.2+/-0.3 vs 5.4+/-0.4 kg/m(2), respectively, for the completers analysis (P - NS). Dropout rate at 6 months was higher in phen-flu subjects (44 vs 28%). In subjects without atherosclerosis of valves (presumably pre-existing), cardiac valve lesions occurred in eight of 38 phen-fen subjects and in none of 15 phen-flu subjects or 25 control subjects who had not been treated with drugs.
The combination of phentermine and fluoxetine was not as effective as phen-fen, but was not associated with cardiac valve lesions. Longer term, larger scale studies of phen-flu are warranted.
A controlled, randomised double-blind study was performed to compare the prior intravenous administration of ketamine 10 mg (1 ml) or 0.9% saline (1 ml) on propofol injection pain. One hundred patients of ASA status 1 or 2 presenting for gynaecological surgery were studied. Following an initial 5-ml bolus of propofol into a dorsal hand vein, 30 s after the treatment, 84% of the saline control patients experienced mild or severe pain compared to 26% of those who were given ketamine pretreatment (p < 0.05).
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is revealed to exert diverse biological effects including immunotoxicity, mainly by inadvertently activating the transcription factor arylhydrocarbon receptor (AhR). In the present study, the developmental effects of perinatal exposure to low doses of TCDD on the major immune organs of offspring, thymus and spleen, were investigated focusing on weaning time (postnatal day (PND) 21), puberty (PND 49) and adulthood (PND 120) in male rats. Concurrently, TCDD contents in those organs were measured with a high-resolution gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC/MS). In the thymus and spleen, CYP1A1 mRNA induction, the sensitive reaction caused by activation of AhR, was also measured in order to examine whether perinatally administered TCDD can elicit gene expressions in these organs. When pregnant dams were administered a single oral dose of 12.5-800 ng TCDD/kg body weight on gestation day (GD) 15, the weights of the thymus and spleen of the offspring did not differ from those of control animals throughout the experiments. The thymus and spleen maternally exposed to 800 ng TCDD/kg contained 102.0 and 62.7 pg TCDD/g tissue on PND 21, respectively, and the amounts decreased thereafter. In the thymus, dose-dependent CYP1A1 mRNA induction was clearly observed by maternal exposure to 50-800 ng TCDD/kg on PND 5. The induction was gradually decreased on PND 21 and 49. On the other hand, CYP1A1 mRNA induction in the spleen was very weak. In these thymi, no reproducible change was observed by TCDD exposure in cell number and cellular population defined by CD4 and CD8 molecules at any time. In contrast, splenocyte number was shown to decrease by maternal exposure to 12.5-800 ng TCDD/kg in a dose-dependent manner on PND 49. The alteration in spleen cellularity by TCDD was not detected on PND 21 or 120. These results clarified that perinatal exposure to low doses of TCDD affects the immune organs, which is apparent in spleen around puberty and likely to be hardly relevant to AhR-dependent gene expressions.
Hydroxyurea is the only approved drug for treatment of sickle cell disease.
To synthesize the published literature on the efficacy, effectiveness, and toxicity of hydroxyurea when used in adults with sickle cell disease.
MEDLINE, EMBASE, TOXLine, and CINAHL were searched through 30 June 2007.
Randomized trials, observational studies, and case reports evaluating efficacy and toxicity of hydroxyurea in adults with sickle cell disease, and toxicity studies of hydroxyurea in other conditions that were published in English.
Paired reviewers abstracted data on study design, patient characteristics, and outcomes sequentially and did quality assessments independently.
In the single randomized trial, the hemoglobin level was higher in hydroxyurea recipients than placebo recipients after 2 years (difference, 6 g/L), as was fetal hemoglobin (absolute difference, 3.2%). The median number of painful crises was 44% lower than in the placebo group. The 12 observational studies that enrolled adults reported a relative increase in fetal hemoglobin of 4% to 20% and a relative reduction in crisis rates by 68% to 84%. Hospital admissions declined by 18% to 32%. The evidence suggests that hydroxyurea may impair spermatogenesis. Limited evidence indicates that hydroxyurea treatment in adults with sickle cell disease is not associated with leukemia. Likewise, limited evidence suggests that hydroxyurea and leg ulcers are not associated in patients with sickle cell disease, and evidence is insufficient to estimate the risk for skin neoplasms, although these outcomes can be attributed to hydroxyurea in other conditions.
Only English-language articles were included, and some studies were of lower quality.
Hydroxyurea has demonstrated efficacy in adults with sickle cell disease. The paucity of long-term studies limits conclusions about toxicity.
To assess the safety of delayed high dose intravenous (i.v.) sodium thiosulfate (STS) in a case series of 12 children with malignant brain tumors who were treated with intraarterial (i.a.) carboplatin in conjunction with blood-brain-barrier disruption (BBBD).
Twelve children ages 17 months-12 years underwent a total of 132 BBBD chemotherapy treatments and also received delayed high dose STS (i.v.). Dose 1 of STS (10-16 g/m(2)) was administered 2 or 4 hr after carboplatin, and a second STS dose was administered 4 hr after dose 1 if the child had impaired baseline hearing. Toxicity data were graded in accordance with the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (Version 2). Audiologic monitoring to evaluate the otoprotective potential of STS was performed on 11 children. Ototoxicity was defined in accordance with the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA) criteria. Baseline and end of treatment hearing status were graded using Brock's criteria.
Nausea and vomiting were well controlled with anti-emetics administered approximately 30 min prior to STS infusion. Analogous to results in adult patients, there was mild transient hypernatremia and a trend for improved protection from ototoxicity in children who received STS delayed to 4 hr post-treatment versus 2 hr. Tumor responses were seen in heavily pre-treated patients with relatively chemo-resistant tumors, suggesting that STS did not protect the tumor from platinum cytotoxicity.
High dose STS is well tolerated in children under 12 years of age. Further studies of STS in children are warranted to assess otoprotection and the impact of STS on platinum mediated efficacy.
