A 68-year-old man developed severe consciousness disturbance after daily administration of 20 mg omeprazole for four days for the treatment of bleeding gastric ulcer. Systemic investigation revealed severe hyponatremia (111 meq/liter). Consciousness did not become clear until his sodium intake was increased to 480 meq/day, and his serum sodium concentrations reached 130 meq/liter. After the discontinuation of omeprazole, his serum sodium levels returned to the normal range with only minimum supplementation of sodium in the form of dietary sodium chloride intake of 10 g/day. Although the mechanism of hyponatremia induced by omeprazole is not clear, an excessive loss of urinary sodium appears to be more likely than water retention with an increase in fluid intake. The literature was also reviewed.
Despite extensive research, the mechanisms of prostate carcinogenesis are not well understood. The slow progress in this area is due, at least in part, to lack of a suitable animal model for prostate carcinogenesis. We have developed an animal model, based on the existing sex hormone-induced prostate carcinogenesis in the Noble rat, by substantially increasing the dosage of testosterone while keeping the level of estrogen unchanged. Using the modified method of combination of testosterone and estradiol-17beta (T+E2), it has been shown in Noble rats that prostate carcinogenesis followed a multi-step process involving hyperplasia, dysplasia, and carcinoma. We have demonstrated the importance of TGF-alpha, TGF-beta1 and bFGF in the development of prostate carcinogenesis. This study also established the roles of VEGF and IGF-1, initially as paracrine factors in epithelial-stromal interactions during the process of carcinogenesis and subsequently switching over to an autocrine mode during the establishment of carcinoma.
We report a case of anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)-associated vasculitis induced by propylthiouracil (PTU), and review the literature concerning to anti-thyroid drug-induced ANCA-associated vasculitis. A 45-year-old man treated with PTU developed fever and arthralgia without pulmonary, skin or eye involvement. These symptoms persisted for a long period without specific symptom, sign or laboratory data of other arthritis. Laboratory findings of urine and blood were normal, except for positive MPO-ANCA (191EU) and PR3-ANCA (37EU) findings. After PTU was discontinued without steroids or immune modulating drugs, both symptoms disappeared. Our patient had a high titer of MPO-ANCA. Moreover, titers of ANCA fell in correlation with the course of symptoms after the cessation of PTU, and we diagnosed PTU-induced ANCA-associated vasculitis. Most patients with pulmonary renal syndrome receive anti-thyroid drugs over a prolonged period, but the duration of our case was shorter than those of these patients. It is suggested that our patient was diagnosed at an early stage of ANCA-associated vasculitis before the start of pulmonary or renal involvement.
Aluminium (Al) overload has been recognised as a frequent complication in uraemic patients on regular dialysis treatment. We report how acute visual disorders occurred after performing a desferrioxamine (DFO) test in patients on regular dialysis treatment suspected of having aluminium overload. Fifteen patients on regular dialysis treatment for 132 +/- 73 (range 17-250) months, aged 61 +/- 10 (range 47-79) years were given DFO as a test at standard dosage. In the 13 patients who complained of visual disorders, we performed ophthalmologic examinations soon after DFO administration, and again 5 months later in 11 of them. A decrease in visual acuity and/or dyschromatopsia, transient or permanent, were present in ten patients. Four had permanent maculopathy and three also had a permanent alteration of VEP (visual evoked potential). Visual fields were normal in all patients except one who presented a permanent central scotoma. The EOG (electro-oculogram) was permanently impaired in five patients and some of them had fluoroangiographic alterations due to damage of the pigmented epithelium. Six to eight months after the DFO test four patients still complained of visual acuity reduction. We conclude that there is a high rate of visual disorders after giving DFO at the standard doses; therefore we stress the need to modify the doses commonly used and/or the mode of infusion.
The aim of the study was to investigate the anticancer effects and the molecular mechanisms of deguelin on Jurkat cells. Cell viability was assessed by MTT assay. Terminal deoxynucleotide transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) assay and transmission electron microscopy were used to detect cell apoptosis. A propidium iodide method was used to study cell cycle distribution. RT-PCR and Western blotting were employed to assess the expression levels of steroid receptor coactivator-3 (SRC-3), nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) and some apoptosis related genes, including Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL. Deguelin was able to inhibit cell proliferation by a cell-cycle arrest in the G(1)/G(0) phase and induce apoptosis in Jurkat cells in vitro, with a 24-h IC(50) value of 43.73 +/- 0.35 nmol/L. The antileukemia effect of deguelin might be correlated well with the downregulation of the expression of SRC-3 and its related transcription factor NF-kappaB, which thus influenced the expression of apoptosis related genes Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL. Deguelin presented potent effects on growth arrest and apoptosis induction in Jurkat cells in vitro via the interruption of SRC-3.
To reassess the need for repeat liver biopsies in patients receiving long-term methotrexate therapy, we reviewed the results of 15 biopsies in 14 such patients seen from 1979 to 1984 at the Medical University of South Carolina. Significant changes in liver histology were found in seven patients. These findings did not correlate with biochemical abnormalities, presence of anemia or obesity, or age when methotrexate therapy was initiated. Four of the 15 biopsies (27%) showed grade III or IV histologic changes (fibrosis or cirrhosis), which led to discontinuance of treatment. The single most significant factor predisposing to toxicity appeared to be the duration of therapy, though the cumulative doses, no patient with grade III or IV histology had been treated for less than five years. Thus, surveillance liver biopsies at suitable intervals are advisable once the patient has been treated for five years or more. Conversely, liver biopsies within the first five years of treatment with methotrexate appear not to be necessary, though these results should be confirmed in a larger patient group.
To report preseptal cellulitis and orbital bone destruction as ocular manifestations of nasal cocaine abuse.
Case report. We examined a 40-year-old male nasal cocaine abuser with diabetes mellitus and with signs of preseptal cellulitis. Computed tomographic imaging of the cranium was performed, and a nasal cavity biopsy specimen was obtained.
Computed tomographic findings showed extensive cartilaginous and bony destruction involving the nasal septum and medial wall of the left orbit, and the nasal biopsy specimen disclosed inflammatory exudate with neutrophils.
Nasal cocaine abuse induces mucoperichondrial ischemia and may be associated with cartilaginous and bony destruction as well as preseptal cellulitis.
Drug intoxication with disulfiram is a rare condition that may lead to severe and potentially fatal cardiovascular manifestations such as cardiogenic shock. We report the case of a female patient with refractory shock after deliberate self-poisoning with disulfiram. Clinical, biochemical and echocardiographic assessment, as well as invasive monitoring confirmed cardiogenic shock associated with this drug. The known mechanisms of action of disulfiram are discussed, and the major collateral effects, especially cardiovascular effects, are described. We underscore the importance of suspecting this diagnosis and of adopting prompt and the most adequate therapeutic approach in this context.
Despite the lack of extrapyramidal side effects, some atypical antipsychotics can induce an increase in prolactinemia, as the conventional neuroleptics do. We decided to evaluate the effects of risperidone on serum prolactin levels and prolactin-related adverse effects in 20 outpatients of an Italian community psychiatric service. Patients enrolled in this study were on risperidone (2-8 mg per day; mean dose=4.15+/-0.4 mg per day) treatment in the period May-November 2002. The 20 patients, 13 women and 7 men (mean age=36.38+/-3.2 years for women and 29.7+/-2.2 for men) who accomplished inclusion criteria, participated in the study after giving informed written consent. Raised prolactin levels were observed in 13 (9 women and 4 men) out of 20 patients, but only 8 patients presented prolactin-related adverse effects, libido reduction being the most frequent. In this observational study, risperidone enhanced serum prolactin in 65% of patients. A good correlation was found between age and prolactin levels in pre-menopausal women, although no clear correlation among duration of treatment, dose used, prolactin levels and prolactin-related adverse effects could be established.
To compare the risk for congenital malformations in offspring between women with epilepsy being treated with antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) during pregnancy and those who discontinued their antiepileptic medication before pregnancy in a population-based cohort of female patients with epilepsy.
All patients with epilepsy (n = 20,101) eligible for AED reimbursement for the first time during 1985 to 1994 were identified from the Social Insurance Institution of Finland. Information on births during 1991 to 2000 was obtained from the National Medical Birth Registry. Information on AED use during pregnancy and on pregnancy outcomes was abstracted from medical records.
Congenital malformations were more common among offspring of women on antiepileptic medication (65/1,411; 4.6%) than among offspring of untreated patients (26/939; 2.8%) (p = 0.02). The risk of malformations was substantially higher in the offspring of patients using valproate as monotherapy (OR = 4.18; 95% CI: 2.31, 7.57) or valproate as polytherapy (OR = 3.54; 95% CI: 1.42, 8.11) than of untreated patients. Polytherapy without valproate was not associated with increased risk of malformations.
Excess risk was confined to patients using valproate during pregnancy. The risk for malformations was not elevated in offspring of mothers using carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, or phenytoin (as monotherapy or polytherapy without valproate).
We describe a case of grand mal generalized tonic-clonic seizure after fluorescein angiography. The patient had a history of seizure disorders and had been controlled with proper medication before the test. We advocate the need to include diazepam and phenytoin in the list of emergency medications needed to control adverse reactions of fluorescein angiography.
A 57-year-old female presented with complete heart block and then developed refractory hypotension despite temporary pacing. Moderate left ventricular dysfunction with focal wall motion abnormalities, as well as severe hypoxemia, were demonstrated. However, neither significant coronary disease nor evidence for pulmonary embolus or other lung disease could be determined. Hemodynamic stabilization was achieved with the use of an intra-aortic balloon pump and multiple high-dose pressor agents. A retrospective diagnosis of toxic verapamil-SR and atenolol ingestion was confirmed, and the patient gradually recovered. The relevant literature is reviewed and various treatment approaches are discussed.
It is well known that the tumorous lesion in rat anterior pituitary gland occurs after continuous administration of estrogen, which is mainly composed of PRL secreting cells. In this study the changes in rat PRL cells by estrogen treatment were studied histologically and immunocytochemically. Furthermore, intracellular structures in PRL cells were observed by high resolution scanning electron microscopy using the aldehyde prefix osmium-DMSO-osmium method. These rat pituitary tumors were established in Fischer-344 female rats by weekly injections of 2.5 mg estradiol valerate. The estrogen-induced, autonomous and transplantable rat pituitary tumors (MtT/F84) were also studied in the same manner and the findings were compared with estrogen-induced tumors. The increase of weight of pituitary gland and of serum PRL level correlated significantly with the number of estrogen administration. On the basis of histological findings, estrogen-induced pituitary tumors can be classified into two different stages, that is, hypertrophic hyperplasia and adenomatous hyperplasia. The former corresponds to the period until 6 weeks after the beginning of estrogen treatment and the latter to the period thereafter. In the former, PRL cells were significantly increased in number and volume, and were diffusely immunoreactive for PRL in the cytoplasm. Cell atypism was rarely found. The extent of acidophil staining was well preserved in hematoxylin-eosin staining. Ultrastructurally, organelles were well developed, especially rough endoplasmic reticulum showed whorl formation. Immature, irregularly shaped secretory granules were frequently observed within the Golgi area. Mature granules were richly stored at the periphery of the cell.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Doxorubicin (ADRIAMYCIN, RUBEX) is a chemotherapeutic agent that is commonly administered to breast cancer patients in standard chemotherapy regimens. As true of all such therapeutic cytotoxic agents, it can damage normal, noncancerous cells and might affect biochemical processes in a manner that might lead to, or contribute to, chemotherapy-induced cognitive deficits when administered either alone or in combination with other agents.
The clinical use of doxorubicin (Dxr) is limited by its cardiotoxic effects which are mediated by oxygen radicals. The purpose of this study was to investigate in vivo protective effects of erdosteine, an antioxidant agent because of its secondary active metabolites in vivo, against the cardiotoxicity induced by Dxr in rats. Three groups of male Sprague-Dawley rats (60 days old) were used. Group 1 was untreated group used as control; the other groups were treated with Dxr (single i.p. dosage of 20 mg kg(-1) b.wt.) or Dxr plus erdosteine (10 mg kg(-1) day(-1), orally), respectively. Erdosteine or oral saline treatment was done starting 2 days before Dxr for 12 days. The analyses were done at the 10th day of Dxr treatment. The protein carbonyl content, the activities of myeloperoxidase, aspartate aminotransferase (AST), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), and creatine kinase (CK) as well as heart rate and blood pressures were significantly increased in Dxr group in comparison with the other groups. However, pulse pressure was decreased in Dxr group. The body and heart weights were decreased in both Dxr administered groups in comparison with control group. Disorganization of myocardial histology, picnotic nuclei, edema, and increase in collagen content around vessels were seen in the slides of Dxr group, whereas normal myocardial microscopy was preserved in Dxr plus erdosteine group. Collectively, these in vivo hemodynamic, enzymatic and morphologic studies provide an evidence for a possible prevention of cardiac toxicity in Dxr-treated patients.
In order to clarify whether oxidative stress accompanies epilepsy, we examined the effects of pentylenetetrazol (PTZ)-induced epilepsy on the lipid peroxidation and antioxidant enzyme activities in erythrocytes and liver tissues of adult Wistar rats.
The activities of antioxidative enzymes (glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD)), copper, zinc-superoxide dismutase (Cu,Zn-SOD), catalase (CAT), selenium-dependent glutathione peroxidase (Se-GSH-Px) and the levels of reduced glutathione (GSH) and thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) were measured in erythrocytes and liver tissues of pentylenetetrazol (PTZ)-induced epileptic adult Wistar rats.
Single PTZ treatment in a convulsive dose of 50 mg/kg significantly reduced the erythrocyte Cu,Zn-SOD, CAT enzyme activities and GSH levels compared to controls (P < 0.001, P < 0.001, P < 0.05, respectively). Erythrocyte and liver tissue TBARS levels in the epileptic group were significantly higher than controls (P < 0.0001). There was a significant decrease in liver tissue Cu,Zn-SOD activity and GSH levels in the epileptic group (P < 0.0001), whereas significantly higher activities of G-6-PD and Se-GSH-Px were found in the epileptic group.
Our results demonstrate a generalized diminished antioxidant activity and increased TBARS level indicating enhanced oxidative stress in the liver and erythrocytes of epileptic rats. Increased oxidative stress in the liver of epileptic rats might be due to the activation of the recently found glutamate receptors in the liver. These findings suggest that the use of antioxidants with antiepileptic drugs and new drugs such as type-5 metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGlu5) antagonist (MPEP) might protect erythrocytes and liver tissue against anoxic damage and oxidative stress.
Women in hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC) families have up to a 71% lifetime risk for developing endometrial cancer (EC). This compares to the female lifetime risk for colorectal cancer (CRC) in HNPCC of 60%. The basis of HNPCC is an inherited mutation in a mismatch repair gene (MMR). Aspirin and COX2 inhibitors seem to have a chemoprotective effect on CRC in the general population and are the subject of prospective clinical studies in patients at high risk for CRC including HNPCC. There is no evidence that these agents have any protective effect against EC in the general population. This study investigated the effect of aspirin and a COX2 inhibitor (rofecoxib) on an HNPCC EC cell line model (Ishikawa) by assessing the effect on proliferation, apoptosis, the cell cycle, and MMR gene expression. Aspirin inhibits EC cell proliferation by inducing apoptosis and changes in the cell cycle. This effect is not mediated by changes in MMR gene (hMSH2) expression as assessed by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Rofecoxib inhibits EC cell proliferation; this did not appear to be mediated by induction of apoptosis, by alterations of the cell cycle, or by changes in MMR gene expression.
Bupivacaine is a long-acting local anesthetic agent that is very widely used for cutaneous infiltration, peripheral nerve blocks, epidural anesthesia, and spinal anesthesia. Well-described cardiotoxic effects of bupivacaine and other members of its class include dysrhythmias, hypotension, and depression of cardiac output. The minimum IV dose of bupivacaine previously associated with significant toxicity in humans is 1.6 mg/kg. A case is reported of bradyasystolic arrest with post resuscitation shock, without significant central nervous system (CNS) toxicity, following the injection of less than 1.1 mg/kg bupivacaine in an adult.
A ten-year-old boy persented with a prolonged cholestatic liver disease 5 weeks after starting diphenylhydantoin therapy. The initial phase of his illness was characterized by hepatocellular damage with swollen liver cells and centrilobular cholestasis. Severe hyperlipoproteinemia with eruptive xanthomata developed within 3 weeks of his initial jaundice. The second phase of his illness was characterized by portal tract inflammation with bile ductular proliferation and chronic cholestasis gradually resolving over a period of 15 months. It is postulated that diphenylhydantoin sensitivity produced swollen hepatocytes with hypertrophy of the smooth endoplasmic reticulum, reducing hepatic sinusoidal blood flow and the clearance of secondary bile salts. A fall in clearance of lipoproteins, including the cholesterol precursor of primary bile acid synthesis, may have been responsible for a reduction in serum bile acid concentration. High levels of serum lithocholic acid, largely unsulfated presumably due to decreased hepatic uptake, may have produced the prolonged second phase of this illness when histological changes resembled that seen in experimental animals following lithocholic acid administration.
Three patients who were treated for schistosomiasis mansoni with oxamniquine suffered generalized seizures. We suggest that this side effect may be more common than previously reported. Specific ethnic groups may be particularly at risk.
Elevated serum retinol, CSF retinol, and serum retinol binding protein (RBP) levels have been found in some patients with idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH), but serum and CSF retinol levels have not been studied in matched serum and CSF samples in patients with IIH.
To determine whether serum and CSF vitamin A concentrations are associated with IIH.
The serum and CSF retinol concentrations were prospectively assessed in 20 patients with IIH and 20 control subjects.
CSF retinol concentration was higher in the patient group (median 575.91 nM) vs the control group (median 63.35 nM) (p < 0.05). There was no difference in serum retinol levels between control subjects (median 896.51 nM) and patients (median 1,002.62 nM) (p = 0.10). There was an association between higher vitamin A levels (> 250 nM) and IIH (p = 0.039). There was a correlation between CSF and serum retinol levels in patients (r = 0.82) and control subjects (r = 0.66).
Elevated CSF retinol concentration is associated with idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH), but serum retinol level is not associated with IIH.
Drug and chemically-induced immunosuppression has been implicated as a confounding factor for cancer development. Management of cancer in such situation is often a challenging task. We tested the efficacy of nordihydroguiaretic acid (NDGA) against immunosuppressant tacrolimus-induced augmentation of mouse skin tumorigenesis. It was observed that topical administration of tacrolimus significantly accelerated the tumor promotion events in dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA)-initiated and 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) promoted two-stage mouse skin carcinogenesis, which were accompanied by reduced CD4(+)/CD8(+) ratio of lymph nodes and serum IL-2 level. NDGA pre-treatment before each TPA application reduced the tumor incidence, its multiplicity and volume together with improvement in histopathological alterations and decrease in proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) labeling index (LI). However, NDGA had no significant influence on the immunosuppressive effect of tacrolimus. The present study demonstrates chemopreventive effect of NDGA in normal as well as in the condition of immunosuppression. Thus, NDGA has the potential to inhibit or delay the onset of tumor development during immunosuppressive regimen.
Many patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease treated with levodopa for more than five years develop fluctuations in their clinical response to this drug. Such fluctuations may be unpredictable, but more commonly occur in a regular pattern related to the size and timing of the levodopa dosage. Theories as to their cause have emphasised both the progression of the underlying Parkinson's disease and the possibility of a late side-effect of levodopa. We report two children with Parkinsonism, one after recurrent obstructive hydrocephalus and the other following an encephalitic illness. Both patients had striking improvement with levodopa, but developed predictable and unpredictable dramatic response fluctuations within weeks of starting levodopa therapy. This suggests that neither the pathology of idiopathic Parkinson's disease, nor the long-term use of levodopa are essential for the development of predictable or unpredictable fluctuations in response to levodopa therapy.
