This 54-year-old man accidentally sprayed himself with the chemical agent glyphosate, a herbicide derived from the amino acid glycine. He developed disseminated skin lesions 6 hours after the accident. One month later, he developed a symmetrical parkinsonian syndrome. Two years after the initial exposure to glyphosate, magnetic resonance imaging revealed hyperintense signal in the globus pallidus and substantia nigra, bilaterally, on T2-weighted images. Levodopa/benserazide 500/125 mg daily provided satisfactory clinical outcome.
A 37-year-old man with Wilson's disease is described, in whom the introduction of penicillamine therapy was followed after 3.5 weeks by the development of the status dystonicus with a fatal outcome.
Aplastic anemia is a rare side-effect associated with ticlopidine therapy. We report two cases of severe aplastic anemia developed after the use of ticlopidine. A 51-year-old woman took ticlopidine at 500 mg/day for 49 days to prevent a secondary stroke. She developed fever and dizziness within 49 days of initiating ticlopidine therapy. A 70-year-old woman was started on ticlopidine after coronary stent insertion. Fifty days after starting ticlopidine, she developed fever and dizziness. Both patients showed pancytopenia and were diagnosed as aplastic anemia which were confirmed by bone marrow examination. Both patients were hospitalized and received antibiotics, blood products and hematopoietic growth factors. Four and seven weeks after the withdrawal of ticlopidine, the hematologic parameters of each patient improved. A complete blood count should be monitored during ticlopidine therapy to check for cytopenia.
BCNU was reported to have about a 6- to 8- fold lower cytotoxic potency than ACNU in cell lines naturally deficient in O6-AGT. In seven tumor cell lines with an O6-AGT activity ranging from 40 to 360 fmol/mg the cytotoxic potency of BCNU, ACNU and HeCNU, without and after O6-AGT depletion by O6-BG, was determined. Without O6-AGT depletion, BCNU was superior to both other drugs in tumor cells with high O6-AGT activity. After O6-AGT depletion, the cytotoxic potency (comparison of IC50 values) of ACNU was higher than that of BCNU (p=0.016) or that of HeCNU (p=0.016) in all tumor cell lines. We conclude that (without O6-AGT depletion) BCNU is the drug of choice especially in tumor cells with high transferase activity. The higher cytotoxic potency of ACNU after O6-AGT depletion as compared to BCNU after O6-AGT depletion is countered by the higher toxicity of ACNU in patients necessitating a clinical dose reduction as compared to BCNU. Thus, we would not expect superiority of ACNU + O6-BG over BCNU+ O6-BG after systemic administration.
The major limitation for continuous administration of natural retinoids for chemoprevention of cancer is their high toxicity; however, synthetic retinamides have the desirable quality of reduced toxicity while retaining most of the biological activity. We have presently evaluated the comparative toxicity of all-trans- and 13-cis-isomers of N-ethyl retinamide (ER), N-2-hydroxyethyl retinamide (HER), and N-4-hydroxyphenyl retinamide (HPR) in mice and rats after po and ip administration. The computed LD90, DL50, and LD10 values for combined sexes of mice following 21 daily doses of the above retinoids were determined. Identical doses of the same retinoid by ip administration produced more toxicity and deaths than by the po route. The 13-cis-isomers exhibited comparatively less toxicity than the corresponding all-trans-isomer. Based on the lethality data, all-trans-retinoic acid was most toxic followed by all-trans-HER greater than all-trans-HPR greater than all-trans-ER. Changes in clinical chemistry and hematological parameters associated with administration of the retinamides include a dose-dependent peripheral anemia evidenced by erythrocytopenia and decreased hemoglobin concentration and packed cell volume. Retinoid treatment also caused increased plasma alkaline phosphatase activity and decreased serum albumin levels. Histopathological changes associated with retinoid administration primarily included liver lesions as characterized by degeneration and enlargement of hepatocytes. The present studies indicate that synthetic retinoids are less toxic than the natural ones.
Regional myocardial O2 consumption (MVO2) was measured directly as the product of left anterior descending coronary artery blood flow and coronary arteriovenous O2 content difference in eight dogs anesthetized with 1% halothane in O2 following thiopental induction. Changes in MVO2, brought about by infusions of phenylephrine and sodium nitroprusside, were compared with simultaneously observed changes in some readily obtainable indirect induces of MVO2 such as the tension-time index and the heart rate-blood pressure product. During halothane alone average values of mean arterial pressure and regional MVO2 were, respectively, 81 mm Hg and 3.6 ml of O2/min. When mean arterial pressure was increased to 126 mm Hg (average) and held there for 27 minutes by continuously infusing a dilute solution of phenylephrine, regional MVO2 averaged 5.4 ml/min. When mean arterial pressure was lowered to 77 mm Hg for a 36-minute period by infusing sodium nitroprusside (phenylephrine infusion maintained), regional MVO2 fell to 2.5 ml/min. There was a high and significant correlation between changes in directly measured regional MVO2 and simultaneously observed changes in mean arterial pressure, tension-time index, and heart rate-blood pressure. These results indicate that during halothane anesthesia in healthy dogs, changes in readily obtainable indirect indices of MVO2 such as the tension-time index and heart rate-blood pressure product, accurately characterize changes in MVO2 directly measured.
The discovery of a second isoform of cyclooxygenase has led to a re-evaluation of the mechanisms underlying the adverse effects of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, focusing in particular on the gastrointestinal system. We investigated the involvement of cyclooxygenase-1 and -2 in the regulation of gastric acid secretion and cardiovascular functions in anesthetized rats, after acute intravenous administration of the selective cyclooxygenase-1 inhibitor SC-560, the selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor celecoxib and the nonselective inhibitor indomethacin. Indomethacin, celecoxib and SC-560 did not significantly modify basal acid secretion. Indomethacin and celecoxib were also ineffective on the acid secretion stimulated by pentagastrin; by contrast, SC-560 significantly enhanced the acid secretion stimulated by pentagastrin, electrical vagal stimulation or histamine. The stimulatory effects of SC-560 were prevented by cervical vagotomy, atropine and famotidine. Indomethacin caused either no change, increasing or decreasing effects on mean arterial pressure and heart rate. By contrast, SC-560 was unable to change cardiovascular parameters at 5 mg/kg, while inducing a marked bradycardia at 10 mg/kg. Celecoxib was ineffective. Our findings indicate that cyclooxygenase-1-derived prostaglandins are involved in the regulation of stimulated acid secretion and of basal heart rate; the role of prostaglandins in the acute control of systemic blood pressure under resting conditions seems to be negligible.
xCT, the functional subunit of the cystine/glutamate transporter xc- system, plays a critical role in the maintenance of intracellular glutathione and redox balance. Disruption of xCT significantly inhibits the growth of a variety of carcinomas, including lymphoma, glioma, prostate and breast cancer. However, the role of xCT in tumor metastasis remains largely unknown. In this study, both xCT(+/+) and xCT(-/-) melanocytes were used to evaluate the role of xCT in adhesion. xCT activity was suppressed by an inhibitor, sulfasalazine (SASP), or by xCT siRNA in an esophageal cancer cell line, KYSE150. We found that disruption of xCT enhanced homotypic cell-cell adhesion and attenuated cell-extracellular matrix adhesion. SASP significantly inhibited both cell invasion of KYSE150 in vitro and its experimental metastasis in nude mice. Caveolin-1 was upregulated and beta-catenin was recruited to the plasma membrane when xCT was deficient, which were followed by the inhibition of beta-catenin transcriptional activity. Further study revealed that the upregulation of caveolin-1 and inhibition of tumor cell invasion were mediated by reactive oxygen species-induced p38 MAPK activation. These results first establish the role of xCT in tumor metastasis and implicate a potential target for cancer therapy.
Side effects with coated, rapidly dissolving lithium carbonate tablets, medium-slow-release and slow release lithium sulphate tablets, all administered twice a day, were compared in a double-blind, cross-over study in 27 patients who had only used lithium carbonate tablets. The relation between medication and meals was not standardized. The repidly dissolving tablets and the medium-slow-release tablets had a similar tendency to produce side effects, while slow-release tablets more often produced purgative side effects than the other two preparations did.
Diazepam was shown to be highly efficient in preventing the convulsive siezures induced by thiosemicarbazide and connected with GABA insufficiency. In recording the recovery cycles of the intracortical response of the cat motor cortex it was found that diazepam induced a decrease of the testing respone. These data indicate the enhancement of the inhibitory processes. Using this test an antagonistic relationship was observed between diazepam on the one hand, and biculline and thiosemicarbazide--on the other Diazepam was capable of increasing GABA content in the brain by suppressing GABA-transaminase activity in the mitochondrial fraction of the brain tissue.
Enhanced oxidative stress is associated with hepatic fibrosis. Salvianolic acids A (Sal A) and B (Sal B) have been reported to be strong polyphenolic antioxidants and free radical scavengers. The present study is to investigate if Sal A and B could attenuate oxidative stress and liver fibrosis in rats. A cell line of rat hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) was stimulated with platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF, 10 ng/ml). The inhibitory effects of Sal A and B on intracellular hydrogen peroxide levels were measured with dichlorofluorescein diacetate (DCF-DA) dye assay. alpha-Smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA), nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase subunits were measured by Western blotting. Liver fibrosis was induced by intraperitoneal injections of thioacetamide (TAA, 200 mg/kg) twice per week for 6 weeks. Sal A (10 mg/kg), Sal B (50 mg/kg) or S-adenosylmethionine (SAMe, 10 mg/kg), was given by gavage twice per day consecutively for 4 weeks starting 2 weeks after TAA injection. In vitro, PDGF increased the accumulation of hydrogen peroxide in HSCs, which was attenuated by Sal A (10 muM) and Sal B (200 muM). Sal A and B attenuated the PDGF-stimulated expressions of alpha-SMA and NADPH oxidase subunits gp91(phox) and p47(phox) in membrane fractions. In vivo studies showed that the hepatic levels of collagen, malondialdehyde, TNF-alpha, IL-6, and IL-1beta, fibrosis scores and protein expressions of alpha-SMA, heme-oxygenase-1, iNOS, and gp91(phox), and serum levels of ALT, AST, IL-6, and IL-1beta were increased in TAA-intoxicated rats, all of which were attenuated by 4-week treatment of Sal A or Sal B. Our results showed that Sal A and B attenuated PDGF-induced ROS formation in HSCs, possibly through inhibition of NADPH oxidase. Sal A and B treatments were also effective against hepatic fibrosis in TAA-intoxicated rats.
Successful treatment of hemorrhagic cystitis after systemic chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide yields up great problems up to now, because all therapeutic modalities that have been done were accompanied with severe side-effects. A 16 year old girl presented massive chemical cystitis and severe bleedings of the bladder mucosa after systemic long-term low-dose chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide. In this case bladder lesions could be cured completely by endoscopic application of fibrin adhesive through a cystoscope. Side-effects were not noted.
Esophageal cancer is one of the most lethal human tumors, characterized by relative chemoresistance and poor prognosis. Researchers have been seeking for multimodality to improve its outcome of therapy. PUMA (p53 upregulated modulator of apoptosis) is a potent proapoptotic molecule that is rapidly induced in cells following DNA damage and is required for p53-induced apoptosis. We evaluated the therapeutic potential of PUMA adenovirus against esophageal cancer cell lines (KYSE-150, KYSE-410, KYSE-510 and YES-2). Infection with Ad-PUMA (PUMA Adenovirus) resulted in the more powerful cytotoxicity in these cell lines compared with Ad-p53. Furthermore, we assessed the efficacy of a combined treatment with Ad-PUMA and anticancer drug (cisplatin, paclitaxel, 5-fluorouracil, respectively) for these cells and found PUMA significantly increased the chemosensitivity of esophageal cancer cells, which may result from more abundant apoptosis induction. Interestingly, Ad-PUMA was found to be more efficient than Ad-p53 in inhibiting cell growth and enhancing the chemosensitivity of esophageal cancer cell lines irrespective of the p53 status. These results suggest that Ad-PUMA is a potent cytotoxic agent and could be a promising alternative in the cancer gene therapy in combination with chemotherapeutic agents.
The antiparkinsonian action of an NMDA receptor antagonist, magnesium sulfate (50, 100, and 200 mg/kg), alone and in association with levodopa was explored in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned parkinsonian and control rhesus monkeys. At the three doses tested, magnesium sulfate decreased levodopa-induced dyskinesia [cumulative dyskinetic scores after levodopa: 129 +/- 13; after levodopa and magnesium sulfate: 65 +/- 14 (50 mg/kg), P < 0.001; 64 +/- 10 (100 mg/kg), P < 0.001; 66 +/- 21 (200 mg/kg), P < 0.001, compared to levodopa administration alone]. These results show that magnesium sulfate importantly reduces levodopa-induced dyskinesia.
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is associated with a high risk of cardiovascular disease, but evidence regarding the effectiveness of interventions to reduce that risk is lacking. The Perindopril Protection against Recurrent Stroke Study (PROGRESS) study enrolled 6105 participants with cerebrovascular disease and randomly allocated them to perindopril-based blood pressure-lowering therapy or placebo. Individuals with CKD were at approximately 1.5-fold greater risk of major vascular events, stroke, and coronary heart disease, and were more than twice as likely to die (all P< or =0.002). Perindopril-based treatment reduced the risk of major vascular events by 30% and stroke by 35% among subjects with CKD, and the absolute effects of treatment were 1.7-fold greater for those with CKD than for those without. Considering patients with CKD and a history of cerebrovascular disease, perindopril prevented one stroke or other cardiovascular event among every 11 patients treated over five years. In conclusion, kidney function should be considered when determining the need for blood pressure lowering therapy in patients with cerebrovascular disease.
The mechanism of cortisol-induced hypertension remains unknown. We investigated a possible role of erythropoietin (EPO) as a mediator of hypertension in healthy male subjects treated with cortisol. In Study 1, blood pressure (BP) and serum EPO concentrations were measured on alternate days in nine subjects treated with 80 mg of cortisol per day for 5 days. In Study 2 the same parameters were measured in eight subjects randomised to cortisol (80 mg/day) or placebo and 10 subjects randomised to cortisol (200 mg/day) or placebo for 5 days. In Study 1, cortisol caused a significant increase in systolic BP (SBP) (115 +/- 2 vs 126 +/- 2 mm Hg, control vs day 5, P < 0.001) and serum EPO concentrations (14.5 +/- 2.7 vs 24.3 +/- 2.7 mU/mL, P < 0.001). In Study 2 both doses of cortisol increased SBP (118 +/- 2 vs 113 +/- 2 mm Hg, 80 mg cortisol vs placebo, P < 0.05 and 129 +/- 3 vs 113 +/- 2 mm Hg, 200 mg cortisol vs placebo, P < 0.001). Serum EPO concentrations were significantly increased at 200 mg cortisol (25.2 +/- 11.9 vs 15.9 +/- 3.5 mU/mL, P < 0.01) but not 80 mg cortisol (21.3 +/- 2.9 vs 14.9 +/- 3.1 mU/mL). In the 200 mg group there was a positive correlation between the change in SBP and the change in serum EPO concentration (r2 = 0.43, P < 0.05). These results point to a possible role for EPO as the mediator of cortisol-induced hypertension. Journal of Human Hypertension (2000) 14, 195-198.
3-Chloro-4-(dichloromethyl)-5-hydroxy-2(5H)-furanone (MX), a disinfection by-product in chlorinated drinking water, induces follicular tumors in thyroid glands in Wistar rats. The mechanisms of the MX-induced thyroid gland tumorigenesis are not known.
The expressions of p53 (primary antibody CM5) and p21 Ki-ras (primary antibody F234) proteins were evaluated by immunohistochemisty in MX-induced tumors in Wistar rats. p53 expression was studied in 3 follicular adenomas, 29 follicular carcinomas and two C-cell carcinomas of thyroid glands. p21 Ki-ras expression was studied in 13 follicular carcinomas and one C-cell carcinoma.
A weak expression of p53 protein (1-5% of tumor cells) observed in six follicular carcinomas (21%) and one C-cell carcinoma was not considered to be p53-positive. No expression of p21 Ki-ras was observed in any of the samples.
These data indicate that p53 and Ki-ras proteins are not overexpressed in the MX-induced thyroid tumors in rats.
Toxicity studies of riddelliine, a member of a class of pyrrolizidine alkaloids, were conducted because riddelliine has been found to contaminate human food sources. Groups of male and female Fischer rats were administered riddelliine by gavage in phosphate buffer at doses up to 10 mg/kg, and B6C3F1 mice at doses up to 25 mg/kg, five times a week. The animals were necropsied after 13 weeks of treatment or after a 7 or 14 week recovery period. Body weight gains were inversely related to dose in both rats and mice. Body weight of the 1.0 and 3.3 mg/kg female rats and 10.0 and 25.0 mg/kg mice remained depressed during the 14 week recovery period. At 13 weeks, significant findings included dose-related hepatopathy and intravascular macrophage accumulation in rats and hepatocytomegaly in mice. During the 14 week recovery period these lesions persisted and hepatic foci of cellular alteration in male rats and bile duct proliferation in female rats and male and female mice increased in severity. In the 10 mg/kg group of female rats adenomas of the liver occurred in two of ten at 13 weeks and in one of five at the 14 week recovery period. In separate studies, the frequency of micronucleated erythrocytes in peripheral blood was increased in male mice administered a single dose (150 mg/kg) of riddelliine. Increases in unscheduled DNA and S-phase syntheses were detected in primary hepatocytes from rats and mice treated with riddelliine at doses up to 25.0 mg/kg for 5 or 30 days. In mating trials in rats and mice, pup weights from treated dams at birth and during suckling were lower than controls. Thus, riddelliine is genotoxic and carcinogenic and may cross the placenta and/or be found in milk, causing developmental toxicity in rodents.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR-gamma) is a nuclear membrane-associated transcription factor that governs the expression of various inflammatory genes. PPAR-gamma agonists protect peripheral organs from ischemic injury. In the present study, we investigated whether the PPAR-gamma agonist rosiglitazone is neuroprotective against focal ischemic brain injury. C57/B6 mice underwent 1.5-h middle cerebral artery occlusion, and received either vehicle or rosiglitazone treatment of 0.75, 1.5, 3, 6 or 12 mg/kg (n = 9 per group). Cerebral infarct volume, neurological function, expression of pro-inflammatory proteins and neutrophil accumulation were assessed after ischemia and reperfusion. At 48 h after ischemia, infarct volume was significantly decreased with 3-12 mg/kg of rosiglitazone, with a time window of efficacy of 2 h after ischemia at the optimal dose (6 mg/kg). Neutrophil accumulation was significantly decreased in the brain parenchyma of rosiglitazone-treated mice. Ischemia-induced expression of several inflammatory cytokines and chemokines was markedly reduced in rosiglitazone-treated brains, as determined using proteomic-array analysis. Rosiglitazone treatment improved neurological function at 7 days after ischemia. Moreover, in cultured cortical primary microglia, rosiglitazone attenuated inflammatory responses by decreasing lipopolysaccharide-induced release of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin (IL)-1beta and IL-6. These results suggest that the PPAR-gamma agonist rosiglitazone has neuroprotective properties that are at least partially mediated via anti-inflammatory actions, and is thus a potential novel therapeutic agent for stroke.
Retinoic acid (RA) and derivatives are promising antineoplastic agents endowed with both therapeutic and chemopreventive potential. Although the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia with all-trans retinoic acid is an outstanding example, the full potential of retinoids in oncology has not yet been explored and a more generalized use of these compounds is not yet a reality. One way to enhance the therapeutic and chemopreventive activity of RA and derivatives is to identify rational combinations between these compounds and other pharmacological agents. This is now possible given the information available on the biochemical and molecular mechanisms underlying the biological activity of retinoids. At the cellular level, the antileukemia and anticancer activity of retinoids is the result of three main actions, cytodifferentiation, growth inhibition, and apoptosis. Cytodifferentiation is a particularly attractive modality of treatment and differentiating agents promise to be less toxic and more specific than conventional chemotherapy. This is the result of the fact that cytotoxicity is not the primary aim of differentiation therapy. At the molecular level, retinoids act through the activation of nuclear retinoic acid receptor-dependent and -independent pathways. The cellular pathways and molecular networks relevant for retinoid activity are modulated by a panoply of other intracellular and extracellular pathways that may be targeted by known drugs and other experimental therapeutics. This chapter aims to summarize and critically discuss the available knowledge in the field.
Anthracyclines are a group of potent antitumour agents and cardiotoxicity is an important factor limiting their therapeutic effectiveness. Although cardiomyopathy is the most widely recognized type of cardiotoxic reaction, early arrhythmia following anthracycline administration may be of clinical significance as well. We report a case of ventricular tachycardia causing cardiac arrest in a female treated with doxorubicin as adjuvant therapy of breast cancer. Due to recurrence of the arrhythmia and a desire to continue chemotherapy, an automatic cardioverter-defibrillator was implanted with excellent effect.
We report the use of dynamic hepatic scintigraphy in the assessment of the hepatic status of psoriatic patients before and during methotrexate therapy. Eighty-seven paired dynamic scans and percutaneous liver biopsies were performed in 63 patients. The liver biopsies were graded according to Warin et al. with fibrosis of grade 2 or worse being a strong indication for withdrawal of methotrexate. The sensitivity of dynamic hepatic scintigraphy in detecting fibrosis of grade 2 or worse was 83.3% and the specificity was 81.5%. The predictive value of a normal scan for fibrosis of grade 0-1 was high (98.5%) although the predictive value of an abnormal scan for fibrosis of grade 2 or worse was low (25%). Dynamic hepatic scintigraphy may therefore offer a means to reduce the number of liver biopsies necessary in patients receiving methotrexate for psoriasis.
In a parallel group design, and using a 'blind evaluator' technique, alclometasone cream 0.05% and clobetasone butyrate cream 0.5% applied twice a day for 21 days were compared in thirty-one patients presenting with psoriasis. Erythema, induration and scaling were assessed at the start of treatment. Seven, 14 and 21 days later, effects of the two treatments were assessed and recorded together with the physician's global evaluation of overall improvement. Both drugs had similar beneficial effects on the clinical signs. No adverse experience was reported and the overall results indicate that alclometasone and clobetasone have comparable efficacy and safety.
The thienopyridine platelet antagonist ticlopidine is associated with development of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) but the pathophysiology of this link is unclear. Severe deficiency of disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motif-13 (ADAMTS13), described in familial cases and a significant fraction of idiopathic TTP, has been reported in only a few ticlopidine-linked cases. As ticlopidine can disrupt production of extracellular matrix (ECM) components critical to microvascular endothelial cell (MVEC) integrity in vitro, we explored the hypotheses that ticlopidine and ticlopidine-linked TTP plasmas induce MVEC apoptosis in a manner similar to that of idiopathic TTP plasmas, and that ECM components and related mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signalling cascades may be involved in this process. Replicating the activity of plasmas from patients with idiopathic TTP, plasma from five ticlopidine-linked TTP patients induced apoptosis of primary human dermal, glomerular and hepatic MVEC, but had no effect on pulmonary MVEC or large vessel endothelial cells (EC). Pharmacological levels of ticlopidine initiated apoptosis with similar EC lineage restriction. In parallel, ticlopidine and plasmas from idiopathic and ticlopidine-TTP patients decreased transcripts for the ECM component thrombospondin-1 in MVEC, but not in large vessel EC. These changes were accompanied by prolonged induction of MAPKs extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK)-1/2 and p38 only in TTP susceptible MVEC. Induction of apoptosis by ticlopidine and TTP plasma was abrogated by inhibitors of ERK-1/2 and p38 phosphorylation. In conclusion, MVEC apoptosis related to altered ECM-MVEC interactions may be a key part of the pathology of ticlopidine-linked and idiopathic TTP.
Risperidone in antipsychotic doses induces hyperprolactinemia. The aim of this study was to verify whether the same is true for low doses of risperidone (0.5-2 mg per day) added to antidepressants or anxiolytics.
Prolactin levels were measured in 4 men (mean age 49.5+/-19.1 years) and 8 women (mean age 31.3+/-8.2 years) inpatients with depressive and anxiety disorders who were treated with risperidone (median doses per day 1.25 mg) for median 15.5 days as an augmentation treatment to antidepressants (n=8), anxiolytics (n=6) and mood stabilizers (n=2).
11 of 12 patients had hyperprolactinemia. Median plasma prolactin level was 1598 mIU/ml, 95% CI 1 040-2 661 mIU/ml. Significant correlation between risperidone daily dose and plasma prolactin level (Spearman's R=0.655, p=0.02) was detected. Two women suffered from galactorrhea and one from amenorrhea.
Even low doses of risperidone used as an augmentation to antidepressants or benzodiazepines are associated with hyperprolactinemia and can induce endocrinological side effects. The co-medication of antidepressants and benzodiazepines can potentially increase intensity of prolactinemia.
Cutaneous melanoma has the lowest survival rate of all forms of skin cancer. There has been little research investigating the link between arsenic and cutaneous melanoma, although arsenic has been associated with increased risk of nonmelanoma skin cancer. The authors performed a case-control study examining the association between cutaneous melanoma and environmental arsenic exposure among Iowans aged 40 years or older. Participants included 368 cutaneous melanoma cases and 373 colorectal cancer controls diagnosed in 1999 or 2000, frequency matched on gender and age. Participants completed a mailed survey and submitted toenail clippings for analysis of arsenic content by graphite furnace atomic absorption spectrophotometry. The authors found an increased risk of melanoma for participants with elevated toenail arsenic concentrations (odds ratio = 2.1, 95 percent confidence interval: 1.4, 3.3; p-trend = 0.001) and effect modification by prior skin cancer diagnosis (p-interaction = 0.03). The arsenic-melanoma findings in this study are not known to have been previously reported in observational epidemiologic studies involving incident cutaneous melanoma. Therefore, the findings warrant confirmation.
