Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and urocortins (Ucn) bind with various affinities to two G-protein-coupled receptors, CRHR1 and CRHR2, which are expressed in brain and in peripheral tissues, including immune cells. CRHR2-deficient mice display anxiety-like behavior, hypersensitivity to stress, altered feeding behavior and metabolism, and cardiovascular abnormalities. However, the phenotype of these mice in inflammatory responses has not been determined. In the present study we found that compared with wild-type CRHR2-null mice developed substantially reduced intestinal inflammation and had lower intestinal mRNA expression of the potent chemoattractants keratinocyte chemokine and monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 following intraluminal exposure to Clostridium difficile toxin A, a potent enterotoxin that mediates antibiotic-associated diarrhea and colitis in humans. This effect was recapitulated by administration of astressin 2B, a selective CRHR2 antagonist, before toxin A exposure. Moreover, Ab array analysis revealed reduced expression of several inflammatory chemokines, including keratinocyte chemokine and monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 in toxin A-exposed mice pretreated with astressin 2B. Real-time RT-PCR of wild-type mouse intestine showed that only UcnII, but not other Ucn, was significantly up-regulated by ileal administration of toxin A at 4 h compared with buffer exposure. We also found that human colonic epithelial HT-29 cells express CRHR2alpha mRNA, whereas expression of beta and gamma spliced variants was minimal. Moreover, treatment of HT-29 cells with UcnII, which binds exclusively to CRHR2, stimulated expression of IL-8 and monocyte chemoattractant protein 1. Taken together, these results provide direct evidence that CRHR2 mediates intestinal inflammatory responses via release of proinflammatory mediators at the colonocyte level.
Niacin has beneficial effects on a patient's lipid and lipoprotein profiles and cardiovascular risk, particularly at doses >2 g/day, but is underused due to flushing. Laropiprant (LRPT), a selective prostaglandin D(2) receptor-1 antagonist, decreases flushing associated with extended-release niacin (ERN). We compared flushing with ERN/LRPT dosed by a simplified 1-g --> 2-g regimen versus gradually titrated niacin extended-release (N-ER; given as NIASPAN, trademark of Kos Life Sciences LLC). Patients with dyslipidemia (n = 1,455) were randomized 1:1 to ERN/LRPT (1 g for 4 weeks advanced to 2 g for 12 weeks) or N-ER (0.5 g for 4 weeks titrated in 0.5-g increments every 4 weeks to 2 g for the final 4 weeks). Aspirin/nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs were allowed to mitigate flushing. Flushing severity was assessed using the validated Global Flushing Severity Score (GFSS; none 0, mild 1 to 3, moderate 4 to 6, severe 7 to 9, extreme 10). Patients on ERN/LRPT, despite more rapid niacin titration, had less flushing than those on N-ER, as measured by number of days per week with moderate or greater GFSS across the treatment period (p <0.001). More than 2 times as many patients had no episodes of moderate, severe, or extreme flushing (GFSS > or =4) with ERN/LRPT than with N-ER (47.0% vs 22.0%, respectively) across the treatment period. Fewer patients on ERN/LRPT discontinued due to flushing than those on N-ER (7.4% vs 12.4%, p = 0.002). Other than the decrease in flushing, the safety and tolerability profile of ERN/LRPT was similar to that of N-ER. In conclusion, improvement in flushing with ERN/LRPT versus gradually titrated N-ER supports a rapidly advanced 1-g --> 2-g dosing regimen, allowing patients to start at 1 g and quickly reach and tolerate the optimal 2 g dose of ERN.
Recent studies suggested that the cholinergic innervation of the hippocampus is not crucial for spatial learning, but it might be important for other forms of learning. This study assessed the effects of partial immunotoxic cholinergic lesions in the medial septum and concurrent scopolamine challenge in a complex learning task, the Hebb-Williams maze. Long-Evans rats were given intraseptal injections of 192 IgG-saporin (SAPO). Rats injected with phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) served as controls. Starting 25 days after surgery, behavioural performance was assessed in the Hebb-Williams maze test without prior or after injection of scopolamine (0.17 or 0.5 mg/kg, i.p.). In SAPO rats, histochemical analysis showed a 40-45% decrease in the density of hippocampal AChE staining. The number of ChAT-positive cell bodies in the medial septum was also significantly decreased (-56%) and there was a non-significant reduction of the number of parvalbumine-positive neurons. The behavioural results demonstrated that the lesions induced small but significant learning deficits. At 0.17 mg/kg, scopolamine produced more impairments in SAPO rats than in PBS-injected rats, suggesting an additive effect between the partial lesion and the drug. These observations indicate that the Hebb-Williams test may be more sensitive to alterations of septohippocampal cholinergic function, than radial- or water-maze tasks. They also show that subtle learning deficits can be detected after partial lesions of the cholinergic septohippocampal pathways. Finally, the data from the scopolamine challenge are in keeping with clinical results showing higher sensitivity to muscarinic blockade in aged subjects in whom weaker cholinergic functions can be presumed.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was used to examine the brain processing of capsaicin-induced painful stimulation in the alpha-chloralose anesthetized rat. Experiments were performed on a 9.4-T magnet (Magnex, UK) with Avance console (Bruker, Germany) using a surface coil tuned to 400.5 MHz centred over the rat forebrain. Gradient-echo images of two slices, with an echo time of 25 msec, repetition time of 70 msec, and 50 repetitions, were acquired per experiment. These images were analyzed using a fuzzy cluster analysis technique (EvIdent). Activation of areas of the brain known to be associated with the processing of pain, namely the anterior cingulate (bilateral), frontal cortex (bilateral), and sensory motor cortex (contralateral), was found in all animals (N = 6) following injection of 25 microl of capsaicin (128 microg/mL in 7.5% dimethylsulfoxide [DMSO]) into the dorsal forepaw. It is possible to reproduce the pain response in a given animal several times throughout the course of an experiment, provided that sufficient time is allowed between capsaicin injections. This acute phase of capsaicin-induced pain involving stimulation of C polymodal nociceptors was examined by functional imaging. There was a substantial initial increase in activation in regions of the brain associated with pain and there was a trend towards increasing activation with repeated stimulations. Treatment with morphine (3 mg/kg, intravenously) was found to substantially reduce, if not completely eliminate, the areas of functional activation associated with physiologic pain (anterior cingulate and frontal cortex) after C-nociceptor stimulation with capsaicin (N = 6). FMRI involving capsaicin-induced painful stimulation could prove to be an effective tool for the study of novel analgesics and the central nervous system processing of pain.
A case is described in which, after administration of diclofenac for 13 days for arthritis attributed to gout, the patient experienced erythema multiforme followed by muscle weakness, elevation of serum creatine phosphokinase (CPK) level from 101 to 83,770 U/L, 100% muscle isoenzyme, blood urea nitrogen (BUN) level from 15 to 87 mg/dL, creatinine level from 1.0 to 2.1 mg/dL and urine myoglobin level to 1,190 micrograms/dL (N < 1.2). The diagnosis was rhabdomyolysis due to diclofenac, with myoglobinuria resulting in mild renal failure. Treatment consisted of discontinuing diclofenac and administering sufficient fluids to prevent progression of myoglobinuric renal failure. Serum CPK level gradually returned to normal by day 50, BUN and creatinine levels by day 28, and muscle strength between day 90 and 180. Rhabdomyolysis due to diclofenac or to other nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs has not been reported.
The objectives were to compare the relative merits of ibuprofen 400 mg and dihydrocodeine 30 mg or 60 mg taken up to four times daily for up to 6 days in the treatment of pain after third molar removal. A randomised, double-blind, multiple dose, crossover study was undertaken in 68 patients undergoing two-stage bilateral lower third molar removal. The results showed that ibuprofen produced significantly greater analgesia than either of the dihydrocodeine treatments on the day of surgery. Ibuprofen and dihydrocodeine 60 mg produced significantly greater analgesia than dihydrocodeine 30 mg on the day after surgery, and on days 4 and 5 ibuprofen was again significantly superior to dihydrocodeine 60 mg. Roughly half the patients taking dihydrocodeine stopped the study on the day after surgery, because of adverse effects and/or inadequate relief, compared with 6 out of 44 taking ibuprofen. Dihydrocodeine 60 mg produced four times the number of patients affected by adverse effects compared with ibuprofen, and dihydrocodeine 30 mg three times as many. The principal adverse effects were nausea, vomiting and drowsiness. In conclusion, ibuprofen produced better analgesia than dihydrocodeine with significantly fewer adverse effects and is therefore a better choice for pain relief after oral surgery.
By means of an immunocytochemical method the 1.25-dihydroxyvitamin D [1.25(OH)2D] receptor status of tumours from 136 patients with primary carcinoma of the breast was determined. Patients with receptor-positive tumours had significantly longer disease-free survival than those with receptor-negative tumours (Chi2 = 4.01, p less than 0.05). 1.25(OH)2D3 inhibits the proliferation of several established human breast cancer cell lines in vitro. Effects of 1.25(OH)2D3 on breast tumour growth in vitro were assessed by means of the nitrosomethylurea-induced rat mammary tumour model of hormone-responsive breast cancer. Treatment of tumour-bearing animals with 0.1 microgram of the synthetic analogue, 1 alpha-hydroxyvitamin D3, three times weekly produced significant inhibition of tumour progression. Taken together, these studies suggest that the levels of 1.25(OH)2D occurring in vivo may exert an inhibitory effect on receptor-positive tumours. Further studies are required to evaluate the role of vitamin D metabolites in the treatment of human malignant disease.
To study the effect of the Compound of traditional Chinese drugs and Benazepril on gene expression of renal endothelin and its receptor of experimental diabetic nephropathy(DN). To discove the mechanism of the compound of traditional Chinese drugs in treating DN.
Streptozotocin DN model was built and influenced with the compound of traditional Chinese drugs and Benazepril. The changes of Upro, Glu, HbA1C and (PT-PCR) mRNA expression levels of ET-1, ETA-R of the renal cortex were tested, and thus the histopathological character of the kidney was analysed.
The compound of traditional Chinese drugs and Benazepril have significant difference from normal saline in the improvement of Upro, Glu, HbA1C. The compound of traditional Chinese drugs have significant difference from Benazepril in the improvement of Glu, HbA1C. The mRNA expression level of ET-1, ETA-R of the renal cortex of DN model was raised. After influenced by the compound of traditional Chinese drugs and Benazepril, the over-expression level de-creased (still higher than normal control ones). The compound of traditional Chinese drugs were more effective than Benazepril to inhibit the proliferation of the stalk region and the third cells.
ET takes part in the process of diabetic glo-Merulosclerosis. Both the compound of traditional Chinese drugs and Benazepril can influence the expression quantity from the level of gene transcription of ET and its receptor. The compound of traditional Chinese drugs can not only reduce urinary albumin of DN, but also improve blood glucose, glycosylated hemoglubin. And it can inhibit nonenzymatic glucosylation of protein as well as the proliferation of the stalk region and the third cells.
The present study was designed to determine whether there is one or more than one critical lesion, induced by a carcinogen, relevant for initiation. The experimental approach consisted of administering a non-necrogenic dose of the carcinogen 1,2-dimethylhydrazine 2HCl (100 mg/kg, i.p.) to male Fischer 344 rats (120-140 g) and completing the initiation process by two different methods: (i) induction of liver cell proliferation by partial hepatectomy, or (ii) creation of hypomethylation in DNA by giving 5-azacytidine, an agent that inhibits DNA methylation. The initiated hepatocytes were assayed as gamma-glutamyltransferase positive foci. The rationale for the approach was based on the premise that the two methods used for completing the initiation step might give either the same or a different pattern in the incidence of initiated hepatocytes depending on whether one or more than one lesion was important for initiation, particularly if some of the lesions were allowed to repair before applying the cell proliferative stimulus or administering the 5-azacytidine. The results obtained indicated that 5-azacytidine facilitated the induction of the same number of foci whether given 12 or 96 hours after the carcinogen indicating that the critical lesion involved in this mode of initiation persisted up to at least 96 hours. In contrast, our earlier results showed that there was a reduction in the number of gamma-glutamyltransferase positive foci when partial hepatectomy was delayed beyond 24 hours after the carcinogen administration, indicating that the critical lesion involved in this mode of initiation has a half-life of not more than 24 hours.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
There are many reports of intravenous erythromycin causing QT prolongation and torsades de pointes, but this complication is seldom ascribed to orally administered erythromycin, which is by far the most commonly prescribed route. This report describes a case of torsades de pointes associated with oral erythromycin as a result of a previously undescribed interaction with carbimazole, an antithyroid drug that is metabolized to the active drug methimazole, and the potential pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic mechanisms are highlighted.
Understanding potential health risks is a significant challenge due to the large numbers of diverse chemicals with poorly characterized exposures and mechanisms of toxicities. The present study analyzes 976 chemicals (including failed pharmaceuticals, alternative plasticizers, food additives, and pesticides) in Phases I and II of the U.S. EPA's ToxCast project across 331 cell-free enzymatic and ligand-binding high-throughput screening (HTS) assays. Half-maximal activity concentrations (AC50) were identified for 729 chemicals in 256 assays (7,135 chemical-assay pairs). Some of the most commonly affected assays were CYPs (CYP2C9 and CYP2C19), transporters (mitochondrial TSPO, norepinephrine, and dopaminergic), and GPCRs (aminergic). Heavy metals, surfactants, and dithiocarbamate fungicides showed promiscuous but distinctly different patterns of activity, whereas many of the pharmaceutical compounds showed promiscuous activity across GPCRs. Literature analysis confirmed >50% of the activities for the most potent chemical-assay pairs (54) but also revealed 10 missed interactions. Twenty-two chemicals with known estrogenic activity were correctly identified for the majority (77%), missing only the weaker interactions. In many cases, novel findings for previously unreported chemical-target combinations clustered with known chemical-target interactions. Results from this large inventory of chemical-biological interactions can inform read-across methods as well as link potential targets to molecular initiating events in adverse outcome pathways for diverse toxicities.
Pramipexole is a non-ergot dopamine agonist used to treat Parkinson's disease (PD). Because of concern regarding driving safety, we evaluated the incidence and nature of somnolence experienced by patients receiving pramipexole in clinical trials at our center. A retrospective chart review was performed and structured interviews were conducted with patients who had reported moderate or severe somnolence. In addition, two patients underwent polysomnography (PSG) and multiple sleep latency tests (MSLT) while on and 2 weeks after discontinuation of pramipexole. Forty patients with PD participating in pramipexole clinical trials were identified. In the double-blind phases of the studies, 22 patients were randomized to pramipexole and 18 were randomized to placebo. Six patients assigned to pramipexole reported somnolence as an adverse event (1 moderate, 5 mild) compared with two patients assigned to placebo (1 severe, 1 moderate; p = 0.19, one-tailed Fisher's exact test). Thirty-seven patients participated in open-label extension studies. Twenty-one (57%) reported somnolence as an adverse event. Eleven (30%) patients reported moderate somnolence and three (8%) patients reported severe somnolence. For patients with moderate or severe somnolence, the onset of worst-reported somnolence occurred at a mean (+/- standard error) pramipexole dose of 4.0 +/- 0.4 mg (range, 0.75-4.5 mg) per day. Patients had been taking pramipexole for a total of 10.0 +/- 1.5 months (range, .03-22 mos) and at their maximal dose for 6.7 +/- 1.5 months (range, .03-20 mos). During structured interviews with 12 of the 14 patients reporting moderate or severe somnolence, seven reported falling asleep while driving and two reported minor motor vehicle accidents caused by falling asleep. Most patients reported relatively continuous drowsiness that led to falling asleep without acute warning during periods of inactivity. Three patients reported discreet waves of irresistible sleepiness heralded by prodromal symptoms occurring against a background of normal wakefulness. MSLT in two of these patients revealed decreased latency to sleep without early onset of rapid eye movements. Sleep latency normalized after withdrawal of pramipexole. Intensive patient education is necessary to prevent motor vehicle accidents in patients taking pramipexole. We recommend that patients who are experiencing generalized drowsiness and falling asleep during periods of inactivity be instructed not to drive because these patients do fall asleep without acute warning. Somnolence usually resolves with pramipexole dose reduction or discontinuation. Patients should also be alerted to pull over and stop driving immediately if they feel a wave of sleepiness coming on. Patient education and compliance are critical to maximize safety.
The mechanism of the anti-inflammatory activity of fepradinol (CAS 67704-50-1) has been investigated. The effect of fepradinol was compared with that of indometacin and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Oral dosing of fepradinol and cyproheptadine suppressed zymosan-induced paw edema in rats. Indometacin and piroxicam were without effect. Fepradinol inhibited the early and late stages of concanavalin A-induced edema in rats; indometacin and piroxicam only inhibited the late stage. Fepradinol and indometacin prevented the carrageenin-induced inflammation in rats: they acted on the exudate, on the increase of protein and gamma-glutamyltransferase levels, and also reduced the number of leucocytes. But, in contrast to indometacin, fepradinol did not inhibit prostaglandin E2 biosynthesis. Fepradinol and indometacin prevented diarrhoea induced by intravenous injection of endotoxin in mice or by oral administration of castor oil in rats. In in vitro tests, fepradinol did not inhibit prostaglandin biosynthesis from arachidonic acid by bovine seminal vesicle microsomal enzyme or 15-lipoxygenase. These results indicate that fepradinol possesses a potent inhibitory activity on the acute inflammation in rodents and that its anti-inflammatory activity does not seem to be related to an inhibitory effect on prostaglandin biosynthesis.
Stress and anxiety initiates a cascade of biochemical and endocrine event which results in behavioral and electrophysiological effects in both animals and humans. In this study, we investigated the effects of dexamethasone (DEX), as a synthetic glucocorticoid, and its interaction with opioidergic system on anxiety related behavior in mice. Young adult male mice were used in this study. A standard elevated plus-maze was used to determine anxiety levels in animal. Different doses of DEX (0.1, 0.5, 1, 2 and 10 mg/kg, SC) or vehicle was injected 30 min before of evaluation. Naloxone (1 and 2 mg/kg, IP) was injected 5 min before the DEX (0.5 and 1 mg/kg) administration. Results indicated that DEX at doses of 0.5 and 1 reduced and in dose of 10 mg/kg increased anxiety related behaviors significantly (P<0.05 in all cases). Also pretreatment of naloxone at doses of 1 and 2 mg/kg attenuated the effects of lower doses of DEX on anxiety related behaviors. Finding above indicated that peripheral administration of glucocorticoids induces biphasic effects on anxiety related behaviors: anxiolytic effects in lower doses and anxiogenic effects in a high dose. Data also revealed an involvement of opioidergic system in anxiolytic effects of glucocorticoids.
Anthracyclines are widely used in oncogenic therapy. Owing to their cardiotoxic side effects, their application is subdued to dose limitations. Many cardioprotective approaches have failed. This study examined the role of matrix metalloproteinases (MMP) in the remodeling process of extracellular matrix after treatment with doxorubicin (Adriamycin) as a toehold for a new therapeutic approach, for example, treatment with MMP inhibitors.
Severe heart failure was induced in 6 pigs by the repetitive intracoronary application of Adriamycin. Degree of dilatation and insufficiency were measured by echocardiography and hemodynamics. Before and after treatment, MMP activity (fluorogenic assay: MMP-1, MMP-2) and gene expression (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction [RT-PCR]: MMP-1, -2, -9; membrane type-1 matrix metalloproteinase, [MT1MMP]; tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1 [TIMP-1]) were measured. Spatial distribution of MMP-1, MMP-2, and collagen were visualized in antibody-stained frozen sections. One-way analysis of variance was used for data analysis.
Severe myocardial insufficiency (ejection fractions < 50% of baseline values) developed in all animals. No severe side effects were encountered. We found a strong activation of MMP-1 and MMP-2 in fluorogenic and PCR assays. RT-PCR revealed a significant activation of MMP-9 and MT1-MMP and a weaker induction of TIMP-1. Histology showed typical signs of myocardial fibrosis, with myocardial cell loss, collagen disorder, and vacuoles.
We showed a strong transcriptional activation for several specific MMPs in Adriamycin-induced cardiac remodeling. Contrary to published data on myocardial infarction, early inhibitory therapy before myocardial injury is possible in Adriamycin-treated patients. Local application by our catheter-based system would additionally help to avoid systemic side effects.
At least 16 clinical investigations have documented the effectiveness of alpha blockade for BPH. In the present review, four clinical studies evaluating the efficacy and safety of terazosin, a selective long-acting alpha 1 blocker, for symptomatic BPH are reviewed. The unique features of these clinical investigations are: the study designs established detailed inclusion and exclusion criteria, the outcome assessments were based upon quantitative outcome parameters, large cohorts of homogeneous patients were enrolled, and appropriate statistical methods were utilized. The dose of terazosin was titrated to maximal doses ranging between 5-20 mg. Only four of the 163 patients developed orthostatic hypotension. Overall, the peak and mean uroflow rates increased 50% and 46%, respectively (P less than 0.001). The cumulative improvement in the mean obstructive, irritative, and total symptom scores was 67%, 35%, and 54%, respectively (P less than 0.001). The present review of terazosin in males with symptomatic BPH supports the following conclusions: (1) the dose of terazosin can be safely titrated to 10 mg in normotensive and hypertensive patients with symptomatic BPH; (2) the adverse events associated with doses of terazosin up to 10 mg are relatively mild and reversible; and (3) the improvements in the outcome parameters (symptom scores and urinary flow rates) are clinically and statistically significant. Although the ultimate role of terazosin for symptomatic BPH will be determined by multi-center randomized placebo-controlled studies, the present review provides further evidence that selective alpha 1 blockers are effective and safe for the treatment of symptomatic BPH.
Encephalopathy associated with metronidazole is rare and, in most cases, reversible following discontinuation.
We describe a case of fatal encephalopathy after treatment with high-dose intravenous metronidazole and the potential causes of the irreversibility.
A 38-year-old white woman (weight, 45 kg) received metronidazole among other medications to treat osteomyelitis for 74 days after surgery to correct a spinal neuroarthropathy. An initial dose of 500 mg IV QID was administered. After 6 weeks, the patient was discharged and the dose was changed to 1500 mg IV administered once daily (over 90 minutes) by a visiting nurse. Other treatments included teicoplanin 400 mg once daily and trimethoprimsulfamethoxazole 480 mg BID for the infection, baclofen 25 mg TID for pain associated with a congenital spinal cord lesion with paraplegia, and omeprazole 20 mg once daily for pyrosis. Ten weeks after the start of metronidazole, the patient developed somnolence and dysarthria, changing to encephalopathy with coma on admission 2 weeks later. Despite discontinuation of all medication, including metronidazole, 2 days after admission, the patient's condition appeared to be irreversible. After 8 weeks, her coma was considered permanent, mechanical ventilation was discontinued, and she died. Evaluating all medicines administered, metronidazole, with a Naranjo adverse drug reaction score of 5 (probable), was the most plausible cause of the encephalopathy. The other medicines, including baclofen, had a negative score of -3 to -2 (doubtful). All tests on infections, metabolic disorders, or interactions between medications were negative.
This patient had a fatal encephalopathy, probably associated with long-standing exposure to high plasma concentration peaks of metronidazole, due to a once-daily dose of 1500 mg IV over several weeks.
In laboratory animals, histology is most commonly used to study doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity. However, for monitoring during treatment, large numbers of animals are needed. Recently we developed a new method to measure ECG values in freely moving mice by telemetry. With this model we investigated the effect of chronic doxorubicin administration on the ECG of freely moving BALB/c mice and the efficacy of ICRF-187 as a protective agent. The ST interval significantly widened from 15.0 +/- 1.5 to 56.8 +/- 11.8 ms in week 10 (7 weekly doses of 4 mg/kg doxorubicin given i.v. plus 3 weeks of observation). The ECG of the control animals did not change during the entire study. After sacrifice the hearts of doxorubicin-treated animals were enlarged and the atria were hypertrophic. As this schedule exerted more toxicity than needed to investigate protective agents, the protection of ICRF-187 was determined using a dose schedule with lower general toxicity (6 weekly doses of 4 mg/kg doxorubicin given i.v. plus 2 weeks of observation). On this schedule, the animals' hearts appeared normal after sacrifice and ICRF-187 (50 mg/kg given i.p. 1 h before doxorubicin) provided almost full protection. These data were confirmed by histology. The results indicate that this new model is very sensitive and enables monitoring of the development of cardiotoxicity with time. These findings result in a model that allows the testing of protectors against doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity as demonstrated by the protection provided by ICRF-187.
Wnt signaling plays an important role in developmental and stem cell biology. To test the hypothesis that temporary inhibition of Wnt signaling will enhance granulation tissue and promote angiogenesis in tissue repair, we employed a recently characterized small molecule Wnt inhibitor. Pyrvinium is an FDA-approved drug that we identified as a Wnt inhibitor in a chemical screen for small molecules that stabilize β-catenin and inhibit Axin degradation. Our subsequent characterization of pyrvinium has revealed that its critical cellular target in the Wnt pathway is Casein Kinase 1α. Daily administration of pyrvinium directly into polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) sponges implanted subcutaneously in mice generated better organized and vascularized granulation tissue; this compound also increased the proliferative index of the tissue within the sponges. To evaluate its effect in myocardial repair, we induced a myocardial infarction (MI) by coronary artery ligation and administered a single intramyocardial dose of pyrvinium. Mice were evaluated by echocardiography at 7 and 30 days post-MI and treatment; post mortem hearts were evaluated by histology at 30 days. Pyrvinium reduced adverse cardiac remodeling demonstrated by decreased left ventricular internal diameter in diastole (LVIDD) as compared to a control compound. Increased Ki-67+ cells were observed in peri-infarct and distal myocardium of pyrvinium-treated animals. These results need to be further followed-up to determine if therapeutic inhibition of canonical Wnt may avert adverse remodeling after ischemic injury and its impact on myocardial repair and regeneration.
The neuropharmacologic mechanisms underlying neuroleptic-induced extrapyramidal syndromes (EPS) were studied using a nonhuman primate model. Twenty-six Cebus albifrons monkeys were given weekly challenges of haloperidol (0.025 mg/kg IM), and half of the animals received the monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor pargyline (5 mg/kg PO) daily for 17 consecutive days during the protocol. Pargyline caused no changes in baseline behaviors, but significantly reduced haloperidol-induced acute dystonia (AD) (-67%, P less than 0.002) and parkinsonism (-56%, P less than 0.005). The majority (8 of 13) of the experimental group had complete prevention of neuroleptic-induced EPS during cotreatment with pargyline. Behavioral scores returned to baseline levels after stopping pargyline, and did not show the further sensitization to haloperidol-induced AD that occurred in the control group. The possible mechanisms by which an MAO inhibitor might influence neuroleptic-induced AD were considered. The most likely explanation would appear to involve facilitation of striatal dopamine (DA) neurotransmission by inhibition of intra- and extraneuronal MAO, thus supporting the hypothesis that AD is due to decreased striatal DA function with secondary cholinergic hyperfunction.
The effects of adenosine A3 agonist IB-MECA on scopolamine- and MK-801-induced impairment of spontaneous alternation and learning abilities were examined using Y-maze and passive avoidance tasks in mice. IB-MECA given 20 min before test had no effect on spontaneous alternation performance. Similarly learning abilities tested in passive avoidance were not disturbed after IB-MECA administration before training session. IB-MECA significantly diminished scopolamine- and MK-801-induced impairment of spontaneous alternation in Y-maze and learning abilities in passive avoidance task as well as reduced higher locomotor activity in MK-801-treated group. This ameliorating effect of IB-MECA was not antagonised by adenosine A1 antagonists CPX. Obtained results indicate that adenosine A3 receptor stimulation may ameliorate spatial memory and long term memory impairments in terms of cholinergic and glutamatergic deficits induced by scopolamine and MK-801, respectively.
Methotrexate is the gold standard therapy for moderate to severe psoriasis, but there is marked interpersonal variation in its efficacy and toxicity. We hypothesized that in psoriasis patients, specific common polymorphisms in folate, pyrimidine, and purine metabolic enzymes are associated with methotrexate efficacy and/or toxicity. DNA from 203 retrospectively recruited psoriasis patients treated with methotrexate was collected and genotyped by restriction endonuclease digestion or length polymorphism assays. The reduced folate carrier (RFC) 80A allele and the thymidylate synthase (TS) 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) 6 bp deletion were associated with methotrexate-induced toxicity (P=0.025 and P=0.025, respectively). RFC 80A and 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide ribonucleotide transformylase (ATIC) 347G were associated with methotrexate discontinuation (P=0.048 and P=0.038). The TS 5'-UTR 28 bp 3R polymorphism correlated with poor clinical outcome (P=0.029), however, this was not the case when patients with palmoplantar pustular psoriasis were not included in the analysis. Stronger associations between specific polymorphisms and methotrexate-induced toxicity and discontinuation were found in a subanalysis of patients on methotrexate not receiving folic acid supplementation. We have demonstrated preliminary evidence that specific polymorphisms of enzymes involved in folate, pyrimidine, and purine metabolism could be useful in predicting clinical response to methotrexate in patients with psoriasis.
In this 12-week, randomized, open-label, blinded-rater, parallel-group trial, the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of tolcapone and pergolide were compared in parkinsonian patients with a fluctuating response to levodopa. Patients received tolcapone 100 mg three times daily (t.i.d.), with a possible increase to 200 mg t.i.d., or pergolide titrated to a maximum dose of 5 mg/day by week 9 (mean final dose 2.2 mg/day). The trial involved 203 patients. Efficacy variables that decreased from baseline to week 12 with tolcapone and pergolide included "off" time (reduced by 2-3 hours/day), daily levodopa intake, sickness impact profile scores, Parkinson's disease questionnaire (PDQ)-39 scores, and Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) scores. Improvements in efficacy variables were similar with tolcapone and pergolide, with the exception of improvements in quality of life, which were significantly greater with tolcapone; the relative changes in PDQ-39 score at week 12 were -8.7 and -14.2 (P < 0.05) with pergolide and tolcapone, respectively. Improvements in the investigator's global assessment (IGA) of overall efficacy were recorded in 86% of tolcapone-treated patients and in 78% of pergolide-treated patients. The proportion of patients who withdrew because of adverse events was higher in the pergolide group (15%) than in the tolcapone group (5%). Confusion, hypotension, nausea, constipation, abdominal pain, and dyspepsia occurred more frequently with pergolide, whereas diarrhea and urine discoloration occurred more frequently with tolcapone. Tolcapone was better tolerated than pergolide (P < 0.01) according to the IGA of overall tolerability. We conclude that, in this 3-month study, both tolcapone and pergolide provided improvements in motor fluctuations and allowed reductions in levodopa intake when added to levodopa therapy; intent to treat analysis and a less than maximal dose of pergolide may have biased the results in favor of tolcapone. Tolcapone provided greater improvements in quality of fife, was better tolerated, and had a more favorable adverse-event profile than pergolide.
We compared the potential beta-receptor blocker, B 24/76 i.e. 1-(2,4-dichlorophenoxy)-3[2-3,4-dimethoxyphenyl)ethanolamino]-prop an-2-ol, which is characterized by beta 1-adrenoceptor blocking and beta 2-adrenoceptor stimulating properties with propranolol. The studies were performed using an experimental model of isoproterenol-induced heart hypertrophy in rats. A correlation of the blood pressure was neither found in the development nor in the attempt to suppress the development of heart hypertrophy with the two beta-receptor blockers. Both beta-blockers influenced the development of hypertrophy to a different, but not reproducible extent. It was possible to suppress the increased ornithine decarboxylase activity with both beta-blockers in hypertrophied hearts, but there was no effect on the heart mass. Neither propranolol nor B 24/76 could stop the changes in the characteristic myosin isoenzyme pattern of the hypertrophied rat heart. Thus, the investigations did not provide any evidence that the beta-receptor blockers propranolol and B 24/76 have the potency to prevent isoproterenol from producing heart hypertrophy.
According to the World Cancer Report, skin cancer constitutes approximately 30% of all newly diagnosed cancers in the world, and solar ultraviolet (UV) radiation (particularly, its UVB component; 290-320 nm) is an established cause of approximately 90% of skin cancers. The available options have proven to be inadequate for the management of skin cancers. Therefore, there is an urgent need to develop mechanism-based novel approaches for prevention/therapy of skin cancer. In this study, we evaluated the chemopreventive effects of resveratrol against UVB radiation-mediated skin tumorigenesis in the SKH-1 hairless mouse model. For our studies, we used a UVB initiation-promotion protocol in which the control mice were subjected to chronic UVB exposure (180 mJ/cm2, twice weekly, for 28 weeks). The experimental animals received either a pretreatment (30 min before each UVB) or post-treatment (5 min after UVB) of resveratrol (25 or 50 micro mole/0.2 ml acetone/mouse). The mice were followed for skin tumorigenesis and were killed at 24 h after the last UVB exposure, for further studies. The topical application of skin with resveratrol (both pre- and post- treatment) resulted in a highly significant 1) inhibition in tumor incidence, and 2) delay in the onset of tumorigenesis. Interestingly, the post-treatment of resveratrol was found to impart equal protection than the pretreatment; suggesting that resveratrol-mediated responses may not be sunscreen effects. Because Survivin is a critical regulator of survival/death of cells, and its overexpression has been implicated in several cancers, we evaluated its involvement in chemoprevention of UVB-mediated skin carcinogenesis by resveratrol. Our data demonstrated a significant 1) up-regulation of Survivin (both at protein- and mRNA- levels), 2) up-regulation of phospho-Survivin protein, and 3) down-regulation of proapoptotic Smac/DIABLO protein in skin tumors; whereas treatment with resveratrol resulted in the attenuation of these responses. Our study also suggests that resveratrol enhanced apoptosis in UVB-exposure-mediated skin tumors. Our study, for the first time, demonstrated that 1) resveratrol imparts strong chemopreventive effects against UVB exposure-mediated skin carcinogenesis (relevant to human skin cancers), and 2) the chemopreventive effects of resveratrol may, at least in part, be mediated via modulations in Survivin and other associated events. On the basis of our work, it is conceivable to design resveratrol-containing emollient or patch, as well as sunscreen and skin-care products for prevention of skin cancer and other conditions, which are believed to be caused by UV radiation.
To report a case of optic and peripheral neuropathy after chronic use of disulfiram for alcohol dependence management.
A case report.
A 57-year-old male presented with gradual loss of vision in both eyes with intermittent headaches for 2 months. He also complained of paraesthesia with numbness in both feet. His vision was 6/15 and 2/60 in the right and left eyes, respectively. Fundoscopy revealed bilaterally swollen optic nerve heads. Visual field testing confirmed bilateral central-caecal scotomata. He had been taking disulfiram for alcohol dependence for the preceding 3 years. Disulfiram discontinuation lead to an immediate symptomatic improvement.
Physicians initiating long-term disulfiram therapy should be aware of these adverse effects. They should recommend annual ophthalmic reviews with visual field testing. Patients should be reassured with respect to the reversibility of these adverse effects.
A significant increase in histopathologic nonspecific chronic aortitis was found when 100 autopsy specimens from 1965 were compared with series from 1974 and 1980. The chronic aortitis was correlated with furosemide diuretic administration during the last hospitalization. Furosemide is albumin bound, produces vasodilation, and is suspected of having induced a subclinical haptenic immunologic reaction in about one third of those treated.
We report a case of an 86-year-old male with a history of dyslipidemia, which had been treated with a medication regimen that included niacin. Upon discontinuation of niacin by his physician, he noticed recurrence of aching pain on the dorsal surface of the foot where he had a scar from a World War II shrapnel injury. With reinitation of niacin, his pain again abated.
