In parallel with industrial advancements, number of the occupational diseases secondary to chemical exposure is increasing. The chemical agents in the work places affect various organ and tissue systems, leading to chronic diseases. In this study, the cases diagnosed with occupational disease due to exposure to lead were studied and importance of the environmental forensic sciences on this issue was emphasized. A hundred and ninety patients diagnosed with occupational disease related to lead intoxication in Ankara Occupational Diseases Hospital between 01/01/2009 and 31/12/2009 were included in the study. Twenty cases were used as the controls. Sociodemographic characteristics, serum chemical parameters and hematological parameters of the patients were retrospectively assessed. Mean age of the cases included in the study was 35.3±8.69. Hemoglobin (Hb) (p=0.018) and Mean corpuscular volume (MCV) (p<0.001) values were found significantly lower in the patients with lead exposure than in the controls. Gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT) was significantly lower in the patients with lead exposure than in the controls (p=0.002), whereas alkaline phosphatase (ALP) was found higher (p<0.001). In thyroid function test (TFTs) panel, free triiodothyronine (fT3) levels were found significantly higher in the patients with lead exposure than in the control group (p=0.01), while Thyrotrophin-stimulating hormone (TSH) levels were lower (p<0.001). No significant difference was found in terms of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) values. In the correlation analysis; serum level of serum lead (Pb) was correlated positively with ALP values and negatively with Hb, MCV and TSH. Considering its effects on the biochemical and hematological parameters, a detailed investigation should be carried out in the cases with lead exposure, which occupies an important place among the occupational diseases.
Bilateral heel skin ulcers developed in a 50-year-old male in the chronic phase of chronic myelogenous leukemia who had been receiving hydroxyurea (HU) therapy for 3 years. Histological examination showed perivascular lymphocytic inflammation without vasculitis. After interruption of HU administration, the heel ulcers were completely resolved within 2 months. The clinical course strongly suggested that the heel ulcers were induced by long-term HU therapy.
We present a case of flecainide-induced hyponatremia in a 67-year-old woman who was treated for paroxysmal atrial tachycardia. She developed dizziness after starting flecainide and was found to be hyponatremic with a sodium level of 122 mmol/L (decreased from 136 mmol/L). Work-up failed to reveal other causes of hyponatremia. She was not on diuretics, laxatives, or herbal medications. After discontinuation of flecainide, her symptoms and sodium levels improved. Hyponatremia is a previously unrecognized entity as an adverse effect of flecainide. We will discuss the clinical presentation, lab findings, and a possible explanation for this patient's unusual reaction to flecainide.
Alleged food-additive intolerance (respiratory, dermatological, behavioural or abdominal) was assessed in 19 children using daily challenge drinks of either, base product alone, base product plus sunset yellow/tartrazine, or base product plus sodium metabisulphite/sodium benzoate. The same type of drink was given for 12 days, double-blind and in random order. During the trial the children were maintained on an additive-free diet under supervision. Diary cards were used to record symptoms and medication usage. If there was an apparent association between symptoms and drink ingredient the trial was repeated, again double-blind. Additive intolerance was confirmed by a consistent deterioration of symptoms in only three children. In one, urticaria was induced by the colourings, in another extremely abnormal behaviour was induced by the preservatives and a third child was only free of asthma and abdominal pain on placebo. This form of individual trial, using 12 daily drinks, overcomes some of the objections to a single challenge study. Despite this, intolerance to the additives was only confirmed in 3/19 children in whom it had been believed to occur.
Two cases, those of a man and a woman, developed retinal periphlebitis after hormonal treatment for infertility and contraceptives, respectively. Both had a unilateral severe decrease in visual acuity, and a central scotoma and defect in color vision were also present. The fundus had retinal edema, especially of the macula, a hyperemic disc with blurred margins, normal arteries, congested veins, and marked sheathing along the main veins, with retinal hemorrhages in the inferior half of the retina. Fluorescein angiography showed a delayed filling of the veins in the affected retina and late staining of these veins. Since there was severe visual impairment in each case, systemic adrenocorticosteroids were administered, and a rapid improvement in visual acuity occurred. In one patient, a trace Marcus-Gunn sign, a few small paracentral scotomas, and a defect in color vision were permanent sequelae.
The author describes the case of a patient who received neuroleptics and antiparkinsonian medications for more than 7 years and whose tardive dyskinesia symptoms disappeared after trihexyphenidyl was discontinued. The case appears to support the hypothesis that there is a threshold effect of antiparkinsonian agents on tardive dyskinesia.
Etomidate was used to induce anaesthesia in 50 healthy subjects undergoing minor gynaecological surgery who were randomly divided into two groups, one receiving alfentanil 8 micrograms/kg intravenously immediately prior to induction of anaesthesia with etomidate, and the other halothane as required to maintain adequate anaesthesia. There was a highly significant reduction in the incidence of myoclonia and involuntary movement and significant reduction of pain on injection in the alfentanil group. Tests of recovery performed in the 60 minutes following anaesthesia suggested that supplementation with alfentanil led to more rapid recovery than halothane.
Abnormalities in anatomy and function of the cranial nerve motor nuclei and brain stem structures have been demonstrated in some people with autism and can be modeled in rats by exposure to valproic acid (VPA) during very early nervous system developmental stages (neural tube closure). The aim of this study was to investigate if VPA will have an impact on nociception in rats because of reported hypoalgesia in a subgroup of autistic patients. Pregnant females were treated ip with 600 mg/kg of sodium valproate on day 12.5 of gestation. Nociception was measured in offsprings by tail-flick and thermal paw withdrawal tests in two developmental stages: prepubertal (80-90 g) and adulthood (360-440 g). Results showed significant differences in pain sensitivity with hypoalgesia in male rats treated with VPA compared to male control in both developmental stages. The outcome of our study suggests that rats exposed prenatally to VPA show abnormalities in nociception similar to those observed in human autistic patients. Interestingly, naloxone (1 mg/kg) had no impact on nociception in offsprings of VPA-treated rats.
Gene therapy is a new, experimental method of treatment in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD).
To determine the safety and efficacy of gene encoding vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF165) administered directly into the myocardium as the single treatment or combined with coronary artery by-pass grafting (CABG).
VEGF gene transfer was performed in 22 patients (20 male, 2 female, ages from 48 to 73 years old). A 200 micro g of the plasmid encoding VEGF165 was injected into the ischaemic myocardium which could not be surgically revascularised in patients undergoing CABG (n=14), and 400 micro g - in patients without CABG (n=8). The value of ejection fraction (EF), myocardial perfusion, angiogram, ventriculography, and nitroglycerine consumption as well as quality of life were evaluated pre- and postoperatively.
The majority of patients had no complications and no fatal outcome was observed. Two patients developed acute myocardial infarction. Left ventricular function values improved and the majority of patients were free from angina 6 months after surgery. Patients reported improved quality of life and a reduction in nitroglycerine usage. A reduction in the ischaemic defects detected by SPECT was also observed. In some patients angiography revealed improved collateral filling.
Direct myocardial administration of genes encoding VEGF165 can be an effective method of treatment in patients with chronic and advanced CAD either as a supplementary treatment or as a single therapy.
Developmental processes in the placenta and the fetal brain are shaped by the same biological signals. Recent evidence suggests that adaptive responses of the placenta to the maternal environment may influence central nervous system development.
We studied the association between in utero exposure to fine particle air pollution with a diameter less than 2.5 µm (PM2.5) and placental expression of genes implicated in neural development.
Expression of ten target genes in the Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF) signaling pathway were quantified in placental tissue of ninety mother-infant pairs from the ENVIRONAGE birth cohort using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Trimester specific PM2.5 exposure levels were estimated for each mother's home address using a spatiotemporal model. Mixed effect models were used to evaluate the association between the target genes and PM2.5 exposure measured in different time windows of pregnancy.
A 5 µg/m(3) increase in residential PM2.5 exposure during the first trimester of pregnancy was associated with a 15.9% decrease (95% confidence interval [CI]: -28.7, -3.2%, p = 0.015) in expression of placental BDNF at birth. The corresponding estimate for Synapsin 1 (SYN1) was a 24.3% decrease (95% CI: -42.8, -5.8%, p = 0.011).
Placental expression of BDNF and SYN1, two genes implicated in normal neurodevelopmental trajectories, decreased with increasing in utero exposure to PM2.5. Future studies are needed to confirm our findings and evaluate the potential relevance of associations between PM2.5 and placental expression of BDNF and SYN1 on neurodevelopment. We provide the first molecular epidemiological evidence concerning associations between in utero fine particle air pollution exposure and the expression of genes that may influence neurodevelopmental processes.
Indifference or even antagonism has mainly been reported with combinations including linezolid. The presence of in vitro antagonism is not always correlated with in vivo failure. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the in vivo activity of linezolid combined with gentamicin using a methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) endocarditis experimental model. A human-like pharmacokinetic simulation was used for linezolid and gentamicin to improve the extrapolation of the results to human therapy. Contrary to the antagonism previously described in vitro, linezolid combined with gentamicin exhibited bactericidal activity on the two strains with a decrease of at least 4 log(10)cfu/g of vegetation compared with controls. These data suggest that linezolid plus gentamicin could be an appropriate combination for the treatment of severe MRSA infections.
Nimodipine (ND) is a centrally active calcium antagonist that blocks the voltage-dependent L-type channels. Its antiepileptic properties have been proved in various animal models, including pilocarpine-induced seizures in adult rats. In order to investigate protective effects of the ND (10 (ND10) and 30 mg/kg (ND30), i.p.), young male rats (21-day-old) received ND injections before pilocarpine administration (400 mg/kg, s.c., pilocarpine group (P400)). The pretreatment with ND10 and ND30 prolonged the latencies of seizures and death on this seizure model. ND pretreatment in two doses decreased the levels of lipid peroxidation when compared to pilocarpine group. The P400 administration increased the striatal catalase activity. However, the administration of ND, in dose of 30 mg/kg, 30 min before pilocarpine, preserved catalase activity in normal levels. On the other hand, no change was detected in the animals treated with the dose of 10 mg/kg. Our results confirm the neuroprotective effect of ND on the seizures in young rats, suggesting that this drug acts positively on lipid peroxidation. Our observations shows that nimodipine cannot induces these effects via blockade of Ca(2+)-channel.
Mitochondrial complex I dysfunction is regarded as underlying dopamine neuron death in Parkinson's disease models. However, inactivation of the Ndufs4 gene, which compromises complex I activity, does not affect the survival of dopamine neurons in culture or in the substantia nigra pars compacta of 5-wk-old mice. Treatment with piericidin A, a complex I inhibitor, does not induce selective dopamine neuron death in either Ndufs4(+/+) or Ndufs4(-/-) mesencephalic cultures. In contrast, rotenone, another complex I inhibitor, causes selective toxicity to dopamine neurons, and Ndufs4 inactivation potentiates this toxicity. We identify microtubule depolymerization and the accumulation of cytosolic dopamine and reactive oxygen species as alternative mechanisms underlying rotenone-induced dopamine neuron death. Enhanced rotenone toxicity to dopamine neurons from Ndufs4 knockout mice may involve enhanced dopamine synthesis caused by the accumulation of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide reduced. Our results suggest that the combination of disrupting microtubule dynamics and inhibiting complex I, either by mutations or exposure to toxicants, may be a risk factor for Parkinson's disease.
The material from 59 and 134 cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples, taken in the week prior to grafting and during the first 100 days after grafting respectively, were examined from 37 children undergoing allogeneic BMT. All CSF samples were obtained from lumbar punctures performed for regular administration of methotrexate (MTX). Prior to bone marrow transplantation (BMT) the increased protein levels and increased cell numbers noted in two children were probably caused by arachnoiditis from MTX administration 5 days earlier. After BMT, cell numbers increased in 54% of children and in 27% of children increased protein levels were found in the CSF. No correlation with clinical findings including neurological findings, infections and prior intrathecal MTX administration was found. The CSF changes observed are probably induced by the conditioning regimen (i.e. cyclophosphamide and total body irradiation). We conclude that the normal ranges for CSF components seen in healthy individuals do not apply in BMT recipients during the first 100 days after grafting.
A new source of stem cells has recently been isolated from amniotic fluid; these amniotic fluid stem cells have significant potential for regenerative medicine. These cells are multipotent, showing the ability to differentiate into cell types from each embryonic germ layer. We investigated the ability of human amniotic fluid stem cells (hAFSC) to integrate into murine lung and to differentiate into pulmonary lineages after injury. Using microinjection into cultured mouse embryonic lungs, hAFSC can integrate into the epithelium and express the early human differentiation marker thyroid transcription factor 1 (TTF1). In adult nude mice, following hyperoxia injury, tail vein-injected hAFSC localized in the distal lung and expressed both TTF1 and the type II pneumocyte marker surfactant protein C. Specific damage of Clara cells through naphthalene injury produced integration and differentiation of hAFSC at the bronchioalveolar and bronchial positions with expression of the specific Clara cell 10-kDa protein. These results illustrate the plasticity of hAFSC to respond in different ways to different types of lung damage by expressing specific alveolar versus bronchiolar epithelial cell lineage markers, depending on the type of injury to recipient lung. Disclosure of potential conflicts of interest is found at the end of this article.
Telbivudine (LdT) is an L-nucleoside that is structurally related to lamivudine. It is highly selective for hepatitis B virus (HBV) and inhibits viral DNA synthesis. LdT was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration on October 25, 2006, for the treatment of chronic HBV infection in adults who have active viral replication and either elevations in liver transaminases or signs of active liver disease on histologic examination.
This article reviews the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, and therapeutic efficacy of LdT. Potential drug interactions and adverse events associated with the use of LdT are also reviewed.
Relevant publications were identified from searches of MEDLINE (1996-June 2007), the Cochrane Library, and BIOSIS (1993-June 2007). Search terms included, but were not limited to, telbivudine, beta-L-thymidine, LdT, pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, adverse events, resistance, drug interactions, hepatitis B, and therapeutic use. Additional publications were identified from the reference lists of the identified papers, meeting abstracts, and correspondence with the manufacturer of LdT.
After 52 weeks of therapy in the Phase III GLOBE study, HBV resistance (breakthrough and resistance mutations) to LdT occurred in 3% of patients who were hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) positive and 2% of patients who were HBeAg negative. After 104 weeks of therapy, 17.8% to 21.6% of HBeAg-positive and 7.3% to 8.6% of HBeAg-negative LdT-treated patients had a rebound in HBV DNA associated with breakthrough and resistance mutations. After 24 weeks of treatment, the risk of resistance was greater in patients with HBV DNA titers >3 log(10) copies/mL than in those with lower numbers of copies. LdT is not active against lamivudine-resistant HBV. The proportion of HBeAg-positive patients with undetectable HBV DNA (by polymerase chain reaction assay) after 104 weeks of therapy in the GLOBE study was significantly greater with LdT compared with lamivudine (56% vs 39%, respectively; P < 0.05). After 104 weeks of therapy, the corresponding proportions of HBeAg-negative patients with undetectable HBV DNA were 82% and 57% (P < 0.05). Patients who failed lamivudine therapy in the GLOBE study showed cross-resistance to LdT. The most common adverse events associated with LdT are upper respiratory tract infection (14%-17%), fatigue and malaise (12%-14%), nasopharyngitis (11%-15%), headache (11%-12%), and abdominal pain (6%-12%). Grade 3/4 adverse events included elevations in serum creatine kinase, which were more common in patients receiving LdT than in those receiving lamivudine (9% vs 3%, respectively). Elevations in creatine kinase are typically asymptomatic; however, myopathy has been reported in 3 of 680 patients receiving LdT.
LdT joins the increasing number of antiviral agents for the management of chronic HBV infection. Questions concerning the optimal length of therapy and long-term efficacy await the results of on-going clinical trials. Concerns about increasing resistance over time may relegate LdT to second-line status in the management of chronic HBV infection. The role of LdT in combination therapy is under investigation.
1. Diabetes is one of the most frequent complications of gestation, affecting approximately 7% of pregnancies. However, little is known about its effects on electrically and pharmacologically stimulated myometrial contractility. The aim of the present study was to investigate the consequences of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes on: (i) electrical field stimulation (EFS)-evoked contraction of isolated uterine rings as a function of gestational age; and (ii) the uterotonic and tocolytic actions of α- and β-adrenoceptor stimulation, respectively. The effects of oxytocin in late pregnancy were also investigated. 2. During pregnancy, EFS-evoked contractions of isolated uterine rings from intact rats declined, whereas isolated uterine rings from diabetic rats exhibited continuously low sensitivity to EFS. 3. In non-pregnant rats, diabetes resulted in increased noradrenaline-mediated contractility and a decreased relaxation response to terbutaline. At the mRNA level, diabetes enhanced the expression of α1B-adrenoceptors in non-pregnant rats from 14.65 to 18.39 μg/mL (P < 0.05), whereas the expression of α1D-adrenoceptors decreased (from 42.87 to 35.67 μg/mL; P < 0.05). During pregnancy, the responses to these sympathomimetics did not differ between diabetic and intact rats. 4. In late pregnancy (on Days 15 and 21), oxytocin caused greater maximum contractility of uterine rings from diabetic rats without affecting the EC(50). In addition, on Day 15 of pregnancy, the expression of oxytocin receptors in the myometrium of diabetic rats was higher than that in intact rats. 5. The results of the present study indicate that experimental diabetes facilitates gestation-induced denervation and increases myometrial sensitivity to oxytocin in late pregnancy. If similar mechanisms operate in humans, this could contribute to a tendency to premature uterine contractions in diabetes-complicated pregnancies.
Drug-induced meningitis is rarely included in the differential diagnosis of aseptic (usually recurrent) meningitis. A 74-year-old man who suffered from recurrent aseptic meningitis following re-exposures to trimethoprim-sulphamethoxazole (Resprim) is presented. The clinical and laboratory findings resembled those found in bacterial meningitis, excluding normal glycorrachia. Extensive microbiological, serologic and imaging studies did not disclose any relevant findings. All symptoms and signs resolved rapidly following drug withdrawal, and findings on follow-up lumbar puncture were normal.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of a new fixed-dose combination (FDC) of telmisartan 40 mg + amlodipine 5 mg (T+A) compared with amlodipine 5-mg monotherapy (A) in adult Indian patients with stage II hypertension.
This comparative, Phase III, 12-week, multicenter, prospective, randomized, double-blind study was conducted in Indian patients aged 18 to 65 years with established stage II hypertension. Patients were treated with oral FDC of T+A or A QD before breakfast for 12 weeks; blood pressure (BP) and heart rate were measured in the sitting position. Primary efficacy end points were reduction in clinical systolic BP (SBP)/ diastolic BP (DBP) from baseline to study end and number of responders (ie, patients who achieved target SBP/ DBP <130/<80 mm Hg) at end of study. Tolerability was assessed by treatment-emergent adverse events, identified using physical examination, laboratory analysis, and electrocardiography.
A total of 210 patients were enrolled in the study; 203 patients (143 men, 60 women) completed the study while 7 were lost to follow-up (4 patients in the T+A group and 3 in the A group) and considered with-drawn. At study end, statistically significant percentage reductions from baseline within groups and between groups were observed in SBP (T+A [-27.4%]; A [-16.6%]) and DBP (T+A [-20.1%]; A [-13.3%]) (all, P < 0.05). Response rates were 87.3% (89/102) in the T+A group and 69.3% (70/101) in the A group (P < 0.05). The prevalences of adverse events were not significantly different between the 2 treatment groups (T+A, 16.0% [17/106]; A, 15.4% [16/104]). Peripheral edema was reported in 8.5% patients (9/106) in the T+A group compared with 13.5% (14/104) in the A group, and cough was reported in 3.8% patients (4/106) in the T+A group and 1.0% (1/104) patients in the A group; these differences did not reach statistical significance. The incidences of headache, dizziness, and diarrhea were similar between the 2 groups.
Among these Indian patients with stage II hypertension, the FDC of T+A was found to be significantly more effective, with regard to BP reductions, than A, and both treatments were well tolerated.
Plasmodium protozoa, the source of malarial infections, catabolize large quantities of hemoglobin during an intraerythrocytic phase. During this process, free heme is detoxified through biomineralization into an insoluble heme aggregate, hemozoin (Hz). In its native state, Hz is associated with a variety of lipid peroxidation products including 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE). In the present study, gene expression profiles were used to compare responses to two of the individual components of Hz in a model macrophage cell line. LPS-stimulated RAW 264.7 cells were exposed to HNE and the synthetic form of Hz, beta-hematin (BH), for 6 or 24 h. Microarray analysis identified alterations in gene expression induced by exposure to HNE and opsonized BH (fold change, > or = 1.8; p value, < or = 0.01). Patterns of gene expression were compared to changes induced by an opsonized control latex bead challenge in LPS-stimulated cells and revealed that the BH response was predominantly phagocytic. Ingenuity Pathway Analysis demonstrated that HNE mediated a short-term oxidative stress response and had a prolonged effect on the expression of genes associated with categories of "Cell Cycle", "Cellular Assembly and Organization", "DNA Replication, Recombination, and Repair", and "Cellular Development". Comparisons of expression changes caused by BH and HNE with those observed during malarial infection suggest that BH and HNE are involved in inflammatory response modulation, altered NF-kappaB signal transduction, extracellular matrix (ECM) degradation, and dyserythropoiesis. HNE exposure led to several significant steady-state expression changes including repressed chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 5 (Ccl5), indicative of dyserythropoiesis, and a severe matrix metalloproteinase 9 (Mmp9)/tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1 (Timp1) imbalance in favor of ECM proteolysis.
Chronic cocaine and heroin users display a variety of central nervous system (CNS) dysfunctions including impaired attention, learning, memory, reaction time, cognitive flexibility, impulse control and selective processing. These findings suggest that these drugs may alter normal brain functions and possibly cause neurotoxicity. Neurotrophins are a class of proteins that serve as survival factors for CNS neurons. In particular, nerve growth factor (NGF) plays an important role in the survival and function of cholinergic neurons while brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is involved in synaptic plasticity and in the maintenance of midbrain dopaminergic and cholinergic neurons. In the present study, we measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) the NGF and BDNF levels in serum of three groups of subjects: heroin-dependent patients, cocaine-dependent patients and healthy volunteers. Our goal was to identify possible change in serum neurotrophins in heroin and cocaine users. BDNF was decreased in heroin users whereas NGF was decreased in both heroin and cocaine users. These findings indicate that NGF and BDNF may play a role in the neurotoxicity and addiction induced by these drugs. In view of the neurotrophin hypothesis of schizophrenia the data also suggest that reduced level of neurotrophins may increase the risk of developing psychosis in drug users.
Little is known about the neurophysiologic effects of prenatal cocaine/crack use. The aim of this study, designed to overcome methodologic limitations of previous research, was to investigate the effects of prenatal cocaine use on electroencephalographic (EEG) sleep patterns, a marker of central nervous system development.
In a longitudinal study of prenatal cocaine/crack exposure, women were interviewed at the end of each trimester about cocaine, crack, alcohol, tobacco, marijuana, and other drug use. Two-hour paper- and computer-generated EEG sleep recordings were obtained on a sample of the full-term infants on the second day of life and at 1 year postpartum. Eligible newborns were full-term, had received no general anesthesia, and had a 5-minute Apgar score >5. All infants whose mothers used one or more lines of cocaine during their first trimester or any crack (n = 37) were selected. A comparison group was chosen randomly from the group of women who did not use cocaine or crack during their pregnancy (n = 34).
Women who used cocaine/crack during the first trimester were older, less educated, less likely to be working, and used more tobacco, alcohol, marijuana, and other illicit drugs than women who did not use cocaine/crack during the first trimester. There were no differences in infant birth weight, length, head circumference, or gestational age between the two exposure groups. After controlling for the significant covariates, prenatal cocaine exposure was associated with less well developed spectral correlations between homologous brain regions at birth, and with lower spectral EEG power values at 1 year of age. Prenatal alcohol, marijuana, and tobacco use were found to affect state regulation and cortical activities.
These results indicate that the neurotoxic effects of prenatal cocaine/crack use can be detected with quantitative EEG measures.
To determine the effectiveness of diazepam pretreatment in preventing succinylcholine-induced fasciculations, 61 surgical patients were randomly allocated into three groups receiving either diazepam (0.05 mg/kg), d-tubocurarine (0.05 mg/kg) or saline in a double-blind fashion. Following the induction of anesthesia with fentanyl and thiopental, a bolus dose of succinylcholine (1 mg/kg was injected 5 minutes after the pretreatment drugs. Resulting fasciculations were then graded visually. Responses to electrical simulation of the ulnar nerve, somatic motor responses to laryngoscopy and endotracheal intubation, and changes in serum levels of potassium were also evaluated. Diazepam had no effect on frequency or intensity of succinylcholine fasciculations. Fasciculations were observed in 90% of the patients given placebo injections and in 95% of those given diazepam, but in only 16% of those given tubocurarine. Tubocurarine prolonged the onset and shortened the duration of the succinylcholine block and thus made intubation more difficult. Diazepam accelerated onset, but had no effect on duration of succinylcholine block. The twitch response following ulnar nerve stimulation disappeared after 84 seconds (p < 0.01 vs placebo) in patients given diazepam after 115 seconds in patients given tubocurarine, and after 106 seconds in those given placebo injections. The increase in serum potassium after succinylcholine was prevented by pretreatment with d-tubocurarine but not by diazepam.
1 1/2 month old child born to primigravida mother on prolonged carbamazepine therapy presented with recurrent seizures. The child had abnormal facies and was diagnosed to be having arteriovenous malformation with intracranial hemorrhage on neuroimaging. This case suggests that development of arteriovenous malformation in a child with maternal carbamazepine therapy may occur as a part of clinical profile of 'fetal anticonvulsant syndrome'.
Parkinson disease (PD) and Alzheimer disease (AD), the two most common neurodegenerative disorders in American adults, are of purely genetic origin in a minority of cases and appear in most instances to arise through interactions among genetic and environmental factors. In this article we hypothesize that environmental exposures in early life may be of particular etiologic importance and review evidence for the early environmental origins of neurodegeneration. For PD the first recognized environmental cause, MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine), was identified in epidemiologic studies of drug abusers. Chemicals experimentally linked to PD include the insecticide rotenone and the herbicides paraquat and maneb; interaction has been observed between paraquat and maneb. In epidemiologic studies, manganese has been linked to parkinsonism. In dementia, lead is associated with increased risk in chronically exposed workers. Exposures of children in early life to lead, polychlorinated biphenyls, and methylmercury have been followed by persistent decrements in intelligence that may presage dementia. To discover new environmental causes of AD and PD, and to characterize relevant gene-environment interactions, we recommend that a large, prospective genetic and epidemiologic study be undertaken that will follow thousands of children from conception (or before) to old age. Additional approaches to etiologic discovery include establishing incidence registries for AD and PD, conducting targeted investigations in high-risk populations, and improving testing of the potential neurologic toxicity of chemicals.
The Authors have investigated the antihallucinogenic and sedative effects of auricular points R and shen menn during surgery under ketamine anesthesia. The results demonstrate that the insertion of the needle in point R is very efficient in reducing hallucinations of ketamine emergence, while the insertion of needle in auricular point shen menn causes only a brief period of sedation in the beginning of the emergence period. The acupunctural technique employed by the Authors has been shown to increase considerably approbation of ketamine anesthesia.
Increased expression of interleukin-1 (IL-1) in skin elicits a variety of responses, including inflammation and epidermal hyperplasia, which are also characteristic events elicited by tumor promoters. The goal of this study was to investigate whether various classes of tumor promoters increase expression of IL-1 alpha and whether phorbol ester-induced IL-1 alpha expression can be blocked by antitumor promoters. Northern analysis of mRNA isolated from the dorsal skins of SENCAR mice treated with 1 microgram of 4 beta-12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) showed that a single application of TPA produced a significant increase in IL-1 alpha mRNA at 6 h that decreased by 24 h after treatment. Two treatments of TPA at 48-h intervals induced, at 6 h, twice as much IL-1 alpha mRNA as one treatment. Of the other promoters tested, anthralin (22.6 micrograms), mezerein (2 micrograms), calcium ionophore A23187 (120 micrograms), and benzoyl peroxide (20 mg) induced IL-1 alpha mRNA with different kinetics and to different extents. On the other hand, the non-tumor promoting phorbol ester analogue 4 alpha-12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate had little effect on the expression of IL-1 alpha mRNA. The effects of various antitumor promoters on TPA-induced IL-1 alpha mRNA expression were also assessed. Fluocinolone acetonide, mepacrine, and 5,8,11,14-eicosatetraynoic acid were the most effective inhibitors, and each produced about 80% inhibition. Other antitumor promoters such as retinoic acid, N-tosyl-L-phenylalanine chloromethyl ketone, and butylated hydroxytoluene inhibited approximately 35%, 65%, and 50% of TPA-induced IL-1 alpha mRNA expression, respectively. Therefore, this study suggests a possible role of IL-1 alpha in the promotion stage of skin carcinogenesis.
A four-year-old deaf girl with a history of convulsions developed polymorphous ventricular tachycardia during induction of anaesthesia. The arrhythmia reverted to sinus rhythm spontaneously. Post-anaesthetic ECG showed marked prolongation of the QTc interval (570-690 msec). Deafness and prolonged QTc interval in association with microcytic-hypochromic anaemia confirmed the diagnosis of the Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome. This case report highlights the potentially lethal complication of halothane anaesthesia in patients with long QTc interval syndrome.
