Unfractionated heparin is often used as adjunctive therapy with fibrinolysis in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction. We compared a low-molecular-weight heparin, enoxaparin, with unfractionated heparin for this purpose.
We randomly assigned 20,506 patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction who were scheduled to undergo fibrinolysis to receive enoxaparin throughout the index hospitalization or weight-based unfractionated heparin for at least 48 hours. The primary efficacy end point was death or nonfatal recurrent myocardial infarction through 30 days.
The primary end point occurred in 12.0 percent of patients in the unfractionated heparin group and 9.9 percent of those in the enoxaparin group (17 percent reduction in relative risk, P<0.001). Nonfatal reinfarction occurred in 4.5 percent of the patients receiving unfractionated heparin and 3.0 percent of those receiving enoxaparin (33 percent reduction in relative risk, P<0.001); 7.5 percent of patients given unfractionated heparin died, as did 6.9 percent of those given enoxaparin (P=0.11). The composite of death, nonfatal reinfarction, or urgent revascularization occurred in 14.5 percent of patients given unfractionated heparin and 11.7 percent of those given enoxaparin (P<0.001); major bleeding occurred in 1.4 percent and 2.1 percent, respectively (P<0.001). The composite of death, nonfatal reinfarction, or nonfatal intracranial hemorrhage (a measure of net clinical benefit) occurred in 12.2 percent of patients given unfractionated heparin and 10.1 percent of those given enoxaparin (P<0.001).
In patients receiving fibrinolysis for ST-elevation myocardial infarction, treatment with enoxaparin throughout the index hospitalization is superior to treatment with unfractionated heparin for 48 hours but is associated with an increase in major bleeding episodes. These findings should be interpreted in the context of net clinical benefit. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00077792.).
Some open-label studies suggest that risperidone can be useful in the treatment of certain target symptoms in children with autism. We aimed to study whether the use of risperidone in comparison with placebo improved functioning in children with autism with regard to behavior (aggressiveness, hyperactivity, irritability), social and emotional responsiveness, and communication skills. We conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial with 40 consecutive children with autism, whose ages ranged from 2 to 9 years, who were receiving either risperidone or placebo given orally at a dose of 1 mg/day for 6 months. Autism symptoms were monitored periodically. The outcome variables were total scores on the Childhood Autism Rating Scale (CARS) and the Children's Global Assessment Scale (CGAS) after 6 months. Of the 40 children enrolled, 39 completed the trial over a period of 18 months; 19 received risperidone, and 20 received placebo. In the risperidone group, 12 of 19 children showed improvement in the total Childhood Autism Rating Scale score and 17 of 19 children in the Children's Global Assessment Scale score compared with 0 of 20 children for the Childhood Autism Rating Scale score and 2 of 20 children for the Children's Global Assessment Scale score in the placebo group (P < .001 and P = .035, respectively). Risperidone also improved social responsiveness and nonverbal communication and reduced the symptoms of hyperactivity and aggression. Risperidone was associated with increased appetite and a mild weight gain, mild sedation in 20%, and transient dyskinesias in three children. Risperidone improved global functioning and social responsiveness while reducing hyperactivity and aggression in children with autism and was well tolerated.
The hematological effects of carbamazepine, a drug effective in the acute and prophylactic treatment of manic-depressive disorder, were assessed in 43 subjects with affective disorder. Carbamazepine was found to cause statistically significant, but clinically insubstantial, decreases in white blood cell indexes. The consistent decreases in white cell counts observed with carbamazepine should be differentiated from the extremely rare, idiosyncratic blood dyscrasias reported in the literature.
We investigated the antinociceptive properties of dexketoprofen trometamol [S(+)-ketoprofen tromethamine salt; SKP], a new analgesic, antiinflammatory drug, using the pain-induced functional impairment model in the rat (PIFIR), an animal model of arthritic pain. SKP was compared with racemic ketoprofen tromethamine salt (rac-KP), R(-)-ketoprofen tromethamine salt (RKP), ketorolac (KET), and morphine (MOR). We also assessed the effects of flurbiprofen (rac-FB) and its enantiomers (SFB and RFB) in the same model. Groups of six rats received either vehicle or analgesic drug and antinociception was evaluated by evaluating the dose-response curves over time. SKP was an effective antinociceptive drug in this model and was almost equally potent by either oral or intracerebroventricular administration. The oral potency of SKP was similar to that of oral KET and greater than that of oral MOR. No significant differences were observed between racemic ketoprofen and its enantiomers when administered orally. In the rat, significant bioinversion of RKP to SKP occurs when RKP is given orally. After oral administration of RKP, SKP was detectable in 30 min and surpassed the concentration of RKP after 3 h. Nevertheless, when the compounds were given intracerebroventricularly, some stereoselectivity in favor of SKP was observed. Stereoselectivity was observed with flurbiprofen, an analogue of ketoprofen that does not undergo significant metabolic inversion. Whereas SFB was an effective antinociceptive, RFB had no antinociceptive effect at the doses tested when given either orally or intracerebroventricularly.
Disruption of motor cortex activity is hypothesized to play a major role in the slowed movement (bradykinesia) associated with reduced dopaminergic function. We recorded single neurons in the motor cortex of free-moving rats performing a forelimb-reaching task. The same neurons were examined before and after induction of bradykinesia with the D2 dopamine receptor antagonist haloperidol. Within-cell changes in the firing rate and firing pattern of individual cells and the correlation between simultaneously recorded cells after injection of haloperidol were statistically compared with vehicle-only control experiments. During haloperidol-induced bradykinesia (mean movement time increase, +231%), there was an average 11% decrease in baseline firing rate. Movement-related peaks in firing rate were more dramatically affected, with an overall reduction in peak amplitudes of 40%. Bradykinesia was also associated with decreased intensity of bursting and amplitude of cross-correlation peaks at rest. The results show for the first time that significant reductions can be detected in motor cortex activity at rest in animals with impaired ability to generate movements induced by reduced dopamine action and confirm that impaired movements are associated with reduced cortical activation. Together, these changes in neural activity may reduce recruitment and rate modulation of motor units in the spinal cord.
The European Stroke Prevention Study showed greater stroke prevention for Aggrenox than either for aspirin or dipyridamole alone. To test whether Aggrenox has superior antiplatelet properties to aspirin alone we conducted the AGgrenox versus Aspirin Therapy Evaluation (AGATE) trial. Forty patients with prior ischemic stroke not taking aspirin for at least 30 days were randomized to Aggrenox (2 pills/daily) or aspirin (81 mg plus matching placebo/daily) for 30 days. Platelet function was assessed at baseline, 24 h, and days 3, 7, 15, and 30 by aggregometry, flow cytometry and cartridge-based analyzers. Both Aggrenox and aspirin provided fast and sustained platelet inhibition. Aggrenox(R), however, especially after 15 days, showed significant prolongation of the closure time (P=0.04), diminished expression of platelet/endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 (PECAM-1) (P=0.01), glycoprotein IIb (GPIIb) antigen (P=0.02), and GPIIb/IIIa activity (P=0.01) by PAC-1 C antibody, CD63 (P=0.03), as well as inhibition of Protease Activated Receptors (PAR-1) associated with intact (SPAN12, P=0.01) and cleaved (WEDE15, P=0.01) thrombin receptors as compared with aspirin. Surprisingly, GPIb expression increased, especially after aspirin. In the randomized trial of small sample size, aspirin and Aggrenox produced fast and sustained platelet inhibition. In 25 of 90 direct comparisons, Aggrenox was superior to aspirin, whereas in 4 of 90, aspirin was superior to Aggrenox. In 61 of 90 direct comparisons, aspirin and Aggrenox were equivalent. Aggrenox was associated with a profound reduction of PAR-1 receptors, an observation that may be related to the greater clinical benefit of Aggrenox compared with Aspirin in preventing recurrent stroke.
Short-term ligation of bile duct has been used as a model to study acute cholestasis and is associated with various cardiovascular abnormalities. We examined the role of nitric oxide (NO) and endogenous opioids on epinephrine-induced arrhythmia in 7-day bile duct-ligated (BDL) rats. Six groups of rats, each of which was subdivided into two subgroups (sham-operated and BDL), were examined. First group of animals were chronically treated with normal saline. In the second and third groups, single intraperitoneal administration of N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 10 mg/kg) or naltrexone (20 mg/kg) was performed 30 min before evaluation of epinephrine-induced arrhythmia. Two groups received chronic administration of low dose (3 mg/kg/day) or high dose (10 mg/kg/day) L-NAME; and the last group was treated chronically with naltrexone (20 mg/kg/day). Chronic drug administration was performed subcutaneously for 6 consecutive days following BDL or sham operation. After induction of arrhythmia by intravenous injection of 10 microg/kg epinephrine, mean arterial pressure and electrocardiogram were recorded for 1 min. Heart rate and mean arterial pressure were significantly lower in BDL rats (P<0.01). Chronic injection of naltrexone increased heart rate and mean arterial pressure in BDL (P<0.05). Chronic low dose L-NAME administration had no effect on baseline hemodynamic parameters. High dose L-NAME injection corrected hypotension in BDL rats, but not bradycardia (P<0.05). Epinephrine induced less arrhythmia in BDL rats (P<0.05). Acute and chronic injection of naltrexone had no effect on the resistance of BDL rats against epinephrine-induced arrhythmia. Although acute L-NAME administration enhanced arrhythmias in sham-operated rats (P<0.001), it had no effect on BDL animals. Chronic injection of low dose or high dose L-NAME, without having any effect on sham-operated animals, increased arrhythmias in BDL rats (P<0.01). This study showed that BDL animals are resistant against epinephrine-induced arrhythmia and this resistance depends on long-term NO overproduction.
Tacrolimus (Tac)-related hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) has been reported to be an unusual but serious complication affecting pediatric patients after solid organ transplantation. Herein, we present a case of young liver transplant recipient with Tac-induced HCM, treated by discontinuation of Tac followed by conversion to rapamycin (Rap). Our case report points out the potential but rather low risk of HCM during Tac immunosuppression in pediatric liver transplants and demonstrates that replacement of calcineurin inhibitors with mammalian target of Rap (mTOR) inhibitors may be an efficacious therapeutic tool to effect regression of established cardiac hypertrophy.
Calcineurin-inhibitor nephrotoxicity plays a role in the pathogenesis of chronic allograft nephropathy by causing renal ischemia mediated by vasoconstrictive metabolites of the prostanoid pathway. The purpose of our study was to evaluate whether altering the prostanoid profile using juniper oil (JO) would afford renoprotection in rats treated with tacrolimus.
Diets supplemented with biologic oils (no supplementation, JO, fish oil [FO], safflower oil [SO], and arachidonic acid [AA]) were fed to five groups of rats for 5 weeks; during the last 2 weeks, tacrolimus was administered to all groups except for a control group of animals. At week 5, urinary prostaglandin (PG)F(2-alpha) and inulin clearances were measured. The rat kidneys were harvested to determine the renal cell membrane composition for arachidonic, eicosatrienoic, and eicosapentaenoic acids.
Both JO and FO completely reversed the decrease in inulin clearance seen with tacrolimus, the greatest effect being with JO (inulin clearance 15.1+/-3 vs. 6.0+/-1.1 ml/min in the nonsupplemented group; P<0.001); urinary PGF(2-alpha) excretion was also highest in the JO group (328+/-23 pg/mL, P<0.001 vs. the nonsupplemented group). Fatty acid membrane analysis showed greatest incorporation of eicosapentaenoic and eicosatrienoic acids in the JO- (5.7+/-0.6% and 3.1+/-0.4%, respectively) and FO- (8.1+/-0.7% and 2.8+/-0.6%, respectively) treated animals.
JO supplementation in tacrolimus-treated rats was associated with incorporation of vasodilatory prostanoids in the renal-cell membrane and elevated urinary PGF(2-alpha) excretion, and the precipitous fall in inulin clearance induced by tacrolimus was completely prevented. Whether this benefit will translate into a reduction in chronic allograft nephropathy remains to be determined. However, our preliminary data point towards the need for human trials.
Ingestion of inorganic arsenic in drinking water is recognized as a cause of bladder cancer when levels are relatively high (≥ 150 µg/L). The epidemiologic evidence is less clear at the low-to-moderate concentrations typically observed in the United States. Accurate retrospective exposure assessment over a long time period is a major challenge in conducting epidemiologic studies of environmental factors and diseases with long latency, such as cancer.
We estimated arsenic concentrations in the water supplies of 2,611 participants in a population-based case-control study in northern New England.
Estimates covered the lifetimes of most study participants and were based on a combination of arsenic measurements at the homes of the participants and statistical modeling of arsenic concentrations in the water supply of both past and current homes. We assigned a residential water supply arsenic concentration for 165,138 (95%) of the total 173,361 lifetime exposure years (EYs) and a workplace water supply arsenic level for 85,195 EYs (86% of reported occupational years).
Three methods accounted for 93% of the residential estimates of arsenic concentration: direct measurement of water samples (27%; median, 0.3 µg/L; range, 0.1-11.5), statistical models of water utility measurement data (49%; median, 0.4 µg/L; range, 0.3-3.3), and statistical models of arsenic concentrations in wells using aquifers in New England (17%; median, 1.6 µg/L; range, 0.6-22.4).
We used a different validation procedure for each of the three methods, and found our estimated levels to be comparable with available measured concentrations. This methodology allowed us to calculate potential drinking water exposure over long periods.
We tested the tachykinin NK(1) receptor antagonist WIN51708 (17betahydroxy17alphaethynyl5alphaandrostanol[3,2b]pyrimido[1,2-a]benzimidazole) in a behavioral sensitization model. Rats were given 7 days of cocaine then 7 days of withdrawal to induce sensitization. Thereafter, another 7 days of cocaine with WIN51708 (2 mg/kg i.p.) given 3.5 h after each cocaine injection was given. WIN51708 reversed sensitization but had no effect on controls. NK(1) receptor antagonists may have use in stimulant abuse and schizophrenia treatment.
We describe the unique CT features of ureteric calculi in six HIV-infected patients receiving indinavir, the most commonly used HIV protease inhibitor, which is associated with an increased incidence of urolithiasis.
Ureteric obstruction caused by precipitated indinavir crystals may be difficult to diagnose with unenhanced CT. The calculi are not opaque, and secondary signs of obstruction may be absent or minimal and should be sought carefully. Images may need to be obtained using i.v. contrast material to enable diagnosis of ureteric stones or obstruction in patients with HIV infection who receive indinavir therapy.
The adiponectin receptors AdipoR1 and AdipoR2 have been identified to mediate the insulin-sensitizing effects of adiponectin. Although AdipoR2 was suggested to be the main receptor for this adipokine in hepatocytes, AdipoR1 protein is highly abundant in primary human hepatocytes and hepatocytic cell lines. Nuclear receptors are main regulators of lipid metabolism and activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha and gamma, retinoid X receptor (RXR), and liver X receptor (LXR) by specific ligands may influence AdipoR1 abundance. AdipoR1 protein is neither altered by RXR or LXR agonists nor by pioglitazone. In contrast, fenofibric acid reduces AdipoR1 whereas hepatotoxic troglitazone upregulates AdipoR1 protein in HepG2 cells. Taken together this work shows for the first time that AdipoR1 protein is expressed in human hepatocytes but that it is not a direct target gene of nuclear receptors. Elevated AdipoR1 induced by hepatotoxic troglitazone may indicate a role of this receptor in adiponectin-mediated beneficial effects in liver damage.
We evaluated the development of anemia as part of a trial of zidovudine therapy in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) with Kaposi sarcoma. Patients were randomized to one of three treatment groups or a placebo group. Transfusion-requiring anemia (hemoglobin less than 100 g/L) developed in 6 of 15 patients on zidovudine therapy at a mean of 6 weeks after starting treatment. A fall in the reticulocyte count was the earliest peripheral blood indicator of toxicity. Mean corpuscular volume increased markedly in patients on zidovudine therapy not developing anemia yet remained stable or only slightly increased in those who became anemic. Bone marrow examination showed pure red cell aplasia in 2 patients, erythroid maturation arrest in 1, and erythroid hypoplasia in 3. Megaloblastic erythropoiesis was present in 2 of the 6 anemic patients. Erythropoietin levels measured at the time of first transfusion were increased. Thus, the anemia associated with zidovudine therapy is due to red cell hypoplasia or aplasia.
The stimulation of hepatic polyamine metabolism observed 5 hr following intraperitoneal injection of clofibrate to rats was completely abolished following prior treatment with alpha-difluoromethylornithine. No induction of peroxisomal beta-oxidation could be observed 5 hr after injection of clofibrate, although appreciable induction occurred 10 hr after injection. Prior treatment with difluoromethylornithine partially inhibited this induction. On chronic treatment with clofibrate together with difluoro-methylornithine, clofibrate-dependent induction of peroxisomal beta-oxidation, as well as of the hepatomegaly, was partially inhibited. In hypophysectomized rats, no stimulation of polyamine metabolism was found following acute administration of a single dose of clofibrate. In thyroidectomized and in adrenalectomized animals, this stimulation was apparent, although the levels of activity were only some 10% of control levels. In hypophysectomized, in thyroidectomized and in adrenalectomized rats, appreciable induction of peroxisomal beta-oxidation occurred on chronic treatment with clofibrate. However, no hepatomegaly was observed in these animals.
Damage of the placenta resulting from ischemia-reperfusion is important to the pathophysiology of preeclampsia. Here we investigated whether low concentrations of glyceryl trinitrate (GTN), a nitric oxide mimetic with anti-apoptotic properties, inhibit hypoxia/reoxygenation-induced apoptosis in the syncytiotrophoblast of chorionic villous explants from human placentas. Compared with villi analyzed immediately after delivery or maintained under normoxic conditions, villi exposed to a 6-hour cycle of hypoxia/reoxygenation exhibited greater numbers of syncytiotrophoblasts with terminal dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL)-positive nuclei in the syncytiotrophoblast. This increased number of TUNEL-positive nuclei was paralleled by higher levels of 4-hydroxynonenal (marker of lipid peroxidation), nitrotyrosine residues, and active caspase-3 and polyADP-ribose polymerase expression. Morphological analysis of explants exposed to hypoxia/reoxygenation revealed apoptotic and aponecrotic features similar to those of chorionic villi from preeclamptic pregnancies. Treatment with GTN during the hy-poxia/reoxygenation cycle blocked the increases in the number of TUNEL-positive nuclei and in the levels of 4-hydroxynonenal, nitrotyrosine, and active caspase-3. Incubation with GTN also attenuated the hypoxia/reoxygenation-induced polyADP-ribose polymerase expression and the apoptotic and aponecrotic morphological alterations. These results suggest that small concentrations of nitric oxide protect chorionic villi from hypoxia/reoxygenation-induced damage and provide a rationale for the use of low doses of nitric oxide mimetics in the treatment and/or prevention of preeclampsia.
In a double-blind trial of the effect of zimelidine on weight and appetite 24 obese patients were allocated at random to receive either zimelidine or placebo for eight weeks followed by the alternative treatment for eight weeks. Possible adverse effects were elicited by asking patients at weekly intervals whether they had experienced any symptoms or ailments and recording all such "events" on a special form. A conventional checklist of symptoms was also used. Among 19 patients who completed the trial the two methods of recording yielded similar patterns of events. Of symptoms not on the checklist, insomnia was more common during treatment with zimelidine. Event recording was found to be a practicable and convenient method of detecting possible adverse effects.
The aim of this study was to determine whether glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) has a protective effect on neutrophil-mediated lung injury in a model of aortic occlusion (30 min) and reperfusion (120 min). Sprague-Dawley rats were randomized into control (n = 11), ischaemia-reperfusion (IR) (n = 12), and IR treated with GTN (2 micrograms kg-1 min-1) during reperfusion (n = 10). Myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity measured pulmonary neutrophil influx. Pulmonary endothelial permeability was measured by wet:dry weight ratio, bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) protein and neutrophil counts. Neutrophil superoxide release was measured by flow cytometry in a further IR versus GTN experiment (n = 6 in each group). The significant increase in MPO activity produced by IR to a level of 7.99 units g-1 was prevented by GTN which reduced the level to 4.73 units g-1. The increase in pulmonary microvascular leakage after reperfusion was also prevented by GTN: BAL protein without GTN was 992 micrograms ml-1 and with GTN 579 micrograms ml-1; BAL neutrophil count without GTN was 3219 cells mm-3 and with GTN 820 cells mm-3; the wet:dry lung weight ratio without GTN was 3.8 and with GTN 3.3. Neutrophil superoxide release increased significantly after 40 min of reperfusion in the untreated IR group (P < 0.05). This increase was prevented in the GTN-treated group. GTN administration had no effect on plasma thromboxane production during revascularization. These data suggest that GTN administration during the reperfusion phase has the potential to decrease pulmonary microvascular injury.
Biotransformation of inorganic arsenic (iAs) is one of the factors that determines the character and magnitude of the diverse detrimental health effects associated with chronic iAs exposure, but it is unknown how iAs biotransformation may impact the epigenome. Here, we integrated analyses of genome-wide, gene-specific promoter DNA methylation levels of peripheral blood leukocytes with urinary arsenical concentrations of subjects from a region of Mexico with high levels of iAs in drinking water. These analyses revealed dramatic differences in DNA methylation profiles associated with concentrations of specific urinary metabolites of arsenic (As). The majority of individuals in this study had positive indicators of As-related disease, namely pre-diabetes mellitus or diabetes mellitus (DM). Methylation patterns of genes with known associations with DM were associated with urinary concentrations of specific iAs metabolites. Future studies will determine whether these DNA methylation profiles provide mechanistic insight into the development of iAs-associated disease, predict disease risk, and/or serve as biomarkers of iAs exposure in humans.
Repeated exposure to ethanol in mice induces behavioural sensitization, a progressive increase in locomotor activity that is common to drugs of abuse. Not all mice however show sensitization to ethanol. The goal of the present study was to examine whether variability in the sensitization response to ethanol (EtOH) is differentially associated with regional brain changes in specific molecular markers associated with neuroplasticity, namely BDNF and its receptor trkB, and levels of phosphorylated cyclic AMP-regulated element-binding protein (pCREB), 14 days after withdrawal from chronic, intermittent EtOH exposure. Male DBA/2NCrl mice received 7 biweekly EtOH (2.2g/kg, i.p.) or saline (SAL) injections and were classified as Sensitized or Non-sensitized on the basis of final locomotor activity (LMA) scores. Brains were removed two weeks later for immunohistochemical and in situ hybridization analyses. Compared to SAL-treated and Non-sensitized mice, Sensitized animals showed a higher number of pCREB-immunoreactive cells in the nucleus accumbens shell (+68% and +50%, respectively) and in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (+61% and 46%, respectively), whereas SAL and Non-sensitized groups did not differ from each other. A different pattern was seen when BDNF and trkB mRNA levels were analyzed in the same groups. Non-sensitized mice displayed lower BDNF mRNA in several brain areas and significantly lower trkB levels throughout the brain when compared to either the Sensitized or to SAL groups, which did not differ from each other. These results indicate that sensitization to EtOH is differentially associated with increased pCREB levels in specific brain areas. The observed decrease in BDNF and trkB mRNA in the Non-sensitized group suggests the possibility that EtOH may have neurotoxic effects in a subpopulation of mice, which might in turn prevent the development of behavioural sensitization. The lack of a difference in BDNF and trkB mRNA expression between Sensitized and SAL mice suggests that EtOH sensitization may be mediated by mechanisms different from those mediating sensitization to other psychostimulants.
Toxicokinetics (TK) is usually performed by measurement of the total drug concentrations in plasma. However, free drug concentrations in plasma are considered to correlate directly with toxicodynamics (TD). In the present study, to evaluate the applicability of TK/TD analysis based on free drug concentrations, we investigated the TK/TD of clofibrate, which binds to albumin with a higher ratio, using an albumin-deficient mutant strain, Nagase analbuminemia rats (NAR). TK, blood chemistry, histopathology, drug and fatty acid metabolizing enzymes and microarray analysis in the liver were examined after a 4-day oral administration of clofibrate. Compared to Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats, the parent strain of NAR, 4.1-fold higher AUC(0-24hr) based on free drug concentrations (3445 versus 844 microg.hr/ml) was observed in NAR when both rats showed the same level of AUC(0-24hr) based on the total drug concentrations (4436 versus 4237microg.hr/ml). Additionally, more severe hepatocellular hypertrophy, increase in aspartate transaminase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), decrease in total cholesterol (T.CHO), phospholipid (PL), triglyceride (TG), and non-esterified fatty acid (NEFA), and increase in the mRNA levels of fatty acid metabolizing enzymes (FAOS, CAT, and CPT) were observed in NAR at the same dose. These results demonstrated that NAR developed more severe toxicities and pharmacological effects than SD rats correlating with the higher AUC of the free drug concentrations. The results also suggested that TK/TD analysis based on the free drug concentration is appropriate to interpret the relationship between exposure and toxicity in cases of protein binding saturation including protein decrease or species differences on protein binding, especially when drugs showing a higher protein binding ratio are dosed.
Mixed hyperlipidemia is a common disorder characterized by elevated VLDL and LDL levels. Patients with this syndrome usually are in need of combination therapy, comprising a fibric acid derivate with a statin drug in order to achieve LDL and triglyceride target values. Atorvastatin is a hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor demonstrated to be effective in reducing both cholesterol (CHOL) and triglyceride (TG) levels in humans. We examined the efficacy of atorvastatin as monotherapy in achieving a better or the same lipid profile in patients with mixed hyperlipidemia treated with combination therapy.
We compared atorvastatin with a combination of a fibric acid derivate and a statin drug (other than atorvastatin) in a 24-week, prospective randomized, open-label study of 27 patients with mixed hyperlipidemia.
All 27 patients had been treated with statin-fibrate therapy in different regimens for at least a year. Atorvastatin at a daily dose of 20 mg was substituted for statin-fibrate therapy. Lipid and safety profiles were assessed.
Atorvastatin significantly reduced total cholesterol, LDL-C, and HDL-C compared to statin-fibrate therapy. In contrast, TG and glucose levels were significantly elevated with atorvastatin. Target LDL-C and TG was achieved in 10 patients with the single therapy of atorvastatin vs. 6 patients under statin-fibrate. In 16 patients, atorvastatin was at least as effective as, or better than, the combination therapy, and was recommended for continuation of treatment.
Atorvastatin is an adequate monotherapy for many mixed hyperlipidemia patients. We recommend atorvastatin be considered for every patient suffering from mixed hyperlipidemia.
We report a case of a 65-year-old man with microscopic polyangiitis who developed prostate cancer and gastric adenocarcinoma after prolonged oral use of cyclophosphamide. Acute hepatitis with jaundice and marked increase in aminotranferases occurred after 6 months of flutamide treatment for metastatic prostate carcinoma. It is suggested that patients with vasculitis or other autoimmune disorders should avoid prolonged use of cyclophosphamide and other cytotoxic drugs in order to minimize long-term adverse effects, of which the risk of cancer is by far the most important. In patients on flutamide treatment, careful monitoring of flutamide administration with repeated liver function tests should be undertaken, and the drug must be immediately discontinued in patients with abnormal results to avoid progression of liver injury.
Triptans are specific agonists of the serotonergic 5-HT(1B/1D) receptors that have increasingly been used in the treatment of migraine and cluster headaches. Though they are generally considered safe, there have been a few reports of myocardial infarction and stroke associated with triptan use. We report a patient who developed spontaneous splenic infarction after the use of sumatriptan for the treatment of migraine headache.
