In unilateral ureteral obstruction (UUO), the kidney is characterized by increased fibrosis and apoptosis. Both transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) and ANG II have been implicated, and ANG II may mediate its effects through TGF-beta. Previous studies demonstrated amelioration of renal damage when either TGF-beta or ANG II has been individually targeted. In this study, we sought to determine whether combining 1D11 (monoclonal antibody to TGF-beta) and an ACE inhibitor, enalapril, would be more effective in UUO than either individual treatment, as has been shown in diabetic and glomerulonephritic models. Rats underwent UUO and were given either control monoclonal antibody, 1D11 or enalapril, or 1D11/enalapril combination, for 14 days. Kidneys were harvested and examined for fibrosis [trichrome; collagen (real-time PCR, Sircol assay) and fibroblast-specific protein expression (immunohistochemistry), apoptosis (TUNEL), macrophage infiltration (immunohistochemistry), and TGF-beta expression (real-time PCR and tubular localization with immunohistochemistry)]. UUO was found to induce fibrosis, apoptosis, macrophage infiltration, and TGF-beta expression in the obstructed kidney. Administration of either 1D11 or enalapril individually significantly decreased all these changes; when 1D11 and enalapril were combined, there was little additive effect, and the combination did not provide full protection against damage. The results demonstrate that, for the most part, combination therapy is not additive in UUO. This could be due to the continued presence of a physical obstruction or to biochemical differences between UUO and other renal disease models. Furthermore, it suggests that other targets may be amenable to pharmacological manipulation in UUO.
Propofol and midazolam were compared in 40 adult patients in A.S.A. 1 or 2 presenting for short surgical procedures (< 70 minutes) with respect to induction time, pain on injection, apnoea, heart rates, blood pressure, oxygen saturation, time to eye opening on command. The first group was induced with midazolam (0.15-0.20 mg/kg) while the second was induced with propofol (2-2.5 mg/kg) intravenously. In all other respects except for the surgery that patients had the same treatment. The mean induction time was 55.25 + 26.66 and 69.75 + 24.72 for propofol and midazolam groups respectively. In the midazolam group apnoea occurred in 10% of patients compared to 80% of patients in the propofol group. Local reaction (phlebitis) was absent in the midazolam compared with 20% incident rate observed in the midazolam group. Propofol lowered blood pressure more than midazolam after three minutes of induction at a statistically significant level (P < 0.05). Recovery was significantly more rapid following propofol (P < 0.05).
To report a case of perioral numbness associated with intravenous pentamidine.
A 56-year-old female with acute myelogenous leukemia in remission developed Pneumocystis carinii infection. Treatment was initiated with trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX), but the patient subsequently developed a rash on day 10 of treatment. TMP/SMX was discontinued and intravenous pentamidine was started in order to complete a 21 day treatment course for P. carinii pneumonia (PCP). However, on day 3 of pentamidine treatment, the patient reported perioral numbness during the infusion. The numbness disappeared soon after completion of the infusion but recurred with all subsequent pentamidine infusions.
Paresthesias in general and facial area numbness in particular have been reported with pentamidine administration. While it is possible such adverse events may be a result of pentamidine's effect on serum electrolytes and glucose, especially hypocalcemia and hypoglycemia, these laboratory values were not grossly affected by pentamidine in our patient. The Naranjo probability scale revealed a probable adverse reaction of perioral numbness associated with intravenous pentamidine.
Pentamidine is considered an alternative agent to TMP/SMX in the treatment of PCP. Although they do not commonly occur, paresthesias have been reported with pentamidine therapy. Healthcare practitioners should be aware of this type of event in association with pentamidine administration, especially as it may not be associated with overt serum glucose or electrolyte disturbances.
The present study was designed to evaluate the relationship between reinstatement of drug-seeking behaviour following long-term extinction of intravenous (i.v.) drug self-administration (an animal model for craving) and long-term behavioural sensitization. Rats were allowed to self-administer heroin (50 microg/kg per inj., 14 daily sessions), cocaine (500 microg/kg per inj., 10 daily sessions) or saline. Following a 3-week extinction period, reinstatement tests were performed to evaluate priming effects of amphetamine, cocaine and heroin on nonreinforced drug-seeking behaviour. In addition, the occurrence of long-term behavioural sensitization in rats with a history of heroin or cocaine self-administration was determined. Heroin-seeking behaviour was reinstated by heroin (0.25 mg/kg), amphetamine (1.0 mg/kg) and cocaine (10 mg/kg). In addition, animals with a history of heroin self-administration displayed locomotor sensitization to both heroin and amphetamine. Cocaine-seeking behaviour was reinstated by cocaine and amphetamine, but not by heroin. Interestingly, locomotor sensitization to amphetamine, but not heroin, was observed in animals with a history of cocaine self-administration. In other words, the induction of drug-seeking behaviour following a prolonged drug-free period was found to be associated with the expression of long-term behavioural sensitization. These data provide experimental evidence for a role of behavioural sensitization in the incentive motivation underlying drug-seeking behaviour. If drug hyperresponsiveness would indeed be a crucial factor in drug-induced craving in human addicts, pharmacological readjustment of the neuroadaptations underlying drug sensitization may prevent relapse to drug use long after detoxification.
We describe a case of recurrent hypoglycemia apparently caused by secretion of insulin-like growth factor II (IGF-II) by a leiomyosarcoma. A 67-year-old woman presented with recurrent severe hypoglycemia and a large mass in the thorax. During hypoglycemia, plasma cortisol was elevated, but insulin and growth hormone levels were low. After resection of a large leiomyosarcoma, the hypoglycemia resolved. After an eight-year remission, both the tumor and symptomatic hypoglycemia recurred. During a second operation a second large tumor was removed, with relief of the patient's hypoglycemia. The tumor contained high concentrations of IGF-II mRNA and 2100 ng of IGF-II immunoreactive peptide per gram. Filtration through a BioGel P-60 gel column established that 77 percent of the IGF-II was present as a larger molecule, demonstrating incomplete processing of the pro-IGF-II peptides. A similar fraction of high-molecular-weight IGF-II was present in the serum, indicating that the tumor was the chief source of IGF-II. The high-molecular-weight IGF-II found in both the tumor and serum was fully reactive with the IGF-II receptor. Radioimmunoassay showed that the concentrations of insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) in tumor and serum were low, suggesting feedback inhibition of growth hormone secretion by IGF-II. Eight months after reoperation, plasma concentrations of IGF-I and IGF-II were normal, and high-molecular-weight IGF-II was virtually undetectable. We conclude that the most likely cause of this patient's recurrent hypoglycemia was IGF-II produced by the leiomyosarcoma.
Coronary blood flow, cardiac work and metabolism were studied in dogs under sodium nitroprusside (SNP) and trimetaphan (TMP) deliberate hypotension (20% and 40% mean pressure decrease from baseline). Regarding the effects of drug-induced hypotension on coronary blood flow, aortic and coronary sinus metabolic data (pH, pO2, pCO2) we could confirm that nitroprusside hypotension could be safely used to 30% mean blood pressure decrease from control, trimetaphan hypotension to 20% mean blood pressure decrease. Cardiac work was significantly reduced during SNP hypotension. Myocardial O2 consumption and O2 availability were directly dependent on the coronary perfusion. Careful invasive monitoring of the blood pressure, blood gases and of the ECG ST-T segment is mandatory.
Three adolescents with central nervous system (CNS) negative acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) refused cranial irradiation for CNS prophylaxis. Instead, these patients received four doses of 50 mg of intrathecal (IT) liposomal cytarabine on day 1, 15, 43 and 71 of maintenance therapy. Corticosteroids were given to prevent chemical arachnoiditis. All patients developed bilateral papilloedema after the third or fourth dose of liposomal cytarabine, local side effects were observed in two patients. Under prolonged dexamethasone therapy, side effects resolved completely. As reversible neuroophthalmological side effects caused by intrathecal liposomal cytarabine can also be observed under low-dose maintenance therapy in patients with CNS negative AML, it should be used with caution in children and adolescents.
Even in children with mild immunoglobulin (Ig)A nephropathy (IgA-N) showing minimal/focal mesangial proliferation, persistent proteinuria seems to be a risk factor for progression of the disease, indicating the need for an effective and safe treatment even in such cases. Studies carried out to date have indicated that angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) reduce urinary protein excretion and preserve renal function in adult IgA-N. However, no prospective study of ACEI only for childhood IgA-N has yet been carried out. In this prospective single-arm pilot trial, we administered lisinopril (0.4 mg/kg per day) as therapeutic treatment to 40 children with mild IgA-N with proteinuria [morning urinary protein/creatinine ratio (uP/Cr) >or= 0.2 g/g]. Thirty-three patients reached the primary endpoint (uP/Cr < 0.2) during the 2-year treatment period. The cumulative disappearance rate of proteinuria determined by the Kaplan-Meier method was 80.9%. Mean uP excretion was reduced from 0.40 to 0.18 g/m(2)/day (p < 0.0001). Of the 40 patients treated, five (12.5%) showed dizziness, and four of these five needed the lisinopril dose reduced. However, lisinopril therapy was continued in all patients during the 2-year treatment period. No other side effect, such as cough, was observed. We conclude that the efficacy and safety of lisinopril is seemingly acceptable for the treatment of children with mild IgA-N.
Recently a new effervescent acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) tablet with high buffering capacity has been developed. In this double-blind, 3-arm, multicenter, parallel-group study, 433 patients were treated either with 1,000 mg effervescent ASA or 50 mg encapsulated sumatriptan or placebo. The primary endpoint was the percentage of patients with complete remission of the 3 accompanying symptoms nausea, photophobia and phonophobia within 2 h after intake of the study drug. 43.8% of patients treated with ASA, 43.7% of patients treated with sumatriptan and 30.9% of patients treated with placebo showed complete remission of all 3 accompanying symptoms (p < 0.05 for ASA and sumatriptan vs. placebo). Both active treatments were superior to placebo regarding the individual symptoms photophobia and phonophobia, but not for nausea. The percentage of patients with reduction in headache severity from moderate or severe to mild or no pain (secondary objective) was 49.3% for ASA, 48.8% for sumatriptan and 32.9% for placebo. All active treatments were superior to placebo (p < 0.05). 25.3, 24.4 and 14.5% of patients treated with ASA, sumatriptan or placebo were pain free at 2 h. Drug-related adverse events were reported in 3.9, 4.7 and 6.7% of patients treated with placebo, ASA or sumatriptan. The study showed that administration of effervescent ASA leads to remission of the migraine symptoms nausea, photophobia and phonophobia, reduces migraine headache and is comparable to sumatriptan.
Forty-eight healthy parturients scheduled for elective cesarean delivery were randomly allocated to receive intrathecally either 12 mg of hyperbaric bupivacaine plus 12.5 microg of fentanyl (n = 23) or bupivacaine alone (n = 25). In the latter group, IV 12.5 microg of fentanyl was administered immediately after spinal anesthesia. We compared the amount of IV fentanyl required for supplementation of the spinal anesthesia during surgery, the intraoperative visual analog scale, the time to the first request for postoperative analgesia, and the incidence of adverse effects. Additional IV fentanyl supplementation amounting to a mean of 32 +/- 35 microg was required in the IV Fentanyl group, whereas no supple- mentation was required in the Intrathecal Fentanyl group (P = 0.009). The time to the first request for postoperative analgesia was significantly longer in the Intrathecal Fentanyl group than in the IV Fentanyl group (159 +/- 39 min versus 119 +/- 44 min; P = 0.003). The incidence of systolic blood pressure <90 mm Hg and the ephedrine requirements were significantly higher in the IV Fentanyl group as compared with the Intrathecal Fentanyl group (P = 0.01). Also, intraoperative nausea and vomiting occurred less frequently in the Intrathecal Fentanyl group compared with the IV Fentanyl group (8 of 23 vs 17 of 25; P = 0.02).
Supplementation of spinal bupivacaine anesthesia for cesarean delivery with intrathecal fentanyl provides a better quality of anesthesia and is associated with a decreased incidence of side effects as compared with supplementation with the same dose of IV fentanyl.
During recent years, ACE inhibitors have been employed to an increasing extent in the long-term treatment of arterial hypertension. As part of the investigation of arterial hypertension, the captopril test, with administration of a small oral dose of captopril and registration of the blood pressure and pulse during the subsequent period, is employed. During this test, two cases of marked fall in blood pressure accompanied by symptoms of inadequate cerebral circulation were observed. Both of these patients were subsequently submitted to digital subtraction angiography of the vessels of the neck and both found to have unilateral stenosis of the carotid artery. It is concluded that, particularly in elderly hypertensive patients, ACE inhibitor treatment should always be initiated during controlled conditions. Stethoscopic examination of the carotid arteries should always be performed.
This case report describes an uncommon complication (blindness) occurring after an inadvertent overdosage of a frequently used local anesthetic (lidocaine) during a regional anesthetic procedure. The discussion focuses on the suspected pathophysiology of the blindness.
Estrogen increases the ability of the estrogen-dependent MCF-7 human breast cancer cell line to both proliferate and invade through an artificial basement membrane. In studying the response of MCF-7 cells to various antiestrogens, we found that 4-hydroxytamoxifen and tamoxifen inhibited cell proliferation but increased their invasiveness. In contrast, the structurally unrelated benzothiophene antiestrogens, LY117018 and LY156758, were potent antiproliferative agents which did not stimulate invasiveness. The differential effects of these antiestrogenic agents on invasion correlated with changes in production of collagenase IV, while no significant change was seen in the chemotactic activity of the cells. Invasiveness was increased by 17 beta-estradiol or 4-hydroxytamoxifen after a few hours of treatment and was rapidly lost when 17 beta-estradiol was withdrawn. Stimulation of invasiveness with 17 beta-estradiol was blocked by the antiestrogen, LY117018. Cells from the MDA-MB-231 line which lacks estrogen receptors were not affected by estrogen or antiestrogen in terms of proliferation or invasion. These studies indicate that the invasiveness of MCF-7 cells is regulated by antiestrogens through the estrogen receptor and may be mediated by collagenase IV activity. Antiestrogens which reduce both the proliferation and invasiveness of these cells may be interesting new candidates for clinical application.
A growing body of research suggests that prenatal exposure to air pollution may be harmful to fetal development. We assessed the association between exposure to air pollution during pregnancy and anthropometric measures at birth in four areas within the Spanish Children's Health and Environment (INMA) mother and child cohort study.
Exposure to ambient nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and benzene was estimated for the residence of each woman (n = 2,337) for each trimester and for the entire pregnancy. Outcomes included birth weight, length, and head circumference. The association between residential outdoor air pollution exposure and birth outcomes was assessed with linear regression models controlled for potential confounders. We also performed sensitivity analyses for the subset of women who spent more time at home during pregnancy. Finally, we performed a combined analysis with meta-analysis techniques.
In the combined analysis, an increase of 10 µg/m3 in NO2 exposure during pregnancy was associated with a decrease in birth length of -0.9 mm [95% confidence interval (CI), -1.8 to -0.1 mm]. For the subset of women who spent ≥ 15 hr/day at home, the association was stronger (-0.16 mm; 95% CI, -0.27 to -0.04). For this same subset of women, a reduction of 22 g in birth weight was associated with each 10-µg/m3 increase in NO2 exposure in the second trimester (95% CI, -45.3 to 1.9). We observed no significant relationship between benzene levels and birth outcomes.
NO2 exposure was associated with reductions in both length and weight at birth. This association was clearer for the subset of women who spent more time at home.
A large body of evidence suggests that fine particulate matter (PM) air pollution is a cause of cardiovascular disease, but little is known in particular about the cardiovascular effects of indoor air pollution from household use of solid fuels in developing countries. RESPIRE (Randomized Exposure Study of Pollution Indoors and Respiratory Effects) was a randomized trial of a chimney woodstove that reduces wood smoke exposure.
We tested the hypotheses that the stove intervention, compared with open fire use, would reduce ST-segment depression and increase heart rate variability (HRV).
We used two complementary study designs: a) between-groups comparisons based on randomized stove assignment, and b) before-and-after comparisons within control subjects who used open fires during the trial and received chimney stoves after the trial. Electrocardiogram sessions that lasted 20 hr were repeated up to three times among 49 intervention and 70 control women 38-84 years of age, and 55 control subjects were also assessed after receiving stoves. HRV and ST-segment values were assessed for each 30-min period. ST-segment depression was defined as an average value below -1.00 mm. Personal fine PM [aerodynamic diameter ≤ 2.5 μm (PM₂.₅] exposures were measured for 24 hr before each electrocardiogram.
PM₂.₅ exposure means were 266 and 102 μg/m³ during the trial period in the control and intervention groups, respectively. During the trial, the stove intervention was associated with an odds ratio of 0.26 (95% confidence interval, 0.08-0.90) for ST-segment depression. We found similar associations with the before-and-after comparison. The intervention was not significantly associated with HRV.
The stove intervention was associated with reduced occurrence of nonspecific ST-segment depression, suggesting that household wood smoke exposures affect ventricular repolarization and potentially cardiovascular health.
Mutations in the crumbs homologue 1 (CRB1) gene cause a specific form of retinitis pigmentosa (RP) that is designated "RP12" and is characterized by a preserved para-arteriolar retinal pigment epithelium (PPRPE) and by severe loss of vision at age <20 years. Because of the early onset of disease in patients who have RP with PPRPE, we considered CRB1 to be a good candidate gene for Leber congenital amaurosis (LCA). Mutations were detected in 7 (13%) of 52 patients with LCA from the Netherlands, Germany, and the United States. In addition, CRB1 mutations were detected in five of nine patients who had RP with Coats-like exudative vasculopathy, a relatively rare complication of RP that may progress to partial or total retinal detachment. Given that four of five patients had developed the complication in one eye and that not all siblings with RP have the complication, CRB1 mutations should be considered an important risk factor for the Coats-like reaction, although its development may require additional genetic or environmental factors. Although no clear-cut genotype-phenotype correlation could be established, patients with LCA, which is the most severe retinal dystrophy, carry null alleles more frequently than do patients with RP. Our findings suggest that CRB1 mutations are a frequent cause of LCA and are strongly associated with the development of Coats-like exudative vasculopathy in patients with RP.
The carcinogenicities of potent mutagenic dinitropyrenes were examined by their subcutaneous injections into male F344/ DuCrj rats. Animals were injected with 0.2 mg each of 1,3- and 1,8-dinitropyrenes (1,3- and 1,8- DNPs ) dissolved in 0.2 ml of dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) twice a week for 10 weeks. In rats treated with 1,8-DNP, sarcomas were induced at the sites of injection in all 10 animals tested between the 113th and 127th experimental days. In rats treated with 1,3-DNP, 10 of 10 rats developed sarcomas between days 119 and 320. Some tumors induced by these chemicals were transplantable into the same strain of rats. No tumors developed in control rats, which received only DMSO.
A 31-year-oldman presented with a 6-month history of right testicular enlargement. The patient underwent a right inguinal orchiectomy. Histopathological examination showed nonseminomatous germ cell tumor (choriocarcinoma>seminoma) which was confined to the tunica albuginea. The postoperative serum level of alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) and lactate dehydrogenase were normal. Serum level of human chorionic gonadotrophin(HCG), however, was 23,000 mIU/ml (normal, < 0.7 mIU/ml). A thoracic computed tomography (CT) at that time showed bilateral and multiple metastases to the lungs but the abdominal CT was normal. After the surgery, the patient was treated with conventional doses of cisplatin, etoposide, and bleomycin. On day 11 of the second chemotherapy course, the patient developed confusion and right sided weakness. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed an ischemic lesion in the left middle cerebral artery area. An echocardiogram showed normal left ventricular function and no valvular vegetations. Finally, the patient completed one additional course of chemotherapy with considerable measures to prevent side effects. A thoracic CT at the end of the third cycle showed no evidence of tumor. At 3 months followup after chemotherapy, he suffered from partial paralysis of right-sided upper and lower limbs but due to intensive rehabilitation he overcame the paralysis and is able to walk by himself. There was no evidence of tumor recurrence.
UDCA (ursodeoxycholic acid) is used increasingly for the treatment of cholestatic liver diseases. Among other cytoprotective effects, this endogenous bile acid is a potent inhibitor of apoptosis, interfering with both intrinsic and extrinsic apoptotic pathways. In previous studies, we have demonstrated that the transforming growth factor beta1-induced E2F-1/Mdm2 (murine double minute 2)/p53 apoptotic pathway was an upstream molecular target of UDCA. In agreement with this, we have recently established p53 as a key molecular target in UDCA prevention of cell death. The tumour suppressor p53 is a well-described transcription factor that induces the expression of multiple different pro-apoptotic gene products. Its regulation involves a variety of signalling proteins and small molecules, and occurs at multiple levels, including transcription, translation and post-translation levels. In the present study, by using different biophysical techniques, we have investigated the possibility of a direct interaction between the p53 core domain, also referred to as the DNA-binding domain, and UDCA. Our in vitro analysis did not provide any evidence for direct binding between the bile acid UDCA and the p53 core domain.
The accumulation of amyloid-beta (Aβ) peptides in the brain of human and rodents has been associated with the activation of glial cells, neuroinflammatory and oxidative responses, and cognitive deficits. These oxidative changes leave glutamate transporters more vulnerable and may result in reduction of their functions, resulting in excitotoxic damage. Herein, we evaluated the effects of atorvastatin, a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, in molecular and behavioral alterations induced by a single intracerebroventricular injection of aggregated Aβ(1-40) (400 pmol) in mice. An increased glial fibrillar acidic protein (GFAP) expression and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) levels, as well as increased lipid peroxidation and impairment in the glutathione antioxidant system and cell degeneration was found in the hippocampus of Aβ(1-40)-treated mice. Aβ(1-40) also induced a marked decrease in glutamatergic transporters (GLAST and GLT-1) expression and in l-[³H] glutamate uptake in mice hippocampus, in addition to spatial learning and memory deficits. Atorvastatin (10 mg/kg/day v.o.) was administered after Aβ(1-40) injection and through seven consecutive days. Atorvastatin treatment was neuroprotective against cell degeneration induced by Aβ(1-40), reducing inflammatory and oxidative responses and increasing the expression of glutamatergic transporters. On the other hand, atorvastatin did not reverse the cognitive impairments and failed to alter the hippocampal glutamate uptake in Aβ(1-40)-treated mice. These results reinforce and extend the notion of the potential neuroprotective action of atorvastatin against the neuronal toxicity induced by Aβ(1-40). In addition, the present findings suggest that the spatial learning and memory deficits induced by Aβ peptides in rodents may not be entirely related to neuronal damage.
Ferritin, which is composed of H and L subunits, plays an important role in iron storage and in the control of intracellular iron distribution. Synthesis of both ferritin subunits is controlled by a common cytosolic protein, iron regulatory protein (IRP), which binds to the iron-responsive element (IRE) in the 5'-UTR of the H- and L-ferritin mRNAs. In the present study, we have identified a single point mutation (A49U) in the IRE motif of H-ferritin mRNA, in four of seven members of a Japanese family affected by dominantly inherited iron overload. Gel-shift mobility assay and Scatchard-plot analysis revealed that a mutated IRE probe had a higher binding affinity to IRP than did the wild-type probe. When mutated H subunit was overexpressed in COS-1 cells, suppression of H-subunit synthesis and of the increment of radiolabeled iron uptake were observed. These data suggest that the A49U mutation in the IRE of H-subunit is responsible for tissue iron deposition and is a novel cause of hereditary iron overload, most likely related to impairment of the ferroxidase activity generated by H subunit.
The mechanism of action of methotrexate (MTX) in autoimmune diseases (AID) is unclear. A pro-apoptotic effect has been demonstrated in mitogen-stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), but studies employing conventional antigens have disputed a pro-apoptotic effect. CD4+ T helper (Th) cells play a significant role in most AID. We therefore examined directly, by flow cytometry, the uptake of MTX by the T helper (Th) cells stimulated for 6 days with Candida albicans (CA) or tetanus toxoid (TT), and its consequences with respect to induction of apoptosis. While none of the resting Th cells took up MTX, nearly all the dividing Th cells did, and this abrogated further cell division. Among dividing Th cells, MTX induced an approximately sixfold increase over baseline levels in the proportion of apoptotic cells. This proportion could be reverted to baseline by the addition of folic acid. Exposure of CA-stimulated PBMC to MTX significantly increased their level of cleaved poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP), and a similar tendency was observed in TT-stimulated cells. Unlike CA and TT, the mitogen phytohaemagglutinin (PHA) induced proliferation of both CD4- and CD4+ T cells, and induced apoptosis in both undivided and divided Th cells. PHA-induced apoptosis involved activation of caspase-3 and the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 in addition to PARP cleavage, suggesting that PHA induces apoptosis via different pathways than CA and TT. We suggest that the latter are more representative of stimulation with self-antigens in AID, and that a pro-apoptotic effect of MTX on self-antigen-stimulated Th cells contributes to the effect of MTX in the treatment of AID.
The US Air Force has implemented the widespread use of JP-8 jet fuel in its operations, although a thorough understanding of its potential effects upon exposed personnel is unclear. Previous work has reported that JP-8 exposure is immunosuppressive. Exposure of mice to JP-8 for 1 h/day resulted in immediate secretion of two immunosuppressive agents; namely, interleukin-10 (IL-10) and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). Thus, it was of interest to determine if jet fuel exposure might promote tumor growth and metastasis. The syngeneic B16 tumor model was used for these studies. Animals were injected intravenously with tumor cells, and lung colonies were enumerated. Animals were also examined for metastatic spread of the tumor. Mice were either exposed to 1000 mg/m3 JP-8 (1 h/ day) for 7 days before tumor injection or were exposed to JP-8 at the time of tumor injection. All animals were killed 17 days after tumor injection. In the present study, JP8 exposure potentiated the growth and metastases of B16 tumors in an animal model. Exposure of mice to JP-8 for 1 h/day before tumor induction resulted in an approximately 8.7-fold increase in tumors, whereas those mice exposed to JP8 at the time of tumor induction had a 5.6-fold increase in tumor numbers. Thus, low concentration JP-8 jet fuel exposures have significant immune suppressive effects on the immune system that can result in increased tumor formation and metastases. We have now extended the observations to an experimental subcutaneous tumor model. JP8 exposure at the time of tumor induction in this model did not affect the growth of the tumor. However, JP8-exposed, tumor-bearing animals died at an accelerated rate as compared with air-exposed, tumor-bearing mice.
Nitric oxide (NO) may alter dopamine release in the brain. Activation of D2-dopamine receptors may suppress NO synthase, and inhibition of NO synthase prevents behaviors induced by psychostimulants. We have investigated the modulatory actions of the precursor of NO synthesis (L-arginine) and the broad-spectrum NO synthesis inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) on apomorphine-induced behaviors in the rat.
Apomorphine was injected subcutaneously, and behaviors induced by the drug were examined in the presence or absence of intracerebroventricular administration of L-arginine and L-NAME.
Our data indicate that L-arginine or L-NAME treatment decreased licking and yawning, but not penile erection induced by apomorphine.
Apomorphine-induced behaviors may be modulated by NO levels.
The Antihypertensive and Lipid-Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial (ALLHAT) is a large, randomized double-blind study comparing four antihypertensive agents (chlorthalidone, doxazosin, amlodipine, and lisinopril) in hypertensive patients older than 55 years. The doxazosin arm was terminated early, when the trial's safety and monitoring board noted a twofold higher incidence of congestive heart failure in patients receiving doxazosin than in those receiving chlorthalidone (8.13% vs 4.45% at 4 years, P < .001).
