The etiology of acute lung injury is complex and associated with numerous, chemically diverse precipitating factors. During acute lung injury in mice, one key event is epithelial cell injury that leads to reduced surfactant biosynthesis. We have previously reported that transgenic mice that express transforming growth factor alpha (TGFA) in the lung were protected during nickel-induced lung injury. Here, we find that the mechanism by which TGFA imparts protection includes maintenance of surfactant-associated protein B (SFTPB) transcript levels and epidermal growth factor receptor-dependent signaling in distal pulmonary epithelial cells. This protection is complex and not accompanied by a diminution in inflammatory mediator transcripts or additional stimulation of antioxidant transcripts. In mouse lung epithelial (MLE-15) cells, microarray analysis demonstrated that nickel increased transcripts of genes enriched in MTF1, E2F-1, and AP-2 transcription factor-binding sites and decreased transcripts of genes enriched in AP-1-binding sites. Nickel also increased Jun transcript and DNA-binding activity, but decreased SFTPB transcript. Expression of SFTPB under the control of a doxycycline-sensitive promoter increased survival during nickel-induced injury as compared with control mice. Together, these findings support the idea that maintenance of SFTPB expression is critical to survival during acute lung injury.
The present study was carried out to assess the effect of chronic dichlorvos exposure on various aspects of glucose homeostasis in different regions of rat brain. Dichlorvos administration caused a significant depletion in the brain glycogen content accompanied with an increase in the activity of glycogen phosphorylase. The activities of key glycolytic enzymes, hexokinase, phosphofructokinase and lactate dehydrogenase were decreased significantly following dichlorvos exposure. The decreased glycolytic flux was further reflected in terms of decreased regional glucose utilization, determined by measuring 14C-glucose influx. The altered neuronal glucose homeostasis had a significant impact on the neurobehavioural patterns of dichlorvos treated animals which was reflected in terms of severe deterioration in their memory and learning functions.
Hyponatremia is not uncommon, serious cases can cause dangerous complications as seizures, brain damage and even death. We present a case of a young mother with post partum hemorrhage and some of the serious complications.
Dacarbazine (DTIC) is commonly used for the treatment of malignant melanoma and Hodgkin's disease. A very rare complication of this cytotoxic agent is acute vascular hepatic damage, e.g. veno-occlusive disease or Budd-Chiari syndrome. The pathophysiological mechanism involved seems to be an immune reaction. This complication is frequently fatal. We report a patient who developed severe hepatic failure following DTIC treatment who responded favorably to treatment with glucocorticosteroid.
A 75-year-old depressed woman treated with the monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) phenelzine developed a parkinsonian syndrome that remitted after discontinuation of the drug. The authors discuss possible explanations for this unusual phenomenon.
A 29-year-old woman with no history of paranoia or homicidal behavior developed paranoia, homicidal behavior, and seizures after abusing a preparation containing phenylpropanolamine. The paranoia and seizures were replicated in a controlled inpatient setting following phenylpropanolamine challenge.
To report 2 cases of acute tumor lysis syndrome (ATLS) associated with hydroxyurea treatment.
A 79-year-old woman diagnosed with chronic lymphocytic leukemia presented with an acute blastic transformation. She was promptly hydrated, started on allopurinol, and treated with hydroxyurea. About 24 hours later, her biochemistry panel showed parameters consistent with ATLS when compared with pretreatment levels. The second case was a 76-year-old man newly diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia presenting with high blast fraction. He was given appropriate hydration and allopurinol prophylaxis, and was started on high-dose hydroxyurea treatment. He became symptomatic after 12 hours and results of his blood work were consistent with ATLS.
ATLS is a well-known metabolic disturbance that occurs after cell destruction of rapidly growing tumors. In standard doses, hydroxyurea leads to cell death in the S phase and is not thought to cause significant cell lysis. However, in large doses, it possibly acts by a different mechanism and had a direct cytolytic effect associated with ATLS in our patients.
Although ATLS caused by hydroxyurea appears to be rare, patients at risk should be closely monitored for this complication. An objective causality assessment using the Naranjo probability scale revealed that the adverse drug reaction was probable between ATLS and hydroxyurea therapy in these 2 patients.
The authors studied the addition of bupivacaine and epinephrine, separately and together, to epidural fentanyl to determine whether this improved postcesarean analgesia and reduced the incidence of side effects.
After elective cesarean section, 100 parturient patients who received fentanyl (3 microg/ml) epidurally for 48 h were allocated randomly in a double-blinded manner to four groups to receive, in addition to the study solution, 0.01% bupivacaine, 0.5 microg/ml epinephrine, both, or neither. A neurologic assessment of breast-fed neonates was made at 2 and 48 h of life. Plasma fentanyl concentrations were determined in a subset of patients at intervals after treatment.
Patients receiving fentanyl alone made more attempts at patient-controlled analgesia (P < 0.01), required a greater total dose of fentanyl (P < 0.01), reported more pain (P < 0.003) and less satisfaction (P < 0.003), and had more nausea and urinary retention (P < 0.05) than all other groups. Patients who received bupivacaine with or without epinephrine had better overall satisfaction scores than those who did not receive bupivacaine (P < 0.001), and they required less fentanyl (P < 0.02) than patients who received fentanyl with only epinephrine. Motor blockade or orthostatic hypotension did not develop in any patient, and all patients could ambulate without difficulty. Neurobehavioral scores, which were similar among all neonates, were within the normal range. Plasma concentrations of fentanyl increased after epinephrine-containing solutions were discontinued.
During the conditions of this study, the addition of epinephrine and bupivacaine to a 3-microg/ml epidural fentanyl solution for postcesarean section pain relief provided superior analgesia compared with fentanyl alone or fentanyl with epinephrine. Whether increasing the concentration of fentanyl alone might improve the efficacy of fentanyl remains unclear.
Sorafenib (BAY 43-9006), a multikinase inhibitor, has been shown to inhibit tumor growth and tumor angiogenesis by targeting Raf kinase, vascular endothelial growth factor receptor, and platelet-derived growth factor receptor. This study investigated the safety, pharmacokinetics, and preliminary efficacy of sorafenib in combination with gemcitabine and cisplatin.
Patients with advanced solid tumors were treated with 75 mg/m(2) cisplatin on day 1 and 1,250 mg/m(2) gemcitabine on days 1 and 8 of each 21-day cycle. On day 5 of cycle 1, sorafenib 400 mg twice daily was started and continued throughout the complete treatment cycles without interruption.
Nineteen patients were valid for safety analysis. The most frequent toxicities related to the cytotoxic agents were hematological disorders. Sorafenib-related toxicities were skin-related, gastrointestinal, and constitutional symptoms. No clinically relevant pharmacokinetic drug-drug interaction between sorafenib, cisplatin, and gemcitabine was detected. AUC(0-72) and C (max) of total and unbound platinum were only marginally changed by concomitant sorafenib. Concomitant sorafenib increased mean AUC and C (max) of gemcitabine by 12 and 21%.
Sorafenib as continuous oral treatment in combination with gemcitabine and cisplatin demonstrated an acceptable safety profile. No clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interaction was detected. Preliminary antitumor activity, pharmacokinetic, and safety data support the recommendation of 400 mg sorafenib twice daily in combination with cisplatin and gemcitabine to be further evaluated in clinical studies.
Although medical treatment is the first-line therapy for myocardial bridges, in some cases revascularization may be required. Percutaneous intervention with bare metal stents is associated with a high restenosis rate. It has been speculated that drug eluting stents might be useful in this setting, although data are limited. We present a patient who suffered multifocal in-stent restenosis after a paclitaxel stent in a myocardial bridge.
Death associated protein (DAP)-kinase is a 16 kDa calmodulin-dependent serine/threonine kinase that carries a death domain at its C-terminus. DAP-kinase functions as a positive mediator of apoptosis that is induced by interferon-gamma. Recent studies suggest that DAP-kinase is involved in tumor metastasis and that it can be inactivated by methylation of CpG islands in the promoter region of the gene in some human tumors. However, little is known about the factors that are associated with the occurrence of DAP-kinase promoter methylation. We investigated both the possible associations of tobacco carcinogen and asbestos exposure with DAP-kinase promoter methylation, and the demographic and clinical factors associated with DAP-kinase promoter methylation in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). One hundred and eighty-five patients diagnosed with NSCLC undergoing surgical resection from June, 1992 through December, 1996 at Massachusetts General Hospital participated in this study. Methylation-Specific PCR (MSP), performed using fresh-frozen tissue, was used to determine the methylation status of the promoter region of the DAP-kinase gene. Forty-seven (25%) of 185 tumors showed DAP-kinase promoter methylation. There was a significant association between methylation and an advanced pathologic stage (P=0.003, Fisher's exact test). Methylation of the DAP-kinase promoter was also associated with an increase in tumor size (P=0.009, Fisher's exact test) and lymph node involvement (P=0.04). No association was found between promoter methylation of DAP-kinase and k-ras or p53 mutation. In addition there was no association with a history of exposure to tobacco or asbestos. Controlling for age, sex, and histology, the odds ratios describing the association of DAP-kinase hypermethylation with stage were 2.70 (1.13--6.45), 3.11 (1.37--7.08) and 7.77 (1.21--50.03) in stages II, III and IV, respectively. Stage I cases with DAP-kinase promoter methylation had worse overall survival, but with the small sample size and limited follow-up this did not reach statistical significance. Our findings suggest that methylation of the promoter region of the DAP-kinase gene is not associated with exposure to tobacco or asbestos. However, they strongly suggest that DAP-kinase may be important in the progression of non-small cell lung cancer from early to late stage disease.
To compare the safety and efficacy of two formulations of divalproex, extended-release divalproex versus the original divalproex tablet, in adolescent and adult patients with epilepsy.
Eligible patients were between the ages of 12 and 65 years with primary generalized epilepsy, which was controlled over the month prior to study enrollment with divalproex or valproic acid 1000 mg to 2000 mg/day. The patients were well-controlled; 39 of 43 (91%) had no seizures in the previous year. Patients were randomized to receive 84 days of either divalproex two times a day (b.i.d.)/three times a day (t.i.d.) or extended-release divalproex qd and then (crossed over to) 84 days of the comparator formulation. During the two treatment periods, patients received the same daily dose equivalent of divalproex as was taken during the month prior to study entry. The clinical status of patients was evaluated at a screening visit and at four subsequent visits conducted every 42 days.
There was no statistically significant difference between the formulation groups for seizure control rate (95% [41/43] for divalproex and 93% [40/43] for extended-release divalproex). Likewise, the formulation groups were similar based on the incidence of treatment-related adverse events. The most frequently reported (< or =11.4% for either formulation) treatment-related adverse events were asthenia, tremor, nausea, and dizziness.
Extended-release divalproex was similar to divalproex for the treatment of well-controlled, primary generalized epilepsy in terms of overall safety and efficacy parameters.
To investigate the effect of melatonin on the antioxidant enzyme activity and renal tubular necrosis induced by gentamicin.
Twenty-four adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into three equal groups. In group 1, the rats were injected with vehicle (controls), in group 2 they were injected with gentamicin for 5 days and in group 3 injected with gentamicin plus melatonin for 5 days. At 24 h after the last injection, rats were killed and the renal cortex separated from the medulla. Most of the cortex was homogenized but a small sample was fixed in formaldehyde solution for histological examination by light microscopy. Blood samples were also taken to assess the serum levels of urea, creatinine, Na+, K+ and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (gamma-GT); before death, urine samples were analysed for protein content. Crude extracts of the cortex were used to determine lipoperoxides, reduced glutathione (GSH-Px), catalase and superoxide dismutase (SOD). The results were compared using the Mann-Whitney U-test.
Compared with the controls rats, gentamicin caused hyperproteinuria, an increase in the level of gamma-GT in serum, a marked increase in lipoperoxides and a significant decrease of GSH-Px, catalase and SOD activity in the kidney. In the rats in group 3 there was a marked restoration in lipid peroxidation, GSH-Px, catalase, SOD activity and proteinuria, and in gamma-GT in serum. In rats in group 2 there was widespread tubular necrosis (grade 2-4) but in rats in group 3 there was a marked reduction in the extent of tubular damage. There was no significant difference in serum levels of Na+, K+, blood urea nitrogen and creatinine.
These results indicate that melatonin prevents the tubular necrosis induced by gentamicin in rats, presumably because it is a potent antioxidant and restores antioxidant enzyme activity in the rat kidney.
In cirrhosis, lipopolysaccharide (LPS, a product of Gram-negative bacteria) in the blood may cause septic shock. LPS-elicited induction of arterial inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) results in nitric oxide (NO)-induced vasodilation, which causes arterial hypotension and hyporeactivity to alpha(1)-adrenergic constrictors. In vitro studies have suggested that vasopressin inhibits iNOS expression in cultured vascular smooth muscle cells exposed to LPS. Thus, the aim of this study was to investigate the effects of terlipressin administration (a vasopressin analog) on in vivo LPS-induced aortic iNOS in rats with cirrhosis. LPS (1 mg/kg, intravenously) was administered followed by the intravenous administration of terlipressin (0.05 mg/kg, intravenously) or placebo 1 hour later. Arterial pressure was measured, and contractions to phenylephrine (an alpha(1)-adrenoceptor agonist), iNOS activity, and iNOS expressions (mRNA and protein) were investigated in isolated aortas. LPS-induced arterial hypotension and aortic hyporeactivity to phenylephrine were abolished in rats that received terlipressin. LPS-induced aortic iNOS activity and expression were suppressed in terlipressin-treated rats. In conclusion, in LPS-challenged rats with cirrhosis, terlipressin administration inhibits in vivo LPS-induced aortic iNOS expression. Terlipressin administration may be a novel approach for the treatment of arterial hypotension and hyporeactivity to alpha(1)-adrenergic constrictors in patients with cirrhosis and septic shock.
Inhalation of nickel dust has been associated with an increased incidence of pulmonary fibrosis. Nickel may promote fibrosis by transcriptionally activating plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI)-1 and inhibiting fibrinolysis. The current studies examined whether nickel stimulated the PAI-1 promoter though an oxidant-sensitive activator protein (AP)-1 signaling pathway. Addition of nickel to BEAS-2B human airway epithelial cells stimulated intracellular oxidation, induced c-Jun and c-Fos mRNA levels, increased phospho- and total c-Jun protein levels, and elevated PAI-1 mRNA levels over a 24-h time course. Pretreatment of the cells with antioxidants did not affect increased c-Jun protein or PAI-1 mRNA levels. Expression of the dominant negative inhibitor of AP-1, TAM67, prevented nickel-stimulated AP-1 DNA binding, AP-1-luciferase reporter construct activity, and PAI-1 mRNA levels. Overexpression of c-Jun, however, failed to induce the AP-1 luciferase reporter construct or PAI-1 mRNA levels. These data indicated that nickel activated AP-1 through an oxidant-independent pathway and that basal AP-1 is necessary for nickel-induced expression of PAI-1.
Intracoronary injection of papaverine is used to determine coronary flow reserve in patients. The present study was to investigate the effect of papaverine on the performance of myocardium with reduced flow reserve. In nine anaesthetized open-chest dogs a bypass from the aorta to the left circumflex coronary artery (LCX) was established. Left ventricular end-diastolic and aortic pressure, dP/dt, stroke volume, LCX blood flow, and ECG were monitored. The performance of a segment of subendocardial wall supplied by the LCX was assessed by sonomicrometry. Peak reactive hyperaemia after 15s bypass occlusion was 1.44 +/- 0.09 times the baseline flow (41 ml/min), indicating reduced coronary flow reserve. Papaverine was injected into the bypass (0.3, 0.6, 1.2, 2.5, 5.0 mg/ml, 1 ml in 15s). The maximum LCX flow following PAPA 0.3 mg was comparable to peak reactive hyperaemia, but 10-15% higher after injection of 0.6-5.0 mg papaverine. Systolic shortening of the myocardium (control: 17.5% of end-diastolic length) became reduced in a dose-dependent fashion (5-25%) for about 1 min following papaverine injection. Stroke volume (control: 0.94 +/- 0.12 ml/kg) was reduced by about 8%, left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (control: 6.2 +/- 0.8 mmHg) increased by 15%, and dP/dtmin (control: 1850 +/- 150 mmHg/s) was curtailed by 15-25%. The ECG showed a transient T inversion and S-T depression following papaverine administration and in one experiment ventricular fibrillation occurred after the injection of 2.5 mg papaverine. The observed effects of intracoronary papaverine are consistent with the theory of transient subendocardial ischaemia arising from a redistribution of blood flow from the subendocardial to the subepicardial layers, because of greater vasodilatory capacity in the latter than in the former.
Severe pulmonary hypertension is irreversible and often fatal. Abnormal proliferation and resistance to apoptosis of endothelial cells (ECs) and hypertrophy of smooth muscle cells in this disease are linked to decreased mitochondria and preferential energy generation by glycolysis. We hypothesized this metabolic shift of pulmonary hypertensive ECs is due to greater hypoxia inducible-factor1alpha (HIF-1alpha) expression caused by low levels of nitric oxide combined with low superoxide dismutase activity. We show that cultured ECs from patients with idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension (IPAH-ECs) have greater HIF-1alpha expression and transcriptional activity than controls under normoxia or hypoxia, and pulmonary arteries from affected patients have increased expression of HIF-1alpha and its target carbonic anhydrase IX. Decreased expression of manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) in IPAH-ECs paralleled increased HIF-1alpha levels and small interfering (SI) RNA knockdown of MnSOD, but not of the copper-zinc SOD, increased HIF-1 protein expression and hypoxia response element (HRE)-driven luciferase activity in normoxic ECs. MnSOD siRNA also reduced nitric oxide production in supernatants of IPAH-ECs. Conversely, low levels of a nitric oxide donor reduced HIF-1alpha expression in normoxic IPAH-ECs. Finally, mitochondria numbers increased in IPAH-ECs with knockdown of HIF-1alpha. These findings indicate that alterations of nitric oxide and MnSOD contribute to pathological HIF-1alpha expression and account for lower numbers of mitochondria in IPAH-ECs.
Aspirin is commonly accepted as a risk factor for gastric ulcer; however, there is little published evidence linking aspirin consumption to duodenal ulcer. The effect of 1 g of aspirin per day on site-specific ulcer hospitalizations was examined using data from a 3-year randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of 4,524 subjects (Aspirin Myocardial Infarction Study). There were 23 duodenal ulcer and 14 gastric ulcer hospitalizations during the follow-up period. All but two were verified by endoscopy, radiogram, or biopsy/surgery. For males, a Cox-model survival analysis showed that the age- and smoking-adjusted relative risk for duodenal ulcer hospitalization was 10.7 times higher for the aspirin group than for the placebo group (95% confidence interval, 2.5 to 45.5; p less than 0.0001). The adjusted relative risk for gastric ulcer was 9.1 (95% confidence interval, 1.2 to 71.4; p = 0.04). Due to the small number of females in the study, the relationship between site-specific ulcer and aspirin consumption for females was not analyzed. However, for males and females combined, the age-, smoking-, and sex-adjusted relative risk for peptic ulcer hospitalization was 7.7 (95% confidence interval, 2.7 to 21.7; p less than 0.0001). We conclude that chronic aspirin use is a risk factor for hospitalization for both duodenal and gastric ulcer in males, and for peptic ulcer in males and females.
Pre-mRNA processing is an important mechanism for globally modifying cellular protein composition during tumorigenesis. To understand this process during lung cancer, expression of two key pre-mRNA alternative splicing factors was compared in a mouse model of early lung carcinogenesis and during regenerative growth following reversible lung injury. Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) A1 and alternative splicing factor/splicing factor 2 (ASF/SF2) act antagonistically to modulate splice site selection. Both hnRNP A1 and ASF/SF2 contents rose in adenomas and during injury-induced hyperplasia compared to control lungs, as measured by immunoblotting. While both proteins increased similarly during compensatory hyperplasia, hnRNP A1 increased to a much greater extent than ASF/SF2 in tumors, resulting in a 6-fold increase of the hnRNP A1 to ASF/SF2 ratio. Immunohistochemical analysis showed that hnRNP A1 localized exclusively within tumor nuclei, while ASF/SF2 appeared in cytoplasm and/or nuclei, depending on the growth pattern of the tumor cells. We also demonstrated cancer-associated changes in the pre-mRNA alternative splicing of CD44, a membrane glycoprotein involved in cell-cell and cell-extracellular matrix interactions. hnRNP A1 and ASF/SF2 expression is thus differentially altered in neoplastic lung cells by mechanisms that do not strictly arise from increased cell division. These changes are influenced by tumor histology and may be associated with production of variant CD44 mRNA isoforms.
A unipolar depressed patient developed a fast-cycling bipolar disorder on abrupt discontinuation of long-term treatment with a tricyclic antidepressant. The case illustrates the potential for drug withdrawal to induce mood disturbance that is more severe than the original illness.
We examined the therapeutic potential of a proprietary Croton palanostigma extract (Zangrado(R)) in the management of emesis and itch.
Emesis was induced in ferrets with morphine-6-glucuronide (0.05 mg/kg sc) in the presence of Zangrado (3 mg/kg, ip) and the cannabinoid receptor 1 antagonist, AM 251 (5 mg/kg, ip). Topical Zangrado (1%) was assessed for anti-pruretic actions in the 5-HT-induced scratching model in rats and evaluated in capsaicin-induced gastric hyperemia as measured by laser doppler flow. In the ApcMinmouse model of precancerous adenomatosis polyposis, mice received Zangrado (100 mug/ml in drinking water) from the age of 6 - 16 weeks for effects on polyp number. In RAW 264.7 cells Zangrado was examined for effects on lipopolysaccharide-induced nitrite production.
Zangrado was a highly effective anti-emetic, reducing morphine-induced vomiting and retching by 77%. These benefits were not associated with sedation or hypothermia and were not reversed by cannabinoid receptor antagonism. Itch responses were blocked in both the morphine and 5-HT models. Zangrado did not exacerbate the ApcMincondition rather health was improved. Capsaicin-induced hyperemia was blocked by Zangrado, which also attenuated the production of nitric oxide by activated macrophages.
Zangrado is an effective anti-emetic and anti-itch therapy that is devoid of common side-effects, cannabinoid-independent and broadly suppresses sensory afferent nerve activation. This complementary medicine represents a promising new approach to the management of nausea, itch and irritable bowel syndrome.
A 57-year-old man developed vertigo, tinnitus, bilateral hearing loss and postural intolerance temporally related to the administration of pegylated interferon-alpha-2b/ribavirin for chronic hepatitis C viral infection. Clinical examination showed bilateral sensorineural hearing loss, subjective vertigo with saccadic intrusions during fixation and smooth visual pursuit, and supine hypertension followed by orthostatic hypotension with inadequate reflexive compensatory cardiovascular responses. Laboratory assessment showed marked hemolytic anemia. Formal audiometry revealed high-frequency sensorineural hearing loss with abnormal high-frequency distortion product otoacoustic emissions, indicative of damage to the cochlear outer hair cells. Cessation of therapy resulted in rapid clinical resolution with mild residual hearing loss and tinnitus. This case report illustrates vestibulocochlear and autonomic nervous system adverse effects of pegylated interferon-alpha-2b/ribavirin, emphasizing the importance of early recognition and cessation of therapy to prevent permanent neurootologic injury.
Indomethacin is a potent agent in the treatment of premature labor, but its use has been limited because of concern about its constrictive effects on the fetal ductus arteriosus. To study these effects we used serial fetal echocardiography in 13 pregnant women in premature labor who received indomethacin according to three different dose schedules, ranging from 100 to 175 mg per day, for a maximum of 72 hours. The gestational ages of the fetuses ranged from 26.5 to 31.0 weeks. The detection of ductal constriction in 7 of the 14 fetuses by echocardiography led to the discontinuation of indomethacin. Three fetuses also had tricuspid regurgitation. There was no statistically significant difference between the mean (+/- SEM) gestational age of the fetuses with ductal constriction and that of those without constriction (29.3 +/- 0.59 and 28.4 +/- 0.52, respectively). There was no relation between serum indomethacin levels in the mothers and ductal constriction. In all seven fetuses affected, ductal constriction had resolved by the time they were restudied 24 hours after the discontinuation of indomethacin. Persistent fetal circulation was not detected in any of the 11 neonates studied after delivery. Indomethacin used to treat premature labor appears to cause transient constriction of the ductus arteriosus in some fetuses, even after short-term use.
The year 1995 has been an unsettling one in the history of the treatment of hypertension and ischemic heart disease. A fierce debate has sprung up about the safety of calcium antagonists, particularly the dihydropyridine nifedipine. A widely publicized case-control study showed that compared with diuretics and beta-blockers, short-acting calcium antagonists, when used in the treatment of hypertension, were associated with a higher risk of myocardial infarction, an effect which appeared to be dose related. A second study focused on clinical trials of nifedipine in patients primarily with acute myocardial ischemia syndromes. The meta-analysis showed an increased risk in the relative mortality rate of 1.16 associated with the use of short-acting nifedipine at doses of 80 mg/day or higher. The mechanisms responsible for these results were also discussed. Both publications were accompanied by editorials, and there were subsequently other commentaries published which pointed out weaknesses in the design, conduct, analysis and interpretation of the studies, and these have also been reviewed. Arising from this controversy, important questions have been raised which need to be addressed. First, are the data valid and are these drugs safe? If not, can the data be extrapolated from short-acting dihydropyridines, to the newer formulations and other sub-classes of calcium antagonists? Second, do these agents reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality? Finally, what are the alternatives to their use and the clinical implications? These studies have raised questions about safety, and there is little evidence to show any actual benefit on the incidence of cardiovascular events. For most patients there are clinically tested and proved therapeutic alternatives, i.e. diuretics and beta-blockers, and therefore the burden of proof must now be on those who primarily recommend the use of calcium antagonists. Recommendations and guidelines for treatment, where the primary goal is to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality must be supported by adequate data.
The pharmacological properties of 4 derivatives of 11-desoxy-prostaglandins E (uterotonic, luteolytic, hypotensive, anti-inflammatory, diarrhogenic ones and also acute toxicity) were studied. Compound I possessed the uterotonic activity which decreased with an alpha-chain elongation and a radical introduction into a benzene ring. Compounds I and II exhibited the luteotropic properties at low doses and the luteolytic ones at high doses. The compounds under study had the hypotensive activity due to the presence of a benzene ring in a W-chain.
Ten free monoamines and their metabolites in plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) were simultaneous measured in 6 levodopa-untreated (LU), 18 levodopa-treated (LT) and 37 levodopa-withdrawn (LW) Chinese patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and 26 controls. We found that the levels of these substances in LW patients were not significantly different from those in LU patients. In LU- and LW-PD patients, CSF epinephrine (EPI) was higher (P < 0.05) than that of the controls. 3-methoxy-DOPA (3-OMDOPA) might not inhibit the accumulation of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) and dopamine metabolites in CSF. Levodopa treatment might change the dopaminergic and serotoninergic neuronal systems, but not the noradrenergic or adrenergic neuronal systems, in CNS of PD patients. Benserazide (a peripheral decarboxylase inhibitor) in Madopar might decrease the levels of serotonin (5-HT) and norepinephrine (NE), but not those of DOPA and homovanillic acid (HVA), in plasma. HVA, NE and EPI in plasma were not good indices for those in CSF. Otherwise, our results were consistent with some other studies by showing a significantly lower level (P < 0.01) of HVA in CSF of LU- and LW-PD patients than that of the controls, while no difference for NE, 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG), 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid (5-HIAA) or 3-OMDOPA was noted. The severity of clinical disability was related to the deficiency of CSF HVA and DOPAC in LU- and LW-PD patients; however, there was no relationship between clinical symptoms of tremor, rigidity-bradykinesia, autonomic dysfunction, dementia, depression or levodopa-induced dyskinesia and CSF monoamines or their metabolites.
The neurotensin receptor subtype 2 (NTS2) is involved in the modulation of tonic pain sensitivity and psychiatric diseases and is, therefore, regarded as a highly attractive pharmacological target protein. Aiming to discover NTS2 selective ligands, we herein describe the identification of screening hits and the chemical synthesis of structural variants leading to the highly potent and NTS2 selective peptide-peptoid hybrids of type 3. The neurotensin mimetics 3a and 3e-g incorporating an N-(4-hydroxyphenethyl)glycine substructure exhibit single digit nanomolar affinity (K(i) = 4.3-8.8 nM) and 1900-12000 fold selectivity over the neurotensin receptor subtype 1 (NTS1). According to functional experiments, the test compounds 3a and 3e-g displayed an inhibition of constitutive mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activity exceeding 2.6-4.6 times the inverse agonist activity of the endogenous ligand neurotensin.
