In this study, the effects induced in mouse liver by repeated oral exposure to furan were investigated. To this aim, the compound was given for 28 days by daily gavage to male B6C3F1 mice at 2, 4, 8 and 15 mg/kg body weight (b.w.)/day. Twenty-four hours after last administration, animals were sacrificed, liver was excised and the following parameters were evaluated: histological alterations, apoptosis, cell proliferation, polyploidy, overall DNA methylation, gene expression and DNA damage by the immunofluorescence detection of foci of phosphorylated histone H2AX (gamma-H2AX) and by alkaline comet assays, using both standard and modified protocols for the detection of DNA cross links. Liver DNA damage by comet assays was also evaluated in mice receiving furan as a single acute oral dose (15, 100 or 250 mg/kg b.w.). Microscopic analysis of liver sections indicated that repeated oral administration of furan was moderately toxic, producing mild histological alterations with necrotic figures, apoptosis and limited regenerative cell proliferation. The flow cytometric analysis of DNA content in single-cell suspensions of liver cells showed a statistically significant increase in polyploid (8N) cells at the highest dose. No treatment-related changes in overall DNA methylation, gamma-H2AX foci, DNA strand breaks and cross links were observed at the end of the 4-week exposure period. However, several genes involved in DNA damage response, beyond stress and liver toxicity, were over-expressed in mice treated with the highest furan dose (15 mg/kg b.w./day). Acute administration of furan induced evident liver toxicity at the highest dose (250 mg/kg b.w.), which was associated with a significant increase of DNA damage in the alkaline comet assay and with a distinct decrease in gamma-ray-induced DNA migration. Overall, the results obtained suggest that the contribution of genotoxicity to the mechanism of furan carcinogenicity in mouse liver should not be dismissed.
The pressor actions of arginine vasopressin (AVP) were examined in pithed Sprague-Dawley and Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). Prior to pithing, systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) were recorded via an intra-arterial catheter from sodium pentobarbital anaesthetized rats. SBP and DBP recorded from SHR were significantly greater than those from Sprague-Dawley and WKY rats. However, after pithing, there were no significant differences between DBP among the various strains. Pertussis toxin pretreatment significantly reduced the prepithing SBP and DBP of the SHR but not Sprague-Dawley or WKY rats. Administration of nifedipine significantly reduced DBP of pithed rats. The dose-diastolic pressure response curves obtained from infusion of AVP in Sprague-Dawley and WKY rats were not significantly different from one another, but the maximal vasopressor responses to AVP in pithed SHR were enhanced. Administration of nifedipine to Sprague-Dawley and WKY rats did not affect the dose-response curve to AVP, but nifedipine administration in SHR led to a significant inhibition of the pressor responses to AVP. Furthermore, pertussis toxin pretreatment of rats significantly reduced a component of the AVP pressor effect in SHR but not Sprague-Dawley or WKY rats. We speculate that, in SHR, vasopressin receptors are coupled to a pertussis toxin-sensitive G protein that, in turn, may couple to a dihydropyridine-sensitive calcium channel and also to a pertussis-insensitive G protein that is probably coupled to the phospholipase C/intracellular calcium release process. A component of the elevated blood pressure in SHR is also regulated by a pertussis toxin-sensitive process.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Isolated rat hearts were perfused with various concentrations of isoprenaline (0.01-10 mumol/liter) for 30 min at a constant flow rate (6.5 ml/min) at 37-44 degrees C. The occurrence of ventricular fibrillations was isoprenaline concentration dependent and also perfusion temperature dependent in the combined treatment with various concentrations of isoprenaline and high perfusion temperatures. When the hearts were perfused with isoprenaline (1 mumol/liter) in the presence of tropolone (100 mumol/liter) at 40-41 degrees C, the duration of ventricular fibrillations was significantly prolonged, but the incidence of ventricular fibrillations was similar to that produced with isoprenaline (1 mumol/liter) alone. The antiarrhythmic drugs such as quinidine sulfate, lidocaine hydrochloride, dl-propranolol hydrochloride, carteolol hydrochloride, atenolol, dl-verapamil hydrochloride, and diltiazem hydrochloride, given at a concentration of 10 mumol/liter, significantly suppressed the incidence and duration of such ventricular fibrillations. Bretylium tosylate (10 mumol/liter) significantly suppressed the duration of the ventricular fibrillations but not their incidence. These results indicate that ventricular fibrillation induced by combined treatment with a high concentration of isoprenaline and tropolone at a high perfusion temperature in isolated rat hearts is a more useful experimental model of arrhythmia than conventional models.
Chloracne is commonly observed in humans exposed to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD); yet, the mechanism of toxicity is not well understood. Using normal human epidermal keratinocytes, we investigated the mechanism of TCDD-mediated enhancement of epidermal differentiation by integrating functional genomic, metabolomic, and biochemical analyses. TCDD increased the expression of 40% of the genes of the epidermal differentiation complex found on chromosome 1q21 and 75% of the genes required for de novo ceramide biosynthesis. Lipid analysis demonstrated that eight of the nine classes of ceramides were increased by TCDD, altering the ratio of ceramides to free fatty acids. TCDD decreased the expression of the glucose transporter, SLC2A1, and most of the glycolytic transcripts, followed by decreases in glycolytic intermediates, including pyruvate. NADH and Krebs cycle intermediates were decreased, whereas NAD(+) was increased. Mitochondrial glutathione (GSH) reductase activity and the GSH/glutathione disulfide ratio were decreased by TCDD, ultimately leading to mitochondrial dysfunction, characterized by decreased inner mitochondrial membrane potential and ATP production, and increased production of the reactive oxygen species (ROS), hydrogen peroxide. Aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) antagonists blocked the response of many transcripts to TCDD, and the endpoints of decreased ATP production and differentiation, suggesting regulation by the AHR. Cotreatment of cells with chemical antioxidants or the enzyme catalase blocked the TCDD-mediated acceleration of keratinocyte cornified envelope formation, an endpoint of terminal differentiation. Thus, TCDD-mediated ROS production is a critical step in the mechanism of this chemical to accelerate keratinocyte differentiation.
This multicenter, randomized, controlled clinical trial assessed the influence of sodium chloride intake on the antihypertensive effect of the calcium channel blocker isradipine. Participants with uncomplicated hypertension controlled by isradipine entered a 4-week sodium-restricted (60 to 80 mmol/24 h) period. Participants with urinary sodium levels < 120 mmol/24 h (n = 99) were randomized to placebo or sodium chloride (100 mmol/24 h) for 4 weeks, and then crossed over to the alternative treatment for an additional 4 weeks. Mean baseline systolic blood pressure was 151.9 +/- 16.7 mm Hg (mean +/- SD). During open-label isradipine treatment, systolic blood pressures for ad libitum sodium chloride and restriction were 134.1 +/- 11.1 and 132.1 +/- 12.2 mm Hg respectively; for double-blind sodium chloride restriction and supplementation: 133.6 +/- 12.6 and 138.5 +/- 12.8 mm Hg (P < .01). Urinary sodium excretion values for open-label isradipine ad libitum versus restricted were 140.6 +/- 61.9 versus 76.9 +/- 32.4 mmol/24 h; for double-blind restricted versus supplemented, sodium excretion was 120.5 +/- 68.9 v 175.9 +/- 68.7 mmol/24 h (P < or = .0001). Changes in urinary sodium excretion were not predictive of variations in blood pressure. Urinary sodium excretion during sodium restriction correlated directly with HDL-cholesterol (P < .02) and inversely with total cholesterol:HDL-cholesterol (P = .02), despite decreased total and saturated fat intake (P < .01). Sodium restriction was associated with significant reductions (P < .01) in virtually all macronutrients and electrolytes, and thus had an adverse impact on overall nutrition. The antihypertensive action of isradipine was not enhanced by dietary sodium chloride restriction, and the lipoprotein profile was least favorable with sodium chloride restriction.
Recent updates of the guidelines on the prevention of human immunodeficiency virus mother-to-child transmission have shortened the neonatal zidovudine prophylactic regimens from 6 to 4 weeks. We present a prospective observational study in a large cohort of mother-infant pairs and report that the 4-week regimen allows an earlier recovery of the anemia in these otherwise healthy infants.
Renal damage and repair was investigated in Wistar rats after administering 40 or 80 mmol lithium chloride/kg dry food during 3 or 7 weeks. Serum creatinine levels remained normal. Light microscopic signs of injury were confined to the cortical and outer medullary collecting ducts (CDs) and to the distal convoluted tubules (DCTs; 39-97% of the cross-sections contained necrotic cells); no lesions were found in proximal tubules and thick ascending limbs (TALs). Nevertheless, the urinary excretion of N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase was increased in the high-dose group, but epidermal growth factor immunostaining in the TALs and DCTs was unchanged. Simultaneously, increased cell proliferation in the CDs and also the DCTs was accompanied by the appearance of vimentin immunostaining predominantly in the basal cell pole; the number of vimentin-positive cells amounted to 72% in the CDs of the high dose group after 3 weeks. In addition, in all lithium-treated animals, the interstitium throughout the entire kidney, but mainly around injured distal segments, displayed increased cell proliferation and leukocyte infiltration (antibody OX-1 positive); 7-25% of these were macrophages (antibody ED-1 positive). Collagen I and III and laminin staining patterns were not altered.
(1) LiCl-induced damage and regeneration confined to the DCTs and CDs is accompanied by the expression of vimentin, possibly in response to an increased requirement for cell spreading and motility after epithelial desquamation, and (2) interstitial cell proliferation and leukocyte infiltration, largely confined around the injured nephron segments, may constitute early signs of the development of lithium-induced interstitial nephropathy.
Deguelin, a naturally occurring rotenoid, is known to be an Akt inhibitor and to have an anti-tumor effect on several cancers.
This study was performed to elucidate the effect of deguelin on apoptotic pathways related to NF-κB signaling in colon cancer cells and on the anti-tumor effect in colon cancer xenograft mice.
We studied COLO 205 and HCT116 cells in the presence or absence of deguelin. NF-κB signaling was examined by real-time RT-PCR for interleukin (IL)-8, by Western blotting for IκB phosphorylation/degradation, and by the electrophoretic mobility shift assay. Cell death was determined by the MTT assay, and apoptosis by Annexin V-FITC staining and caspase-3 activity. We also assessed the expression of antiapoptotic and proapoptotic factors by use of RT-PCR. In colon cancer xenograft mice, we evaluated the effect of deguelin on inoculated tumor growth, and apoptotic index was measured by the in vivo TUNEL assay.
Deguelin significantly inhibited IL-8 gene expression, IκB phosphorylation/degradation, and DNA binding activity of NF-κB in colon cancer cells. Deguelin induced cell death and apoptosis in colon cancer cells in a dose and time-dependent manner. Deguelin down-regulated expression of NF-κB-mediated antiapoptotic factors such as cFLIP, Bcl-2, and Bcl-X(L). In the colon cancer xenograft model, the volume of the tumor treated with deguelin was significantly lower than that of the control, and the apoptotic index for deguelin-treated mice was much higher.
Deguelin might be a potential therapeutic agent for treatment of colorectal cancer.
A case of diclofenac-induced thrombocytopenic purpura in a 59-year-old woman is described. Unlike the majority of earlier cases, ours was associated with renal insufficiency and jaundice. Despite the dramatic clinical picture, with severe thrombocytopenia and marked renal insufficiency, the prognosis appears to be excellent, as is shown in our case and in similar ones reported in the literature. A high dose of steroids is the treatment of choice.
We describe the novel use of a closed-loop feedback computer-controlled infusion of phenylephrine for maintaining blood pressure in 53 patients having spinal anaesthesia for elective caesarean section. A simple on-off algorithm was used that activated an intravenous phenylephrine infusion at 100 microg.min(-1) when systolic blood pressure was less than or equal to baseline and stopped the infusion when systolic blood pressure exceeded baseline. Up to uterine incision, 94.6% of all systolic blood pressure measurements were within the range (baseline +/- 20%). Seven patients (13.2%) had one or more episodes of hypotension (systolic blood pressure < 80% of baseline) and 23 patients (37.7%) had one or more episodes of hypertension (systolic blood pressure > 120% of baseline). No patient had nausea or vomiting and in no case was umbilical arterial blood pH < 7.2. Calculated system performance parameters were comparable with those of previously published closed-loop systems and provide a reference for the potential development and comparison of more advanced algorithms.
We investigated the safety and efficacy of combination therapy of extended release (ER) niacin and atorvastatin in patients with low HDL-C and compared the results with atorvastatin monotherapy.
This open label study recruited consecutive men and women who had coronary artery disease with HDL-C levels <35 mg/dL. These patients were already on atorvastatin therapy targeted to lower low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), for a minimum period of 6 months. Group 1, n = 104 (mean age 52.7 years) received ER niacin in addition to atorvastatin and group 2 (n = 106) continued on atorvastatin (mean age 52.3 years). ER niacin dose was built up to a maximum of 1.5 g and atorvastatin dose titrated according to LDL levels in both the groups. The lipoprotein levels at baseline were similar (p = NS).
At 9 +/- 1.8 months of follow-up, the mean dose of ER niacin was 1.3 g and atorvastatin 13.2 mg in group 1. In comparison, group 2 patients had mean atorvastatin dose of 15.9 mg. Patients in group 1 had significant elevation in HDL-C cholesterol (39.5 +/- 5.5 vs 35.7 +/- 4.5 mg/dL), reduction in total cholesterol (156.4 +/- 31 vs 164.5 +/- 39.3 mg/dL) and also LDL-C (88.9 +/- 28.3 vs 99.8 +/- 35.4 mg/dL) compared to group 2 (all p < 0.05). The magnitude of reduction in triglyceride levels was not significant between the groups (140.1 +/- 40.4 vs 145.2 +/- 46.5 mg/dL) (p = NS). No major adverse events or clinical myopathy occurred in either groups. Four patients (4%) discontinued ER niacin (2 due to gastro-intestinal symptoms and 2 due to worsening of diabetes). Flushing occurred in 3% patients, but none felt it to be troublesome.
Adding ER niacin to atorvastatin exhibited beneficial effects on lipid profile with significant elevation of HDL-C cholesterol and further lowering of LDL-C compared to monotherapy. This treatment offered better targeted therapy and was well tolerated with proper monitoring in Indian patients.
Acute renal failure was observed postoperatively in a patient after halothane anesthesia. The clinical and pathologic findings in this case were remarkably similar to those found in patients with renal failure after methoxyflurane anesthesia.
The autosomal-recessive mutation hydrocephalus3 (hy3) results in lethal communicating hydrocephalus with perinatal onset. We recently described a hydrocephalus-inducing transgenic insertional mutation, OVE459, which represents a new allele of hy3. Direct cDNA selection performed on a wild-type mouse BAC clone spanning the OVE459 insertion locus on chromosome 8 led to the identification of two novel candidate genes, Hydin and Vac14. The transgene insertion resulted in a rearrangement of Hydin exons in OVE459 mice. Hydin consists of at least 86 exons spanning over 340 kb of genomic DNA. The full-length Hydin transcript is nearly 16 kb, encoding a putative 5099 amino acid protein. Northern analysis revealed a marked reduction of Hydin mRNA in both OVE459 and hy3 homozygotes relative to wild-type littermates. A single CG base-pair deletion in exon 15 of Hydin was discovered specifically in mice carrying the spontaneous hy3 mutant allele. This deletion creates a premature termination signal two codons downstream of the mutation, likely resulting in the loss of 89% of the full-length gene product. Within the neonatal brain, Hydin expression is confined to the ciliated ependymal cell layer lining the lateral, third and fourth ventricles. Other sites of Hydin expression include the ciliated epithelial cells lining the bronchi and oviduct, as well as in the developing spermatocytes in the testis. The Hydin gene product is not closely related to any previously identified protein, with the exception of a 314 amino acid domain with homology to caldesmon, an actin-binding protein, suggesting an interaction with the cytoskeleton.
Bisphenol A (BPA) is a known reproductive toxicant in rodents. However, the effects of in utero BPA exposure on early ovarian development and the consequences of such exposure on female reproduction in later reproductive life are unclear. Thus, we determined the effects of in utero BPA exposure during a critical developmental window on germ cell nest breakdown, a process required for establishment of the finite primordial follicle pool, and on female reproduction. Pregnant FVB mice (F0) were orally dosed daily with tocopherol-striped corn oil (vehicle), diethylstilbestrol (DES; 0.05 μg/kg, positive control), or BPA (0.5, 20, and 50 μg/kg) from gestational day 11 until birth. Ovarian morphology and gene expression profiles then were examined in F1 female offspring on postnatal day (PND) 4 and estrous cyclicity was examined daily after weaning for 30 days. F1 females were also subjected to breeding studies with untreated males at three to nine months. The results indicate that BPA inhibits germ cell nest breakdown via altering expression of selected apoptotic factors. BPA also significantly advances the age of first estrus, shortens the time that the females remain in estrus, and increases the time that the females remain in metestrus and diestrus compared to controls. Further, F1 females exposed to low doses of BPA exhibit various fertility problems and have a significantly higher percentage of dead pups compared to controls. These results indicate that in utero exposure to low doses of BPA during a critical ovarian developmental window interferes with early ovarian development and reduces fertility with age.
High-dose HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) fail to prevent approximately two-thirds of cardiovascular events. This fact has focused increased attention on treating abnormalities of non-high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (non-HDL-C), HDL-C, and triglycerides in national guidelines and has intensified interest in combination therapy.
The OCEANS study (Open-label evaluation of the safety and efficacy of a Combination of niacin ER and simvAstatin in patieNts with dySlipidemia; ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00080275) evaluated the safety and efficacy of a combination of niacin extended release and simvastatin (NER/S; SIMCOR) over 52 weeks in 520 patients with mixed dyslipidemia. After a >or=4-week run-in phase of diet modification and simvastatin 40 mg/day, median baseline values (mg/dL) were: non-HDL-C = 141, low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) = 110, HDL-C = 45, and triglyceride = 151. Patients were randomized to an 8- or 12-week niacin titration scheme to a maximum NER/S dosage of 2,000/40 mg/day.
Differences between titration groups in tolerability, safety, and efficacy were minimal; therefore, all results are for pooled titration groups. The safety of NER/S was consistent with the safety profile of each individual component. Treatment with NER/S was well tolerated: 71% of patients experienced flushing and 92% of flushing episodes were mild or moderate in intensity. Overall, 61% of patients experienced flushing episodes that were rated as mild or moderate in intensity. Flushing decreased over time: <40% of those who had flushing during titration experienced flushing during the final 12 weeks. A total of 20% of patients discontinued treatment because of a treatment-related adverse event, including 7% who discontinued because of flushing. Median changes from baseline (following the simvastatin 40 mg/day run-in phase) to 24 weeks were: non-HDL-C = -27.3%, LDL-C = -25.0%, HDL-C = +23.9%, and triglycerides = -35.9% (all p < 0.0001 vs baseline). In lipid-treatment-naive patients, NER/S 2,000/40 mg/day decreased non-HDL-C, LDL-C, and triglycerides by approximately 50% and increased HDL-C by approximately 25% when week-24 lipid values were compared with lipid values obtained prior to the simvastatin 40 mg/day run-in. All three therapeutic lipid targets (LDL-C [risk-adjusted goal], HDL-C >or=40 mg/dL, and triglycerides <150 mg/dL) were achieved concurrently by 65% of patients treated with NER/S.
Treatment with NER/S 2,000/40 mg/day is well tolerated, has no unanticipated adverse events, and provides additional, clinically relevant improvements in multiple lipid parameters beyond statin monotherapy.
Cyclopentenyl cytosine (CPE-C) is an investigational drug that is active against human solid tumor xenografts. The 5'-triphosphate of CPE-C inhibits CTP synthase, and depletes CTP and dCTP pools. We conducted a phase I clinical trial of CPE-C given as a 24-h continuous i.v. infusion every 3 weeks in 26 adults with solid tumors. The starting dose rate, 1 mg/m2 per h, was selected on the basis of both preclinical studies and pharmacokinetic data from two patients obtained after a test dose of 24 mg/m2 CPE-C as an i.v. bolus. Dose escalation was guided by clinical toxicity. A total of 87 cycles were given, and ten patients received four or more cycles. The mean CPE-C steady-state plasma levels (Cpss) increased linearly from 0.4 microM to 3.1 microM at dose levels ranging from 1 to 5.9 mg/m2 per h (actual body weight); the mean total body clearance was 146 +/- 38 ml/min per m2. CPE-C was eliminated by both renal excretion of intact drug and deamination to cyclopentenyl uracil in an apparent 2:1 ratio. CTP synthase activity in intact bone marrow mononuclear cells was inhibited by 58% to 100% at 22 h compared to matched pretreatment samples at all CPE-C dose levels. When all data were combined, flux through CTP synthase was decreased by 89.6% +/- 3.1% at 22 h (mean +/- SE, n = 16), and remained inhibited by 67.6% +/- 7.7% (n = 10) for at least 24 h post-CPE-C infusion. Granulocyte and platelet toxicities were dose-dependent, and dose-limiting myelosuppression occurred during the initial cycle in two of three patients treated with 5.9 mg/m2 per h. Four of 11 patients (4 of 20 cycles) who received 4.7 mg/m2 per h CPE-C experienced hypotension 24-48 h after completion of the CPE-C infusion during their first (n = 2), third (n = 1) and sixth cycles (n = 1), respectively. Two of these patients died with refractory hypotension despite aggressive hydration and cardiopulmonary resuscitation. One of 12 patients (28 total cycles) treated with 3.5 mg/m2 per h CPE-C experienced orthostatic hypotension during cycle 1, and this patient had a second episode of orthostatic hypotension at a lower dose (3.0 mg/m2 per h). Hypotension was not seen in patients receiving < or = 2.5 mg/m2 per h CPE-C.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The accumulation of advanced glycation end products (AGE) is a key mediator of renal tubular hypertrophy in diabetic nephropathy (DN). Reactive oxygen species and nitric oxide (NO) were involved in the progression of DN. In this study, the molecular mechanisms of NO and antioxidants responsible for inhibition of AGE-induced renal tubular hypertrophy were examined. We found that AGE (but not nonglycated bovine serum albumin) significantly suppressed the NO/cGMP/PKG signaling in human renal proximal tubular cells. NO donors S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP)/sodium nitroprusside (SNP) and antioxidants N-acetylcysteine (NAC)/taurine treatments significantly attenuated AGE-inhibited NO production, cGMP synthesis, and inducible NO synthase/cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG) activation. Moreover, AGE-induced extracellular signal-regulated kinase/c-Jun N-terminal kinase/p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase activation was markedly blocked by antireceptor for AGE (RAGE), SNAP, SNP, NAC, and taurine. The abilities of NO and antioxidants to inhibit AGE/RAGE-induced hypertrophic growth were verified by the observation that SNAP, SNP, NAC, and taurine inhibited fibronectin, p21(Waf1/Cip1), and RAGE expression. Therefore, antioxidants significantly attenuated AGE/RAGE-enhanced cellular hypertrophy partly through induction of the NO/cGMP/PKG signaling.
The toxicity of green tea extract (GTE) was evaluated in 14-week gavage studies in male and female F344/NTac rats and B6C3F1 mice at doses up to 1,000 mg/kg. In the rats, no treatment-related mortality was noted. In the mice, treatment-related mortality occurred in male and female mice in the 1,000 mg/kg dose groups. The cause of early deaths was likely related to liver necrosis. Treatment-related histopathological changes were seen in both species in the liver, nose, mesenteric lymph nodes, and thymus. In addition, in mice, changes were seen in the Peyer's patches, spleen, and mandibular lymph nodes. The no adverse effect level (NOAEL) for the liver in both species was 500 mg/kg. In the nose of rats, the NOAEL in males was 62.5 mg/kg, and in females no NOAEL was found. No NOAEL was found in the nose of female or male mice. The changes in the liver and nose were considered primary toxic effects of GTE, while the changes in other organs were considered to be secondary effects. The nose and liver are organs with high metabolic enzyme activity. The increased susceptibility of the nose and liver suggests a role for GTE metabolites in toxicity induction.
In acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), the promyelocytic leukemia (PML) protein is fused to the retinoic acid receptor alpha (RAR). Arsenic is an effective treatment for this disease as it induces SUMO-dependent ubiquitin-mediated proteasomal degradation of the PML-RAR fusion protein. Here we analyze the nuclear trafficking dynamics of PML and its SUMO-dependent ubiquitin E3 ligase, RNF4 in response to arsenic. After administration of arsenic, PML immediately transits into nuclear bodies where it undergoes SUMO modification. This initial recruitment of PML into nuclear bodies is not dependent on RNF4, but RNF4 quickly follows PML into the nuclear bodies where it is responsible for ubiquitylation of SUMO-modified PML and its degradation by the proteasome. While arsenic restricts the mobility of PML, FRAP analysis indicates that RNF4 continues to rapidly shuttle into PML nuclear bodies in a SUMO-dependent manner. Under these conditions FRET studies indicate that RNF4 interacts with SUMO in PML bodies but not directly with PML. These studies indicate that arsenic induces the rapid reorganization of the cell nucleus by SUMO modification of nuclear body-associated PML and uptake of the ubiquitin E3 ligase RNF4 leading to the ubiquitin-mediated degradation of PML.
In this study, rasH2-Tg mice treated with N-methyl-N-nitrosurea (MNU) developed exuberant hematoproliferative changes in the spleen that included dysplasia and features of neoplasia. Hematoproliferative change was characterized as exuberant proliferation of hematopoietic cells within the spleen that distorted but did not displace normal splenic morphologic features. The hematopoietic cells were of mixed lineage, but one type, often erythroid, predominated. Cellular atypia was present in all mice with hematoproliferative change, and dysplasia was present in five of eight examined. Hematoproliferative neoplasia was characterized by similar cytologic features but also resulted in displacement/disruption of normal splenic architecture and increased numbers of unidentified blast cells. One case was differentiated toward myeloid proliferation, suggesting granulocytic leukemia. Affected mice had other neoplasms, such as lymphoma and anemia. These proliferative and dysplastic lesions of the spleen in rasH2-Tg mice treated with MNU require additional characterization to definitively differentiate them from the reactive hematopoiesis that can occur in response to inflammatory, neoplastic, or hematopoietic insults in mice.
We present a case of drug-induced eosinophilic pneumonia resulting from intravenous daptomycin being used as therapy for recurrent methicillin-sensitive Staphlococcus aureus endocarditis. The patient developed hypoxic respiratory failure requiring intubation and mechanical ventilation. Daptomycin therapy was discontinued immediately, and the patient improved significantly after the administration of intravenous corticosteroids allowing for extubation 3 days later.
Lithium and benzodiazepines are widely used in the treatment of bipolar patients. Yet studies of the effect of these drugs on sexual function are scarce. This study surveyed sexual function in bipolar patients treated with lithium, either alone or in combination with other drugs.
Sexual function was assessed by self-rating scale in 104 outpatients (45 men and 59 women) with a DSM-III diagnosis of bipolar disorder who were attending an affective disorders clinic. All patients were under treatment with lithium, either alone (35%) or in combination with benzodiazepines (49%), tricyclic antidepressants (17%), neuroleptics (17%), tryptophan (10%), or carbamazepine (1%). The patients were in a stable and euthyroid state at the time of the assessment. Serum lithium and plasma prolactin concentrations were measured at the same time.
Multiple regression analysis revealed an association between concomitant benzodiazepine administration and sexual dysfunction scores. Difficulties in sexual functioning were significantly more common in patients treated with a combination of lithium and benzodiazepines (49%) than in those treated with either lithium alone (14%) or lithium in combination with other drugs (17%). No relationship was found between serum lithium or plasma prolactin levels and sexual dysfunction scores.
Lithium, when given alone, did not appear to have a major effect on sexual function, whereas its combination with benzodiazepines was associated with sexual dysfunction in about half of the patients. More attention should be given to drug-induced sexual dysfunction, since its presence can have important consequences for clinical management and compliance.
An acetone extract of Helichrysum italicum ssp. microphyllum afforded the phloroglucinol alpha-pyrone arzanol (1a) as a potent NF-kappaB inhibitor. Arzanol is identical with homoarenol (2a), whose structure should be revised. The phloroglucinol-type structure of arzanol and the 1,2,4-trihydroxyphenyl-type structure of the base-induced fragmentation product of homoarenol could be reconciled in light of a retro-Fries-type fragmentation that triggers a change of the hydroxylation pattern of the aromatic moiety. On the basis of these findings, the structure of arenol, the major constituent of the clinically useful antibiotic arenarin, should be revised from 2b to 1b, solving a long-standing puzzle over its biogenetic derivation. An alpha-pyrone (micropyrone, 7), the monoterpene rac-E-omega-oleoyloxylinalol (10), four known tremetones (9a-d), and the dimeric pyrone helipyrone (8) were also obtained. Arzanol inhibited HIV-1 replication in T cells and the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines in LPS-stimulated primary monocytes, qualifying as a novel plant-derived anti-inflammatory and antiviral chemotype worth further investigation.
To examine the safety and tolerability of clonidine used alone or with methylphenidate in children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
In a 16-week multicenter, double-blind trial, 122 children with ADHD were randomly assigned to clonidine (n = 31), methylphenidate (n = 29), clonidine and methylphenidate (n = 32), or placebo (n = 30). Doses were flexibly titrated up to 0.6 mg/day for clonidine and 60 mg/day for methylphenidate (both with divided dosing). Groups were compared regarding adverse events and changes from baseline to week 16 in electrocardiograms and vital signs.
There were more incidents of bradycardia in subjects treated with clonidine compared with those not treated with clonidine (17.5% versus 3.4%; p =.02), but no other significant group differences regarding electrocardiogram and other cardiovascular outcomes. There were no suggestions of interactions between clonidine and methylphenidate regarding cardiovascular outcomes. Moderate or severe adverse events were more common in subjects on clonidine (79.4% versus 49.2%; p =.0006) but not associated with higher rates of early study withdrawal. Drowsiness was common on clonidine, but generally resolved by 6 to 8 weeks.
Clonidine, used alone or with methylphenidate, appears safe and well tolerated in childhood ADHD. Physicians prescribing clonidine should monitor for bradycardia and advise patients about the high likelihood of initial drowsiness.
An analysis was made in 22 patients with glomerulonephritis taking furosemide as to occurrence of acute renal failure. The authors infer that furosemide administration is not fully safe and the physician should be careful not to initiate hypovolemia and azotemia.
Eosinophilic cystitis is a rare form of an allergic cystitis. Factors such as food allergens, parasites, and drugs have been implicated in the genesis of eosinophilic cystitis. Associated risk factors include bronchial asthma, atopic diseases, and environmental allergens. Intravesical mitomycin is a reported causative agent. We report the first case of eosinophilic cystitis that developed after intravesical instillation of thiotepa for treatment of superficial bladder cancer.
Hypotension is the most frequent adverse event reported with intravenous amiodarone. Hypotension has been attributed to the vasoactive solvents of the standard formulation (Cordarone IV) and is not dose related, but related to the rate of infusion. Drug labeling calls for intravenous amiodarone to be administered over 10 minutes. A new aqueous formulation of amiodarone (Amio-Aqueous) does not contain vasoactive excipients and may be administered safely by rapid administration without hypotension. This hypothesis was tested using combined data of 4 clinical trials; each assessed the development of hypotension prospectively. Hypotension was defined as a 25% decrease in systolic blood pressure (BP), with the development of a systolic BP of <90 mm Hg or a systolic BP that decreased to <80 mm Hg. In all, 358 Amio-Aqueous and 225 lidocaine boluses were administered to 278 patients; 246 had ventricular tachycardia (VT) during drug administration. Hypotension developed in 11% of patients on Amio-Aqueous versus 19% on lidocaine (p = NS), all during VT; most resolved spontaneously with VT termination. With both drugs, hypotension persisted after VT termination in 1% of patients; the incidence of drug-related hypotension occurred in 2% of patients (1% had hypotension requiring treatment). The Amio-Aqueous was discontinued in 1% of patients, and lidocaine was discontinued in 2% of patients because of hypotension. We conclude that Amio-Aqueous is at least as safe as lidocaine in terms of causing hypotension when administered rapidly. This is a significant advantage over the standard amiodarone formulation, because Cordarone cannot be administered by rapid bolus owing to excipient-related hypotension.
Succinylcholine and mivacurium are degraded more slowly in patients with a qualitatively or quantitatively reduced plasma cholinesterase and are therefore known for inducing a prolonged postoperative apnea. Perioperative laboratory screening even including plasma cholinesterase activity testing will not prevent this due to a possible aberration only in the qualitative cholinesterase activity. This is illustrated by introducing two cases reports of prolonged apnea after administration of mivacurium or succinylcholine. The pathophysiology of plasma cholinesterase is reviewed including genetically determined variants and the degradation pathways of mivacurium and succinylcholine. Only extensive laboratory chemical tests are sufficient to prevent this possible complication. Due to the rare incidence there is no evidence for recommending these laboratory investigations in all patients. Once prolonged apnea occurs following the administration of mivacurium or succinylcholine the best choice is ongoing ventilation combined with a sufficient sedation.
