Friedreich Ataxia (FRDA), the most common inherited ataxia, arises from defective expression of the mitochondrial protein frataxin, which leads to increased mitochondrial oxidative damage. Therefore, antioxidants targeted to mitochondria should be particularly effective at slowing disease progression. To test this hypothesis, we compared the efficacy of mitochondria-targeted and untargeted antioxidants derived from coenzyme Q10 and from vitamin E at preventing cell death due to endogenous oxidative stress in cultured fibroblasts from FRDA patients in which glutathione synthesis was blocked. The mitochondria-targeted antioxidant MitoQ was several hundredfold more potent than the untargeted analog idebenone. The mitochondria-targeted antioxidant MitoVit E was 350-fold more potent than the water soluble analog Trolox. This is the first demonstration that mitochondria-targeted antioxidants prevent cell death that arises in response to endogenous oxidative damage. Targeted antioxidants may have therapeutic potential in FRDA and in other disorders involving mitochondrial oxidative damage.
Persons from 14 different fruit and vegetable farm stations from Gadap (rural area), Karachi-Pakistan were examined for the presence of pesticide (cypermethrin, deltamethrin, polytrin-C, diazinon, monocrotophos, DDT and DDE) residues in their blood samples. The present study is concerned with effects of residue on the enzyme levels (GPT, GOT and ALP) as well as the health hazards of pesticide exposed persons. There is a significant increased in the enzyme levels at different stations. Exposed persons complained about liver and kidney dysfunctions and RTI. It may be concluded that exposure of multiple pesticides for prolonged period has affected the normal functioning of different organ systems and possibly produced characteristics clinical effects such as hepatitis, dyspnea and burning sensation in urine.
Twenty-three patients with diffuse histiocytic lymphoma who had not had prior chemotherapy were treated with CHOP (cyclophosphamide, adriamycin, vincristine, and prednisone). Sixteen of these patients had previously been treated with radiation therapy. Nine of these 23 patients had a pathologically documented complete response at the conclusion of CHOP with an overall complete response rate of 39%. In patients whose disease was confined to lymph nodes, the complete response rate was 7 of 8 or 88%, while in patients with stage IV disease, only 2 of 15 or 13% had complete responses. Although prior radiation therapy could not be demonstrated to be an adverse prognostic factor in this small series, it could have accounted for the low overall complete response rate noted. Complete response in this series was well sustained with an actuarial relapse-free survival of 75% and an actuarial survival of 89% at two years. No complete responses occurred in five patients who had received prior chemotherapy.
Presentation of three palliative care patients who were given ketamine as an analgesic and subsequently developed significant and debilitating urological symptoms. In one patient there was resolution of symptoms following cessation of ketamine, but some symptoms persisted until death in the other two. Possible mechanisms for damage to the urothelium by ketamine are suggested.
A case is reported of a multiple trauma victim who developed severe vascular spasm whilst receiving heparin-dihydro-ergotamine thromboembolic prophylaxis which ultimately led to amputation of the right foot. Identification of high risk groups for this complication is attempted from a review of the literature. Treatment should be with intra-arterial or intravenous nitroprusside or nitrates. Little information is as yet available on the use of prostacyclin in this condition.
We investigated cerebral lesions of methotrexate (MTX)-related disseminated necrotizing leukoencephalopathy (DNL) in two autopsy cases of leukemia by the reconstruction technique of the serial sections and thick sections (700-800 microns) stained with silver impregnation to detect the topographic relation between the vascular changes and parenchymal lesions. We revealed the vascular changes, such as fibrinoid degeneration, hyalinized thickening of the vascular wall, dilatation of lumen and stenosis due to swelling of the endothelial cells and exsudation in the wall, particularly prominent in venules and capillaries of venous side in the territory of the superficial medullary veins. There were no remarkable changes in the arteries, except for the moderate endothelial swelling of arteriolar capillaries. The parenchymal lesions were topographically associated with these vascular changes, and the small necrotic foci confluented each other and formed large irregular necrotic foci. We considered that the DNL may be ascribed to dyshoric damage of the veins and capillaries of the venous side and that the mechanism of vascular injury was probably due to the prolonged direct action of intrathecal MTX on the vessels.
This report describes the case of a 47-year-old woman who developed Parkinson's disease after seven years of professional exposure to trichloroethylene. In the light of this clinical report, mice were intoxicated with trichloroethylene and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity was used to measure neuronal death in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Treated mice presented significant dopaminergic neuronal death in comparison with control mice (50%). The environmental trichlorethylene pollution, as well as other unspecific neurotoxic solvents, could potentially contribute to the genesis of some cases of Parkinson's disease.
How to maintain the genetic integrity of cultured human embryonic stem (hES) cells is raising crucial concerns for future clinical use in regenerative medicine. Mitomycin C(MMC), a DNA damage agent, is widely used for preparation of feeder cells in many laboratories. However, to what extent MMC affects the karyotypic stability of hES cells is not clear. Here, we measured residual MMC using High Performance Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry/Mass Spectrometry following each step of feeder preparation and found that 2.26 ± 0.77 and 3.50 ± 0.92 ng/ml remained in mouse feeder cells and human feeder cells, respectively. In addition, different amounts of MMC caused different chromosomal aberrations in hES cells. In particular, one abnormality, dup(1)(p32p36), was the same identical to one we previously reported in another hES cell line. Using Affymetrix SNP 6.0 arrays, the copy number variation changes of the hES cells maintained on MMC-inactivated feeders (MMC-feeder) were significantly more than those cultured on γ-inactivated feeder (IR-feeder) cells. Furthermore, DNA damage response (DDR) genes were down-regulated during long-term culture in the MMC-containing system, leading to DDR defect and shortened telomeres of hES cells, a sign of genomic instability. Therefore, MMC-feeder and MMC-induced genomic variation present an important safety problem that would limit such hES from being applied for future clinic use and drug screening.
Antimicrobial agents are important risk factors for infusion phlebitis, but the risk varies between different antibiotics. Erythromycin and dicloxacillin are known to induce phlebitis frequently, as well as to exert toxic effects on cultured endothelial cells. The pathogenesis of infusion phlebitis is unclear, but chemical toxicity is thought to lead to inflammation and subsequent thrombosis. In the present study, endothelial cells were exposed to antibiotics at the range of concentrations used for intravenous administration, followed by analysis of pro-inflammatory and pro-coagulant surface molecules.
Primary human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) and the endothelial hybrid cell line EaHy926 were exposed to dicloxacillin, erythromycin, benzylpenicillin and cefuroxime (all at 6250 mg/L) for 60 min, followed by washing. After 5 or 24 h additional incubation, cells were analysed for E-selectin (CD62E), tissue factor (TF) or intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1, CD54) density by flow cytometry.
Despite constitutive expression of ICAM-1 (34%) in HUVEC, 6250 mg/L of dicloxacillin or erythromycin significantly increased the number of cells with ICAM-1 expression by 37% and 30%, respectively. In contrast, cefuroxime and benzylpenicillin did not up-regulate ICAM-1 above background levels. A similar pattern was seen with the endothelial cell line EaHy926. The E-selectin and TF density were not affected by the antibiotics examined.
The results of this study support the theory that endothelial cells that are affected by high concentrations of antibiotics may initiate an inflammatory response through expression of ICAM-1. This is a novel finding in the pathogenesis of infusion phlebitis.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) such as benzo[a]pyrene (BaP) are widespread environmental pollutants and several lines of experimental evidence have suggested a role in carcinogenesis. PAHs in the environment are exposed to sunlight and photomodified PAHs have been detected in contaminated sediment and air particulate matter; however, the carcinogenicity of photomodified PAHs is not well understood. In this study, we found that solar-simulated light-irradiated BaP (LBaP) inhibited apoptosis, leading to cancer. LBaP suppressed apoptosis induced by cell detachment and serum depletion in a dose and light-irradiated time-dependent manner. The antiapoptotic effect was related to the production of reactive oxygen species from degraded BaP. The cells that survived apoptosis by LBaP treatment were transformed having the ability to form colonies in soft agar and tumors in nude mice. These capabilities were specific to LBaP, not BaP itself. The results suggested that the carcinogenicity of PAHs may be attributable not only to the genetic damage induced by their metabolites, but also to the antiapoptotic effects of oxidative products on exposure to sunlight.
Evidence for the anti-inflammatory activity of leukotriene receptor antagonists in humans is somewhat limited. There are also no data comparing the anti-inflammatory effects of leukotriene receptor antagonists with those of inhaled corticosteroids. This study was designed to assess the clinical efficacy and anti-inflammatory effects of leukotriene receptor antagonist plus low-dose inhaled corticosteroids compared to those of a high-dose inhaled corticosteroid in patients with mild-to-moderate asthma.
Forty-nine patients with newly diagnosed asthma were recruited. They were randomly assigned to groups that received, for a 6-week period, either (1) budesonide, 600 microg bid (1,200 microg/d) or (2) budesonide, 200 microg (400 microg/d), and zafirlukast, 20 mg bid. The variables of asthma control were recorded daily. Sputum induction and methacholine provocation tests were performed.
The results indicated that the administration of a low-dose inhaled corticosteroid plus zafirlukast was as effective as that of a high-dose inhaled corticosteroid regarding clinical improvement and anti-inflammatory effects (ie, eosinophil percentage, and eosinophilic cationic protein [ECP] and cysteinyl leukotriene C4 levels in induced sputum). Nineteen (group 1, 8 patients; group 2, 11 patients) of 49 patients (38.8%) had returned to normal airway responsiveness after treatment. Among these patients, 16 patients (84.2%) had normal ECP levels and 10 patients (52.6%) had normal percentages of eosinophils. ECP level, but not the eosinophil percentage, was significantly associated with symptom scores. The peak expiratory flow rate (PEFR) showed a significant correlation with the provocative concentration of methacholine causing a 20% fall in FEV1 (PC20) instead of with symptom scores.
The addition of a leukotriene modifier to treatment with low-dose inhaled corticosteroids is equivalent to treatment with high-dose inhaled corticosteroids in patients with newly diagnosed mild-to-moderate asthma. In addition to symptoms and PEFR, the monitoring of ECP and PC20 may be of great value in achieving optimal control of asthma.
Expression of two important glucose transporter proteins, GLUT 2 (which is the typical glucose transporter in hepatocytes of adult liver) and the erythroid/brain type glucose transporter GLUT 1 (representing the typical glucose transporter in fetal liver parenchyma), was studied immunocytochemically during hepatocarcinogenesis in rats at different time points between 7 and 65 wk after cessation of 7-wk administration of 12 mg/kg of body weight of N-nitrosomorpholine p.o. (stop model). Foci of altered hepatocytes excessively storing glycogen (GSF) and mixed cell foci (MCF) composed of both glycogenotic and glycogen-poor cells were present at all time points studied. Seven wk after withdrawal of the carcinogen, GSF were the predominant type of focus of altered hepatocytes. Morphometrical evaluation of the focal lesions revealed that the number and volume fraction of GSF increased steadily until Wk 65. MCF were rare at 7 wk, increased slightly in number and size until Wk 37, but showed a pronounced elevation in their number and volume fraction from Wk 37 to Wk 65. In both GSF and MCF, GLUT 2 was generally decreased or partially absent at all time points. Consequently, foci of decreased GLUT 2 expression showed a steady increase in number and volume fraction from Wk 7 to Wk 65. GLUT 1 was lacking in GSF but occurred in some MCF from Wk 50 onward. The liver type glucose transporter GLUT 2 was decreased in all adenomas and hepatocellular carcinomas (HCC). In three of seven adenomas and 10 of 12 carcinomas, expression of GLUT 1 was increased compared with normal liver parenchyma. In two cases of adenoid HCC, cells of ductular formations coexpressed GLUT 2 and GLUT 1. In contrast, normal bile ducts, bile duct proliferations, and cystic cholangiomas expressed only GLUT 1. Seven of 12 HCC contained many microvessels intensely stained for GLUT 1, a phenomenon never observed in normal liver. Whenever adenoid tumor formations occurred, GLUT 1-positive microvessels were located in the immediate vicinity of these formations. Only in one HCC were such microvessels found in the absence of adenoid formations. Our studies indicate that a reduction of GLUT 2 expression occurs already in early preneoplastic hepatic foci and is maintained throughout hepatocarcinogenesis, including benign and malignant neoplasms. Reexpression of GLUT 1, however, appears in a few MCF and in the majority of adenomas and carcinomas.
To obtain further analysis regarding specific outcomes and alvimopan doses in bowel resection (BR) patients.
Although postoperative ileus (POI) is common after BR, there is currently no recognized treatment or prevention available. Alvimopan, a novel, peripherally active mu-opioid receptor antagonist, accelerated GI recovery after BR or hysterectomy in 3 phase III trials.
A pooled retrospective subset analysis of BR patients in alvimopan phase III trials was performed. Randomized BR patients received alvimopan 6 mg (n = 397), 12 mg (n = 413), or placebo (n = 402) >or=2 hours before surgery and twice daily until hospital discharge for <or=7 days. The primary endpoint of each trial was time to recovery of GI function. Hospital discharge order (DCO) written, readmission, and morbidities were also assessed. Cox proportional hazard models were used to analyze treatment effects on time-to-event endpoints.
Alvimopan (6 or 12 mg) significantly accelerated GI recovery (GI-3; hazard ratio = 1.28 and 1.38, respectively; P <or= 0.001 for both). Alvimopan significantly accelerated time to DCO written by 16 hours for 6 mg and 18 hours for 12 mg (P < 0.001 for both) from a mean of 147 hours for placebo. Alvimopan-treated patients had reduced postoperative morbidity compared with placebo, and incidence of prolonged hospital stay or readmission was significantly reduced (P < 0.001). Tolerability profiles were similar among groups.
Alvimopan significantly accelerated GI recovery in BR patients. A 12-mg dose provided more consistent benefits across both sexes and all ages. Postoperative morbidity rates, prolonged hospital stay, and rates of hospital readmission were significantly reduced. Alvimopan reduces the consequences of POI after BR.
Stent thrombosis is a feared complication of percutaneous coronary intervention, although there is a low incidence of thrombotic events following drug-eluting stent implantation. We report a case with cardiogenic shock complicated by acute myocardial infarction due to simultaneous subacute stent thrombosis occurring 3 days after implantation of two sirolimus-eluting stents in the proximal left anterior descending artery (LAD) and in the proximal right coronary artery (RCA).
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis syndrome is an antibody-mediated disorder that has a high mortality in cardiac surgical patients in spite of early diagnosis and management with direct thrombin inhibitors. Plasmapheresis, an extracorporeal technique that has been designed for the removal of large molecular weight substances from the plasma, can remove the offending antibodies from these desperately ill patients. We describe a case of a postoperative cardiac surgery patient with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis syndrome and multi-system failure who was dependent upon a left ventricular assist device. He was treated successfully with plasmapheresis with recovery of his platelet count from 25,000/microl to over 200,000/microl, along with multi-organ recovery. This patient survived because of plasmapheresis. Removing the antibodies to the heparin-platelet factor four complex with plasmapheresis is an effective strategy to treat these patients. We believe that the use of plasmapheresis as a bail-out procedure in these often desperately ill post-operative cardiac surgical patients who have heparin-induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis syndrome could be lifesaving.
A 57-year-old woman was found to have rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in 1996. Treatment with different immunoregulatory agents, including actarit and bucillamine, produced no improvement. Therefore, combined therapy with methotrexate (MTX) (5 mg/week oral) and low-dose prednisolone (PSL) (5 mg/day) was started in April 1997. Sulindac and famotidine were also administered. In August 1997, she was admitted to our hospital because of palpitations and shortness of breath due to severe anemia. Results of laboratory studies were hemoglobin, 2.9 g/dl; reticulocyte count, 225/1000; and haptoglobin, less than 10 mg/dl. The direct and indirect Coombs'tests were positive. A diagnosis of autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA) was made on the basis of the laboratory findings. Treatment with high-dose PSL (50 mg/day) was started, and the anemia improved. The hemoglobin level increased to 6.0 g/dl within the 1st week and to 12.6 g/dl 6 weeks later. We believe that the most likely explanation for this anemia was the low-dose MTX because the anemia appeared soon after treatment was started.
Clinical research suggests that gender differences exist in cocaine dependence. Similarly, preclinical studies have shown that female rats exhibit higher response rates during cocaine self-administration, early extinction, and cocaine-primed reinstatement of drug-seeking. These effects are also estrous cycle dependent and inversely related to plasma progesterone, in that proestrus females (high progesterone) exhibit less cocaine-seeking, while estrous females (low progesterone) show the greatest cocaine-seeking. Based on these findings, we hypothesized that progesterone would attenuate cocaine-seeking behavior in intact, freely cycling animals. The role of the estrous cycle on cocaine-seeking behavior during early (first acquisition day) versus late (last maintenance day) cocaine self-administration was also examined. Female, Sprague-Dawley rats self-administered cocaine (0.5 mg/kg/infusion, IV) along a FR1 schedule, followed by daily extinction sessions in the absence of cocaine reinforcement. Once responding was extinguished, rats received an injection of cocaine (10 mg/kg, IP) immediately prior to reinstatement testing. Progesterone (2 mg/kg, SC) or vehicle was administered 20 and 2h prior to the first day of extinction (early cocaine withdrawal) and the reinstatement trials. To determine estrous cycle phase, we assessed vaginal cytology prior to the first acquisition and last maintenance days of cocaine self-administration, the first day of extinction training, and each reinstatement test. During early and late cocaine self-administration, proestrus and estrous females exhibited the greatest levels of active lever responding, respectively. A significant increase in responding also occurred during cocaine-primed reinstatement for estrous versus nonestrous females, an effect that was selectively attenuated by progesterone. However, progesterone was not effective at reducing cocaine-primed reinstatement for females in other phases of the estrous cycle, nor was it effective at reducing cocaine-seeking during early withdrawal. Taken together, these results suggest that progesterone may be a useful therapeutic for preventing relapse in abstinent female cocaine users, especially when the likelihood of relapse is greatest.
To report the occurrence of epileptic seizures in humans, closely related to the use of the centrally acting muscle relaxant thiocolchicoside.
Description of three case histories.
Two patients, affected with complex-partial seizures, sometimes secondarily generalized, receiving antiepileptic therapy, were seizure free for 7 and 9 years, respectively. They had the reappearance of tonic-clonic seizures few days after the continued use of thiocolchicoside, at a cumulative dose of the drug of 52 mg and 76 mg, respectively. The third patient was brain damaged and without a history of seizures. He had a sudden, convulsive seizure a few minutes after 4 mg intramuscular thiocolchicoside.
Our case histories indicate that thiocolchicoside has a powerful epileptogenic activity. This drug should be avoided in patients with epilepsy or acute brain injury and possible disruption of the blood-brain barrier.
The antinociceptive effect of 3 alpha-tropyl 2-(p-bromophenyl)propionate [(+/-)-PG-9] (10-40 mg kg-1 s.c.; 30-60 mg kg-1 p.o.; 10-30 mg kg-1 i.v.; 10-30 micrograms/mouse i.c.v.) was examined in mice, rats and guinea pigs by use of the hot-plate, abdominal-constriction, tail-flick and paw-pressure tests. (+/-)-PG-9 antinociception peaked 15 min after injection and then slowly diminished. The antinociception produced by (+/-)-PG-9 was prevented by the unselective muscarinic antagonist atropine, the M1-selective antagonists pirenzepine and dicyclomine and the acetylcholine depletor hemicholinium-3, but not by the opioid antagonist naloxone, the gamma-aminobutyric acidB antagonist 3-aminopropyl-diethoxy-methyl-phosphinic acid, the H3 agonist R-(alpha)-methylhistamine, the D2 antagonist quinpirole, the 5-hydroxytryptamine4 antagonist 2-methoxy-4-amino-5-chlorobenzoic acid 2-(diethylamino)ethyl ester hydrochloride, the 5-hydroxytryptamin1A antagonist 1-(2-methoxyphenyl)-4-[4-(2-phthalimido)butyl]piperazine hydrobromide and the polyamines depletor reserpine. Based on these data, it can be postulated that (+/-)-PG-9 exerted an antinociceptive effect mediated by a central potentiation of cholinergic transmission. (+/-)-PG-9 (10-40 mg kg-1 i.p.) was able to prevent amnesia induced by scopolamine (1 mg kg-1 i.p.) and dicyclomine (2 mg kg-1 i.p.) in the mouse passive-avoidance test. Affinity profiles of (+/-)-PG-9 for muscarinic receptor subtypes, determined by functional studies (rabbit vas deferens for M1, guinea pig atrium for M2, guinea pig ileum for M3 and immature guinea pig uterus for putative M4), have shown an M4/M1 selectivity ratio of 10.2 that might be responsible for the antinociception and the anti-amnesic effect induced by (+/-)-PG-9 through an increase in acetylcholine extracellular levels. In the antinociceptive and antiamnesic dose range, (+/-)-PG-9 did not impair mouse performance evaluated by the rota-rod test and Animex apparatus.
A randomized, parallel, double-blind study was performed with lisinopril, a long-acting angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, versus captopril, a shorter-acting angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, in the treatment of congestive heart failure. All patients were in New York Heart Association class II, III or IV and had remained symptomatic despite therapy with digoxin and diuretics. After a 4 to 14 day placebo baseline period, patients were randomized to receive either lisinopril, 5 mg orally once per day (n = 94), or captopril, 12.5 mg orally three times per day (n = 95), in addition to continuation of digoxin and diuretics. The dose of study drug could be doubled at 4 week intervals for a total of 12 weeks of double-blind therapy. The maximal dose was 20 mg once per day of lisinopril or 50 mg three times per day of captopril. The addition of either lisinopril or captopril to a regimen of diuretics or digoxin, or both, caused an increase in exercise duration as assessed on a motorized treadmill. When protocol violators were excluded, patients receiving lisinopril had a statistically greater increase in exercise duration than that of patients receiving captopril. In patients with renal impairment (serum creatinine greater than 1.6 mg/dl at baseline), lisinopril was superior to captopril in improving exercise duration. Lisinopril, but not captopril, increased left ventricular ejection fraction in patients with moderately to severely (less than 35%) decreased function (p less than 0.05). Improvement in functional capacity and quality of life, as assessed by the Yale Scale dyspnea/fatigue index, was significantly greater for the lisinopril group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) is a critical enzyme in folate metabolism and is involved in DNA methylation, DNA synthesis, and DNA repair. In addition, it is a possible risk factor in neural tube defects (NTDs). The association of the C677T polymorphism in the MTHFR gene and NTD susceptibility has been widely demonstrated, but the results remain inconclusive. In this study, we performed a meta-analysis with 2429 cases and 3570 controls to investigate the effect of the MTHFR C677T polymorphism on NTDs.
An electronic search of PubMed and Embase database for papers on the MTHFR C677T polymorphism and NTD risk was performed. All data were analysed with STATA (version 11). Odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were estimated to assess the association. Sensitivity analysis, test of heterogeneity, cumulative meta-analysis, and assessment of bias were performed in our meta-analysis.
A significant association between the MTHFR C677T polymorphism and NTD susceptibility was revealed in our meta-analysis ( TT versus CC: OR= 2.022, 95% CI: 1.508, 2.712; CT+TT versus CC: OR = 1.303, 95% CI: 1.089, 1.558; TT versus CC+CT: OR= 1.716, 95% CI: 1.448, 2.033; 2TT+CT versus 2CC+CT: OR= 1.330, 95% CI: 1.160, 1.525). Moreover, an increased NTD risk was found after stratification of the MTHFR C677T variant data by ethnicity and source of controls.
The results suggested the maternal MTHFR C677T polymorphism is a genetic risk factor for NTDs. Further functional studies to investigate folate-related gene polymorphisms, periconceptional multivitamin supplements, complex interactions, and the development of NTDs are warranted.
This study expands a previous study of NAT2 polymorphisms and bladder cancer in male subjects occupationally exposed only to benzidine. The combined analysis of 68 cases and 107 controls from a cohort of production workers in China exposed to benzidine included 30 new cases and 67 controls not previously studied. NAT2 enzymatic activity phenotype was characterized by measuring urinary caffeine metabolite ratios. PCR-based methods identified genotypes for NAT2, NAT1 and GSTM1. NAT2 phenotype and genotype data were consistent. A protective association was observed for the slow NAT2 genotype (bladder cancer OR = 0.3; 95% CI = 0.1 = 1.0) after adjustment for cumulative benzidine exposure and lifetime smoking. Individuals carrying NAT1wt/*10 and NAT1*10/*10 showed higher relative risks of bladder cancer (OR = 2.8, 95% CI = 0.8-10.1 and OR = 2.2, 95% CI = 0.6-8.3, respectively). No association was found between GSTM1 null and bladder cancer. A metaanalysis risk estimate of case-control studies of NAT2 acetylation and bladder cancer in Asian populations without occupational arylamine exposures showed an increased risk for slow acetylators. The lower limit of the confidence interval (OR = 1.4; 95% CI = 1.0-2.0) approximated the upper confidence interval for the estimate obtained in our analysis. These results support the earlier finding of a protective association between slow acetylation and bladder cancer in benzidine-exposed workers, in contrast to its established link as a risk factor for bladder cancer in people exposed to 2-naphthylamine and 4-aminobiphenyl. Study findings suggest the existence of key differences in the metabolism of mono- and diarylamines.
A series of benzo[h][1,6]naphthyridine and azepino[3,2-c]quinoline derivatives were prepared and evaluated to determine the necessary requirements for high affinity on the 5-HT(4) receptors and high selectivity versus other receptors. The compounds were synthesized by substituting the chlorine atom of benzonaphthyridines and azepinoquinolines with various N-alkyl-4-piperidinylmethanolates. They were evaluated in binding assays with [(3)H]GR 113808 as the 5-HT(4) receptor radioligand. The affinity values (K(i) or inhibition percentages) depended upon the substituent on the aromatic ring on one hand and the substituent on the lateral piperidine chain on the other hand. A chlorine atom produced a marked drop in activity while a N-propyl or N-butyl group gave compounds with nanomolar affinities (1 < K(i) < 10 nM). Among the most potent ligands (3a, 4a, 5a), 4a was selected on the basis of its high affinity and selectivity for pharmacological screening and was evaluated in vivo in specific tests. This compound reveals itself as an antagonist/low partial agonist in the COS-7 cells stably expressing the 5-HT(4(a)) receptor. Derivative 4a also showed in vivo potent analgesic activity in the writhing test at very low doses.
Cocaine is a common drug of abuse, and its use has emerged as a major public health problem with neurological complications. In this work, the authors studied microscopic lesions produced in brain by chronic cocaine administration to rats. Twenty-five Wistar rats were exposed to 30 mg/kg/day ip of cocaine and sacrificed at 15, 30, 45, 60, and 90 days after treatment and compared to 25 control rats injected daily with saline. The parietal cortex (Cx), hippocampus (Hp), substantia nigra (SN), and cerebellum (Ce) were morphologically analyzed. The authors found progressive light microscopic lesions in all regions studied, including nuclear pyknosis and atrophy, interstitial edema, broken fibers, and necrosis. Results show that chronic treatment with cocaine in rats leads to selective severe lesions in different brain regions.
A case of urinary bladder carcinoma in a patient with malignant lymphoma (ML) involving the thyroid gland, gastrointestinal tract and the gallbladder is reported. The histological type of ML from the biopsy specimens of the thyroid gland and the stomach was non-Hodgkin's, diffuse large cell lymphoma of B cell origin. The patient had been treated for ML with cyclophosphamide (CPM), doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisolone effectively then maintained with low dose CPM. Two and a half years after the initial therapy, urinary bladder tumor diagnosed transitional cell carcinoma histologically was found. The patient had received 55 gr. of CPM totally. The dose of CPM was relatively smaller than the one in the other second cancer cases reported induced by CPM previously. It may be suggested that the urinary bladder carcinoma induced by CPM is related not only total dose of CPM but also the other factors. Thus usage of CPM must be cautious because of the secondary disease.
The effects of ip administration of methotrexate (MTX) on 3-month-old male Wistar rats were studied. We administered log doses from 125 to 2,000 mug/kg, five times per week for as long as 24 months. The massive doses were promptly lethal, and most rats receiving 500 mug or more/kg died within a few weeks. Severe hematopolietic depression and ulcerative gastrointestinal lesions were observed. Truly chronic intoxication was achieved with the lesser doses. Rats in this category developed serious liver damage, namely, varying degrees of fatty metamorphosis, necrosis, atrophy of hepatic cords, and fibrosis. Hematopoietic depletion occurred in the spleen and bone marrow. Hemosiderosis was prominent in the spleen and liver. Pulmonary lesions--chiefly emphysema, occasionally fibrosis--were found less consistently. These studies demonstrated the ability of MTX to induce lesions, most consistently hepatic, in the Wistar rat, and thus have provided an animal model to evaluate protective measures.
Adenocarcinoma in Barrett's esophagus has been increasing in incidence at a rapid rate for more than two decades. Cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 appears to play an important role in gastrointestinal carcinogenesis, and COX-2 overexpression has been demonstrated both in esophageal adenocarcinomas and in the metaplastic epithelium of Barrett's esophagus. The aim of our study was to determine whether selective inhibition of COX-2 by NS-398 would alter the rates of cell growth and apoptosis in human Barrett's-associated esophageal adenocarcinoma cell lines. COX-1 and COX-2 expression in adenocarcinoma cell lines was determined using reverse transcription-PCR and Western blotting for mRNA and protein, respectively. Esophageal adenocarcinoma cell lines were treated with various concentrations of NS-398 (selective for COX-2 inhibition) and flurbiprofen (selective for COX-1 inhibition). Cell growth was compared in flurbiprofen-treated and untreated tumor cell lines; cell growth and apoptosis were compared in NS-398-treated and untreated tumor cell lines. COX-2 mRNA and protein were detected in two of three cell lines (SEG-1 and FLO); the third cell line, BIC-1, did not express COX-2 mRNA or protein under basal conditions or after stimulation with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate. Treatment with COX-1-selective concentrations of flurbiprofen did not affect cell growth in any of the three tumor cell lines. In contrast, treatment with COX-2-selective concentrations of NS-398 significantly suppressed cell growth and increased apoptosis in the cell lines that expressed COX-2 (SEG-1 and FLO), but not in the cell line that did not express COX-2 (BIC-1). We conclude that the administration of a selective inhibitor of COX-2 significantly decreases cell growth and increases apoptosis in Barrett's-associated adenocarcinoma tumor cells that express COX-2. These observations suggest a potential role for selective COX-2 inhibitors in the prevention and treatment of esophageal adenocarcinoma for patients with Barrett's esophagus.
