The administration of high doses of methamphetamine to mice causes long-lasting depletions of striatal dopamine to a greater extent in males than in females. Likewise, the incidence of Parkinson's disease is higher in males than in females. The present study investigated the roles of estrogen and testosterone in mediating the dopamine depletion induced by methamphetamine. Male and female mice received four cumulative SC doses of methamphetamine (10 mg/kg) at two hour intervals and were sacrificed two weeks later for HPLC analysis of striatal monoamines. Intact male mice were found to have a 76% dopamine depletion, which was significantly greater than the 37% depletion exhibited by the intact female mice. Neither removal of the ovaries nor removal of the testes one month prior to the methamphetamine treatment significantly changed the magnitude of the methamphetamine-induced dopamine depletion. Thus, the reduced sensitivity of female mice to methamphetamine may be independent of physiological gonadal hormones.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the metabolic effects of the treatment with hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg/die monotherapy and with the association of lisinopril 20 mg + HCT2 12.5 mg/die in patients with mild to moderate arterial hypertension, in addition to antihypertensive efficacy and tolerability. For this aim 669 hypertensive patients have been randomized in a double blind, parallel study to the monotherapy or to the association. The follow-up was of 12 weeks, after a run-in wash-out period of 3-4 weeks. Seated blood pressure and heart rate were measured in all 4 outpatients visit and blood was withdrawn for serum electrolytes, glycemia, serum creatinine, uric acid and lipoprotein profile. 338 patients were randomized to the association and 331 to monotherapy with a slight prevalence of women. Mean age (58 +/- 9 and 56 +/- 10 years), pretreatment seated blood pressure (165 +/- 14/102 +/- 5 and 166 +/- 15/105 +/- 5 mmHg) and heart rate (77 +/- 9 heart/min in both group) were similar in the two groups. Seated blood pressure was significantly reduced in both groups (-22.8/-16.8 mmHg in the association group and -18.8/-13.4 mmHg in the monotherapy group), however the blood pressure reduction in patients treated with the association was slightly, but significantly, greater. Lipid profile, blood glucose, serum potassium and creatinine and uric acid were slightly worsened in the monotherapy group, while there were no changes or a mild improvement in patients treated with the combination of diuretic and the ACE-inhibitor. In conclusion the association lisinopril 20 mg+hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg/die causes a blood pressure reduction slightly, but significantly, greater than with a higher dose of the diuretic monotherapy, without any negative interference on lipid profile, blood glucose and serum potassium.
Corticotrophin (ACTH)-induced hypertension in the rat is prevented by L- but not D-arginine. We examined the effects of exogenous corticosterone in the male Sprague Dawley (SD) rat to determine whether ACTH-induced hypertension is mediated by corticosterone.
Exogenous corticosterone (10, 20 or 40 mg/kg per day) or sham (polyethylene glycol (PEG) 1 ml/kg per day) was injected subcutaneously in divided doses (s/c b.d.) over 15 treatment days to 40 SD rats (n = 10 each group). Subsequently, the effects of L-arginine, D-arginine or L-arginine + N-nitro-L-arginine (NOLA) on corticosterone-induced hypertension (corticosterone 20 mg/kg per day) were examined. Systolic blood pressure (SBP) and metabolic parameters were measured every two days.
Twenty and 40 mg/kg per day of corticosterone increased SBP compared with sham (P< 0.01, P< 0.05 respectively, sham versus respective group). Forty mg/kg per day of corticosterone raised serum corticosterone concentration compared with sham (502 +/- 20 versus 364 +/- 25 ng/ml, P < 0.001). L-arginine prevented the rise in SBP produced by corticosterone (131 +/- 3 to 131 +/- 2 mmHg, control versus day 10) but D-arginine did not (129 +/- 3 to 142 +/- 4 mmHg on day 8, P < 0.01). NOLA blocked the effect of L-arginine and amplified the rise in blood pressure produced by corticosterone (130 +/- 3 to 171 +/- 6 mmHg on day 10, P < 0.001).
The haemodynamic features of ACTH-induced hypertension were reproduced by corticosterone excess, at concentrations of corticosterone similar to those in studies of exogenous ACTH administration. It is likely that ACTH-stimulated adrenal production of corticosterone accounts for the features of ACTH-induced hypertension in the rat
Five hundred thirty-four evaluable patients with breast cancer were treated with a combination of 5-fluorouracil, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide. The total planned dose of doxorubicin was 300 mg/m2 in patients with Stage II or III disease, and 450 mg/m2 in patients with isolated recurrences. The median time interval from start of adjuvant therapy to time of analysis was 68 months. Two percent had congestive heart failure associated with doxorubicin. Fifteen patients showed myocardial dysfunction attributed to either additional treatment with potentially cardiotoxic drugs for recurrent disease or other causes. The incidence of congestive heart failure was 1% in patients treated with up to 300 mg/m2, and 4% in patients who received 450 mg/m2 of doxorubicin. The median time interval from the end of doxorubicin to development of congestive heart failure was 1 month (range, 0-33 months). None of the 326 patients who have been followed 3 or more years (162 followed 5 or more years) since completion of doxorubicin therapy have developed congestive heart failure which was considered to be related from that therapy.
Nonmelanoma skin cancer afflicts more than one million people in the U.S. annually, highlighting the need for more effective preventive regimens. We have investigated the ability of deguelin, a plant-derived rotenoid with cancer chemopreventive activity, to inhibit UVB-induced skin carcinogenesis with the SKh-1 mouse model. Topically-applied deguelin significantly inhibited the multiplicity of UVB-induced skin tumors, indicating potential as a human skin cancer chemopreventive agent. Mechanistic studies to determine the potential of deguelin to block a number of established UVB-induced molecular events yielded negative results [including UVB-induced AP-1 DNA binding, c-fos and TNFalpha mRNA induction, arachidonic acid release and UVB-induced phosphorylation of mTOR (Ser2448), akt (Ser473) and erk (Thr202/Tyr204)]. These results are of interest as they contradict a major hypothesis for the mode of action of deguelin, i.e., a general down regulation of signal transduction based on inhibition of NADH dehydrogenase and depletion of ATP levels. In the current work, however, deguelin was found to activate 5' AMP-activated kinase (AMPK), a protein that acts as a cellular energy sensor. This is the first report of a chemopreventive agent having this effect and suggests a possible role for AMPK in cancer chemoprevention.
This trial was designed to confirm the hypotensive action and safety of slow-release nicardipine, as a single drug or together with other hypotensive drugs, for the short-term treatment of mild-to-moderate hypertension, on a large case list of patients in 57 centers throughout Italy. A total of 1011 patients (502 M, 509 F) were admitted, mean age 58.6 +/- 9.1 years (range 25-87), mean weight 72.7 +/- 11.1 kg (range 43-128), with essential (972 cases) or secondary hypertension (39 cases). Nicardipine was given orally at a mean daily dosage of 80 mg (range 40-120), for four weeks. Clinically and statistically significant reductions in systolic and diastolic BP were observed at the end of treatment, with no noteworthy changes in heart rate. Nicardipine single-drug therapy restored normal blood pressure in 79.7% of patients with essential hypertension, and in 72.0% of those with secondary hypertension; nicardipine associated with other hypotensive agents achieved normal blood pressure in respectively 65.9% and 42.9%. Blood pressure returned to normal in 77.3% of patients with essential hypertension aged 65 years or under, and in 66.9% of those over 65 years old. These figures were respectively 70.8% and 46.7% for patients with secondary hypertension. The treatment was very well tolerated by 86.2% of patients; 140 (13.8%) presented adverse reactions, requiring dose reductions in 12, and discontinuation of treatment only in 24 cases. Five patients taking nicardipine together with another drug presented adverse reactions. These results confirm that slow-release nicardipine is effective and extremely well tolerated in the treatment of mild-to-moderate essential or secondary hypertension, in adults and the elderly.
CD4(+) T helper lymphocytes that express interleukin-17 (T(H)17 cells) have critical roles in mouse models of autoimmunity, and there is mounting evidence that they also influence inflammatory processes in humans. Genome-wide association studies in humans have linked genes involved in T(H)17 cell differentiation and function with susceptibility to Crohn's disease, rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis. Thus, the pathway towards differentiation of T(H)17 cells and, perhaps, of related innate lymphoid cells with similar effector functions, is an attractive target for therapeutic applications. Mouse and human T(H)17 cells are distinguished by expression of the retinoic acid receptor-related orphan nuclear receptor RORγt, which is required for induction of IL-17 transcription and for the manifestation of T(H)17-dependent autoimmune disease in mice. By performing a chemical screen with an insect cell-based reporter system, we identified the cardiac glycoside digoxin as a specific inhibitor of RORγt transcriptional activity. Digoxin inhibited murine T(H)17 cell differentiation without affecting differentiation of other T cell lineages and was effective in delaying the onset and reducing the severity of autoimmune disease in mice. At high concentrations, digoxin is toxic for human cells, but non-toxic synthetic derivatives 20,22-dihydrodigoxin-21,23-diol and digoxin-21-salicylidene specifically inhibited induction of IL-17 in human CD4(+) T cells. Using these small-molecule compounds, we demonstrate that RORγt is important for the maintenance of IL-17 expression in mouse and human effector T cells. These data indicate that derivatives of digoxin can be used as chemical templates for the development of RORγt-targeted therapeutic agents that attenuate inflammatory lymphocyte function and autoimmune disease.
Sediment ingestion has recently been identified as an important exposure route for toxicants in waterfowl. The effects of lead-contaminated sediment from the Coeur d'Alene River Basin (CDARB) in Idaho on posthatching development of Canada geese (Branta canadensis) were examined for 6 wk. Day-old goslings received either untreated control diet, clean sediment (48%) supplemented control diet, or CDARB sediment (3449 microg/g lead) supplemented diets at 12%, 24%, or 48%. The 12% CDARB diet resulted in a geometric mean blood lead concentration of 0.68 ppm (ww), with over 90% depression of red blood cell ALAD activity and over fourfold elevation of free erythrocyte protoporphyrin concentration. The 24% CDARB diet resulted in blood lead of 1.61 ppm with decreased hematocrit, hemoglobin, and plasma protein in addition to the effects just described. The 48% CDARB diet resulted in blood lead of 2.52 ppm with 22% mortality, decreased growth, and elevated plasma lactate dehydrogenase-L (LDH-L) activity. In this group the liver lead concentration was 6.57 ppm (ww), with twofold increases in hepatic lipid peroxidation (thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances, TBARS) and in reduced glutathione concentration; associated effects included elevated glutathione reductase activity but lower protein-bound thiols concentration and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PDH) activity. The kidney lead concentration in this group was 14.93 ppm with subacute renal tubular nephrosis in one of the surviving goslings. Three other geese in this treatment group exhibited calcified areas of marrow, and one of these displayed severe chronic fibrosing pancreatitis. Lead from CDARB sediment accumulated less readily in gosling blood and tissues than reported in ducklings but at given concentrations was generally more toxic to goslings. Many of these effects were similar to those reported in wild geese and mallards within the Coeur d'Alene River Basin.
Bisphenol A (BPA), an endocrine-disruptor, is widely used in the production of plastics and resins. Human perinatal exposure to this chemical has been proposed to be a potential risk to public health. Animal studies indicate that postnatal exposure to BPA may affect neocortex development in embryos by accelerated neurogenesis and causing neuronal migration defects. The detailed phenotypes and pathogenetic mechanisms, especially with regard to the proliferation and differentiation of neural stem/progenitor cells, however, have not been clarified. C57BL/6J pregnant mice were orally administered BPA at 200μg/kg from embryonic day (E) 8.5 to 13.5, and the fetuses were observed histologically at E14.5. To clarify the histological changes, especially in terms of neurogenesis, proliferation and cell cycle, we performed histological analysis using specific markers of neurons/neural stem cells and cell cycle-specific labeling experiments using thymidine-analog substances. Cortical plate was hyperplastic and the number of neural stem/progenitor cells was decreased after the exposure to BPA. In particular, the maternal BPA oral dosing related to the effects on intermediate progenitor cells (IPCs, neural progenitor cells) in the subventricular zone (SVZ) of dorsal telencephalon. Exposure to BPA associated the promotion of the cell cycle exit in radial glial cells (RGCs, neural stem cells) and IPCs, and decreased the proliferation resulting from the prolong cell cycle length of IPCs in the SVZ. Our data show that maternal oral exposure to BPA related to the disruption of the cell cycle in IPCs and the effects of neurogenesis in the developing neocortex.
Although generally considered a prototypical movement disorder, Parkinson's disease is commonly associated with a broad-spectrum of non-motor symptoms, including autonomic dysfunctions caused by significant alterations in catecholaminergic neurons of the peripheral sympathetic nervous system. Here we present evidence that alpha-synuclein is highly expressed by sympathetic ganglion neurons throughout embryonic and postnatal life and that it is found in tyrosine hydroxylase-positive sympathetic fibers innervating the heart of adult mice. However, mice deficient in alpha-synuclein do not exhibit any apparent alterations in sympathetic development. Sympathetic neurons isolated from mouse embryos and early postnatal mice are sensitive to the parkinsonian drug MPTP/MPP(+) and intoxication requires entry of the neurotoxin through the noradrenaline transporter. Furthermore, recovery of noradrenaline from cardiac sympathetic fibers is reduced in adult mice treated with MPTP systemically. However, MPP(+)-induced sympathetic neuron loss in vitro or MPTP-induced cardiac noradrenaline depletion in vivo is not modified in mice lacking alpha-synuclein. This is in clear contrast with the observation that dopaminergic neurons of the central nervous system are significantly less vulnerable to MPTP/MPP(+) in the absence of alpha-synuclein, suggesting different actions of this molecule in central and peripheral catecholaminergic neurons.
Results from preclinical studies have suggested that the organosulfur compound anethole dithiolethione (ADT) may be an effective chemopreventive agent for lung cancer. We conducted a phase IIb study to determine the effects of ADT in smokers with bronchial dysplasia.
One hundred twelve current and former smokers with a smoking history of at least 30 pack-years and at least one site of bronchial dysplasia identified by an autofluorescence bronchoscopy-directed biopsy were randomly assigned to receive placebo or ADT at 25 mg orally thrice daily for 6 months. Each subject then underwent a follow-up bronchoscopy-directed biopsy. We used changes in histopathologic grade and nuclear morphometry index (MI) as the primary and secondary end point biomarkers, respectively. Chi-square tests with continuity correction were used to compare response rates on a lesion- and person-specific basis between the two study groups. All statistical tests were two-sided.
One hundred one subjects had a follow-up bronchoscopy. In the lesion-specific analysis, progression rate of pre-existing dysplastic lesions by two or more grades and/or the appearance of new lesions was statistically significantly lower in the ADT group (8%) than in the placebo group (17%) (P<.001; difference = 9%, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 4% to 15%). In the person-specific analysis, the disease progression rate was statistically significantly lower in the ADT group (32%) than in the placebo group (59%) (P =.013; difference = 27%, 95% CI = 6% to 48%). The two treatment groups did not differ statistically significantly in terms of nuclear MI. Among individuals with an abnormal nuclear MI before treatment (29 in the ADT group and 25 in the placebo group), the progression rate in the ADT group (41%) was substantially lower than that in the placebo group (60%), although the difference was not statistically significant (P =.28; difference = 19%, 95% CI = -11% to 49%). Adverse events were mostly minor gastrointestinal symptoms that resolved with dose reduction or discontinuation of the medication.
Our results suggest that, in smokers, ADT is a potentially efficacious chemoprevention agent for lung cancer.
Ototoxic drugs, such as aminoglycosides, affect outer hair cell integrity in the inner ear. Transiently evoked otoacoustic emission (TEOAE) characteristics are related to outer hair cell function and can be expected to reflect the influence of ototoxic agents. Transiently evoked otoacoustic emissions were measured during amikacin sulfate therapy in nine patients. The duration of treatment for individual patients ranged from 9 to 33 days. A reversible decrease of overall TEOAE level, occurring after a treatment period longer than 16 days, was found in the majority of patients. The monitoring of TEOAEs is proposed as a method for early identification and, as a result, prevention of aminoglycoside-induced ototoxicity.
High doses of lithium in animals and therapeutic doses of lithium in humans caused varied abnormalities in cardiac conduction including A-V block. Five cases of first degree A-V block in patients receiving therapeutic doses of lithium carbonate are reported.
Chronic underlying inflammation is involved in the pathophysiology of coronary artery disease (CAD). Polyalthia longifolia var. pendula bark extract (PLE) is known to exhibit anti-inflammatory activity and has high content of phytosteroids. Since phytosteroids mimic estrogen structurally, we postulated that PLE may provide protection in postmenopausal women against CAD. Thus the effect of PLE has been explored on expression of estrogen receptors (ERalpha and ERbeta) and inflammatory inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) genes in vitro in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) obtained from postmenopausal women. A total of 20 postmenopausal women were included in the present study. Group I (N = 10) included women with angiographically proven CAD, and group II (N = 10) is composed of equal number of age-matched healthy postmenopausal females as controls. Significantly low levels of serum 17-beta estradiol were observed in subjects of group I as compared to group II (p < 0.01). A marked increase in L: -citrulline levels (p > 0.05) and significantly augmented levels of reactive nitrogen intermediates (p < 0.05) were observed in group I subjects. PLE significantly attenuated PMA-induced expression of both ERalpha and ERbeta receptors and inflammatory iNOS gene in vitro in a dose- and time-dependent manner and had an additive effect on these genes when compared with tamoxifen. Ours is the first report to demonstrate that PLE contains certain bioactive principles, which possess anti-inflammatory and estrogenic properties, and thereby hold the promise to be screened for their anti-atherogenic potential in experimental animals to favorably alter several other markers of cardiovascular risk.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the incidence of paracetamol-induced hypotension in intensive care unit (ICU). The secondary end-point was the description of pathophysiologic phenomenon during this hypotension and risk factors.
An observational study in three ICU of a French teaching hospital.
All consecutives patients whom benefit from intravenous paracetamol administration were included in the study. When a 20% droop in arterial blood pressure occurred, plasma samples were obtained and tryptases were measured at 6 and 48 hours. Clinical, biological characteristics and paracetamol administration duration were prospectively monitored.
During a 2-months period, 127 ICU patients were included in the study with 1507 paracetamol administration. Twenty droops in arterial blood pressure were recorded in ICU. The incidence rate was 1.33%. Administration duration was 32+/-9 min. No respiratory nor cutaneous manifestations occurred during hypotensions. A specific treatment was administrated in half of the patients. Hypotension incidence was higher (3.9%) in patients with brain injury. Eighty percent of patients with hypotension have a severe sepsis or a septic shock.
In this cohort of ICU patients, hypotension incidence was higher than reported in drug legal mentions. Immunoallergic phenomenon was excluded. Brain injury and sepsis seems to be risk factors.
Thirteen patients displayed neurologic complications of intravenous abuse of "T's and Blues" (pentazocine and tripelennamine). In six, the major presentation was seizures. Three patients had strokes, and three had CNS infections, two fungal and one related to subacute bacterial endocarditis. One patient had hepatic failure and an unusual encephalopathy. Foreign body embolization is common; the materials enter the cerebral circulation because of pulmonary arteriovenous shunts. Emboli may cause seizures, which also occur as a toxic effect of the drugs. Infection is due to unsterile injections. Enzyme elevations and diffuse vasculopathy raise the possibility of immune mechanisms.
Prazosin, a common antihypertensive drug, lowers peripheral vascular resistance by selectively blocking alpha-1 adrenergic receptors on arteriolar smooth muscle. Alpha-1 adrenoceptor inhibition also has a relaxant effect on smooth muscle present in the urethra. Between 1985-1990, 58 of 1335 women (4.3%) seen in our urodynamic clinic with urinary incontinence and other urinary symptoms were taking prazosin. The incidence of genuine stress incontinence was significantly higher in women taking prazosin (86.2%) than in the non-prazosin group (65.7%) (P less than .01). Twenty-five of the 45 women contacted had their urinary incontinence improved or cured by prazosin withdrawal. All of these 25 women with prazosin-related urinary incontinence had stress incontinence. The incidence of previous bladder neck surgery in this group was over 50%, with 11 previous vaginal repairs, one Burch colposuspension, and one Aldridge sling procedure. Seven women who were continent after prazosin withdrawal had their urodynamic studies repeated. There was a significant increase in functional urethral length, maximum urethral closure pressure, and abdominal pressure transmission to the urethra following prazosin withdrawal, although no significant change was found in other cystometric measurements including peak flow rate and residual urine volume. In this study, prazosin was a frequently unrecognized cause of stress incontinence in women, many of whom had unsuccessful and possibly unnecessary surgery.
Recurrent vulvovaginal candidiasis (VVC) has been linked to allergic disease, particularly allergic rhinitis.
A pilot study to assess the possible use of the leukotriene receptor antagonist zafirlukast as a treatment for recurrent VVC.
20 women with six or more symptomatic attacks of VVC in the past year (at least four proved microbiologically). Clinical atopy determined by the International Study for Asthma and Allergies in Childhood (ISAAC) questionnaire assessed blindly. Monitoring by daily symptom diary and self taken vaginal swabs. Treatment with zafirlukast 20 mg twice daily for 24 weeks or until three microbiologically confirmed episodes of VVC. Response assessed by daily symptom diary and self taken vaginal swabs. Subjective response scales for improvement, side effects, and change in other allergic disease completed when stopping treatment. Semistructured telephone interview 1 year after stopping medication.
14 patients (70%) reported a subjective response on the improvement response scale. Six (30%) showed a complete response with no further symptomatic attacks of VVC or negative swabs when symptomatic. Seven (37%) remained symptom free 18 months after entering the study-that is, 12 months after stopping therapy. 11 (58%) remained symptom free for at least 3 months after stopping therapy. This does not include one patient who remained symptom free but continued on zafirlukast because of an improvement in her asthma. There was no clear relation between response and atopic status. Six of nine atopic subjective responders reported improvements in other allergic symptoms. Side effects were minimal; one seemed clearly attributable to the drug.
Zafirlukast offers a potential new treatment for recurrent VVC that requires confirmation in controlled studies.
The goal of this report is to present the results obtained with three new GABAB receptor antagonists. CGP 54062 has an IC50 in a GABAB binding test of 0.013 microM which is roughly 2500-fold lower than one of the most potent blockers known so far, CGP 35348 (IC50 = 34 microM). CGP 46381 and CGP 36742 have IC50s of 4.9 and 36 microM respectively. The latter two compounds are the first orally active GABAB receptor antagonists. All three compounds bind to the GABAB receptor selectively, and are inactive in a number of binding tests assessing the compounds' affinity to various other receptor sites. The effect of these blockers on GABAergic transmission was investigated in the CA1 area of hippocampal slices. The Schaffer collateral/commissural fibers were stimulated and the evoked postsynaptic potentials were recorded intracellularly in pyramidal neurons. The three antagonists blocked the late inhibitory postsynaptic potential with the following rank order of potency CGP 54062 > 46381 > 36742 approximately 35348. These findings support the hypothesis that these potentials are mediated by GABAB receptors. Orally administered CGP 36742 and CGP 46381 block the neuronal depression induced by iontophoretically applied baclofen in anaesthetised rats. Up to a dose of 10 mg/kg i.v. CGP 54062 was inactive and thus does not appear to cross the blood-brain barrier at this dose. In anaesthetised rats the effects of the three new GABAB antagonists and of CGP 35348 were investigated on the paired-pulse inhibition of the population spikes evoked in the CA1 area of the hippocampus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Sex hormones influence the susceptibility of inbred mice to liver cancer. C57BR/cdJ (BR) females are extremely susceptible to spontaneous and chemically induced liver tumors, in part due to a lack of protection against hepatocarcinogenesis normally offered by ovarian hormones. BR males are also moderately susceptible, and the susceptibility of both sexes of BR mice to liver tumors induced with N,N-diethylnitrosamine relative to the resistant C57BL/6J (B6) strain is caused by two loci designated Hcf1 and Hcf2 (hepatocarcinogenesis in females) located on chromosomes 17 and 1, respectively. The Hcf1 locus on chromosome 17 is the predominant modifier of liver cancer in BR mice. To validate the existence of this locus and investigate its potential interaction with Hcf2, congenic mice for each region were generated. Homozygosity for the B6.BR(D17Mit164-D17Mit2) region resulted in a 4-fold increase in liver tumor multiplicity in females and a 4.5-fold increase in males compared with B6 controls. A series of 16 recombinants covering the entire congenic region was developed to further narrow the area containing Hcf1. Susceptible heterozygous recombinants demonstrated a 3- to 7-fold effect in females and a 1.5- to 2-fold effect in males compared with B6 siblings. The effect in susceptible lines completely recapitulated the susceptibility of heterozygous full-length chromosome 17 congenics and furthermore narrowed the location of the Hcf1 locus to a single region of the chromosome from 30.05 to 35.83 Mb.
The aim of this study was to analyze the contribution of nitric oxide, prostacyclin and endothelium-dependent hyperpolarizing factor to endothelium-dependent vasodilation induced by acetylcholine in rat aorta from control and ouabain-induced hypertensive rats. Preincubation with the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N-omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl esther (L-NAME) inhibited the vasodilator response to acetylcholine in segments from both groups but to a greater extent in segments from ouabain-treated rats. Basal and acetylcholine-induced nitric oxide release were higher in segments from ouabain-treated rats. Preincubation with the prostacyclin synthesis inhibitor tranylcypromine or with the cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin inhibited the vasodilator response to acetylcholine in aortic segments from both groups. The Ca2+-dependent potassium channel blocker charybdotoxin inhibited the vasodilator response to acetylcholine only in segments from control rats. These results indicate that hypertension induced by chronic ouabain treatment is accompanied by increased endothelial nitric oxide participation and impaired endothelium-dependent hyperpolarizing factor contribution in acetylcholine-induced relaxation. These effects might explain the lack of effect of ouabain treatment on acetylcholine responses in rat aorta.
Modafinil has been reported to reduce cocaine use in a clinical sample of infrequent users (2 days/week), but the effects of modafinil on cocaine self-administration in the laboratory have not been studied. The present study investigated the effects of modafinil maintenance on cocaine self-administration by frequent users (4 days/week) under controlled laboratory conditions. During this 48-day double-blind, crossover design study, the effects of modafinil maintenance (0, 200, and 400 mg/day) on response to smoked cocaine (0, 12, 25, and 50 mg) were examined in nontreatment-seeking cocaine-dependent individuals (n=8). Cocaine significantly increased self-administration, subjective-effect ratings, and cardiovascular measures; modafinil at both doses (200 and 400 mg/day) markedly attenuated these effects. These findings agree with data from previous human laboratory and clinical investigations of modafinil as a potential cocaine abuse treatment medication. Thus, our data support the potential of modafinil as a pharmacotherapy for cocaine dependence.
Treatment dropout is a problem of great prevalence and stands as an obstacle to recovery in cocaine-dependent (CD) individuals. Treatment attrition in CD individuals may result from impairments in cognitive control, which can be reliably measured by the Stroop color-word interference task. The present analyses contrasted baseline performance on the color-naming, word-reading, and interference subtests of the Stroop task in CD subjects who completed a cocaine treatment trial (completers: N=50) and those who dropped out of the trial before completion (non-completers: N=24). A logistic regression analysis was used to predict trial completion using three models with the following variables: the Stroop task subscale scores (Stroop model); the Hamilton depression rating scale (HDRS) scores (HDRS model); and both the Stroop task subscale scores and HDRS scores (Stroop and HDRS model). Each model was able to significantly predict group membership (completers vs non-completers) better than a model based on a simple constant (HDRS model p=0.02, Stroop model p=0.006, and Stroop and HDRS model p=0.003). Models using the Stroop preformed better than the HDRS model. These findings suggest that the Stroop task can be used to identify cocaine-dependent subjects at risk for treatment dropout. The Stroop task is a widely available, reliable, and valid instrument that can be easily employed to identify and tailor interventions of at risk individuals in the hope of improving treatment compliance.
The present study has compared the neurobehavioral effects of two structurally different PCB congeners or their combination in rats. Time-mated Long-Evans rats received daily injections of the coplanar PCB 77 (3,4 3',4'-TCB: 0.5 or 1.5 mg/kg), the di-ortho-chlorinated PCB 47 (2,4,2',4'-TCB: 1.5 mg/kg) or a congener mixture (0.5 mg/kg PCB 77 + 1.0 mg/kg PCB 47) from day 7 to 18 of gestation. The PCB exposure levels in brain and perirenal fat of dams and offspring were determined by GC/ECD on gestational day 19 (GD 19), postnatal day 21 (PND 21), and PND 45. PCB 77 was accumulated to a smaller degree than PCB 47. On GD 19, PCB 77 was found to a greater extent in the brains of the offspring than in the brains of the dams, whereas the level of PCB 47 was almost the same in dams and offspring. The testing of open-field behavior in male rats on PND 18 and PND 70 revealed an altered distribution of activity with enhanced activity in the inner zone in PCB 77-treated rats compared to all other groups, while the overall activity was not changed. Distance traveled and rearing behavior on PND 340 were elevated relative to controls in all PCB-treated groups, indicating age-related effects of maternal exposure. A step-down passive avoidance task revealed decreased latencies in the PCB 77 and combined exposure groups on PND 80. Only PCB 77-treated animals showed increased latencies on PND 100 on the haloperidol-induced catalepsy test. These results indicate long-term effects of maternal exposure to PCB 77 on emotional and motor functions. At the dose levels used in the present experiments, the two congeners given in combination did not cause additive or synergistic effects. Instead, concurrent exposure to PCB 47 seemed to counteract PCB 77-induced changes in the pattern of activity.
