To investigate the protective effects of N-acetylcysteine (NAC) and Nomega-Nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) on aluminium phosphide (AlP) poisoning induced hemodynamic changes, myocardial oxygen free radical injury and on survival time in rats.
AlP (12.5 mg/kg) was administered intragastrically under urethane anaesthesia. The effect of pre- and post-treatment with NAC and L-NAME alone and in combination was studied on haemodynamic parameters [blood pressure (BP), heart rate (HR), and electrocardiogram (ECG)] and biochemical parameters (malonyldialdehyde, catalase, and glutathione peroxidase).
AlP caused significant hypotension, tachycardia, ECG abnormalities, and finally marked bradycardia. The mean survival time was (90 +/- 10) min. There was significant increase in myocardial malonyldialdehyde (MDA), and decrease in catalase and glutathione peroxidase (GSH Px) levels. NAC infusion (6.25 mg . kg-1 . min-1, iv for 30 min) caused insignificant hemodynamic and biochemical changes. Pre- and post-treatment of NAC with AlP significantly increased the survival time, stabilized BP, HR, and ECG, decreased MDA and increased GSH Px levels compared to AlP group. L-NAME infusion (1 mg . kg-1 . min-1, iv for 60 min) as such caused significant rise in BP but precipitated ECG abnormalities. Pre- and post-treatment of L-NAME with AlP neither improved the survival time nor the biochemical parameters despite significant rise in BP. Co-administration of both the drugs with AlP worsened the hemodynamic and biochemical parameters with reduction in the survival time as compared to AlP.
NAC increased the survival time by reducing myocardial oxidative injury whereas L-NAME showed no such protective effects in rats exposed to AlP.
The retinoblastoma (RB) tumor suppressor is functionally inactivated in most hepatocellular carcinomas (HCC), although the mechanisms by which RB suppresses liver tumorigenesis are poorly defined. We investigated the impact of RB loss on carcinogen-induced liver tumorigenesis.
Mice harboring liver-specific RB ablation and normal littermates were exposed to the hepatocarcinogen diethylnitrosamine (DEN). The influence of RB loss on liver tumorigenesis was assessed by evaluating tumor multiplicity, proliferation, and genome integrity within tumors arising in RB-deficient and wild-type livers. In silico analyses were used to probe the association between gene expression signatures for RB loss and chromosomal instability and the ability of genes up-regulated by RB loss to predict the survival of human HCC patients.
RB deficiency significantly increased tumor multiplicity in livers exposed to DEN. Although hepatocytes in nontumor regions of DEN-exposed livers were quiescent regardless of RB status, tumors arising in RB-deficient livers were significantly more proliferative than those in normal livers and expressed high levels of RB/E2F target genes. Analysis of genes up-regulated by RB loss demonstrated significant overlap with a gene expression signature associated with chromosomal instability. Correspondingly, tumors arising in RB-deficient livers were significantly more likely to harbor hepatocytes exhibiting altered ploidy. Finally, gene expression analysis of human HCCs demonstrated that elevated expression of RB-regulated genes independently predicts poor survival.
RB deletion in the mouse liver enhances DEN-induced tumorigenesis, associated with increased hepatocyte proliferation and compromised genome integrity. Evaluation of RB status may be a useful prognostic factor in human HCC.
The history, clinical pharmacology and toxicities, and role of arsenic trioxide as a first-line agent for treating acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) are described.
APL is most often characterized by the hallmark reciprocal translocation between chromosomes 15 and 17, leading to the fusion of the promyelocytic gene and retinoic acid receptor alpha. Arsenic's therapeutic utility as an antileukemic agent was first described in the late 18th century. Arsenic trioxide demonstrates a dual, dose-dependent mechanism of action and can induce both partial myeloid differentiation and apoptosis. Arsenic trioxide is generally well tolerated, with reversible toxicities rarely requiring discontinuation of therapy. Toxicities associated with arsenic trioxide include leukocytosis, Q-T interval prolongation, APL differentiation syndrome, and hepatotoxicity. Since 2000, arsenic trioxide has been used as the standard of care for relapsed APL, with remission rates greater than 80% as a single agent. In an attempt to maximize disease-free survival and minimize relapse rates in patients with APL, arsenic trioxide is now being investigated as first-line therapy in the management of APL, with several studies showing promising outcomes. When used alone or in combination with tretinoin, the rates of complete remission have exceeded 85%, with high rates of molecular remission.
Arsenic trioxide, alone or in combination with tretinoin, as first-line therapy in newly diagnosed APL has resulted in high rates of complete remission and molecular remission. Arsenic trioxide combined with tretinoin has shortened the time to achieve complete remission and lengthened disease-free survival, findings that suggest the usefulness of the regimen as first-line treatment for APL.
There is currently considerable interest in the use of the endogenous oestrogen metabolite, 2-methoxyoestradiol (2-MeOE2) for the treatment and prevention of breast cancer. We have previously shown that sulphamoylation of 2-MeOE2 and related derivatives greatly enhances their ability to inhibit the proliferation of ER+ and ER- breast cancer cells. In this study, we have compared the abilities of 2-methoxyoestradiol-bis-sulphamate (2-MeOE2bisMATE) and 2-ethyloestradiol-bis-sulphamate (2-EtE2bisMATE) with that of 2-MeOE2 to inhibit the proliferation of breast cancer cells when grown on three different substrata: plastic, collagen I and Matrigel. The human breast cell line MCF-7 was utilised for these studies together with its doxorubicin resistant variant, MCF-7 DOX40 and mitoxantrone resistant variant, MCF-7 MR, as a longitudinal model of in vitro drug resistance. On a plastic substratum all three cell lines were sensitive to the effects of 2-MeOE2bisMATE and 2-EtE2bisMATE whereas MCF-7 cells and the MCF-MR variant cells were resistant to the effects of 2-MeOE2 at 1 microM. The sensitivity of the cell lines to those compounds also remained significant when grown on more physiological substrata. All of the drugs tested arrested cells in the G2/M phase of the cell cycle. The finding that breast cancer cells that are resistant to conventional chemotherapeutic agents remain sensitive to 2-substituted oestrogen sulphamates offers considerable potential for the treatment of women with drug-resistant breast cancer.
Deep brain stimulation therapy is increasingly gaining acceptance in the management of levodopa-induced dyskinesia and fluctuations in idiopathic Parkinson's disease. It is generally not recommended for the other forms of parkinsonism such as progressive supranuclear palsy or multiple system atrophy where the response to levodopa is usually poor and disease progression more rapid, making any benefit short-lived. Here, we present an autopsy-confirmed case of "minimal-change" multiple system atrophy in whom pallidal stimulation surgery was effective in abolishing severe levodopa-induced dyskinesia.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug-activated gene (NAG-1) is a putative tumor suppressor whose expression can be increased by drug treatment. Glioblastoma is the most common central nervous system tumor, is associated with high morbidity and mortality, and responds poorly to surgical, chemical, and radiation therapy. The histone deacetylase inhibitors are under current consideration as therapeutic agents in treating glioblastoma. We investigated whether trichostatin A (TSA) would alter the expression of NAG-1 in glioblastoma cells. The DNA demethylating agent 5-aza-dC did not increase NAG-1 expression, but TSA up-regulated NAG-1 expression and acted synergistically with 5-aza-dC to induce NAG-1 expression. TSA indirectly increases NAG-1 promoter activity and increases NAG-1 mRNA and protein expression in the T98G human glioblastoma cell line. TSA also increases the expression of transcription factors Sp-1 and Egr-1. Small interfering RNA experiments link NAG-1 expression to apoptosis induced by TSA. Reporter gene assays, specific inhibition by small interfering RNA transfections, and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays indicate that Egr-1 and Sp-1 mediate TSA-induced NAG-1 expression. TSA also increases the stability of NAG-1 mRNA. TSA-induced NAG-1 expression involves multiple mechanisms at the transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels.
The authors evaluated the autonomic and cardiovascular side effects of citalopram with particular emphasis on their relation to the age of treated patients. The data that formed the basis for the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval of citalopram were provided by Lundbeck (Copenhagen, Denmark). This database included placebo-controlled short- and long-term studies in major depressed patients. The list of side effects comprised all "heart rate and rhythm disorders" as well as "autonomic nervous system disorders" that had been reported by at least 5% more than that reported for the placebo group of subjects. The database encompassed 1344 subjects treated with citalopram (20-60 mg/day) for a period of no less than 6 weeks. Statistically significant age-related distribution was found for five side effects: bradycardia, nausea, diarrhea, sweating and headache. Bradycardia was more prevalent in elderly (>65 years) patients as compared to the younger population (2.4% vs. 0.2%, P<.05), whereas gastrointestinal side effects, sweating and headache were less prevalent in the elderly. The age-related differences in the side effect profile may be attributable to altered sensitivity of the serotonergic system.
The present study was undertaken to evaluate whether in a neonatal model of stroke a prophylactic neuroprotective treatment with simvastatin modulates hypoxia-ischemia-induced inflammatory and apoptotic signaling. Procaspase-3 and cleaved caspase-3 expression showed a peak at 24 h and returned to control values after 5 days. Caspase-3 activity followed the same pattern of caspase-3 proteolytic cleavage. In simvastatin-treated ischemic animals, the expression of these proteins and caspase-3 activity were significantly lower when compared to that of ischemic animals. alpha-Spectrin and protein kinase C-alpha (PKCalpha) cleavages were not affected by the treatment. Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase fragmentation, caspase-1 activation, and IL-1beta and ICAM-1 mRNA expression were increased by hypoxia-ischemia and significantly reduced in simvastatin-treated animals. The results indicate that simvastatin-induced attenuation of hypoxia-ischemia brain injury in the newborn rat occurs through reduction of the inflammatory response, caspase-3 activation, and apoptotic cell death.
Prostate cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death in American men. Therapeutic options for metastatic prostate cancer are limited. The use of herbal therapies in the treatment of this malignancy remains controversial.
We tested five herbal supplements, designated FB, FM, PP, HF and FBL101, which contain different combinations of various natural herbs such as licorice, black cohosh, Dong Quai, false unicorn and vitex berry root extracts, fennel seed extract, red clover blossoms extract as well as genistein and gamma oryzanol, for antitumor activity in severely combined immunodeficient mice bearing CWR22R and PC3 prostate cancer xenografts. Their mechanisms of action were also explored.
FB, FM, PP, HF and FBL101 inhibited PC3 tumor growth by 53%, 75%, 80%, 81% and 87%, respectively. In CWR22R tumors, similar growth suppression was observed with all supplements. Total plasma testosterone levels were not significantly altered by the supplements relative to the untreated control. PP and FBL101 significantly reduced VEGF levels in PC3 and CWR22R tumors, respectively. Intratumoral microvessel density was decreased in PC3 tumors treated with all five supplements but only in CWR22R tumors treated with HF.
Our results demonstrated that herbal supplements containing the aforementioned extracts inhibit the growth of prostate tumor xenografts, possibly in part by antiangiogenic mechanisms. The potential use of these herbal supplements as preventive and therapeutic agents in prostate cancer warrants further investigation.
In a phase-III study in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of low malignancy we compared a combination therapy with vincristine (COP) with a vindesine combination (CEP). Remission rates, duration of remission and survival was favorable for the CEP combination without reaching the level of significance. The peripheral neurotoxicity of grade 2 and 3 according to WHO criteria was observed more frequently with vincristine. The vincristine-induced neurotoxicity in 6 patients was not impaired when a change was made to vindesine treatment.
A double-blind group comparison study of L-sulpiride and amitriptyline was carried out in 30 bipolar outpatients on maintenance treatment with lithium suffering from a major depressive recurrence. L-sulpiride showed equivalent antidepressant activity to amitriptyline at 4 weeks using the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression. However, the onset of action was faster in the L-sulpiride group, showing a significant improvement at 1 week in both anxiety-somatization and specific depression items, including depressed mood, feelings of guilt, work & activities and retardation. The incidence of anticholinergic side effects was significantly higher in the amitriptyline treatment group.
Mannitol, a drug widely used to decrease intracranial pressure, can cause renal failure. The goal of this study is to determine the renal safety of mannitol therapy in patients with intraparenchymal hemorrhages.
51 patients with intracerebral hemorrhages were treated with mannitol according to guideline of American Heart Association. Serum urea and creatinine levels were measured before mannitol administration and on the 2nd, 5th and 14th day.
Transient elevation of urea and creatinine concentration was noticed, however, none of patients developed anuria or oliguria.
Our study points out safety of mannitol therapy under control of osmolality, although control of urea and creatinine concentrations in special group of patients (persons with history of renal failure or diabetes) should be considered.
Assuming that HFOV (high frequency oscillatory ventilation) with hypercapnia could be more protective than normocapnia, in a rat model of lung injury, we evaluated the effect of hypercapnic acidosis during HFOV.
After inducing lung injury by intratracheal instillation of hydrochloric acid (HCl), we randomly assigned the animals to two groups: in the hypercapnia group (n=9), airway pressure amplitude (Pamp) was titrated to achieve PaCO2 greater than 80 mmHg; in the normocapnia group (n=9), Pamp was titrated to achieve PaCO2 less than 50 mmHg. Hemodynamics, histology, wet-to-dry ratio and inflammatory cytokines were evaluated after all the animals had received HFOV for 5 h.
While the right-lung wet-to-dry ratio in the hypercapnia group was statistically significantly lower than in the normocapnia group (7.70+/-1.31 vs. 8.59+/-0.66, p<0.05), no statistically significant intergroup differences were found for blood pressure, heart rate, alveolar-arterial oxygen gradient, levels of cytokines (TNF-alpha, IL-6 and CINC-1) in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and serum, and lung histological injury scores.
Although edema formation was less pronounced in the hypercapnia group, we found no increased numbers of inflammatory cytokines or general histological evidence to suggest that permissive hypercapnia during HFOV was protective.
Treatment with aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) agonists can slow or reverse the growth of primary mammary tumors in rodents, which has fostered interest in developing selective AhR modulators for treatment of breast cancer. However, the major goal of breast cancer therapy is to inhibit metastasis, the primary cause of mortality in women with this disease. Studies conducted using breast cancer cell lines have demonstrated that AhR agonists suppress proliferation, invasiveness, and colony formation in vitro; however, further exploration using in vivo models of metastasis is warranted. To test the effect of AhR activation on metastasis, 4T1.2 mammary tumor cells were injected into the mammary gland fat pad of syngeneic Balb/c mice treated with 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD). Primary tumor growth was monitored for 4 weeks, at which time metastasis was determined. TCDD treatment suppressed metastasis by approximately 50%, as measured both in the lung and in mammary glands at sites distant from the primary tumor. Primary tumor growth was not suppressed by TCDD exposure nor was proliferation of 4T1.2 cells affected by TCDD treatment in vitro. Taken together, these results suggest that the protective effect of AhR activation was selective for the metastatic process and not simply the result of a direct decrease in tumor cell proliferation or survival at the primary site. These observations in immunologically intact animals warrant further investigation into the mechanism of the protective effects of AhR activation and support the promise for use of AhR modulators to treat breast cancer.
An important clinical problem in the treatment of oral squamous cell carcinoma is the intrinsic/acquired resistance to cisplatin-based chemotherapy. Copper-transporting P-type adenosine triphosphate (ATP7B) has been reported to be associated with cisplatin resistance in vitro (Komatsu et al., Cancer Res 60, 1312-1316,2000). However, the clinical significance of this transporter has not previously been addressed. Our aim of this study was to investigate if ATP7B is expressed in oral squamous cell carcinoma and whether its expression correlates with prognosis and reduced responsiveness to cisplatin treatment. Biopsy tissues were obtained from the tumors of 70 patients with oral SCC, and 51 patients received cisplatin-based preoperative chemotherapy. We performed immunohistochemical analysis of ATP7B using monoclonal antibody against ATP7B in 51 oral SCC and adjacent neoplastic tissues. The significance of ATP7B in the prognosis of patients with oral SCC was also examined in the survival analysis of mortality follow-up data covering the period 1991 through 2000. We retrospectively examined the expression of ATP7B in primary oral SCC carcinoma and its association with chemotherapeutic effect. A variable degree of cytoplasmic staining of tumor cells was observed in 54.9% (28/51 cases) of the analyzed carcinomas. Patients with ATP7B-positive tumors had a significantly inferior response to chemotherapy compared with the patients with ATP7B-negative tumors (P = 0.03). The patients who received cisplatin-based chemotherapy with ATP7B-positive carcinomas had a significantly poorer overall survival than those with ATP7B-negative tumors (P = 0.015). These findings suggest that high levels of ATP7B expression in oral SCC are associated with unfavorable clinical outcome in patients with oral SCCs treated with cisplatin-based chemotherapy. ATP7B expression may be a preoperative indicator for a choice of cisplatin in some patients.
Stridor and stertor can both be the cause of medical and surgical emergencies. The management of these conditions is largely dependent upon the underlying aetiology. This case report describes dystonia following prochlorperazine resulting in stridor and stertor.
We present a 46-year-old African-American man with AIDS who was admitted on two different occasions within three weeks for signs and symptoms of meningitis after using trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX). TMP/SMX is primarily used for the treatment of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia prophylaxis in AIDS patients. Drug-induced aseptic meningitis (DIAM) is commonly seen with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS), antibiotics (with TMP/SMX being the most frequently implicated), intravenous immunoglobulins and OKT3 antibodies. However, the implication of TMP/SMX inducing aseptic meningitis has been underreported to FDA/MEDWATCH program. This might be due to the fact that it has also been used to treat bacterial meningitis from organisms like Listeria monocytogenes, which is a common pathogen in the elderly and in infants. We reviewed the literature in an attempt to characterize the pattern and predictors of TMP/SMX-induced aseptic meningitis.
Investigate the genetic polymorphisms of aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) and alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH), major enzymes involving the trichloroethylene (TCE) metabolism, associated with susceptibility to TCE-induced medicamentosa-like dermatitis.
The study included 108 patients with TCE-induced medicamentosa-like dermatitis and 145 healthy controls exposed to TCE who were engaged in the same workplace, and frequency matched by sex and age. The genotypes of ADH2, ADH3 and ALDH2 were analyzed by polymerase chain reaction-restricted fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP), and distribution of genotype and odds ratio were calculated.
There were no differences in the frequencies of genotypes of ADH2 and ADH3 between cases and exposed controls. The frequency of heterozygous ALDH2 * 1/ * 2 plus homozygous ALDH2 * 2/ * 2 in cases was significantly lower than that in exposed controls (27.8% vs 43.4%, P = 0.011), and it decreased the risk of TCE-induced medicamentosa-like dermatitis (OR = 0.50, 95% CI = 0.29-0.85).
The active ALDH2 might be one of the factors influencing the individual susceptibility to TCE-induced medicamentosa-like dermatitis.
The effect of amantadine hydrochloride, injected i.p. in 6 increments of 100 mg/kg each over 30 hr, on mouse motility and whole brain content of selected biogenic amines and major metabolites was studied in 4 strains of mice. These were the albino Sprague-Dawley ICR and BALB/C, the black C57BL/6 and the brown CDF-I mouse strains. Amantadine treatment produced a biphasic effect on mouse motility. The initial dose of amantadine depressed locomotor activity in all mouse strains studied with the BALB/C mice being the most sensitive. Subsequent amantadine treatments produced enhancement of motility from corresponding control in all mouse strains with the BALB/C mice being the least sensitive. The locomotor activity was decreased from corresponding controls in all strains studied, except for the ICR mice, during an overnight drug-free period following the fourth amantadine treatment. Readministration of amantadine, after a drug-free overnight period, increased motility from respective saline control in all strains with exception of the BALB/C mice where suppression of motility occurred. Treatment with amantadine did not alter whole brain dopamine levels but decreased the amounts of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in the BALB/C mice compared to saline control. Conversely, brain normetanephrine concentration was increased from saline control by amantadine in the BALB/C mice. The results suggest a strain-dependent effect of amantadine on motility and indicate a differential response to the acute and multiple dose regimens used. The BALB/C mouse was the most sensitive strain and could serve as the strain of choice for evaluating the side effects of amantadine. The biochemical results of brain biogenic amines of BALB/C mouse strain suggest a probable decrease of catecholamine turnover rate and/or metabolism by monoamine oxidase and a resulting increase in O-methylation of norepinephrine which may account for a behavioral depression caused by amantadine in the BALB/C mice.
The aim of this study was to assess chemotherapy associated hepatotoxicity after 3 months' treatment and to correlate patterns of hepatotoxicity with perioperative morbidity.
Liver specimens of 50 patients with liver metastases from colorectal cancer receiving XELOX or FOLFOX4 for six cycles and 13 specimens of non-chemotherapy patients subjected to liver resection were analyzed. Different patterns of hepatotoxicity were evaluated according to widely accepted pathohistological scores. Furthermore, the histomorphological findings were correlated with perioperative morbidity.
Steatosis grades did not differ among the chemotherapy treated groups and non-chemotherapy patients. Chemotherapy showed an independent effect on fibrosis stage. Age and chemotherapy were independently associated with sinusoidal dilatation. Centrilobular vein fibrosis correlated with administration of chemotherapy. Higher fibrosis stages were associated with increased transfusion requirements.
XELOX and FOLFOX4 do not correlate with the development of steatosis or steatohepatitis. We do not detect a difference in liver injury between the XELOX and FOLFOX4 group. Although 5-fluorouracil based chemotherapy may cause profound changes in liver parenchyma, it can be safely applied. However, age and oxaliplatin predispose for the development of sinusoidal dilatation; therefore caution must be taken in old patients treated with oxaliplatin.
Agricultural and household organophosphorus (OP) pesticides inhibit acetylcholinesterase (AchE), resulting in increased acetylcholine (Ach) in the central nervous system. In adults, acute and prolonged exposure to high doses of AchE inhibitors causes severe, clinically apparent symptoms, followed by lasting memory impairments and cognitive dysfunction. The neurotoxicity of repeated environmental exposure to lower, subclinical doses of OP pesticides in adults is not as well studied. However, repeated exposure to acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, such as chlorpyrifos (CPF), pyridostigmine, and sarin nerve agent, has been epidemiologically linked to delayed onset symptoms in Gulf War Illness and may be relevant to environmental exposure in farm workers among others. We treated adult mice with a subclinical dose (5 mg/kg) of CPF for 5 consecutive days and investigated hippocampal synaptic transmission and spine density early (2-7 days) and late (3 months) after CPF administration. No signs of cholinergic toxicity were observed at any time during or after treatment. At 2-7 days after the last injection, we found increased synaptic transmission in the CA3-CA1 region of the hippocampus of CPF-treated mice compared with controls. In contrast, at 3 months after CPF administration, we observed a 50% reduction in synaptic transmission likely due to a corresponding 50% decrease in CA1 pyramidal neuron synaptic spine density. This study is the first to identify a biphasic progression of synaptic abnormalities following repeated OP exposure and suggests that even in the absence of acute cholinergic toxicity, repeated exposure to CPF causes delayed persistent damage to the adult brain in vivo.
To investigate the effect of ciprofloxacin on the proliferation and cell cycle progression of tendon cells, and to explore the potential molecular mechanism of ciprofloxacin-associated tendinopathy by analyzing the expression of cell cycle-related cyclin and cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK).
Rat Achilles tendon cells were treated with ciprofloxacin and then assessed by MTT assay, flow cytometric analysis, and fluorescence confocal microscopy. Levels of messenger RNA (mRNA) for CDK-1 and cyclin B were determined by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Protein expression of CDK-1, cyclin B, checkpoint kinase 1 (CHK-1), and polo-like kinase 1 (PLK-1) was determined by Western blot analysis.
Ciprofloxacin inhibited tendon cell proliferation and caused cell cycle arrest at the G2/M phase. Confocal microscopy revealed that chromosomes in ciprofloxacin-treated cells neither properly aligned along the equatorial planes nor segregated successfully during metaphase. Mitotic arrest, misaligned chromosomes, and poor bipolar spindle formation were observed in ciprofloxacin-treated cells. CDK-1 and cyclin B protein and mRNA were both down-regulated. CHK-1 protein expression was also suppressed, but PLK-1 protein expression was up-regulated by ciprofloxacin.
Our findings suggest a possible mechanism of ciprofloxacin-associated tendinopathy. Down-regulation of CHK-1 and up-regulation of PLK-1 may account for mitotic arrest observed in ciprofloxacin-treated cells.
The adult use of cocaine and nicotine has been linked to depression and/or anxiety. Changes in emotional behavior were assessed using behavioral paradigms developed as animal analogs of psychiatric disorders in 12-14 month old Sprague-Dawley rats exposed daily on gestational days 8-20 to cocaine and nicotine, either alone or in combination. Results from the elevated plus maze (EPM), used to assess anxiety-related behaviors, indicated that offspring prenatally exposed to either high-dose cocaine (40 mg/kg/day) or high-dose nicotine (5.0 mg/kg/day) were less timid/more impulsive. Animals from these two groups spent the most time on the open arms, and had the highest percentage of entries into the open arms of the EPM. Combined in utero exposure to cocaine and nicotine nullified these effects. Cocaine challenge (20 mg/kg) did not interact with prenatal treatment, but increased activity on all arms of the EPM in all groups. Sucrose preference was used as a measure of anhedonia, a cardinal symptom of depressive illness. Reduced sucrose preference was seen only in the group of offspring prenatally exposed to high-dose cocaine (40 mg/kg) plus low-dose nicotine (2.5 mg/kg/day). Exposure to a water-deprivation stress normalized sucrose preference in this group, without altering preference or intake in the other prenatal treatment groups. Transient hyperactivity was seen in the offspring of dams treated with high-dose nicotine, an effect that was again reversed in combined drug groups. Traditional gender differences in activity levels and sucrose intake, that is, females greater than males, were still evident in this population of aging rats. These data indicate that prenatal exposure to cocaine and/or nicotine has long-term effects on emotional behavior. Combined drug exposure contributed to the development of depressive symptoms, but not anxiety-like behavior, in a dose-dependent manner. In contrast, exposure to high doses of either drug alone reduced cautionary behavior. Data from this line of research could provide insight into the pathogenesis of emotional disorders, especially during the aging process.
