The study objective was to prospectively evaluate the frequency and severity of behavioral reactions occurring in children receiving ketamine sedation in the emergency department (ED). A behavioral observational study was conducted. Ketamine was given in a standardized protocol with midazolam, atropine, and a prehypnotic suggestion. Descriptions of behavioral reactions were recorded immediately after the procedure, and longitudinal follow-up was made in 1 day, 1 week, and 1 month. A total of 301 patients were enrolled. Mild reactions described as not unpleasant occurred in 7/205 (3.4%, 95% CI 0.9-5.9%) of the younger age group, and 2/96 (2.1%, 95% CI 0-5.0%) of the older age group. Unpleasant reactions occurred in 2/205 (1.0%, 95% CI 0-2.4%) of the younger age group, and 4/96 (4.2%, 95% CI 0-8.2%) of the older age group. We observed no clinically important difference in the proportion of older versus younger children experiencing behavioral reactions after IV ketamine sedation.
Since prostate growth is governed by the androgen signaling pathway, blockade of the pathway is regarded as an appropriate strategy for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). Panax ginseng is known to have various pharmacological activities. Of several products of its root, red ginseng, having many bioactive ginsenosides, is most popularly used in Korea, and recently has been reported to control the proliferation of cancer cells. We here tested the effect of a water extract of Korean red ginseng (WKRG) on testosterone-induced prostate hyperplasia. WKRG (daily intraperitoneal injection) prevented prostate overgrowth and epithelial thickening induced by testosterone in rats, and suppressed a rat prostate kallikrein-S3. In human prostate cells, WKRG inhibited testosterone-induced cell proliferation, arrested cell cycle by inducing p21 and p27, and induced apoptosis. Testosterone-induced expression of human kallikrein-3 mRNA and activation of androgen receptor (AR) were effectively inhibited by WKRG. Of the major ginsenosides included in WKRG, 20(S)-Rg3 was identified to repress AR activity and to attenuate prostate cell growth during testosterone stimulation. Moreover, 20(S)-Rg3 downregulated AR by facilitating the degradation of AR protein. WKRG and 20(S)-Rg3 were found to have new pharmacological activities against testosterone-induced prostate overgrowth. Given that red ginseng has been used safely in Asia for 1000 years, red ginseng and 20(S)-Rg3 could be potential therapeutic regimens for treating BPH.
Apomorphine has long been used in many medical specialties. It is a highly potent D2-, D3- and D4-dopamine receptor agonist with a particularly high D1-dopamine receptor affinity. Due to its almost complete inactivation during liver passage it is usually applied subcutaneously. After rapid onset its effect is waning after about one hour. Apomorphine's action is not dependent on enteral dopamine resorption and on praesynaptic dopamine storage and dopamine secretion mechanisms. When applied subcutaneously its most common side effect is cutaneous nodules at the injection sites. Peripheral dopaminergic side effects, such as nausea and orthostatic hypotension, usually occur only during therapy initiation and respond well to domperidone. Hallucinations occur less frequently than with other dopamine receptor agonists. The apomorphine test determines the levodopasensitivity of a parkinsonian syndrome by application of an apomorphine bolus to distinguish between idiopathic Parkinson's disease and atypical parkinsonian syndromes. It indicates a levodopasensitivity in about 90% of the patients tested. False-negative results can occur in mild parkinsonian syndromes. A meta analysis indicates that intermittent subutaneous apomorphine applications (intermittent apomorphine therapy) with a self application device can reduce the daily duration of unpredictable off-phases by 48.8+/-8.7%. For this an average of 3.7+/-1.1 x 2.9+/-0.8 mg apomorphine has to be applied per day. Continuous subcutaneous apomorphine application with an extracorporal pump (continuous apomorhine therapy) during the wake phase reduces the duration of daily off-phases by 64.8+/-13.5% and the additional levodopa dose by 30.3+/-31.1%. 24-hour application reduces the daily duration of the off-phases by 63.5+/-19.1% and the additional levodopa dose by 65.5+/-21.9%. Levodopa-induced dyskinesias are also substantially reduced. A gradual conversion to an apomorphine monotherapy is possible. Even after prolonged treatment times no significant loss of efficacy occurs. With this profile apomorphine is a highly successful treatment option for off-phases and levodopa-induced dyskinesias in advanced cases of idiopathic Parkinson's disease which should be used before more invasive approaches are considered.
Exposure to high doses of methamphetamine (METH), a major drug of abuse, may cause neuronal damage. Previous studies have implicated the role of peroxynitrite, produced by nitric oxide (NO) and reactive oxygen species, in dopaminergic neurotoxicity produced by METH in mice. The present article was undertaken to investigate if a neurotoxic regimen of METH is associated with changes in tissue levels of nitrate and nitrite, which are the stable products of NO. Administration of METH (5 mg/kg x 3) to Swiss Webster mice resulted in marked depletion of dopamine (DA) and DA transporter (DAT) binding sites but no change in 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and 5-HT transporter (5-HTT) binding sites in the striatum, amygdala, frontal cortex, and hippocampus, suggesting that METH causes selective neurotoxicity to DA nerve terminals. The concentration of nitrate in the striatum was increased by about two-fold after METH administration; however, no changes in nitrate concentration were detected in other brain regions that endured dopaminergic neurotoxicity. These findings suggest that (a) a neurotoxic regimen of METH produces selective increase in NO in the striatum, which may generate toxic species such as peroxynitrite, and (b) toxins other than NO-related derivatives may mediate dopaminergic neurotoxicity in the amygdala and frontal cortex.
Monkeys given oestrogen priming at physiological levels for at least 1 week become hyperprolactinaemic upon the addition of physiological progesterone administration. Here, using RU486, we test whether that this oestrogen/progestin-induced hyperprolactinaemia results from classical progesterone actions at the hypothalamo-pituitary level. Blood samples were collected daily from study day 1-67. Each monkey (n = 2) received daily injections of 25 micrograms/kg oestradiol benzoate, i.m., on study days 5-60. Progesterone-filled silastic capsules (3 cm) were inserted on study day 14 and removed on day 53. On study days 39-45, each monkey received RU486 (25 mg/day, p.o.). Serum samples were stored at -20 degrees C until assayed for prolactin, oestradiol, progesterone and RU486 by radioimmunoassay. Hyperprolactinaemia was induced in all three monkeys upon insertion of progesterone capsules. Prolactin concentrations fell sharply during RU486 treatment to nadirs some 10-fold less than prior to RU486 treatment. The time series was modelled by the Box-Jenkins autoregressive-integrated moving average (ARIMA) method with progesterone producing a gradual increase in prolactin concentrations and RU486 producing a sudden decrease. Statistically significant effects of progesterone and RU486 were found. Thus, the addition of progesterone to an oestrogenized milieu significantly increased prolactin concentrations, and RU486 fully reversed this effect. This evidence indicates that the progesterone-induced hyperprolactinemia in an oestrogenized milieu results from classical progesterone effects.
Sulpiride or Dogmatil (Delagrange, Paris) was injected to male rats at the rate of 40 mg/day for either 10 or 20 days. Ponderal fluctuations of the accessory organs followed by a quantitative analysis of fructose and of serum acid phosphatases issued from testis epididymis and prostates (PAP) were studied. The coagulating glands alone reacted strongly and their initial weight doubled in 20 days. On the contrary, the fructose decreased sharply in all accessory glands especially in the coagulating glands. The PAP decreased slightly. The fact the concentration of serum PAP remained relatively high even in the castrated males, can be explained by the increase in the lysosomial activity due to retention and diminution of secretion granules. Fructose and PAP are conditioned by androgens and their quantitative decrease suggests that the testosterone level decreased. Hyperprolactinemia induced by Sulpiride is concomittent to testosterone diminution and the effect of each hormone cannot easily be separated. In the castrated animals the effects of Sulpiride were minimized due to the difficulty in observing significant variations between treated and untreated castrates.
Valproic acid is an effective anti-epileptic medication often used for long-term control of seizure disorders that has been implicated in hematological toxicities, including rare reports of myelodysplasia and acute leukemia. Here, we report a case of valproic acid-related leukemia-like syndrome with a t(8;16) chromosomal translocation. After discontinuing valproic acid, the hematological findings completely resolved.
Malignant mesothelioma (MMe) is a lethal tumor arising from the mesothelium of serous cavities as a result of exposure to asbestos. Current clinical standards consist of combined treatments, but an effective therapy has not been established yet and there is an urgent need for new curative approaches. Ascorbate is a nutrient that is also known as a remedy in the treatment of cancer. In the present study, we have tested the cytotoxicity of ascorbate to MMe cells in combination with drugs used in MMe therapy, such as cisplatin, etoposide, gemcitabine, imatinib, paclitaxel, and raltitrexed, as well as with promising antitumor compounds like taurolidine, α-tocopherol succinate, and epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG). Dose-response curves obtained for each compound by applying the neutral red uptake (NRU) assay to MMe cells growing in vitro, allowed to obtain IC50 values for each compound used singularly. Thereafter, NRU data obtained from each ascorbate/drug combination were analyzed through Tallarida's isobolograms at the IC50 level (Tallarida, 2000), revealing synergistic interactions for ascorbate/gemcitabine and ascorbate/EGCG. These results were further confirmed through comparisons between theoretical additivity IC50 and observed IC50 from fixed-ratio dose-response curves, and over a broad range of IC levels, by using Chou and Talalay's combination index (Chou and Talalay, 1984). Synergistic interactions were also shown by examining apoptosis and necrosis rates, using the caspase 3 and lactic dehydrogenase assays, respectively. Hence, data indicate that ascorbate/gemcitabine and ascorbate/EGCG affect synergistically the viability of MMe cells and suggest their possible use in the clinical treatment of this problematic cancer.
Reduced fractional anisotropy (FA) in Diffusion Tensor Imaging (DTI) has been reported in cocaine dependent subjects compared to non-drug using controls. There are several pathological mechanisms that could be responsible for these findings, since FA can be reduced through damage to axonal tracts and by neuronal loss. One way of obtaining more information about pathology underlying changes in FA on DTI is diffusion tensor eigenvalues, representing diffusion along the fiber tract (lambda(1)) or perpendicular to the fiber tract (lambda(T)). Thirteen cocaine dependent subjects and 18 healthy controls underwent full brain DTI. Eigenvalues lambda(1) and lambda(T) of the corpus callosum were compared between cocaine users and controls. For lambda(T) there was a significant interaction of group x region of corpus callosum. Exploratory analysis of the subregions showed higher lambda(T) in the genu of the anterior corpus callosum of cocaine dependent subjects compared to control subjects. For lambda(1) there was no significant interaction of group x region of corpus callosum. Based on prior studies suggesting that alteration or damage to myelin increases diffusion perpendicular to the direction of fiber tracts (lambda(T)) with minimal effect on lambda(1) these findings are consistent with altered myelin in the corpus callosum in cocaine dependent subjects.
Oxycodone, a semisynthetic opioid analgesic, is frequently prescribed for the management of pain. Side effects of nausea and emesis affect patient compliance and limit its therapeutic use. The present study established that an antinociceptive dose of oxycodone (15 mg/kg; oral) induces the pica response. We found sex differences in the temporal course of pica, with females having a longer duration. Opioid receptors mediated the pica response, as 1.0 mg/kg naloxone transiently attenuated and 2.0 mg/kg naloxone blocked pica. A κ-selective antagonist failed to block the response, suggesting mediation by μ opioid receptor. For further validation, we used the well established kaolin intake model to assess pica with the chemotherapeutic drug cisplatin as a positive control. Oxycodone and cisplatin significantly increased kaolin intake 4- to 7-fold, and the wet weight of stomach was elevated 2- to 3-fold. To examine the underlying neural circuitry, we investigated c-fos activation in the area postrema and nucleus of solitary tract (NTS). Oxycodone treatment significantly increased the number of c-fos-positive neurons in the area postrema and NTS compared with water controls. As expected, cisplatin also increased the number of c-fos-positive cells in these regions. In the area postrema, the oxycodone effect was greater than cisplatin, especially at 2 h. These results indicate that an antinociceptive dose of oxycodone is associated with the expression of pica, a pro-emetic response.
The environmental toxicant 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) produces cleft palate (CP) and hydronephrosis (HN) in mice. The etiology of these defects involves hyperproliferation of epithelial cells of the secondary palatal shelf and ureter, respectively. These effects correlate with altered expression of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), epidermal growth factor (EGF), and transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha). In this study, the developmental toxicity of TCDD was examined in EGF, TGF-alpha, and double EGF + TGF-alpha knockout (-/-) and wild type (WT) mice. The influence of background genetics in responsiveness to TCDD was examined using liver 7-ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (EROD) activity. Animals were dosed by gavage with 0, 0.2, 1, 5, 24, 50, 100, or 150 micro g TCDD/kg (5 ml/kg) body weight on gestation day 12. The mixed genetic background of WT, EGF (-/-), and EGF + TGF-alpha (-/-) made these mice less responsive to TCDD relative to C57BL/6J and TGF-alpha (-/-), which have a C57BL background. These results show that EGF and TGF-alpha are not required for response to TCDD; however, the specific ligand available to bind EGFR affects the responsiveness to TCDD. EGF (-/-) mice are less responsive for CP, but more sensitive to HN. TGF-alpha (-/-) mice were similar to WT in sensitivity for induction of CP and HN. The responses of EGF + TGF-alpha (-/-) mice were like the WT except at higher doses where sensitivity to CP increased, suggesting that the responses may be mediated by alternative ligands for EGFR that are not functional equivalents of EGF or TGF-alpha. In conclusion, the EGFR pathway is mechanistically important in responses of the embryo to TCDD. Specific ligands confer sensitivity or resistance that are target tissue-dependent.
The pulmonary damage induced by nanosized titanium dioxide (nano-TiO2) is of great concern, but the mechanism of how this damage may be incurred has yet to be elucidated. Here, we examined how multiple genes may be affected by nano-TiO2 exposure to contribute to the observed damage. The results suggest that long-term exposure to nano-TiO2 led to significant increases in inflammatory cells, and levels of lactate dehydrogenase, alkaline phosphate, and total protein, and promoted production of reactive oxygen species and peroxidation of lipid, protein and DNA in mouse lung tissue. We also observed nano-TiO2 deposition in lung tissue via light and confocal Raman microscopy, which in turn led to severe pulmonary inflammation and pneumonocytic apoptosis in mice. Specifically, microarray analysis showed significant alterations in the expression of 847 genes in the nano-TiO2-exposed lung tissues. Of 521 genes with known functions, 361 were up-regulated and 160 down-regulated, which were associated with the immune/inflammatory responses, apoptosis, oxidative stress, the cell cycle, stress responses, cell proliferation, the cytoskeleton, signal transduction, and metabolic processes. Therefore, the application of nano-TiO2 should be carried out cautiously, especially in humans.
Case reports of mothball ingestion have shown that paradichlorobenzene, the organic compound found in mothballs, can induce multiple organ effects, including encephalopathy. Psychiatrists are often involved in these cases due to presumed depression. Diagnosis is frequently delayed and/or inaccurate due to the inability to obtain a full history. A delay in diagnosis may result in an inappropriate treatment plan. We present a case involving a woman who ingested mothballs due to Pica emphasizing the importance and challenges of getting a thorough history. Barriers include cultural differences, shame and obtaining collateral information.
Glutathione (GSH; gamma-L-glutamyl-L-cysteinyl-glycine), a non-protein thiol with a very low redox potential (E'0 = 240 mV for thiol-disulfide exchange), is present in high concentration up to 10 mM in yeasts and filamentous fungi. GSH is concerned with basic cellular functions as well as the maintenance of mitochondrial structure, membrane integrity, and in cell differentiation and development. GSH plays key roles in the response to several stress situations in fungi. For example, GSH is an important antioxidant molecule, which reacts non-enzymatically with a series of reactive oxygen species. In addition, the response to oxidative stress also involves GSH biosynthesis enzymes, NADPH-dependent GSH-regenerating reductase, glutathione S-transferase along with peroxide-eliminating glutathione peroxidase and glutaredoxins. Some components of the GSH-dependent antioxidative defence system confer resistance against heat shock and osmotic stress. Formation of protein-SSG mixed disulfides results in protection against desiccation-induced oxidative injuries in lichens. Intracellular GSH and GSH-derived phytochelatins hinder the progression of heavy metal-initiated cell injuries by chelating and sequestering the metal ions themselves and/or by eliminating reactive oxygen species. In fungi, GSH is mobilized to ensure cellular maintenance under sulfur or nitrogen starvation. Moreover, adaptation to carbon deprivation stress results in an increased tolerance to oxidative stress, which involves the induction of GSH-dependent elements of the antioxidant defence system. GSH-dependent detoxification processes concern the elimination of toxic endogenous metabolites, such as excess formaldehyde produced during the growth of the methylotrophic yeasts, by formaldehyde dehydrogenase and methylglyoxal, a by-product of glycolysis, by the glyoxalase pathway. Detoxification of xenobiotics, such as halogenated aromatic and alkylating agents, relies on glutathione S-transferases. In yeast, these enzymes may participate in the elimination of toxic intermediates that accumulate in stationary phase and/or act in a similar fashion as heat shock proteins. GSH S-conjugates may also form in a glutathione S-transferases-independent way, e.g. through chemical reaction between GSH and the antifugal agent Thiram. GSH-dependent detoxification of penicillin side-chain precursors was shown in Penicillium sp. GSH controls aging and autolysis in several fungal species, and possesses an anti-apoptotic feature.
Exposure to an imbalance of nutrients prior to conception and during critical developmental periods can have lasting consequences on physiological processes resulting in chronic diseases later in life. Developmental programming has been shown to involve structural and functional changes in important tissues. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether early life diet has a programming effect on the mammary gland. Wild-type mice were exposed from 2 weeks prior to conception to 6 weeks of age to a regular low-fat diet, or to high-fat diets based on either corn oil or flaxseed oil. At 6 weeks of age, all mice were shifted to the regular low-fat diet until termination at 10 weeks of age. Early life exposure to a high-fat diet, either high in n-6 (corn oil) or in n-3 (flaxseed oil) polyunsaturated fatty acids, did not affect birth weight, but resulted in an increased body weight at 10 weeks of age. Transcriptome analyses of the fourth abdominal mammary gland revealed differentially expressed genes between the different treatment groups. Exposure to high-fat diet based on flaxseed oil, but not on corn oil, resulted in regulation of pathways involved in energy metabolism, immune response and inflammation. Our findings suggest that diet during early life indeed has a lasting effect on the mammary gland and significantly influences postnatal body weight gain, metabolic status, and signaling networks in the mammary gland of female offspring.
This study investigated whether exercise training could prevent the negative side effects of dexamethasone. Rats underwent a training period and were either submitted to a running protocol (60% physical capacity, 5 days/week for 8 weeks) or kept sedentary. After this training period, the animals underwent dexamethasone treatment (1 mg/kg per day, i.p., 10 days). Glycemia, insulinemia, muscular weight and muscular glycogen were measured from blood and skeletal muscle. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) protein was analyzed in skeletal muscles. Dexamethasone treatment evoked body weight loss (-24%), followed by muscular atrophy in the tibialis anterior (-25%) and the extensor digitorum longus (EDL, -15%). Dexamethasone also increased serum insulin levels by 5.7-fold and glucose levels by 2.5-fold compared to control. The exercise protocol prevented atrophy of the EDL and insulin resistance. Also, dexamethasone-treated rats showed decreased muscular glycogen (-41%), which was further attenuated by the exercise protocol. The VEGF protein expression decreased in the skeletal muscles of dexamethasone-treated rats and was unaltered by the exercise protocol. These data suggest that exercise attenuates hyperglycemia and may also prevent insulin resistance, muscular glycogen loss and muscular atrophy, thus suggesting that exercise may have some benefits during glucocorticoid treatment.
Methionine provided in the drinking water of pregnant rats injected with sodium valproate reduced the frequency of resorptions but did not improve embryo growth. Rats drinking methionine supplemented water had approximately twice the level of serum-free methionine and consumed only one-half the volume of water of controls. Using whole rat embryo cultures, the simultaneous addition of methionine and sodium valproate to the medium provided no protection from neural tube defects, nor did the addition of methionine to a medium of serum obtained from rats previously dosed with sodium valproate. However, protection from the teratogenic effects of sodium valproate was afforded by methionine when the culture medium was sera from rats consuming methionine and was particularly striking when embryos for culture were taken from pregnant rats that had been consuming methionine. These observations along with those of others indicated the importance of dietary and culture media methionine levels in evaluating experimental and regulatory teratology studies and suggested the possibility that methionine may play an important role in human teratology where multifactorial causes have been implicated in problems such as neural tube closure defects.
We have previously shown that metoprolol decreases carnitine palmitoyltransferase-1 (CPT-1) activity, a mechanism which may partly explain its beneficial effects in heart failure. It is possible that this effect occurs as a result of repression of cardiac CPT-1B expression. CPT-1B is induced by the transcription factors peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-alpha (PPAR-alpha) and PPAR-gamma-coactivator 1alpha (PGC1alpha) and repressed by upstream stimulatory factor-2 (USF-2). We therefore hypothesized that metoprolol represses CPT-1B by increasing USF-2-mediated repression of PGC1alpha. Male Wistar Rats were divided into 4 groups: control, control treated with metoprolol for 5 weeks, diabetic and diabetic treated with metoprolol for 5 weeks. After termination, the expression of CPT-1 isoforms, PPAR-alpha, PGC1alpha USF-1 and USF-2, as well as downstream targets were measured. Binding of PPAR-alpha, PGC1alpha and USF-2 to PGC1alpha was measured using coimmunoprecipitation. The occupation of PPAR-alpha and MEF-2A consensus sites in the CPT-1B promoter was measured using chromatin immunoprecipitation assays. Chronic metoprolol treatment decreased the expression of CPT-1B in diabetic hearts. The expression of USF-2 was increased by metoprolol in both control and diabetic hearts, but the association of USF-2 with PGC1alpha was increased by metoprolol only in diabetic hearts. Metoprolol prevented the increase in PGC1alpha occupation of the CPT-1B promoter region observed in the diabetic heart without affecting PPAR-alpha occupation. Metoprolol decreases CPT-1B expression by decreasing PGC1alpha-mediated coactivation of PPAR-alpha and MEF-2A. This is associated with increased PGC1alpha/ USF-2 binding, suggesting that USF-2 mediates the metoprolol-induced repression of PGC1alpha.
The anticonvulsant effects of propofol administered intravenously against picrotoxin-induced seizure were studied and compared with those of diazepam and thiopental in the rat using picrotoxin-seizure threshold. Comparable doses of the three agents ranging between 1.25-20.0 mg/kg, produced dose-dependent increases in picrotoxin-threshold dose. At the lowest administered dose (1.25 mg/kg), there were no significant differences in picrotoxin-threshold dose among the three agents. Using 2.5 mg/kg dose, propofol and diazepam were equally effective and both were significantly more effective than thiopental in increasing picrotoxin-threshold dose. At higher doses of anticonvulsants (10.0 and 20.0 mg/kg), propofol was significantly more effective than both diazepam and thiopental. These results indicate that propofol is an effective anticonvulsant against picrotoxin-induced seizure, and this effect is significantly greater than diazepam and thiopental at doses producing clear sedative and behavioral effects.
Cocaine produces hepatotoxicity by a mechanism that remains undefined but that has been linked to its oxidative metabolism. Endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide, LPS) is also a well-known cause of hepatic damage, where exposure to non-injurious doses of LPS increases the toxicity of certain hepatotoxins. This study was conducted to investigate the possible potentiation of cocaine-mediated hepatotoxicity (CMH) by LPS. Male CF-1 mice were administered oral cocaine hydrochloride for 5 consecutive days at a dose of 20 mg/kg with and without 12 x 10(6) EU LPS/kg given intraperitoneally 4 h after the last cocaine injection. Serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) were measured as markers of liver injury. Blood and liver glutathione (GSH) levels were determined, as well as the activities of glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and catalase (CAT). In addition, the activity of liver glutathione reductase (GRx) was measured. The results demonstrate that endotoxin potentiated the hepatotoxicity of cocaine. Serum ALT and AST were significantly elevated with the combined cocaine and LPS treatment versus all other treatments. While cocaine alone resulted in centrilobular necrosis, the cocaine and LPS combination produced submassive necrosis. The increased hepatic GSH content and GRx activity observed with cocaine alone were not observed with the combination treatment, rendering the liver more susceptible to oxidative stress. Moreover, there was a significant decrease in the activities of hepatic GPx and CAT, particularly with the combination treatment. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that LPS potentiates the hepatotoxicity of cocaine as revealed by an array of biochemical and morphological markers.
In humans, deficiency of the tissue non-specific alkaline phosphatase (TNAP) gene is associated with defective skeletal mineralization. In contrast, mice lacking TNAP generated by homologous recombination using embryonic stem (ES) cells have normal skeletal development. However, at approximately two weeks after birth, homozygous mutant mice develop seizures which are subsequently fatal. Defective metabolism of pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP), characterized by elevated serum PLP levels, results in reduced levels of the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in the brain. The mutant seizure phenotype can be rescued by the administration of pyridoxal and a semi-solid diet. Rescued animals subsequently develop defective dentition. This study reveals essential physiological functions of TNAP in the mouse.
The incidence of oesophageal cancer (OC) has risen in recent decades, with survival rates remaining poor despite surgical treatment and adjuvant chemotherapy. Studies have reported cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) overexpression in OC and current evidence suggests NSAIDs have major potential for chemoprevention through COX-2 inhibition. However, several reports have questioned the specificity of these inhibitors, suggesting they may act through mechanisms other than COX-2. We evaluated the effects of specific COX-2 inhibitors, NS-398 and nimesulide, on cell lines of both histological types of OC. COX-2 protein expression varied in the cell lines and corresponded with levels of prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) production. Following treatment with low concentrations of NS-398 (0.1 microM), PGE(2) production was reduced dramatically, indicating inhibition of COX-2 activity. Examination of cellular morphology, caspase-3 activity and mitochondrial membrane integrity found no major induction of apoptotic cell death at concentrations below 100 microM. Tumour cell proliferation was significantly reduced at high concentrations (50-100 microM) of both inhibitors over 6 days. Cellular responses were more evident in NS-398-treated adenocarcinoma cells. However, concentrations required to inhibit proliferation were up to 1000-fold higher than those needed to inhibit enzyme activity. Addition of exogenous PGE(2) to NS-398-treated adenocarcinoma cells failed to reverse the inhibitory effects, indicating PG and COX-2 independence. It remains possible that in vivo COX-2 is the primary target, as enzyme inhibition can be achieved at low concentrations, however, inhibition of proliferation is not the primary mechanism of their anti-tumour activity.
The present study was conducted to understand the role of 1,2-dilynoleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (DLPhtCho) in cognitive functions.
Two-electrode voltage-clamp was made to Xenopus oocytes expressing rat alpha7 acetylcholine (ACh) receptors. Field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) were monitored from the CA1 region of rat hippocampal slices. Water maze test was carried out to assess spatial learning and memory for rats.
In the oocyte expression system, DLPhtCho at a concentration of 10 microM potentiated ACh-evoked currents to approximately 190% of basal amplitudes 70 min after 10-min treatment. In contrast, 1-stearoyl-2-lynoleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (SLPhtCho), 1-palmitoyl-2-linoleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (PLPhtCho), and 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (POPhtCho) had no effect on the currents. DLPhtCho (10 microM) enhanced slope of fEPSPs to about 150% of basal levels at 70-min treatment, that is inhibited by alpha-bungarotoxin, an inhibitor of alpha7 ACh receptors, while no enhancement was obtained with SLPhtCho, PLPhtCho, or POPhtCho. In the water maze test, oral administration with DLPhtCho (5 mg/kg) significantly shortened the prolonged acquisition latency for rats intraperitoneally injected with scopolamine (1 mg/kg).
The results of the present study show that DLPhtCho improves scopolamine-induced learning and memory deficits, possibly by facilitating hippocampal synaptic transmission under the control of alpha7 ACh receptors. DLPhtCho, therefore, could be developed as a beneficial anti-dementia drug.
To estimate the relationship between severity of prenatal cocaine exposure and expressive and receptive language skills in full-term, African American children at age 3 years.
Language was assessed at age 3 using the Clinical Evaluation of Language Fundamentals-Preschool (CELF-P). The sample included 424 children (226 cocaine exposed, 198 non-cocaine exposed) who received preschool language assessments at age 3, drawn from a cohort of 476 children enrolled prospectively at birth.
Structural equation modeling was used to regress expressive and receptive language as intercorrelated response variables on level of prenatal cocaine exposure, measured by a latent construct including maternal self-report of cocaine use and maternal/infant urine toxicology assays and infant meconium. Results indicated a.168 SD decrease in expressive language functioning for every unit increase in exposure level (95% CI = -.320, -.015; p =.031) after consideration for fetal growth and gestational age as correlated response variables. Receptive language was more modestly related to prenatal cocaine exposure and was not statistically significant. Results for expressive language remained stable with inclusion of the McCarthy general cognitive index as a response variable (expressive language beta = -.173, 95% CI = -.330, -.016; p =.031), and with adjustment for maternal age and prenatal exposures to alcohol, tobacco, and marijuana (expressive language beta = -.175, 95% CI = -.347, -.003; p =.046). Additional child and caregiver environmental variables assessed at age 3 were also evaluated in varying statistical models with similar results.
The evidence from this study supports a gradient relationship between increased level of prenatal cocaine exposure and decreased expressive language functioning in preschool-aged cocaine-exposed children.
Oestrogen may be implicated as an aetiological factor in the development of some renal carcinomas in man. The development of a renal carcinoma in 2 patients who had been treated with low-dose oestrogen for periods of 3 and 3 1/2 years because of prostatic carcinoma is described. It is suggested that patients receiving prolonged oestrogen therapy should be evaluated for the presence of a renal carcinoma at regular intervals.
