60%-90% of patients with a primary diagnosis of depression also experience symptoms of anxiety, and such patients have a poorer prognosis than those with uncomplicated depression. The serotonin selective reuptake inhibitors have demonstrated efficacy in the treatment of both depression and certain anxiety states. Furthermore, in a metaanalysis of the paroxetine clinical trial database of 2963 patients in whom depression predominated, there was a concomitant reduction in the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression anxiety factor. The purpose of the present study was to prospectively compare the efficacy of paroxetine and clomipramine in patients specifically selected for coexisting depression and anxiety.
This was a 12-week, double-blind, parallel-group trial comparing paroxetine 20-40 mg/day with clomipramine 75-150 mg/day in 1002 patients with a Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) score > or = 20 and a Clinical Anxiety Score (CAS) > or = 11 after a 3-7 day placebo run-in period.
Both paroxetine and clomipramine reduced the MADRS and CAS ratings at 2, 6, and 12 weeks and at endpoint, with no significant differences between treatment groups at any time point. CGI severity of illness and global improvement ratings were also similar throughout the trial; however, there was a statistically significant difference in the CGI efficacy index at 6 weeks and at endpoint, favoring paroxetine (p = .015 and p = .015, respectively). Paroxetine resulted in fewer treatment-emergent adverse experiences and related withdrawals than clomipramine (p = .025 and p = .008, respectively). The number of serious adverse experiences was not significantly different in the paroxetine group compared with the clomipramine group (14 [2.8%] vs. 27 [5.4%]), but did approach statistical significance (p = .056). Anticholinergic-emergent adverse experiences were reported twice as frequently by patients in the clomipramine group as in the paroxetine group (36.1% vs. 18.6%).
There was no evidence of any significant difference in efficacy between paroxetine and clomipramine in patients with coexisting depression and anxiety. However, paroxetine was better tolerated as shown by total treatment-emergent adverse experiences, anticholinergic adverse experiences, and withdrawals due to adverse experiences.
Doxorubicin causes a chronic cardiomyopathy of unknown pathogenesis. We investigated whether acquired defects in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and interconnected respiratory chain dysfunction may represent a molecular mechanism for its late onset.
Rats were treated weekly with intravenous doxorubicin (1 mg/kg) for 7 weeks, starting at 11 weeks of age (group B). Controls received saline. Group C received doxorubicin identically to group B, but the course was started at 41 weeks of age. All rats were killed at week 48. Doxorubicin was also injected once, either 6 days (group D) or 2 hours (group E) before euthanasia. Heart and skeletal muscle were examined. Only group B rats developed a significant clinical, macroscopic, histological, and ultrastructural cardiomyopathy. Group B hearts had the lowest cytochrome c oxidase (COX) activity (24% of controls; P=0.003), the highest citrate synthase activity (135% of controls; P=0.005), and the highest production of superoxide. In group B, the respiratory subunit COXI, which is encoded by mtDNA, was reduced (P<0.001), as was mtDNA (49% of controls, P<0.001). Group C hearts differed from group B in their lower cardiomyopathy score (P=0.006), higher COX activity (P=0.02), and higher mtDNA content (P=0.04). Group B and to a lesser extent group C hearts contained deleted mtDNA. There was no detectable mitochondrial toxicity in group D and E hearts or in skeletal muscle.
In doxorubicin cardiomyopathy, mtDNA alterations, superoxide, and respiratory chain dysfunction accumulate long-term in the absence of the drug and are associated with a late onset.
There is evidence that using lidocaine-treated cellular culture produces cell damage. However, there are no studies in vivo demonstrating the potential injurious effect of lidocaine on the central nervous system. Therefore, the aim of our study was to investigate if lidocaine is involved in neuronal damage in the CA3 hippocampus and amygdala regions when using a single subconvulsive or a convulsive lidocaine dose. Two-month-old male Wistar rats (57) were used. The animals were randomly assigned to one of three groups. Group I received 0.9% saline ip (n=9), group II received a single lidocaine dose of 60 mg/kg (n=18), and group III received 90 mg/kg ip (n=12). At day 2, 7, and 10 after the dosing, three to six rats per group were sacrificed. The brains of the rats were removed and were embedded in paraffin. Coronal cuts of 7 microm were made. Each brain section was stained with cresyl-eosin. We evaluated the number of normal and abnormal neurons in the hippocampal CA3 (pyramidal) and basolateral amygdala (large and medium neurons) regions in a 10,000 microm2 section. To explore an association between lidocaine-induced seizure and neuronal damage, diazepam was used (10 mg/kg ig) as an anticonvulsant two hours before a 90 mg/kg dose of lidocaine. Lidocaine causes a morphological neuronal alteration in the CA3 hippocampal region and the basolateral amygdala and possibly an inhibition-excitation imbalance. Diazepam prevents lidocaine-induced seizures, but not neuronal damage in brain structures. Interaction of lidocaine with the membrane components produces disrupted Ca+2 homeostasis and causes neuronal damage. Moreover, it is possible that lidocaine or its metabolites could actively participate in the neuronal damage observed.
Sixty-two men who presented with previously untreated metastatic carcinoma of the prostate (D0: 10 patients; D1: 29 patients; D2: 23 patients) received oral megestrol acetate (80 mg twice daily) and minidose estrogen (diethylstibestrol 0.1 mg or ethinyl estradiol 0.05 mg once daily) as a means of achieving total androgen ablation (testicular and adrenal). A high incidence of feminizing side effects (70-74%), a higher than expected rate of cardiovascular complications (18%), an unexpected need for cortisone replacement (13%), and failure of patients with Stage D2 disease to obtain results better than those of standard therapy during the first year of observation suggest this regimen offers no advantage over other more conventional therapy.
A patient with known aortoiliac occlusive disease and hypertension suffered a cerebrovascular accident 6.5 min after the administration of intravenous dipyridamole during a 201Tl myocardial study. Despite aminophylline administration, the patient developed a completed stroke. The mechanism most likely responsible for precipitating this patient's stroke is dipyridamole-induced vascular steal. Although dipyridamole-201Tl myocardial imaging is relatively free of major complications, the morbidity and mortality associated with a cerebrovascular accident is significant. The possibility of precipitating a cerebrovascular accident during dipyridamole-201Tl imaging should be considered in all patients with significant risk factors for stroke before performing a dipyridamole cardiac study.
A lot of evidence indicate that endocannabinoids and cannabinoid CB(1) receptors are implicated in drug addiction. In the present study, we investigated the effect of the cannabinoid CB(1) receptor antagonist/partial agonist rimonabant on the cocaine-maintained reinforcement and relapse to cocaine seeking as well as on the cocaine challenge-induced hyperactivity in sensitized rats and on discriminative stimulus effects of cocaine in rats. We found that endocannabinoids were not involved in maintenance of cocaine reinforcement and its subjective effects since pharmacological blockade of cannabinoid CB(1) receptors altered neither self-administration nor discriminative stimulus effects of cocaine. On the other hand, withdrawal from repeated access or exposure to cocaine and then a reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior or a sensitized locomotor response to a single cocaine challenge, respectively, was potently reduced by pretreatment with rimonabant. The latter observations may show that repeated cocaine treatment and the drug withdrawal produce--apart from behavioral effects--also different neural consequences in the endocannabinoid systems in rats.
To improve our mouse model of chemical-induced asthma we compared a single with a multiple intranasal challenge protocol. BALB/c mice received toluene diisocyanate (TDI) or vehicle on each ear (days 1 and 8) with the first challenge by intranasal instillation given on day 15. In a "long" protocol, the mice received 1 to 6 intranasal instillations, with 1-week interval. In a "short" protocol, the mice received 6 intranasal challenges over a period of 10 days. The "early" ventilatory response and methacholine reactivity were measured. Broncho-alveolar-lavage (BAL), total serum immunoglobulins and draining lymph nodes were analyzed. After 1, 2 or 3 TDI challenges, a significant increase in airway reactivity, total cell count and neutrophils (15-20%) was found in TDI-treated mice. This response diminished with increasing numbers of challenges in both models. The percentage CD4(+) and CD8(+) cells decreased and the percentage CD19(+) cells increased in the lymph nodes, but these returned to control values with multiple challenges. IL-4 secretion increased in cervical lymph node cells in vitro. Total serum IgE levels were persistently increased in TDI-treated mice. Although humoral signs of allergy remain increased after multiple challenges, diminishing ventilatory and inflammatory responses are indicative of the induction of tolerance.
BK viral nephropathy is a well-documented clinical entity in kidney transplant recipients and a significant cause of morbidity and allograft loss in affected patients. BK viral nephropathy in native kidneys of non-kidney transplant recipients is relatively uncommon, but has been reported in adult patients. We report the occurrence of BK viral nephropathy in a pediatric heart transplant recipient. A 10-yr-old boy with past history of Ewing's sarcoma underwent heart transplantation for dilated cardiomyopathy induced by previous chemotherapy with doxorubicin. Post-transplant course was complicated by grade 3A rejection and CMV colitis. He was diagnosed with native BK viral nephropathy approximately 18 months post-transplant due to mild, but persistent, elevation in serum creatinine associated with proteinuria. BK viral nephropathy affects non-kidney transplant recipients, and a high index of suspicion is necessary for early diagnosis and management of this condition.
Mechanisms underlying the development of acute tolerance to the analgesic effect of opiates were investigated. In the rat tail-flick test, administration of naloxone (1 mg/kg, s.c.) 40 min after heroin (1 mg/kg, s.c.) was shown to induce hyperalgesia, indicative of a short-onset, opiate-activated pain facilitatory systems masking the opiate analgesia. Pretreatment with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist dizocilpine maleate blocked, in a dose-dependent manner, the naloxone-induced hyperalgesia and potentiated the heroin-induced analgesia. Using a schedule of two successive injections of 1 mg/kg heroin, acute tolerance was indicated by a marked reduction (-52%) in analgesia induced by the second dose. After pretreatment with dizocilpine maleate, the acute tolerance was abolished and the analgesic effects of both injections of heroin were strongly potentiated. These observations indicate that acute tolerance appears after the first exposure to opiates and stems from opiate activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate-dependent pain facilitatory systems.
Ranolazine is a novel antianginal agent currently under investigation as monotherapy and adjunct therapy for the treatment of chronic stable angina. Although the mechanism of action of ranolazine is not completely understood, it is believed to involve a reduction in fatty acid oxidation, ultimately leading to a shift in myocardial energy production from fatty acid oxidation to glucose oxidation. Because the oxidation of glucose requires less oxygen than the oxidation of fatty acids, ranolazine can help maintain myocardial function in times of ischemia. In addition, ranolazine does not significantly affect blood pressure, heart rate, or cardiac conduction. The clinical data with ranolazine focuses on its use in chronic stable angina, where it has been shown to increase exercise tolerance and decrease angina compared with placebo and in combination with beta-blockers and calcium-channel blockers. The use of ranolazine for other cardiac conditions and the effect of ranolazine on morbidity and mortality remain to be determined.
The analgesic requirements and bladder function of 5 patients who received 1 mg of intrathecal morphine during lumbar spine operation are compared to those of 10 control patients. No analgesics were used by the treatment group for the first 24 hours postoperatively. The test group subsequently required twice the amount of analgesics during the 2nd through 5th days after operation compared to controls. All 5 patients who received intrathecal morphine developed urinary retention for 24 to 36 hours. The brief duration of analgesia, the increased narcotic use after the effects of the morphine dissipated, and urinary retention after a single intraoperative dose of intrathecal morphine suggest caution in using this technique.
Penile erections were regularly induced by intermittent subcutaneous injections of apomorphine in five patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) complicated by motor fluctuations. Four of the patients reported erectile dysfunction before beginning apomorphine and two of these report a significant improvement in their sexual function resulting from apomorphine use. Animal studies suggest central D2-type dopamine receptor stimulation and oxytocin release from the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus mediate the effect. Erections reported with other dopamine agonists and levodopa are probably mediated by the same mechanism. Apomorphine-induced erections in PD are probably more common than previously thought. The benefit of apomorphine on sexual function in some patients suggests a possible role in the treatment of impotence in PD.
Nardostachys jatamansi is a medicinally important herb of Indian origin used for centuries in Ayurvedic and Unani systems of medicine for the treatment of various ailments. The aim of the present work is to evaluate the effect of ethanolic extract of Nardostachys jatamansi rhizomes on doxorubicin induced myocardial injury with respect to lipid metabolism in serum and heart of Wistar albino rats. Altered lipid metabolism alters the cardiac function which is mainly due to changes in the property of the cardiac cell membrane. Doxorubicin exhibits cardiotoxicity by inhibition of fatty acid oxidation in the heart. The rats treated with a single dose of doxorubicin (15 mg/kg) intraperitoneally showed an increase in serum and cardiac lipids (cholesterol, triglycerides, free fatty acids and phospholipids), along with a significant rise in serum low density lipoproteins (LDL), very low density lipoproteins (VLDL) and drop in high density lipoproteins (HDL) levels, resulting in alteration of serum and cardiac lipid metabolizing enzymes. Pretreatment with a extract of Nardostachys jatamansi (500 mg/kg) orally for seven days to doxorubicin induced rats showed a significant prevention in the lipid status with the activities of the lipid metabolizing enzymes. Histopathological observations were also in correlation with the biochemical parameters. These findings suggest that the protective and hypolipidemic effect of Nardostachys jatamansi against doxorubicin induced myocardial injury in rats could possibly be mediated through its anti lipid peroxidative properties.
The swimming method of Klaus and Hacker, developed for the AB/Jena and DBA2/Jena mouse strains, was evaluated for use with pre-weaned Swiss Webster (SW) mice. All SW mice completed the swimming pattern by postnatal day (PND) 16, but did not conform to all criteria depicted for each stage of the methodology. These swimming differences among strains required modification of the above method for the SW mouse. An expanded and revised swimming methodology included evaluation of limb movement and placement; body position; head position, including nostril and ear positions; and direction of movement. The revised methodology was validated on PND 4 through 20 with offspring of methimazole-treated or untreated SW dams. Methimazole, an antithyroid agent, was administered in drinking water (0.1 mg/ml; day 16 of pregnancy through day 10 postpartum). Untreated dams received tap water. Methimazole pups exhibited significant delays in swimming development on PND 9 through 16. This revised swimming methodology provides another preweaning test for the detection of behavioral teratogens for SW and probably other strains of mice.
Twenty-three children with acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) were examined by computed tomography (CT) of the head on two occasions more than 11 months apart. The first CT was performed at the time of diagnosis in 11 children, who were re-examined while still in their first complete remission. They had received prophylactic central nervous system (CNS) treatment consisting of intrathecal methotrexate supplemented by irradiation in 7 cases and intermediate dose methotrexate in 4 cases. Twelve children were receiving treatment for CNS relapse. This included therapeutic irradiation and intrathecal methotrexate. Abnormal CT developed in 7 children. Three CT scans demonstrated areas of decreased attenuation coefficient, one with intracerebral calcifications. In 5 patients, dilatation of the ventricles and cortical sulci had developed. All CT abnormalities occurred in children in remission after CNS relapse. These results indicate that prophylactic treatment including cranial irradiation with 24 Gy and low cumulative doses of methotrexate is a safe procedure. Patients with CNS leukemia are at risk of developing CNS abnormalities, when they receive treatment with cranial irradiation and methotrexate. The risk is not correlated with age or sex of the child, the duration of the disease, the dose of irradiation or the cumulative dose of methotrexate.
During the 1990s, one in nine women in the western world will be diagnosed with breast cancer, and more than 58,000 will die of the disease each year in Europe alone. Recent changes in the primary therapy of operable breast cancer have not altered patient prognosis. Adjuvant therapy delays systemic recurrence and improves survival for only a fairly selected fraction of these patients. Therapy for metastatic breast cancer has not improved significantly in recent years. While combination chemotherapy may prolong survival in selected patients, few if any achieve cure. Standard chemotherapy regimens used to treat metastatic breast cancer, such as CMF (cyclophosphamide/methotrexate/fluorouracil), FAC (5-FU/Adriamycin/cyclophosphamide), and FEC (5-FU/epirubicin/cyclophosphamide), were developed over a decade ago. Current efforts to improve therapeutic efficacy have concentrated on decreasing drug toxicity and increasing drug doses (e.g., high-dose chemotherapy with peripheral stem cell support). An important alternative to increasing therapeutic efficacy by such approaches is altering the administration schedules of well-known chemotherapeutic agents and introducing active new cytotoxic agents. One of the most frequently used cytotoxic drugs, 5-FU has documented activity in a variety of malignancies, most notably in breast cancer and gastrointestinal tract cancers. However, despite broad clinical experience, our knowledge of mechanisms of resistance in relation to various 5-FU schedules is limited. In vitro data and clinical experience show that resistance to one schedule of 5-FU can be overcome by using an alternative schedule, most often a protracted infusion.
There is clinical evidence of anxiolytic action of several anti-epileptic drugs. We evaluated the effects of levetiracetam (Keppra), a new generation anti-epileptic drug, in the plus-maze animal test for anxiolytic activity. Levetiracetam at 17 and 54 mg/kg intraperitoneally (i.p.) was without effect when tested in naive rats. A modified version of the test was subsequently used in which open-arm exploration was decreased by exposure of the rats to a four-open-arm maze 24 h prior to drug treatment and testing. Under these conditions of enhanced anxiety, levetiracetam, 5.4 to 54 mg/kg, dose-dependently increased open-arm exploration. Chlordiazepoxide 5 mg/kg had similar effects although buspirone 0.1 to 1.0 mg/kg was inactive. The results with levetiracetam substantiate similar findings of its anxiolytic actions against chlordiazepoxide withdrawal-induced anxiety in mice and in a modified Vogel test in rats and support a potential clinical use of this drug in anxiety states.
Twenty-four patients with metastatic breast cancer that had progressed after high-dose chemotherapy with peripheral blood progenitor cell (PBPC) support were given intramuscular methotrexate in combination with oral UFT (tegafur and uracil) and oral leucovorin (the MUL regimen). Of the total treated, 21 patients are currently evaluable for response and toxicity. All patients had received extensive prior chemotherapy, including a high-dose regimen with PBPC support. Of the 21 assessable patients, 8 obtained either a complete response (1) or partial response (7), for an overall objective response rate of 38%. Another 7 patients had stable disease for 3 or more months. Therefore, the MUL regimen was able to stop disease progression for 3 or more months in nearly 75% of patients. The median time to progression and median overall survival from the start of MUL were 6 and 9 months, respectively. The toxicity was mainly gastrointestinal; 6 patients (29%) had World Health Organization grade 2/3 diarrhea, leading to a UFT dose reduction. Emesis was mild and easily manageable with thiethylperazine. In conclusion, MUL chemotherapy is active and well tolerated in patients with metastatic breast cancer in progression after high-dose chemotherapy. Further studies with this regimen, either as salvage chemotherapy or as maintenance chemotherapy after high-dose chemotherapy with PBPC, are warranted.
The protective effect of hemin, the heme oxygenase-1 inducer, was investigated in rats with cadmium induced-testicular injury, in which oxidative stress and inflammation play a major role. Testicular damage was induced by a single i.p. injection of cadmium chloride (2mg/kg). Hemin was given for three consecutive days (40 micromol/kg/day, s.c.), starting 1 day before cadmium administration. Hemin treatment significantly increased serum testosterone level that was reduced by cadmium. Hemin compensated deficits in the antioxidant defense mechanisms (reduced glutathione, and catalase and superoxide dismutase activities), and suppressed lipid peroxidation in testicular tissue resulted from cadmium administration. Also, hemin attenuated the cadmium-induced elevations in testicular tumor necrosis factor-alpha and nitric oxide levels, and caspase-3 activity. Additionally, hemin ameliorated cadmium-induced testicular tissue damage observed by light and electron microscopic examinations. The protective effect afforded by hemin was abolished by prior administration of zinc protoporphyrin-IX, the heme oxygenase-1 inhibitor. It was concluded that hemin, through its antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and antiapoptotic effects, represents a potential therapeutic option to protect the testicular tissue from the detrimental effects of cadmium.
Charcot-Marie-Tooth [CMT] syndrome is the most common hereditary peripheral neuropathy. CMT1A, which accounts for 50% of all CMT cases, usually results from triploidy of the PMP22 gene. Preclinical trials using an animal model show that disabled mice force-fed with high doses of ascorbic acid partially recover muscular strength after a few months of treatment, and suggest that high doses of ascorbic acid repress PMP22 expression. In this study, we demonstrated that ascorbic acid represses PMP22 gene expression by acting on intracellular cAMP levels and adenylate cyclase activity. This action is dose dependent and specific to ascorbic acid, since repression is not observed after treatment with other antioxidants. The new properties of ascorbic acid are discussed, along with the implications of these findings for CMT disease treatment.
