Oral contraception has proved to be the most efficient reversible method of fertility control for over 25 years. During this period, various investigations and epidemiological studies have suggested that some risks may be involved, but, on the other hand, a number of non-contraceptive benefits have become obvious. The results of these investigations were taken into account when new formulations had to be developed, with an aim to improving hormonal fertility control with regard to its tolerance, cycle control, and impact on metabolism. Since then, the objective of research has been to contrive new hormonal contraceptives which ensure safety to the largest possible extent, from a medical point of view, for the sake of the patient, without affecting contraceptive effectiveness. The aim to reduce side-effects connected with the use of oral contraception, as well as to lower the risks possibly involved, has obviously been achieved by extensive research. Both by devising a new substance and reducing doses, the criteria of modern low-dose oral contraception have been met, as has become evident in the course of the clinical experience gathered with Femovan.
Clinical experience with Femovan (Schering AG, Berlin), a combined oral contraceptive containing 0.075 mg gestodene and 0.030 mg ethinyl estradiol, in 3267 women at 165 hospitals and private practices in Germany, from December 1985-February 1988, is presented. 46% were new pill users, 54% switched from other formulations, usually contained 0.030 mg ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel, desogestrel, norethisterone or lynestrenol. Each subject gave informed consent, was within 10% of normal weight, kept a menstrual diary, and attended for follow-up at 3, 6, 9, 12, 15 and 18 months. They averaged 24.7 years old. 98.7% continued for 6 cycles; 56.6% for 12 cycles and 33.4% for 18 cycles. While 90% of the dropouts did not return for follow up, stated reasons for stopping were 10.3% for minor side effects of headaches, intermenstrual bleeding and weight gain, and 8 for planned pregnancy. 7 pregnancies were recorded, 5 related to errors in taking tablets or 2 or more pills, giving a Pearl Index of 0.065 for method failure and 0.16 for patient failure. Both the flow and duration of menstrual bleeding tended to decrease. Intermenstrual bleeding occurred in 15.9% of new pill users, declining to 3.7% of all women by the 4th-6th cycles, often associated with omitted pills. There were no significant changes in weight or systolic or diastolic blood pressure. Numbers of complaints of minor side effects decreased or disappeared in 50-85%. Acne developed in 58 women but declined to 14 women after 12 cycles; acne pre-existed in 377 women improved in 41% after 3 cycles.
We evaluated the role of lipoxygenase products of arachidonic acid metabolism in mechanical hyperalgesia induced by epinephrine, an agent that directly sensitizes nociceptors to produce mechanical hyperalgesia via three second messenger signaling pathways, protein kinase A (PKA), protein kinase C epsilon (PKCepsilon), and mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK). Epinephrine hyperalgesia and that induced by a selective activator of PKCepsilon, psiepsilonRACK, were inhibited by nordihydroguaretic acid (NDGA, non-selective lipoxygenase inhibitor), baicalein (BAIC, 12-lipoxygenase inhibitor) and 5, 6-dehydroarachidonic acid (5, 6-dhAA, 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor). NDGA and 5, 6-dhAA inhibited the hyperalgesia associated with activation of the protein kinase A pathway, elicited by the direct-acting hyperalgesic agent prostaglandin E(2) or by the catalytic subunit of protein kinase A. The hyperalgesia produced by active MAPK was not blocked by any of the lipoxygenase inhibitors. Injection of 5- and 12-lipoxygenase produced hyperalgesia that was not antagonized by inhibitors of PKA, PKCepsilon or MAPK. These findings suggest that: (1). lipoxygenase products of arachidonic acid function as second messengers in the peripheral hyperalgesia induced by agents that act directly on primary afferent nociceptors (epinephrine and prostaglandin E(2)), (2). products of the 5-lipoxygenase and 12-lipoxygenase pathway are involved in this function, and (3). these lipoxygenase products contribute to hyperalgesia at or downstream of protein kinase A and PKCepsilon.
The antihypertensive effects of clonidine hydrochloride and practolol were compared in 42 men, aged 45 years, who had not received any antihypertensive therapy before, except one patient. The diastolic blood pressures were at least 110 mmHg on two successive visits to the health centre before their selection to the trial. One half of them were classified into the WHO group 1 and the other half into group 2. There was no statistical difference in the systolic and diastolic blood pressures between clonidine and practolol group at the end of placebo period. The study started with a three-week placebo period. Thereafter, 20 patients were given clonidine 0.225 mg and twenty-two practolol 200 mg daily. The next control was carried out after three weeks. The dosage was kept unchanged or increased according to the antihypertensive response. After three weeks, clonidine and practolol dosages were checked again, and 25 mg of chlorothiazide were added to the treatment in 15 clonidine cases and in 18 practolol cases. After the next three-week period, the same regimen was continued on most patients for 6-9 weeks. The daily dosage of clonidine varied from 0.225 to 0.900 (mean 0.394) mg and that of practolol from 200 to 600 (mean 382) mg. Both regimens resulted, when individually adjusted, in a mean systolic blood pressure level of less than 150 mmHg and diastolic pressures less than or equal to 100 mmHg. Hydrochlorothiazide potentiated the blood pressure effect almost equally in both regimens. The blood pressure reduction was statistically significant (p less than 0.05) both in the clonidine and practolol group. There was no significant difference of the mean blood pressures after the active drug therapy between these two groups. A moderate reduction of pulse rate was observed in both main groups, but it was not related to the antihypertensive efficacy. Side-effects were mild. Dryness of the mouth and sedation were more common in patients receiving clonidine. No oculocutaneous or other "immunological" manifestation were seen during the 15-18 weeks' practolol therapy.
Co-occurring psychiatric disorders have been associated with poor prognosis among substance-dependent patients, but few studies have examined this association among patients with cocaine dependence (CD). We compared baseline characteristics and treatment outcome between cocaine-dependent patients with major depressive disorder (MDD; n = 66), those with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD; n = 53), and those with CD without comorbid disorders (CD alone; n = 48) who had been randomized to the placebo arms of clinical trials with venlafaxine, methylphenidate, and gabapentin, respectively. The three groups differed significantly in racial makeup, with more Caucasians and Hispanics among patients with MDD and those with ADHD but more African Americans among those with CD alone. The groups did not differ significantly in treatment retention, with retention rates ranging from 42% to 47%; neither did they differ in the rates of achieving 2 consecutive weeks of urinalysis-confirmed abstinence, with rates ranging from 40% to 50%. Using logistic regression for repeated measures with general estimating equations, modeling the likelihood of a cocaine-positive week over time in treatment, we found the diagnostic group to interact with the baseline level of cocaine use and time. Among cocaine-dependent patients who achieved abstinence at baseline, those with MDD and those with ADHD had better outcome over time as compared with patients with CD alone. However, among patients with cocaine-positive urine specimens at baseline, those with MDD and those with ADHD were associated with poor outcome as compared with patients with CD alone. The findings suggest that diagnosis and treatment of co-occurring disorders such as depression and ADHD may be important components of treatment planning for CD and that the baseline level of cocaine use should be included as a covariate in studies evaluating the impact of such treatment.
Tardive dyskinesia (TD) is a late complication of prolonged neuroleptic treatment characterized by involuntary movements of the oral region. In spite of high incidence and much research, the pathophysiology of this devastating movement disorder remains elusive. Chronic treatment with neuroleptics leads to the development of abnormal oral movements in rats, referred to as vacuous chewing movements (VCMs). VCMs in rats are widely accepted as an animal model of TD. Rats chronically treated with haloperidol (1.5 mg/kg ip) significantly developed VCMs and tongue protrusions. Melatonin dose-dependently (1, 2, and 5 mg/kg) reversed the haloperidol-induced VCM and tongue protrusions frequencies. Biochemical analysis reveals that chronic haloperidol treatment significantly induced lipid peroxidation and decreased the forebrain glutathione (GSH) levels in the rats. Chronic haloperidol-treated rats also showed decreased levels of antioxidant defense enzymes, superoxide dismutase (SOD), and catalase. Coadministration of melatonin (1, 2, and 5 mg/kg) along with haloperidol significantly reduced the lipid peroxidation and restored the decreased GSH levels by chronic haloperidol treatment, and significantly reversed the haloperidol-induced decrease in forebrain SOD and catalase levels in rats. However, a lower dose of melatonin (1 mg/kg) failed to reverse chronic haloperidol-induced decreases in forebrain GSH, SOD, and catalase levels. In conclusion, melatonin could be screened as a potential drug candidate for the prevention or treatment of neuroleptic-induced orofacial dyskinesia.
Establishing an occupational exposure limit (OEL) for N-methyl pyrrolidone (NMP) is important due to its widespread use as a solvent. Based on studies in rodents, the most sensitive toxic end point is a decrease in fetal/pup body weights observed after oral, dermal, and inhalation exposures of dams to NMP. Evidence indicates that the parent compound is the causative agent. To reduce the uncertainty in rat to human extrapolations, physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) models were developed to describe the pharmacokinetics of NMP in both species. Since in utero exposures are of concern, the models considered major physiological changes occurring in the dam or mother over the course of gestation. The rat PBPK model was used to determine the relationship between NMP concentrations in maternal blood and decrements in fetal/pup body weights following exposures to NMP vapor. Body weight decrements seen after vapor exposures occurred at lower NMP blood levels than those observed after oral and dermal exposures. Benchmark dose modeling was used to better define a point of departure (POD) for fetal/pup body weight changes based on dose-response information from two inhalation studies in rats. The POD and human PBPK model were then used to estimate the human equivalent concentrations (HECs) that could be used to derive an OEL value for NMP. The geometric mean of the PODs derived from the rat studies was estimated to be 350 mg h/l (expressed in terms of internal dose), a value which corresponds to an HEC of 480 ppm (occupational exposure of 8 h/day, 5 days/week). The HEC is much higher than recently developed internationally recognized OELs for NMP of 10-20 ppm, suggesting that these OELs adequately protect workers exposed to NMP vapor.
The importance of nanotechnologies and engineered nanoparticles has grown rapidly. It is therefore crucial to acquire up-to-date knowledge of the possible harmful health effects of these materials. Since a multitude of different types of nanosized titanium dioxide (TiO(2)) particles are used in industry, we explored their inflammatory potential using mouse and cell models. BALB/c mice were exposed by inhalation for 2 h, 2 h on 4 consecutive days, or 2 h on 4 consecutive days for 4 weeks to several commercial TiO(2) nanoparticles, SiO(2) nanoparticles, and to nanosized TiO(2) generated in a gas-to-particle conversion process at 10 mg/m(3). In addition, effects of in vitro exposure of human macrophages and fibroblasts (MRC-9) to the different particles were assessed. SiO(2)-coated rutile TiO(2) nanoparticles (cnTiO(2)) was the only sample tested that elicited clear-cut pulmonary neutrophilia. Uncoated rutile and anatase as well as nanosized SiO(2) did not induce significant inflammation. Pulmonary neutrophilia was accompanied by increased expression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and neutrophil-attracting chemokine CXCL1 in the lung tissue. TiO(2) particles accumulated almost exclusively in the alveolar macrophages. In vitro exposure of murine and human macrophages to cnTiO(2) elicited significant induction of TNF-alpha and neutrophil-attracting chemokines. Stimulation of human fibroblasts with cnTiO(2)-activated macrophage supernatant induced high expression of neutrophil-attracting chemokines, CXCL1 and CXCL8. Interestingly, the level of lung inflammation could not be explained by the surface area of the particles, their primary or agglomerate particle size, or radical formation capacity but is rather explained by the surface coating. Our findings emphasize that it is vitally important to take into account in the risk assessment that alterations of nanoparticles, e.g., by surface coating, may drastically change their toxicological potential.
Kinetic studies of antigen distribution to various organs were performed throughout the course of experimental immune complex (IC) glomerulonephritis induced in rats. By using a paired radiolabel technique and histologic observations, the authors found massive amounts of antigen within both the lungs and the livers of these rats before the development of glomerulonephritis. However, the rate of antigen disappearance from the lung exceeded that from the liver. Polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs) handled almost all the antigen administered, presumably in the form of ICs. Electron microscopy yielded little evidence that Kupffer cells or monocytes phagocytosed these ICs. After glomerulonephritis developed, only minimal amounts of antigen were evident in the lungs and livers. These observations indicate that the mononuclear phagocyte system (MPS) does not participate in the processing of ICs as previously believed, but that PMNs dispose of nearly all the ICs formed in vivo in this model of glomerulonephritis.
Chemokines, otherwise known as chemotactic cytokines, are proinflammatory mediators of the immune response and have been implicated in altered sensory processing, hyperalgesia, and central sensitization following tissue injury or inflammation. To address the role of CXCL12/CXCR4 signaling in normal micturition and inflammation-induced bladder hyperreflexia, bladder inflammation in adult female Wistar rats (175-250 g) was induced by injecting cyclophosphamide (CYP) intraperitoneally at acute (150 mg/kg; 4 h), intermediate (150 mg/kg; 48 h), and chronic (75 mg/kg; every 3rd day for 10 days) time points. CXCL12, and its receptor, CXCR4, were examined in the whole urinary bladder of control and CYP-treated rats using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs), quantitative PCR (qRT-PCR), and immunostaining techniques. ELISAs, qRT-PCR, and immunostaining experiments revealed a significant (P < or = 0.01) increase in CXCL12 and CXCR4 expression in the whole urinary bladder, and particularly in the urothelium, with CYP treatment. The functional role of CXCL12/CXCR4 signaling in micturition was evaluated using conscious cystometry with continuous instillation of saline and CXCR4 receptor antagonist (AMD-3100; 5 microM) administration in control and CYP (48 h)-treated rats. Receptor blockade of CXCR4 using AMD-3100 increased bladder capacity in control (no CYP) rats and reduced CYP-induced bladder hyperexcitability as demonstrated by significant (P < or = 0.01) increases in intercontraction interval, bladder capacity, and void volume. These results suggest a role for CXCL12/CXCR4 signaling in both normal micturition and with bladder hyperreflexia following bladder inflammation.
A familial investigation was made in three families with deafness patients caused by aminoglycoside (AMI). The results showed that there was cross susceptibility among a few AMI antibiotics. The people with familial history of deafness caused by AMI were easier to be toxic than those without familial history, even though little dose of AMI for the former, especially for children. The cross susceptibility is dominated by inheritance of matriarchal heredity and by general chromosome. The data suggest that medical history should be inquired before treatment with AMI, and patients with matriarchal heredity must be prohibited from using AMI.
It was hypothesized that dysregulation of renal epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) subunits and/or 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (11betaHSD2) may play a role in the increased sodium retention in liver cirrhosis (LC). Experimental LC was induced in rats by CCl(4) (1 ml/kg, intraperitoneally, twice a week) for 12 wk (protocol 1) or for 11 wk (protocol 2). In both protocols, one group of rats with cirrhosis showed significantly decreased urinary sodium excretion and urinary Na/K ratio (group A), whereas a second group exhibited normal urinary sodium excretion (group B) compared with controls, even though extensive ascites was seen in both groups of rats with cirrhosis. In group A, protein abundance of alpha-ENaC was unchanged, whereas beta-ENaC abundance was decreased in the cortex/outer stripe of outer medulla compared with controls. The gamma-ENaC underwent a complex change associated with increased abundance of the 70-kD band with a concomitant decrease in the main 85-kD band, corresponding to an aldosterone effect. In contrast, no changes in the abundance of ENaC subunit were observed in group B. Immunoperoxidase microscopy revealed an increased apical targeting of alpha-, beta-, and gamma-ENaC subunits in distal convoluted tubule (DCT2), connecting tubule (CNT), and cortical and medullary collecting duct segments in group A but not in group B. Immunolabeling intensity of 11betaHSD2 in the DCT2, CNT, and cortical collecting duct was significantly reduced in group A but not in group B, and this was confirmed by immunoblotting. In conclusion, increased apical targeting of ENaC subunits combined with diminished abundance of 11betaHSD2 in the DCT2, CNT, and cortical collecting duct is likely to play a role in the sodium retaining stage of liver cirrhosis.
This double-blind, within-subjects experiment examined the effects of ingesting two doses of caffeine on perceptions of leg muscle pain and blood pressure during moderate intensity cycling exercise. Low caffeine consuming college-aged males (N=12) ingested one of two doses of caffeine (5 or 10 mg.kg(-1) body weight) or placebo and 1 h later completed 30 min of moderate intensity cycling exercise (60% VO2peak). The order of drug administration was counter-balanced. Resting blood pressure and heart rate were recorded immediately before and 1 h after drug administration. Perceptions of leg muscle pain as well as work rate, blood pressure, heart rate, and oxygen uptake (VO2) were recorded during exercise. Caffeine increased resting systolic pressure in a dose-dependent fashion but these blood pressure effects were not maintained during exercise. Caffeine had a significant linear effect on leg muscle pain ratings [F(2,22)=14.06; P < 0.0001; eta2=0.56 ]. The mean (+/-SD) pain intensity scores during exercise after ingesting 10 mg.kg(-1) body weight caffeine, 5 mg.kg(-1) body weight caffeine, and placebo were 2.1+/-1.4, 2.6+/-1.5, and 3.5+/-1.7, respectively. The results support the conclusion that caffeine ingestion has a dose-response effect on reducing leg muscle pain during exercise and that these effects do not depend on caffeine-induced increases in systolic blood pressure during exercise.
(S)-Carbamic acid 2-[4-(4-fluoro-benzoyl)-piperidin-1-yl]-1-phenyl-ethyl ester hydrochloride (YKP1447) is a novel "atypical" antipsychotic drug which selectively binds to serotonin (5-HT(2A), Ki=0.61 nM, 5-HT(2C), Ki=20.7 nM) and dopamine (D(2), Ki=45.9 nM, D(3), Ki=42.1 nM) receptors with over 10~100-fold selectivity over the various receptors which exist in the brain. In the behavioral studies using mice, YKP1447 antagonized the apomorphine-induced cage climbing (ED(50)=0.93 mg/kg) and DOI-induced head twitch (ED(50)=0.18 mg/kg) behavior. In the dextroamphetamine-induced hyperactivity and conditioned avoidance response (CAR) paradigm in rats, YKP1447 inhibited the hyperactivity induced by amphetamine (ED(50)=0.54 mg/kg) and the avoidance response (ED(50)=0.48 mg/kg); however, unlike other antipsychotic drugs, catalepsy was observed only at much higher dose (ED(50)=68.6 mg/kg). Based on the CAR and catalepsy results, the therapeutic index (TI) value for YKP1447 is over 100 (i.p.). These results indicate that YKP1447 has an atypical profile and less undesirable side effects than currently available drugs.
Arnica (Heterotheca inuloides) is a widely used medicinal plant in México; it has been recognized as anti-inflammatory, analgesic, cytotoxic, scavenger of superoxide anion and also as a preventive of lipid peroxidation. In vivo studies have demonstrated a hepatoprotective action of the methanolic extract of this plant as well as of quercetin, one of its main components, and the evidence obtained pointed out to an antioxidant mechanism. In this work, we focused on the free radical scavenging capacity of acetonic and methanolic extracts of H. inuloides in comparison with reference compounds. The two extracts were 2-12 times more effective (IC50, microg/mL) than the reference compounds to cope with the following radicals or molecules tested: 2,2'-azinobis-(3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) (ABTS(+)), 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH), peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)), superoxide (O2(-)), singlet oxygen ((1)O(2)), hypochlorous acid (HOCl), hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), hydroxyl (OH). Additionally, five secondary metabolites isolated from the methanolic extract displayed potent concentration-dependent antioxidant effects against reactive oxygen species produced in vitro (IC50 values in the range of 0.018-4.31mg/mL). d-Chiro-inositol showed the higher antioxidant effect against O2(-), H2O2 and OH while spinasterol and quercetin were the most active against (1)O(2) and ONOO(-), respectively. The antioxidant properties of the extracts and metabolites tested partially support the wide use of this plant in traditional medicine.
Minoxidil is a potent peripheral vasodilator used to treat patients with severe hypertension that is unresponsive to other medications. Hypertrichosis of the forehead, face, neck, shoulders, upper part of the arms, and legs is a frequent side effect that occurs in the majority of patients that use this drug. This phenomenon appears to be due to increased blood flow to hair follicles, with resultant excessive hair growth. We describe a patient with severe hypertrichosis of the external ear canal resulting in chronic otitis externa and hearing loss.
Prolonged exposure of rodent beta-cells to combinations of cytokines induces the inducible form of nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression and Fas expression, nitric oxide (NO) production, and cell death. It also induces the expression of potential "defense" genes, such as manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) and heat shock protein (hsp) 70. NO is a radical with multifaceted actions. Recent studies have shown that NO, in addition to having cytotoxic actions, may regulate gene transcription. It remains unclear whether NO mediates cytokine-induced gene expression and subsequent beta-cell death. Previous studies using NO synthase blockers yielded conflicting results, which may be due to nonspecific effects of these agents. In this study, we examined the effects of cytokines on gene expression, determined by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and viability, determined by nuclear dyes, of pancreatic islets or fluorescence-activated cell sorter (FACS)-purified beta-cells isolated from iNOS knockout mice (iNOS-/-, background C57BL/6x129SvEv) or their respective controls (C57BL/6x129SvEv). The combination of cytokines used was interleukin-1beta (50 U/ml) plus gamma-interferon (1,000 U/ml) plus tumor necrosis factor-alpha (1,000 U/ml). The lack of cytokine-induced iNOS activity in the iNOS-/- islet cells was confirmed by RT-PCR and nitrite determination. Cytokines induced a >3-fold increase in Fas and MnSOD mRNA expression in wild-type (WT) and iNOS-/- islets. On the other hand, hsp 70 was induced in WT but not in iNOS-/- islets. Prolonged (6-9 days) exposure of WT islets to cytokines leads to an 80-90% decrease in islet cell viability, whereas viability decreased by only 10-30% in iNOS-/- islet cells. To determine the mode of cytokine-induced cell death, FACS-purified beta-cells were exposed to the same cytokines. After 9 days, the apoptosis index was similarly increased in WT (39 +/- 3%) and iNOS4-/- (33 +/- 4%) beta-cells. On the other hand, cytokines increased necrosis in WT (20 +/- 4%) but not in iNOS-/- (7 +/- 3%) beta-cells. From these data, we concluded that 1) NO is required for cytokine-induced hsp 70 mRNA expression but not for Fas and MnSOD expression, 2) cytokines induce both apoptosis and necrosis in mouse beta-cells, and 3) cytokine-induced apoptosis is mostly NO-independent, whereas necrosis requires NO formation.
Specific inhibitors of hepatitis C virus (HCV) replication that target the NS3/4A protease (e.g., VX-950) or the NS5B polymerase (e.g., R1479/R1626, PSI-6130/R7128, NM107/NM283, and HCV-796) have advanced into clinical development. Treatment of patients with VX-950 or HCV-796 rapidly selected for drug-resistant variants after a 14-day monotherapy treatment period. However, no viral resistance was identified after monotherapy with R1626 (prodrug of R1479) or NM283 (prodrug of NM107) after 14 days of monotherapy. Based upon the rapid selection of resistance to the protease and nonnucleoside inhibitors during clinical trials and the lack of selection of resistance to the nucleoside inhibitors, we used the replicon system to determine whether nucleoside inhibitors demonstrate a higher genetic barrier to resistance than protease and nonnucleoside inhibitors. Treatment of replicon cells with nucleoside inhibitors at 10 and 15 times the 50% effective concentration resulted in clearance of the replicon, while treatment with a nonnucleoside or protease inhibitor selected resistant colonies. In combination, the presence of a nucleoside inhibitor reduced the frequency of colonies resistant to the other classes of inhibitors. These results indicate that the HCV replicon presents a higher barrier to the selection of resistance to nucleoside inhibitors than to nonnucleoside or protease inhibitors. Furthermore, the combination of a nonnucleoside or protease inhibitor with a nucleoside polymerase inhibitor could have a clear clinical benefit through the delay of resistance emergence.
The authors have examined the cardiotoxic actions of pirarubicin (THP), compared with epirubicin (EPI) and doxorubicin (DXR), on the electrocardiogram (ECG) and myocardial structure in rats. The rats were treated once a week for four weeks with DXR (total dose 10 mg/kg), and then further treated (post-treated) once a week for four weeks with THP, EPI or DXR (total dose 5 and 10 mg/kg). In the ECG study, a prolongation of QaT interval (interval from the upstroke of R wave to the apex of T wave) and a flattening of T wave were observed more severely in the rats post-treated with EPI and DXR than in those treated with THP. Also, a prolongation of QRS duration was observed more prominently in those treated with DXR than with THP and EPI. Histopathologically, a vacuolization and swelling of myocardial cells and an infiltration of mononuclear cells were observed more severely in the rats post-treated with EPI and DXR than in those treated with THP. Furthermore, a meandering of myofibril was observed in those treated with EPI and DXR, but not with THP. These results suggest that the cardiotoxic actions of THP are weaker than those of EPI and DXR and that the replacement of DXR with THP leads to more successful cancer chemotherapy with less cardiotoxicity.
Contrast-induced nephropathy is one of the adverse reactions to the use of radiocontrast media. Its incidence can be reduced if preventive measures are instituted. This report presents a case of acute renal impairment following use of radiocontrast media.
We report a case of an elderly hypertensive diabetic who developed acute renal impairment within 24 hours of undergoing an intravenous urography. He was not a known asthmatic and had no previous history of allergy. His renal function improved subsequently with hydration, diuretics and strict input/output monitoring. He was discharged after 23 days in hospital and renal function returned to pre-morbid state 3 months after discharge.
The report is a reminder of the possibility of nephropathy associated with the use of intravascular contrast media. There is need for extra care to be taken to identify risk factors in patients that are to undergo intravascular contrast studies and adequate attention paid to these.
Recent clinical trails reported that adjunctive cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 inhibition with celecoxib is beneficial in treating depression. However, another clinical study showed celecoxib did not have inhibitory effect of COX-2 in human brain when given at a therapeutic dose. Therefore, whether celecoxib is exerting its influence through COX inhibition or by some other mechanism remains unclear. The present study further investigated the effect of celecoxib on COX-2 expression, prostaglandin E(2) (PGE2, a major COX-2-mediated inflammatory mediator) concentration and the depressive-like behaviors in rats. Celecoxib was administrated by oral gavage to naive rats (16 mg/kg) or stressed rats (2, 8, 16 mg/kg, respectively) for 21 days, or to stressed rats for a single dose (16 mg/kg). The results showed that 21 days chronic unpredictable stress induced depressive-like behaviors and increased the COX-2 expression and PGE2 concentration in rat brain. Chronic treatments with celecoxib alleviated the depressive-like behavior and reversed the levels of COX-2 expression and PGE2 concentration in stressed rat in a dose-dependent manner. Celecoxib also improved the emotional state and decreased COX-2 expression and PGE2 concentration in naive rats. In addition, a single dose of celecoxib treatment reversed COX-2 expression and PGE2 concentration, but didn't alter the depressive-like behavior in stressed rat. These results suggest that COX-2 enzyme might play a key role in pathophysiology of depression. Furthermore, these data indicate that chronic celecoxib treatment reverse chronic unpredictable stress-induced depressive-like behavior might via reducing COX-2 enzyme in brain, and the selective COX-2 inhibitors could be developed as potential remedies for the management of depression.
In a double blind, placebo controlled trial of 40 volunteers, the burning discomfort associated with application of capsaicin cream (0.025%) was compared to placebo, GTN cream (1.33%) and to the combination of capsaicin cream (0.025%) plus GTN cream 1.33%. Median VAS for burning pain were 0 for the placebo, GTN and GTN + capsaicin groups and 3 for the capsaicin group after single application of each cream at daily intervals. This study demonstrates that after single application the addition of GTN to capsaicin significantly reduces the burning discomfort associated with application of capsaicin alone.
Orlistat, an anti-obesity drug, is a potent inhibitor of fatty acid synthase (FAS) and tumor cell viability. It can also induce apoptotic cancer cell death. We examined the effects of Orlistat on cultured NUGC-3 gastric cancer cells. We identified that inhibition of FAS via Orlistat exposure results in rapid cellular damage preceded by a direct but short-lived autophagic response. The Orlistat induced damage can be reversed through the addition of lipid containing media in a process that normally leads to cell death. By limiting exogenous lipid availability and inhibiting FAS using Orlistat, we demonstrated both a greater sensitivity and amplified cancer cell death by activation of apoptosis. We have identified "windows of opportunity" at which time apoptosis can be aborted and cells can be reversed from the death pathway. However, when challenged beyond the window of recovery, cell death becomes all but certain as the ability to be rescued decreases considerably. In vivo examination of Orlistat's ability to inhibit gastrointestinal cancer was examined using heterozygous male C57BL/6J APC-Min mice, which spontaneously develop a fatal gastrointestinal cancer. Mice were fed either a high fat (11%) or low fat (1.2%) diet containing no Orlistat or 0.5 mg Orlistat/g of chow. Orlistat treated mice fed the high fat, but not low fat diet, survived 7-10% longer than the untreated controls.
The beta-adrenoceptor antagonists are known to reduce cardiovascular events, but less is known about their effects on vulnerable plaque. The purpose of this study is to explore the role of metoprolol on vulnerable plaque and the possible mechanism. Vulnerable plaque model was established by local transfection with p53 gene in New Zealand Rabbits. Metoprolol treatment attenuated vessel positive remodeling and reduced vulnerability index (1.61+/-0.58 vs. 2.33+/-0.12, P<0.01). Although the difference did not reach statistical significance, the rate of rupture of atherosclerotic plaque (31% vs. 75%) and intima-media thickness (0.05+/-0.01 vs. 0.08+/-0.01 cm) were less in the metoprolol group than in the control group. The level of shear stress-related inflammatory cytokines such as intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1), vascular adhesion molecule 1 (VCAM-1), matrix metalloproteinase 1 (MMP-1), were lower in the metoprolol group than in the control group (P<0.01). Compared with control group, total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol were lower (P<0.01) in the metoprolol group. After metoprolol treatment, shear stress increased, and was not different to baseline (physiological shear stress, P>0.05). Shear stress and vulnerability index showed a negative correlation. These findings suggest that metoprolol could inhibit the development of atherosclerosis and stabilize vulnerable plaque by regulation of lipid and reduction of inflammation, in which the change from low shear stress to physiological shear stress around plaque may play an important role.
The efficacy and tolerability of aceclofenac (100 mg bid; n = 109), a new non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent, was compared to that of indomethacin (50 mg bid; n = 110) in a multi-centre, 12-week, randomized, double-blind clinical trial in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The efficacy of aceclofenac, on the basis of several clinical features characteristic for rheumatoid arthritis, was comparable to that of indomethacin. Patients in both treatment groups showed a notable and significant improvement during the study. Under aceclofenac treatment, the number of painful and swollen joints decreased by a median of six and nine, respectively, morning stiffness was shortened by 1 h, and the grip strength of both hands increased by a median of 8 mmHg. Pain at rest was relieved in 65.3% of aceclofenac-treated patients and in 67.1% of those treated with indomethacin (n.s.). With regard to safety, aceclofenac tended to be better tolerated than indomethacin. Among the 109 aceclofenac-treated patients, 26 incidents of adverse effects due to the drug were noted in 20 patients (18.4%). Sixty-four incidents of adverse events were documented in 32 (29.1%) of the 110 patients treated with indomethacin. The most common adverse events reported during treatment with aceclofenac were heartburn (four patients) and vertigo (three patients).
This study aims to elucidate both the impact of copper on the structure of the gills and hepatopancreas and the induction of metallothionein (MT) during waterborne copper exposure in juvenile Macrobrachium rosenbergii. Structural observations were performed with light microscopy, and the MT titrations were performed with the cadmium saturation assay. The structural changes that occurred in the gills and hepatopancreas appeared to result from copper accumulation, and the degree of damage observed in both tissues was relevant to the elevated waterborne copper concentration. Exposure to copper concentrations ranging from 0.01 mg/L to 0.4 mg/L for 7 days resulted in profound structural changes including the accumulation of hemocytes in the hemocoelic space; swelling and fusion of the lamellae; abnormal gill tips; and hyperplastic, necrotic, and clavate-globate lamellae in the gills. Similarly, hemocytic infiltration in the interstitial sinuses, an increased number of hemocytes, thickening and ruptures of the basal laminae, and necrosis of the tubules were observed in the hepatopancreas. The MT measurements showed no significant differences in MT contents between the control group and the group treated with 0.01 mg/L waterborne copper. The maximum MT content was observed at the level of 0.4 mg/L waterborne copper.
Sodium retention is a hallmark of nephrotic syndrome. We investigated whether sodium retention is associated with changes of natriuretic peptide system at different stages (i.e., a sodium retaining stage and a compensatory stage) of nephrotic syndrome. At day 7 after PAN (puromycin aminonucleoside) injection, the urinary excretion of sodium was decreased, along with the development of ascites and positive sodium balance. The plasma and urinary ANP (atrial natriuretic peptide) immunoreactivities were increased. ANP mRNA expression was increased in the heart and kidney, whereas that of NPR (natriuretic peptide receptor)-A and NPR-C mRNA was decreased in the kidney. The expression of NEP was decreased in the kidney. At day 14, urinary excretion of sodium did not differ from the control. The plasma ANP level and heart ANP mRNA expression returned to their control values. The expression of ANP mRNA in the kidney was increased in association with increased urinary ANP immunoreactivities. The expression of NPR-A in the kidney became normal, whereas that of NPR-C kept decreased. The expression of NEP (neutral endopeptidase) remained decreased. These findings suggest that the increased renal ANP synthesis in association with decreased metabolism via NEP and NPR-C may play a compensatory role against the development of sodium retention in nephrotic syndrome. The decreased of NPR-A expression in the kidney may contribute to the ANP resistance at day 7. The subsequent recovery of NPR-A expression may play a role in promoting sodium excretion in later stage (at day 14).
To compare an empirical Bayesian, a fully Bayesian, and a classical fixed-effect (Peto) method for pooling event rates from separate epidemiologic studies or clinical trials.
Four data sets used in meta-analyses by previous authors were evaluated. The first data set concerned death rates observed in clinical trials of beta-blockers, the second to lung cancer and smoking in 14 case-control studies, the third to drowsiness induced by the antihistamine compound chlorpheniramine, and the fourth to the use of intravenous magnesium in patients with suspected myocardial infarction. Randomly chosen data points were made more extreme to test the methods further.
Pooled estimates of effect expressed as odds ratios and their associated 95% confidence intervals.
All three methods gave comparable results with respect to the 95% confidence interval, although the Bayesian methods gave generally wider interval estimates. However, the point estimates for the individual studies were substantially different, particularly for small studies.
For the data sets considered, Bayesian methods, which are computer intensive but intuitively appealing, provided results that were consistent with the classic fixed-effect Peto method. Introduction of the more extreme data points did not alter this conclusion.
