The reduced production or activity of the cysteine-rich glycoprotein progranulin is responsible for about 20% of cases of familial frontotemporal dementia. However, little is known about the molecular mechanisms that govern the level and secretion of progranulin. Here we show that progranulin is expressed in mouse cortical neurons and more prominently in mouse microglia in culture and is abundant in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and Golgi. Using chemical crosslinking, immunoprecipitation, and mass spectrometry, we found that progranulin is bound to a network of ER Ca(2+)-binding chaperones including BiP, calreticulin, GRP94, and four members of the protein disulfide isomerase (PDI) family. Loss of ERp57 inhibits progranulin secretion. Thus, progranulin is a novel substrate of several PDI family proteins and modulation of the ER chaperone network may be a therapeutic target for controlling progranulin secretion.
Polybrominated Diphenyl Ethers (PBDEs) are an important class of flame retardants with a wide range of toxic effects on biotic and abiotic systems. The toxic mechanisms of PBDEs are still not completely understood because there are several different congeners with different chemical and biological characteristics. BDE-99 is one of these, widely found in the environment and biological samples, showing evidence of neurotoxic and endocrine disruption activities, but with little information about its action mechanism described in the current literature. This work investigated the effects of BDE-99 on the HepG2 cell line in order to clarify its toxic mechanism, using concentrations of 0.5-25 μM (24 and 48 h). Our results showed that BDE-99 could cause cell death in the higher concentrations, its activity being related to a decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential and an accumulation of ROS. It was also shown that BDE-99 induced the exposure of phosphatidylserine, caspases 3 and 9 activation and DNA fragmentation in HepG2 cells, without causing the release of LDH. Thus it was shown that BDE-99 could cause HepG2 cell death by apoptosis, suggesting its toxicity to the human liver.
Simple methods were applied to study the teratogenesis in Quail embryos induced by two important organophosphorous compounds: parathion and dicrotophos. Parathion led only to vertebral malformations, as other natural and synthetic cholinomimetics: nicotine, carbamylcholine, decamethonium, neostigmine... Dicrotophos induced not only vertebral malformations (specific to neuromuscular junction poisons) but also beak, legs and feather abnormalities (peripheric malformations which are also produced by insuline and sulfanilamide). Oximes and hydroxamic acids, some of these being analogs of nicotinamide, were tested as antiteratogens. The 3-(CO-NH2), or -(CO-NHOH), substituted pyridinic compounds (nicotinamide, nicotinohydroxamic acid) prevent perfectly dicrotophos-induced beak and legs malformations, in tertiary amine form, but very little in quaternary amine form (methyliodide). The 4-substituted pyridinic compound (isonicotinohydroxamic acid) and aliphatic oxo-oximes were quite ineffecient against these malformations. The vertebral malformations, as a rule, were not lessened by the compounds tested, except for isonicotinoyl-formaldoxime methyl iodide and in some degree for nicotinohydroxamic acid. From these observations, it results that teratogenesis induced by compounds as dicrotophos is rule by a plurificatorial determinism. The beak and legs malformations are prevented by analogs of nicotinamide. In the contrary, the vertebral malformations induced by parathion or dicrotophos are nicotinamide unsensitive and are only prevented by powerful cholinesterase reactivators as pralidoxime or TMB4 (MEINIEL, 1976 b) but are reduced little or not at all by less potent cholinesterase reactivators (HEATH).
A 41-year-old man was admitted because of chest pain at rest. The exercise test and coronary angiography were performed after all antianginal medication was discontinued for 24 hours. During the graded treadmill exercise stress test using the Bruce protocol, the patient had anginal pain with the electrocardiogram (ECG) showing ST segment elevation in leads V1 and V2. A baseline coronary angiogram disclosed 50% stenosis of the first septal branch of the left coronary artery. After a bolus of 0.1 mg ergonovine was administered into the coronary artery, the patient complained of typical anginal pain. Complete occlusion of the first septal branch was demonstrated, associated with significant ST segment elevation in leads V1-V3, right bundle branch block, and electrical axis deviation to the left on the ECG. The coronary occlusion reversed soon after nitroglycerin administration into the coronary artery. We diagnosed a rare case of angina pectoris caused by spasm of the minor branch of coronary artery, and that serial ECG changes might demonstrate ventricular septal ischemia including the cardiac conduction system. ST segment elevation in leads V1-V3 indicated ischemia of the ventricular septum, and right bundle branch block, axis deviation to the left, and increased amplitude of the precordial R wave might be induced by ischemia of the right bundle branch, left anterior bundle branch and septal branch in the cardiac conduction system supplied by the septal branches of the left anterior descending coronary artery.
Valproic acid (VPA) is used clinically to treat epilepsy, however it induces hepatotoxicity such as microvesicular steatosis. Acute hepatotoxicity of VPA has been well documented by biochemical studies and microarray analysis, but little is known about the chronic effects of VPA in the liver. In the present investigation, we profiled gene expression patterns in the mouse liver after subchronic treatment with VPA. VPA was administered orally at a dose of 100 mg/kg/day or 500 mg/kg/day to ICR mice, and the livers were obtained after 1, 2, or 4 weeks. The activities of serum liver enzymes did not change, whereas triglyceride concentration increased significantly. Microarray analysis revealed that 1325 genes of a set of 32,996 individual genes were VPA responsive when examined by two-way ANOVA (P<0.05) and fold change (>1.5). Consistent with our previous results obtained using an acute VPA exposure model (Lee et al., Toxicol Appl Pharmacol. 220:45-59, 2007), the most significantly over-represented biological terms for these genes included lipid, fatty acid, and steroid metabolism. Biological pathway analysis suggests that the genes responsible for increased biosynthesis of cholesterol and triglyceride, and for decreased fatty acid beta-oxidation contribute to the abnormalities in lipid metabolism induced by subchronic VPA treatment. A comparison of the VPA-responsive genes in the acute and subchronic models extracted 15 commonly altered genes, such as Cyp4a14 and Adpn, which may have predictive power to distinguish the mode of action of hepatotoxicants. Our data provide a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms of VPA-induced hepatotoxicity and useful information to predict steatogenic hepatotoxicity.
Contrast agents used for cardiac angiography are different in regard to ionicity, osmolality and physiologic effects. The nonionic contrast media have been shown to have less toxic effects and a better safety profile than do higher osmolar agents. To better assess this risk, clinically stable patients undergoing cardiac angiography were stratified according to the presence of diabetes mellitus, and level of serum creatinine, and then randomized to receive either iohexol (Omnipaque 350) or sodium meglumine diatrizoate (Renografin 76). All adverse events that occurred during and immediately after angiography were tabulated. A multivariate model was used to identify patients at increased risk for adverse outcome. The 1,390 patients were randomized to iohexol (n = 696) or diatrizoate (n = 694). Significant differences were found in the number of patients with contrast media-related adverse (iohexol vs diatrizoate: 10.2 vs 31.6%; p < 0.001) and cardiac adverse (7.2 vs 24.5%; p < 0.001) events. Severe reactions and the need for treatment were more frequent with diatrizoate than with iohexol, but there was no difference in the incidence of death. The presence of New York Heart Association classification 3 or 4 and serum creatinine > or = 1.5 mg/dl predicted a higher incidence of adverse events as a result of contrast media alone. Use of iohexol is associated with a lower incidence of all types of adverse events during cardiac angiography than is diatrizoate.
Alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate (ANIT) induces intra-hepatic cholestasis mixed with hepatocellular injury mainly by bile ductular damage. However, its direct effect on hepatic parenchymal cells (hepatocytes) is unclear. Sandwich-cultured rat hepatocytes (SCRH) were applied to clarify this question. Though cytotoxicity was not observed (0-180 μM) in ANIT-treated SCRH, metabonomics analysis of the hepatocytes revealed a shift in the metabolic pattern and a decrease in cellular cholesterol level, accompanied by an increase in total bile acids after 48 h ANIT (5-45 μM) treatment. To assess the function of major hepatic bile acid transporters, the accumulation and efflux of [D-Pen(2,5)]-enkephalin (DPDPE), 5 (and 6)-carboxy-2',7'-dichlorofluorescein (CDF) diacetate promoiety and deuterium-labeled sodium taurocholate (d8-TCA) were measured. ANIT incubation for either 30 min or 48 h led to dose-dependent decreases in the biliary excretion index (BEI) of DPDPE and CDF, as well as the intracellular accumulation of d8-TCA, CDF and DPDPE. The basolateral efflux of d8-TCA was also decreased with its BEI barely changed. mRNA expression of multiple uptake transporters and bile acid synthesizing enzymes was down-regulated after 48 h incubation. In conclusion, ANIT could directly induce retention of bile acids in hepatocytes by inhibiting the function of bile acid transporters, which might contribute to its cholestatic effect.
To quantitate changes in gas exchange variables that occur after administration of sublingual nitroglycerin in patients with stable angina pectoris, a randomized double-blind 2-period crossover study was performed with continuous expired gas exchange analysis and progressive exercise using individualized ramp treadmill protocols. Significant reductions in minute ventilation and respiratory rate were observed at 5 minutes of exercise during nitroglycerin therapy. Gas exchange variables i.e., minute ventilation, carbon dioxide production and oxygen uptake were significantly increased at the onset of angina after nitroglycerin administration. When techniques for optimizing the assessment of cardiopulmonary function were used, significant improvements in gas exchange variables were demonstrated in stable angina pectoris after administration of sublingual nitroglycerin.
Bilirubin (BR) has recently been identified as the first endogenous substrate for cytochrome P450 2A5 (CYP2A5) and it has been suggested that CYP2A5 plays a major role in BR clearance as an alternative mechanism to BR conjugation by uridine-diphosphate glucuronyltransferase 1A1. This study investigated the mechanisms of Cyp2a5 gene regulation by BR and the cytoprotective role of CYP2A5 in BR hepatotoxicity. BR induced CYP2A5 expression at the mRNA and protein levels in a dose-dependent manner in primary mouse hepatocytes. BR treatment also caused nuclear translocation of Nuclear factor-E2 p45-related factor 2 (Nrf2) in hepatocytes. In reporter assays, BR treatment of primary hepatocytes transfected with a Cyp2a5 promoter-luciferase reporter construct resulted in a 2-fold induction of Cyp2a5 reporter activity. Furthermore, cotransfection of the hepatocytes with a Nrf2 expression vector without BR treatment resulted in an increase in Cyp2a5 reporter activity of approximately 2-fold and BR treatment of Nrf2 cotransfectants further increased reporter activity by 4-fold. In addition, site-directed mutation of the ARE in the reporter construct completely abolished both the BR- and Nrf2-mediated increases in reporter activity. The cytoprotective role of CYP2A5 against BR-mediated apoptosis was also examined in Hepa 1-6 cells that lack endogenous CYP2A5. Transient overexpression of CYP2A5 partially blocked BR-induced caspase-3 cleavage in Hepa 1-6 cells. Furthermore, in vitro degradation of BR was increased by microsomes from Hepa 1-6 cells overexpressing CYP2A5 compared to control cells transfected with an empty vector. Collectively, these results suggest that Nrf2-mediated CYP2A5 transactivation in response to BR may provide an additional mechanism for adaptive cytoprotection against BR hepatotoxicity.
Although anthracycline therapy is invaluable for treating neoplastic disorders, morbidity includes severe cardiomyopathy that leads to heart transplantation. This multicenter study describes the course of children who experienced anthracycline cardiomyopathy (ACM) and who subsequently required heart transplantation.
We reviewed transplant databases/registries at 4 pediatric heart transplant centers to identify children with ACM who were listed for heart transplantation. We reviewed medical records to determine cancer therapy, clinical course, and outcome.
Eighteen patients were listed, and 17 underwent transplantation. Mean age at cancer diagnosis was 6.0 years (SD, 3.7). The mean anthracycline dose was 361 mg/m2 (SD, 110). The median time from cancer diagnosis to listing for heart transplantation was 9.2 years (range, 0.4-15.2 years). Six transplantations were performed in patients who had disease-free intervals of <5 years. Two patients were lost to follow-up, and 8 are alive at 4.9 years (SD, 2.0; range, 1.3-7.4 years) after transplantation. Seven patients died at 4.7 years (SD, 2.0; range, 1.2-7.1 years) after transplantation. One patient had recurrent cancer. One-, 2- and 5-year survivals were 100%, 92%, and 60%, respectively.
Cardiomyopathy that progresses to the need for heart transplantation occurs in patients receiving a wide range of cumulative anthracycline doses. The time from chemotherapy to ACM varies. Outcomes after transplantation are acceptable, and cancer recurrence is rare. Reconsideration of the 5-year disease-free wait period is warranted.
A case report of triamterene bladder calculus is presented. Triamterene containing antihypertensives should be used with caution in patients with predisposition to form stones.
A case is reported of a man who experienced hypercalcemia as a result of developing liver and renal-cell cancer. Repeated skeletal surveys and bone scans failed to reveal any bone metastases. The hypercalcemia was unresponsive to hydration and oral phosphate. However, it responded immediately to oral administration of indomethacin. The mechanism of this calcium-lowering effect is unknown. On the death of the patient, biopsies of the metastic liver and lung tissue were performed. The liver metastatis yielded 7 times the PGE (prostaglandin E)-like and 5 times the PGF-like material found in the normal adjacent liver. The lung metastatis yielded only 1/2 the PGE-like and PGF-like material obtained from normal adjacent lung. The results of this case study would indicate that some forms of hypercalcemia secondary to neoplastic disease are responsive to indomethacin and may be due to increased PG production by the tumor tissue.
To explore the anti-fibrotic effect of Oxymatrine on CCl4-induced liver fibrosis in rats and its modulation on the TGFbeta-Smad signaling pathway.
One hundred healthy male SD rats were randomly divided into three groups: normal group (n = 20), treatment group of Oxymatrine (n = 40) and CCl4-induced fibrosis group (n = 40). Experimental hepatic fibrosis was induced by subcutaneous injection of carbon tetrachloride (CCl4 soluted in liquid paraffin with the concentration of 300 g/L, the dosage of injection was 3 mL/kg, twice per week for 8 wk). The treated rats received Oxymatrine via celiac injection at a dosage of 10 mg/kg twice a week at the same time. The deposition of collagen was observed with H&E and Masson staining. The concentration of serum TGF-beta1 was assayed with ELISA. The gene expression of Smads and CBP (CREB binding protein) was detected with in situ hybridization (ISH) and immunohistochemistry (IH), respectively. All the experimental figures were scanned and analyzed with special figure-analysis software.
A significant reduction of collagen deposition and rearrangement of the parenchyma was noted in the liver tissue of Oxymatrine-treated rats. The semiquantitative histological scores (2.43 +/- 0.47 microm2 vs 3.76 +/- 0.68 microm2, P < 0.05) and average area of collagen in those rats were significantly decreased when compared with hepatic cirrhosis model rats (94.41 +/- 37.26 microm2 vs 290.86 +/- 89.37 microm2, P < 0.05). The gene expression of Smad 3 mRNA was considerably decreased in the treated animals. The A value of Smad 3 mRNA was lower in the treated rats than the model rats (0.034 +/- 0.090 vs 0.167 +/- 0.092, P < 0.05). Contrarily, the A value of Smad 7 mRNA was increased considerably in the treated animals (0.175 +/- 0.065 vs 0.074 +/- 0.012, P < 0.05). There was an obvious decrease in the expression of CBP mRNA in treated rats as illuminated by a reduction of its A value when compared with model rats (0.065 +/- 0.049 vs 0.235 +/- 0.025, P < 0.001).
Oxymatrine is effective in reducing the production and deposition of collagen in the liver tissue of experimental rats. Oxymatrine could promote the expression of Smad 7 and inhibit the expression of Smad 3 and CBP in CCl4-induced hepatic fibrosis in SD rats, could modulate the fibrogenic signal transduction of TGFbeta-Smad pathway.
The induction of metallothionein-like proteins (MTLP) as biomarkers of trace metal pollution has been investigated in the talitrid amphipod Orchestia gammarellus, an established biomonitor of trace metal availabilities in coastal areas. Sensitivity to metal exposure, MTLP and copper and zinc concentrations have been examined in amphipods from a metal-contaminated site (Dulas Bay, Wales) and two clean sites (Millport, Scotland and Bradwell, England). Groups of 10 amphipods from Dulas Bay and Millport were exposed separately to one of a concentration series (1, 3.16, 10, 31.6, 100 microM) of Cu or Zn for 17 days at 10 degrees C. Specimens from Bradwell were exposed under similar conditions but the experiment was extended to 25 days with intermediate samplings at 5, 10 and 17 days and additional groups were exposed to a mixture of Cu+Zn (7:10 molar ratio). In addition, specimens from Millport were exposed to 1 or 31.6 microM Cd for 17 days. Amphipods from Dulas Bay, which had been chronically exposed to metals in their natural environment had not acquired any tolerance to Cu and Zn since the lowest LC 50s were registered in these samples. Whatever the origin of the amphipods experimentally exposed to metals and whatever the dose of exposure, both Cu and Zn remained approximately equally distributed between cytosolic and insoluble fractions in the amphipods, suggesting that mechanisms of metal storage were identical over the whole range of conditions. Concentrations of MTLP were higher in O. gammarellus from Dulas Bay than in those from Millport analysed directly after collection, although laboratory exposures to dissolved Cd, Cu or Zn have failed to demonstrate differences in the induction of MTLP between amphipods from the clean or contaminated sites. A potential role for metallothionein-like proteins as biomarkers is thus unlikely although it remains plausible that turnover of these proteins does increase in response to increased metal challenges, enabling MTLP to play a role in metal detoxification.
Various carcinomas including skin cancer are explosively increasing in arsenicosis patients who drink arsenic-polluted well water, especially in Bangladesh. Although well drinking water in the cancer-prone areas contains various elements, very little is known about the effects of elements except arsenic on carcinogenicity. In order to clarify the carcinogenic effects of coexposure to arsenic and iron, anchorage-independent growth and invasion in human untransformed HaCaT and transformed A431 keratinocytes were examined. Since the mean ratio of arsenic and iron in well water was 1:10 in cancer-prone areas of Bangladesh, effects of 1 μM arsenic and 10 μM iron were investigated. Iron synergistically promoted arsenic-mediated anchorage-independent growth in untransformed and transformed keratinocytes. Iron additionally increased invasion in both types of keratinocytes. Activities of c-SRC and ERK that regulate anchorage-independent growth and invasion were synergistically enhanced in both types of keratinocytes. Our results suggest that iron promotes arsenic-mediated transformation of untransformed keratinocytes and progression of transformed keratinocytes. We then developed a low-cost and high-performance adsorbent composed of a hydrotalcite-like compound for arsenic and iron. The adsorbent rapidly reduced concentrations of both elements from well drinking water in cancer-prone areas of Bangladesh to levels less than those in WHO health-based guidelines for drinking water. Thus, we not only demonstrated for the first time increased carcinogenicity by coexposure to arsenic and iron but also proposed a novel remediation system for well drinking water.
Three patients with rheumatoid disease were given the 'iron chelating' drug desferrioxamine (DFX), which also has an appreciable affinity for copper. The drug was injected cautiously, in lower doses than in patients with thalassaemia, and intramuscularly to evaluate its anti-inflammatory effects. Two of the three patients developed ocular abnormalities. One patient, who also received methyldopa, developed severe but reversible visual failure associated with an abnormal electro-oculogram (EOG); another showed reversible depression of the EOG. Analysis of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of this patient showed an increase in phenanthroline detectable (non-caeruloplasmin-bound) copper. Analysis of the CSF of the third patient, who did not develop any clinical or electrophysiological ocular abnormalities, was normal. Haematological assessments indicated that all three patients probably had reduced iron stores. With in-vitro systems DFX was shown to mobilise copper from albumin and to facilitate copper movement across a cell membrane model, a property that was enhanced by methyldopa. Our observations are consistent with the concept that in rheumatoid patients low iron stores may result in binding of copper by DFX and that this may be of central importance in causing the ocular toxicity of DFX.
Methlyphenidate is one of two stimulant drugs used in the management of the Hyperkinetic Reaction in children. It has been known to have side effects such as dyskinesia, but this case details the emergence of dystonia and dyskinesia when the simultaneous use of methylphenidate and a phenothiazine was followed by withdrawal of the phenothiazine. It is postulated that the use of phenothiazine resulted in a post-synaptic supersensitivity which precipitated dystonia and dyskinesia when phenothiazine was withdrawn and methylphenidate reinstituted. It is also suggested that the phenothiazine dopamine-blocking action may necessitate the use of larger quantities of stimulant in order to produce the desired effect.
L-methionine (Met) is hepatotoxic at high concentrations. Because Met toxicity in freshly isolated mouse hepatocytes is gender-dependent, the goal of this study was to assess the roles of Met accumulation and metabolism in the increased sensitivity of male hepatocytes to Met toxicity compared with female hepatocytes. Male hepatocytes incubated with Met (30 mM) at 37 degrees C exhibited higher levels of intracellular Met at 0.5, 1.0, and 1.5 h, respectively, compared to female hepatocytes. Conversely, female hepatocytes had higher levels of S-adenosyl-L-methionine compared to male hepatocytes. Female hepatocytes also exhibited higher L-methionine-L-sulfoxide levels relative to control hepatocytes, whereas the increases in L-methionine-D-sulfoxide (Met-D-O) levels were similar in hepatocytes of both genders. Addition of aminooxyacetic acid (AOAA), an inhibitor of Met transamination, significantly increased Met levels at 1.5 h and increased Met-d-O levels at 1.0 and 1.5 h only in Met-exposed male hepatocytes. No gender differences in cytosolic Met transamination activity by glutamine transaminase K were detected. However, female mouse liver cytosol exhibited higher methionine-dl-sulfoxide (MetO) reductase activity than male mouse liver cytosol at low (0.25 and 0.5 mM) MetO concentrations. Collectively, these results suggest that increased cellular Met accumulation, decreased Met transmethylation, and increased Met and MetO transamination in male mouse hepatocytes may be contributing to the higher sensitivity of the male mouse hepatocytes to Met toxicity in comparison with female mouse hepatocytes.
Adjuvant chemotherapies have been used to prevent recurrence of bladder transitional cell carcinoma (TCC), but their efficacies are variable due to the side effects of anti-cancer agents and the drug resistant property of the target cells. To provide experimental evidence for improving clinical management of TCCs, two human TCC cell lines, EJ and BIU, were treated for 1 or 2 h by 50, 100, 150 and 200 micro g/ml, respectively and their growth and death patterns were elucidated in 12-h intervals. The status of Fas, FasL and caspase-3 in the two cell lines were analyzed with immunocytochemical staining and Western blot hybridization, and their potential link to MMC-induced cell death was investigated by treating the cells with anti-Fas antibody (150 ng/ml) and by incubating the cells with an inhibitor of caspase-3 related proteases Ac-DEVO-CHO (250 micro M) 1 h before 100 micro g/ml MMC treatment. The results demonstrated that the lower dose (100 micro g/ml) and short-term (1 h) MMC treatment could induce sufficient apoptosis in EJ and BIU populations within 48 or 60 h. Constitutive soluble and membrane Fas and FasL were found in both cell lines, and caspase-3 could be upregulated after MMC treatment. Anti-Fas antibody could commit the target cells to die of apoptosis, while Ac-DEVD-CHO inhibited MMC-induced apoptosis. Our data thus suggest that MMC-induced apoptosis in EJ and BIU cells is mediated by Fas and upregulation and activation of caspase-3 is an essential element for the apoptotic process. Reduced dose and short-term MMC strategy would be of practical value either in determining the apoptotic susceptibility of individual TCC cases or in the clinical instillation of urothelial cancers.
Two nucleos(t)ide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)--abacavir and didanosine--may each be associated with excess risk of myocardial infarction. The reproducibility of this finding in an independent dataset was explored and plausible biological mechanisms were sought.
Biomarkers, ischemic changes on the electrocardiogram, and rates of various predefined types of cardiovascular disease (CVD) events according to NRTIs used were explored in the Strategies for Management of Anti-Retroviral Therapy (SMART) study. Patients receiving abacavir and not didanosine were compared with those receiving didanosine, and to those receiving NRTIs other than abacavir or didanosine (other NRTIs). Patients randomly assigned to the continuous antiretroviral therapy arm of SMART were included in all analyses (N = 2752); for the study of biomarkers, patients from the antiretroviral therapy interruption arm were also included.
Current use of abacavir was associated with an excess risk of CVD compared with other NRTIs. Adjusted hazard ratios for clinical myocardial infarction (n = 19), major CVD (myocardial infarction, stroke, surgery for coronary artery disease, and CVD death; n = 70), expanded CVD (major CVD plus congestive heart failure, peripheral vascular disease, coronary artery disease requiring drug treatment, and unwitnessed deaths; n = 112) were 4.3 [95% confidence interval (CI): 1.4-13.0], 1.8 (1.0-3.1), and 1.9 (1.3-2.9). At baseline in a subset of patients with biomarker data, high sensitivity-C-reactive protein and interleukin-6 were 27% (P = 0.02) and 16% (P = 0.02) higher for patients receiving abacavir (N = 175) compared with those receiving other NRTIs (N = 500). Didanosine was associated neither with altered risk of CVD nor with altered levels of biomarkers.
Abacavir was associated with an increased risk of CVD. The drug may cause vascular inflammation, which may precipitate a CVD event.
Cardiac arrhythmias have frequently been reported in association with respiratory failure. The possible additive role of pharmacologic agents in precipitating cardiac disturbances in patients with respiratory failure has only recently been emphasized. The effects of aminophylline on the ventricular fibrillation threshold during normal acid-base conditions and during respiratory failure were studied in anesthetized open chest dogs. The ventricular fibrillation threshold was measured by passing a gated train of 12 constant current pulses through the ventricular myocardium during the vulnerable period of the cardiac cycle. During the infusion of aminophylline, the ventricular fibrillation threshold was reduced by 30 to 40 percent of the control when pH and partial pressures of oxygen (PO2) and carbon dioxide (CO2) were kept within normal limits. When respiratory failure was produced by hypoventilation (pH 7.05 to 7.25; PC02 70 to 100 mm Hg: P02 20 to 40 mm Hg), infusion of aminophylline resulted in an even greater decrease in ventricular fibrillation threshold to 60 percent of the control level. These experiments suggest that although many factors may contribute to the increased incidence of ventricular arrhythmias in respiratory failure, pharmacologic agents, particularly aminophylline, may play a significant role.
Pterygium is a lesion of the eye surface which involves cell proliferation, migration, angiogenesis, fibrosis, and extracellular matrix remodelling. Surgery is the only approved method to treat this disorder, but high recurrence rates are common. Recently, it has been shown in a mouse model that treatment with doxycycline resulted in reduction of the pterygium lesions. Here we study the mechanism(s) of action by which doxycycline achieves these results, using massive sequencing techniques. Surgically removed pterygia from 10 consecutive patients were set in short term culture and exposed to 0 (control), 50, 200, and 500 µg/ml doxycycline for 24 h, their mRNA was purified, reverse transcribed and sequenced through Illumina's massive sequencing protocols. Acquired data were subjected to quantile normalization and analyzed using cytoscape plugin software to explore the pathways involved. False discovery rate (FDR) methods were used to identify 332 genes which modified their expression in a dose-dependent manner upon exposure to doxycycline. The more represented cellular pathways included all mitochondrial genes, the endoplasmic reticulum stress response, integrins and extracellular matrix components, and growth factors. A high correlation was obtained when comparing ultrasequencing data with qRT-PCR and ELISA results. Doxycycline significantly modified the expression of important cellular pathways in pterygium cells, in a way which is consistent with the observed efficacy of this antibiotic to reduce pterygium lesions in a mouse model. Clinical trials are under way to demonstrate whether there is a benefit for human patients.
The metabolism of acetaminophen (paracetamol) is thought to be altered in patients with Gilbert's syndrome (GS), a chronic unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia. The underlying cause of GS is a polymorphism in the promotor region of the uridine diphosphate glucuronosyltransferase isoform 1A1 gene (UGT1A1*28), its encoded enzyme being responsible for the glucuronidation of bilirubin and presumably acetaminophen. Decreased enzyme activity results in elevated bilirubin levels and may activate various metabolic pathways leading to higher amounts of potentially hepatotoxic acetaminophen metabolites. Patients with GS might be more susceptible to unexpected side effects while taking acetaminophen and other drugs which are substrates of UGT1A1. The possibility of a correlation between glucuronidation capacity with respect to acetaminophen, UGT1A1 promotor polymorphism and the bilirubin serum level were investigated in 23 healthy male volunteers selected for UGT1A1 genotype (6 wildtypes, 9 mutants and 8 heterozygotes). One gram acetaminophen was administered p.o. and urine was collected over 2 4-hour periods. Unchanged acetaminophen and its glucuronide metabolite were determined using HPLC. The metabolic ratios unchanged acetaminophen/acetaminophen glucuronide in UGT1A1-wildtypes, heterozygotes and mutants showed no statistically significant differences. An association between metabolic ratio and serum bilirubin level could not be detected in any of the urine collection periods. These data confirm that there is no correlation between the capacity to glucuronidate acetaminophen, the UGT1A1 genotype and the bilirubin serum level. Acetaminophen is likely to be substrate of a UGT isoform other than the UGT1A1.
Day 10 rat embryos were exposed to cocaine HCl (10-100 microM) in vitro in 20% (designated normoxic) and 10-12% (designated moderately hypoxic) oxygen and examined the following day. In normoxia, it caused prompt and significant decreases in heart rates and significant reductions in measures of growth and development and diameters of the vitelline arteries. In moderate hypoxia, cocaine exposure resulted in axially asymmetric defects reported previously only in embryos exposed to extreme hypoxia or to hypoxia generated by redox cyclers. Day 10 or 11 embryos or isolated hearts from the latter stage were incubated with cocaine under normoxic conditions. Acute and significant concentration-dependent decreases in heart rates occurred on day 10. The rates in day 11 embryos and in isolated hearts from day 11 embryos were less sensitive than those on day 10. Cocaine also significantly inhibited the activity of the terminal electron transport system of the mitochondria of embryos. Maternal cocaine exposure has been associated with uterine vasoconstriction and decreases in fetal oxygenation. The latter has been shown to stimulate glucose uptake. We hypothesize that placental vasoconstriction limits the ability of embryos to meet the increased glucose demands induced by hypoxia. The developmental toxicity of nutrient and oxygen deprivation is further enhanced by significant decreases of mitochondrial activity. We propose therefore that compromised energy supplies form the basis of the developmental toxicity of cocaine.
Potential teratogenic activity of two neurotropic drugs, haloperidol and dextromoramide tartrate, was tested by using the mouse embryo experimental model. Like numerous other drugs of this class these two are also embryotoxic. After treatment 1 hour into the 9th gestation day they induce the neurotropic syndrome of malformations comprising exencephaly, craniorachischisis, kinking of the spinal cord, brachyury, and dilation of the fourth brain ventricle. In addition, dextromoramide tartrate was found to induce one more, so far unknown, neural tube defect, namely the ectopia of the neural tube. Delay of treatment by 1 or 2 hours tends to displace the location of the neural tube defects along the length of the neural axis towards the anterior and posterior directions. Even after accumulating these results at relatively high doses, it is difficult to estimate human reproductive risks from this animal data for human therapeutic doses.
