It is thought that thromboxane A(2) (TxA(2)) contributes to the progression of inflammation during acute hepatic injury; however, it is still unknown whether TxA(2) is involved in liver repair. The objective of the present study was to examine the role of TxA(2) receptor (TP) signaling in liver injury and repair in response to toxic injury. Carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) was used to induce liver injury in TP knockout (TP(-/-)) mice and wild-type (WT) mice. In WT mice, serum levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and the size of the necrotic area peaked at 24 and 48h, respectively, and then declined. In TP(-/-) mice, the changes in ALT levels were similar to WT mice, but liver regeneration was impaired as evidenced by remained elevated levels of hepatic necrosis and by delayed hepatocyte proliferation, which was associated with the reduced expression of growth factors including interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα), and hepatocyte growth factor (HGF). In TP(-/-) mice, the accumulation of hepatic CD11b(+)/F4/80(+) macrophages in injured livers was attenuated, and the hepatic expression of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1/CCL2) and its receptor, the C-C chemokine receptor (CCR2), was reduced compared to WT. Additionally, the application of the TP receptor agonist, U-46619, enhanced the expression of MCP-1/CCL2 and CCR2 in peritoneal macrophages, which was associated with increased levels of IL-6, TNFα and HGF. These results suggested that TP receptor signaling facilitates liver recovery following CCl(4)-induced hepatotoxicity by affecting the expression of hepatotrophic growth factors, and through the recruitment of macrophages mediated by MCP-1/CCL2-CCR2 expression.
Dopaminergic compounds have been targeted as potential treatments for cocaine abuse because of the known role of dopamine systems in drug reinforcement. Recent preclinical and human data have focused on the D1/5 antagonist, SCH 39166 (ecopipam), as a potential therapeutic agent.
The objective of the present study was to determine whether treatment with chronic ecopipam can blunt or block the subjective effects of cocaine in the absence of significant behavioral impairment or toxic physiological effects.
Four doses of ecopipam (0, 10, 25, and 100 mg p.o.) were administered daily for 1 week each in double-blind, random order to inpatient cocaine-dependent volunteers (n = 10). Cocaine challenge doses (0, 25, and 50 mg/70 kg i.v.) were administered on the 7th day in ascending order, 1 h apart.
Ecopipam alone produced reliable dose-dependent deficits in performance on the digit symbol substitution task (DSST) and the circular lights task, but not a balance task. Impairment on the DSST waned with repeated dosing suggesting the development of tolerance. Ecopipam resulted in few direct subjective effects. Cocaine alone produced dose-dependent changes in prototypic subjective and physiological measures, however, ecopipam largely failed to alter either cocaine's direct effects or the desire for cocaine.
Although the performance effects verify that these doses of ecopipam were behaviorally active, the absence of an attenuation of cocaine's effects of craving for cocaine in this chronic dosing paradigm suggests this compound is unlikely to be an effective pharmacotherapy for cocaine abuse.
Thirty-five patients with metastatic breast cancer (MBC) entered a phase II study of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin 35 mg/m2 intravenously (i.v.) on day 1 plus vinorelbine 30 mg/m2 i.v. on day 1 every 4 weeks. Patients were required to have measurable disease, previous chemotherapy with an anthracycline-containing regimen, and a normal left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF). Thirty-four patients were assessable for response and toxicity. The overall response rate (on an intent-to-treat basis) was 35% (12 of 34; 95% CI, 20%-54%). One complete response and 11 partial responses were noted. In addition, 14 patients (41%) had stable disease of > 4 months duration, and 7 patients (20.5%) had disease progression. The response rates to the combination when it was used as first- and second-line chemotherapy were 31% (4 of 13) and 38% (8 of 21), respectively. Median time to disease progression was 7 months (range, 1-35 months) and median overall survival was 13 months (range, 2 to > 62 months). Neutropenia was the most frequent toxicity (grade 4 in 44% of patients and 19% of cycles), but neutropenic fever was seen in only 3 cases. No septic deaths occurred. Nonhematologic grade 3 side effects included skin toxicity (palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome, 6%) and mucositis (15%). Late alopecia was seen in 53% of patients (grade 1 in 41%, and grade 2 in 12%). The median LVEFs were 64% (range, 50%-81%) at baseline and 62% (range, 37%-70%) after treatment. Three patients presented an LVEF decrease to < 50%; however, no clinical heart failure was noted, and 2 of these patients recovered normal values after cessation of therapy. The combination of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin and vinorelbine can be safely administered to patients with anthracycline-pretreated MBC and is active in this population.
Albright's hereditary osteodystrophy is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by a short stature, brachydactyly, subcutaneous ossifications, and reduced expression or function of the alpha subunit of the stimulatory G protein (Gs alpha) of adenylate cyclase, which is necessary for the action of parathyroid and other hormones that use cyclic AMP as an intracellular second messenger. We identified a unique Gs alpha protein in erythrocytes from two related patients with Albright's hereditary osteodystrophy and reduced Gs alpha bioactivity. The Gs alpha variant was recognized by a carboxyl terminal-specific Gs alpha antiserum but not by polyclonal antiserums specific for the amino terminus of Gs alpha. To investigate the molecular basis for this structurally abnormal Gs alpha protein, we studied the Gs alpha gene by restriction-endonuclease analysis. DNA from the two patients had an abnormal restriction-fragment pattern when digested with Ncol, which was consistent with loss of an Ncol restriction site in exon 1 of one Gs alpha allele. Amplification of a 260-base-pair region that includes exon 1 of the Gs alpha gene and direct sequencing of the amplified DNA revealed an A-to-G transition at position +1 in one Gs alpha allele from each of the two patients. This mutation converts the initiator ATG (methionine) codon to GTG (valine), blocking initiation of translation at the normal site. Translation of the abnormal Gs alpha messenger RNA would result in the synthesis of a truncated Gs alpha molecule lacking the amino terminus. We conclude that in at least some patients with Albright's hereditary osteodystrophy, the disease is caused by a single-base substitution in the Gs alpha gene and is thus due to an inherited mutation in a human G protein.
Few health care professionals realize that topical anesthetic spray can cause methemoglobinemia. We describe a 56-year-old woman who was transferred to our emergency department when severe cyanosis and chest pain developed after administration of topical oropharyngeal benzocaine and lidocaine during outpatient endoscopy. Investigations revealed a methemoglobin level of 51%. Despite rapid diagnosis and treatment with methylene blue, pulmonary edema consistent with adult respiratory distress syndrome developed, endotracheal intubation was required, and the patient suffered a lengthy course in the intensive care unit. This article presents a detailed discussion of the pathophysiology, diagnosis and treatment of methemoglobinemia, as well as a qualitative systematic review of the English literature on methemoglobinemia induced by topical anesthetic. The implications of this condition for emergency physicians are also outlined.
Dysregulated Hedgehog (Hh) signaling has been implicated in several human malignancies. Hh signaling inhibitors are predicted to have a minimal effect when the Smoothened receptor is mutated. Implications that Gli proteins are molecular targets of arsenic trioxide (ATO) action prompted us to investigate the expression of Hh signaling in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) and the influence of ATO on the Hh signaling pathway in APL.
Quantitative real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and Western blot were employed to analyze the expression of Hh pathway components and the influence of ATO on the Hh signaling pathway in APL.
The expression of Hh pathway components was significantly upregulated in APL. In newly diagnosed APL patients, Gli2 expression was significantly positively correlated with Gli1 (R = 0.57, p < 0.001) and Smo (R = 0.56, p < 0.001) and the expression of Hh pathway components was significantly higher in the high WBC group (p < 0.05). ATO can significantly downregulate the expression of Hh pathway components in vitro and in vivo (p < 0.05).
The Hh pathway is aberrantly activated in APL and associated with a bad prognostic factor. ATO can effectively inhibit the expression of the Hh pathway. The obtained data give the first clinical evidence for the application of ATO in tumors exhibiting an aberrantly activated Hh pathway.
Azathioprine is an established immunosuppressive agent in the treatment of myasthenia gravis. In rare cases, complications such as hypersensitivity reactions including fever may occur. A 73-year-old patient with the first manifestation of myasthenia gravis was immunosuppressed with azathioprine and prednisolone in addition to pyridostigmine treatment and discharged from hospital without symptoms. Ten days after onset of azathioprine therapy, he developed fever and a myasthenic crisis requiring artificial ventilation. Azathioprine was discontinued. Microbiological and radiological examinations revealed no signs of infection. After clinical improvement azathioprine was re-started, and following a single dose the patient again presented with fever and tachycardia. Azathioprine was discontinued, and all symptoms abated within a day. These symptoms were most probably caused by an azathioprine-induced hypersensitivity reaction. Life-threatening myasthenic crises may occur if such a hypersensitivity reaction remains unrecognized in patients with myasthenia gravis.
Peripheral nociceptor sensitization is accepted as an important mechanism of cutaneous primary hyperalgesia, but secondary hyperalgesia has been attributed to central mechanisms since evidence for sensitization of primary afferents has been lacking. In this study, microneurography was used to test for changes in sensitivity of C nociceptors in the area of secondary hyperalgesia caused by intradermal injection of capsaicin in humans. Multiple C units were recruited by electrical stimulation of the skin at 0.25 Hz and were identified as discrete series of dots in raster plots of spike latencies. Nociceptors slowed progressively during repetitive stimulation at 2 Hz for 3 min. According to their response to mechanical stimulation, nociceptors could be classified as either mechano-sensitive (CM) or mechano-insensitive (CM(i)). These two nociceptor subtypes had different axonal properties: CM(i) units slowed by 2% or more when stimulated at 0.25 Hz after a 3-min pause, whereas CM units slowed by <1%. This stimulation protocol was used before capsaicin injection to identify nociceptor subtype without repeated probing, thus avoiding possible mechanical sensitization. Capsaicin, injected 10-50 mm away from the site of electrical stimulation, had no effect on any of 29 CM units, but induced bursts of activity in 11 of 15 CM(i) units, after delays ranging from 0.5 to 18 min. The capsaicin injections also sensitized a majority of the CM(i) units, so that 11 of 17 developed immediate or delayed responsiveness to mechanical stimuli. This sensitization may contribute a peripheral C fiber component to secondary hyperalgesia.
Estradiol-17 beta-D-glucuronide (E-17G), a metabolite of natural estrogen, is a potent cholestatic agent in vivo. We, therefore, studied the mechanisms of E-17G cholestasis using in vitro perfused rat liver system. Furthermore, since it has been postulated that sodium taurocholate (TC) may interfere with either uptake or biliary excretion of other steroid agents, we tested whether E-17G cholestasis could be modified by TC administration. During a constant infusion of TC at a physiological rate (0.50 mumole per min), a dose-dependent decrease of bile flow was observed after E-17G addition from 1.5 to 5 X 10(-5) M. E-17G decreased bile acid excretory rate but not bile acid concentration in bile. In separate experiments, TC was infused at different rates (0, 0.25, 0.50, and 0.75 mumole per min) into the perfusate over the entire experimental period, and E-17G was added at 1.75 X 10(-5) M. In this setting, E-17G cholestasis was diminished by increasing TC infusion rate and was prevented by TC at 0.75 mumole per min. Infusion of sodium dehydrocholate (0.75 mumole per min), a nonmicelle-forming bile acid, did not prevent E-17G cholestasis. During E-17G cholestasis, an increased biliary permeability to 14C-sucrose was observed. This effect was also prevented by TC, but not by sodium dehydrocholate which was infused at 0.75 mumole per min. The perfusate disappearance curves of 3H-E-17G at the different TC infusion rates showed no changes in the initial uptake phase, but a profound dose-dependent difference in the excretory phase.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We have recently shown that high-dose intravenous therapy with penicillin-G always results in both sensitised lymphocytes and rise of anti-penicilloyl IgG antibodies. If penicillin-G is strictly given as freshly prepared bolus doses this sensitisation is prevented. In 193 patients, intravenous treatment with penicillin-G without special precautions (bolus doses stored up to 36 h at 4 degrees C or continuous infusions) led to 8.3% definite, 6.7% probable and 14.0% possible adverse reactions. In 116 patients treated exclusively with freshly dissolved doses, 0.9% definite, 1.7% probable and 4.3% possible reactions occurred. Whereas haemolytic anaemia (7) and neutropenia (12) were observed in 19 cases of the first group no such reactions were seen in the second group. Strict application of freshly prepared single doses prevents the majority of adverse reactions following highdose intravenous penicillin-G therapy. Degradation and transformation products formed in vitro are therefore the causative agents rather than the penicillin molecule itself.
To describe the characteristics of a large group of patients who presented to emergency departments with cocaine-associated symptoms consistent with acute cardiac ischemia (ACI) and to determine the incidence of confirmed ACI including acute myocardial infarction (AMI) in this population.
We performed a substudy on all patients in a multicenter prospective clinical trial (the Acute Cardiac Ischemia-Time Insensitive Predictive Instrument [ACI-TIPI] Clinical Trial) that enrolled ED patients with chest pain or other symptoms consistent with ACI including subjects with identified cocaine use. Demographic and clinical features, including initial and follow-up clinical data, ECGs, and tests to determine serum creatine kinase isoenzyme MB subunit concentrations, were analyzed. Diagnoses of AMI followed the World Health Organization criteria for AMI and of angina pectoris, the Canadian Cardiovascular Society Classification.
Of the 10,689 patients enrolled in the trial, 293 (2.7%) had cocaine-associated complaints. Among the 10 participating hospitals, the incidence of patients with cocaine-associated symptoms varied from 0.3% to 8.4%. Only 6 patients (2.0%, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.76% to 4.4%) had a diagnosis of ACI; 4 (1.4%, 95% CI 0.37% to 3.5%) had unstable angina, and 2 (0.7%, 95% CI 0.08% to 2.4%) had AMI. Although patients with cocaine-induced complaints were as likely to be admitted to the coronary care unit compared with all study patients without cocaine use (14% versus 18%, P =.14, difference not significant), these patients were much less likely to have confirmed unstable angina (1.4% versus 9.3%, P <.001) or AMI (0. 7% versus 8.6%, P <.001). Compared with patients younger than 45 years, patients with cocaine usage were more likely to be admitted to the ICU (14% versus 8.0%, P =.0018) but less likely to have confirmed AMI (0.7% versus 2.8%, P =.033).
Patients presenting to EDs with cocaine-associated chest pain or related symptoms infrequently had ACI, and even less so, AMI. This suggests the need for selectivity in the hospitalization of patients with such cocaine-associated symptoms.
Areca quid (AQ) chewing and smoking have synergistic potential in the development of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). In Taiwan, fresh Piper betle inflorescence is uniquely added to AQ, and hydroxychavicol (HC) is the major phenolic component of P. betle inflorescence. This study investigated whether HC modulates cigarette carcinogen benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P)-mediated toxic effects. Pretreatment of HC and followed by B[a]P challenge resulted in higher cytotoxicity and HPRT gene mutation frequency (P < 0.05). However, this treatment protocol resulted in decreased bulky B[a]P-DNA adduct levels as demonstrated by 32P-postlabeling technique (P < 0.05). Western blotting analysis indicated that HC pretreatment induced the expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and dihydrodiol dehydrogenase (DDH). COX-2 is know to participate in the B[a]P-DNA adduct formation, while DDH has been shown to divert B[a]P-diol to B[a]P-7,8-quinone and the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Using flow cytometry, this study demonstrated the increased production of 8-oxoguanine (P < 0.001). Overall, the results suggest that HC-induced DDH is more important than site-by-site up-regulation of COX-2 in B[a]P-induced cytotoxicity and HPRT gene mutation. Furthermore, DDH-mediated oxidative DNA damage and not B[a]P-DNA adduct formation may be involved in the HC and B[a]P-induced toxic effects.
Heightened anxiety is a major component of the withdrawal syndromes associated with ethanol and sedative hypnotic medications. Because of similarities between the opiate and sedative-hypnotic withdrawal syndromes as well as data implicating heightened noradrenergic tone with opiate withdrawal, we investigated changes in anxiety measures identified by plus-maze and social interaction testing during opiate withdrawal. Because Sprague Dawley rats had very low levels of entry into plus-maze open arms, further studies were conducted using the Long-Evans strain. Long-Evans rats received continuous infusions of morphine sulfate at 44 mg/kg per day delivered by osmotic pump over 7 days while control animals received inert implants. During the first 3 days of withdrawal, the number and time of entries into open and closed arms of a plus-maze was recorded. Both social and aggressive behaviors were scored durings pairings of groups of two socially naive animals. Body weight was significantly reduced in morphine-treated animals prior to and during withdrawal. Both the number of entries into open plus-maze arms and the time spent in open areas increased over the 3 days of testing. However, no difference in plus-maze activity was detected between morphine-treated and control subjects. On the third day of withdrawal, social interaction time was greater in pairs of withdrawn and control subjects compared to pairs of two control subjects. In conclusion, behavioral measures of anxiety are not increased during opiate withdrawal.
Diabetic nephropathy is one of the most severe diabetic microangiopathies and accounting for approximately one-third of all cases of end-stage renal disease. In the present study, we investigated the effect of mangiferin, a polyphenol from Anemarrhena asphodeloides Bge. or Mangifera indica L., on diabetic nephropathy and the possible mechanisms by using a developed diabetic nephropathy rat model and cultured rat mesangial cells. Serum-advanced glycation end-products level, malonaldehyde level, sorbitol concentration of red blood cell, 24 h albuminuria excretion were significantly decreased, whereas activity of serum superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase and creatinine clearance rate were increased by mangiferin. Blood glucose level remained unaffected. Mangiferin significantly inhibited glomerular extracellular matrix expansion and accumulation and transforming growth factor-beta 1 overexpression in glomeruli of diabetic nephropathy rats. Moreover, mangiferin was observed to inhibit proliferation of mesangial cells induced by high glucose and the overexpression of collagen type IV of mesangial cells induced by advanced glycation end products. In summary, mangiferin could significantly prevent progression of diabetic nephropathy and improve renal function.
The randomized, double-blind study is generally regarded as the ideal standard of clinical drug trials, but uncritical blinding in clinical studies should be questioned (1,2). Most often, the method of randomization is not sufficiently described. There are examples of researchers having used opaque envelopes or opened several envelopes or X-rayed the envelopes. Violation of the randomization is unfortunately common (3). New guidelines for structured reporting of clinical trials with focus on the randomization method have been worked out (4). However, other methods of violation of the randomization have not been covered in the new guidelines. In a claimed double-blind multi-center study, isotonic Na2 ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (edta) solution as verum and isotonic saline as placebo was used without any problem with the blinding. In the multi-center study, only nine incidents of burning at the infusion site were registered out of a total of more than 1000 Na2edta infusions (5). In our study, a total of 10 persons were given exactly the same kind of infusions and nine out of 10 receiving Na2edta infusions reacted with burning at the infusion site, thus proving it impossible to use Na2edta versus saline and maintain the blinding in a study of double-blind design. The difference in painful reactions between the Na2edta group and the saline group at the infusion site is statistically significant (P<0.001).
A case of pseudovitamin D deficiency (Vitamin D dependent rickets type I) is presented, who initially responded to physiological doses of calcitriol but developed nephrolithiasis and hypercalciuria around puberty. Hypercalciuria was corrected after stopping calcitriol. Pseudo vitamin D deficiency rickets also called vitamin D dependent rickets type I (VDDR 1) is an uncommon cause of rickets. Patients appear normal at birth and manifests with signs between the ages of two months to two years. Muscle weakness is prominent, radiographic features are striking and response to calciferols is complete. Hypercalciuria and nephrolithiasis are uncommon in the untreated disease but can develop due to overtreatment with calcitriol or oral calcium. Here we report a patient who developed hypercalciuria and nephrolithiasis around puberty while on maintenance dose of calcitriol and oral calcium.
Visceral leishmaniasis is produced by a protozoan parasite that belongs to the genus Leishmania. Transmission is made through sting, the vector being represented by a species of the genus Phlebotomus. The first case of visceral leishmaniasis in Romania was reported by Manicatide (1912). In 1934, it was described a focus of visceral leishmaniasis in Oltenia region (24 cases).The symptoms of disease are unspecific: fatigue, feverishness, cephalalgia, anorexia, nausea, obnubilation status. The fever is irregular, with high oscillations. Clinical, a sallow pallor of the skin, enlarge lymph nodes, hepatomegaly, splenomegaly, weight loss have been observed. Laboratory exams showed frequently severe anemic syndromes or other cytopenias, erythrocytes sedimentation rate was increased, hypergammaglobulin-emia with monoclonal peak has been found. Immunolectrophoresis showed hyper-IgG and hyper-IgM. Bone marrow biopsy showed lympho-plasmocyte infiltration, histiocytes, Leishman-Donovan bodies intracellular or extracellular. The prognosis of the disease is unfavorable in the absence of specific treatment with antimony. In case of resistance, it is used immunotherapy, amphotericin or miltefosine.
Hematoma blocks with lidocaine are routinely utilized in the Emergency Department to allow reduction of Colles' fractures. Lidocaine toxicity is a potential complication of this procedure. We present a case report of a patient who developed acute mental status changes and generalized seizure immediately following administration of lidocaine during a hematoma block. The rapid onset of seizure development following injection was most likely due to inadvertent intravascular administration.
To test the hypothesis that halothane hepatitis is caused by a combination of altered drug metabolism and an immunoallergic disposition, the metabolism of antipyrine, metronidazole, sparteine, phenytoin, and racemic R- and S-mephenytoin was investigated in seven subjects with previous halothane hepatitis. The HLA tissue types and the complement C3 phenotypes were also determined. The metabolism of antipyrine and metronidazole was within normal range in all subjects, and they were all fast or extensive metabolizers of sparteine, mephenytoin, and phenytoin. HLA tissue types were unremarkable. Five of the seven subjects had complement C3 phenotypes F or FS. In the general population phenotype S is the most common, but the difference in complement C3 phenotypes is not statistically significant (p = 0.07). We conclude, although in a limited number of patients, that subjects with previous halothane hepatitis do not appear to be different from controls with regard to drug metabolism and HLA tissue type. The possibility of a higher frequency of complement C3 phenotype F and FS needs further investigation.
The traditional Chinese herbal formula Cang Er Zi San has been used for the treatment of rhinitis, paranasal sinusitis, and allergic rhinitis for several centuries. However, its therapeutic mechanisms remain largely unclear.
To study the effects of Shi-Bi-Lin (SBL), a modified Cang Er Zi San formula, on cytokine release from and expressions in the human mast cell line (HMC-1).
The HMC-1 was preincubated with different concentrations of SBL extract solution 1 hour before being stimulated with 25 ng/mL of phorbol myristate acetate plus 2.5 x 10(-7)M calcium ionophore A23187 and then further incubated for 6, 12, and 24 hours, respectively. The cell culture supernatants were harvested, and the cytokines of interleukin 4 (IL-4), IL-6, IL-8, and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) in the supernatants were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Furthermore, the total RNA of the cells was extracted, and the cytokines' messenger RNA expressions were examined using semiquantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction.
After different incubation periods at different concentrations, SBL could potently inhibit the cytokines of IL-4 and TNF-alpha and modestly affect IL-6 but not obviously affect IL-8 release from the HMC-1. However, no inhibitory effects were detected on the messenger RNA expressions of these cytokines.
These results demonstrate that SBL could modulate the mast cell-mediated hypersensitivity reaction in allergy. Inhibition of mast cell-derived IL-4 and TNF-alpha might explain the efficacy of SBL in treating allergic disease.
Thirty patients with symptomatic, progressive squamous cell carcinoma of the uterine cervix no longer amenable to surgery or radiotherapy were entered in a phase II study of ifosfamide (IFX). Patients were treated with IFX (5 g/m2 iv given over 24 hours) and concomitant mesna (total dose, 9.2 g/m2 iv given over 36 hours) every 21 days. One complete response (duration, 10+ months) and nine partial responses were observed, with an overall median response duration of 6.5 months. The median survival of responding patients was 11 months. Objective response rates for lesions arising in previously irradiated sites (four of 22) were significantly lower than for lesions arising in nonirradiated sites (15 of 28) (P = 0.018). There were two treatment-related deaths: one due to leukopenia-associated infection in a patient with peritonitis and severe central nervous system toxicity and one due to central nervous system toxicity without complicating factors. One other patient developed severe but reversible encephalopathy. In all remaining patients hemorrhagic cystitis and hematological and gastrointestinal toxic effects were predictable and manageable. Treatment was delayed for 1 week due to toxicity on seven of 101 occasions: four of these delays were due to mild, reversible impairment of renal function and three were due to leukopenia. Complete though reversible alopecia occurred in 22 of 30 patients. The results indicate that IFX is active in cervical cancer and deserves further study in this setting.
1. The effects on micturition of RP 67,580, a selective NK1 receptor antagonist, and SR 48,968, a highly, potent antagonist at NK2 receptor sites, given intrathecally (i.t.) or intra-arterially (i.a.) near the bladder, were investigated in unanaesthetized rats with and without bladder outlet obstruction. 2. In normal rats, RP 67,580, given i.t. in doses of 2 and 20 nmol per rat, decreased micturition pressure, but did not change other cystometric parameters. After 20 nmol of RP 67,580, dribbling incontinence due to retention was observed in 1 out of 7 animals. This effect was reversible. I.t. RP 67,580 in a dose of 2 nmol, had no effect on hyperactivity induced by intravesically instilled capsaicin. 3. In animals with bladder hypertrophy secondary to outflow obstruction, RP 67,580, given i.t. in a dose of 2 nmol per rat, decreased the micturition pressure, but had no effect on other cystometric parameters. After 20 nmol, dribbling incontinence due to retention was observed in 5 out of 7 animals. 4. RP 67,580, given i.a. in a dose of 4 nmol, had little effect on the cystometric parameters investigated, both in normal animals and rats with bladder hypertrophy. 5. SR 48,968, given i.t. in doses of 2 and 20 nmol per rat, had no clear-cut effects on the micturition pattern in normal rats, or rats with bladder hypertrophy. However, the drug reduced capsaicin-induced bladder hyperactivity. When given i.a. in a dose of 4 nmol, SR 48,968 had no effect on cystometric parameters in normal rats or rats with bladder hypertrophy. 6. The effects of both RP 67,580 and SR 48,968 were stereoselective, their enantiomers (RP 68,651 and SR 48,965) being inactive.7. These results thus suggest that at the spinal level there is a tachykinin involvement (via NK,receptors) in the micturition reflex induced by bladder filling, both in normal rats, and, more clearly, in animals with bladder hypertrophy secondary to outflow obstruction. The bladder response to filling was not influenced by blockade of vesical NKI and NK2 receptors. On the other hand, the bladder hyperactivity evoked by intravesical capsaicin seems to involve NK2 receptors both at the bladder and spinal levels.
The development of kalipsol narcosis was analyzed in 32 patients operated on the abdominal organs. This kind of anesthesia was concluded to have the features characteristic of the ketanin narcosis. Against the background of controlled respirations with droperidol used for premedication the influence of kalipsol upon hemodynamics in most cases is characterized by biphasic action--a light hypotensive effect followed as a rule, by mild hypertension. Hallucinations were noted not constantly, manifested themselves within the structure of oneiric clouded consciousness and not of long duration.
This study was designed to investigate the protective effect of oleanolic acid (OA) against isoproterenol-induced myocardial ischemia in rat myocardium. Wistar strain rats were pretreated with OA (20, 40, and 60 mg/kg, s.c) for 7 days and then intoxicated with isoproterenol (ISO, 85 mg/kg, sc for 2 consecutive days). Heart were excised from the experimental animals and assessed for the activities of marker enzymes [alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), and creatine phosphokinase (CPK)], the levels of lipid peroxide products [thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), lipid hydroperoxides (HP) and conjugated dienes (CD)], myeloperoxidase (MPO), lipid profiles [total cholesterol (TC), free cholesterol, ester cholesterol, triglycerides (TG), free fatty acids (FFA) and phospholipids (PL)], and membrane-bound ATPase enzymes (total ATPase, Na(+)K(+) ATPase, Ca(2 +) ATPase, and Mg(2 +) ATPase). Troponin T and I were estimated in plasma. Leakage of cardiac markers, elevated lipid peroxidation with increased lipid profiles and decreased activities of membrane-bound ATPase enzymes were confirmed the severe myocardial damage occurring as a consequence of isoproterenol-induced ischemia, and they also showed the significant improvement effected by oleanolic acid pretreatment. These findings provided evidence that oleanolic acid was found to be protecting rat myocardium against ischemic insult and the protective effect could attribute to its anti-oxidative, anti-hyperlipedemic, and anti-arrhythmic properties as well as its membrane-stabilizing action.
