HLA genes, islet autoantibodies and residual C-peptide were studied to determine the independent association of each exposure with diabetic retinopathy (DR), 15 years after the clinical onset of type 1 diabetes in 15-34 year old individuals.
The cohort was identified in 1992 and 1993 by the Diabetes Incidence Study in Sweden (DISS), which investigates incident cases of diabetes for patients between 15 and 34 years of age. Blood samples at diagnosis were analyzed to determine HLA genotype, islet autoantibodies and serum C-peptide. In 2009, fundus photographs were obtained from patient records. Study measures were supplemented with data from the Swedish National Diabetes Registry.
The prevalence of DR was 60.2% (148/246). Autoantibodies against the 65 kD isoform of glutamate decarboxylase (GADA) at the onset of clinical diabetes increased the risk of DR 15 years later, relative risk 1.12 for each 100 WHO units/ml, [95% CI 1.02 to 1.23]. This equates to risk estimates of 1.27, [95% CI 1.04 to 1.62] and 1.43, [95% CI 1.06 to 1.94] for participants in the highest 25(th) (GADA>233 WHO units/ml) and 5(th) percentile (GADA>319 WHO units/ml) of GADA, respectively. These were adjusted for duration of diabetes, HbA(1c), treated hypertension, sex, age at diagnosis, HLA and C-peptide. Islet cell autoantibodies, insulinoma-antigen 2 autoantibodies, residual C-peptide and the type 1 diabetes associated haplotypes DQ2, DQ8 and DQ6 were not associated with DR.
Increased levels of GADA at the onset of type 1 diabetes were associated with DR 15 years later. These results, if confirmed, could provide additional insights into the pathogenesis of the most common microvascular complication of diabetes and lead to better risk stratification for both patient screenings and DR treatment trials.
We studied the effects of sevoflurane on myocardial contractility and systemic and coronary hemodynamics, as compared with the effects of isoflurane in dogs under the same cardiac work conditions. Sixteen mongrel dogs were anesthetized with alpha-chloralose. Heart was paced at 100 beats/min after producing a complete atrioventricular (A-V) block. Controlled hypotension to a mean arterial pressure (MAP) of 60 mm Hg was induced and maintained by inhalation of either anesthetic, lasting for 60 min. Measurements were made at baseline, 15 min (T1), and 60 min (T2) after starting hypotension, and 30 min after discontinuing equihypotension (T3). Although left ventricular systolic segment shortening (%SS) decreased approximately 20% in both groups, cardiac output (CO) decreased only in sevoflurane during equihypotension (-27.6% at T2). Sevoflurane decreased the coronary blood flow (CBF; -34.8% at T2) with no significant change of coronary vascular resistance (CVR), whereas isoflurane produced a significant decrease in CVR resulting in no change of CBF despite of decreased coronary perfusion pressure (-37.4% at T2). These systemic and coronary vascular effects were continued even at T3. In conclusion, myocardial depressant effects were comparable between sevoflurane and isoflurane. Both systemic and coronary vasodilatory effects of isoflurane are greater than those of sevoflurane.
In order to determine if the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist ketamine would reproduce eye movement dysfunction in schizophrenia, we studied 12 normal control subjects with low dose (0.1 mg/kg) bolus injection of ketamine in a double-blind placebo-controlled study. Oculomotor measures were obtained during smooth pursuit that included closed loop gain and measures of gain during masking conditions. Measures during initiation of smooth pursuit included latency, open loop acceleration and velocity. Ketamine disrupted closed loop gain and open loop acceleration but not measures during the masking conditions. The ketamine partly reproduced some abnormalities seen in schizophrenia but not measures that may be more specifically linked to familial abnormalities found in family members of subjects with schizophrenia.
Although sex differences in coronary artery disease have received considerable attention, few studies have dealt with sex differences in the most common sustained cardiac arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation (AF). Differences in presentation and clinical course may dictate different approaches to detection and management. We sought to examine sex-related differences in presentation, treatment, and outcome in patients presenting with new-onset AF.
The Canadian Registry of Atrial Fibrillation (CARAF) enrolled subjects at the time of first ECG-confirmed diagnosis of AF. Participants were followed at 3 months, at 1 year, and annually thereafter. Treatment was at the discretion of the patients' physicians and was not directed by CARAF investigators. Baseline and follow-up data collection included a detailed medical history, clinical, ECG, and echocardiographic measures, medication history, and therapeutic interventions. Three hundred thirty-nine women and 560 men were followed for 4.14+/-1.39 years. Compared with men, women were older at the time of presentation, more likely to seek medical advice because of symptoms, and experienced significantly higher heart rates during AF. Compared with older men, older women were half as likely to receive warfarin and twice as likely to receive acetylsalicylic acid. Compared with men on warfarin, women on warfarin were 3.35 times more likely to experience a major bleed.
Anticoagulants are underused in older women with AF relative to older men with AF, despite comparable risk profiles. Women receiving warfarin have a significantly higher risk of major bleeding, suggesting the need for careful monitoring of anticoagulant intensity in women.
Insulin resistance, without frank diabetes, is associated with sudden cardiac death. We postulated that a potential mechanism for this association is autonomic dysfunction. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomized into one of two groups: (a) insulin resistant (IR; n = 15), or (b) control (n = 11). Animals were made insulin resistant with a fructose-rich diet, whereas control animals received standard rat chow. Four weeks after randomization, arterial pressure and baroreceptor reflex were assessed. Baroreflex sensitivity was defined as the heart-rate response to acute blood pressure changes caused by nitroprusside (0.5-18 micrograms) or phenylephrine (0.2-3 micrograms). To determine the role of vagal stimulation specifically, each animal was randomized to receive atropine sulfate (1 mg/kg) or vehicle (normal saline) before administration of phenylephrine. Mean arterial pressure and fasting insulin concentrations were increased in the insulin-resistant group, whereas there were no differences in body weight, fasting glucose concentrations, or resting heart rate. Phenylephrine increased arterial blood pressure to a maximum of 54 +/- 2 mm Hg for control and 45 +/- 6 mm Hg for IR, p = 0.7. The maximal heart-rate change response to the increased blood pressure was markedly blunted in IR as compared with control (-88 +/- 12 beats/min for IR vs. -238 +/- 18 beats/min for control; p < 0.001). Thus the baroreflex sensitivity (BRS) was threefold less in IR versus the control group (-1.8 +/- 0.2 vs. -4.6 +/- 0.7 beats/min/mm Hg; p = 0.001). Pretreatment with atropine sulfate decreased the BRS in both groups, eliminating the difference between groups (-0.96 +/- 0.5 beats/min/mm Hg for control and -0.56 +/- 0.3 beats/min/mm Hg for IR; p = 0.2). Thus atropine sulfate caused the phenylephrine-induced heart rate and arterial blood pressure response to be equal between groups. On the other hand, BRS to nitroprusside-induced blood pressure changes were similar between groups. Insulin resistance, without the confounding factors of obesity, diabetes, and significant hypertension, is associated with a large reduction in vagal activity, which occurs via attenuation in reflex activity. In contrast, the insulin-resistant syndrome does not affect baroreflex sensitivity via sympathetic reflex.
Patients with hypertension may require combination therapy to attain the blood pressure targets recommended by US and European treatment guidelines. Combination therapy with a calcium channel blocker and an angiotensin II-receptor blocker would be expected to provide enhanced efficacy.
Two studies were conducted to compare the efficacy of various combinations of amlodipine and valsartan administered once daily with their individual components and placebo in patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension (mean sitting diastolic blood pressure [MSDBP] >/=95 and < 110 mm Hg). A secondary objective was to evaluate safety and tolerability.
The 2 studies were multinational, multicenter, 8-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group trials. In study 1, patients were randomized to receive amlodipine 2.5 or 5 mg once daily, valsartan 40 to 320 mg once daily, the combination of amlodipine 2.5 or 5 mg with valsartan 40 to 320 mg once daily, or placebo. In study 2, patients were randomized to receive amlodipine 10 mg once daily, valsartan 160 or 320 mg once daily, the combination of amlodipine 10 mg with valsartan 160 or 320 mg once daily, or placebo. The primary efficacy variable in both studies was change from baseline in MSDBP at the end of the study. Secondary variables included the change in mean sitting systolic blood pressure (MSSBP), response rate (the proportion of patients achieving an MSDBP <90 mm Hg or a >/= 10-mm Hg decrease from baseline), and control rate (the proportion of patients achieving an MSDBP <90 mm Hg). Safety was assessed in terms of adverse events (spontaneously reported or elicited by questioning), vital signs, and laboratory values.
A total of 1911 patients were randomized to treatment in study 1 (1022 amlodipine + valsartan; 507 valsartan; 254 amlodipine; 128 placebo); 1250 were randomized to treatment in study 2 (419, 415, 207, and 209, respectively). In all treatment groups in both studies, the majority of patients were white (79.5% study 1, 79.4% study 2) and male (53.5% and 50.3%, respectively). The overall mean age was 54.4 years in study 1 and 56.9 years in study 2. The mean weight of patients in study 1 was higher than that in study 2 (88.8 vs 79.7 kg). The overall baseline mean sitting BP was 152.8/99.3 mm Hg in study 1 and 156.7/99.1 mm Hg in study 2. With the exception of a few combinations that included amlodipine 2.5 mg, the combination regimens in both studies were associated with significantly greater reductions in MSDBP and MSSBP compared with their individual components and placebo (P < 0.05). A positive dose response was observed for all combinations. The highest response rate in study 1 was associated with the highest dose of combination therapy (amlodipine 5 mg + valsartan 320 mg: 91.3%). Amlodipine 5 mg, valsartan 320 mg, and placebo were associated with response rates of 71.9%, 73.4%, and 40.9%, respectively. In study 2, the 2 doses of combination therapy were associated with similar response rates (amlodipine 10 mg + valsartan 160 mg: 88.5%; amlodipine 10 mg + valsartan 320 mg: 87.5%). Amlodipine 10 mg was associated with a response rate of 86.9%; valsartan 160 and 20 mg were associated with response rates of 74.9% and 72.0%, respectively; and placebo was associated with a response rate of 49.3%. Control rates followed a similar pattern. The incidence of peripheral edema with combination therapy was significantly lower compared with amlodipine monotherapy (5.4% vs 8.7%, respectively; P = 0.014), was significantly higher compared with valsartan monotherapy (2.1%; P < 0.001), and did not differ significantly from placebo (3.0%).
In these adult patients with mild to moderate hypertension, the combination of amlodipine + valsartan was associated with significantly greater blood pressure reductions from baseline compared with amlodipine or valsartan monotherapy or placebo. The incidence of peripheral edema was significantly lower with combination therapy than with amlodipine monotherapy.
Pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as tumour necrosis factor (TNF) and free radicals, such as nitric oxide (NO), are mediators of endotoxaemia. Catecholamines are in clinical use to treat the haemodynamic consequences of severe septic shock. Beta-adrenergic agonists exert many of their effects by elevation of intracellular cyclic AMP (cAMP) concentration. Cyclic AMP can modulate endotoxin-induced cytokine and NO production. Here we investigate the effect of isoproterenol pretreatment on the cytokine and NO production induced by bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS, 4-10 mg/kg). Pretreatment with isoproterenol (10 mg/kg) blunted the LPS-induced TNF response, increased the LPS-induced formation of interleukin-10 and interleukin-6 and reduced the LPS-induced production of NO in conscious mice. In anaesthetized rats, pretreatment with isoproterenol prevented the LPS-induced suppression of vascular contractility to norepinephrine in the thoracic aorta ex vivo. The hyporeactivity is due to expression of the inducible isoform of NO synthase (iNOS) and was restored by in vitro administration of NG-methyl-L-arginine (L-NMA), an inhibitor of NO synthase. However, L-NMA did not alter vascular contractility in control vessels or in rings taken from the LPS-treated rats pretreated with isoproterenol. Our findings suggest that, in addition to its haemodynamic actions, isoproterenol may also exert beneficial effects by modulating the endotoxin-induced inflammatory response.
Acrodermatitis enteropathica (AE) is an autosomal recessively inherited disease caused by a decreased intestinal zinc resorption and characterized by severe dermatitis (preferably hands, feet, mouth, genital region), chronic diarrhoea, retardation of growth and development, alopecia and increased proneness to infections. In 2002 it was shown that mutations in the zinc transporter gene SLC39A4 is the cause of AE.
Here we report 4 patients with typical clinical signs since early childhood. Under regular substitution with zinc all patients are more or less free of symptoms. The first patient revealed compound-heterozygous missense/nonsense mutations (P200L/ W401X), the three other patients were homozygous for a mutation in intron 1 (c.192 + 19G > A) of the SLC39A4 gene.
The diagnosis of hereditary acrodermatitis enteropathica can now easily be confirmed by mutation analysis of the SLC39A4 gene.
Pulmonary hypoplasia is the principal cause of morbidity and mortality in infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH). Still, relatively little is known about the mechanisms causing lung hypoplasia associated with CDH. The differentiation from alveolar epithelial cells type II (AECs-II) into alveolar epithelial cells type I (AECs-I) is one of the key processes in lung development in late gestation. It is well known that increased lung expansion promotes differentiation into AECs-I phenotype, whereas reduced lung expansion promotes AECs-II phenotype. The recent availability of cell-specific molecule markers for AECs-I and AECs-II has provided an opportunity to study the various characteristics of these two cell types. To test the hypothesis that the differentiation of AECs-II to AECs-I is impaired in the CDH hypoplastic lung, we investigated molecular markers for AECs-I [ICAM-1, T1alpha, aquaporin 5 (AQP5)] and molecular markers for AECs-II [thyroid transcription factor-1 (Ttf-1), surfactant protein (SP)-B and C] in the nitrofen-induced CDH lung. Fetal rat lungs of normal (n = 7) and nitrofen-treated (n = 14) dams were harvested on embryonic day 21. The expression of the ICAM1, T1alpha, AQP5, SP-B, C and Ttf-1 was analyzed in each lung by real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. Immunohistochemical studies were performed to evaluate the protein expression level of ICAM1 and Ttf1. Expression levels of ICAM-1, T1alpha and AQP5 were significantly reduced (P < 0.05) in the lungs from nitrofen-treated CDH animals compared to normal controls. ICAM-1 and AQP5 immunohistochemistry showed a diffuse pattern of expression in the alveolar cells in normal lungs. By contrast, the ICAM-1 and AQP5 positive cells were markedly reduced in hypoplastic lungs with CDH. On the other hand, the expression levels of Ttf-1, SP-B and C were significantly (P < 0.05) increased in the lungs from nitrofen-treated CDH animals compared to normal controls. The population of Ttf-1 positive cells was slightly increased in the lungs from nitrofen-treated animals in immunohistochemical study. Our results demonstrate that there is significant reduction in the proportion of AECs-I and increase in the proportion of AECs-II in the hypoplastic lung in the nitrofen-induced CDH. This data provides the first evidence to support the hypothesis that AEC differentiation is impaired in CDH hypoplastic lung.
Diabetic nephropathy remains one of the most important causes of end-stage renal disease. This is particularly true for women from racial/ethnic minorities. Although administration of 17beta-estradiol to diabetic animals has been shown to reduce extracellular matrix deposition in glomeruli and mesangial cells, effects on podocytes are lacking. Given that podocyte injury has been implicated as a factor leading to the progression of proteinuria and diabetic nephropathy, we treated db/db mice, a model of type 2 diabetic glomerulosclerosis, with 17beta-estradiol or tamoxifen to determine whether these treatments reduce podocyte injury and decrease glomerulosclerosis. We found that albumin excretion, glomerular volume, and extracellular matrix accumulation were decreased in these mice compared to placebo treatment. Podocytes isolated from all treatment groups were immortalized and these cell lines were found to express the podocyte markers WT-1, nephrin, and the TRPC6 cation channel. Tamoxifen and 17beta-estradiol treatment decreased podocyte transforming growth factor-beta mRNA expression but increased that of the estrogen receptor subtype beta protein. 17beta-estradiol, but not tamoxifen, treatment decreased extracellular-regulated kinase phosphorylation. These data, combined with improved albumin excretion, reduced glomerular size, and decreased matrix accumulation, suggest that both 17beta-estradiol and tamoxifen may protect podocytes against injury and therefore ameliorate diabetic nephropathy.
Application of zinc oxide has been shown to accelerate the healing of both chronic and acute wounds, but the mechanisms are unknown. We quantified the gene expression (mRNA) for one important growth factor, insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) in 12 full-thickness wounds in each of three domestic pigs treated with or without topical zinc oxide. We used a RNAase protection/solution hybridisation technique to measure IGF-1 mRNA concentrations, which were 50% higher in the granulation tissue in wounds treated with zinc oxide compared with control wounds on days 3-4 (p < 0.05), but not thereafter (up to postoperative day 11). Topical zinc oxide increased the healing rate of wounds compared to the control group (p < 0.01). The cell composition of the granulation tissue was similar in the two groups. The increased gene expression of IGF-1 may be one mechanism by which topical zinc oxide enhances wound healing.
Anemia is a common cause of morbidity and disease and reduces the quality of life. This study examined the effect of a combination treatment (AAC) using Astragali radix (AMW) and Angelicae radix (AGW) in cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced anemic rats on erythropoietin (EPO) expression and hematological parameters. Male 4-week-old Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into five groups with or without CYP-induced anemia and individual or the combined herbal treatments according to the experimental protocol. After treatment, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction was used to evaluate the effects of AAC on erythropoietin expression, and blood and serological parameters were measured. The EPO mRNA levels were lower in the CYP-treated group, compared to the normal group, and higher in the AAC-treated group. In the CYP-treated group, the serum iron concentration, total iron-binding capacity, and vitamin B(12) level were lower, but these were normal or almost normal in the AAC-treated group. The CYP-treated group gained less weight than the normal group, but weight gain was partially normalized in the AAC group. The feed efficiency ratio was lowest in the CYP group, but the differences were not significant. The numbers of red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets, the hematocrit, and the hemoglobin level were measured. The results revealed a reduced number of blood cells in the CYP-treated group, whereas the AAC-, AMW-, and AGW-treated groups showed significantly enhanced blood cell numbers compared to the CYP-treated control group and the AAC-treated group. AAC enhanced EPO mRNA expression in the CYP-induced anemic rat and improved the hematological parameters and vitamin B(12) status.
Nucleic acids designed to modulate the expression of target proteins remain a promising therapeutic strategy in several diseases, including cancer. However, clinical success is limited by the lack of efficient intracellular delivery. In this study we evaluated whether electroporation could increase the delivery of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides against bcl-2 (G3139) as well as the efficacy of combination chemotherapy in human melanoma xenografts.
Melanoma-bearing nude mice were treated i.v. with G3139 and/or cisplatin (DDP) followed by the application of trains of electric pulses to tumors. Western blot, immunohistochemistry and real-time PCR were performed to analyze protein and mRNA expression. The effect of electroporation on muscles was determined by histology, while tumor apoptosis and the proliferation index were analyzed by immunohistochemistry. Antisense oligodeoxynucleotides tumor accumulation was measured by FACS and confocal microscopy.
The G3139/Electroporation combined therapy produced a significant inhibition of tumor growth (TWI, more than 50%) accompanied by a marked tumor re-growth delay (TRD, about 20 days). The efficacy of this treatment was due to the higher G3139 uptake in tumor cells which led to a marked down-regulation of bcl-2 protein expression. Moreover, the G3139/EP combination treatment resulted in an enhanced apoptotic index and a decreased proliferation rate of tumors. Finally, an increased tumor response was observed after treatment with the triple combination G3139/DDP/EP, showing a TWI of about 75% and TRD of 30 days.
These results demonstrate that electroporation is an effective strategy to improve the delivery of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides within tumor cells in vivo and it may be instrumental in optimizing the response of melanoma to chemotherapy. The high response rate observed in this study suggest to apply this strategy for the treatment of melanoma patients.
The authors examined whether high-dose chemotherapy with hematogenic tissue transplantation might negatively affect function of left ventricle (LV) in oncology patients with malignant lymphomas initially treated with conventional chemotherapy consisting of doxorubicin (DOX) in contrast to patients treated without the transplantation in medium-term follow up.
The follow up group included 77 patients (39 women/38 men) at the age of 36 +/- 15 (median 30, 16-67 years). All 77 patients were treated with initial chemotherapy with DOX, 22 out of that group later received high-dose chemotherapy with hematogenic tissue transplantation (HTT). 16 (73 %) patients of this subgroup underwent autologous transplantation and 5 (23 %) allogeneic transplantation. One female patient (4 %) underwent both autologous and allogeneic transplantation. The follow up period after completion of initial chemotherapy was 5-10 years (median 6 years). The patients were examined with rest echocardiography before start, after chemotherapy, and during follow-up examination. Spiroergometric test (SET) was only performed at the follow-up examination.
Both subgroups showed significant decrease of ejection fraction (EF) after chemotherapy, with further decrease in the control examination period, without mutual difference. While the HTT (HTT+) group showed no EF drop below 50 %, in the non-HTT (HTT-) group EF dropped in two (4 %) patients after chemotherapy and in four (8%) patients at the control examination. Progressing decrease of EF > 10 % was reported with 25 % of the HTT- patients (p < 0.05), but with just 13 % of the HTT+ patients (non-significant). The diastolic insufficiency (DF) was present identically in both groups with 36 % of the patients, which represents a statistically significant increase in comparison to the pre-chemotherapy condition. SET did not show any differences in burden toleration and circulation indicators between the two groups. The drop of pVO2 < 20 ml/kg/min occurred with 22 patients of both groups. Linear regression data analysis revealed existence of a significant relationship between EF change, some diastolic function indicators, pVO2 and cumulative dose of DOX (p < 0.05). The current age significantly and negatively correlated with pVO2 (p < 0.001) and DF indicators (p < 0.001). The follow up period inversely correlates with the changes of EF (p < 0.05) and pVO2 (p < 0.05), not correlating with diastolic function indicators. Multi-variant analysis did not confirm any higher risk of administration of high-dose chemotherapy with HTT for significant drop of EF or its drop down to the pathological zone below 50 % (OR = 0.46; non-significant), for discovery of reduced cardio-pulmonary performance (pVO2 < 20 ml/kg/min) (OR = 0.35; non-significant) or for development of diastolic dysfunction (OR = 1.0; non-significant).
Treatment with high-dose chemotherapy with HTT application within medium-term follow up does not result in any significant systolic or diastolic malfunction of myocardium and deterioration of cardiopulmonary performance in comparison to patients not undergoing this therapy. Treatment with cardiotoxic doxorubicin administered in the context of basic conventional chemotherapy is most likely to be responsible for occurrence of the pathological effects across the followed up group. Length of monitoring is a significant factor correlating with changed ejection fraction. This finding justifies the need for long-term prospective monitoring of ejection fraction of the left ventricle in adult patients treated with cardiotoxic chemotherapy.
Pamidronate (disodium 3-amino-1-hydroxypropylidene-1,1-bisphosphonate pentahydrate, CGP 23339A, CAS 57248-88-1) has been show to provide a potent antihypercalcemic effect through the inhibition of calcium release from the bone. The time course study on the antihypercalcemic effect of pamidronate was performed using a rat hypercalcemia model induced by orally administered cholecalciferol. The onset of the antihypercalcemic effect was observed within 48 h after a single i.v. injection of pamidronate at 1 mg/kg and this effect was sustained for 19 days. The time course of the antihypercalcemic effect of pamidronate in combination with calcitonin was also examined in the same model. The onset of the antihypercalcemic effect was observed within 4 h after combination therapy with a single i.v. injection of pamidronate at 1 mg/kg and successive i.m. injections of calcitonin at 3.2 IU/kg and the effect was of sufficient duration. These results suggest that pamidronate has a pronounced effect in controlling hypercalcemia and provides a long-lasting effect by a single i.v. administration. Moreover, the use of pamidronate in combination with calcitonin may be useful when a quicker onset of action is required clinically.
Angiotensin II (ANG II) has complex actions on the cardiovascular system. ANG II may act to increase sympathetic vasomotor outflow, but acutely the sympathoexcitatory actions of exogenous ANG II may be opposed by ANG II-induced increases in arterial pressure (AP), evoking baroreceptor-mediated decreases in sympathetic nerve activity (SNA). To examine this hypothesis, the effect of ANG II infusion on lumbar SNA was measured in unanesthetized chronic sinoaortic-denervated rats. Chronic sinoaortic-denervated rats had no reflex heart rate (HR) responses to pharmacologically evoked increases or decreases in AP. Similarly, in these denervated rats, nitroprusside-induced hypotension had no effect on lumbar SNA; however, phenylephrine-induced increases in AP were still associated with transient decreases in SNA. In control rats, infusion of ANG II (100 ng x kg(-1) x min(-1) iv) increased AP and decreased HR and SNA. In contrast, ANG II infusion increased lumbar SNA and HR in sinoaortic-denervated rats. In rats that underwent sinoaortic denervation surgery but still had residual baroreceptor reflex-evoked changes in HR, the effect of ANG II on HR and SNA was variable and correlated to the extent of baroreceptor reflex impairment. The present data suggest that pressor concentrations of ANG II in rats act rapidly to increase lumbar SNA and HR, although baroreceptor reflexes normally mask these effects of ANG II. Furthermore, these studies highlight the importance of fully characterizing sinoaortic-denervated rats used in experiments examining the role of baroreceptor reflexes.
Adverse events of dopamine-blocking agents include acute dystonic reactions and oculogyric crises (OGCs). OGCs may be recurrent on maintenance of or re-exposure to the drug. Thus, complete withdrawal is recommended. Recurrent episodes of acute dystonia despite withdrawal and the lack of further exposure to antidopaminergic agents are usually not seen. Here, we report three cases with recurrent OGCs despite complete withdrawal of neuroleptics. Triggering or priming factors were a single dose of haloperidol in two cases and a single dose of metoclopramide in one case. Episodes reoccurred spontaneously, but responded to anticholinergics. The pathomechanisms of acute dystonic reactions and OGCs remain unclear. Parallels to levodopa-induced dyskinesias in Parkinson's disease, as well as to dopa-responsive dystonia, paroxysmal dyskinesias, and channelopathies are discussed here. Whether there is a genetic susceptibility or some other reason for only some patients developing this phenomenon remains unclear.
Maternal use of cocaine during pregnancy remains a significant public health problem, particularly in urban areas of the United States and among women of low socioeconomic status. Few longitudinal studies have examined cocaine-exposed infants, however, and findings are contradictory because of methodologic limitations.
To assess the effects of prenatal cocaine exposure on child developmental outcomes.
Longitudinal, prospective, masked, comparison birth cohort study with recruitment in 1994-1996.
Obstetric unit of a large US urban teaching hospital.
Four hundred fifteen consecutively enrolled infants (218 cocaine-exposed and 197 unexposed) identified from a high-risk, low-socioeconomic status, primarily black (80%) population screened through clinical interview and urine and meconium samples for drug use. The retention rate was 94% at 2 years of age.
The Bayley Mental and Motor Scales of Infant Development, assessed at 6.5, 12, and 24 months of corrected age.
Controlled for confounding variables, cocaine exposure had significant effects on cognitive development, accounting for a 6-point deficit in Bayley Mental and Motor Scales of Infant Development scores at 2 years, with cocaine-exposed children twice as likely to have significant delay (mental development index <80) (odds ratio, 1.98; 95% confidence interval, 1.21-3.24; P =.006). For motor outcomes, there were no significant cocaine effects.
Cocaine-exposed children had significant cognitive deficits and a doubling of the rate of developmental delay during the first 2 years of life. Because 2-year outcomes are predictive of later cognitive outcomes, it is possible that these children will continue to have learning difficulties at school age.
The Waikato Hospital experience of women admitted or seen in the Cardiology Outpatient Clinic who were under the age of 40 and whose diagnosis was a recent acute coronary occlusive episode was reviewed. It was found that there were nine admissions in eight women in this category between December 1971 and November 1973, plus one further patient who was seen with a recent acute ischaemic episode as an outpatient. The histories of these patients were reviewed and their risk factors surveyed. Of the nine women in the study, seven were taking oral contraceptives. As opposed to previous studies, not all the women in this study showed risk factors other than oral contraceptive usage. Three patients in this group taking oral contraceptives and who were thought to have definite coronary ischaemic episodes had no other major risk factor though two of the three were obese. It is thought probable that oral contraceptives containing oestrogens should be considered as a coronary risk factor in young women.
Six dogs with partial seizures or partial seizure-like activity were treated with the antiepileptic drug felbamate between 1993 and 1998. All dogs had a history and results of diagnostic testing suggestive of either primary (idiopathic) or occult secondary epilepsy. Dogs ranged between four months and eight years of age at the onset of seizure activity. The median time period between onset of the first seizure and the start of felbamate therapy was 3.8 months (range 0.75 to 36 months). Median duration of therapy was nine months (range two to 22 months). All dogs experienced a reduction in seizure frequency after felbamate administration. Median total number of seizures post-treatment was two (range 0 to 9). Two dogs had an immediate and prolonged cessation of seizure activity. Steady-state trough serum felbamate concentrations measured at two weeks, and one, 12 and 22 months after the commencement of therapy in four dogs ranged between 13 and 55 mg/litre (median 35 mg/litre). Reversible haematological adverse effects were detected in two dogs, with one dog developing concurrent keratoconjunctivitis sicca. These results suggest that felbamate can be an effective antiepileptic drug without life-threatening complications when used as monotherapy for partial seizures in the dog.
It is well established that aberrant production of inflammatory mediators has been associated with most the toxic manifestations and the genesis of different chronic diseases including cancer. The basic aim of the present study is to investigate the effects of soy isoflavones (SIF) on 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-induced cutaneous inflammatory responses and to explore the underlying molecular mechanisms. We have studied the protective effects of SIF against TPA induced oxidative stress, pro-inflammatory cytokines level, activation of NF-κB, expression of COX-2 and ki-67 in mouse skin. Animals were divided into five groups I-V (n=6). Groups II, III and IV received topical application of TPA at the dose of 10 nmol/0.2 ml of acetone/animal/day, for 2 days. Animals of the groups III and IV were pre-treated with SIF 1.0 μg (D1) and 2.0 μg (D2) topically 30 min prior to each TPA administration, while groups I and V were given acetone (0.2 ml) and SIF (D2), respectively. We have found that SIF pretreatment significantly inhibited TPA induced oxidative stress, proinflammatory cytokines production and activation of NF-κB. SIF also inhibited the expression of COX-2 and ki-67. Histological findings further supported the protective effects of SIF against TPA-induced cutaneous damage. Thus, our results suggest that inhibitory effect of SIF on TPA-induced cutaneous inflammation includes inhibition of proinflammatory cytokines, attenuation of oxidative stress, activation of NF-κB and expression of COX-2.
d-Allose is a novel anti-tumor monosaccharide that causes cell growth inhibition, specifically of the cancer cells, by inducing the tumor suppressor gene thioredoxin interacting protein (TXNIP). The commonly used anti-tumor drug, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), blocks the cell cycle by inhibiting thymidylate synthase, and is also known to induce TXNIP gene expression. In this study, we examined the synergistic effect of d-allose and 5-FU and the role of TXNIP on cancer cell growth. The treatment of HuH-7 cells with d-allose or 5-FU inhibited the cell growth in a dose-dependent manner (75.2+/-2.7% with 50 mM d-allose and 66.1+/-2.7% with 0.5 mug/ml 5-FU) and d-allose enhanced the anti-tumor effect of 5-FU (55.3+/-1.1 %). TUNEL analysis did not show any evidence of apoptosis with either d-allose or 5-FU treatment. 5-FU suppressed the expression of p27(kip1), p53, and cyclin E, whereas d-allose induced p53 and reduced cyclins D, A, and E. The expression of p27(kip1) remained unchanged by d-allose at transcriptional level, but increased at the protein level suggesting an increase in protein stability by TXNIP. d-Allose and to a lesser extent 5-FU induced TXNIP expression significantly (808.4+/-122.9% and 186.8+/-32.9%, respectively) and the combination of both further enhanced TXNIP expression. As d-allose has no known side effects on normal cells, the combination of d-allose and 5-FU might be a potent candidate for cancer therapy.
Cannabinoids are associated with analgesia in acute and chronic pain states. A spectrum of central cannabinoid (CB(1)) receptor-mediated motor and psychotropic side effects limit their therapeutic potential. Here, we investigate the analgesic effect of the palmitoylethanolamide (PEA) analogue, palmitoylallylamide (L-29), which via inhibition of fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) may potentiate endocannabinoids thereby avoiding psychotropic side effects.
The in vivo analysis of the effect of L-29 on measures of pain behaviour in three rat models of neuropathic pain.
Systemically administered L-29 (10 mg kg(-1)) reduced hypersensitivity to mechanical and thermal stimuli in the partial sciatic nerve injury (PSNI) model of neuropathic pain; and mechanical hypersensitivity in a model of antiretroviral (ddC)-associated hypersensitivity and a model of varicella zoster virus (VZV)-associated hypersensitivity. The effects of L-29 were comparable to those of gabapentin (50 mg kg(-1)). The CB(1) receptor antagonist SR141716a (1 mg kg(-1)) and the CB(2) receptor antagonist SR144528 (1 mg kg(-1)) reduced the effect of L-29 on hypersensitivity in the PSNI and ddC models, but not in the VZV model. The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha antagonist, MK-886 (1 mg kg(-1)), partially attenuated the effect of L-29 on hypersensitivity in the PSNI model. L-29 (10 mg kg(-1)) significantly attenuated thigmotactic behaviour in the open field arena without effect on locomotor activity.
L-29 produces analgesia in a range of neuropathic pain models. This presents L-29 as a novel analgesic compound that may target the endogenous cannabinoid system while avoiding undesirable side effects associated with direct cannabinoid receptor activation.
Our objective was to compare the incidence of recurrent spontaneous preterm delivery (SPTD) in patients with cervical cerclage treated with weekly 17 alpha-hydroxyprogesterone caproate (17P) injections versus daily outpatient nursing surveillance (ONS) without 17P. Included in this retrospective cohort study were singleton gestations with cerclage placed at the discretion of the provider due to prior SPTD, delivering between January 1, 2004 and May 1, 2006. The study group (n = 232) consisted of women receiving once-weekly nursing visit and 17P injection. The control group (n = 1650) consisted of women enrolled for ONS (twice-daily electronic uterine contraction monitoring and nursing assessment). Data were further stratified by the number of prior preterm deliveries (1, > 1). Primary study outcome was the incidence of SPTD. No difference in rates of recurrent SPTD at < 37 or < 35 weeks were observed between the study and control groups. Study patients were less likely to be diagnosed with preterm labor (PTL) than controls (45.7% versus 70.8%, respectively; P < 0.001). The incidence of preterm premature rupture of membranes was similar between the groups (8.6% versus 8.1%; P = 0.770). We concluded that the incidence of recurrent SPTD was similar in women with cerclage treated with 17P or ONS, although women receiving 17P had a lower incidence of PTL. This benefit of 17P should be considered when managing patients with prior SPTD and cerclage.
A young woman was examined because of a history of in utero exposure to diethylstilbestrol and was identified as having vaginal adenosis. Fourteen months later, on routine follow-up, a small vaginal clear cell adenocarcinoma was recognized. She refused any therapy other than wide local excision. She was seen intermittently for several years with no recurrence. Five and one-half years after initial diagnosis she was found to have multiple sites of clear cell adenocarcinoma in the upper third of the lateral and anterior vaginal walls. Cases of vaginal adenosis followed later by the development of clear cell adenocarcinoma (metachronous cases) are distinctly unusual. The authors have collected the other recorded cases in the literature or in the Registry for Research on Hormonal Transplacental Carcinogenesis and have attempted to compare these cases with the larger group of patients who present with clear cell adenocarcinoma and have associated vaginal adenosis (synchronous cases). The authors have found few differences between the two groups. Most of the differences can be accounted for by the close follow-up of patients with known vaginal adenosis. However, it has been noted that the location of the clear cell adenocarcinoma is apparently different in the two groups. The reasons for this apparent difference are briefly discussed.
