Tetrathiomolybdate (TM), a drug developed for the treatment of Wilson's disease, produces an antiangiogenic effect by reducing systemic copper levels. Several angiogenic cytokines appear to depend on normal levels of copper for activity. In both animal tumor models and in cancer patients, TM therapy has proved effective in inhibiting the growth of tumors. We have hypothesized that the activities of fibrotic and inflammatory cytokines are also subject to modulation by the availability of copper in a manner similar to angiogenic cytokines. As a first step in evaluating whether TM plays a therapeutic role in diseases of inflammation and fibrosis, we studied the effects of TM on a murine model of bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis. Oral TM therapy resulted in dose-dependent reduction in serum ceruloplasmin, a surrogate marker of systemic copper levels. Significant decreases in systemic copper levels were associated with marked reduction in lung fibrosis as determined on the basis of histopathologic findings and a biochemical measure of fibrosis. The protection afforded by TM was also reflected in significantly reduced bleomycin-induced body-weight loss. In the next phase of this work, we will seek to determine the mechanisms by which TM brings about this therapeutic benefit.
Damage to pancreatic β-cells plays an important role in the development of type 2 diabetes, and oxidative stress is a likely contributor. In the present study, we investigated the effect of deuterohemin-AlaHisLys (DhHP-3), a microperoxidase-11 mimic, on rats with non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus and examined the action mechanisms of DhHP-3. The induced hyperglycemia, glucose intolerance, and insulin resistance in diabetic rats were associated with increased oxidative stress and damage to pancreatic islets. DhHP-3 (3 mg/kg) ameliorated hyperglycemia and insulin resistance, protected pancreas islet, decreased the content of malondialdehyde, and increased the activity of superoxide dismutase in plasma and pancreatic tissue by reducing ROS levels. Furthermore, DhHP-3 stimulated the proliferation of INS-1 cells and inhibited apoptosis by activating the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/protein kinase B (PI3-K/AKT) signaling pathway. Our results demonstrated for the first time that DhHP-3 decreased blood glucose level in rats with non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus, scavenged reactive oxygen species, activated the PI3-K/AKT signaling pathway, and protected pancreatic β-cells against apoptosis.
Thrombocytopenia following heparin treatment appears in 5% of patients so treated. In 20% of such patients paradoxical thromboembolic phenomena may be associated with the thrombocytopenia. This process is most probably mediated via an antibody reaction against a heparin-platelet complex. We present a 70-year-old woman with recurrent episodes of lower extremity thrombophlebitis associated with thrombocytopenia following treatment with heparin for pulmonary embolism.
The modifying effects of three kinds of fat (corn oil, beef tallow or perilla oil, each at 20% in the diet) on F344 rat prostate carcinogenesis induced by 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB) were investigated. Non-invasive carcinomas of the ventral prostate were induced by DMAB alone and invasive carcinomas of the other prostate lobes and seminal vesicles by DMAB and testosterone propionate (TP). Eight groups of F344 rats were initiated with 50 mg / kg body weight of DMAB at 2-week intervals for the first 20 weeks, four also receiving TP, extended until week 60. The animals received basal chow powder diet or one of three high fat diets throughout the experiment (60 weeks). One further group served as a non-carcinogen-treated control maintained on basal chow powder diet. Beef tallow significantly increased the development of ventral prostate carcinomas with DMAB alone (from 15 to 45%, P < 0.05), while perilla oil reduced the incidence of prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN) in the ventral lobe of rats given DMA + TP (from 70 to 10%, P < 0.01), but not in those given DMAB alone. No other effects of high fats were observed regarding PIN or invasive cancers of the dorsolateral and anterior prostate or seminal vesicles. A satellite experiment demonstrated that all high fat diets for 4 weeks increased the 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling index of prostate epithelial cells, suggesting that a high fat intake, irrespective of the fatty acid composition, may accelerate cell kinetics in the prostate. Of the three high fat diets, beef tallow was also found to increase intestinal carcinogenesis. Thus, the present data revealed carcinogenesis in the prostate and intestine to be promoted by beef tallow.
Ductopenia is observed in end-stage human cholestatic diseases. The limited capability of cholangiocytes for proliferation is suggested to be the principal reason. Recently, bone marrow cells (BMCs) have been reported to behave as hepatic stem cells; however, their capability to differentiate into cholangiocytes in cholestasis remains unclear.
Normal mice were lethally irradiated to suppress the proliferation of self-BMCs; thereafter, the BMCs from enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP)-transgenic mice were transferred to recipients. Chronic cholestasis was induced by 0.1%alpha-naphtylisothiocyanate (ANIT) feeding. The proliferation of cholangiocytes and oval cells was assessed morphologically and immunohistchemically (cytokeratin-7 (CK-7), A6). Proliferative activity (proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) protein expression), hepatic growth factor (HGF) receptor (c-Met), stem cell factor receptor (c-kit), Notch2 and Hes1 expression were also evaluated.
Marked cholangiocyte proliferation was observed in ANIT-fed mice. However, no EGFP/CK-7 double positive cells were identified in any of the liver specimens after BMCs transfer (Tx). In hepatic parenchyma, there were scattered EGFP-positive cells, although none of them were positive for CK-7.
In spite of the significant ductular proliferations after ANIT feeding, no EGFP-positive cholangiocytes were confirmed by any other means in this chronic cholestasis model. Thus, different from hepatocytes, BMCs Tx seems not to contribute to the differentiation of cholangiocytes. Future studies are feasible to clarify the origin of proliferative cholangiocytes observed in this chronic cholestatic ductular hyperplasia model.
Benzene is known to be highly toxic to a variety of cell types, including lymphocytes. A previous study showed that T-lymphocyte immune function disorder might be related to benzene exposure. To elucidate characteristics of TCR signal transduction in benzene-exposed workers, expression levels of CD3γ, CD3δ, CD3ϵ, and CD3ζ genes in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) were analyzed. Real-time RT-PCR using SYBR Green I was used to detect CD3 gene expression levels in PBMC from 20 benzene-exposed workers, seven workers with chronic mild benzene poisoning, five workers with chronic severe benzene poisoning and 14 healthy individuals (controls). The relative mRNA expression level was analyzed by the 2(-Δct) × 100% method. In benzene-exposed worker cells, significantly higher CD3δ, CD3ϵ, and CD3ζ, expression levels were observed as compared with values for cells from the healthy controls. In the workers with chronic severe benzene poisoning, lymphocyte CD3γ, CD3ϵ, and CD3ζ gene expression levels were significantly lower than in control cells. Lymphocytes from chronic mildly benzene- poisoned workers evinced two different gene expression patterns, i.e., CD3γ and CD3ϵ levels were similar to those in the benzene-exposed worker cells, but CD3δ and CD3ζ expression levels were significantly lower relative to those in cells from chronic severely-benzene-poisoned counterparts. It remained to be determined if these reductions in expression of these genes presage or are indicative of deficiencies in the activities of T-lymphocytes in these workers. For now, it is hoped that this study may contribute to a better understanding of the disorders in cellular immunity frequently found with benzene-exposed workers.
Oxis Turbuhaler is a new dry powder formulation of long-acting beta2-agonist formoterol. This study compared the efficacy and safety of regular use of the long-acting beta2-agonist formoterol and the short-acting terbutaline for 3 months in patients with asthma.
After 1-week run-in, 343 patients received either formoterol 12 microg bid (F) (delivered dose of 9 microg), terbutaline 500 microg qid (T) or placebo qid, in a parallel-group, double-blind, randomized manner. They had a mean of 61% of predicted forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) and a mean reversibility of 26%. Eighty-nine percent used inhaled corticosteroids.
During run-in mean morning peak expiratory flow (PEF L/min) for F was 366 and 348 for T, and 344 for placebo (P). The F group improved morning PEF significantly compared with P (P = .0022) and T (P = .0001). Changes from run-in were + 18, -1.5, and +5 L/min after F, T, and P, respectively. The F group was statistically significantly better than P and T in increasing evening PEF and in reducing night-time asthma. The F and T statistically significantly reduced the use of rescue medication compared with P. The bronchodilating response to the study drug and to an additional 1.25 mg terbutaline was of the same magnitude before and throughout the study. No statistically significant treatment-by-time interaction was observed (P > .20). There were no adverse effects of clinical relevance.
Formoterol Turbuhaler, 12 microg bid, was more effective than terbutaline Turbuhaler, 0.5 mg qid, and placebo. Regular use of formoterol or terbutaline did not significantly influence the response to additional inhalation of terbutaline.
Elevated levels of the vasocontrictor peptide endothelin-1 have been demonstrated in various pathological conditions that are characterized by sodium retention and/or renal vasoconstriction, such as heart failure, hepatorenal syndrome, renal failure and during administration of cyclosporin and radiocontrast. In the present study we studied in seven healthy subjects the renal and endocrine effects of systemic administration of endothelin-1 (0.5, 1.0 and 2.5 ng/kg/min). During endothelin-1 infusion plasma levels rose from 3.2 +/- 0.5 to respectively 5.0 +/- 0.8, 6.2 +/- 0.5 and 8.5 +/- 1.1 pmol/liter, values that can also be observed in physiological and pathological conditions. Infusion of low dosages of endothelin-1, that result in a twofold increase in plasma levels, decreased sodium excretion by 36%, without a significant effect on systemic and renal hemodynamics. Infusion of 2.5 ng/kg/min of endothelin-1 further enhanced sodium retention and, in addition, increased renal vascular resistance by 37%. Blood pressure did not change significantly. Pretreatment with the calcium channel blocker nifedipine caused renal vasodilation, which compensated for the renal vasocontriction by endothelin-1 and prevented sodium retention. Apparently, endothelin-1 participates in volume homeostasis in human, whereas pathophysiological concentrations can contribute to renal vasoconstriction and sodium retention. Calcium channel blockers may protect against these effects of endothelin-1.
The dose-response relationship was determined in rats for the enhancement by phenobarbital of diethylnitrosamine (DENA)-initiated neoplastic nodules and hepatocellular carcinomas. Male Sprague-Dawley rats received a single oral dose of either 80 mg/kg DENA or water. Seven days later, the animals were divided into groups that started to receive 0, 62.5, 125, 250, 500 or 1000 ppm sodium phenobarbital in the drinking water. Animals from each group were killed at 48 and 70 weeks after the DENA. No significant difference was observed in the low response of neoplastic nodules among the DENA-initiated groups. The incidence of DENA-initiated hepatocellular carcinoma was enhanced at 70 weeks by 250, 500 and 1000 ppm sodium phenobarbital but not by 62.5 or 125 ppm sodium phenobarbital. Equal enhancement of the incidence of hepatocellular carcinomas was obtained with 250, 500 and 1000 ppm sodium phenobarbital. In non-DENA-initiated rats, phenobarbital did not induce neoplastic nodules or hepatocellular carcinomas. Our results suggest that a daily dose of at least 250 ppm sodium phenobarbital is required in order for it to exert tumor promoting activity.
To compare the effects of an orally administered corticosteroid (prednisone), an inhaled corticosteroid (flunisolide), a leukotriene-receptor antagonist (zafirlukast), an antiserotonergic drug (cyproheptadine), and a control substance on the asthmatic phenotype in cats with experimentally induced asthma.
6 cats with asthma experimentally induced by the use of Bermuda grass allergen (BGA).
A randomized, crossover design was used to assess changes in the percentage of eosinophils in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF); airway hyperresponsiveness; blood lymphocyte phenotype determined by use of flow cytometry; and serum and BALF content of BGA-specific IgE, IgG, and IgA determined by use of ELISAs.
Mean +/- SE eosinophil percentages in BALF when cats were administered prednisone (5.0 +/- 2.3%) and flunisolide (2.5 +/- 1.7%) were significantly lower than for the control treatment (33.7 +/- 11.1%). We did not detect significant differences in airway hyperresponsiveness or lymphocyte surface markers among treatments. Content of BGA-specific IgE in serum was significantly lower when cats were treated with prednisone (25.5 +/- 5.4%), compared with values for the control treatment (63.6 +/- 12.9%); no other significant differences were observed in content of BGA-specific immunoglobulins among treatments.
Orally administered and inhaled corticosteroids decreased eosinophilic inflammation in airways of cats with experimentally induced asthma. Only oral administration of prednisone decreased the content of BGA-specific IgE in serum; no other significant local or systemic immunologic effects were detected among treatments. Inhaled corticosteroids can be considered as an alternate method for decreasing airway inflammation in cats with asthma.
The frequency of hypotension attributed to orally administered chlorpromazine hydrochloride was compared among 187 nonsmokers, 223 "light" smokers, 87 "intermediate" smokers, and 18 "heavy" smokers. Hypotension attributed to the drug occurred in10%, 8%, 5% and 0%, respectively. Other factors found to be independently related to hypotension were high diastolic blood pressure on admission and high dosage of chlorpromazine. The results suggest that smoking status, dosage, and blood pressure must be evaluated in order to estimate the likelihood that a patient may become hypotensive after receiving chlorpromazine.
Acute vanishing bile duct syndrome is a rare but established cause of progressive cholestasis in adults, is most often drug or toxin related, and is of unknown pathogenesis. It has not been reported previously in children. Stevens-Johnson syndrome is a well-recognized immune complex-mediated hypersensitivity reaction that affects all age groups, is drug or infection induced, and has classic systemic, mucosal, and dermatologic manifestations. A previously healthy child who developed acute, severe, rapidly progressive vanishing bile duct syndrome shortly after Stevens-Johnson syndrome is described; this was temporally associated with ibuprofen use. Despite therapy with ursodeoxycholic acid, prednisone, and then tacrolimus, her cholestatic disease was unrelenting, with cirrhosis shown by biopsy 6 months after presentation. This case documents acute drug-related vanishing bile duct syndrome in the pediatric age group and suggests shared immune mechanisms in the pathogenesis of both Stevens-Johnson syndrome and vanishing bile duct syndrome.
A number of chemicals have been shown to cause malignant neoplasms in the forestomach of Fischer 344 rats when administered chronically by gavage. The present study was designed to identify early forestomach lesions following 2-week repeated gavage administration of some of these forestomach carcinogens. In this manner, we attempted to examine the hypothesis that early cell proliferation is associated with repetitive gavage administration of these chemicals. Groups of 8 or more male F344 rats received 1 of 6 reported forestomach carcinogens (ethyl acrylate (EtAc), diglycidyl resorcinol ether(DGRE), 1,2-dibromoethane (DBE), 1,2-dibromo-3-chloro-propane (DBCP), 1-chloro-2-methylpropene (dimethylvinyl chloride, DMVC) and 3-chloro-2-methylpropene (CMP)), 1 of 2 structurally related chemicals (methyl methacrylate (MMA) and dichloroethane (DCE)) which were negative in chronic carcinogenicity studies or the vehicle (corn oil) alone 5 days/week for 2 weeks. Histopathologic examination of forestomachs of rats killed 24 h after the last dose indicated no significant difference in the incidence or severity of epithelial cell proliferation in the rat forestomach between the vehicle control group and the 2 negative control groups. In contrast, the incidence and severity of epithelial cell proliferation of the rat forestomach in every group treated with a forestomach carcinogen was significantly higher than the incidence in the vehicle or negative control groups. These results suggest that early epithelial cell proliferation of the forestomach may be associated with at least some chemicals that induce forestomach neoplasia following chronic administration by gavage.
We retrospectively reviewed clinical and neurophysiological data of 6 epileptic patients who developed negative myoclonus and stupor a few days after introduction of valproate (VPA). Prompt remission of clinical signs and symptoms followed valproate withdrawal. We attempted to elucidate the pathophysiological mechanism of VPA-induced stupor and provide further polygraphic and backaveraging EEG documentation of negative myoclonus. During VPA-induced stupor electroencephalograms revealed posterior background slowing in all patients. Interictal epileptiform discharges were present in 3 patients. In all 6 patients close examination using simultaneous video-polygraphic recording showed negative myoclonus which was not time-related to lateralized spike discharges. In 2 of 3 patients with no spikes on conventional EEG who underwent backaveraged EEG recordings we detected a large (5 microV) cortical positive-negative wave time-locked (30-40 msec) with the postural modification of the contralateral wrist. This cortical potential was similar to that observed in patients with asterixis secondary to metabolic or toxic encephalopathies. In one patient i.v. administration of 10 mg diazepam did not modify this cortical potential and did not reverse the clinical manifestations. In all patients the only abnormal laboratory finding was an increased level of venous ammonemia. Our findings are against an epileptic origin of VPA encephalopathy and provide further argument in favour of a cortical non-epileptic mechanism mediating negative myoclonus. Benzodiazepines should be avoided in the management of this condition.
There are major variations in the susceptibility to weight gain among individuals under similar external influences (decreased physical activity and excessive calorie intake), depending on the genetic background. In the present study, we performed a microarray analysis and real-time PCR validations in order to find out differential gene expression in subcutaneous abdominal adipose tissue from two groups of subjects that despite living in similar environmental conditions such as a habitual high-fat dietary intake (energy as fat >40%) and similar moderate physical activity, some of them were successfully "resistant" (lean) to weight gain, while others were "susceptible" to fat deposition (obese). The classification of up- and downregulated genes into different categories, together with the analysis of the altered biochemical pathways, revealed a coordinated downregulation of catabolic pathways operating in the mitochondria: fatty acid β oxidation (P = 0.008), tricarboxylic acid cycle (P = 0.001), and electron transport chain (P = 0.012). At the same time, glucose metabolism (P = 0.010) and fatty acid biosynthesis (P = 0.011) pathways were also downregulated in obese compared to lean subjects. In conclusion, our data showed an orchestrated downregulation of nuclear-encoded mitochondrial gene expression. These genes are involved in cellular respiration and oxidative metabolic pathways and could play a role in the susceptibility to weight gain in some individuals.
Several incidences of adverse effects on human health have been reported in many countries, due to consumption of edible oil adulterated with argemone oil (AO). The clinical manifestation of the disease is commonly referred to as epidemic dropsy. Our prior studies have shown that AO and isolated sanguinarine alkaloid (SANG) possess genotoxic and tumour initiating activity. In this study, the effect of AO/SANG was investigated on the development of tumour formation in mice using 7,12-dimethylbenz (a) anthracene (DMBA) initiated followed by tetradecanoyl phorbol acetate (TPA)-promoted skin tumour protocol. Single application of AO (300μl) or SANG (4.5μmol) when used during initiation phase in DMBA/TPA group did not reveal substantial difference in tumourigenic response. However, twice weekly application of AO (100μl) or SANG (1.5μmol) during promotion phase (25 weeks) resulted in enhanced tumourigenic response by ≥30% in DMBA/TPA treated group along with significant decrease in dermal tyrosinase (45-49%), histidase (30-32%), superoxide dismutase (53-56%), catalase (41%), GSH reductase (37-40%) and GSH-peroxidase activity (29-33%) compared to control. Furthermore, significant decrease of epidermal GSH (64-66%) content and enhanced formation of lipid peroxides (96-121%) was noticed following AO or SANG treatment during promotion phase to DMBA/TPA induced animals indicating the modified pro-oxidant status in skin. Although dermal biochemical parameters were also altered by AO or SANG when used during initiation phase in DMBA/TPA treated animals, nonetheless, the response in these parameters were relatively more when AO or SANG were used during promotion phase in DMBA/TPA treated animals. These results clearly suggest that AO and SANG have the ability to enhance the tumourigenic response, which may have relevance to its carcinogenic potential.
Several factors have been incriminated in the genesis of diabetic nephropathy. To elucidate their interplay, we have used a hypertensive, obese, diabetic rat model with nephropathy (SHR/NDmcr-cp) that mimics human type 2 diabetes. This model is characterized by hypertension, obesity with the metabolic syndrome, diabetes with insulin resistance, and intrarenal advanced glycation end product (AGE) accumulation. In order to achieve renoprotection, which was evaluated by histology and albuminuria, various therapeutic approaches were used: caloric restriction, antihypertensive agents (angiotensin II receptor blocker [ARB] and calcium channel blocker), lipid- (bezafibrate) or glucose-lowering (insulin and pioglitazone) agents, and cobalt chloride (a hypoxia-inducible factor activator). Altogether, renoprotection is not necessarily associated with blood pressure or glycemic control. By contrast, it is almost always associated with decreased AGE formation, with the exception of insulin, which induces hyperinsulinemia, eventually leading to an overproduction of transforming growth factor-beta. AGE formation is reduced directly by in vitro active compounds (e.g., ARBs) or indirectly by in vitro inactive compounds (e.g., pioglitazone and cobalt). In the latter cases, AGE reduction may reflect a decreased oxidative stress as it is concomitant with a marked reduction of oxidative stress markers. It remains to be seen whether the renoprotection offered by these various approaches may be additive.
Resveratrol (3,4',5-trihydroxy-trans-stilbene), a polyphenolic natural product, shows chemopreventive properties against several cancers, heart diseases, inflammation, and viral infections. Epstein Barr virus (EBV), a γ-herpesvirus, contributes to the development of several human cancers including Burkitt's lymphoma (BL). In this study, we asked whether treatment with resveratrol would affect the viability of EBV-positive BL cells displaying different forms of latency. We report here that resveratrol, regardless of EBV status, induces caspase-dependent apoptosis by arresting cell-cycle progression in G(1) phase. However, resveratrol strongly induced apoptosis in EBV(-) and latency I EBV(+) cells, whereas latency II and latency III EBV(+) BL cells showed a survival advantage that increased with the extent of the pattern of viral gene expression. Resveratrol-induced cell-cycle arrest and apoptosis occurred in association with induction of p38 MAPK phosphorylation and suppression of ERK1/2 signaling pathway. Moreover, NF-κB DNA-binding activity was inhibited in all BL lines except EBV(+) latency III cells. LMP1 oncogene, which is expressed in latency III phenotype, is involved with the higher resistance to the antiproliferative effect of resveratrol because siRNA-mediated inhibition of LMP1 greatly increased the sensitivity of latency III BL cells as well as that of lymphoblastoid cell lines to the polyphenol. We propose that a combined resveratrol/siRNA strategy may be a novel approach for the treatment of EBV-associated B-cell malignancies in which the viral pattern of gene expression has been defined.
This experiment determined the safety and tolerability of intranasal cocaine during aripiprazole maintenance.
Six cocaine-dependent human subjects were maintained on aripiprazole (15 mg) and placebo for 10 days in counterbalanced order prior to assessing the physiological and subject-rated effects of intranasal cocaine.
Intranasal cocaine produced prototypical stimulant-like effects (e.g., increased blood pressure and heart rate, increased subject ratings of Like Drug and Stimulated), and aripiprazole enhanced these effects on several measures.
Aripiprazole (15 mg/day) is safe and tolerable when combined with cocaine; however, the usefulness of aripiprazole as a treatment for cocaine-use disorders remains to be determined.
Although primary hepatoma is not very frequent in alcoholics, the incidence of hepatoma in cases of hepatitis B infection combined with heavy alcohol drinking is high. In the present study, the effects of chronic alcohol administration on the development of chemical-induced hepatic cancer in rats were analyzed. In 70% hepatectomized Wistar strain male rats, a single dose (1 mg per 100 gm body weight) of diethylnitrosamine was injected intraperitoneally. Eight weeks after the injection, 20% alcohol-10% sucrose solution (diethylnitrosamine-alcohol group), 0.1% sodium phenobarbital solution (diethylnitrosamine-phenobarbital group), 10% sucrose solution (diethylnitrosamine-sucrose group) or tap water (diethylnitrosamine-alone group) was given as drinking water for 32 weeks. The numbers of visible nodules per liver were significantly greater in the diethylnitrosamine-alcohol and diethylnitrosamine-phenobarbital groups compared to the diethylnitrosamine-alone and diethylnitrosamine-sucrose groups. The numbers of enzyme-altered foci which were positive to gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase staining per square centimeter of liver section were also greater in the diethylnitrosamine-alcohol and diethylnitrosamine-phenobarbital groups than in the diethylnitrosamine-alone and diethylnitrosamine-sucrose groups, although the numbers of nodules and enzyme-altered foci were significantly larger in the diethylnitrosamine-phenobarbital group than in the diethylnitrosamine-alcohol group. The enzyme-altered foci areas calculated by gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase staining were significantly larger in the diethylnitrosamine-alcohol and diethylnitrosamine-phenobarbital groups than in the diethylnitrosamine-alone and diethylnitrosamine-sucrose groups. Histologically, visible nodules observed in diethylnitrosamine-phenobarbital and diethylnitrosamine-alcohol groups showed characteristic features of neoplastic nodules. These results indicate that alcohol has a promoter action on the development of chemically induced hepatic cancer like phenobarbital.
Bladder retraction is a rare complication of contact chemotherapy with mitomycin C in the treatment of superficial bladder cancer. The clinical and histological features and pathophysiology of this lesion are discussed in the light of a recent case.
Iron is essential for organisms. It is mainly utilized in mitochondria for biosynthesis of iron-sulfur clusters, hemes and other cofactors. Mitoferrin 1 and mitoferrin 2, two homologues proteins belonging to the mitochondrial solute carrier family, are required for iron delivery into mitochondria. Mitoferrin 1 is highly expressed in developing erythrocytes which consume a large amount of iron during hemoglobinization. Mitoferrin 2 is ubiquitously expressed, whose functions are less known. Zebrafish with mitoferrin 1 mutation show profound hypochromic anaemia and erythroid maturation arrests, and yeast with defects in MRS3/4, the counterparts of mitoferrin 1/2, has low mitochondrial iron levels and grows poorly by iron depletion. Mitoferrin 1 expression is up-regulated in yeast and mouse models of Fiedreich's ataxia disease and in human cell culture models of Parkinson disease, suggesting its involvement in the pathogenesis of diseases with mitochondrial iron accumulation. In this study we found that reduced mitoferrin levels in C. elegans by RNAi treatment causes pleiotropic phenotypes such as small body size, reduced fecundity, slow movement and increased sensitivity to paraquat. Despite these abnormities, lifespan was increased by 50% to 80% in N2 wild type strain, and in further studies using the RNAi sensitive strain eri-1, more than doubled lifespan was observed. The pathways or mechanisms responsible for the lifespan extension and other phenotypes of mitoferrin RNAi worms are worth further study, which may contribute to our understanding of aging mechanisms and the pathogenesis of iron disorder related diseases.
Few controlled studies have compared the efficacy of clozapine and risperidone in treatment-refractory schizophrenic patients. The present study investigates the efficacy of both clozapine and risperidone on psychopathologic and neurocognitive measures in a prospective 12-week open-label trial in treatment-refractory schizophrenic patients from state psychiatric hospitals.
Thirty-five DSM-IV schizophrenic patients with a documented history of nonresponse to typical neuroleptics were treated with either clozapine or risperidone. Response was assessed every 2 weeks by independent raters with the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), the Clinical Global Impressions (CGI) scale, neurologic rating scales, and plasma drug levels. Neurocognitive tests were administered at baseline and week 12.
Both clozapine and risperidone brought about significant (p < .003) overall improvement in psychopathology. However, clozapine was numerically superior to risperidone on PANSS total scores and PANSS positive, negative, excitement, and cognitive factors. Extrapyramidal side effects were minimal for clozapine, whereas some were present for risperidone. Patients taking risperidone improved significantly in the beginning stages of the study and remained stable thereafter. Patients taking clozapine showed a gradual improvement that occurred over the entire length of the trial. Neurocognitive measures showed minimal improvement and did not differentiate between the 2 medication groups.
Both clozapine and risperidone were comparably effective across a wide spectrum of psychopathologic measures. While the efficacy of clozapine was only numerically superior to that of risperidone, it was associated with fewer extrapyramidal side effects and with progressive improvement over the 12-week treatment period, suggesting that in longer trials clozapine may prove to be superior to risperidone in neuroleptic-refractory patients.
Recent experimental data suggest a role for lipids in the pathogenesis of glomerulosclerosis. In this study, we examined the main apolipoproteins (apo) of high density lipoproteins (A-I, A-IV, E), low density lipoproteins (B), and very low density lipoproteins (B,E) in plasma and kidney tissue of rats with puromycin aminonucleoside or adriamycin nephrosis. In full-blown nephrosis, plasma concentrations of apo A-I and apo B were significantly elevated, apo A-IV and apo E levels did not change. Immunohistological studies in plastic sections revealed increased apo A-I, apo A-IV, and apo E immunoreactivity in glomerular visceral epithelial cells both in puromycin aminonucleoside and adriamycin nephrosis. This was confirmed by immunoelectronmicroscopy. In addition, apo B and apo E were encountered in increased amounts in the mesangium and colocalized with Oil Red O-positive lipid deposits, particularly in puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis rats. Double-staining showed a preferential localization of apo B and apo E at sites of increased mesangial matrix in close proximity to ED1-positive foam cells, i.e., the mesangial macrophages. The close topographic association between apo B and apo E, lipid deposits, and macrophages in the mesangium lend further support to the concept of lipid-mediated glomerular injury in nephrosis.
We examined if administration of an antioxidant compound protects against the development of insulin resistance and hypertension. Male rats were assigned randomly into four groups, and treated for 12 weeks with normal chow, normal chow plus N-acetylcysteine (1.5 g/day/kg), fructose (60% of diet), and fructose plus N-acetylcysteine. After 10 weeks, plasma triglyceride and 15-F2t-isoprostane, and insulin sensitivity were measured, and after 12 weeks, pressor response to methoxamine (15-60 microg/kg min) was assessed. Relative to normal chow-fed controls, the fructose-fed rats had increased blood pressure, plasma insulin, triglyceride and 15-F2t-isoprostane, and decreased insulin sensitivity; these changes were inhibited by N-acetylcysteine. Maximal pressor response to methoxamine was attenuated in the fructose-fed rats given N-acetylcysteine relative to the other three groups. Therefore, chronic treatment with N-acetylcysteine increases insulin sensitivity and prevents the blood pressure increase associated with fructose feeding in rats, the mechanism may involve the decrease of oxidative stress and alpha-adrenoceptor-mediated vasoconstriction.
Thirteen patients developed syncope and a prolonged QTc interval while taking therapeutic doses of sotalol. Polymorphous ventricular tachycardia was observed in 12 patients, and criteria typical of torsade de pointes were present in 10. In 12 patients sotalol had been given with hydrochlorothiazide in a combined preparation, Sotazide, but with inadequate or no potassium supplementation. Serum potassium concentrations were reduced in eight patients. Four patients were taking other drugs known to prolong the QT interval, including disopyramide (three patients) and tricyclic antidepressants (two patients). The QT interval returned to normal in all patients after withdrawal of the drugs and correction of the hypokalaemia. Thus even in low dosage sotalol may be hazardous in the presence of hypokalaemia or when combined with drugs that also prolong the QT interval. The use of sotalol concurrently with potassium losing diuretics, such as the combined preparation Sotazide, may expose the patient to unnecessary risk and should be avoided unless the class III antiarrhythmic action of this unique beta adrenoreceptor blocking agent is also required.
Activation of vanilloid receptors has commonly been used to facilitate neurogenic inflammation and plasma exudation to model components of the pathogenesis of migraine; however, these studies have been performed mainly in species lacking the emetic reflex. In the present studies, therefore, we used Suncus murinus, a species of insectivore capable of emesis, to investigate if the vanilloid receptor agonist resiniferatoxin is capable of modeling the emesis associated with migraine. Resiniferatoxin (100 nmol/kg, s.c.) induced an emetic response that was antagonized significantly (P<0.05) by ruthenium red (1-3 micromol), (2R-trans)-4-[1-[3,5-bis(trifluromethyl)benzoyl]-2-(phenylmethyl)-4-piperidinyl]-N-(2,6-dimethylphenyl)-1-acetamide (S)-hydroxybutanedioate (R116301; 10-100 micromol/kg), and scopolamine (1 micromol/kg), but not by dihydroergotamine (0.3-3 micromol/kg), sumatriptan (1-10 micromol/kg), methysergide (1-10 micromol/kg), tropanyl 3,5-dichlorobenzoate (MDL72222; 3-30 micromol/kg), ondansetron (0.3-3 micromol/kg), metoclopramide (3-30 micromol/kg), domperidone (3-30 micromol/kg), diphenhydramine (1-10 micromol/kg), or indomethacin (3-30 micromol/kg). The failure of a wide range of representative anti-migraine drugs to reduce retching and vomiting limits the use of this model to identify/investigate novel treatments for the emesis (and nausea) associated with migraine attacks in humans. However, the results provide further evidence for the involvement of a novel vanilloid receptor in resiniferatoxin-induced emesis and implicate both tachykinins and acetylcholine in the pathway(s) activated by resiniferatoxin in S. murinus.
Paediatric procedural sedation using propofol has been shown to be safe and effective and is widely used. Pain at the injection site is a frequent complaint and can be particularly distressing for children, especially for those undergoing repeated procedures. Ketamine has analgesic properties and can diminish the incidence of propofol infusion pain in adults. The aim of the study was to investigate whether pretreatment with ketamine would reduce infusion line pain in propofol sedation in children.
We performed a prospective, randomized, double-blind trial in a paediatric sedation unit of a tertiary referral teaching hospital. A total of 122 children admitted for gastroscopy were randomly allocated into two groups. Group 1 received atropine and ketamine before propofol infusion. Group 2 received atropine, normal saline solution, and a mixture of propofol with lidocaine. The main outcome measure evaluated was pain associated with the infusion and secondary outcome measures were mean medium arterial pressure decrease and desaturation.
The incidence of pain of the infusion was significantly lower in patients pretreated with ketamine (8% vs 37%, P = 0.0001).
Pretreatment with ketamine (0.5 mg.kg-1) is very effective in preventing propofol infusion pain.
We treated an 88-year-old man with aortic valvular stenosis/insufficiency and paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, who developed ventricular tachycardia due to pilsicainide toxicity. He was treated at the outpatient clinic of his local hospital, and was administered pilsicainide (100 mg/day) for atrial fibrillation. The electrocardiographic findings on admission to our hospital indicated wide QRS with frequent episodes of ventricular tachycardia. We diagnosed him as having pilsicainide toxicity because of a low cardiac output and renal dysfunction. His creatinine level was 2.4 mg/dL and the serum pilsicainide level was 2.42 microg/mL on admission. Fluid infusion and continuous hemodiafiltration were performed to achieve an early reduction in the serum pilsicainide level. His serum pilsicainide concentration was significantly decreased by these treatments, and the prolongation of the QTc and ventricular tachycardia improved in parallel to the decrease in the serum pilsicainide level. The changes in the serum pilsicainide level showed a significant positive correlation with the changes in the electrocardiographic findings (PQ, QRS, ST intervals, and QTc). Pilsicainide should be administered with great care to elderly patients, especially patients with cardiac dysfunction and renal dysfunction. Estimation of the serum level may be possible from the electrocardiographic findings if the pilsicainide toxicity occurs.
