Hard metal lung disease (HMLD) is an occupational lung disease specific to inhalation of cobalt-containing particles whose mechanism is largely unknown. Cobalt is a known hypoxia mimic and stabilizer of the alpha subunits of hypoxia-inducible factors (HIFs). Previous work revealed that though HIF1α contrib utes to cobalt toxicity in vitro, loss of HIF1α in the alveolar epithelial cells does not provide in vivo protection from cobalt-induced lung inflammation. HIF1α and HIF2α show unique tissue expression profiles, and HIF2α is known to be the predominant HIF mRNA isoform in the adult lung. Thus, if HIF2α activation by cobalt contributes to pathophysiology of HMLD, we hypothesized that loss of HIF2α in lung epithelium would provide protection from cobalt-induced inflammation. Mice with HIF2α-deficiency in Club and alveolar type II epithelial cells (ATIIs) (HIF2α(Δ/Δ)) were exposed to cobalt (60 µg/day) or saline using a subacute occupational exposure model. Bronchoalveolar lavage cellularity, cytokines, qRT-PCR, and histopathology were analyzed. Results show that loss of HIF2α leads to enhanced eosinophilic inflammation and increased goblet cell metaplasia. Additionally, control mice demonstrated a mild recovery from cobalt-induced lung injury compared with HIF2α(Δ/Δ) mice, suggesting a role for epithelial HIF2α in repair mechanisms. The expression of important cytokines, such as interleukin (IL)-5 and IL-10, displayed significant differences following cobalt exposure when HIF2α(Δ/Δ) and control mice were compared. In summary, our data suggest that although loss of HIF2α does not afford protection from cobalt-induced lung inflammation, epithelial HIF2α signaling does play an important role in modulating the inflammatory and repair response in the lung.
Celecoxib, a selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor, is the only non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug so far which has been approved by the FDA for adjuvant treatment of patients with familial adenomatous polyposis. The molecular mechanism responsible for the anti-cancer effects of celecoxib is not fully understood. There is little data on the potential role of COX-2 in lymphoma pathogenesis. In view of the reported induction of apoptosis in cancer cells by cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors, the present study is undertaken to test the effect of celecoxib on human chronic myeloid leukemia cell line, K562 and other hematopoietic cancer cell lines like Jurkat (human T lymphocytes), HL60 (human promyelocytic leukemia) and U937 (human macrophage). Treatment of these cells with celecoxib (10-100 microM) dose-dependently, reduced cell growth with arrest of the cell cycle at G0/G1 phase and induction of apoptosis. Further mechanism of apoptosis induction was elucidated in detail in K562 cell line. Apoptosis was mediated by release of cytochrome c into the cytoplasm and cleavage of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1). This was followed by DNA fragmentation. The level of anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 was decreased without any change in the pro-apoptotic Bax. Celecoxib also inhibited NF-kB activation. Celecoxib thus potentiates apoptosis as shown by MTT assay, cytochrome c leakage, PARP cleavage, DNA fragmentation, Bcl-2 downregulation and possibly by inhibiting NF-kB activation.
Temporal lobe epilepsy is prevalent and can be difficult to treat effectively. Granule cell axon (mossy fiber) sprouting is a common neuropathological finding in patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy, but its role in epileptogenesis is unclear and controversial. Focally infused or systemic rapamycin inhibits the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway and suppresses mossy fiber sprouting in rats. We tested whether long-term systemic treatment with rapamycin, beginning 1 d after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus in mice, would suppress mossy fiber sprouting and affect the development of spontaneous seizures. Mice that had experienced status epilepticus and were treated for 2 months with rapamycin displayed significantly less mossy fiber sprouting (42% of vehicle-treated animals), and the effect was dose dependent. However, behavioral and video/EEG monitoring revealed that rapamycin- and vehicle-treated mice displayed spontaneous seizures at similar frequencies. These findings suggest mossy fiber sprouting is neither pro- nor anti-convulsant; however, there are caveats. Rapamycin treatment also reduced epilepsy-related hypertrophy of the dentate gyrus but did not significantly affect granule cell proliferation, hilar neuron loss, or generation of ectopic granule cells. These findings are consistent with the hypotheses that hilar neuron loss and ectopic granule cells might contribute to temporal lobe epileptogenesis.
We have assessed the angiographic features of a group of 37 patients given oral dipyridamole and 37 patients given matching placebo. Both groups represented severe coronary arterial disease and were studied prior to bypass surgery. Six patients (16%) had angina and 13 patients (35%) had electrocardiographic changes after dipyridamole. All the patients in the control group were nonresponders. In the group given dipyridamole the patients responding with angina had significantly more compromised collaterals than the patients without chest pain (P = 0.021). The same applied to the patients with electrocardiographic changes versus those with no electrocardiographic changes (P = 0.034). No differences between responders and nonresponders could be found in terms of the severity of coronary arterial disease, severity of anginal symptoms, exercise tolerance, antianginal medication, number of past myocardial infarctions, and left ventricular ejection fraction. In conclusion, the data strongly suggest that ischaemic responses to dipyridamole originate from myocardial steal accentuated by compromised flow in collateral vessels.
Arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) was found to induce apoptosis in certain types of cancer cells including acute promyelocytic leukemia, and recently in solid tumors. We have previously demonstrated that As(2)O(3) has a therapeutic effect on cervical cancer by apoptosis promotion in vitro and in vivo. Here we further our study on the role of arsenic trioxide in regulating invasive activity of cervical cancer cells in vitro and in vivo.
The effects of As(2)O(3) on human cervical cancer cell lines (HeLa, SiHa, Caski) adhesion, migration and invasion were observed by means of cell adhesion test, cell migration test and cell invasion test. The effects of As(2)O(3) on p-IkappaB, MMP-2, E-cadherin, caveolin-1 and beta-catenin protein expressions of tumor cells were determined by Western blot. In addition, the effects of As(2)O(3) on NF-kappaB activity of tumor cells were analyzed by immunoblot in whole lysates, cytosol and nucleus, respectively. In animal experiments, cervical cancer cells TC-1 were injected into tail veins of C57BL/6 mice and then the mice were treated by intraperitoneal injection of different doses As(2)O(3). Lung weights and the foci on the surface of lungs were measured.
As(2)O(3) inhibited attachment of tumor cells to Fibronectin and Matrigel, reduced cell motility and inhibited tumor invasion potential. As(2)O(3) treatment also resulted in a positive regulation of caveolin-1, upregulation of E-cadherin and decreased activity of beta-catenin, NF-kappaB and NF-kappaB-regulated gene MMP-2. In animal experiments, lung weights in PBS group (0.31+/-0.07 g) were significantly elevated compared with those in As(2)O(3)-treated groups (0.21+/-0.03 g and 0.17+/-0.03 g) also As(2)O(3) reduced number of metastatic lesions of lungs (15.4+/-3.5 vs. 8.3+/-2.0 and 6.3+/-2.3) in a dose-dependent manner.
This study is the first to report the effectiveness of As(2)O(3) as an inhibitor of cervical cancer invasion both in vitro and in vivo, suggesting a potential clinical application of As(2)O(3) in cervical cancer therapies combining apoptosis induction and metastasis inhibition.
Steroid hormones seem to be important for adipose tissue metabolism and accumulation. As progesterone has been suggested to modulate the glucocorticoid effects, the interactions between glucocortioid and progesterone on adipose tissue metabolism were investigated.Forty-eight male Wistar rats were adrenectomized and divided into four groups; controls (treated with vehicle only), dexamethasone treated (10 micro g per rat), progesterone treated (5mg per rat) and the last group received both dexamethasone and progesterone. The dexamethasone-treated group had a significant loss of body weight and smaller intra-abdominal fat depots compared to the control group in addition, dexamethasone increased LPL-activity and increased catecholamine stimulated lipolysis. When progesterone was given concomitantly the dexamethasone effects on adipose tissue mass, LPL-activity and lipolysis were blocked. When given alone progesterone had no influence on body weight, amount of adipose tissue, lipolysis or LPL-activity. These data indicate that progesterone acts as an anti-glucocorticoid in adipose tissue in vivo, thus attenuating the glucocorticoid effect on adipose tissue metabolism.
The study was designed to compare acute and direct cardiotoxicity of gadopentetate dimeglumine, gadoteridol injection, and gadodiamide injection.
Two consecutive injections of contrast material (0.3 to 1.5 mmol/kg body weight) were given to spontaneously beating, isolated rat hearts. Cardiac function was assessed by measuring left ventricular developed pressure (LVDP), perfusion pressure, and electrocardiographic (ECG) parameters.
Gadopentetate dimeglumine decreased LVDP, and its first derivatives (+/- dP/dt max) substantially more than gadodiamide injection. Gadoteridol increased these variables. PR and RT intervals lengthened after 1.5 mmol/kg gadopentetate dimeglumine and gadoteridol injection. Bradycardia and ventricular tachyarrhythmias were seen after injection of 1.5 mmol/kg gadopentetate dimeglumine. Except for isolated ventricular premature beats, gadodiamide injection and gadoteridol injection did not provoke any serious arrhythmia.
Gadopentatate dimeglumine induced negative inotropy and more pronounced ECG disturbances. Gadoteridol injection and gadodiamide injection induced only small changes in left ventricular inotropy and minor electrophysiologic effects.
A Cambodian woman with hemoglobin E trait (AE) and leprosy developed a Heinz body hemolytic anemia while taking a dose of dapsone (50 mg/day) not usually associated with clinical hemolysis. Her red blood cells (RBCs) had increased incubated Heinz body formation, decreased reduced glutathione (GSH), and decreased GSH stability. The pentose phosphate shunt activity of the dapsone-exposed AE RBCs was increased compared to normal RBCs. Although the AE RBCs from an individual not taking dapsone had increased incubated Heinz body formation, the GSH content and GSH stability were normal. The pentose phosphate shunt activity of the non-dapsone-exposed AE RBCs was decreased compared to normal RBCs. Thus, AE RBCs appear to have an increased sensitivity to oxidant stress both in vitro and in vivo, since dapsone does not cause hemolytic anemia at this dose in hematologically normal individuals. Given the influx of Southeast Asians into the United States, oxidant medications should be used with caution, especially if an infection is present, in individuals of ethnic backgrounds that have an increased prevalence of hemoglobin E.
Digitoxin induces apoptosis in different human malignant cell lines in vitro. In this paper we investigated if patients taking digitoxin for cardiac disease have a different cancer incidence compared to the general population.
Computer stored data on digitoxin concentrations in plasma from 9271 patients with cardiac disease were used to define a user population. Age and sex matched controls from the Norwegian Cancer Registry were used to calculate the number of expected cancer cases.
The population on digitoxin showed a higher incidence of cancer compared to the control population. However, an additional analysis showed that the population on digitoxin had a general increased risk of cancer already, before the start on digitoxin. Leukemia/lymphoma were the cancer types which stood out with the highest risk in the digitoxin population before starting on digitoxin. This indicates that yet unknown risk factors exist for cardiovascular disease and lymphoproliferative cancer. An internal dose-response analysis revealed a relationship between high plasma concentration of digitoxin and a lower risk for leukemia/lymphoma and for cancer of the kidney/urinary tract.
Morbidity and mortality are high in the population on digitoxin, due to high age and cardiac disease. These factors disturb efforts to isolate an eventual anticancer effect of digitoxin in this setting. Still, the results may indicate an anticancer effect of digitoxin for leukemia/lymphoma and kidney/urinary tract cancers. Prospective clinical cancer trials have to be done to find out if digitoxin and other cardiac glycosides are useful as anticancer agents.
The mechanisms that regulate bone mass are important in a variety of complex diseases such as osteopenia and osteoporosis. Regulation of bone mass is a polygenic trait and is also influenced by various environmental and lifestyle factors, making analysis of the genetic basis difficult. As an effort toward identifying novel genes involved in regulation of bone mass, N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU) mutagenesis in mice has been utilized. Here we describe a mouse mutant termed Yoda that was identified in an ENU mutagenesis screen for dominantly acting mutations. Mice heterozygous for the Yoda mutation exhibit craniofacial abnormalities: shortened snouts, wider skulls, and deformed nasal bones, underlined by altered morphology of frontonasal sutures and failure of interfrontal suture to close. A major feature of the mutant is reduced bone mineral density. Homozygosity for the mutation results in embryonic lethality. Positional cloning of the locus identified a missense mutation in a highly conserved region of the ankyrin repeat domain 11 gene (Ankrd11). This gene has not been previously associated with bone metabolism and, thus, identifies a novel genetic regulator of bone homeostasis.
To describe a case of pseudotumor cerebri associated with the administration of intermediate-dose cytarabine.
An 11-year-old Hispanic boy with acute myeloblastic leukemia developed symptoms of pseudotumor cerebri (headache, diplopia, photophobia, nausea, vomiting) after receiving chemotherapy including cytarabine. The patient improved after a lumbar puncture and treatment with prednisone and acetazolamide, and is now asymptomatic.
Pseudotumor cerebri is a condition usually associated with obese women of child-bearing age. Case reports in pediatric patients are unusual. Several medications have been implicated in causing pseudotumor cerebri, including antimicrobials (tetracycline, naladixic acid), amiodarone, lithium carbonate, vitamin A and its derivatives, growth hormone, and corticosteroids. Chemotherapy agents reported to cause pseudotumor cerebri include busulfan with cyclophosphamide, and the combination of vinblastine, cisplatin, and bleomycin. Most of the information on medication-induced pseudotumor cerebri is in the form of case reports. Different mechanisms for causing this condition have been offered for individual medications. Most of these explanations involve fluid imbalance or interference with the Na+/K+ adenosine triphosphatase pump. Controlled studies are difficult because this condition is an unpredictable and rare occurrence. Cytarabine has frequently been associated with neurologic toxicities, but few reports of pseudotumor cerebri can be found.
The exact cause of pseudotumor cerebri in this patient is unknown, but cytarabine seems a likely cause. The mechanism by which cytarabine could cause this reaction is unclear.
To report a case of multisystemic hypersensitivity reaction to carbamazepine.
An 81-year-old white man was admitted to our hospital because of fever, morbilliform pruritic rash, and jaundice. Fifty days before admission he had taken carbamazepine 200 mg p.o. tid because of seizures. During the first few days following admission, a maculopapular rash progressed to generalized erythroderma with subsequent extensive skin exfoliation. After discontinuing carbamazepine the fever disappeared within 72 hours and hepatic function tests returned to normal within four days. Moreover, after admission the hemoglobin values gradually fell to 6.7 g/100 mL. A bone marrow aspirate showed hypercellularity with marked dyserythropoietic abnormalities, and the bone marrow biopsy showed large and diffused infiltration due to the presence of a low-grade small lymphocytic lymphoma. No specific therapy for the lymphoma was undertaken. The biochemical follow-up showed a total improvement of hemoglobin values. Eight months after drug discontinuation, the patient was asymptomatic; peripheral blood cell count and hemoglobin concentrations were persistently normal.
To the best of our knowledge, this is the first published case report implicating carbamazepine as the cause of anemia associated with bone marrow hypercellularity and dyserythropoietic changes, instead of hypocellularity and reduction of erythroid precursors. An interesting point raised by our observation is the possible relation between carbamazepine intake and actual lymphoproliferative disease. The development of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma following carbamazepine treatment has been reported, with regression after the drug was discontinued. However, in our case, a bone marrow biopsy repeated eight months after drug discontinuation confirmed the diagnosis of low-grade lymphoma.
This case report describes a severe multisystemic reaction, characterized by generalized erythroderma; and renal, hepatic, and bone marrow failure in a patient who started carbamazepine therapy 50 days beforehand.
We conducted 3 open-label, multiple-dose, 3-period, randomized, crossover studies in healthy subjects to assess the potential pharmacokinetic interaction between vildagliptin, a novel dipeptidyl peptidase IV inhibitor for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, and representatives of 3 commonly prescribed antihypertensive drug classes: (1) the calcium channel blocker, amlodipine; (2) the angiotensin receptor blocker, valsartan; and (3) the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, ramipril. Coadministration of vildagliptin 100 mg with amlodipine 5 mg, valsartan 320 mg, or ramipril 5 mg had no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of these drugs. The 90% confidence intervals of the geometric mean ratios for area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to 24 hours (AUC0-24h) and maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) for vildagliptin, amlodipine, and ramipril (and its active metabolite, ramiprilat) were contained within the acceptance range for bioequivalence (0.80-1.25). Valsartan AUC0-24h and Cmax increased by 24% and 14%, respectively, following coadministration of vildagliptin, but this was not considered clinically significant. Vildagliptin was generally well tolerated when given alone or in combination with amlodipine, valsartan, or ramipril in healthy subjects at steady state. No adjustment in dosage based on pharmacokinetic considerations is required should vildagliptin be coadministered with amlodipine, valsartan, or ramipril in patients with type 2 diabetes and hypertension.
The aim of this study was to determine salvage outcome in patients with Hodgkin's disease who relapse after radiation therapy, and to compare the efficacy of mechlorethamine, Oncovin, procarbazine and prednisone (MOPP) versus Adriamycin, bleomycin, vinblastine and dacarbazine (ABVD) as salvage treatment.
One hundred patients with Hodgkin's disease (97 with stage I-II disease at presentation) who relapsed after radiation therapy alone were salvaged with either MOPP or ABVD. Freedom from second relapse (FFSR) and overall survival (OS) were determined, and prognostic factors for salvage outcome were evaluated.
The median follow-up time since salvage therapy was 12 years. The 10-year FFSR and OS rates were 70% and 89%, respectively. Forty-one patients were salvaged with MOPP and 59 received ABVD. The type of salvage chemotherapy did not significantly influence FFSR or OS. Age >50 years at initial diagnosis was the only significant predictor for an inferior FFSR and OS on both univariate and multivariate analyses.
The two salvage regimens of MOPP and ABVD had similar efficacy in this group of patients with predominantly early-stage disease at initial radiation therapy. The inferior salvage outcome in patients aged >50 years is a contributing factor to the overall poor prognosis of patients presenting with Hodgkin's disease at an older age.
Global scale molecular profiling of diseased tissues is an important first step to unravel candidate target molecules that are involved in the pathogenesis of a disease. We have performed a comparative molecular characterization at the transcriptome (microarray with 12 526 gene specificities) and proteome level (multi-Western blot PowerBlot with 791 antibodies) of synovial tissue from rheumatoid arthritis (RA) compared to osteoarthritis (OA) patients. From the panel of 791 antibodies, 260 (33%) detected their corresponding protein. Out of 58 unambiguous changes at the protein level only 16 coincided at the transcript level (28%). Stat1, p47phox and manganese superoxide dismutase were shown to be reproducibly overexpressed in RA versus OA synovial tissue by Western blots with a panel of 8 RA versus 8 OA samples. Cathepsin D was among the most prominent proteins scored to be underexpressed in RA by the PowerBlot whereas no differences of the respective transcript were observed. The lower abundance of cathepsin D protein in RA compared to OA tissue was also reproduced in other patient samples. Immunohistochemistry assigned the Stat1 protein in RA synovial tissue mainly to macrophages and T lymphocytes and the p47phox protein in particular to macrophages. In conclusion, our approach provided us with new candidate molecules for further analysis of rheumatic diseases and stressed the importance of studies at the protein level.
YMDD variants of hepatitis B virus (HBV) emerge in some patients with chronic hepatitis B who receive lamivudine. YMDD variants were examined in 794 patients in 4 controlled studies of 1 year's duration. The long-term effects of YMDD variants were examined in a subset of patients treated up to 4 years. YMDD variants were detected by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and restriction fragment-length polymorphism assays. After 1 year, YMDD variants were detected in 81 (24%) of 335 patients. In these patients, the median serum HBV DNA concentration at 1 year was <20% of the baseline level, and serum alanine transaminase (ALT) levels and liver histologic findings had significantly improved. In patients with YMDD variants who were treated for up to 4 years, median HBV DNA and ALT levels showed improvements. Sex, baseline body mass index, and HBV DNA level were associated with emergence of YMDD variants. Patients with YMDD variants losing clinical response with a significant increase in the HBV DNA and ALT levels may require additional therapy.
1. Selective inhibitors of cyclo-oxygenase-2 have been shown to be effective anti-inflammatory drugs with reduced gastrointestinal toxicity relative to conventional nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). In the present study, we examined the possibility that selective COX-2 inhibition, by blocking prostacyclin synthesis, would increase blood pressure and cause leukocyte adherence and platelet aggregation. 2. Normal rats and rats with hypertension induced by chronic administration of Nomega-nitro-L-arginine methylester were given celecoxib (10 mg kg(-1)) daily for 3 weeks. Celecoxib significantly elevated of blood pressure in both the normal and hypertensive rats (mean increase of >33 mm Hg after 3 weeks). 3. In normal rats, celecoxib had no effect on serum 6-keto prostaglandin (PG)F(1alpha) levels. Hypertensive rats exhibited a significant increase (82%) in serum 6-keto PGF(1alpha) levels, and this was reduced to the levels of normal rats by treatment with celecoxib. 4. Rats treated with celecoxib exhibited significant increases in weight gain (20%), plasma arginine-vasopressin levels (148%) and plasma urea (69%) relative to vehicle-treated controls. Plasma creatinine levels were unaffected by treatment with celecoxib, while plasma renin levels were significantly decreased (30%) relative to controls. 5. Superfusion of mesenteric venules with celecoxib (3 microM) in vivo resulted in significant increases in leukocyte adherence to the endothelium in both normal and hypertensive rats. 6. These studies suggest that suppression of COX-2 significantly influences vascular and/or renal function, leading to elevated blood pressure and leukocyte adherence.
There is a checkpoint pathway in eukaryotic cells that depends on ATM (ataxia telangiectasia mutated) kinase which activates the processes leading to the repair of DNA damage and also lengthens the G(2) stage of the cell cycle. In cells from ataxia telangiectasia patients, due to their lack of active ATM kinase, an increase in chromosomal aberrations and a failure to induce G(2) lengthening could be expected. However, the basal G(2) timing in ataxia telangiectasia cells was longer than in controls and was further extended after X-ray irradiation (0.4 Gy), although to a lesser extent than in controls. Moreover, in control cells caffeine shortened G(2) and increased chromosomal damage 7-fold, while in ataxia telangiectasia cells caffeine only trebled aberration yield without shortening G(2). As caffeine is an inhibitor of ATM kinase, these results suggest the existence of some redundant ATM-independent checkpoint in G(2) of ataxia telangiectasia cells. The differential response to caffeine of ataxia telangiectasia and control lymphocytes may be explained by the presence of two different subpathways in the G(2) checkpoint: one regulating the processing and repair of damaged DNA and the other controlling G(2) timing. While in controls both subpathways may be mediated by ATM kinase, in ataxia telangiectasia cells caffeine-sensitive ATR kinase and the caffeine-insensitive DNA-PK kinases might be responsible for DNA repair and the G(2) delay subpathways, respectively. Confirmation of this model in ataxia telangiectasia cells with another cell type in which both subpathways are mediated by DNA-PK should define whether a metylxanthine such as caffeine may also have an additional direct inhibitory effect on DNA repair.
Myocardial infarction is a rarely reported complication of amphetamine use. We report the case of a healthy 31-year-old man who presented to our emergency department with no clinical evidence of an acute coronary event after intravenous injection of amphetamines. However, he subsequently experienced a non-Q-wave anterior wall myocardial infarction associated with the use of amphetamines.
Adefovir dipivoxil is effective against lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV) strains. Whether short-term overlap lamivudine is beneficial remains unknown, particularly in patients with decompensated chronic hepatitis B. We enrolled 30 patients who underwent 48-week adefovir treatment (10 mg daily) for exacerbation of hepatitis B, associated with lamivudine-resistant mutants. Nineteen (63.3%) patients had baseline evidence of hepatic decompensation. Lamivudine was combined for <or=1 month in eight (group I), 2-5 months in 10 (group II) and >or=6 months in 12 (group III). We analysed their serial alanine aninotransferase (ALT) levels, Child-Pugh (CP) score, serum viral load and lamivudine-resistant strains. We found that serum ALT became normalized in 20 (66.7%) and HBV-DNA decreased to <or=100 copies/mL in eight (26.7%) at the end of the 48-week treatment. The log(10) reduction of serum HBV-DNA was significantly smaller in group I patients compared with group II and III patients at week 24 and 48 of treatment [median (range): 3.0 (1.5-5.6) vs 4.5 (1.5-7.4), P = 0.032; and 3.4 (0.9-4.7) vs 5.2 (2.2-7.7), P = 0.008 respectively]. In contrast, the virologic responses at the end of the 48-week therapy were similar between group II and III patients. The improvement in serum ALT and CP score at week 48 was similar irrespective of baseline decompensation, liver cirrhosis and the duration of overlap lamivudine therapy. Our findings suggested that an overlap of lamivudine for >or=2 months might lead to better virological but not biochemical outcomes in patients receiving adefovir for lamivudine-resistance HBV. As our sample size was small and the study was not randomly controlled, further studies are needed.
Arsenic (As), a human carcinogen, represents a worldwide health problem due to the high number of people exposed to this element in their drinking water. Previously our group has demonstrated that As can impair lymphocyte cell proliferation in vitro and in vivo and can increase the level of P53 protein, with different responses to these effects between individuals. Recently it has been shown that ATM protein, responsible for the autosomal recessive disorder ataxia telangiectasia (AT), regulates P53. In this study the induced response of P53 was evaluated following exposure to As in human lymphoblastoid cell lines normal (+/+), heterozygous (+/-) or homozygous (-/-) for the mutant ATM gene. After 24 h As treatment we found a dose-dependent induction of P53 in normal and heterozygous cell lines, although differences between cell lines were observed. An increase in P21(WAF) protein, a main effector of P53 activation, was also observed in the same cell lines. In contrast, neither P53 nor P21 induction was detected in homozygous cells. The ATM (+/-) and (-/-) genotypes confer more sensitivity to As cytotoxic effects than the normal allelic condition. Paradoxically, ATM heterozygous cells were more sensitive to As, leading us to propose that this might be related to activation of apoptosis and removal of non-repairable cells. In contrast, in AT cells in which ATM is absent or mutated activation of P53 and its target genes is abrogated, allowing cells to replicate with damage in the presence of As, with cell death ensuing by a pathway different from P53.
This study was performed to compare the long-term clinical efficacy of treatment with metoprolol versus carvedilol in patients with chronic heart failure.
Beta-adrenergic blockade is of proven value in chronic heart failure. Metoprolol, a selective beta-blocker, is widely used, but recent trials suggest carvedilol, a nonselective beta-blocker with alpha-1-receptor antagonist activity and antioxidant activities, is also effective. It is uncertain, however, if these additional properties of carvedilol provide further clinical benefit compared with metoprolol.
In this randomized double-blind control trial, 51 patients with chronic heart failure and mean left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction of 26% +/- 1.8% were randomly assigned treatment with metoprolol 50 mg twice daily or carvedilol 25 mg twice daily in addition to standard therapy after a four-week dose titration period for a total of 12 weeks. Response was assessed by a quality of life questionnaire, New York Heart Association class, exercise capacity (6-min walk test), radionucleotide ventriculography for LV ejection fraction, two-dimensional echocardiography measurement of LV dimensions and diastolic filling and 24-h electrocardiograph monitoring to assess heart rate variability.
Both carvedilol and metoprolol produced highly significant improvement in symptoms (p < 0.001), exercise capacity (p < 0.05) and LV ejection fraction (p < 0.001), and there were no significant differences between the two drugs. Carvedilol had a significantly greater effect on sitting and standing blood pressure, LV end-diastolic dimension and normalized the mitral E wave deceleration time.
Both metoprolol and carvedilol were equally effective in improving symptoms, quality of life, exercise capacity and LV ejection fraction, although carvedilol lowers blood pressure more than metoprolol.
The efficacy of pretreatment with the recently developed intracellular calcium antagonist AT877 against transient focal cerebral ischemia was investigated in rats subjected to middle cerebral artery occlusion and reperfusion using the endovascular suture method.
Halothane-induced moderate hypotension (60 mm Hg) was used during 100 minutes of temporary middle cerebral artery occlusion. In the treated animals (n = 10), an intravenous infusion of AT877 (0.03 mg/kg per minute) was initiated 30 minutes before the ischemic event and continued during the ischemic period. The control rats (n = 10) received physiological saline in a similar fashion. Local cerebral blood flow was measured by the hydrogen clearance technique. Neurological examinations were performed daily during the 48-hour observation period, and infarct size was assessed by triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining.
A continuous infusion of AT877 significantly improved local cerebral blood flow during ischemia. The treated animals showed a better neurological outcome after a 24-hour observation period, and a significant reduction in ischemic brain injury resulted in both the neocortex (149 +/- 20 versus 41 +/- 14 mm3, P < .01) and the striatum (80 +/- 5 versus 46 +/- 8 mm3, P < .05). The size of the neocortical infarct was reduced, with increasing mean ischemic cerebral blood flow in the control and treated animals (r = .923, P = .0001).
AT877 pretreatment was effective in preventing brain injury during transient focal cerebral ischemia and improving neurological status. This beneficial effect seems to be mediated, in part, by its primary action of increasing cerebral blood flow.
Anhedonia, an affective symptom related to the inability to experience pleasure, is one of the representative symptoms observed in depression. In the present study, considering that repeated nicotine (NC) also causes "depressive" symptoms, the depression-related anhedonic behavioral alterations caused by a typical depression-inducing stressor, immobilization stress (IM), combined with or without NC administration, were examined in mice and compared with the depression-like behavioral alterations caused by NC. In the repeated IM (10 min, 4 days) group, as well as the repeated NC (0.3 mg/kg, s.c., 4 days) group, depression-related behavioral despair was observed in both forced swimming and tail suspension tests. Depression-related anhedonic behavioral alterations, as judged in the sucrose test, were observed only in the IM group. In the group treated with IM plus NC (IM-NC group), NC antagonized the IM-induced anhedonic attenuation of sucrose consumption in the sucrose test. Furthermore, in the IM-NC group, NC attenuated the effects of antidepressants which inhibit the reuptake of monoamines in the forced swimming test. Against the IM-induced anhedonia in the sucrose test, the cannabinoid agonists anandamide and CP 55940, in addition to the antidepressants previously reported, restored the preference for sucrose to control levels, with or without NC co-treatment. The absence of anhedonic behavioral alterations, the antidepressant-like anti-anhedonic effects against IM, and the effects against some antidepressant drugs all seemed to be characteristic of the effects of NC. Neural mechanisms other than those involved in the depression-like effects of NC seemed to contribute to the IM-induced anhedonic component of depression.
Oxidative stress is a major cause of drug induced hepatic diseases. The present study aims to investigate the antioxidative signaling mechanism of a protein isolated from the herb, Cajanus indicus against acetaminophen induced necrotic cell death. We found that incubation of hepatocytes with the protein prevented acetaminophen-induced loss in cell viability, reduction in glutathione level and enhancement of reactive oxygen species generation. Treatment of mice with the protein before administration of acetaminophen also reduced serum nitrite and TNF-alpha formation. Moreover, it counteracted acetaminophen-induced loss in mitochondrial membrane potential, loss in adenosine tri phosphate and rise in intracellular calcium. Investigating the cell signaling pathways, we found that the protein exerts its protective action via the activation of NF-kappaB and Akt and deactivation of STAT-1. Surprisingly, no role of ERK1/2 or STAT-3 was found in the protein-mediated protection of hepatocytes during acetaminophen exposure. Finally, we found that acetaminophen introduces necrosis as the primary phenomena of cell death and protein treatment decreased the necrotic process as evident from the DNA fragmentation and flow-cytometry studies. In addition, administration of the protein to mice before acetaminophen application showed fewer number of TUNEL positive cells. Combining, data suggest that the protein possesses cytoprotective activity against acetaminophen-induced oxidative cellular damage and prevents hepatocytes from necrotic death.
We describe the worsening of porphyria cutanea tarda in a young woman while she was taking oral contraceptives. However, she did not have an exacerbation during two pregnancies. We conclude that estrogens produced during pregnancy do not exert the same effect as orally administered medications that contain estrogen. The pronounced effect of oral ethinyl estradiol on the liver may be attributed to its first-pass effect on that organ.
To describe a patient with hypotension secondary to autonomic dysfunction who was successfully treated with oral vasopressors.
A 76-year-old African-American man with a history of cerebrovascular accident with right hemiparesis 30 years prior to admission was admitted from another hospital four days after a new posterior inferior cerebellar artery occlusion and poor distal flow as manifested by weakness and hypotension. This was treated with intravenous fluids and dopamine. The dopamine was weaned and changed to phenylephrine to maintain systolic blood pressure >80 mm Hg. Fludrocortisone 0.3 mg orally once daily was initiated; pressure support garments were used for the management of orthostatic hypotension. Ephedrine 25 mg po tid was added and titrated up to 50 mg p.o. tid. Yohimbine 5.4 mg po every eight hours was added due to continued dependence on phenylephrine to maintain adequate blood pressure. Yohimbine was titrated up to 10.8 mg p.o. tid in an unsuccessful effort to wean the patient from phenylephrine. Fludrocortisone was decreased to 0.1 mg po tid and the phenylephrine was tapered off. The patient developed a pan-sensitive Escherichia coli urinary tract infection that was treated with oral trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole. Over the subsequent days, an 80% left subclavian stenosis was detected; yohimbine and pressure support garments were discontinued. Subsequently, oral ephedrine was tapered off over two days, and fludrocortisone was tapered to 0.1 mg p.o. bid. The patient was transferred in a stable normotensive condition to an inpatient rehabilitation unit. The fludrocortisone was later discontinued with no further hypotension or orthostatic symptoms.
In this case, orthostatic hypotension associated with autonomic dysfunction was successfully managed with a combination of intravenous vasopressors and hydration, pressure support garments, oral mineralocorticoids, and oral vasopressors. Oral vasopressors and mineralocorticoids are effective treatment options in the management of the vasopressor-dependent patient. In our patient the adverse effects were tolerable. After continued therapy, the oral vasopressors were withdrawn without a return of orthostatic symptoms.
Orthostatic hypotension due to autonomic dysfunction may be successfully managed with combination oral therapy after initial treatment with intravenous vasopressors as evidenced by the absence of orthostasis.
To describe a patient who developed hepatic failure, Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), and died after receiving amoxicillin/clavulanate therapy.
A 37-year-old white man without significant past medical history received a 10-day course of amoxicillin/clavulanate for treatment of pneumonia. Thirty-two days after starting amoxicillin/clavulanate, he developed jaundice, rash, pruritus, and increasing fatigue. On further evaluation, with the exclusion of toxicity from other drugs or diseases, the time course to development of cholestatic jaundice correlated with the use of amoxicillin/clavulanate. The patient consequently died with progressive hepatic failure, renal failure, and SJS.
Hepatic injury has been reported with amoxicillin/clavulanate. Signs and symptoms of jaundice and pruritus may appear up to to six weeks after stopping therapy. Most cases of liver injury have been benign and reversible on discontinuation of the amoxicillin/clavulanate. Reported hepatic reactions have been mainly cholestatic, with some mixed cholestatic/hepatocellular liver function test abnormalities.
Clinicians should be aware of amoxicillin/clavulanate as a drug capable of causing hepatitis with eventual systemic dysfunction. While recovery is usually complete following withdrawal of the drug, in patients with rash associated with hepatic dysfunction, renal insufficiency, or other unusual symptoms, earlier consideration of initiating systemic steroids or liver transplantation referral, in hopes of avoiding progressive systemic response, might be worthwhile.
