To evaluate acute toxicity induced by chemotherapy for breast cancer in a retrospective study of 62 BRCA1/2 mutation carriers matched 1:1 with women who had treatment for sporadic disease in the United Kingdom between 1983 and 2003.
All participants were interviewed by one of two researchers using standardized questionnaires, and their medical records were reviewed by one research nurse. The two main regimens received were cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil and fluorouracil, epirubicin, and cyclophosphamide. The proportion of cases and controls receiving anthracycline-based treatment was equivalent, but fewer BRCA1 cases received this treatment than did BRCA2 mutation carriers. Toxicity was documented using the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Common Toxicity Criteria for hematologic, infective, and gastrointestinal toxicities. No increase in toxicity was seen in BRCA1/2 mutation carriers.
The only significant difference was that neutropenia was less evident in BRCA2 mutation carriers than in either BRCA1 mutation carriers or controls. As a result, there was no requirement for dose reduction among BRCA2 mutation carriers, in contrast to 10 of 39 BRCA1 carriers and 16 of 62 controls (P = 0.02).
This result has implications for therapy and indicates that women with mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 may be given the same doses of chemotherapy as noncarriers.
RBCK1 (RBCC protein interacting with PKC 1) has originally been identified as a protein kinase CbetaI (PKCbetaI)-binding partner by a two-hybrid screen and as one of the gene transcripts that increases during adult cardiac hypertrophy. To address whether RBCK1 and PKCbetaI functions are interconnected, we used cultured neonatal myocytes where we previously found that the activity of PKCbetaI is required for an increase in cell size, also called hypertrophy. In this study, we showed that acute treatment of cardiac myocytes with phenylephrine, a prohypertrophic stimulant, transiently increased the association of RBCK1 with PKCbetaI within 1 min. A prolonged phenylephrine treatment also resulted in an increase of the interaction of the two proteins. Endogenous RBCK1 protein levels increased upon phenylephrine-induced hypertrophy. Further, adenovirus-based RBCK1 overexpression in the absence of phenylephrine increased cardiac cell size. This RBCK1-mediated hypertrophy required PKCbeta activity, since the increase in cell size was inhibited when the RBCK1-expressing cells were treated with PKCbeta-selective antagonists, supporting our previous observation that both PKCbetaI and PKCbetaII are required for hypertrophy. Unexpectedly, RBCK1-induced increased cell size was inhibited by phenylephrine. This effect correlated with a decrease in the level of both PKCbeta isoforms. Most importantly, RNA interference for RBCK1 significantly inhibited the increase in cell size of cardiac myocytes following phenylephrine treatment. Our results suggest that RBCK1 binds PKCbetaI and is a key regulator of PKCbetaI function in cells and that, together with PKCbetaII, the three proteins are essential for developmental hypertrophy of cardiac myocytes.
This case study describes myocardial ischemia and stunning after the topical application of phenylephrine-soaked pledgets (0.25%) in a 63-year-old female undergoing elective endoscopic sinus surgery. The patient had no previous history of cardiovascular disease or illicit drug use. Transient myocardial ischemia was associated with acute hypertension, chest pain, and S-T segment changes 4 minutes after pledget placement. Angiography revealed normal coronary blood flow and severe left ventricular systolic and diastolic dysfunction. Follow-up echocardiography demonstrated improved left ventricular function within 1 week and total resolution of dysfunction by 4 weeks after ischemia.
Dementia is a neurologic disorder presenting memory impairment as a main symptom. It is well known that patients often complain of sleep disturbance as an associated symptom in dementia. It has been reported that donepezil caused sleep disturbance, but little is known about the effect of galantamine on sleep-wake patterns. In the present study, we investigated the effects of anti-dementia drugs on sleep-wake patterns in sleep-disturbed rats. Single administration of donepezil and galantamine caused no significant effect on sleep-wake patterns at doses used in the present study in rats. On the other hand, piracetam caused a significant decrease in sleep latency at a dose of 500 mg/kg. Next, we examined the changes in sleep-wake patterns from repeated administration of donepezil, galantamine and piracetam. Donepezil caused significant increases in sleep latency and total wake time and decrease in total non-rapid eye movement sleep time at a dose of 1 mg/kg. However, galantamine caused no effect on sleep-wake patterns. Piracetam caused significant decreases in sleep latency and total wake time at a dose of 500 mg/kg. From these results, it is concluded that donepezil deteriorated sleep disturbance, and piracetam caused somnolence. In addition, galantamine showed no influence on the sleep.
Study the alterations of metabolic enzyme activities and liver functions induced by vinyl chloride monomer(VCM) and to explore the relationship between metabolic enzyme activities and liver functions.
Animals were administered VCM for 12 weeks in doses of 0, 5, 10, 20 mg/kg (i.p.), and were victimized at week of 3rd, 6th, 9th, 12th. The activities of enzymes were determined using spectrophotography. The indexes of liver functions were assayed by automatic biochemistry analyzer. The histopathological alterations of rat livers were observed.
The activities of ALDH, CYP2E1, GSTs, were significantly different between groups, in addition, those differences can also be seen with the increase of experiment time. There was negative correlation between ALP and ADH (r = -0.649).
The degree of liver damage induced by VCM could be associated with the activities of liver metabolic enzymes. It was suggested that there was slight correlation between enzyme activities in serum and enzyme activities in liver.
Bile duct dilation in patients being treated by chronic narcotic substitution with methadone has been described but has not been systematically evaluated with ERCP. Retrograde cholangiographic findings in 6 patients taking methadone who were referred for evaluation of a dilated bile duct are described.
Six patients with chronic hepatitis (5 because of hepatitis C virus, 1 hepatitis B virus) who were taking methadone were evaluated by ERCP because of biliary dilation. Data were obtained regarding surgery, abdominal pain, weight loss, excessive ingestion of alcohol, liver disease, pancreatitis, and the dose and duration of methadone treatment.
ERCP revealed bile duct dilation without evidence of choledocholithiasis, stricture, or obstructing mass. There was one complication (postprocedure pain thought to be due to methadone withdrawal).
Chronic methadone use can lead to bile duct dilation without evidence of other significant pathology in asymptomatic patients. EUS may be safer than ERCP for evaluation of these patients, given that a need for therapeutic biliary intervention is unlikely.
Eight members of a large kindred of mixed ancestry from a remote rural area of South Africa were investigated for deafness. In each, severe permanent perceptive hearing loss had developed during antituberculous therapy with streptomycin sulphate in conventional doses. Although unproven by the data available in this study, the familial aggregation and pattern of distribution of sensitivity to streptomycin suggested autosomal dominant inheritance.
Why some patients with seizures are successfully treated with antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) and others prove medically intractable is not known. Inadequate intraparenchymal drug concentration is a possible mechanism of resistance to AEDs. The multiple drug resistance gene (MDR1) encodes P-glycoprotein, an energy-dependent efflux pump that exports planar hydrophobic molecules from the cell. If P-glycoprotein is expressed in brain of some patients with intractable epilepsy and AEDs are exported by P-glycoprotein, lower intraparenchymal drug concentrations could contribute to lack of drug response in such patients. Eleven of 19 brain specimens removed from patients during operation for intractable epilepsy had MDR1 mRNA levels > 10 times greater than those in normal brain, as determined by quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method. Immunohistochemistry for P-glycoprotein from 14 of the patients showed increased staining in capillary endothelium in samples from epileptic patients as compared with staining in normal brain samples. In epileptic brain specimens with high MDR1 mRNA levels, expression of P-glycoprotein in astrocytes also was identified. Last, steady-state intracellular phenytoin (PHT) concentrations in MDR1 expressing neuroectodermal cells was one fourth that in MDR1-negative cells. MDR1 expression is increased in brain of some patients with medically intractable epilepsy, suggesting that the patients' lack of response to medication may be caused by inadequate accumulation of AED in brain.
Consumption of tobacco is hazardous to the health. It leads to cardiovascular diseases, and increases the incidence of numerous neoplasms. The adverse effects on the skin are less well-known and often ignored. Changes in the rheologic characteristics of the blood, increased vasoconstriction and damage to the epithelial layer of the vessel play an important pathogenic role in impaired wound healing, thromboangiitis obliterans and peripheral arterial obstructive diseases. Interactions with collagen metabolism are of special significance in wound healing and skin aging. The immunological effects, such as the induction of an inflammation reaction play a role in palmoplantar pustulosis, psoriasis, atopic dermatitis, acne vulgaris, acne inversa, thromboangiitis obliterans and lupus erythematodes. In addition, immunosuppression caused by nicotine consumption may contribute to the pathogenesis of human papilloma-virus infections, malignant melanoma and epithelial tumors of the skin and neighboring mucous membranes.
Lesion of mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons induces hypoactivity and hypo-exploration in a new environment, lack of hyperactivity to amphetamine and hyperresponsiveness to apomorphine. Transplantation of embryonic dopaminergic cells from rat embryos into the deafferented nucleus accumbens restores, 8 weeks after grafting, some of the deficits obtained after the lesion. Spontaneous activity and behavioral responses in an open-field are improved and some of the grafted rats show a complete recovery of amphetamine-induced hyperactivity. However, hyperresponsiveness to apomorphine has not been significantly reduced by the treatment. These results indicate that transplanted dopaminergic neurons can restore some of the functional activities of the n. accumbens.
Arsenic (As) exposure during pregnancy induces oxidative stress and increases the risk of fetal loss and low birth weight.
In this study we aimed to elucidate the effects of As exposure on immune markers in the placenta and cord blood, and the involvement of oxidative stress.
Pregnant women were enrolled around gestational week (GW) 8 in our longitudinal, population-based, mother-child cohort in Matlab, an area in rural Bangladesh with large variations in As concentrations in well water. Women (n = 130) delivering at local clinics were included in the present study. We collected maternal urine twice during pregnancy (GW8 and GW30) for measurements of As, and placenta and cord blood at delivery for assessment of immune and inflammatory markers. Placental markers were measured by immunohistochemistry, and cord blood cytokines by multiplex cytokine assay.
In multivariable adjusted models, maternal urinary As (U-As) exposure both at GW8 and at GW30 was significantly positively associated with placental markers of 8-oxoguanine (8-oxoG) and interleukin-1β (IL-1β); U-As at GW8, with tumor necrosis factor-α (TNFα) and interferon-γ (IFNγ); and U-As at GW30, with leptin; U-As at GW8 was inversely associated with CD3+ T cells in the placenta. Cord blood cytokines (IL-1β, IL-8, IFNγ, TNFα) showed a U-shaped association with U-As at GW30. Placental 8-oxoG was significantly positively associated with placental proinflammatory cytokines. Multivariable adjusted analyses suggested that enhanced placental cytokine expression (TNFα and IFNγ) was primarily influenced by oxidative stress, whereas leptin expression appeared to be mostly mediated by As, and IL-1β appeared to be influenced by both oxidative stress and As.
As exposure during pregnancy appeared to enhance placental inflammatory responses (in part by increasing oxidative stress), reduce placental T cells, and alter cord blood cytokines. These findings suggest that effects of As on immune function may contribute to impaired fetal and infant health.
Two patients with CML who developed endometrial cancer following 2 years of busulfan treatment are reported. The possibility of a causal relationship between the cytotoxic drug and the development of this malignancy is discussed.
From 8 original observations and from an overview of published cases, the authors make out two kinds of mental disorders connected with benzodiazepines use: 1) transient global anterograde amnesia; 2) amnesic complex automatism. Consequences for forensic medicine are finally investigated.
The effect of cognition-enhancing agents oxiracetam and aniracetam on scopolamine-induced amnesia and brain acetylcholine decrease was investigated in the rat. Acetylcholine levels were measured by means of a gas-chromatographic method. Scopolamine (0.63 mg/kg IP 60 min before training) prevented the acquisition of a passive avoidance conditioned response ("step through": retest 30 min after training) and brought about a 64, 56 and 42% decrease in acetylcholine level in the cortex, hippocampus and striatum respectively. Oxiracetam (50 and 100 mg/kg IP) administered 30 min before scopolamine reduced the scopolamine-induced amnesic effect and decrease in acetylcholine level in the cortex and hippocampus, but not in the striatum. Lower and higher doses of oxiracetam were ineffective. Aniracetam (100 mg/kg PO) also prevented scopolamine-induced amnesia but attenuated acetylcholine decrease in the hippocampus only. Aniracetam (300 mg PO) reduced acetylcholine decrease in the hippocampus but did not prevent scopolamine-amnesia. In conclusion, oxiracetam and aniracetam exert a stimulatory effect on specific central cholinergic pathways. However, a direct relationship between cognition-enhancing properties and cholinergic activation needs further confirmation.
We assessed whether intrathecal administration of the uncompetitive and competitive NMDA receptor antagonists ketamine and (+/-)CPP, respectively, could produce differential modulation on chemical and mechanical nociception in normal and monoarthritic rats. In addition, the antinociceptive interaction of ketamine and (+/-)CPP on monoarthritic pain was also studied using isobolographic analysis. Monoarthritis was produced by intra-articular injection of complete Freund's adjuvant into the tibio-tarsal joint. Four weeks later, the antinociceptive effect of intrathecal administration of the drugs alone or combined was evaluated by using the intraplantar capsaicin and the paw pressure tests. Ketamine (0.1, 1, 10, 30, 100, 300 and 1000 microg i.t.) and (+/-)CPP (0.125, 2.5, 7.5, 12.5, 25 and 50 microg i.t.) produced significantly greater dose-dependent antinociception in the capsaicin than in the paw pressure test. Irrespective of the nociceptive test employed, both antagonists showed greater antinociceptive activity in monoarthritic than in healthy rats. Combinations produced synergy of a supra-additive nature in the capsaicin test, but only additive antinociception in paw pressure testing. The efficacy of the drugs, alone or combined, is likely to depend on the differential sensitivity of tonic versus phasic pain and/or chemical versus mechanical pain to NMDA antagonists.
Desmoids are rare in the general population but occurs in between 10 to 20% of patients with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP). This risk is about 852 times the risk for the population at large. Desmoids are benign neoplasms that are capable of infiltrating locally with a high risk of recurrence (25-65%) even after extirpating surgery. Desmoids in FAP may occur extra-abdominally, or within the abdominal wall or most commonly intra-abdominally within the mesentery or retroperitoneal. Desmoids are a major problem in patients with FAP. Mortality from desmoids is high in such patients and ranges from 18 to 31%, compared to peri-ampullary carcinomas at about 22% and cancer in the retained rectum at only about 8%. Simple drug treatment with tamoxifen or NSAIDS like sulindac should be used as first line treatment as it carries a response in 30-50% of patients. Surgery should be reserved for extra-abdominal tumours alone and only when needed. Surgery for intra-abdominal desmoids should really only be attempted for intestinal obstruction or ureteric obstruction. Dacarbazine-Doxorubicin chemotherapy may have dramatic response in some cases. Genetic transfer may unlock this disease in future and may give patients with FAP and severe desmoids hope for the future.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the immunopathological effects of combinations of ochratoxin A (OTA) and T-2 toxin on broilers. Four hundred eighty 1-d-old broilers were randomly assigned to 4 groups, each group consisting of 4 duplicates each with 30 broilers. The 4 groups were fed the following diets for 4 wk: group 1=basal diet (control, mycotoxin-free); group 2=basal diet+2,000 mg/kg of Mycofix Plus; group 3=basal diet+0.25 mg/kg of OTA and 0.5 mg/kg of T-2; and group 4=basal diet+0.25 mg/kg of OTA and 0.5 mg/kg of T-2+2,000 mg/kg of Mycofix Plus. The feeding of OTA-T-2 toxin diets reduced (P<0.05) the level of anti-Newcastle disease virus antibody titers by 10.4%. When broilers were administered lipopolysaccharide, the results of real-time PCR showed that broilers fed OTA-T-2 toxin reduced the cytokine mRNA expression levels of interleukin-2 and interferon-gamma to some extent but not significantly (P>0.05). The concentrations of interleukin-2 and interferon-gamma in serum were significantly decreased (P<0.05) by OTA-T-2 toxin combination. Histopathological studies demonstrated that OTA-T-2 toxin combination caused abnormalities in the thymus, bursa of Fabricius, spleen, and liver. Ochratoxin A-T-2 toxicity could be counteracted by Mycofix Plus partially but not significantly (P>0.05). The concentrations of OTA and T-2 toxin used in this study are under the maximum tolerated levels recommended by Canadian Food Inspection Agency. Our study clearly put the standard and detoxification method for these toxins into question. We suggest that it may be time to reduce the maximum allowable limits of OTA and T-2 mycotoxins in feeds to improve animal health and the safety of the food chain.
Whether cardioinhibitory cytokines are elevated in regions of hibernating myocardium and account in part for the depression in resting function is currently not known. Methods and Results- Thirteen patients with stable ischemic ventricular dysfunction scheduled for bypass surgery underwent preoperative dobutamine echocardiography (DE) and intraoperative myocardial biopsies. The numbers of copies of mRNA for the negatively inotropic cytokines tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS2) were quantified by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. In normal segments, myocardial TNF-alpha was barely detectable (1.2+/-0.4 copies per 10(6) copies of beta-actin). A 13.7-fold increase in myocardial TNF-alpha was observed in dysfunctional segments with a biphasic response to DE (contractile reserve and ischemia) and was highest (45.5-fold) in segments with ischemia and without contractile reserve (P<0.001). A similar graded increase was seen for NOS2. Cytokine results were also similar if analysis was performed using recovery of function at 3 months as the index of viability. The change in serum TNF-alpha and nitrite levels from baseline to 3 months after surgery correlated inversely with both the change in ejection fraction and the number of DE viable segments (r=-0.92 to -0.93; P<0.001).
TNF-alpha and NOS2 gene expression is regionally upregulated in hibernating myocardium to a level intermediate between that of normal regions and ischemic regions without contractile reserve. This, along with a decline in serum cytokine levels after revascularization proportional to the extent of myocardial viability, suggests a contributing role for cardioinhibitory cytokines in the observed depression of function seen in hibernating myocardium.
Regional glucose metabolic rate constants and blood-to-brain transport of rubidium were estimated using positron emission tomography in an adolescent patient with a brain tumor, before and after chemotherapy with intravenous high-dose methotrexate. Widespread depression of cerebral glucose metabolism was apparent 24 hours after drug administration, which may reflect reduced glucose phosphorylation, and the influx rate constant for 82Rb was increased, indicating a drug-induced alteration in blood-brain barrier function. Associated changes in neuropsychological performance, electroencephalogram, and plasma amino acid concentration were identified in the absence of evidence of systemic methotrexate toxicity, suggesting primary methotrexate neurotoxicity.
One hypothesis that could account for the anxiogenic response to breathing air supplemented with carbon dioxide seen in panic anxiety patients is that panic patients might have abnormally high central medullary chemoreceptor sensitivity. Chemoreceptor sensitivity was assessed by using a rebreathing technique to measure the ventilatory response to CO2 in 14 medication-free patients with agoraphobia and panic attacks and 23 healthy subjects. Ventilatory response to CO2 was similar in patients and controls (mean +/- SEM, 1.58 +/- 0.16 vs 1.58 +/- 0.14 L/min/mm Hg), suggesting that abnormal chemoreceptor sensitivity does not explain the behavioral sensitivity of panic patients to CO2. Anxiety ratings increased markedly during rebreathing both in patients and controls; anxiety increases were significantly greater in patients than in healthy subjects matched for age, sex, and rebreathing duration. Alprazolam treatment in eight patients markedly attenuated anxiety increases during rebreathing. Differences in anxiogenic sensitivity to CO2 between patients and controls may be due to differences in the regulation of noradrenergic or other neuronal systems.
The multiplicity of meningiomas or abrupt lesion growth in patients treated with cyproterone acetate suggests that this progestative treatment may promote lesion growth. We report the rapid regression of an incidental meningioma after discontinuation of a 10-year cyproterone acetate treatment. This unique observation suggests that conservative management of meningiomas may be the best option among users of high doses of cyproterone acetate, given that spontaneous regression may occur after hormonal treatment discontinuation.
Digitalis poisoning is a rare problem in children, but it may be life threatening. A case of massive overdose of digoxin in a 2 1/2-year-old boy that produced prolonged ventricular fibrillation refractory to conventional therapy is reported. After two hours the boy was given digoxin-specific Fab fragments of antibody in sufficient quantity to bind his estimated dose of 10 mg. By completion of the treatment minutes later, normal rhythm and circulation were restored. The serum free digoxin level before antibody administration was greater than 100 ng/ml, and it rapidly fell to undetectable levels after antibody was given. Digoxin bound to the antibody had a clearance half-life of approximately 48 hours. The child had no apparent neurologic damage and his intellectual function was normal on discharge. He had a transient hematuria and a residual incomplete right bundle branch block. Administration of purified Fab fragments of digoxin-specific antibodies can be life saving in children with digitalis poisoning, and prolonged cardiopulmonary resuscitation in children is justified when the cause of cardiac arrest is potentially reversible.
In 1971 Simmons et al. presented evidence that children receiving regular dialysis therapy required approximately seventy percent of recommended caloric intake to achieve normal growth. Since that time, pediatric nephrologists and dietitians have strived to meet that requirement. In an effort to attain adequate caloric intake, cyproheptadine, a known appetite stimulant, was prescribed to a child on chronic hemodialysis. The following reports the unexpected complication of toxic psychosis that resulted.
We report a patient who developed cholestatic jaundice shortly after initiation of treatment with metformin hydrochloride. Ultrasound of the liver and abdominal CT were normal. An ERCP showed normal biliary anatomy. A percutaneous liver biopsy was obtained showing marked cholestasis, with portal edema, ductular proliferation, and acute inflammation. Metformin hydrochloride was discontinued, and the patient's jaundice resolved slowly over a period of several months. Given the onset of his jaundice 2 wk after the initiation of metformin, we believe that this case represents an example of metformin-associated hepatotoxicity, the first such case reported.
Oxidative stress plays an important role in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease (PD) but its mechanism is still not properly explored. Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibition has also been known a major neuroprotective strategy in the various 1-methyl-4-phenyl 1,2,3,6 tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) induced models of Parkinson's disease (PD) but its role in astrocytes is still not properly understood. The present study demonstrated that, guggulipid and nimesulide (preferentially selective COX-2 inhibitor) treatment of rat astrocytoma cells, C6 for 24 h significantly decreased MPTP (400 μM) induced nitrative and oxidative stress and intracellular calcium ion (Ca(2+)) level. Guggulipid and nimesulide also deactivated MPTP-induced P-p38 MAPK (Phosphorylated p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase) and down regulated expressions of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and CHOP (C/EBP, homologous protein 10). At transcriptional level of inflammatory cytokine genes, guggulipid and nimesulide down regulated MPTP-induced tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and interleukin-1β (IL-1β) mRNA expressions with up regulations in interleukin-6 (IL-6) and interleukin-1α (IL-1α) mRNA expressions. In addition to this, guggulipid and nimesulide inhibited translocation of nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) from cytosol to nucleus. In conclusion, our findings elucidated the potential antioxidant and anti-neuroinflammatory effect of guggulipid and nimesulide in rat astrocytoma cells C6, which may suggest the use of these drugs in the management of neuroinflammation associated pathophysiology of PD.
