We start a controlled clinical trial to assess efficacy and toxicity of EBVD (epirubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine and dacarbazine) with an intensive and brief program of seven drugs administered weekly for 12 weeks in previously untreated patients with advanced Hodgkin's disease. Two hundred and sixty four patients were randomized to receive EBVD chemotherapy (134 cases) or intensive chemotherapy (130 cases). Eligible patients were either previously untreated stages III or IV. Patients with bulky disease received adjuvant radiotherapy. In an intent to treat analysis, all patients were evaluable for efficacy and toxicity. Complete response rate to the two regimens were similar (88 and 84%, respectively). However, actuarial 5 years overall survival rates were 87% (95% confidence interval (CI): 78-94%) for the EBVD regimen, which is statistically different to 59% (95% CI: 48-66%) for the intensive program (p < 0.01). Event-free survival were 83% (95% CI: 74-89%) for EBVD and 65% (95% CI: 58-71%) for the intensive program (p < 0.01). Significantly, more episodes of granulocytopenia grade III-IV, infection-related granulocytopenia, death-related infection even early hematological support with granulocyte colony stimulating factor were seen with the intensive, program. In the present single center trial, intensive chemotherapy did not appear to have better results when compared with standard chemotherapy in patients with advanced Hodgkin's disease.
Preclinical and clinical studies have shown that statins, the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase inhibitors with cholesterol-lowering properties, exhibited anticancer effects. However, the underlying mechanisms remain ill defined. In this study, we showed that atorvastatin could inhibit the growth of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and colorectal carcinoma (CRC) cells via induction of apoptosis. Atorvastatin also induced autophagy that is a physiologic process involved in the turnover of intracellular organelles. Atorvastatin-induced autophagy was found to be inhibited by AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) small interfering RNA. Examination of HCC patients showed the positive correlation between AMPK activity and autophagic marker (beclin-1). Atorvastatin-induced AMPK activation could induce p21 expression, which was also positively correlated with beclin-1 expression in CRC patients. AMPK/p21 signaling caused endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress response leading to the induction of autophagy. Inhibition of autophagy by an autophagic inhibitor bafilomycin A1 or genetic knockout of autophagy-related gene 5 enhanced atorvastatin-induced cytotoxicity and apoptosis. In summary, activation of AMPK by atorvastatin enhances p21 expression and ER stress response, leading to autophagy, which promotes survival of cancer cells. Combinations of atorvastatin with bafilomycin A1 provide a novel and promising strategy to improve the treatment of digestive malignancies.
Scopolamine (3 mg/kg IP) given before an acquisition trial, reduced the retention of a one-trial passive avoidance "step through" response in mice. A single administration of cholinergic agonists such as oxotremorine, BM-5, or arecoline, antagonized this amnesic effect of scopolamine. A significant anti-amnesic effect was also found with nootropic drugs such as piracetam and ucb L059, whereas ucb L060 (the enantiomer of ucb L059), oxiracetam and rolziracetam were shown to be ineffective. Moreover, ucb L059, administered twice daily for 3 days, counteracted the amnesic effects of scopolamine completely, whereas ucb L060 was again inactive. The results demonstrate that: (a) this model of impaired cognition by scopolamine is able to discriminate between closely related chemical substances and even stereoisomers; and (b) nootropic drugs, such as ucb L059, are more effective after repeated rather than after acute administration.
Pulmonary hypertension in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) is a risk factor for increased mortality after orthotopic cardiac transplantation. Reversibility of elevated pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) by pharmacologic agents predicts improved outcomes. Milrinone, a phosphodiesterase inhibitor with vasodilating and positive inotropic properties, has been shown to lower PVR in one previous study. However, no study has documented outcomes after cardiac transplantation in patients in whom reversibility of pulmonary hypertension was demonstrated after administration of milrinone.
We retrospectively reviewed 19 patients with CHF and pulmonary hypertension defined as PVR > or = 3 Wood units, PVRI (pulmonary vascular resistance index) > or = 4 resistance units, or TPG (transpulmonary gradient = mean pulmonary artery pressure--mean capillary wedge pressure) > or = 12 mmHg being assessed for cardiac transplantation. A sub-group of 14 patients with severe pulmonary hypertension defined as PVR > or = 4, PVRI > or = 6 and TPG > or = 15 was also examined. Milrinone was administered as a bolus (50 ug/kg) and hemodynamic parameters were measured at 5, 10 and 15 minutes. Six patients received cardiac transplants.
Administration of milrinone significantly lowered PVR, PVRI, mean pulmonary artery pressure (PAM)(all p = 0.002) and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP)(p = 0.006). Cardiac output (CO) increased significantly (p = 0.001). TPG did not change (p = 0.33). In patients with severe pulmonary hypertension, the magnitude of these changes was greater. In addition, TPG was significantly lowered (p = 0.02).
Milrinone lowered PVR by decreasing PAM and increasing CO significantly. In addition, PCWP was significantly lowered. These finding confirm both vasodilatory and inotropic effects of milrinone. Patients with severe pulmonary hypertension had more pronounced effects. There were no deaths in the group of patients proceeding to cardiac transplantation. Our study demonstrates the efficacy of milrinone in lowering PVR as well as suggesting safety in use in patients undergoing cardiac transplantation.
The nephrotic syndrome is associated with disturbances in plasma lipid pattern and metabolism. However, the reason for these perturbations is poorly understood. In the present study, we have investigated hepatic triglyceride metabolism in puromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephrotic syndrome in rats. Nephrotic rats displayed a 70% increase in hepatic triglyceride levels compared to controls (16.9 +/- 1.6 vs. 9.8 +/- 0.6 mumol/g liver; means +/- SEM, P < 0.01). The capacity for hepatic mitochondrial beta-oxidation of fatty acids was substantially elevated (80%). This was associated with a rise in the liver content of the fatty acid carrier carnitine (1.24 +/- 0.06 vs. 0.85 +/- 0.07 mumol/g dry weight, P < 0.05). A positive correlation between the levels of acetylcarnitine and acetyl-CoA was found in normal as well as in nephrotic rats, implying that carnitine plays an important role as an acetyl group acceptor in the liver under normo- and hyperlipidemic conditions. Changes in carnitine levels seem to be tightly coupled to the rate of fatty acid oxidation. There was a significant elevation in the activity of phosphatidate phosphohydrolase (E.C. 3.1.3.4) in liver microsomes from nephrotic rats (1.07 +/- 0.09 vs. 0.81 +/- 0.04 nmol/min.mg protein, P < 0.02). Hepatic very low density lipoprotein (VLDL)-triglyceride secretion rate was 18% higher in nephrotic rats than in controls. The results demonstrate a deranged hepatic triglyceride metabolism in nephrosis, with an increased hepatic triglyceride biosynthesis, a sizable accumulation of hepatic triglycerides, and only a modest increase in VLDL triglyceride secretion. In addition, mitochondrial beta-oxidation of fatty acids was enhanced, associated with an increased availability of carnitine.
Multidrug resistance (MDR) is a major obstacle to successful cancer chemotherapy as the over-expressed MDR protein acts as an efflux pump, which leads to a reduction in the uptake of the anticancer agent by tumour cells. We combined topotecan and amlodipine together into the stealthy liposomes, in which amlodipine was applied as a MDR reversing agent to overcome the resistance.
Cytotoxicity, apoptosis and the signalling pathway assays were performed on human chronic myelogenous leukaemia K562, promyelocytic leukaemia HL-60 and MDR HL-60 cells, respectively. Pharmacokinetics and antitumour activity studies were performed on normal Kunming mice and female BALB/c nude mice with MDR HL-60 xenografts, respectively.
Topotecan alone was effective in inhibiting the growth of non-resistant leukaemia cells, K562 and HL-60 cells but not the growth of MDR HL-60 cells. The resistance of topotecan in MDR HL-60 cells was potently reversed by the addition of amlodipine. Moreover, amlodipine enhanced the apoptosis-inducing effect of topotecan synergistically. Apoptosis was through activating caspases in a cascade: first, the initiator caspase 8 and then effectors caspase 3/7 (total activity of caspases 3 and 7) were activated. Being encapsulated into the stealthy liposomes with an acidic internal medium, topotecan existed dominantly in an active lactone species, which was reversibly changed from an inactive carboxylate form via a pH-dependent reaction. After administration of stealthy liposomes to mice, the blood exposure of the lactone form was evidently increased and extended. The antitumour effects in the MDR HL-60 xenografted tumour were stealthy liposomal topotecan (SLT) plus amlodipine > SLT > un-encapsulated topotecan > blank control.
The enhanced antitumour activity in the MDR HL-60 cells by the SLT plus amlodipine could be owing to multiple reasons: (a) synergistic apoptosis inducing effect, (b) reversing MDR by amlodipine and (c) increasing the availability of active lactone of topotecan by the stealthy liposomes. The apoptosis induced by amlodipine is through caspase 8 and then the 3/7 signalling pathway.
Seventy-five endoscopies were performed in 60 patients known to have oesophageal varices presenting with further upper gastrointestinal haemorrhage during the previous 72 hours. A site of active bleeding was found at 50 of 75 examinations (67 percent) including all 21 patients endoscoped within three hours of the last haemorrhage. Variceal bleeding alone was seen in 40 of these 50 examinations (80%) and both varices and mucosal lesions were bleeding in 4 patients; mucosal lesions were an uncommon cause of haemorrhage and only 6 patients were bleeding from these alone. The adult GIF-D2 endoscope was used for 45 examinations. Variceal bleeding was restarted on three occasions and prolonged unconsciousness induced by intravenous diazepam in one patient. In contrast, the paediatric GIF-P endoscope (30 examinations) was easily tolerated with little or no sedation, did not impair diagnostic accuracy and was not associated with any complications.
Typical antipsychotics are commonly used in combination with mood stabilizers for acute mania. Although typical antipsychotics are effective, they have undesirable side effects such as induction of depressive symptoms and tardive dyskinesia. Atypical antipsychotics have more favorable side effect profiles, and recent evidence shows their efficacy in treating mania. Apart from a previous small study that compared risperidone with typical neuroleptics as add-on therapy to mood stabilizers, no studies to date have directly compared atypical antipsychotics with typical antipsychotics as add-on therapy to mood stabilizers in a clinically relevant, naturalistic setting.
This study is a chart review of all patients with DSM-IV-defined bipolar disorder, current episode mania (N = 204), admitted to the University of British Columbia Hospital during a 30-month period. Patients were separated into 3 groups according to the medications used: (1) mood stabilizer and typical antipsychotic, (2) mood stabilizer and atypical antipsychotic, and (3) combination: mood stabilizer plus a typical antipsychotic, then switched to mood stabilizer plus risperidone or olanzapine within I week. The atypical group was further subdivided into risperidone and olanzapine subgroups. Outcome was measured using Clinical Global Impressions-Severity of Illness (CGI-S) and -Improvement (CGI-I) ratings generated by review of clinical information in the chart.
Patients treated with typical antipsychotics were more severely ill at admission and at discharge than those treated with atypical antipsychotics. Patients in the atypical (p < .005) and combination (p < .05) groups showed significantly greater clinical improvement at discharge than patients treated with typical antipsychotics. This difference was also significant in the subset of patients with psychotic features (p < .03). Risperidone and olanzapine were associated with fewer extrapyramidal side effects than were typical antipsychotics (risperidone vs. typical antipsychotics, chi2 = 8.72, p < .01; olanzapine vs. typical antipsychotics, chi2 = 16.9, p < .001).
Due to their superior effectiveness and side effect profile when compared with typical antipsychotics. atypical antipsychotics are an excellent choice as add-on therapy to mood stabilizers for the treatment of patients with mania.
A young woman on chronic corticosteroid treatment for systemic lupus erythematosus developed a myasthenia-like syndrome 7 weeks after starting chloroquine therapy. Discontinuation of chloroquine allowed symptomatic and immunological remission within 6 months. Ocular symptoms reappeared following a second short course of chloroquine. A motor-point biopsy revealed a vacuolar myopathy with membranous bodies in intramuscular nerves. We discuss the possible role of chloroquine in the pathogenesis of a myasthenia-like syndrome.
The present study was undertaken to examine the protective effect of selenium nanoparticles (SeNPs) in the progression of diabetic nephropathy (DN). Diabetes was induced in male Sprague Dawley (SD) rats by injecting streptozotocin (STZ) (55mg/kg, i.p). DN was then assessed by measuring blood urea nitrogen (BUN), creatinine, albumin, fibronectin and collagen. Changes in the expression of cytoprotective and apoptotic proteins in the kidney of rats were also examined. Herein we show that SeNPs effectively lowered the levels of BUN, creatinine, fibronectin and collagen and elevated the levels of albumin in diabetic rats. Histological observation corroborated with the above protective effects of SeNPs. Interestingly, SeNPs elevated the levels of heat shock protein (HSP-70), longevity protein SIRT 1 and also modulated apoptotic proteins Bax and Bcl-2 in diabetic kidney. Our data represents a paradigm shift in our understanding about the therapeutic potential of SeNPs in preventing DN by not only quenching oxidative stress but also by activating cyto-protective protein HSP70 and longevity protein SIRT1.
Histamine has a positive inotropic effect on ventricular myocardium and stimulation of histamine H₂ receptors increases the intracellular cAMP level via Gs protein, as dose stimulation of β-adrenergic receptors, and worsens heart failure. To test whether a histamine H₂ receptor blocker had a beneficial effect in addition to β-adrenergic receptor blockade, we investigated the cardioprotective effect of famotidine, a histamine H₂ receptor blocker, in dogs receiving a β-blocker. We induced heart failure in dogs by rapid ventricular pacing (230 beats/min). Animals received no drugs (control group), famotidine (1 mg/kg daily), carvedilol (0.1 mg/kg daily), or carvedilol plus famotidine. Both cardiac catheterization and echocardiography were performed before and 4 weeks after the initiation of pacing. Immunohistochemical studies showed the appearance of mast cells and histamine in the myocardium after 4 weeks of pacing. In the control group, the left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was decreased after 4 weeks compared with before pacing (71 ± 2 vs. 27 ± 2%, p < 0.05) and mean pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP) was increased (8 ± 1 vs. 19 ± 3 mmHg). Famotidine ameliorated the decrease of LVEF and increase of PCWP, while the combination of carvedilol plus famotidine further improved both parameters compared with the carvedilol groups. These beneficial effects of famotidine were associated with a decrease of the myocardial cAMP level. Histamine H₂ receptor blockade preserves cardiac systolic function in dogs with pacing-induced heart failure, even in the presence of β-adrenergic receptor blockade. This finding strengthens the rationale for using histamine H₂ blockers in the treatment of heart failure.
Retinoic acid (RA) induces proliferation arrest, differentiation, and apoptosis, and defects in retinoic acid receptor (RAR) signaling have been implicated in cancer. The human tumor antigen PRAME is overexpressed in a variety of cancers, but its function has remained unclear. We identify here PRAME as a dominant repressor of RAR signaling. PRAME binds to RAR in the presence of RA, preventing ligand-induced receptor activation and target gene transcription through recruitment of Polycomb proteins. PRAME is present at RAR target promoters and inhibits RA-induced differentiation, growth arrest, and apoptosis. Conversely, knockdown of PRAME expression by RNA interference in RA-resistant human melanoma restores RAR signaling and reinstates sensitivity to the antiproliferative effects of RA in vitro and in vivo. Our data suggest that overexpression of PRAME frequently observed in human cancers confers growth or survival advantages by antagonizing RAR signaling.
The association of erectile dysfunction (ED) with cardiovascular diseases is so common. This study was carried out to investigate possible impact of sildenafil; the prototype phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitor used for treatment of ED, on the beneficial hemodynamic and histopathological effects of the prototype third generation calcium antagonist, amlodipine, in nitric oxide (NO)-deficient hypertensive rats. Hypertension was induced by 4-weeks treatment with N(omega)-nitro-l-arginine-methyl ester (l-NAME). Animals were allocated into five groups: normal control, hypertensive control, amlodipine-treated group, sildenafil-treated group and combined treatment group. Drug treatment was started 2 weeks after l-NAME and continued together with l-NAME to the end of the treatment period. Systolic blood pressure (SBP), plasma nitrate/nitrite (NO(x)) and plasma cGMP levels were evaluated at the end of the treatment period. Aortic and renal structural alterations were also investigated. l-NAME treatment caused elevation of SBP, reduction in plasma NO(x) and cGMP levels as well as adverse histological alterations in the tissues studied. Amlodipine normalized SBP, restored plasma NO(x) and cGMP levels and ameliorated the adverse histological changes seen in NO-deficient rats. When combined with sildenafil, both hemodynamic and histopathological effects of amlodipine were augmented with an underlying enhanced elevation of both plasma NO(x) and cGMP levels to statistically higher values than amlodipine alone. These results show that sildenafil augments the beneficial hemodynamic and histopathological effects of amlodipine in NO-deficient hypertensive rats with a pivotal role being played by NO-cGMP pathway. Whether this pharmacodynamic interaction could exist in other models of hypertension that do not share such biochemical derangement warrants further investigations.
CD4(+)CD28(null) cells represent an aggressive and long-living T cell subpopulation, capable of infiltrating atheromatous plaque, leading to destabilisation and resulting in acute coronary syndromes (ACS). The aim of this study was to evaluate whether statins decrease the number of circulating CD4(+)CD28(null) T cells by apoptosis in patients with ACS.
Patients with troponin-positive ACS (n = 35) without cholesterol lowering drugs were randomised to placebo (n = 17) or rosuvastatin 20 mg (n = 18) once daily for 6 weeks. CD4(+)CD28(null) T cell abundance (>1%) was distributed equally among the two groups at entry (n = 10 per group). Within 72 h rosuvastatin treatment significantly reduced mean CD4(+)CD28(null) T cell numbers (37 × 10⁶/L vs. placebo 122 × 10⁶/L, n = 20, P = 0.041), IFN-γ production (62.6 vs. 101.5%, P = 0.049) and increased apoptosis of these T cells (63.4 vs. 12.3%, P < 0.001). The intrinsic mitochondria-dependent pathway measured by the anti-apoptotic protein expression of B cell lymphoma 2 (BCL-2) was significantly down-regulated (mean fluorescence intensity 16.08 vs. placebo 43.34, P < 0.001).
The down-regulation of anti-apoptotic BCL-2 expression by statins induces apoptosis in CD4(+)CD28(null) T cells. Targeting CD4(+)CD28(null) T cells in ACS statins could provide one further therapeutic strategy to prevent acute life-threatening coronary events.
Bleeding is a common complication during initial induction treatment for acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). Administration of all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA), which is in routine use for APL in the past decade improves the bleeding tendency dramatically. Nevertheless, thrombotic events have still been reported in a small proportion of APL patients treated with ATRA. Here we describe a case of splenic infarction and life threatening thrombosis in a young patient with APL treated with ATRA. We review the relevant literature and discuss the pathophysiology, risk factors and treatment of this complication occurring during therapy, for APL.
The dopamine receptor D2 (DRD2) gene has polymorphisms that have been linked to regulation of the dopamine system and to an increased prevalence of smoking. The present study examined the relationship of the DRD2 TaqI-A and -B polymorphisms with short-term clinical outcome (abstinence and withdrawal symptoms), collected from daily (14 pre-quit and 42 post-quit) diary data among smokers (n=116) treated with the nicotine patch plus either venlafaxine or placebo. The results showed that B1/B1 or B1/B2 smokers were slightly less likely to be abstinent on a given day than those homozygous for the TaqI-B2 allele. Significant DRD2 TaqI-B x time interactions were found for several of the withdrawal scales, indicating that those smokers with the B1/B1 or B1/B2 genotypes tended to report more symptoms over time compared to those with the B2/B2 genotype. No interactions or main effects were found for the DRD2 TaqI-A polymorphism. The findings demonstrate that smokers homozygous for the TaqI-B2 allele experience progressive improvement in self-reported withdrawal symptoms while smokers with the TaqI-B1 allele showing little change.
Troglitazone is a member of the class of thiazolidinediones that are known to act as insulin-sensitizing agents. Administration of these compounds ameliorates insulin resistance in type 2 diabetic patients, but may also promote weight gain. The main site of action is adipose tissue, where troglitazone binds to and activates the nuclear receptor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma2. The aim of this study was to investigate whether troglitazone is able to affect the adipose expression and function of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta). Both TNF-alpha and TGF-beta blocked adipose differentiation in vitro and led to a marked reduction in glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase activity, a marker enzyme of adipose differentiation, by 69% +/- 11% and 75% +/- 15%, respectively. Addition of 2 mumol/L troglitazone significantly reduced this inhibitory effect of both cytokines on glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase activity. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma messenger RNA (mRNA) was reduced by TNF-alpha in freshly isolated adipocytes. This effect was completely counteracted by troglitazone, whereas TGF-beta had no immediate effect on peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma mRNA. Moreover, troglitazone alone promoted adipose differentiation in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Troglitazone treatment was found to result in a marked reduction of TNF-alpha mRNA expression in human preadipocytes to 54% +/- 13% compared with untreated cultures. Furthermore, troglitazone was observed to partially antagonize the inhibitory effect of TNF-alpha on insulin-stimulated 2-deoxy-glucose uptake in newly differentiated human fat cells. In conclusion, troglitazone exerts a potent adipogenic activity in human preadipocytes, which may be mediated by suppression of the endogenous production of TNF-alpha and by counteracting the antiadipogenic effect of TGF-beta. In addition, troglitazone improved insulin-stimulated glucose uptake in differentiated fat cells.
Male cynomolgus monkeys (n = 10) were subjected to varying durations of global cerebral ischemia to determine the relation between dose (ischemic duration) and response (outcome).
Each monkey was anesthetized with halothane, and global cerebral ischemia was produced by a neck tourniquet and trimethaphan-induced hypotension. The animal was subjected to 3 (n = 3), 9 (n = 3), or 12 (n = 4) minutes of ischemia. Neurological examinations were performed daily for 30 days or until the monkey was neurologically normal. Approximately 1 month after ischemia, the animal was evaluated for evidence of neurobehavioral abnormalities with the nonmatching to sample test. When testing was complete, the monkey was killed with an overdose of pentobarbital and the brain perfused with formalin and removed for histopathologic analysis, with particular attention devoted to the hippocampal CA1 region.
Monkeys subjected to 3 or 9 minutes of ischemia were neurologically normal (except for a very mild injury in one 9-minute animal) immediately after ischemia and had normal CA1 histology. Monkeys subjected to 12 minutes of ischemia were grossly abnormal neurologically after ischemia, but two of the four animals made a complete recovery (neurological deficit score of 0) by 30 days. Monkeys subjected to 12 minutes of ischemia had mild damage in the CA1 region, with all other brain regions appearing normal. None of the animals had demonstrable decrements in neurobehavioral function as measured by the nonmatching to sample test.
We conclude that neurobehavioral testing after global cerebral ischemia in primates is feasible, but the ischemic time necessary to produce CA1 damage that could potentially be quantified antemortem with the nonmatching to sample test is greater than 12 minutes in cynomolgus monkeys and may produce temporary severe gross neurological abnormalities as well.
Several recent studies have tried to link endogenous opioid peptides (endorphins) with smoking reinforcement. Karras and Kane (1980) showed a one-third decrease in smoking after administration of the opiate antagonist naloxone. However, Nemeth-Coslett and Griffiths (1986) failed to replicate this result with use of a wide range of doses. The current study was an attempt to replicate Karras and Kane's results using 10 male chronic smokers. Each subject received naloxone (10 mg sc) or placebo in a double-blind, cross-over design (cross-over interval 6-14 days) after overnight abstinence from tobacco use. Naloxone reduced the number of cigarettes smoked by 16% in the first 1/2 hour smoking period, with a 10% reduction in carbon monoxide level 1 hour later. Naloxone had no effect on subjective and physiological variables and did not cause any signs of a tobacco withdrawal syndrome. These results are consistent with those of Karras and Kane, and suggest a role for endorphins in smoking reinforcement. Inconsistent results across studies may be due to methodological factors, such as differences in smoking deprivation time and postnaloxone administration testing intervals because naloxone has a short half-life.
Alterations in the expression of free radical scavenging enzymes and production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in tissue cells may contribute to the pathogenesis of mitochondrial diseases such as chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia (CPEO) syndrome. Since the mitochondria with impaired respiratory function in affected tissues generate more ROS via electron leakage, we examined the expression levels of free radical scavenging enzymes in primary culture of muscle fibroblasts of eight patients with CPEO syndrome. The results showed that the enzyme activity and protein levels of Mn-SOD of the fibroblasts from CPEO patients were significantly increased but those of Cu,Zn-SOD, catalase and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) were not increased compared with controls. A similar pattern was observed in the mRNA levels of Mn-SOD and GPx in muscle fibroblasts of all CPEO patients. The activity ratios of Mn-SOD/catalase and Mn-SOD/GPx in muscle fibroblasts of the CPEO patients were increased 1.7-3.4 and 1.8- to 5.3-fold, respectively, compared to those of the controls. Moreover, by using flow cytometry we found that the production of O2(*-) and H2O2 in the fibroblasts was about 2 times higher than those of controls. The 8-OHdG/dG ratios in total DNA of muscle biopsies from three CPEO patients were much higher than those of age-matched controls as determined by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). In the light of these findings, we suggest that the increase in expression of Mn-SOD, ROS production and oxidative damage in affected tissues may play an important role in the pathogenesis and progression of the CPEO syndrome.
Polymorphisms in the glutathione S-transferase pi gene (GSTP1), encoding GSTP1-1, a detoxification enzyme, may increase the risk of Parkinson disease (PD) with exposure to pesticides. Using the GenePD Study sample of familial PD cases, we explored whether GSTP1 polymorphisms were associated with the age at onset of PD symptoms and whether that relation was modified by exposure to herbicides.
Seven single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were genotyped and tested for association with PD onset age in men in three strata: no exposure to herbicides, residential exposure to herbicides, and occupational exposure to herbicides. Haplotypes were similarly evaluated in stratified analyses.
Three SNPs were associated with PD onset age in the group of men occupationally exposed to herbicides. Three additional SNPs had significant trends for the association of PD onset age across the herbicide exposure groups. Haplotype results also provided evidence that the relation between GSTP1 and onset age is modified by herbicide exposure. One haplotype was associated with an approximately 8-years-earlier onset in the occupationally exposed group and a 2.8-years-later onset in the nonexposed group.
Herbicide exposure may be an effect modifier of the relation between glutathione S-transferase pi gene polymorphisms and onset age in familial PD.
Angioedema is a rare but potentially serious adverse event of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy. However, no prospective, controlled studies have reported on its incidence and clinical characteristics.
We studied the occurrence of angioedema in a randomized, double-blind, controlled trial of 12 557 persons with hypertension treated with enalapril maleate, 5 to 40 mg/d, using a prospective ascertainment and adjudication of angioedema by an expert committee.
Angioedema occurred in 86 (0.68%) of the subjects. Stepwise logistic regression identified black race (odds ratio [OR], 2.88; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.72-4.82), history of drug rash (OR, 3.78; 95% CI, 1.80-7.92), age greater than 65 years (OR, 1.60; 95% CI, 1.02-2.53), and seasonal allergies (OR, 1.79; 95% CI, 1.06-3.00) as independent risk factors for angioedema. The incidence of angioedema was higher after initiation of therapy (3.6/1000 patients per month) and declined to 0.4/1000 patients per month. Treatment was not given in 44 (51%) of the cases; antihistamines were administered in 35 (41%); corticosteroids, in 20 (23%); and epinephrine, in 1 (1%). Two patients were hospitalized but none had airway compromise.
Enalapril-related angioedema is uncommon. Although it is most likely to occur early after initiation of therapy, it may occur at any time. It is more likely to occur in black patients, those older than 65 years, and those with a history of drug rash or seasonal allergies. Fatal angioedema or angioedema requiring airway protection did not occur in this study.
Sudden withdrawal of baclofen has been shown to provoke hallucinations. There has been no documented case showing hallucinations persisting during treatment over several years and responsive to subsequent reductions in dosage. Such a case is now reported. The chronicity of the symptoms originally suggested a psychotic illness, but this proved to be incorrect. The literature on baclofen toxicity is reviewed.
Five bufadienolides (1-5) isolated from the leaves of Kalanchoe pinnata and K. daigremontiana x tubiflora (Crassulaceae) were examined for their inhibitory effects on Epstein-Barr virus early antigen (EBV-EA) activation in Raji cells induced by the tumor promoter, 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate. All bufadienolides showed inhibitory activity, and bryophyllin A (1) exhibited the most marked inhibition (IC50 = 0.4 microM) among the tested compounds. Bryophyllin C (2), a reduction analogue of 1, and bersaldegenin-3-acetate (3) lacking the orthoacetate moiety were less active. These results strongly suggest that bufadienolides are potential cancer chemopreventive agents.
