Mineralocorticoid receptor blockers show antifibrotic potential in hepatic fibrosis. The mechanism of this protective effect is not known yet, although reactive oxygen species seem to play an important role. Here, we investigated the effects of elevated levels of aldosterone (Ald), the primary ligand of the mineralocorticoid receptor, on livers of rats in a hyperaldosteronism model: aldosterone-induced hypertension. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated for 4 weeks with aldosterone. To distinguish if damage caused in the liver depended on increased blood pressure or on increased Ald levels, the mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist spironolactone was given in a subtherapeutic dose, not normalizing blood pressure. To investigate the impact of oxidative stress, the antioxidant tempol was administered. Aldosterone induced fibrosis, detected histopathologically, and by expression analysis of the fibrosis marker, α-smooth muscle actin. Further, the mRNA amount of the profibrotic cytokine TGF-β was increased significantly. Fibrosis could be reduced by scavenging reactive oxygen species, and also by blocking the mineralocorticoid receptor. Furthermore, aldosterone treatment caused oxidative stress and DNA double strand breaks in livers, as well as the elevation of DNA repair activity. An increase of the transcription factor Nrf2, the main regulator of the antioxidative response could be observed, and of its target genes heme oxygenase-1 and γ-glutamylcysteine synthetase. All these effects of aldosterone were prevented by spironolactone and tempol. Already after 4 weeks of treatment, aldosteroneinfusion induced fibrosis in the liver. This effect was independent of elevated blood pressure. DNA damage caused by aldosterone might contribute to fibrosis progression when aldosterone is chronically increased.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (Cox-2) has been found to be overexpressed in several types of human cancers and its role in tumorigenesis has been proposed. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of the cyclooxygenase inhibitor diclofenac on the growth of murine C-26 colon carcinoma cells.
Expression of Cox-2 mRNA and protein was examined by RT-PCR analysis and immunohistochemistry, respectively. By using MTT-assay, we examined the effects of diclofenac at various concentrations on the growth of C-26 cells in vitro. The effect of diclofenac on the growth of the C-26 tumor in syngeneic mice was also investigated.
By RT-PCR, Cox-2 mRNA was detected in C-26 cells. Cox-2 protein was localized to C-26 cells and treatment with diclofenac resulted in apoptotic cell death in a dose-dependent manner. Diclofenac administered in drinking water resulted in growth inhibition of C-26 tumor in mice and correlated with plasma levels of both PGE2 and TXB2.
Our data show that diclofenac may be a potential agent for the prevention and treatment of human colon cancer.
Van der Woude Syndrome (VWS) is an autosomal craniofacial disorder characterized by lower lip pits and cleft lip and/or palate. Mutations in the interferon regulatory factor 6 (IRF6) gene have been identified in patients with VWS. To identify novel IRF6 mutations in patients affected by VWS, we screened 2 Brazilian families, sequencing the entire IRF6-coding region and flanking intronic boundaries. Two novel heterozygous mutations were identified: a frame shift mutation with deletion of G at the nucleotide position 520 in the exon 6 (520delG), and a missense single nucleotide substitution from T to A at nucleotide position 1135 in exon 8 (T1135A). By using restriction enzyme analysis, we were able to demonstrate the lack of similar mutations in unrelated healthy individuals and non-syndromic cleft lip and palate patients. Our results further confirmed that haploinsufficiency of the IRF6 gene results in VWS.
Loss of body weight, cardiomyopathy, and nephropathy were the main toxic manifestations found when male spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and genetically related Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats were given 1 mg/kg doxorubicin iv once a week for 12 weeks. Each of these alterations was more severe in SHR. The most profound effects on body weight were observed from the 7th to the 12th week of dosing. During this period the body weight of SHR declined to preinjection control levels. Weight loss also occurred in WKY given doxorubicin, but was not as profound. Pretreatment with 25 mg/kg ICRF-187 ip attenuated the doxorubicin-induced loss in body weight in both types of animals. The frequency and severity of cardiac and renal lesions were graded on a score of 0 to 4. Alterations were found in hearts of all SHR and four of five WKY given doxorubicin alone. Cytoplasmic vacuolization and myofibrillar loss were more severe in SHR (average score, 2.6) than in WKY (average score, 1.0). At the end of the study mean arterial pressure was also decreased in SHR which had received doxorubicin alone. Pretreatment with ICRF-187 significantly attenuated the severity of the lesions in both SHR (average score, 1.0) and WKY (average score, 0); mean arterial pressure was higher in SHR treated with ICRF-187 and doxorubicin than in saline-treated SHR. Renal alterations, including glomerular vacuolization and tubular dilatation, were found in both strains of rats (average scores, 4.0 in SHR and 3.0 in WKY). ICRF-187 also reduced the severity of renal lesions (average scores, 2.0 in SHR and 1.0 in WKY). Thus, although ICRF-187 significantly alters myocardial, renal, and body weight effects of doxorubicin in both strains of rats, these toxic effects are more severe in SHR than in WKY. SHR provide an useful animal model for the critical examination of agents with potential protective activity against doxorubicin-induced toxicity.
Our clinical experience has suggested that the presently recommended patch-test concentration (1.0%) for formaldehyde in the baseline series might be too low. Therefore, consecutively patch-tested dermatitis patients were tested simultaneously with formaldehyde 1.0% and 2.0% (w/v) in aqua. Formaldehyde 1.0% and 2.0% were applied with a micro-pipette (15 microl) to filter paper discs in Finn Chambers (0.30 mg/cm(2) and 0.60 mg/cm(2), respectively). A total of 1397 patients with dermatitis were patch-tested. In all, 68 (4.9%) patients reacted positively to formaldehyde; 37 reacted only to 2.0%, 29 reacted to both concentrations, and 2 reacted only to 1.0%. Significantly more patients were thus diagnosed with contact allergy to formaldehyde 2.0% compared with 1.0% (p < 0.001). We detected 0.1%, 0.4%, and 29.6% irritant reactions to 1.0%, 2.0%, and 3.0% formaldehyde, respectively. We conclude that, with an optimized patch-test technique, doubling the dose per area detects significantly more contact allergies to formaldehyde, but an even higher test concentration causes too many irritant reactions to be usable.
We performed a randomized, open prospective study to determine the effect of 1 alpha-hydroxyvitamin D3 [1 alpha (OH)D3] on hyperthyroidism in patients with untreated Graves' disease. At the time of entry into the study, 30 patients were randomly assigned to receive a daily dose of 30 mg methimazole (MMI) (group A, n = 15) or the same dose of MMI supplemented with 1.5 micrograms 1 alpha (OH)D3 (group B, n = 15). These treatment regimens were continued for 24 weeks, and physicians were allowed to adjust MMI dosage during follow-up visits. Blood samples were collected, and serum concentrations of free triiodothyronine (FT3), free thyroxine (FT4), T3, T4, thyrotropin (TSH), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), and TSH-receptor antibody (TRAb) were determined. During the follow-up periods, all patients became euthyroid. The dose of MMI was not significantly different between these two groups. In contrast, decreases in mean serum FT3 and FT4 levels, as well as in mean serum T3 and T4 levels, were greater in group B. Correspondingly, the reciprocal increase in the mean TSH level was more prominent in group B. Mean TRAb levels did not differ between the two groups. Mean serum ALP levels in group B were significantly lower than in group A at 24 weeks. Thus, we suggest that concomitant administration of 1 alpha (OH)D3 is useful for treating hyperthyroidism in patients with Graves' disease.
A prospective, randomized placebo-controlled study was undertaken to compare the effects on heart rate and blood pressure during surgery and on the incidence of nausea, vomiting and headache after surgery of i.m. prochlorperazine 0.2 mg.kg-1, i.v. prochlorperazine 0.1 mg.kg-1 and i.v. ondansetron 0.06 mg.kg-1 given at induction of general anaesthesia to patients undergoing septorhinoplasty. The effects of the test drugs after administration on heart rate and blood pressure were similar, as were the incidences of retching and vomiting in the recovery ward after each test drug. Postoperatively, compared with placebo (7%), nausea per se was most frequent in those given i.v. prochlorperazine (25%, P < 0.01), and less frequent in those given i.m. prochlorperazine (2%) and i.v. ondansetron (15%). Vomiting per se was reduced from 24% to 7% (P < 0.025) by i.v. prochlorperazine and to 4% (P < 0.0005) by i.v. ondansetron. The incidence of nausea with vomiting was reduced from 35% to 15% (P < 0.025). 16% (P < 0.05) and 11% (P < 0.005) by i.m. prochlorperazine, i.v. prochlorperazine and i.v. ondansetron respectively. I.m. prochlorperazine and i.v. ondansetron increased the frequency (from 35% to 64%, P < 0.0005 and to 71%, P < 0.0005, respectively) of those experiencing no PONV and delayed the onset of PONV, but only i.m. prochlorperazine reduced the severity of postoperative vomiting. Headache was frequent in the control (69%), i.v. prochlorperazine (62%) and i.v. ondansetron (69%) groups, and least frequent after i.m. prochlorperazine (53%; P < 0.05 versus i.v. ondansetron). It is concluded that these drugs have no adverse cardiovascular effects within 10 minutes of administration, i.m. prochlorperazine and i.v. ondansetron reduce PONV more effectively than i.v. prochlorperazine and postoperative headache after septorhinoplasty occurs less frequently in those given i.m. prochlorperazine than in those given i.v. ondansetron.
Z-ajoene, a major compound containing sulfur in oil-macerated garlic products, exhibited inhibitory effects against scopolamine-induced memory impairment in mice using the Morris water maze test. The effects of Z-ajoene were observed dose-dependently (0.25-25 mg/kg). At the highest dosage, the memory performance of mice was improved compared to normal mice. The acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity in the brain was reduced by administration of Z-ajoene dose-dependently. However, alliin and diallyl disulfide, organosulfur compounds from garlic, did not improve memory performance nor AChE inhibitory effect. These results suggest that Z-ajoene may act on the cholinergic system and on memory impairment caused by excess activity of AChE.
Clinical experience of lysuride maleate acid in the treatment of 88 patients with occasional and 12 patients with chronic headache is reported. After 3-5 months observations the treatment was judged effective (excellent, good, satisfactory) in 72% of the cases and ineffective (poor, nil) in 28%. Side effects were few and short-lived, consisting mainly of slight nausea and asthenia. In 2 cases treatment was suspended as ineffective (in the patient's opinion).
The analgesic meperidine has been reported to produce signs of central nervous system excitation in human beings. To determine the relationship between signs and symptoms of central nervous system excitation and plasma levels of meperidine and normeperidine, we studied 67 patients receiving meperidine for the relief of postoperative or chronic pain. In 48 patients, excitatory effects ranging from mild nervousness to tremors, twitches, multifocal myoclonus, and seizures were directly correlated with accumulation of normeperidine in plasma. Evidence of compromised renal function occurred in only 14 of the 48 symptomatic patients, suggesting that renal dysfunction may contribute to but is not the sole factor in the accumulation of normeperidine or its relation to adverse neurological signs. In a second study we surveyed mood alterations in 47 patients receiving meperidine and 29 receiving other narcotic analgesics for postoperative pain. The repeated administration of meperidine was associated with adverse alterations in various elements of mood (e.g., apprehension, sadness, restlessness).
Metal oxide NPs are abundantly produced in nanotech industries and are emitted in several combustion processes, suggesting the need to characterize their toxic impact on the human respiratory system. The acute toxicity and the morphological changes induced by copper oxide and titanium dioxide NPs (nCuO and nTiO₂) on the human alveolar cell line A549 are here investigated. Cell viability and oxidative stress have been studied in parallel with NP internalization and cell ultrastructural modifications. TiO₂ NPs were abundantly internalized by cells through the endocytic pathway, even they did not induce cell death and ultrastructural lesions. Only after 24h cells were affected by an abundant NP internalization presenting a consequent altered morphology. High cytotoxicity, oxidative stress and severe ultrastructural damages were produced by nCuO, since cell membrane and mitochondria resulted to be heavily affected, even at early exposure time. nCuO-induced toxicity has been interpreted as a consequence of both NPs reactivity and copper ions dissolution in lysosomal compartments, even the free NPs, scattered throughout all the cell compartments, might contribute to the toxicity. The antioxidant N-acetylcysteine was effective in recovering nCuO exposed cells viability and Bafilomycin A1 inhibited copper ions release in phagolysosomes and significantly rescued cells, suggesting a relevant cytotoxic mechanism relative to oxidative damages and authophagic cell death, together with NP internalization and dissolution. Our results support the previous data reporting CuO NPs are highly cytotoxic and genotoxic, and associate their toxic effects with their cell penetration and interaction with various compartments. In conclusion, the so-called "Trojan horse" mechanism and autophagy, are involved in nCuO-induced cell death, even a further research is needed to explain the events occurring at early exposure time.
To develop beta2-adrenergic receptor (AR) agonists with higher selectivity, it is essential to evaluate the cardiac side effects which are the most serious side effects of this class of drugs. We studied receptor occupancy of beta1-ARs in rats as a possible cause for the side effect of beta2-AR agonists, namely myocardial fibrosis. Myocardial fibrosis in rats was observed on Day 7 after the administration of salbutamol and terbutaline, both of which are selective beta2-AR agonists, at higher dose levels. To evaluate receptor occupancy, plasma concentrations of (R)-salbutamol and (R)-terbutaline, plasma protein binding and the EC50 for chronotropic effects in rats were determined. Based on the plasma concentrations, the plasma protein binding and EC50, receptor occupancy-time profiles were constructed. The relationship between the receptor occupancy-time profile under the curve, the AUCphi, and the degree of myocardial fibrosis was evaluated with a multiple correlation analysis. Myocardial fibrosis was significantly correlated (r2 > 0.78) to the AUCphi with the threshold above approximately 50%, but not to plasma concentrations. These results indicate that the receptor occupancy theory is also useful for the evaluation of the chronotropic side effects of beta2-AR agonists.
Genes involved in the inflammatory response resulting in allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) are only partly known. In this study, we introduce the use of high-density oligonucleotide arrays for gene expression profiling in human skin during the elicitation of ACD. Skin biopsies from normal and nickel-exposed skin were obtained from seven nickel-allergic patients and five nonallergic controls at four different time points during elicitation of eczema. Each gene expression profile was analyzed by hybridization to high-density oligonucleotide arrays. Cluster analysis of 74 genes found to be differentially expressed in the patients over time revealed that the patient samples may be categorized into two groups: an early time-point group (no clinical reaction) and a late time-point group (clinical reaction). Bioinformatics analyses unraveled the potential involvement of signal transducers and activator of transcription and small/mothers against decepentaplegic (SMAD) transcription factors in the late time-point gene expression patterns. Concerning specific genes, the homeostatic chemokine CCL19 was unexpectedly found to be highly expressed in cells scattered in the deep dermis of the late time-point samples. Taken together, these findings suggest hitherto unknown roles of SMAD transcription factors and of CCL19 in the elicitation phase of ACD.
Glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3, a negative regulator of cardiac hypertrophy, is inactivated in failing hearts. To examine the histopathological and functional consequence of the persistent inhibition of GSK-3beta in the heart in vivo, we generated transgenic mice with cardiac-specific overexpression of dominant negative GSK-3beta (Tg-GSK-3beta-DN) and tetracycline-regulatable wild-type GSK-3beta. GSK-3beta-DN significantly reduced the kinase activity of endogenous GSK-3beta, inhibited phosphorylation of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2B epsilon, and induced accumulation of beta-catenin and myeloid cell leukemia-1, confirming that GSK-3beta-DN acts as a dominant negative in vivo. Tg-GSK-3beta-DN exhibited concentric hypertrophy at baseline, accompanied by upregulation of the alpha-myosin heavy chain gene and increases in cardiac function, as evidenced by a significantly greater Emax after dobutamine infusion and percentage of contraction in isolated cardiac myocytes, indicating that inhibition of GSK-3beta induces well-compensated hypertrophy. Although transverse aortic constriction induced a similar increase in hypertrophy in both Tg-GSK-3beta-DN and nontransgenic mice, Tg-GSK-3beta-DN exhibited better left ventricular function and less fibrosis and apoptosis than nontransgenic mice. Induction of the GSK-3beta transgene in tetracycline-regulatable wild-type GSK-3beta mice induced left ventricular dysfunction and premature death, accompanied by increases in apoptosis and fibrosis. Overexpression of GSK-3beta-DN in cardiac myocytes inhibited tumor necrosis factor-alpha-induced apoptosis, and the antiapoptotic effect of GSK-3beta-DN was abrogated in the absence of myeloid cell leukemia-1. These results suggest that persistent inhibition of GSK-3beta induces compensatory hypertrophy, inhibits apoptosis and fibrosis, and increases cardiac contractility and that the antiapoptotic effect of GSK-3beta inhibition is mediated by myeloid cell leukemia-1. Thus, downregulation of GSK-3beta during heart failure could be compensatory.
The effects of variations in renal hemodynamics on the time course of renin secretion were studied in dogs anesthetized with pentobarbital-chloralose. Hemodynamic changes were induced either locally in kidneys perfused in situ via an extracorporeal circuit (with or without a pump system) or systemically by hemorrhage or nitroprusside infusion. In the autoperfused kidney the reduction of renal perfusion pressure to approximately one-half of the arterial pressure by inflow occlusion caused an increase in renal conductance (renal vasodilation) and an increase in renin secretion rate (RSR). In the pump-perfused kidney, a step increase in renal blood flow (RBF) caused renal vasoconstriction and a decrease in RSR; a step decrease in RBF caused renal vasodilation and an increase in RSR. Following step changes in RBF, the time constant of the alterations of renal conductance was 56.5 s, and the time constant of the RSR responses was 80.1 s. The total time required to reach a steady state for RSR lagged behind that for renal conductance by approximately 5 min. These differences reflect the time needed for the kidney to release renin in response to changes in renal vascular caliber. The results suggest that renin release occurs in response to the autoregulatory dilation of the renal arterioles. When systemic hypotension was induced by nitroprusside infusion, RSR also increased together with the renal conductance. Following hemorrhage, however, RSR increased despite a decrease in renal conductance, reflecting the role of neurohumoral factors in causing renin release in this case. The comparison of renin secretion following different types of hemodynamic alterations serves to elucidate the mechanisms of renin secretion.
We examined the effect of the subcutaneous infiltration of ketamine, lidocaine and saline before injury on capsaicin-induced pain and hyperalgesia. Twelve healthy volunteers participated in two separate, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover experiments. In experiment 1, 100 micrograms capsaicin was injected intradermally in one volar forearm 10 min after the skin had been pretreated with lidocaine 20.0 mg in 2.0 ml or 0.9% saline 2.0 ml at the capsaicin injection site. In experiment 2, a similar capsaicin test was given 10 min after the skin had been pretreated with ketamine 5 mg in 2.0 ml or 0.9% saline 2.0 ml. To control for possible systemic effects, the capsaicin injection site was pretreated by injection of saline into the skin and the contralateral arm was treated with active drug, and vice versa. Outcome measures were spontaneous pain, pain evoked by punctate and brush stimuli, and areas of brush-evoked and punctate-evoked hyperalgesia. Lidocaine reduced all measures compared with placebo (P < 0.001), whereas ketamine failed to change any measures. Pain scores and areas of hyperalgesia were not affected when the contralateral site was infiltrated with ketamine or lidocaine. Lidocaine produced no side-effects, whereas ketamine produced paraesthesia, dizziness and sleepiness in six out of 24 (25%) cases. Blocking peripheral sodium channels with locally administered lidocaine reduces spontaneous pain and capsaicin-induced hyperalgesia but local block with the NMDA-type glutamate receptor antagonist ketamine has no effect on capsaicin-induced pain and hyperalgesia.
Tramadol, marketed as Ultram in the United States, is as a non-scheduled narcotic analgesic based on its low abuse liability. It is indicated for the treatment of moderately severe pain; however, multiple adverse effects have been reported with its use including seizures, anaphylaxis, angioedema, bronchospasm, and serotonin syndrome. An association between tramadol and pericarditis has not been previously reported. We describe the case of an 88 year-old male who developed acute pericarditis 2 days following tramadol initiation. The temporal relationship between drug initiation and pericarditis as well as the resolution of symptoms upon drug discontinuation suggested a potential association. Although pericarditis has not been described with tramadol administration, clinicians should be aware of a possible association.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) has been implicated in the differentiation and growth inhibition of cancer cells. We examined the effects of PPARgamma activation by troglitazone on hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cell growth, proliferation, and apoptosis in vitro and in vivo. We also studied relationships between PPARgamma activation and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression. Human HCC cell lines Huh7 and Hep3B were cultured in the presence or absence of troglitazone. Cell growth was determined via WST-1 assay, proliferation by cell cycle analysis and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) Western blotting, and apoptosis by flow cytometry and TUNEL. Tumor growth after subcutaneous implantation of Huh7 cells in nude mice was monitored, and the effects of treatment with troglitazone were determined. In resected HCCs, PPARgamma expression was less compared with the histologically normal surrounding liver. In cultures of Hep3B and Huh7 cells, basal expression of PPARgamma was relatively low, but troglitazone caused dose-dependent induction of PPARgamma expression. Cell cycle analysis revealed a decreased proportion of cells in S phase, with arrest at G0/G1. Concomitant downregulation of PCNA and an increase in TUNEL staining, cells were consistent with decreased proliferation and induction of apoptosis by troglitazaone. Troglitazone-mediated PPARgamma activation also suppressed COX-2 expression and induced p27 in HCC cells. Administration of troglitazone to Huh7 tumor-bearing mice significantly reduced tumor growth and caused tumor regression. In conclusion, collectively, these results indicate that PPARgamma could be a regulator of cell survival and growth in HCC. PPARgamma therefore represents a putative molecular target for chemopreventive therapy or inhibition of liver cancer growth.
The relationship between arsenic exposure and DNA damage in patients with acute or chronic arsenic poisoning was analyzed. Urinary 8-hydroxydeoxyguanine (8-OHdG) concentrations were measured as an indication of oxidative DNA damage. A remarkable increase in 8-OHdG in the urine was observed in 60% of 52 patients with acute arsenic poisoning from the accidental oral intake of the arsenic trioxide. This was two- to threefold higher than levels in normal healthy subjects (n = 248). There was a clear relationship between arsenic concentrations in urine after acute poisoning and elevated levels of 8-OHdG. Levels of urinary 8-OHdG returned to normal within 180 days after the acute arsenic poisoning event. In patients chronically poisoned by the consumption of well water with elevated levels of arsenate [As(V)], elevated 8-OHdG concentrations in urine were also observed. A significant correlation between the 8-OHdG levels and arsenic levels in the urine was observed in 82 patients with chronic poisoning. Thus, evidence of oxidative DNA damage occurred in acute arsenic poisoning by arsenite [As(III)] and in chronic arsenic poisoning by As(V). In chronic poisoning patients provided low-arsenic drinking water, evidence of DNA damage subsided between 9 months and 1 year after the high levels of arsenic intake were reduced. The initial level of arsenic exposure appeared to dictate the length of this recovery period. These data indicate that some aspects of chronic and acute arsenic poisoning may be reversible with the cessation of exposure. This knowledge may contribute to our understanding of the risk elevation from arsenic carcinogenesis and perhaps be used in a prospective fashion to assess individual risk.
Anthracyclines are effective antineoplastic drugs, but they frequently cause dose-related cardiotoxicity. The cardiotoxicity of conventional anthracycline therapy highlights a need to search for methods that are highly sensitive and capable of predicting cardiac dysfunction. We measured the plasma level of brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) to determine whether BNP might serve as a simple diagnostic indicator of anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity in patients with acute leukemia treated with a daunorubicin (DNR)-containing regimen. Thirteen patients with acute leukemia were treated with a DNR-containing regimen. Cardiac functions were evaluated with radionuclide angiography before chemotherapies. The plasma levels of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and BNP were measured at the time of radionuclide angiography. Three patients developed congestive heart failure after the completion of chemotherapy. Five patients were diagnosed as having subclinical heart failure after the completion of chemotherapy. The plasma levels of BNP in all the patients with clinical and subclinical heart failure increased above the normal limit (40 pg/ml) before the detection of clinical or subclinical heart failure by radionuclide angiography. On the other hand, BNP did not increase in the patients without heart failure given DNR, even at more than 700 mg/m(2). The plasma level of ANP did not always increase in all the patients with clinical and subclinical heart failure. These preliminary results suggest that BNP may be useful as an early and sensitive indicator of anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity.
In stable schizophrenic outpatients with predominantly "defect state" symptomatology amphetamine caused a reduction in negative symptoms that was statistically significant but not complete (i.e. these symptoms remained clinically discernible). The possibility that dopaminergic hypofunction contributes some elements to the schizophrenic defect state is presented, along with some limited data compatible with this concept. These findings are compared to prior studies in recently hospitalized schizophrenic subjects, and discussed with respect to recent theoretical concepts regarding the role of dopamine in schizophrenic psychopathology.
Aspirin often causes acute gastric mucosal damage that can be seen endoscopically or assessed indirectly (for example, by measuring increased gastrointestinal blood loss). The occurrence of most adverse effects is apparently related to the dose administered. This dose-response effect, evident in both endoscopic and microbleeding studies done after acute or short-term aspirin administration, is also associated with the risk of developing chronic gastric ulcer. The occurrence of gastric adaptation, or lessening injury with continued treatment, obscures the interpretation of results from studies of acute administration. Moreover, evidence of dose-response effects has frequently been ignored when lists of complications and side effects are compiled. The absence of symptoms does not correlate with acute or chronic mucosal damage and appears to have no predictive value. Endoscopic studies linking the extent and degree of acute mucosal injury to various nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have little or no value in predicting the frequency or severity of chronic gastric ulcer or gastrointestinal bleeding.
