Oxidative stress may be important in the pathogenesis of dengue infection. Using accurate markers of oxidative damage, we assessed the extent of oxidative damage in dengue patients. The levels of hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid products (HETEs), F(2)-isoprostanes (F(2)-IsoPs), and cholesterol oxidation products (COPs) were measured in 28 adult dengue patients and 28 age-matched study controls during the febrile, defervescent, and convalescent stages of infection. We compared the absolute and the percentage change in these markers in relation to key clinical parameters and inflammatory markers. The levels of total HETEs and total HETEs/arachidonate, total F(2)-IsoPs/arachidonate, and COPs/cholesterol were higher during the febrile compared to the convalescent level. Total HETEs correlated positively with admission systolic blood pressure (r=0.52, p<0.05), whereas an inverse relationship was found between 7beta-hydroxycholesterol and systolic and diastolic blood pressure (r=-0.61 and -0.59, respectively, p<0.01). The urinary F(2)-IsoP level was higher in urine during the febrile stage compared to the convalescent level. Despite lower total cholesterol levels during the febrile stage compared to convalescent levels, a higher percentage of cholesterol was found as COPs (7beta-, 24-, and 27-hydroxycholesterol). The levels of platelet-activating factor-acetylhydrolase activity, vascular cellular adhesion molecule-1, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein were higher during the febrile stage compared to their convalescent levels (p<0.01). Markers of oxidative damage are altered during the various stages of dengue infection.
The authors performed a prospective double-blind study of 39 inpatients beginning high-potency neuroleptics. Patients were randomly assigned to a 7-day course of benztropine or placebo in addition to a neuroleptic. Of 17 patients receiving placebo, eight (47%) suffered an acute dystonic reaction; of 22 patients receiving benztropine, none suffered this reaction--a highly significant difference. The authors also found minimal anticholinergic toxicity attributable to the addition of benztropine to the neuroleptic regimen. These results suggest that an initial 7-day prophylaxis with benztropine is a high-benefit, low-risk adjunctive treatment to neuroleptic therapy.
Acute lung injury (ALI) induced by phosgene increases risk of serious edema and mortality. Increased permeability of the microvascular endothelium is implicated in the progression of ALI, but the processing interaction and time course activity of the vascular regulators in exudation are still not understood. The main aim of this study was to investigate the time course and potential role for vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), its receptors, and some vascular function regulators related to increased vascular permeability of lung induced by phosgene. Sprague Dawley rats were randomly divided into seven groups according to time post phosgene exposure (control, and 1, 3, 6, 12, 24, and 48 h groups). Lung tissue was removed to evaluate VEGF isoforms, fms-like tyrosine kinase receptor 1 (Flt-1), and kinase insert domain containing region (KDR/Flk-1) by reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Blood samples were collected for measurement of plasma endothelin-1 (ET-1) and nitric oxide (NO) level. The results showed that the mRNA and protein expression profile of the VEGF system after phosgene exposure was time dependent. The VEGF system expression in lung tissue was related closely to the level of ET-1 and NO. In conclusion, increased permeability of the lung microvascular endothelium induced by phosgene was primarily a result of differential expression of VEGF and its receptors, and was related to the level of ET-1 and NO. The results suggest that the cooperation of VEGF system, ET-1, and NO plays a critical role, and all those parameters emerge as time dependent in the early phase of the permeability process induced by phosgene exposure.
Arsenic exposure represents a major health concern increasing cancer risks, yet the mechanism of arsenic carcinogenesis has not been elucidated. We and others recently reported that cell malignant transformation by arsenic is accompanied by epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT). However, the role of EMT in arsenic carcinogenesis is not well understood. Although previous studies showed that short term exposure of endothelial cells to arsenic stimulated angiogenesis, it remains to be determined whether cells that were malignantly transformed by long term arsenic exposure have a pro-angiogenic effect. The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of arsenic-transformed human bronchial epithelial cells that underwent EMT on angiogenesis and the underlying mechanism. It was found that the conditioned medium from arsenic-transformed cells strongly stimulated tube formation by human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Moreover, enhanced angiogenesis was detected in mouse xenograft tumor tissues resulting from inoculation of arsenic-transformed cells. Mechanistic studies revealed that β-catenin was activated in arsenic-transformed cells up-regulating its target gene expression including angiogenic-stimulating vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Stably expressing microRNA-200b in arsenic-transformed cells that reversed EMT inhibited β-catenin activation, decreased VEGF expression and reduced tube formation by HUVECs. SiRNA knockdown β-catenin decreased VEGF expression. Adding a VEGF neutralizing antibody into the conditioned medium from arsenic-transformed cells impaired tube formation by HUVECs. Reverse transcriptase-PCR analysis revealed that the mRNA levels of canonical Wnt ligands were not increased in arsenic-transformed cells. These findings suggest that EMT in arsenic-transformed cells promotes angiogenesis through activating β-catenin-VEGF pathway.
Chemical derivatization of resveratrol has been widely conducted in an effort to overcome its chemical instability and therapeutic potential. In the present study, we examined the anti-inflammatory effects of resveratrol derivatives containing an amide functionality using in vitro macrophage models that were stimulated by Toll-like receptor (TLR) ligands, and using several animal inflammatory disease models. Of the resveratrol derivatives tested, compound 8 (2,4-dihydroxy-N-(4-hydroxyphenyl)benzamide) most strongly inhibited the production of nitric oxide (NO), tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), as well as the mRNA expression of inducible NO synthase (iNOS), TNF-α, and cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-activated RAW264.7 cells, differentiated U937 cells, and peritoneal macrophages. The inhibitory activity of compound 8 was apparently mediated by suppressing the phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT)-1, STAT-3, STAT-5, and interferon regulatory factor (IRF)-3. The direct target of compound 8 was revealed to be Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) but not TANK-binding kinase (TBK) 1 using the direct kinase assay and analyses of complex formation with these molecules. Additionally, upstream kinase of TBK1 seems to be also inhibited by compound 8. This compound also strongly ameliorated mouse inflammatory symptoms seen in arachidonic acid-induced ear edema, dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-treated colitis, EtOH/HCl-induced gastritis, collagen type II-triggered arthritis, and acetic acid-induced writhing. Therefore, of the resveratrol derivatives that we tested, compound 8 was determined to have the strongest anti-inflammatory activities in vitro and in vivo and may potentially be developed for use as a novel anti-inflammatory drug.
Adult Wilms' tumor (AWT) is a very rare and aggressive malignancy, and little information is available on effective therapy in adults. Although mutations in WT1 have been found in 10% to 15% of childhood Wilms' tumor patients, to date WT1 mutations in AWT patients have not been described. The authors describe a 47-year-old man with relapsed AWT and a novel germline alteration in intron 1 of WT1: IVS1-6 C-->A. This alteration may reduce the splicing efficiency for exon 2 and possibly results in exon skipping. The effective salvage chemotherapy contained ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide and was followed by a high-dose chemotherapy that contained melphalan, carboplatin, and etoposide. Both chemotherapy regimens showed moderate treatment-related toxicity. This report is the first that indicates that adult nephroblastoma patients also may carry WT1 germline mutations.
Four patients with panic disorder whose panic attacks responded to benzodiazepine treatment but who suffered persistent anxiety improved after addition of buspirone. Despite its lack of antipanic effect, buspirone may offer an adjunctive benefit when added to benzodiazepines in panic disorder.
Because CNS neuroleptic concentration cannot be directly measured in patients, the relation between clinical response and extent of dopamine receptor blockade is unknown. This relationship is critical in ascertaining whether nonresponse to neuroleptics is the result merely of inadequate CNS drug levels or of more basic biological differences in pathophysiology. Using [18F]N-methylspiroperidol and positron emission tomography, the authors assessed dopamine receptor occupancy in 10 schizophrenic patients before and after treatment with haloperidol. Responders and nonresponders had virtually identical indices of [18F]N-methylspiroperidol uptake after treatment, indicating that failure to respond clinically was not a function of neuroleptic uptake or binding in the CNS.
Noncardiac chest pain (NCCP) is a common condition with significant morbidity and economic implications. Psychological factors, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), alteration in pain perception, and esophageal dysmotility play an important role in the pathogenesis of the disorder. Proton pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy is the most effective medical intervention for the treatment of GERD-related NCCP, as well as the most cost-effective diagnostic strategy for this condition. Pain modulators such as tricyclic antidepressants, trazodone, and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors infer a visceral analgesic effect and consequently are the treatment of choice for patients with non-GERD-related NCCP. Furthermore, cognitive behavioral therapy has also been shown to be useful in the management of subset of patients with non-GERD-related NCCP. Newer therapeutic modalities and interventions such as lower esophageal sphincter injection of botulinum toxin in NCCP patients with spastic esophageal motility disorders, theophylline, and 5-HT4 receptor agonists may supplement or replace current treatment for non-GERD-related NCCP. Future compounds may include new visceral analgesics or medications that interfere with the development of peripheral or central sensitization.
Functional dyspepsia is a complex syndrome with a poorly defined pathophysiology, resulting in uncertainties in its therapeutic approach. Abnormalities in gastrointestinal motility and sensitivity alone or combined seem to play a role in a substantial subgroup of patients. Drugs capable of prokinetic effects, such as antidopaminergics (eg, metoclopramide, domperidone, levosulpiride) and serotonin 5-HT4 receptor agonists (eg, tegaserod) can be potentially used in the treatment of dyspeptic patients. Furthermore, 5-HT4 receptor agonists do not appear to increase the gastric fundus tone which may also contribute to improved symptoms in subsets of patients. Alosetron, a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, has been investigated mainly in irritable bowel syndrome, and the few studies performed in functional dyspepsia have provided conflicting results. Erythromycin and related derivatives, the motilides, represent another class of prokinetic compounds able to accelerate gastric emptying and potentially indicated in functional dyspepsia. The stimulatory effect on fundic tone and the occurrence of tachyphilaxis hamper the efficacy of these drugs in the long-term treatment. kappa-opioid receptor agonists might be useful for functional digestive syndromes because of their antinociceptive effects, but there are few available results and most are inconclusive. Results are also needed to prove efficacy of antidepressants (tricyclic agents and 5-HT reuptake inhibitors). Future clinical trials should be performed so that the formal structure required by good clinical practice can be adapted to detect significant effects in subgroups of patients with functional dyspepsia. Therapy should be ideally targeted to the different pathophysiologic abnormalities of these subgroups. The identification of the mechanisms leading to symptom generation should facilitate the development of newer and more effective therapeutic strategies in functional dyspepsia.
We present the fourth published case of a child affected with choanal atresia following maternal treatment with carbimazole. The mother was receiving her highest dose of carbimazole at the crucial period for development of the choanae, between days 35 and 38.
Thirty-one patients with refractory ovarian cancer and other malignancies principally confined to the abdominal cavity were treated with an intraperitoneal combination-chemotherapy regimen consisting of cisplatin (100 to 200 mg/m2), cytosine arabinoside (10(-4) to 10(-3) mol/L) and doxorubicin (2 to 18 mumol/L). Sodium thiosulfate was simultaneously administered intravenously to prevent cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity. Eight of 26 evaluable patients demonstrated clinical response including seven of 17 (41%) with ovarian cancer refractory to frontline chemotherapy. Systemic toxicity was mild except for nausea and vomiting. Abdominal pain secondary to doxorubicin was the major complication of therapy. We conclude that combination intraperitoneal therapy with cisplatin, cytosine arabinoside, and doxorubicin can be safely administered with objective tumor responses observed in patients with ovarian cancer heavily pretreated and in individuals with other malignancies involving the peritoneal cavity. Doxorubicin-induced local pain limits the ability to administer multiple courses of this treatment regimen.
Is assess the effects of angiotensin II type-I receptor blockers on outcomes in renal transplant recipients without proteinuria or posttransplantation erythrocytosis.
Fifty renal transplant recipients (30 men and 20 women, with a mean [SD] age of 40 [13] years) were randomized into 2 groups of 25 patients each; 1 group was treated with losartan for 1 year, and the other was not (control group). Blood pressure and other biochemical parameters were measured at baseline and at 6 and 12 months posttransplantation.
After 1 year, the losartan group had significantly lower systolic blood pressure (113 [22] mm Hg vs 126 [18] mm Hg; P = .04) and hemoglobin concentration (12.8 [1.9] g/dL vs 14.5 [2.1] g/dL; P = .006) and significantly higher serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentration (58 [22] mg/dL vs 47 [10] mg/dL; P = .03) compared with the control group; however the incidence of anemia did not differ (37% vs 20%; P = .20). In the losartan group, there were significant changes in hemoglobin concentration between baseline and 6 months (14.5 [1.6] g/dL vs 12.9 [1.49] g/dL; P < .001), but not between 6 and 12 months (12.9 [1.49] g/dL vs 12.8 [1.96] g/dL; P = .43). After 1 year, there were no significant between-group differences in diastolic hypertension, serum creatinine concentration, creatinine clearance, and serum potassium, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, triglyceride, and uric acid concentrations.
Losartan significantly increased high-density lipoprotein concentration and significantly decreased systolic hypertension. Although losartan decreased the hemoglobin concentration during the first 6 months, its effect did not progress with longer use. To determine the effect of losartan on renal function, additional studies with longer follow-up are needed.
Body weight gain, sexual/reproductive dysfunction and hematological abnormalities are serious consequences of atypical antipsychotics treatment. No attempts however have been made preclinically to elucidate the adverse hematological impacts. Presently, effects of lactational exposure of olanzapine (4, 8 and 10 mg/kg) and risperidone (1 and 2 mg/kg) on hematology as well as lymphoid organ histopathology of mice neonates were investigated. Both olanzapine and risperidone transfers through milk and make the neonates susceptible to their adverse side effects. Corticosterone elevation tendency of both the drugs further enhance the susceptibility for immune dysfunction. Analysis of total and differential leukocytes counts revealed neutropenia with all the doses of olanzapine but only with risperidone 2mg/kg. Weight analysis and histopathology of thymus and spleen indicated a state of suppression; less in the risperidone-exposed groups. Significant plasma corticosterone elevation occurred on 4 and 8 mg/kg olanzapine exposures but not with 10 mg/kg as well as with both the risperidone doses. Elevation of plasma prolactin levels occurred dose-dependently for both the drugs. Hematological toxicity (neutropenia) might be the direct toxic effects of the drugs/unstable metabolites on circulating neutrophils and/or on the bone marrow hemopoietic cells. Direct toxicity of the drugs might also have suppressed the lymphoid organs thymus and spleen. Further, it could be associated to hormonal imbalance induced by adverse pharmacological effects of the drugs on the endocrine system. Suppression of lymphoid organs in olanzapine groups might have resulted because of corticosteronemia and hyperprolactinemia, while in risperidone it could be mediated by pronounced hyperprolactinemic effect alone.
Anthracycline chemotherapy of cancer can cause severe, frequently fatal congestive heart failure (CHF), the first line treatment for which is diuretics and digoxin. We have studied the use of an ACE-inhibitor added as a third agent. Of 85 patients evaluable for cardiotoxicity after treatment with a median of 1000 mg/m2 of epirubicin for metastatic breast cancer, nine developed CHF at 1.5 to 13 months after therapy. Left ventricular ejection fraction decreased from normal to 18 to 35%. All patients received digitalo-diuretic therapy and after a transient clinical relief enalapril or ramipril increasing from 1.25 mg orally daily to 10-15 mg after 4-6 weeks. Eight of the nine patients deteriorated while on digitalo-diuretic therapy. Within three months of starting the ACE-inhibitor in these patients, LVEF increased to normal or near normal. Only one patient died in heart failure. Follow-up ranged from 11-42 months (median 26) and survival in the nine patients was similar to that of those who did not develop CHF. We suggest that treatment of anthracycline-induced CHF with an ACE-inhibitor should start within one to two weeks after digitalo-diuretic therapy regardless of the severity of symptoms rather than waiting for clinical deterioration.
To evaluate long-term effect of sustained proteinuria induced by a single injection of adriamycin (ADR) on occurrence of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSG), we treated 50 Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats, weighing 250 g with 5 mg/kg body weight of ADR. After six months of heavy proteinuria, 40% of ADR-treated rats did not develop FSG. In the remaining 60% of animals, a mild FSG was observed associated with the presence of large tubular casts and interstitial inflammation. Glomerulosclerosis was never observed in absence of tubulointerstitial lesions. Nine months after ADR, all rats exhibited FSG with renal insufficiency but the severest changes were restricted to the tubulointerstitial level. Our results indicate that chronic proteinuria induced by ADR is a relatively good model of glomerular sclerosis, however, the cause of glomerular sclerosis is probably different from that operating in other experimental models of FSG. Both sclerotic changes and progression of disease seem to be dependent on formation of tubular casts with consequent interstitial changes. This study raises the question of the relative role of tubulointerstitial changes in the subsequent development of FSG.
Focal adhesion kinase (FAK) is an important regulator of cellular signaling, migration, apoptosis, and cell cycle progression. We tested the hypothesis that FAK is a determinant of gemcitabine chemoresistance in pancreatic adenocarcinoma cells and examined the effect of inhibiting FAK expression on gemcitabine-induced cytotoxicity in vitro and in vivo. FAK expression was quantified by Western and Northern blots. Expression of FAK was suppressed using small interfering RNA (siRNA). Gemcitabine-induced cytotoxicity was quantified and apoptosis was characterized. Akt activity was determined by in vitro kinase assay. We assessed the therapeutic applicability of FAK siRNA in a nude mouse orthotopic xenograft model. While not affecting cellular proliferation or apoptosis in the absence of gemcitabine, FAK siRNA potentiated gemcitabine-induced cytotoxicity in vitro and in vivo. FAK siRNA treatment suppressed Akt activity, which may contribute to its chemosensitizing effect.
A seven-year-old boy treated with ceftriaxone for meningitis who presented a right upper quadrant abdominal pain associated with cholelithiasis. After three months he was symptom-free and abdominal ultrasonography was normal. Awareness of this phenomenon is highly important and can save many unnecessary cholecystectomies.
Fourteen patients receiving routine doses of amitriptyline developed plasma drug concentrations above 300 ng/ml. Of the 7 patients with plasma levels above 450 ng/ml, 6 developed a drug-induced delirium as opposed to none of the 7 with levels below 450 ng/ml. Thus, this adverse effect could be avoided by monitoring levels and reducing dosage when appropriate.
A 25-year-old female with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) presented with an abdominal tumor just below the scar due to a colectomy performed 15 months previously. This tumor (tumor A) measured 7 cm in diameter, was diagnosed as a desmoid tumor of the abdominal wall, and was excised. Despite the subsequent administration of sulindac (300 mg daily for 1 year), a desmoid tumor recurred at the same site. Excision was performed again when the tumor was 8 cm in diameter, and examination revealed it to consist of a large tumor (B) and a small tumor (C) that bulged out from tumor B. Germ-line APC analysis showed a C deletion at codon 1460 resulting in a stop codon. Two somatic mutations were observed in tumor A: a TCAA deletion at codon 1068 and a deletion of a codon at bp 1192-2097. In tumor B, a somatic mutation was found at codon 1041 changing CAA to TAA. We could not detect any somatic mutations in tumor C. We conclude that somatic mutation analysis of the APC gene can be used to identify whether a recurrent desmoid tumor in a patient with FAP is a new primary tumor or a recurrence from microscopic remnants of the original tumor.
We investigated the possible renal protective effects of KW-3902 (8-(noradamantan-3-yl)-1,3-dipropylxanthine), a selective and potent adenosine A1-receptor antagonist, against cephaloridine (CER)-induced acute renal failure (ARF) in rats. ARF was induced by intravenous injection of CER at a dose of 600 mg/kg body weight. KW-3902 at doses higher than 0.01 mg/kg (p.o.) dose-dependently attenuated the decrease of creatinine clearance and the increase of proteinuria in rats with CER-induced ARF. In contrast, furosemide and trichlormethiazide (TCM) increased urinary protein and aggravated the serum parameters. These results suggest that KW-3902 has some advantages over furosemide and TCM when used in combination with CER. In the diuretic study in the rats with established ARF induced by CER, KW-3902, furosemide and TCM caused a significant increase in sodium excretion, whereas acetazolamide was ineffective. These results suggest that the proximal tubule is functionally damaged in rats with CER-induced ARF, in accord with the histological observation demonstrating the degeneration of the proximal tubule. From the fact that KW-3902 induces diuretic action even in CER-induced ARF, it is suggested that KW-3902 acts, directly or indirectly, on the proximal tubule or other tubular sites in the kidney, resulting in the diuretic effect.
Monoacylglycerol lipase (MGL) and fatty-acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) degrade the endocannabinoids 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) and anandamide (AEA), respectively. Pharmacological inhibition of these enzymes in the periphery may elucidate the role of endocannabinoids in controlling nociceptive transmission. We compared effects of the MGL inhibitor JZL184, the FAAH inhibitor URB597, and the endocannabinoid uptake inhibitor VDM11, administered locally in the paw, on behavioral hypersensitivities produced by capsaicin, the pungent ingredient in hot chili peppers. Intradermal capsaicin (10 microg i.pl.) produced nocifensive behavior, thermal hyperalgesia, and mechanical allodynia in rats. JZL184 (100 microg i.pl.) suppressed capsaicin-induced nocifensive behavior and thermal hyperalgesia without altering capsaicin-evoked mechanical allodynia. Effects of JZL184 were blocked by either the CB(1) antagonist AM251 (80 microg i.pl.) or the CB(2) antagonist AM630 (25 microg i.pl.). URB597 (75 microg i.pl.) suppressed capsaicin-induced mechanical allodynia without altering capsaicin-evoked thermal hyperalgesia or nocifensive behavior. Effects of URB597 were blocked by AM251 (80 microg i.pl.), but not by AM630 (25 microg i.pl.). VDM11 (100 microg i.pl.) suppressed capsaicin-evoked hypersensitivity for all three dependent measures (nocifensive behavior, thermal hyperalgesia, and mechanical allodynia), suggesting an additive effect following putative elevation of both AEA and 2-AG. The VDM11-induced suppression of capsaicin-evoked nocifensive behavior and thermal hyperalgesia was blocked by either AM251 (80 microg i.pl.) or AM630 (25 microg i.pl.), as observed with JZL184. The VDM11-induced suppression of capsaicin-evoked mechanical allodynia was blocked by AM251 (25 microg i.pl.) only, as observed with URB597. Thus, peripheral inhibition of enzymes hydrolyzing 2-AG and AEA suppresses capsaicin-evoked behavioral sensitization with distinct patterns of pharmacological specificity and in a non-overlapping and modality-specific manner. Modulation of endocannabinoids in the periphery suppressed capsaicin-evoked nocifensive behavior and thermal hyperalgesia through either CB(1) or CB(2) receptor mechanisms but suppressed capsaicin-evoked mechanical allodynia through CB(1) mechanisms only. Inhibition of endocannabinoid transport was more effective in suppressing capsaicin-induced sensitization compared to inhibition of either FAAH or MGL alone. These studies are the first to unveil the effects of pharmacologically increasing peripheral endocannabinoid levels on capsaicin-induced behavioral hypersensitivities. Our data suggest that 2-AG, the putative product of MGL inhibition, and AEA, the putative product of FAAH inhibition, differentially suppress capsaicin-induced nociception through peripheral cannabinoid mechanisms.
This retrospective study used a pharmaceutical company's global safety database to determine the reporting rate of hyponatremia and/or syndrome of inappropriate secretion of anti-diuretic hormone (SIADH) among vincristine-treated patients and to explore the possibility of at-risk population subgroups.
We searched the Eli Lilly and Company's computerized adverse event database for all reported cases of hyponatremia and/or SIADH as of 1 November 1999 that had been reported during the use of vincristine.
A total of 76 cases of hyponatremia and/or SIADH associated with vincristine use were identified. The overall reporting rate was estimated to be 1.3/100,000 treated patients. The average age of patients was 35.6 +/- 28.3 years, and 62% were males. Approximately 75% of the patients were receiving treatment for leukemia or lymphoma. Among the 39 reports that included information on race, the racial distribution was: 1 Black, 3 Caucasian, and 35 Asian.
Our data suggest that Asian patients may be at increased risk of hyponatremia and/or SIADH associated with vincristine use. Although the overall reported rate of SIADH associated with vincristine is very low, physicians caring for Asian oncology patients should be aware of this potential serious but reversible adverse event.
A survey of 763 patients with rheumatoid arthritis and 145 with osteoarthritis in six clinics in New Zealand showed no association between aspirin intake and a score designed to detect analgesic nephropathy. Analgesic nephropathy was diagnosed clinically in three patients taking APC (aspirin, phenacetin, and caffeine or codeine or both) and in one who took aspirin and phenylbutazone and was suspected in one who took aspirin and paracetamol. Isolated aspirin was not implicated. The study showed that most people can take large quantities of salicylates without renal injury.The findings are, however, consistent with the view that there is a risk from APC compounds taken in large quantity, but the numbers at risk in this study were small. Aspirin may have an additive effect with other analgesics in causing renal damage. An increased frequency of urinary tract symptoms in those taking analgesics requires further investigation.
Seventeen healthy rabbits were given doxorubicin, 0.1-1.6 mg kg-1, or epirubicin, 0.4-1.6 mg kg-1, through a catheter into the right pleural space. Sacrifice and autopsy one week later showed a local inflammatory reaction with, in some animals, sparse adhesion forming between parietal and visceral pleura. There was a clearly dose-dependent production of thin, straw-coloured exudate. Nineteen healthy rabbits were given intrapleural doxorubicin or epirubicin, 0.2, 0.4 or 0.8 mg kg-1. Autopsy on spontaneously dead (n = 3) or sacrificed animals after six weeks gave clear indications of congestive heart failure after the two higher doses. There were also fibrous adhesions and/or tissue necrosis engaging the pleura, diaphragm and lung. It was concluded that doxorubicin and epirubicin are 40 to 100-fold more cardiotoxic in rabbits when given by the intrapleural route than when given by the intravenous route. The implications are two-fold: 1. doxorubicin or epirubicin should not be given intrapleurally to patients, 2. a new model for drug-induced congestive heart failure has been created, which has the advantage of requiring very small quantities of drug.
Tracheal intubation during sevoflurane induction is frequently facilitated with i.v. propofol. We designed a dose-response study to evaluate the intubating conditions, and the incidence and duration of apnea after i.v. propofol in children.
Sixty healthy children were randomly assigned to 0, 0.5, 1, 2 or 3 mg x kg(-1) i.v. propofol during sevoflurane/nitrous oxide anesthesia. Tracheal intubation was performed approximately 30 s after propofol by an anesthesiologist who was blind to the treatment. The anesthesiologist assessed the responses to laryngoscopy and intubation using a standardized scale. Incidence and duration of apnea after propofol as well as heart rate, and systolic blood pressure before and after laryngoscopy were recorded. Data were analyzed using one-way and repeated measures ANOVA, the Jonckheere-Terpstra test, and logistic regression, with P < 0.05 accepted.
The laryngoscopy score after 3 mg x kg(-1) propofol was less than that after 0 mg x kg(-1) (P < 0.01) and 0.5 mg x kg(-1) (P < 0.05). Incidence of apnea after propofol 3 mg x kg(-1), 8/10, was greater than after 0 mg x kg(-1), 3/14 (P < 0.011) and 0.5 mg x kg(-1), 3/12 (P < 0.03). Duration of apnea after 3 mg x kg(-1) was greater than after 0 and 0.5 mg x kg(-1) (P < 0.01). The risk of apnea increased 1.83 fold for each 1 mg x kg(-1) dose increase in propofol (P < 0.01). Mean heart rate and systolic pressure decreased with the main effect, time.
During sevoflurane/nitrous oxide anesthesia, propofol 3 mg x kg(-1) provides superior intubating conditions with an increased incidence of and prolonged apnea compared with 0 and 0.5 mg x kg(-1).
