The involvement of tumor promotion in the hepatocarcinogenic action of peroxisome proliferators has not been generally accepted. We studied the effect of nafenopin (NAF) as a model compound in a two-stage initiation-promotion protocol. Carcinogenesis was initiated by a single dose of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) in female (AFB1, 5 mg/kg) and male (AFB1, 2 mg/kg) Wistar rats. After recovery NAF was fed via the diet, providing a daily dose of 100 mg/kg body weight. Phenobarbital (PB) (50 mg/kg body weight) was fed to female rats as a positive control. The following results were obtained. (a) At weeks 40, 55, 59, and 70, significantly more and larger liver tumors were present in AFB1-NAF-treated rats than in rats receiving either compound alone, and the effect of the combined treatment was clearly more than additive, in three independent experiments including both sexes. This suggests tumor promotion by NAF. Male rats responded more strongly than females. Similarly, PB enhanced the yield of liver tumors. Histologically, tumors were hepatocellular adenoma or carcinoma. In group AFB1-PB the majority consisted of eosinophilic and glycogenstoring cells. However, adenoma and carcinoma of groups AFB1-NAF and O-NAF consisted of weakly basophilic cells. (b) Phenotypically altered foci were evaluated in hematoxylin- and eosin-stained liver sections from the female rats. NAF treatment after AFB1 had little effect on number and size of eosinophilic-clear cell foci and decreased the number of trigroid foci. However, it led to a dramatic increase (20-fold after 70 weeks of NAF treatment) in number and size of foci of a special phenotype that was extremely rare after AFB1 alone and virtually absent in group AFB1-PB. Hepatocytes in these foci are characterized by weak diffuse basophilia and some eosinophilia, similar to the phenotype in adenoma and carcinoma, and by absence of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (GGT) expression. Based on these findings, we propose the hypothesis that NAF promotes the development of liver tumors via a mechanism involving amplification of a specific subtype of altered hepatic foci.
In a double-blind, placebo-controlled experiment that used midazolam, a benzodiazepine that creates temporary amnesia, we compared acquisition and retention of paired associates of different types. Some word pairs were studied before the injection of saline or midazolam, and two lists of word pairs were studied after the injection. Critical comparisons involved retention of pairs that were practiced on all three lists, pairs studied on only one list, and pairs that involved recombining cue and response terms from one list to the next, as a function of drug condition. Previous research with benzodiazepines had found retrograde facilitation for material acquired prior to injection, compared with the control condition. One explanation for this facilitation is that the anterograde amnesia produced by the benzodiazepine frees up the hippocampus to better consolidate previously learned material (Wixted, 2004, 2005). We accounted for a rich data set using a simple computational model that incorporated interference effects (cue overload) at retrieval for both general (experimental context) interference and specific (stimulus term) interference without the need to postulate a role for consolidation. The computational model as an Excel spreadsheet may be downloaded from www.psychonomic.org/archive.
A case of fulminant hepatitis in a patient taking lisinopril for 5 weeks for arterial hypertension is reported. Jaundice, fever, myalgia, and marked increase in serum aminotransferase activities occurred after 2 weeks of treatment. Continuation of lisinopril administration for 3 weeks after the onset of jaundice was associated with the development of grade III encephalopathy and a marked decrease in prothrombin and proaccelerin levels. This case strongly suggests that lisinopril may induce acute hepatitis and that continuation of the treatment after the onset of jaundice can lead to life-threatening hepatic failure.
Oxidative/nitrosative stress and generation of proinflammatory cytokines are hallmarks of inflammation. Because chronic inflammation is implicated in several pathologic conditions in humans, including cancers of the colon, anti-inflammatory compounds may be useful chemopreventive agents against colon cancer. Stilbenes, such as resveratrol, have diverse pharmacologic activities, which include anti-inflammation, cancer prevention, a cholesterol-lowering effect, enhanced insulin sensitivity, and increased life span. We previously showed that pterostilbene (trans-3,5-dimethoxy-4'-hydroxystilbene), a structural analogue of resveratrol, is present in blueberries and that pterostilbene inhibited expression of certain inflammation-related genes in the colon and suppressed aberrant crypt foci formation in rats. Here, we examined molecular mechanisms of the action of pterostilbene in colon cancer. Pterostilbene reduced cell proliferation, down-regulated the expression of c-Myc and cyclin D1, and increased the level of cleaved poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase. A combination of cytokines (tumor necrosis factor-alpha, IFN-gamma, and bacterial endotoxin lipopolysaccharide) induced inflammation-related genes such as inducible nitric oxide synthase and cyclooxygenase-2, which was significantly suppressed by treatment with pterostilbene. We further identified upstream signaling pathways contributing to the anti-inflammatory activity of pterostilbene by investigating multiple signaling pathways, including nuclear factor-kappaB, Janus-activated kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription, extracellular signal-regulated kinase, p38, c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase, and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase. Cytokine induction of the p38-activating transcription factor 2 pathway was markedly inhibited by pterostilbene among the different mediators of signaling evaluated. By silencing the expression of the p38 alpha isoform, there was significant reduction in cytokine induction of inducible nitric oxide synthase and cyclooxygenase-2. Our data suggest that the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade is a key signal transduction pathway for eliciting the anti-inflammatory action of pterostilbene in cultured HT-29 colon cancer cells.
Intraperitoneal injection of pilocarpine (380 mg/kg) produces motor limbic seizures in rats. Focal injection into the prepiriform cortex (PC) of an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, 2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid (APH), 1-10 pmol, potently protects against these seizures and their pathological consequences. Sites similarly sensitive to the protective action of APH are found along a substantial part of the anterior-posterior extension of the piriform cortex. More caudal injection sites, located at the level of lateral septum are less sensitive. The anticonvulsant action of APH along the extent of the PC is localised in the vicinity of the injection site, as shown by autoradiography following focal injection of tritiated APH.
A patient suffering from a cocaine-induced myocardial infarction was treated with thrombolytic therapy and developed acute bilateral compartment syndromes of the upper extremities and hands from bleeding due to attempted bilateral radial artery cannulation. He was treated with emergent decompression of the forearm compartments and intrinsic muscles of the hands and recovered excellent hand function without significant neurologic or muscular damage. The problems encountered in the management of this case are detailed, and recommendations for prevention and therapy are discussed.
To compare the mechanism of action of raloxifene and gosereline induced shrinkage of leiomyomas via estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, bcl-2 and p53 expression immunohistochemically.
Thirty-two premenopausal women affected by uterine leiomyomas were randomized into two equal groups. Group A was treated with gosereline (3.6 mg subcutaneous injection monthly) and group B was treated with raloxifene (60 mg daily per os) for 3 months before undergoing surgery. At entry and at the end of the treatment the leiomyoma volume was measured ultrasonografically and the volume change was calculated. Immunohistochemical detection of estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), bcl-2 and p53 were performed on leiomyoma tissue samples from group A, group B and the matched-control group. H-scores for ER, PR, bcl-2 and p53 were calculated. The mean volume changes of leiomyomas and immunohistochemical H-score differences of ER, PR, bcl-2 and p53 were compared between groups.
The leiomyoma volume decreased significantly after treatment in gosereline group from baseline of 65 cm(3) to 35 cm(3), and in raloxifene group from 68 cm(3) to 50 cm(3), p<0.05. The difference between the before and after treatment leiomyoma volumes between the two treatments was not statistically significant. H-score of ER expression was significantly lower in gosereline group compared to control group (54.4 versus 113.2, p = 0.001), whereas H-score of PR expression was significantly lower with both gosereline and raloxifene groups compared to control group (64.8 for gosereline versus 94.6 for control, 73.6 for raloxifene versus 94.6 for control, p = 0.001). The bcl-2 expression was higher in both gosereline and raloxifene groups compared to control group (173.7 for gosereline versus 94.7 for control, 179.7 for raloxifene versus 94.7 for control, p = 0.001). The p53 expression was only lower with gosereline than the control group (169.4 versus 205.6, p = 0.001), whereas there was no significant change between the raloxifene group and the control group (201.9 versus 205.6) (p>0.05).
Raloxifene was as effective as gosereline in reducing leiomyoma volumes. Decreased PR expression may be a mechanism for tumor growth reduction in raloxifene treatment. In both treatment modalities, the mechanism of shrinkage of leiomyomas could not be increased apoptosis mediated by bcl-2 and p53 expression and should be investigated by further studies.
Both succinylcholine and seizures cause muscular injury during electroconvulsive therapy. We compared the muscular damage in two groups of patients. The psychiatric patient group received succinylcholine for electroconvulsive therapy. The surgical patient group received succinylcholine for endotracheal intubation. Serum myoglobin was measured as a marker for muscular injury and myalgic symptoms were also recorded. Serum myoglobin increased from baseline in both groups at 5 and 20 min. The surgical patients, however, had a higher myoglobin level than the psychiatric patients at 5 and 20 min after the administration of succinylcholine (P < 0.001). The median (range) of myoglobin concentration at 20 min in psychiatric patients was 32.6 (23.1-60.1) ng/mL, compared with 61.2 (31.6-1687.0) ng/mL in surgical patients. The incidence of myalgia was not different between the two groups. In conclusion, we unexpectedly conclude that the psychiatric patients who received electroconvulsive therapy had less effect of muscular damage associated with succinylcholine than the surgical patients did.
Both succinylcholine and electroconvulsive therapy cause muscular injury. However, we unexpectedly found that psychiatric patients who received succinylcholine and electroconvulsive therapy had less muscular damage than surgical patients who received succinylcholine for intubation. Therefore, appropriate use of succinylcholine can attenuate the muscular damaging effect from the therapy.
Testosterone is thought to play a role in the pathogenesis of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), but the mechanism is unclear. We present a case in which testosterone administration induced or exacerbated OSA in a 13-year-old male. We demonstrated that exacerbation of OSA by testosterone was associated with an increase in upper airway collapsibility during sleep, and that this improved after cessation of hormone administration. Our data strongly suggest that the mechanism by which testosterone administration may induce or exacerbate OSA is through an influence on neuromuscular control of upper airway patency during sleep.
We studied changes in the concentrations of serotonin (5-HT), kynurenine, and other indoleamines in the cerebrospinal fluid of patients with Alzheimer type dementia (ATD) and those with Binswanger type vascular dementia (VDBT), and changes in these indoleamine concentrations 2 weeks after administration of citalopram, a 5-HT uptake inhibitor. The concentrations of total 5-HT (p < 0.005) and kynurenine (p < 0.005) were significantly decreased in ATD patients in comparison to those of the controls. After citalopram administration, there was a remarkable increase in 5-HT concentration (249%, p < 0.0001) and a significant decrease in 5-HIAA concentration (22%, p < 0.02). In the VDBT patients, only 5-HT showed a significant decrease (p < 0.005) in comparison to the control values. It also increased significantly (214%) after citalopram administration. The 5-HT/tryptophan and kynurenine/tryptophan ratios were not correlated for the controls, but did significantly for the ATD and VDBT patients; after citalopram treatment, the increase in 5-HT/tryptophan was correlated significantly with that of kynurenine/tryptophan for ATD, but not for VDBT. These results suggest that both the serotonin and kynurenine pathways are impaired in ATD; whereas, the serotonin pathway alone is in VDBT, and that these impairments are ameliorated by the administration of citalopram.
This report suggests modest changes in the criteria used for the diagnosis of ET and allows tentative recommendations concerning therapy. As outlined in Table I, we believe that absent stainable marrow iron does not necessarily indicate iron deficiency in these patients and that the serum ferritin and RBC mean corpuscular volume should be incorporated in this assessment. Normal values speak strongly against iron-deficient erythropoiesis. A search for the bcr/abl gene rearrangement should be included with the marrow karyotype to exclude CML. Finally, cytogenetic data and morphologic study of the marrow should be used to be certain that a MDS should not be considered. It may be that measurements of serum thrombopoietin levels may be useful in the future. Nonetheless, in principle, ET remains a diagnosis of exclusion as we have originally suggested. For therapy, HU remains an excellent choice for the older patient at risk for thrombosis. Nonetheless, no myelosuppressive therapy remains a perfectly viable option, particularly for the young patient and the older with low thrombotic risk. The roles of anagrelide and alpha interferon in this setting have not been fully defined. Experience with both has still been relatively short. It would be ideal if prospective, randomized trials could be mounted to address these questions. We conclude with confidence that return to older approaches such as 32P and AA in patients who fail on HU is to be discouraged. The use of anagrelide or interferon alfa seems to be a much more appropriate approach. We have not investigated the role of antithrombotic agents such as aspirin in ET. In PV, the combination of aspirin, 300 mg three times daily, and dipyridamole, 75 mg three times daily, failed to reduce the rate of thrombosis and was associated with an increased rate of hemorrhage. It is rational to suggest that lower doses of aspirin (ie, < 325 mg daily) might be associated with less hemorrhage and, perhaps, a beneficial effect on thrombosis. This remains to be shown.
A 36-yr-old woman with primary biliary cirrhosis developed a Goodpasture's-like syndrome while on D-penicillamine treatment. She responded dramatically to plasmapheresis and immunosuppressive agents. Her illness was felt to be induced by D-penicillamine. This case illustrates the potential toxicity of D-penicillamine in primary biliary cirrhosis. We suggest that this drug be used only in controlled trials until efficacy is demonstrated.
Twenty-three male patients with herpes simplex virus type 2 blisters on the prepuce, glans penis, and penile shaft were divided into 2 groups. Ten patients served as controls, and thirteen patients were treated with ultrasound (1 W/cm2 for 60 sec) and Herpigon on 3 consecutive days. Results showed a negative virus culture after 3 days of treatment and significant reduction of the recurrent infection in the treated group while the control group experienced recurrent infection within 62--80 days. This method offers a new therapeutic treatment for genital herpes simplex virus.
Contrast-induced nephropathy is common in patients with coronary angiography. Mechanistically, forced euvolemic diuresis with mannitol and furosemide ought to prevent contrast-induced nephropathy. Our objectives are to: (1) undertake a randomized trial testing this hypothesis, and (2) conduct a meta-analysis of our findings with 2 earlier studies.
(1) Randomized allocation-concealed controlled trial with blinded ascertainment of outcomes, and (2) random-effects meta-analysis of 3 trials.
Single-center study of consenting adults with serum creatinine level greater than 1.7 mg/dL undergoing coronary angiography; patients unable to tolerate fluid challenge or receiving dialysis were excluded. Two previous trials had randomly assigned 159 patients.
Forced euvolemic diuresis with saline, mannitol, and furosemide compared with saline hydration controls. All patients were pretreated with at least 500 mL of half-normal saline before angiography; during and 8 hours after, urine output was replaced milliliter per milliliter with half-normal saline.
The primary outcome was contrast-induced nephropathy within 48 hours of the procedure, defined as a 0.5-mg/dL absolute or 25% relative increase in creatinine level.
Overall, 92 patients were allocated to intervention (n = 46) or control (n = 46). Mean age was 64 +/- 14 (SD) years, 23% were women, 37% had diabetes, 47% used oral furosemide, mean creatinine level was 2.8 +/- 1.6 mg/dL, and most patients (72%) underwent diagnostic catheterization. Patients had a net positive fluid balance (389 +/- 958 mL for intervention versus 655 +/- 982 mL for controls; P = 0.2). Contrast-induced nephropathy occurred in 23 (50%) intervention patients versus 13 (28%) controls (relative risk, 1.77; 95% confidence interval, 1.03 to 3.05; P = 0.03; adjusted odds ratio, 3.73; P = 0.03). Within 48 hours, creatinine level had increased by 0.8 +/- 1.1 mg/dL with intervention versus 0.2 +/- 0.6 mg/dL for controls (P = 0.002). Overall, 11 (12%) patients died or required dialysis, with no difference according to allocation status (P = 0.5). Random-effects meta-analysis of published data (3 trials; 251 patients) suggests furosemide-based interventions lead to significant harm compared with hydration: pooled relative risk, 2.15; 95% confidence interval, 1.37 to 3.37; I(2) = 0%.
Small single-center study that cannot determine whether harms were related to furosemide, mannitol, or a combination.
Forced euvolemic diuresis led to a significantly increased risk of contrast-induced nephropathy. This strategy should be abandoned, and our results suggest that oral furosemide therapy perhaps should be held before angiography.
Pulsed carbon dioxide (CO2) laser debridement is now being used as therapy for photodamaged skin. It has been proposed that the long duration of erythema and a tissue scaffold, which results from tightening of the collagen helix induced by the laser heat, may lead to tightening of sagging skin and skin creases of lesser magnitude.
Weanling pigs exposed to mild and moderate erythema producing doses of sulfur mustard (bis-2-chloroethyl sulfide; HD) were treated with the CO2 laser (Tru-Pulse) at 6, 24, and 48 hours after exposure. In addition to histologic examination of laser-debrided and nondebrided biopsy specimens obtained at 14 days after exposure, immunohistochemical staining with antibodies to smooth muscle actin, Factor XIIIa, vimentin, and CD3 was performed.
CO2 laser debridement of the HD-exposed skin resulted in clearing of the cytologic atypia induced by this chemical carcinogen and reduced the inflammatory infiltrate. In addition laser debridement resulted in increased numbers of stromal cells within the papillary dermis, which showed immunohistochemical staining for smooth muscle actin, Factor XIIIa, and vimentin.
CO2 laser debridement is effective in clearing the epidermis of cytologically damage cells in HD as well as solar-damaged skin. In addition CO2 laser debridement may result in tightening of sagging skin and produce a decrease in skin creases initially, by inducing increased stromal cells within the papillary dermis, with prominent contractile actin filaments. The collagen produced by these stromal cells may subsequently maintain these improvements in the photoaged skin.
A 25-year-old man died after an intravenous injection of 100 mg of methedrine. Postmortem studies showed visceral congestion, lung edema, pericardial petechiae, centrolobular necrosis of the liver, and diffuse subarachnoid blood, intracranial vasculitis and cerebritis in the absence of aneurysms, arteriovenous malformations or chronic hypertension. A review of the English-language literature produced 3 other cases of fatal amphetamine-induced intracranial hemorrhage and seven nonfatal cases. Some were the result of overdose, others of hypersensitivity. Angiographic evidence suggests that such hemorrhages result from the development of fibrinoid necrosis and the formation of microaneurysms in the small intracerebral vessels.
One possible side effect of selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors (SSRI) is the exacerbation of nervous tics in a 12-year-old boy treated with tiapride following prescription of paroxetine for a depressive syndrome. Potential causal factors include residual cholinergic activity of paroxetine, the observably increased drive under paroxetine, metabolic properties, and protein binding. The problem of side effects under selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors, as well as the issues of co-morbidity and co-medication in the treatment of nervous tics and Tourette's Syndrome are discussed.
The ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloprotease) family is a group of transmembrane proteins containing cell adhesive and proteolytic functional domains. Microarray analysis detected elevated ADAM9 during the transition of human LNCaP prostate cancer cells from an androgen-dependent to an androgen-independent and metastatic state. Using a prostate tissue array (N = 200), the levels of ADAM9 protein expression were also elevated in malignant as compared with benign prostate tissues. ADAM9 protein expression was found in 43% of benign glands with light staining and 87% of malignant glands with increasing intensity of staining. We found that ADAM9 mRNA and protein expressions were elevated on exposure of human prostate cancer cells to stress conditions such as cell crowding, hypoxia, and hydrogen peroxide. We uncovered an ADAM9-like protein, which is predominantly induced together with the ADAM9 protein by a brief exposure of prostate cancer cells to hydrogen peroxide. Induction of ADAM9 protein in LNCaP or C4-2 cells can be completely abrogated by the administration of an antioxidant, ebselen, or genetic transfer of a hydrogen peroxide degradative enzyme, catalase, suggesting that reactive oxygen species (ROS) are a common mediator. The induction of ADAM9 by stress can be inhibited by both actinomycin D and cycloheximide through increased gene transcription and protein synthesis. In conclusion, intracellular ROS and/or hydrogen peroxide, generated by cell stress, regulate ADAM9 expression. ADAM9 could be responsible for supporting prostate cancer cell survival and progression. By decreasing ADAM9 expression, we observed apoptotic cell death in prostate cancer cells.
The diazepam withdrawal syndrome was studied in 10 patients who had abused the drug for 3 to 14 years. In the previous 6 months their consumption of diazepam had ranged from 60 to 120 mg daily; none had used other drugs during this period. The withdrawal period lasted about 6 weeks. The intensity of the symptoms and signs was high initially, fell during the first 2 weeks, then rose again in the third week, before finally declining. Three groups of symptoms and signs were identified. Group A symptoms occurred throughout withdrawal and included tremor, anorexia, insomnia and myoclonus. Group B symptoms and signs were largely confined to the first 10 days and were those of a toxic psychosis. Group C symptoms reached a peak in the third and fourth weeks of withdrawal and were characterized by sense perceptions that were either heightened or lowered. The symptom groups, the presence of tremor and myoclonus, and the relief of symptoms by a test dose permit diazepam withdrawal to be distinguished from anxiety. The biphasic course of the symptoms is probably related to the pharmacokinetics of diazepam.
To evaluate and compare the efficacy of various pretreatment agents to attenuate or prevent opioid-induced muscle rigidity using a well-established, previously described clinical protocol.
Prospective, controlled, single-blind, partially randomized study.
Large medical center.
ASA physical status I-III patients undergoing elective surgical procedures of at least 3 hours' duration.
The effect of pretreatment with nondepolarizing muscle relaxants (atracurium 40 micrograms/kg or metocurine 50 micrograms/kg), benzodiazepine agonists (diazepam 5 mg or midazolam 2.5 mg), or thiopental sodium 1 mg/kg on the increased muscle tone produced by alfentanil 175 micrograms/kg was compared with a control group (given no pretreatment).
Rigidity was assessed quantitatively by measuring the electromyographic activity of five muscle groups (biceps, intercostals, abdominals, quadriceps, and gastrocnemius). Rigidity also was rated qualitatively by attempts to initiate and maintain mask ventilation, attempts to flex an extremity, and the occurrence of myoclonic movements. Pretreatment with the two nondepolarizing muscle relaxants had no effect on the severe muscle rigidity produced by high-dose alfentanil. Whereas thiopental was only mildly effective, the benzodiazepines midazolam and diazepam significantly attenuated alfentanil rigidity (p < 0.05).
This study suggests that benzodiazepine pretreatment is frequently, but not always, effective in preventing opioid-induced muscle rigidity.
Several clinical trials in human neoplasms have demonstrated the effectiveness of combination therapy with 5-fluorouracil (FUra), cisplatin (CDDP), and leucovorin (LV). Thymidylate synthase (TS), the target enzyme of FUra, and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD), the rate-limiting catabolic enzyme of pyrimidines, have both been reported to be predictors of the response to FUra-based chemotherapies. Therefore, we aimed to clarify the effects of a combination of the three drugs against hepatoma cells and to determine the role of these two enzymes using in vitro models.
Five human hepatoma cell lines (Hep3B, HepG2, HuH7, PLC/PRF/5 and Chang) were used. Cytotoxicity was determined after exposure to various concentrations and combinations of antitumor agents. The combination effects of FUra and CDDP in terms of synergy, additivity or antagonism were evaluated by median effect analysis. The mRNA levels of TS and DPD were measured by quantitative real-time PCR. Expression of TS and DPD proteins was also investigated.
LV alone did not show any cytotoxicity, although it enhanced the cytotoxicity of FUra, but not that of CDDP. Synergistic enhancement was observed with the combination of FUra and CDDP against all cells. The median combination index at fraction 0.5 was 0.554 (range 0.273-0.616). All cells expressed TS and DPD with median relative quantities of mRNA normalized to that of HuH7 cells of 1.04 (range 1.00-1.32) and 1.18 (range 0.88-1.55), respectively. A strong correlation was found between the IC(50) of FUra and the mRNA level of DPD (r=0.912, P=0.0295).
LV and CDDP enhanced the cytotoxicity of FUra, which provided a rationale for the regimen combining the three drugs for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma. DPD plays an important role in the sensitivity to FUra, and the DPD mRNA expression level may be used to predict the response to FUra-based chemotherapy for HCC.
Blood lead concentrations have been associated with increased risk of cardiovascular, cancer, and all-cause mortality in adults in general population and occupational cohorts. We aimed to determine the association between blood lead, all cause and cause specific mortality in elderly, community residing women.
Prospective cohort study of 533 women aged 65-87 years enrolled in the Study of Osteoporotic Fractures at 2 US research centers (Baltimore, MD; Monongahela Valley, PA) from 1986-1988. Blood lead concentrations were determined by atomic absorption spectrometry. Using blood lead concentration categorized as < 8 microg/dL (0.384 micromol/L), and > or = 8 microg/dL (0.384 micromol/L), we determined the relative risk of mortality from all cause, and cause-specific mortality, through Cox proportional hazards regression analysis.
Mean blood lead concentration was 5.3 +/- 2.3 microg/dL (range 1-21) [0.25 +/- 0.11 micromol/L (range 0.05-1.008)]. After 12.0 +/- 3 years of > 95% complete follow-up, 123 (23%) women who died had slightly higher mean (+/- SD) blood lead 5.56 (+/- 3) microg/dL [0.27(+/- 0.14) micromol/L] than survivors: 5.17(+/- 2.0) [0.25(+/- 0.1) micromol/L] (p = 0.09). Women with blood lead concentrations > or = 8 microg/dL (0.384 micromol/L), had 59% increased risk of multivariate adjusted all cause mortality (Hazard Ratio [HR], 1.59; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.02-2.49) (p = 0.041) especially coronary heart disease (CHD) mortality (HR = 3.08 [CI], (1.23-7.70)(p = 0.016), compared to women with blood lead concentrations < 8 microg/dL(< 0.384 mumol/L). There was no association of blood lead with stroke, cancer, or non cardiovascular deaths.
Women with blood lead concentrations of > or = 8 microg/dL (0.384 micromol/L), experienced increased mortality, in particular from CHD as compared to those with lower blood lead concentrations.
The principal limiting feature of the antitumor agent, vincristine, in the clinic has been neurotoxicity; there are no known agents which can routinely prevent or decrease this side effect. Glutamic acid in laboratory and clinical investigations in the early 1960s was found to antagonize vinblastine, another clinically useful vinca alkaloid. Glutamic acid 250 mg/kg/d i.p. was given to normal mice treated with repetitive doses of vincristine 1.5 mg/kg every other day. When glutamic acid was given both before and during vincristine administration, it produced a 49-79% increase in survival compared to control mice receiving vincristine only (p less than 0.01). Other schedules of glutamic acid administration were ineffective. Also, there appeared to be a delay in development of neurotoxic manifestations (toe-walking gait) but the results were not as consistent as the improvement in survival. Glutamic acid given to tumor-bearing mice (P-388 and P-1534 murine leukemia) did not inhibit the antitumor effect of vincristine-induced host toxicity in a schedule-dependent fashion without inhibition of the antitumor effect of vincristine.
Interruption of long-term treatment with alpha 2-adrenergic receptor agonists may be associated with reversal of their hemodynamic effects, clinical and biochemical evidence of increased peripheral sympathetic activity, and behavioral responses similar to those seen after narcotic or alcohol withdrawal. Reactions are most commonly observed after short-acting imidazoline drugs such as clonidine and tiamenidine. Reactions are less common after longer acting agents such as guanfacine. A new management approach to withdrawal has been evaluated, which uses a combination of alpha 1-blockade (prazosin) and cardioselective beta-blockade (atenolol) together with a benzodiazepine (chlordiazepoxide). Withdrawal reactions were not observed in eight patients in whom clonidine was withdrawn under cover of these agents. The mechanism of the withdrawal reaction may involve agonist-induced down regulation of alpha 2-adrenergic receptor affinity, number, or both. Experimental studies with the irreversible alpha-antagonist phenoxybenzamine on the turnover of alpha 2-receptors suggest that recovery of receptor number may be much slower in the brain than in the periphery.
Dysregulated cell proliferation and tumorigenesis is frequently encountered in several cancers including hepatocellular carcinogenesis (HCC). Thus, agents that inhibit cell proliferation and restrain hepatic tumorigenesis through cell cycle regulation have a beneficial effect in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinogenesis. The present study was aimed to investigate the efficacy of thymoquinone (TQ), an active compound derived from the medicinal plant Nigella sativa, on N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA) [0.01% in drinking water for 16 weeks]-induced hepatocarcinogenesis in experimental rats. After experimental period, the hepatic nodules, liver injury markers and tumor markers levels were substantially increased in NDEA induced liver tumors in rats. However, TQ (20mg/kg body weight) treatment greatly reduced liver injury markers and decreased tumor markers and prevented hepatic nodule formation and reduced tumor multiplicity in NDEA induced hepatic cancer bearing rats and this was evident from argyrophilic nucleolar organizer region (AgNORs) staining. Moreover, the uncontrolled cell proliferation was assessed by specific cell proliferative markers [proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and Ki67] by immunofluorescence, immunoblot and analysis of mRNA expression. Simultaneously, we assessed the activity of TQ on G1/S phase cell cycle regulation with specific cell cycle proteins (p21(WAF1/CIP1), CDK4, Cyclin D1 and Cyclin E) by immunoprecipitation in experimental rats. Treatment with TQ significantly reduced the detrimental alterations by abrogating cell proliferation, which strongly induced G1/S arrest in cell cycle transition. In conclusion, our results suggest that TQ has a potent anti proliferative activity by regulating the G1/S phase cell cycle transition and exhibit a beneficial role in the treatment of HCC.
A 74-year-old woman developed weakness, lack of appetite and abdominal swelling 7 months after starting treatment with carbimazole (10 mg/d for 10 weeks) and, subsequently, radioiodine for hyperthyroidism. Physical examination revealed generalized oedema and ascites. Computed tomography showed a liver of normal size but infiltrated by nodules up to 4 cm in diameter. Erythrocyte sedimentation rate was raised and there were abnormal concentrations of haemoglobin, total proteins, liver enzymes and creatinine, as well as decreased platelet and white cell counts. Thyroid function was normal. Viral and autoimmune diseases were largely excluded. Liver biopsy showed a severe, highly active hepatitis with parenchymal necroses, large-drop fatty infiltration and intralobular granuloma-like inflammatory reactions, as well as lympho-histiocytic inflammation of the portal areas. The most likely cause was the carbimazole treatment. In addition to symptomatic treatment she received prednisone (1 mg/kg), because an allergic diathesis could not be excluded. But she died of hepatic failure 6 weeks after admission.
Three studies were undertaken to reevaluate whether there is a peripheral component in the reduction of sympathetic activity caused by centrally acting drugs; and whether the antihypertensive effect of these drugs is due entirely to this reduction. Plasma growth hormone and norepinephrine concentrations were used as respective markers of central alpha-adrenoceptor stimulation and peripheral sympathetic activity. In six normal volunteers, intravenous infusion of 0.2 mg clonidine and 2 mg guanfacine was compared. The falls in systolic blood pressure and plasma norepinephrine concentration were slightly greater after clonidine (18 mm Hg and 0.22 ng/ml) than after guanfacine (12 mm Hg and 0.13 ng/ml) administration. These falls occurred earlier than the rise in growth hormone, which rose to a maximum of 23 and 20 IU/ml respectively at 45 minutes after dosing. In six patients with essential hypertension clonidine and alpha-methyldopa caused similar falls in blood pressure and plasma norepinephrine concentration although these changes occurred later with alpha-methyldopa. Plasma growth hormone levels remained undetectable in most patients. In Wistar rats the effect of central and peripheral alpha 2-blockade on clonidine-induced changes was compared. Two groups of six rats received intravenous RX 781094, 0.3 mg/kg, or vehicle 10 minutes before receiving clonidine, 5 micrograms/kg i.v. In the latter, control group, clonidine reduced mean blood pressure by 30.7 +/- 1.9 mm Hg and heart rate by 46 +/- 6.7 beats/min. Plasma norepinephrine fell from 0.22 +/- 0.023 ng/ml to 0.116 +/- 0.013 ng/ml. After pretreatment with RX 781094, blood pressure did not change and heart rate fell by 18 +/- 2.7 beats/min.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
