Although lipid peroxidation in the subendothelial space has been hypothesized to play a central role in atherogenesis, the role of vitamin E in preventing lipid peroxidation and lesion development remains uncertain. Here we show that in atherosclerosis-susceptible apolipoprotein E knockout mice, vitamin E deficiency caused by disruption of the alpha-tocopherol transfer protein gene (Ttpa) increased the severity of atherosclerotic lesions in the proximal aorta. The increase was associated with increased levels of isoprostanes, a marker of lipid peroxidation, in aortic tissue. These results show that vitamin E deficiency promotes atherosclerosis in a susceptible setting and support the hypothesis that lipid peroxidation contributes to lesion development. Ttpa(-/-) mice are a genetic model of vitamin E deficiency and should be valuable for studying other diseases in which oxidative stress is thought to play a role.
Antitumor activity, cardiotoxicity, and nephrotoxicity induced by doxorubicin were studied in LOU/M/WSL inbred rats each bearing a transplantable solid IgM immunocytoma. Animals with a tumor (diameter, 15.8 +/- 3.3 mm) were treated with iv injections of doxorubicin on 5 consecutive days, followed by 1 weekly injection for 7 weeks (dose range, 0.015-4.0 mg/kg body wt). Tumor regression was observed with 0.5 mg doxorubicin/kg. Complete disappearance of the tumor was induced with 1.0 mg doxorubicin/kg. Histologic evidence of cardiotoxicity scored as grade III was only observed at a dose of 1.0 mg doxorubicin/kg. Light microscopic evidence of renal damage was seen above a dose of 0.5 mg doxorubicin/kg, which resulted in albuminuria and very low serum albumin levels. In the group that received 1.0 mg doxorubicin/kg, the serum albumin level decreased from 33.6 +/- 4.1 to 1.5 +/- 0.5 g/liter. Ascites and hydrothorax were observed simultaneously. The same experiments were performed with non-tumor-bearing rats, in which no major differences were observed. In conclusion, antitumor activity, cardiotoxicity, and nephrotoxicity were studied simultaneously in the same LOU/M/WSL rat. Albuminuria due to renal damage led to extremely low serum albumin levels, so ascites and hydrothorax were not necessarily a consequence of the observed cardiomyopathy.
Combination therapy with adefovir dipivoxil (ADV) and lamivudine (LAM) is recommended for patients infected with LAM-refractory hepatitis B virus (HBV). However, the effects of such therapy on renal function and serum phosphorus levels have not been fully evaluated. Combination therapy with ADV and LAM was given to 37 patients infected with LAM-refractory HBV, including 17 with hepatic cirrhosis. Serum HBV DNA levels decreased to below 2.6 log(10) copies/mL in 23 (62%) of 37 patients at 12 months, 25 (78%) of 32 patients at 24 months, and 16 (84%) of 19 patients at 36 months. Except for one cirrhotic patient, serum alanine aminotransferase levels were below 50 IU/L in all patients during combination therapy. Serum creatinine levels increased in 14 (38%) of 37 patients, and serum phosphate levels decreased to below 2.5 mg/mL in 6 (16%) of 37 patients during combination therapy. Patients who received combination therapy for 36 months or longer had a significantly incidence of elevated serum creatinine levels. Fanconi syndrome occurred in a 57-year-old woman with cirrhosis after ADV was added to LAM. Combination therapy with ADV and LAM can maintain biochemical remission in patients with LAM-refractory HBV. However, the dosing interval of ADV should be adjusted according to renal function and serum phosphate levels in patients receiving long-term treatment.
Three typical folate metabolism enzymes-i.e. methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR), methionine synthase (MS) and MS reductase (MTRR) in the folate cycle-play a critical role in DNA synthesis and methylation reactions. We evaluated whether polymorphisms of these three enzymes are associated with non-obstructive male infertility.
Three hundred and sixty patients with non-obstructive infertility and 325 fertile men without any chromosomal abnormalities were included in this study. The single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) analysis was performed by pyrosequencing and PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis
The frequencies of MTHFR 677TT and MTRR 66GG genotypes were higher in non-obstructive infertile men compared with those in fertile men. By classifying 360 infertile patients into 174 azoospermia and 186 oligoasthenoteratozoospermia (OAT) subjects, the MTHFR 677TT and MS 2756GG types were significantly associated with the azoospermia group (P = 0.0227 and 0.0063, respectively). The frequency of MTRR 66GG was significant in the OAT group (P = 0.0014 versus fertile males).
By analysis of a large number of subjects and a more specific patient selection, we showed the first genetic evidence that MTHFR C677T, MS A2756G and MTRR A66G genotypes were independently associated with male infertility. Each SNP of the three enzymes may have a different impact on the folate cycle during spermatogenesis.
The plasma cholesteryl-ester transfer protein (CETP) catalyzes the transfer of cholesteryl esters from high-density lipoprotein (HDL) to other lipoproteins. We recently described a Japanese family with increased HDL levels and CETP deficiency due to a splicing defect of the CETP gene. To assess the frequency and phenotype of this condition, we screened 11 additional families with high HDL levels by means of a radioimmunoassay for CETP and DNA analysis.
We found the same CETP gene mutation in four families from three different regions of Japan. Analysis of restriction-fragment-length polymorphisms of the mutant CETP allele showed that all probands were homozygous for the identical haplotype. Family members homozygous for CETP deficiency (n = 10) had moderate hypercholesterolemia (mean total cholesterol level [+/- SD], 7.01 +/- 0.83 mmol per liter), markedly increased levels of HDL cholesterol (4.24 +/- 1.01 mmol per liter) and apolipoprotein A-I, and decreased levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (1.99 +/- 0.80 mmol per liter) and apolipoprotein B. Members heterozygous for the deficiency (n = 20), whose CETP levels were in the lower part of the normal range, had moderately increased levels of HDL cholesterol and apolipoprotein A-I and an increased ratio of HDL subclass 2 to HDL subclass 3, as compared with unaffected family members (1.5 +/- 0.8 vs. 0.7 +/- 0.4). CETP deficiency was not found in six unrelated subjects with elevated HDL cholesterol levels who were from different parts of the United States.
CETP deficiency appears to be a frequent cause of increased HDL levels in the population of Japan, possibly because of a founder effect. The results that we observed in heterozygotes suggest that CETP normally plays a part in the regulation of levels of HDL subclass 2. There was no evidence of premature atherosclerosis in the families with CETP deficiency. In fact, the lipoprotein profile of persons with CETP deficiency is potentially antiatherogenic and may be associated with an increased life span.
Glyburide, along with the other second-generation oral hypoglycemic agent glipizide, has been used as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. After glyburide therapy, basal glycemia and glucose response to a meal are greatly improved. The mechanism for the glucose-lowering effect of the drug remains controversial. Glyburide is generally thought to exert two major actions: stimulation of pancreatic insulin secretion and enhancement of insulin action in hepatic and extrahepatic tissues. Studies in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus indicate that the action of glyburide on the liver plays a central role in decreasing glucose. With short-term therapy, glyburide decreases hepatic glucose production by elevating pancreatic insulin secretion. However, this increase in pancreatic insulin secretion is not sustained as therapy is continued, suggesting that glyburide then acts directly on the liver. The mechanism for the improvement in hepatic glucose metabolism after long-term treatment is not known. In vitro, glyburide has been shown to inhibit gluconeogenesis as well as glycogenolysis and to enhance hepatic glucose uptake, thus providing possible explanations for the action of the drug on the liver.
Numerous studies on lead (Pb) neurotoxicity have indicated this metal to be a dangerous toxin, particularly during developmental stages of higher organisms. Astrocytes are responsible for sequestration of this metal in brain tissue. Activation of astroglia may often lead to loss of the buffering function and contribute to pathological processes. This phenomenon is accompanied by death of neuronal cells and may be connected with inflammatory events arising from the production of a wide range of cytokines and chemokines. The effects of prolonged exposure to Pb upon glial activation are examined in immature rats to investigate this potential proinflammatory effect. When analyzed at the protein level, glial activation is observed after Pb exposure, as reflected by the increased level of glial fibrillary acidic protein and S-100beta proteins in all parts of the brain examined. These changes are associated with elevation of proinflammatory cytokines. Production of interleukin (IL)-1beta and tumor necrosis factor-alpha is observed in hippocampus, and production of IL-6 is seen in forebrain. The expression of fractalkine is observed in both hippocampus and forebrain but inconsiderably in the cerebellum. In parallel with cytokine expression, signs of synaptic damage in hippocampus are seen after Pb exposure, as indicated by decreased levels of the axonal markers synapsin I and synaptophysin. Obtained results indicate chronic glial activation with coexisting inflammatory and neurodegenerative features as a new mechanism of Pb neurotoxicity in immature rat brain.
Gene expression changes in carp liver tissue were studied after acute (3 and 24h) and subchronic (7 and 28 days) exposure to a mixture of waterborne (9, 105 and 480 microg/l) and dietary (9.5, 122 and 144 microg/g) cadmium, using a custom-made microarray. Suppression subtractive hybridization-PCR (SSH-PCR) was applied to isolate a set of 643 liver genes, involved in multiple biological pathways, such as energy metabolism (e.g. glucokinase), immune response (e.g. complement C3) and stress and detoxification (e.g. cytochrome P450 2F2, glutathione-S-transferase pi). These genes were subsequently spotted on glass-slides for the construction of a custom-made microarray. Resulting microarray hybridizations indicated a highly dynamic response to cadmium exposure. At low exposure concentrations (9 microg/l through water and 9.5 microg/g dry weight through food) mostly energy-related genes (e.g. glucokinase, elastase) were influenced, while a general stress response was obvious through induction of several stress-related genes, including hemopexin and cytochrome P450 2F2, at high cadmium concentrations. In addition, fish exposed to the highest cadmium concentrations showed liver damage after 7 days of exposure, as measured by elevated alanine transaminase activity in plasma and increased liver water content (wet-to-dry weight ratio). Moreover, decreased hematocrit and growth were found at the end of the experiment. Altogether this study clearly demonstrated the importance of varying exposure conditions for the characterization of the molecular impact of cadmium and showed that microarray results can provide important information, required to unravel the molecular events and responses related to cadmium exposure.
2-Methoxyestradiol (2-ME) is an endogenous metabolite of estradiol with promise for cancer chemotherapy, including advanced prostate cancer. We have focused on events related to cell cycle arrest (G1 and G2/M) and induction of apoptosis in human prostate cancer cells. Treatment with 2-ME increased cyclin B1 protein and its associated kinase activity followed by later inhibition of cyclin A-dependent kinase activity and induction of apoptosis. Similar results were obtained with paclitaxel (taxol), a clinically relevant agent used to treat advanced prostate cancer. Cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors prevented 2-ME and paclitaxel-mediated increase in cyclin B1-dependent kinase activity and blocked induction of apoptosis. Reduction of X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis (XIAP) protein by 2-ME and paclitaxel correlated with increased apoptosis. Lower doses of 2-ME and paclitaxel resulted in G1 (but not G2/M) cell cycle arrest in the p53 wild type LNCaP cell line, but with minimal induction of apoptosis. We suggest that 2-ME and paclitaxel-mediated induction of apoptosis in prostate cancer cells requires activation of cyclin B1-dependent kinase that arrests cells in G2/M and subsequently leads to the induction of apoptotic cell death.
Oleanolic acid (OA) is a triterpenoids that exists widely in plants. OA is effective in protecting against hepatotoxicants. Whereas a low dose of OA is hepatoprotective, higher doses and longer-term use of OA produce liver injury. This study characterized OA-induced liver injury in mice. Adult C57BL/6 mice were given OA at doses of 0, 22.5, 45, 90, and 135 mg/kg, s.c., daily for 5 days, and liver injury was observed at doses of 90 mg/kg and above, as evidenced by increases in serum activities of alanine aminotransferase and alkaline phosphatase, increases in serum total bilirubin, as well as by liver histopathology. OA-induced cholestatic liver injury was further evidenced by marked increases of both unconjugated and conjugated bile acids (BAs) in serum. Gene and protein expression analysis suggested that livers of OA-treated mice had adaptive responses to prevent BA accumulation by suppressing BA biosynthetic enzyme genes (Cyp7a1, 8b1, 27a1, and 7b1); lowering BA uptake transporters (Ntcp and Oatp1b2); and increasing a BA efflux transporter (Ostβ). OA increased the expression of Nrf2 and its target gene, Nqo1, but decreased the expression of AhR, CAR and PPARα along with their target genes, Cyp1a2, Cyp2b10 and Cyp4a10. OA had minimal effects on PXR and Cyp3a11. Taken together, the present study characterized OA-induced liver injury, which is associated with altered BA homeostasis, and alerts its toxicity potential.
Insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and its receptor are believed to play an important role in mitogenesis and neoplastic transformation. The purpose of this study was to further examine the role of IGF-1 during tumor promotion in mouse skin. HK1.IGF1 transgenic mice, which overexpress IGF-1 in epidermis via the human keratin 1 promoter, were previously shown to be hypersensitive to skin tumor promotion by 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA). We examined these mice for their sensitivity to diverse classes of tumor-promoting agents. HK1.IGF-1 transgenic mice initiated with 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene were more sensitive to treatment with a wide variety of tumor promoters, including chrysarobin, okadaic acid, and benzoyl peroxide, which resulted in more rapid development of tumors and a dramatic increase in the number of tumors per mouse compared with corresponding non-transgenic mice treated with the same compounds. Histological analyses of skin from HK1.IGF-1 mice treated with various tumor promoters revealed that these mice were also more sensitive to the induction of epidermal hyperplasia and cell proliferation. Analysis of the IGF-1 receptor (IGF-1r) and epidermal growth factor (EGFr) in the epidermis of TPA-treated HK1.IGF-1 transgenic and non-transgenic mice revealed that both receptors were activated (hyperphosphorylated on tyrosine residues), and the level of activation was higher in transgenic mice. The mechanism for the increased sensitivity of HK1.IGF-1 mice to tumor promoters may involve cooperation between the IGF-1r and EGFr signaling pathways. Our data suggest that IGF-1r signaling may play an important role in the process of tumor promotion by diverse classes of tumor promoters.
The aim of the current study is to comparatively examine the nephroprotective effects of pioglitazone and glibenclamide in a rat model subjected to gentamicin-induced nephrotoxicity. Six groups of rats were given either normal saline, or gentamicin, or pioglitazone, or gentamicin plus pioglitazone, or glibenclamide, or gentamicin plus glibenclamide for 11 days. The group administered gentamicin plus glibenclamide had a significant elevation of antioxidant enzyme activity and a significant reduction in lipid peroxidation when compared with the group treated just with gentamicin. The gentamicin plus glibenclamide group also showed mild necrosis according to histopathology when compared with the gentamicin-alone group. In contrast, the gentamicin plus pioglitazone group had a significant reduction in antioxidant enzyme activity and a significant elevation in lipid peroxidation levels when compared with the gentamicin-alone group. Our study showed that only glibenclamide but not pioglitazone has protective effects against gentamicin-induced nephrotoxicity in rats.
Chronic exposure of B6C3F1 mice to phenobarbital (PB), subsequent to a single initiating dose of diethylnitrosamine (DENA) at 15 d of age, has been previously shown to inhibit hepatic tumorigenesis in male mice, while promoting hepatic tumor formation in female mice (Weghorst & Klaunig, 1989). In the present study, the effects of another hepatic tumor promoter, alpha-hexachlorocyclohexane (alpha-HCH), in similarly initiated B6C3F1 mice was investigated. Male and female mice received a single intraperitoneal (ip) injection of either DENA or saline at 15 d of age. Beginning at 28 d of age, the mice received either alpha-HCH in the diet (250 ppm) or untreated basal diet. Like PB, alpha-HCH inhibited hepatic tumorigenesis in male mice, while promoting hepatic tumor formation in female mice following chronic exposure. In an additional experiment, already formed preneoplastic hepatic foci in male and female B6C3F1 mice were examined for their responsiveness to the induction of DNA synthesis by alpha-HCH treatment. The mice received a single ip injection of DENA at 15 d of age to induce hepatocellular foci. Beginning at 24 wk of age, mice received either basal diet or diet containing 250 ppm alpha-HCH for 7 consecutive d. DNA synthesis was assessed by continuous [3H]thymidine infusion via subcutaneously implanted osmotic minipumps. In female mice treated with alpha-HCH, DNA synthesis in hepatocellular foci was increased substantially compared to untreated females. In contrast, male mice receiving alpha-HCH showed no increase in DNA synthesis in hepatocellular foci from that seen in non-alpha-HCH-treated males. Based on these results, we postulate that the gender-dependent differences in hepatic tumorigenesis observed in B6C3F1 mice initiated during infancy may be related to chemical tumor promoter modulation of the normal hormonal environment, or to differences in the ability of hepatocellular foci to respond to the induction of DNA synthesis by the tumor promoter.
To assess whether the reduction in ischaemic injury during acute myocardial infarction induced by nitroglycerin (NTG) results in a decrease in tissue necrosis, 96 rats were assigned to two groups. The first group (n = 34) was sham-operated. The second group of 62 rats was randomised in a ratio of 2:1 into control (n = 43) and treated (n = 19) subgroups following coronary artery occlusion. Treated animals received an application of 2% NTG ointment every 8 h immediately post-occlusion. All rats were killed 48 h after coronary artery occlusion and total creatine kinase activity (CK) of the left ventricle (LV) was measured. Infarct size calculated by CK depletion was 65.2 +/- 14.3% (mean +/- SD) of LV in control rats, and 51.6 +/- 14.0% of LV in NTG-treated (p less than 0.02). In a further series of 46 rats with coronary occlusion, the area of infarcted myocardium 21 days post-occlusion was assessed by planimetry on histological sections. In rats with control occlusion (n = 22), the extent of infarction was 30.6 +/- 4.8% of LV, and in NTG-treated rats (n = 24) it was 16.2 +/- 5.8% of LV (p less than 0.001). The amount of scar tissue in the infarcted myocardium 21 days post-occlusion was also determined by measuring LV hydroxyproline and collagen content in an additional 32 rats randomly assigned to a control (n = 11), a NTG-treated (n = 9) and a sham-operated group (n = 12).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Resveratrol is a natural occurring phytoalexin present in grapes and berries, that has been shown to have chemopreventive/therapeutic activity. But the precise mechanism of resveratrol involved in leukemia is not well understood. In this study, we examine its anti-leukemia effect both in vitro and in vivo. Our data indicate that resveratrol contributes to inhibiting growth, inducing apoptosis and cell cycle arrest in the three leukemia cell lines (Jurkat, SUP-B15, and Kasumi-1), and reducing the phosphorylation of STAT3, meanwhile modulating the expression of Bcl-2 and Bax. In vivo, resveratrol could prolong the life span of Kasumi-1-bearing mice, and attenuate the activity of STAT3. Taken altogether, this investigation focuses on signaling pathways involved in STAT3 by resveratrol and to delineate its molecular mechanisms underlying anti-leukemia effect.
The Tako-Tsubo syndrome (or transient left ventricular apical balloning) is a new clinical entity, very similar to acute myocardial infarction, but different by its excellent short-term prognosis. It has been reported after a physical or an emotional stress, and it is diagnosed by a coronary angiogram and a left ventriculography. We report here a case of Tako-Tsubo syndrome related to an anaphylactic shock caused by succinylcholine during general anaesthesia of a female patient, wearing an unadjustable gastric band.
Chemotherapy, as generally available, is of a limited value in curing malignant brain tumors (gliomas), which often develop resistance to drugs, becoming completely unresponsive to any standard therapeutic approach. Camptothecins, a family of topoisomerase I inhibitor drugs, represent a new promising treatment strategy and are currently under evaluation for testing the clinical efficacy. We selected a CPT-resistant sub-line (U87CPT-R) from U87-MG grade III-IV astrocytoma cells, and compared the expression profile of the two cell lines by cDNA-microarray, as a preliminary screening of the molecular mechanisms involved in the acquisition of CPT resistance in glioma cells. The relevant role of IL-1 beta overproduction as well as a generalised up-regulation of genes implicated in angiogenesis and inflammatory response are discussed in details.
While cytokines such as interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha), interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and interleukin-2 (IL-2) are partially effective in the treatment of metastatic renal cell carcinoma, these cytokines have not been investigated for their ability to suppress the development of metastasis. We investigated whether they suppressed experimental pulmonary metastasis by subline-2 of streptozotocin-induced mouse renal adenocarcinoma (MRAC-PM2). IFN-gamma (1 x 10(4) and 1 x 10(5) U/mouse) and IL-2 (1 x 10(4) and 1 x 10(5) U/mouse) suppressed the experimental pulmonary metastasis of MRAC-PM2 in a dose-dependent manner, but 1 x 10(5) IU/mouse of IFN-alpha did not. The combination of 1 x 10(5) U IFN-gamma with 1 x 10(5) U IL-2 had the most powerful inhibitory effect on pulmonary metastasis without any side-effects. In addition, the combination of 1 x 10(5) U IFN-gamma with 1 x 10(5) U IL-2 had a synergistic inhibitory effect on the growth of subcutaneous tumors. These results indicate that either IFN-gamma or IL-2, or their combination, produce a more favorable effect than IFN-alpha on the metastatic development of renal adenocarcinoma.
The efficacy and safety of a new, low-dose, 21-day combination oral contraceptive containing 100 micrograms of levonorgestrel and 20 micrograms of ethinyl estradiol were evaluated in an open-label, multicenter trial. A total of 1477 subjects were enrolled and had 7870 cycles of exposure as of the data cutoff of this interim report. Of these, 792 subjects had completed six cycles of treatment. A total of five pregnancies occurred during treatment during 7720 efficacy cycles, for a Pearl index of 0.84. To date, 415 (28%) subjects have been withdrawn from the study for any reason, including 131 (9%) due to adverse events. The cumulative life table pregnancy rate was 0.0041 per woman entering the sixth cycle. Breakthrough bleeding alone occurred in 4.3% of the cycles and breakthrough bleeding and spotting occurred together during 11% of the cycles. Of the cycles evaluable, 2.6% were amenorrheic. The most commonly reported adverse events in this trial considered at least possibly drug related were headache (14%) and metrorrhagia (8%). This formulation provides contraceptive efficacy similar to higher-dose oral contraceptives, while maintaining a safety and common OC side effect profile that is consistent with prior years of reported use with levonorgestrel-containing products.
Tandem mass spectrometry was applied to detect derangements in the pathways of amino acid and fatty acid metabolism in N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea-treated (ENU-treated) mice. We identified mice with marked elevation of blood branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs), ketoaciduria, and clinical features resembling human maple syrup urine disease (MSUD), a severe genetic metabolic disorder caused by the deficiency of branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase (BCKD) complex. However, the BCKD genes and enzyme activity were normal. Sequencing of branched-chain aminotransferase genes (Bcat) showed no mutation in the cytoplasmic isoform (Bcat-1) but revealed a homozygous splice site mutation in the mitochondrial isoform (Bcat-2). The mutation caused a deletion of exon 2, a marked decrease in Bcat-2 mRNA, and a deficiency in both BCAT-2 protein and its enzyme activity. Affected mice responded to a BCAA-restricted diet with amelioration of the clinical symptoms and normalization of the amino acid pattern. We conclude that BCAT-2 deficiency in the mouse can cause a disease that mimics human MSUD. These mice provide an important animal model for study of BCAA metabolism and its toxicity. Metabolomics-guided screening, coupled with ENU mutagenesis, is a powerful approach in uncovering novel enzyme deficiencies and recognizing important pathways of genetic metabolic disorders.
Oxaliplatin has been introduced in the treatment of advanced colorectal cancer during the past few years. The pre-existing treatment of leucovorin-5-fluorouracil-irinotecan (IFL), although reasonably effective, has needed novel, active agents to increase the response rate and overall survival. We planned this phase 2 study in patients pretreated with IFL, adding oxaliplatin as second-line treatment: our objectives were to determine response rate and overall survival.
All patients (median age 65) were designated to receive 6 cycles of chemotherapy: leucovorin 200 mg/m2 infused for 60 minutes, 5-fluorouracil 500 mg/m2 bolus at 30 minutes from the start of the previous infusion, irinotecan 135 mg/m2 infused for 90 minutes, and oxaliplatin 135 mg/m2 for 90 minutes, infused sequentially on day 1 and repeated every 3 weeks. Standard ondansetron antiemetic treatment and dexamethasone 8 mg were administered to all patients. No prophylactic recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor was permitted.
Fifty-seven patients were recruited and 54 were evaluable for response, survival, and toxicity. All patients had advanced, inoperable, metastatic disease in the liver and/or lungs, abdominal cavity, and multiple sites. All patients had undergone IFL pretreatment and had no response; 40 had disease progression and 14 had stable disease when entering the present study; 302 chemotherapy cycles (mean 5.92) were administered. There was no treatment delay caused by toxicity (either neutropenia or diarrhea). Irinotecan and oxaliplatin were reduced by 25% in 6 (11.1%) patients. No complete responses were observed; 21 (38.9%) patients achieved partial response, 26 (48.2%) had stable disease, and 7 (13%) had disease progression. Median duration of response was 6 months, time to tumor progression (TTP) 8 months, and median overall survival after the initiation of second-line treatment was 10 months (95% confidence interval [CI], 7.5-12.6).
The addition of oxaliplatin to IFL as second-line treatment rendered a prolongation of survival and a response rate of 38.9% in patients in whom IFL pretreatment had failed.
Dexamethasone is frequently administered to the developing fetus to accelerate pulmonary development. The purpose of the present study was to determine if prenatal dexamethasone programmed a progressive increase in blood pressure and renal injury in rats. Pregnant rats were given either vehicle or 2 daily intraperitoneal injections of dexamethasone (0.2 mg/kg body weight) on gestational days 11 and 12, 13 and 14, 15 and 16, 17 and 18, or 19 and 20. Offspring of rats administered dexamethasone on days 15 and 16 gestation had a 20% reduction in glomerular number compared with control at 6 to 9 months of age (22 527+/-509 versus 28 050+/-561, P<0.05), which was comparable to the percent reduction in glomeruli measured at 3 weeks of age. Six- to 9-month old rats receiving prenatal dexamethasone on days 17 and 18 of gestation had a 17% reduction in glomeruli (23 380+/-587) compared with control rats (P<0.05). Male rats that received prenatal dexamethasone on days 15 and 16, 17 and 18, and 13 and 14 of gestation had elevated blood pressures at 6 months of age; the latter group did not have a reduction in glomerular number. Adult rats given dexamethasone on days 15 and 16 of gestation had more glomeruli with glomerulosclerosis than control rats. This study shows that prenatal dexamethasone in rats results in a reduction in glomerular number, glomerulosclerosis, and hypertension when administered at specific points during gestation. Hypertension was observed in animals that had a reduction in glomeruli as well as in a group that did not have a reduction in glomerular number, suggesting that a reduction in glomerular number is not the sole cause for the development of hypertension.
The renin-angiotensin system may contribute to atherogenesis through the promotion of endothelial dysfunction. The present study was performed to determine whether angiotensin-1 (AT(1)) receptor inhibition improves endothelial dysfunction.
In the femoral circulation of 19 patients with atherosclerosis and of 9 control subjects, we studied microvascular responses to reactive hyperemia, angiotensin II, acetylcholine, and sodium nitroprusside before and after the administration of intra-arterial losartan (10 mg). Femoral artery flow velocity was measured with a Doppler flow wire, and the femoral vascular resistance index (FVRI) was calculated as mean arterial pressure divided by flow velocity. Losartan induced a minor (5.9+/-2%, P=0. 02) reduction in FVRI and inhibited angiotensin II-mediated vasoconstriction in both patient groups (P<0.01). After the administration of losartan, acetylcholine-mediated vasodilation was augmented in patients (44+/-5% to 58+/-4% reduction in FVRI with infusion at a rate of 150 microgram/min, P<0.001) but not control subjects. Vasodilation during reactive hyperemia was also greater after AT(1) receptor inhibition (P=0.03) in patients, but the response to sodium nitroprusside remained unchanged. In a separate group of 31 patients with atherosclerosis, we investigated the effect of 8 weeks of oral losartan therapy on brachial artery flow-mediated vasodilation with the use of high-resolution ultrasound. Oral losartan therapy improved flow-mediated brachial artery dilation (1.4+/-0.9% to 3.2+/-0.8%, P=0.03) but had no effect on the nitroglycerin response. Serum nitrogen oxide levels increased from 21.6+/-1.7 to 26.7+/-2.4 micromol/L (P=0.008).
The results of the present study indicate that inhibition of the AT(1) receptor in patients with atherosclerosis reverses endothelial dysfunction by improving NO availability and therefore may have long-term therapeutic benefits.
This study is a retrospective comparison of the results in 25 low-dose, intra-arterial streptokinase and 12 low-dose intra-arterial urokinase infusions for thromboembolic disease. Intra-arterial streptokinase was successful in 50% of infusions and was marked by significant abnormalities in the coagulation criteria. There was a high incidence of major and minor bleeding (48% overall), which could be attributed to systemic effects of the drug. Urokinase was successful in 100% of infusions, and showed no significant effects on systemic coagulation criteria. There were also fewer complications during urokinase infusion. The average pharmacy cost for a course of intra-arterial streptokinase was $165, while urokinase cost $1142. Despite the significant difference in expense, the increased efficacy and safety of urokinase make it the preferred agent for intra-arterial infusion. Theoretical reasons for the increased effectiveness of urokinase are discussed.
Two cases (first cases from Poland and Eastern Europe) with liver injury due to amoxycillin-clavulanic acid (augmentin) are reported. Pruritus and jaundice were the main symptoms. Liver biopsy revealed mixed hepatocellular-cholestatic liver injury in both cases. In addition, in one case the microgranulomalike aggregate of inflammatory cells was found. Clinical and laboratory abnormalities returned to normal within 13 weeks.
