The accurate noninvasive diagnosis and functional evaluation of coronary artery disease is an important step in selecting the appropriate management strategy. Dobutamine stress myocardial perfusion imaging is an alternative to exercise in patients with limited exercise capacity. In many centers, the test is performed on patients who have a contraindication for vasodilator stress testing. Recent studies have shown hyperemia induced by the standard dobutamine-atropine stress test is not less than hyperemia induced by dipyridamole. The feasibility of the test is 90% and is often higher in patients without beta-blocker therapy. The safety of the test has been well studied and was also demonstrated in specific patients groups, such as patients with left ventricular dysfunction, the elderly, and heart transplant recipients. The diagnostic accuracy has been demonstrated in patients with and without myocardial infarction and in specific groups such as those with hypertension, left ventricular hypertrophy, and heart transplant recipients and after revascularization. The technique has a high sensitivity for prediction of functional recovery in patients with myocardial dysfunction referred for revascularization. The presence and severity of myocardial perfusion abnormalities assessed by this method are powerful predictors of cardiac events, incremental to clinical data. This article describes the methodology, safety, feasibility, diagnostic accuracy, and prognostic value of dobutamine stress myocardial perfusion imaging in patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease, with additional considerations for the application of the test in specific patient groups.
A female patient treated by mechanical ventilation with high doses of pancuronium and methylprednisolone for status asthmaticus presented with acute total areflexic and severe amyotrophic tetraplegia; she died after multiple organ failure. Muscle biopsy confirmed the clinical diagnosis of "acute corticosteroid myopathy", precipitated by a corticosteroid "disuse hypersensitivity" after pancuronium. The electromyogram showed a critical illness polyneuropathy, secondary to multiple organ failure. Nerve biopsy was normal. The respective parts played by corticosteroids, curare-like derivatives and intensive care in the genesis of unexplained difficulty in weaning from the ventilator are discussed.
We describe a 30-year-old man with end-stage heart failure after therapy with mitoxantrone for multiple sclerosis. A successful orthotopic heart transplantation was performed when intensified medical therapy failed to improve the patient's hemodynamics. In spite of the severe underlying disease he did well on dual immunosuppression with methylprednisone and cyclosporine. Neurologic symptoms remained stable throughout the procedure and, after 2 months, he resumed preoperative ambulatory status. Eight years after the operation, the patient is now in New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class I status. Using canes, he is able to walk short distances. Repeated urinary tract infections caused by Escherichia coli became a problem, but have been controlled by long-term oral antibiotic prophylaxis with trimethoprim.
Previous studies have implicated a role of heterotrimeric Gα(i) proteins in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammatory responses. We hypothesized that Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling regulates Gα(i) proteins, which are anti-inflammatory in endotoxemia and polymicrobial sepsis. RAW 264.7 cells were stimulated with LPS and the Gα(i)-GTP protein complex was immunoprecipitated with a Gα(i) protein activation assay. In subsequent in vivo studies, the Gα(i) protein inhibitor pertussis toxin (PTx) or G(i) protein agonist mastoparan (MP-7) were administrated prior to endotoxemia. LPS-induced pro-inflammatory cytokines and mortality were determined. To examine the role of Gα(i2) in sepsis, Gα(i2) (-/-) and wildtype (WT) mice were subjected to cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) and monitored every 24 h for 120 h. Other mice were sacrificed 24 h after CLP. Peritoneal fluid, blood, and tissue samples were collected. Plasma pro-inflammatory cytokine production, bacterial load in peritoneal fluid, blood and lung tissue, myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity in lung and liver and different immune cell populations in spleen were studied. We found that Gα(i) proteins are rapidly activated by LPS followed by rapid inactivation. These studies provide the first direct evidence that Gα(i) proteins are modulated by TLR signaling. In following studies, PTx augmented LPS-induced plasma TNFα, IL-6, whereas MP-7 suppressed LPS-induced TNFα and decreased LPS-induced mortality. In sepsis studies, the survival rate post-CLP was significantly decreased in the Gα(i2) (-/-) mice compared to WT mice. CLP-induced plasma TNFα, IL-6, bacterial load in peritoneal fluid, blood and lung tissue and lung and liver MPO activity were significantly increased in Gα(i2) (-/-) compared to WT mice. Gα(i2) (-/-) mice also exhibited increased Th1 and Th2 responses compared to WT mice. Taken together, Gα(i) proteins are activated by LPS and negatively regulate endotoxemia and sepsis. Understanding the role of Gα(i2) protein in regulation of the inflammatory response in sepsis may provide novel targets for treatment of sepsis.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) resulting from chronic inflammation cause liver injury leading to transformation of regenerating hepatocytes. Metallothioneins (MT), induced at high levels by oxidative stress, are potent scavengers of ROS. Here, we report that the levels of MT-1 and MT-2A are drastically reduced in primary human hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) and in diethylnitrosamine-induced liver tumors in mice, which is primarily due to transcriptional repression. Expression of the transcription factor, MTF-1, essential for MT expression, and its target gene Zn-T1 that encodes the zinc transporter-1 was not significantly altered in HCCs. Inhibitors of both phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) and its downstream target AKT increased expression of MT genes in HCC cells but not in liver epithelial cells. Suppression of MT-1 and MT-2A by ectopic expression of the constitutively active PI3K or AKT and their up-regulation by dominant-negative PI3K or AKT mutant confirmed negative regulation of MT expression by PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. Further, treatment of cells with a specific inhibitor of glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3), a downstream effector of PI3K/AKT, inhibited MT expression specifically in HCC cells. Short interfering RNA-mediated depletion of CCAAT/enhancer binding protein alpha (C/EBPalpha), a target of GSK-3, impeded MT expression, which could not be reversed by PI3K inhibitors. DNA binding activity of C/EBPalpha and its phosphorylation at T222 and T226 by GSK-3 are required for MT expression. MTF-1 and C/EBPalpha act in concert to increase MT-2A expression, which probably explains the high level of MT expression in the liver. This study shows the role of PI3K/AKT signaling pathway and C/EBPalpha in regulation of MT expression in hepatocarcinogenesis.
3-halo-4,5-dihydroisoxazoles are attractive warheads for the selective inhibition of nucleophilic active sites in biological systems. A series of 3-bromo-4,5-dihydroisoxazole compounds were prepared and tested for their ability to irreversibly inhibit human transglutaminase 2 (TG2), an enzyme that plays an important role in the pathogenesis of diverse disorders including Celiac Sprue and certain types of cancers. Several compounds showed high specificity for human TG2 (k(inh)/K(I) > 2000 min(-1)M(-1)) but essentially no reactivity (k < 1 min(-1)M(-1)) toward physiological thiols such as glutathione. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of a prototype dihydroisoxazole inhibitor, 1b, were evaluated; in mice the compound showed good oral bioavailability, short serum half-life and efficient TG2 inhibition in small intestinal tissue, and low toxicity. It also showed excellent synergism with N,N'-bis(2-chloroethyl)-N-nitrosourea (BCNU, carmustine) against refractory glioblastoma tumors in mice. A fluorescent dihydroisoxazole inhibitor 5 facilitated microscopic visualization of TG2 endocytosis from the extracellular surface of HCT-116 cells. Together, these findings demonstrate the promise of dihydroisoxazole compounds as probes for the biology of TG2 and its role in human disease.
Alpha-naphthyl isothiocyanate (ANIT) is a hepatotoxicant that produces acute intrahepatic cholestasis in rodents. Farnesoid X receptor (FXR) and pregnane X receptor (PXR) are two major bile acid sensors in liver. The purpose of this study was to characterize the regulation of hepatic transporters by FXR and PXR during ANIT-induced liver injury. Wild-type, FXR-null, and PXR-null mice were administered ANIT (75 mg/kg, po) and evaluated 48 h later for hepatotoxicity and messenger RNA (mRNA) expression of basolateral uptake (sodium taurocholate-cotransporting polypeptide, organic anion transporting polypeptide [Oatp] 1a1, Oatp1a4, Oatp1b2) and efflux transporters (organic solute transporter [Ost] alpha, Ostbeta, multidrug resistance-associated protein [Mrp] 3, Mrp4), as well as canalicular transporters (bile salt export pump [Bsep], Mrp2, multidrug resistance protein 2 [Mdr2], ATPase, class I, type 8B, member 1 [Atp8b1]). Livers from wild-type and PXR-null mice had comparable multifocal necrosis 48 h after ANIT. However, ANIT-treated FXR-null mice have fewer and smaller necrotic foci than wild-type mice but had scattered single-cell hepatocyte necrosis throughout the liver. Serum alanine transaminase, alkaline phosphatase (ALP), and direct bilirubin were increased in all genotypes, with higher ALP levels in FXR-null mice. Serum and liver unconjugated bile acids were higher in ANIT-treated FXR-null mice than the other two genotypes. ANIT induced mRNA expression of Mdr2, Bsep, and Atp8b1 in wild-type and PXR-null mice but failed to upregulate these genes in FXR-null mice. mRNA expression of uptake transporters declined in livers of all genotypes following ANIT treatment. ANIT increased Ostbeta and Mrp3 mRNA in livers of wild-type and PXR-null mice but did not alter Ostbeta mRNA in FXR-null mice. In conclusion, FXR deficiency enhances susceptibility of mice to ANIT-induced liver injury, likely a result of impaired induction of hepatobiliary efflux transporters and subsequent hepatic accumulation of unconjugated bile acids.
Electrocardiography (ECG) is one of the standard technologies used to monitor and assess cardiac function, and provide insight into the mechanisms driving myocardial pathology. Increased understanding of the effects of cardiovascular disease on rat ECG may help make ECG assessments in rat toxicology studies routine, thus facilitating continuous measurement of functional decrements associated with cardiotoxicant exposure. These studies seek to test the hypothesis that hypertensive rats are more susceptible to the short-term cardiotoxic effects of doxorubicin (DOX) when compared with normotensive rats with respect to continuously measured ECG endpoints. Male Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) and spontaneously hypertensive (SH) rats surgically implanted with radiotelemeters were treated once a week for three weeks with either vehicle, 1.25 (low), 2.5 (medium), or 5 (high) mg/kg DOX (i.p.). ECG, heart rate (HR), and core body temperature (T(co)) were continuously monitored during the 1-week baseline and throughout the experimental period until rats were sacrificed 24 h after the third injection. DOX prevented normal body weight gain in both strains and significantly decreased diurnal HR and T(co) of high DOX SH rats. In the ECG, SH rats had prolonged baseline PR intervals and QT(c) when compared with WKY rats. All DOX-treated WKY rats subsequently developed PR interval prolongation; however only those treated with high DOX had increased QT(c). DOX caused an increase in ST interval in SH rats, and resulted in ECG morphology changes. The number of arrhythmias due to DOX was increased in both strains. In conclusion, ECG analysis can reveal underlying cardiovascular disease as a risk factor in the heart's response to toxicant-induced injury in the rat; and be a valuable tool to evaluate baseline vulnerability and assess cardiotoxicity.
Changes in the expression of subunits of the GABA type A (GABA(A)) receptor are implicated in the development of ethanol tolerance and dependence as well as in the central hyperexcitability associated with ethanol withdrawal. The impact of such changes on GABA(A) receptor function and pharmacological sensitivity was investigated with cultured rat hippocampal neurons exposed to ethanol for 5 d and then subjected to ethanol withdrawal. Both ethanol treatment and withdrawal were associated with a marked decrease in the maximal density of GABA-evoked Cl- currents, whereas the potency of GABA was unaffected. Ethanol exposure also reduced the modulatory efficacy of the benzodiazepine receptor agonists lorazepam, zolpidem, and zaleplon as well as that of the inverse agonists Ro 15-4513 and FG 7142, effects that were associated with a reduced abundance of mRNAs encoding the receptor subunits alpha1, alpha3, gamma2L, and gamma2S. Ethanol withdrawal restored the efficacy of lorazepam, but not that of low concentrations of zolpidem or zaleplon, to control values. Flumazenil, which was ineffective in control neurons, and Ro 15-4513 each potentiated the GABA response after ethanol withdrawal. These effects of withdrawal were accompanied by upregulation of the alpha2, alpha3, and alpha4 subunit mRNAs as well as of the alpha4 protein. Diazepam or gamma-hydroxybutyrate, but not baclofen, prevented the changes in both GABA(A) receptor pharmacology and subunit mRNA levels induced by ethanol withdrawal. Changes in GABA(A) receptor gene expression induced by prolonged exposure to and withdrawal of ethanol are thus associated with altered GABA(A) receptor function and pharmacological sensitivity.
Sitaxentan is a selective endothelin-A receptor antagonist that was marketed as Thelin in several European countries and Canada for pulmonary arterial hypertension. Sitaxentan was undergoing further clinical trials in the United States but due to four deaths and one case of liver transplantation from severe liver toxicity that appeared to be idiosyncratic in nature, it was withdrawn worldwide in December, 2010. Sitaxentan contains a 1,3-benzodioxole ring that undergoes enzymatic demethyleneation to an ortho-catechol metabolite that can further oxidize to a reactive ortho-quinone metabolite. Here, we report the detection and mass spectral characterization of a glutathione conjugate of this sitaxentan quinone reactive metabolite that was trapped in vitro using mouse, rat, dog, and human liver microsomes supplemented with NADPH and glutathione and that was also observed in rat and human hepatocytes. Using human liver microsomes, we also demonstrated that P450 3A4 undergoes time-dependent inhibition. Density functional calculations on the catechol metabolite of sitaxentan indicated that the reaction leading to the quinone was thermodynamically favorable with an enthalpy change of -6.3 kcal/mol. Using density functional methodology, we modeled the attack of glutathione on the quinone with an S-methyl thiolate anion which allowed us to predict, based on the difference in transition state energies, that the 2-position on the phenyl ring was more likely than the 5-position as the site of glutathione conjugation. Overall, our results demonstrated that sitaxentan is capable of facile formation of a reactive ortho-quinone metabolite capable of reacting with glutathione and may rationalize the idiosyncratic nature of the hepatotoxicity that led to its withdrawal.
A clinical observation in pediatric and adult intensive care units is that the incidence of multiple organ failure in pediatric trauma victims is lower than in adult patients. However, the molecular mechanisms are not yet defined. Recent experimental studies have shown that the nuclear peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma) modulates the inflammatory process. In this study, we hypothesized that severity of liver injury may be age dependent and PPARgamma activation may provide beneficial effects. Hemorrhagic shock was induced in anesthetized young (3-5 mo old) and mature male Wistar rats (11-13 mo old) by withdrawing blood to a mean arterial blood pressure of 50 mmHg. After 3 h, rats were rapidly resuscitated with shed blood. Animals were euthanized 3 h after resuscitation. In mature rats, liver injury appeared more pronounced compared with young rats and was characterized by marked hepatocyte apoptosis, extravasation of erythrocytes, and accumulation of neutrophils. The ratio between the antiapoptotic protein Bcl-2 and the proapoptotic protein BAX was lower, whereas activity of caspase-3, the executioner of apoptosis, was higher in liver of mature rats compared with young rats. Plasma alanine aminotransferase levels were not different between the two age groups. This heightened liver apoptosis was associated with a significant downregulation of PPARgamma DNA binding in mature rats compared with young rats. Treatment with the PPARgamma ligand ciglitazone significantly reduced liver apoptosis in mature rats. Our data suggest that liver injury after severe hemorrhage is age dependent and PPARgamma activation is a novel hepatoprotective mechanism.
From 1986 to February 1993, 40 children aged 2 months to 18 years (average age 10.4 +/- 5.8 years) underwent heart transplantation. Indications for transplantation were idiopathic cardiomyopathy (52%), congenital heart disease (35%) with and without prior repair (71% and 29%, respectively), hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (5%), valvular heart disease (3%), and doxorubicin cardiomyopathy (5%). Patients were managed with cyclosporine and azathioprine. No prophylaxis with antilymphocyte globulin was used. Steroids were given to 39% of patients for refractory rejection, but weaning was always attempted and generally successful (64%). Five patients (14%) received maintenance steroids. Four patients died in the perioperative period and one died 4 months later. There have been no deaths related to rejection or infection. Average follow-up was 36 +/- 19 months (range 1 to 65 months). Cumulative survival is 88% at 5 years. In patients less than 7 years of age, rejection was monitored noninvasively. In the first postoperative month, 89% of patients were treated for rejection. Freedom from serious infections was 83% at 1 month and 65% at 1 year. Cytomegalovirus infections were treated successfully with ganciclovir in 11 patients. No impairment of growth was observed in children who underwent transplantation compared with a control population. Twenty-one patients (60%) have undergone annual catheterizations and no sign of graft atherosclerosis has been observed. Seizures occurred in five patients (14%) and hypertension was treated in 10 patients (28%). No patient was disabled and no lymphoproliferative disorder was observed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Methotrexate may cause seizures, dementia, and leukoencephalopathy when given in toxic doses to children with leukemia or solid tumors. Even in therapeutic doses, treatment with this drug is associated with an increased incidence of seizures in children with leukemia. To study mechanisms of injury, juvenile rats were given multiple intraventricular injections of methotrexate and the brains were analyzed for histopathology and biogenic amine metabolites of dopamine and serotonin. Disruption of monoamine metabolism has been proposed as a cause of brain dysfunction from this chemotherapy. Multiple injections (1 or 2 mg/kg) produced convulsions in an increasingly larger percentage of animals at higher cumulative doses, and five doses produced the neuropathological changes seen in human leukoencephalopathy. A single dose reduced the concentration of brain metabolites of dopamine, but not serotonin, six hours later. The effect was less pronounced after five doses. This rodent model should be useful for studying the metabolic basis of methotrexate encephalopathy.
Prevention of perinatal transmission of hepatitis B virus carrier state in neonates at high risk was attempted by a combined passive and active immunization. Immediately after delivery, ten babies born to mothers who were asymptomatic carriers of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) and seropositive for hepatitis B e antigen received an intravenous injection of F(ab')2 fragments (200 IU) derived from hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG). On the following day, none of them revealed detectable levels of the antibody to HBsAg in their sera, and received an intramuscular injection of HBIG (200 IU) which was repeated at 2 and 4 months of age. Vaccination with 40 micrograms of purified, formalin-inactivated HBsAg particles was given to the nine babies at three months and repeated at 4, 5, and 7 months after birth. All of them maintained detectable levels of the antibody and escaped infection throughout the first 12 months of their lives. The one baby who did not have detectable F(ab')2 in serum for 24 hours developed persistent HBs antigenemia which was noticed as early as seven days after birth.
A case is described of cocaine-induced severe transient thrombocytopenia associated with a hypertensive crisis at 21 weeks' gestation. Liver function tests and coagulation studies were all within normal ranges. Blood pressure was controlled with hydralazine. This clinical presentation, similar to severe preeclampsia, should be considered in the differential diagnosis of acute hypertension and low platelet count, especially in early gestations when preeclampsia is relatively rare. Unlike severe preeclampsia, for which active intervention and delivery are usually selected, cocaine-related hypertension-thrombocytopenia, especially in very premature gestations, may warrant conservative management.
Endothelial dysfunction and decreased production of nitric oxide (NO) by endothelial NO synthase (eNOS) are implicated in the pathogenesis of hypertension and insulin resistance. Because the potential influence of increased eNOS expression/activity on these parameters is unclear, the present study examined the effects of eNOS gene therapy on insulin resistance and blood pressure alterations in a fructose-induced hypertension model in rats. As predicted, 2 weeks of fructose consumption in the drinking water resulted in elevated systolic blood pressure and insulin resistance. These and other physiologic alterations were reversed within 2 weeks after a single intravenous injection of a vector containing the human eNOS cDNA (pcDNA3.1-eNOS), whereas injection of an empty vector (pcDNA3.1) was without effect. In support of the beneficial effects of pcDNA3.1-eNOS treatment being because of enhanced eNOS expression and activity, increased eNOS protein levels were documented in aorta, liver, kidney, and heart of fructose-treated rats injected with pcDNA3.1-eNOS, and corresponding elevations in nitrite/nitrate and cGMP concentrations were observed in urine. Furthermore, pcDNA3.1-eNOS treatment prevented fructose-induced decreases in expression levels of insulin receptor substrate-1, the p110 catalytic subunit of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, phosphorylated Akt, and phosphorylated AMP-activated protein kinases in liver, aorta, and skeletal muscle. The results of this study cumulatively indicate that gene therapy with human eNOS decreased fructose-induced hypertension and insulin resistance in rats and suggest potential signaling pathways that mediate these effects. These data highlight the potential utility of eNOS gene therapy in the treatment of hypertension and insulin resistance.
A case is reported in which exposure to cocaine and indomethacin was associated with development of fetal anuria, anasarca, and neonatal gastrointestinal hemorrhage. Cocaine and indomethacin may act synergistically to adversely affect renal, cardiovascular, and platelet function. It may be prudent to obtain a drug history and urine screen for cocaine before instituting indomethacin therapy for preterm labor or polyhydramnios.
This meta-analysis examines the role of ifosfamide-based combination chemotherapy in patients with advanced soft tissue sarcoma. Outcomes of interest include overall survival, response rate, adverse effects, and quality of life.
A systematic review of the literature was searched to identify relevant articles.
Three randomized phase III trials were identified comparing combination chemotherapy regimens containing ifosfamide with regimens without ifosfamide. Two randomized trials demonstrated that the addition of ifosfamide to either doxorubicin or to a regimen of doxorubicin and dacarbazine, significantly improved response rates. One randomized trial reported a significant improvement in overall survival for patients receiving doxorubicin and dacarbazine compared to those receiving a combination of doxorubicin, dacarbazine, and ifosfamide (MAID). A meta-analysis of these studies revealed that the addition of ifosfamide to a chemotherapy regimen significantly improves the tumour response rate (RR, 1.52, p=0.009) but does not produce a significant difference in 1-year survival (RR, 0.98, p=0.76). Higher rates of adverse events, particularly grades 3-4 myelosuppression, were observed in patients who received regimens that contained ifosfamide. A higher rate of toxic deaths was reported in two of the three trials, for the ifosfamide containing regimen. Data on quality of life were not reported.
In patients with metastatic soft tissue sarcoma, the routine addition of ifosfamide to standard first line doxorubicin-containing regimens is not recommended over single agent doxorubicin. However, it may be reasonable to employ such combinations in patients with symptomatic, locally-advanced, or inoperable soft tissue sarcoma where response might render such tumours resectable.
Hypercalcemia of malignancy remains a common metabolic complication of advanced cancer often resulting in considerable morbidity and diminishing life quality in the later stages of disease. Bisphosphonates, especially zoledronic acid, are potent inhibitors of bone resorption and are the most effective therapy for hypercalcemia of malignancy. We report on the course of disease in a 51-year-old woman who presented with metastatic breast cancer that had relapsed to the liver. The patient suffered from a pamidronate-refractory paraneoplastic hypercalcemia, which caused a confused mental status and compromised her already severely limited life quality. Only with the introduction of zoledronate could the patient's hypercalcemia be normalized with consecutive regain of an acceptable life quality.
Internal thoracic artery (ITA) flow competition is a diversion of graft flow through intact ITA branches with a net decrease in perfusion to the grafted coronary. Although a widely acknowledged phenomenon, the conditions under which flow competition occurs have not been established. This is examined in a canine H-graft model.
Eight dogs had a right ITA segment interposed (H-graft) between their in situ left ITA (LITA) and the snared left anterior descending (LAD) coronary artery. Proximal LITA and H-graft flows were measured at baseline and during pacing-induced tachycardia, phenylephrine-induced hypertension, and nitroprusside-induced hypotension. Flows were measured with the distal LITA open and occluded. Two additional animals were subjected to eight separate 2-min periods of LAD ischemia, after which post-ischemic H-graft flow measurements were obtained with and without distal LIMA occlusion.
During baseline conditions, proximal LITA flow was greater when the distal LITA was open rather than occluded (46+/-15 versus 35+/-12 ml/min, respectively; P=0.002), but H-graft flow did not change significantly (32+/-18 versus 35+/-18 ml/min, respectively; P=0.21). Similarly, occlusion of the distal LITA had no impact on H-graft flow during tachycardia, hypertension, or hypotension. Only in animals subjected to transient LAD ischemia did H-graft flow increase with distal LITA occlusion, albeit marginally (65+/-7-70+/-9 ml/min, occluded versus open, respectively; P=0.04).
Mild diversion of flow from the LAD was demonstrated during immediate post-ischemic coronary reperfusion only, and could not be elicited under any other physiologic condition. These data suggest that flow competition is unlikely to constitute a clinically significant limitation to the use of H-grafts or other modalities that leave ITA branches patent.
Myasthenia gravis (MG) is characterized by weakness of skeletal muscles because of a decrease in the number of available acetylcholine receptors at neuromuscular junctions. Anticholinesterase medication is widely used to treat MG, but muscarinic side effects sometimes appear and limit the drug usage. To their knowledge, the authors present the first case of coronary spastic angina quite possibly induced by anticholinesterase medication to treat MG. The appearance of coronary spastic angina in the present case is likely mediated through the increase of acethylcholine by anticholinesterase medication.
Malignant neoplasms are often refractory to radiotherapy because they contain areas of hypoxic cells that tolerate irradiation, reducing the effect of the treatment. If these areas of hypoxic cells can be oxygenated, the effect of radiotherapy is expected to be enhanced. Hyperbaric oxygen therapy was devised in the 1950s, and the radiosensitizing agent Misonidazole was developed in 1970. However, neither produced satisfactory clinical effects in radiotherapy of tumors. In this study, hypoxic cells in a solid tumor were efficiently oxygenated by the use of perfluorochemicals (PFC) developed as artificial blood with carbogen gas (CG), and the anti-tumor effect of irradiation was enhanced. In C3H mice bearing RIF-1 tumor, the mean oxygen pressure increased to 79.8 mmHg in those treated with PFC and CG as compared with 12.9 mmHg in the controls, and the does modification factor in irradiation of these mice was TCD50 1.47. PFC is currently under clinical trials, and we also noted effective oxygenation of tumors. These findings indicate the usefulness of PFC as a radiosensitizing agent.
Isolated rat hearts were perfused using retrograde technique under constant perfusion pressure or under constant coronary flow. The addition of L-epinephrine or L-nor-epinephrine (1 microgram per ml) into the perfusion medium for one hour caused visible and irreversible morphological changes. They became apparent usually after 4 hours of perfusion in the form of small, pale, opaque spots of streaks gradually enlarging on the surface or on the transverse section of myocardium. Light microscope and electron microscope examination showed the disintegration process analogous to myocardial infarction but lacking the infiltration with blood elements. The structural changes were preceeded by increased release of lactate dehydrogenase into the effluent, the most characteristic metabolic change a accompanying myocardial injury. Although the underlying mechanism of cardiotoxic action catecholamines remains to be clarified, several factors under consideration could be eliminated like hyperlipidemia, thrombogenic process or reduced total coronary inflow rate.
Cocaine and other drug use during pregnancy continues to be a major health concern. With increasing use of cocaine by women of childbearing age, large numbers of children have been exposed to this and other substances in utero. Currently, very little information regarding the long-term developmental implications of cocaine/polydrug exposure exists. The purpose of this study is to present 3-year cognitive and behavioral data on infants exposed to cocaine and other drugs during gestation.
The subjects and controls in this study are currently enrolled in a longitudinal, prospective evaluation. At 3 years of age, 92 children exposed to cocaine and other drugs, 25 children exposed to multiple drugs but no cocaine, and 45 drug-free controls were evaluated using the Stanford-Binet Intelligence Scale (fourth edition), the Child Behavioral Checklist, the Home Screening Questionnaire, and a Summative Perseverance Scale. The data were analyzed using an a priori model and path analytic procedures.
The results indicate that prenatal drug exposure has significant direct and indirect effects on 3-year cognitive functioning as measured on the Stanford-Binet scale. The fit indices indicated that overall, the hypothesized model accurately reflected the actual data.
The findings of the study provide specific evidence elucidating the nature of long-term developmental risk associated with intrauterine drug exposure. Drug exposure was found to have a direct effect on cognitive ability at 3 years of age. However, the effects of drug exposure are also mediated indirectly through head circumference, home environment, and level of perseverance at a task. Future explorations should continue to utilize path analysis techniques to further clarify the ramifications of drug exposure on the development of the growing child.
Valproic acid (VPA) is an antiepileptic drug used clinically. Because of its known teratogenic properties VPA is not recommended for women of child bearing age. The present study was designed to assess the effects of VPA on both fetal and maternal organs. Randomized groups of pregnant mice were treated as follows: Group 1 (n = 10) 500 mg/kg VPA/day on gestation days 8-11; Group 2 (n = 10) 600 mg/kg VPA/day on gestation days 8-11; and Group 3 (n = 4) saline-injected controls. On gestation day 18, the pregnant mice were euthanized, fetuses collected and prepared for scanning electron microscopy. In addition, fetal and maternal organs were processed for routine histology, immunohistochemistry for growth factors (TGF alpha, beta-1, beta-2 and EGF) and transmission electron microscopy. Scanning microscopy revealed specific lesions induced by VPA in the fetus, namely spina bifida occulta, exencephaly, and exophthalmia. On the other hand, there were no detectable morphological changes in fetal or maternal organs by routine histology, immunohistochemistry or electron microscopy. The data suggest that the lesions present in the fetus are due to a direct effect by VPA on retinoic acid, a ubiquitous compound that has a role in normal development, rather than the lack of transport of sufficient nutrients to the fetus as a result of placental insufficiency due to VPA-induced toxicity.
Cetirizine is a second generation histamine H(1) receptor antagonist used to provide symptomatic relief of allergic signs caused by histamine release. The aim of the study was to learn whether the survival and the motor incoordination (ataxia) side effect of cetirizine administration is dosing time-dependent.
A total of 240 male Swiss mice, 10 weeks of age were synchronized for 3 weeks by 12 h light (rest span)/12 h dark (activity span). Different doses of cetirizine were administered orally at fixed times during the day to determine both the sublethal (TD(50)) and lethal (LD(50)) doses, which were, respectively, 55 +/- 0.35 and 750 +/- 0.40 mg/kg. In the chronotoxicologic study a single dose of cetirizine (DL(50)) was administered to comparable groups of animals at six different circadian stages [1, 5, 9, 13, 17, 21 h after light onset (HALO)].
The survival was statistically significant dosing time-dependent (chi(2) = 16.73; P < 0.001). Drug dosing at 17 HALO resulted in 83.3% survival rate whereas drug dosing at 5 HALO was only 23.25%. Cosinor analysis revealed a statistically significant circadian (period approximately 24 h) rhythmic component in survival. Lowest (20%) and highest (88%) ataxia occurred when cetirizine was administered, respectively, at 17 and 5 HALO. Cosinor analysis revealed a statistically significant circadian (period approximately 24 h) rhythmic component in ataxia.
Our results reveal that the best safety is shown when cetirizine is administered in the middle of the dark (activity) span of the mice, since it produces some side effects: ataxia and hyperthermia. Taking into account of the hour administration of cetirizine, improves treatment efficacy and permit the best control of allergic diseases.
