Patients who develop YMDD mutant during lamivudine therapy for hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection exhibit various clinical courses. Some patients show normal ALT levels, whereas others develop severe hepatitis exacerbations (SHEs) due to YMDD mutants. We studied 136 patients with YMDD mutant among 362 Japanese adult patients on lamivudine therapy. Clinical and virological features of patients without elevated HBV DNA after emergence of YMDD mutant (non-elevated group) were investigated. Moreover, virological analysis was also performed in patients with SHE due to YMDD mutants. Patients in the non-elevated group were characterized by HBeAg-negative pretreatment, HBeAg loss during therapy, a longer duration from commencement of therapy until emergence of YMDD mutant, and no mixed-type YMDD mutants. Patients with SHE had more substitutions in the reverse transcriptase (rt) region within the polymerase gene at the time of exacerbation than those without SHE, although no specific substitutions were noted. Sequence analysis of full-length HBV genome showed more substitutions in X, rt, and surface proteins in patients with SHE than in those without elevated HBV DNA level. In conclusion, negativity for HBeAg at commencement of therapy or before emergence of YMDD mutant was an important factor among non-elevated group. More substitutions in the rt region and the other proteins may be related to the emergence of severe hepatitis caused by lamivudine-resistant virus.
To investigate the role of the adenosine A1 receptor in the rapid tolerance to cerebral ischemia induced by isoflurane preconditioning.
Seventy-five rats were randomly assigned into five groups (n = 15 each): Control, 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropulxanthine (DPCPX), Isoflurane, DPCPX+Isoflurane and Vehicle+Isoflurane groups. All animals underwent right middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) for two hours. Isoflurane preconditioning was conducted one hour before MCAO in Isoflurane, DPCPX+Isoflurane and Vehicle+Isoflurane groups by exposing the animals to 1.5% isoflurane in 98% oxygen for one hour. In the Control and DPCPX groups, animals were exposed to 98% oxygen one hour before MCAO for one hour. A selective adenosine A1 receptor antagonist, DPCPX, was administered (0.1 mg x kg(-1)) 15 min before isoflurane/oxygen exposure in the DPCPX and DPCPX+Isoflurane groups to evaluate the effect of adenosine A1 receptor antagonist on isoflurane preconditioning. Dimethyl sulfoxide, the solvent of DPCPX, was administered (1 mL x kg(-1)) 15 min before isoflurane exposure in the Vehicle+Isoflurane group. Neurological deficit scores and brain infarct volumes were evaluated 24 hr after reperfusion.
Animals in the Isoflurane and Vehicle+Isoflurane groups developed lower neurological deficit scores and smaller brain infarct volumes than the Control group (P < 0.01). Animals in the DPCPX+Isoflurane group developed higher neurological deficit scores and larger brain infarct volumes than the Isoflurane and Vehicle+Isoflurane groups (P < 0.01).
The present study demonstrates that preconditioning with isoflurane reduces focal cerebral ischemic injury in rats, and the adenosine A1 receptor antagonist (DPCPX) attenuates the neuroprotection induced by isoflurane preconditioning.
In experiments performed in mice, Adriamycin (15 mg/kg i. p.) produced serious damage of the heart muscle. Damvar (2 x 200 mg/kg orally) a new cytostatic drug combined with Adriamycin decreased conspicuously its cardiotoxicity.
Deoxynivalenol (DON) and T-2 toxin commonly affect cells of the immune system and cause inflammation and apoptosis. Janus kinase/signal transducers and activators of transcription (JAK/STAT) pathway is highly associated with inflammatory process and apoptosis and is worth investigating its role when cells were exposed to trichothecenes. The results showed that DON and T-2 upregulated the messenger RNA (mRNA) expressions of interleukin (IL)-6, IL-1β, tumor necrosis factor-α, JAK1-2, STAT1-3, and suppressors of cytokine signaling members and activated the tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT1 and STAT3 with a dose-dependent manner in RAW264.7 cells. AG490 and Stattic, the specific inhibitors of JAK/STAT pathway, blocked the STAT1 and STAT3 tyrosine phosphorylation and decreased the gene expressions of proinflammatory cytokines induced by trichothecenes. Interestingly, the time when the mRNA levels of STAT1 and STAT3 were significantly upregulated was at 12 h, which was much later than the time when mitogen-activated protein kinase was activated, indicating that STATs might be the downstream targets of the trichothecenes. With the intervention of AG490 and Stattic, DON and T-2 toxin induced apoptosis in a strengthened way, with the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential and the decrease ratios of the B-cell leukemia/lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2)/bcl-2-associated X (Bax) and B-cell lymphoma-extra large (Bcl-xL)/Bax. After exposing to DON and T-2 toxin, cells exhibited G2/M and G0/G1 phase arrest, respectively. The increased mRNA expressions of STAT target genes p21 and cyclin D1 for DON and the increases in p21 mRNA and the decreases in cyclin D1 for T-2 toxin were observed. These results demonstrated for the first time that the activation of JAK/STAT might be a critical mediator to induce the inflammatory response and apoptosis in macrophage in response to trichothecenes.
Acute allergic interstitial nephritis (AIN) due to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) is a well known but rare adverse drug event. Here, we describe the case of a 70 year old woman with recurrent episodes of acute renal failure. A first episode of (AIN) occurred after the intake of mefenaminic acid tablets. A second episode of AIN occurred two years later, this time after transdermal application of diclofenac. Our case illustrates cross-reactivity between NSAIDs and shows that transdermally applied medication can cause systemic adverse events as well. Patients do not mention ointments because they often do not realize that ointments contain active substances, and physicians forget to ask.
Renal failure is a rare complication associated with the use of rifampicin for the treatment of tuberculosis, usually occurring well into the course of therapy. The following is a report of 2 cases of rifampicin-induced renal insufficiency. In the first case oligo-anuric renal failure occurred on the thirteenth day of treatment, after the patient had taken only 9 doses of medication. The second case occurred in a patient who developed renal failure while on daily therapy in the hospital. A literature review revealed 83 other reported cases of rifampicin-induced renal insufficiency. Intermittent or interrupted therapy appears to be a significant risk factor for the development of this complication.
A 67-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital because of anasarca due to refractory nephrotic syndrome and chronic renal insufficiency. Laboratory data indicated serum total protein of 4.8 g/dl, albumin of 1.5 g/dl, creatinine of 1.9 mg/dl and BUN of 17 mg/dl. Urinary protein excretion was 7.8 g/day. Because of severe atrophy of both kidneys, neither renal biopsy nor immunosuppressive treatment was performed. Since conservative management including bed rest, diet therapy, limitation of water intake and administration of diuretics was not effective, peritoneal dialysis therapy using icodextrin only at night was started. The amount of water removal was steadily secured without progressing renal dysfunction or decreasing urine volume. From day 290 onward, the urinary protein excretion was decreased to show complete remission and urine volume increased. On day 528, peritoneal dialysis was discontinued, and thereafter only peritoneal lavage was performed. On day 858, the catheter was removed from the abdominal cavity, and thereafter diuretics could be discontinued. The reason for the dramatic reduction of urinary protein in this patient is unclear. However, it is possible that the primary disease such as membranous nephritis showed remission while the patient was undergoing icodextrin peritoneal dialysis, which preserves renal function but not extracorporeal ultrafiltration or hemodialysis. Icodextrin peritoneal dialysis may be an alternative to hemodialysis for refractory fluid overload in patients with nephrotic syndrome and may have the advantage of preserving renal function.
Male germ cell DNA damage, after exposure to radiation, exogenous chemicals, or chemotherapeutic agents, is a major cause of male infertility. DNA-damaged spermatozoa can fertilize oocytes; this is of concern because there is limited information on the capacity of early embryos to repair a damaged male genome or on the fate of these embryos if repair is inadequate. We hypothesized that the early activation of DNA damage response in the early embryo is a critical determinant of its fate. The objective of this study was to assess the DNA damage response and mitochondrial function as a measure of the energy supply for DNA repair and general health in cleavage-stage embryos sired by males chronically exposed to an anticancer alkylating agent, cyclophosphamide. Male rats were treated with saline or cyclophosphamide (6 mg/kg/day) for 4 weeks and mated to naturally cycling females. Pronuclear two- and eight-cell embryos were collected for immunofluorescence analysis of mitochondrial function and biomarkers of the DNA damage response: γH2AX foci, 53BP1 reactivity, and poly(ADP-ribose) polymer formation. Mitochondrial activities did not differ between embryos sired by control- and cyclophosphamide-exposed males. At the two-cell stage, there was no treatment-related increase in DNA double-strand breaks; by the eight-cell stage, a significant increase was noted, as indicated by increased medium and large γH2AX foci. This was accompanied by a dampened DNA repair response, detected as a decrease in the nuclear intensity of poly(ADP-ribose) polymers. The micronuclei formed in cyclophosphamide-sired embryos contained large γH2AX foci and enhanced poly(ADP-ribose) polymer and 53BP1 reactivity compared with their nuclear counterparts. Thus, paternal cyclophosphamide exposure activated a DNA damage response in cleavage-stage embryos. Furthermore, this damage response may be useful in assessing embryo quality and developmental competence.
1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25(OH)2D3) receptors (VDR) are expressed in multiple tissues within the body. VDR levels are increased by 1,25(OH)2D3 in intestine and kidney and in numerous cell models. The ability of 1,25(OH)2D3 to affect VDR levels in other target tissues in vivo was studied by assessing VDR levels by the 3H-1,25(OH)2D3 binding assay under varied physiological conditions in the rat. When compared with vitamin D-deficient (-D) controls, rats raised on a normal vitamin D-sufficient (+D) diet showed elevated VDR levels in kidney (391 +/- 53 vs. 913 +/- 76 fmol/g of tissue;p < 0.05), but not in testis, heart, or lung. Up-regulation of the VDR also occurred in kidney of +D rats 1 day after a single 100-ng dose of 1,25(OH)2D3 (454 +/- 43 vs. 746 +/- 113 fmol/mg of DNA; p < 0.05), but no changes were seen in intestine, testis, or lung. Because 1,25(OH)2D3-induced hypercalcemia may independently affect VDR regulation, 1,25(OH)2D3 was infused into -D rats, and normocalcemia was maintained by reduced dietary calcium intake. In this model, the renal VDR was again up-regulated (446 +/- 115 vs. 778 +/- 58 fmol/mg of DNA; p < 0.05), but VDR levels in testis and lung were unaffected. Scatchard analysis and tests of 1,25(OH)2D3 dose (1-100 ng/day for 7 days) and temporal (100 ng/day for 1-7 days) responsiveness further supported the tissue-specific nature of the homologous VDR regulation. Assay of VDR levels by L-1-tosylamido-2-phenylethyl chloromethyl ketone-3H-1,25(OH)2D3 exchange assay ruled out differences in endogenous 1,25(OH)2D3 occupancy as the basis for the observed differences in VDR regulation. Finally, coidentity of the VDR-like sites in kidney versus testis was confirmed by competitive binding analysis comparing their relative affinities for 25(OH)D3 versus 1,25(OH)2D3 (30.5 +/- 6.4 vs. 35.6 +/- 3.6 in kidney and testis, respectively) and by immunoblot analysis using a highly specific monoclonal anti-rat VDR antibody. Thus, under a wide variety of experimental conditions, homologous up-regulation of the VDR occurs in the rat kidney in vivo, but not in several other target tissues which do not regulate plasma calcium homeostasis. Moreover, this differential VDR regulation did not result from secondary changes in plasma calcium, from differential 1,25(OH)2D3 responsiveness in the various tissues, nor from differences in endogenous 1,25(OH)2D3 occupancy of the VDR. These studies thus establish that, in contrast to observations in vitro, the widely described phenomenon of homologous VDR up-regulation in kidney and intestine is not a universal property of 1,25(OH)2D3 target tissues in vivo in the rat.
Silver-Russell syndrome (SRS) is a clinically and genetically heterogeneous condition characterised by severe intrauterine and postnatal growth retardation. Loss of DNA methylation at the telomeric imprinting control region 1 (ICR1) on 11p15 is an important cause of SRS.
We studied the methylation pattern at the H19-IGF2 locus in 201 patients with suspected SRS. In an attempt to categorise the patients into different subgroups, we developed a simple clinical scoring system with respect to readily and unambiguously assessable clinical features. In a second step, the relationship between clinical score and epigenetic status was analysed.
The scoring system emerged as a powerful tool for identifying those patients with both a definite SRS phenotype and carrying an epimutation at 11p15. 53% of the 201 patients initially enrolled fulfilled the criteria for SRS and about 40% of them exhibited an epimutation at the H19-IGF2 locus. Methylation defects were restricted to patients who fulfilled the diagnostic criteria for SRS. Patients carrying epimutations had a more severe phenotype than either the SRS patients with mUPD7 or the idiopathic SRS patients. The majority of patients with methylation abnormalities showed hypomethylation at both the H19 and IGF2 genes. However, we also identified SRS patients where hypomethylation was restricted to either the H19 or the IGF2 gene. Interestingly, we detected epimutations in siblings of normal parents, most likely reflecting germ cell mosaicism in the fathers. In one family, we identified an epimutation in an affected father and his likewise affected daughter.
Factors from the neurohypophysis are important in the control of anterior pituitary function. This study evaluated the hypothesis that the neurophypophysis is an integral component of the adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) response to certain stimuli. Furthermore, we investigated the possibility that the importance of the neurohypophysis during corticotropic stimuli can be classified by the magnitude of the systemic vasopressin response induced. The ACTH response to insulin-induced hypoglycemia (INS), nitroprusside hypotension (NP), or ovine corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) infusion (20 ng/kg/min) was measured in dogs before (intact) and greater than 2 weeks after selective transbuccal neurohypophysectomy (NHX). INS (0.2 U/kg) resulted in a significant decrease in plasma glucose from 93 +/- 1 to 33 +/- 2 mg/dl at 30 min and a significant increase in plasma ACTH from 53 +/- 10 to 306 +/- 33 pg/ml in intact dogs whereas the vasopressin (AVP) response was small (2.8 +/- 0.3 to 5.5 +/- 0.7 pg/ml). NHX had no effect on the blood glucose or ACTH response to INS. NP resulted in large increases in ACTH from 54 +/- 8 to 351 +/- 89 pg/ml and in AVP from 2.7 +/- 0.2 to 272 +/- 98 pg/ml. In contrast to INS, NHX significantly attenuated the ACTH and AVP responses to NP. The ACTH response to CRF was not attenuated by NHX, indicating normal pituitary corticotropic function. In summary, NHX attenuated the ACTH response to hypotension (large peripheral AVP response) but not to INS or CRF (small peripheral AVP response).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The response of cerebral blood flow (CBF) to drug-induced hypotension was measured in 20 patients who underwent craniotomy for clipping of a cerebral aneurysm following subarachnoid hemorrhage. A modified intravenous xenon-133 injection technique was used to monitor CBF. In 15 patients, CBF increased significantly with hypotension, and only one developed a late neurological deficit. In five patients, CBF fell with halothane-induced hypotension, and four developed delayed neurological deficits. Measurement of the intraoperative CBF response to halothane-induced hypotension may reveal those patients at greatest risk of developing late neurological deficits and who require more intensive postoperative monitoring and early use of the induced hypertension technique.
The purpose of this investigation was to determine the utility of fast-twitch skeletal muscle troponin I (fsTnI) and urinary myoglobin (uMB) as biomarkers of skeletal muscle injury in 8-week-old Sprague-Dawley rats. fsTnI and uMB were quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and compared with standard clinical assays including creatine kinase, aldolase, aspartate aminotransferase, and histopathological assessments. Detectable levels of uMB were normalized to urinary creatinine to control for differences in renal function. Seven compounds, including those with toxic effects on skeletal muscle, cardiac muscle, or liver, were evaluated. fsTnI was typically nondetectable (< 5.9 ng/ml serum) in vehicle-treated female and male rats but increased in a dose-dependent manner to at least 300 ng/ml in cerivastatin-induced severe fast-twitch specific myotoxicity. Minimal myopathy induced by investigational compounds BMS-600149 and BMS-687453 increased serum fsTnI to about 30-50 ng/ml, suggesting a reasonable dynamic range for detecting mild to severe skeletal muscle toxicity. In direct contrast, fsTnI was only marginally increased relative to population control values in rats treated with triamcinolone acetonide, which produces muscle atrophy or the cardiotoxins isoproterenol and CoCl2. uMB was typically nondetectable (< 1.6 ng/ml urine) in vehicle-treated female and male rats but increased to approximately 140, 300, and 30 ng/mg creatinine in rats treated with cerivastatin, BMS-687453, and triamcinolone acetonide, respectively. Cardiotoxicity also increased uMB in rats treated with isoproterenol and CoCl2 with urine concentrations ranging from 20 to 30 ng/mg creatinine. Severe hepatotoxicity (coumarin) did not significantly affect serum fsTnI or uMB levels. Collectively, these data suggest that fsTnI is specific for skeletal muscle toxicity, whereas uMB is nonspecific, increasing with skeletal muscle and cardiac toxicity. Accordingly, the complement of fsTnI and uMB, in conjunction with standard clinical assays may comprise a useful diagnostic panel for assessing drug-induced myopathy in rats.
The exact mechanisms of the relationship between obesity and cardiovascular events are not yet fully understood; however, oxidative stress may be involved. Thus, the aim of the present study was to evaluate the effects of resveratrol and fish oil on catecholamine-induced mortality in obese rats. To begin with, rats were divided into five groups: (1) lean, (2) obese, (3) obese supplemented with resveratrol, (4) obese supplemented with fish oil and (5) obese supplemented with resveratrol and fish oil (n 18 rats per group), for 2 months. After supplementation, the groups were subdivided as with (n 10) and without (n 8) cardiovascular catecholaminergic stress after isoproterenol (60 mg/kg) injection. At 24 h later, the survival rate was analysed. The obese group showed lower survival rates (10 %) when compared with the lean group (70 %). On the other hand, resveratrol (50 %) and fish oil (40 %) increased the survival rate of obese rats (χ(2) test, P= 0·019). Biochemical analyses of the myocardium and aorta revealed that obese rats had higher levels of superoxide and oxidative damage to lipids and protein. This was associated with reduced superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase activity in both the myocardium and aorta. The supplementation increased antioxidant enzyme activities and reduced oxidative damage. We also evaluated the nuclear factor-erythroid 2 p45-related factor 2 (Nrf2)/Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 antioxidant pathway. Nrf2 protein levels that were reduced in obese rats were increased by the antioxidant treatment. Taken together, these results showed that resveratrol and fish oil reduce catecholamine-induced mortality in obese rats, partly through the reduction of oxidative stress.
Use of multiagent chemotherapy has been associated with complete remission (CR) in approximately 50% of patients with newly diagnosed acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)-lymphoma, although additional AIDS-related complications may occur. Both chemotherapy and antiretroviral therapy were employed in an attempt to ascertain if the combination was safe, and associated with changes in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) p24 antigen levels during the course of treatment.
Low dose methotrexate, bleomycin, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and dexamethasone(M-BACOD) chemotherapy and zalcitabine (ddC) were employed in 28 patients. Since both vincristine and zalcitabine may cause peripheral neuropathy, a Phase I/II study design was employed. Serum was analyzed for immune complex dissociated (ICD) HIV p24 antigen and interleukin (IL)-6 levels during therapy.
CR was achieved in 14 of 25 patients (56%), with partial response (PR) in 5 (20%). CRs were equivalent in patients with good or poor prognostic indicators, including a history of AIDS prior to lymphoma (CR = 60%); and/or CD4 lymphocytes < 200/mm3 (CR = 53%). Five patients with a CR subsequently relapsed (36%); median survival of CR patients was 29.2 months (4.1-61+), whereas that of all of the treated patients was 8.1 months. No significant peripheral neuropathy or other toxicity was observed. Serum ICD p24 antigen levels either fell (7/14) or remained consistently negative (2/14) in 9 of 14 patients (64%), whereas 36% experienced an increase. Elevated serum IL-6 levels at diagnosis were associated with systemic "B" symptoms (P = 0.023), whereas changes in IL-6 correlated with response to therapy over time (P = 0.006).
Combination antineoplastic and zalcitabine antiretroviral therapy may be safely administered to patients with AIDS-related lymphoma, resulting in CR in 56%, lack of significant neurotoxicity, and favorable effect on HIV p24 antigen in 50%. Elevation of serum IL-6 is associated with systemic "B" symptoms, whereas changes in serum IL-6 may correlate with response.
Neuropeptide S (NPS) is a recently discovered neuropeptide that increases arousal and wakefulness while decreasing anxiety-like behavior. Here, we used a self-administration paradigm to demonstrate that intracerebroventricular infusion of NPS reinstates extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior in a dose-dependent manner in mice. The highest dose of NPS (0.45 nM) increased active lever pressing in the absence of cocaine to levels that were equivalent to those observed during self-administration. In addition, we examined the role of the corticotropin-releasing factor receptor 1 (CRF(1)) in this behavior as well as locomotor stimulation and anxiolysis. CRF(1) knock-out mice did not respond to either the locomotor stimulant or cocaine reinstatement effects of NPS, but still responded to its anxiolytic effect. The CRF(1) antagonist antalarmin also blocked the increase in active lever responding in the reinstatement model and the locomotor activating properties of NPS without affecting its anxiolytic actions. Our results suggest that NPS receptors may be an important target for drug abuse research and treatment and that CRF(1) mediates the cocaine-seeking and locomotor stimulant effects of NPS, but not its effects on anxiety-like behavior.
To examine whether there is a differential genetic susceptibility in the diphasic and peak-dose forms of levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LID) in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). The study cohort comprised 503 unrelated Korean PD patients who were treated with levodopa and had a disease duration of at least 5 years. The presence of LID was identified during a routine follow-up and special care was taken to separate the two distinct forms of LID into diphasic and peak-dose dyskinesias (PDSK). Genotyping was performed in the 503 patients and in 559 healthy controls to search for polymorphisms of DRD3 p.S9G, DRD2 Taq1A, GRIN2B c.2664C>T, c.366C>G, c.-200T>G, and the promoter region of SLC6A4. A total of 229 patients expressed LID (peak-dose in 205, diphasic in 57, and both in 33). The presence of diphasic dyskinesia (DDSK) was exclusively associated with the DRD3 p.S9G variant after adjusting for gender, age at PD onset, Hoehn & Yahr stage, and duration of levodopa treatment. Carrying the AA genotype was likely to shorten the onset of DDSK according to the duration of levodopa therapy (P = 0.02). The presence of PDSK was not significantly associated with any of the six genetic variants studied. There may be a genetic susceptibility in the development of DDSK in PD patients on chronic levodopa therapy, and its underlying pathophysiological mechanism might be distinct from that of PDSK.
In order to evaluate the interference of prolactin (PRL) on some aspects of pituitary-gonadal derangement observed in patients with hyperprolactinaemic amenorrhoea (HA), a GnRH stimulation test (100 micrograms i.v.) was performed on twenty-one patients with hyperprolactinaemia without evidence of pituitary tumour and in nine subjects with Turner's syndrome (TS) before and after sulpiride administration (200 mg/day orally, for 3 months). In patients with HA an enhanced response of gonadotrophins to GnRH was observed. In patients with TS a further increase of the gonadotrophin hyper-responsiveness to the releasing hormone occurred when hyperprolactinaemia was induced by chronic sulpiride administration. Since, in these patients, appreciable ovarian steroidogenesis is lacking, a direct effect of the increased plasma PRL at the hypothalamo-pituitary level is likely. In hyperprolactinaemic amenorrhoea pituitary hyper-responsiveness may not be due to PRL effects on ovarian steroidogenesis.
Spermatogonial stem cells (SSCs) are the foundation of spermatogenesis and represent a crucial resource for male fertility restoration. It has not been well documented, however, whether the recovery of SSC population size after cytotoxic damage associates with the kinetics of male fertility restoration. We addressed this issue using the mouse as a model.
Following single injections of busulfan at 15, 30 or 45 mg/kg into male mice, we examined their ability to sire offspring at different times by natural mating and determined SSC numbers using spermatogonial transplantation. We measured testis physiological parameters (testis weights, sperm counts, serum and intratesticular testosterone levels, and histological assessments of spermatogenic recovery) and quantified the expression of glial-cell-line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) transcripts.
Regardless of busulfan doses, fertility was lost within 4 weeks after treatment, while more than 95% of SSCs were lost within 3 days. Fertility and SSC numbers gradually recovered with time, but the recoveries were delayed at higher busulfan doses. Interestingly, SSC numbers reached ∼30% of before-treatment levels by 4 weeks prior to the time of fertility restoration, across the dose groups. Sperm counts were ∼20% of before-treatment levels at the onset of fertility restoration, regardless of busulfan doses. We detected a significant increase in total GDNF mRNA per testis immediately after busulfan treatment.
The loss and restoration of fertility after busulfan treatment are direct consequences of SSC loss and expansion. Our data suggest that there is a threshold in SSC numbers that allows for male fertility restoration and that the testicular somatic environment responds rapidly and temporarily to the loss of spermatogonia, including SSCs, by altering GDNF mRNA levels. This study provides fundamental information to clinically apply SSCs for male fertility restoration in the future.
Environmental exposure, genetic modification, and aging are considered risky for Parkinson's disease (PD). How these risk factors cooperate to induce progressive neurodegeneration in PD remains largely unknown. Paraquat is an herbicide commonly used for weed and grass control. Exposure to paraquat is associated with the increased incidence of PD. In contrast to familial PD, most sporadic PD cases do not have genetic mutation, but may suffer from partial dysfunction of neuron-protective genes as aging. Using conditional transgenic RNAi, we showed that temporal silencing of PINK1 expression in adult mice increased striatal dopamine, the phenotype that could not be induced by constitutive gene silencing. Moreover, early exposure to paraquat sensitized dopaminergic neurons to subsequent silencing of PINK1 gene expression, leading to a significant loss of dopaminergic neurons. Our findings suggest a novel pathogenesis of PD: exposure to environmental toxicants early in the life reduces the threshold of developing PD and partial dysfunction of neuron-protective genes later in the life initiates a process of progressive neurodegeneration to cross the reduced threshold of disease onset.
Freezing episodes and related phenomena (as a general term, motor blocks [MBs]) are poorly understood, particularly disabling, and a therapeutically frustrating problem in Parkinson's disease (PD). Epidemiologic and clinical characteristics of MBs, as well as risk factors to develop MBs, have never been fully addressed. Herein, we report our database survey on 990 PD patients, of whom 318 (32%) had MBs. The majority of MBs were linked to gait. Start hesitation occurred in 86%, blocking on turning in 45%, and blocking in narrow spaces in 25% of patients. Initial parkinsonian symptoms in the upper body and tremor as the initial motor symptom were less likely to be associated with the presence of MBs (odds ratios [OR] 0.6 and 0.7, respectively), while initial symptoms affecting gait or trunk had higher association with MBs (OR = 1.58). Longer disease duration, higher Hoehn and Yahr stage, and longer duration of levodopa treatment are all significantly associated with the presence of MBs. We observed significant association between the existence of MBs and levodopa-induced dyskinesias to suggest similar pathophysiology. We propose that MBs in PD are abnormal retrieval or execution of complex motor tasks that can occur as a result of disease progression or as short- or long-term side effects of levodopa treatment.
We analyzed clinical characteristics of painful dystonic foot response (PDFR) which was observed in 7 patients with Parkinson's disease during levodopa therapy. PDFR was divided into 3 types, (1) early morning type (2) end of dose type (3) peak dose type, according to the serum levodopa concentration and clinical picture. Four patients showed different type of PDFR during observation. Provocative factors included stimulations to sole such as sacking or standing, abrupt change of mode of levodopa administration. Clonazepam ameliorated markedly the frequency and severity of PDFR in 3 out of 4 patients. Several trials to reduced fluctuation of the serum levodopa concentration such as fractionation into small doses and frequent administration, and to use of levodopa alone instead of dopa-decarboxylase inhibitor combined tablet, failed to show improvement and gave rather transient aggravation. For the control of PDFR most important thing was the reduction of dosage of levodopa. The efforts to avoid the above provocative factor are also needed. If the patient suffered from the frequent PDFR attack, the PDFR ameliorating drugs such as clonazepam would be useful.
SUNCT syndrome (short-lasting unilateral neuralgiform headache attacks with conjunctival injection and tearing) is a primary headache characterised by a high frequency of attacks associated with marked autonomic periocular signs and symptoms. Activation of the hypothalamus via the superior salivary nucleus is probably responsible for some of the autonomic involvement observed during SUNCT attacks. We describe a case of SUNCT with unusual autonomic features (e.g., mydriasis) and early onset. Pupillometric studies were performed both in a basal condition (without anisocoria) and after instillation of phenylephrine (a drug with direct sympathomimetic activity) and pilocarpine (a parasympathetic agonist). The findings in this patient seem to indicate involvement of the ocular sympathetic supply in SUNCT, responsible for the mydriasis, and seem to strengthen the possibility that the autonomic phenomena in this syndrome vary with different levels of pain severity.
To determine the effect of botulinum toxin type A (BTX-A) on the release of the neuropeptides substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) from isolated bladder preparations after acute injury with HCl and the induction of cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis, as neurogenic inflammation has been increasingly identified in urological disorders such as interstitial cystitis.
Adult rats had either an intraperitoneal injection with CYP or saline over a 10-day period to induce chronic bladder inflammation, after which the bladder was harvested, or normal bladder explants were injured acutely with incubation (20 s) in HCl (0.4 m). To measure the effect of BTX-A on the release of neurotransmitters, harvested bladders were incubated in an organ bath containing BTX-A (10 U) or vehicle. Bladders were transferred to a subsequent bath (physiological saline) and incubated for 15 min, and the bathing medium analysed to measure neurotransmitter release, as determined by radioimmunoassay. Bladder specimens from sham treatment, controls and experimental rats were compared histologically.
Acute injury with HCl caused a significantly greater release of both CGRP and SP release (1235 and 1655 pg/g, respectively) than in controls (183 and 449 pg/g, respectively; P < 0.001). This increase in neurotransmitter release was partly inhibited by exposure to BTX-A (870 and 1033 pg/g (P < 0.05 and <0.01). CYP-induced chronic inflammation caused significantly greater release of SP than in the controls (1060 and 605 pg/g, respectively; P < 0.005). Exposure to BTX-A partly inhibited the release of SP after CYP-induced cystitis (709 pg/g, P < 0.05).
The application of BTX-A inhibits the release of sensory neurotransmitters from isolated bladder preparations in rat bladder models of both acute injury and chronic inflammation, suggesting a potential clinical benefit of BTX-A in the treatment of neurogenic inflammation.
Previous studies have demonstrated expression of Toll-like receptors (TLRs) in the surface epithelium of normal ovaries (OSE) and in epithelial ovarian tumors. Most notably, OSE-derived cancers express TLR4, which activates the nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) signaling cascade as a mediator of inflammatory response. Currently, there is considerable interest in elucidating the role of TLR-mediated signaling in cancers. Nevertheless, the expression of TLRs in granulosa cell tumors (GCTs) of the ovary, and the extent to which GCT expression of TLRs may influence cell-signaling pathways and/or modulate the efficacy of chemotherapeutics, has yet to be determined. In the present study, human GCT lines (COV434 and KGN) were utilized to evaluate expression of functional TLR4. TLR4 is expressed in GCT cell lines and ligation of TLR4 with bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) led to IκB degradation and activation of NF-κB. NF-κB activation was confirmed by nuclear localization of NF-κB p65 following treatment with LPS and the naturally occurring ligand, HSP60. Notably, immunoneutralization of TLR4 blocked nuclear localization, and inhibition of NF-κB signaling attenuated LPS-induced TNFα plus increased doubling time in both cell lines. Contradictory to reports using human OSE cell lines, inhibition of NF-κB signaling failed to sensitize GCT lines to TRAIL or cisplatin. In summary, findings herein are the first to demonstrate a functional TLR-signaling pathway specifically in GCTs, and indicate that in contrast to OSE-derived cancers, inhibition of NF-κB does not sensitize GCTs to TRAIL or cisplatin.
Hepatic venoocclusive disease (HVOD) is a complication of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) and is a well-recognized dose-limiting toxicity of oral busulfan (Bu)-based preparative regimens. The unpredictable absorption of oral Bu from the gastrointestinal (GI) tract and hepatic first-pass effects have led to the development of an intravenous Bu preparation (i.v. Bu). The purpose of this retrospective comparison was to evaluate the incidence rate of HVOD and the 100-day mortality rate in patients treated with a busulfan/cyclophosphamide (BuCy2) regimen in which either oral Bu or i.v. Bu was administered. Data from 2 similar groups of patients treated between March 1995 and December 1997 were analyzed. Thirty patients were treated with oral Bu (1 mg/kg x 16 doses) at City of Hope and 61 patients were treated with i.v. Bu (0.8 mg/kg x 16 doses) in a multicenter trial involving 7 sites. Bu was followed by Cy (60 mg/kg x 2 days) and a histocompatible-sibling-donor HSCT. In the i.v. Bu treatment group, 48% of the patients were classified as heavily pretreated (> or = 3 prior chemotherapy regimens, prior radiation, or prior HSCT) with 13% having had a prior HSCT and 75% having active disease at the time of transplantation. According to the same classification criteria, 33% of the patients in the oral-Bu treatment group were considered heavily pretreated, with 23% having had a prior HSCT and 80% having active disease at the time of transplantation. The incidence rates of clinically diagnosed HVOD were 5/61 (8%) and 10/30 (33%) after i.v. and oral Bu, respectively. HVOD-related mortality occurred in 2 (3.3%) of 61 i.v. and 6 (20%) of 30 oral Bu patients. The (standardized) Jones criteria for HVOD were met by 4.9% of i.v. and 20% of oral Bu patients. Univariate logistic regression analysis identified oral versus i.v. Bu (P = .001) and a diagnosis of myelodysplastic syndrome (P = .04) as statistically significant factors in the development of HVOD, with prior extensive treatment identified as marginally significant (P = .25). No other demographic parameter was found to be significant. After adjustment for prior treatment, multivariate analyses showed that the use of oral versus i.v. Bu was the strongest predictor for development of HVOD (odds ratio, 7.5; 95% confidence interval, 2.1-27.2; P = .002). This study showed that the incidence rate of HVOD is significantly lower (P = .002) and the 100-day survival rate significantly higher (P = .002) in patients treated with i.v. Bu than in patients treated with oral Bu when Bu is used as part of a BuCy2 preparative regimen for allogeneic HSCT.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease was defined recently as another symptom of insulin resistance. Continuous therapy with valproate can result in increased body weight and insulin resistance, but no data are yet available on a possible relationship between valproate and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. We here demonstrate in abdominal ultrasound investigations that characteristics of fatty liver disease were present in 61% of valproate-treated patients as compared with 23% receiving carbamazepine therapy.
