The recent and significant increase of cocaine abuse has emerged as a major public health problems. Cocaine abuse is frequently associated with multiorganic lesions, including renal failure. We report the light-microscopic features of the progression of renal lesions produced by chronic cocaine administration in rats. Male Wistar rats weighing 225-250 g were used. Twenty eight rats received an aqueous solution of cocaine hydrochloride (30 mg/kg/day i.p.) daily, while 28 control rats were injected i.p. daily with a saline solution. Rats from both groups were sacrificed after 7, 15, 30, 45, 60, 75 and 90 days of treatment. The histopathological study showed early changes on day 15, with damage to glomerular capillary walls and swelling of tubular epithelium, and lesions progressed to 90 days with development of glomerular atrophy and sclerosis. The tubular epithelial cells were necrotic and sloughed, and the lumen of papillary ducts contained destroyed red blood cell (RBC) casts. The interstitium had numerous foci of necrosis and haemorrhage. The results show that chronic treatment with cocaine in rats produce severe lesions both to glomerular, interstitium and tubular cells.
Inhalation of benzene at levels below the current exposure limit values leads to hematotoxicity in occupationally exposed workers.
We sought to evaluate Diversity Outbred (DO) mice as a tool for exposure threshold assessment and to identify genetic factors that influence benzene-induced genotoxicity.
We exposed male DO mice to benzene (0, 1, 10, or 100 ppm; 75 mice/exposure group) via inhalation for 28 days (6 hr/day for 5 days/week). The study was repeated using two independent cohorts of 300 animals each. We measured micronuclei frequency in reticulocytes from peripheral blood and bone marrow and applied benchmark concentration modeling to estimate exposure thresholds. We genotyped the mice and performed linkage analysis.
We observed a dose-dependent increase in benzene-induced chromosomal damage and estimated a benchmark concentration limit of 0.205 ppm benzene using DO mice. This estimate is an order of magnitude below the value estimated using B6C3F1 mice. We identified a locus on Chr 10 (31.87 Mb) that contained a pair of overexpressed sulfotransferases that were inversely correlated with genotoxicity.
The genetically diverse DO mice provided a reproducible response to benzene exposure. The DO mice display interindividual variation in toxicity response and, as such, may more accurately reflect the range of response that is observed in human populations. Studies using DO mice can localize genetic associations with high precision. The identification of sulfotransferases as candidate genes suggests that DO mice may provide additional insight into benzene-induced genotoxicity.
A C825T polymorphism has been identified for the gene encoding the G-protein beta 3 subunit ( GNB3 ). The 825T allele is associated with hypertension and obesity, which in turn are closely linked with resistance to the metabolic and vascular effects of insulin. We hypothesized that venodilation in response to insulin would be impaired in GNB3 825T-allele carriers. Because vasodilatory properties of insulin are mainly mediated by nitric oxide, we also investigated the influence of the T-786C polymorphism of the gene for endothelial nitric oxide synthase ( NOS3 ) on insulin-mediated venous responses.
We used the linear variable transducer technique to compare dorsal hand vein compliance in 31 young, healthy men ( GNB3 C825T: 15 CC, 14 CT, and 2 TT; NOS3 T-786C: 14 TT, 13 TC, and 4 CC). Individual dose-response curves to phenylephrine (3.2-10,000 ng/min) were established, and veins were preconstricted by a constant infusion of phenylephrine at the individual dose needed to procure 70% of maximal constriction. Then insulin was infused (50-250,000 microU/min), and the changes in venous diameter were recorded.
Venous response to insulin was biphasic, with venoconstriction at low doses being followed by venodilation at higher doses. Insulin dose-response curves of GNB3 825T-allele carriers were significantly shifted to the right (ANOVA, P < .001, versus CC). NOS3 T-786C-allele carrier status had no influence on insulin-induced vascular responses ( P = .60 for TC/CC versus TT).
This study is the first to show the influence of a genetic polymorphism on insulin-mediated venodilation in men in vivo. Further studies are needed to determine whether these results translate to other vascular beds, and possible gender-specific differences remain to be investigated.
A young woman with acute intermittent porphyria (AIP) and juvenile myoclonic epilepsy began to have generalized tonic-clonic seizures (GTCs) at age 13. Subsequently, she had myoclonic seizures, which were often precipitated by visual stimulation, tended to occur in the morning, and sometimes evolved into GTCs. Valproate (VPA) resulted in a worsening of latent AIP, and treatment with a combination of phenytoin (PHT), carbamazepine (CBZ), and clonazepam (CZP) led to severe neuropathy of AIP and an electrolyte imbalance. These conditions were improved by water restriction, infusion of high doses of carbohydrates, and discontinuation of all antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) except for CZP. CZP appeared to be effective both in improving GTCs and myoclonic seizures and did not induce any symptoms of AIP. CZP may be porphyrogenic but can be used safely at a low dose for treatment of epilepsy in patients with AIP.
Retinal toxicity of chloroquine has been known for several years, but the mechanism(s) of toxicity remain controversial; some author support the idea that the binding of chloroquine to melanin pigments in the retinal pigmented epithelium (RPE) play a major toxic role by concentrating the drug in the eye. In our study, 12 albinos Sprague-Dawley (SD) and 12 pigmented Brown Norway (BN) rats were treated orally for 3 months with chloroquine to compare functional and pathological findings. On Flash electroretinograms (ERG) performed in scotopic conditions, similar and progressive (time-dependent) delayed onset and decreased amplitudes of oscillatory potentials (from Day 71) and b-waves (on Day 92) were identified in both BN and SD rats. In both strains, identical morphological changes consisted of neuronal phospholipidosis associated with UV auto-fluorescence without evidence of retinal degeneration and gliosis; the RPE did not show any morphological lesions or autofluorescence. IHC analyses demonstrated a decrease in GABA expression in the inner nuclear layer. In addition, a marked accumulation of synaptic vesicles coupled with a marked disruption of neurofilaments in the optic nerve fibers was identified. In conclusion, ERG observations were very similar to those described in humans. Comparable ERG modifications, histopathology and immunohistochemistry findings were observed in the retina of both rat strains suggesting that melanin pigment is unlikely involved. chloroquine-induced impairment of synaptic vesicle transport, likely related to disruption of neurofilaments was identified and non-previously reported. This new mechanism of toxicity may also be responsible for the burry vision described in humans chronically treated with chloroquine.
Drug-induced haemolytic anaemia can be life threatening. We report a case of ceftriaxone-induced severe haemolytic anaemia in a previously healthy 68-year-old woman. The patient had a positive direct antiglobulin test (anti-C3d positive, anti-immunoglobulin G negative). Serological tests showed ceftriaxone-specific antibodies. The patient recovered after cessation of the drug. This complication may cause milder anaemia and thus be poorly recognized.
Cutaneous leishmaniasis is presently treated with 20 days of parenteral therapy with a frequently toxic drug (antimony). Topical formulations of paromomycin (15%) plus methylbenzethonium chloride (MBCL, 12%) or plus urea (10%) in soft white paraffin have been tested for Old and New World disease in humans. We compared the efficacy of a new topical formulation, WR 279,396 (paromomycin [15%] plus gentamicin [0.5%]) to the clinical formulations in the treatment of cutaneous disease in BALB/c mice. Sixty-day-old lesions were treated twice a day for 10 days, and the response to therapy was determined over a further 70 days. For ulcers due to Leishmania major or to Leishmania mexicana, 100% of lesions in the WR 279,396 group healed by day 20 after therapy and did not relapse by day 70; 83% of lesions healed without relapse in the paromomycin-MBCL group. In the paromomycin-urea group, 100% of L. major lesions healed by day 30 but 30% relapsed. For ulcers due to Leishmania panamensis or Leishmania amazonensis, all lesions treated with WR 279,396 healed and did not relapse; < 50% of lesions treated with paromomycin-MBCL healed by day 30, and all lesions relapsed by day 70. In addition to being active, WR 279,396 was not toxic in this model and appears to have a cosmetic effect (promoting hair growth, healing, and limiting the size of the scar).
Acute hepatitis with lactic acidosis is a life-threatening but reversible toxic effect on mitochondria of HIV-1 nucleoside-analogue treatment. We report fatal portal hypertension, liver failure, and persistent mitochondrial dysfunction in a man aged 65 years with HIV-1 infection who had recovered from nucleoside-analogue-induced acute hepatitis and lactic acidaemia more than 18 months previously. We believe that symptom free patients who receive nucleoside-analogue therapy should have hepatic function constantly monitored, especially those with past or present lactic acidaemia.
To retrospectively analyze the treatment outcomes and side effects of childhood acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) treated with all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) or ATRA + arsenic trioxide (As2O3).
From 1992 to 2006, 45 patients with newly diagnosed APL were enrolled. All of them were PML-RAR alpha positive. 24 patients were induced with ATRA (group A) and 21 with ATRA + As2O3 (group B). The remission rate and side effects were observed.
1) 19 (79.2%) patients in group A achieved CR, while 21(100%) patients in group B achieved CR. The CR rate in group A was lower than that in group B (P=0.027). 2) The recovery time of coagulation parameters and PLT count in group B was shorter than that in group A. 3) The overall survival (OS) and event-free survival(EFS) in group A were 77.8% and 66.9% at 41 months of follow-up, and in group B were 100% and 100% respectively at 34 months of followup. Group A had a significant lower EFS (P=0.0357)than group B. 4) The time of PML-RAR alpha fusion gene converting to negative in group A was longer (P=0.026) than that in group B.
ATRA + As2O3 for patients with newly diagnosed childhood APL is a feasible treatment with higher CR rate, less side effects and longer long-term survival.
The interactions of caffeine (CAS 58-08-2) with acetylsalicylic acid (CAS 50-78-2, ASA) and paracetamol (CAS 103-90-2) were investigated with regard to the analgesic, antiphlogistic, antipyretic and other properties. The inhibitory effect of paracetamol and ASA on the prostaglandin biosynthesis in a cyclooxygenase preparation from bovine brain in vitro was not affected by the addition of caffeine. Caffeine additively increases the antinociceptive effect of paracetamol with regard to the heat-induced pain in the mouse, as does aminophenazone. The antinociceptive effect of aminophenazone on the mechanically induced pain in the mouse is also additively increased by caffeine. In contrast to the effect of aminophenazone on the inflammatory pain in the rat, the effect of ASA is not increased by caffeine and that of paracetamol only negligibly. The antipyretic effect of paracetamol is additively increased by caffeine in the normothermic rat. The antipyretic effect of ASA and paracetamol on the yeast-induced pyrexia of the rat is not affected by caffeine. Caffeine additively increases the acute antiexudative effect of ASA and aminophenazone on the carageenin-induced oedema of the hind paw of the rat. The increase in locomotor activity caused by caffeine in mouse and rat is neutralised or diminished when the caffeine is given in combination with paracetamol. This effect is maintained even if the rats are pretreated with the combination of active ingredients for 3 weeks. The ulcerogenic effect of ASA in the stomach of the rat is not increased by caffeine. The protective effect of ASA against the hepatotoxic effect of paracetamol in the mouse is not influenced by the addition of caffeine. The plasma levels after the oral administration of 20 mg/caffeine/ kg and 80 mg paracetamol/kg in the rat are not significantly changed when the substances are given in combination. The toxicological advantages resulting from combining ASA and paracetamol with caffeine are discussed.
To investigate the expression variation of RAR-β2, RASSF1A, and CDKN2A gene in the process of nickel-induced carcinogenesis.
Nickel subsulfide (Ni(3)S(2)) at dose of 10 mg was given to Wistar rats by intramuscular injection. The mRNA expression of the three genes in induced tumors and their lung metastasis were examined by Real-time PCR. The methylation status of the 5' region of these genes were detected by Quantitative Real-time methylation specific PCR.
The mRNA expressions of the three genes both in muscle and lung tumor were decreased distinctly in comparison with normal tissue. But hypermethylation was found only in muscle tumor.
These findings suggest that loss of function or decrease of RAR-β2, RASSF1A, and CDKN2A, as well as the hypermethylation of 5' region of these genes, are related with nickel exposure.
OK-432 is known to increase the host antitumor response. We previously reported that systemic administration of OK-432 (OK-Lipo) specifically induced hepatic lymphocytes in mice. Here we aimed to investigate the antitumor effect of OK-Lipo on hepatocellular carcinomas (HCC) in experimental rats.
Diethylnitrosamine was administered for 12 weeks to all rats (n = 36). Rats were divided into three groups of 12 rats each. One group was injected with OK-Lipo from week 5 (OK-5w group) and another from week 9 (OK-9w group). A control group was injected with saline from week 5 (Non-OK group). At week 13, five rats from each group were used for histological analysis and immunofluorescence assays (surface phenotypic and intracellular cytokine analysis of the mononuclear cells in the liver, spleen and peripheral blood). The remaining rats were observed for the remainder of their survival period.
The mean survival times of Non-OK, OK-5w, and OK-9w groups differed significantly (98.0 +/- 5.3 days, 116.0 +/- 5.8 days, and 106.0 +/- 5.4 days, respectively, P < 0.01). Histological examination revealed many apoptotic tumor cells, infiltration of lymphocytes and macrophages in the OK-5w group. The two-color immunofluorescence assay showed that the proportion of natural killer (NK) cells and IFN-gamma-producing cells in the liver were significantly higher in the OK-5w group.
These findings showed that systemic administration of OK-Lipo contributed to prolonging the survival of rats with HCC. OK-Lipo induced NK cells and IFN-gamma-producing cells specifically in the liver and these cells seemed to reduce hepatocarcinogenesis and tumor growth.
Based on clinical evidence that prolonged exposure to anti-neoplastic agents may ameliorate dose-limiting toxicity while facilitating anti-tumor activity, we conducted a phase I trial of 14-day continuous intravenous infusion mitoxantrone. Study objectives were to: (1) determine the maximally tolerated dose for phase II trials; (2) determine the incidence and severity of side effects; and (3) study the pharmacokinetics of continuous infusion mitoxantrone. Sixteen patients with drug-resistant advanced cancers were entered into the trial. Three or more patients were treated at each dose level (1.0, 1.25, and 1.5 mg/m2/day) for a total of 33 courses (mean 2.1 courses/patient, range, 1-4). Courses were repeated every 4 weeks. The maximally tolerated dose (MTD) was found to be 1.5 mg/m2/day. At this dose four of six patients had grade III or IV leukopenia (mean WBC nadir 1900/microliters, range, 800-3600/microliters). Other toxicities were grade I or II stomatitis (two patients), grade I diarrhea (one patient), and grade I nausea (one patient). Renal and hepatic toxicity were not observed. No alopecia or infectious complications occurred. Pharmacokinetic studies were performed using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Steady-state plasma levels at the 1.5 mg/m2/day dose were reached by 48 h, with a mean steady-state plasma concentration of 3.2 +/- 0.7 ng/ml, mean total body clearance of 340 +/- 79 ml/min/m2, and mean area under the plasma disappearance curve (AUC) of 955 +/- 185 micrograms h/l. No responses were observed, although no patients with mitoxantrone-sensitive tumors were treated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Although a period of 6 to 12 months of antidepressant therapy is recommended for most patients with depression, systematic examinations of the course of adverse events over time, the resolution of early-onset events, and the possible emergence of later-onset events are limited. We examined the safety of fluoxetine, 20 mg/day, in a large, prospective, long-term treatment trial, and we report a comparison of early- and late-onset adverse events and the course of adverse events over 26 weeks of treatment.
Adverse events were recorded at each visit in a uniform format by open-ended questioning, regardless of perceived causality. New or worsened events reported in either the first 4 weeks of treatment (early-reporting interval) or weeks 22 through 26 of treatment (late-reporting interval) were compared.
Patients (N = 299) whose depression (DSM-III-R) remitted with 12 weeks of fluoxetine treatment entered continuation therapy, and 174 completed 26 weeks of therapy. All events that occurred in > or =5% of patients early in treatment decreased in frequency over time (p<.05), and no events occurred significantly more frequently during continuation therapy. No previously uncommon adverse events became common during long-term treatment.
Common adverse events associated with initiating fluoxetine treatment in depressed patients, including nausea, insomnia, nervousness, and somnolence, resolve in the majority of patients and become significantly less frequent with continued treatment over a 6-month period. No adverse events present initially become more frequent late in treatment. Therapy with fluoxetine, 20 mg/day, is well tolerated over 6 months, and most adverse events observed early in treatment resolve.
A collaborative group of cancer registries and hospitals carried out a case-control study of tumours of the bladder in women who had previously been treated for ovarian cancer. A total of 63 cases of bladder tumours were identified, and 188 controls were selected matching for age, year of ovarian cancer diagnosis and survival time. Full details of the treatment for ovarian cancer were sought for both cases and for controls. The risk of bladder tumours was increased for patients who had been treated by radiotherapy alone (1.9; 95% confidence interval, 0.77-4.9), by chemotherapy alone (3.2; 0.97-10), and by chemotherapy and radiotherapy (5.2; 1.6-16), when comparison was made with patients treated only by surgery. Patients treated by chemotherapy were separated into 2 groups according to whether they had received cyclophosphamide. Among those who had, there was a clear increase in risk (approximately 4-fold) regardless of whether or not they had also received radiotherapy. For those who received only other drugs, risk was increased substantially among patients who had also been treated by radiation, as compared with patients treated by surgery alone, and those who had received radiotherapy only. Both melphalan and thiotepa were implicated as potential bladder carcinogens on the basis of these results. The estimated risk of bladder tumours due to cyclophosphamide was more than twice the risk following radiation to the bladder, and it appeared substantially earlier. For both agents, the risk continued to increase more than 10 years after treatment began.
Evidence from four case reports of heightened anxiety, irritability and emotional lability following withdrawal of lithium was confirmed by a questionnaire survey of 110 defaulters from a lithium clinic: 19 per cent of respondents retrospectively reported these temporary symptoms following withdrawal. The possible mechanisms of such a withdrawal effect are discussed, and a phased withdrawal is advocated in situations where continued clinical benefit from lithium is being evaluated. The questionnaire results also confirm anecdotal evidence that lithium reduces emotional responsiveness. The significance of these findings in terms of the current models of lithium's action is discussed.
There has been much debate regarding the potential influence of stress on epilepsy. Many studies have reported that stress can affect seizure susceptibility through eliciting either proconvulsant or anticonvulsant effects within the nervous system. In this study, we investigated the potential anticonvulsant effect of a 10-min swim stress on convulsions induced by a single systemic injection of lithium chloride followed 4 h later with pilocarpine. Rats pretreated with lithium chloride and exposed to a 10-min swim stressor prior to pilocarpine injection displayed a significant delay to seizure onset compared to unstressed rats or rats exposed to swim stress 10 min after lithium chloride, 2 h after lithium chloride, or immediately after pilocarpine injection. We then determined whether administration of a glucocorticoid antagonist (mifepristone; 10 or 50 mg/kg), an alpha(2)-adrenergic antagonist (yohimbine; 2 or 5 mg/kg), or a nonspecific opioid blocker (naloxone; 0.2 or 1 mg/kg) could prevent the anticonvulsant effect of swim stress. Only the high dose of yohimbine was capable of inhibiting the anticonvulsant effect of swim stress on lithium-pilocarpine seizures. Our findings highlight the importance of an endogenous noradrenergic-dependent anticonvulsant system in mediating the effects of swim stress on seizures. Further studies exploring the benefits of treatments with noradrenergic acting drugs in epilepsy is well warranted.
The increase or emergence of obsessions was compared in young patients with recent-onset schizophrenia or other psychotic disorders taking clozapine and other antipsychotic drugs.
We conducted a retrospective cohort study. Subjects were 121 consecutively admitted patients diagnosed with DSM-III-R schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, schizophreniform disorder, or psychotic disorder not otherwise specified. Obsessions were diagnosed according to DSM-IV criteria.
More clozapine-treated subjects (20.6%) than subjects treated with other antipsychotic drugs (1.3%) experienced an emergence or increase of obsessions (p<.01).
Use of clozapine is associated with the emergence or increase of obsessions in early-phase schizophrenia.
Chronic arsenic exposure remains a human health risk; however a clear mode of action to understand gene signaling-driven arsenic carcinogenesis is currently lacking. This study chronically exposed human lung epithelial BEAS-2B cells to low-dose arsenic trioxide to elucidate cancer promoting gene signaling networks associated with arsenic-transformed (B-As) cells. Following a 6month exposure, exposed cells were assessed for enhanced cell proliferation, colony formation, invasion ability and in vivo tumor formation compared to control cell lines. Collected mRNA was subjected to whole genome expression microarray profiling followed by in silico Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) to identify lung carcinogenesis modes of action. B-As cells displayed significant increases in proliferation, colony formation and invasion ability compared to BEAS-2B cells. B-As injections into nude mice resulted in development of primary and secondary metastatic tumors. Arsenic exposure resulted in widespread up-regulation of genes associated with mitochondrial metabolism and increased reactive oxygen species protection suggesting mitochondrial dysfunction. Carcinogenic initiation via reactive oxygen species and epigenetic mechanisms was further supported by altered DNA repair, histone, and ROS-sensitive signaling. NF-κB, MAPK and NCOR1 signaling disrupted PPARα/δ-mediated lipid homeostasis. A 'pro-cancer' gene signaling network identified increased survival, proliferation, inflammation, metabolism, anti-apoptosis and mobility signaling. IPA-ranked signaling networks identified altered p21, EF1α, Akt, MAPK, and NF-κB signaling networks promoting genetic disorder, altered cell cycle, cancer and changes in nucleic acid and energy metabolism. In conclusion, transformed B-As cells with their whole genome expression profile provide an in vitro arsenic model for future lung cancer signaling research and data for chronic arsenic exposure risk assessment.
The use of the opioid oxycodone hydrochloride in the management of chronic pain is gaining popularity principally because of its tolerability. However, opioid-related seizure in patients with epilepsy or other conditions that may decrease seizure threshold has been described in the literature; in particular, oxycodone has been associated with seizure in a patient with acute renal failure.
The aim of this article was to report a patient with a history of seizures but normal renal and hepatic function who developed seizure on 2 occasions after oxycodone ingestion.
A 54-year-old male patient presented with a history of tonic-clonic seizures that developed immediately after intracranial surgery. Long-term treatment with carbamazepine 400 mg QD was started, and the patient was free of convulsions for approximately 7 years. The patient presented to us with severe headache that was nonresponsive to an NSAID and the opiate agonist tramadol. Treatment with controlled-release (CR) oxycodone and tramadol drops (50 mg QID if necessary) was started, and tonic-clonic seizures developed 3 days later.
Based on laboratory analysis, the patient had normal renal and hepatic function. On discontinuation of oxycodone treatment, the seizures resolved. However, due to effective pain relief with oxycodone, the patient decided to continue treatment, and seizures recurred. Carbamazepine was then administered 4 hours before oxycodone dosing, which allowed continuation of treatment without seizure.
A patient with a history of seizures controlled with long-term carbamazepine therapy developed seizures when he started treatment with oxycodone CR at recommended doses. Oxycodone CR should be used with extreme caution in patients with epilepsy or other conditions that may decrease seizure threshold.
The haemodynamic effects of an oral solution of 15 mg felodipine were studied in 8 healthy males. Maximal plasma concentrations of felodipine were seen 30 to 40 minutes after administration, when significant decreases in diastolic and mean blood pressures were noted. Heart rate increased maximally by 45% after 30 minutes, accompanied by a 57% increase in cardiac output and 175% increase in forearm blood flow. Total peripheral resistance decreased by 40% and forearm vascular resistance by 66%. Apparent hepatic blood flow was unchanged.
Transgenic (tg) mice overexpressing thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP) develop mixed cryoglobulinaemia with renal disease closely resembling human cryoglobulinaemic membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis (MPGN), as well as systemic inflammation involving lung, liver and skin as a result of cryoglobulin deposits. We assessed the effect of all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA), a powerful anti-inflammatory agent, on this model of cryoglobulinaemic MPGN.
Groups of male TSLP tg mice and wild-type controls were treated with either ATRA (20 mg/kg) or vehicle 3 times weekly by intraperitoneal injection for 4 or 8 weeks, when mice were then sacrificed. Routine histology and immunohistochemistry for collagen IV, alpha-smooth muscle actin, Mac-2 and Ki67 were performed. Immunoglobulin levels were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
ATRA unexpectedly exacerbated renal injury in TSLP tg mice with increased glomerular extracellular matrix, mesangial cell activation, glomerular cell proliferation, glomerular macrophage influx and immune complex deposition. Systemic injuries involving liver and lung, and the amount of circulating cryoglobulins were all worsened by ATRA treatment. Furthermore, ATRA resulted in increased IgG1 and IgM levels, the main components of the cryoglobulins in TSLP tg mice, and a manifestation of an enhanced Th2 immune response.
ATRA is not protective but instead aggravates cryoglobulinaemic MPGN and its systemic manifestations in TSLP tg mice. We speculate these findings may be due to augmented production of pathogenic immunoglobulins and/or an enhanced systemic Th2 response. Although disappointing, our results also suggest caution in the application of retinoid therapy to human disease based on the largely positive animal data reported to date.
1. In order to verify the hypothesis that risperidone is a useful therapeutic alternative to clozapine the authors carried out a randomized double blind trial in 59 patients with paranoid hallucinatory psychoses. 2. In a treatment lasting 28 days three groups of patients received either 4 mg risperidone (N = 20), 8 mg risperidone (N = 19), or 400 mg clozapine (N = 20) daily. 3. The tolerance of 4 mg risperidone was globally assessed as being better than that of 400 mg clozapine. Drop-outs under clozapine were mostly caused by side effects, whereas under risperidone they tended to occur for therapeutic inefficacy. 4. The antipsychotic effect was highly significant and clinically relevant under both risperidone and clozapine.
The effects of colchicine on the mouse gallbladder followed a course depending on the dosage given (0.4-4 mg/100 g body weight). Following 0.5 mg/100 g, by 16 h there was a marked cholestasis with dilatation of the gallbladder and steatosis. There were progressive alterations in the Golgi apparatus and accumulation of vesicles. The apical mucous droplets decreased in number and became pleomorphic and dispersed throughout the cytoplasm. Lipid droplets appeared in numbers on the epithelial cytoplasm. By 48 h the tissues had reverted to normal appearances. When cholecystokinin, pilocarpine or ceruletide were given to animals which had received colchicine 18 h previously, the excess bile from the dilated gallbladder was discharged into the duodenum, remaining apical mucous droplets secreted and electron dense material accumulated in the lateral intercellular space. This formed a quasi-regular array between the epithelial bases and the basement membrane. Biochemically there was a significant decrease in alkaline phosphatase activity and a significant increase in acid phosphatase activity.
The data reviewed indicate that extracts of Curcuma longa exhibit anti-inflammatory activity after parenteral application in standard animal models used for testing anti-inflammatory activity. It turned out that curcumin and the volatile oil are at least in part responsible for this action. It appears that when given orally, curcumin is far less active than after i.p. administration. This may be due to poor absorption, as discussed. Data on histamine-induced ulcers are controversial, and studies on the secretory activity (HCl, pepsinogen) are still lacking. In vitro, curcumin exhibited antispasmodic activity. Since there was a protective effect of extracts of Curcuma longa on the liver and a stimulation of bile secretion in animals, Curcuma longa has been advocated for use in liver disorders. Evidence for an effect on liver disease in humans is not yet available. From the facts that after oral application only traces of curcumin were found in the blood and that, on the other hand, most of the curcumin is excreted via the faeces it may be concluded that curcumin is absorbed poorly by the gastrointestinal tract and/or underlies presystemic transformation. Systemic effects therefore seem to be questionable after oral application except that they occur at very low concentrations of curcumin. This does not exclude a local action in the gastrointestinal tract.
