Widespread antimony resistance renders conventional amphotericin B the only option for the treatment of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in North Bihar, India. Because of its excellent safety profile, a large dose (7.5 mg/kg) of liposomal amphotericin B (L-AmB) was given to each of 203 patients with VL at 4 treatment centers, and the patients were discharged the next day. At initial clinical and parasitological follow-up, performed on day 30 after treatment, evidence of a cure was seen in 195 (96%) of 203 patients (95% CI, 92-98); 4 patients experienced treatment failure. Two patients were lost to follow-up, 2 died (one due to progressive disease and another, 5 months after treatment, due to an unrelated illness), and 12 experienced relapses during follow-up. Thus, 183 patients (90%; 95% CI, 85-94) had obtained final cure 6 months after treatment. Very few adverse events (fever with rigor, in 9.8% of patients) were seen. Single-dose L-AmB (7.5 mg/kg) treatment is safe and effective, and it may be used for the mass treatment of VL in India.
Histamine H2-receptor antagonists metiamide and cimetidine were used in the treatment of severe peptic ulceration in Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. The ulcerations were completely healed in all four patients after treatment lasting from six weeks to four-and-a-half-months. Two patients developed recurrent ulcer after the treatment had stopped, but responded to a second course. One patient developed hepatitis B during cimetidine treatment and it is possible that the course of the hepatitis was unfavourable affected by cimetidine. But no other side effects were noted nor was there a significant change in basal serum-gastrin concentration or an increase in H+ secretion. Total gastrectomy remains the treatment of choice in Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, but cimetidine should be considered if the patient refuses operation or operation is not feasible because of a poor general state.
We tested the ability of phenobarbital and two liver carcinogens, acetoxime and 1-nitroso-5,6-dihydrouracil (NDHU), to induce hyperplastic liver nodules (HLN) in MRC-Wistar and Wistar rats, using a system that included a single diethylnitrosamine (DEN) treatment, partial hepatectomy, and administration of the test compound in drinking water for 8 weeks. All three compounds induced significant HLN frequencies (number of HLN/cm2) in both rat strains. When the results for each strain were "normalized" for each compound and then combined, HLN frequency in MRC-Wistar rats was significantly lower (P less than 0.01) than that in Wistar rats. The weak liver carcinogen 3-nitroso-2-oxazolidinone (NOZ) did not induce a significant HLN frequency in MRC-Wistar rats. Acetoxime was highly volatile and was not mutagenic in the Ames test under a variety of conditions. The results for acetoxime are of interest because simple oximes are common constituents of oil paints. HLN induction by nitrosodihydrouracil is of interest because, unlike most liver carcinogens, this compound probably does not require metabolic activation and shows only a mild acute hepatoxicity.
A 65-year-old man with pneumoconiosis visited our hospital for dyspnea on effort. Chest radiography and computed tomography on admission showed cavities with an air-fluid level, consolidation in the right lower lung, and right pleural effusion. The thoracic cavity and an infected cyst were drained, and antibiotics were administered. On detection of molds like Aspergillus species and of aspergillus antigen from the sputum, aspergillosis was suspected and amphotericin B was administered intravenously. Renal dysfunction caused by amphotericin B led to its withdrawal. Abnormal shadows in the chest radiographs and computed tomograms did not improve. To aid in diagnosis, percutaneous intracavitary endoscopy was performed. Yellow-white mural nodules resembling cauliflower were found on endoscopic examination, and a biopsy specimen of the nodules showed hyphae of Aspergillus. Aspergillus fumigatus was cultured from the intracavity fluid. Pulmonary aspergillosis was diagnosed and amphotericin B was administered via the drainage catheter in order to protect renal function. The abnormal shadows then disappeared and the subsequent clinical course was good. In this case, percutaneous intracavitary endoscopy was useful in diagnosing pulmonary aspergillosis.
Organophosphate (OP) neurotoxins cause acute cholinergic toxicity and seizures resulting in delayed brain damage and persistent neurological symptoms. Testing novel strategies for protecting against delayed effects of acute OP intoxication has been hampered by the lack of appropriate animal models. In this study, we characterize the spatiotemporal pattern of cellular injury after acute intoxication with the OP diisopropylfluorophosphate (DFP). Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats received pyridostigmine (0.1 mg/kg, im) and atropine methylnitrate (20mg/kg, im) prior to DFP (9 mg/kg, ip) administration. All DFP-treated animals exhibited moderate to severe seizures within minutes after DFP injection but survived up to 72 h. AChE activity was significantly depressed in the cortex, hippocampus, subcortical brain tissue and cerebellum at 1h post-DFP injection and this inhibition persisted for up to 72 h. Analysis of neuronal injury by Fluoro-Jade B (FJB) labeling revealed delayed neuronal cell death in the hippocampus, cortex, amygdala and thalamus, but not the cerebellum, starting at 4h and persisting until 72 h after DFP treatment, although temporal profiles varied between brain regions. At 24h post-DFP injection, the pattern of FJB labeling corresponded to TUNEL staining in most brain regions, and FJB-positive cells displayed reduced NeuN immunoreactivity but were not immunopositive for astrocytic (GFAP), oligodendroglial (O4) or macrophage/microglial (ED1) markers, demonstrating that DFP causes a region-specific delayed neuronal injury mediated in part by apoptosis. These findings indicate the feasibility of this model for testing neuroprotective strategies, and provide insight regarding therapeutic windows for effective pharmacological intervention following acute OP intoxication.
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is a heterotrimeric enzyme that is evolutionarily conserved from yeast to mammals and functions to maintain cellular and whole body energy homeostasis. Studies in experimental animals demonstrate that activation of AMPK in skeletal muscle protects against insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes and obesity. The regulatory gamma(3) subunit of AMPK is expressed exclusively in skeletal muscle; however, its importance in controlling overall AMPK activity is unknown. While evidence is emerging that gamma subunit mutations interfere specifically with AMP activation, there remains some controversy regarding the impact of gamma subunit mutations. Here we report the first gain-of-function mutation in the muscle-specific regulatory gamma(3) subunit in humans.
We sequenced the exons and splice junctions of the AMPK gamma(3) gene (PRKAG3) in 761 obese and 759 lean individuals, identifying 87 sequence variants including a novel R225W mutation in subjects from two unrelated families. The gamma(3) R225W mutation is homologous in location to the gamma(2)R302Q mutation in patients with Wolf-Parkinson-White syndrome and to the gamma(3)R225Q mutation originally linked to an increase in muscle glycogen content in purebred Hampshire Rendement Napole (RN-) pigs. We demonstrate in differentiated muscle satellite cells obtained from the vastus lateralis of R225W carriers that the mutation is associated with an approximate doubling of both basal and AMP-activated AMPK activities. Moreover, subjects bearing the R225W mutation exhibit a approximately 90% increase of skeletal muscle glycogen content and a approximately 30% decrease in intramuscular triglyceride (IMTG).
We have identified for the first time a mutation in the skeletal muscle-specific regulatory gamma(3) subunit of AMPK in humans. The gamma(3)R225W mutation has significant functional effects as demonstrated by increases in basal and AMP-activated AMPK activities, increased muscle glycogen and decreased IMTG. Overall, these findings are consistent with an important regulatory role for AMPK gamma(3) in human muscle energy metabolism.
This study investigates the effects of acamprosate, a glutamatergic modulator, and the lipid peroxidation inhibitor U-101033E on neurological outcome following incomplete cerebral ischemia and reperfusion in rats.
Twenty-seven male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly assigned to one of the following treatment groups: 1 (n = 9, control, no drug treatment), 2 (n = 9, 2 x 200 mg/kg acamprosate i.p.), and 3 (n = 9, 2 x 0.3 mg/kg U-101033E i.v.). Background anesthesia was maintained using a combination of fentanyl and O2/N2O (FiO2 = 0.3). Ischemia was produced by combined unilateral common carotid artery ligation and hemorrhagic hypotension to a mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) of 35 mm Hg for 30 minutes. Functional neurological deficit was evaluated for the following 3 days after cerebral ischemia.
At the third postischemic day, five control animals and five animals treated with U-101033E were dead for stroke-related reasons. Surviving animals presented severe neurological deficits. In contrast, acamprosate improved neurological outcome, with stroke-related death occurring in one animal only and a minor neurological deficit in the surviving rats.
The present study demonstrates that acamprosate, in contrast to U-101033E, significantly reduces neurological deficits following transient hemispheric ischemia. The neuroprotective mechanisms of acamprosate may be related to its antiglutamatergic effect with consecutive reduction of transmembraneous Ca++ flux through NMDA-activated ion channels.
The effect of PTH therapy on serum and urinary calcium levels and the risk of hypercalcemia or hypercalciuria has not been formally evaluated.
The objective was to examine changes in serum and urinary calcium associated with PTH(1-84) therapy in the PaTH trial and the extent to which a defined algorithm resolved the elevated values.
A total of 178 postmenopausal women were randomized to PTH(1-84) either alone or in combination with alendronate during the first year of the PaTH study.
The main outcome measures were fasting serum calcium at baseline and 1, 3, and 12 months and 24-h urinary calcium at baseline and 3 months.
In 14% of participants, serum calcium more than 10.5 mg/dl (>2.6 mmol/liter) developed. Following the defined algorithm, 58% of elevated measurements were normal on repeat testing; 38% required discontinuation of calcium and vitamin D supplementation, and one necessitated a decrease in PTH injection frequency to normalize serum calcium. One participant developed transient hypercalcemia between study visits and required hospitalization; the episode resolved with iv hydration and PTH discontinuation. Baseline characteristics associated with the development of hypercalcemia were serum calcium [relative hazards = 1.9 per 0.5 mg/dl (0.12 mmol/liter); 95% confidence interval = 1.1-3.2] and serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D [relative hazard = 1.9 per 10 pg/ml (26 pmol/liter); 95% confidence interval = 1.2-3.1]. Fifteen women (8%) developed hypercalciuria [urinary calcium > 400 mg (100 mmol)/24 h or calcium/creatinine ratio > 0.4]; 80% of cases resolved after discontinuing calcium and vitamin D, 13% without intervention, and one after PTH injection frequency was decreased. Higher baseline urinary calcium excretion was associated with development of hypercalciuria [relative hazard = 1.5 per 50 mg/d (12.5 mmol/d); 95% confidence interval = 1.2-4.0]. Proportions of patients with elevated serum and urinary calcium were similar on single and combination therapy.
The frequency of episodic hypercalcemia or hypercalciuria in the PaTH trial was 21%. Episodes were generally mild, and nearly all cases resolved spontaneously or with discontinuation of calcium and vitamin D. The algorithms used to address hypercalcemia and hypercalciuria in the PaTH trial proved effective in safely resolving clinical episodes of increased urinary or serum calcium and might therefore be helpful to clinicians caring for patients on PTH.
The cellular transcription factor Brn-3a differentially regulates different human papilloma virus (HPV)-16 variants that are associated with different risks of progression to cervical carcinoma in infected humans. The upstream regulatory regions (URRs) of high- and intermediate-risk HPV-16 variants are activated by the cellular transcription factor Brn-3a, whereas the URR of a low-risk HPV-16 variant is not. In this study, we show in transfection assays that Brn-3a and the smoking-related substance nicotine produce stronger responsiveness of the URR of the low- and high-risk variants than with either factor alone, but not the intermediate-risk variant. We determined that this synergistic activity of Brn-3a/nicotine is due to two nucleotide differences in the URR, crucial for oncogenic E6/E7 transactivation. Mutant constructs in which the nucleotide residues were substituted alter Brn-3a/nicotine responsiveness. Importantly, women smokers with high levels of Brn-3a infected with low- or high-risk HPV-16 variants have augmented E6 levels, and were more frequently diagnosed with higher grades of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) and cancer, as compared with non-smokers who were infected with similar variants and expressed similar levels of Brn-3a. Therefore, this study defines the specific interplay between the cellular transactivator Brn-3a, the environmental smoking-related substance nicotine and specific HPV variants in cervical carcinogenesis, and thus helps to explain why some women are susceptible to rapid CIN progression and cancer and others are not.
Intrinsic or acquired resistance to chemotherapy is the major obstacle to overcome in the treatment of patients with solid carcinoma. Cisplatin is one of the most effective chemotherapeutic agents for treating ovarian carcinoma. Recently, copper-transporting P-type adenosine triphosphatase (ATP7B) has been demonstrated as one of the genes responsible for cisplatin resistance in vitro. We hypothesized that the expression of ATP7B gene increases resistance to cisplatin in ovarian carcinoma and a priori knowledge of its expression is important for the choice of therapy. The aim of our study was to assess the role of ATP7B gene in ovarian carcinoma and compare its expression with those of multidrug resistance-related transporters such as MDR1, MRP1, MRP2, LRP and BCRP genes. The transporters' gene expression profiles from 82 patients treated with cisplatin-based chemotherapy after surgery were assessed by RT-PCR. We did not observe any significant correlation between ATP7B gene expression and those of MDR1, MRP1, MRP2, LRP or BCRP. The expression level of ATP7B gene was significantly increased (p < 0.05) in patients with moderately-/poorly-differentiated ovarian carcinomas treated with cisplatin-based chemotherapy, thus ATP7B may serve as an independent prognostic factor in these patients. In contrast, the expression level of MDR1, MRP1, MRP2, LRP and BCRP genes were not prognostic indicators of disease. These findings suggest that ATP7B gene may be considered as a novel chemoresistance marker and that inhibitor(s) of ATP7B might be useful, in patients with ovarian carcinoma treated with cisplatin-based chemotherapy.
A case of ventricular tachycardia in a 37-year-old man after ingestion of heroin and cocaine, treated with naloxone is described. The arrhythmia is attributed to unopposed sympathomemetic effects of cocaine following administration of naloxone. The pro-rhythmogenic effects of naloxone may have contributed to the arrhythmia. He was initially treated sequentially with intravenous magnesium sulphate, calcium gluconate, sodium bicarbonate and lignocaine infusion, with no resolution of the ventricular tachycardia. He was admitted to the coronary care unit and was given an amiodarone infusion which converted the rhythm to sinus rhythm. Forensic physicians administering naloxone to poly-drug abuser in a custodial setting should be aware of potentially fatal consequences which they will be unable to detect. It is recommended that all such patients should be transferred to hospital for observation and investigation.
Losartan is the first orally available angiotensin-receptor antagonist without agonist properties. Following oral administration, losartan is rapidly absorbed, reaching maximum concentrations 1-2 hours post-administration. After oral administration approximately 14% of a losartan dose is converted to the pharmacologically active E 3174 metabolite. E 3174 is 10- to 40-fold more potent than its parent compound and its estimated terminal half-life ranges from 6 to 9 hours. The pharmacokinetics of losartan and E 3174 are linear, dose-proportional and do not substantially change with repetitive administration. The recommended dosage of losartan 50 mg/day can be administered without regard to food. There are no clinically significant effects of age, sex or race on the pharmacokinetics of losartan, and no dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with mild hepatic impairment or various degrees of renal insufficiency. Losartan, or its E 3174 metabolite, is not removed during haemodialysis. The major metabolic pathway for losartan is by the cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4, 2C9 and 2C10 isoenzymes. Overall, losartan has a favorable drug-drug interaction profile, as evidenced by the lack of clinically relevant interactions between this drug and a range of inhibitors and stimulators of the CYP450 system. Losartan does not have a drug-drug interaction with hydrochlorothiazide, warfarin or digoxin. Losartan should be avoided in pregnancy, as is the case with all other angiotensin-receptor antagonists. When given in the second and third trimester of pregnancy, losartan is often associated with serious fetal toxicity. Losartan is a competitive antagonist that causes a parallel rightward shift of the concentration-contractile response curve to angiotensin-II, while E 3174 is a noncompetitive "insurmountable" antagonist of angiotensin-II. The maximum recommended daily dose of losartan is 100mg, which can be given as a once-daily dose or by splitting the same total daily dose into two doses. Losartan reduces blood pressure comparably to other angiotensin-receptor antagonists. Losartan has been extensively studied relative to end-organ protection, with studies having been conducted in diabetic nephropathy, heart failure, post-myocardial infarction and hypertensive patients with left ventricular hypertrophy. The results of these studies have been sufficiently positive to support a more widespread use of angiotensin-receptor antagonists in the setting of various end-organ diseases. Losartan, like other angiotensin-receptor antagonists, is devoid of significant adverse effects.
Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) continues to be an aetiologically unknown heart muscle disease. Recent clinical and experimental data have suggested a temporal relationship with viral myocarditis. The clinical diagnosis of a chronic myocarditis is unspecific. The evaluation of endomyocardial biopsies by light microscopy and their histological classification according to the Dallas criteria is limited by the difficulty in differentiating and quantifying infiltrating lymphocytes from non-inflammatory interstitial cells. Using immunohistological methods that allow better identification and quantification of infiltrating lymphocytes and which provide further evidence for an activated immunological process within the myocardium, myocarditis was diagnosed on endomyocardial biopsy in 48 of 130 patients (37%). According to both haemodynamic and immunohistological findings, 31 of these patients were allocated for immunosuppressive treatment. After a 6 month treatment period with 6-methylprednisolone, 23 patients reported an improvement according to the NYHA classification. Lymphocytic infiltrations were abolished by corticoid treatment in 24 patients. Left ventricular systolic function was improved in 20 patients (64%) as indicated by an increased ejection fraction and stroke volume with a concomitant decrease of left ventricular end diastolic pressure. Our study suggests that immunosuppressive treatment in a subgroup of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy who have a continuing active immunohistologically proven inflammatory process results in a clinical, haemodynamic and immunohistological improvement in 60-70% of patients.
A mutation in the HSD11B2 gene has been discovered in a consanguineous Iranian family with three sibs suffering from Apparent Mineralocorticoid Excess (AME). Sequence data demonstrate a C to T transition resulting in an R337C mutation.
The article deals with a case of tardive dystonia describing grave complications as result of long-term recidive-fluphenacindepot-treatment; therapy and metaphylaxy-problematic are being discussed as well.
The authors describe a 42-year-old man who developed "on-off" episodes and for whom lithium carbonate proved an effective treatment. They speculate that the predominant effect of lithium in the "on-off" syndrome is to prevent L-dopa desensitization of the dopamine receptor.
The authors report adverse interactions encountered when using low dose (25-75 mg) trazodone to treat insomnia associated with fluoxetine. Sixteen patients had good hypnotic responses to trazodone, but five needed to stop the medication due to excessive sedation. Three cases are described.
Inorganic arsenic is an environmental carcinogen that may act through multiple mechanisms including formation of methylated derivatives in vivo. Sodium arsenite (up to 5.0 microM) renders arsenic methylation-competent TRL1215 rat liver epithelial cells tumorigenic in nude mice at 18 weeks of exposure and arsenic methylation-deficient RWPE-1 human prostate epithelial cells tumorigenic at 30 weeks of exposure. We assessed the role of arsenic biomethylation in oxidative DNA damage (ODD) using a recently developed immuno-spin trapping method.
Immuno-spin trapping was used to measure ODD after chronic exposure of cultured TRL1215 vs RWPE-1 cells, or of methylation-competent UROtsa/F35 vs methylation-deficient UROtsa human urothelial cells, to sodium arsenite. Secreted matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 and -9 activity, as analyzed by zymography, cellular invasiveness by using a transwell assay, and colony formation by using soft agar assay were compared in cells exposed to arsenite with and without selenite, an arsenic biomethylation inhibitor, to assess the role of ODD in the transition to an in vitro cancer phenotype.
Exposure of methylation-competent TRL1215 cells to up to 1.0 microM sodium arsenite was followed by a substantial increase in ODD at 5-18 weeks (eg, at 16 weeks with 1.0 microM arsenite, 1138% of control, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 797% to 1481%), whereas exposure of methylation-deficient RWPE-1 cells to up to 5.0 microM arsenite did not increase ODD for a 30-week period. Inhibition of arsenic biomethylation with sodium selenite abolished arsenic-induced ODD and invasiveness, colony formation, and MMP-2 and -9 hypersecretion in TRL1215 cells. Arsenic induced ODD in methylation-competent UROtsa/F35 cells (eg, at 16 weeks, with 1.0 microM arsenite 225% of control, 95% CI = 188% to 262%) but not in arsenic methylation-deficient UROtsa cells, and ODD levels corresponded to the levels of increased invasiveness, colony formation, and hypersecretion of active MMP-2 and -9 seen after transformation to an in vitro cancer phenotype.
Arsenic biomethylation appears to be obligatory for arsenic-induced ODD and appears linked in some cells with the accelerated transition to an in vitro cancer phenotype.
We report a case of fatal cardiac rupture occurring during intraarterial thrombolytic therapy for acute embolic stroke in a patient with recent myocardial infarction.
Essential hypertension is associated with enhanced biological activity of endothelin-1 (ET-1) and impaired endothelium-dependent vasodilatation. Dihydropyridine calcium antagonists have antioxidant activity in vitro, and they improve endothelial function in vivo. We tested whether calcium antagonists also influence the biological activity of ET-1 in essential hypertensive (EH) patients in the presence and absence of hypercholesterolemia. In 9 healthy subjects (normotensive [NT] subjects, age: 48.3+/-7.6 years; blood pressure: 118+/-8.6/69+/-5.4 mm Hg) and 21 EH subjects (age: 50.0+/-7.8 years; blood pressure: 164.4+/-5.4/103.8+/-4.4 mm Hg), we studied forearm blood flow and its modification induced by intrabrachial administration of ET-1, phenylephrine, acetylcholine, and sodium nitroprusside at baseline and after 24 weeks of treatment with a nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system (30 to 60 mg per day). At baseline, the first dose of ET-1 (0.5 microg/100 mL of forearm tissue per minute) caused a slight vasodilatation in NT but not in EH subjects, whereas the following higher doses caused a comparable dose-dependent vasoconstriction in EH and NT subjects. The effect of acetylcholine was significantly reduced in EH as compared with NT subjects. In contrast, sodium nitroprusside and phenylephrine had similar effects in NT and EH subjects. After chronic treatment with the nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system, the vasoconstrictor effect induced by both ET-1 and phenylephrine was significantly blunted, whereas the response to acetylcholine was significantly increased and the vasodilation to sodium nitroprusside unchanged. Hypercholesterolemic EH subjects showed a further reduced response to acetylcholine compared with normocholesterolemic EH subjects, and the nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system restored the vasodilation to acetylcholine in this subgroup. In conclusion, in EH subjects, chronic treatment with a long-acting dihydropyridine calcium antagonist not only exhibits a blood pressure-lowering effect but also reduces ET-1-induced vasoconstriction and improves endothelium-dependent vasodilation. Those vasculoprotective effects may importantly contribute to a reduction in major clinical events seen during treatment with these compounds.
Bear bile has been used in Asia for over 3,000 years to treat visual disorders, yet its therapeutic potential remains unexplored in Western vision research. The purpose of this study was to test whether treatment of mice undergoing retinal degeneration with tauroursodeoxycholic acid (TUDCA), a primary constituent of bear bile, alters the course of degeneration.
Two retinal degeneration models were tested: the rd10 mouse, which has a point mutation in the gene encoding the beta subunit of rod phosphodiesterase, and light induced retinal damage (LIRD). For LIRD studies, albino Balb/C adult mice were subcutaneously injected with TUDCA (500 mg/kg body weight) or vehicle (0.15 M NaHCO(3)). Sixteen h later, each mouse received repeat injections. Half of each treatment group was then placed in bright light (10,000 lux) or dim light (200 lux) for seven h. At the end of exposure, animals were transferred to their regular housing. Electroretinograms (ERGs) were assessed 24 h later, mice sacrificed, eyes embedded in paraffin and sectioned, and retina sections assayed for morphology and apoptosis by TUNEL and anti-active caspase-3 immunoreactivity via fluorescent confocal microscopy. A subset of mice were sacrificed 8 and 15 days after exposure and retina sections analyzed for morphology and apoptosis. For rd10 studies, mice were injected subcutaneously with TUDCA or vehicle at postnatal (P) days 6, 9, 12, and 15. At p18, ERGs were recorded, mice were euthanized and eyes were harvested, fixed, and processed. Retinal sections were stained (toluidine blue), and retinal cell layers morphometrically analyzed by light microscopy. Consecutive sections were analyzed for apopotosis as above.
By every measure, TUDCA greatly slowed retinal degeneration in LIRD and rd10 mice. ERG a-wave and b-wave amplitudes were greater in mice treated with TUDCA compared to those treated with vehicle. Retinas of TUDCA-treated mice had thicker outer nuclear layers, more photoreceptor cells, and more fully-developed photoreceptor outer segments. Finally, TUDCA treatments dramatically suppressed signs of apoptosis in both models.
Systemic injection of TUDCA, a primary constituent of bear bile, profoundly suppressed apoptosis and preserved function and morphology of photoreceptor cells in two disparate mouse models of retinal degeneration. It may be that bear bile has endured so long in Asian pharmacopeias due to efficacy resulting from this anti-apoptotic and neuroprotective activity of TUDCA. These results also indicate that a systematic, clinical assessment of TUDCA may be warranted.
The correspondence between changes in physiological activity and somatic symptom reports was assessed in generalized anxiety disorder patients treated with alprazolam or imipramine. After 6 weeks, the two medications produced comparable reductions in self-reported somatic symptoms. However, patients taking alprazolam showed decreases in systolic blood pressure, epinephrine, and norepinephrine, and patients taking imipramine showed increases in heart rate, blood pressure, electromyographic activity, and norepinephrine. Thus, though the physiological changes associated with alprazolam treatment were consistent with changes in symptom reports, treatment with imipramine produced a desynchrony: patients reported significant decreases in cardiovascular symptoms and muscle tension in spite of the fact that heart rate, blood pressure, and electromyographic activity increased. Possible explanations for this counterintuitive phenomenon are discussed.
In a previous study, anticataleptic action of cyproheptadine was reported. The present investigation deals with the influence of WA-335 (9,10-dihydro-10-(1-methyl-4-piperidylidene)-9-anthrol), another antagonist of serotonin, on catalepsy induced in rats with spiroperidol, pimozide, fluphenazine and reserpine. WA-335 antagonized catalepsy induced by these neuroleptics (the effect on reserpine-induced catalepsy was weakest). Joint administration of WA-335 and L-DOPA with an inhibitor of peripheral decarboxylase, or WA-335 and amantadine produced a stronger antagonistic effect (spiroperidol catalepsy) than either of these substances separately. WA-335 did not prevent catalepsy induced with physostigmine.
