The influence of intermittent benzodiazepine treatment on anticonvulsant tolerance was studied by comparing mice treated either daily or on alternate days with clonazepam, 0.25 mg/kg, i.p., administered twice a day. Tolerance was assessed by the ability of clonazepam to prevent pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) induced clonic convulsions. In mice treated daily with clonazepam, significant tolerance was evident after 5 days of treatment but did not increase further after 10 or 20 days of treatment. However, mice treated with clonazepam only on alternate days for 10 or 20 days showed no tolerance. Our data indicate that intermittent treatment may prevent development of tolerance to the anticonvulsant action of benzodiazepines.
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and non-NMDA receptors were found to be involved in development of functional disorders caused by hexachlorophene. In order to specify the role of glutamate receptors we studied the protective effects of the selective antagonist of the kainate/(+/-)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) receptor/channel 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6-nitro-2, 3-dioxo-benzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulphonamide disodium (NBQX) and of the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist ifenprodil tartrate on coordinative motor behaviour of adult male Wistar rats as assessed in a simple 'ladder-test'. Neurotoxic injury of the cerebrum after hexachlorophene administration and putative amelioration after treatment with test substances was demonstrated histologically. Hexachlorophene-induced motor disturbance remitted spontaneously when stopping the noxis, but remittance occurred significantly earlier when NBQX [0.45 and 0.6 mg/kg intraperitoneal (i.p.)] was applied as well. Ifenprodil (0.15 to 1.2 mg/kg) did not improve the motor function. Vacuolation of white matter of the whole cerebrum was observed after 3 weeks of treatment with hexachlorophene. These morphological alterations caused by hexachlorophene treatment [central nervous system (CNS) vacuolation] spontaneously revert only after 5-6 weeks. The 5-day duration with test substances was too short for remission of vacuolation which thus may not apply to the situation after treatment with glutamate antagonists, despite improvement of motor function. The results suggest that kainate/AMPA receptor channels are at least partially involved in the mechanism of brain damage induced by hexachlorophene, however, the polyamine binding site of the NMDA receptor evidently is not involved.
There are three distinct types of doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity (acute, chronic, and late-onset). Although previous studies with animal models suggest that angiotensin II plays a key role in the process of the doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity, there has been no such observation in humans. This randomized study investigated whether valsartan, a new class of angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB), can inhibit acute cardiotoxicity after doxorubicin-based chemotherapy.
Forty consecutive patients with untreated non-Hodgkin lymphoma who were scheduled to undergo standard chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisolone (CHOP) (mean age, 56 yrs; range, 24-70 yrs) were randomized with minimization methods to receive CHOP with or without 80 mg/day of valsartan. Acute cardiotoxicity was comprehensively evaluated with neurohumoral, echocardiographic, and electrocardiographic markers before and on Days 3, 5, and 7 after the initiation of CHOP.
CHOP induced transient increases in the left ventricular end-diastolic diameter in an echocardiogram, the QTc interval and QTc dispersion in an electrocardiogram, and in the plasma brain and atrial natriuretic peptides. All these changes returned to nearly normal levels within a week after CHOP (P < 0.001). Notably, valsartan significantly prevented all these changes except for the elevation in atrial natriuretic peptide (P < 0.05). No significant change was observed in blood pressure or heart rate between the valsartan and control groups.
The results indicate that angiotensin II may play an essential role in acute CHOP-induced cardiotoxicity in humans. Future long-term studies are necessary to judge whether ARBs have a potential to prevent the chronic or late-onset types of doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity.
Inborn errors of bile acid metabolism may present as neonatal cholestasis and fat-soluble vitamin malabsorption or as late onset chronic liver disease. Our aim was to fully characterize a defect in bile acid synthesis in a 2-week-old African-American girl presenting with coagulopathy, vitamin D and E deficiencies, and mild cholestasis and in her sibling, whose liver had been used for orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT).
Bile acids were measured by mass spectrometry in urine, bile, serum, and feces of the patient and in urine from the unrelated recipient.
Liver biopsy specimens showed neonatal hepatitis with giant cell transformation and hepatocyte necrosis; peroxisomes were reduced in number. High concentrations of (25R)3alpha,7alpha,12alpha-trihydroxy-5beta-cholestanoic acid in the urine, bile, and serum established a pattern similar to that of Zellweger syndrome and identical to the Alligator mississippiensis. Serum phytanic acid was normal, whereas pristanic acid was markedly elevated. Biochemical, MRI, and neurologic findings were inconsistent with a generalized defect of peroxisomal function and were unique. Analysis of the urine from the recipient of the deceased sibling's liver confirmed the same bile acid synthetic defect. A deficiency in 2-methylacyl-CoA racemase, which is essential for conversion of (25R)THCA to its 25S-isomer, the substrate to initiate peroxisomal beta-oxidation to primary bile acids, was confirmed by DNA analysis revealing a missense mutation (S52P) in the gene encoding this enzyme. Long-term treatment with cholic acid normalized liver enzymes and prevented progression of symptoms.
This genetic defect further highlights bile acid synthetic defects as a cause of neonatal cholestasis.
Herein we disclose the discovery of a new class of positive allosteric potentiators of the metabotropic glutamate receptor 2 (mGlu2), phenyl-tetrazolyl acetophenones, e.g. 1-(2-hydroxy-3-propyl-4-[4-[4-(2H-tetrazol-5-yl)phenoxy]butoxy]phenyl) ethanone (4). These potentiators were shown to have no effect in the absence of glutamate as well as no effect at mGlu3 or the other mGlu receptors. The compounds were also evaluated in rodent models with potential relevance for schizophrenia, and 4 was shown to have activity in the inhibition of ketamine-induced norepinephrine release and ketamine-induced hyperactivity. This represents the first example of the efficacy of mGlu2 receptor potentiators in these models.
To investigate the relationship between fenofibrate (FF) and oxidative stress, enzymatic, histopathological, and molecular biological analyses were performed in the liver of male F344 rats fed 2 doses of FF (Experiment 1; 0 and 6000 ppm) for 3 weeks and 3 doses (Experiment 2; 0, 3000, and 6000 ppm) for 9 weeks. FF treatment increased the activity of enzymes such as carnitine acetyltransferase, carnitine palmitoyltransferase, fatty acyl-CoA oxidizing system, and catalase in the liver. However, it decreased those of superoxide dismutase in the liver in both experiments. Increased 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine levels in liver DNA and lipofuscin accumulation were observed in the treated rats of Experiment 2. In vitro measurement of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in rat liver microsomes revealed a dose-dependent increase due to FF treatment. Microarray (only Experiment 1) or real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analyses revealed that the expression levels of metabolism and DNA repair-related genes such as Aco, Cyp4a1, Cat, Yc2, Gpx2, Apex1, Xrcc5, Mgmt, Mlh1, Gadd45a, and Nbn were increased in FF-treated rats. These results provide evidence of a direct or indirect relationship between oxidative stress and FF treatment. In addition, increases in the expression levels of cell cycle-related genes such as Chek1, Cdc25a, and Ccdn1; increases in the expression levels of cell proliferation-related genes such as Hdgfrp3 and Vegfb; and fluctuations in the expression levels of apoptosis-related genes such as Casp11 and Trp53inp1 were observed in these rats. This suggests that cell proliferation induction, apoptosis suppression, and DNA damage due to oxidative stresses are probably involved in the mechanism of hepatocarcinogenesis due to FF in rats.
Head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCCs) are characterized by up-regulation of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). We previously reported that a gastrin-releasing peptide/gastrin-releasing peptide receptor (GRP/GRPR) autocrine growth pathway is activated early in HNSCC carcinogenesis. GRP can induce rapid phosphorylation of EGFR and p42/44 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation in part via extracellular release of transforming growth factor alpha (TGF-alpha) by matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). It has been reported that Src family kinases are activated by G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), followed by downstream EGFR and MAPK activation. To further elucidate the mechanism of activation of EGFR by GRP in HNSCC, we investigated the role of Src family kinases. Blockade of Src family kinases using an Src-specific tyrosine kinase inhibitor A-419259 decreased GRP-induced EGFR phosphorylation and MAPK activation. GRP also failed to induce MAPK activation in dominant-negative c-Src-transfected HNSCC cells. Invasion and growth assays showed that c-Src was required for GRP-induced proliferation or invasion of HNSCC cells. In addition to TGF-alpha release, GRP induced amphiregulin, but not EGF, secretion into HNSCC cell culture medium, an effect that was blocked by the MMP inhibitor marimastat. TGF-alpha and amphiregulin secretion by GRP stimulation also was inhibited by blockade of Src family kinases. These results suggest that Src family kinases contribute to GRP-mediated EGFR growth and invasion pathways by facilitating cleavage and release of TGF-alpha and amphiregulin in HNSCC.
The transcriptional factor Twist1 has been shown to play a key role in regulating epithelial mesenchymal transition, invasiveness and migratory properties in solid tumors. We found that Twist1 is aberrantly expressed in ALK-positive anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALK+ALCL), a type of T-cell lymphoid malignancy. Using RT-PCR and Western blots, Twist1 was detectable in all 3 ALK+ALCL cell lines examined but absent in normal T-cells. By immunohistochemistry, Twist1 was detectable in all 10 cases of ALK+ALCL examined; benign lymphoid tissues were consistently negative. Twist1 expression in ALK+ALCL cells can be attributed to the NPM-ALK/STAT3 signaling axis, the key oncogenic driving force in this tumor type. Twist1 is biologically important in ALK+ALCL cells, as Twist1 knockdown resulted in a significant decrease in their invasiveness in an in-vitro assay. Further investigation revealed that this increase in invasiveness is linked to the activation of AKT and down-regulation of p66Shc, two signaling proteins known to be involved in NPM-ALK-mediated oncogenesis. Lastly, knockdown of Twist1 sensitizes ALK+ALCL cells to the growth inhibitory effect of PF-2341066 (Crizotinib®), an ALK inhibitor being used in clinical trials. In conclusion, Twist1 expression, owing to the abnormal NPM-ALK/STAT3 signaling, contributes to its invasiveness and decreased sensitivity to PF-2341066 in ALK+ALCL.
The effect of verapamil on automaticity and conduction in the atrioventricular (A-V) junctional region was studied in anesthetized dogs. In five normal dogs verapamil, 10 microgram/ml, was selectively perfused into the A-V nodal artery and caused first degree heart block, which progressed to second degree heart block in three of the five. Higher concentrations of verapamil, 25 microgram/ml, caused complete heart block in three of five other dogs, but no episodes of asystole (defined as a ventricular pause of 10 or more seconds). In six other dogs after beta receptor blockade with propranolol, 20 microgram/ml, perfused into the A-V nodal artery, verapamil, 10 microgram/ml, regularly caused second degree heart block; in four of the six dogs there was a transient episode of third degree A-V block, and in two of these there was a period of asystole. In each of the 10 dogs pretreated with reserpine, verapamil, 10 microgram/ml, caused third degree A-V block; in seven of these there was a period of asystole with ventricular standstill up to 30 seconds. Concentrations of verapamil that do not produce high grade heart block in the normal heart thus readily cause both high grade block and prolonged ventricular standstill after elimination of adrenergic influences in the A-V junction.
A 74-year-old man, who was receiving methyldopa to control systemic hypertension, presented to hospital in biventricular cardiac failure. He was found to be severely anaemic and jaundiced as a result of acute intravascular haemolysis with prominent haemoglobinuria. The cardiac failure and anaemia were initially refractory to fluid restriction and diuretics, but responded to red cell transfusion. Renal failure supervened, probably on the basis of hypoperfusion as a consequence of diuresis and hypotension. The patient died suddenly, possibly from myocardial infarction. Acute intravascular destruction of red cells in association with methyldopa appears not to have been previously reported.
The short arm of chromosome 3 is thought to harbor a novel oncogenic locus that is important in the genesis of lung cancer. The region at 3p21 is believed to contain a distinct locus that is sensitive to loss from the action of tobacco smoke carcinogens and has been reported to be specifically targeted for deletion in lung cancer. To investigate whether 3p21 alteration in lung cancer is associated with carcinogen exposure, PCR-based analysis was performed to detect loss of heterozygosity (LOH) on chromosome 3 at 3p21 in non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC). We also measured instability at the BAT-26 locus, because the mismatch DNA repair gene, hMLH1, is found at 3p21. LOH at 3p21 was analyzed for association with the clinical features of NSCLC, p53 mutation status, polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbon-DNA adduct levels (measured using 32P-postlabeling) and carcinogen exposure information including cigarette smoking and asbestos exposure. Of 219 lung cancers, 150 cases (68.5%) were informative at the D3S1478 locus, and 44.2% of squamous cell carcinoma cases and 30.2% of adenocarcinoma cases showed 3p21 LOH. None of the cancers showed BAT-26 instability. The prevalence of 3p21 LOH was higher in both current and former smokers compared with never smokers and was higher in p53 mutated cases. Among squamous cell carcinoma cases, there was a strong association of increased 3p21 LOH with increasing polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbon-DNA adducts levels (P = 0.03), as well as an increased prevalence LOH with earlier age of smoking initiation (P = 0.02). Our results confirm that 3p21 LOH is strongly associated with measures of biologically effective dose of exposure to tobacco carcinogens. Our results also suggest that alterations of hMLH1 are not related to any of the reported associations, because there was no evidence of microsatellite instability. Finally, LOH in 3p21 may be an early molecular event in NSCLC, because it is significantly associated with a tendency to start smoking at a young age.
Multiple-drug therapy of dyslipidemia is frequently used to achieve treatment goals in high-risk patients with coronary artery disease. The authors report a case of a patient treated with a statin, fibrate, ezetimibe, and niacin in whom a calculated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level of 5 mg/dL was achieved.
Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A (MEN 2A) and familial medullary thyroid carcinoma (FMTC) are genetic diseases due to activating mutations of the RET proto-oncogene. Affected patients develop medullary thyroid carcinoma (100%), in an isolated form (FMTC) or in association with phaeochromocytoma (30-50%), and primary hyperparathyroidism (10-20%) (MEN 2A). The presence of cutaneous lichen amyloidosis (CLA) has been anecdotally described in few families harbouring RET proto-oncogene mutation in codon 634. The aim of the study was to evaluate the incidence of CLA in MEN 2A/FMTC families.
Ten MEN 2A/FMTC families were studied and RET gene mutations identified in all. Complete dermatological assessment was carried out in each family member. Skin biopsy for histological studies was performed in patients with CLA.
Among 10 MEN 2A/FMTC families, the presence of CLA was found only in patients belonging to the three families with MEN 2A and RET mutation in codon 634. Nine of 25 patients (36%) with codon 634 mutation presented CLA, though two of them did not show CLA skin lesions but the typical neurological pruritus in the upper back. In all patients, neurological pruritus was present since infancy as a precocious marker of the disorder. The dermatological study of patients with CLA skin lesions added further evidence that pruritus has a pivotal role in the development of CLA, the amyloid deposition being the consequence of repeated scratching. Light microscopy revealed orthokeratotic hyperkeratosis, with elongation of the rete ridges, rare intramalpighian apoptic keratinocytes and deposits of amorphous material in the superficial dermis. Examination under ultraviolet light showed thioflavin T-positive staining, confirming the presence of amyloid in the papillary dermis. The use of Capsaicin at the dilution of 0.025% had a mild efficacy on the cutaneous symptoms.
Among the members of the three families with MEN 2A and RET 634 mutation, the incidence of CLA was 36%, a figure similar to that reported in the literature for phaeochromocytoma (30-50%) and even higher than that for hyperparathyroidism (10-20%). The present data confirm that CLA is linked to codon 634 RET mutations and is a precocious marker of the disorder.
Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMP), belonging to the transforming growth factor-beta superfamily, are multifunctional regulators of cell proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis in various types of malignant cells. In this study, we investigated BMP-6 promoter methylation in patients with various types of leukemias. The BMP-6 methylation was found preferentially in adult T-cell leukemia (ATL) (49 of 60, 82%) compared with other types of leukemias studied including acute myeloid leukemia (3 of 67, 5%), acute lymphoblastic leukemia (6 of 38, 16%) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (1 of 21, 5%). Among subtypes of ATL, the BMP-6 gene was more frequently methylated in aggressive ATL forms of acute (96%) and lymphoma (94%) types than less malignant chronic ATL (44%) and smoldering ATL (20%). We also analyzed the methylation status of peripheral blood mononuclear cells from healthy donors and nonmalignant lymph nodes with reactive lymphadenopathy, none of which showed detectable BMP-6 methylation in this study. The BMP-6 methyaltion was correlated with decreased mRNA transcript and protein expression. Expression of BMP-6 was restored by the demethylating agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine, suggesting that methylation was associated with the transcriptional silencing. Serial analysis demonstrated an increasing methylation of CpG sites in the BMP-6 promoter and the resultant suppression of BMP-6 expression as ATL progressed. These findings suggested that BMP-6 promoter methylation is likely to be a common epigenetic event at later stages of ATL and that the methylation profiles may be useful for the staging of ATL as well as for evaluation of the individual risk of developing the disease.
Metabolic abnormalities and targeted treatment trials have been reported for several neurobehavioral disorders but are relatively understudied in autism.
The objective of this study was to determine whether or not treatment with the metabolic precursors, methylcobalamin and folinic acid, would improve plasma concentrations of transmethylation/transsulfuration metabolites and glutathione redox status in autistic children.
In an open-label trial, 40 autistic children were treated with 75 microg/kg methylcobalamin (2 times/wk) and 400 microg folinic acid (2 times/d) for 3 mo. Metabolites in the transmethylation/transsulfuration pathway were measured before and after treatment and compared with values measured in age-matched control children.
The results indicated that pretreatment metabolite concentrations in autistic children were significantly different from values in the control children. The 3-mo intervention resulted in significant increases in cysteine, cysteinylglycine, and glutathione concentrations (P < 0.001). The oxidized disulfide form of glutathione was decreased and the glutathione redox ratio increased after treatment (P < 0.008). Although mean metabolite concentrations were improved significantly after intervention, they remained below those in unaffected control children.
The significant improvements observed in transmethylation metabolites and glutathione redox status after treatment suggest that targeted nutritional intervention with methylcobalamin and folinic acid may be of clinical benefit in some children who have autism. This trial was registered at (clinicaltrials.gov) as NCT00692315.
The authors evaluated the efficacy of acetazolamide (ACZ) and furosemide (FUR) in avoiding ventricular shunting procedures in preterm infants with posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus (PHH) and increased intracranial pressure (ICP). Preterm infants were screened for PHH (defined as ventriculomegaly [VM] and increased ICP measured with the Ladd fiberoptic monitor). PHH infants were randomized to ACZ and FUR treatment or serial lumbar puncture (LP) and monitored until not receiving medications or having undergone shunting. Of 69 infants with IVH screened for the study, 39 never developed VM, 14 developed VM, without increased ICP, and 16 developed PHH. Ten PHH infants were randomized to ACZ and FUR treatment and six to serial LP. Nine (90%) of the 10 infants assigned to the ACZ and FUR group avoided shunting. Nephrocalcinosis developed in a significant proportion of treated infants. Three (50%) of the six LP group infants did not require shunting procedures (P = 0.118). The authors conclude that ACZ and FUR therapy is useful in the treatment of preterm infants with PHH. Because a significant number of infants treated with both ACZ and FUR developed nephrocalcinosis, close monitoring for increased calcium excretion in the urine, or use of ACZ without FUR, is advised.
The immunosuppressive agent FK-506 (tacrolimus) is one of the agents most commonly used to prevent rejection after liver transplantation. Neurologic toxicity related to FK-506 has been reported, including speech disorders; however, a detailed analysis of the speech disorder associated with use of FK-506 has not been presented. Herein we describe a patient who exhibited mutism, then severe apraxia of speech with a concomitant hypokinetic, spastic, and ataxic dysarthria after administration of FK-506. His residual mixed dysarthria, without radiographic evidence of a structural lesion, suggests dysfunction of one or more neurochemical systems. The pathophysiologic mechanisms underlying this intriguing entity remain obscure.
Oxazepam is a benzodiazepine widely used as a sedative-hypnotic and antianxiety drug. In chronic studies, groups of 60 male and 60 female Swiss-Webster (SW) or B6C3F1 mice received oxazepam in feed at concentrations of 0,2500, or 5000 ppm. Additional groups of 60 male and female B6C3F1 mice received 125 ppm in feed to allow for study of mice with serum concentrations of oxazepam similar to those achieved in humans taking a therapeutic dose. At 57 weeks, treatment-related mortality of exposed SW mice caused the study to be terminated. Enhanced systemic amyloidosis contributing to heart failure was considered the principal cause of death. Hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas were increased in exposed SW mice. Survival of B6C3F1 mice receiving 2500 and 5000 ppm oxazepam was also lower than that of controls. Early deaths were due to increased incidences of hepatoblastoma and hepatocellular carcinoma, and nearly all mice receiving 2500 or 5000 ppm developed hepatocellular neoplasia. An increase in follicular cell hyperplasia of the thyroid gland occurred in all exposed groups of B6C3F1 mice, and thyroid gland follicular cell adenoma was increased in exposed females. Further studies of the capacity of oxazepam to induce liver cell mitogenesis and an evaluation of the frequency of activated H- and K-ras oncogenes in the liver tumors of B6C3F1 mice has shown that many of the neoplastic and nonneoplastic responses of mice to oxazepam resemble those observed with phenobarbital.
Mephedrone (4-methylmethcathinone) is a novel synthetic stimulant drug that has recently become popular in the United Kingdom and elsewhere in Europe. It has a short history of human consumption and little is known about its prevalence and pattern of use. This study aimed to obtain preliminary data on its use and effects among dance drug users in the United Kingdom.
  Cross-sectional anonymous online survey of mephedrone recruited as part of larger study exploring patterns of drug use among those associated with the dance music scene. Setting  UK-based dance music and clubbing website.
A total of 947 ever users of mephedrone recruited as part of a wider study on dance drug use patterns.
Assessment of demographics, ever and current drug use and patterns and selected effects following use of mephedrone.
A total of 947 (41.3%) of 2295 participants reported ever having used mephedrone. Mephedrone was the sixth most frequently used drug in the last month after tobacco, alcohol, cannabis, cocaine and 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA). Users were typically younger (P < 0.001) and male (P < 0.01); 15.1% reported using weekly or more frequently; 49.5% reported using between 0.5 and 1 g during a typical session; 69.5% reported that intranasal use was the most common route of use. Intranasal use was associated with increased abuse liability; 54.6% of those who have also used cocaine reported that the quality of the high obtained with mephedrone was better, with those using intranasally being significantly more likely than those who took the drug orally to report that mephedrone was more addictive (P < 0.02) and more risky (P < 0.02) than cocaine. Route of use was unrelated to any stimulant-related adverse effect apart from palpitations (P < 0.005).
Mephedrone appears to be used primarily intranasally and to have comparable abuse potential to cocaine, with more than half those who use both reporting that mephedrone gives a better quality high.
We prospectively evaluated 15 adult cancer patients being treated with adrenocorticosteroids (steroids) to determine the frequency and time course of "steroid myopathy." Nine (60%) developed clinically detectable proximal muscle weakness that, in six, was severe enough to interfere with activities of daily living. Proximal muscle weakness developed within 15 days in eight of nine patients and was significantly related to the cumulative dose of steroid. Eight of nine patients with proximal muscle weakness, and two of six without such weakness, experienced a significant decline in respiratory function, leading to symptomatic dyspnea in four patients of the former group. In three patients who could be followed for more than 3 months off steroids, there was either improvement or resolution of the weakness and, when present, of the respiratory impairment. Steroid myopathy is a common complication among cancer patients receiving steroids. It can often affect respiratory function even when proximal limb muscles remain strong. Clinical recognition is important since steroid myopathy can lead to increased morbidity and may be reversible with reduction or discontinuation of steroids.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is upregulated in pulmonary alveolarization. However, developmental expression of pulmonary VEGF and its possible role in the pathogenesis of CDH are not well described.
Timed-pregnant VEGF-LacZ mice, possessing a beta-galactosidase reporter introduced into the 3' region of the VEGF gene, were used to examine fetal lung gene expression in a model of nitrofen-induced CDH.
VEGF gene expression increased from embryonic day 13 until its peak at embryonic day 16 and then decreased until term in all groups. This pattern was most apparent in the periphery with smaller differences noted in central lung locations. Expression of VEGF/beta-gal in the lungs of nitrofen-treated mice was less than controls at all time-points (P <.0001) The type-II pneumocyte population did not significantly differ between the groups. Study concentrations of nitrofen showed no effect on vascular endothelial proliferation in vitro.
Nitrofen downregulates the production of VEGF during gestation and attenuates the peak seen at the onset of the canalicular stage, despite preservation of type-II pneumocytes. This effect was most pronounced in peripheral lung tissue. The authors speculate that altered VEGF expression may have a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of nitrofen-induced CDH.
Rebamipide accelerates healing of gastric ulcers and gastritis but its actions on gastric cancer are not known. Survivin, an anti-apoptosis protein, is overexpressed in stem, progenitor, and cancer cells. In gastric cancer, increased and sustained survivin expression provides survival advantage and facilitates tumor progression and resistance to anti-cancer drugs. Aurora-B kinase is essential for chromosome alignment and mitosis progression but surprisingly its role in gastric cancer has not been explored. We examined in human gastric cancer AGS cells: (1) survivin expression, (2) localization of survivin and Aurora-B, (3) cell proliferation, and (4) effects of specific survivin siRNA and/or rebamipide (free radical scavenging drug) on survivin and Aurora-B expression and cell proliferation. Survivin and Aurora-B are strongly expressed in human AGS gastric cancer cells and co-localize during mitosis. Survivin siRNA significantly reduces AGS cell viability. Rebamipide significantly downregulates in AGS cell survivin expression, its association with Aurora-B and cell proliferation. Rebamipide-induced downregulation of survivin is at the transcription level and does not involve ubiquitin-proteasome pathway.
Prenatal exposure to valproic acid (VPA) induces neural tube defects and impairment in social behaviors related to autistic spectrum disorder in newborns, which make it a useful animal model of autism. In this study, we compared the effects of different time window of prenatal valproic acid exposure for inducing the altered social behaviors relevant to autism from embryonic day 7 to embryonic day 15 in Sprague-Dawley rats to determine the critical periods for the impairment. Compared to E7, E9.5 and E15 exposure, VPA exposure at E12 showed most significant changes in behaviors over control animals with reduced sociability and social preference. E9.5 exposure to valproic acid showed strong reproductive toxicity including decrease in the number of live birth. In general, exposure at E15 showed only marginal effects on reproduction and social behaviors. Finally, VPA-exposed rats at E12 were more sensitive to electric shock than VPA-exposed rats at any other periods. These results suggested that E12 is the critical period in rats when valproate exposure has prominent effects for inducing the altered social behavior similar to human autistic behavior.
