The methanolic extract of Solanum trilobatum (ST) is cytotoxic and exerts an inhibitory effect on tumor growth and in the present study, its role on the antioxidant status of N-diethylnitrosamine (DEN) induced and phenobarbital (PB) promoted hepatocarcinogenesis was assessed.
The protective role of ST on DEN induced and PB promoted hepatocarcinogenesis in Wistar rats was assessed from total nodular incidence, nodule multiplicity and volume of persistent nodules after an experimental period of 3 and 6 months following co-administration. The levels of thiobarbituric reactive substances (TBARS), glutathione (GSH) and activities of antioxidant enzymes were assessed in the haemolysate and liver of experimental animals to evaluate the antioxidant status.
In DEN+PB+ST animals, the nodular incidence, multiplicity and volume reduced significantly compared to DEN+PB treated animals. In DEN+PB animals, the levels of TBARS increased significantly, whereas the levels of GSH and the activities of antioxidant enzymes-superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione reductase, glutathione peroxidase and glucose 6 phosphate dehydrogenase showed significant alterations compared to control both in the haemolysate and liver. However, in DEN+PB+ST animals, the levels of TBARS decreased significantly and the levels of GSH increased with favorable alterations in the activities of antioxidant enzymes in both the haemolysate and liver.
The present results suggest that ST exerts its chemopreventive effects by modulating the antioxidant status during DEN induced hepatocarcinogenesis.
MIS is a one-year Multicentre Isradipine Study of the treatment of essential hypertension, in which participated seven centres in Czechoslovakia. The study comprised 144 patients with mild or medium severe hypertension. Isradipine belongs into the group of dihydropyridine derivatives with a high specific and low non-specific affinity to dihydropyridine binding sites of the L-type of calcium channels. After a four-week placebo period isradipine treatment (2.5 mg (1/2 tablet twice a day/was started. This dose increased to 5 mg (1 tablet twice a day) unless normalization of the diastolic pressure was achieved by a smaller dose. Monotherapy with isradipine normalized the diastolic pressure (less than 90 mmHg) in 44% of the hypertonic patients. 56% hypertonics where monotherapy with isradipine did not reduce the diastolic pressure below 90 mmHg were treated by a combination of isradipine and bopindolol. This group of patients had a significantly higher systolic and diastolic pressure, a higher number of erythrocytes and thrombocytes at the onset of the investigation. Addition of bopindolol to isradipine proved very effective. At the end of the one-year study 87% of the patients had a normal diastolic pressure. Isradipine as monotherapy and combined with bopindolol did not influence the metabolic risk factors of IHD and drug tolerance was very good.
Improving lipids beyond low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) lowering with statin monotherapy may further reduce cardiovascular risk. Niacin has complementary lipid-modifying efficacy to statins and cardiovascular benefit, but is underutilised because of flushing, mediated primarily by prostaglandin D(2) (PGD(2)). Laropiprant (LRPT), a PGD(2) receptor (DP1) antagonist that reduces niacin-induced flushing has been combined with extended-release niacin (ERN) into a fixed-dose tablet.
Dyslipidaemic patients were randomised to ERN/LRPT 1 g (n = 800), ERN 1 g (n = 543) or placebo (n = 270) for 4 weeks. Doses were doubled (2 tablets/day; i.e. 2 g for active treatments) for 20 weeks. ERN/LRPT 2 g produced significant changes vs. placebo in LDL-C (-18.4%), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C; 20.0%), LDL-C:HDL-C (-31.2%), non-HDL-C (-19.8%), triglycerides (TG; -25.8%), apolipoprotein (Apo) B (-18.8%), Apo A-I (6.9%), total cholesterol (TC; -8.5%), TC:HDL-C (-23.1%) and lipoprotein(a) (-20.8%) across weeks 12-24. ERN/LRPT produced significantly less flushing than ERN during initiation (week 1) and maintenance (weeks 2-24) for all prespecified flushing end-points (incidence, intensity and discontinuation because of flushing). Except for flushing, ERN/LRPT had a safety/tolerability profile comparable with ERN.
Extended-release niacin/LRPT 2 g produced significant, durable improvements in multiple lipid/lipoprotein parameters. The improved tolerability of ERN/LRPT supports a simplified 1 g-->2 g dosing regimen of niacin, a therapy proven to reduce cardiovascular risk.
In Parkinson's disease (PD) there is a selective loss of certain midbrain dopaminergic (DA) neurons. The most vulnerable neurons reside in the substantia nigra zona compacta (SNC), whereas the DA neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and interfascicular (IF) nucleus are less vulnerable to degeneration. Many sporadic PD patients have a defect in mitochondria respiration, and some of the genes that cause PD are mitochondrial-related (e.g., PINK1, Parkin, DJ1). The present study sought to determine whether mitochondria mass is different in SNC neurons compared to other midbrain DA neurons and to non-DA neurons in the mouse. At the electron microscopic level, mitochondria in the SN DA neurons occupy 40% less of the soma and dendritic area than in the SN non-DA neurons. The area occupied by mitochondria in the SN DA neurons is also lower than in the VTA neurons, although not different from the IF neurons. The red nucleus somata have the largest percentage of the somata occupied by mitochondria (12%). Mitochondria size is related to somata size; the largest mitochondria are found in the red nucleus neurons and the smallest mitochondria are found in the IF neurons. At the light microscopic level, SNC, VTA and IF DA neurons have <50% of the cytoplasm immunostained with the mitochondrial antibody 1D6, whereas non-DA neurons in the same midbrain regions contain mitochondria areas up to >65% of the cytoplasm area. These data indicate that mitochondria size and mass are not the same for all neurons, and the SNC DA neurons have relatively low mitochondria mass. The low mitochondria mass in SNC DA neurons may contribute to the selective vulnerability of these neurons in certain rodent models of PD.
Pigmentation in human skin is an important defense mechanism against sunlight or oxidative stress. Despite the protective role of melanin, abnormal hyperpigmentation such as freckles and chloasma sometimes can be serious aesthetic problems. Because of these effects of hyperpigmentation, people have considered the effect of depigmentation. Azelaic acid (AZ) is a saturated dicarboxylic acid found naturally in wheat, rye, and barley. Previously, we showed that AZ inhibited melanogenesis. In this study, we investigated the antimelanogenic activity of combination of AZ and taurine (Tau) in B16F10 mouse melanoma cells.
The mouse melanoma cell line B16F10 was used in the study. We measured melanin contents and tyrosinase activity. To gain the change of protein expression, we carried out western blotting.
We investigated that AZ combined with taurine (Tau) show more inhibitory effects in melanocytes than the treatment of AZ alone. AZ combined with Tau inhibited the melanin production and tyrosinase activity of B16F10 melanoma cells without significant cytotoxicity. Also inhibitory effects after treatment with these combined chemical are stronger than AZ alone on melanogenesis.
These findings indicate that AZ with Tau might play an important role in the regulation of melanin formation and be useful as effective ingredients in antimelanogesis.
Severe toxicity associated with high-dose methotrexate (HD-MTX) combined with citrovorum factor rescue (CR-Rescue) was evaluated in the 365 courses in 54 patients with osteosarcoma. Anaphylactoid reaction developed in 8 patients (14.8%), 8 courses (2.2%). The mean age was 14 years old. The total dose given was 85770mg in mean and 1840 mg per body weight (kg). The occurrence was proportional to the dose and the number of the course. Plasma MTX concentration remained under 10(-7) mol/l during the episode. Delayed clearance of MTX from plasma was treated with massive CF-Rescue in 10 patients (19%) (the mean age of 13.6), in 12 courses (3.3%), which was observed on an average at the 7th course when the total dose reached to 59530 mg, or 1390 mg per body weight (kg). Neurotoxicity was observed in only one patient (1.9%), one course (0.3%). Severe toxicity associated with HD-MTX therapy tended to occur according to dose escalation and the number of administration. To overcome severe toxicity careful observation of clinical symptoms and signs as well as adequate treatment of side effects without delay are of importance.
Studies were conducted to examine acute hepatic and renal toxicity of dichlorobenzene (DCB) structural isomers. Male Fischer 344 (F344) rats were injected with 2, 3 or 4 mmol kg-1 of 1,2-DCB, 1,3-DCB or 1,4-DCB (o-, m-, p-). Pair-fed control (PFC) animals were injected (i.p.) with corn oil (1 ml kg-1). Hepatic and renal toxicity was quantitated 24 h after injection of DCB or vehicle. Plasma transaminase (ALT/GPT) activity was increased (P < 0.05) by 1,2-DCB as a function of dose administered. Centrilobular necrosis was observed in rats treated with 1,2-DCB while morphology was relatively normal in rats treated with m- or p-DCB. Administration of (2 or 4 mmol kg-1) 1,3-DCB or 1,4-DCB did not alter kidney weight or blood urea nitrogen (BUN) levels. Renal cortical slice accumulation of p-aminohippurate (PAH) was decreased (P < 0.05) by (2 and 4 mmol kg-1) 1,3-DCB and (3 and 4 mmol kg-1) 1,2-DCB while accumulation of the cation tetraethylammonium (TEA) was decreased by 4 mmol kg-1 1,4-DCB. (TEA). The results of these studies demonstrated that ortho substitution enhanced hepatic and renal toxicity. The results also would suggest that the liver was more sensitive than the kidney for DCB toxicity.
Thiobencarb (S-(4-chlorobenzyl)-N,N-diethyl thiol carbamate), a dithiocarbamate herbicide, was found to cause neuronal dysfunction in adult and neonate albino rats. In general, organocarbamates exert their action by inhibiting acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity. Thiobencarb inhibited both acetylcholinesterase and adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase) activities in rat brain. Withdrawal of thiobencarb treatment resulted in the recovery of AChE activity to a normal level, whereas there was no recovery of Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase activity in either neonate or adult rat brains. The results suggest that neuronal dysfunction caused by thiobencarb is mainly due to the inhibition of ATPase activity rather than to the inhibition of AChE activity.
Subcutaneous administration of the LD50 dose of methyl isocyanate (MIC) to rats induced severe hyperglycaemia, lactic acidosis and uraemia in rats. Neither methylamine (MA) nor N,N'-dimethylurea (DMU), the hydrolysis products of MIC, administered in equimolar doses had any influence on these parameters except for a marginal transient increase in plasma urea by DMU. Methyl isocyanate administration led to haemoconcentration, resulting in an increase in the plasma concentration of total proteins and a decrease in both the plasma concentration of albumin and the plasma cholinesterase activity. The hydrolysis products of MIC had no influence on any of these parameters. Thus, it seems reasonable to suggest that the systemic effects of MIC are caused by MIC per se, in spite of its high hydrolytic instability.
Deciphering the mechanisms regulating the generation of new neurons and new oligodendrocytes, the myelinating cells of the central nervous system, is of paramount importance to address new strategies to replace endogenous damaged cells in the adult brain and foster repair in neurodegenerative diseases. Upon brain injury, the extracellular concentrations of nucleotides and cysteinyl-leukotrienes (cysLTs), two families of endogenous signaling molecules, are markedly increased at the site of damage, suggesting that they may act as "danger signals" to alert responses to tissue damage and start repair. Here we show that, in brain telencephalon, GPR17, a recently deorphanized receptor for both uracil nucleotides and cysLTs (e.g., UDP-glucose and LTD(4)), is normally present on neurons and on a subset of parenchymal quiescent oligodendrocyte precursor cells. We also show that induction of brain injury using an established focal ischemia model in the rodent induces profound spatiotemporal-dependent changes of GPR17. In the lesioned area, we observed an early and transient up-regulation of GPR17 in neurons expressing the cellular stress marker heat shock protein 70. Magnetic Resonance Imaging in living mice showed that the in vivo pharmacological or biotechnological knock down of GPR17 markedly prevents brain infarct evolution, suggesting GPR17 as a mediator of neuronal death at this early ischemic stage. At later times after ischemia, GPR17 immuno-labeling appeared on microglia/macrophages infiltrating the lesioned area to indicate that GPR17 may also acts as a player in the remodeling of brain circuitries by microglia. At this later stage, parenchymal GPR17+ oligodendrocyte progenitors started proliferating in the peri-injured area, suggesting initiation of remyelination. To confirm a specific role for GPR17 in oligodendrocyte differentiation, the in vitro exposure of cortical pre-oligodendrocytes to the GPR17 endogenous ligands UDP-glucose and LTD(4) promoted the expression of myelin basic protein, confirming progression toward mature oligodendrocytes. Thus, GPR17 may act as a "sensor" that is activated upon brain injury on several embryonically distinct cell types, and may play a key role in both inducing neuronal death inside the ischemic core and in orchestrating the local remodeling/repair response. Specifically, we suggest GPR17 as a novel target for therapeutic manipulation to foster repair of demyelinating wounds, the types of lesions that also occur in patients with multiple sclerosis.
Cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript peptide (CART) has a role in chronic pain, and also in the actions of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) employed in the treatment of neuropathic pain. Herein, we test the hypothesis that CART may mediate the anti-hyperalgesic effect of the SSRI, fluoxetine, in neuropathic rats. Sciatic nerve in the right hind paw of rat was ligated to induce neuropathic pain, and the paw withdrawal latency was evaluated using Hargreaves apparatus. Fluoxetine [5-25mg/kg, intraperitoneal (ip)] or CART (54-102) [0.1-1.5μg/rat, intracerebroventricular (icv)] dose-dependently attenuated the hyperalgesic response observed in neuropathic rats, indicating anti-nociceptive properties of each agent. The anti-hyperalgesic effect of fluoxetine was potentiated by the subeffective dose of CART, and attenuated by CART-antibody (1:500 dilution; 5μl/rat, icv); CART-antibody had no effect per se. Isobolographic analysis showed a significant synergism between fluoxetine and CART, and antagonism between fluoxetine and CART-antibody. Immunocytochemical labeling with monoclonal antibodies against CART showed drastic increase in CART-immunoreactive fibers in the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray (VLPAG; 116%), dorsal subdivision of dorsal raphe nucleus (DRD; 176%), and locus coeruleus (LC; 733%) of neuropathic animals. Fluoxetine treatment significantly reduced the immunoreactivity in these areas. However, CART-immunoreactive cells and fibers in the arcuate nucleus did not respond to neuropathy or fluoxetine treatments. We suggest that the CART innervation of DRD, LC and VLPAG may be involved in the (i) central processing of neuropathic pain and (ii) fluoxetine-induced anti-hyperalgesic effect in neuropathic pain.
Among the identified factors involved in malignant transformation, abnormal methylation of the CDKN2A/p16(INK4a) gene promoter has been described as an early event, particularly in bronchial cell cancerization. Precancerous bronchial lesions (n = 70) prospectively sampled during fluorescence endoscopy in a series of 37 patients at high risk for lung cancer were studied with respect to the methylation status of the CDKN2A gene. Methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction was performed on DNA extracted from pure bronchial cell populations derived from biopsies and detection of p16 protein was studied by immunohistochemistry on contiguous parallel biopsies. Aberrant methylation of the CDKN2A gene promoter was found in 19% of preinvasive lesions and its frequency increased with the histologic grade of the lesions. Methylation in at least 1 bronchial site was significantly more frequent in patients with cancer history, although there was no difference in the outcome of patients with or without methylation in bronchial epithelium. The other risk factors studied (tobacco and asbestos exposure) did not influence the methylation status. There was no relationship between CDKN2A methylation and the evolutionary character of the lesions. Our results confirm that abnormal methylation of the CDKN2A gene promoter is an early event in bronchial cell cancerization, which can persist for several years after carcinogen exposure cessation, and show that this epigenetic alteration cannot predict the evolution of precancerous lesions within a 2-year follow-up.
Different irrigating solutions are used clinically to dissolve uric acid, cystine and struvite stones. These studies were undertaken to assess the toxicity to the rabbit bladder epithelium of several commonly used formulations. Test solutions were infused antegrade through a left ureterotomy overnight. Bladders were removed and routine histological sections made. A pH 7.6 solution of NaHCO3 appeared harmless. The same solution with two per cent acetylcysteine produced slight injury. All pH 4 solutions caused significant damage to the urothelium. Hemiacidrin, which contains magnesium, produced less damage than did other pH 4 solutions without that cation. Our data tend to support Suby's conclusions that addition of magnesium reduces urothelial injury even though the presence of magnesium will slow dissolution of struvite.
Valganciclovir is a prodrug of ganciclovir which has been developed for the treatment of cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis in patients with AIDS. Oral valganciclovir is rapidly absorbed and hydrolysed to ganciclovir. The oral bioavailability of ganciclovir after oral valganciclovir administration is high. Oral valganciclovir 900 mg provides a daily exposure of ganciclovir comparable to that of intravenous ganciclovir 5 mg/kg. A single, randomised, nonblind study indicated that oral valganciclovir (900mg twice daily for 3 weeks then 900 mg once daily) and intravenous ganciclovir (5 mg/kg twice daily for 3 weeks then 5 mg/kg once daily) were equally effective in the treatment of newly diagnosed CMV retinitis in 160 patients with AIDS. Valganciclovir appears to have a similar tolerability profile to intravenous ganciclovir during induction therapy in patients with AIDS and newly diagnosed CMV retinitis. During maintenance therapy with valganciclovir, the most commonly reported adverse events included neutropenia, anaemia, thrombocytopenia, gastrointestinal (including diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting and abdominal pain), fever, headache, insomnia, peripheral neuropathy, paraesthesia and retinal detachment.
Gemcitabine is an antimetabolic drug for solid tumors. Although its pharmacokinetics as well as its side-effects are well known, paroxysmal atrial fibrillation associated to the administration of this drug has not yet been described.
We describe the case of a 78-year-old man with pancreatic adenocarcinoma who presented repeated paroxysmal atrial fibrillation episodes 18-24 hours after every gemcitabine infusion which resolved with antiarrhythmic drugs. This clinical history was positive for a remote brief episode of atrial fibrillation, which resolved spontaneously, and the patient had no predisposing factors for supraventricular arrhythmias (systemic hypertension, diabetes or coronary artery disease).
Cardiac work-up revealed only a mild mitral-valve prolapse and complete right bundle branch block. During the arrhythmia episodes no other precipitating factors were reported. The close temporal relationship of the arrhythmia to drug administration and the recurrence of arrhythmia upon rechallenge allowed to hypothesize an intrinsic pro-arrhythmic effect of gemcitabine or its metabolite 2',2'-difluorodeoxyuridine.
The occurrence of atrial fibrillation during the administration of gemcitabine may be considered as a cardiac arrhythmia drug-related toxicity. This side-effect of gemcitabine infusion is a previously unreported sign of drug toxicity; therefore, a high level of awareness to this problem is warranted when this drug is administered.
Past studies have reported an excess of angiosarcoma of the liver and brain cancer at a polymer production plant in Louisville, Kentucky. Although angiosarcoma has clearly been linked to vinyl chloride exposure, the cause of the brain cancer excess has been uncertain. We conducted case-cohort and case-control studies of both conditions in relation to chemicals used in polyvinyl chloride and nitrile rubber production. Angiosarcoma was strongly associated with vinyl chloride exposure but not with other chemicals used in production. Brain cancer was highest in workers hired prior to 1950 but was not associated with vinyl chloride or other specific exposures or production processes. This brain cancer cluster is similar to those reported in other industries in this generation of workers, the specific cause remaining unknown.
Dimethylarsinic acid (DMA) is a major metabolite of inorganic arsenicals, which are epidemiologically significant chemicals in relation to liver cancer in mammals. The present study was conducted to determine the promoting effects of organic arsenicals related to DMA [monomethylarsonic acid (MMA) and trimethylarsine oxide (TMAO)] on rat liver carcinogenesis using a liver medium-term bioassay (the Ito test). Male, 10-week-old, F344 rats were given a single i.p. injection of diethylnitrosamine at a dose of 200 mg/kg b.w. as an initiator. Starting 2 weeks thereafter they received 100 ppm of MMA, DMA or TMAO in their drinking water, or no supplement as a control, for 6 weeks. All animals underwent 2/3 partial hepatectomy in week 3 after initiation. Quantification of glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P)-positive foci as preneoplastic lesions in liver sections revealed significantly increased numbers and areas in all 3 treated groups compared with controls. Hepatic microsome cytochrome P-450 content was markedly increased with all 3 arsenic treatments. Markedly elevated CYP 2B1 protein levels and CYP 2B1/2 mRNA levels were thus observed in all cases. The potency of promotion was similar for MMA, DMA and TMAO. Since hydroxyradicals were found to be generated in the relatively early phase while methylated arsenicals were metabolized in liver, the resultant oxidative stress might have promoted lesion development.
Mercury is a highly toxic heavy metal; exposure to mercury in humans and animals causes damage in several organs or systems including the immune system. To characterize the toxicity of mercury in the immune cells, the cytotoxic effects of inorganic mercury were studied in two distinct lymphoma lines, the murine T lymphoma (EL4) and B lymphoma (A20) cells. Mercury concentration-dependently decreased cell viability, membrane integrity, and proliferation in both EL4 and A20 cells. Mercury increased the reactive oxygen species (ROS) production in both EL4 and A20 cells, and pretreatment with antioxidants reversed mercury-induced ROS generation. Pretreatment of cells with antioxidants N-acetylcysteine (NAC) and silymarin decreased mercury-induced lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release in both types of cells; however, Ca(2+) channel blocker lanthanum (La(2+)) decreased it only in A20 cells. The mode of cytotoxicity was a mixture of both apoptosis and necrosis. Mercury-induced apoptosis and necrosis in the two cell lines were indicated by staining with Hoechst 33258, propidium iodide, and co-staining with annexin V and propidium iodide. Both mercury-induced apoptosis and necrosis were attenuated by antioxidants. Mercury increased gene expression of IL-4 and TNFalpha in EL4 cells; these cytokines were not expressed in A20 cells. Data suggested different pathways of mercury-induced cytotoxicity in T and B lymphoma cells and involvement of ROS, Ca(2+) homeostasis, and inflammatory cytokine gene expression.
Forty-two fit, anticholinergized patients, induced with thiopentone, received either vecuronium (V) or pancuronium (P) 0.1 mg/kg, followed by alfentanil 15 micrograms/kg. The mean heart rate in the Group V was significantly lower than that in the Group P. The difference, 10-15 bpm, appeared after alfentanil administration, and lasted for 5 min postintubation, when under N2O anaesthesia. The Group P patients maintained their arterial pressure closer to the preinduction level than did the Group V patients, but a statistically significant inter-group difference appeared only at two recording stages. Four Group V patients, contrasted to none of the Group P patients (P less than 0.05), were put in head-down tilt, or were given atropine, and/or etilephrine for an undue decrease in arterial pressure. Compared to vecuronium, pancuronium increased heart rate, and protected from arterial hypotension, when combined with low-dose alfentanil.
Striatal glutamatergic hyperactivity through the metabotropic receptors and their intracellular signaling pathways is considered critical in the development of levodopa-induced dyskinesias in Parkinson's disease and in experimental parkinsonism.
We investigated whether the administration of the metabotropic glutamate antagonist, MPEP, modifies striatal expression of Homer family proteins which are involved in the intracellular mechanisms mediated by these receptors.
Sprague-Dawley rats were unilaterally lesioned in the nigrostriatal pathway with 6-hydroxydopamine (8 microg) and treated with: levodopa (12 mg/kg, i.p.) plus vehicle (n=10) divided in two daily injections; levodopa plus MPEP (1.5 and 3 mg/kg, i.p.; n=6-13) divided in two daily injections; or saline (n=7) for 10 consecutive days. Axial, limb, and orolingual dyskinesias were evaluated. Striatal expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), Homer 1a, 1b/c, and deltaFosB were measured by Western Blot.
Animals treated with levodopa showed an increase of dyskinesia score (p<0.01) that was attenuated by the administration of MPEP (p<0.01). In the ipsilateral side of the lesion, striatal TH expression was decreased (p<0.01). No significant differences in striatal Homer 1a or b/c expression were observed between the groups of treatment. Striatal deltaFosB expression increased in the animals treated with levodopa (p<0.05) being attenuated after MPEP administration (p<0.05). MPEP effect was not paralleled by any modification of striatal Homer proteins expression.
These results suggest that Homer protein family is not causally involved in the development of dyskinetic movements induced by levodopa treatment in this animal model of parkinsonism.
Mitoxantrone cardiotoxicity was investigated in isolated neonatal rat heart myocytes treated for 3 h in the presence or absence of the metal chelator ICRF-187. Electron microscopy studies of mitoxantrone-treated myocytes showed disorganized myofibrillar structures, swollen mitochondria, and extensive vacuolization. Cardiotoxicity, reflected as the ratio of intracellular ATP/protein and the loss of spontaneous beating, was only partially reduced by continuous ICRF-187 concentrations up to 50 micrograms/ml. ICRF-187 induced myocyte protection which was dependent on the dose and duration of exposure. ICRF-187 also reduced the cardiotoxicity of doxorubicin to a lesser extent and reduced the toxicity of a postulated cyclic mitoxantrone metabolite. However, the cardiotoxicity of ametantrone, a nonmetal-binding analogue of mitoxantrone, was unaltered with ICRF-187. The antitumor activity of mitoxantrone was unaltered by ICRF-187 in human tumor cells and in P-388-bearing mice. In addition, ICRF-187 allowed for 50% greater cumulative dosing in normal mice that, nonetheless, showed extensive histological heart damage 7 wk after dosing. These studies show that ICRF-187 provides partial protection from mitoxantrone cardiotoxicity in vitro without impairing the drug's antitumor activity in vitro or in vivo. This facilitates greater cumulative drug dosing in normal mice. The postulated mechanism of cardioprotection is metal chelation, because ICRF-187 did not alter the toxicity of a nonchelating mitoxantrone analogue.
The effect of milrinone, a phosphodiesterase (PDE) inhibitor, on intimal thickening after endothelial denudation was investigated. Intimal thickening was induced in the femoral arteries of mice by a photochemical reaction between rose bengal and transluminal green light which caused endothelial injury followed by platelet adhesion, aggregation, and formation of an occlusive thrombus in the irradiated segment of the mouse femoral artery. In this model, intimal thickening occurred following spontaneous thrombolysis. The intima/media ratio at 21 days after irradiation was 0.556+/-0.104 in the untreated group. Oral administration of milrinone (0.3-3.0 mg/kg) for 3-21 days suppressed intimal thickening by up to 56% in a dose- and time-dependent manner. In an in vivo experiment using bromodeoxyuridine incorporation, milrinone suppressed cell proliferation at 1.0 mg/kg p.o. On the other hand, the minimum doses of milrinone for suppression of ex vivo platelet aggregation induced by collagen (0.8 microg/ml) or ADP (0.5 microM) were 3.0 and 10.0 mg/kg, respectively. These results indicate that milrinone may not suppress intimal thickening by inhibiting platelet function but by preventing vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) proliferation, probably through a mechanism mediated via 3', 5'-adenosine cyclic monophosphate (cAMP).
The dopaminergic agonists apomorphine and d-amphetamine elicit hyperthermic, hyperkinetic and stereotypic responses in the rabbit. The present investigation compares the influence exerted by various serotonergic antagonists upon these activities. Apomorphine-induced hyperthemia was antagonized by p-chlorophenylalanine (pCPA), cyproheptadine and cinanserin and was restored in pCPA-pretreated rabbits by regeneration of central serotonin levels, d-Amphetamine-induced hyperthermia was reduced by pCPA; restored in pCPA-pretreated animals by regeneration of central serotonin levels; and was uninfluenced by cyproheptadine and cinanserin. Apomorphine-induced locomotor stimulation was unaltered by serotonergic antagonists; however, these same doses of anti-serotonergic agents all markedly reduced d-amphetamine-induced hyperkinesia. Serotonergic antgaonists also failed to affect apomorphine-induced compulsive gnawing but did significantly enhance d-amphetamine-induced compulsive gnawing. It is concluded from these data that the neuropharmacological activities of apopmorphine and d-amphetamine in the rabbit differ in their dependence upon central serotonergic mechanisms.
Thymidine phosphorylase (TP) (E.C. 2.4.2.4), also known as platelet-derived endothelial cell growth factor, is a potent angiogenic factor. The expression of TP correlates with poor prognosis in a range of tumor types. 2-Deoxy-D-ribose-1-phosphate, a product of thymidine catabolism by TP, is a strongly reducing sugar that generates oxygen radical species during the early stages of protein glycation. We show that thymidine induces oxidative stress in TP-overexpressing carcinoma cells, promoting secretion of the stress-induced angiogenic factors vascular endothelial growth factor and interleukin-8, and inducing matrix metalloproteinase-1. Our findings outline a putative mechanism for TP-induced angiogenesis and identify novel targets for intervention.
A multiparous woman in good psychological health underwent urgent caesarean section in labour. Postoperatively, she was given a patient-controlled analgesia device delivering boluses of diamorphine 0.5 mg and droperidol 0.025 mg. Whilst using the device she gradually became anxious, the feeling worsening after each bolus. The diagnosis of droperidol-induced psychological disturbance was not made straight away although on subsequent close questioning the patient gave a very clear history. After she had received a total of only 0.9 mg droperidol, a syringe containing diamorphine only was substituted and her unease resolved completely. We feel that, although the dramatic extrapyramidal side effects of dopaminergic antiemetics are well known, more subtle manifestations may easily be overlooked.
