The nervous system of the B6C3F1 mouse has rarely been a target for chemical carcinogenesis in the National Toxicology Program (NTP) bioassays. However, 6 malignant gliomas and 2 neuroblastomas were observed in B6C3F1 mice exposed to 625 ppm 1,3-butadiene (NTP technical reports 288 and 434). These mouse brain tumors were evaluated with regard to the profile of genetic alterations that are observed in human brain tumors. Alterations in the p53 tumor suppressor gene were common. Missense mutations were observed in 3/6 malignant gliomas and 2/2 neuroblastomas and were associated with loss of heterozygosity. Most of the mutations occurred in exons 5-8 of the p53 gene and were G-->A transitions, and did not involve CpG sites. Loss of heterozygosity at the Ink4a/Arf gene locus was observed in 5/5 malignant gliomas and 1/1 neuroblastoma, while the PTEN(phosphatase and tensin homologue) gene locus was unaffected by deletions. One of 2 neuroblastomas had a mutation in codon 61 of H-ras, while H-ras mutations were not observed in the malignant gliomas examined. Only 1 brain tumor has been reported from control mice of over 500 NTP studies. This malignant glioma showed no evidence of alterations in the p53 gene or K- and H-ras mutations. It is likely that the specific genetic alterations observed were induced or selected for by 1,3-butadiene treatment that contributed to the development of mouse brain tumors. The observed findings are similar in part to the genetic alterations reported in human brain tumors.
To assess the influence of monoaminergic neurones in the nucleus accumbens septi (NAS) on muricidal and apomorphine-induced aggression, bilateral intraaccumbens injections of relevant neurotoxins were performed. Neurochemical effects in the mesolimbic area (NAS and tuberculi olfactorii) and striatal tissue were investigated using high performance liquid chromatography. 6-Hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) with desipramine pretreatment significantly decreased mesolimbic dopamine (DA) metabolism, 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT) plus desipramine diminished serotonin (5-HT) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), while DSP-4 depleted noradrenaline (NA), 5-HT, 5-HIAA and tryptophan in the mesolimbic area. No significant biochemical changes were observed in the striatum. Behaviourally, 6-OHDA-treated rats were markedly more aggressive in the apomorphine-induced fighting test. Similarly, DSP-4 injections into the NAS (10 micrograms/1 microliter) enhanced this type of aggression. The 5,7-DHT lesion did not alter apomorphine-induced fighting. None of the neurotoxins induced muricidal behaviour. It is concluded that dopaminergic postsynaptic receptors in the NAS may be involved in the pro-aggressive effect of apomorphine. The results support the hypothesis that NA-containing neurones play an inhibitory role in apomorphine-induced aggression and suggest that such a DA-NA interaction might occur in the NAS.
Gc-globulin scavenges actin released from necrotic hepatocytes to the extracellular space. In 77 patients with fulminant hepatic failure (FHF) (excluding patients treated with liver transplantation), admission levels of serum Gc-globulin and degree of complexing with monomeric actin (complex ratio) were determined to evaluate their predictive values in relation to survival/nonsurvival. Gc-globulin levels were significantly reduced in 47 nonsurvivors, compared with 30 survivors (96 +/- 71 mg/L vs. 169 +/- 101 mg/L, P < .001), whereas the complex ratio in nonsurvivors did not differ significantly from that of survivors. Gc-globulin levels were significantly lower in 59 patients with non-acetaminophen-induced FHF, compared with 18 patients with acetaminophen-induced FHF (P < .01). Using a cutoff level of serum Gc-globulin of 100 mg/L, a lesser value correctly predicted nonsurvival in 79 percent of patients with non-acetaminophen-induced FHF, whereas a higher value predicted survival in 60 percent. In patients with acetaminophen-induced FHF, nonsurvival was correctly predicted in 100 percent of patients and survival in 53 percent. In comparison, the King's College Hospital (KCH) criteria correctly predicted nonsurvival and survival in 69 percent and 57 percent, respectively, of the same non-acetaminophen-induced FHF patients and in 60 percent and 38 percent, respectively, of the acetaminophen-induced FHF patients. Thus, in our study population, the predictive properties of Gc-globulin were in the same range as the KCH criteria. An advantage of Gc-globulin is that it gives an estimate of the outcome already on admission. Acute liver transplantation should be considered in FHF patients with Gc-globulin less than 100 mg/L.
Six mongrel dogs were used to investigate the mechanism of action of fentanyl-induced bradycardia. With controlled acid-base balance and temperature, and under 1.0 to 1.2 percent endtidal halothane anesthesia, 5 and microgram/kg of IV fentanyl citrate were given sequentially 1 hour apart and heart rate (HR) followed for 60 minutes. A dose-related depression of HR followed both injections. One week later the same dogs were studied similarly, except that bilateral cervical vagotomies were performed before fentanyl was given. The decrease in HR was at most 10 percent of the decrease in HR observed in the innervated dogs. Serum fentanyl levels were comparable. The data indicate the majority of the chronotropic action of fentanyl involves vagal efferent impulses from the central nervous system.
The object location task is a new procedure evaluating spatial memory abilities in the rat. The aim of the present study was to characterize this behavioural paradigm by pharmacologic means. For this purpose, the effects of the muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine and the inhibitor of the nitric oxide synthase L-NAME on object location were assessed in the rat. In a first study, object location was impaired when the delay condition of 60-min was utilized. Subsequently, pre-training administration of scopolamine (0.2 mg/kg but not 0.07 mg/kg) induced delay-dependent performance deficits in this test. These impairments seem to be centrally mediated since the peripheral muscarinic receptor antagonist methylscopolamine (0.2 mg/kg) did not affect object location under the same conditions. Finally, pre-training treatment with L-NAME (30 mg/kg but not 10 mg/kg) also induced delay-dependent performance deficits in the object location task. These results indicate that the object location test is sensitive to pharmacological treatment and could be used for assessing the therapeutic potential of promnesic compounds.
Despite progress made in recent years, interactions between various drugs are far from being fully understood. Moreover, a peculiarity of constitution causes that some individuals in particular situations respond differently to a drug or treatment than do most people. We report the case of a 68-year-old female with primary aldosteronism treated with spironolactone. The patient occasionally suffered from trigeminal neuralgia and was then prescribed with carbamazepine, which although alleviated pain worsened the control of blood pressure. To maintain blood pressure within normal limits the doses of spironolactone had to be increased. Replacement of carbamazepine with gabapentin prevented these drug-induced increases in blood pressure in our patient. This case shows for the first time the existence of a drug interaction between spironolactone and any anti-epileptic drug in primary aldosteronism.
Doxorubicin cardiotoxicity remains a serious problem in children with malignancy. The present study was undertaken to determine if the administration of consecutive divided daily doses of doxorubicin would significantly reduce the likelihood of cardiotoxicity in children compared with a single dose administration regimen.
One hundred thirteen children (60 boys and 53 girls) received doxorubicin either by single dose infusion or by a consecutive divided daily dose schedule. The divided dose patients received one third of the total cycle dose over 20 minutes for 3 consecutive days. Patients treated according to a single dose schedule received the cycle dose as a 20-minute infusion. The mean doxorubicin dose was 341 mg/m2. Patients were followed up for 4-180 months. There were 60 boys and 53 girls in the series.
Fifteen patients developed cardiacdysfunction, eight of whom died of progressive cardiac failure. There was no significant difference in the incidence of cardiac dysfunction between the divided and single dose infusion groups. More girls than boys developed cardiac dysfunction and more girls died of progressive cardiac failure; this difference was not statistically significant. The median time to the development of cardiac failure was 2 months.
The divided dose regimen did not alter the incidence of cardiotoxicity. Other schedules should therefore be investigated. Our data suggest that, at similar cumulative doses, girls are more likely to develop cardiac dysfunction than are boys. If the sex-related difference is proved in larger series of patients, it may be prudent to lower the recommended cumulative doses for girls.
A 54 year-old man, who had been treated for several years with isoniazid, was transferred to our hospital because of intractable pulmonary tuberculosis. He was given several anti-tuberculous agents including INH, CS and/or PZA for a long period of time without improvement of the pulmonary tuberculosis. After 7 years' treatment with INH, hypochromic microcytic anemia developed. Parenteral administration of iron preparation failed to improve the anemia. The bone marrow findings revealed erythroid hyperplasia and a few erythroblasts showed megaloblastic change. The bone marrow iron staining revealed increased sideroblasts of which 88% were ringed-form. INH was then discontinued and pyridoxal phosphate was administered with rapid complete improvement of the anemia. INH is well known as a causative agent for acquired secondary sideroblastic anemia, however only one case of INH-induced sideroblastic anemia has been reported in Japan. This is the second reported Japanese case of INH-induced secondary sideroblastic anemia, which appears to be a very rare condition because of genetically determined rapid acetylation of INH in Japanese.
Arsenic, a toxic metalloid with major health concerns, elicits upregulation of heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) in rat hepatoma FGC4 cells, together with evidence of detachment of viable cells from the growth substratum.
To determine if this cell detachment was linked to anoikis, and the impact of this on measurement of HSP70 expression.
FGC4 cells were exposed to sodium arsenite, and detached and attached cells were taken for assessment of cell viability, activation of procaspase-3, and expression of HSP70.
Exposure to sodium arsenite led to loss of viable cells from the substratum, associated with apoptosis in detached, but not attached, cells. Upregulation of HSP70 of a similar magnitude was demonstrated in both cell populations. Exposure of cells to cadmium chloride, a toxic metal, also of major environmental concern and believed to act by an oxidative stress mechanism, produced very little release of viable cells from the culture substratum, was not associated with apoptosis, but did elicit a modest upregulation of HSP70 in both cell populations.
Exposure of FGC4 cells to sodium arsenite elicits anoikis, a form of anchorage-dependent apoptosis, and assessment of the level of HSP70 upregulation in such cells should take account of the detached cell population. Further, the data suggest that this phenomenon is selective to sodium arsenite, rather than to another toxic element that shares a similar mechanism of toxicity.
An unusual case of inter-haemispheric disconnection syndrome occurring in a patient who had undergone hepatic transplantation is presented. The underlying disorder, at first wrongly interpreted as encephalitis, was found to be severe, diffuse cerebral vasculitis. The hypothesis that treatment with tacrolimus might have caused, or at least favoured the vascular damage is discussed.
In a rat model, lithium treatment is associated with polyuria and severe downregulation of aquaporin-2 (AQP2) protein in the inner medulla (IM) or in the whole kidney. However, it is not known (1) to what extent this downregulation occurs at the mRNA level; (2) whether the main sodium transporter of the nephron, Na,K-ATPase, is regulated in parallel at the mRNA level, and (3) whether lithium treatment induces zonal or segmental differences in AQP2 and Na,K-ATPase mRNA levels.
We examined the changes in mRNA expression levels for AQP2 and Na,K-ATPase in kidney cortex, inner stripe of the outer medulla (ISOM), and IM of rats treated with lithium orally using semiquantitative Northern blot analyses and in situ hybridization at the light and electron microscopic levels.
The AQP2 mRNA levels decreased significantly (p < 0.01) in lithium-treated rats to 37 +/- 4% in the cortex, to 17 +/- 4% in the ISOM, and to 23 +/- 5% in the IM, while the Na,K-ATPase mRNA levels were not altered in the cortex, but were significantly (p < 0.05) altered in the ISOM (144 +/- 15% after 10 days, but 68 +/- 4% after 4 weeks) and in the IM (63 +/- 8% after 10 days, but normalized after 4 weeks). In situ hybridization showed reduced levels of AQP2 mRNA in all zones of the kidney, but the Na,K-ATPase mRNA expressions were slightly decreased only in IM collecting ducts. At the ultrastructural level, principal cells in the IM collecting ducts showed slight hypertrophy, but no cell damage after 4 weeks of lithium treatment. The results demonstrate substantial downregulation of AQP2 at the mRNA level throughout the collecting duct in experimental lithium-induced nephrogenic dabetes insipidus and moderately decreased Na,K-ATPase mRNA levels in the ISOM and in the IM.
The results suggest that decreased mRNA expressions of AQP2 and Na,K-ATPase contribute to the development of lithium-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus.
Flunitrazepam 0.5, 1.0 or 2.0 mg was given by the oral or i.m. routes to groups of volunteers and its effects compared. Plasma concentrations of the drug were estimated by gas-liquid chromatography, in a smaller number of the subjects. The most striking effect was sedation which increased with the dose, 2 mg producing deep sleep although the subjects could still be aroused. The effects of i.m. administration were apparent earlier and sometimes lasted longer than those following oral administration. Dizziness was less marked than sedation, but increased with the dose. There was pain on i.m. injection of flunitrazepam significantly more often than with isotonic saline. Plasma concentrations varied with dose and route and corresponded qualitatively with the subjective effects. The drug was still present in measurable quantities after 24 h even with the smallest dose.
The ketogenic diet (KD) is a high-fat and low-carbohydrate diet, used for treating refractory epilepsy in children. We have previously shown alterations in nucleotidase activities from the central nervous system and blood serum of rats submitted to different models of epilepsy. In this study we investigated the effect of KD on nucleotidase activities in the blood serum, as well if KD has any influence in the activity of liver enzymes such as alkaline phosphatase, aspartate aminotransferase, and alanine aminotransferase activities in Wistar rats submitted to the lithium-pilocarpine model of epilepsy. At 21 days of age, rats received an injection of lithium chloride and, 18-19 h later, they received an injection of pilocarpine hydrochloride for status epilepticus induction. The results reported herein show that seizures induced by lithium-pilocarpine elicit a significant increase in ATP hydrolysis and alkaline phosphatase activity, as well as a decrease in ADP hydrolysis and aspartate aminotransferase activity. The KD is a rigorous regimen that can be associated with hepatic damage, as shown herein by the elevated activities of liver enzymes and 5'-nucleotidase in blood serum. Further studies are necessary to investigate the mechanism of inhibition of lithium on nucleotidases in blood serum.
Omeprazole is a potent proton pump inhibitor and usually is well tolerated. Adverse effects of this drug have been reported in up to 5% of patients, most of which are trivial and disappear rapidly on discontinuation of the drug. Skin adverse reactions attributed to omeprazole are uncommon and include rashes, urticaria, angio-oedema, acute disseminated epidermal necrolysis, lichen spinulosus, and contact dermatitis. Cutaneous leucocytoclastic vasculitis (CLV) has not been previously reported in association with omeprazole. The development of CLV in an elderly patient four weeks after starting treatment with omeprazole is described.
We used a canine model of embolic pulmonary hypertension induced by intravenous (i.v.) injection of autologous thrombi to evaluate whether the novel recombinant plasminogen activator (r-PA) BM 06.022 reversed pulmonary hypertension. The effects of BM 06.022 after bolus injection were compared with those of vehicle, alteplase, urokinase, and anistreplase in 6 dogs per group. Thirty minutes after initiation of treatment, the decrease in pulmonary artery pressure (PAP) caused by a bolus of 200 kU/kg (0.35 mg/kg) BM 06.022 was greater (p < 0.05) than that caused by a 2-h infusion of 1.33 mg/kg alteplase or of 40,000 U/kg urokinase and that caused by a bolus of 0.4 U/kg anistreplase but not that caused by a 15-min infusion of 1 mg/kg alteplase. At 3 h, all thrombolytic agents had reduced PAP equally. The greatest measured plasma concentration of BM 06.022 was higher (p < 0.05) than that of 2-h infused alteplase (4,498 +/- 716 vs. 519 +/- 119 IU/ml). We conclude that because of its bolus-pharmacokinetics, BM 06.022 more rapidly reversed thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension than did 2-h infusion of alteplase or urokinase or a bolus of anistreplase.
The cyclooxygenase (COX) family of enzymes has been implicated in cell proliferation and angiogenesis in many tumors, including colon cancer. Indeed, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors recently have been approved for use for prophylaxis in individuals with familial adenomatous polyposis. We now report on the effects of a selective COX-2 inhibitor, celecoxib, on cell proliferation, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) concentration, angiogenesis using an in vitro assay, and apoptosis in several human cancer cell lines. We demonstrate that celecoxib modestly reduces proliferation in some cell lines and does not affect MMP concentrations. However, celecoxib significantly decreases microtubule formation in stimulated human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) exposed to cancer cell supernatants, an in vitro angiogenesis model, when compared to controls incubated with supernatants from untreated cells. Celecoxib does not consistently induce apoptosis in these cell lines, as determined by DNA laddering in agarose gels and by a caspase assay. Thus, it appears that COX-2 inhibitors have beneficial effects in reducing malignant cell behavior in vitro and warrant further study to elucidate their mechanisms of action and to examine their mechanisms of action in this role and their utility in vivo in a variety of animal and human tumors.
Statins have been reported to confer renoprotection in several experimental models of renal disease through pleiotropic actions. The roles of statins in glomerular podocytes have not been explored. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of fluvastatin on podocyte and tubulointerstitial injury in puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced nephrosis. PAN induced massive proteinuria and serum creatinine elevation on day 7, which were significantly suppressed by fluvastatin. Immunofluorescence studies of podocyte-associated proteins nephrin and podocin revealed diminished and discontinuous staining patterns in rats with PAN nephrosis, indicating severe podocyte injury. Fluvastatin treatment dramatically mitigated the abnormal staining profiles. Reduction of nephrin expression by PAN and its reversal by fluvastatin were confirmed by quantitative analyses. By electron microscopy, effacement of foot processes was ameliorated in fluvastatin-treated rats. Fluvastatin also mitigated tubulointerstitial damage in PAN nephrosis, with the repression of PAN-induced NF-kappaB and activator protein-1 activation in the kidneys. In addition, expression of activated membrane-bound small GTPase RhoA was markedly increased in the glomeruli of PAN nephrosis, which was inhibited by fluvastatin treatment. In cultured podocytes, fluvastatin suppressed PAN-evoked activation of RhoA and actin cytoskeletal reorganization. Furthermore, fasudil, a specific Rho-kinase inhibitor, successfully ameliorated PAN-induced podocyte damage and proteinuria. In summary, fluvastatin alleviated podocyte and tubulointerstitial injury in PAN nephrosis. The beneficial effects of fluvastatin on podocytes can be attributable to direct modulation of excessive RhoA activity. Our data suggest a therapeutic role for statins in clinical conditions that are relevant to podocyte injury.
The Coffin-Lowry syndrome (CLS), an X-linked disorder, is characterized by severe psychomotor retardation, facial and digital dysmorphisms, and progressive skeletal deformations. Genetic linkage analysis mapped the CLS locus to an interval of 2-3 megabases at Xp22.2. The gene coding for Rsk-2, a member of the growth-factor-regulated protein kinases, maps within the candidate interval, and was tested as a candidate gene for CLS. Initial screening for mutations in the gene for Rsk-2 in 76 unrelated CLS patients revealed one intragenic deletion, a nonsense, two splice site, and two missense mutations. The two missenses affect sites critical for the function of Rsk-2. The mutated Rsk-2 proteins were found to be inactive in a S6 kinase assay. These findings provide direct evidence that abnormalities in the MAPK/RSK signalling pathway cause Coffin-Lowry syndrome.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in native nephropathies reduce proteinuria and delay progression to renal failure. Data in renal transplantation remain limited. A negative effect on glomerular filtration rate was concluded in a recent systematic review.
In this novel randomized controlled trial, 47 patients with chronic allograft nephropathy, severe renal impairment, and more than or equal to 1 g/24 hr proteinuria were randomized to lisinopril (group A) or other hypotensives (group B) for 1 year. Sodium bicarbonate was given to all patients to treat metabolic acidosis prophylactically (acidosis increases significantly with lisinopril). The annual rate of decline of graft function was measured isotopically (primary outcome) and 24 hr proteinuria, genotyping, radiolabeled polypeptide aprotinin proximal tubular catabolic studies (in group A only) as secondary outcome measurements were undertaken.
At baseline, groups were comparable except for greater proteinuria in group A. After 1 year, the rate of decline of graft function and graft survival were comparable in both groups. Proteinuria decreased significantly in group A patients only. Lisinopril also significantly reduced radiolabeled aprotinin uptake and metabolism, plasma aldosterone, and ammonia excretion. Plasma potassium, bicarbonate, and mean arterial pressures were comparable in both groups. Patients with more than or equal to 30% reduction in proteinuria had a significant association with rs699 polymorphism in the angiotensinogen gene.
The rate of decline of renal graft function in patients with chronic allograft nephropathy was not adversely affected by lisinopril therapy given for 1 year. Lisinopril significantly reduced proteinuria, renal proximal tubular polypeptide catabolism, plasma aldosterone, and ammonia excretion suggesting relative preservation of graft function. Treating metabolic acidosis allowed safe and prolonged use of angiotensinogen-converting enzyme inhibitors.
Chronic administration of small doses of prostaglandin-synthesis inhibitor indometacin against the background of a salt load or unilateral nephrectomy induces the development of arterial hypertension in rats. Arterial pressure increases (two fold on the average) on the 6th week of the experiment in 60-80% of the animals. Arterial hypertension developing against the background of a salt load is marked by retention of sodium in the organism and increase the intravascular volume, while that developing in unilateral nephrectomy--by increased sodium excretion and reduced intravascular volume. Depressed activity of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system and conspicious changes in the renal vascular channel are noted in both forms of arterial hypertension. It is assumed that disorders in the metabolism of cyclic nucleotides underlie the changes occurring in the renal vessels due to the effect of indometacin. Similar generalized changes in the peripheral vascular channel on the whole may be the cause of the increased vascular resistance and one of the causative factors of the hypertension development.
Estradiol and progesterone are crucial for the acquisition of receptivity and the change in transcriptional activity of target genes in the implantation window. The aim of this study was to differentiate the regulation of genes in the endometrium of patients with recurrent implantation failure (IF) versus those who became pregnant after in vitro fertilization (IVF) treatment. Moreover, the effect of embryo-derived factors on endometrial transcriptional activity was studied. Nine women with known IVF outcome (IF, M, miscarriage, OP, ongoing pregnancy) and undergoing hysteroscopy with endometrial biopsy were enrolled. Biopsies were taken during the midluteal phase. After culture in the presence of embryo-conditioned IVF media, total RNA was extracted and submitted to reverse transcription, target cDNA synthesis, biotin labelling, fragmentation and hybridization using the Affymetrix Human Genome U133A 2.0 Chip. Differential expression of selected genes was re-analysed by quantitative PCR, in which the results were calculated as threshold cycle differences between the groups and normalized to Glyceraldehyde phosphate dehydrogenase and beta-actin. Differences were seen for several genes from endometrial tissue between the IF and the pregnancy groups, and when comparing OP with M, 1875 up- and 1807 down-regulated genes were returned. Real-time PCR analysis confirmed up-regulation for somatostatin, PLAP-2, mucin 4 and CD163, and down-regulation of glycodelin, IL-24, CD69, leukaemia inhibitory factor and prolactin receptor between Op and M. When the different embryo-conditioned media were compared, no significant differential regulation could be demonstrated. Although microarray profiling may currently not be sensitive enough for studying the effects of embryo-derived factors on the endometrium, the observed differences in gene expression between M and OP suggest that it will become an interesting tool for the identification of fertility-relevant markers produced by the endometrium.
Peroxidative damages are thought to be a component of doxorubicin-induced cardiac toxicity. Administration of certain thiols, such as N-acetylcysteine, are reported to be protective against the cardiac toxicity and mortality associated with chronic doxorubicin administration. We have investigated the possibility that N-acetylcysteine exerts its protective effect by inhibiting doxorubicin-induced lipid peroxidation in a process mediated by a heat-labile cytosolic factor. Dialyzed rat liver cytosol plus N-acetylcysteine significantly inhibited doxorubicin-induced lipid peroxidation in a microsomal system whereas neither cytosol nor N-acetylcysteine alone does so. Concomitantly, it was observed that N-acetylcysteine is rapidly consumed in a system containing cytosol, microsomes, and doxorubicin. The inhibition of lipid peroxidation by the cytosol and accompanying N-acetylcysteine oxidation is heat labile. Rat heart cytosol showed a similar N-acetylcysteine-dependent inhibition of doxorubicin-induced lipid peroxidation, but heart cytosol was less potent than hepatic cytosol on the basis of protein content. The antioxidant property of heart cytosol as well as its capacity to oxidize N-acetylcysteine was inhibited by prior treatment of the cytosol with iodoacetic acid. This suggested that the factor possessed essential sulfhydryl groups. These results suggest that hepatic and cardiac cytosols contain heat-labile components capable of utilizing N-acetylcysteine as a substrate to suppress the doxorubicin-induced peroxidative damage to microsomes induced by doxorubicin. These components may play a role in the protective effects of N-acetylcysteine against doxorubicin-induced cardiac toxicity and mortality.
A case of prolonged post-operative somnolence is described. The patient was on concurrent benzodiazepine and cimetidine therapy. Cimetidine can cause impairment of metabolism of the benzodiazepines by inhibiting the hepatic microsomal enzyme system and its possible role in causing the prolonged somnolence is discussed.
A biasing effect of the electromyogram (EMG) on the Bispectral Index (BIS) may explain discrepancies in previous studies assessing BIS in the presence of neuromuscular activity. Our aims were: to evaluate variations of BIS in the presence of high EMG activity associated with muscular rigidity after administration of high-dose fentanyl; to compare muscular rigidity, as measured by the EMG variable of the BIS monitor, in patients who were administered two different dosages of fentanyl at induction of cardiac anaesthesia.
26 patients undergoing CABG surgery, after premedication with morphine 0.15 mg/kg, were randomized to receive either fentanyl 50 mcg/kg (group F) or fentanyl 10 mcg/kg plus etomidate 0.2 mg/kg (group EF). The induction dose was administered over 2 minutes. Patients were manually ventilated with O2 via face mask. Five minutes after induction was complete, patients were clinically assessed using the Responsiveness portion of the Observer's Assessment of Alertness/Sedation scale (OAAS). Haemodynamic data were recorded and arterial blood samples obtained at the time of OAAS observation. Patients were administered a neuromuscular blocking agent only after the OAAS assessment. BIS (3.4) was recorded from an A-2000 EEG monitor (Aspect Medical Systems) using disposable sensors (BIS Sensor, Aspect Medical Systems) applied per manufacturer's instructions. Data were recorded on a PC for off-line analysis.
At the time of OAAS observation, mean (95% CI) BIS in group F was 85 (77-92) compared to 67 (56-79) in group EF (p = 0.01). Similarly, mean (95% CI) EMG was 50 dB (45-56) in F and 41 dB (35-47) in EF (p = 0.01). Correlation between BIS and EMG was very high (r2 = 0.88). OAAS scores were significantly higher in group F (p = 0.03). Non significant correlation was observed between BIS and OAAS scores (r2 = 0.32, p = 0.1). Backward stepwise multiple regression analysis including EMG, pH, CO2, O2 and OASS scores showed EMG as strong predictor of BIS (p < 0.0001, r2 = 0.7). Regression of EMG against BIS yielded the equation: BIS = 3.7 + (1.6 x EMG).
During fentanyl-induced muscular rigidity BIS recordings reflect EMG variations. When assessing BIS in the absence of neuromuscular blockade, it is necessary to evaluate the effect of EMG on BIS before making conclusions about depth of sedation. Fentanyl-induced rigidity appears to be a dose-related phenomenon which the EMG variable of BIS 3.4 is able to quantify.
We have previously demonstrated that ethanol depresses baroreflex bradycardia by potentiating the similar action of endogenous gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in the medullary dorsal vagal complex. In the present study we examined the relative contribution of the sympathetic vs. the parasympathetic nervous system and aortic vs. carotid sinus baroreceptors in this effect. Depressor baroreflex responses were elicited in urethane-anesthetized male Sprague-Dawley rats by i.v. injection of graded bolus doses of phenylephrine or by electrical stimulation of the aortic nerve at different frequencies. Methyl-atropine (2 mg/kg i.v.) greatly attenuated, and bilateral cervical vagotomy completely eliminated, phenylephrine-induced reflex bradycardia, whereas propranolol (1 mg/kg i.v.) caused a moderate decrease in the reflex bradycardic response. Ethanol (1 g/kg i.v) did not influence the residual reflex bradycardia after methyl-atropine, but significantly decreased the residual reflex bradycardia after propranolol. Aortic nerve stimulation caused frequency-dependent hypotension, which was unaffected by methyl-atropine, and bradycardia, which was eliminated by methyl-atropine. Depletion of endogenous GABA by pretreatment of rats with 3-mercaptopropionate slightly increased the bradycardic response to aortic nerve stimulation and eliminated its susceptibility to inhibition by ethanol. Acute aortic nerve denervation moderately reduced the reflex bradycardic response to phenylephrine, which was no longer sensitive to inhibition by ethanol. These findings suggest that 1) ethanol inhibits baroreflex bradycardia but not hypotension, 2) the effect of ethanol is selective regarding both the afferent (aortic vs. carotid baroreceptors) and efferent limbs of the reflex (vagal vs. sympathetic) and 3) the effect of ethanol is mediated through endogenous GABA, probably at the level of the dorsal brainstem.
Arsenic trioxide is an effective treatment for acute promyelocytic leukemia, but resistance to metalloid salts is found in humans. Using atomic absorption spectroscopy, we have measured the rate of uptake of arsenic trioxide and of antimony tartrate in GLC4 and GLC4/ADR cells overexpressing MRP1 and the rate of their MRP1-mediated effluxes as a function of the intracellular GSH concentration. In sensitive cells, after 1 h, a pseudosteady state is reached where intra- and extracellular concentrations of metalloid are the same. This precludes the formation, at short term, of complexes between arsenic or antimony with GSH. In resistant cells reduced intracellular accumulation of arsenic (or antimony), reflecting an increased rate of arsenic (or antimony) efflux from the cells, is observed. No efflux of the metalloid is observed in GSH depleted cells. The two metalloids and GSH are pumped out by MRP1 with the same efficiency. Moreover for the three compounds 50% of the efflux is inhibited by 2 microM MK571. This led us to suggest that As- and Sb-containing species could be cotransported with GSH.
The past decade has witnessed the rapid development of liver transplantation in China. The 1-year survival of liver transplant patients comes to 80% in many leading medical centers and the number of liver transplantation is increasing. However, liver transplantation in China is facing several challenges including recipient with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), recurrence of HCC and hepatitis B, long-term postoperative care, the bridge to liver transplantation, and shortage of liver donor. This review was to understand the status of and problems in liver transplantation in China.
An English-language literature search using MEDLINE (1990-2003) on liver transplantation and other related reports and review articles in Chinese from major transplant centers in China.
HCC is one of the main indications for liver transplantation in China but different centers adopted different criteria for selection of patients. Hepatitis B virus reinfection is a vital problem after liver transplantation in HBV-related patients. More and more attention was focused on long-term postoperative care and donor shortage. Artificial liver support system has been applied in patients waiting for a graft in many centers.
HCC remains to be one of the main indications for liver transplantation in China; combined hepatitis B immune globulin and lamivudine is considered effective to prevent hepatitis B virus reinfection. Apart from long-term postoperative care for the improvement of the survival rate, early steroid withdrawal is feasible in liver transplantation. Living donor liver transplantation, split liver transplantation, and marginal donor transplantation can deal with donor shortage to some extent. Artificial liver assist system serves as a bridge to liver transplantation.
We conducted an incidence study to determine the occurrence rates of clear cell adenocarcinoma (CCAC) of the vagina and cervix in young women (born in 1940 and thereafter), and a case-series analysis, focusing on the maternal history of pregnancy and delivery and in-utero exposure to diethylstilbestrol (DES). Overall, 10 cases of CCAC had been listed in the files of the Connecticut State Tumor Registry prior to the study, and each of the 10 cases were confirmed as valid. In addition, another 10 cases, all previously undetected, were found after the tissue slides of young women listed as having other cancers of the vagina and cervix were reviewed by expert pathologists, suggesting that prior estimates of the incidence rate for CCAC must be misleading unless special efforts are taken to identify undetected cases. The incidence rates of vaginal CCAC (11 cases total) were highest in 1975-1979, and decreased slightly during 1980-1982. In the cervix (nine cases total), the rate increased consistently since 1970. History of in-utero exposure to diethylstilbestrol was obtained for five of eight vaginal cases and four of eight cervical cases of CCAC. In all nine cases, exposure to diethylstilbestrol was associated with a history of bleeding during the pregnancy or prior miscarriage. We conclude that the finding of stable (or rising) incidence rates for CCAC occurring nearly 30 years after the marked decrease in diethylstilbestrol sales emphasizes the need for continued clinical and epidemiologic studies of the etiology and clinical course of CCAC.
Brain samples from 14 Parkinson's disease patients, 10 of whom developed motor complications (dyskinesias and/or wearing-off) on dopaminomimetic therapy, and 11 controls were analyzed. Striatal 3beta-(4-(125)I-iodophenyl)tropane-2beta-carboxylic acid isopropyl ester ([(125)I]RTI-121) -specific binding to dopamine transporter and concentration of dopamine were markedly decreased, but no association between level of denervation and development of motor complications was observed. The homovanillic acid/dopamine ratio of concentrations was higher in putamen of patients with wearing-off compared to those without. Striatal (35)S-labeled t-butylbicyclophosphorothionate ([(35)S]TBPS) and [(3)H]flunitrazepam binding to GABA(A) receptors were unchanged in patients with Parkinson's disease, whereas [(125)I]CGP 64213 -specific binding to GABA(B) receptors was decreased in the putamen and external segment of the globus pallidus of parkinsonian patients compared with controls. [(3)H]Flunitrazepam binding was increased in the putamen of patients with wearing-off compared to those without. [(35)S]TBPS-specific binding was increased in the ventral internal globus pallidus of dyskinetic subjects. These data suggest altered dopamine metabolism and increased GABA(A) receptors in the putamen related to the pathophysiology of wearing-off. The present results also suggest that an up-regulation of GABA(A) receptors in the internal globus pallidus is linked to the pathogenesis of levodopa-induced dyskinesias.
