Neurons require large amounts of energy to support their survival and function, and are therefore susceptible to excitotoxicity, a form of cell death involving bioenergetic stress that may occur in several neurological disorders including stroke and Alzheimer's disease. Here we studied the roles of NAD(+) bioenergetic state, and the NAD(+)-dependent enzymes SIRT1 and PARP-1, in excitotoxic neuronal death in cultured neurons and in a mouse model of focal ischemic stroke. Excitotoxic activation of NMDA receptors induced a rapid decrease of cellular NAD(P)H levels and mitochondrial membrane potential. Decreased NAD(+) levels and poly (ADP-ribose) polymer (PAR) accumulation in nuclei were relatively early events (<4 h) that preceded the appearance of propidium iodide- and TUNEL-positive cells (markers of necrotic cell death and DNA strand breakage, respectively) which became evident by 6 h. Nicotinamide, an NAD(+) precursor and an inhibitor of SIRT1 and PARP1, inhibited SIRT1 deacetylase activity without affecting SIRT1 protein levels. NAD(+) levels were preserved and PAR accumulation and neuronal death induced by excitotoxic insults were attenuated in nicotinamide-treated cells. Treatment of neurons with the SIRT1 activator resveratrol did not protect them from glutamate/NMDA-induced NAD(+) depletion and death. In a mouse model of focal cerebral ischemic stroke, NAD(+) levels were decreased in both the contralateral and ipsilateral cortex 6 h after the onset of ischemia. Stroke resulted in dynamic changes of SIRT1 protein and activity levels which varied among brain regions. Administration of nicotinamide (200 mg/kg, i.p.) up to 1 h after the onset of ischemia elevated brain NAD(+) levels and reduced ischemic infarct size. Our findings demonstrate that the NAD(+) bioenergetic state is critical in determining whether neurons live or die in excitotoxic and ischemic conditions, and suggest a potential therapeutic benefit in stroke of agents that preserve cellular NAD(+) levels. Our data further suggest that, SIRT1 is linked to bioenergetic state and stress responses in neurons, and that under conditions of reduced cellular energy levels SIRT1 enzyme activity may consume sufficient NAD(+) to nullify any cell survival-promoting effects of its deacetylase action on protein substrates.
Herein, the function of pancreatic metallothionein (MT)-I during zinc deficiency in pregnancy was examined using transgenic mice, which constitutively express the mouse MT-I gene driven by the rat elastase I promoter. Pancreatic MT protein levels and zinc levels were elevated significantly in the transgenic mice compared with those in control mice. Pregnant transgenic and control mice were fed zinc-deficient (1 micro g/g beginning at d 8) or zinc-adequate (50 micro g/g) diets during pregnancy, and the effects on the morphology of embryos were determined at d 14 of pregnancy (d 1 = vaginal plug). As other indicators of zinc deficiency, maternal pancreatic MT levels, as well as the expression of zinc-regulated genes in the embryonic visceral yolk sac were examined. Under these experimental conditions of moderate dietary zinc deficiency, 21.3% of the embryos in control mice exhibited morphological defects, whereas only 5.8% of the embryos in the elastase-MT-I transgenic females had developed abnormally by d 14. Surprisingly, dietary zinc deficiency caused a >95% decrease in pancreatic MT protein concentration in these transgenic mice. This suggests the post-transcriptional control of MT protein levels during zinc deficiency because the rat elastase I promoter is not metal-regulated. The decrease in pancreatic MT protein levels was paralleled by a dramatic decrease in the relative abundance of MT-I mRNA and a dramatic increase in the relative abundance of the zinc/iron regulated transporter-related zinc transporter-4 (ZIP4) mRNA in the embryonic visceral yolk sac. Thus, the constitutive overexpression of pancreatic MT-I in these mice attenuated, but did not prevent the effects of maternal or embryonic zinc deficiency under these conditions. Overall, these findings are consistent with the hypothesis that mouse pancreatic MT-I may participate in providing a labile pool of maternal zinc for the developing embryo during periods of zinc deficiency.
Deficient intake of zinc from the diet upregulates both uroguanylin (UG) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression in rats. Because these changes influence intestinal fluid secretion and intestinal cell pathophysiology, they relate to the incidence of diarrheal disease and its reversal by zinc as well as intestinal inflammation in general. A model of moderate zinc deficiency in rats, which changes molecular indices of zinc deficiency, was used to further explore the effects of the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin (IL)-1alpha and zinc repletion on these changes. IL-1alpha has been shown to have a role in the intestinal inflammation that occurs with bacterial infection. Our results showed a permissive effect of zinc deficiency on both UG and iNOS expression. Specifically, UG expression was responsive to zinc deficiency and IL-1alpha challenge, which were additive when combined, whereas iNOS expression was upregulated by IL-1alpha only during the deficiency. Immunohistochemistry showed that the increase in UG was limited to enterocytes of the upper villus but, in contrast, the increase in iNOS was principally in cells of the lamina propria of IL-1alpha-treated rats. Cells exhibiting UG upregulation did not co-express serotonin. Repletion with zinc reversed upregulation of the iNOS gene within 1 d, whereas UG upregulation required 3-4 d to return to normal. This differential response to repletion suggests that mechanisms of UG and iNOS dysregulation are different. Dysregulation of both genes may contribute to the severity of zinc-responsive diarrheal disease and intestinal inflammatory disease.
The charged multivesicular body protein 2B gene (CHMP2B) was recently associated with frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) linked to chromosome 3 in a Danish FTLD family (FTD-3). In this family, a mutation in the acceptor splice site of exon 6 produced two aberrant transcripts predicting two C-truncated CHMP2B proteins due to a read through of intron 5 (p.Met178ValfsX2) and a cryptic splicing event within exon 6 (p.Met178LeufsX30). Extensive mutation analysis of CHMP2B in Belgian patients (N = 146) identified one nonsense mutation in exon 5 (c.493C>T) in a familial FTLD patient, predicting a C-truncated protein p.Gln165X analogous to the Danish mutant proteins. Overexpression of Belgian p.Gln165X in human neuroblastoma SK-N-SH cells showed the formation of large, aberrant endosomal structures that were highly similar to those observed for Danish p.Met178ValfsX2. Together, these data suggest that C-truncating mutations in CHMP2B might underlie the pathogenic mechanism in FTLD by disturbing endosome function. We also describe a missense mutation in exon 5 of CHMP2B (p.Asn143Ser) in a familial patient with cortical basal degeneration. However, the pathogenic character of this mutation remains elusive.
The effects of toluene on the sensitivity to seizures induced by aminophylline were investigated. Mice were pretreated with an ip injection of corn oil or toluene (100-500 mg/kg) followed by a timed intravenous infusion of aminophylline at various time intervals to assess the seizure thresholds and lethal doses. Toluene increased seizure susceptibility to aminophylline in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Toluene-induced enhancement of seizure susceptibility to aminophylline occurred as early as 30 min and persisted for at least 3 days after a single administration of toluene (500 mg/kg). Treatment of benzaldehyde, one of toluene's metabolites, also showed an increase in the susceptibility to aminophylline. The enhancing effect was also observed in caffeine-induced seizures 1 h, but not 1 day after toluene treatment. These results suggest that individuals with toluene exposure may increase the risk for convulsive and even lethal complications associated with the therapeutic use of aminophylline.
Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is a serious health problem with significant morbidity and mortality. In this study we examined the progression of ALD along with lipidomic changes in rats fed ethanol for 2 and 3 months to understand the mechanism, and identify possible biomarkers. Male Fischer 344 rats were fed 5% ethanol or caloric equivalent of maltose-dextrin in a Lieber-DeCarli diet. Animals were killed at the end of 2 and 3 months and plasma and livers were collected. Portions of the liver were fixed for histological and immunohistological studies. Plasma and the liver lipids were extracted and analyzed by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. A time dependent fatty infiltration was observed in the livers of ethanol-fed rats. Mild inflammation and oxidative stress were observed in some ethanol-fed rats at 3 months. The multivariate and principal component analysis of proton and phosphorus NMR spectroscopy data of extracted lipids from the plasma and livers showed segregation of ethanol-fed groups from the pair-fed controls. Significant hepatic lipids that were increased by ethanol exposure included fatty acids and triglycerides, whereas phosphatidylcholine (PC) decreased. However, both free fatty acids and PC decreased in the plasma. In liver lipids unsaturation of fatty acyl chains increased, contrary to plasma, where it decreased. Our studies confirm that over-accumulation of lipids in ethanol-induced liver steatosis accompanied by mild inflammation on long duration of ethanol exposure. Identified metabolic profile using NMR lipidomics could be further explored to establish biomarker signatures representing the etiopathogenesis, progression and/or severity of ALD.
The relative efficacies of potassium chloride, amiloride, triamterene and spironolactone in maintaining potassium balance were studied in 40 patients with essential hypertension receiving diuretic therapy. The preparations were administered in random order in a cross-over manner. In 31 patients treated with 50 mg hydrochlorothiazide daily, addition of 1500 mg potassium chloride daily was the weakest and 50 mg spironolactone daily the most effective agent for maintaining serum potassium. Amiloride (5 mg daily) and triamterene (75 mg daily) were less effective and equally so. Similar results were obtained with 9 patients treated with double dosages of the diuretic and supplements. Despite changes in serum potassium, total body potassium remained constant throughout the trial.
To examine the clinical and MRI associations in bilateral periventricular nodular heterotopia (BPNH) (MIM # 300049) in two families segregating a missense mutation and a C-terminal deletion of the filamin 1(FLN1) gene.
Classical familial BPNH, an X-linked dominant disorder, has been associated with protein truncations or splicing mutations, which tend to cluster at the N-terminal of the FLN1 protein, causing severe predicted loss of the protein function. The clinical syndrome includes symmetrical contiguous nodular heterotopia lining the lateral ventricles, epilepsy, mild retardation to normal cognitive level in affected females, and prenatal lethality in hemizygous boys.
Clinical examination, cognitive testing, MRI, mutation analysis (direct sequencing, single-strand conformation polymorphism) in seven patients from two families with BPNH.
In Family 1, harboring an A > T change in exon 2 (E82V), heterotopic nodules were few, asymmetric, and noncontiguous. Five boys born from affected females had died unexpectedly early in life. In Family 2, harboring an 8 base pair deletion in exon 47 (7627_7634del TGTGCCCC), heterotopic nodules were thick and contiguous. Affected females in both families showed normal to borderline IQ and epilepsy.
Missense mutations and distal truncations consistent with partial loss of FLN1 function cause familial BPNH with the classical clinical phenotype including epilepsy and mild mental retardation, if any. However, missense mutations have milder anatomic consequences in affected females and are possibly compatible with live birth but short survival of boys.
An excessive expression of poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase (PARP) has been demonstrated to play a key role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). Here we investigated the therapeutic effect of the PARP inhibitor benzamide against 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) neurotoxicity in mice. In our HPLC and Western blot analysis, pretreatment with benzamide showed a neuroprotective effect against MPTP neurotoxicity in mice. Posttreatment with benzamide also attenuated MPTP neurotoxicity in mice. Furthermore, our immunohistochemical study showed that posttreatment with benzamide significantly prevented neuronal damage by suppressing overexpression of neuronal, microglial, and astroglial PARP after MPTP treatment. These findings have important implications for the therapeutic time window and choice of PARP inhibitors in PD patients. Our present findings provide further evidence that PARP inhibitor may offer a novel therapeutic strategy for PD.
When infant rats were treated with cortisol, in daily s.c. doses of 20 mg X kg-1, between the ages of 2 and 15 days, the noradrenaline content of their heart and spleen, between the ages of 23 and 65 days, was lower than in the controls. The decrease in the noradrenaline content did not diminish with advancing age; on the contrary, it was the most pronounced at 65 days. Cortisol treatment did not affect the noradrenaline content of skeletal muscles. The functional significance of the decrease in the noradrenaline content was studied in nervous control of the sinoatrial node of the heart. In agreement with the drop in noradrenaline concentration, transmural stimulation of the sinoatrial node region of isolated atria led to a mild, but statistically significant reduction of the function of sympathetic nerve endings, whereas parasympathetic innervation of the node showed no signs of impairment. This peripheral functional deficiency of sympathetic innervation of the node is not seen in the intact organism, where it is masked by central nervous mechanisms. Rats given cortisol postnatally had a significantly higher heart rate at 23, 33 and 44 days, because, in the presence of normal sympathetic influence, the tone of the parasympathetic nerves was reduced. The heart rate was highest at 23 days; with advancing age the difference diminished and at 65 days it was statistically nonsignificant.
The most commonly used indices for determining copper deficiency in humans are reduced serum/plasma copper concentration and decreased activity of ceruloplasmin and Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1). However, these indicators are influenced by many factors unrelated to copper status and lack the sensitivity required to detect marginal deficiency, limiting their usefulness in many situations. In vivo, the insertion of copper into SOD1 is dependent on the copper chaperone for SOD1 (CCS). In this study, we explored the possibility that the expression level of CCS may reflect copper status and thus serve as a useful marker of copper nutriture. Weanling male Wistar rats were fed either a normal (5.3 mg Cu/kg diet), moderately deficient (0.84 mg Cu/kg diet) or deficient (0.34 mg Cu/kg diet) copper diet for 6 wk. Rats fed moderate and deficient diets showed differences (P < 0.05) in several hematological measurements, indicating varying degrees of copper deficiency in these groups. Copper-deficient rats had reduced (P < 0.05) liver and erythrocyte SOD1 activity and body weight. Western blot analysis revealed a dose-dependent increase (P < 0.05) in CCS expression in liver and erythrocytes of copper-deficient rats. We report CCS protein level as a novel marker for assessing copper status.
Lowering of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) is clearly efficacious in the treatment and prevention of coronary artery disease. However, despite increasing use of statins, a significant number of coronary events still occur and many of such events take place in patients presenting with type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome. More and more attention is being paid now to combined atherogenic dyslipidemia which typically presents in patients with type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome. This mixed dyslipidemia (or "lipid quartet"): hypertriglyceridemia, low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels, a preponderance of small, dense low-density lipoprotein particles and an accumulation of cholesterol-rich remnant particles (e.g. high levels of apolipoprotein B)--emerged as the greatest "competitor" of low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol among lipid risk factors for cardiovascular disease. Most recent extensions of the fibrates trials (BIP - Bezafibrate Infarction Prevention study, HHS - Helsinki Heart Study, VAHIT--Veterans Affairs High-density lipoprotein cholesterol Intervention Trial and FIELD--Fenofibrate Intervention and Event Lowering in Diabetes) give further support to the hypothesis that patients with insulin-resistant syndromes such as diabetes and/or metabolic syndrome might be the ones to derive the most benefit from therapy with fibrates. However, different fibrates may have a somewhat different spectrum of effects. Other lipid-modifying strategies included using of niacin, ezetimibe, bile acid sequestrants and cholesteryl ester transfer protein inhibition. In addition, bezafibrate as pan-peroxisome proliferator activated receptor activator has clearly demonstrated beneficial pleiotropic effects related to glucose metabolism and insulin sensitivity. Because fibrates, niacin, ezetimibe and statins each regulate serum lipids by different mechanisms, combination therapy--selected on the basis of their safety and effectiveness - may offer particularly desirable benefits in patients with combined hyperlipidemia as compared with statins monotherapy.
Fourteen oxygenated compounds were isolated from the preparative-scale biotransformation of isostevic acid (ent-beyeran-19-oic acid). Incubation of it with Aspergillus niger BCRC 32720 produced eight metabolites, four with Bacillus megaterium ATCC 14581, and another four with Mortierella isabellina ATCC 38063. In addition to their structural elucidation by NMR spectroscopy and HRMS, structures of four of these were further confirmed by X-ray diffraction studies. Real-time reverse transcription PCR analysis found that 15 of these compounds displayed significant in vitro anti-inflammatory activity in lipopolysaccharide-stimulated RAW 264.7 macrophages by reducing the levels of both TNF-α and COX-2 mRNA relative to control cells stimulated by LPS alone. The activity of one metabolite was similar to that of dexamethasone in inhibiting the expression of TNF-α mRNA, while all test compounds except two of them were more potent than dexamethasone in inhibiting the expression of the COX-2 mRNA.
Inhibition of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system plays a pivotal role in the prevention and treatment of diabetic nephropathy. Angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARB) exert a renoprotective effect and attenuate the progression of diabetic nephropathy. However, the underlying cellular and molecular mechanisms in the kidney remain to be elucidated. The present study was undertaken to focus on the effect of local angiotensin II type 1 receptor blockade on the inflammatory reaction during the early stages of diabetic nephropathy.
Local ARB treatment significantly reduced urinary protein excretion and serum blood urea nitrogen levels in streptozotocin-induced diabetic nephropathy. In addition, this treatment attenuated monocyte/macrophage infiltration into the glomeruli and the enhanced glomerular expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase at both the mRNA and protein levels. Immunohistochemical study revealed activation of nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB, as shown by an increase in the expression of the p65 subunit of NF-kappaB and its translocation from the cytoplasm to the nucleus in both tubular epithelial and glomerular cells of the diabetic kidney. Local ARB treatment induced an apparent reduction in p65 nuclear localization and intensity of staining. To search for a common and fundamental candidate that influences endothelial cell function and vascular inflammation, we examined glomerular calpain activity in diabetic rats with or without ARB treatment. Glomerular expression of 145/150-kDa spectrin breakdown products, a specific product of calpain activation, was dramatically increased in diabetic animals while the protein expression reverted to a normal level after ARB treatment.
Our findings provide a conceptual basis for the development of therapeutic strategies aiming at local inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system to prevent the progression of diabetic nephropathy.
To identify new genetic risk factors for cervical cancer, we conducted a genome-wide association study in the Han Chinese population. The initial discovery set included 1,364 individuals with cervical cancer (cases) and 3,028 female controls, and we selected a 'stringently matched samples' subset (829 cases and 990 controls) from the discovery set on the basis of principal component analysis; the follow-up stages included two independent sample sets (1,824 cases and 3,808 controls for follow-up 1 and 2,343 cases and 3,388 controls for follow-up 2). We identified strong evidence of associations between cervical cancer and two new loci: 4q12 (rs13117307, Pcombined, stringently matched=9.69×10(-9), per-allele odds ratio (OR)stringently matched=1.26) and 17q12 (rs8067378, Pcombined, stringently matched=2.00×10(-8), per-allele ORstringently matched=1.18). We additionally replicated an association between HLA-DPB1 and HLA-DPB2 (HLA-DPB1/2) at 6p21.32 and cervical cancer (rs4282438, Pcombined, stringently matched=4.52×10(-27), per-allele ORstringently matched=0.75). Our findings provide new insights into the genetic etiology of cervical cancer.
Human glandular kallikrein, which is encoded by the human kallikrein-2 (KLK2) gene, is significantly associated with the occurrence of prostate cancer (PCa). We tested the association between a functional C748T polymorphism of the KLK2 gene and the occurrence of PCa.
Peripheral venous blood samples were obtained from 254 patients with PCa and 168 controls with benign prostatic hyperplasia. All control subjects had normal serum prostate specific antigen and proved to be free from malignancy on pathological examination of resected prostatic tissues. Serum prostate specific antigen, testosterone, Gleason score, clinical and pathological stage, tumor and prostate volume of the patients were investigated. The KLK2 gene polymorphism was determined by the polymerase chain reaction based restriction fragment length polymorphism method.
The PCa group had a younger mean age +/- SEM (73.0 +/- 0.5 vs 74.7 +/- 0.5 years, p = 0.010) and higher C allele frequency (82.1% vs 74.7%, p = 0.010) than the control group. The frequency of the CC, CT and TT genotypes was 65.7%, 32.7% and 1.6% in patients with PCa, and 56.0%, 37.5% and 6.5%, respectively, in controls (p = 0.010). C allele carriers (CC and CT genotypes) were at significantly higher risk for PCa than TT homozygous subjects (p = 0.002). CC homozygous subjects were at significantly higher risk for PCa than T allele carriers (CT and TT genotypes) (p = 0.043). The PCa subgroup of patients with pathologically proved, localized PCa also had a higher frequency of the C allele (87.5% vs 74.7%, p = 0.026) and CC genotypes (78.7% vs 56.0%, p = 0.019) than controls.
Our results suggest that the C allele of the functional C748T polymorphism of KLK2 may increase the risk of PCa.
Pilocytic astrocytoma, the most common childhood brain tumor, is typically associated with mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway alterations. Surgically inaccessible midline tumors are therapeutically challenging, showing sustained tendency for progression and often becoming a chronic disease with substantial morbidities. Here we describe whole-genome sequencing of 96 pilocytic astrocytomas, with matched RNA sequencing (n = 73), conducted by the International Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC) PedBrain Tumor Project. We identified recurrent activating mutations in FGFR1 and PTPN11 and new NTRK2 fusion genes in non-cerebellar tumors. New BRAF-activating changes were also observed. MAPK pathway alterations affected all tumors analyzed, with no other significant mutations identified, indicating that pilocytic astrocytoma is predominantly a single-pathway disease. Notably, we identified the same FGFR1 mutations in a subset of H3F3A-mutated pediatric glioblastoma with additional alterations in the NF1 gene. Our findings thus identify new potential therapeutic targets in distinct subsets of pilocytic astrocytoma and childhood glioblastoma.
Hepatic stellate cells (HSC) are the key fibrogenic cells of the liver. HSC activation is a process of cellular transdifferentiation that occurs upon liver injury, but the mechanisms underlying liver fibrosis are unknown. Nuclear erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) is an oxidative stress-mediated transcription factor with a variety of downstream targets aimed at cytoprotection. However, Nrf2 has recently been implicated as a new therapeutic target for the treatment of liver fibrosis. This review focuses on the transcriptional repressors that either control liver injury or regulate specific fibrogenic functions of liver fibrosis. We also show that Nrf2 may reveal significant gene expression changes, suggesting that Nrf2 activation may ameliorate liver fibrosis.
We examined the effects of lomerizine on serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT)-induced contraction of the basilar artery and compared them with those of nifedipine. Although both lomerizine and nifedipine completely blocked K(+)-induced vasoconstriction, 5-HT-induced vasoconstriction was more strongly inhibited by lomerizine than nifedipine. A 5-HT(2A) antagonist inhibited the 5-HT-induced vasoconstriction, but a 5-HT(1B) antagonist did not. Lomerizine, but not nifedipine, suppressed 5-HT-induced Ca(2+) release in 5-HT(2A)-expressing HEK293 cells. Moreover, neither antagonist affected ATP-induced Ca(2+) release. These results suggest that lomerizine may inhibit not only voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels but also 5-HT(2A) receptors and so inhibit 5-HT-induced contraction in the basilar artery.
We have evaluated the contribution of differences in second messenger signalling to sex differences in inflammatory pain and its control by sex hormones. In normal male but not female rats, epinephrine-induced mechanical hyperalgesia was antagonized by inhibitors of protein kinase Cepsilon (PKCepsilon), protein kinase A (PKA) and nitric oxide synthetase (NOS). Similarly, in PKCepsilon knockout mice, a contribution of PKCepsilon to epinephrine-dependent mechanical hyperalgesia occurred in males only. In contrast, hyperalgesia induced by prostaglandin E2, in both females and males, was dependent on PKA and NO. In both sexes, inhibitors of mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular-signal related kinase kinase (MEK) inhibited epinephrine hyperalgesia. In gonadectomized females, the second messenger contributions to epinephrine hyperalgesia demonstrated the pattern seen in males. Administration of oestrogen to gonadectomized females fully reconstituted the phenotype of the normal female. These data demonstrate gender differences in PKCepsilon, PKA and NO signalling in epinephrine-induced hyperalgesia which are oestrogen dependent and appear to be exerted at the level of the beta-adrenergic receptor or the G-protein to which it is coupled.
In this study, we investigated the effect of Rauwolfia radix on heat shock protein (HSP) 70 expression and cytotoxicity against tumor cells in activated human T cells. When activated T cells were cultured with Rauwolfia radix for 18 h, HSP70 expression after heat shock was remarkably increased, and cytotoxicity against T98G tumor cells was augmented. Moreover, Rauwolfia radix also enhanced the cytotoxicity of heat shocked activated T cells against Molt-4 and T98G tumor cells. Secretions of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and tumor necrosis alpha (TNF-alpha), due to Concanavalin A (Con A) stimulation, were increased by Rauwolfia radix in activated T cells. To investigate the antitumor effect in vivo, EL-4 tumor-bearing mice were administered with Rauwolfia radix in drinking water. The survival period of the Rauwolfia radix treatment group was significantly prolonged compared with that of the control group. Reserpine, the major active ingredient of Rauwolfia radix, also enhanced the cytotoxicity of activated T cells against Molt-4 and T98G tumor cells, and prolonged the survival period of EL-4 tumor-bearing mice. Taken together, our results suggest that Rauwolfia radix can enhance the activity of immune cells against tumor cells.
Cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) is a disease caused by leishmania species. Intralesional sodium stibogluconate (SSG) has been considered the first line therapy for localized cutaneous leishmaniasis. There is still a need for more effective and less time-consuming therapeutic methods for this condition.
The aim of the present study was to investigate if the combination of intramuscular (IM) SSG or oral ketoconazole with intralesional (IL) SSG would be more effective than the intralesional SSG given alone in the treatment of localized cutaneous leishmaniasis.
Thirty patients with confirmed diagnosis of cutaneous leishmaniasis were included in the study. They were randomly assigned to three groups. The first group (10 patients with 12 lesions) was treated with intralesional SSG alone. The second group (10 patients with 15 lesions) was treated with the combination of intralesional SSG + intramuscular SSG. The third group (10 patients with 13 lesions) was treated with the combination of intralesional SSG and oral ketoconazole. A follow-up was performed every 4 weeks for a treatment period of 12 weeks, then monthly for a period of 6 months after the end of the treatment.
Complete cure occurred in 58.3% of lesions in group 1, while 93.3% and 92.3% of lesions were cured in group 2 and 3 respectively. The difference between group 1 and the other groups was statistically significant (P < 0.05).
Combined intramuscular SSG or oral ketoconazole with intralesional SSG is more effective than intralesional SSG alone for the treatment of CL. Oral ketoconazole is much easier and safer therapy than intramuscular SSG in combination with intralesional SSG in the treatment of localized cutaneous leishmaniasis.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of Temozolomide (an alkylating chemotherapeutic agent) and quercetin (natural flavonoid) on cell death in the human astrocytoma cell line MOGGCCM (WHO grade III). Our results indicate that Temozolomide induces autophagy, while quercetin promotes severe necrosis in the cell line in a manner dependent on the drug concentration. We demonstrated for the first time that combinations of both drugs were much more effective in programmed cell death induction in glioma cells. At a low (5muM) drug concentration, quercetin potentiated a pro-autophagic effect of Temozolomide, while after treatment with a higher drug concentration (30muM), autophagy switched to apoptosis. Temozolomide attenuated the toxic effect of quercetin. Apoptosis was mediated by the mitochondrial pathway and the activation of caspase 3 and cytochrome C release, but no changes in caspase 8 expression was observed. It was accompanied by decreased mitochondrial membrane potential and inhibition of Hsp27 and Hsp72 expression. Autophagy was correlated with an increased level of LC3II. Temozolomide and quercetin also inhibited migratory phenotype of MOGGCCM cells and changed the nuclei morphology from a circular to an irregular shape. Our results indicate that quercetin acts in synergy with Temozolomide and when used in combination rather than in separate pharmacological application, both drugs are more effective in programmed cell death induction. Temozolomide administered with quercetin seems to be a potent and promising combination which might be useful in glioma therapy.
Paraoxonase (PON1) is a liver and plasma enzyme most studied because of its ability to hydrolyze the active metabolites of several organophosphorus insecticides. The discovery that PON1 can also metabolize oxidized phospholipids has spurred research on its possible role in coronary heart disease and atherosclerosis. Additionally, its potential roles in metabolizing pharmaceutical drugs and microbial quorum sensing factors are also being explored. PON1 displays several polymorphisms that influence both its level of expression and its catalytic activity, thus determining the rates at which a given individual will detoxify a specific insecticide, metabolize harmful oxidized lipids, and activate or inactivate specific drugs and quorum sensing factors.
Spontaneous intraspinal haematomas due to anticoagulants are uncommon, and usually extradural or subdural. Intramedullary haematomas are particularly rare, and only two case reports were found in the literature. We report a case of a thoracic intramedullary haemorrhage in a 61 year old man who had been commenced on warfarin 1 month previously, following aortic valve replacement. The literature is reviewed and reversal of warfarin effects, imaging and recommendations for treatment are discussed.
