Immune chronic active hepatitis is a disease notorious for its unpredictability. In a patient with chronic hepatitis who has already suffered relapses a search for a second cause of jaundice is not usually necessary. This report emphasises the essential role of liver biopsy.
When administered to a 45-year-old woman who was ill with severe hypertension, combined enalapril and hydrochlorothiazide therapy resulted in acute renal failure, leading to a successful search for renal artery stenosis. Acute renal failure as an adverse reaction to enalapril therapy occurs in approximately 20% of patients with secondary hypertension from renovascular disease. On the other hand, in a group of essential hypertensives this occurs at a rate of approximately 0.2%. Thus, a likelihood ratio of 100 is produced, and given the prevalence of renovascular hypertension of approximately 2% in all hypertensives, a posterior probability of 0.67 can be calculated. The occurrence of this adverse effect should indicate that a diagnostic work-up to rule out renovascular hypertension in such patients should be pursued. The sensitivity and specificity of this "test" are 0.20 and 0.998, respectively. This illustrates that the mathematic aids in decision theory need not be applied solely to those more traditional aspects of diagnostic testing, but may be useful in other situations as well.
We report the case of a 77-year-old man admitted nine days after being commenced on azathioprine with symptoms initially thought to be secondary to sepsis but in fact due to azathioprine hypersensitivity. He developed histologically proven cutaneous leucocytoclastic vasculitis following the re-introduction of azathioprine. We review the literature concerning adverse reactions to azathioprine and the problems of making the diagnosis as well as highlighting azathioprine as a novel cause of leucocytoclastic vasculitis.
Long-term toxicity and carcinogenicity of phenylbutazone, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug, were evaluated in F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice. In 2-year studies, phenylbutazone was given in corn oil by gavage 5 days per week to groups of 50 rats of each sex at doses of 0, 50, or 100 mg/kg body weight, and to groups of 50 mice at doses of 0, 150, or 300 mg/kg body weight. Body weights and survival were similar among groups. Major target organs are kidneys in rats and liver in mice. Kidney: inflammation, papillary necrosis, and mineralization in both sexes of rats, and hyperplasia and dilatation of the pelvis epithelium, and cysts in female rats. Uncommon tubular cell tumors of the kidney were found in 13 exposed rats: 5 in the 50 mg group and 4 in the 100 mg group of males; 4 in dosed female rats; none in controls. In female rats, dose-related increases in hyperplasia of the pelvis transitional epithelium, and 2 carcinomas were discovered. Urinary bladder: papillomas of the transitional epithelium were seen in 2 low-dose male and in 1 low-dose female rats. Forestomach: ulcers in rats, with acanthosis, hyperkeratosis, and basal cell hyperplasia in female rats; however, no neoplasms were associated with these lesions. Liver: primarily in male mice exposed to phenylbutazone, hemorrhage, centrilobular cytomegaly and karyomegaly, fatty metamorphosis, cellular degeneration, and coagulative necrosis were seen; clear cell foci were observed in male mice. In summary, under the conditions of these 2-year oral intubation studies, phenylbutazone is associated with renal carcinogenicity in rats, as evidenced by increases in tubular cell neoplasms in both sexes. Evidence of carcinogenicity for male mice was shown by increased incidences and multiplicity of liver tumors. No carcinogenic activity was found for female mice.
Clozapine has shown consistent efficacy against positive symptoms of psychoses, and emerging reports indicate improvements in aggression and suicidality. This study evaluated the impact of clozapine aggression in a psychiatric hospital. Over a three year period, 137 subjects with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder received clozapine, of whom nearly 50% (n=69) experienced seclusion or restraint. Using a mirror-image study design, seclusion and restraint rates were computed per patient-month pre-clozapine and compared during clozapine treatment to a maximum of 12 months in either direction. The rest of the hospital not receiving clozapine served as a comparator group. Statistically significant reductions occurred in both seclusion (0.44+/-0.46 vs. 0.16+/-0.32, z=-3.91, p=0.0003) and restraint (0.34+/-0.47 vs. 0.08+/-0.23, z=-2.27, p=0.032) during clozapine treatment as compared with the pre-clozapine period. The comparator group experienced a low rate of seclusion and restraint throughout. While there are limitations to a mirror-image design, this study supports the emerging data on the benefits of clozapine for aggressive and violent patients with psychoses. Preliminary data suggests other second generation antipsychotic agents may have similar effects.
Female Fischer 344 rats were ovariectomized or sham operated and treated with oil or estradiol cypionate (100 mg./100 gm./month) for two or four months. Rats were then placed in metabolism cages for measurement of micturition characteristics, and bladders were removed for bladder strip studies. Ovariectomy had no effects on micturition characteristics. However, estradiol treatment of ovariectomized rats caused significant increases in water consumption and urine excretion, and in mean and maximal micturition volumes compared to both ovariectomized and sham-operated rats. These effects were more pronounced at four months. Estradiol treatment also caused significant increases in bladder body mass, while ovariectomy was without effect. Two months after ovariectomy and/or estradiol treatment, there were no differences in contractile responses of bladder body or base strips to contractile agents when compared to shams. However, after four months, ovariectomy caused significant decreases in contractile responsiveness to nerve stimulation. ATP, carbachol, and KCl compared to sham-operated rats. Estradiol treatment caused increased responsiveness to nerve stimulation, ATP, carbachol, and KCl compared to ovariectomized rats, and to carbachol compared to sham operated rats. Possible causes for the effects of ovariectomy on bladder contractility include decreases in calcium influx. Although estradiol reversed the effects of ovariectomy on bladder function, in addition we observed some indirect effects which were probably the result of estradiol-induced polyuria and increases in bladder mass.
A double-blind crossover study was performed to compare the incidence of central nervous system (CNS) side effects with atenolol and metoprolol. Eleven women and 6 men who had previously developed such side effects on lipophilic beta-blockers were identified by means of a preliminary questionnaire. A 30-item psychiatric questionnaire was then used to detect changes in psychological status and possible CNS side effects. Discontinuation of the original lipophilic beta-blocker produced a significant improvement in quality of sleep, dreams, concentration, memory, energy and anxiety. Introduction of atenolol did not result in any significant CNS effects. With metoprolol, however, some effects occurred but not to the extent experienced prior to study on other more lipophilic beta-blockers. Blood pressure control was identical with both drugs.
We describe a case of transient neurological deficit that occurred after unilateral spinal anaesthesia with 8 mg of 1% hyperbaric bupivacaine slowly injected through a 25-gauge pencil-point spinal needle. The surgery and anaesthesia were uneventful, but 3 days after surgery, the patient reported an area of hypoaesthesia over L3-L4 dermatomes of the leg which had been operated on (loss of pinprick sensation) without reduction in muscular strength. Sensation in this area returned to normal over the following 2 weeks. Prospective multicentre studies with a large population and a long follow-up should be performed in order to evaluate the incidence of this unusual side effect. However, we suggest that a low solution concentration should be preferred for unilateral spinal anaesthesia with a hyperbaric anaesthetic solution (if pencil-point needle and slow injection rate are employed), in order to minimize the risk of a localized high peak anaesthetic concentration, which might lead to a transient neurological deficit.
Cocaine-associated myocardial infarction (CAMI) is a well-reported entity. Most previous reports on CAMI have been limited to conservative care utilizing benzodiazepines, aspirin, nitroglycerin, calcium channel blockers, and thrombolytics. Current guidelines on CAMI advocate immediate use of angiography and angioplasty if available rather than routine administration of thrombolytics. However, based on literature search from 1966 to 2001 (using keywords "cocaine," "myocardial infarction," and "angioplasty"), there have been only two case reports of percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) in patients with cocaine-associated myocardial infarction. Both were notable for complications either during or immediately after the procedure. We report a series of 10 patients with cocaine-associated myocardial infarction who were treated with percutaneous interventions, which included angioplasty, stenting, and AngioJet mechanical extraction of thrombus. Despite the different arteriopathic process involved, our findings suggest that PCI can be performed safely and with a high degree of procedural success in patients with CAMI.
We recently developed high-throughput assays of inflammation-independent anti-fibrotic activities based on TGF-beta1-induced total collagen accumulation and nodule formation in normal rat kidney fibroblasts.
These assays were applied to examine the anti-fibrotic activities of 21 compounds isolated from plants used in Chinese medicine and methanol extracts of 12 Chinese herbs. Lactate dehydrogenase release assay and cell detachment index were used to monitor cytotoxicity. Changes in fibrogenic molecular markers were observed by reverse transcriptase quantitative polymerase chain reaction and high-content imaging analysis of immunofluorescence.
Three flavonoids (quercetin, baicalein and baicalin) and two non-flavonoids (salvianolic acid B and emodin) demonstrated anti-fibrotic activities in both total collagen accumulation and nodule formation assays. The remaining 16 compounds had little anti-fibrotic effect or were cytotoxic. The anti-fibrotic compounds suppressed collagen I expression at both mRNA and protein levels and also variably suppressed alpha-smooth muscle actin expression and bromodeoxyuridine incorporation. Methanol extracts of Scutellaria baicalensis Georgi, Salvia miltiorrhiza Bunge and Rheum palmatum L., which are rich sources of baicalein, baicalin, salvianolic acid B and emodin, respectively, also showed in vitro anti-fibrotic activities.
Five herbal compounds and three herbal extracts have in vitro anti-fibrotic activities. These data warrant further studies on these anti-fibrotic entities and suggest it a promising strategy to discover new anti-fibrotic drugs by screening more plant materials.
In patients with prior myocardial infarction (MI), beta-blockers reduce mortality by 23% to 40%. However, despite this favorable effect, adverse effects limit compliance to this medication. The purpose of the study was to compare a beta-blocker-based strategy with a heart rate-lowering calcium antagonists-based strategy in patients with prior MI.
We evaluated 7,218 patients with prior MI enrolled in the INternational VErapamil SR-Trandolapril (INVEST) substudy randomized to verapamil-sustained release (SR)- or atenolol-based strategies. Primary outcome was time to first occurrence of death (all-cause), nonfatal MI, or nonfatal stroke. Secondary outcomes included death, total MI (fatal and nonfatal), and total stroke (fatal and nonfatal) considered separately.
During the 2.8 +/- 1.0 years of follow-up, patients assigned to the verapamil-SR-based and atenolol-based strategies had comparable blood pressure control, and the incidence of the primary outcome was equivalent. There was no difference between the 2 strategies for the outcomes of either death or total MI. However, more patients reported excellent/good well-being (82.3% vs 78.0%, P = .02) at 24 months with a trend toward less incidence of angina pectoris (12.0% vs 14.3%, adjusted P = .07), nonfatal stroke (1.4% vs 2.0%; P = .06), and total stroke (2.0% vs 2.5%, P = .18) in the verapamil-SR-based strategy group.
In hypertensive patients with prior MI, a verapamil-SR-based strategy was equivalent to a beta-blocker-based strategy for blood pressure control and prevention of cardiovascular events, with greater subjective feeling of well-being and a trend toward lower incidence of angina pectoris and stroke in the verapamil-SR-based group.
2-Amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP), a compound found in cooked meat, is a mammary gland carcinogen in rats. Comparative genomic hybridization of PhIP-induced rat mammary gland carcinomas revealed loss in the centromeric region of 2q, a region known to carry the mammary carcinoma susceptibility 1 (Mcs1) gene and several other genes relevant to carcinogenesis. Allelic imbalance, specifically microsatellite instability and loss of heterozygosity, was examined in mammary gland carcinomas induced by PhIP in Sprague-Dawley (SD)xWistar Furth F1 hybrid rats. In a polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based assay with 34 microsatellite markers coinciding to 2q11-2q16, nine markers revealed allelic imbalance. The frequency of imbalance in the tumors varied from 10 to 100% depending on the specific marker. However, none of the markers coinciding with the Mcs1 gene locus showed allelic imbalance, suggesting that alterations at this locus were not associated with PhIP-induced rat mammary gland cancer. The expression of several genes physically mapped to 2q11-2q16 and potentially involved in carcinogenesis including Ccnb (cyclin B1), Ccnh (cyclin H), Rasa (Ras GAP), Rasgrf2, Pi3kr1 (p85alpha), and Il6st (gp130) was also examined by quantitative real-time PCR and immunohistochemistry (IHC) across a large bank of PhIP-induced SD rat mammary gland carcinomas. By quantitative real-time PCR, the mRNA expression of Rasa, Pi3kr1, Ccnh, and Il6st in carcinomas was, respectively, 22-, 20-, three- and threefold higher in carcinomas than in control mammary gland tissues (P<0.05, Student's t-test). A statistically sixfold lower expression of Rasgrf2 was detected in carcinomas whereas no significant change in Ccnb1 expression was observed. The findings from quantitative real-time PCR were confirmed by IHC for each gene. In addition, the proliferation index in mammary gland carcinomas as assessed by PCNA was found to correlate with the overexpression of Cyclin H by IHC analysis (P<0.05, Spearman Rank Order Correlation). The findings from the current study implicate molecular alterations in the proximal region of 2q in PhIP-induced rat mammary gland carcinomas.
Mesencephalic dopamine neurons form synapses with acetylcholine (ACh)-containing interneurons in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc). Although their involvement in drug reward has not been systematically investigated, these large aspiny interneurons may serve an important integrative function. We previously found that repeated activation of nicotinic cholinergic receptors enhanced cocaine intake in rats but the role of muscarinic receptors in drug reward is less clear. Here we examined the impact of local changes in muscarinic receptor activation within the NAcc on cocaine and food self-administration in rats trained on a progressive ratio (PR) schedule of reinforcement. Animals were given a minimum of 9 continuous days of drug access before testing in order to establish a stable breaking point (BP) for intravenous cocaine infusions (0.75 mg/kg/infusion). Rats in the food group acquired stable responding on the PR schedule within 7 days. On the test day, rats were bilaterally infused in the NAcc with the muscarinic receptor agonist oxotremorine methiodide (OXO: 0.1, 0.3 or 1 nmol/side), OXO plus the M(1) selective antagonist pirenzepine (PIRENZ; 0.3 nmol/side) or aCSF 15 min before cocaine or food access. OXO dose dependently reduced BP values for cocaine reinforcement (-17%, -44% [p<0.05] and -91% [p<0.0001] for 0.1, 0.3 and 1.0 nmol, respectively) and these reductions dissipated by the following session. Pretreatment with PIRENZ blocked the BP-reducing effect of 0.3 nmol OXO. Notably, OXO (0.1, 0.3 and 1.0 nmol/side) injection in the NAcc did not affect BP for food reward. The results suggest that muscarinic ACh receptors in the caudomedial NAcc may play a role in mediating the behavior reinforcing effects of cocaine.
Several published reports have suggested that oral acyclovir can cause renal insufficiency, but baseline renal function was either abnormal or unclear in those reports. We describe a patient with oral acyclovir-induced acute renal failure and a normal serum creatinine level documented just before exposure to the drug. Conceivably, competition with a cephalosporin for renal tubular elimination predisposed our patient to nephrotoxic serum levels of acyclovir. In addition, the patient had sickle cell trait, which might have contributed to a disproportionate degree of hyperkalemia and acidosis seen early in the patient's clinical course.
We report two cases of acute lung injury after the inhalation of nitric acid fumes in an industrial accident. The first patient, who was not using a respirator and standing in close proximity to the site of spillage of concentrated nitric acid, presented within 12 h with worsening dyspnea and required noninvasive ventilation for type 1 respiratory failure. The second case presented 1 day later with similar symptoms, but only required supportive treatment with high-flow oxygen. Both patients' chest radiographs showed widespread bilateral airspace shadows consistent with acute lung injury. Both received treatment with systemic steroids. They were discharged from hospital 5 days postexposure. Initial lung function test showed a restrictive pattern that normalized by 3 weeks postexposure. This case series describes the natural history after acute inhalation of nitric acid fumes, and demonstrates that the severity of lung injury is directly dependent on the exposure level. It also highlights the use of noninvasive ventilatory support in the management of such patients.
A library of aminocyclitols derived from CuAAC reaction between N-propargylaminocyclitol 4 and a series of azides [1-25] is described and tested against GCase. Azides have been chosen from a large collection of potential candidates that has been filtered according to physical and reactivity constraints. A synthetic methodology has been optimized in order to avoid the use of protecting groups on the aminocyclitol scaffold. Because the reaction can be carried out in an aqueous system, the resulting library members can be screened in situ with minimal manipulation. From the preliminary GCase inhibition data, the most potent library members have been individually resynthesized for further biological screening and complete characterization. Some of the library members have shown biochemical data (IC(50), K(i), and stabilization ratio) similar or superior to those reported for NNDNJ. Docking studies have been used to postulate ligand-enzyme interactions to account for the experimental results.
The fresh leaves of Cymbopogon citratus are a good source of an essential oil (EO) rich in citral, and its tea is largely used in the Brazilian folk medicine as a sedative. A similar source of EO is Cymbopogon winterianus, rich in citronellal. The literature presents more studies on the EO of C. citratus and their isolated bioactive components, but only a few are found on the EO of C. winterianus. The objective of the present study was then to study, in a comparative way, the effects of both EOs on three models of convulsions (pentylenetetrazol, pilocarpine, and strychnine) and on the barbiturate-induced sleeping time on male Swiss mice. The animals (20-30 g) were acutely treated with 50, 100, and 200 mg kg(-1), intraperitoneally, of each EO, and 30 min later, the test was initiated. The observed parameters were: latency to the first convulsion and latency to death in seconds. Furthermore, the in vitro effects of the EOs were also studied on myeloperoxidase (MPO; a biomarker for inflammation) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH; an index of cytotoxicity) releases from human neutrophils. The EOs radical-scavenging activities were also evaluated by the 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) assay. The results showed that both EOs were more active on the pentylenetetrazol-induced convulsion model, and C. citratus was even more efficient in increasing latency to the first convulsion and latency to death. Both parameters were potentiated in the presence of a lower dose of diazepam (reference drug) when associated to a lower dose of each EO (25 mg kg(-1)). Besides, their anticonvulsant effects were blocked by flumazenil, a known benzodiazepine antagonist. This effect was somewhat lower on the pilocarpine-induced convulsion, and better effects were seen only with the EOs' higher doses (200 mg kg(-1)). A similar result was observed on the strychnine-induced convulsion model. Both EOs potentiated the barbiturate-induced sleeping time. However, C. citratus was more efficient. Interestingly, both EOs completely blocked the MPO release from human neutrophils and showed no cytotoxic effect on the LDH release from human neutrophils. On the other hand, only a very low or no effect on the DPPH assay was observed with C. winterianus and C. citratus, respectively, indicating that the radical scavenging activity did not play a role on the EOs' effects. We conclude that the mechanism of action of the anticonvulsant effect of the EOs studied is, at least in part, dependent upon the GABAergic neurotransmission. In addition, their effects on inflammatory biomarkers can also contribute to their central nervous system activity.
The aim of this study was to investigate the influence of nitroglycerin- and nicardipine-induced hypotension on regional cerebral oxygen saturation (rSO(2)) and postoperative cognitive function in patients undergoing orthognathic surgery.
Sixty adult patients scheduled for orthognathic surgery were randomly assigned to either the nitroglycerin group (group 1) or nicardipine group (group 2). After induction of anesthesia, hypotension was induced with continuous infusion of nitroglycerin or nicardipine. Mean arterial pressure (MAP), heart rate (HR), and rSO(2) were measured at the following time points: before induction of anesthesia, immediately before commencing induced hypotension, at 30 and 60 minutes after induced hypotension, and immediately before the end of surgery. Cerebral desaturation was defined as a reduction of rSO(2) less than 75% of baseline for > or = 15 seconds. The Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) was conducted before surgery and then repeated after 1 week.
Baseline rSO(2) values were similar in the 2 groups. There were no significant differences in rSO(2) values between the 2 groups. Cerebral desaturation was not observed in any of the patients. Both nitroglycerin and nicardipine reduced MAP and increased HR during induced hypotension as compared with the baseline values (P < .05). No differences in MAP and HR during baseline and induced hypotension were observed between the 2 groups. Decreased MMSE scores were not observed in any of the patients.
Cerebral oxygen saturation and postoperative cognitive function were not impaired during nitroglycerin- and nicardipine-induced hypotension in patients undergoing orthognathic surgery.
This pilot study evaluates the degree of side effects during high-dose chemotherapy (HD-VIC) plus autologous bone marrow transplant (HDCT) and its possible prevention by the cytoprotective thiol-derivate amifostine. Additionally, the in-patient medical costs of both treatment arms were compared. 40 patients with solid tumours were randomized to receive HD-VIC chemotherapy with or without amifostine (910 mg/m(2)at day 1-3) given as a short infusion prior to carboplatin and ifosfamide. Patients were stratified according to pretreatment. HDCT consisted of an 18 h infusion of carboplatin (500 mg/m(2/)d over 18 h), ifosfamide (4 g/m(2)/d over 4 h) and etoposide (500 mg/m(2)/d) all given for 3 consecutive days. All patients received prophylactic application of G-CSF (5 microg kg(-1)subcutaneously) to ameliorate neutropenia after treatment. Patients were monitored for nephrotoxicity, gastrointestinal side effects, haematopoietic recovery, as well as frequency of fever and infections. The median fall of the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was 10% from baseline in the amifostine group (105 to 95 ml min(-1)) and 37% in the control patient group (107 to 67 ml min(-1)) (P< 0.01). Amifostine-treated patients revealed a less pronounced increase in albumin and low molecular weight protein urinary excretion. Stomatitis grade III/IV occurred in 25% without versus 0% of patients with amifostine (P = 0.01). Acute nausea/vomiting was frequently observed immediately during or after the application of amifostine despite intensive antiemetic prophylaxis consisting of 5-HT3-receptor antagonists/dexamethasone/trifluorpromazine. However, delayed emesis occurred more often in the control patients. Engraftment of neutrophil (> 500 microl(-1))and thrombocytes (> 25 000 microl(-1))were observed at days 9 versus 10 and 10 versus 12, respectively, both slightly in favour of the amifostine arm. In addition, a lower number of days with fever and a shortened duration of hospital stay were observed in the amifostine arm. The reduction of acute toxicity observed in the amifostine arm resulted in 30% savings in costs for supportive care (Euro 4396 versus Euro 3153 per patient). Taking into account the drug costs of amifostine, calculation of in-patient treatment costs from the start of chemotherapy to discharge revealed additional costs of Euro 540 per patient in the amifostine arm. This randomized pilot study indicates that both organ and haematotoxicity of HD-VIC chemotherapy can be ameliorated by the use of amifostine. Additionally, a nearly complete preservation of GFR was observed in amifostine-treated patients which may be advantageous if repetitive cycles of HDCT are planned. Larger randomized trials evaluating amifostine cytoprotection during high-dose chemotherapy are warranted.
Although the liver is a cadmium-target organ, hepatocyte response involved in its toxicity is not yet elucidated. A link between this heavy metal treatment and Stat3 signaling pathways was examined in primary mouse hepatocytes. We provided evidence of a novel link among NADPH oxidase and Stat3 signaling, mediated by Src, EGFR, and Erk1/2. Cadmium activates NADPH oxidase. ROS produced by this oxidase activates Src, enable that in turn, transactivates EGFR that activates Stat3 in tyrosine, allowing its dimerization. Also, ROS from NADPH oxidase favors ERK1/2 activation that phosphorylates Stat3 in serine, resulting in a compensatory or adaptive survival response such as production of metallothionein-II in short Cd exposure times. However, after 12h CdCl2 treatment, cell viability diminished in 50%, accompanied by a drastic decrease of metallothionein-II production, and an increase in p53 activation and the pro-apoptotic protein Bax.
We report a patient who developed severe thrombocytopenia and ischemic stroke following pentosan polysulfate treatment. An ELISA test employed in type-II heparin-induced thrombocytopenia was highly positive. To our knowledge, this is the first case in which this test has been performed in a pentosan polysulfate-induced thrombocytopenia (PIT). Our data suggest that the antibody against pentosan polysulfate-platelet complex also cross-reacts with heparin-platelet factor 4 complex. Due to its greater sensitivity and wider availability, this ELISA test should be used in cases where PIT is suspected.
This study was conducted to quantify the effect of systemic Catalase, a hydrogen peroxide scavenger, on villous microcirculation in the inflamed small intestine of the rat. Intestinal inflammation was induced with s.c. application of Indomethacin. Intravital fluorescence microscopy and FITC-labeled erythrocytes were used to quantify erythrocyte velocity and arteriolar diameter in the main arteriole of the villi in the terminal ileum following i.v. application of Catalase in the inflamed intestine, and the blood flow was calculated. Control groups were formed for Ringer's lactate, Catalase and Indomethacin, respectively. We found that villous blood flow was significantly increased in the in the inflamed intestine. Application of Catalase led to a significant decrease in villous perfusion, but had no effect in the control group. The increase in villous blood flow was accompanied by changes in the diameter of the main arteriole. This effect on arteriolar diameter was reversed by i.v. Catalase. Our results provide evidence that systemic application of Indomethacin leads to vasodilatation of the main arteriole of the villus in the rat ileum and hyperemia in the mucosa. Hyperemia and the vascular diameter of the main arteriole were significantly reduced by H(2)O(2)-scavenger Catalase, suggesting that endogenous H(2)O(2) may be one of the mediators of hyperemia in the mucosa in this animal model of intestinal inflammation.
Two patients who developed painless jaundice while taking sulindac are described. Rechallenge in one case confirmed the association of hepatic damage with sulindac administration. Laboratory data and liver biopsy findings suggested a hepatitis with cholestatic features.
The effects of drugs acting on muscarinic cholinergic receptors on the catalepsy, antinociception and changes in rectal temperature and in brain dopamine metabolism induced by morphine were studied in Wistar rats. Scopolamine (0.3 - 30 mg/kg) was about three times as potent as atropine (1 - 30 mg/kg) in potentiating the cataleptic effect of morphine. Methylscopolamine and methylatropine did not alter the cataleptic effect of morphine. Pilocarpine (100 mg/kg) and arecoline (10 mg/kg) slightly but significantly and RS86 (20 - 40 mg/kg) clearly antagonized the morphine-catalepsy. RS86 antagonized the atropine-induced potentiation of morphine catalepsy. The antinociceptive effect of pilocarpine was additive and that of RS86 less than additive with morphine. The antimuscarinic compounds did not alter the antinociceptive effect of morphine. Antimuscarinic compounds enhanced the hypothermic effect of morphine, but none of the compounds studied altered the hyperthermic effect of morphine. The antimuscarinic drugs reduced the concentration of striatal homovanillic acid (HVA) in about same proportion in control and morphine-treated rats. Both the muscarinic compounds and morphine increased the concentration of striatal HVA, but when combined their effects were not significantly different from those of morphine alone. Scopolamine antagonized and pilocarpine accelerated the morphine-induced increase in the rate of depletion of cerebral dopamine content. The present results show that the effects of muscarinic aand antimuscarinic cholinergic drugs on the cataleptic effect of morphine were opposite to their effects on the catalepsy induced by neuroleptic compounds.
For a long time, aluminium (Al) has been considered an indifferent element from a toxicological point of view. In recent years, however, Al has been implicated in the pathogenesis of several clinical disorders, such as dialysis dementia, the fulminant neurological disorder that can develop in patients on renal dialysis. In the present study, the effect of chronic oral administration of Al on certain biochemical parameters of brain homogenate has been investigated. The feeding of test diet for 6 wk resulted in a decrease of thiols, glutathione reductase (GR), and adenosine Triphosphatase (ATPase). A nonsignificant decrease in peroxidation and glutathione-S-transferase (GST) was also detected in the Al-treated rats. From this study, it can be concluded that oxidative stress is produced by the metal.
