The p21-activated kinase 1 (Pak1) is a serine/threonine kinase whose activity is regulated by both Rho GTPases and AGC kinase family members. It plays a role in cytoskeletal remodeling and cell motility as well as cell proliferation, angiogenesis, tumorigenesis and metastasis. An involvement of Pak1 in renal cell carcinoma (RCC), which remains highly refractory to chemotherapy and radiotherapy, remains to be investigated. Pak1 expression, phosphorylation and kinase activity were examined in RCC cell lines and human tissue from normal and renal carcinoma. We report increased Pak1 expression and constitutive activity in the membrane and nucleus but not the cytoplasm of resected human RCC. To study a role for Pak1 in RCC, we developed 786-0 clones that expressed either a kinase-active Pak1L83,L86 2 different Pak1 dominant negative mutants, Pak1R299 and Pak1L83,L86,R299 or Pak1 siRNA. The expression of Pak1L83,L86 increased 786-0 proliferation, motility and anchorage independent growth, while the dominant negative mutants and Pak1 siRNA abrogated these effects. In addition, Pak1L83,L86 conferred resistance to 5-fluorouracil with a 40%+/-10% increase in cell viability. Conversely, Pak1L83,L86,R299, Pak1R299 and Pak1 siRNA conferred sensitivity with a 65.2%+/-5.5%, 69.2%+/-3.3% and 73.0%+/-8.4% loss in viability, respectively. Finally, Pak1 plays a role in renal tumor growth in vivo. Only 33% of mice developed tumors in the Pak1L83,L86,R299 group and no tumors developed from Pak1R299 cell challenge. Together these findings point to Pak1 as an exciting target for therapy of renal cancer, which remains highly refractory to existing treatments.
The current study evaluated the effects of drugs that increase GABA levels by activation of GABA(B) receptors (baclofen and CGP44532) or by inhibition of GABA reuptake (tiagabine) on the reinstatement of extinguished lever responding produced by priming doses of cocaine in baboons (i.e., cocaine-seeking). Cocaine self-injection was established and maintained under a fixed ratio (FR10) schedule of reinforcement during daily 2h sessions. Lever responding was extinguished by substituting vehicle (saline) for cocaine until the number of self-injections decreased to 10 or less per session for two consecutive sessions (defined as extinction). Once extinction occurred, priming doses of cocaine (0.1-3.2mg/kg, i.v.) were administered during extinction conditions. Administration of priming doses of cocaine significantly increased cocaine-seeking in a dose-dependent manner. Cocaine-seeking produced by priming doses of cocaine were attenuated by pretreatment with baclofen (N=5) or CGP44532 (N=5) but not tiagabine (N=3). The doses of baclofen (0.32 mg/kg), and CGP445532 (0.32 mg/kg) that reduced cocaine-seeking produced by cocaine priming doses did not reinstate cocaine-seeking and did not produce overt effects when administered alone. These data indicate that GABA(B) agonists may reduce relapse to cocaine taking.
The morphopathogenesis of lesions induced by high doses of isoproterenol injected for 1-7 days and 1-3 months is dynamically studied in groups of Wistar rats and guinea pigs. The disseminated myocardial necroses induced were of a hypoxic nature. By cicatricial substitutions, lesions of cardiosclerosis similar to those observed in pheochromocytoma cases were obtained.
We investigated whether the Chinese herbal remedy, Hachimi-jio-gan extract, attenuates the renal injury seen in salt-induced hypertension in Dahl salt-sensitive (Dahl S) rats. Administration of this extract for 5 weeks dose-dependently decreased systolic blood pressure in Dahl S rats fed with a high-salt (2% NaCl) diet. This blood pressure reduction was associated with a decrease in cardiac mass and in thickness of the aortic wall. Urinary excretion of prostaglandin E2 was increased and glomerular filtration rate was improved with this treatment. Glomerulosclerosis and arterial injury in the kidney were morphologically improved. These data suggest that Hachimi-jio-gan extract exhibits an antihypertensive effect, which is associated with partial resolution of renal injury in salt-induced hypertension.
1 The pharmacological effects of labetalol have been studied in normal healthy subjects. The results of these studies are reviewed. 2 In the evaluation of the beta-adrenoreceptor-blocking effects of labetalol various indices of beta-adrenoceptor blockade in man were used. Labetalol administered orally and intravenously competitively antagonized the effects of isoprenaline on heart rate and diastolic blood pressure. The beta-adrenoceptor blockade induced was regarded as 'non-selective'. In addition, labetalol produced dose-related inhibitory effects on exercise-induced increases in heart rate any systolic blood pressure and similar dose-related inhibitory effects on the tachycardia induced by valsalva's manoeuvre. Labetalol had only a modest inhibitory effect on the tachycardia induced by tilting since blood pressure was reduced on a dose-related basis. 3 Labetalol was a specific competitive antagonist of the alpha-adrenoceptor agonist effects of systemically administered phenylephrine and locally infused noradrenaline. In addition, oral and intravenous administration of labetalol reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure in the supine, standing and sitting positions. 4 The onset and duration of the alpha- and beta-antagonist effects of oral labetalol did not seem to be dissociated in time and there was a close correlation between the change in plasma concentration and pharmacological effects. 5 In comparative studies with propranolol, similar beta-antagonist effects were observed but propranolol was 4-6 times more potent weight for weight. Precise comparison, however, was complicated by the combined alpha- and beta -effects of labetalol, especially as the predominant effect of labetalol in normotensive subjects was to reduce blood pressure; whereas the predominant effect of propranolol was to reduce heart rate. In addition propranolol had inhibitory effects on ventilatory function in normal subjects, whereas labetalol in equivalent beta-adrenoreceptor-blocking doses did not. 6 From the details of the studies reviewed it was concluded that in man labetalol possesses combined alpha- and beta-adrenoreceptor antagonist properties.
Administration of diethylstilbestrol to female Sprague-Dawley rats at 10 mg/kg body weight daily by gavage for 1 year induced liver adenomas and carcinomas and pituitary adenomas. Using the 32P-postlabeling assay for DNA alterations, at 24 h after administration of a single dose of 100 mg/kg, modified bases were found.
Currently available data indicate the potential application of rapamycin and its analogues in the clinic as anticancer therapeutic agents through inhibiting tumor cell growth and tumor angiogenesis. However, whether rapamycin can directly suppress tumor metastasis remains unclear. In the present study, we demonstrated that rapamycin treatment results in reduced formation of metastatic nodules in the lung by B16 cells. This is due to two mechanisms. First, the expression of alphav integrin is down-regulated by rapamycin treatment, and subsequently, the phosphorylation of focal adhesion kinase (FAK) is reduced. Second, rapamycin promotes apoptosis by up-regulating the proapoptotic molecules Bid and Bax and down-regulating Bcl-xL. Blocking the apoptosis pathway by pan-caspase inhibitor zVAD partially reversed the suppression of rapamycin in B16 metastasis. Interestingly, rapamycin up-regulates Bax and Bid in B16 cells via the S6K1 pathway and down-regulates the expression of alphav integrin via other pathway(s). In addition, our data showed that autophagy was not involved in the mechanisms of rapamycin-mediated metastasis suppression. Our findings demonstrate a potential anti-metastatic effect of rapamycin via down-regulating alphav integrin expression and up-regulating apoptosis signaling, suggesting that rapamycin might be worthy of clinical evaluation as an antimetastatic agent.
Antagonists of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptor have been reported to potentiate the antiparkinsonian action of levodopa and reverse levodopa-induced motor fluctuations in animal models of Parkinson's disease. To evaluate the effect of NMDA receptor blockade on dyskinesias complicating the response to long-term levodopa therapy, we studied the selective antagonist LY235959 in six 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-lesioned monkeys. Drugs were administered subcutaneously, LY235959 at doses of 0.5, 1.0, 3.0, and 5.0 mg/kg and levodopa/benserazide at doses that produced moderate dyskinesias while almost totally reversing parkinsonian signs. Compared with vehicle control injections, LY235959 (3.0 mg/kg) abolished oral dyskinesias and diminished choreic dyskinesias by 68% (p < 0.01). Lower doses had smaller effects, although still significant, on oral dyskinesias (55% reduction at 1.0 mg/kg, p < 0.05). The highest LY235959 dose (5.0 mg/kg) prolonged oral dyskinesia suppression, but tended to increase dystonia severity. LY235959 had no effect on motor function when given alone and did not reduce the antiparkinsonian response to levodopa. These findings suggest that NMDA receptor blockade may ameliorate the dyskinetic complications of long-term levodopa therapy, without diminishing the beneficial effects on parkinsonian signs.
There is evidence showing that the opioid systems play an important role in cocaine addiction; fewer studies have examined their roles in cocaine withdrawal. This study was conducted to determine whether cocaine or chronic withdrawal from cocaine alters the receptor component of the kappa-opioid system. Male Fischer rats were injected with saline or cocaine (3x15 mg/kg/day for 4 days, 3x20 mg/kg/day for 4 days, 3x25 mg/kg/day for 4 days, and 3x30 mg/kg/day for 2 days), three times daily at 1-h intervals in an escalating dose paradigm for 14 days. Identically treated rats were withdrawn from cocaine or saline for 14 days. We performed quantitative autoradiographic mapping of kappa-opioid receptors (KOP-r) in the brains of rats treated with this escalating dose "binge" cocaine administration paradigm and of rats withdrawn from cocaine for 14 days. A significant condition (chronic/withdrawal) effect was shown across all regions analyzed. A significant increase in [3H]CI-977 binding to KOP-r was detected in the septum of rats treated with an escalating dose binge cocaine administration paradigm and killed 30 min after the last cocaine injection. In contrast, there was a decrease in KOP-r binding in the septum and the basolateral amygdala of rats withdrawn for 14 days from chronic escalating dose binge cocaine administration, compared to rats at the end of 14 days chronic escalating dose cocaine administration. These results reconfirm and extend that KOP-r undergoes upregulation in response to chronic binge cocaine administration here, with an escalating dose. The observed lowering in KOP-r binding, which was shown in two brain regions of cocaine withdrawn animals, might contribute to the persistent dysphoria reported a long time after the discontinuation of the drug.
The p53-activated gene 608 (PAG608) is a proapoptotic gene activated and regulated by p53 expression in oxidative stress-induced apoptosis of neuronal cells. In this study, we determined the role of PAG608 in methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity. Treatment of mouse dopaminergic CATH.a cells with 2 mM methamphetamine increased PAG608 expression at 3h followed by increase in phosphorylated p53 expression. Transient transfection of PAG608 antisense cDNA or RNA interference using PAG608 small interfering RNA significantly attenuated the dose-dependent decrease in cell viability of CATH.a cells by methamphetamine (1-4 mM) exposure. In monoaminergic neuronal B65 cells, which contain serotonin rather than dopamine, methamphetamine-induced cell death was also significantly but partially protected by transient transfection of PAG608 antisense cDNA. Furthermore, cell death of PC12 cells produced by methamphetamine (1-5 mM) was almost completely prevented by stable expression of PAG608 antisense cDNA, compared with significant reduction of cell viability in control PC12 cells. Our results showed that suppression of PAG608 using transient and stable transfection with PAG608 antisense cDNA or small interfering RNA attenuates methamphetamine-induced death of various monoaminergic neuronal cells, suggesting that methamphetamine neurotoxicity in monoaminergic cells is related, at least in part, to induction of PAG608 expression.
The effects of ritodrine and terbutaline on potassium homeostasis, renal function, and cardiac rhythm were assessed in women treated with these drugs for preterm labor. Timed blood and urine samples were obtained for two hours before and during six hours of intravenous ritodrine (N = 5) and terbutaline (N = 5) administered in pharmacologically equivalent doses. No differences were found in any parameters affecting potassium homeostasis or renal function between these drugs. A decrease in mean plasma potassium of 0.9 mEq/liter occurred after 30 minutes of drug infusion (4.2 +/- 0.1 to 3.3 +/- 0.1 mEq/liter, P < 0.005) before any significant changes in plasma glucose (75.0 +/- 4.7 to 93.7 +/- 6.1 mg/dl, P = NS) or plasma insulin (12.4 +/- 6.0 to 28.4 +/- 5.1 mU/ml, P = NS). The mean plasma potassium after four hours of drug infusion was 2.5 +/- 0.1 mEq/liter. Plasma insulin rose to a level known to induce cellular potassium uptake (39.2 +/- 7.7 mU/ml) after 60 minutes of drug therapy and remained at this level for four hours. Hyperlactatemia occurred at four hours (4.7 +/- 0.8 mmol/liter) and the plasma lactate/pyruvate ratio increased in a 10:1 ratio. Both drugs significantly reduced glomerular filtration rate, sodium, potassium, and chloride excretion and urinary flow rate. Changes in acid-base homeostasis, plasma aldosterone, or renal potassium excretion did not contribute to ritodrine-or terbutaline-induced hypokalemia. In 83 women with preterm labor randomly assigned to ritodrine (N = 42) or terbutaline (N = 41), the maximum decrease in plasma potassium occurred after six hours of drug infusion. During Holter monitoring, 3 of 14 women treated with ritodrine or terbutaline developed symptomatic cardiac arrhythmias at the lowest plasma potassium while no women treated with saline and morphine (N = 12) developed cardiac arrhythmias (P = 0.14). We conclude that ritodrine and terbutaline induce profound hypokalemia by stimulating cellular potassium uptake and both drugs cause significant renal sodium and fluid retention and cardiac arrhythmias. Careful monitoring of electrolytes, fluid balance, and cardiac rhythm should occur during tocolytic therapy with ritodrine or terbutaline.
Central nervous system and cardiac toxicity following the administration of local anesthetics is a recognized complication of regional anesthesia. Levobupivacaine, the pure S(-) enantiomer of bupivacaine, was developed to improve the cardiac safety profile of bupivacaine. We describe 2 cases of grand mal seizures following accidental intravascular injection of levobupivacaine.
Two patients presenting for elective orthopedic surgery of the lower limb underwent blockade of the lumbar plexus via the posterior approach. Immediately after the administration of levobupivacaine 0.5% with epinephrine 2.5 microgram/mL, the patients developed grand mal seizures, despite negative aspiration for blood and no clinical signs of intravenous epinephrine administration. The seizures were successfully treated with sodium thiopental in addition to succinylcholine in 1 patient. Neither patient developed signs of cardiovascular toxicity. Both patients were treated preoperatively with beta-adrenergic antagonist medications, which may have masked the cardiovascular signs of the unintentional intravascular administration of levobupivacaine with epinephrine.
Although levobupivacaine may have a safer cardiac toxicity profile than racemic bupivacaine, if adequate amounts of levobupivacaine reach the circulation, it will result in convulsions. Plasma concentrations sufficient to result in central nervous system toxicity did not produce manifestations of cardiac toxicity in these 2 patients.
Cerebral autoregulation (CA) is a critical process for the maintenance of cerebral blood flow and oxygenation. Assessment of CA is frequently used for experimental research and in the diagnosis, monitoring, or prognosis of cerebrovascular disease; however, despite the extensive use and reference to static CA, a valid quantification of "normal" CA has not been clearly identified. While controlling for the influence of arterial Pco(2), we provide the first clear examination of static CA in healthy humans over a wide range of blood pressure. In 11 healthy humans, beat-to-beat blood pressure (radial arterial), middle cerebral artery blood velocity (MCAv; transcranial Doppler ultrasound), end-tidal Pco(2), and cerebral oxygenation (near infrared spectroscopy) were recorded continuously during pharmacological-induced changes in mean blood pressure. In a randomized order, steady-state decreases and increases in mean blood pressure (8 to 14 levels; range: approximately 40 to approximately 125 mm Hg) were achieved using intravenous infusions of sodium nitroprusside or phenylephrine, respectively. MCAv(mean) was altered by 0.82+/-0.35% per millimeter of mercury change in mean blood pressure (R(2)=0.82). Changes in cortical oxygenation index were inversely related to changes in mean blood pressure (slope=-0.18%/mm Hg; R(2)=0.60) and MCAv(mean) (slope=-0.26%/cm . s(-1); R(2)=0.54). There was a progressive increase in MCAv pulsatility with hypotension. These findings indicate that cerebral blood flow closely follows pharmacological-induced changes in blood pressure in otherwise healthy humans. Thus, a finite slope of the plateau region does not necessarily imply a defective CA. Moreover, with progressive hypotension and hypertension there are differential changes in cerebral oxygenation and MCAv(mean).
The airway inflammation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) demonstrates a poor response to the anti-inflammatory actions of corticosteroids. However, long-acting beta(2)-agonists and low-dose theophylline are reported to have a possible anti-inflammatory effect in COPD. The aim of this study was to compare the effects of treatment between theophylline and the tulobuterol patch (transdermal patch preparation designed to yield sustained beta(2)-agonistic effects for 24h) on airway inflammation in addition to quality of life (QOL) and pulmonary function in mild-to-moderate COPD.
The study subjects consisted of 26 patients with COPD who were treated with theophylline or tulobuterol for 8 weeks with a wash-out period of 4 weeks in a randomized open-label crossover study. We prospectively investigated the differential cell counts and levels of inflammatory markers in induced sputum before and after treatment with theophylline and tulobuterol. We also examined pulmonary function and quality of life (QOL) as assessed by St. George's Respiratory Questionnaire.
In the induced sputum, the total inflammatory cell count and number of neutrophils were significantly reduced by treatment with low-dose theophylline. Neither of these parameters was significantly changed by treatment with tulobuterol. Pulmonary function measurements such as FEV(1), FEV(1) % pred, FVC, PEF, MEF(50), and MEF(25) were significantly improved by the treatment with low-dose theophylline but not tulobuterol. The total QOL scores, levels of interleukin 8 and myeloperoxidase in the supernatants of induced sputum, and serum levels of hypersensitive C-reactive protein were not significantly changed by either of the treatments.
These results suggest that treatment with low-dose theophylline but not the tulobuterol patch may have anti-inflammatory effects and improve pulmonary function in mild-to-moderate COPD.
This study was carried out to determine whether serum eosinophil cationic protein (ECP) represents a sensitive marker for disease activity in atopic asthmatic patients during the pollen season. The study, in double-blind fashion, was performed between February and June 1994. Two groups of 10 seasonal asthmatic patients randomly received two different treatments. The first group was treated with inhaled beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) 500 micrograms bid; the second received a matched placebo (P). At the beginning and every month, blood samples for determination of ECP and eosinophil count were collected and lung function (FEV1) and methacholine responsiveness (PD20) were performed. Subjects recorded daily symptoms of asthma, salbutamol consumption, and peak expiratory flow (PEF) values. In the P group, all indices, except FEV1, showed significant changes during the pollen season (P < 0.001). In the BDP group, significant changes were detected for symptom score (P < 0.01), salbutamol consumption (P < 0.01), and eosinophil number (P < 0.05). Between the two groups, significant differences for symptom score (P < 0.001), salbutamol consumption (P < 0.001), ECP levels (P < 0.05), eosinophil count (P < 0.02), PD20 methacholine (P < 0.02), and PEF values (P < 0.01) were detected. Changes in serum ECP significantly correlated with changes in other parameters (P < 0.001), except FEV1. Our results provide evidence that serum ECP is a sensitive marker for monitoring of the disease activity in seasonal asthma. Furthermore, it may offer a useful tool for estimating treatment efficacy.
Aspirin is associated with a reduced risk of colorectal cancer (CRC), and it showed inhibited effects on interleukin 6 (IL-6)/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) signaling pathway which is thought to play an important role in intestinal inflammation and the tumorigenesis of CRC.
Mouse model for inflammation-related CRC was induced by a combined treatment with azoxymethane (AOM) and dextran sodium sulfate (DSS) in BALB/c mice. Effects of aspirin on tumor number and size and apoptosis of CRC cells were investigated. Key molecules of IL-6-STAT3 pathway, such as IL-6, sIL-6R, phosphorylated STAT3, and their downstream anti-apoptotic genes Bcl-2 and Bcl-xl, were assessed by ELISA and Western blot.
Treatment with aspirin significantly promoted CRC cell apoptosis in AOM/DSS-induced CRC mice in vivo. The expression level of IL-6, which is an upstream molecule of STAT3 and capable of activating STAT3, was reduced in aspirin-treated mice. Furthermore, the phosphorylated form of STAT3 and the levels of STAT3's target gene products such as Bcl-xl and Bcl-2, which are essential for cell growth and survival, were also decreased in aspirin-treated mice.
Our data suggested that the protective mechanisms of aspirin in CRC may be associated with its effects on induction of CRC cell apoptosis and suppression of IL-6-STAT3 signaling pathway, which implied that aspirin has a potential therapeutic activity in CRC.
We report 2 cases of leiomyosarcoma of the bladder that occurred after long-term cyclophosphamide chemotherapy for lupus nephritis and rheumatoid arthritis. One patient had a tumor at the end of an 11-year course of chemotherapy and 1 approximately 7 years after completing a 7-year course of chemotherapy. Patient 1 underwent left partial cystectomy and patient 2 underwent cystectomy with ileal conduit urinary diversion. In patient 1 the tumor was a typical leiomyosarcoma and patient 2 had a myxoid variant. Both patients were free of disease at 4 months and 3 years, respectively. Whereas previous reports of the carcinogenic effects of cyclophosphamide have been questioned, since the induced tumors occurred in patients being treated for other neoplasms (lymphoproliferative and myeloproliferative disorders), the disease in both of our patients followed cyclophosphamide therapy for nonneoplastic disorders.
Low plasma vitamin E level in children with sickle cell anaemia has been related to elevated level of irreversibly sickled cells which has been implicated in the pathogenesis of painful crisis. In adult patients supplementation with alpha-tocopherol has been shown to reduce irreversibly sickled cell count. In-addition, vitamin E supplementation increases resting forearm blood flow and reduces forearm vascular resistance in adult sickle cell anaemia sufferers.
The aim of the study was to examine the effects of supplementation with alpha-tocopherol on arterial blood pressure, some haematological parameters and osmotic fragility in children suffering from sickle cell anaemia.
The effects of supplementation with alpha-tocopherol (100 mg. per day for 6 weeks) on packed cell volume (PCV) haemoglobin concentration ([Hb]), mean corpuscular haemoglobin concentration (MCHC), per cent foetal haemoglobin (% HbF), per cent irreversibly sickled cells (%ISC), erythrocyte osmotic fragility and blood pressure have been assessed in ten (10) children suffering from sickle cell anaemia. Their ages ranged from 4.0 to 10.0 years.
Supplementation with alpha-tocopherol significantly increased packed cell volume (p<0.001), haemoglobin concentration (p<0.01) and per cent foetal haemoglobin (p<0.001), but significantly reduced mean corpuscular haemoglobin concentration (p<0.01) and per cent irreversibly sickled cells (p<0.001). alpha-Tocopherol also increased the resistance of the cells to lysis. Supplementation with alpha-tocopherol had little or no effect on arterial blood pressure.
This study shows that short-term supplementation with alpha-tocopherol may be beneficial to the paediatric sickle cell sufferer.
McLeod syndrome is an X-linked recessive disorder, characterized by neuromuscular and hematopoietic dysfunction. Two cases of McLeod syndrome were reported in a family with neuroacanthocytosis and, remarkably, 1 of them was female. Direct sequence analysis of the McLeod gene in 12 members of the family revealed a novel point mutation in exon 2 that creates a frameshift and results in premature termination of translation. There was marked skewing of X inactivation in the severely affected female.
The biological activity of Wercklea insignis (WI) in inflammation and the underlying mechanisms of action of extracts of this plant are largely unknown. In the present study, we investigated the effects of a WI methanolic extract on lipopolysaccharide-stimulated inflammation in the mouse macrophage cell line, RAW 264.7. A WI methanolic extract significantly inhibited NO, PGE(2), IL-6, IL-1β, and TNF-α production in LPS-stimulated RAW 264.7 cells. Expression of iNOS, COX-2, IL-6, IL-1β, and TNF-α were suppressed by the extract at both the mRNA and protein levels in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated cells. Additionally, the attenuation of inflammatory responses in RAW 264.7 cells by the WI extract was closely associated with suppression of phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) molecules, including ERK, JNK1/2, and p38 MAPK and translocation of the nuclear factor (NF)-κB p65 subunit into the nucleus. The effect of WI extract was investigated against carrageenan-induced paw edema in female (20-25 g). Our results collectively indicate that the WI extract inhibits LPS-induced inflammatory responses by blocking the NF-κB signaling pathway in macrophages, supporting use of the extract as a therapeutic anti-inflammatory treatment.
This prospective, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study compares the effects of ephedrine and ketamine on injection pain, and hypotension from propofol.
After obtaining the approval of the Ethics Committee, 75 patients (ASA I-II) scheduled for elective operations with general anaesthesia were divided into three groups. Saline 2 mL (Group S, n = 25), ketamine 0.5 mg kg(-1) (Group K, n = 25) or ephedrine 70 microg kg(-1) (Group E, n = 25) were administered over 5 s after tourniquet application. After releasing the tourniquet, propofol 2 mg kg(-1) was injected in 30 s. Pain was evaluated on a numerical scale (0-10) where 0 represented no pain and 10 the most severe pain possible. Systolic, diastolic blood pressures and heart rates were recorded preoperatively, 1 min after propofol injection, before intubation and 1, 2 and 3 min after intubation in all patients.
The incidences of pain in Groups S, E and K were similar (84%, 80% and 72%, respectively). The mean pain score in Group K (2.1, SD 3.1) was significantly lower than those of Groups S and E (4.9, SD 2.6 and 4.6, SD, 3.3, respectively) (P < 0.05). The systolic and diastolic blood pressure values in Group K (120 +/- 27 mmHg) and Group E (123 +/- 21 mmHg) before intubation were significantly higher than that of Group S (104 +/- 25 mmHg) (P < 0.05). There was no significant difference between the mean heart rate values of the groups.
Low dose ketamine or ephedrine pretreatment may prevent hypotension due to propofol induction. Despite the reduction in injection pain intensity after ketamine, the study drugs were found to be ineffective in lowering the injection pain incidence.
Because epoprostenol (prostacyclin) is a prostaglandin that causes vasodilatation and inhibits platelet function it may be of benefit during coronary artery angioplasty. The safety and capacity of intracoronary epoprostenol to dilate coronary arteries were assessed in 16 patients undergoing routine coronary angiography. The view that best displayed the left epicardial coronary arteries was selected as a control for each patient. Intracoronary epoprostenol was then given and the angiogram was repeated in the chosen view. The procedure was repeated twice: once with a higher dose of epoprostenol and once after intracoronary isosorbide dinitrate. Angiograms were coded and analysed by an observer who was unaware of the treatment. The calibre of the arteries was measured from traced projections of the angiograms. The blood pressure, heart rate, and electrocardiogram were recorded throughout. The first two patients were given epoprostenol infusions of 2.5 and 5.0 ng/kg per minute to assess safety, and there were no untoward reactions. The next ten patients had epoprostenol infusions of 5.0 and 7.5 ng/kg per minute followed by intracoronary isosorbide dinitrate. No haemodynamic disturbances occurred and coronary luminal calibre did not change with epoprostenol (mean (SD) luminal diameter: 2.85 (0.62) mm control, 2.80 (0.61) mm at 5.0 ng/kg, and 2.80 (0.54) mm at 7.5 ng/kg), but it did increase significantly with isosorbide dinitrate (to 3.17 (0.36) mm). The last four patients had epoprostenol infusions of 7.5 and 10 ng/kg followed by intracoronary isosorbide dinitrate and two of them became hypotensive (one after epoprostenol and one after isosorbide dinitrate). Coronary luminal calibre did not change significantly (3.5 (0.45) mm control, 2.96 (0.81) mm at 7.5 ng/kg, 3.45 (0.96) mm at 10 ng/kg, and 3.20 (0.61) mm with isosorbide dinitrate). Eight patients developed tall T waves on the electrocardiogram during epoprostenol infusion but none had arrhythmias. The results indicate that clinically tolerable doses of intracoronary epoprostenol do not significantly dilate the epicardial coronary arteries. This route of administration is therefore unlikely to be of use during coronary angioplasty, although the antiplatelet action of intravenous epoprostenol might help to prevent restenosis.
In patients with constipation the prevalence of melanosis in rectal biopsies was evaluated in an attempt to correlate its occurrence with laxative consumption and intestinal stasis. Melanosis was present in 58 percent of the patients and in none of a control group. Melanosis was present in 73.4 percent of patients consuming anthracene laxatives and in 26.6 percent of those not consuming anthracene laxatives (P less than 0.01). No correlation was found between the occurrence (and grading) of melanosis and pattern of transit through the large bowel, bowel movements, and duration of symptoms. Results of this study seem to indicate that intestinal stasis is not a cause of melanosis of the colon and rectum and confirm that melanosis may well be due only to the consumption of anthracene laxatives; melanosis coli does not appear to be a sensitive marker of impairment of motor function in the "cathartic colon."
