It was recently reported that levo-tetrahydropalmatine (l-THP), a dopamine (DA) D1 and D2 receptor antagonist purified from the Chinese herb Stephanie, appears to be effective in attenuating cocaine self-administration, cocaine-triggered reinstatement and cocaine-induced conditioned place preference in preclinical animal models. The present study was designed to contrast l-THP's effects on cocaine self-administration under fixed-ratio (FR) and progressive-ratio (PR) reinforcement, and to study l-THP's effects on cocaine-enhanced brain stimulation reward (BSR). Systemic administration of l-THP produced dose-dependent, biphasic effects, i.e., low-to-moderate doses (1, 3, 10 mg/kg) increased, while a high dose (20 mg/kg) inhibited cocaine self-administration behavior under FR2 reinforcement. The increased cocaine self-administration is likely a compensatory response to a reduction in cocaine's rewarding effects, because the same low doses of l-THP dose-dependently attenuated cocaine self-administration under PR reinforcement and also attenuated cocaine-enhanced BSR. These attenuations of PR cocaine self-administration and cocaine-enhanced BSR are unlikely due to l-THP-induced sedation or locomotor inhibition, because only 10 mg/kg, but not 1-3 mg/kg, of l-THP inhibited locomotion, sucrose self-administration and asymptotic operant performance in the BSR paradigm. In vivo microdialysis demonstrated that l-THP slightly elevates extracellular nucleus accumbens DA by itself, but dose-dependently potentiates cocaine-augmented DA, suggesting that a postsynaptic, rather than presynaptic, DA receptor antagonism underlies l-THP's actions on cocaine reward. Together, the present data, combined with previous findings, support the potential use of l-THP for treatment of cocaine addiction.
Insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes are associated with elevated circulating levels of insulin, nonesterified fatty acids (NEFAs), and lipoprotein remnants. Extracellular matrix proteoglycan (PG) alterations are also common in macro- and microvascular complications of type 2 diabetes. In liver, extracellular heparan sulfate (HS) PGs contribute to the uptake of triglyceride-rich lipoprotein remnants. We found that HepG2 cells cultured with 10 or 50 nmol/l insulin or 300 micromol/l albumin-bound linoleic acid changed their PG secretion. The glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) of the secreted PGs from insulin-treated HepG2 cells were enriched in chondroitin sulfate (CS) PGs. In contrast, cells exposed to linoleic acid secreted PGs with decreased content of CS. Insulin caused a moderate increase in mRNA for versican (secreted CS PG), whereas linoleic acid markedly decreased mRNA for versican in HepG2 cells, as did the peroxisomal proliferator-activated receptor-alpha agonist bezafibrate. The effects of insulin or linoleic acid on syndecan 1, a cell surface HS PG, were similar to those on versican, but less pronounced. The livers of obese Zucker fa/fa rats, which are insulin-resistant and have high levels of insulin, NEFAs, and triglyceride-rich remnants, showed increased expression of CS PGs when compared with lean littermates. These changes in PG composition decreased the affinity of remnant beta-VLDL particles to PGs isolated from insulin-treated HepG2 cells and obese rat livers. The results indicated that insulin and NEFAs modulate the expression of PGs in hepatic cells. We speculate that in vivo this exchange of CS for HS may reduce the clearance of remnant beta-VLDLs and contribute to the dyslipidemia of insulin resistance.
The aim of this study was to examine the risk of cardiovascular diseases among users of both inhaled (ipratropium bromide or tiotropium bromide) and oral (oxybutynin and propantheline, solifenacin, tolterodine) anticholinergics.
A retrospective study was undertaken on data obtained from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) from subjects who had received either an inhaled or oral form of an anticholinergic drug and experienced some side effect during the period from 1988 to 2009. The recorded data included: patient's age, sex, list of drugs and side effects. Side effect rates for the anticholinergic drugs were compared using univariate (Chi-square) and multivariate (logistic regression) methods.
The files from the FDA held data for 36 491 different subjects, of whom 2610 (7.15%) experienced a cardiovascular or neurovascular side effect. Subjects were classified as taking the oral (45%) or inhaled (55%) class of the drug, with only 109 subjects (0.3%) taking drugs in both forms. Side effect rates differed between anticholinergic drugs. Stroke and hypertension were significantly more common for subjects taking oral anticholinergic drug compared with tiotropium, while other reported vascular side effects (cardiac ischaemia or arrhythmiascardiac failure, cardiac arrest) tended to be more commonly associated with the use of inhaled anticholingerics. These differences persisted after adjustment for age and gender.
This observational study of recorded side effects showed that, except for stroke and hypertension, patients who were treated with an inhaled anticholinergic drug appeared to be at higher risk of developing neurovascular or cardiovascular side effects, than those treated with an oral drug. However, physicians should also be aware that oral anticholinergic drugs may have similar adverse impacts on health. Further studies on the association between anticholinergic drugs and cardiovascular and neurovascular side effects are recommended.
Intrathecal chemotherapy and systemic chemotherapy are used for both prophylaxis and treatment of central nervous system disease in hematologic malignancies. However, intrathecal treatment has some adverse effects, such as arachnoiditis, progressive myelopathy, and leukoencephalopathy. The authors describe six children in whom myelopathy and adhesive arachnoiditis developed after administration of intrathecal chemotherapy including methotrexate, cytosine arabinoside, and prednisolone. Urinary retention and incontinence, the main presenting complaints in all patients, developed within 12 hours after intrathecal therapy and spontaneously resolved within 7 days. Two patients were unable to walk. In these two, weakness in the lower extremities gradually recovered by 1 month but urinary incontinence did not improve. None of the children had sensory loss. On follow-up periodic recurrent urinary tract infection was noted in four patients. MRI findings corresponded to arachnoiditis. No response was recorded on tibial nerve somatosensory evoked potentials in all patients. Intrathecal chemotherapy, especially methotrexate, can cause spinal cord dysfunction in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Arachnoiditis should be kept in mind as a causative factor in recurrent urinary tract infection in patients receiving intrathecal chemotherapy.
Acute cyclosporine (CsA) nephrotoxicity is characterized by a reduction of glomerular filtration rate (GFR), hypomagnesemia and tubular injury. The mechanisms of CsA's immunosuppressive action and presumably its nephrotoxicity are mediated through inhibition of the renal phosphatase, calcineurin. FK506 (FK), which has a different chemical structure and binding immunophilin, also inhibits calcineurin. We compared the renal effects of these drugs to those of rapamycin (RAPA), which although similar in structure and intracellular binding to FK, does not work by changing calcineurin activity. Rats were given CsA (15 mg/kg/s.c.), FK (6 mg/kg/p.o.), RAPA (3 mg/kg/p.o.) or vehicle (V) for two weeks on a low salt diet. CsA and FK strikingly decreased urinary excretion of nitric oxide, renal blood flow and GFR, whereas RAPA did not. In contrast, all these three drugs caused significant hypomagnesemia associated with inappropriately high fractional excretion of magnesium, suggesting renal magnesium wasting. In addition, with all three drugs there were lesions in the rat kidneys consisting of tubular collapse, vacuolization and nephrocalcinosis. We thus showed that only the calcineurin inhibitors produced glomerular dysfunction in an acute experimental model of nephrotoxicity. The mechanism of hypomagnesemia and tubular injury induced by all three immunosuppressive drugs is unclear but may be independent of calcineurin. The mechanism of renal vasoconstriction on the other hand may be related to inhibition of calcineurin.
The present study evaluated the possible role of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors of the dorsal hippocampus on morphine-induced amnesia and morphine state-dependent memory in adult male Wistar rats. The animals were bilaterally implanted with chronic cannulas in the CA1 regions of the dorsal hippocampi, trained in a step-through type passive avoidance task, and tested 24 h after training to measure step-through latency. Results indicate that post-training subcutaneous (s.c.) administration of morphine (2.5-7.5 mg/kg) dose-dependently reduced the step-through latency, showing an amnestic response. Post-training intra-CA1 microinjection of nicotine (0.5-1 microg/rat) decreased significantly the amnesia induced by post-training morphine (7.5 mg/kg). Moreover, co-treatment of mecamylamine (0.5 and 1 microg/rat, intra-CA1) with an ineffective dose of morphine (2.5 mg/kg), immediately after training, caused inhibition of memory retrieval. On the other hand, amnesia produced by post-training morphine (7.5 mg/kg) was reversed by pre-test administration of the opioid that is due to a state-dependent effect. Interestingly, pre-test intra-CA1 microinjection of nicotine (0.25 and 0.5 microg/rat) improved post-training morphine (7.5 mg/kg)-induced retrieval impairment. Moreover, pre-test administration of the same doses of nicotine in combination with a lower dose of morphine (0.5 mg/kg), which had no effects alone, synergistically improved memory performance impaired by post-training morphine. Pre-test injection of mecamylamine (0.5-2 microg/rat) prevented the restoration of memory by pre-test morphine. It is important to note that post-training or pre-test intra-CA1 administration of the same doses of nicotine or mecamylamine, alone did not affect memory retrieval. These results suggest that nicotinic acetylcholine receptors of the hippocampal CA1 regions may play an important role in morphine-induced amnesia and morphine state-dependent memory.
Statins have neuroprotective effects on ischemic stroke. They modify the endothelial function, increase blood flow, and inhibit thrombus formation, which are independent of lipid-lowering effects. However, whether statins have a protective effect toward hemorrhagic stroke is yet unknown. To test this possibility, we attempted to determine the effect of atorvastatin on experimental intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH).
ICH was induced using stereotaxic infusion of collagenase into the left basal ganglia in adult rats. Atorvastatin (1 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg) or phosphate-buffered saline was administered for 2 weeks. To monitor the sensorimotor deficits, limb placing and Rotorod tests were performed. Hematoma volume, brain water content, and hemispheric atrophy were analyzed. Immunohistochemical staining for myeloperoxidase (MPO), microglia (OX42), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), or endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) was performed. Perihematomal cell death was determined by TUNEL staining.
The atorvastatin-treated ICH group showed better performance on Rotorod and limb placing tests when compared with the vehicle-treated group (P<0.01). The hematoma volumes between groups were not different, but the brain water content and hemispheric atrophy were reduced in the atorvastatin-treated ICH group. Atorvastatin reduced TUNEL-positive cells, iNOS expression, and MPO-positive or OX42-positive cells in the perihematomal regions in a dose-dependent manner, whereas it increased eNOS expression.
The present study shows that atorvastatin reduces the perihematomal cell death via antiinflammation, which is associated with sensorimotor recovery after experimental ICH.
RMP-7 is a bradykinin B2 receptor agonist shown to permeabilize the blood-brain barrier, especially that associated with brain tumors, when administered via both intracarotid and intravenous routes. Both routes of administration are currently being tested in human trials in combination with the chemotherapeutic agent carboplatin as therapy for gliomas. As an essential prerequisite to the initial intracarotid clinical trials, the potential neurotoxicity of intra-arterial administration of RMP-7 (at a high or low dose), alone and in combination with carboplatin, was assessed in anesthetized Red Duroc swine. Five treatment groups were evaluated with each pig receiving a series of alternating, intra-arterial infusions of RMP-7 (or saline) followed by carboplatin (or saline), as follows: (1) vehicle control: saline/saline; (2) carboplatin only control: saline/carboplatin (50 mg total); (3) RMP-7 only control: RMP-7 (750 ng/kg)/saline; (4) low dose combination: RMP-7 (75 ng/kg)/carboplatin (50 mg total); and (5) high dose combination: RMP-7 (750 ng/kg)/carboplatin (50 mg total). For each subject, one of the alternating dosing sequences (above) was repeated four times during a single dosing session which lasted approximately 40 minutes. Assessments during the in-life phase of the study in the pre- and post-treatment periods consisted of heart rate, arterial blood pressure (systolic, diastolic, and mean), blood gases, body weight, general clinical observations (including evaluation for neurological deficit) and clinical pathology (including a comprehensive battery of standard blood coagulation, hematological and serum chemistry tests). In addition, during the time of treatment, heart rate and arterial blood pressure were monitored. The animals were terminated two weeks after dosing and the brain and rete mirabile (distal to site of infusion) were evaluated for gross and histopathological abnormalities. The histopathology analysis included a reader-blinded analysis using low and high power light microscopic examination of both H&E and Kluver-Berrera stained sections through several key cortical and subcortical brain regions. Transient decreases in arterial blood pressure (mean of 10-25 mmHg) were observed in both groups receiving the high dose of RMP-7 (i.e., 750 ng/kg). No other side effects attributable to RMP-7 and/or carboplatin were observed, and clinical observations revealed no evidence of neurologic deficits. Post-mortem examination revealed no evidence of CNS or cerebral vascular pathology attributable to carboplatin and RMP-7. This study demonstrates that intracarotid administration of the maximum tolerated dose of RMP-7 (750 ng/kg) alone, or in combination with carboplatin (50 mg) is not accompanied by any serious adverse effect, apparent cerebrovascular abnormality or neuropathologic consequence and offers further evidence for the safety of this novel therapeutic approach for enhancing delivery of chemotherapeutics to brain tumors.
Hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), necessary for thyroid hormonogenesis, is produced at the apical surface of the thyroid follicular epithelium. Excess H2O2 is potentially cytotoxic and may contribute to the development of hypothyroidism, e.g. in severe selenium deficiency. Yet it is unclear how H2O2 contributes to thyroid cell death.
H2O2-induced apoptosis and necrosis were studied in primary cultured pig thyroid cells. Glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activity was altered by culture in low serum with or without selenite substitution. Apoptosis was evaluated by spectrofluorometric measurement of caspase-3-specific substrate cleavage, and by analysis of DNA fragmentation by agarose gel electrophoresis. Necrosis was detected by 51Cr release from prelabeled cells.
Exogenous H2O2 dose-dependently (100-400 micromol/l) activated caspase-3 within 3-12 h, and DNA degradation was observed after 24 h. The potency of H2O2 to induce apoptosis was low compared with that of staurosporine, a strong proapoptotic agent. H2O2-treated cells with reduced GPx activity showed increased caspase-3 activation. Incubation of serum-starved cells with selenite (10-100 nmol/l) normalized the GPx activity and reduced the activation of caspase-3 by H2O2. High H2O2 concentrations (400-800 micromol/l) were required to obtain necrosis. The H2O2-induced necrosis was exaggerated by both low GPx activity and catalase inhibition.
Cytotoxic effects of H2O2 on thyroid cells include caspase-3-dependent apoptosis that occurs at H2O2 concentrations insufficient to induce necrosis. Selenium deficiency aggravates the apoptotic response, probably due to impaired capacity of GPx to degrade H2O2.
Accumulating data suggest that endocrine disruptors affect not only the reproductive system, but also the immune system. We demonstrate here that endocrine disruptors including diethylstilbestrol (DES) and bisphenol-A (BPA) enhance autoantibody production by B1 cells both in vitro and in vivo. BWF1 mice, a murine model for systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), implanted with Silastic tubes containing DES after orchidectomy developed murine lupus characterized by immunoglobulin G (IgG) anti-DNA antibody production and IgG deposition in the glomeruli in the kidney as well as those implanted with 17beta-estradiol (E2). Plaque-forming cells (PFC) producing autoantibodies specific for bromelain-treated red blood cells were significantly increased in mice implanted with DES and BPA. IgM antibody production by B1 cells in vitro was also enhanced in the presence of endocrine disruptors including DES and BPA. Estrogen receptor (ER) expression was upregulated in B1 cells in aged BWF1 mice that developed lupus nephritis. These results suggest that endocrine disruptors are involved in autoantibody production by B1 cells and may be an etiologic factor in the development of autoimmune diseases.
In response to exogenous stimuli such as phorbol-12-myristate 13-acetate, ultraviolet B radiation, and lipopolysaccharide, human keratinocytes produce soluble mediators that are important in primary contact irritancy including cytokines that are associated with proinflammatory properties (interleukin-1 alpha [IL-1 alpha], tumor necrosis factor alpha), chemotaxis (IL-8), and growth activation (granulocyte/macrophage colony stimulating factor, IL-6, transforming growth factor alpha). We examined qualitative and quantitative changes in selected intracellular and secreted cytokines in human keratinocyte cultures in response to non-sensitizing contact irritants (croton oil, sodium lauryl sulfate, methyl salicylate, ethyl phenylpropiolate), sensitizing irritants (oxazolone, dinitrofluorobenzene), and ulcerative agents (phenol, benzalkonium chloride, chromium trioxide). The chemicals were also applied to mouse skin to assess whether the chemical-specific pattern of inflammation correlated with the in vitro production of keratinocyte-derived cytokines. Although all agents elicited neutrophils to the site of chemical application, time dependent and chemical-specific patterns of inflammation could be detected. Sodium lauryl sulfate, phenol, and croton oil induced increases in IL-8 production at non-cytotoxic concentrations in semi-confluent human keratinocyte cultures. Phenol and croton oil stimulated tumor necrosis factor alpha production, whereas croton oil was the only agent found to induce granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor production. Croton oil, phenol, benzalkonium chloride, and dinitrofluorobenzene induced the intracellular production of IL-1 alpha without a concomitant release into the medium. The release of cytokines occurred in parallel with a relative increase in cytokine-specific mRNA transcripts. Studies using neutralizing antibodies to tumor necrosis factor alpha and IL-1 alpha demonstrated that IL-8 induction by croton oil and phenol occurred directly rather than through autocrine circuits. These data suggest that a given pattern of cytokine production is chemical-specific and may predict the contribution of keratinocytes to skin inflammation.
Advanced non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) usually is treated with doxorubicin-based combination chemotherapy. Because doxorubicin is excreted by the biliary route, many authorities recommend alternative initial interventions in patients with NHL causing obstructive jaundice.
The authors retrospectively reviewed the records of patients at Rochester General Hospital with NHL between 1983 and 1989 with obstructive jaundice at initial diagnosis.
Five patients with obstructive jaundice due to intermediate-grade NHL were treated with combination chemotherapy without prior surgical or endoscopic biliary decompression, or radiation therapy. Three received higher doses of doxorubicin than called for in standard dose modification tables. Jaundice was relieved rapidly in all five patients without unexpected toxic effects, and all five patients entered remission (three had partial remission and two complete remission).
Because biliary obstruction resolves rapidly after administration of chemotherapy for this disease, it is possible that standard dose reductions for doxorubicin and vincristine that are appropriate for patients with hepatocellular disease may be excessive for patients with obstructive jaundice resulting from lymphoma. The results of this study indicate that combination chemotherapy is appropriate initial therapy for patients with newly diagnosed NHL with obstructive jaundice.
Daily measures of maximum temperature, particulate matter less than or equal to 10 micro m in aerodynamic diameter (PM10), and gaseous pollution (ozone, nitrogen dioxide, sulfur dioxide, and carbon monoxide) were collected in Denver, Colorado, in July and August between 1993 and 1997. We then compared these exposures with concurrent data on the number of daily hospital admissions for cardiovascular diseases in men and women > 65 years of age. Generalized linear models, assuming a Poisson error structure for the selected cardiovascular disease hospital admissions, were constructed to evaluate the associations with air pollution and temperature. After adjusting the admission data for yearly trends, day-of-week effects, ambient maximum temperature, and dew point temperature, we studied the associations of the pollutants in single-pollutant models with lag times of 0-4 days. The results suggest that O3 is associated with an increase in the risk of hospitalization for acute myocardial infarction, coronary atherosclerosis, and pulmonary heart disease. SO2 appears to be related to increased hospital stays for cardiac dysrhythmias, and CO is significantly associated with congestive heart failure. No association was found between particulate matter or NO2 and any of the health outcomes. Males tend to have higher numbers of hospital admissions than do females for all of the selected cardiovascular diseases, except for congestive heart failure. Higher temperatures appear to be an important factor in increasing the frequency of hospitalization for acute myocardial infarction and congestive heart failure, and are associated with a decrease in the frequency of visits for coronary atherosclerosis and pulmonary heart disease.
A 66 year-old female patient, with severe chronic pain caused by diabetic radiculopathy, treated with association of amitriptiline and carbamazepine, presented severe sinusal bradycardia with hemodynamic disturbances ensuing junctional rhythm, which required installation of temporary pace-maker. The drugs were withdrawn. Reversion to sinusal rhythm occurred 36 hours after the installation of bradycardia. The pace-maker was withdrawn. It was concluded that the use of tricyclic antidepressive drugs, particularly in the elderly, should be carefully monitored.
A 48-year-old man presented to his GP with an indolent swelling in his left axillary region. He also complained of a cough, a feeling of pressure in his chest, general poor health, and had increasingly suffered from night-time sweating and fever. Physical examination and an ultrasound revealed an enlarged lymph node of almost 4 cm in the left axillary region and several smaller lymph nodes of 1.5-2.0 cm in the left cervical region. Laboratory tests were unremarkable, except for an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate.
Excisional biopsy, radiography, ultrasound, CT scan, bone marrow biopsy, radionuclide imaging, echocardiography and lung function tests.
Early-stage unfavorable (intermediate) lymphocyte-rich classical Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Chemotherapy (treatment with doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine and dacarbazine) and involved-field radiotherapy.
Articular cartilage functions in dissipating forces applied across joints. It comprises an extracellular matrix containing primarily collagens, proteoglycans and water to maintain its functional properties, and is interspersed with chondrocytes. The chondrocyte cytoskeleton comprises actin microfilaments, tubulin microtubules and vimentin intermediate filaments. Previous studies have determined the contribution of actin and tubulin in regulating the synthesis of the extracellular matrix components aggrecan and type II collagen. The contribution of vimentin to extracellular matrix biosynthesis in any cell type has not previously been addressed. Therefore the aim of this study was to assess the role of vimentin in cartilage chondrocyte metabolism. Vimentin intermediate filaments were disrupted in high-density monolayer articular chondrocyte cultures using acrylamide for 7 days. De novo protein and collagen synthesis were measured by adding [3H]-proline, and sulphated glycosaminoglycan (sGAG) synthesis measured by adding [35S]-sulphate to cultures. Vimentin disruption resulted in decreased collagen synthesis, whilst sGAG synthesis was unaffected. In addition, there was a significant reduction in type II collagen and aggrecan gene transcription suggesting that the effects observed occur at both the transcriptional and translational levels. A 3-day cold chase demonstrated a significant inhibition of collagen and sGAG degradation; the reduction in collagen degradation was corroborated by the observed reduction in both pro-MMP 2 expression and activation. We have demonstrated that an intact vimentin intermediate filament network contributes to the maintenance of the chondrocyte phenotype and thus an imbalance favouring filament disassembly can disturb the integrity of the articular cartilage, and may ultimately lead to the development of pathologies such as osteoarthritis.
Three subtypes of beta-adrenoceptor, beta1, beta2 and beta3, are involved in the sympathetic nervous system, which plays an important role in the development of hypertension and hypertensive complications. These complications can include left ventricular hypertrophy and arterial stiffness, which are reported risk factors for cardiovascular diseases. We designed clinical trials to clarify the association between hypertensive complications and beta-adrenoceptor single nucleotide polymorphisms in essential hypertension. Using Taqman PCR methods, we detected five polymorphisms of three beta-adrenoceptors: Ser49Gly and Arg389Gly for the beta1-adrenoceptor; Gly16Arg and Glu27Gln for the beta2-adrenoceptor; and Trp64Arg for the beta3-adrenoceptor. We included 300 subjects and measured pulse wave velocity, vasodilator response to hyperemia, left ventricular hypertrophy (by electrocardiogram and echocardiography), and cardiac enlargement (by chest X-ray). We found that pulse wave velocity and nitroglycerin-induced hyperemia were both closely associated with the Ser49Gly polymorphism (p<0.05), and Glu27Gln was found by both electrocardiogram and echocardiography to be significantly associated with left ventricular hypertrophy (p<0.05). These data suggested that two polymorphisms of different beta-adrenoreceptor subtypes are the genetic influences on the development of arterial stiffness and left ventricular hypertrophy in essential hypertension.
Cardiac toxicity of idarubicin (4-demethoxydaunorubicin), a new daunorubicin derivative, was tested in 49 phase II patients with advanced malignancies. In 26 patients the drug was given intravenously at a dose of 13 mg/m2 and in 23 orally at a dose of 45 mg/m2. Cardiac toxicity was evaluated by means of electrocardiography, left ventricular systolic time intervals, echocardiography and radionuclide cineangiography. The type and incidence of ECG abnormalities were comparable to those observed with other anthracycline analogs. Other functional parameters, serially measured to evaluate delayed cardiotoxicity in patients who received more than 65 mg/m2 intravenously or 225 mg/m2 orally, were not significantly different from pretreatment values. No patient developed clinical congestive heart failure. Only one patient exhibited a drop in the left ventricular ejection fraction of more than 15% from pretreatment values. These data indicate that idarubicin given orally or intravenously at the tested doses has no significant cardiotoxic activity in the range of the cumulative doses attained.
The incidence of cardiac toxicity due to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) ranges from 1.2 to 18%. Most complications occur at the time of the first cure. Their mechanisms have not yet been clearly defined.
The authors report a case of unstable angina induced by 5-FU. A coronary angioplasty was performed on a previously ignored coronary lesion.
Recent studies support the hypothesis that 5-FU has endothelial toxicity resulting in thrombogenic effect and release of vasoactive substances. Unstable angina pectoris would be related to plaque rupture caused by 5-FU. Patients with previous history of coronary disease are at significantly increased risk for 5-FU-induced cardiotoxicity. They probably would benefit from continuous electrocardiographic monitoring. Rechallenge with 5-FU after cardiotoxicity problems should include only those patients for whom there is no alternative treatment.
Vincristine is known to be toxic to neural tissue, where it is thought to react with microtubules and impair axonal transport. Intravitreous vincristing-induced changes of the retina have been reported to be reversible after 10 micrograms. In the present study, the effects of 0.01 to 100 micrograms of intravitreous vincristine in monkeys were studied ophthalmoscopically and by light microscopy and electron microscopy. Retinal degeneration and optic atrophy were evident ophthalmoscopically in two to three weeks. Morphological changes included swelling of retinal neurons, loss of organelles and microtubules and accumulation of fibrillar-granular material. Progression of effects, with plasma membrane rupture and cell death, was observed with all doses of 0.1 micrograms and higher. The retina and optic nerve of monkeys appear to be more sensitive to intravitreous vincristine than are the same structures in certain lower animals.
Manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) is a nuclear encoded primary antioxidant enzyme localized in mitochondria. Because expression of MnSOD plays a major role in maintaining cellular redox status and reactive oxygen species are known to play a role in signal transduction and carcinogenesis, we investigated the role of MnSOD in the development of cancer using a two-stage [7,12-dimethylbenz(a)-anthracene plus 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)] skin carcinogenesis model. Female transgenic mice expressing the human MnSOD gene in the skin and their nontransgenic counterparts were used in this study. Pathological examination demonstrated significant reduction of papilloma formation in transgenic mice. Quantitative analysis of 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal-modified proteins showed greater accumulation of oxidative damage products in nontransgenic compared with transgenic mice, and this oxidative damage was demonstrated to be present in both mitochondria and nucleus. TPA increased activator protein-1 (AP-1) binding activity within 6 h in nontransgenic mice, but increased AP-1 binding activity was delayed in the transgenic mice. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay, transcription of the target genes, and Western analysis studies indicated that the increased AP-1 binding activity was attributable to induction of the Jun but not the Fos protein families. Overexpression of MnSOD selectively inhibited the TPA-induced activation of protein kinase Cepsilon and prevented subsequent activation of c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase in response to TPA. Overall, these results indicate that MnSOD regulates both cellular redox status and selectively modulates PKCepsilon signaling, thereby delaying AP-1 activation and inhibiting tumor promotion, resulting in reduction of tumors in MnSOD transgenic mice.
Previous pharmacologic studies indicating competitive interactions between adenosine and nifedipine at the adenosine vascular receptor suggest that adenosine may be a less effective hypotensive drug after pretreatment with nifedipine. This hypothesis was tested in 18 pentobarbital-anesthetized, open-chest dogs by evaluating the hypotensive effects and regional hemodynamic responses to 60-minute intravenous adenosine infusions before and after bolus injection of nifedipine (20 micrograms/kg, IV). Regional blood flow was measured with 15-microns radioactive microspheres. Before nifedipine, infusion of adenosine at a rate of 126 +/- 30 mumol/min caused a 50% reduction in mean aortic pressure that in the presence of no change in aortic blood flow was attributable to a proportional decrease in systemic vascular resistance. These systemic effects were associated with heterogeneous changes in regional blood flow; blood flow decreased in the renal cortex (-68%), pancreas (-50%), spleen (-77%), and skin (-61%); increased in the left (+112%) and right (+265%) ventricular myocardium; and did not change significantly in the duodenum, liver, skeletal muscle, or brain. Nifedipine did not alter the dose requirement or time course of the adenosine-induced hypotensive response or affect the associated systemic hemodynamic changes. Furthermore, nifedipine caused only minor alterations in the regional blood flow changes during adenosine-induced hypotension. Apparently the high plasma levels of adenosine required for controlled hypotension in the present study were sufficient to overcome the blocking influence of nifedipine at the adenosine vascular receptor. The study demonstrates that the hypotensive action of adenosine remains unimpaired after pretreatment with nifedipine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Hydrophobic bile acids, such as deoxycholic acid produce cholestatic liver injury. Ursodeoxycholic acid has been shown to be useful in the treatment of cholestatic liver disease.
In this study, we investigated the effects of deoxycholic acid or ursodeoxycholic acid (1% of diet, for 14 days) and their combination (1% each) on expression of hepatic cytochrome P450 isozymes, their related enzyme activities and mRNA level in rats.
Adding 1% deoxycholic acid to chow caused a marked increase in serum total bilirubin (47-fold) and total bile acid (8-fold) concentrations and in alkaline phosphatase (2.5-fold, p<0.01) and alanine aminotransferase activities (23.5-fold, p<0.01). Adding the same dose of ursodeoxycholic acid along with the deoxycholic acid mitigated both the rise in serum total bilirubin and bile acid concentrations and that in alkaline phosphatase and alanine aminotransferase activities, although the use of ursodeoxycholic acid alone did not affect any of the above. Feeding 1% deoxycholic acid caused a decrease (48% of control) in total cytochrome P450 content in hepatic microsomes. Addition of 1% ursodeoxycholic acid along with the 1% deoxycholic acid completely prevented the decrease in total cytochrome P450 content. Feeding ursodeoxycholic acid alone did not affect the total cytochrome P450 content. The expression of cytochrome P450 2B1, 2E1, 3A2, 2C6, 2C11 and 4A1 proteins in hepatic microsomes was decreased by deoxycholic acid (44, 51, 23, 59, 30 and 74% of control, respectively). Likewise, the activities of cytochrome P450 2B1 (pentoxyresorufin O-depentylation), 2E1 (aniline p-hydroxylation) and 3A2 (testosterone 6beta-hydroxylation) isozymes and the 3A2 mRNA levels in liver were decreased by deoxycholic acid. Addition of 1% ursodeoxycholic acid to 1% deoxycholic acid also prevented the decrease in these cytochrome P450 proteins, related enzyme activities and mRNA levels in liver.
These results indicate that, in rats with deoxycholic acid-induced liver injury, ursodeoxycholic acid prevents the decrease in hepatic cytochrome P450 isozymes and suggest that ursodeoxycholic acid is useful for the treatment of liver injury in terms of aiding the normalization of the hepatic drug-metabolizing system.
Lithium is one of the most widely used mood-stabilizing agents for the treatment of bipolar disorder. Lithium is also a potent inhibitor of glycogen synthase kinase-3β (GSK3β) activity, which is linked to Alzheimer's disease (AD). In experiments with cultured HEK293T cells, we show here that GSK3β stabilizes synaptic acetylcholinesterase (AChE-S), a critical component of AD development. Cells treated with lithium exhibited rapid proteasomal degradation of AChE-S. Furthermore treatment of the cells with MG132, an inhibitor of the 26S proteasome, prevented the destabilizing effect of lithium on AChE-S. Taken together, these findings suggest that regulation of AChE-S protein stability may be an important biological target of lithium therapy.
The Parkinson Psychosis Rating Scale (PPRS) was designed to assess the severity of specific symptoms of levodopa-induced psychosis in patients with Parkinson's disease. The scale is administered by the clinician and consists of six items, each rated from 1 (no symptoms) to 4 (extreme symptoms); total score ranges from 6-24 points. To test its reliability, validity, and stability, the authors administered the PPRS to 29 patients with parkinsonian psychosis before and after a 6-week course of treatment with the 5HT3 antagonist ondansetron. Each patient and their caregivers were interviewed by three raters. Results were compared with two other available psychotic symptom scales and one cognitive scale given to the same patients. It was found that the interrater reliability for the total PPRS scores and for each of the individual items was high (Spearman's rho = 0.80-0.99). A significant reduction in PPRS scores was obtained after ondansetron administration, concomitant with a decrease in the Global Functional Impairment score, which was assessed by the family. The changes in PPRS scores occurred irrespective of cognitive dysfunction, as measured by the Minimental State Examination. It appears that the PPRS is a relevant, reliable, valid, and easily-administered instrument for measuring the severity of parkinsonian psychosis. Further studies are needed to evaluate its utility in other organic psychoses and in the assessment of additional pharmacologic treatments for levodopa-induced psychosis.
Hypothetic mechanism of the individual vulnerability to oxidative stress through metabolism of environmental xenobiotics and genotypic polymorphisms has been considered to promote the development of Parkinson's disease (PD). In this case-control study, we determined the role of manganese-containing superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) and NAD(P)H: quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1) genes in PD risk in a population with high prevalence of pesticide exposure.
From southwestern region of Taiwan, we enrolled 153 patients with idiopathic PD and 155 healthy control subjects matched for age, sex and origin. Detailed questionnaires of face-to-face interviews among these subjects were collected. PCR-based restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) assays were used to determine the genotypes of MnSOD (-9 T>C) and NQO1 (609 C>T) genes.
Exposure to pesticides associated with PD was significant among patients with an increased odds ratio (OR) of 1.69 (95%CI, 1.07-2.65), and this association remained significant after adjustment for age, sex, and cigarette smoking (aOR=1.68, 95%CI, 1.03-2.76, P=0.023). Considering genetic factors, there were no significant differences in frequencies of both genotypes of MnSOD and NQO1 polymorphisms between PD patients and the control subjects (P>0.05). However, this difference in genotype distribution was significant among subjects who had been exposed to pesticide, with aOR of 2.49 (95%CI, 1.18-5.26, P=0.0072) for MnSOD C allele and aOR of 2.42 (95%CI, 1.16-4.76, P=0.0089) for NQO1 T allele, respectively. Moreover, among subjects exposed to pesticide, the combined MnSOD/NQO1 variant genotype was significantly associated with a 4.09-fold increased risk of PD (95%CI, 1.34-10.64, P=0.0052).
Susceptible variants of MnSOD and NQO1 genes may interact with occupational pesticide exposure to increase PD risk in southwestern Taiwanese.
