The efficacy and safety of astemizole (AST), a new long-acting H1 antagonist with minimal sedative or anticholinergic side effects, were studied in an 8-week double-blind trial of 51 patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria. Patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria were randomized to AST-treated (10 mg every day) or placebo-treated groups. Patients were followed at weekly intervals and evaluated for pruritus, erythema, extent of wheals, frequency of urticarial episodes, and total control of urticaria. Only three of 27 AST-treated patients stopped the double-blind phase before 8 weeks because of inadequate response as compared to 11 of 24 placebo-treated subjects (p = 0.027). On the last evaluable visit of the double-blind phase of the study, 85% of the AST-treated patients reported an excellent or good response compared to 30% of the placebo-treated group (p = 0.0001). AST-treated patients also reported significant improvement compared to placebo-treated patients in pruritus (p = 0.0001), erythema (p = 0.0001), and extent of wheals (p = 0.003). Mild sedative effects were observed in only two of 27 patients receiving AST. It was concluded that AST is a potent and safe drug for symptomatic control of chronic idiopathic urticaria.
Between December 1st 1984 and July 1st 1991, 20 patients, 11 males and 9 females, median age 36 years (range 14-54) with Hodgkin's disease were treated with high dose chemo-radiotherapy followed by autologous bone marrow rescue. At the time of autologous bone marrow transplantation, 8 patients were in complete remission, 9 in sensitive relapse and 3 were resistant to conventional treatments. There were 3 early procedure-related deaths: 1 cardiac failure due to cyclophosphamide treatment, 1 veno-occlusive disease, and 1 patient died from CMV interstitial pneumonitis, 4 months after ABMT. Of the 17 other patients, 15 are alive, 12 in complete remission, 2 in relapse and 1 patient is not evaluable due to short-follow-up follow-up. Disease free survival is 65% at 20 months with a follow-up of 60 months. There is a trend for a better disease-free survival in patients in complete remission at the time of autologous bone marrow transplantation vs patients in sensitive relapse, although it does not reach statistical significance (80% vs 37%).
Mifepristone is the only available glucocorticoid receptor antagonist. Only few adult patients with hypercortisolism were treated to date by this drug. Our objective was to determine effectiveness and tolerability of mifepristone in Cushing's syndrome (CS).
Retrospective study of patients treated in seven European centers.
Twenty patients with malignant (n=15, 12 with adrenocortical carcinoma, three with ectopic ACTH secretion) or benign (n=5, four with Cushing's disease, one with bilateral adrenal hyperplasia) CS were treated with mifepristone. Mifepristone was initiated with a median starting dose of 400 mg/day (200-1000). Median treatment duration was 2 months (0.25-21) for malignant CS, and 6 months (0.5-24) for benign CS. Clinical (signs of hypercortisolism, blood pressure, signs of adrenal insufficiency), and biochemical parameters (serum potassium and glucose) were evaluated.
Treatment was stopped in one patient after 1 week due to severe uncontrolled hypokalemia. Improvement of clinical signs was observed in 11/15 patients with malignant CS (73%), and 4/5 patients with benign CS (80%). Psychiatric symptoms improved in 4/5 patients within the first week. Blood glucose levels improved in 4/7 patients. Signs of adrenal insufficiency were observed in 3/20 patients. Moderate to severe hypokalemia was observed in 11/20 patients and increased blood pressure levels in 3/20 patients.
Mifepristone is a rapidly effective treatment of hypercortisolism, but requires close monitoring of potentially severe hypokalemia, hypertension, and clinical signs of adrenal insufficiency. Mifepristone provides a valuable treatment option in patients with severe CS when surgery is unsuccessful or impossible.
It has been >25 years since the interaction between warfarin and metronidazole was last reported in the literature. The current case report represents the first documentation of this interaction associated with intracerebral hemorrhage.
We present a case of a 78-year-old white woman started on metronidazole (250 mg every 8 hours for 5 days) and levofloxacin (500 mg QD for 6 days) for an upper respiratory tract infection after visiting a walk-in clinic. The patient did not notify any of the health care professionals involved that she was on concomitant warfarin therapy, which had been stable over the last 3 months. Her warfarin dose was 7 mg daily, and her most recent international normalized ratio (INR) reading was 2.5. Nine days after her clinic visit, the patient was admitted to the hospital for a profuse nosebleed with an INR of 8.0 and was found to have an intraparenchymal hemorrhage of the left occipital lobe. The Naranjo adverse drug reaction probability scale indicated that the association with metronidazole was probable and the association with levofloxacin was possible (scores of 7 and 4, respectively). After a 1-week hospital stay, she was discharged.
This adverse event is highly suggestive of a drug interaction caused primarily by metronidazole, which produces an increase in S-warfarin concentrations. Treatment provided by health care providers who were not familiar with the patient and the use of a different pharmacy (where the pharmacist was unaware of her current medications) likely contributed to the event.
Activating mutations in genes encoding phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-AKT pathway components cause megalencephaly-polymicrogyria-polydactyly-hydrocephalus syndrome (MPPH, OMIM 603387). Here we report that individuals with MPPH lacking upstream PI3K-AKT pathway mutations carry de novo mutations in CCND2 (encoding cyclin D2) that are clustered around a residue that can be phosphorylated by glycogen synthase kinase 3β (GSK-3β). Mutant CCND2 was resistant to proteasomal degradation in vitro compared to wild-type CCND2. The PI3K-AKT pathway modulates GSK-3β activity, and cells from individuals with PIK3CA, PIK3R2 or AKT3 mutations showed similar CCND2 accumulation. CCND2 was expressed at higher levels in brains of mouse embryos expressing activated AKT3. In utero electroporation of mutant CCND2 into embryonic mouse brains produced more proliferating transfected progenitors and a smaller fraction of progenitors exiting the cell cycle compared to cells electroporated with wild-type CCND2. These observations suggest that cyclin D2 stabilization, caused by CCND2 mutation or PI3K-AKT activation, is a unifying mechanism in PI3K-AKT-related megalencephaly syndromes.
Diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma (DIPG) is a fatal brain cancer that arises in the brainstem of children, with no effective treatment and near 100% fatality. The failure of most therapies can be attributed to the delicate location of these tumors and to the selection of therapies on the basis of assumptions that DIPGs are molecularly similar to adult disease. Recent studies have unraveled the unique genetic makeup of this brain cancer, with nearly 80% found to harbor a p.Lys27Met histone H3.3 or p.Lys27Met histone H3.1 alteration. However, DIPGs are still thought of as one disease, with limited understanding of the genetic drivers of these tumors. To understand what drives DIPGs, we integrated whole-genome sequencing with methylation, expression and copy number profiling, discovering that DIPGs comprise three molecularly distinct subgroups (H3-K27M, silent and MYCN) and uncovering a new recurrent activating mutation affecting the activin receptor gene ACVR1 in 20% of DIPGs. Mutations in ACVR1 were constitutively activating, leading to SMAD phosphorylation and increased expression of the downstream activin signaling targets ID1 and ID2. Our results highlight distinct molecular subgroups and novel therapeutic targets for this incurable pediatric cancer.
Pediatric high-grade glioma (HGG) is a devastating disease with a less than 20% survival rate 2 years after diagnosis. We analyzed 127 pediatric HGGs, including diffuse intrinsic pontine gliomas (DIPGs) and non-brainstem HGGs (NBS-HGGs), by whole-genome, whole-exome and/or transcriptome sequencing. We identified recurrent somatic mutations in ACVR1 exclusively in DIPGs (32%), in addition to previously reported frequent somatic mutations in histone H3 genes, TP53 and ATRX, in both DIPGs and NBS-HGGs. Structural variants generating fusion genes were found in 47% of DIPGs and NBS-HGGs, with recurrent fusions involving the neurotrophin receptor genes NTRK1, NTRK2 and NTRK3 in 40% of NBS-HGGs in infants. Mutations targeting receptor tyrosine kinase-RAS-PI3K signaling, histone modification or chromatin remodeling, and cell cycle regulation were found in 68%, 73% and 59% of pediatric HGGs, respectively, including in DIPGs and NBS-HGGs. This comprehensive analysis provides insights into the unique and shared pathways driving pediatric HGG within and outside the brainstem.
Diffuse intrinsic pontine gliomas (DIPGs) are highly infiltrative malignant glial neoplasms of the ventral pons that, due to their location within the brain, are unsuitable for surgical resection and consequently have a universally dismal clinical outcome. The median survival time is 9-12 months, with neither chemotherapeutic nor targeted agents showing substantial survival benefit in clinical trials in children with these tumors. We report the identification of recurrent activating mutations in the ACVR1 gene, which encodes a type I activin receptor serine/threonine kinase, in 21% of DIPG samples. Strikingly, these somatic mutations (encoding p.Arg206His, p.Arg258Gly, p.Gly328Glu, p.Gly328Val, p.Gly328Trp and p.Gly356Asp substitutions) have not been reported previously in cancer but are identical to mutations found in the germ line of individuals with the congenital childhood developmental disorder fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva (FOP) and have been shown to constitutively activate the BMP-TGF-β signaling pathway. These mutations represent new targets for therapeutic intervention in this otherwise incurable disease.
We report a case of severe metabolic acidosis associated with acute renal failure and septicaemia following treatment with maximal therapeutic doses of metformin and diclofenac. On the second day of intensive care the patient deteriorated with respiratory insufficiency and abdominal pain during continuous renal replacement therapy. A laparoscopy revealed a perforated cholecystitis with abscess formation. The patient regained renal function and recovered. Intake of diclofenac 5 days before this episode could have been the main cause of renal insufficiency and metabolic acidosis in this patient and could also have delayed surgical treatment by masking early clinical signs of perforated cholecystitis. The renal failure may also have caused metformin and lactate to accumulate, contributing to the mixed pattern of metabolic acidosis. This case report describes a mixed organic and non-organic metabolic acidosis associated with acute renal failure, presumably resulting from a combination of drugs and diseases often found in the elderly - metformin for diabetes mellitus and a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug for cholecystolithiasis. Acid-base balance and electrolyte changes were rapidly normalized by continuous renal replacement therapy.
Colchicine poisoning is an uncommon, but potentially life-threatening, toxicologic emergency. The clinical features associated with overdose and the options for treatment are discussed. Colchicine poisoning typically shows 3 phases: initially, gastrointestinal symptoms predominate; in the second phase, multiorgan failure may occur, possibly leading to death. If the patient survives, the third phase of recovery follows, during which the patient often presents with hair loss. Early fatality is due to cardiovascular collapse and respiratory failure; however, pancytopenia and overwhelming septicemia can occur later. All patients suspected of having colchicine intoxication because of its unpredictable outcome should be managed according to the principles of intensive care, irrespective of the actual degree of poisoning. In those patients who survive the initial phase of poisoning, filgrastim (granulocyte colony-stimulating factor) offers an effective method of treating pancytopenia and preventing overwhelming septicemia. Daily monitoring of the patients' hematological status is strongly recommended. We are reporting a case of previously healthy girl who developed a multisystem organ failure after colchicine intoxication. The patient recovered completely and had no residual outcome.
Pediatric midline high-grade astrocytomas (mHGAs) are incurable with few treatment targets identified. Most tumors harbor mutations encoding p.Lys27Met in histone H3 variants. In 40 treatment-naive mHGAs, 39 analyzed by whole-exome sequencing, we find additional somatic mutations specific to tumor location. Gain-of-function mutations in ACVR1 occur in tumors of the pons in conjunction with histone H3.1 p.Lys27Met substitution, whereas FGFR1 mutations or fusions occur in thalamic tumors associated with histone H3.3 p.Lys27Met substitution. Hyperactivation of the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-ACVR1 developmental pathway in mHGAs harboring ACVR1 mutations led to increased levels of phosphorylated SMAD1, SMAD5 and SMAD8 and upregulation of BMP downstream early-response genes in tumor cells. Global DNA methylation profiles were significantly associated with the p.Lys27Met alteration, regardless of the mutant histone H3 variant and irrespective of tumor location, supporting the role of this substitution in driving the epigenetic phenotype. This work considerably expands the number of potential treatment targets and further justifies pretreatment biopsy in pediatric mHGA as a means to orient therapeutic efforts in this disease.
Aspirin-intolerant asthma (AIA) is a distinct clinical syndrome that refers to the development of bronchoconstriction in asthmatic individuals following the ingestion of aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). It is widely recognized that increased cysteinyl leukotriene (cysLT) biosynthesis is associated with the development and progression of AIA. Leukotriene C4 synthase (LTC4S) is the terminal enzyme in cysLT production and is a strong candidate gene in the pathogenesis of aspirin-intolerant asthma (AIA). In this paper, we report a new single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) of the LTC4S promoter, -1702G>A, in AIA patients and evaluate its genetic role in the association with the LTC4S-444 A>C polymorphism. We enrolled 110 AIA patients, 125 aspirin-tolerant asthma (ATA) patients, and 125 normal controls. SNP genotyping of the LTC4S-1702G>A and -444A>C polymorphisms was performed using SNP-IT assays. Haplotype analyses were performed using Haploview version 2.05, which is based on an estimation-maximization (EM) algorithm. There were no significant differences in the allele or genotype frequencies of the LTC4S-1702G>A and -444A>C polymorphisms among the three groups (p > 0.05), with no significant differences in the observed haplotype frequencies (p > 0.05). Moreover, no significant associations were found between the genotype of each SNP in AIA patients with the clinical characteristics, including a forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) %, a provocation concentration of methacholine to induce more than 20% decrease of FEV1 (PC20) to methacholine, and serum total IgE levels (p > 0.05). These results indicate that there is no association between these two promoter polymorphisms of LTC4S and the phenotype of AIA in a Korean population.
In North America, magnesium sulfate is the traditional treatment for severe preeclampsia and eclampsia. Its use has been strongly criticized, in that it acts peripherally with no central effect and maternal and neonatal complications are well known. Phenytoin, the mechanism of action of which is clear, seems a logical alternative. Our aim was to develop a safe, practical, effective regimen with the use of phenytoin. In this prospective, descriptive study four dosage regimens were investigated in 104 patients. The initial regimens produced unexpected and unacceptable side effects in comparison with the nonpregnant population. The final regimen (15 mg/kg intravenously, given as 10 mg/kg initially then 5 mg/kg 2 hours later) provided therapeutic levels and had minimal maternal and perinatal side effects. No seizures occurred after its correct usage. This regimen is simple, safe, effective, and provides ongoing anticonvulsant coverage in the postpartum period. We suggest that phenytoin may represent a suitable alternative anticonvulsant in this condition.
Prolonged administration of indinavir is associated with the occurrence of a variety of renal complications in adults. These well-documented side effects have restricted the use of this potent protease inhibitor in children.
A prospective study to monitor indinavir-related nephrotoxicity in a cohort of 30 human immunodeficiency virus type 1-infected children treated with indinavir.
Urinary pH, albumin, creatinine, the presence of erythrocytes, leukocytes, bacteria and crystals, and culture were analyzed every 3 months for 96 weeks. Serum creatinine levels were routinely determined at the same time points. Steady-state pharmacokinetics of indinavir were done at week 4 after the initiation of indinavir.
The cumulative incidence of persistent sterile leukocyturia (> or =75 cells/ micro L in at least 2 consecutive visits) after 96 weeks was 53%. Persistent sterile leukocyturia was frequently associated with a mild increase in the urine albumin/creatinine ratio and by microscopic hematuria. The cumulative incidence of serum creatinine levels >50% above normal was 33% after 96 weeks. Children with persistent sterile leukocyturia more frequently had serum creatinine levels of 50% above normal than those children without persistent sterile leukocyturia. In children younger than 5.6 years, persistent sterile leukocyturia was significantly more frequent than in older children. A higher cumulative incidence of persistent leukocyturia was found in children with an area under the curve >19 mg/L x h or a peak serum level of indinavir >12 mg/L. In 4 children, indinavir was discontinued because of nephrotoxicity. Subsequently, the serum creatinine levels decreased, the urine albumin/creatinine ratios returned to zero, and the leukocyturia disappeared within 3 months.
Children treated with indinavir have a high cumulative incidence of persistent sterile leukocyturia. Children with persistent sterile leukocyturia more frequently had an increase in serum creatinine levels of >50% above normal. Younger children have an additional risk for renal complications. The impairment of the renal function in these children occurred in the absence of clinical symptoms of nephrolithiasis. Indinavir-associated nephrotoxicity must be monitored closely, especially in children with risk factors such as persistent sterile leukocyturia, age <5.6 years, an area under the curve of indinavir >19 mg/L x h, and a C(max) >12 mg/L.
Typical ECG of that described for Brugada syndrome was elicited in a patient diagnosed with labyrinthopathy during infusion of dimenhydrinate, a first-generation antihistamine usually used to treat motion sickness. Although the patient had no history of syncope or palpitations, and there was no family history of cardiac disease or sudden death, the ECG abnormality was reproduced later with intravenous flecainide, and an asymptomatic Brugada syndrome was diagnosed.
Docetaxel (Taxotere) is a microtubule-stabilizing agent that is potentially important in chemotherapy for a variety of malignancies.
A clinical study of the cutaneous reactions experienced by a group of patients receiving docetaxel chemotherapy was undertaken. Patients were examined before initiation of therapy, before and after each cycle of therapy, and were followed subsequent to the completion of docetaxel chemotherapy.
Three patients developed diffuse lower extremity edema (3-18 kg) and subsequent scleroderma-like changes after receiving multiple cycles of docetaxel therapy. These patients had different underlying malignancies and dissimilar prior therapy. Rheumatoid factor, antinuclear antibodies, anticentromere, and topoisomerase antibodies were not present in any patient. The diffuse lower extremity edema did not resolve with diuretic therapy. Cutaneous biopsies in two patients revealed diffuse sclerosis. One patient had a normal lymphangiogram during the edematous phase. Discontinuation of docetaxel correlated with resolution of edema and softening of the skin.
The etiology of the scleroderma-like skin changes is unclear but appears to be either a toxic effect of docetaxel or an effect of polysorbate 80 (Tween 80), the vehicle for docetaxel.
Inositol pyrophosphate diphosphoinositol pentakisphosphate is ubiquitously present in mammalian cells and contains highly energetic pyrophosphate bonds. We have previously reported that inositol hexakisphosphate kinase type 2 (InsP(6)K2), which converts inositol hexakisphosphate to inositol pyrophosphate diphosphoinositol pentakisphosphate, mediates apoptotic cell death via its translocation from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. Here, we report that InsP(6)K2 is localized mainly in the cytoplasm of lymphoblast cells from patients with Huntington disease (HD), whereas this enzyme is localized in the nucleus in control lymphoblast cells. The large number of autophagosomes detected in HD lymphoblast cells is consistent with the down-regulation of Akt in response to InsP(6)K2 activation. Consistent with these observations, the overexpression of InsP(6)Ks leads to the depletion of Akt phosphorylation and the induction of cell death. These results suggest that InsP(6)K2 activation is associated with the pathogenesis of HD.
Lindane facilitates the rate of acquisition of a maximal kindled amygdaloid response (MKAR) in rats. We tested whether this is a site specific effect or a more generalized one by comparing acquisition of MKAR and of the maximal kindled hippocampal response (MKHR). The hippocampus was chosen for comparison because acquisition of MKHR requires 2-3 times more trials than does acquisition of MKAR. Rats were implanted with electrodes in amygdala or hippocampus and exposed to either 0 or 5 mg/kg/day lindane, orally, throughout the acquisition period. Lindane exposure reduced the number of trials needed to acquire MKAR and MKHR to the same extent, 70 +/- 5 and 69 +/- 11% of control rats, respectively. However, the specifics of the facilitation varied between sites. The facilitation of amygdaloid kindling acquisition was associated with an increase in the length of afterdischarge (AD) produced on each trial. The cumulative seconds of AD (CSAD) accrued by amygdaloid rats given lindane was the same (95 +/- 15%) as control rats. During hippocampal kindling lindane exposure reduced AD durations. The facilitation of hippocampal kindling was associated with a reduction in total AD experience. Hippocampal rats given lindane accrued only 52 +/- 7% of the CSAD accrued by control rats.
Discrepancy was found between enhanced hypotension and attenuated relaxation of conduit arteries in response to acetylcholine (ACh) and bradykinin (BK) in nitric oxide (NO)-deficient hypertension. The question is whether a similar phenomenon occurs in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) with a different pathogenesis. Wistar rats, SHR, and SHR treated with NO donors [molsidomine (50 mg/kg) or pentaerythritol tetranitrate (100 mg/kg), twice a day, by gavage] were studied. After 6 weeks of treatment systolic blood pressure (BP) was increased significantly in experimental groups. Under anesthesia, the carotid artery was cannulated for BP recording and the jugular vein for drug administration. The iliac artery was used for in vitro studies and determination of geometry. Compared to control, SHR showed a significantly enhanced (P < 0.01) hypotensive response to ACh (1 and 10 microg, 87.9 +/- 6.9 and 108.1 +/- 5.1 vs 35.9 +/- 4.7 and 64.0 +/- 3.3 mmHg), and BK (100 microg, 106.7 +/- 8.3 vs 53.3 +/- 5.2 mmHg). SHR receiving NO donors yielded similar results. In contrast, maximum relaxation of the iliac artery in response to ACh was attenuated in SHR (12.1 +/- 3.6 vs 74.2 +/- 8.6% in controls, P < 0.01). Iliac artery inner diameter also increased (680 +/- 46 vs 828 +/- 28 microm in controls, P < 0.01). Wall thickness, wall cross-section area, wall thickness/inner diameter ratio increased significantly (P < 0.01). No differences were found in this respect among SHR and SHR treated with NO donors. These findings demonstrated enhanced hypotension and attenuated relaxation of the conduit artery in response to NO activators in SHR and in SHR treated with NO donors, a response similar to that found in NO-deficient hypertension.
To investigate the anti-cardiac hypertrophic mechanism of statins, thirty-eight male Wistar rats were randomly allocated to four groups. Rats in model group received nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, N-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA) 15 mg/(kg.d) by peritoneal injection. Rats in simvastatin treatment groups were given simultaneously L-NNA as those in model group and simvastatin 5 or 30 mg/(kg.d) intragastrically respectively. Rats in control group received the same volume of normal sodium. Left ventricular function, left ventricular mass index (LVMI), the content of brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) in plasma and myocardium, myocardial hydroxyproline and heme oxygenase activity were determined after 6 weeks. The results showed that rats in model group developed significant cardiac hypertrophy associated with reduced left ventricular function compared with the control group. However, compared with the model group, L-NNA-induced cardiac hypertrophy of rats was significantly relieved in simvastatin treatment groups, associated with improved left ventricular function, decreased LVMI, lower BNP levels in plasma and myocardium, lower content of myocardial hydroxyproline, and increased myocardial heme oxygenase (HO) activity. In cultured rat neonatal cardiomyocytes, simvastatin (30 or 100 mumol/L) significantly increased heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) mRNA expression, HO activity as well as the production of CO in cardiomyocytes. Cultured with zinc protoporphyrin, a HO inhibitor, or simvastatin alone did not change [(3)H]leucine uptake of cardiomyocytes. However, cocultured with simvastatin significantly inhibited the cardiomyocyte [(3)H]leucine uptake induced by angiotensin II in a concentration-dependent manner. Cotreatment with zinc protoporphyrin significantly abolished the suppressive effect of simvastatin on cardiomyocyte [(3)H]leucine uptake. These data suggest that the activation of HO-1/CO pathway may be one of the important mechanisms by which statins inhibit cardiac hypertrophy caused by hypertension.
The diagnosis of drug-induced liver injury relies on comprehensive clinical assessments due to the absence of an established biomarker or pathognomonic features of liver histology. However, prompt recognition of a culprit drug as the cause of liver injury is the most important aspect in the management of hepatotoxicity.
A 63-year-old white male (85 kg) was admitted because of community-acquired pneumonia with associated pericarditis and subclinical hepatitis, subsequently related to acute Mycoplasma pneumoniae infection (diagnostic positive immuno-globulin M enzyme immunoassay, on hospital days 5 and 20). The patient had received cisplatin and radiotherapy from March to May 2006, as treatment for pharyngolaryngeal squamous cell carcinoma T3N0M0 without subsequent evidence of localized or meta-static recurrent disease (last oncologic consultation, May 17, 2007). He reported alcohol ingestion until March 2006 but no known liver disease, blood transfusion, or exposure to mushrooms or industrial cleaning solvents. Results of serologic tests for viral and nonviral infectious hepatitis, iron and copper studies, and tests for autoantibodies were normal or negative. The patient became initially asymptomatic and fever disappeared following sequential treatment with levo-floxacin (500 mg BID), doxycycline (100 mg BID), and naproxen (500 mg TID). However, on hospital day 10 jaundice and a significant elevation (alanine aminotransferase, 1577 U/L; aspartate amino-transferase, 1754 U/L; alkaline phosphatase, 189 U/L) of serum transaminases appeared. Despite the discontinuation of all medication, the patient gradually deteriorated and died 27 days after admission due to acute fulminant hepatic failure. Autopsy revealed massive hepatic necrosis, inflammatory changes with presence of eosinophils, and cholestasis. An objective causality assessment scale (Council for International Organizations of Medical Sciences/Roussel Uclaf Causality Assessment Method scale) suggested that each of the 3 drugs could "probably" (score = 6) be related to the patient's fulminant hepatitis. The Naranjo Adverse Drug Reactions Probability Scale assessment for the same drugs indicated a "possible" causal relation (score = 2).
We report a case of lethal hepatitis possibly/probably associated with levofloxacin, doxy-cycline, and naproxen in a patient with acute M pneumoniae infection.
The protective effect of L-arginine and L-lysine on lysosomal enzymes and membrane bound ATPases was examined on isoproterenol induced myocardial infarction in rats. Lysosomal enzymes play an important role in the inflammatory process. The rats given isoproterenol (150 mg kg(-1) daily) intraperitoneally for 2 days showed significant changes in the marker enzymes, lysosomal enzymes and membrane bound phosphatases. Histopathological studies also confirmed the induction of myocardial infarction in isoproterenol administered rats. Prior oral treatment with L-arginine (250 mg kg(-1) daily) and L-lysine (5 mg kg(-1) daily) for 5 days significantly prevented these alterations and restored the enzyme activities to near normal. These findings demonstrate the protective effect of L-arginine and L-lysine in combination against isoproterenol induced cardiac damage.
Wilson's disease (WD) is an autosomal recessive inherited disorder caused by mutations in the ATPase Cu(2+) transporting beta polypeptide gene (ATP7B). The detailed metabolism of copper-induced pathology in WD is still unknown. Gene mutations as well as the possible pathways involved in the ATP7B deficiency were documented. The ATP7B gene was analyzed for mutations in 18 Chinese Han families with WD by direct sequencing. Cell viability and apoptosis analysis of ATP7B small interfering RNA (siRNA)-treated human liver carcinoma (HepG2) cells were measured by 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay and Hoechst 33342 staining. Finally, the expression of B-cell CLL/lymphoma 2 (BCL2), BCL2-associated X protein (BAX), sterol regulatory element binding protein 1 (SREBP1), and minichromosome maintenance protein 7 (MCM7) of ATP7B siRNA-treated cells were tested by real-time polymerase chain reaction (real-time PCR) and Western blot analysis. Twenty different mutations including four novel mutations (p.Val145Phe, p.Glu388X, p.Thr498Ser and p.Gly837X) in the ATP7B gene were identified in our families. Haplotype analysis revealed that founder effects for four mutations (p.Arg778Leu, p.Pro992Leu, p.Ile1148Thr and p.Ala1295Val) existed in these families. Transfection of HepG2 cells with ATP7B siRNA resulted in decreased mRNA expression by 86.3%, 93.1% and 90.8%, and decreased protein levels by 58.5%, 85.5% and 82.1% at 24, 48 and 72 hours, respectively (All P<0.01). In vitro study revealed that the apoptotic, cell cycle and lipid metabolism pathway may be involved in the mechanism of WD. Our results revealed that the genetic cause of 18 Chinese families with WD and ATP7B deficiency-induce apoptosis may result from imbalance in cell cycle and lipid metabolism pathway.
One hundred forty-eight drugs and other organic and inorganic substances were screened for their ability to inhibit the enzyme urease in an in vitro system modeled on infected urine. The reported urease-inhibiting properties of ascorbic acid, tetracyclines, and sulfanilamide were not confirmed. At least 50 per cent inhibition was observed in the presence of kanamvcin, hydroxguanidine, benzoquinone, 1,2-naphthaquinone-4-sulfonate, chloramine-T, N-bromoacetamide, copper, mercury, and fluoride. It is, however, unlikely that therapeutically effective concentrations can be attained in urine without giving dosages likely to result in toxic effects. Hydroxyurea, at the dose level used in cytotoxic therapy, may be expected to produce effective inhibition of bacterial urease in the urinary tract, providing renal function is unimpaired and providing urinary volume does not exceed 1 liter per 24 hr. Acetohydroxamic acid is potentially the most useful drug for the treatment of infection-induced urinary stone disease available at present.
(S)-(-)-3-(3-(methylsulfonyl)phenyl)-1-propylpiperidine ((-)-OSU6162) is a phenylpiperidine derivative which exhibits low affinity to the dopamine D2 receptor in vitro. However, in vivo, positron emission tomography scanning studies show that the compound displaces the selective dopamine D2 receptor antagonist, raclopride. We have evaluated, in this study, the effect of (-)-OSU6162, on L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesias in a primate model of Parkinson's disease. Five 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated cynomolgus monkeys with a stable parkinsonian syndrome and reproducible dyskinesias to L-DOPA were used in this study. The monkeys were housed in observation cages equipped with an electronic motility monitoring system. They were injected subcutaneously (s.c.) with L-DOPA methyl ester (125 mg per animal) plus benserazide (50 mg per animal; L-DOPA/benserazide) alone or in combination with (-)-OSU6162 (1.0, 3.0, 6.0 or 10 mg/kg, s.c.). Subcutaneous injection of sterile saline was used as control. L-DOPA/benserazide increased locomotion and improved parkinsonism but also induced dyskinesias. Co-administration of (-)-OSU6162 with L-DOPA/benserazide produced a significant reduction in L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias. This improvement in L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias occurred mainly at the onset of the L-DOPA/benserazide effect as reflected by an increase in the duration of the "ON" state without dyskinesias up to 3.4 fold after (-)-OSU6162 co-administration as compared to L-DOPA/benserazide alone. The anti-dyskinetic effect of (-)-OSU6162 was maintained during 14 days and no tolerance to this effect was observed. Our data suggests that (-)-OSU6162 could be of significant clinical value to reduce L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias in fluctuating advanced Parkinson's disease patients.
We demonstrated recently that chronic frequent administration of an adequate biological dose of the angiogenesis inhibitor TNP-470 (AGM-1470, O-chloracetyl-carbamoyl fumagillol) completely inhibits spontaneous lymph node metastasis but does not have a complete response on tumor growth of nonestablished or established human metastatic transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) 253J B-V growing orthotopically into athymic nude mice. Therefore, in this study, we evaluated whether docetaxel (Taxotere) enhances the therapeutic effect of TNP-470, especially on tumor growth. Docetaxel enhanced in vitro antiproliferation but not basic fibroblast growth factor down-regulation by TNP-470 in 253J B-V and human umbilical vascular endothelial cells. Docetaxel significantly enhanced in vitro apoptosis by TNP-470 in human umbilical vascular endothelial cells but not in 253J B-V. In vivo combination was most effective when docetaxel was administered before TNP-470, and increased significantly the complete response on tumor growth of nonestablished and established TCCs growing orthotopically into athymic nude mice compared with either therapy alone (P < 0.05). The incidence of spontaneous lymph node metastasis was inhibited completely by the combination therapy (P < 0.05). Drug-induced body weight loss was not significantly different in any treatment groups. The combination of TNP-470 and docetaxel inhibited intratumor neovascularization, the expression of bFGF and matrix metalloproteinases type-9 compared with controls (P < 0.005), and enhanced apoptosis in tumors compared with each therapy alone (P < 0.005). These studies indicate that docetaxel markedly enhances the ability of TNP-470 to inhibit tumorigenicity and metastasis in both nonestablished and established TCCs. These effects are mediated, in part, by the complementary cytotoxicities of angiogenesis inhibition, down-regulation of bFGF and matrix metalloproteinases type-9, and induction of apoptosis.
