Whether beta-adrenergic blockade modulates myocardial expression of inflammatory cytokines and nitric oxide (NO) in heart failure is unclear.
We administered oral metoprolol or no therapy to rats for 12 weeks after large myocardial infarction and subsequently examined left ventricular (LV) remodeling; myocardial tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, interleukin (IL)-1beta, and IL-6 expression; and NO. In untreated rats, echocardiography revealed significant (P<0.001) LV dilatation and systolic dysfunction compared with sham. Papillary muscle studies revealed isoproterenol hyporesponsiveness to be unaltered by NO synthase (NOS) inhibition. Circulating NO metabolites were undetectable. In noninfarcted myocardium, although inducible NOS (iNOS) mRNA was absent, TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and IL-6 mRNA and protein were markedly elevated compared with sham (P<0.001), with 2-fold higher expression (P<0.025) of IL-6 compared with TNF-alpha or IL-1beta. Metoprolol administration starting 48 hours after infarction (1) attenuated (P<0.02) LV dilatation and systolic dysfunction, (2) preserved isoproterenol responsiveness (P<0.025) via NO-independent mechanisms, and (3) reduced myocardial gene expression and protein production of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta (P<0. 025) but not IL-6, which remained high.
During heart failure development, adrenergic activation contributes to increased myocardial expression of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta but not IL-6, and one mechanism underlying the beneficial effects of beta-adrenergic blockade may involve attenuation of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta expression independent of iNOS and NO.
Menkes disease (MD) is a disorder of copper transport caused by ATP7A mutations. Although parenteral copper supplements are partly effective in treating MD, the copper level in the brain remains insufficient, whereas copper accumulates in the kidney. We investigated the copper-trafficking efficacy of copper-pyruvaldehyde bis(N4-methylthiosemicarbazone) (Cu-PTSM), a lipophilic copper complex, in macular mice, an animal model of MD.
Macular mice were treated with cupric chloride (CuCl2) or Cu-PTSM on postnatal days 4, 10, and 17. At 4 wk of age, the copper levels in major organs and cytochrome oxidase (CO) activity in brain tissue were measured. Hematology, blood biochemistry, and urinary β2-microglobulin (β2-M) secretion were also assessed.
The copper levels in the brains of the Cu-PTSM-treated group remained low, but CO activity in the cerebral and cerebellar cortices in the Cu-PTSM-treated group were higher than those in the CuCl2-treated group. There were no significant differences in hematological or biochemical findings or in urinary β2-M secretion among the groups.
Although the copper-trafficking efficacy of Cu-PTSM was limited, the improved CO activity in the brain suggests that Cu-PTSM delivered copper more effectively to neuronal CO than did CuCl2. Reduced renal copper accumulation may be beneficial in prolonged copper supplementation.
Simultaneous abuse of cocaine and alcohol is widespread and increasingly detected in patients seeking emergent care. This double-blind, randomized, within-subjects study used a paradigm more closely approximating practices of drug abusers to better understand the pathogenesis of cocaine-alcohol abuse.
Subjects meeting DSM-IV criteria for cocaine dependence and alcohol abuse participated in three drug administration sessions: four doses of intranasal cocaine (1 mg/kg every 30 min) with oral alcohol (1 g/kg) administered following the initial cocaine dose and a second dose (120 mg/kg) at 60 min calculated to maintain plasma alcohol concentration at approximately 100 mg/dL during cocaine administration; four doses of cocaine/placebo alcohol; four doses of cocaine placebo/alcohol. Pharmacokinetic, physiological, and behavioral effects were followed over 8 hours.
Cocaine-alcohol produced greater euphoria and increased perception of well-being relative to cocaine. Heart rate significantly increased following cocaine-alcohol administration relative to either drug alone. Cocaine concentrations were greater following cocaine-alcohol administration. Cocaethylene had a longer halflife with increasing concentrations relative to cocaine at later time points.
Enhanced psychological effects during cocaine-alcohol abuse may encourage ingestion of larger amounts of these substances over time placing users at heightened risk for greater toxicity than with either drug alone.
Although side effects of cancer chemotherapy are well known, "opposite effects" of chemotherapy that enhance the malignancy of the treated cancer are not well understood. In this report, we describe the induction of intravascular proliferation, extravasation, and colony formation by cancer cells, critical steps of metastasis, by pretreatment of host mice with the commonly used chemotherapy drug cyclophosphamide. In contrast, in the unpretreated mice, most cancer cells remained quiescent in vessels without extravasation. HT1080 human fibrosarcoma cells, labeled in the nucleus with green fluorescent protein and red fluorescent protein in the cytoplasm for imaging, were injected into the epigastric cranialis vein of nude mice. Twenty-four hours before cancer cell injection, cyclophosphamide was given i.p. Double-labeled cancer cells were imaged at the cellular level in live mice with the Olympus OV100 Small Animal Imaging System with variable magnification. Cyclophosphamide seems to interfere with a host process that inhibits intravascular proliferation, extravasation, and extravascular colony formation. Cyclophosphamide does not directly affect the cancer cells because cyclophosphamide has been cleared by the time the cancer cells were injected. This report shows an important unexpected "opposite effect" of chemotherapy that enhances critical steps in malignancy rather than inhibiting them, suggesting that certain current approaches to cancer chemotherapy should be modified.
CDK4 is amplified in > 90% of well-differentiated (WDLS) and dedifferentiated liposarcomas (DDLS). The selective cyclin-dependent kinase 4 (CDK4)/CDK6 inhibitor PD0332991 inhibits growth and induces senescence in cell lines and xenografts. In a phase I trial of PD0332991, several patients with WDLS or DDLS experienced prolonged stable disease. We performed an open-label phase II study to determine the safety and efficacy of PD0332991 in patients with advanced WDLS/DDLS.
Patients age ≥ 18 years experiencing disease progression while receiving systemic therapy before enrollment received PD0332991 200 mg orally once per day for 14 consecutive days in 21-day cycles. All were required to have CDK4 amplification by fluorescence in situ hybridization and retinoblastoma protein (RB) expression by immunohistochemistry (≥ 1+). The primary end point was progression-free survival (PFS) at 12 weeks, with 12-week PFS of ≥ 40% considered promising and ≤ 20% not promising. If ≥ nine of 28 patients were progression free at 12 weeks, PD0332991 would be considered active.
We screened 48 patients (44 of 48 had CDK4 amplification; 41 of 44 were RB positive). Of those, 30 were enrolled, and 29 were evaluable for the primary end point. Grade 3 to 4 events included anemia (17%), thrombocytopenia (30%), neutropenia (50%), and febrile neutropenia (3%). At 12 weeks, PFS was 66% (90% CI, 51% to 100%), significantly exceeding the primary end point. The median PFS was 18 weeks. There was one partial response.
Treatment with the CDK4 inhibitor PD0332991 was associated with a favorable progression-free rate in patients with CDK4-amplified and RB-expressing WDLS/DDLS who had progressive disease despite systemic therapy.
Phenylpropanolamine is a sympathomimetic amine that shares structural similarities with amphetamine and ephedrine. It increases blood pressure primarily by increasing peripheral vascular resistance. This effect is the result of alpha-adrenergic agonist activity largely from both direct stimulation of adrenergic receptors and release of neuronal norepinephrine. As such, it has the potential to interact with other drugs to produce toxic reactions, especially in treated hypertensive patients. Complications have occurred with single oral doses that suggest some normal subjects may be more sensitive to the drug than others. The incidence of serious complications in the general population is small but could be much higher in susceptible individuals (e.g., cardiomyopathic and hypertensive patients). The availability of high-dose phenylpropanolamine-containing preparations without medical supervision is potentially dangerous, and certain restrictions should be imposed on such preparations.
We describe a 5-year-old girl showed recovery of vincristine induced cranial polyneuropathy with pyridoxine and pyridostigmine treatment. A 5-year-old girl was diagnosed preB cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL). She received chemotherapy according to the previously described modified St. Jude total therapy studies XIII. Five days after the fourth dose of vincristine, she presented with bilateral ptosis. Neurological examination revealed bilateral ptosis, and complete external opthalmoplegia with normal pupillary and corneal reflexes. She received 3.8 mg cumulative dose of vincristin before development of ptosis. A neuroprotective and neuroregenerative treatment attempt with pyridoxine and pyridostigmine was initiated. The bilateral ptosis markedly improved after 7 days of pyridoxine and pyridostigmine treatment and completely resolved after two weeks. The both agents were given for 3 weeks and were well tolerated without any side effects. During the follow up period we did not observe residue or recurrence of the ptosis.
Eight Parkinson patients with response fluctuations completed an open-label trial of a controlled-release carbidopa/levodopa preparation (Sinemet CR3). At the end of 6 weeks, percent "on" time and mean interdose interval increased, the number of daily doses and "off" periods was decreased, and the variability of plasma levodopa levels and disability scores was reduced. However, response fluctuations continued to occur, day-to-day consistency was poor, and the bioavailability of levodopa appeared less than that of standard Sinemet. Overall benefit waned over the next 3 to 6 months. Oral controlled-release carbidopa/levodopa is capable of reducing fluctuations in plasma levodopa levels and clinical performance in Parkinson's disease. The response to this particular controlled-release formulation was suboptimal and unsustained.
We describe neurological complications which manifested after a patient with unsuspected pheochromocytoma was administered dihydroergotamine. Following administration of dihydroergotamine, the patient developed Balint syndrome, with the appearance of symmetric, bilateral occipital signal change on magnetic resonance imaging suggestive of posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome.
The cardiopulmonary effects of epinephrine and terbutaline were compared in a doubleblind crossover study in 23 subjects with chronic obstructive airway disease. On each of three days each subject received a single subcutaneous dose of saline, 0.25 mg of epinephrine or 0.5 mg of terbutaline. Treatment with epinephrine produced significant increases in forced vital capacity (FVC), forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV-1), maximal expiratory flow rate (MEFR) and maximal mid-expiratory flow (MMEF). Terbutaline caused even more pronounced increases in all four parameters and exhibited a longer duration of action. Neither drug altered arterial pH, arterial oxygen pressure (PaO-2), or arterial carbon dioxide pressure (PaCO-2). With regard to cardiovascular effects, no alterations in either systolic or diastolic pressure were observed. Administration of epinephrine and terbutaline caused statistically significant increases in heart rate. The effect of terbutaline was more pronounced that that of epinephrine. In addition, terbutaline caused a heart rate-related depression of the T-wave of the lead 2 ECG. Neither drug altered any of the hematologic, hemochemical or urinary parameters monitored before and after treatment. Side effects were seen in eight subjects after administration of saline solution, in 13 subjects after epinephrine and in 19 subjects after terbutaline. None of these side effects was considered clinically serious and none required treatment. It is concluded from this study that subcutaneously administered terbutaline is a more effective bronchodilator than epinephrine.
Nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) is a transcription factor that binds to the antioxidant response element, a cis-acting regulatory element that increases expression of detoxifying enzymes and antioxidant proteins. Kelch-like ECH associating protein 1 (Keap1) protein is a negative regulator of Nrf2. Previous work has shown that genetic overexpression of Nrf2 is protective in vitro and in vivo. To modulate the Nrf2-ARE system without overexpressing Nrf2, we used short interfering RNA (siRNA) directed against Keap1. Keap1 siRNA administration in primary astrocytes increased the levels of Nrf2-ARE driven genes and protected against oxidative stress. Moreover, Keap1 siRNA resulted in a persistent upregulation of the Nrf2-ARE pathway and protection against oxidative stress in primary astrocytes. Keap1 siRNA injected into the striatum was also modestly protective against MPTP-induced dopaminergic terminal damage. These data indicate that activation of endogenous intracellular levels of Nrf2 is sufficient to protect in models of oxidative stress and Parkinson's disease.
To study the mechanism for the adaptive mucosal hyperplasia which occurs independent of luminal nutrition and pancreatico-biliary secretions in isolated Thiry-Vella segments of intestine from lactating rats, and to examine the effects of prolactin on small bowel mucosal structure in the rat, we used two models of experimental hyperprolactinaemia and compared quantitative histology and several markers of mucosal mass in jejunum and ileum from control rats and from test and lactating animals. Hyperprolactinaemia, induced by perphenazine injections (5 mg/kg/day for two or seven weeks) or transplantation of four pituitary glands from donor animals to beneath the renal capsule in the recipient, was confirmed by radioimmunoassay. Proof of its biological activity was obtained by weighing the mammary pads and by demonstrating true breast hyperplasia on histological section. Median serum prolactin levels increased from 50 ng/ml in the controls to 570 ng/ml in the perphenazine treated animals and to 600 ng/ml in the pituitary transplanted rats-levels comparable with those seen in lactation (870 ng/ml). In the lactating rats, there was striking mucosal hyperplasia of both jejunum and ileum but, despite the hyperprolactinaemia, there were no such changes in villus height, crypt depth, or in mucosal wet weight, protein, or DNA/unit length intestine in the perphenazine-injected or pituitary-transplanted animals. We conclude that prolactin is not atrophic to the intestine in rats and that hyperprolactinaemia cannot explain the intestinal adaptive changes of lactation.
Secondary pharmacological prevention of ischemic stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) is often provided with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), dipyridamole (DP) or a combination of the two. A problem with DP is the occurrence of headache, sometimes leading to medication cessation. By using a titration regime of DP the incidence of headache gets lower. However, there are no studies on interindividual differences in the incidence of headache with regard to age, gender, localization of stroke and the number of days since stroke onset.
20 stroke units in Sweden recruited newly diagnosed stroke and TIA patients in need for thrombocyte antiaggregating therapy. They were offered a titration regime of the combination ASA 25 mg + DP 200 mg once daily for 5 days followed by twice daily. Baseline characteristics of the patients were recorded and headache symptoms were filled in by each patient in a diary for 10 consecutive days. Rescue medication with paracetamol was optional.
174 ischemic stroke patients with a mean age of 70.3 years, 63% men and 37% women, were recruited. Headache of any kind was reported in 70 patients (40.2%) and 37 (21.3%) assessed the headache as moderate/severe. Six patients stopped medication due to headache. A subsiding character of the headache was found with a mean of 3.1 days. Patients with TIA had a significantly higher risk of getting headache compared to manifest stroke, regardless of localization. There was a trend towards higher risk in younger age groups and females. No effect was seen on the number of days since stroke onset.
DP is often associated with subsiding headache, however, with only few patients stopping medication due to headache. Being a younger female with a TIA seems to increase the risk of getting headache when having DP medication. Careful and adequate information about the possibly occurring headache should be given to patients prescribed a DP medication in order to increase compliance and optimize the pharmacological secondary stroke prevention.
Mercury is an immunotoxic substance that has been shown to induce autoimmune disease in rodent models, characterized by lymphoproliferation, overproduction of immunoglobulin (IgG and IgE), and high circulating levels of auto-antibodies directed at antigens located in the nucleus (antinuclear auto-antibodies, or ANA) or the nucleolus (antinucleolar auto-antibodies, or ANoA). We have reported elevated levels of ANA and ANoA in human populations exposed to mercury in artisanal gold mining, though other confounding variables that may also modulate ANA/ANoA levels were not well controlled. The goal of this study is to specifically test whether occupational and environmental conditions (other than mercury exposure) that are associated with artisanal gold mining affect the prevalence of markers of autoimmune dysfunction. We measured ANA, ANoA, and cytokine concentrations in serum and compared results from mercury-exposed artisanal gold miners to those from diamond and emerald miners working under similar conditions and with similar socio-economic status and risks of infectious disease. Mercury-exposed gold miners had higher prevalence of detectable ANA and ANoA and higher titers of ANA and ANoA as compared to diamond and emerald miners with no occupational mercury exposure. Also, mercury-exposed gold miners with detectable ANA or ANoA in serum had significantly higher concentrations of pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, and IFN-gamma in serum as compared to the diamond and emerald miners. This study provides further evidence that mercury exposure may lead to autoimmune dysfunction and systemic inflammation in affected populations.
Sixteen pediatric osteosarcoma patients, previously treated with conventional chemotherapy (including ifosfamide (IFX), 9 g/m(2)) were retreated with high-dose ifosfamide (HD-IFX, 14 g/m(2) per course), following relapse or development of a new bone tumor. The objective was to obtain responses and an improved event-free survival (EFS).
HD-IFX was administered as described by Patel SR: J Clin Oncol 1997;15:2378. Efficacy of treatment was assessed initially after two to four courses. The interval between the courses was 3 to 4 weeks. Provided a response was obtained after two to four courses, treatment was continued for an additional eight courses unless progressive disease or an untoward event, for example, renal failure occurred. Tumor sites were: lung, (10) bone (9), and bone and soft-tissue (1).
Response after two to four courses was 62.5%: CR 6 and PR 4. A total of 84 courses were administered to the 16 patients: (range 2-10, median 5.5 per patient). Median interval between courses was 28.5 days (range 15-90). Five patients were disease free at 15+ to 63+ months after induction and maintenance therapy. Fever and neutropenia occurred in 12 courses. Nephrotoxicity was a major toxic event and was characterized by creatinine levels at or above three times the upper limit of normal. It was unpredictable and occurred in four patients: two were reversible. The other two patients developed full-blown renal failure; one was treated with renal dialysis, but both eventually succumbed to osteosarcoma. Our past experience also indicated that two patients treated with IFX (9 g/m(2)/course) developed renal failure: one recovered and the other required a renal transplant.
HD-IFX is effective in patients who have failed conventional chemotherapy including IFX (9 g/m(2)). Improved disease-free survival was achieved in 30% of patients. However, renal failure constitutes an important life-threatening complication and its development is unpredictable.
The vitamin K antagonist (VKA) warfarin is effective for the prevention of thromboembolisms. Maintenance doses differ greatly among patients and are known to be primarily determined by genetic polymorphisms. The relative impact of dietary vitamin K intake is still a matter of debate. We hypothesize that a multivariate model is more suitable for exploring the relation between dietary intake of vitamin K and warfarin dose than conventional uni- or bivariate analyses.
In a cross-sectional study, we interviewed 244 patients in the maintenance phase of warfarin therapy and detected polymorphisms in the VKORC1 and CYP2C9 genes. Dietary vitamin K intake was estimated from food frequency questionnaires.
A univariate correlation analysis and the regression coefficient from the multivariate model showed a small but significant negative relation between vitamin K intake and warfarin dose. A loading plot of the partial least squares regression model illustrated this counter-intuitive observation, which might be explained by the latent structure between variables. The variation in warfarin dose could be divided into two significant latent variables, the so-called components. In component one, pharmacogenetics explained 52% of dose variation. Component two described health-related behavior (diet, physical activity and body weight) and explained 8% of dose variation. Here, vitamin K intake positively correlated with warfarin dose.
This study highlights the importance of choosing a statistical method that reflects the complexity of data for interpretation of results from observational studies. The multivariate model appears to be well suited to describe the complex relationship between vitamin K intake and VKA dose.
6-Thioguanine (TG) was recently studied to determine whether TG in maintenance therapy achieves better event free survival than 6-mercaptopurine (MP) for standard risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) on the clinical trial, CCG-1952 (5/1996-1/2000). Veno-occlusive disease was previously recognized as a complication of TG on CCG-1952. We report a newly recognized pediatric complication of TG: splenomegaly and portal hypertension (PH) developing during maintenance or after completion of therapy.
Twelve patients (3-10 years) had been randomized to receive a targeted dose of 50 mg/m(2)/day of TG during maintenance phases. Actual TG dose ranged from 25 to 77 mg/m(2)/day (median 34 mg/m(2)/day).
The initial patient, a boy who had marked thrombocytopenia and intermittent splenomegaly during maintenance therapy, was evaluated for persistent pancytopenia and progressive splenomegaly 3 months after completion of therapy. Dilated splenic vein and collaterals consistent with PH were documented by MRI/MRA. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy found esophageal varices. Liver biopsy showed periportal fibrosis and marked dilatation of veins and venules. Of the other 12 patients, 9 patients studied had abnormal MRI/MRAs with evidence of varices in 4. Eight patients had splenomegaly on physical examination. Liver biopsies in a girl after 3.3 courses of TG and a boy after 4.6 courses of TG showed periportal fibrosis and dilatation of venules and sinusoids and minimal focal fatty changes. Subsequent MRI/MRAs have been stable or improved.
The evaluations of these 12 patients suggest that treatment with TG causes injury to the liver leading to PH and that thrombocytopenia and splenomegaly are clinical hallmarks of this toxicity.
A patient developed anaphylactic shock after a heparin dosage during an operation to make inner shunt for chronic renal failure of Alport syndrome. The operation was canceled and the patient was admitted to the ICU with tracheal intubation. He was extubated safely on the fifth postoperative day, but he lost the sense of smell from the day after. Abnormality of the nasal mucosa was not recognized. The smell disorder improved slowly in three or four weeks. Anosmia after anaphylactic shock is very rare, but we should be careful for this complication after anaphylactic shock.
We evaluated the effects of different levels of the potent environmental toxicant and teratogen, 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD), on molar development in mice in six inbred strains, all with TCDD responsive Ahr alleles.
Pregnant females were exposed on gestation day 13 to 4 different levels of TCDD (control, 0.01, 0.1 and 1.0 microg/kg) and their offspring were examined for the frequency of missing third molars (M3s) and for differences in first mandibular molar (M1) cuspal morphology.
Missing M3s were prevalent only in mice in two strains, C3H/HeJ and CBA/J, and their frequency significantly increased with increasing TCDD exposure. The frequency of the M1 variant was high in mice in only one strain, C57BL/10J, and was significantly higher in the treated compared with the control group.
Inbred mice strains exhibited differential responses to TCDD suggesting that there is a genetic component, beyond Ahr differences, mediating the effects of TCDD on molar development.
Chronic treatment with suprapharmacologic doses of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) agonists has a known potential for causing left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH). The mechanism by which LVH develops is not well understood nor are biomarkers of it well characterized. Natriuretic peptides are important regulators of cardiac growth, blood volume, and arterial pressure and may be useful biomarkers of LVH and hemodynamic changes that precede it. We measured amino-terminal pro-atrial natriuretic peptide (NTproANP), amino-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NTproBNP), and cardiac troponin I (cTnI) concentrations in serum and plasma, as well as transcripts in left ventricular heart tissue for atrial natriuretic peptide precursor (Nppa), brain natriuretic peptide precursor (Nppb), and myosin heavy chain-beta (Myh7) as potential biomarkers of LVH induced by a PPARalpha/gamma dual agonist in Sprague-Dawley rats. We used magnetic resonance imaging, echocardiography, and hemodynamics to identify structural and functional cardiovascular changes related to the biomarkers. Heart-to-brain weight ratios (HW:BrW) were correlated with NTproANP, NTproBNP, and cTnI concentrations in serum as well as fold change in expression of Nppa and Nppb. LVH was characterized by increased left ventricular wall thickness and inner diameter, increased cardiac output, decreased arterial blood pressure, and increased heart rate. In these studies, each end point contributed to the early detection of LVH, the ability to monitor its progression, and demonstrated the ability of NTproANP concentration in serum to predict LVH and hemodynamic changes.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) lower the incidence of and mortality from colon cancer. Although there is much evidence from epidemiological and laboratory studies that NSAIDs have antitumor activity and reduce the incidence of colon cancer, the mechanism of action remains unknown. In this paper, we present the effect of indomethacin on growth inhibition, induction of apoptosis, and alterations in the expression of several genes involved in Wnt signaling in HT-29 colon cancer cells. We have shown that indomethacin reduces the proliferation rate of HT-29 colon cancer cells and induces apoptosis. Concentrations of indomethacin from 10(-4) to 10(-3) M strongly inhibited the growth of HT-29 cells. The inhibition of growth, as well as induction of apoptosis was dose and time dependent. The treatment of cells with 4 x 10(-4) M indomethacin caused strong inhibition of cell growth (about 70%), enhanced expression of APC, decreased expression of beta-catenin and induced expression of E-cadherin proteins. Expression of beta-catenin was not markedly reduced instead, beta-catenin was translocated from the nucleus and cytoplasm to the plasma membrane. These results were confirmed by real-time RT-PCR analysis on mRNA level. At a concentration of 4 x 10(-4) M indomethacin there was increased expression of APC gene (10.9-fold induction; DeltaDeltaCt = 3.43) and E-cadherin gene (3.5-fold induction; DeltaDeltaCt = 1.79). These results suggest the antiproliferative effect of indomethacin may contribute to enhanced cell adhesion through increased expression of E-cadherin and translocation of beta-catenin from the nucleus to the cell membrane.
The present investigation was intended to further clarify the mechanisms involved in renal dysfunction following high-dose methotrexate (HD-MTX) treatment.
Fifty eight predominately pediatric patients [39 male, 19 female; mean age 12.3 years (range 2.2-34.1)] suffering from acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL, n = 28), Non Hodgkins lymphoma (NHL, n = 13), osteosarcoma (n = 8), malignant brain tumor (n = 6), or an ALL relapse (n = 3), were prospectively examined. In the course of 220 infusions of HD-MTX, glomerular and tubular renal function was determined by measuring proteinuria and glomerular filtration rate (GFR), as well as renal excretion of alpha-1-microglobulin (AMG) and N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG). It was investigated whether there were differences in MTX toxicity in dependence on the administered dose (1, 5, or 12 g/m(2) BSA), on the combination with other cytostatic agents (ifosfamide or cyclophosphamide), on the metabolism of MTX into 7-OH-MTX, and on pre-treatment with MTX.
The administration of HD-MTX has no direct tubulotoxic effect. The disturbance in glomerular function was dose dependently and indicated by an increase in proteinuria as well as by a decrease in GFR; all changes were completely reversible and did not correlate to the metabolism of MTX to 7-OH-MTX. Increasing the number of MTX therapeutic cycles did not increase the nephrotoxicity of MTX.
MTX is not directly tubulotoxic. Its side effects on glomeruli are usually without clinical relevance.
A 12-year-old boy with aplastic anemia developed severe but reversible cardiac failure after treatment with 200 mg/kg cyclophosphamide (4 x 50 mg/kg on four consecutive days) given as preparation for bone marrow grafting. This and previously reported cases demonstrate the possibility of cardiotoxicity after high doses of the drug.
Neuroblastoma (NB) is the most common extra-cranial solid tumour in infants. Unfortunately, most children present with advanced disease and have a poor prognosis. There is in vitro evidence that the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) might be a target for pharmacological intervention in NB. We have previously demonstrated that the PPARgamma agonist rosiglitazone (RGZ) exerts strong anti-tumoural effects in the human NB cell line, SK-N-AS. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether RGZ maintains its anti-tumoural effects against SK-N-AS NB cells in vivo.
For this purpose, tumour cells were subcutaneously implanted in nude mice, and RGZ (150 mg kg(-1)) was administered by gavage daily for 4 weeks. At the end of treatment, a significant tumour weight inhibition (70%) was observed in RGZ-treated mice compared with control mice. The inhibition of tumour growth was supported by a strong anti-angiogenic activity, as assessed by CD-31 immunostaining in tumour samples. The number of apoptotic cells, as determined by cleaved caspase-3 immunostaining, seemed lower in RGZ-treated animals at the end of the treatment period than in control mice, likely because of the large tumour size observed in the latter group.
To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration that RGZ effectively inhibits tumour growth in a human NB xenograft and our results suggest that PPARgamma agonists may have a role in anti-tumoural strategies against NB.
To evaluate the safety and efficacy of low-dose dopamine, high-dose furosemide, and their combination in the treatment of refractory congestive heart failure.
Twenty consecutive patients with refractory congestive heart failure were randomized to receive intravenous low-dose (4 micrograms/kg/min) dopamine combined with low-dose (80 mg/day) oral furosemide (group A; n = 7), intravenous low-dose dopamine with medium-dose furosemide (5 mg/kg/day through continuous intravenous administration; group B; n = 7), or high-dose furosemide (10 mg/kg/day through continuous intravenous administration; group C; n = 6).
The three groups showed similar improvement in signs and symptoms of congestive heart failure, urinary output (2506 +/- 671 ml/24 hr, mean +/- SD) and weight loss (3.3 +/- 2.3 kg) after 72 hours of therapy. Mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) decreased by 14% +/- 8% and 15% +/- 6% in groups B and C, respectively, but increased by 4% +/- 15% in group A (p = 0.017). Renal function deteriorated significantly in groups B and C: creatinine clearance decreased by 41% +/- 23% and 42% +/- 23%, respectively, but increased by 14% +/- 35% in group A (p = 0.0074). MAP decrease was positively correlated with the decrease in creatinine clearance (r = 0.7; p = 0.0007). Patients in group B and C had more hypokalemia than group A. Two patients in group C sustained acute oliguric renal failure and one patient in group B died suddenly while sustaining severe hypokalemia.
Combined low-dose intravenous dopamine and oral furosemide have similar efficacy but induce less renal impairment and hypokalemia than higher doses of intravenous furosemide taken either alone or with low-dose dopamine. The renal impairment induced by intravenous furosemide is probably related to its hypotensive effect in patients with refractory congestive heart failure.
Exposure to bis-(2-chloroethyl)sulfide (BCES; "sulfur mustard") causes delayed formation of slowly healing skin blisters. Although the histopathology of BCES injury is well characterized [reviewed in Smith et al., J Am Acad Dermatol 32: 767-776, 1995], little is known of the cutaneous toxicity at the molecular level. To identify biological markers of exposure, epidermal and subepidermal extracts were prepared from 48 individual hairless guinea pigs (HGP) at successive 3-hr intervals following exposure to BCES vapor, and compared using gel electrophoresis, and lectin- and antisera-binding. Inflammation was assessed by measuring edema and myeloperoxidase activity. Edema reached peak levels at 15-18 hr and remained elevated above controls at 24 hr. Recruitment of neutrophils, deduced from increased myeloperoxidase, occurred as early as 3 hr after BCES exposure with maximum infiltration at 6-12 hr. Binding of concanavalin-A lectin revealed increased amounts, relative to contralateral control sites, of two approximately 180,000 Mr polypeptides in subepidermal protein extracts from the BCES-exposed skin obtained > or = 12 hr after exposure. This alteration was not found in epidermal protein extracts prepared from the same animals. Based upon the determined amino acid compositions, both polypeptides had significant collagenous triple helical content (>75%). They could be distinguished immunologically from collagen types I, III, and IV by using polyclonal antisera. We conclude that exposure of HGP skin to BCES results in an early neutrophil infiltration that precedes epidermal-dermal separation and selective alterations of the subepidermal extracellular matrix.
To determine whether furosemide could prevent renal side effects of indomethacin (INN, indometacin) used for the pharmacologic closure of the patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) in preterm infants.
Thirty-six preterm infants with birth weights < 1750 gm affected by hemodynamically significant PDA were randomly assigned to one of two study groups. Group 1 consisted of 18 infants treated with three doses of indomethacin (0.20 mg/kg every 12 hours); each dose was followed by a dose of furosemide (1 mg/kg). Group 2 consisted of 18 infants treated only with the same doses of indomethacin. Body weight, urine output, glomerular filtration rate (GFR), fractional excretion of sodium (FENa+) and potassium (FEK+), and osmolal and free water clearance were evaluated in both groups before, during, and after treatment.
The body weight trend, serum sodium, chloride and potassium concentrations, plasmatic and urinary osmolality were similar during the treatment in both the groups. A significant reduction of urine output (p < 0.01) was detected in group 2 but not in group 1. A significant increase of blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine was detected at the end of treatment in group 1 compared with group 2. During the treatment, a significantly higher GFR (p < 0.05) was found in group 2 than in group 1. FENa+ and FEK+ were significantly higher (p < 0.05 and p < 0.001, respectively) in group 1 than in group 2 during and after the treatment. The osmolol clearance and free water clearance were significantly higher during and after treatment (p < 0.01 and p < 0.001, respectively) in group 1 than in group 2.
Our findings show that furosemide cannot prevent the indomethacin-induced renal failure, but it does not have any negative influence on its therapeutic effectiveness.
