The influence of the combined preparation vitaton (Pharmachim) was studied on some functional, biochemical and morphological changes, induced after four-fold subcutaneous administration of 100 mg/kg of isoprenaline. The experiments were carried out on three groups: control nontreated, control treated with isoprenaline and experimental, treated simultaneously with isoprenaline and 500 mg/kg of vitalon, administered orally. The preparation was used 3 days before and 2 days after the administration of isoprenaline. Evaluation of the preparation action was made by the following parameters: ECG in the II standard lead, effect on serum level of cholesterol, triglycerols, cholesterol and lipoproteins with high, low and very low density, enzymic activity of hydroxybutiroldehydrogenase (HBDH), creatinephosphokinase (CPK), aspartataminotransferase (ASAT) and alaninaminotransferase (ALAT). Pathomorphological and morphometric studies of the hearts were performed as well. The results from the conducted experiments showed that vitaton reduced pathological changes in the electrocardiographic recordings as well as the abnormal increase in cholesterol and fractions of lipoproteins with low density. Beside this it lowered considerably the enzymic activity, observed under the influence of isoprenaline. The preparation diminished the area of myocardial damage more than twice, estimated by the index of the myocardial damage. The effect of vitalon on the model of isoprenaline myocardiopathy could be explained by its metabolic action and more exactly by its influence on protein synthesis and on lipid metabolism.
Keratins 8 and 18 (K8/K18) provide anti-apoptotic functions upon liver injury. The cytoprotective function of keratins explains the overrepresentation of K8/K18 variants in patients with cirrhosis. However, K8/K18 variant-associated susceptibility to acute liver injury, which is well-described in animal models, has not been studied in humans.
We analyzed the entire coding regions of KRT8 and KRT18 genes (15 total exons and their exon-intron boundaries) to determine the frequency of K8/K18 variants in 344 acute liver failure (ALF) patients (49% acetaminophen-related) and 2 control groups (African-American [n = 245] and previously analyzed white [n = 727] subjects).
Forty-five ALF patients had significant amino-acid-altering K8/K18 variants, including 23 with K8 R341H and 11 with K8 G434S. K8 variants were significantly more common (total of 42 patients) than K18 variants (3 patients) (P < .001). We found increased frequency of variants in white ALF patients (9.1%) versus controls (3.7%) (P = .01). K8 R341H was more common in white (P = .01) and G434S was more common in African-American (P = .02) ALF patients versus controls. White patients with K8/K18 variants were less likely to survive ALF without transplantation (P = .02). K8 A333A and G434S variants associated exclusively with African Americans (23% combined frequency in African American but none in white controls; P < .0001), while overall, K18 variants were more common in non-white liver-disease subjects compared to whites (2.8% vs 0.6%, respectively; P = .008).
KRT8 and KRT18 are important susceptibility genes for ALF development. Presence of K8/K18 variants predisposes to adverse ALF outcome, and some variants segregate with unique ethnic and race backgrounds.
An 8-yr-old boy suffering from an asymptomatic ventricular septal defect was given erythromycin for antibiotic prophylaxis before adenoidectomy. Sixty minutes after premedication with oral midazolam 0.5 mg kg-1 and oral atropine 0.03 mg kg-1, an infusion of erythromycin 400 mg was started. When 200 mg of erythromycin had been infused, the patient lost consciousness, but other vital functions remained normal. After 45 min, he awakened spontaneously. At the time the plasma concentration of midazolam was 134 ng ml-1. In order to investigate possible interactions between midazolam and erythromycin, we studied the pharmacokinetics of midazolam in six children of the same age undergoing minor otolaryngological surgery. The plasma concentration of midazolam in the patient who lost consciousness was significantly greater than in six other children without concomitant administration of erythromycin. The altered pharmacokinetics of midazolam may result from reduced hepatic clearance of midazolam caused by an enzyme inhibiting drug, erythromycin.
Raloxifene reduces vertebral fracture and invasive breast cancer risks, but increases fatal strokes in postmenopausal women at increased coronary risk. We assessed whether this risk is concentrated in postmenopausal women already at high stroke risk.
Raloxifene Use for The Heart (RUTH) enrolled 10,101 postmenopausal women (mean age 67 years) with or at increased coronary heart disease risk; Multiple Outcomes of Raloxifene Evaluation (MORE) enrolled 7705 osteoporotic postmenopausal women (mean age 66 years). A Framingham Stroke Risk Score (FSRS) was calculated for all women with no prior cerebrovascular events (n = 16,858). The validity of the FSRS was assessed in the placebo groups, and then raloxifene-associated stroke risk was analyzed by FSRS subgroups.
FSRS predicted an increased stroke risk in the placebo group of both clinical trials. There was no difference in the incidence of nonfatal strokes between the raloxifene and placebo groups in MORE or RUTH, regardless of baseline Framingham stroke risk. In RUTH, women with FSRS <13 showed no increase in raloxifene-associated fatal stroke risk (hazard ratio [HR] 1.08; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.49-2.37). Those with FSRS >or=13 had a 75% increased risk of raloxifene-associated fatal stroke (HR 1.75; 95% CI, 1.01-3.02; interaction P = .33). In MORE, where 80% of women had a FSRS <13, no increase in fatal (HR 0.57; 95% CI, 0.19-1.68) stroke risk was observed.
Risk of fatal stroke associated with raloxifene was greater in women at high stroke risk. These results might be useful for identifying postmenopausal women at high risk of first stroke who should avoid raloxifene therapy.
Application of bradykinin to the exposed ventricular surface of the dog's heart produced reflex pressor effects and tachycardia, whereas application of nicotine evoked reflex hypotension and bradycardia. Prostacyclin (PGI2) or prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), when applied epicardially, had no effects by themselves but potentiated the reflex pressor changes to bradykinin; the depressor responses to nicotine were not changed. The potentiating effect of PGI2 was prompt but short-lived, whereas that of PGE2 was slow in onset but prolonged. The results suggest that PGI2, which is present in the pericardial fluid, may contribute to signalling of pain and reflex circulatory changes when kinin formation occurs during myocardial ischaemia or pericardial inflammation.
We present two cases of myocarditis and hepatitis with histologic characteristics of hypersensitivity-mediated drug reactions associated with imipramine and its metabolite, desipramine. In one case, death was directly attributed to myocarditis; in the second case, the patient died of an acute myocardial infarct, but myocarditis may have played a contributory role. One patient was taking imipramine, and therapeutic concentrations of imipramine and desipramine were documented in postmortem blood. The other patient was receiving desipramine documented by in-patient hospital medication records. Both cases had liver lesions associated in the medical literature with adverse drug reaction to imipramine. Although myocarditis has been previously associated with amitriptyline, these cases appear to be the first reported in association with imipramine/desipramine. The fact that one patient was taking only desipramine suggests that it may be the offending agent.
This study investigated propofol injection pain in patients undergoing ambulatory anaesthesia. In a randomized, double-blind trial, 90 women were allocated to receive one of three treatments prior to induction of anaesthesia with propofol. Patients in Group C received 2 ml normal saline, Group L, 2 ml, lidocaine 2% (40 mg) and Group T, 2 ml thiopentone 2.5% (50 mg). Venous discomfort was assessed with a visual analogue scale (VAS) 5-15 sec after commencing propofol administration using an infusion pump (rate 1000 micrograms.kg-1.min-1). Loss of consciousness occurred in 60-90 sec. Visual analogue scores (mean +/- SD) during induction were lower in Groups L (3.3 +/- 2.5) and T (4.1 +/- 2.7) than in Group C (5.6 +/- 2.3); P = 0.0031. The incidence of venous discomfort was lower in Group L (76.6%; P < 0.05) than in Group C (100%) but not different from Group T (90%). The VAS scores for recall of pain in the recovery room were correlated with the VAS scores during induction (r = 0.7045; P < 0.0001). Recovery room discharge times were similar: C (75.9 +/- 19.4 min); L 73.6 +/- 21.6 min); T (77.1 +/- 18.9 min). Assessing their overall satisfaction, 89.7% would choose propofol anaesthesia again. We conclude that lidocaine reduces the incidence and severity of propofol injection pain in ambulatory patients whereas thiopentone only reduces its severity.
In wild-type BALB/c mice, i.p. administration of acetaminophen (APAP; 750 mg/kg) induced intrahepatic IFN-gamma mRNA expression and a marked increase in serum transaminase levels, leading to acute lethality of approximately 45%. Histopathological examination showed centrilobular hepatic necrosis with leukocyte infiltration and a large number of apoptotic hepatocytes 10 and 24 h after APAP challenge. mRNA expression of intercellular adhesion molecule 1, vascular cell adhesion molecule 1, interleukin (IL) 1alpha, IL-1beta, IL-6, tumor necrosis factor alpha, monocyte chemoattractant protein 1, macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP) 1alpha, MIP-2, KC, IP-10, Mig, Fas, and inducible nitric oxide synthase was enhanced in the liver of wild-type mice injected with APAP. To clarify the role of IFN-gamma in this process, IFN-gamma-deficient mice were treated in the same manner. All IFN-gamma-deficient mice survived with reduced serum transaminase elevation and attenuated hepatic necrosis, leukocyte infiltration, and hepatocyte apoptosis. The gene expression of all molecules was significantly attenuated in IFN-gamma-deficient mice. Administration of an anti-IFN-gamma neutralizing antibody even 2 or 8 h after APAP challenge to wild-type mice alleviated APAP-induced liver injury, and all mice survived. Thus, IFN-gamma is responsible for APAP-induced liver injury by mediating leukocyte infiltration, hepatocyte apoptosis, and NO production as well as cytokine and chemokine production. Moreover, immunoneutralization of IFN-gamma may be therapeutically effective for developing APAP-induced liver injury.
The prognosis of doxorubicin-induced congestive heart failure (CHF) is reported to be poor. To define the clinical course of doxorubicin-induced CHF, the authors reviewed their experience with 43 patients with this diagnosis. The median age of the total group was 55 years (range, 23-69); the median cumulative dose of doxorubicin was 450 mg/m2 (range, 200 mg/m2-1150 mg/m2). A majority of the patients had a diagnosis of breast cancer. The median survival of the whole group estimated by means of a Kaplan-Meier plot was 112 weeks. Twelve of 43 patients (28%) died of CHF, 7 of them (16%) because of fulminant failure in less than 8 weeks and the remaining 5 because of a more protracted course with recurrent episodes of cardiac decompensation. Twenty-five of the 43 patients (58%) achieved complete control of CHF. In the remaining 6 patients (14%), CHF had improved but was not completely controlled at the time of death, which was secondary to progressive tumor. Treatment consisted of standard therapy with digitalis and diuretics. Survival was significantly shorter in patients who presented with class IV dyspnea and in those who developed CHF less than 4 weeks after administration of the last dose of doxorubicin. The authors conclude that in a majority of patients, doxorubicin-induced CHF is easily treatable and frequently controlled with digitalis and diuretics.
The incidence of next-day anterograde amnesia was evaluated in hospitalized patients who received flurazepam hydrochloride or triazolam. A blinded observer assessed memory and daytime drowsiness in 154 patients after the bedtime ingestion of flurazepam hydrochloride (n = 54), triazolam (n = 49), or no hypnotic drug (n = 51). The hypnotic agents were administered before midnight. At approximately 0800 the next morning, the patients were shown a picture of an object on colored construction paper and asked to remember it as well as the color of the background. Both the observer and patient assessed drowsiness using the Stanford Sleepiness Scale. The observer also made a note of the items on the patient's breakfast tray. Patients were then revisited at 1100 and asked to recall the object in the picture, the color of the background, and at least three items from their breakfast tray. Ten of the 54 patients in the flurazepam group failed to recall all three items compared with only two in the triazolam group and two in the control group. The 14 patients who experienced memory impairment were significantly more drowsy at 0800 than those who were able to recall the items. Next-day anterograde amnesia occurred more frequently in patients who received flurazepam hydrochloride than in those who received triazolam or no hypnotic drug. This effect may be related to the next-day drowsiness caused by flurazepam and its slowly eliminated active metabolite.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is characterized by ventricular hypertrophy accompanied by myofibrillar disarrays. Molecular genetic analyses have revealed that mutations in 8 different genes cause HCM. Mutations in these disease genes, however, could be found in about half of HCM patients, suggesting that there are other unknown disease gene(s). Because the known disease genes encode sarcomeric proteins expressed in the cardiac muscle, we searched for a disease-associated mutation in the titin gene in 82 HCM patients who had no mutation in the known disease genes. A G to T transversion in codon 740, from CGC to CTC, replacing Arginine with Leucine was found in a patient. This mutation was not found in more than 500 normal chromosomes and increased the binding affinity of titin to alpha-actitin in the yeast two-hybrid assay. These observations suggest that the titin mutation may cause HCM in this patient via altered affinity to alpha-actinin.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was applied to five older amblyopes with monocular amblyopia before and after levodopa treatment. During the experiment, images were acquired in two runs with visual stimulation delivered through the sound and the amblyopic eyes, respectively. The experiment was performed on each of the subjects, before and after their oral administration of levodopa/carbidopa (0.5/0.12 mg/kg) three times per day for 7 weeks. Our study demonstrated that there was no effect on the spatial extent of the visual cortical activation during the sound eye stimulation (P=0.17), but some improvement during the amblyopic eye stimulation (P=0.06). The volume ratio between the amblyopic and sound eye stimulation significantly increased after the treatment (P<0.05). This finding supports the previous studies of levodopa effect on amblyopia at the visual cortical level, and suggests that fMRI can be a useful tool in assessing changes of visual cortical activity after the treatment
Drug-induced liver injury (DILI) is a significant safety issue associated with medication use, and is the major cause of failures in drug development and withdrawal in post marketing. Cytokines are signaling molecules produced and secreted by immune cells and play crucial roles in the progression of DILI. Although there are numerous reports of cytokine changes in several DILI models, a comprehensive analysis of cytokine expression changes in rat liver injury induced by various compounds has, to the best of our knowledge, not been performed. In the past several years, we have built a public, free, large-scale toxicogenomics database, called Open TG-GATEs, containing microarray data and toxicity data of the liver of rats treated with various hepatotoxic compounds. In this study, we measured the protein expression levels of a panel of 24 cytokines in frozen liver of rats treated with a total of 20 compounds, obtained in the original study that formed the basis of the Open TG-GATEs database and analyzed protein expression profiles combined with mRNA expression profiles to investigate the correlation between mRNA and protein expression levels. As a result, we demonstrated significant correlations between mRNA and protein expression changes for interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-1α, monocyte chemo-attractant protein (MCP)-1/CC-chemokine ligand (Ccl)2, vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A), and regulated upon activation normal T cell expressed and secreted (RANTES)/Ccl5 in several different types of DILI. We also demonstrated that IL-1β protein and MCP-1/Ccl2 mRNA were commonly up-regulated in the liver of rats treated with different classes of hepatotoxicants and exhibited the highest accuracy in the detection of hepatotoxicity. The results also demonstrate that hepatic mRNA changes do not always correlate with protein changes of cytokines in the liver. This is the first study to provide a comprehensive analysis of mRNA-protein correlations of factors involved in various types of DILI, as well as additional insights into the importance of understanding complex cytokine expression changes in assessing DILI.
The etiology of transient neurologic symptoms (TNS) after 5% lidocaine spinal anesthesia remains undetermined. Previous case reports have shown that patients acutely experiencing TNS have no abnormalities on neurologic examination or magnetic resonance imaging. The aim of our study was to determine whether volunteers with TNS would exhibit abnormalities in spinal nerve electrophysiology. Twelve volunteers with no history of back pain or neurologic disease underwent baseline electromyography (EMG), nerve conduction studies, and somatosensory-evoked potential (SSEP) testing. Then, the volunteers were administered 50 mg of 5% hyperbaric lidocaine spinal anesthesia and were placed in a low lithotomy position (legs on four pillows). The next day, all volunteers underwent follow-up EMG, nerve conduction, and SSEP testing and were questioned and examined for the presence of complications including TNS (defined as pain or dysthesia in one or both buttocks or legs occurring within 24 h of spinal anesthesia). Volunteers who had TNS underwent additional EMG testing 4-6 wk later. Five of the 12 volunteers reported TNS. No volunteer had an abnormal EMG, nerve conduction study, or SSEP at 24 h follow up, nor were there any changes in EMG studies at delayed testing in the five volunteers experiencing TNS. On statistical analysis, the right peroneal and the right tibial nerve differed significantly for all volunteers from pre- to postspinal testing. When comparing pre- and postspinal testing of the TNS and non-TNS volunteers, statistically significant changes occurred in the nerve conduction tests of the right peroneal and left tibial nerve. There was no difference in measurements of F response, H reflex latency, amplitude, or velocity for either leg. Multivariate analysis of variance showed no significant difference between TNS and non-TNS volunteers for the changes in the nine nerve conduction tests when considered together (P = 0.4). We conclude that acute TNS after lidocaine spinal anesthesia did not result in consistent abnormalities detectable by EMG, nerve conduction studies, or SSEP in five volunteers.
Electrophysiologic testing in volunteers experiencing transient neurologic symptoms is not abnormal.
To study the influence of ICRF-187 on the functional and morphological effects of very large cumulative doses of doxorubicin, adult beagle dogs were given doxorubicin (1.75 mg/kg i.v.) either alone or 15 min after ICRF-187 (25 mg/kg, i.v.) at 3-week intervals. Control dogs received ICRF-187 (25 mg/kg, i.v.) or 0.9% saline without doxorubicin. Of eight animals receiving doxorubicin alone, two died after a total dose of 12.25 mg/kg and three died after 14 mg/kg; three others were in poor condition at the time of euthanasia after 14 mg/kg. Of eight animals receiving both ICRF-187 and doxorubicin, one died after 35 mg/kg, two died after 43.75 mg/kg and one died after 52.5 mg/kg; two dogs were euthanatized after 43.75 mg/kg because of difficulties encountered in giving i.v. injections, and two dogs survived a total dose of 52.5 mg/kg. All control dogs survived. None of the treatment or control groups developed consistent echocardiographic changes or alterations in mean arterial pressure. Dogs given ICRF-187 and doxorubicin developed PQ interval prolongation after 300 days and ventricular premature beats after 500 days. Each animal receiving doxorubicin alone had severe myocardial lesions (lesion score 3+). Of the animals given ICRF-187 and doxorubicin, one that received 35 mg/kg doxorubicin had no lesions; of four given 43.75 mg/kg, three had no lesions and one had minimal lesions (lesion score 1+); of three given 52.5 mg/kg, one had minimal (lesion score 1+) and two had moderate (lesion score 2+) lesions. Control animals had no myocardial lesions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Hexahydro-1,3,5-trinitro-1,3,5-triazine (RDX) is a high-energy, trinitrated cyclic compound that has been used worldwide since World War II as an explosive in both military and civilian applications. RDX can be released in the environment by way of waste streams generated during the manufacture, use, and disposal of RDX-containing munitions and can leach into groundwater from unexploded munitions found on training ranges. For > 60 years, it has been known that exposure to high doses of RDX causes generalized seizures, but the mechanism has remained unknown.
We investigated the mechanism by which RDX induces seizures.
By screening the affinity of RDX for a number of neurotransmitter receptors, we found that RDX binds exclusively to the picrotoxin convulsant site of the γ-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)) ionophore. Whole-cell in vitro recordings in the rat basolateral amygdala (BLA) showed that RDX reduces the frequency and amplitude of spontaneous GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents and the amplitude of GABA-evoked postsynaptic currents. In extracellular field recordings from the BLA, RDX induced prolonged, seizure-like neuronal discharges.
These results suggest that binding to the GABA(A) receptor convulsant site is the primary mechanism of seizure induction by RDX and that reduction of GABAergic inhibitory transmission in the amygdala is involved in the generation of RDX-induced seizures. Knowledge of the molecular site and the mechanism of RDX action with respect to seizure induction can guide therapeutic strategies, allow more accurate development of safe thresholds for exposures, and help prevent the development of new explosives or other munitions that could pose similar health risks.
In 11 of 25 patients (44%) with sustained ventricular tachycardia (VT) who received intravenous verapamil (5 to 10 mg), acute severe hypotension or loss of consciousness developed, necessitating immediate cardioversion. Comparison of these 11 patients with the 14 who did not have adverse effects after verapamil revealed no significant difference in age, heart disease, ejection fraction, blood pressure before verapamil administration, other oral or intravenous drugs use, verapamil dose or VT characteristics (rate and morphologic pattern). Although most patients with severe adverse effects after verapamil had prior myocardial infarction, deterioration also occurred in patients without coronary disease and in patients with a normal left ventricular ejection fraction. VT terminated after verapamil infusion in 6 patients. No single electrocardiographic morphologic pattern characterized these patients. A control group of 25 patients presenting with hemodynamically stable VT who received other antiarrhythmic agents was examined. Hypotension developed in only 1 patient during acute therapy and did not require emergency cardioversion. Thus, although verapamil may terminate VT, severe adverse effects occur much more often. Use of verapamil to differentiate supraventricular tachycardia with aberrant conduction from ventricular tachycardia is hazardous.
There is a growing debate about injectable opioid treatment programs in many Western countries. This is the first placebo-controlled study of the safety of injectable opioids in a controlled treatment setting.
Twenty-five opioid-dependent patients on intravenous (IV) heroin or IV methadone maintenance treatment were randomly assigned to either their individual prescribed IV maintenance dose or placebo. Acute drug effects were recorded, focusing on electrocardiography, respiratory movements, arterial blood oxygen saturation, and electroencephalography (EEG).
After heroin injection, marked respiratory depression progressing to a Cheyne-Stokes pattern occurred. Peripheral arterial blood oxygenation decreased to 78.9 +/- 8.7% (mean +/- SD) ranging from 52%-90%. During hypoxia, 7 of the 16 subjects experienced intermittent and somewhat severe bradycardia. Five subjects exhibited paroxysmal EEG patterns. After methadone injection, respiratory depression was less pronounced than after heroin injection. No relevant bradycardia was noted.
Opioid doses commonly prescribed in IV opioid treatment induce marked respiratory and circulatory depression, as well as occasionally irregular paroxysmal EEG activity. Further studies are needed to optimize the clinical practice of IV opioid treatment to prevent serious complications. Moreover, the extent of the observed effects raises questions about the appropriateness of IV opioid treatment in the present form.
Urinary retention is sometimes reported as an adverse reaction during disopyramide phosphate therapy. We report one case of acute renal failure and eight cases of urinary retention. Previous reports of this adverse reaction are summarized. The cause of disopyramide-induced urinary retention is unknown. It is possible that disopyramide or a metabolite via their anticholinergic properties plays some role in the manifestation of urinary tract symptomatology. Treatment of this adverse reaction includes lowering the dose, discontinuing the drug, or possibly using a cholinergic drug to compete with the anticholinergic effects of the disopyramide.
Glycolaldehyde (GA) is a highly reactive aldehyde that can be generated during inflammation and hyperglycemia. It can react with arginine and lysine residues impairing protein function. As inflammation and diabetes present haemostatic dysfunction, we hypothesized that GA could participate in this process. The aim of this study was to investigate if plasma incubated in the presence of GA presents alteration in the coagulation process. We also aimed to evaluate the role of fibrinogen in GA-induced haemostatic dysfunction. For this purpose, plasma and fibrinogen were each incubated separately, either in the presence or absence of 1 mM GA for 8 and 4 h, respectively. After that, plasma coagulation and fibrin polymerization kinetics were recorded, as well as the kinetic of plasma clot digestion and fibrinolysis protein carbonylation was quantified. An SDS-PAGE was run to check the presence of cross-linking between fibrinogen chains. GA induced a delay in plasma coagulation and in fibrin polymerization. Maximum absorbance decreased after GA treatment, indicating the generation of thinner fibers. Fibrin generated after complete coagulation showed resistance to enzymatic digestion, which could be related to the generation of thinner fibers. Protein carbonylation also increased after GA treatment. All parameters could be reversed with AMG (a carbonyl trap) co-treatment. The data presented herein indicate that GA causes post-translational modification of lysine and arginine residues, which are central to many events involving fibrinogen to fibrin conversion, as well as to fibrinolysis. These modifications lead to the generation of persistent clots and may contribute to mortality seen in pathologies such diabetes and sepsis.
The possibility that sildenafil citrate can potentiate nicorandil-induced hypotension by increasing cGMP levels of vascular smooth muscle cells was examined using anesthetized rats and isolated aortas. In pentobarbital-anesthetized rats, more than 0.3 mg/kg of sildenafil (i.v.) potentiated intra-aortic (i.Ao.) administration of nitroglycerin-induced hypotension. Hypotension due to nicorandil (100 microg/kg, i.Ao.) was potentiated by sildenafil (1 mg/kg, i.v.), even after glibenclamide treatment, although pinacidil-induced hypotension was not reinforced. Hypotensive responses to neither nitroglycerin (3 microg/kg, i.v.) nor nicorandil (100 microg/kg, i.v.) were potentiated by sildenafil, however. Increases in femoral blood flow due to nitroglycerin (0.1-3 microg, i.a.) were potentiated significantly by sildenafil, but those due to nicorandil (1-30 microg, i.a.) were not. Isolated rat aortas precontracted with phenylephrine were dilated dose-dependently using nicorandil, nitroglycerin, pinacidil or sildenafil. The relaxant effect due to nicorandil and nitroglycerin was reinforced significantly by pretreatment with an ineffective concentration of sildenafil (10(-8) M), but pinacidil was not. After ODQ (1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one) completely blocked relaxation by nicorandil, sildenafil did not increase relaxation. These findings suggest that combination of sildenafil with nicorandil, as well as with nitroglycerin, potentiates the hypotensive response by augmentation of vasodilatation. Synergism of vasodilatation may be linked with NO action, but not with K(ATP) channel-activation.
We report a patient of acute neuromyopathy induced by concomitant use of colchicine and bezafibrate. A 75-year-old man with chronic renal failure and hyperlipidemia treated with bezafibrate (400 mg/day) for 1.5 years had developed watery diarrhea followed by acute tetraparesis, 14 days after the administration of colchicine for recurrent gout. Neurological examination showed proximal muscle weakness with myalgia, distal mild numbness (dysesthesia) of four limbs and generalized decreased or absent reflexies. The findings including elevated serum muscle enzymes, myogenic patterns with widespread myotonic discharge on the electromyography and delayed latency of F-wave on nerve conduction study indicated that the patient's clinical features were consistent with neuromyopathy. Soon after both colchicine and bezafibrate were stopped, the patient's symptoms resolved rapidly, therefore we made a diagnosis of drug-induced neuromyopathy, although rhabdomyolysis with Guillain-Barré syndrome was initially suspected. Recently, there had been reported acute and severe neuromuscular disorder induced by combination therapy with colchicine and anti-hyperlipidemic drugs, and there were clinical similarities between the cases of these reports and our case. Co-administration of colchicine with bezafibrate might accelerate the onset of neuromyopathy in connection with chronic renal failure in this case. Extreme caution is warranted when the patient with renal insufficiency concomitant use of colchicine and bezafibrate.
A case of tonic-clonic seizures following chloroquine treatment for leprosy reactions in a Nigerian male is reported. Seizures were controlled with phenytoin sodium capsules. A casual relationship between the seizures and chloroquine is suggested. There have been no previous reports of this adverse reaction in leprosy patients receiving chloroquine for treatment of reactions. The author recommends that chloroquine be used with caution especially in patients with seizures.
Perturbations in the integrity of the blood-brain barrier have been reported in both humans and animals under numerous pathological conditions. Although the blood-brain barrier prevents the penetration of many blood constituents into the brain extracellular space, the effect of such perturbations on the brain function and their roles in the pathogenesis of cortical diseases are unknown. In this study we established a model for focal disruption of the blood-brain barrier in the rat cortex by direct application of bile salts. Exposure of the cerebral cortex in vivo to bile salts resulted in long-lasting extravasation of serum albumin to the brain extracellular space and was associated with a prominent activation of astrocytes with no inflammatory response or marked cell loss. Using electrophysiological recordings in brain slices we found that a focus of epileptiform discharges developed within 4-7 d after treatment and could be recorded up to 49 d postoperatively in >60% of slices from treated animals but only rarely (10%) in sham-operated controls. Epileptiform activity involved both glutamatergic and GABAergic neurotransmission. Epileptiform activity was also induced by direct cortical application of native serum, denatured serum, or albumin-containing solution. In contrast, perfusion with serum-adapted electrolyte solution did not induce abnormal activity, thereby suggesting that the exposure of the serum-devoid brain environment to serum proteins underlies epileptogenesis in the blood-brain barrier-disrupted cortex. Although many neuropathologies entail a compromised blood-brain barrier, this is the first direct evidence that it may have a role in the pathogenesis of focal cortical epilepsy, a common neurological disease.
Antenatal betamethasone treatment is a widely accepted therapy to accelerate lung development and improve survival in preterm infants. However, there are reports that infants who receive antenatal glucocorticoids exhibit higher systolic blood pressure in their early adolescent years. We have developed an experimental model of programming whereby the offspring of pregnant sheep administered clinically relevant doses of betamethasone exhibit elevated blood pressure. We tested the hypothesis as to whether alterations in angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE), ACE2, and neprilysin in serum, urine, and proximal tubules are associated with this increase in mean arterial pressure. Male sheep were administered betamethasone (2 doses of 0.17 mg/kg, 24 hours apart) or vehicle at the 80th day of gestation and delivered at term. Sheep were instrumented at adulthood (1.8 years) for direct conscious recording of mean arterial pressure. Serum and urine were collected and proximal tubules isolated from the renal cortex. Betamethasone-treated animals had elevated mean arterial pressure (97+/-3 versus 83+/-2 mm Hg; P<0.05) and a 25% increase in serum ACE activity (48.4+/-7.0 versus 36.0+/-2.7 fmol/mL per minute) but a 40% reduction in serum ACE2 activity (18.8+/-1.2 versus 31.4+/-4.4 fmol/mL per minute). In isolated proximal tubules, ACE2 activity and expression were 50% lower in the treated sheep with no significant change in ACE or neprilysin activities. We conclude that antenatal steroid treatment results in the chronic alteration of ACE and ACE2 in the circulatory and tubular compartments, which may contribute to the higher blood pressure in this model of fetal programming-induced hypertension.
