The effect of anaesthesia on olfaction has not been systematically studied. Our aim is to compare the effects of general and regional anaesthesia on olfactory acuity and memory in the immediate post-operative period.
Sixty adult patients with the American Society of Anesthesiologists I and II status scheduled for elective minor surgery were included. Exclusion criteria were smoking, alcoholism, psychiatric disease and recent or past airway infection with resulting hyposmia. Patients were randomly allocated to one of three groups (in the analysis, n = 16 in each group): epidural anaesthesia (group E), general anaesthesia with propofol (group P) and general anaesthesia with sevoflurane (group S) of 40-120 min duration. The evening before surgery, at 0.5 and at 3 h post-operatively olfactory acuity and memory were tested, along with blood sampling to measure plasma melatonin and oxytocin levels. Olfactory acuity was tested with successive dilutions of n-butyl-alcohol, and olfactory memory (interpretation of odours) with the University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test.
Patient characteristics did not differ between groups. Olfactory acuity was intact in all patients, before and after anaesthesia. Olfactory memory deteriorated in group S compared to groups P and E at both post-operative time-points. This was accompanied by a significant post-operative reduction of plasma melatonin levels in group S. Oxytocin levels remained constant in all groups.
Our results manifest a specific effect of sevoflurane on olfactory memory, not observed with neuraxial or total intravenous anaesthesia. The misinterpretation of odours in the immediate post-operative period by sevoflurane could be mediated by the decreased levels of melatonin.
Amiodarone is effective in the treatment of supraventricular and ventricular cardiac arrhythmia, however a high incidence of toxic side effects has been observed in various organs and tissues during chronic treatment. Ultrastructural observation of affected tissues reveals myelinoid inclusion bodies. The exact pathogenetic mechanism of these changes is still unknown. In this study we investigated the biochemical effects of this drug on lysosomal hydrolases and the alterations induced in subcellular organelles of fibroblasts cultured for 24 h with different concentrations of amiodarone in the medium. Of the enzyme activities assayed, we only observed a significant reduction in sphingomyelinase. Ultrastructural observation of fibroblasts showed swollen lysosomes and a few onionoid inclusion bodies at lower concentrations of the drug; at higher concentrations the lysosomal system was severely impaired. Cytochemical staining of unesterified cholesterol with filipin showed accumulation of cholesterol. We conclude that chronic amiodarone treatment in experimental conditions induces inhibition in sphingomyelinase activity through interaction with membrane lipids and modification of bilayer structure. Higher concentrations of the drug impair cholesterol transport and induce lipid accumulation. These results may be useful for understanding the pathogenesis of induced lipidosis in patients in chronic treatment with amiodarone.
Prenatal cocaine exposure has been linked with subependymal hemorrhage and the formation of cysts that are detectable on cranial sonography in neonates born at term. We sought to determine if prenatal cocaine exposure increases the incidence of subependymal cysts in preterm infants.
We retrospectively reviewed the medical records and cranial sonograms obtained during a 1-year period on 122 premature (< 36 weeks of gestation) infants. Infants were categorized into 1 of 2 groups: those exposed to cocaine and those not exposed to cocaine. Infants were assigned to the cocaine-exposed group if there was a maternal history of cocaine abuse during pregnancy or if maternal or neonatal urine toxicology results were positive at the time of delivery.
Five of the 122 infants were excluded from the study because of insufficient medical and drug histories. The incidence of subependymal cysts in the 117 remaining infants was 14% (16 of 117). The incidence of subependymal cysts in infants exposed to cocaine prenatally was 44% (8 of 18) compared with 8% (8 of 99) in the unexposed group (p < 0.01).
We found an increased incidence of subependymal cyst formation in preterm infants who were exposed to cocaine prenatally. This result is consistent with results of similar studies in term infants.
Although the United States Food and Drug Administration banned its use for nocturnal leg cramps due to lack of safety and efficacy, quinine is widely available in beverages including tonic water and bitter lemon. Numerous anecdotal reports suggest that products containing quinine may produce neurological complications, including confusion, altered mental status, seizures, and coma, particularly in older women. Psychologists need to inquire about consumption of quinine-containing beverages as part of an evaluation process.
The present study aimed at comparing the effects of a dose reduction of inhaled corticosteroids on lung function, indirect measures of airway inflammation and clinical scores during treatment with a leucotriene receptor antagonist. In 50 patients (mean forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) 94% predicted), steroid doses (800 microg beclomethasone dipropionate) were first reduced to 50% and then to 25%, for 6 weeks each. One group received a placebo and the other group received montelukast (10 mg). The first reduction did not cause significant effects. During the second, FEV1 and peak expiratory flow decreased in both groups (p<0.001). Daytime symptoms were not altered with placebo but were reduced by montelukast (p<0.05). Night-time symptoms were slightly elevated with placebo (p<0.05) but not montelukast, as well as the use of supplemental salbutamol. Changes in provocative concentration of methacholine causing a 20% fall in FEV1 (PC20), sputum eosinophils and exhaled nitric oxide were mostly nonsignificant for both placebo and montelukast. These data demonstrate that a 75% reduction in the dose of steroid given to patients with asthma led to a deterioration in lung function not prevented by montelukast, whereas changes in clinical state seemed to favour montelukast treatment. It therefore appears that potential effects of montelukast, in the presence of low-dose steroids, could not be attributed to single indices of lung function or airway inflammation.
Elevated lipoprotein (a) [LP (a)] concentrations are independent risk factors of coronary heart disease or stroke in young adults. To clarify its role in childhood thromboembolism, Lp (a) was measured in 72 children with thromboembolism.
In addition to Lp (a), defects of the protein C anticoagulant system, antithrombin, and antiphospholipid antibodies were investigated in children with arterial (n = 36) or venous (n = 36) thrombosis.
Enhanced Lp (a) >50 mg/dL was diagnosed in 8 out of 36 children with arterial and 5 out of 36 patients with venous thrombosis. Of the 72 children, 25 showed the factor V Leiden mutation, 10 showed protein C deficiency, 2 showed antithrombin deficiency, and 4 showed primary antiphospholipid syndrome. Three children with increased Lp (a) were heterozygous for the factor V Leiden mutation, and 1 girl showed additional protein C deficiency.
Data of this study indicate that increased concentrations of Lp (a) play an important role in childhood thrombosis.
We recently reported that intrarenal vascular AT1 angiotensin II (ANG II) receptors are major determinants of the increased vascular resistance and reactivity to ANG II observed in the kidney of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). We decided to test the hypothesis that, by modifying plasma ANG II levels by inhibiting the ANG II-converting enzyme (ACE) with captopril, we would modify intrarenal ANG II receptors, and therefore the renal vascular response to ANG II. Two approaches were taken: (1) radioligand binding assays were performed on membrane preparations of purified renal microvessels and glomeruli, with displacement of 125I-[Sar-Ile8]-ANG II by specific non-peptide antagonists of AT (losartan) and AT2 (PD 123319): (2) dose-response curves to ANG II on the isolated perfused kidney were studied. Two weeks of captopril treatment significantly reduced blood pressure (BP) and relative heart weight, and increased plasma renin activity. The binding assays showed that renal microvessels and glomeruli expressed a single receptor population (AT1) for ANG II. The density of glomerular AT1 was not modulated by captopril treatment (600 +/- 174 v 573 +/- 97 fmol/mg protein in non-treated and treated SHR respectively); however. AT1 density on the intrarenal arteries increased 3-fold (55 +/- 20 v 154 +/- 30 fmol/mg protein in non-treated and treated SHR respectively. P < 0.05). Experiments with isolated perfused kidneys demonstrated that captopril did not improve the compliance of intrarenal vessels to high flow but increased their reactivity to ANG II (ED50 = 18 nM v 0.5 pM, P < 0.01). We conclude that treatment with an ACE inhibitor increases vascular reactivity to ANG II which may be mediated by an upregulation of renal vascular ANG II receptors.
Several lines of evidence implicate dysfunction of glutamatergic neurotransmission in opiate dependence and withdrawal. Functional antagonists of glutamatergic system, including compounds acting on both ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors (group I mGlu receptor antagonists and group II mGlu receptor agonists), have been shown to decrease behavioural signs of opiate withdrawal in rodents. In the present study we analyzed an influence of group III mGlu receptor agonist, ACPT-I, on opioid withdrawal syndrome, induced by repeated morphine administration and final naloxone injection. We show, that ACPT-I significantly attenuated typical symptoms of naloxone-induced morphine withdrawal, after peripheral administration in C57BL/6J mice. These data indicate an important role of group III mGlu receptors in morphine withdrawal states and suggest that activation of group III mGlu receptors may reduce opiate withdrawal symptoms.
The present study examined the effect of a subchronic systemic administration of the glutamate metabotropic mGluR5 receptor antagonist MPEP on l-DOPA-induced dyskinesias and striatal gene expression in adult rats with a unilateral 6-OHDA lesion of dopamine neurons. The daily systemic administration of l-DOPA for 2 weeks induced a gradual increase in limb dyskinesia and axial dystonia. The subchronic systemic co-administration of MPEP reduced the severity of limb dyskinesia and axial dystonia over the whole duration of l-DOPA treatment. Subchronic l-DOPA administration was paralleled by a significant increase in mRNA levels of the two isoforms of the GABA-synthesizing enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD67 and GAD65) and preprodynorphin (PPD). Single cell analysis on emulsion radioautographs indicated that l-DOPA-induced increases in GAD67 occurred predominantly in preproenkephalin-unlabeled striatonigral and, to a lesser extent, in preproenkephalin-labeled striatopallidal neurons. MPEP completely reversed the effects of l-DOPA on GAD67 and reduced the increases in GAD65 and PPD mRNA levels in striatonigral neurons. MPEP also reversed the small l-DOPA-induced increase in GAD67 mRNA levels in striatopallidal neurons. Altogether, the findings support the idea that the relative efficacy of mGluR5 receptor antagonists to oppose l-DOPA-induced abnormal involuntary movements involves an ability to oppose increases in GAD gene expression and GABA-mediated signaling in striatonigral and striatopallidal neurons. The results also confirm the potential usefulness of antagonists of mGluR5 receptors as adjuncts in the treatment of l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in patients with Parkinson's disease.
Hypercalcaemia may cause acute renal failure.
We present and discuss two patients with acute renal failure caused by hypercalcaemia.
Patient no. 1 was treated with too high doses of vitamin D for hypoparathyroidism. Patient no. 2 had been taking extremely high doses of calcium carbonate for dyspeptic pain. Volume depletion and renal vasoconstriction are the mechanisms that lead to acute renal failure. Long-lasting hypercalcaemia will lead to calcium deposits in the kidneys (nephrocalcinosis), which is known to cause chronic renal failure.
It is mandatory to start early treatment for serious hypercalcaemia. If treatment is started in time, the renal failure may be reversible. Constant vigilance is essential when patients are treated with vitamin D.
The medical complications of cocaine abuse are being encountered by clinicians with increasing frequency. The cardiovascular manifestations of cocaine abuse include chest pain, myocardial ischemia and infarction, congestive heart failure, arrhythmias, infective endocarditis, and aortic dissection. The pathogenesis of these cardiovascular complications has not been fully elucidated but may be related to a combination of the sympathomimetic and membrane anaesthetic effects of cocaine. We present these concepts in a case discussion format.
Prostate cancer is one of the most frequently diagnosed cancers in human males. Progression of these tumors is facilitated by autocrine/paracrine growth factors which activate critical signaling cascades that promote prostate cancer cell growth, survival and migration. Among these, Ras pathways have a major role. Here we examined the effect of the Ras inhibitor S-trans, trans-farnesylthiosalicylic acid (FTS), on growth and viability of androgen-dependent and androgen-independent prostate cancer cells. FTS downregulated Ras, inhibited signaling to Akt and reduced the levels of cell-cycle regulatory proteins including cyclin D1, p-RB, E2F-1 and cdc42 in LNCaP and PC3 cells. Consequently the anchorage-dependent and anchorage-independent growth of LNCaP and PC3 cells were inhibited. FTS also induced apoptotic cell death which was inhibited by the broad-spectrum caspases inhibitor, Boc-asp-FMK. Our study demonstrated that androgen-dependent and androgen-independent prostate cancer cells require active Ras for growth and survival. Ras inhibition by FTS results in growth arrest and cell death. FTS may be qualified as a potential agent for the treatment of prostate cancer.
Debrisoquine, guanethidine and bethanidine may produce troublesome hypotensive symtoms related to exertion. Thirteen patients with such symptoms were exercised on a treadmill and the response of blood pressure and heart rate was compared to that of thirty patients without these symptoms, who were exercised to the same extent. There was a slight drop of systolic and diastolic pressures on standing in both groups, but after exertion there was a significantly greater drop of systolic pressure in the group with symptoms than in the asymptomatic group. The diastolic pressure after exertion was significantly lower in the group with symptoms. It was impossible to predict from the standing blood pressure levels at rest which patients would develop hypotensive symptoms after exertion. All three drugs had a similar negative chronotropic effect at rest and on exercise. It is suggested that patients are exercised during control of hypertension in order to identify those prone to exertional hypotension. Patients with such hypotension should be exercised on each attendance before the blood pressure is measured. Treatment other than postganglionic sympathetic blocking drugs should be employed whenever possible in patients with milder hypertension.
Methylphenidate (MPH), the most commonly prescribed medication for childhood attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), shares chemical and mechanistic similarities to cocaine which has stimulated research to address the addiction liability following treatment.
Utilizing locomotor sensitization we examined the consequences of recurrent MPH versus cocaine treatment during preadolescence in altering cocaine-induced locomotor behavior in adolescent and adult mice. Black Swiss Webster mice were treated with MPH, cocaine, or saline during preadolescence. To test whether MPH pretreatment during preadolescence contributed to an altered sensitivity to cocaine during adolescence, these mice were treated with recurrent cocaine or saline during adolescence. All mice were challenged with cocaine as adults.
Recurrent MPH treatment, unlike cocaine treatment in preadolescent mice, had no effect on locomotor sensitization to cocaine during adolescence or adulthood, as compared with saline controls. Furthermore, unlike cocaine, administration of MPH in adolescence did not augment the response to cocaine challenge.
MPH treatment during preadolescence does not increase subsequent sensitivity to cocaine, whereas cocaine treatment does. Thus, MPH treatment during preadolescence does not appear to persistently induce long-term adaptations, which may underlie an enhanced liability for subsequent drug abuse.
To investigate the ototoxic and nephrotoxic effects of long-term use of aminoglycosides.
Patients treated for tuberculosis with aminoglycosides were evaluated for hearing loss and nephrotoxicity for a minimum of 14 days.
Hearing loss of 15 decibels (dB) at two or more frequencies, or at least 20 dB hearing loss at at least one frequency, was found in 18% of our total population treated with aminoglycosides (amikacin, kanamycin and/or streptomycin). In the group treated with kanamycin this percentage was 15.6. None of the factors sex, age, treatment duration, total aminoglycoside doses or first serum creatinine concentration, was found to be associated with hearing loss. Nephrotoxicity percentages at the end of treatment with aminoglycoside or kanamycin are 7.5% (1.9%) and 4.5% (2.3%) respectively, using the definition increase of serum creatinine > or = 27 micromol/l (> or = 44 micromol/l). Patients developing nephrotoxicity had a longer duration of treatment and received larger total doses.
Patients developing nephrotoxicity had a significantly longer duration of treatment with aminoglycosides, and received a larger total dose. We did not find any factor significantly associated with the development of hearing loss. In the long-term treatment of tuberculosis with aminoglycosides, ototoxicity seems to be a greater problem than nephrotoxicity.
Positive benzoylecgonine (BZE) urinalysis results are sometimes challenged in legal and administrative proceedings on the grounds that the presence of BZE is due to the addition of cocaine to the urine sample with subsequent in vitro hydrolysis to BZE. Consequently, counsel for the respondent or defendant may move that an ecgonine methyl ester (EME) analysis be preformed because EME is presumed to be solely an in vivo cocaine metabolite. For these reasons, a sensitive and rapid gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric procedure was developed for the simultaneous analysis of m-hydroxybenzoylecgonine (m-OHBZE), p-hydroxybenzoylecgonine (p-OHBZE), and N-desmethyl benzoyl ecgonine (norBZE), all of which are cocaine metabolites believed to arise exclusively via in vivo metabolism. Analysis of human urine specimens previously reported positive for BZE using GC-MS at the Department of Defense cutoff of 100 ng/mL demonstrated that at least one of the three metabolites was present in 79 of the 82 specimens studied (96.3%). Thus, the simultaneous analysis of r-OHBZE, p-OHBZE, and norBZE could be used to substantiate that the presence of BZE in urine specimens is the result of cocaine ingestion. Additionally, the premise that EME is a "true" in vivo cocaine metabolite was investigated by assessing the stability of cocaine in unpreserved urine samples at several pHs ranging from 5.0 to 9.0.
A total of 30 human head-hair samples were analyzed for cocaine (COC), cocaethylene (CE), benzoylecgonine (BE), methylecgonine (EME), and norcocaine (NCOC) using a sensitive positive ion chemical ionization gas chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (GC-MS-MS) method. All 30 hair samples had been previously submitted to the laboratory and had confirmed positive for cocaine. Hair samples (20 mg each) were cut into small segments (2-5 mm) and incubated overnight at 45 degrees C in 0.1 N HCl after the addition of 50 microL of an internal standard mix of COC-d3 (1.0 ng/mg), BE-d3 (0.5 ng/mg), EME-d3 (0.25 ng/mg), and NCOC-d3 (0.25 ng/mg). The samples were then extracted with Clean Screen extraction columns from United Chemical Technologies, Inc. The final extract was evaporated to dryness and derivatized with 50 microL of 1,1,1,3,3,3-hexafluoro-2-propanol and 50 microL of trifluoroacetic anhydride at 90 degrees C for 15 min. The derivatized samples were allowed to cool to room temperature, evaporated to dryness, and then reconstituted in 50 microL of ethyl acetate. Parent set masses (unbolded ions) and product ions were m/z 304 and m/z 182 and 82 (COC), m/z 307 and m/z 185 and 85 (COC-d3), m/z 318 and m/z 196 and 82 (CE), m/z 440 and m/z 318 and 105 (BE), m/z 443 and m/z 321 and 105 (BE-d3), m/z 296 and m/z 182, and 82 (EME), m/z 299 and m/z 185 and 85 (EME-d3), m/z 403 and m/z 386 and 105 (NCOC), m/z 406 and m/z 389 and 105 (NCOC-d3). Quantitation was accomplished by calculating the area ratio of the higher mass product ion (underlined ions) of analyte to the respective internal standard based on multilevel calibrations from 0.01 to 10.0 ng/mg. The GC-MS-MS method had a limit of detection of 0.01 ng/mg and a limit of quantitation of 0.05 ng/mg for all five analytes. COC, BE, and EME were detected in all 30 samples, and CE and NCOC were found in 19 and 29 samples, respectively. The average relative percentages of each metabolite normalized to the cocaine concentrations were 12.8%, 15.4%, 1.8%, and 2.5% for BE, CE, EME, and NCOC, respectively.
A 52-year-old man experienced progressive tonic-clonic activity soon after undergoing a myelogram accompanied by an intrathecal injection of Omnipaque. The activity progressed to seizures, hyperthermia, and acidosis. He was intubated, cooled, and treated symptomatically. His creatinine kinase rose to 60,000 IU/L. He eventually recovered completely. This distinct set of clinical signs renders the syndrome easily recognizable. Although this syndrome superficially resembles malignant hyperthermia, the pathophysiology is different. Survival depends on prompt recognition and rapid symptomatic treatment. Treatment with dantrolene sodium is not necessary.
Induction of chronic oxidative stress by glutathione (GSH) depletion has been shown to cause hypertension in normal rats. This was accompanied by and perhaps in part due to inactivation and sequestration of NO by reactive oxygen species (ROS), leading to diminished NO bioavailability. This study was designed to examine renal histology, nitric oxide synthase (NOS) isotype expression, and nitrotyrosine distribution in this model. Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to oxidative stress by administration of the GSH synthase inhibitor buthionine sulfoximine (BSO; 30 mM/l in drinking water) for 2 weeks. The controls were given tap water. Blood pressure, renal histology, tissue expression of endothelial and inducible NOS (eNOS and iNOS) and nitrotyrosine, tissue GSH content, and urinary excretion of NO metabolites (NOx) were examined. The BSO-treated group showed a 3-fold decrease in tissue GSH content, a marked elevation in blood pressure, and a significant reduction in the urinary excretion of NOx. Histological examination of kidneys revealed no significant abnormalities in either group. In addition, no significant differences were observed in either intensities or localizations of eNOS and iNOS in the kidney. However, the BSO-treated group exhibited intense accumulation in the renal tissue of nitrotyrosine, which is the footprint of NO oxidation by ROS. These observations suggest that oxidative stress-induced hypertension is not caused by either structural abnormality of or depressed NOS expression by the kidney in this model. Instead, it is associated with and perhaps partially related to enhanced renal NO inactivation by ROS and diminished NO bioavailability.
The in vitro metabolism of isolated rat glomeruli in Daunomycin-nephrosis (DMS) and neophrotoxic nephritis (ANS) was determined in order to investigate questions about the nephrotic syndrome. Glomeruli of rats with Daunomycin-nephrosis influenced metabolic steps as follows: 1. Oxydative decarboxydation of pyruvate and probably also of alpha-ketoglutarate is decreased. This disturbance might be located in the formation of acetyl-and/or succinyl-CoA. 2. Incubation with pyruvate and alpha-ketoglutarat resulted in reduced oxygen uptake, and resynthesis of ATP. 3. Incorporation of thimidin into glomerular DNS is inhibited in the beginning stage of Daunomycin-nephrosis; while incorporation of amino acids into glomerular protein is not, beta-oxydation of fatty acids is at least until entrance into the TCA cycle undisturbed. In contrast, glomeruli of rats with nephrotoxic nephritis utilised more oxygen and the stationary concentration of ATP within the glomeruli was elevated. The pathway of the nephrotic syndrome is not exactly known. Metabolic and morphologic studies with glomeruli of the immunologically and the toxically induced nephrotic syndrome showed different biochemical and histological disorders for the same clinical symptoms. As the beginning of nephrotic syndrome very different lesions in the glomerulus have to be expected, which result in a greater permeability of basal membranes.
Symptoms and signs in four patients with thalidomide-induced neuropathy developing during treatment of discoid lupus were limited for long period to distal paresthesiae with altered sensory conduction velocities. Semi-thin biopsy specimens of the distal sural nerve showed depopulation of myelinized fibers, mainly affecting those of large caliber, and signs of axonal degeneration. Study of dissociated fibers showed a high proportion of E fibers. Morphometry confirmed the axonal lesion. Ultrastructural examination demonstrated anomalies of axons of amyelinic fibers (vacuoles, lamellar figures) and of Schwann cells (stacked cytoplasmic prolongations), together with numerous collagen pockets, all non-specific lesions. The disease course was slow, with disappearance of sensory symptoms in a few weeks in 3 of the 4 cases and normal clinical findings in one of the four patients one year after cessation of treatment. Definite correlations between the dose administered and the severity of the neuropathy could not be established. The still poorly understood mechanism of action is discussed.
Single-dose physical dependence on morphine, as indicated by the mouse withdrawal jumping test, was reduced in a dose-related fashion by co-administration of naloxone. In the same dose range, naloxone also antagonized the antinociceptive effect of morphine in the mouse writhing test. Dose-response data revealed essentially the same ED50's for naloxone in both tests. These results indicate that naloxone does indeed block the development of morphine-induced single-dose physical dependence in mice and that it does so as effectively as it blocks morphine-induced inhibition of writhing.
Inorganic arsenic, a human carcinogen, is enzymatically methylated for detoxication, consuming S-adenosyl-methionine (SAM) in the process. The fact that DNA methyltransferases (MeTases) require this same methyl donor suggests a role for methylation in arsenic carcinogenesis. Here we test the hypothesis that arsenic-induced initiation results from DNA hypomethylation caused by continuous methyl depletion. The hypothesis was tested by first inducing transformation in a rat liver epithelial cell line by chronic exposure to low levels of arsenic, as confirmed by the development of highly aggressive, malignant tumors after inoculation of cells into Nude mice. Global DNA hypomethylation occurred concurrently with malignant transformation and in the presence of depressed levels of S-adenosyl-methionine. Arsenic-induced DNA hypomethylation was a function of dose and exposure duration, and remained constant even after withdrawal of arsenic. Hyperexpressibility of the MT gene, a gene for which expression is clearly controlled by DNA methylation, was also detected in transformed cells. Acute arsenic or arsenic at nontransforming levels did not induce global hypomethylation of DNA. Whereas transcription of DNA MeTase was elevated, the MeTase enzymatic activity was reduced with arsenic transformation. Taken together, these results indicate arsenic can act as a carcinogen by inducing DNA hypomethylation, which in turn facilitates aberrant gene expression, and they constitute a tenable theory of mechanism in arsenic carcinogenesis.
Cinnamaldehydes have been shown to have inhibitory effects on farnesyl protein transferase (FPTase; EC 2.5.1.29) in vitro, angiogenesis, cell-cell adhesion, and tumor cell growth and to be immunomodulators. However, the mechanisms responsible for these effects remain unknown. To elucidate the molecular mechanism of the cinnamaldehyde derivative CB403 for growth inhibition, CB403 was synthesized from 2'-hydroxycinnamaldehyde. CB403-treated cells were weakly adherent to the culture dishes. In addition, CB403 inhibited tumor growth in these cells in a concentration-dependent manner. FACS analysis using human cancer cells treated with this compound showed cell cycle arrest in mitosis, which was correlated with a marked increase in the amount of cyclin B1. Furthermore, CB403 blocked in vivo growth of human colon and breast tumor xenografts without loss of body weight in nude mice. These results support the hypothesis that the cinnamaldehyde derivative CB403 exerts cytostatic properties by inducing mitotic arrest in cancer cells.
Typically, chemopreventive agents either inhibit the cytochrome P450s (CYPs) that are essential for the metabolism of carcinogens or induce phase II detoxifying enzymes. This study examined the chemopreventive effect of eugenol on 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA)-induced DNA damage in MCF-7 cells. Eugenol inhibited the formation of the DMBA-DNA adduct in a dose dependent manner. CYP1A1 and CYP1B1 activity, which catalyze the biotransformation of DMBA, were strongly inhibited by eugenol. Eugenol also suppressed the CYP1A induction by DMBA through decreased aryl hydrocarbon receptor activation and subsequent DNA binding. Furthermore, eugenol increased the expression and activity of NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase (QR), a major detoxifying enzyme for DMBA, through NF-E2 related factor2 binding to antioxidant response element in QR gene. Therefore, eugenol has a potent protective effect against DMBA-induced genotoxicity, presumably through the suppression of the DMBA activation and the induction of its detoxification. These results suggest that eugenol has potential as a chemopreventive.
A study of 197 epileptic outpatients consecutively observed by one Neurologist allowed a prospective study of the side effects of antiepileptic drugs. This study shows essentially that a clinical improvement comparable to that generally reported can be obtained with side effects limited in their number and intensity. The main principle is the routine search of these effects which are not always spontaneously mentioned by the patients, especially intellectual slowness and loss of sexual activity. The detection of the side effects through history and physical examination is far more fruitful than are plasma concentrations of drugs which can be doubly misleading: some plasma concentrations lower than recognized therapeutical levels are efficient however while others are higher and nevertheless necessary and well tolerated. Among the side effects specific to certain antiepileptic drugs, shoulder-hand syndrome due to phenobarbital was noted in 10 per cent of the cases. Furthermore, the frequency of scapulo-humeral periarthritis was significantly higher in the epileptic group than in the controls. Dupuytren's disease was less frequent (8 per cent) and the difference with the controls was not significant. Among the non-specific side effects, nystagmus is a somewhat useful sign in treatments by phenytoin but as with drugs dosages, it must be weighed within the whole clinical picture.
