Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) represent a heterogeneous group of neoplastic hematopoietic disorders. Several recurrent chromosomal aberrations have been associated with MDS, but the genes affected have remained largely unknown. To identify relevant genetic lesions involved in the pathogenesis of MDS, we conducted SNP array-based genomic profiling and genomic sequencing in 102 individuals with MDS and identified acquired deletions and missense and nonsense mutations in the TET2 gene in 26% of these individuals. Using allele-specific assays, we detected TET2 mutations in most of the bone marrow cells (median 96%). In addition, the mutations were encountered in various lineages of differentiation including CD34(+) progenitor cells, suggesting that TET2 mutations occur early during disease evolution. In healthy tissues, TET2 expression was shown to be elevated in hematopoietic cells with highest expression in granulocytes, in line with a function in myelopoiesis. We conclude that TET2 is the most frequently mutated gene in MDS known so far.
Multiple members of the let-7 family of miRNAs are often repressed in human cancers, thereby promoting oncogenesis by derepressing targets such as HMGA2, K-Ras and c-Myc. However, the mechanism by which let-7 miRNAs are coordinately repressed is unclear. The RNA-binding proteins LIN28 and LIN28B block let-7 precursors from being processed to mature miRNAs, suggesting that their overexpression might promote malignancy through repression of let-7. Here we show that LIN28 and LIN28B are overexpressed in primary human tumors and human cancer cell lines (overall frequency approximately 15%), and that overexpression is linked to repression of let-7 family miRNAs and derepression of let-7 targets. LIN28 and LIN28b facilitate cellular transformation in vitro, and overexpression is associated with advanced disease across multiple tumor types. Our work provides a mechanism for the coordinate repression of let-7 miRNAs observed in a subset of human cancers, and associates activation of LIN28 and LIN28B with poor clinical prognosis.
Acute doses of buprenorphine can precipitate withdrawal in opioid dependent persons. The likelihood of this withdrawal increases as a function of the level of physical dependence.
To test the acute effects of sublingual buprenorphine/naloxone tablets in volunteers with a higher level of physical dependence. The goal was to identify a dose that would precipitate withdrawal (Phase 1), then determine if withdrawal could be attenuated by splitting this dose (Phase 2).
Residential laboratory study; subjects (N=16) maintained on 100mg per day of methadone. Phase 1: randomized, double blind, triple dummy, within subject study. Conditions were sublingual buprenorphine/naloxone (4/1, 8/2, 16/4, 32mg/8mg), intramuscular naloxone (0.2mg), oral methadone (100mg), or placebo. Medication conditions were randomized, but buprenorphine/naloxone doses were ascending within the randomization. Phase 2: Conditions were methadone, placebo, naloxone, 100% of the buprenorphine/naloxone dose that precipitated withdrawal in Phase 1 (full dose), and 50% of this dose administered twice in a session (split dose). Analyses covaried by trough methadone serum levels.
Six subjects did not complete the study. Of the 10 who completed, 3 tolerated up to 32mg/8mg of buprenorphine/naloxone without evidence of precipitated withdrawal. For the seven completing both phases, split doses generally produced less precipitated withdrawal compared to full doses.
There is considerable between subject variability in sensitivity to buprenorphine's antagonist effects. Low, repeated doses of buprenorphine/naloxone (e.g., 2mg/0.5mg) may be an effective mechanism for safely dosing this medication in persons with higher levels of physical dependence.
A patient maintained on methadone for opioid-dependency developed recurrent syncope. Episodes occurred within hours after using cocaine, and were initially presumed secondary to seizure disorder. However, the patient subsequently suffered a cardiac arrest, and polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (torsade de pointes) was documented. Other than cocaine and methadone the patient was receiving no additional agents known to prolong the QT interval. Low serum methadone concentrations and marked reversible left ventricular systolic dysfunction were noted during the hospitalization. These findings, in conjunction with a history of torsade de pointes temporally related to cocaine abuse, suggest that cocaine was a major precipitant of arrhythmia. Recent experimental studies have shown that cocaine and methadone prolong the QT interval through the same mechanism. We examine the effects of cocaine and methadone on cardiac conduction in the context of the opioid-dependent population.
The local anesthetic, antiarrhythmic, and acute toxicologic properties of the O-demethyl (ODE), 3-methoxy-O-demethyl (MODE) and N-demethyl (NDE) analogs of encainide (E) were compared with those of parent drug in several models. In the mouse chloroform-induced fibrillation model, the order of antiarrhythmic potency was ODE greater than E greater than MODE greater than NDE. The acute LD50 values for ODE, E, MODE and NDE in mice were 22.6, 38.1, 43.6 and 81.1 mg/kg, i.p. Based upon the toxic/therapeutic ratio in mice, ODE appeared to have the greatest margin of safety and MODE the least; E and NDE were intermediate. In dogs with ouabain-induced tachyarrhythmias, the converting doses of encainide, ODE, MODE and NDE were 0.67, 0.15, 0.39 and 1.1 mg/kg, i.v., respectively. The ODE and MODE metabolites thus appear to be more potent on a mg basis, but both have shorter durations of action than the parent compound. Antiarrhythmic activity in this model was best reflected by plasma drug level (Cp) rather than dose of drug administered. Antiarrhythmic onset Cp associated with encainide (244 ng/ml), ODE (77 ng/ml), MODE (164 ng/ml) and NDE (851 ng/ml) have been identified in this anesthetized dog model. In conscious dogs previously subjected to Harris two-stage coronary artery ligation, the minimal effective doses of encainide were 0.5 mg/kg i.v. and 1 mg/kg orally. For ODE and MODE the minimal effective doses were 0.25 and 0.19 mg/kg injected i.v., respectively, and 0.5 and 0.38 mg/kg given orally. By both routes, encainide had the shortest onset, longest duration and most consistent profile of sustained antiarrhythmic effects. Antiarrhythmic activity did not correlate with local anesthetic potency of either encainide or its metabolites. The data are consistent with the hypothesis that the metabolites of encainide may contribute to and/or be responsible, at least in part, for the persistent antiarrhythmic actions observed clinically following chronic administration of the parent drug in patients.
We established the presence of the proinflammatory cytokine macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) in the bladder and in nervous system structures innervating the bladder, and evaluated changes in MIF and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) protein levels and expression following chemical cystitis.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized and a catheter was introduced into the bladder dome. Cystitis was induced by infusing 0.4 N HCl into the bladder. Control rats received a similar volume of saline. Two hours later the bladder, major pelvic ganglia (MPG), L6/S1 dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and L6/S1 spinal cord were removed and assayed for MIF and COX-2 protein, and mRNA using Western blot and quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction techniques.
Immunohistochemistry showed MIF located mainly in the urothelium of saline treated rats. Instillation of HCl into the bladder resulted in marked epithelial denudation, moderate edema and vasodilatation in the submucosa. MIF protein levels decreased but MIF mRNA expression remained unchanged in bladders treated with HCl compared with controls. However, MIF protein and mRNA levels increased in the MPG, L6/S1 DRG and L6/S1 spinal cord of HCl treated animals. COX-2 protein was not detected in the bladder, DRG or MPG of saline-treated rats. However, a small amount was present in the L6/S1 cord. On the other hand, HCl treated rats showed marked increases in COX-2 protein levels in all tissues examined. Similarly although cox-2 mRNA was constitutively expressed in all tissues examined, expression increased following HCl treatment.
Chemical cystitis induced by intravesical HCl in rats increases the protein levels and mRNA expression of MIF and COX-2 in central and peripheral nervous system tissues that are involved in innervating the bladder. This finding suggests that MIF may be involved in bladder inflammation and may have a role in the peripheral and central nervous system pathways that regulate bladder reflexes in response to bladder inflammation.
The Notch signaling pathway is a conserved intercellular signaling mechanism that is essential for proper embryonic development in numerous metazoan organisms. We have examined the in vivo role of the Jagged2 (Jag2) gene, which encodes a ligand for the Notch family of transmembrane receptors, by making a targeted mutation that removes a domain of the Jagged2 protein required for receptor interaction. Mice homozygous for this deletion die perinatally because of defects in craniofacial morphogenesis. The mutant homozygotes exhibit cleft palate and fusion of the tongue with the palatal shelves. The mutant mice also exhibit syndactyly (digit fusions) of the fore- and hindlimbs. The apical ectodermal ridge (AER) of the limb buds of the mutant homozygotes is hyperplastic, and we observe an expanded domain of Fgf8 expression in the AER. In the foot plates of the mutant homozygotes, both Bmp2 and Bmp7 expression and apoptotic interdigital cell death are reduced. Mutant homozygotes also display defects in thymic development, exhibiting altered thymic morphology and impaired differentiation of gamma delta lineage T cells. These results demonstrate that Notch signaling mediated by Jag2 plays an essential role during limb, craniofacial, and thymic development in mice.
The Piwi subfamily of genes is involved in spermatogenesis for the maintenance and meiosis of germline stem cells. Mice bearing targeted mutations in Piwi genes (Miwi, Mili and Miwi2) are sterile with distinct defects in spermatogenesis. We hypothesized that Piwi gene polymorphisms could be a risk factor for spermatogenic failure.
For this study, 490 patients with idiopathic azoospermia or oligozoospermia and 468 fertile controls were recruited from an infertility clinic. Nine single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of four Piwi genes (PIWIL1/HIWI, PIWIL2/HILI, PIWIL3/HIWI3 and PIWIL4/HIWI2) were genotyped using the SNPstream® 12-plex platform and the Taqman method.
An SNP in the 3'untranslated region of HIWI2 and a non-synonymous SNP in HIWI3 were significantly associated with an altered risk of oligozoospermia. The variant-containing genotypes of HIWI2 rs508485 exhibited a significantly increased risk, with an odds ratios (OR) of 1.49 [95% confidence interval (CI), 1.02-2.18], and individuals with HIWI3 non-synonymous rs11703684 variant genotypes exhibited a significantly reduced oligozoospermia risk (OR = 0.70; 95% CI, 0.49-1.00). The haplotype analysis showed that a common haplotype of HIWI2 was associated with a significant reduction in the risk of oligozoospermia (OR = 0.73, 95% CI, 0.56-0.97). In addition, to assess the cumulative effects, we performed a combined unfavourable genotype analysis. A significant trend towards increased risk of oligozoospermia with an increasing number of unfavourable genotypes was observed (P for trend < 0.001).
We present the first epidemiologic evidence supporting the involvement of genetic polymorphisms in Piwi genes in spermatogenic failure.
Patent foramen ovale (PFO) is associated with stroke, but there are no randomized studies to evaluate the efficacy of antithrombotic therapies.
The PFO in Cryptogenic Stroke Study was a 42-center study that evaluated transesophageal echocardiographic findings in patients randomly assigned to warfarin or aspirin in the Warfarin-Aspirin Recurrent Stroke Study. In this study, 630 stroke patients were enrolled, of whom 312 (49.5%) were randomized to warfarin and 318 (50.5%) to aspirin. Of these, 265 patients experienced cryptogenic stroke and 365 experienced known stroke subtypes. End points were recurrent ischemic stroke or death. PFO was present in 203 patients (33.8%). There was no significant difference in the time to primary end points between those with and those without PFO in the overall population (P=0.84; hazard ratio 0.96; 95% CI 0.62 to 1.48; 2-year event rates 14.8% versus 15.4%) or in the cryptogenic subset (P=0.65; hazard ratio 1.17; 95% CI 0.60 to 2.37; 2-year event rates 14.3% versus 12.7%). There was no significant difference among those with no, small, or large PFO (P=0.41 for small PFO and P=0.16 for large PFO; 2-year event rates for no, small, and large PFO, 15.4%, 18.5%, and 9.5%, respectively). There was no significant difference between patients with isolated PFO and those with PFO in association with atrial septal aneurysm (P=0.84; 2-year event rates 14.5% versus 15.9%). In patients with PFO, there was no significant difference in the time to primary end points between those treated with warfarin and those treated with aspirin (P=0.49; hazard ratio 1.29; 95% CI 0.63 to 2.64; 2-year event rates 16.5% versus 13.2%).
On medical therapy, the presence of PFO in stroke patients did not increase the chance of adverse events regardless of PFO size or the presence of atrial septal aneurysm.
Hepatic arterial infusion of floxuridine is an effective treatment for unresectable hepatic metastases from colorectal cancer. Despite its pharmacological advantage of higher tumor drug concentration with minimal systemic toxicity, hepatic arterial infusion of floxuridine is characterized by regional toxicity, including hepatobiliary damage resembling idiopathic sclerosing cholangitis (5-29% of treated cases). Unlike previous reports describing biliary damage of both intrahepatic and extrahepatic ducts, a case series of extrahepatic biliary stenosis after hepatic arterial infusion with floxuridine is herein described. Between September 1993 and February 1999, 54 patients received intraarterial hepatic chemotherapy based on continuous infusion of floxuridine (dose escalation 0.15-0.30 mg/kg/day for 14 days every 28 days) plus dexamethasone 28 mg. Twenty-seven patients underwent laparotomy to implant the catheter into the hepatic artery, the other 27 patients receiving a percutaneous catheter into the hepatic artery through a transaxillary access. Five patients (9.2%) developed biliary toxicity with jaundice and cholangitis (3 cases), alterations of liver function tests and radiological features of biliary tract abnormalities. They received from 9 to 19 cycles (mean 14.5 +/- 6.3 cycles) of floxuridine infusion with a total drug delivered dose ranging from 20.3 to 41.02 mg/kg (mean: 31.4 +/- 13.5 mg/kg). Extrahepatic biliary sclerosis was discovered by computed tomography scan and ultrasound, followed by endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography and/or percutaneous cholangiography in 3 cases. Radiological findings included common hepatic duct complete obstruction in 1 case, common hepatic duct stenosis in 2 cases, common bile duct obstruction in 1 case, and intrahepatic bile ducts dilation without a well-recognized obstruction in 1 case. Two patients were treated by sequentially percutaneous biliary drainage and balloon dilation while 1 patient had an endoscopic transpapillary biliary prosthesis placed. Percutaneous or endoscopic procedures obtained the improvement of hepatic function and cholestatic indexes without subsequent jaundice or cholangitis. In two patients suppression of floxuridine infusion allowed the improvement of hepatic function. The present series suggests that in some patients receiving hepatic arterial infusion of floxuridine extrahepatic biliary stenosis may represent the primary event leading to a secondary intrahepatic biliary damage that does not correlate with specific floxuridine toxicity but results from bile stasis and infection, recurrent cholangitis and eventually biliary sclerosis. Aggressive research for extrahepatic biliary sclerosis is advised, since an early nonsurgical treatment of extrahepatic biliary stenosis may prevent an irreversible intrahepatic biliary sclerosis worsening the prognosis of metastatic liver disease.
Activation of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) plays an important role in liver regeneration and resistance to acute injury. However its chronic activation participates in the progression of liver disease, including fibrogenesis and malignant transformation. Hepatobiliary disease represents a constant feature in the clinically relevant Fechm1pas/Fechm1pas genetic model of erythropoietic protoporphyria (EPP). Similarly, chronic administration of griseofulvin to mice induces pathological changes similar to those found in patients with EPP-associated liver injury. We investigated the hepatic expression of the EGFR and its seven most relevant ligands in Fechm1pas/Fechm1pas mice bred in three different backgrounds, and in griseofulvin-induced protoporphyria. We observed that the expression of amphiregulin, betacellulin and epiregulin was significantly increased in young EPP mice when compared to aged-matched controls in all genetic backgrounds. The expression of these ligands was also tested in older (11 months) BALB/cJ EPP mice, and it was found to remain induced, while that of the EGFR was downregulated. Griseofulvin feeding also increased the expression of amphiregulin, betacellulin and epiregulin. Interestingly, protoporphyrin accumulation in cultured hepatic AML-12 cells readily elicited the expression of these three EGFR ligands. Our findings suggest that protoporphyrin could directly induce the hepatic expression of EGFR ligands, and that their chronic upregulation might participate in the pathogenesis of EPP-associated liver disease.
We aimed to evaluate low intensity oral anticoagulation with warfarin and low-dose aspirin in the primary prevention of ischaemic heart disease (IHD).
5499 men aged between 45 years and 69 years at high risk of IHD were recruited from 108 practices in the UK that belong to the Medical Research Council's General Practice Research Framework. Initially, warfarin or placebo was randomly allocated to 1427 men; 1013 of these men later moved to a factorial stage of the trial, retaining their warfarin or placebo warfarin allocation and adding randomly allocated active or placebo aspirin. Another 4072 men entered directly into the factorial stage making a total of 5085 men. The four factorial treatment groups were: active warfarin and active aspirin (WA, n = 1277), active warfarin and placebo aspirin (W, n = 1268), and placebo warfarin and active aspirin (A, n = 1268), and placebo warfarin and placebo aspirin (P, n = 1272). The primary end-point was all IHD defined as the sum of coronary death and fatal and non-fatal myocardial infarction (MI).
The mean International Normalised Ratio (INR) of those on active warfarin was 1.47. The mean warfarin dose was 4.1 mg a day (range 0.5 mg-12.5 mg). There were 410 IHD events (142 fatal, 268 non-fatal). The main effect of warfarin (i.e., WA and W vs A and P) was a reduction in all IHD of 21% (95% CI 4-35, p = 0.02) chiefly due to a 39% reduction (15-57, p = 0.003) in fatal events so that warfarin reduced the death rate from all causes by 17% (1-30, p = 0.04). The main effect of aspirin (i.e., WA and A vs W and P) was a reduction in all IHD of 20% (1-35, p = 0.04) almost entirely due to a 32% reduction (12-48, p = 0.004) in non-fatal events. Absolute reductions in all IHD due to warfarin or aspirin were 2.6 and 2.3 per 1000 person years, respectively. WA reduced all IHD by 34% (11-51, p = 0.006) compared with P. WA increased haemorrhagic and fatal strokes. Ruptured aortic or dissecting aneurysms occurred in 15 of those who were or had been on warfarin compared with three of those who had not (p = 0.01).
These results add to evidence that aspirin reduces non-fatal IHD. Warfarin reduced all IHD chiefly because of an effect on fatal events. Combined treatment with warfarin and aspirin is more effective in the reduction of IHD than either agent on its own.
Occasionally long-term survival in disseminated melanoma can be obtained through chemotherapy. We treated 22 patients with disseminated melanoma with an outpatient regimen consisting of dacarbazine (DTIC) and carboplatin. Three patients had a complete response lasting 4+, 9 and 9 months (survival 4+, 10 and 16 months), respectively; 3 patients had a partial response lasting 4, 6 and 8 months (survival 6+, 11+ and 14 months), respectively. Overall response was 27% (95% confidence interval 11-50%). Toxicity was relatively mild and mainly due to nausea. In 3 patients the dose of carboplatin was reduced because of grade 4 haematological toxicity. This described easy outpatient regimen shows comparable results as other polychemotherapeutic regimens in disseminated melanoma, but with a relatively mild toxicity profile.
Based on previous studies comparing different recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) doses, we performed a clinical trial with 0.6 mg/kg, which is lower than the internationally approved dosage of 0.9 mg/kg, aiming to assess the efficacy and safety of alteplase in acute ischemic stroke for the Japanese.
Our prospective, multicenter, single-arm, open-label trial was designed with a target sample size of 100 patients. The primary end points were the proportion of patients with a modified Rankin Scale (mRS) score of 0 to 1 at 3 months and the incidence of symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage (sICH) within 36 hours. Thresholds for these end points were determined by calculating 90% CIs of weighted averages derived from published reports. The protocol was defined according to the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) rt-PA stroke study with slight modifications.
Among the 103 patients enrolled, 38 had an mRS of 0 to 1 at 3 months; this proportion (36.9%) exceeded the predetermined threshold of 33.9%. sICH within 36 hours occurred in 6 patients; this incidence (5.8%) was lower than the threshold of 9.6%.
In patients receiving 0.6 mg/kg alteplase, the outcome and the incidence of sICH were comparable to published data for 0.9 mg/kg. These findings indicate that alteplase, when administered at 0.6 mg/kg to Japanese patients, might offer a clinical efficacy and safety that are compatible with data reported in North America and the European Union for a 0.9 mg/kg dose.
Chronic L-DOPA pharmacotherapy in Parkinson's disease is often accompanied by the development of abnormal and excessive movements known as L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. Rats with 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of dopaminergic neurons chronically treated with L-DOPA develop a rodent analog of this dyskinesia characterized by severe axial, limb, locomotor and orofacial abnormal involuntary movements. While the mechanisms by which these effects occur are not clear, they may involve the nitric oxide system. In the present study we investigate if nitric oxide synthase inhibitors can prevent dyskinesias induced by repeated administration of L-DOPA in rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion. Chronic L-DOPA (high fixed dose, 100 mg/kg; low escalating dose, 10-30 mg/kg) treatment induced progressive dyskinesia changes. Two nitric oxide synthase inhibitors, 7-nitroindazole (1-30 mg/kg) and NG-nitro-L-arginine (50 mg/kg), given 30 min before L-DOPA, attenuate dyskinesia. 7-Nitroindazolee also improved motor performance of these animals in the rota-rod test. These results suggest the possibility that nitric oxide synthase inhibitors may be useful to treat L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.
Using experimental nephrotic rats, we investigated the potential feedback regulation of apolipoproteins (apos) at their hepatic and intestinal synthetic sites. Nephrotic syndrome (NS) was induced in rats by puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) with a single intraperitoneal injection (120 mg/kg). In nephrotic rats, we observed a 60% reduction in serum apo A-IV levels despite a 3.4-fold increase in jejunum and a 1.5-fold increase in ileum apo A-IV mRNA levels, although hepatic apo A-IV levels were unchanged compared with those in pair-fed control rats. A strikingly positive correlation was observed between daily urinary excretion of apo A-IV and its mRNA levels in jejunum (r = .856, P < .01; n = 10) and ileum (r = .710, P < .05; n = 10). On the other hand, nephrotic rats had an 8.2-fold increase in serum apo A-I level associated with a 4.6-fold increase in hepatic and a small but significant increase in jejunum apo A-I mRNA levels. Compared with the fractional catabolic loss of albumin or apo A-IV, that of apo A-I was small and suggests a diminished level of glomerular filtration, leading to a further elevation in serum apo A-I level. Barring nonspecific effects of PAN, these data suggest that reduction of serum apo A-IV level due to urinary loss may directly upregulate mRNA levels in the small intestine. Alternatively, it may be the result of an effective filtration of a serum component unassociated with lipoproteins that normally and site-specifically reduces apo A-I and apo A-IV mRNA transcription.
The authors investigated renal damage in 45 mercury miners under conditions of relatively short and low-level exposure to elemental (metallic) mercury vapour (Hg0). The analysis included urinary mercury, immunoelectrophoresis of urinary proteins, immunofixation and high-resolution electrophoresis, quantitative analysis of urinary albumin, and urinary alpha 1-microglobulin before and after exposure. The activity of urinary N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) enzyme was determined after exposure. The average duration of exposure of miners was 37 (6-82) days. Urinary mercury significantly increased during exposure. Immunoelectrophoretic changes in the composition of urinary proteins occurred after exposure in 22 of 45 miners, of whom 15 showed high molecular weight (HMW) pattern of urinary proteins and seven showed low molecular weight (LMW) pattern. Only a slight increase in the urinary alpha 1-microglobulin concentration and NAG activity was found in miners with the LMW pattern of urinary proteins. The results point to a slight glomerular and tubular damage in a significant proportion of exposed miners with increased absorption of mercury vapour.
In rodents, the cholinomimetic convulsant pilocarpine is widely used to induce status epilepticus (SE), followed by hippocampal damage and spontaneous recurrent seizures, resembling temporal lobe epilepsy. This model has initially been described in rats, but is increasingly used in mice, including the C57BL/6 (B6) inbred strain. In the present study, we compared the effects of pilocarpine in three B6 substrains (B6JOla, B6NHsd and B6NCrl) that were previously reported to differ in several behavioral and genetic aspects. In B6JOla and B6NHsd, only a small percentage of mice developed SE independently of whether pilocarpine was administered at high bolus doses or with a ramping up dosing protocol, but mortality was high. The reverse was true in B6NCrl, in which a high percentage of mice developed SE, but mortality was much lower compared to the other substrains. However, in subsequent experiments with B6NCrl mice, striking differences in SE induction and mortality were found in sublines of this substrain coming from different barrier rooms of the same vendor. In B6NCrl from Barrier #8, administration of pilocarpine resulted in a high percentage of mice developing SE, but mortality was low, whereas the opposite was found in B6NCrl mice from four other barriers of the same vendor. The analysis of F1 mice from a cross of female Barrier 8 pilocarpine-susceptible mice with resistant male mice from another barrier (#9) revealed that F1 male mice were significantly more sensitive to pilocarpine than the resistant parental male mice whereas female F1 mice were not significantly different from resistant Barrier 9 females. These observations strongly indicate X-chromosome linked genetic variation as the cause of the observed phenotypic alterations. To our knowledge, this is the first report which demonstrates that not only the specific B6 substrain but also sublines derived from the same substrain may markedly differ in their response to convulsants such as pilocarpine. As the described differences have a genetic basis, they offer a unique opportunity to identify the genes and pathways involved and contribute to a better understanding of the underlying molecular mechanisms of seizure susceptibility.
Tumor-promoting effects of phenobarbital (PB) and sodium saccharin (SS) were tested in rats pretreated with N-nitrosomethylurea (NMU) with special reference to the site of their action. Male F344 rats were initially given injections of NMU (20 mg/kg i.p.) twice a week for 4 weeks, then given basal diet containing 0.05% PB or 5% SS for the next 32 weeks, and then killed. Appropriate control studies were also done. Histological examination of whole organs of the rats showed that PB promoted thyroid carcinogenesis whereas SS did not. A significant increase in the incidences of total tumors as well as papillary adenocarcinoma of the thyroid was observed in the group given PB after NMU (p less than 0.001). The incidence of papillary adenoma with or without papillary adenocarcinomas was also high in the NMU-PB-treated group. The organ-specific promoting effect of PB in the induction of preneoplastic lesions, as demonstrated by development of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase-positive foci in the liver and of SS in papillary or nodular hyperplasia in the urinary bladder, as reported previously, was also confirmed. The incidences of papillomas in the forestomach were similar in groups treated with NMU-PB, NMU-SS, or NMU alone. The results indicate that PB is a tumor promoter in the liver and thyroid and that SS is a tumor promoter in the urinary bladder of rats.
The clinical features and genetic background of 18 patients with rheumatoid arthritis were investigated following the development of penicillamine-induced myasthenia (PIM). The initial myasthenia symptoms in all patients consisted of variable diplopia and/or ptosis with progression to a more generalized involvement in 7 of them. No clinical, humoral, or genetic factor was determined which would allow identification of individuals developing generalized as opposed to ocular myasthenia. Withdrawal of penicillamine was associated over 4-60 weeks with a slow resolution of symptoms, facilitated in 12 patients by the use of anticholinesterase agents. In 2 patients a persistent partial unilateral ptosis remains after 15 and 25 months, while in a further patient diplopia is present 42 months after resolution of the other myasthenic symptoms. The patients with PIM when compared with a healthy 'control' population had a significant increase in HLA Dr1 (p corr less than 0.005) and an absence of HLA Dr 3. A genetic susceptibility to the development of PIM, distinct from that observed in myasthenia gravis of spontaneous onset, is suggested by this abnormal distribution of HLA Dr antigens.
We report a 45-year-old male with chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) who experienced skin ulcers of the left lateral malleolus and dorsum of both feet. He had been treated with hydroxyurea (HU) for 2 years. His leg ulcers improved after HU was discontinued. Skin biopsy of the ulcerated lesion revealed that the lesion is compatible with small vessel vasculitis, but circulating immune complexes (C1q, anti-C3d antibody) were negative. Although the precise mechanism of the skin ulcer is unknown, we must take into consideration the skin changes were secondary to hydroxyurea therapy in myeloproliferative disorders.
A case of hydroxyurea-induced self-limited hepatitis with an influenza-like reaction to hydroxyurea therapy is presented. The association was supported by recurrence of the symptoms on rechallenge with the drug.
PS-341, also known as Velcade or Bortezomib, represents a new class of anticancer drugs which has been shown to potently inhibit the growth and/or progression of human cancers, including head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). Although it has been logically hypothesized that NF-kappaB is a major target of PS-341, the underlying mechanism by which PS-341 inhibits tumor cell growth is unclear. Here we found that PS-341 potently activated the caspase cascade and induced apoptosis in human HNSCC cell lines. Although PS-341 could inhibit NF-kappaB activation, the inhibition of NF-kappaB was not sufficient to initiate apoptosis in HNSCC cells. Using biochemical and microarray approaches, we found that proteasome inhibition by PS-341 induced endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and reactive oxygen species (ROS) in HNSCC cells. The inhibition of ROS significantly suppressed caspase activation and apoptosis induced by PS-341. Consistently, PS-341 could not induce the ER stress-ROS in PS-341-resistant HNSCC cells. Taken together, our results suggest that in addition to the abolishment of the prosurvival NF-kappaB, PS-341 might directly induce apoptosis by activating proapoptotic ER stress-ROS signaling cascades in HNSCC cells, providing novel insights into the PS-341-mediated antitumor activity.
Zidovudine is known to be responsible for a mitochondrial myopathy with ragged-red fibres and mitochondrial DNA depletion in muscle. Lactic acidosis alone or associated with hepatic abnormalities has also been reported. A single report mentioned the concomitant occurrence of muscular and hepatic disturbances and lactic acidosis in a patient receiving zidovudine, but muscle and liver tissues were not studied. A 57-year-old man with AIDS, who had been treated with zidovudine for 3 years, developed fatigue and weight loss. Serum creatine kinase and hepatic enzyme levels were high. Lactic acidosis was present. Liver biopsy showed diffuse macrovacuolar and microvacuolar steatosis. After withdrawal of zidovudine, creatine kinase, aspartate aminotransferase, and alanine aminotransferase levels normalised within 5 days, and lactacidaemia decreased. Acidosis persisted. The patient became confused and febrile and died 8 days after detection of high blood lactic acid. A muscle sample obtained at autopsy showed mitochondrial abnormalities with ragged-red fibres and lipid droplet accumulation. Southern blot analysis showed depletion of mitochondrial DNA, affecting skeletal muscle and liver tissue. No depletion was found in myocardium and kidney. This case emphasises that zidovudine treatment can induce mitochondrial multisystem disease, as revealed in our case by myopathy, liver steatosis and lactic acidosis.
Chromium has gained popularity as a nutritional supplement for diabetic patients. This study evaluated the effect of chronic administration of a chromium complex of D-phenylalanine (Cr(D-phe)(3)) on glucose and insulin tolerance in obese mice. The study tested the hypothesis that Cr(D-phe)(3) suppresses endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and insulin resistance in these animals.
C57BL lean and ob/ob obese mice were randomly divided to orally receive vehicle or Cr(D-phe)(3) (3.8 mug of elemental chromium/kg/day) for 6 months. Insulin sensitivity was evaluated by glucose and insulin tolerance tests. Protein levels of phosphorylated pancreatic ER kinase (PERK), alpha subunit of translation initiation factor 2 (eIF2alpha) and inositol-requiring enzyme-1 (IRE-1), p-c-Jun, and insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1) phosphoserine-307 were assessed by western blotting. In vitro ER stress was induced by treating cultured muscle cells with thapsigargin in the presence or absence of Cr(D-phe)(3).
ob/ob mice showed poor glucose and insulin tolerance compared to the lean controls, which was attenuated by Cr(D-phe)(3). Markers of insulin resistance (phospho-c-Jun and IRS-1 phosphoserine) and ER stress (p-PERK, p-IRE-1, p-eIF2alpha), which were elevated in ob/ob mice, were attenuated following Cr(D-phe)(3) treatment. Chromium treatment was also associated with a reduction in liver triglyceride levels and lipid accumulation. In cultured myotubes, Cr(D-phe)(3) attenuated ER stress induced by thapsigargin.
Oral Cr(D-phe)(3) treatment reduces glucose intolerance, insulin resistance, and hepatic ER stress in obese, insulin-resistant mice.
