Exercise test variables, such as an impaired heart rate response, are known to be related to left ventricular function and patient prognosis following acute myocardial infarction. The present study was performed to compare exercise test variables in acute myocardial infarct patients following either intravenous thrombolysis or placebo. Symptom-limited bicycle ergometer tests, carried out one to two weeks from the infarction, were performed in 85 patients randomized to intravenous streptokinase (n = 41) or placebo (n = 44) given within 12 hours from onset of symptoms. Resting heart rate, systolic blood pressure and rate-pressure product were similar in the two groups. At maximum workload the streptokinase treated patients had a significantly higher median maximal heart rate than controls (136 vs. 126 min-1; p < 0.01) but only a trend towards higher systolic blood pressure was seen (175 vs. 163 mmHg; p = 0.09). Rate-pressure product at maximal exercise was 23.620 vs. 20.100 mmHg x min-1; p < 0.01). A significantly smaller number of patients in the streptokinase group had exercise capacity below 50 W (0% vs. 15.9%; p < 0.01).
patients treated with intravenous streptokinase for acute myocardial infarction reach both higher heart rates and rate-pressure products at maximum workload than their controls thus indicating that the beneficial effects of thrombolysis after acute myocardial infarction are reflected in an improved heart rate response during exercise.
Eph-ephrin system plays a central role in a large variety of human cancers. In fact, alterated expression and/or de-regulated function of Eph-ephrin system promotes tumorigenesis and development of a more aggressive and metastatic tumour phenotype. In particular EphA2 upregulation is correlated with tumour stage and progression and the expression of EphA2 in non-transformed cells induces malignant transformation and confers tumorigenic potential. Based on these evidences our aim was to identify small molecules able to modulate EphA2-ephrinA1 activity through an ELISA-based binding screening. We identified lithocholic acid (LCA) as a competitive and reversible ligand inhibiting EphA2-ephrinA1 interaction (Ki =  49 µM). Since each ephrin binds many Eph receptors, also LCA does not discriminate between different Eph-ephrin binding suggesting an interaction with a highly conserved region of Eph receptor family. Structurally related bile acids neither inhibited Eph-ephrin binding nor affected Eph phosphorylation. Conversely, LCA inhibited EphA2 phosphorylation induced by ephrinA1-Fc in PC3 and HT29 human prostate and colon adenocarcinoma cell lines (IC(50)  = 48 and 66 µM, respectively) without affecting cell viability or other receptor tyrosine-kinase (EGFR, VEGFR, IGFR1β, IRKβ) activity. LCA did not inhibit the enzymatic kinase activity of EphA2 at 100 µM (LANCE method) confirming to target the Eph-ephrin protein-protein interaction. Finally, LCA inhibited cell rounding and retraction induced by EphA2 activation in PC3 cells. In conclusion, our findings identified a hit compound useful for the development of molecules targeting ephrin system. Moreover, as ephrin signalling is a key player in the intestinal cell renewal, our work could provide an interesting starting point for further investigations about the role of LCA in the intestinal homeostasis.
O,O,S-Trimethylphosphorothioate (OOS-Me) and O,S,S-trimethylphosphorodithioate (OSS-Me) are impurities in technical grade malathion and related insecticides which have been shown to cause delayed death in rats following a single oral dose of 40-60 mg/kg. In connection with studies on the mode of action of these compounds, work on the microdissection and examination of nephrons was carried out. Nephrons from impurities-treated rats showed swelling, distortion and distension of glomeruli, as well as narrowing of the first part of the proximal tubule (swan neck). These results were similar to those observed from kidney tissue obtained from cadmium-chloride-treated rats and are indicative of OOS-Me and OSS-Me-induced kidney tubule damage.
A case is described of a patient with a history of several years of diazepam abuse (in the last 24 months at dosages of 120 mg/d). A tapering schedule was carried out during a 12-day stay in the hospital in which the diazepam dosage was reduced by a fixed quantity every day, corresponding to about ten percent of the initial dosage. Five days after discharge from the hospital the patient experienced panic attacks, for the first time, which continued until 13 days after discharge. By the 40th day, the patient was experiencing a major depressive episode, which improved after administration of clomipramine therapy. We suggest that a relatively quick withdrawal schedule (ten percent per day) is probably inadequate in preventing withdrawal reactions to long-acting benzodiazepines taken in high doses for an extended period of time.
Previous experiments have shown that the generation of free radicals in rat brain homogenates is increased following pilocarpine-induced seizures and status epilepticus (SE). This study was aimed at investigating the changes in neurochemical mechanisms such as lipid peroxidation levels, nitrite content, glutathione reduced (GSH) concentration, superoxide dismutase and catalase activities in the frontal cortex and the striatum of Wistar adult rats after seizures and SE induced by pilocarpine. The control group was treated with 0.9% saline and another group of rats received pilocarpine (400 mg/kg, i.p.). Both groups were sacrificed 24 h after the treatments. Lipid peroxidation level, nitrite content, GSH concentration and enzymatic activities were measured by using spectrophotometric methods. Our findings showed that pilocarpine administration and its resulting seizures and SE produced a significant increase of lipid peroxidation level in the striatum (47%) and frontal cortex (59%). Nitrite contents increased 49% and 73% in striatum and frontal cortex in pilocarpine group, respectively. In GSH concentrations were decreases of 54% and 58% in the striatum and frontal cortex in pilocarpine group, respectively. The catalase activity increased 39% and 49% in the striatum and frontal cortex, respectively. The superoxide dismutase activity was not altered in the striatum, but it was present at a 24% increase in frontal cortex. These results suggest that there is a direct relationship between the lipid peroxidation and nitrite contents during epileptic activity that can be responsible for the superoxide dismutase and catalase enzymatic activity changes observed during the establishment of seizures and SE induced by pilocarpine.
The effects of large doses of phenylbutazone were evaluated in clinically normal horses. The drug was given to 4 groups of 2 horses each at the rate of 30 mg/kg of body weight, orally, or 30, 15, or 8 mg/kg IV daily for up to 2 weeks. All horses became anorectic and depressed after 2 to 4 phenylbutazone treatments, and the horses given 15 or 30 mg/kg died on or between days 4 and 7 of treatment. A decrease in total blood neutrophil count occurred in all horses, and was associated with toxic left shift in horses given the 2 larger dosage schedules. The horses also had progressive increases in serum urea nitrogen, creatinine, and phosphorus concentrations, accompanied by decreasing serum calcium concentrations. There was a progressive decrease in total serum protein in all 8 horses. Gastrointestinal ulcerations, renal papillary necrosis, and vascular thromboses were the predominant postmortem findings.
Serial liver-enzyme determinations were performed on 36 children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia who were randomized to receive either conventional intrathecal methotrexate (MTX) therapy with cranial irradiation, or an investigational high-dose MTX regimen consisting of 10 courses of 33,600 mg/m2 over 24 hours, with high-dose leucovorin rescue. Both groups of patients received intermittent low-dose oral MTX during maintenance therapy. Serum transaminase elevations in the group of conventionally treated patients were infrequent and moderate in severity (less than 300 IU/liter). In the investigational group, however, the majority of patients had severe, acute increases in SGPT (greater than 300 IU/liter), with peaks up to 1000 to 2000 IU/liter. The incidence and severity of acute transaminasemia were directly proportional to the number of high-dose MTX courses received: courses 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 caused transaminase elevations in 31%, 50%, 50%, 73%, 100%, and 100% of courses, respectively, and 0%, 14%, 20%, 44%, 55%, and 92%, respectively, were over 300 IU/liter. Patients in both treatment groups developed a pattern of increasing serum alkaline phosphatase concentrations after initiation of low-dose oral MTX therapy; isoenzyme analysis indicated that this effect was osseous rather than hepatic. Serum bilirubin was rarely elevated. Transaminases returned to normal within 1 to 2 weeks after each high-dose MTX treatment, and with follow-up for as long as 7 years, no patient has developed clinical evidence of residual liver disease, after 3 years of high-dose MTX therapy and multiple other antileukemia drugs. The acute hypertransaminasemia frequently observed after high-dose MTX therapy is transient and reversible, and, in children, does not appear to result in chronic liver disease.
To compare the safety and efficacy of pramipexole and pergolide in the treatment of mild to moderate Parkinson's disease (PD). In contrast to pergolide, a D1 and D2 dopamine agonist, pramipexole is a nonergoline dopamine agonist with D2 and preferential D3 dopamine receptor activity. This selective activity may result in clinically different effects. No prospective head-to-head comparison studies of pergolide and pramipexole have been reported.
Patients with PD who were maintained on an optimal dose of pergolide were converted to pramipexole, typically over a one-month period. Clinical assessments were performed just prior to conversion and after an optimal dose of pramipexole was achieved.
Twenty-five patients were converted from pergolide to pramipexole during the period of July, 1997 to January, 1999. Three patients were lost to follow-up, and one patient died. Of the remaining 21 patients there were 11 men and 10 women, mean age was 67.3 years +/- 10.0 (range 51-84). Mean duration of symptoms prior to conversion was 12.5 years +/- 3.4 (range 5-19). All patients (except one) were on concomitant carbidopa/ levodopa and experienced motor fluctuations. After a mean follow-up of 5.9 +/- 2.9 months on pramipexole, the mean levodopa daily dose was reduced from 618.7mg to 581.2mg (16.5% reduction, p = 0.61). The mean daily doses of pergolide and pramipexole (in milligrams per day) were 2.1 +/- 1.5 (0.15-6) and 3.2 +/- 1.1 (0.75-6) respectively. Thirteen patients (62%) reported overall improvement (subjective global response) on pramipexole as compared to pergolide, 5 (24%) were unchanged and 3 (14%) reported worsening. Eighteen of the 21 patients (86%) remained on pramipexole after the study period. Although there was a slight trend toward improved scores on pramipexole, the difference was not statistically significant.
This open label study failed to provide evidence of superior efficacy of either dopamine agonist. It is possible, however, that while somepatients may benefit more from either pergolide or pramipexole, other patients may obtain additional benefit from other DA agonists or combination therapy. Future randomized, controlled, double-blinded therapeutic trials are needed to determine which, if any, dopamine agonist is superior in the treatment of PD.
Cytogenetic imbalances are increasingly being realized as causes of autism. Here, we report a de novo translocation between the short arms of chromosomes 15 and 16 in a female with autism, epilepsy, and global developmental delay. FISH analysis identified a cryptic deletion of approximately 160 kb at the boundary of the first exon and first intron of the 1.7 Mb ataxin-2 binding protein-1 (A2BP1) gene, also called FOX1. Quantitative real time PCR (Q-PCR) analysis verified a deletion of exon 1 in the 5' promoter region of the A2BP1 gene. Reverse transcription PCR (qRT-PCR) showed reduced mRNA expression in the individual's lymphocytes, demonstrating the functional consequence of the deletion. A2BP1 codes for a brain-expressed RNA binding or splicing factor. Because of emerging evidence in the role of RNA processing and gene regulation in pervasive developmental disorders, we performed further screening of A2BP1 in additional individuals with autism from the Autism Genetics Resource Exchange (AGRE) collection. Twenty-seven SNPs were genotyped across A2BP1 in 206 parent-child trios and two regions showed association at P < or = 0.008 level. No additional deletions or clear mutations were identified in 88 probands by re-sequencing of all exons and surrounding intronic regions or quantitative PCR (Q-PCR) of exon 1. Although only nominal association was observed, and no obvious causal mutations were identified, these results suggest that A2BP1 may affect susceptibility or cause autism in a subset of patients. Further investigations in a larger sample may provide additional information regarding the involvement of this gene in the autistic phenotype.
Six non-human primates received doses of MPTP sufficient to produce a severe parkinsonian syndrome. Levodopa therapy reversed parkinsonian features in all animals, but resulted in dose-dependent choreoathetoid movements of the lower limbs of 3, together with akathisia and dystonia in 2. 'End-of-dose deterioration' was common to all animals, although 'on-off' periods were only seen in 3. Preliminary observations using a clinical rating scale and automatic activity counters demonstrate that both the motor response to levodopa and the complications of therapy are readily quantifiable. We suggest that this is a useful experimental model for testing new strategies in the management of idiopathic Parkinson's disease, particularly with regard to the prevention of drug-induced involuntary movements.
To determine if therapy with an ergot and a non-ergot dopamine agonist and levodopa confers an increased risk of excessive daytime sleepiness and secondary "sleep attacks" in Parkinson's disease (PD).
Comparative study of three clinical groups taking, pramipexole (Group 1, n = 19, 8 monotherapy), cabergoline (Group 2, n = 22, 10 monotherapy), and levodopa monotherapy (Group 3, n = 14). Clinical and demographic characteristics, occurrence of "sleep attacks", and assessment of daytime sleepiness [using the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS)], recorded.
No patients reported "sleep attacks". Mean ESS scores: Group 1 (pramipexole) 8.0 +/- 4.5 (range 0-16), Group 2 (cabergoline) 8.1 +/- 3.9 (range 0-19), Group 3 (levodopa), 8.1 +/- 5.5 (range 1-18). There was no significant difference between groups (p = 0.897). Scores of > or = 16 indicating excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS) were evenly distributed throughout treatment groups, particularly in older patients with more advanced disease.
a) EDS is not unique to pramipexole therapy and occurs with both cabergoline and levodopa. b) Increasing age, advanced disease, and higher treatment dose appear important predictors for EDS. c) Driving regulations should be reviewed accordingly.
Cardiac peroxynitrite and protein nitration are increased during doxorubicin cardiotoxicity, but the intracellular targets and functional consequences have not been defined. We investigated the intracellular distribution of protein nitration during doxorubicin cardiotoxicity in mice. Following in vivo cardiac function assessments by echocardiography, cardiac tissues were prepared for immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy 5 days after doxorubicin (20 mg kg(-1)) or vehicle control. Increased cardiac 3-nitrotyrosine was observed using light microscopy in doxorubicin treated animals. Immunogold electron microscopy (55,000x) revealed increased myofibrillar and mitochondrial 3-nitrotyrosine levels following doxorubicin, but cellular 3-nitrotyrosine density was 2 fold higher in myofibrils. We therefore investigated the actions of peroxynitrite on intact cardiac contractile apparatus. Skinned ventricular trabeculae were exposed to physiologically relevant peroxynitrite concentrations (50 or 300 nM) for 1 h, then Ca(2+) induced contractile responses were measured in the presence of ATP (4 mM) or phosphocreatine (12 mM) as high energy phosphate supplier. ATP maximal force generation was unaltered after 50 nM peroxynitrite, but phosphocreatine/ATP response was reduced (0.99+/-0.63 vs 1.59+/-0.11), suggesting selective inactivation of myofibrillar creatine kinase (MM-CK). Reduction of ATP maximal force was observed at 300 nM peroxynitrite and phosphocreatine/ATP response was further reduced (0.64+/-0.30). Western blotting showed concentration dependent nitration of MM-CK in treated trabeculae. Similarly, cardiac tissues from doxorubicin treated mice demonstrated increased nitration and inactivation of MM-CK compared to controls. These results demonstrate that peroxynitrite-related protein nitration are mechanistic events in doxorubicin cardiomyopathy and that the cardiac myofibril is an important oxidative target in this setting. Furthermore, MM-CK may be a uniquely vulnerable target to peroxynitrite in vivo.
The products of tobacco combustion are absorbed into the systemic circulation. Absorbed nicotine stimulates the release of catecholamines, whilst other products (perhaps including nicotine) injure the arterial endothelium and promote atherogenesis. Free radicals and aromatic compounds diminish the endothelial synthesis of nitric oxide, causing impaired endothelium-dependent relaxation of arteries, the earliest clinical sign of endothelial dysfunction. Smoking alters the shear forces and rheology at the endothelial surface and these changes enhance the effects of products of tobacco combustion to upregulate leucocyte adhesion molecules on the endothelial surface. The increased oxidation of low density lipoprotein (LDL) in smokers has synergistic effects to promote monocyte adhesion and monocyte migration into the subintimal space. Continued stimulation of intimal cells by oxidized LDL leads to the development of atherosclerosis. Many of these effects are ameliorated by high concentrations of vitamin C. Smoking also potentiates thrombosis at the dysfunctional endothelium by increasing the concentration of plasma fibrinogen and altering the activity of platelets. All these proatherogenic effects of smoking to injure the endothelium also are observed, albeit to lesser extent, in passive smokers.
The authors report a further case of methimazole-associated liver damage and present a brief review of eleven previous cases found in the literature. The main clinical features of this 58-year-old female patient were laboratory evidence of leucopenia and cholestasis, and biopsy features of fatty liver parenchyma degeneration with granulocytic portal infiltration and bile stasis, demonstrated 20 days after the initiation of antithyroid therapy with 20 mg methimazole daily. An immediate cholestatic liver reaction was also provoked by drug rechallenge, with spontaneous amelioration of signs and symptoms after drug discontinuation.
Although the incidence of seizures after a cerebrovascular event including intracerebral hemorrhage has been widely recognized, the present studies have demonstrated that generalized convulsive seizures can cause multifocal amygdaloallocortical hemorrhage and tissue necrosis, the origin of which remains to be established. The seizure-elicited amygdaloallocortical injured area, which we refer to as a focal injury-prone area (FIPA), was caused by cholinergic stimulation of the ventroposterolateral and thalamic reticular nuclei. The amygdaloallocortical injury was preceded by focal absence of neuronal COX-2 and presence of microvascular immunoreactivity to the pro-inflammatory cytokines, IL-1beta and TNF-alpha. The microvascular inflammation was followed by edema and multifocal amygdaloallocortical microhemorrhages, leading to atrophy and cognitive impairment. On the basis of the present results, we conclude that generalized convulsive seizures may be at the origin of amygdaloallocortical microvascular injury suggesting that, in addition to anticonvulsant treatment, an appropriate clinical evaluation and therapy for seizures-associated cerebrovascular accidents should be considered.
Propolis, a honeybee product, contains a variety of biologically active substances. The present study was designed to investigate the effects of propolis on insulin resistance induced by fructose-drinking rats (FDR; type 2 diabetic animal model). Male Wistar rats (6 weeks old) received 15% fructose solution in drinking water for 8 weeks. FDR showed significant increases in plasma levels of insulin, Homeostasis Model Assessment ratio (HOMA-R, an index of insulin resistance), body weight, and systolic blood pressure but not blood glucose levels, when compared with control rats. Brazilian propolis extract (100 and 300 mg/kg, p.o.) treatment for 8 weeks significantly decreased the plasma level of insulin, HOMA-R, and body weight, increased plasma triglyceride levels without affecting blood glucose and total cholesterol levels, and tended to decrease systolic blood pressure. In isolated and perfused mesenteric vascular beds of FDR, propolis treatment resulted in a significant reduction of sympathetic nerve-mediated vasoconstrictor response to periarterial nerve stimulation (PNS; 8 Hz) and tended to increase the calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) nerve-mediated vasodilator response to PNS, compared with those in untreated FDR. However, propolis treatment did not significantly affect norepinephrine-induced vasoconstriction and CGRP-induced vasodilation. These results suggest that propolis could be an effective functional food to prevent the development of insulin resistance.
Two patients with severe lithium-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus are described. Although it is known lithium can cause diabetes insipidus, one should be especially alert in psychiatric patients, as the main defence mechanisms thirst and drinking behaviour may not function adequately in these patients. The major form of therapy in both patients consisted of drinking, a thiazide diuretic, as well as a protein and sodium restricted diet.
Bullous skin lesions that indicate sweat gland necrosis have been known to occur in drug-induced coma resulting from barbiturates and in carbon monoxide poisoning. To our knowledge, this is the first cases in which diazepam is implicated in causing bullous lesions over pressure points, and the first case showing on biopsy specimen eccrine sweat gland and sweat duct necrosis. Penile and oral lesions are being described here for the first time to our knowledge. The following mechanisms could be responsible for the skin lesions: hypoxia, local pressure, hyperthermia with excessive sweating, and a specific toxic effect on the eccrine gland. With the increasing use of the benzodiazepines, such lesions could be seen more frequently in the future.
In a patient with WPW syndrome and idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy, intractable atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia (AVRT) was iatrogenically induced. QRS without preexcitation, caused by junctional escape beats after verapamil or unidirectional antegrade block of accessory pathway after catheter ablation, established frequent AVRT attack.
We report the case of a young alcoholic male whose first renal biopsy disclosed mesangiocapillary glomerulonephritis. One month later he took 1.5 g paracetamol to control the fever. Soon he got hospitalized due to toxicoderma, elevated liver and renal function tests. While the liver enzymes returned to normal, uremia developed. A repeated renal biopsy revealed severe interstitial inflammation, tubular atrophy. Haemodialysis was started and he got steroids (1 mg/kg body weight). He showed considerable recovery of renal function in some weeks. The case points to the possibility that paracetamol-even in therapeutic dosage-might result in hepatic and renal damage in alcoholics.
We have previously reported that the alkaloid extract of Psychotria colorata (Willd. ex R. & S.) Muell. Arg., had marked dose-dependent, opioid-like activity. Phytochemical analyses of P. colorata flowers and leaves identified several pyrrolidinoindoline alkaloids, including psychotridine. To further investigate the activity and mechanism of action of Psychotria alkaloids, we studied the effects of psychotridine on thermal and chemical models of analgesia. In the tail-flick model, psychotridine presents a dose-dependent analgesic effect; the effect is not reversed by prior treatment with naloxone. Psychotridine dose-dependently decreased capsaicin-induced pain. Performance in the rotarod test showed that psychotridine does not induce motor deficits at doses effective in analgesia models. Psychotridine inhibited [3H]MK-801 (dizocilpine) binding to cortex membranes in a dose-dependent manner. Binding is completely abolished at 300 nM. The data rule out opioid activity, and the inhibition of capsaicin-induced pain and of radioligand binding strongly suggest the participation of NMDA receptors in psychotridine-induced analgesia.
The main function of erythropoietin (EPO) is to stimulate erythropoiesis. EPO receptors (EPOR) are expressed in other cell types, including tumor cells, suggesting that the EPO/EPOR pathway governs additional cellular processes besides erythropoiesis. Recombinant EPO (rhEPO) is frequently given to anemic cancer patients, although data on clinical outcome are conflicting. In an attempt to understand these clinical data, we analyzed EPO and EPOR expression in breast cancer and evaluated EPOR as a putative prognostic and predictive marker in breast cancer patients treated with tamoxifen.
EPO mRNA/protein and EPOR mRNA were quantified by PCR and ELISA, respectively. Tissue microarrays containing 500 breast tumors from premenopausal women randomized to tamoxifen or no adjuvant treatment were evaluated for EPOR expression by immunohistochemistry. Predictive and prognostic information was evaluated using Kaplan-Meier curves and log-rank tests to estimate recurrence-free survival (RFS).
EPO and EPOR were expressed in cultured cells, and breast tumor specimens expressed EPOR at varying levels. Tamoxifen treatment significantly increased RFS in patients with estrogen receptor-positive/progesterone receptor-positive (ER(+)/PR(+)) tumors with low EPOR expression (P = 0.001) but had no effect on RFS in patients with tumors with high EPOR expression (P = 0.98). In the untreated cohort, RFS was significantly improved for patients with ER(+) tumors with high EPOR expression.
EPOR is abundantly expressed in breast cancer specimens. The fact that high expression of EPOR is related to an impaired tamoxifen response in ER(+)/PR(+) tumors and to improved survival in untreated patients suggests that EPOR expression in breast cancer affects tumor behavior.
The interactions of dopaminergic receptors and nitric oxide (NO) with morphine-induced memory of passive avoidance have been investigated in mice. Pre-training administration of morphine (1, 3 and 5 mg/kg, s.c.) dose-dependently decreased the learning of a one-trial passive avoidance task. Pre-training administration of L-arginine, a nitric oxide precursor (50, 100 and 200 mg/kg, i.p.), alone did not affect memory formation. The drug (100 and 200 mg/kg) decreased significantly amnesia induced by pre-training morphine (5 mg/kg). Pre-training administration of L-NAME (N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester), a nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor (20 and 30 mg/kg, i.p.), dose-dependently impaired memory formation. In addition, co-pretreatment of different doses of L-NAME (10, 20 and 30 mg/kg) with lower dose of morphine (1 mg/kg), which did not induce amnesia by itself, caused inhibition of memory formation. Pre-training administration of apomorphine, a dopaminergic receptor agonist (0.25, 0.5 and 1 mg/kg, i.p.), alone also did not affect memory formation, but morphine-induced amnesia was significantly inhibited by pretreatment with apomorphine (0.5 and 1 mg/kg, 5 min, i.p.). On the other hand, the inhibition of morphine-induced amnesia by L-arginine (200 mg/kg, i.p.) was significantly decreased by pretreatment with different doses of dopamine D1 receptor antagonist, SCH 23390 (0.001, 0.01 and 0.1 mg/kg, i.p.) or D2 receptor antagonist, sulpiride (12.5, 25, 50 and 100 mg/kg, i.p.). However, the dopamine receptor antagonists could not affect memory formation by themselves. It may be concluded that the morphine-induced impairment of memory formation can be prevented by nitric oxide donor and, in this effect, dopaminergic mechanism is involved.
The aim of this study was to evaluate whether addition of omega-3 fatty acids or increase in aspirin dose improves response to low-dose aspirin among patients who are aspirin resistant.
Low response to aspirin has been associated with adverse cardiovascular events. However, there is no established therapeutic approach to overcome aspirin resistance. Omega-3 fatty acids decrease the availability of platelet arachidonic acid (AA) and indirectly thromboxane A2 formation.
Patients (n = 485) with stable coronary artery disease taking low-dose aspirin (75 to 162 mg) for at least 1 week were screened for aspirin response with the VerifyNow Aspirin assay (Accumetrics, San Diego, California). Further testing was performed by platelet aggregation. Aspirin resistance was defined by > or =2 of 3 criteria: VerifyNow score > or =550, 0.5-mg/ml AA-induced aggregation > or =20%, and 10-micromol/l adenosine diphosphate (ADP)-induced aggregation > or =70%. Thirty patients (6.2%) were found to be aspirin resistant and randomized to receive either low-dose aspirin + omega-3 fatty acids (4 capsules daily) or aspirin 325 mg daily. After 30 days of treatment patients were re-tested.
Both groups (n = 15 each) had similar clinical characteristics. After treatment significant reductions in AA- and ADP-induced aggregation and the VerifyNow score were observed in both groups. Plasma levels of thromboxane B2 were also reduced in both groups (56.8% reduction in the omega-3 fatty acids group, and 39.6% decrease in the aspirin group). Twelve patients (80%) who received omega-3 fatty acids and 11 patients (73%) who received aspirin 325 mg were no longer aspirin resistant after treatment.
Treatment of aspirin-resistant patients by adding omega-3 fatty acids or increasing the aspirin dose seems to improve response to aspirin and effectively reduces platelet reactivity.
SB-3CT (1), a selective and potent thiirane-based gelatinase inhibitor, is effective in animal models of cancer metastasis and stroke; however, it is limited by poor aqueous solubility and extensive metabolism. We addressed these issues by blocking the primary site of metabolism and capitalizing on a prodrug strategy to achieve >5000-fold increased solubility. The amide prodrugs were quantitatively hydrolyzed in human blood to a potent gelatinase inhibitor, ND-322 (3). The arginyl amide prodrug (ND-478, 5d) was metabolically stable in mouse, rat, and human liver microsomes. Both 5d and 3 were nonmutagenic in the Ames II mutagenicity assay. The prodrug 5d showed moderate clearance of 0.0582 L/min/kg, remained mostly in the extracellular fluid compartment (Vd = 0.0978 L/kg), and had a terminal half-life of >4 h. The prodrug 5d had superior pharmacokinetic properties than those of 3, making the thiirane class of selective gelatinase inhibitors suitable for intravenous administration in the treatment of acute gelatinase-dependent diseases.
Epidemiological studies and clinical observations suggest that nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and certain selective cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 inhibitors may reduce the relative risk of clinically evident prostate cancer. This prompted us to investigate the chemopreventive potential of celecoxib, a selective COX-2 inhibitor, against prostate carcinogenesis in a transgenic adenocarcinoma of the mouse prostate (TRAMP) model. Similar to prostate cancer in humans, prostate malignancies in TRAMP mice progress from precursor intraepithelial lesions, to invasive carcinoma that metastasizes to lymph nodes, liver, lungs, and occasionally to bone. The basal enzyme activity and protein expression of COX-2 is significantly higher (>4-fold) in the dorsolateral prostate of TRAMP mice up to 24 weeks of age compared with their nontransgenic littermates. Eight-week-old TRAMP mice were randomly divided and fed either control diet (AIN 76A) or a custom prepared AIN 76A diet containing 1500-ppm celecoxib ad libitum for 24 weeks, a dosage that would compare with the normal recommended dose for the treatment of human disease. Studies from two independent experiments, each consisting of 10 mice on test, showed that the cumulative incidence of prostate cancer development at 32 weeks of age in animals fed with AIN 76A diet was 100% (20 of 20) as observed by tumor palpation, whereas 65% (13 of 20), 35% (7 of 20), and 20% (4 of 20) of the animals exhibited distant site metastases to lymph nodes, lungs, and liver. Celecoxib supplementation to TRAMP mice from 8-32 weeks of age exhibited significant reduction in tumor development (5 of 20) with no signs of metastasis. Celecoxib feeding resulted in a significant decrease in prostate (56%; P < 0.0003) and genitourinary weight (48%; P < 0.008). Sequential magnetic resonance imaging analysis of celecoxib-fed mice documented lower prostate volume compared with the AIN 76A-fed group. Histopathological examination of celecoxib-fed animals showed reduced proliferation, and down-modulation of COX-2 and prostaglandin E2 levels in the dorsolateral prostate and plasma, respectively. These results correlated with retention of antimetastasis markers, viz E-cadherin, and alpha- and beta-catenin, along with a significant decrease in vascular endothelial growth factor protein expression. Celecoxib supplementation also resulted in enhanced in vivo apoptosis in the prostate as monitored by several techniques including a recently perfected technique of 99mTc-labeled annexin V in live animals followed by phosphor imaging. One striking observation in an additional study was that celecoxib feeding to mice with established tumors (16 weeks of age) significantly improved their overall survival (P = 0.014), compared with AIN 76A-fed group. Our findings suggest that celecoxib may be useful in chemoprevention of prostate cancer.
EMD 57445 ((S)-(-)-[4-hydroxy-4-(3,4-benzodioxol-5-yl) -piperidin-1-ylmethyl]-3-(4-methoxyphenyl)-oxazolidin- 2-one) is a new sigma receptor ligand with only marginal affinity for many other (including dopamine) receptors. In the present study, central, particularly neuroleptic-like, effects of this compound were evaluated and compared with those of another sigma receptor ligand, rimcazole. EMD 57445 decreased locomotor activity in rats and mice. The amphetamine-induced locomotor hyperactivity and stereotypy were reduced by EMD 57445. The drug was able to inhibit the behavioural effects induced by apomorphine, i.e., the locomotor hyperactivity, stereotypy and aggression in rats, as well as climbing in mice. The hyperlocomotion induced by quinpirole (a dopamine D2/3 receptor agonist) and the grooming induced by SKF 38393 (a dopamine D1 receptor agonist) were decreased by EMD 57445. The behavioural stimulation evoked in rats by non-competitive (MK-801, (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydroxy-5H-dibenzo (a,b)-cyclohepten-5,10-imine hydrogen maleate) or competitive (CGP 37849, D,L-E-amino-4-methyl-5-phosphono-3-pentenoic acid) NMDA receptor antagonists was also inhibited. EMD 57445 decreased the cocaine-, morphine- or caffeine-induced locomotor hyperactivity in rats or mice. It neither induced catalepsy nor increased muscle tone in rats. Rimcazole had somewhat different effects: it increased the amphetamine stereotypy as well as the amphetamine-, quinpirole- and cocaine-induced locomotor hyperactivity in rats. The results indicate that EMD 57445 shows functional antidopaminergic activity and may be useful as an antipsychotic drug devoid of extrapyramidal side-effects.
Experiments were performed in the adult normotensive rats of Wistar strain in the genetically hypertensive rats of Koltsky type. Diazepam at the dose of 1 mg/kg was applied for five days. The last two days of diazepam treatment the behavior of the animals was traced in holeboard and in the elevated plus-maze. In the control animals the genetically hypertensive rats of both sexes show elevated locomotor-exploratory activity in holeboard in both sessions, genetically hypertensive females show highest degree of directed exploration in holeboard when compared with the other groups of rats; in the elevated plus-maze the normotensive rats of both sexes show lower aversion towards open space and height in elevated plus-maze relative to genetically hypertensive rats. Diazepam only in the genetically hypertensive females increases in the second session locomotor-exploratory activity and reduced the inter-session habituation of the mentioned activity. Directed exploratory activity in holeboard was by diazepam treatment elevated predominantly in the genetically hypertensive rats. In the genetically hypertensive females diazepam caused inter-session sensitization in directed exploration. Considering the number of entries in centre and in open arms of the elevated plus-maze, diazepam in both strains irrespective of sex and session caused increase. Taking into account time spent in centre and in open arms of the elevated plus-maze, the strain dependent effect of diazepam is apparent, i.e., statistical significance of its "anxiolytic" effect was attained only in the genetically hypertensive rats.
Dyskinesias are abnormal involuntary movements which develop as a side-effect of long-term treatment with levodopa in patients with Parkinson's disease. The pathophysiology underlying these dyskinesias remains unclear, although, it has been suggested that heightened activity of dopamine D(1) receptor-bearing striatonigral neurons may play a key role. Chronic pulsatile levodopa administration to hemiparkinsonian rats results in sensitization of rotational responses to apomorphine. This sensitization is thought to be analogous to levodopa-induced dyskinesias in humans. In these studies, we further clarify the role of the dopamine D(1A) receptor in this rodent model of levodopa-induced dyskinesias using an in vivo oligonucleotide antisense approach. Hemiparkinsonian rats received twice daily injections of levodopa for three weeks followed by intrastriatal infusion of dopamine D(1A) receptor antisense (7nmol/day, three days), a scrambled missense control sequence, or saline. Those animals treated with antisense displayed significantly fewer apomorphine-induced rotations than saline- or missense-treated controls.By reducing dopamine D(1A) receptor expression, we were able to attenuate sensitization of the response to apomorphine resulting from chronic pulsatile levodopa treatment. Thus, the dopamine D(1A) receptor appears to play a significant role in levodopa-induced dyskinesias and warrants further examination. These findings may have important implications for the development of selective treatment strategies designed to alleviate parkinsonian symptoms, while minimizing motor complications.
