Interferon-alpha has been shown to improve survival in patients with chronic granulocytic leukaemia, therefore it is increasingly becoming part of the standard treatment of this condition. Interferon has a wide variety of side-effects. Pure red cell aplasia has been reported in a few cases of chronic granulocytic leukaemia but this usually heralds the onset of the transformation to the acute phase. This paper reports a possible, and not previously reported, side-effect of interferon-alpha in a patient with chronic granulocytic leukaemia.
To investigate the effect of arsenic on spermatogenesis.
Mature (4 months old) Wistar rats were intraperitoneally administered sodium arsenite at doses of 4, 5 or 6 mg.kg(-1).day(-1) for 26 days. Different varieties of germ cells at stage VII seminiferous epithelium cycle, namely, type A spermatogonia (ASg), preleptotene spermatocytes (pLSc), midpachytene spermatocytes (mPSc) and step 7 spermatids (7Sd) were quantitatively evaluated, along with radioimmunoassay of plasma follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH), testosterone and assessment of the epididymal sperm count.
In the 5 and 6 mg/kg groups, there were significant dose-dependent decreases in the accessory sex organ weights, epididymal sperm count and plasma concentrations of LH, FSH and testosterone with massive degeneration of all the germ cells at stage VII. The changes were insignificant in the 4 mg/kg group.
Arsenite has a suppressive influence on spermatogenesis and gonadotrophin and testosterone release in rats.
The use of injectable biomaterials is of interest in osteoporotic patients to locally restore bone mass in sites at risk of fracture. An injectable bone substitute (IBS1 made of betaTCP/hydroxyapatite as a calcium phosphate substitute and hydroxy-propyl-methyl-cellulose as a polymer carrier) was used in a severely osteopenic rat model obtained by combining orchidectomy (ORX) and disuse (paralysis induced by botulinum toxin - BTX). Fifty-six aged male rats were randomized into three groups: 18 were SHAM operated; 38 were ORX and BTX injected in the right hindlimb; they constituted the OP (osteoporotic) group. One month after ORX-BTX surgery, 20 of these OP rats received a IBS1 injection in the right femur (OP-IBS1 rats). Animals were studied at the time of IBS1 injection 1 month post ORX-BTX (M1), 1 month (M2) and 2 months (M3) after IBS1 injection. Bone mass (BV/TV) and microarchitectural parameters were measured by microCT. BV/TV was decreased after ORX-BTX; ORX and BTX had cumulative effects on bone loss (differences maximized on the right femur). BV/TV (combining the volume of both bone and material in OP-IBS1 rats) was elevated at M1 but decreased at M2. Marked bone formation was found onto the biomaterial granules but bone had a woven texture. A marked increase in the number of nonosteoclastic TRAcP+ cells was found in the implanted area. IBS1 induced new bone formation shortly after implantation but both IBS1 and woven bone were resorbed without inducing lamellar bone. Biomaterial trials must be conducted with long-term implantation periods, in aged osteoporotic animals.
Methylmercury is the predominant chemical form of mercury reported in the eggs of wild birds, and the embryo is the most sensitive life stage to methylmercury toxicity. Protective guidelines have been based mainly on captive-breeding studies with chickens (Gallus gallus), mallards (Anas platyrhynchos), and ring-necked pheasants (Phasianus colchicus) or on field studies where whole eggs were collected and analyzed and the effects of the mercury were measured based on the reproductive success of the remaining eggs. However, both of these methods have limitations. As an alternative, we developed a technique that involves extracting a small sample of albumen from a live egg, sealing the egg, returning the egg to its nest to be naturally incubated by the parents, and then relating the hatching success of this microsampled egg to its mercury concentration. After first developing this technique in the laboratory using chicken and mallard eggs, we selected the laughing gull (Larus atricilla) and black-necked stilt (Himantopus mexicanus) as test subjects in the field. We found that 92% of the microsampled laughing gull eggs met our reproductive endpoint of survival to the beginning of hatching compared to 100% for the paired control eggs within the same nests. Microsampled black-necked stilt eggs exhibited 100% hatching success compared to 93% for the paired control eggs. Our results indicate that microsampling is an effective tool for nonlethally sampling mercury concentrations in eggs and, as such, can be used for monitoring sensitive species, as well as for improving studies that examine the effects of mercury on avian reproduction.
Ethylene oxide is a multisite carcinogen in rodents and classified as a human carcinogen by the National Toxicology Program. In 2-year mouse studies, ethylene oxide (EO) induced lung, Harderian gland (HG), and uterine neoplasms. We evaluated representative EO-induced and equivalent spontaneous neoplasms for K-ras mutations in codons 12, 13, and 61. K-ras mutations were identified in 100% (23/23) of the EO-induced lung neoplasms and 25% (27/108) of the spontaneous lung neoplasms. Codon 12 G to T transversions were common in EO-induced lung neoplasms (21/23) but infrequent in spontaneous lung neoplasms (1/108). K-ras mutations were found in 86% (18/21) of the EO-induced HG neoplasms and 7% (2/27) of the spontaneous HG neoplasms. Codon 13 G to C and codon 12 G to T transversions were predominant in the EO-induced HG neoplasms but absent in spontaneous HG neoplasms (0/27). K-ras mutations occurred in 83% (5/6) of the EO-induced uterine carcinomas and all were codon 13 C to T transitions. These data show a strong predilection for development of K-ras mutations in EO-induced lung, Harderian gland, and uterine neoplasms. This suggests that EO specifically targets the K-ras gene in multiple tissue types and that this event is a critical component of EO-induced tumorigenesis.
Sildenafil is commonly used in the treatment of erectile dysfunction in hypertensive male cardiac transplant recipients (CTR); however, little is known about the vascular effects of sildenafil in these patients.
Central and peripheral arterial blood pressure (BP), heart rate, and brachial artery reactivity were determined in 15 hypertensive male CTR before and after oral sildenafil (50 mg) administration.
Sildenafil improved brachial and aortic systolic BP, pulse pressure, aortic augmentation index, left ventricular tension time index, travel time of the reflected aortic pressure wave, and brachial artery reactivity (P <.01 for each comparison). No patient became hypotensive with sildenafil despite continuation of usual antihypertensive medications.
Sildenafil (50 mg) is well tolerated in hypertensive CTR and improves BP, aortic augmentation index, and endothelial function. By decreasing the amplitude of the reflected pressure wave and delaying its return to the heart, sildenafil reduces left ventricular afterload and systolic stress.
Time-related changes in potential factors involved in hepatocarcinogenesis by DDT were investigated in a 4-week and a 2-year feeding studies of p,p'-DDT with F344 rats. In the 4-week study with males at doses of 50, 160, and 500 ppm, cell proliferation and gap junctional intercellular communication (GJIC) were examined after 1, 2, 3, 7, 14, and 28 days. Cell proliferation was enhanced within 3 days at any dose level, but returned to normal after 7 days, whereas GJIC was inhibited throughout the study. In the 2-year study with both sexes at doses of 5, 50, and 500 ppm, cell proliferation, GJIC, enzyme induction, and oxidative stress were investigated after 26, 52, 78, and 104 weeks. Males and females showed an inhibition of GJIC and increases in P450 isozymes (CYP2B1 and CYP3A2) in a dose-dependent manner at all time points, but no significant change in cell proliferation. Lipid peroxide for males at 50 and 500 ppm and 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine for both sexes at 500 ppm were elevated throughout the study. Histologically, eosinophilic foci and hepatocellular adenomas increased in males at 50 ppm and both sexes at 500 ppm. Hepatocellular carcinomas also developed in males at 500 ppm. These results indicate that DDT may induce eosinophilic foci as a result of oxidative DNA damage and leads them to neoplasms in combination with its mitogenic activity and inhibitory effect on GJIC. Oxidative stress could be a key factor in hepatocarcinogenesis by DDT.
Effects of N-(2,6-dimethylphenyl)-2-(2-oxo-1-pyrrolidinyl) acetamide (DM-9384) on learning and memory were studied using four different experimental rat models. In electroconvulsive shock- or scopolamine-induced amnesia in the step-through passive avoidance task, DM-9384 improved both types of amnesia when administered before the training trial. Aniracetam also showed similar but somewhat weaker effects. Furthermore, in the scopolamine amnesia model, an improvement was confirmed with arecoline. The dose-response curves for these compounds were bell-shaped. In the shuttle box active avoidance task, DM-9384 administered daily 1 hr before each training session facilitated the acquisition process of the avoidance response. In addition, the experiment of light-dark discrimination task with positive reinforcement showed that this compound administered daily after each session slightly accelerated the acquisition process of the correct response. These results suggest an ability of DM-9384 to enhance cognitive functions.
Single-pill combinations of aliskiren/hydrochlorothiazide have recently been approved by the European Medicines Agency for the treatment of hypertension.
This study aimed to assess the antihypertensive efficacy of aliskiren/hydrochlorothiazide combination in reducing systolic and diastolic blood pressure in hypertensive patients.
A search in International Pharmaceutical Abstracts, MEDLINE, The Cochrane Library and ISI Web of Knowledge was performed from 2000 to November 2009, to identify randomized, double-blind, clinical trials using aliskiren/hydrochlorothiazide for the treatment of hypertension. Studies were included if they evaluated the antihypertensive efficacy of aliskiren/hydrochlorothiazide in patients with mild or moderate essential hypertension and age ≥ 18 years. The meta-analytical approach calculated the weighted average reductions of systolic and diastolic blood pressure for each daily dosage combination.
We included 5 clinical trials testing several combinations of aliskiren/hydrochlorothiazide and containing data on 5448 patients. In all studies blood pressure was assessed at inclusion (baseline) and after 8 weeks of therapy. Blood pressure reductions and control rates were significantly (p < 0.05) higher with the aliskiren/hydrochlorothiazide combinations than with placebo and the same doses of aliskiren or hydrochlorothiazide alone. The weighted mean reductions (mm Hg) from baseline of systolic and diastolic blood pressure for each aliskiren/hydrochlorothiazide combination were: -15.8/-10.3 (150/25 mg); -15.9/-11.8 (300/12.5 mg); -16.9/-11.6 (300/25 mg). Blood pressure control rates (%) for the above combinations were, at least, respectively: 43.8, 50.1 and 51.9.
Aliskiren/hydrochlorothiazide provided clinically significant additional blood pressure reductions and improved blood pressure control rates over aliskiren or hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy.
A Phase I and pharmacological study was performed to evaluate the feasibility, maximum tolerated dose (MTD), dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), and pharmacokinetics of the anthrapyrazole losoxantrone in combination with paclitaxel in adult patients with advanced solid malignancies. Losoxantrone was administered as a 10-min infusion in combination with paclitaxel on either a 24- or 3-h schedule. The starting dose level was 40 mg/m2 losoxantrone and 135 mg/m2 paclitaxel (as a 24- or 3-h i.v. infusion) without granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF). Administration of these agents at the starting dose level and dose escalation was feasible only with G-CSF support. The following dose levels (losoxantrone/paclitaxel, in mg/m2) of losoxantrone and paclitaxel as a 3-h infusion were also evaluated: 50/135, 50/175, 50/200, 50/225, and 60/225. The sequence-dependent toxicological and pharmacological effects of losoxantrone and paclitaxel on the 24- and 3-h schedules of paclitaxel were also assessed. The MTD was defined as the dose at which >50% of the patients experienced DLT during the first two courses of therapy. DLTs, mainly myelosuppression, occurring during the first course of therapy were noted in four of six and five of eight patients treated with 40 mg/m2 losoxantrone and 135 mg/m2 paclitaxel over 24 and 3 h, respectively, without G-CSF. DLTs during the first two courses of therapy were observed in one of six patients at the 50/175 (losoxantrone/paclitaxel) mg/m2 dose level, two of four patients at the 50/200 mg/m2 dose level, one of four patients at the 50/225 mg/m2 dose level, and two of five patients at the 60/225 mg/m2 dose level. The degree of thrombocytopenia was worse, albeit not statistically significant, when 24-h paclitaxel preceded losoxantrone, with a mean percentage decrement in platelet count during course 1 of 80.7%, compared to 43.8% with the reverse sequence (P = 0.19). Losoxantrone clearance was not significantly altered by the sequence or schedule of paclitaxel. Cardiac toxicity was observed; however, it was not related to total cumulative dose of losoxantrone. An unacceptably high rate of DLTs at the first dose level of 40 mg/m2 losoxantrone and 135 mg/m2 paclitaxel administered as either a 24- or 3-h i.v. infusion precluded dose escalation without G-CSF support. The addition of G-CSF to the regimen permitted further dose escalation without reaching the MTD. Losoxantrone at 50 mg/m2 followed by paclitaxel (3-h i.v. infusion) at 175 mg/m2 with G-CSF support is recommended for further clinical trials.
Dysregulated Ca(2+) homeostasis likely contributes to the etiology of inflammatory bowel disease-associated loss of bone mineral density. Experimental colitis leads to decreased expression of Klotho, a protein that supports renal Ca(2+) reabsorption by stabilizing the transient receptor potential vanilloid 5 (TRPV5) channel on the apical membrane of distal tubule epithelial cells.
Colitis was induced in mice via administration of 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS) or transfer of CD4(+)interleukin-10(-/-) and CD4(+), CD45RB(hi) T cells. We investigated changes in bone metabolism, renal processing of Ca(2+), and expression of TRPV5.
Mice with colitis had normal serum levels of Ca(2+) and parathormone. Computed tomography analysis showed a decreased density of cortical and trabecular bone, and there was biochemical evidence for reduced bone formation and increased bone resorption. Increased fractional urinary excretion of Ca(2+) was accompanied by reduced levels of TRPV5 protein in distal convoluted tubules, with a concomitant increase in TRPV5 sialylation. In mouse renal intermedullary collecting duct epithelial (mIMCD3) cells transduced with TRPV5 adenovirus, the inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor, interferon-γ, and interleukin-1β reduced levels of TRPV5 on the cell surface, leading to its degradation. Cytomix induced interaction between TRPV5 and UBR4 (Ubiquitin recoginition 4), an E3 ubiquitin ligase; knockdown of UBR4 with small interfering RNAs prevented cytomix-induced degradation of TRPV5. The effects of cytokines on TRPV5 were not observed in cells stably transfected with membrane-bound Klotho; TRPV5 expression was preserved when colitis was induced with TNBS in transgenic mice that overexpressed Klotho or in mice with T-cell transfer colitis injected with soluble recombinant Klotho.
After induction of colitis in mice via TNBS administration or T-cell transfer, tumor necrosis factor and interferon-γ reduced the expression and activity of Klotho, which otherwise would protect TRPV5 from hypersialylation and cytokine-induced TRPV5 endocytosis, UBR4-dependent ubiquitination, degradation, and urinary wasting of Ca(2+).
CYP2E1 has been reported to have an essential role in alcohol-mediated increases in hepatic steatosis and acetaminophen hepatotoxicity. We found that pretreatment of Cyp2e1(-/-) mice with ethanol plus isopentanol, the predominant alcohols in alcoholic beverages, for 7 days resulted in micro- and macrovesicular steatosis in the livers of all mice, as well as a dramatic increase in acetaminophen hepatotoxicity. In Cyp2e1(-/-) mice administered up to 600 mg acetaminophen/kg alone and euthanized 7 h later, there was no increase in serum levels of ALT. In Cyp2e1(-/-) mice pretreated with ethanol and isopentanol, subsequent exposure to 400 or 600 mg acetaminophen/kg resulted in centrilobular necrosis in all mice with maximal elevation in serum levels of ALT. Acetaminophen-mediated liver damage was similar in males and females. Hepatic microsomal levels of APAP activation in untreated females were similar to those in males treated with the alcohols. However, the females, like the males, required pretreatment with the alcohols in order to increase APAP hepatotoxicity. These findings suggest that, in the Cyp2e1(-/-) mice, the alcohol-mediated increase in acetaminophen hepatotoxicity involves the contribution of other factors, in addition to induction of CYP(s) that activate acetaminophen. Alternatively, CYP-mediated activation of acetaminophen measured in vitro may not reflect the actual activity in vivo. Our findings that a 7-day treatment with ethanol and isopentanol causes extensive hepatic steatosis and increases acetaminophen hepatotoxicity in Cyp2e(-/-) mice indicate that CYP2E1 is not essential for either response.
Chronic treatment with L-DOPA induces dyskinesia in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3, 6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated monkeys, but is not thought to do so in normal humans or primates. However, we have shown that chronic oral high dose L-DOPA administration, with the peripheral decarboxylase inhibitor, carbidopa and with or without the peripherally acting catechol-O-methyl transferase (COMT) inhibitor, entacapone, to normal macaque monkeys for 13 weeks induced dyskinesia in a proportion of animals. In the present study, in situ hybridization histochemistry was used to investigate the effect of chronic L-DOPA administration on the activity of the direct and indirect striatal output pathways by measuring striatal preprotachykinin (PPT), preproenkephalin-A (PPE-A) and adenosine-2a (A2a) receptor gene expression in these monkeys. Overall there was no significant difference in striatal PPT, PPE-A and A2a receptor mRNA levels between normal animals and all L-DOPA (plus carbidopa and/or entacapone)-treated animals irrespective of whether or not dyskinesia occurred. However, when the level of PPE-A and A2a receptor mRNA was analysed in eight monkeys displaying marked dyskinesias as a result of L-DOPA (plus carbidopa with or without entacapone) treatment, there was a significant increase in PPE-A and A2a receptor mRNA message levels in the striatum compared with animals receiving identical treatment, but displaying few or no involuntary movements, and compared with normal controls. There was no difference in striatal PPT mRNA levels in monkeys exhibiting severe dyskinesia compared with those showing little or no dyskinesia after L-DOPA treatment or to normal controls. These results suggest that prolonged L-DOPA treatment alone has no consistent effect on either the direct or indirect pathways, as judged by striatal PPT, PPE-A or A2a receptor mRNA levels in normal monkeys. However, in monkeys exhibiting marked dyskinesia resulting from chronic L-DOPA treatment, abnormal activity is detected in the indirect striato-pallidal output pathway, as judged by striatal PPE-A and A2a receptor mRNA levels, indicating an imbalance between the direct and indirect striatal pathway which may explain the emergence of dyskinesia in these animals.
Intracranial haemorrhage is an important limitation to pharmacologic reperfusion therapy for acute myocardial infarction. The combination of a glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor, half-dose plasminogen activator and reduced-dose heparin has been evaluated as an alternative to standard fibrinolytic therapy in this setting.
We evaluated the relation between univariate and multivariate predictors of intracranial haemorrhage and the effect of treatment with either reteplase alone (10 U bolus twice, 30 min apart) with standard-dose heparin (5000 U bolus followed by an infusion of 1000 Uh(-1)for patients > or =80 kg and 800 Uh(-1)for those <80 kg) or combination therapy with abciximab (0.25mg/kg bolus and 0.125 microg/kg/min for 12h) and half-dose reteplase (two boluses of 5U 30 min apart) with reduced-dose heparin (60 Ukg(-1)bolus, maximum 5000 U, followed by an infusion of 7 Ukg(-1)h(-1)) in the 16 588 patients randomized in the GUSTO V trial. Overall, the incidence of intracranial haemorrhage was similar in the two groups (0.6% vs 0.6%; OR 1.05, 95% CI 0.71, 1.56). The median (25th-75th) time from drug administration to intracranial haemorrhage was 5.5 (3.4-11) hours with combination therapy and 9.2 (5.9-22) hours with reteplase (P=0.048). Among the multivariable predictors of intracranial haemorrhage, only age showed a significant interaction with treatment effect (age per treatment interaction chi-square 4.60, P=0.032) with a lower risk of combination therapy for younger patients and a higher risk for the elderly.
Although no additional risk of intracranial haemorrhage has been observed with combination therapy in the whole population, a significant age pertreatment interaction exists, with a lower risk with combination therapy in younger patients, and a higher risk in the elderly.
Two-kidney, one-clip Goldblatt models were created in Wistar rats by placing a stenotic clip around the left renal artery. A converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril was started just after operation (group 1), 4 weeks (group 2) or 12 weeks after operation (group 3). The plasma and renal renin activity (PRA and RRA) were measured by radioimmunoassay. Group 1 rats, being normotensive during captopril treatment, developed hypertension after cessation of captopril. The PRA was normal, while the RRA of ischemic kidneys was higher than that of the opposite kidneys. In group 3 rats captopril corrected hypertension in 4 of 6 rats. Although after 3 months their PRA was elevated, no difference was found in the renin content of kidneys. Group 2 rats sustained hypertension despite continued captopril treatment. These data suggest that in the early and chronic stage of this type of renovascular hypertension the renin-angiotensin system may play a major role in initiating and maintaining hypertension. In the intermediate stage (group 2), another mechanism may be involved since captopril had no effect while the pattern of the PRA and RRA of group 2 was almost the same as that of group 1.
Exposure to polycylic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) has been associated with increased risk of lung cancer. Aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is known to play an essential role in PAH-induced toxicity. The objectives of this study were to identify and evaluate AhR expression in normal human lung tissues and in lung carcinomas. AhR protein and mRNA levels in human lung cell lines were evaluated with immunoblot and quantitative real-time RT-PCR assays, respectively. AhR protein expression was high in cytosol homogenates of adenocarcinoma (AD) cell lines and AhR mRNA levels corresponded well with AhR protein levels in these cell lines. AhR expression in human lung tissues and carcinomas were examined by means of immunohistochemical staining method. In normal lung tissues, immunostaining was found in the cytosol of bronchiolar epithelial cells. AhR immunostaining was more intense in AD than in squamous cell carcinomas. When AhR expression was compared with noral bronchiolar epithelial cells and neoplastic cells in the same specimens, the neoplastic cells, especially those of AD, demonstrated an increased staining. The upregulation of AhR mRNA expression was also demonstrated among 2 of 4 paired tissues with the quantitative real-time RT-PCR assay. Our data indicated that AhR expression was upregulated in lung AD and suggested that AhR and its expression might play an important role in the development of lung AD.
Eight of 38 consecutive patients who received clonazepam had significant behavioral side effects. In these 8 patients, the mean absolute IQ discordance between Verbal IQ (VIQ) and Performance IQ (PIQ) was 17.5 points. Thirty of 38 patients had no adverse behavioral side effects while receiving clonazepam. In these 30 patients, the mean absolute VIQ-PIQ discrepancy was 6.5 points. Full neuropsychological testing had been performed on all patients. The only test variable showing a statistically significant difference was the absolute discrepancy between VIQ and PIQ (P less than 0.0001).
Administration of diethylnitrosamine (DEN) to B6C3F1 mice at low dose (20 ppm) in drinking water for long duration resulted in formation of multifocal cystic biliary lesions in the liver. To investigate the potential of the lesions to be promoted to neoplasias by chemicals, we examined the effects of 2 different types of hepatocarcinogenesis promoters, pentachlorophenol (PCP) and phenobarbital (PB) in B6C3F1 mice. Two weeks' exposure to PCP at a concentration of 600 ppm in the diet increased 8-oxodeoxyguanosine (8-oxodG) levels in liver nuclear DNA, and cell proliferation quantified by bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation in epithelial cells of intrahepatic bile ducts as well as hepatocytes. In mice initiated with DEN at 20 ppm in the drinking water for the first 13 weeks followed, after a 4-week recovery interval, by PCP at a concentration of 600 ppm in the diet for 25 weeks, cystic atypical hyperplasias, cholangiomas, and cholangiocarcinomas were present at statistically significant higher incidences. In contrast, neoplasia did not occur in animals treated with 500 ppm PB, and there were no elevations in 8-oxodG levels or increases in the proliferation of biliary epithelium, although proliferation was increased in hepatocytes. These findings suggest that oxidative stress due to PCP might exert a promoting action on the biliary cystic lesions produced by DEN.
Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH) is an acquired genetic disorder of the bone marrow that produces intravascular hemolysis, proclivity to venous thrombosis, and hematopoietic failure. Mutation in the PIG-A gene in a stem cell aborts synthesis of glycosyl-phosphoinositol (GPI) anchors and therefore expression of all GPI-anchored proteins on the surface of progeny erythrocytes, leukocytes, and platelets. The hemolytic anemia of PNH is well understood, and erythrocyte susceptibility to complement may be treated with anti-C5a monoclonal antibody. The pathophysiology of PNH cell clonal expansion and its association with immune-mediated marrow failure are not understood, but PNH/aplasia responds to immunosuppressive regimens such as antithymocyte globulin and cyclosporine. The mechanism of thrombosis in PNH is also obscure, but frequently fatal clotting episodes may be prevented by Coumadin (Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma Co., Wilmington, DE) prophylaxis.
Epirubicin is widely used in osteosarcoma chemotherapy. Growing evidence indicates that the microRNA (miRNA) expression levels which are induced by chemotherapeutic agents play an important role in osteosarcoma development and progression. In this study we investigate the alterations of miRNA expression in the osteosarcoma cells after epirubicin treatment and whether miRNAs can enhance its anti-osteosarcoma effect. After epirubicin exposure, microarray shows 40 miRNAs are differentially expressed in osteosarcoma cells including 24 down-regulated miRNAs. Notably, miR-302b, which is stably low-expressed in osteosarcoma, could be induced by the epirubicin. Furthermore, we find that miR-302b can inhibit the osteosarcoma cell proliferation, promote cell apoptosis and cell cycle arrest MiR-302b can activate caspase-3 and regulate the Akt/pAkt, Bcl-2, Bim expression to increase the cell apoptosis. Meanwhile, miR-302b also attenuates cyclin D1 and CDKs expression to induce cell cycle arrest. Therefore, our results suggest miR-302b can play an essential role in osteosarcoma treatment as a potential tumor suppressor.
Neoangiogenesis and the development of an abnormal angio-architecture in the liver are strongly linked with progressive fibrogenesis. This study aimed to evaluate the ability of curcumin to protect liver fibrosis-associated angiogenesis and capillarization of the sinusoids in experimental rats. Liver fibrosis was induced by intraperitoneal injection of carbon tetrachloride (CCl₄) with or without curcumin for 6 weeks. The results suggest that curcumin treatment markedly attenuated CCl₄-induced liver fibrosis, as assessed by histology and hydroxyproline content, and inhibited hepatic stellate cell activation. Curcumin ameliorated hepatic angiogenesis, as assessed by measuring microvessel density using Von Willebrand factor staining and by examining the expression of the endothelial cell markers CD31 and vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR)-2 in the livers. Pathologic remodeling of liver sinusoidal capillarization, as assessed by electron-microscopic analysis of Disse's space and by evaluation of the levels of basement membrane protein expression, was also attenuated by curcumin administration. The intrahepatic gene or protein expression of hypoxia-inducible factor-1α, VEGFR-1, placental growth factor, and cyclooxygenase-2 decreased with treatment with curcumin in fibrotic rats. In conclusion, curcumin ameliorates hepatic angiogenesis and sinusoidal capillarization in CCl₄-induced rat liver fibrosis through suppressing multiple proangiogenic factors.
Monocrotaline (MCT) is a kind of toxic retronecine-type pyrrolizidine alkaloids (PAs) from plants of Crotalaria, which can be bio-activated by cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes in liver and then induce hepatotoxicity. Since CYPs are localized in the endoplasmic reticulum, the influx of MCT to the liver is the key step for its hepatotoxicity. The objective of the present study was to investigate the role of organic cation transporter 1 (OCT1), a transporter mainly expressed in liver, in the uptake of MCT and in hepatotoxicity induced by MCT. The results revealed that MCT markedly inhibited the uptake of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)), an OCT1 substrate, in Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells stably expressing human OCT1 (MDCK-hOCT1) with the IC50 of 5.52±0.56μM. The uptake of MCT was significantly higher in MDCK-hOCT1 cells than in MDCK-mock cells, and MCT uptake in MDCK-hOCT1 cells followed Michaelis-Menten kinetics with the Km and Vmax values of 25.0±6.7μM and 266±64pmol/mg protein/min, respectively. Moreover, the OCT1 inhibitors, such as quinidine, d-tetrahydropalmatine (d-THP), obviously inhibited the uptake of MCT in MDCK-hOCT1 cells and isolated rat primary hepatocytes, and attenuated the viability reduction and LDH release of the primary cultured rat hepatocytes caused by MCT. In conclusion, OCT1 mediates the hepatic uptake of MCT and may play an important role in MCT induced-hepatotoxicity.
Ribavirin (RBV) is an antiviral nucleoside analogue commonly used in combination with interferon for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C. Severe anemia develops in about 10% of treated patients, and requires close monitoring of hemoglobin and often RBV dose reduction, which may compromise sustained virologic response. Anemia is likely related to extensive RBV accumulation in erythrocytes subsequent to active unidirectional transmembraneous transport. RBV exerts its toxicity through an inhibition of intracellular energy metabolism and oxidative membrane damage, leading to an accelerated extravascular hemolysis by the reticulo-endothelial system. Concentration-dependent toxicity and improvement of anemia upon dose-reduction point towards the importance of pharmacokinetic factors for RBV-induced anemia. On the other hand, pronounced variability in the correlation between RBV concentration and Hb reduction limits the prediction of anemia based on plasma or erythrocyte concentrations in individual patients and points towards additional factors determining individual susceptibility to RBV-induced anemia. Recent studies suggest that erythrocyte oxidative defense mechanisms may play an important role in RBV-induced anemia. Clinical risk factors for severe RBV-induced anemia include impaired renal function, high age, high dose per body weight and female gender. Determination of RBV concentrations has little value in the management of anemia. The only proven effective prevention of RBV-induced anemia is the concomitant administration of erythropoietin. Future research on RBV pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, as well as erythrocyte antioxidant defense mechanisms may improve safety and efficacy of RBV therapy and guide the development of new treatments for RBV-induced anemia and alternative antiviral agents.
Polyethylene glycols (PEGs) are commonly employed as excipients in preclinical studies and in vitro experiments to dissolve poorly hydrosoluble drugs. Their use is generally considered safe in both animals and humans; however, limited data is available concerning the safety of PEGs when administered parenterally. The results of our investigation demonstrate that PEG-400 can have an irritant effect on serosal surfaces and causes subcapsular hepatocellular necrosis in mice when administered intraperitoneally at a high dose (4 mL/kg). Accordingly, levels of serum biomarkers of liver injury need to be carefully interpreted in studies where PEG is administered intraperitoneally and always in association with the results of the histological assessment.
Angiotensin I-converting enzyme (ACE), a common element of renin-angiotensin system (RAS) and kallikrein-kinin system (KKS), is involved in myelopoiesis modulation, mainly by cleaving the tetrapeptide N-acetyl-seryl-aspartyl-lysyl-proline (AcSDKP). Based on this finding and in our results showing B1 and B2 kinin receptors expression in murine bone marrow (BM) cells, we evaluated the ACE influence on myelopoiesis of kinin B1 receptor knockout mice (B1KO) using long-term bone marrow cultures (LTBMCs). Captopril and AcSDKP were used as controls. Enhanced ACE activity, expressed by non-hematopoietic cells (Ter-199(-) and CD45(-)), was observed in B1KO LTBMCs when compared to wild-type (WT) cells. ACE hyperfunction in B1KO cells was maintained when LTBMCs from B1KO mice were treated with captopril (1.0microM) or AcSDKP (1.0nM). Although no alterations were observed in ACE mRNA and protein levels under these culture conditions, 3.0nM of AcSDKP increased ACE mRNA levels in WT LTBMCs. No alteration in the number of GM-CFC was seen in B1KO mice compared to WT animals, even when the former were treated with AcSDKP (10microg/kg) or captopril (100mg/kg) for 4 consecutive days. Hematological data also revealed no differences between WT and B1KO mice under basal conditions. When the animals received 4 doses of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a decreased number of blood cells was detected in B1KO mice in relation to WT. We also found a decreased percentage of Gr1(+)/Mac-1(+), Ter119(+), B220(+), CD3(+), and Lin(-)Sca1(+)c-Kit(+) (LSK) cells in the BM of B1KO mice compared to WT animals. Low AcSDKP levels were observed in BM cultures from B1KO in comparison to WT cultures. We conclude that ACE hyperfunction in B1KO mice resulted in faster hydrolysis of AcSDKP peptide, which in turn decreased in BM tissues allowing HSC to enter the S stage of the cell cycle.
We report a case of oral acetaminophen toxicity in a term newborn infant successfully treated with a 20 h intravenous N-acetylcysteine infusion protocol without any adverse effects. This case report supports the use of N-acetylcysteine to treat neonatal acetaminophen toxicity and highlights the need for better education of parents regarding the appropriate use and dosage of acetaminophen in newborns.
