Zafirlukast is an oral leukotriene receptor antagonist used in the treatment of patients with mild to moderate asthma. To investigate its effects in a clinical practice setting, we evaluated zafirlukast in a heterogeneous group of patients who had asthma of different degrees of severity and who were receiving concomitant asthma medications.
A total of 3759 patients were enrolled at 924 sites. Patients received zafirlukast 20 mg twice a day for 4 weeks. Pulmonary function was measured twice a day, and overall asthma symptom scores, number of nighttime awakenings, severity of morning asthma symptoms, and beta2-agonist use were recorded daily.
In the efficacy analysis (3207 evaluable patients), all parameters showed statistically significant improvement that continued throughout the 4 weeks of the trial. A total of 71% of patients had improved pulmonary function and 72% had improved asthma symptoms. Improvement was consistent regardless of asthma severity category and regardless of concomitant asthma medication category. More than 70% of both physicians and patients indicated there was clinical improvement in pulmonary measures as well as in asthma symptoms. Common adverse events reported were headache (3.7%), nausea (1.4%), pharyngitis (1.4%), and sinusitis (1.1%).
Zafirlukast 20 mg twice a day is well tolerated and improves pulmonary function and asthma symptoms, regardless of asthma severity category and regardless of concomitant asthma medication category.
Excessive proteinuria due to loss of glomerular permselectivity in nephrotic syndrome can cause disturbances in renal salt and water handling with edema formation. Apart from oncotic and hydrostatic mechanisms associated with hypoalbuminemia, primary derangements in renal tubular sodium transport may contribute to the pathogenesis of nephrotic edema. Whereas there is evidence for an increase of cortical collecting duct sodium reabsorption in nephrotic rats, it remains controversial whether proximal tubule sodium transport may also be activated in this condition. The regulation of the cortical Na/H exchanger NHE3, the main pathway for Na reabsorption in the proximal tubule (PT), was investigated in rats with puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced nephrotic syndrome. PAN rats developed reduced GFR, severe proteinuria, and sodium retention within 3 d. After 10 d, immunoblots of brush border vesicles revealed a decreased abundance of NHE3 in nephrotic animals. However, the Na/H antiporter activity in the same vesicle preparations was not significantly altered. Antiporter activity normalized for NHE3 protein was increased by 88% in nephrotic animals (P = 0.025). Immunohistochemistry with the same polyclonal antibody as for immunoblots revealed a decrease of NHE3 abundance in PT. In contrast, immunoreactivity for the monoclonal antibody 2B9, which specifically recognizes the non-megalin-associated, transport-competent pool of NHE3, was higher in PAN-treated rats than in controls. In conclusion, increased sodium reabsorption might be associated with a shift of NHE3 from an inactive pool to an active pool, thus contributing to sodium retention in a state of proteinuria.
Gene expression profiles in several brain regions of adult male rats were evaluated following a d-amphetamine (AMPH) exposure paradigm previously established to produce AMPH neurotoxicity. Escalating doses of AMPH (5-30 mg/kg) were given over the course of 16 h per day in an 18 degrees C environment for 2 days. This paradigm produces neurotoxicity but eliminates or minimizes the hyperthermia and seizure activity that might influence gene expression in a manner unrelated to the neurotoxic effects of AMPH. The expression of 1185 genes was monitored in the striatum, parietal cortex, piriform cortex and posteriolateral cortical amygdaloid nucleus (PLCo) using cDNA array technology, and potentially significant changes were verified by RT-PCR. Gene expression was determined at time points after AMPH when neurodegeneration was beginning to appear (16 h) or maximal (64 h). Expression was also determined 14 days after AMPH to find long-term changes in gene expression that might be biomarkers of a neurotoxic event. In the parietal cortex there was a two-fold increase in neuropeptide Y precursor protein mRNA whereas nerve growth factor-induced receptor protein I-A and I-B mRNA decreased 50% at 16 h after the end of AMPH exposure. Although these changes in expression were not observed in the PLCo, insulin-like growth factor binding protein 1 mRNA was increased two-fold in the PLCo at 16 and 64 h after AMPH. Changes in gene expression in the cortical regions were all between 1.2- and 1.5-fold 14 days after AMPH but some of these changes, such as annexin V increases, may be relevant to neurotoxicity. Gene expression was not affected by more than 1.5-fold at the time points in the striatum, although 65% dopamine depletions occurred, but the plasma membrane-associated dopamine transporter and dopamine D2 receptor were decreased about 40% in the substantia nigra at 64 h and 14 days post-AMPH. Thus, the 2-day AMPH treatment produced a few changes in gene expression in the two-fold range at time points 16 h or more after exposure but the majority of expression changes were less than 1.5-fold of control. Nonetheless, some of these lesser fold-changes appeared to be relevant to the neurotoxic process.
Treatment of serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRIs) is associated with sexual dysfunction. The cause of this dysfunction is unclear but may be related to stimulation of the serotonergic system. In the present article, we describe seven patients in whom iatrogenic sexual dysfunction induced by SRIs was treated with cyproheptadine, a 5HT-2 antagonist with antihistaminergic and adrenolytic properties. Seven obsessive-compulsive male patients, aged 29-54 years, who developed sexual dysfunction following treatment with SRIs (fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, and clomipramine) were instructed to take cyproheptadine (4-12 mg) 1-2 h before commencing sexual activity. Five of the seven patients displayed improvement in sexual function, although the improvement was transitory in two. The two remaining patients did not respond. All patients exhibited sedation on the day following cyproheptadine administration. Our preliminary observation suggests that some patients with sexual dysfunction associated with SRI treatment, mainly decreased libido and anorgasmia, may benefit from cyproheptadine administration. The role of 5HT-2 antagonists in SRI-induced sexual dysfunction merits further investigation.
Organophosphate (OP) poisoning is still associated with high morbidity and mortality rates, both in resource-poor settings and in well-developed countries. Despite numerous publications dealing with this particular poison, detailed clinical data on more severe overdoses with these agents are relatively sparsely reported. A retrospective study was consequently conducted on 33 patients with OP poisoning admitted to our intensive care unit (ICU) to provide additional data on clinical features. We included moderate to severe poisonings between 2000 and 2012 who required admission to ICU. Patients ingested dimethyl-OPs in 19 cases, diethyl-OPs in 8 cases and otherwise classified OPs in 6 cases. Death (5/33) occurred rather late and only one of these fatalities died during on-going cholinergic crisis. Of the survivors (28/33), 71% recovered fully while 29% showed predominantly neurological disabilities before being transferred to neurologic rehabilitation. Aspiration pneumonia predominated in 27/33 patients and one patient died in refractory acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). The intermediate syndrome occurred twice and cardiopulmonary resuscitation had to be performed in 6/33 patients. Fatalities showed a higher Poison-severity-score, APACHE-II-score and SOFA-score on admission compared with survivors and they showed significantly longer QTc-time in the ECG, lower systolic blood pressure and heart rate, a lower pH and a lower base excess on admission. Patients with diethyl-OPs required intubation significantly earlier and showed lower and more sustained inhibited activity of the plasma-cholinesterase on admission compared with patients ingesting dimethyl-OPs. Treatment with atropine and obidoxime was comparable between these groups and severity of poisoning, outcome, hemodynamics on admission, duration of mechanical ventilation and length of stay in the ICU did not significantly differ between the involved group of dimethyl- and diethyl-OPs. We conclude that the fatality rate in our patient cohort treated in a well-staffed and equipped ICU of a developed country is quite similarly high compared with the rate observed in developing countries. Patients died rather late when severe cholinergic crisis had mostly been overcome and death was therefore related to non-poison specific complications.
Renal transplant recipients are susceptible to a number of fungal infections amenable to therapy with amphotericin B, but azotaemia is an almost invariable sequel to the use of this agent. As intravenous mannitol has been shown to minimize nephrotoxicity induced by amphotericin B in dogs we treated four kidney transplant recipients who had systemic fungal infections with mannitol and amphotericin B. None showed significant reduction in renal function though a mild metabolic acidosis did develop.
Squamous cancers of the oral cavity and esophagus are common worldwide, but no good genetically based animal model exists. A number of environmental factors as well as genetic alterations have been identified in these cancers, yet the specific combination of genetic events required for cancer progression remains unknown. The Epstein-Barr virus ED-L2 promoter (L2) can be used to target genes in a specific fashion to the oral-esophageal squamous epithelium. To that end, we generated L2-cyclin D1 (L2D1(+)) mice and crossbred these with p53-deficient mice. Whereas L2D1(+) mice exhibit a histologic phenotype of oral-esophageal dysplasia, the combination of cyclin D1 expression and p53 deficiency results in invasive oral-esophageal cancer. The development of the precancerous lesions was significantly reversed by the application of sulindac in the drinking water of the L2D1(+)/p53(+/-) mice. Furthermore, cell lines derived from oral epithelia of L2D1(+)/p53(+/-) and L2D1(+)/p53(-/-) mice, but not control mice, formed tumors in athymic nude mice. These data demonstrate that L2D1(+)/p53(+/-) mice provide a well-defined, novel, and faithful model of oral-esophageal cancer, which allows for the testing of novel chemopreventive, diagnostic, and therapeutic approaches.
In the present study, we investigated the possibly neurotoxic effects of metal (Pb and Hg) exposure at different developmental stages on neuronal loss in the GABAergic nervous system and synaptic functions in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. Our data suggest that neuronal survival in GABAergic neurons and cholinergic transmission were relatively stable during development in nematodes. Moreover, neurodegeneration, as shown by the neuronal loss and dorsal/ventral cord gaps, was more severely induced by Pb and Hg exposure at the L1 through L3 larval stages than at the L4 larval and young-adult stages. Similarly, pre- and postsynaptic functions were more severely impaired by Pb and Hg exposure at the L1 through L3 larval stages than at the L4 larval and young-adult stages. Furthermore, both aldicarb and levamisole resistance were significantly correlated with neuronal loss, dorsal cord gap, and ventral cord gap in Pb- and Hg-exposed nematodes, suggesting that neuronal survival was noticeably correlated with synaptic function in metal-exposed nematodes during development. Therefore, younger (L1-L3) larvae show more sensitivity to neurotoxicity of neuronal survival and synaptic function than L4 larvae and young adult nematodes.
A randomized double-blind study comparing the use of iohexol with diatrizoate in intravenous urography was performed in 435 patients in nine centers. Contrast media were evaluated for safety, incidence of adverse side effects, and efficacy. Multiple hematologic and biochemical parameters were observed, as well as blood pressure and pulse, at intervals before and after injection. Severity, nature, and duration of side effects were recorded together with the attending physician's clinical assessment. Coned radiographs of the kidneys were done immediately after injection and were repeated at 1-, 5-, 10-, and 20-minute intervals. Films were evaluated for quality of image. A significantly higher number of excellent studies were obtained with iohexol than with diatrizoate. Remarkably few side effects and adverse reactions reported for iohexol establish the safety and suitability of this nonionic contrast medium for intravenous urography.
Sunburn, immune suppression, photoaging, and skin cancers result from uncontrolled overexposure of human skin to solar ultraviolet radiation (UVR). Preventive measures, including photoprotection, are helpful and can be achieved by topical sunscreening agents. Polypodium leucotomos (PL) has been used for the treatment of inflammatory diseases and has shown some in vitro and in vivo inmunomodulating properties. Its beneficial photoprotective effects in the treatment of vitiligo and its antioxidant properties encouraged us to evaluate in vivo the potentially useful photoprotective property of natural extract of PL after topical application or oral ingestion. Twenty-one healthy volunteers [either untreated or treated with oral psoralens (8-MOP or 5-MOP)] were enrolled in this study and exposed to solar radiation for evaluation of the following clinical parameters: immediate pigment darkening (IPD), minimal erythema dose (MED), minimal melanogenic dose (MMD), and minimal phototoxic dose (MPD) before and after topical or oral administration of PL. Immunohistochemical assessment of CD1a-expressing epidermal cells were also performed. PL was found to be photoprotective after topical application as well as oral administration. PL increased UV dose required for IPD (P < 0.01), MED (P < 0.001) and MPD (P < 0.001). After oral administration of PL, MED increased 2.8 +/- 0.59 times and MPD increased 2.75 +/- 0.5 and 6.8 +/- 1.3 times depending upon the type of psoralen used. Immunohistochemical study revealed photoprotection of Langherhans cells by oral as well as topical PL. The observed photoprotective activities of oral or topical PL reveal a new avenue in examining the potentially useful field of systemic photoprotection and suggests that PL can be used as adjunct treatment and can make photochemotherapy and phototherapy possibly safe and effective when the control of cutaneous phototoxicity to PUVA or UVB is a limiting factor in such phototherapies.
In order to assess the effectiveness of sairei-to on nephrosis and to elucidate its mechanism of action, we made a puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) rat model by a single intra-peritoneal injection of PAN at a dose of 100 mg/kg body weight (B.W.) and compared it to the normal controls. Sairei-to was administered in various doses (100,200,500 mg/kg B.W.) orally for 8 days after the initial injection of PAN. Proteinuria and serum triglyceride levels were significantly reduced in the sairei-to-treated groups showed a morphological improvement in the kidney over the PAN group. We found 500 mg/kg B.W. of sairei-to to be the most effective dose. The superoxide dismutase (SOD)-like activity was significantly elevated in the serum but not changed in the urine of sairei-to-treated groups pretreated with PAN. The normal control fed with 500 mg/kg B.W. of sairei-to showed a significant increase in serum SOD-like activity. The urinary prostanoid levels in the PAN group were lower than those in the normal and sairei-to-treated groups. These results support our hypothesis that sairei-to has effects on the elevation of SOD-like activity and on the synthesis of prostanoid in PAN-induced nephrosis, and that these effects are responsible for the mechanism of action of sairei-to.
We previously reported that phenylbutyrate (PB), a differentiation agent, retarded the regrowth of fluoropyrimidine-treated HT29 cells to a greater extent in a well-differentiated subclone as compared with a poorly differentiated subclone (Y. Huang and S. Waxman, Clin. Cancer Res., 4: 2503-2509, 1998). To extend these results and to overcome the known heterogeneity of human colon carcinoma (HCC) cells, the effect of cytostatic agents reported to inhibit HCC growth [IFN-alpha and IFN-gamma, indomethacin, and PB alone or in combination] on clonogenicity and HCCs recovery from 5-fluorouracil (FUra) treatment was studied in eight different HCCs. IFN-alpha proved to be ineffective in all eight HCCs, whereas IFN-gamma induced marked growth inhibition in four HCCs that expressed wild-type K-ras. Despite large differences in HCC response to the other individual agents, strong growth inhibition was observed when PB was added in combination with indomethacin. The inhibition was even more pronounced when IFN-gamma was included in the regimen. Most importantly, after treatment with the combination of three agents, the clonogenic potential was severely inhibited (92-100%) in the IFN-gamma-sensitive cell lines, whereas in the IFN-gamma-insensitive cell lines, comparable loss of clonogenecity was obtained when the cells were pretreated with FUra. As known and described in detail, the three cytostatic agents inhibit different processes necessary for cell growth, thus requiring the cells to repair multiple pathways to restore growth. The induction of STAT1 DNA binding activity by IFN-gamma and p21WAF1 by PB, alone or in combination, correlated with growth inhibition and loss of clonogenicity. The finding that the readily reversible growth inhibition and decrease in clonogenicity of FUra-treated HCC are prolonged by subsequent treatment with the three cytostatic agents in all HCCs may be of clinical importance because FUra continues to be the most widely used cytotoxic agent in the treatment of colon carcinoma.
We report here two new cases of glucose phosphate isomerase (GPI) deficiency associated with hemolytic anemia and present the results of molecular analysis of the five Japanese GPI variants. A Japanese girl (GPI Fukuoka) had an episode of prolonged neonatal jaundice and at 3 years of age was admitted due to acute hemolytic crisis occurring with upper respiratory tract infection. Red blood cell (RBC) GPI activity was decreased to 11.8% of normal and the reduced glutathione (GSH) level of RBCs was slightly decreased. A 54-year-old Japanese man (GPI Iwate) was hospitalized due to chronic active hepatitis, and compensated hemolysis was noted. RBC GPI activity of the proband was decreased to 18.8%, and the GSH content was about half of the normal mean value. Sequencing of the reticulocyte GPIcDNA showed homozygous missense mutations 1028CAG-->CGG (343Gln-->Arg), 14ACC-->A7C (5Thr-->lle), 671ACG-->A7G (224Thr-->Met), and 1615GAC-->AAC (539Asp-->Asn) in GPI Narita, GPI Matsumoto, GPI Iwate, and GPI Fukuoka, respectively. We also identified GPI Kinki as a compound heterozygote of 1124ACA-->AGA(375Thr-->Arg)/ 1615GAC-->AAC(539Asp-->Asn). Our findings, together with the previous results of other investigators, showed that the GPI gene mutations so far identified were heterogeneous, although most GPI variants had common biochemical characteristics such as heat instability and normal kinetics. Several amino acid substitutions were identified in the proximity of the catalytically important amino acid residues such as Ser/Asp 159/160, Asp341, and Lys518, which have been identified in the structural analysis of the pig GPI. The molecular characterization of human GPI variants, therefore, may provide new insights into the genotype-phenotype correlation of GPI deficiency as well as the structure-function relationship of this enzyme.
The proinflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), are increased in heart failure and sepsis, clinical conditions for which the IV anesthetic ketamine is useful. The proinflammatory cytokines cause beta-adrenergic receptor (betaAR) hypofunction secondary to reduced function of the enzyme adenylylcyclase (AC). In this study, we evaluated the effect of ketamine alone, TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma, and ketamine plus TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma, on isoproterenol (ISO, a betaAR agonist) and forskolin (FSK, an activator of AC)-induced intracellular accumulation of cAMP. An in vitro culture of a rat heart cell line (H9c2) was labeled with [3H]adenine to produce [3H]ATP, and we measured the intracellular accumulation of [3H]cAMP after stimulation with ISO or FSK to convert the [3H]ATP to [3H]cAMP. Pretreatment with either cytokine alone did not significantly affect ISO or FSK-induced intracellular cAMP accumulation, whereas the combination of TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma caused a significant (P < 0.05 compared with untreated cells) reduction. Pretreatment with ketamine caused a significant (P < 0.05 compared with untreated cells) increase in ISO or FSK-induced cAMP accumulation. Pretreatment of the H9c2 cells with ketamine, plus the combination of TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma, inhibited the reduction of ISO or FSK-induced intracellular cAMP accumulation caused by the proinflammatory cytokines alone. These results demonstrate that the combination of the proinflammatory cytokines TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma reduce poststimulation (ISO or FSK) intracellular cAMP accumulation. This action of the proinflammatory cytokines is consistent with the observation of betaAR hyporesponsiveness to betaAR agonist therapy in sepsis and heart failure. Ketamine augments the poststimulation cAMP accumulation in H9c2 cells while inhibiting the cytokine-induced reduction of cAMP accumulation. This may partly explain the improvement in cardiac function after ketamine use in clinical conditions known to have increased systemic levels of proinflammatory cytokines, such as sepsis and heart failure.
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interferon-gamma reduced poststimulation intracellular cAMP levels, whereas ketamine inhibits this action of the proinflammatory cytokines. Because cAMP is the second messenger for the beta-adrenergic receptor, this may be a mechanism for improved blood pressure and cardiac output in sepsis and heart failure after ketamine use.
The authors report five cases of premature newborns whose mothers had been treated with indomethacin. In all patients, clinical and biological symptoms were those of pulmonary hypertension with persistence of the fetal circulation. In two cases, autopsy showed an important reduction of the lumen of pulmonary arterioles due to a thickening of the tunica media. The role of indomethacin in such respiratory syndrome is very likely. Therefore, indications for that treatment in pregnant women should be reduced.
Colon cancers develop through accumulation of multiple genetic and epigenetic alterations in colon epithelial cells, and the environment of the genetically altered epithelial cells may also have a substantial impact on their further development to cancer. In the present study, groups of 6-week-old F344 and ACI male rats, the former strain being susceptible to colon carcinogenesis induced by 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) and the latter being relatively resistant, were subjected to a long-term carcinogenesis experiment using our intermittent feeding protocol of PhIP in combination with a high-fat diet, which serves as a relevant risk factor that promotes the development of colon cancers. Animals were sacrificed at 60 weeks, and global gene expression analyses of normal parts of colon epithelial tissues were conducted using a high-density oligonucleotide microarray to elucidate the differential gene expression profile (environment) in normal colonic regions between F344 and ACI strains. Of 8799 entries on the RatU34A array, 74 genes exhibited 3-fold or greater variation. A subset of genes encoding ribosomal RNAs and proteins were highly preferentially expressed in the F344 strain. In addition, genes encoding fatty acid binding proteins and the peroxisome membrane protein 70 appeared up-regulated in the susceptible F344 strain. In the ACI strain, a mismatch repair gene, Msh2, was preferentially expressed, at approximately 20-fold the F344 level, along with a gene encoding a detoxification enzyme, catechol-O-methyltransferase. The combined effects of the repertoire of these differentially expressed genes in normal colon epithelial tissues may account for the distinct susceptibilities of F344 and ACI strains to colon carcinogenesis.
The effectiveness of haloperidol pretreatment in preventing the toxic effects of high doses of amphetamine and cocaine was studied in rats. In this model, toxic effects were induced by intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of amphetamine 75 mg/kg (100% death rate) or cocaine 70 mg/kg (82% death rate). Haloperidol failed to prevent amphetamine-induced seizures, but did lower the mortality rate at most doses tested. Haloperidol decreased the incidence of cocaine-induced seizures at the two highest doses, but the lowering of the mortality rate did not reach statistical significance at any dose. These data suggest a protective role for the central dopamine blocker haloperidol against death from high-dose amphetamine exposure without reducing the incidence of seizures. In contrast, haloperidol demonstrated an ability to reduce cocaine-induced seizures without significantly reducing mortality.
The presence of specific and common genetic etiologies for autism spectrum disorders (ASD) and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) was investigated for 132 candidate genes in a two-stage design-association study.
1,536 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) covering these candidate genes were tested in ASD (n = 144) and ADHD (n = 110) patients and control subjects (n = 404) from The Netherlands. A second stage was performed with those SNPs from Stage I reaching a significance threshold for association of p < .01 in an independent sample of ASD patients (n = 128) and controls (n = 124) from the United Kingdom and a Dutch ADHD (n = 150) and control (n = 149) sample.
No shared association was found between ASD and ADHD. However, in the first and second ASD samples and in a joint statistical analysis, a significant association between SNP rs167771 located in the DRD3 gene was found (joint analysis uncorrected: p = 3.11 x 10(-6); corrected for multiple testing and potential stratification: p = .00162).
The DRD3 gene is related to stereotyped behavior, liability to side effects of antipsychotic medication, and movement disorders and may therefore have important clinical implications for ASD.
The chlorofluorocarbon substitute 1,1-dichloro-2,2,2-trifluoroethane (HCFC-123) is a structural analog of halothane. Both are oxidatively metabolized by CYP2EI, producing a reactive trifluoroacyl acid chloride intermediate and have been shown to cause acute liver necrosis in the guinea pig. With halothane, liver injury has been associated with the degree of reactive intermediate binding to hepatic protein. This injury can be potentiated by prior glutathione (GSH) depletion. Thus, the combination of GSH depletion and HCFC-123 exposure was evaluated for its hepatotoxic potential in this species. Male outbred Hartley guinea pigs were injected with either 0.8 g/kg l-buthionine-(S,R)-sulfoximine (BSO) to deplete hepatic glutathione or vehicle control solution 24 hr before a 4-hr inhalation exposure to 1.0% (v/v) HCFC-123 with 40% O2. HCFC-123 caused minimal liver injury with only 1 of 8 exposed animals displaying confluent zone 3 necrosis. GSH depletion potentiated injury producing submassive to massive liver necrosis in some animals. This potentiation was associated with a 36% increase in covalent binding of reactive HCFC-123 intermediates to hepatic protein. These results were not due to alterations in the biotransformation of HCFC-123 as indicated by plasma concentrations of the metabolites trifluoroacetic acid and fluoride ion which were not affected by BSO pretreatment. HCFC-123 was also found to cause a decrease in liver GSH concentrations following exposure. These findings demonstrate a role for hepatic GSH in helping to prevent covalent binding by the trifluoroacyl acid chloride intermediate. Inhalation of HCFC-123 can cause acute hepatic injury in the guinea pig that is worsened by low hepatic GSH concentrations.
The aim of this study was to understand the skin irritation effects of saturated aliphatic hydrocarbons (HCs), C9-C16, found jet fuels using in vitro 3-dimensional EpiDerm full thickness-300 (EFT-300) skin cultures. The EFT-300 cultures were treated with 2.5microl of HCs and the culture medium and skin samples were collected at 24 and 48h to measure the release of various inflammatory biomarkers (IL-1alpha, IL-6 and IL-8). To validate the in vitro results, in vivo skin irritation studies were carried out in hairless rats by measuring trans epidermal water loss (TEWL) and erythema following un-occlusive dermal exposure of HCs for 72h. The MTT tissue viability assay results with the EFT-300 tissue show that 2.5microl/tissue ( approximately 4.1microl/cm(2)) of the HCs did not induce any significant changes in the tissue viability for exposure times up to 48h of exposure. Microscopic observation of the EFT-300 cross-sections indicated that there were no obvious changes in the tissue morphology of the samples at 24h, but after 48h of exposure, tridecane, tetradecane and hexadecane produced a slight thickening and disruption of stratum corneum. Dermal exposures of C12-C16 HCs for 24h significantly increased the expression of IL-1alpha in the skin as well as in the culture medium. Similarly, dermal exposure of all HCs for 24h significantly increased the expression of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and IL-8 in the skin as well as in the culture medium in proportion to the HC chain length. As the exposure time increased to 48h, IL-6 concentrations increased 2-fold compared to the IL-6 values at 24h. The in vivo skin irritation data also showed that both TEWL and erythema scores increased with increased HCs chain length (C9-C16). In conclusion, the EFT-300 showed that the skin irritation profile of HCs was in the order of C9C10C11C12<C13 approximately C14 approximately C16 and that the tissue was an excellent in vitro model to predict in vivo irritation and to understand the structural activity relationship of HCs.
Cadmium exposure in humans and experimental animals produces renal damage characterized by degeneration and necrosis of tubular epithelial cells followed by interstitial inflammation and eventual regeneration of proximal tubular cells. Since chronic kidney diseases are often associated with the presence of inflammatory cytokines and cadmium has been reported to alter cytokine expression in monocytes and the Kupffer cells of the liver, we investigated the role of proinflammatory cytokines in cadmium-induced nephrotoxicity. Increases in TNF-alpha and IL-6 cytokine mRNA transcripts and secretion were observed in the kidney following exposure of LPS-primed mice to a total of 21 mg/kg body weight cadmium administered over a 14-week period. IL-6 was the predominant cytokine expressed and was found to be present in mesangial cells. Cadmium, in the presence of LPS, was able to induce IL-6 secretion in vitro from mouse glomerular mesangial cells. Proliferative cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) staining revealed increases in regeneration of tubular epithelial cells following cadmium exposure. Furthermore, renal tubular epithelial cells responded to IL-6 by marked proliferation. Taken together, these data suggest that cadmium-induced IL-6 secretion in the kidney may act to support the regeneration of renal tubular epithelial cells that occurs in the course of cadmium nephrotoxicity.
Nephrotoxicity is an important clinical side effect of the chemotherapeutic agent ifosfamide (IFO). Taurine (TAU), an antioxidant amino acid, was used in the present study to evaluate its beneficial effects against the Fanconi syndrome (FS) induced by IFO. The rationale of use of TAU was based on its reported antioxidant effect and the fact that the kidney tends to waste amino acid in IFO-induced FS. Rats received daily injection of IFO (50 mg/kg, IP) for 5 days with or without oral supplementation of 1% TAU in the drinking water for 7 days before IFO and daily thereafter. The results demonstrated that IFO induced a FS characterized by wasting off glucose, electrolytes, and organic acids, along with elevated serum creatinine and urea, and decreased creatinine clearance rate. TAU markedly ameliorated the severity of renal dysfunction induced by IFO, with a significant decrease in total and fractional excretion of Na+, K+, PO4(-3), and glucose, decreased serum creatinine, urea, and albumin, and increased creatinine clearance rate. TAU significantly improved the IFO-induced renal glutathione (GSH) depletion, renal malondialdehyde accumulation, and body weight loss. On the other hand, in Ehrlich ascites carcinoma (EAC)-bearing mice, IFO (50 mg/kg/day, IP on days 1-4 and 15-18) demonstrated antitumor activity as a single agent. No reduction in IFO activity was observed with the supplementation of TAU (1%) in the drinking water. Furthermore, the use of TAU not only maintained high IFO antitumor activity but also was associated with lower toxicity as manifested by less body weight loss and less mortality rate of IFO therapy compared with IFO when given alone. These observations demonstrate that oral supplementation of TAU can protect against IFO-induced renal dysfunction and maintain the antitumor activity of IFO.
In a survey of data on 3,506 patients treated with tobramycin, the 21 cases of drug-related ototoxicity are reported and reviewed. In seven patients the effects were auditory only, in nine vestibular only, and in five both auditory and vestibular. Effects subsided in 14 of the 18 patients who were available for monitoring after therapy. High-frequency audiometric losses persisted in three patients, and a hearing decrease persisted in one. In only one of the three patients did audiometric losses exceed 40 decibels. The patients with drug-related ototoxicity were compared to a group of 49 patients for whom both audiometric testing (before and after therapy) and clinical observation showed that no ototoxic reactions had occurred. Preexisting renal impairment, prior and/or concomitant therapy with other possibly ototoxic drugs, and therapy for 10 days or more with a dose of greater than 3 mg/kg per day were found to be associated with ototoxicity.
To determine the incidences of side effects and complications associated with the use of epidural analgesia for infants and children at the Alberta Children's Hospital, we reviewed our experience over a two-year period. A database was established for recording management, side effects and complications of each epidural, and this is a retrospective review of that database. Problems were identified as complications if there was a need for medical intervention related to the patient complaint, and if the intervention was documented in the patient record. Continuous epidural analgesia with bupivacaine 0.125% or bupivacaine 0.1% with epinephrine was used for managing postoperative pain in 190 children with mean age 5.6 yr (range 1 mo to 18 yr) and the mean weight 22 kg (range 4-88 kg). Mean duration of the epidural infusions was 4.7 days (range 1-16 d). In 127 patients, 203 complications were recorded. Complications, in order of frequency, were nausea and vomiting (23% of patients), motor blockade (15.8% of patients), over-sedation (6.3% of patients), and pruritus (5.2% of patients). Four patients had complications which were potentially related to toxic effects of, or resistance to, bupivacaine, and serum levels of bupivacaine were measured at 3.86, 5.5, 2.1 and 2.34 micrograms.ml(-1). Early discontinuation of the epidural occurred in 41 cases, technical problems with the epidural catheter being the commonest reason (21 cases). Although three potentially serious complications were identified (one catheter site infection, one seizure, one respiratory depression) none was associated with lasting consequences. The majority of complications associated with the use of epidurals were minor and easily remedied.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
