Pseudo-allergic reactions against aspirin (ASA) and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are quite frequent.
Our aim was to determine tolerance of Celecoxib, a selective inhibitor of cyclooxygenase-2 (Cox-2), by oral challenge test in patients who showed skin reactions (diffuse erythema or urticaria/angioedema) after taking ASA and/or NSAIDs.
The oral challenge test was carried out in single-blind on 86 patients treated with a 200 mg cumulative dose of Celebrex, administered in 3 or 4 visits at 48-72 hours interval.
Only 4 patients showed mild skin reactions. In addition, we observed 37 patients with osteoarthrosis taking a 200-400 mg/day dose of Celebrex 5-6 times a week, over a period of 75 days. At day 36, we observed in a single patient urticarial phenomena appeared on the chest and the back.
Our study proves therefore Celecoxib safety on a 72-hour observation period.
To better understand the anticancer activity of Levamisole (LMS), which serves as an adjuvant in colon cancer therapy in combination with 5-Fluorouracil, this study analyses LMS' ability to induce apoptosis and growth arrest in cultured human micro- and macrovascular endothelial cells (ECs) and fibroblasts. Cells exposed (24 h) to Levamisole (range: 0.5 - 2 mmol l(-1)) alone or in combination with antioxidants (10 mmol l(-1) glutathione or 5 mmol l(-1) N-Acetylcysteine or 0.1 mmol l(-1) Tocopherol) were evaluated for apoptosis ((3)H-thymidine assays, in situ staining), mRNA/protein expression (Northern/Western blot), and proliferation ((3)H-thymidine incorporation). Levamisole dose-dependently increased apoptosis in ECs to 230% (HUVECs-human umbilical vein ECs), 525% (adult human venous ECs) and 600% (human uterine microvascular ECs) but not in fibroblasts compared to control cells (set as 100%). Levamisole increased in ECs integrin-dependent matrix adhesion, inhibited proliferation (-70%), reduced expression of survival factors such as clusterin (-30%), endothelin-1 (-43%), bcl-2 (-34%), endothelial NO-synthase (-32%) and pRb (Retinoblastoma protein: -89%), and increased that of growth arrest/death signals such as p21 (+73%) and bak (+50%). LMS (2 mmol l(-1))-induced apoptosis was inhibited by glutathione (-50%) and N-Acetylcysteine (-36%), which also counteracted reduction by Levamisole of pRb expression, suggesting reactive oxygen species and pRb play a role in these processes. The ability of LMS to selectively induce apoptosis and growth arrest in endothelial cells potentially hints at vascular targeting to contribute to Levamisole's anticancer activity.
Transient lumbar pain has been reported to occur frequently in patients having surgery using 5% hyperbaric lignocaine for spinal anaesthesia. The incidence of transient lumbar pain is highest with this agent in patients having surgery in the lithotomy position and in outpatients. The aim of this audit was to determine the incidence of transient lumbar pain in patients having minor surgery for the complications of peripheral vascular disease, a group of patients in whom short duration spinal anaesthesia is desirable. One hundred patients were audited prospectively. All patients had 5% hyperbaric lignocaine spinal anaesthesia and were followed up postoperatively utilizing a standardized questionnaire to determine the incidence of transient lumbar pain. The condition was found to occur in 4% of patients. This low incidence of transient lumbar pain justifies the continued use of 5% hyperbaric lignocaine for spinal anaesthesia in this group of patients.
Therapeutic indications for carbamazepine have grown in recent years and more and more patients are taking this drug for various neurological and psychiatric disorders. Though haematological complications like aplastic anaemia etc., due to carbamazepine therapy are well known pure red cell aplasia is exceedingly rare. A 33 year old man was diagnosed to have pure red cell aplasia with positive Coomb's test following 5 months of carbamazepine therapy. He recovered completely. Carbamazepine induced pure red cell aplasia is a reversible condition if recognised early.
We report four cases of neuroleptic malignant syndrome occurring after administration of a typical antipsychotic haloperidol and a newer atypical antipsychotic clozapine. The management of these patients is discussed.
The effect of disulfiram on the urotoxicity induced by ifosfamide was studied in mice. Ifosfamide administered intraperitoneally to mice caused a dose-related increase in bladder weight within 48 hr of treatment. Disulfiram prevented ifosfamide-induced bladder damage when administered orally within 1 hr of ifosfamide treatment. The results indicate that disulfiram is an effective protective agent against bladder damage caused by ifosfamide treatment.
Nitric oxide (NO) as well as its donors has been shown to generate mutation and DNA damage in in vitro assays. The objective of this study was to identify that DNA single-strand breaks (SSBs) could be elicited by NO, not only in vitro but also in vivo. The alkaline single-cell gel electrophoresis (SCGE) was performed to examine the DNA damage in g12 cells and the cells isolated from the organs of mice exposed to sodium nitroprusside (SNP). A modified method, in which neither collagenase nor trypsin was necessary, was used to prepare the single-cell suspension isolated from organs of mice. Results showed that the exposure of g12 cells to 0.13-0.5 micromol/ml SNP with S9 for 1 h induced a concentration-dependent increase in DNA SSBs in g12 cells. The significant increase in DNA migration and comet frequency has appeared in the cells isolated from the spleen, thymus, and peritoneal macrophages of mice after injecting i.p. SNP in the dosage range of 0.67-6.0 mg/kg b.wt for 1 h. However, no obvious increase in DNA strand breaks was observed in the cells isolated from the liver, kidney, lung, brain and heart obtained from the same treated mice. These results suggested that DNA SSBs could be induced by NO in some cells both in vivo and in vitro. There were organ differences in sensitivity in the mice exposed to NO. Spleen, thymus, and macrophages might be the important targets of NO.
Cannabinoids (CBs) are implicated in the control of cell survival in different types of tumors, but little is known about the role of CB system in pancreatic cancer. Herein, we investigated the in vitro antitumor activity of CBs and the potential role of their receptors in human pancreatic cancer cells MIA PaCa-2. Characterization tools used for this study included growth inhibition/cell viability analyses, caspase 3/7 induction, DNA fragmentation, microarray analysis and combination index-isobologram method. Our results demonstrate that CBs produce a significant cytotoxic effect via a receptor-independent mechanism. The CB1 antagonist N-(piperidin-1-1yl)-5-(4-iodophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide (AM251) was the most active compound with an IC50 of 8.6 +/- 1.3 microM after 72 h. AM251 induces apoptosis, causes transcriptional changes of genes in janus kinase/signal transducers and activators of transcription signaling network and synergistically interacts with the pyrimidine analogue, 5-fluorouracil. These findings exclude the involvement of CB receptors in the regulation of MIA PaCa-2 cell growth and put AM251 forward as a candidate for the development of novel compounds worthy to be tested in this type of neoplasia.
Adverse early life events may influence vulnerability for drug intake. The influence of handling or aversive stimulation during neonatal or adolescent periods on adult cocaine oral self-administration and withdrawal were investigated. Neonatal or adolescent rats were exposed to a modified unpredictable stress paradigm or handling for 10 days. When adults, oral cocaine was offered through the two-bottle choice paradigm for 30 days. Rats were submitted to the forced swimming test after cocaine withdrawal. Overall, there was a significant increase of cocaine choice throughout the days of cocaine consumption and an interaction between interventions and cocaine daily choice. Control rats started cocaine intake at a lower level and increased cocaine choice over time, while animals submitted to neonatal interventions started cocaine intake at higher levels of choice, with less increase in cocaine intake during the period of cocaine exposure. Rats receiving aversive stimulation during adolescence also started taking cocaine solution at higher levels. Significantly higher immobility duration and shorter latency to immobility during the forced swimming were detected in these same adolescents that received unpredictable stress, when compared to the control or handled rats, while there was no difference for rats stimulated neonatally. Therefore, early life events increase initial preference for cocaine and promote changes in its abuse pattern, according to the intensity of the event and the age of the individual at the time of the event. Moreover, adverse experiences during adolescence, but not in neonatal phases, increase the vulnerability to depressive-like behaviors during cocaine withdrawal of adult rats.
To conduct a preliminary evaluation of the safety and efficacy of tiagabine, sertraline or donepezil versus an unmatched placebo control as a treatment for cocaine dependence.
A 10-week out-patient study was conducted using the Cocaine Rapid Efficacy and Safety Trial (CREST) study design.
This study was conducted at the Cincinnati Medication Development Research Unit (MDRU) and at an affiliated site in Dayton, Ohio.
Participants met Diagnostic and Statistical Manual version IV (DSM-IV) criteria for cocaine dependence. Sixty-seven participants were enrolled with 55 completing final study measures.
The targeted daily doses of medication were tiagabine 20 mg, sertraline 100 mg and donepezil 10 mg. All participants received 1 hour of manualized individual cognitive behavioral therapy on a weekly basis.
Primary outcome measures of efficacy included urine benzoylecgonine (BE) level, Cocaine Clinical Global Impression Scale-Observer and self-report of cocaine use. Safety measures included adverse events, ECGs, vital signs and laboratory tests.
Subjective measures of cocaine dependence indicated significant improvement for all study groups. Generalized estimating equations analysis indicated that the tiagabine group showed a trend toward a significant decrease in urine BE level from baseline to weeks 5-8 (P = 0.10) and non-significant changes for the other study groups. No pattern of physical or laboratory abnormalities attributable to treatment with any of the medications was identified. There were three serious adverse events reported, none of which were related to study procedures.
The present findings suggest that tiagabine may be worthy of further study as a cocaine dependence treatment.
To conduct a preliminary evaluation of the safety and efficacy of reserpine, gabapentin or lamotrigine versus an unmatched placebo control as a treatment for cocaine dependence.
A 10-week out-patient study using the Cocaine Rapid Efficacy and Safety Trial (CREST) study design.
The study was conducted at the Cincinnati Medication Development Research Unit (MDRU).
Participants met Diagnostic and Statistical Manual version IV (DSM-IV) criteria for cocaine dependence. Sixty participants were enrolled, with 50 participants completing the final study measures.
The targeted daily doses of medication were reserpine 0.5 mg, gabapentin 1800 mg and lamotrigine 150 mg. All participants received 1 hour of manualized individual cognitive behavioral therapy on a weekly basis.
Primary outcome measures of efficacy included urine benzoylecgonine (BE) level, Cocaine Clinical Global Impression scale--observer and self-report of cocaine use. Safety measures included adverse events, electrocardiograms (ECGs), vital signs and laboratory tests.
Subjective measures of cocaine dependence indicated significant improvement for all study groups. Urine BE results indicated a significant improvement for the reserpine group (P < 0.05) and non-significant changes for the other study groups. No pattern of physical or laboratory abnormalities attributable to treatment with any of the medications was identified. There were three serious adverse events reported, none of which were related to study procedures. The medications appeared to be tolerated well.
The present findings suggest that reserpine may be worthy of further study as a cocaine dependence treatment.
Truncating mutations of the gene SALL4 on chromosome 20q13.13-13.2 cause Okihiro and acro-renal-ocular syndromes. Pathogenic missense mutations within the SALL4 or SALL1 genes have not yet been reported, raising the question which phenotypic features would be associated with them. Here we describe the first missense mutation within the SALL4 gene. The mutation results in an exchange of a highly conserved zinc-coordinating Histidine crucial for zinc finger (ZF) structure within a C2H2 double ZF domain to an Arginine. Molecular modeling predicts that this exchange does not result in a loss of zinc ion binding but leads to an increased DNA-binding affinity of the domain. The index patient shows mild features of Okihiro syndrome, but in addition cranial midline defects (pituitary hypoplasia and single central incisor). This finding illustrates that the phenotypic and functional effects of SALL4 missense mutations are difficult to predict, and that other SALL4 missense mutations might lead to phenotypes not overlapping with Okihiro syndrome.
The Cocaine Rapid Efficacy Screening Trials (CREST) were designed by the National Institute on Drug Abuse Division of Treatment Research and Development (NIDA, DT R&D) to rapidly screen a number of medications potentially useful for the treatment of cocaine dependence.
Each CREST trial was designed to compare several medications in a single trial against an unmatched placebo. The placebo group was included in each trial to avoid the nearly universal positive response to medications seen in open-label trials. In addition, a common set of procedures and outcome measures were employed throughout to increase comparability of results obtained from different trials and from different times.
In all, 18 medications were screened in seven different trials, conducted in four different sites throughout the United States involving 398 cocaine-dependent patients.
Three medications were found to be promising enough to include in subsequent larger trials. Common statistical procedures for evaluating medications were developed to facilitate comparisons across sites and across time. A portion of the data were pooled and analyzed, which yielded some useful insights into cocaine dependence and its treatment. Finally, a review of individual trials together with the pooled analysis revealed several potential improvements for future screening trials.
Overall, the CREST trials proved to be useful for rapidly screening medications for treatment of cocaine dependence, but several modifications in design should be made before this framework is applied further.
Currently, limited data exist on the role of tacrolimus (FK506) in pediatric allogeneic marrow transplantation. Forty-one patients who received tacrolimus as prophylaxis were reviewed, with a median age of 9 years (range 0.2-16 years). Twenty-one patients underwent related donor transplants and 20 underwent unrelated donor transplants. All patients received tacrolimus beginning the day prior to transplant at a dose of 0.03 mg/kg/day by continuous i.v. infusion. When clinically possible, patients were switched to oral therapy in two divided doses, at four times the intravenous dose. Tacrolimus levels were monitored twice a week, and dosages adjusted to maintain serum levels 5-15 ng/ml. Common adverse effects included hypomagnesemia (98%), hypertension (49%), nephrotoxicity (34%), and tremors (32%). Less common side-effects (<10% cases) included seizures and hyperglycemia. The median time to ANC recovery (ANC >500 x 106/l) was 15 days. For the related donor group, the incidence of grade II-IV acute GVHD was 33%, and grade III-IV GVHD 19%. For the unrelated donor group, the incidence of grade II-IV acute GVHD was 55%, and grade III-IV GVHD 30%. Overall, tacrolimus therapy was well tolerated as prophylaxis for acute GVHD in pediatric patients undergoing allogeneic transplantation.
This study tested three dopaminergic medications against a common unmatched placebo condition: hydergine 1 mg three times daily (n = 15); levodopa/carbidopa 25/100 mg three times daily (n = 15); cabergoline 0.5 mg per week (n = 15); and placebo three times daily (n = 15) as potential pharmacotherapies for cocaine dependence.
The four-parallel group, Cocaine Rapid Efficacy Screening Trial (CREST) design featured a 2-week baseline period followed by randomization to an 8-week medication condition that included 1 hour per week of cognitive behavioral drug counseling. A safety evaluation was conducted 4 weeks after termination.
Outcomes included cocaine metabolites measured in urine, retention and self-reports for drug use, cocaine craving, clinical improvement, mood and HIV risk behaviors.
Participants assigned to receive cabergoline provided more urine samples negative for cocaine metabolites (42.4%) than those assigned to receive placebo (25.0%), a statistically significant difference after controlling for baseline differences in self-reported cocaine use (F = 2.95, df = 3; P = 0.05). Cabergoline-treated participants demonstrated a significant improvement over placebo from baseline to week 8 when measured using the Addiction Severity Index (ASI) employment subscale (overall change = - 0.09, SD = 0.10, t = 2.36, P < 0.05). Safety and adverse event measures showed similar rates and types of complaints by treatment condition.
These results, combined with the apparent safety of cabergoline when used with this population, provide empirical support for conducting a larger study of the medication.
Forty-two patients (29 newly diagnosed) with high grade gliomas (n = 37), medulloblastoma (n = 2) or non-biopsied tumors (n = 3) with supratentorial (n = 24), brain stem (n = 11), posterior fossa (n = 5) or spinal (n = 2) location were eligible for this study with adequate organ function and no bone marrow tumor infiltration. Median patient age was 12.2 years (range, 0.7-46.8). A total of 600 mg/m2 BCNU, 900 mg/m2 thiotepa and 1500 or 750 mg/m2 etoposide (VP-16) was administered followed by autologous bone marrow reinfusion (ABMR). Twenty-one newly diagnosed patients received local irradiation (RT) post ABMR. Nine early deaths were observed (21%), as well as one secondary graft failure. Half of the patients aged 18 years or older experienced toxic deaths, whereas only 15% of patients younger than 18 years experienced toxic death (P = 0.05). Of 25 evaluable newly diagnosed patients, 20% achieved complete remission (CR) and 4% partial remission (PR), while 28% remained in continuing complete remission (CCR) and 44% remained with stable disease prior to RT. Of eight evaluable patients with recurrent disease, one achieved CR and two PR, while one remained in CCR and four with stable disease for 1 to 110.2 months. Overall survival was 36%, 24% and 17% at 1, 2 and 3 years following ABMR, with three newly diagnosed patients and one patient treated for recurrent disease being alive, without disease progression 64.4, 67.0, 86.3 and 110.2 months after ABMR, respectively. The combination of high-dose BCNU/ thiotepa/VP-16 has substantial toxicity but definite activity for high risk CNS tumors. Similar protocols with lower toxicity merit further evaluation in both newly diagnosed and recurrent CNS tumors.
The objective of this study was to investigate the efficacy and safety of desmopressin (1-desamino-8-D-arginine vasopressin) compared with placebo in the reduction of menstrual blood loss in women with menorrhagia and prolonged bleeding time, but without common coagulation factor deficiencies. We performed a randomized, double-blind, cross-over study using 300 microg desmopressin nasal inhalation or placebo treatment in one of the two first treatment cycles. Desmopressin was given only for the 2 days during which the bleeding had been at a maximum in the previous baseline cycle. A third open cycle involved combined treatment with desmopressin and tranexamic acid during the 2 days for all patients. Menstrual blood loss during the treatment periods was compared with blood loss during placebo-treated periods using objective measurement. A significant reduction of menstrual blood loss was found in the cycles treated with combined desmopressin and tranexamic acid compared with placebo. When analyzing the blood loss during the two treatment days, there was a significant reduction in blood loss for the 2 days with desmopressin alone versus placebo. The treatment was well tolerated and no serious adverse events were recorded. In conclusion, we find that nasal desmopressin is a possible complement for the medical treatment of menorrhagia.
Inflammation contributes to liver injury during cholestasis. The mechanism by which cholestasis initiates an inflammatory response in the liver, however, is not known. Two hypotheses were investigated in the present studies. First, activation of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), either by bacterial lipopolysaccharide or by damage-associated molecular pattern molecules released from dead hepatocytes, triggers an inflammatory response. Second, bile acids act as inflammagens, and directly activate signaling pathways in hepatocytes that stimulate production of proinflammatory mediators. Liver inflammation was not affected in lipopolysaccharide-resistant C3H/HeJ mice after bile duct ligation, indicating that Toll-like receptor 4 is not required for initiation of inflammation. Treatment of hepatocytes with bile acids did not directly cause cell toxicity but increased the expression of numerous proinflammatory mediators, including cytokines, chemokines, adhesion molecules, and other proteins that influence immune cell levels and function. Up-regulation of several of these genes in hepatocytes and in the liver after bile duct ligation required early growth response factor-1, but not farnesoid X receptor. In addition, early growth response factor-1 was up-regulated in the livers of patients with cholestasis and correlated with levels of inflammatory mediators. These data demonstrate that Toll-like receptor 4 is not required for the initiation of acute inflammation during cholestasis. In contrast, bile acids directly activate a signaling network in hepatocytes that promotes hepatic inflammation during cholestasis.
Superior insights into molecular mechanisms of liver failure, which are not fully understood, will help strategies for inducing liver regeneration. We examined hepatotoxic mechanisms in mice homozygous for the severe combined immune deficiency mutation in the protein kinase, DNA-activated, catalytic polypeptide. Mice were treated with rifampicin, phenytoin, and monocrotaline. The ensuing acute liver failure was characterized by serological, histological, and mRNA studies. Subsequently, we studied whether transplantation of hepatocytes could rescue animals with liver failure. We found extensive liver damage in these animals, with mortality over several days. The expression of multiple hepatic genes was rapidly altered, including those representing pathways in oxidative/metabolic stress, inflammation, DNA damage-repair, and ataxia telangiectasia mutant (Atm) signaling pathways. This led to liver cell growth arrest involving cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1A. Transplantation of hepatocytes with microcarriers in the peritoneal cavity efficiently rescued animals with liver failure. Molecular abnormalities rapidly reversed, including in hepatic Atm and downstream signaling pathways; and residual hepatocytes overcame cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1A-induced cell growth arrest. Reseeding of the liver with transplanted hepatocytes was not required for rescue because native hepatocytes overcame cell growth-arrest to regenerate the liver. This likely resulted from paracrine signaling from hepatocytes in the peritoneal cavity. We concluded that Atm signaling played critical roles in the pathological features of liver failure. These studies should help redirect examination of pathophysiologic and therapeutic mechanisms in liver failure.
Surgical procedures previously considered too lengthy for the ambulatory surgery setting are now being performed during spinal anesthesia. The complete recovery profile of tetracaine and bupivacaine are now of interest but are not available in the literature. This study was conducted to compare times to ambulation, voiding, and complete block resolution, as well as the incidence of back and radicular pain, after spinal anesthesia with lidocaine, bupivacaine, and tetracaine.
Twelve adult volunteers underwent spinal anesthesia on three separate occasions with three local anesthetics (lidocaine 100 mg, bupivacaine 15 mg, and tetracaine 15 mg in hyperbaric solutions) in random order and in a double-blind fashion. A 24-gauge Sprotte spinal needle was placed at the L2-3 interspace. The level of analgesia to pinprick was determined moving cephalad in the midclavicular line until a dermatome was reached at which the prick felt as sharp as over an unblocked dermatome. One dermatome caudad to this point was recorded every 5 minutes as the level of analgesia. We also recorded the times to voiding, unassisted ambulation, and complete resolution of sacral anesthesia.
There was no difference between tetracaine and bupivacaine in time taken for two- and four-segment regression of the analgesia level. However, times to ambulation and complete resolution of the block were significantly shorter with bupivacaine then with tetracaine. With lidocaine, times to four-segment regression, ambulation, voiding, and complete regression of the block were significantly shorter than with bupivacaine and tetracaine. Time to two-segment regression did not differ among local anesthetics. Back and radicular pain symptoms were reported by three subjects after lidocaine subarachnoid block but not after tetracaine or bupivacaine.
Among individual subjects, lidocaine exhibited the shortest recovery profile. However, the recovery profiles of the three anesthetics were very variable between subjects. Time to meeting discharge criteria after bupivacaine or tetracaine was faster in a few subjects than that after lidocaine in other subjects. For ambulatory anesthesia, times to two- and four-segment regression do not accurately predict time to readiness for discharge after spinal anesthesia.
Mice have been selected over eight generations for response and non-response to haloperidol-induced catalepsy. The selection has been asymmetric, with significantly faster divergence for the haloperidol non-responder (HNR) line as compared to the haloperidol responder (HR) line. After six generations of selection, the ED50 in the HNR line was 4.3 mg/kg and 0.4 mg/kg in the HR line. Spiroperidol, fluphenazine and trifluoperazine showed a 10-fold or greater discrimination between lines. Raclopride, a specific dopamine D2 antagonist, showed a 7-fold discrimination between lines. Chlorpromazine, thiothixene, (+) butaclamol and cis-flupenthixol showed a 3-4-fold discrimination between lines. The specific D1 antagonist, SCH 23390, was the most potent cataleptogenic agent tested (ED50 = 0.1 mg/kg) and did not discriminate between the lines. The HR and HNR lines did not differ in post-synaptic D2 receptor affinity or density as assessed by quantitative receptor autoradiography and membrane binding assays. However, A-9 somatodendritic receptor density was 80% higher in the HNR line as compared to the HR line.
To investigate individual metabolism-related determinants of metoprolol disposition and effects in patients receiving the drug as standard treatment for acute myocardial infarction (AMI).
We recruited 187 AMI patients receiving metoprolol on clinical grounds and genotyped them for CYP2D6 *3, *4, *10, and gene duplication. Heart rates (HR) at admission and discharge were registered. Clinical details were derived from the case histories. Metoprolol and alpha-hydroxy-metoprolol were analyzed by HPLC in plasma before and after 2, 6 and 12 h post dose in the first 115 patients. HR at rest was registered after each sampling. Ventricular rhythm disturbance (VRD) association with CYP2D6 activity, found accidentally, was studied in a newly formed subgroup (n = 23).
Metoprolol represented 85% of all beta-blocker prescriptions. CYP2D6 genotype distribution was comparable with other Caucasian populations. Genotypically poor metabolizers (PM, n = 2) exhibited the most pronounced bradycardia at discharge, while in the ultrarapid metabolizers (UM, n = 7) therapeutic effect was not achieved. Metoprolol and alpha-hydroxy-metoprolol plasma concentration AUCs differed significantly between the genotypes corresponding to predicted metabolic activity (P < 0.005). Correspondingly, the mean HRs were lower in PMs and increased with increasing number of active CYP2D6 genes (P < 0.05). Trough metoprolol concentrations were only quantifiable in patients with at least one mutated allele. Neither decreased cardiac ejection fraction nor age and gender influenced metoprolol disposition. Higher mean number of active CYP2D6 genes was found in patients with VRDs (2.2 vs. 1.7), which could not be clearly explained by metoprolol concentrations. CYP2D6 gene duplication was overrepresented in this group (22 vs. 2%, P = 0.0002).
Metoprolol disposition and effects are mainly controlled by CYP2D6 genotype. Patients with gene duplication are at high risk of not benefiting from treatment due to lower metoprolol concentrations. Higher CYP2D6 activity seems to be associated with VRDs complicating AMI, being a negative prognostic factor for patients' survival.
The usefulness of adding bupivacaine to an opioid administered by the epidural route is controversial. This study examines both the quality of pain relief and side effects, in particular urinary retention, during patient-controlled epidural analgesia (PCEA) with sufentanil alone or in combination with two different concentrations of bupivacaine.
In a double-blind randomized study, 60 healthy young adults undergoing open knee or ankle surgery with combined spinal-epidural anesthesia received postoperative analgesia via PCEA with sufentanil alone or with 0.06% or 0.12% bupivacaine. In addition to pain scores at rest and during mobilization, bladder function was evaluated. Strict criteria were respected in scoring the occurrence of problems suggestive of urinary retention. The 24-hour analgesic consumption and the incidence of other side effects were also recorded.
Patients receiving bupivacaine had better pain relief than those receiving only the opioid, but this difference was more pronounced when measuring dynamic pain scores. The consumption of sufentanil was significantly higher in the group receiving the opioid alone than in the group receiving 0.06% bupivacaine. The bupivacaine dose requirements were twice as high with the 0.12% concentration. Bladder problems occurred significantly more frequently in patients treated with the highest bupivacaine concentration. Motor impairment was not a major problem.
A 0.06% bupivacaine-sufentanil combination offered the best results in terms of analgesic quality and lower side effects, mainly micturition problems, which may be explained by the higher consumption of local anesthetic at the higher bupivacaine concentration. Analgesic quality could not be improved by increasing the bupivacaine concentration.
Clinical studies have indicated that the stent-eluting drugs sirolimus and paclitaxel impact restenosis; however, it is still elusive how these drugs affect the vascular endothelium at the molecular and cellular levels. The purpose of this study was to determine whether sirolimus and paclitaxel induce molecular and cellular alterations in the vascular endothelium. Endothelial regrowth was assessed in human aortic endothelial cells and rat aortic endothelium. Molecular and cellular alterations were analyzed in human aortic endothelial cells by Western blot analysis, transmission electron microscopy, and immunofluorescence staining. Green fluorescent protein-LC3 mice were used to analyze autophagic endothelium. Here, we show that sirolimus and paclitaxel differentially induce self-digesting autophagy in vascular endothelial cells with changes in expression of LC3B, p53, and Bcl-2, considerably suppressing re-endothelialization and revascularization. These results suggest that phenotypic alteration in the endothelium by sirolimus or paclitaxel might affect the rates of late stent thrombosis, myocardial infarction, and mortality.
Five cases of amiodarone-induced syncope due to torsades de pointes or ventricular fibrillation are described. Amiodarone was used for recurrent supraventricular tachycardia in four cases and frequent ventricular extra systoles complicating congenital QT prolongation in the remaining case. Each was associated with a marked prolongation in the QTc interval following amiodarone. Three cases had had a previous history of life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias secondary to anti-arrhythmic drugs. Hypokalemia may have been a contributory factor in two. The clinical features, predisposing factors, and treatment are discussed.
Cytochrome P450scc, the mitochondrial cholesterol side chain cleavage enzyme, is the only enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of cholesterol to pregnenolone and, thus, is required for the biosynthesis of all steroid hormones. Congenital lipoid adrenal hyperplasia is a severe disorder of steroidogenesis in which cholesterol accumulates within steroidogenic cells and the synthesis of all adrenal and gonadal steroids is impaired, hormonally suggesting a disorder in P450scc. However, congenital lipoid adrenal hyperplasia is caused by mutations in the steroidogenic acute regulatory protein StAR; it has been thought that P450scc mutations are incompatible with human term gestation, because P450scc is needed for placental biosynthesis of progesterone, which is required to maintain pregnancy. In studying patients with congenital lipoid adrenal hyperplasia, we identified an individual with normal StAR and SF-1 genes and a heterozygous mutation in P450scc. The mutation was found in multiple cell types, but neither parent carried the mutation, suggesting it arose de novo during meiosis, before fertilization. The patient was atypical for congenital lipoid adrenal hyperplasia, having survived for 4 yr without hormonal replacement before experiencing life-threatening adrenal insufficiency. The P450scc mutation, an in-frame insertion of Gly and Asp between Asp271 and Val272, was inserted into a catalytically active fusion protein of the P450scc system (H2N-P450scc-Adrenodoxin Reductase-Adrenodoxin-COOH), completely inactivating enzymatic activity. Cotransfection of wild-type and mutant vectors showed that the mutation did not exert a dominant negative effect. Because P450scc is normally a slow and inefficient enzyme, we propose that P450scc haploinsufficiency results in subnormal responses to ACTH, so that recurrent ACTH stimulation leads to a slow accumulation of adrenal cholesterol, eventually causing cellular damage. Thus, although homozygous absence of P450scc should be incompatible with term gestation, haploinsufficiency of P450scc causes a late-onset form of congenital lipoid adrenal hyperplasia that can be explained by the same two-hit model that has been validated for congenital lipoid adrenal hyperplasia caused by StAR deficiency.
