The cases of two patients with fulminant hepatic failure after intake of therapeutic doses (4-8 g) of paracetamol, and who were admitted to hospital for assessment for liver transplantation, are described. In both patients starvation, due to abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting or diarrhoea, was probably contributing to the toxic effect of the drug. One of the patients also had an excessive alcohol intake. Paracetamol should not be prescribed for patients with alcoholism or with low food intake.
A 9-year-old girl with akinetic-rigid parkinsonism with tremor is described. She was hospitalized with neuroleptic malignant syndrome that started 3 days after anticonvulsant drug treatment owing to epileptic seizures. Cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was normal, and during the follow-up, magnetic resonance spectroscopy revealed a decrement on N-acetylaspartate in the basal ganglia, suggesting neuronal dysfunction. The basal ganglia and dopamine are involved in the pathophysiology of parkinsonism and neuroleptic malignant syndrome and have been recognized in seizure propagation and seizure threshold. Parkinsonism in children is considered an acquired, secondary, and reversible disorder with a dramatic improvement to treatment. However, our patient still has parkinsonism 2 years after diagnosis. This case represents the unusual presentation of epilepsy, parkinsonism, and neuroleptic malignant syndrome, which might have a common pathophysiologic pathway (dopaminergic dysfunction) involving the basal ganglia and the hypothalamus.
Nicotine is the psychoactive substance responsible for tobacco dependence; smokers adjust their cigarette consumption to maintain brain nicotine levels. In humans, 70 to 80% of nicotine is metabolized to the inactive metabolite cotinine by the enzyme CYP2A6. CYP2A6 can also activate tobacco smoke procarcinogens [e.g., NNK, 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone]. In initial studies we found that there was an under-representation of individuals carrying defective CYP2A6 alleles in a tobacco-dependent population, and that among smokers, those with deficient nicotine metabolism smoked fewer cigarettes. We have since reproduced this data in a prospective smoking study (400 male and female, heavy and light smokers) examining the role of the CYP2A6 genotype on carbon monoxide levels, plasma and urine nicotine and cotinine levels, and cigarette counts. We have also recently identified deletion and duplication variants in the CYP2A6 gene locus and have examined their impact on smoking. These data provide the impetus to examine how inhibition of CYP2A6 activity might be useful in a therapeutic context. Both kinetic and behavioral experiments in human smokers demonstrated that inhibiting CYP2A6 in vivo decreased nicotine metabolism and smoking behavior. This article summarizes the preliminary results from our studies.
Many countries have specific legislation, such as the Controlled Substances Act (1970) in the United States and the Misuse of Drugs Act (1971) in the United Kingdom to control recreational drugs. There is a growing market and supply of "novel" recreational drugs, which include the misuse of pharmaceutical compounds and research chemicals. These are often not covered under current legislation, despite the fact that they often have both similar chemical structures and/or clinical effects to controlled recreational drugs.
A male patient presented to an emergency department with delayed onset of severe agitation, hallucinations, and tonic-clonic seizures following the use of Bromo-dragonFLY and an unknown white powder. He settled following IV benzodiazepines and supportive care, and was discharged with no evidence of long-term sequelae. Analysis of the white powder by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS), ultraviolet/visible spectrophotometry (UV/VIS) and thin layer chromatography (TLC) showed the presence of Bromo-dragonFLY (1-(8-bromobenzo[1,2-b;4,5-b']difuran-4-yl)-2-aminopropane); serum analysis by GC/MS and liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) confirmed that a combination of Bromo-dragonFLY (0.95 ng/mL), ketamine (20 ng/mL) and cannabis had been used by the patient. No other recreational drugs were detected in an extensive toxicological screen of serum and urine samples.
This is the first confirmed case to be reported of toxicity with delayed onset of severe agitation, hallucinations and tonic-clonic seizures associated with recreational use of Bromo-dragonFLY (1-(8-bromobenzo[1,2-b;4,5-b']difuran-4-yl)-2-aminopropane) in combination with ketamine and cannabis. In our view, this case provides further support for the need for a systematic approach to toxicological screening of patients with recreational drug toxicity, to identify emerging drugs and provide evidence for legislative authorities to assist in revising the legal status of emerging recreational drugs.
The Wnt/β-catenin pathway plays multiple and diverse roles in development by regulating gene expression via T-cell factor/Lymphoid enhancer-binding factor (Tcf/Lef) DNA binding factors. Misregulation of this pathway is thought to initiate colon adenoma formation. It is controversial whether Tcf4 (Tcf7L2) functions as an oncogene or tumor suppressor gene in colon carcinogenesis. We show here that Tcf4 haploinsufficiency results in colon tumor formation in a mouse tumor model that normally only develops small intestinal tumors. Further, we show that loss of Tcf4 early in development and in adult colon results in increased cell proliferation. These findings strongly suggest that Tcf4 normally modulates proliferation of the colonic epithelium and that disruption of Tcf4 activity increases proliferation, leading to colon tumorigenesis. Taken together, our in vivo studies favor a tumor suppressor function for Tcf4.
Twenty-four patients with leukemia or lymphoma refractory to conventional chemotherapy were given a course of systemic, high-dose cytosine arabinoside (3 gm/m2 every 12 hours for twelve doses). Four patients developed cerebellar degeneration during treatment. Ataxia of gait and limb movements, dysarthria, and nystagmus appeared five to seven days after the first dose, worsened over the next two to three days, and then remained stable for two to six days. Incomplete improvement occurred over the following one to two weeks. Postmortem examination disclosed loss of Purkinje cells in the depths of cortical sulci with relative preservation of those at the crests of folia and those in the most posterior inferior portions of the cerebellum. Other patients developed a mild, reversible cerebellar syndrome over the same time course as that of the irreversible disorder. Manifestations ranged from nystagmus alone to dysarthria and unsteadiness of gait without limb ataxia. We conclude that cytosine arabinoside at this dosage causes a cerebellar degeneration with characteristic clinical and pathological features. Among the present patients with refractory hematological malignancies, such degeneration occurred with an incidence of 16.7%, more than twice that reported in previous series.
The histone deacetylase inhibitor largazole 1 was synthesized by a convergent approach that involved several efficient and high yielding single pot multistep protocols. Initial attempts using tert-butyl as thiol protecting group proved problematic, and synthesis was accomplished by switching to the trityl protecting group. This synthetic protocol provides a convenient approach to many new largazole analogues. Three side chain analogues with multiple heteroatoms for chelation with Zn(2+) were synthesized, and their biological activities were evaluated. They were less potent than largazole 1 in growth inhibition of HCT116 colon carcinoma cell line and in inducing increases in global H3 acetylation. Largazole 1 and the three side chain analogues had no effect on HDAC6, as indicated by the lack of increased acetylation of α-tubulin.
Glucocorticoids raise blood pressure but were thought not to play a pathophysiological role in essential hypertension when it was demonstrated that cortisol secretion rates and circulating concentrations are normal in this disease. However, recent observations suggest that increased tissue sensitivity to cortisol, mediated by either abnormal glucocorticoid receptors or impaired inactivation of cortisol by 11 beta-dehydrogenase, may allow cortisol to raise blood pressure despite normal circulating concentrations. We studied 11 patients with essential hypertension and 11 matched normotensive control subjects. Dermal vasoconstriction after topical application of both cortisol (16 +/- 4 versus 32 +/- 5 U, control subjects versus hypertensive patients; P < .02) and beclomethasone dipropionate (75 +/- 10 versus 100 +/- 7 U; P < .05) was increased in the hypertensive patients. Hypothalamic-pituitary glucocorticoid receptor sensitivity was normal, as judged by basal cortisol secretion rates and suppression of plasma cortisol during sequential overnight dexamethasone suppression tests. 11 beta-Dehydrogenase activity was impaired in essential hypertension, as judged by prolonged half-lives of [11 alpha-3H]cortisol (44 +/- 4 versus 58 +/- 4 minutes, control subjects versus hypertensive patients; P < .02). However, this did not correlate with the dermal vasoconstrictor response. We conclude that vasoconstrictor sensitivity to glucocorticoids is increased in essential hypertension and that this may initiate and/or sustain the increased peripheral vascular resistance that characterizes this disease. The mechanism of increased sensitivity remains uncertain, but it will be important to establish whether it relates to genetic abnormalities of the glucocorticoid receptor that have been observed in animal models and young individuals who are predisposed to essential hypertension.
Several drugs including antineoplastic drugs and immunosuppressant can induce hemolytic uremic syndrome. Mitomycin C are well known to cause cancer associated HUS, and its frequency are reported to be 4-15%. Noncardiogenic pulmonary edema frequently ( > 50%) develops, especially after blood transfusion, among MMC induced HUS. Cancer associated HUS has a high mortality and no effective therapy has been established. Combination of vinblastin and bleomycin also induces HUS. Cisplatin, one of the most frequently used antineoplastic drugs, also induces HUS. Cyclosporin causes HUS, probably due to endothelial damage and/or an inhibition of prostacyclin synthesis. A case of FK506 induced HUS has been recently reported. Quinine and Cocaine also can induce HUS. Prognosis of cancer associated HUS is quite poor, whereas Quinine and Cocaine induced HUS may resolve.
Lipid and transaminase levels after conversion from immediate-release niacin to extended-release niacin were evaluated.
All patients who had their medications converted from Niaspan to Slo-Niacin between March 2008 and January 2009 were considered for evaluation. Subjects who took =2000 mg of Niaspan were automatically converted to Slo-Niacin in a 1:1 dosing ratio conversion. Mean aspartate transaminase (AST) and alanine transaminase (ALT) levels and lipid values (low-density-lipoprotein [LDL] cholesterol, high-density-lipoprotein [HDL] cholesterol, and triglyceride levels) during Niaspan therapy were compared with the means of these values obtained after at least 90 days of Slo-Niacin therapy. Data were analyzed using the Wilcoxon rank-order test and frequency distributions.
Of the 1172 patients who were identified as having had their Niaspan switched to Slo-Niacin after formulary conversion, 142 met the inclusion criteria for this study. The majority of the patients had a decrease or no change in AST (72.5%) and ALT (69%) levels after at least 90 days of Slo-Niacin therapy. None of the patients had transaminase levels greater than three times the upper limit of normal during Slo-Niacin therapy. Differences in AST, ALT, triglyceride, and LDL cholesterol levels were not statistically significant between Niaspan and Slo-Niacin. On the other hand, patients' mean HDL cholesterol level was significantly greater with Slo-Niacin therapy than with Niaspan (42 mg/dL versus 40 mg/dL, respectively; p < 0.05).
Formulary conversion from Niaspan to Slo-Niacin resulted in a small but significant increase in HDL cholesterol concentration and no significant change in ALT or AST level.
We tested whether a high potassium diet alters lithium's effects on locomotor activity rhythms to the same extent as it prevents lithium toxicity. Rats fed a standard diet containing 0.47% potassium lost weight after subcutaneous implantation of an osmotic pump delivering 1.35 mg of lithium chloride per hour, and most died or became sick within three weeks after implantation. In contrast, all rats fed a diet containing 4.1% potassium gained weight at the same rate regardless of whether they had received lithium infusions or placebo. In a second experiment, lithium administration by either diet or osmotic pump delayed wheel running rhythms, showing that lithium's central nervous system action did not depend on potassium intake or method of lithium administration. Dietary potassium supplementation may provide a useful strategy for improving the therapeutic index of lithium treatment.
The objective of this study was to determine whether the calcium antagonist amlodipine could slow the progression of chronic renal disease. We examined the effects of amlodipine on kidney structure and function in two experimental models of hypertension. In the first study, adult, male Munich Wistar rats underwent uninephrectomy and were given weekly injections of desoxycorticosterone and 1% saline for drinking. Rats ingested normal chow or chow containing amlodipine for 8 weeks. The drug reduced systemic blood pressure, but glomerular filtration rate, kidney weight, proteinuria, and morphological evidence of glomerular injury were not affected. In the second study, male spontaneously hypertensive rats underwent uninephrectomy at 5 weeks of age and were followed for 6 months, during which they received no therapy or amlodipine. The drug dose was determined in preliminary studies to be the highest dose not associated with marked growth retardation. Again, although systemic blood pressure was significantly reduced by amlodipine, proteinuria and the prevalence of glomerulosclerosis were similar in amlodipine-treated and control spontaneously hypertensive rats. Micropuncture studies revealed that glomerular pressure remained elevated in amlodipine-treated spontaneously hypertensive rats. Kidney weight and glomerular volume were also similar in amlodipine-treated and control rats. Amlodipine also failed to inhibit platelet aggregation. Therefore, antihypertensive therapy with amlodipine fails to reduce glomerular pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats as well as glomerular size and injury in spontaneously hypertension rats and desoxycorticosterone-salt hypertension. Although other dihydropyridine calcium antagonists have been found to reduce experimental glomerular injury, these data suggest that amlodipine may not prevent hypertensive nephrosclerosis.
Impact of gender on aminoglycoside induced nephrotoxicity is still controversial and inconclusive. The objective of this study was to investigate the nephrotoxic potential of amikacin (AK) and gentamicin (GM) in male and female hospitalized patients.
A one-year, non-interventional prospective study of patients administered either GM or AK. The study was carried out at the internal medicine department of Al-Watani governmental hospital. Nephrotoxicity was defined as a blood creatinine (Cr) increase of > or = 0.5 mg/ dL from the basal (normal) Cr level. Data were entered and analyzed using SPSS 16.
A total of 94 patients were identified (GM, n = 45 and AK, n = 49). Male and female patients on GM had comparable characteristics except that males had significantly higher number of co-existing chronic diseases. No gender differences were observed in gentamicin induced nephrotoxicity (37% in males versus 33.3% in females, P = 0.8). Male and female patients on AK were also comparable in demographic and clinical characteristics. However, significant differences in gender susceptibility were observed with AK induced nephrotoxicity (31.6% in females versus 6.7% in males, P = 0.043). Pattern of serum creatinine changes in patients on GM were comparable between males and females. However, in females on AK, s.cr levels were rising sharply after the fourth day compared with that in male patients on AK.
Gender differences in aminoglycoside induced nephrotoxicty were seen with AK where females were more vulnerable to nephrotoxicity. Such gender differences did not exist with GM.
An unusual, acute extrapyramidal reaction, which resulted from treatment with haloperidol and which was unresponsive to standard anticholinergic treatment and indistinguishable on clinical grounds from acute catatonia, is described. Because the etiology of this reaction was not appreciated, progressive, life-threatening physiological deterioration ensued accompanied by unremitting neuromuscular symptoms, a clinical picture resembling both "lethal catatonia" and the rare "neuroleptic malignant syndrome." The literature on these conditions is reviewed and various problems in differential diagnosis are discussed. It is proposed that some cases of the neuroleptic malignant syndrome and perhaps lethal catatonia may represent the evolution of severe extrapyramidal reactions.
The mechanism of atrial flutter and fibrillation induced by rapid pacing in 22 dogs with 3-day-old sterile pericarditis was investigated by computerized epicardial mapping of atrial activation before and after administration of agents known to modify atrial electrophysiologic properties: procainamide, isoproterenol, and electrical stimulation of the vagosympathetic trunks. Before the administration of any of these agents, a total of 30 episodes of sustained atrial flutter (greater than 1 min duration, monomorphic; regular cycle length, 127 +/- 12 ms, mean +/- SD) was induced in 15 out of 22 dogs and 9 episodes of unstable atrial flutter (duration, less than 1 min; cycle length, 129 +/- 34 ms; monomorphic, alternating with fibrillation) were induced in the remaining 7 preparations. In the latter, administration of procainamide transformed unstable atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation to sustained atrial flutter (cycle length, 142 +/- 33 ms; n = 9 episodes). During control atrial flutter, atrial maps displayed circus movement of excitation in the right atrial free wall with faster conduction parallel to the orientation of intra-atrial myocardial bundles. Vagal stimulation changed atrial flutter to atrial fibrillation in 32 of 73 trials; this was associated with acceleration of conduction in the lower right atrium, leading to fragmentation of the major wave front. Isoproterenol produced a 6-25% increase of the atrial rate in 6 out of 14 trials of atrial flutter and induced atrial fibrillation in 4. After procainamide, the reentrant pathway was lengthened and conduction was slowed further in the right atrium. Maps obtained during unstable atrial flutter showed incomplete circuits involving the right atrium. Following procainamide infusion, the area of functional dissociation or block was enlarged and a stable circus movement pattern, which was similar to the pattern seen in control atrial flutter, was established in the right atrium. We conclude that (1) the transitions among atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter, and sinus rhythm occur between different functional states of the same circus movement substratum primarily located in the lower right atrial free wall, and (2) the anisotropic conduction properties of the right atrium may contribute to these reentrant arrhythmias and may be potentiated by acute pericarditis.
A 72-year-old woman was admitted to the hospital with "flash" pulmonary edema, preceded by chest pain, requiring intubation. Her medical history included coronary artery disease with previous myocardial infarctions, hypertension, and diabetes mellitus. A history of angioedema secondary to lisinopril therapy was elicited. Current medications did not include angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or beta-blockers. She had no previous beta-blocking drug exposure. During the first day of hospitalization (while intubated), intravenous metoprolol was given, resulting in severe angioedema. The angioedema resolved after therapy with intravenous steroids and diphenhydramine hydrochloride.
Busulfan is an example of a drug eliminated through glutathione S-transferase (GST)-catalyzed conjugation with reduced glutathione (GSH). We studied the pharmacokinetics and toxicity of busulfan in C57BL6 mice in correlation with liver GST activity and GSH synthesis by accurate determination of precursors, namely, gamma-glutamyl-cysteine and cysteine. A significantly lower incidence of acute toxicity was observed in mice receiving busulfan 16.5 mg/kg twice a day compared with animals receiving 33 mg/kg once a day. In both cases, a total dose of 132 mg/kg was administered over 4 days. The difference in toxicity was explained by pharmacokinetics since a strong induction of clearance was observed only in animals treated twice daily. Induction of metabolism was correlated with an increase in liver cysteine content and enhanced glutathione synthesis rate, whereas GST activity was unchanged. To our knowledge, this is the first time that in vivo flux of GSH synthesis has been shown to be closely related to a drug plasma clearance and toxicity. These results allow hypothesizing that GSH liver synthesis may directly influence busulfan clearance in humans with possible implications in the occurrence of hepatic veno-occlusive disease.
We examined the toxicity of cocatropine (cocaine/atropine mixture) and the therapeutic potential of diazepam on some behavioral and physiological parameters in rats. Atropine (20 and 60 mg/kg) or cocaine (40 mg/kg) alone did not induce any seizure or death, but the combination significantly increased both, after both acute and binge treatment. There was a significant increase of EEG mean total spectral power in cocatropine- in comparison with cocaine-treated animals. Hyperlocomotion was observed in non-seizuring rats treated with cocaine or cocatropine. Cocaine, atropine 60, and cocatropine (40 + 20 and 40 + 60) all induced hyperthermic effects in non-seizuring rats, while cocatropine (40 + 60)-seizuring animals had hypothermia. An initial hypertensive and tachycardiac effect within 15 min was followed by a secondary fall in the cocatropine (40 + 60) group. Cocatropine toxicity was partially or fully reversed by diazepam (5 mg/kg), given intraperitoneally after the first seizure. The present findings provide, for the first time, details of a synergistic toxic effect of the cocaine/atropine mixture and of the potential of diazepam for treating cocatropine-related hospital emergencies.
Parasporin-2 (PS2) is a Bacillus thuringiensis inclusion protein that reacts intensively with human hepatoma cells. This antitumour toxin oligomerizes at the cell surface via binding to lipid rafts, leading to the cell lysis with typical blebs around peripheral cells. We find here that glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored proteins are involved in the cytocidal actions. Depletion of the cellular cholesterol and loss of sphingolipid in lipid rafts slightly decreased cytolysis by PS2. Beyond those, the cells temporally resisted PS2 with reduction of the toxin binding after GPI-anchored proteins were cleaved off by phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C. PS2 and aerolysin showed individual cytocidal specificity while aerolysin's receptor is GPI-anchored proteins. When we confirmed expression of GPI-anchored proteins on four cell lines, showing different cytotoxicity by PS2, GPI-anchored proteins were evenly expressed on the cells. Therefore, PS2 requires a kind of GPI-anchored proteins for the effective cytolysis.
Opioids administered during surgery may be beneficial by preempting postoperative pain or detrimental by causing acute tolerance. We used a stable model of hyperalgesia in volunteers to test whether acute opioid exposure also results in such pain sensitization over a period of hours in humans. Ten healthy volunteers were studied. Areas of mechanical hyperalgesia and allodynia were induced by topical capsaicin application plus intermittent heating. Computer-controlled IV remifentanil infusion was titrated to a targeted plasma concentration that reduced pain report to noxious heat by 70% and was maintained at this level for 60-100 min. Areas of hyperalgesia and allodynia were measured during and after remifentanil infusion. Remifentanil (targeted concentration of 3.1 +/- 1.2 ng/mL) reduced areas of hyperalgesia and allodynia by 33% +/- 31% and 65% +/- 28%, respectively, during infusion (P < 0.05). Areas of hyperalgesia and allodynia continuously enlarged 4 h after remifentanil was stopped, to 180% +/- 47% and 180% +/- 86%, respectively. This study demonstrates that acute opioid exposure enhances hypersensitivity for hours after exposure. If applicable to the surgical setting, this could increase the dose of opioid required for postoperative analgesia and enhance, rather than inhibit, postoperative pain.
To compare the effects of intravenous dobutamine and milrinone on right ventricular (RV) systolic function, 14 patients with severe congestive heart failure underwent simultaneous radionuclide-hemodynamic study. Patients were randomized to receive intravenous milrinone (50 micrograms/kg bolus then 0.5 microgram/kg/min) or dobutamine (2.5 to 15 micrograms/kg/min) to achieve equal increases in cardiac output. Both drugs significantly improved cardiac performance, with identical 24% increases in mean cardiac index (p less than 0.05 vs baseline; difference not significant for milrinone vs dobutamine) and no change in heart rate. Neither drug substantially altered RV preload, as reflected by mean right atrial pressure and RV end-diastolic volume. Both drugs caused similar increases in RV ejection fraction (mean +/- standard deviation; dobutamine: 0.32 +/- 0.09 to 0.40 +/- 0.11; p less than 0.05; milrinone: 0.35 +/- 0.19 to 0.43 +/- 0.21; p less than 0.05) resulting from reductions in RV end-systolic volume. RV afterload reduction contributed substantially to drug effect on RV systolic performance in patients treated with milrinone but not those treated with dobutamine. With doses effecting equal increases in cardiac index and RV systolic performance, pulmonary artery end-systolic pressure was significantly reduced by milrinone (40 +/- 12 to 33 +/- 12 mm Hg; p less than 0.05), but not by dobutamine. Thus, in patients with congestive heart failure milrinone's effect on RV systolic function is explainable, at least in part, by RV afterload reduction, whereas RV inotropic augmentation contributed more strongly to dobutamine's effect.
The immunomodulatory properties of melatonin (Mel) are generally recognized but the mechanisms of its action are not fully understood. In mammals, some of the immunomodulatory effects of Mel are mediated by opioids synthesized by immune cells under its influence. The present study was performed to examine whether Mel-induced opioids are involved in the immunomodulatory activity of Mel in chickens. Experimental peritonitis was evoked by a single ip injection of thioglycollate (TG), and half of the birds were pre-treated with Mel. Some of the Mel-treated birds were additionally pre-treated with naltrexone, an antagonist of opioid receptors. Control birds received an injection of saline, Mel or were untreated. At specific post-injection intervals chickens were sacrificed, the peritoneal cavity was flushed out and peritoneal leukocytes (PTLs) were counted. The activity of PTLs was measured in vitro by the level of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Splenocytes were isolated aseptically and mitogen-stimulated in vitro proliferation was assessed. In PTLs and splenocytes the expression of opioid (proopiomelanocortin and proenkephalin) genes was also examined. Mel exerted a bi-phasic effect on TG-induced peritonitis in chickens: initially it blocked the development of peritonitis, decreasing the number of PTLs and intracellular ROS level (anti-inflammatory action), and thereafter an increase in both PTL number and ROS level was observed (pro-inflammatory action). The pro-inflammatory effect occurred a few hours after the induction of expression of the proenkephalin gene in PTLs and both the proenkephalin and proopiomelanocortin genes in splenocytes. These effects were prevented by naltrexone, suggesting involvement of the opiatergic mechanism.
