An 58-year-old woman with prolonged QT interval syndrome possibly associated with subarachnoid hemorrhage underwent clipping for cerebral artery aneurysm. Anesthesia was induced with diazepam, fentanyl and vecuronium, and maintained with nitrous oxide (66%)-oxygen and sevoflurane (1%) with fentanyl. However, three hours after the start of operation, torsades de pointes suddenly appeared and cardiac arrest was followed. After cardiopulmonary resuscitation, sinus rhythm was restored. At that time, serum potassium was decreased to 2.7 mEq.l-1. Five days after the operation, she died despite cardiopulmonary resuscitation for frequent episodes of ventricular tachycardia including torsades de pointes. Ventricular tachycardia including torsades de pointes may have been caused by decreased serum potassium.
A phase II study of dacarbazine (DTIC), was conducted to determine the response rate, duration of response, toxicity and overall survival of patients with advanced pancreatic islet cell tumors.
Fifty patients with advanced pancreatic islet cell tumors, having progressive symptoms or evidence of rapidly advancing disease were entered on this study. DTIC was given by IV infusion at a dose of 850 mg/m2, over 60-90 minutes, repeated every four weeks.
The response rate was 33% in 42 patients who had measurable tumor, and 34% in the 50 patients (90% confidence interval (90% CI): 23%-47%). The majority of the responses were seen in patients without prior chemotherapy. Median overall survival was 19.3 months. There were two lethal toxicities on the study, one septic shock and one myocardial infarction. Grade 4 toxicities were, hematological (5 patients), sepsis, neurological (depression and paranoid behavior) and bleeding (1 patient each). The most common toxicity was vomiting, grade 3 in 13% of patients.
DTIC has activity in advanced previously untreated pancreatic islet cell tumors.
To evaluate the 24-hour intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering effect of latanoprost and the dorzolamide/timolol fixed combination (DTFC) after 2 and 6 months of treatment.
Randomized, prospective, crossover comparison.
Thirty-nine patients had primary open-angle glaucoma, and 14 patients had ocular hypertension.
After a 6-week washout period, patients were randomized to either 6 months of treatment with the DTFC twice daily or latanoprost every evening and then crossed over to the opposite treatment for an additional 6 months.
Mean 24-hour IOP after 2 and 6 months of treatment.
Fifty-three patients had an average 24-hour baseline IOP of 25.2+/-2.3 mmHg. After 6 months of treatment, 24-hour IOPs were 18.1+/-1.9 mmHg for the DTFC and 18.3+/-1.9 mmHg for latanoprost. Compared with 2 months of therapy, at 6 months the DTFC showed no significant change in mean 24-hour IOP, whereas latanoprost demonstrated a reduction of 0.3 mmHg (P = 0.01). The DTFC had more burning (P<0.001) and bitter taste (P = 0.01), whereas the latanoprost had more hypertrichosis (P = 0.02).
After 6 months of therapy, the DTFC and latanoprost have clinically similar 24-hour IOP-lowering efficacies.
To investigate the relationship between the intake of ethanol and sexual function of rats.
Sixty adult male Wistar rats were randomly divided into five groups: the control, 10% , 20% , 30% and 40 ethanol groups, which received. . 9% sodium chloride, 10% , 20% , 30% and 40% ethanol solutions respectively at a dose of 2 ml through gastric tubes once a day. Three months later, we observed the effects of ethanol on the sexual function of the rats by their sexual behaviors, the number of apomorphine-induced penile erections, and the content of testosterone in the serum and nitric oxide synthase ( NOS) in the penis.
Compared with the control group, the number of apomorphine-induced penile erections in the 10% and 20% ethanol groups was not inhibited significantly (P > 0.05), but the latent period of mounting and intromission in the 10% ethanol group was prolonged and the sexual behaviors in the 20% ethanol group were inhibited except the latent period of ejaculation. The sexual behaviors and the number of apomorphine-induced penile erections of the 30% and 40% ethanol groups were inhibited significantly (P < 0.05). Testosterone in the serum and NOS activity in the penis of the experimental groups were reduced (Pat < 0.05).
An adequate volume of ethanol does not induce sexual dysfunction in rats, but long term and excessive intake of ethanol may cause penile erectile dysfunction.
This prospective 105-site study was conducted to determine the rate of seizures and other serious adverse experiences associated with the therapeutic use of the sustained-release formulation of bupropion (bupropion SR).
3100 patients with a DSM-III-R diagnosis of depression without a current or past diagnosis of an eating disorder and with no personal or family history of seizure disorders were treated for up to 8 weeks with bupropion SR in an open-label study. Dosing was initiated at 50 mg b.i.d. and increased to a maximum of 150 mg b.i.d. unless not tolerated. Patients had the option to continue treatment with bupropion SR (50 mg b.i.d. to 150 mg b.i.d.) in a continuation phase lasting up to 1 year. During the acute and continuation phases, patients were evaluated for the occurrence of seizures and other serious adverse experiences. Clinical response to and tolerability of bupropion SR were also evaluated.
Three patients each experienced a seizure associated with the therapeutic use of bupropion SR during the acute and continuation phases combined. The observed seizure rate during the 8-week acute phase was 2 seizures in 3094 evaluable patients, or 0.06%. The observed seizure rate for the acute and continuation phases combined was 3 seizures in 3094 patients, or 0.10%. Survival analysis yielded a cumulative seizure rate of 0.08% for the acute phase and 0.15% for both phases combined. Two patients who intentionally overdosed with bupropion SR also experienced seizures; however, these events were not included in calculations of the overall seizure rate. Therapeutic doses of bupropion SR were well tolerated and clinically efficacious.
The therapeutic use of bupropion SR at total daily doses up to 300 mg/day in depressed patients without predisposition to seizures is associated with a seizure rate that is well within the range observed with other marketed antidepressants.
A patient developed severe anxiety, moodswing, depression, and thinking disorder 24 hours after abruptly stopping oxazepam, of which he had taken 30 mg 3 times a day for two months, for anxiety and panic attacks. Oxazepam was restarted and tapered off gradually; nevertheless, a relatively severe abstinence syndrome occurred. Muscular fasciculations and moodswing were very marked. The patient also experienced significant anxiety, depression, moodswing, and muscular fasciculations for two months after detoxication from oxazepam. Subsequently, the patient's panic attacks were treated successfully with propranolol hydrochloride. This report concludes with a brief review of the literature on benzodiazepine withdrawal.
To examine the retinal function with different electrophysiological methods in twelve Swedish patients on long-term treatment (2-10 years) with the anti-epileptic drug vigabatrin.
Ophthalmological examination of twelve consecutive patients included testing of visual acuity, fundus inspection and fundus photography, kinetic perimetry, full-field ERG and multifocal ERG.
All patients had a visual acuity of 0.7 or better. Fundus inspection revealed no pathology except in one patient who had a pallor of the optic disc. All patients had a normal appearance of the macula. The result of kinetic perimetry was normal in five patients while seven patients had a concentric defect of the visual field. The 30 Hz flicker cone b-wave amplitude in the full-field ERG was abnormal in all of the seven patients with a visual field defect. None of the patients with normal visual fields had a reduction of the 30 Hz flicker cone b-wave amplitude. Six of the twelve patients had a reduced multifocal ERG response but without any correlation with visual field defect.
Long-term treatment with vigabatrin seems to selectively reduce retinal cone function. The visual field defects in patients taking vigabatrin correlate with pathology in the full-field ERG (reduction of the cone b-wave amplitude). The results from this study indicate that electroretinography can be used for monitoring patients taking vigabatrin in a more objective manner than with visual field testing.
The effects of delayed gastric emptying or bran supplement to diet on the lithogenicity of bile were reviewed and their possible role in the prevention of recurrence of cholesterol gallstones after dissolution by chenodeoxycholic acid was discussed.
Tramadol (Ultram) is a new analgesic agent with a dual mechanism of action that includes weak agonistic effects at the mu-opioid receptor as well as inhibition of neurotransmitter (serotonin, norepinephrine) re-uptake. Although it has proven to be a safe and effective agent for the control of pain, adverse effects can occur with its use. I report the occurrence of seizure activity after the inadvertent administration of 4 mg/kg of tramadol to a child. Previous reports of seizure activity after tramadol administration are reviewed and the treatment of this problem is discussed.
Cocaine use can result in various gastrointestinal complications, including gastric ulcerations, retroperitoneal fibrosis, visceral infarction, intestinal ischemia, and gastrointestinal tract perforation. We report cocaine-associated colonic ischemia in three patients and review the literature. Including ours, 28 cases have been reported, with a mean patient age of 32.6 years (range, 23 to 47 years); 53.5% were men and 46.5% were women. The interval between drug ingestion and onset of symptoms varied from 1 hour to 2 days. Cocaine is a potentially life-threatening cause of ischemic colitis and should be included in the differential diagnosis of any young adult or middle-aged patient with abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea, especially in the absence of estrogen use or systemic disorders that can cause thromboembolic events, such as atrial fibrillation.
Chemotherapy often causes damage to hematopoietic tissues, leading to acute bone marrow suppression and the long term development of leukemias. Niacin deficiency, which is common in cancer patients, causes dramatic genomic instability in bone marrow cells in an in vivo rat model. From a mechanistic perspective, niacin deficiency delays excision repair and causes double strand break accumulation, which in turn favors chromosome breaks and translocations. Niacin deficiency also impairs cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in response to DNA damage, which combine to encourage the survival of cells with leukemogenic potential. Conversely, pharmacological supplementation of rats with niacin increases bone marrow poly(ADP-ribose) formation and apoptosis. Improvement of niacin status in rats significantly decreased nitrosourea-induced leukemia incidence. The data from our rat model suggest that niacin supplementation of cancer patients may decrease the severity of short- and long-term side effects of chemotherapy, and could improve tumor cell killing through activation of poly(ADP-ribose)-dependent apoptosis pathways.
To assess the cardiovascular safety, tolerability and efficacy of high doses of granisetron for the treatment of nausea and vomiting in patients undergoing highly emetogenic chemotherapy.
Patients with histologically confirmed malignant disease were given an intravenous infusion of granisetron, 160 microg/kg, over 30 min, starting 15 min after highly emetogenic chemotherapy. Patients underwent cardiac monitoring for 24 h following the granisetron infusion. Pulse, blood pressure and electrocardiogram (lead II and ambulatory) measurements were taken, and routine clinical chemistry and haematology tests performed. Blood samples for pharmacokinetic analysis were taken before the granisetron infusion, and at intervals afterwards. Adverse events were self-assessed using a symptom checklist. Self-assessment categorical rating scales were used to evaluate patient nausea, vomiting and retching.
Ten patients (eight females and two males; average age 41.5 years) completed the trial and were included in the safety and efficacy assessments. No clinically relevant changes in electrocardiogram, pulse rate, blood pressure or laboratory parameters were observed. Furthermore, in the 7 days following dosing there were no serious adverse events leading to withdrawal from the trial. A complete response (no vomiting, retching or, at most, mild nausea) was experienced by five patients. Six patients had no, or mild, nausea and an additional two patients vomited on a maximum of two occasions. Additional antiemetic rescue medication was given to three patients during the 24-h trial period. Despite considerable interpatient variability, C(max) and AUC parameters were proportionally greater than values reported for lower doses of granisetron.
Granisetron administered at four times the upper recommended dose demonstrated good efficacy and tolerability with no clinically important cardiac effects.
Levosimendan is indicated for acute heart failure. The formation of levosimendan's active metabolite OR-1896 is dependent on the acetylator status. We evaluated whether acetylator status affects the hemodynamic responses after levosimendan infusion.
Forty-one NYHA III to IV heart failure patients were divided into rapid and slow acetylators by population kinetic modeling. Invasive hemodynamics and plasma concentrations of levosimendan and its metabolites were followed serially.
Fifty-six percent of the patients were rapid and 44% slow acetylators. Levosimendan induced increases in heart rate and cardiac output, and decreases in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP) and blood pressure, which were sustained at 24 hours after stopping the infusion. At this time, levosimendan levels were undetectable, and OR-1896 levels were about two-fold higher in rapid acetylators. However, hemodynamic effects were similar; mean(SEM) change from baseline in cardiac output was +2.0(0.3) vs. +1.6(0.3) l/min (p = 0.309), and in PCWP -8(2) vs. -7(1) mmHg (p = 0.536), in rapid and slow acetylators, respectively.
The sustained hemodynamic effects of levosimendan are similar irrespective of acetylator status.
In patients with neurocardiogenic syncope, head-up tilt often evokes acute loss of consciousness accompanied by vasodilatation, increased plasma adrenaline and systemic hypotension. Since hypotension increases adrenaline levels and adrenaline can produce skeletal muscle vasodilatation by activating beta2 receptors, adrenaline might induce a positive feedback loop precipitating circulatory collapse. We hypothesized that propranolol, a non-selective beta-blocker, would prevent adrenaline-induced vasodilatation and thereby prevent syncope. Eight subjects with recurrent neurocardiogenic syncope and previously documented tilt-induced syncope with elevated plasma adrenaline levels participated in the present study. Subjects underwent tilt table testing after receiving oral propranolol or placebo in a double-blind randomized crossover fashion. Haemodynamic and neurochemical variables were measured using intra-arterial monitoring, impedance cardiography, arterial blood sampling and tracer kinetics of simultaneously infused [3H]noradrenaline and [3H]adrenaline. The occurrence of tilt-induced neurally mediated hypotension and syncope, duration of tilt tolerance, extent of the decrease in SVRI (systemic vascular resistance index) and magnitude of plasma adrenaline increases did not differ between the propranolol and placebo treatment phases. SVRI was inversely associated with fractional increase in plasma adrenaline during both phases. One subject did not faint when on propranolol; this subject's response is discussed in the context of central effects of propranolol. In this small, but tightly controlled, study, propranolol did not prevent tilt-induced vasodilatation, syncope or elevated plasma adrenaline.
The effects of mangiferin on uric acid excretion, kidney function and related renal transporters were investigated in hyperuricemic mice induced by potassium oxonate. Mice were divided into normal control group, and 5 hyperuricemic groups with model control, 50, 100, and 200 mg x kg(-1) mangiferin, and 5 mg x kg(-1) allopurinol. Mice were administered by gavage once daily with 250 mg x kg(-1) potassium oxonate for seven consecutive days to create the model. And 3 doses of mangiferin were orally initiated on the day 1 h after potassium oxonate was given, separately. Serum uric acid, creatinine and urea nitrogon levels, as well as urinary uric acid creatinine levels were measured. Mouse uromodulin (mUMOD) levels in serum, urine and kidney were determined by ELISA method. The mRNA and protein levels of related renal transporters were assayed by RT-PCR and Western blotting methods, respectively. Compared to model group, mangiferin significantly reduced serum uric acid, creatinine and urea nitrogon levels, increased 24 h uric acid and creatinine excretion, and fractional excretion of uric acid in hyperuricemic mice, exhibiting uric acid excretion enhancement and kidney function improvement. Mangiferin was found to down-regulate mRNA and protein levels of urate transporter 1 (mURAT1) and glucose transporter 9 (mGLUT9), as well as up-regulate organic anion transporter 1 (mOAT1) in the kidney of hyperuricemic mice. These findings suggested that mangiferin might enhance uric acid excretion and in turn reduce serum uric acid level through the decrease of uric acid reabsorption and the increase of uric acid secretion in hyperuricemic mice. Moreover, mangiferin remarkably up-regulated expression levels of renal organic cation and carnitine transporters (mOCT1, mOCT2, mOCTN1 and mOCTN2), increased urine mUMOD levels, as well as decreased serum and kidney mUMOD levels in hyperuricemic mice, which might be involved in mangiferin-mediated renal protective action.
The effects of the calcium entry blocker nitrendipine on blood pressure (BP) and renal hemodynamics were studied in rats with angiotensin II (ANG II)-induced hypertension. The ANG II was infused subcutaneously by implanted osmotic minipumps for 14 to 16 days. There was a progressive rise in BP in ANG II-infused rats to levels 58 mm Hg above basal by Day 10, whereas control rats with sham pumps remained normotensive. Nitrendipine or vehicle was administered by gavage to groups of control and hypertensive rats for 5 days, and clearance experiments were performed with the rats under anesthesia on the last day. The prolonged infusion of ANG II increased the renal vascular resistance and reduced the glomerular filtration rate and renal Na+ excretion. At a dose of 3 mg/100 g body weight, nitrendipine had no consistent effects on BP or renal function of control rats. By contrast, in rats with ANG II-induced hypertension, nitrendipine normalized both the BP and the changes in renal vascular resistance and glomerular filtration rate. Despite the fall in BP, nitrendipine caused a marked diuresis and natriuresis. Moreover, nitrendipine increased Na+ excretion of conscious, ANG II-hypertensive rats but not of controls. Thus, nitrendipine appears to be highly effective in reversing ANG II-induced hypertension and Na+ retention. These findings also indicate that the hypertension, renal vasoconstriction, and Na+ retention accompanying prolonged ANG II infusions may be mediated by calcium-dependent mechanisms.
Titanium dioxide (TiO2) nano-particles (<100 nm in diameter) have been of interest in a wide range of applications, such as in cosmetics and pharmaceuticals because of their low toxicity. However, recent studies have shown that TiO2 nano-particles (nano-TiO2) induce cytotoxicity and genotoxicity in various lines of cultured cells as well as tumorigenesis in animal models. The biological roles of nano-TiO2 are shown to be controversial and no comprehensive study paradigm has been developed to investigate their molecular mechanisms. In this study, we showed that short-term exposure to nano-TiO2 enhanced cell proliferation, survival, ERK signaling activation and ROS production in cultured fibroblast cells. Moreover, long-term exposure to nano-TiO2 not only increased cell survival and growth on soft agar but also the numbers of multinucleated cells and micronucleus (MN) as suggested in confocal microscopy analysis. Cell cycle phase analysis showed G2/M delay and slower cell division in long-term exposed cells. Most importantly, long-term TiO2 exposure remarkably affected mitotic progression at anaphase and telophase leading to aberrant multipolar spindles and chromatin alignment/segregation. Moreover, PLK1 was demonstrated as the target for nano-TiO2 in the regulation of mitotic progression and exit. Notably, a higher fraction of sub-G1 phase population appeared in TiO2-exposed cells after releasing from G2/M synchronization. Our results demonstrate that long-term exposure to nano-TiO2 disturbs cell cycle progression and duplicated genome segregation, leading to chromosomal instability and cell transformation.
4-vinylcyclohexene diepoxide (VCD) is an ovotoxicant that specifically destroys primordial and small primary follicles in the ovaries of mice and rats. In contrast, 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA) is ovotoxic to all ovarian follicle classes. This study investigated phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase signaling involvement in VCD- and DMBA-induced ovotoxicity. Postnatal day (PND) 4 Fischer 344 (F344) rat whole ovaries were cultured for 2-12 days in vehicle control, VCD (30 microM), or DMBA (1 microM), +/-PI3 kinase inhibitor LY294002 (20 microM) or its inactive analog LY303511 (20 microM). Following culture, ovaries were histologically evaluated, and healthy follicles were classified and counted. PI3 kinase inhibition had no effect on primordial follicle number, but reduced (P<0.05) small primary and larger follicles beginning on day 4. VCD caused primordial and small primary follicle loss (P<0.05) beginning on day 6. With PI3 kinase inhibition, VCD did not affect primordial follicles (P>0.05) at any time, but did cause loss (P<0.05) of small primary follicles. DMBA exposure caused primordial and small primary follicle loss (P<0.05) on day 6. Further, DMBA-induced primordial and small primary follicle loss was greater with PI3 kinase inhibition (P<0.05) than with DMBA alone. These results support that (1) PI3 kinase mediates primordial to small primary follicle recruitment, (2) VCD, but not DMBA, enhances ovotoxicity by increasing primordial to small primary follicle recruitment, and (3) in addition to xenobiotic-induced ovotoxicity, VCD is also a useful model chemical with which to elucidate signaling mechanisms involved in primordial follicle recruitment.
1. Ketorolac is an investigational non-opioid analgesic. Buprenorphine, an opioid compound and diclofenac, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory, are analgesics used in clinical practise. 2. The psychomotor effects of ketorolac (30 mg), buprenorphine (0.3 mg), diclofenac (50 mg) and placebo all administered i.m., were examined in 12 healthy male volunteers (age 19-38 years), up to 8 h post-dose. 3. Creatine phosphokinase (CPK) was measured up to 24 h post-dose, providing an indication of local tissue damage following injection. 4. Buprenorphine caused significant psychomotor impairment in seven out of eight psychomotor tests. The effects consistently peaked 4 h post-dose and were still apparent in many cases 8 h post-dose. These psychomotor effects were supported by marked symptoms in all volunteers. 5. Ketorolac and diclofenac had no clinically significant effects on psychomotor tests and only minimal symptoms were reported. 6. Diclofenac caused a marked increased in CPK (mean Cmax 298 iu l-1) compared with ketorolac (mean Cmax 70 iu l-1) and buprenorphine (mean Cmax 68 iu l-1). 7. These results suggest that ketorolac and diclofenac are suitable for administration following day case surgery.
We studied clinical and laboratory effects of 3 months of lamivudine with adefovir combination and adefovir dipivoxil (AD) alone in the treatment of patients with lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. Eligible patients were hepatitis B surface antigen-positive men and women with compensated liver disease who were given lamivudine at least more than 6 months and had HBV polymerase gene mutation. Patients were assigned to receive adefovir 10 mg/day (Group 1) or adefovir 10 mg once daily and lamivudine 100 mg once daily combination during first 3 months, and then stopped lamivudine and continued adefovir (Group 2). Median age was 48 years (34 males and 20 females, and 35 were HBeAg-negative). Baseline median ALT, AST, and HBV DNA levels were 66 IU/l, 49 IU/l, and 6.7 log(10) copy/ml, respectively. Median adefovir therapy time and ALT normalization time were 9 and 3.5 months, respectively. There was no significant difference between groups according to the baseline HBV DNA, ALT, HBe Ag status, age, gender, and lamivudine resistance time. Virological and biochemical responses were similar in both groups during therapy. Two patients (8%) had ALT flare more than five times upper limit of normal without any clinical decompensation in Group 1. Mild ALT elevation according to baseline levels were found in 8 (27.6%) and 4 (17.4%) patients, respectively, in Group 2 and Group 1, and no statistically significance between two groups. In conclusion, this study showed that it is not necessary to continue lamivudine therapy while switching to AD therapy. Adefovir alone is effective in the treatment of patients with lamivudine resistant HBV infection and compensated liver disease, without significant clinical and laboratory flares. However, it is not easy to say that switching to AD with cessation of lamivudine is safe, because the study population is not enough for precise conclusion and resistance may be a considerable problem against AD in patients using long-term treatment.
Measured endocrinological parameters (total testosterone [TT], free testosterone [FT], dihydrotestosterone [DHT], dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate [DHEAS], and sex hormone binding globulin [SHBG]) and calculated parameters (calculated FT (cFT), calculated bioavailable testosterone (cBT), and the free androgen index [FAI]) in women with hirsutism were compared to the values of a control group. The question remains if cFT or cBT are more appropriate markers for assessment of hyperandrogenemia in clinical situations such as hirsutism in women.
Sixty-six women showed an modified Ferriman-Gallwey (mF-G) score of >or=6 and were classified as hirsutism group and 58 women showed mF-G scores of <or=5 and were classified as control group. TT, FT, DHT, DHEAS, and SHBG were measured with enzyme immunoassays in one serum sample. Albumin was measured in the same sample. Afterwards, cFT, cBT, and the FAI were calculated.
The hirsutism group revealed significantly increased cFT, cBT, and FAI, while SHBG was significantly decreased compared to the controls. All values of the hirsutism group showed significant, but poor correlation with the mF-G score. SHBG correlated negatively with the mF-G score and BMI.
Despite the limited correlation of all endocrinological parameters to severity of hirsutism described by the mF-G score, cFT, cBT, and FAI may be more appropriate markers for assessment of hyperandrogenemia in women with hirsutism in comparison with measured values of simple enzyme immunoassays.
A 47-year-old woman who underwent allogenic peripheral blood stem cell transplant developed withdrawal symptoms soon after Fentanyl 25 mcg/h patch was stopped, which has not been reported at this dose. Possible causes, such as the inhibition of CYP3A4 induced by cyclosporine causing elevations of serum fentanyl, are discussed.
Chronic cocaine use in humans and animal models is known to lead to pronounced alterations in glutamatergic function in brain regions associated with reinforcement. Previous studies have examined ionotropic glutamate receptor (iGluR) subunit protein level changes following acute and chronic experimenter-administered cocaine or after withdrawal periods from experimenter-administered cocaine. To evaluate whether alterations in expression of iGluRs are associated with cocaine reinforcement, protein levels were assessed after binge (8 h/day, 15 days; 24-h access, days 16-21) cocaine self-administration and following 2 weeks of abstinence from this binge. Western blotting was used to compare levels of iGluR protein expression (NR1-3B, GluR1-7, KA2) in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), substantia nigra (SN), nucleus accumbens (NAc), striatum and prefrontal cortex (PFC) of rats. iGluR subunits were altered in a time-dependent manner in all brain regions studied; however, selective alterations in certain iGluR subtypes appeared to be associated with binge cocaine self-administration and withdrawal in a region-specific manner. In the SN and VTA, alterations in iGluR protein levels compared with controls occurred only following binge access, whereas in the striatum and PFC, iGluR alterations occurred with binge access and following withdrawal. In the NAc, GluR2/3 levels were increased following withdrawal compared with binge access, and were the only changes observed in this region. Because subunit composition determines the functional properties of iGluRs, the observed changes may indicate alterations in the excitability of dopamine transmission underlying long-term biochemical and behavioral effects of cocaine.
Conditioned place preference and locomotor sensitization are rodent behavioral models commonly used to investigate the actions of drugs of abuse. However, few studies have examined both paradigms in the same group of animals. We were interested in developing a combined protocol which successfully induced both conditioned place preference and sensitization simultaneously in cocaine-treated Sprague-Dawley rats in order to test the hypothesis that the magnitude of these two phenomena would be positively correlated. We used an open-field with a removable place preference insert to assess these measures independently. Cocaine-conditioned animals demonstrated a significant shift in preference for the drug-paired compartment and a sensitized locomotor response which was not observed in saline-conditioned animals challenged with cocaine. There was no significant relationship between locomotor sensitization and conditioned place preference in individual animals. We further examined these results with respect to each rat's initial response to cocaine, response to a novel environment and central zone entries in an open-field. Locomotor sensitization demonstrated an inverse correlation with the initial cocaine response. In contrast, conditioned place preference demonstrated an inverse correlation with the centre response. These results demonstrate that the combination of the acute cocaine response and the centre response in a novel open-field environment can be used to indicate the propensity of a given rat to exhibit either behavioral sensitization or conditioned place preference; however, it seems that sensitization and place preference are not necessarily co-expressed to a similar extent in the same individual animal.
Cyclophosphamide has been shown to augment the diabetic process in NOD mouse and BB rat models of Type I (insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus. Because cyclophosphamide has, however, been shown to increase immunoregulatory cell activity, we examined if cyclophosphamide treatment increases immunoregulatory cell activity and inhibits the diabetic process in BB rats.
The development of insulitis and diabetes was explored in BB rats treated with saline and cyclophosphamide (60 to 175 mg/kg body weight). Subsets of spleen cells were assessed by flow cytometry and cytokine gene expression by RT-PCR. To determine if cyclophosphamide induces immunoregulatory cell activity, the development of diabetes was assessed in BB rats injected with spleen cells from rats treated with saline and cyclophosphamide.
All dosages of cyclophosphamide decreased the development of diabetes. The degree of insulitis was lower in pancreata from 55-day-old rats treated with cyclophosphamide than those from controls. Cyclophosphamide caused no alterations in the numbers of NK cells, T-cell subsets, or RT6.1+ T cells. The adoptive transfer of spleen cells from cyclophosphamide-treated rats to BB rats inhibited the development of diabetes. Cyclophosphamide treatment decreased IL-12, IL-1beta, IL-2, IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha gene expressions in mononuclear spleen cells but IL-4 gene expression increased.
These findings show that cyclophosphamide treatment decreases the development of diabetes by inhibiting the development of insulitis. This inhibitory action of cyclophosphamide on the diabetic process seems to be mediated by the induction of immunoregulatory cell activity. The suppression of cytokines that promote Thl cell differentiation by cyclophosphamide treatment could also play a part in the diabetes sparing effect of cyclophosphamide.
Cigarette smoke toxicants are well known for their debilitating effects on lungs. Cigarette smoke toxicities cause various respiratory disorders including pulmonary emphysema, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), pulmonary fibrosis and cancer. Farnesol, an isoprenoid, is known to possess anti-inflammatory and chemopreventive properties. In this study we report the protective efficacy of farnesol against massive lung inflammation, oxidative stress and consequent injuries caused by cigarette smoke toxicants. Farnesol was administered by gavage (50 and 100 mg/kg b.wt. in corn oil) one time daily for 7 days. On day 7 lung injuries were induced by intratracheal instillation of aqueous cigarette smoke extract (CSE). LDH, total cell count, total protein, phospholipid content and MDA formation were measured in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF). In lung tissue H2O2 content, reduced glutathione (GSH), glutathione reductase (GR), glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and catalase activities were evaluated. Prophylactic treatment with farnesol significantly shows lung protection by lowering the levels of LDH, total cell count, total protein and MDA in BALF. Farnesol maintained the phospholipid content of BALF in a positive manner. In lung tissue it positively modulated the CSE altered activities of GR, GPx and catalase. There was a marked increase in GSH content and decrease in H2O2 content of lung tissue by farnesol administration. Histopathological findings correlate with cellular and biochemical parameters of the lungs and potentiate the protective role of farnesol against CSE induced lung inflammation and injuries. These results suggest a potent role of farnesol in protection of lung against cigarette smoke toxicants induced lung injuries.
As the result of genetic alterations and tumor hypoxia, many cancer cells avidly take up glucose and generate lactate through lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA), which is encoded by a target gene of c-Myc and hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF-1). Previous studies with reduction of LDHA expression indicate that LDHA is involved in tumor initiation, but its role in tumor maintenance and progression has not been established. Furthermore, how reduction of LDHA expression by interference or antisense RNA inhibits tumorigenesis is not well understood. Here, we report that reduction of LDHA by siRNA or its inhibition by a small-molecule inhibitor (FX11 [3-dihydroxy-6-methyl-7-(phenylmethyl)-4-propylnaphthalene-1-carboxylic acid]) reduced ATP levels and induced significant oxidative stress and cell death that could be partially reversed by the antioxidant N-acetylcysteine. Furthermore, we document that FX11 inhibited the progression of sizable human lymphoma and pancreatic cancer xenografts. When used in combination with the NAD(+) synthesis inhibitor FK866, FX11 induced lymphoma regression. Hence, inhibition of LDHA with FX11 is an achievable and tolerable treatment for LDHA-dependent tumors. Our studies document a therapeutical approach to the Warburg effect and demonstrate that oxidative stress and metabolic phenotyping of cancers are critical aspects of cancer biology to consider for the therapeutical targeting of cancer energy metabolism.
