We sought to expand on preliminary findings suggesting that anabolic-androgenic steroids produce psychiatric effects in some athletes who use them.
We compared 88 athletes who were using steroids with 68 nonusers, using the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-III-R to diagnose psychiatric syndromes occurring in association with steroid use (if applicable) and in the absence of steroid use. Demographic, medical, and laboratory measures were also performed.
Steroid users displayed more frequent gynecomastia, decreased mean testicular length, and higher cholesterol-high-density lipoprotein ratios than nonusers. Most strikingly, 23% of steroid users reported major mood syndromes--mania, hypomania, or major depression--in association with steroid use. Steroid users displayed mood disorders during steroid exposure significantly more frequently than in the absence of steroid exposure (P < .001) and significantly more frequently than nonusers (P < .01). Users rarely abused other drugs simultaneously with steroids.
Major mood disturbances associated with anabolic-androgenic steroids may represent an important public health problem for athletes using steroids and sometimes for the victims of their irritability and aggression.
The intraoperative monitoring of neuromuscular blockade usually involves measurement of the muscular responses to motor nerve stimulation. Although researchers have the time and technology to obtain predrug control measurements of the twitch responses, these are seldom available to the clinician. During surgically useful relaxation, there is progressive inhibition of responses to train-of-four (TOF) stimulation in the presence of a nondepolarizing relaxant, and the clinician can count the number of responses to predict the likely time-course of paralysis. At the extremes, a count of four (of four) responses may indicate a need for further relaxant, whereas with profound paralysis, the absence of responses may suggest that reversal with an anticholinesterase may be ineffective. Concentrations in the effect compartment associated with these two extremes of the TOF count are combined with concentration-time profiles of vecuronium with various dose regimens. This study models the effect compartment concentrations associated with vecuronium-induced paralysis, combining them explicitly with the range of concentrations associated with the TOF count to demonstrate the kinetic mechanisms underlying the time-course of paralysis.
Psoriasis is a chronic erythematosquamous disease affecting about 2-3% of the population. It is generally considered to be a T cell-mediated disorder. Psoriasis is characterized by Th1-type cytokine pattern with the predominant secretion of IL-2, IL-6, IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha. Such cytokine pattern is sufficient in inducing keratinocyte hyperproliferation, a hallmark of psoriasis. It seems that development of psoriatic lesions is mediated by TNF-alpha and proliferation of local T cells is dependent on local TNF-alpha production. IL-6 enhances activation, proliferation and chemotaxis of T cells into psoriatic lesions. It is also a direct keratinocyte mitogen that could directly stimulate keratinocyte proliferation. Data of possible association between psoriasis and reduced bone mineral density (BMD) are limited and therefore, not fully conclusive. The major limitation of two studies reported so far was small sample size. Based on increased concentrations of TNF-alpha and IL-6 in psoriasis we hypothesized that these patients are more prone to osteoporosis than healthy subjects. TNF-alpha enhances bone resorption via stimulating osteoclast development and activity as well as bone formation. On the other hand, IL-6 is also a potent stimulator of bone resorption. Moreover, increased production of TNF-alpha and IL-6 has been found in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. Several lines of evidence support our hypothesis; higher value of IL-6 was recorded in children with idiopathic osteoporosis than in healthy controls; TNF-alpha knock-out mice do not lose bone after ovariectomy; polymorphism of TNFRSF1B gene which encodes 75 Kd TNF receptor is associated with BMD; treatment with anti-TNF-alpha antibody exert beneficial effect on bone metabolism in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and finally, raloxifene inhibit osteoclast activity by reducing TNF-alpha and IL-6 synthesis. However, our hypothesis raised number of questions. Are increased serum concentrations of TNF-alpha and IL-6 mirrored by increased concentrations of these cytokines on the local level? Furthermore, could other cytokines relevant in the pathogenesis of the psoriasis, first of all IFN-gamma, modulate the risk of osteoporosis? Thus, a large prospective, case-control study with the data on BMD, biochemical parameters of bone turnover and fractures have to be done to test our hypothesis.
After reports of reversible parkinsonism and cognitive impairment with sodium valproate (VPA), the authors examined 50 consecutive patients taking VPA and 20 patients taking carbamazepine. Three patients taking VPA exhibited unequivocal parkinsonism with Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale scores >30. VPA was withdrawn from two patients with improvement of symptoms. Reduction in VPA dosage in the third patient produced no improvement. beta-CIT-SPECT scans were normal, suggesting dopaminergic neuronal loss is not the underlying mechanism.
In the early 1950s, a randomized, double-blind, controlled trial of the value of prophylactic stilboestrol therapy given antenatally to reduce the incidence of late pregnancy toxaemia and to improve perinatal mortality was conducted at University College Hospital, London. Women expecting their first baby were allocated to one or other of two groups. Those in the stilboestrol group started treatment at the 12th week of pregnancy on average and received a mean dose of about 11.5 g of the drug while those in the control group received placebo tablets. In spite of the fact that the original trial documentation was lost, it was possible to be fairly certain which was the treated group and follow-up data from 650 mothers and 660 offspring were obtained from death certificates, cancer registrations and questionnaires sent to general practitioners. We found no indication of any harmful long-term effect of stilboestrol exposure during pregnancy on the mothers--in particular 10 out of 331 women in the untreated group and 9 out of 319 women in the treated group were found to have developed breast cancer. Amongst the daughters, those in the treated group suffered an excess of minor benign lesions of the cervix uteri and an excess (not statistically significant) of unfavourable pregnancy outcomes. None of the daughters had developed clear cell adenocarcinoma of the vagina or cervix uteri. Amongst the sons, we discovered no evidence of any significant excess of genital tract disorders or of impaired reproductive performance in the treated group but one son developed a (fatal) teratoma of the testis. Unexpectedly, psychiatric disease (especially depression and anxiety) was reported by general practitioners about twice as often in the treated group offspring (sons and daughters) as in the untreated group. This result cannot be due to bias, and is unlikely to be due to confounding or chance, and may thus represent an adverse effect of exposure to stilboestrol in utero.
To assess the efficiency of pupillary stretching with iris hooks in poorly dilatable pupils during phacoemulsification.
Forty eyes with maximal preoperative mydriasis less than 4.5 mm (mean 3.9 mm S.D. 1.0) received bimanual pupillary stretching according to the technique of Miller and Keener (1994).
Small pupils were mainly caused by long-term pilocarpine therapy (n = 21), posterior synechia (n = 11) or diabetic iridopathy (n = 7). With multidirectional stretching, the pupil could be enlarged to mean 6.6 mm (S.D. 0.66), lasting throughout phacoemulsification. The effect of stretching was significantly greater in eyes with synechias, but no significant differences in post-operative pupil motility was observed between the three subgroups. Six eyes with pronounced postoperative inflammation responded well to antiinflammatory treatment.
Done with routine surgical instruments, bimanual pupillary stretching seems to be an easy, safe and effective procedure for enlarging small pupils by an average of 2.7 mm during phacoemulsification, especially in eyes with posterior synechias.
The anticancer agent 5-fluorouracil (FU) frequently induces cutaneous lupus erythematosus (LE) lesions on sun exposed sites. Based on this observation, we have tried to establish a cutaneous LE model of C57BL/6 J (B6) mice, B6 T cell receptor (TCR)-alpha(-/-) mice and B6 TCR-delta(-/-) mice treated with FU and/or ultraviolet B light (UVBL) in order to clarify the role of T cells and the cytokine profile of cutaneous lupus lesions. Cutaneous LE-like skin lesions could be induced in TCR-alpha(-/-) mice with low FU (0.2 mg) plus UVBL, and in B6 mice treated with a high dose of FU (2.0 mg) plus UVBL. In contrast, low FU plus UVBL induced such skin lesions in TCR-delta(-/-) mice at a very low incidence. Specifically, the skin lesions of TCR-alpha(-/-) mice with low FU plus UVBL appeared more rapidly and were more severe than lesions in B6 mice. The former had the common characteristic features of human chronic cutaneous LE such as typical histology, positive IgG at the dermoepidermal junction, low antinuclear antibody and low mortality. Furthermore, a Th1 response was induced in the development of drug-induced cutaneous LE. FU and UVBL-induced cutaneous LE-like eruption is an excellent model for better understanding the pathomechanisms of skin lesion development in LE.
Dithiocarbamates form a large group of chemicals that have numerous uses in agriculture and medicine. It has been reported that dithiocarbamates, including thiuram (tetramethylthiuram disulfide), cause wavy distortions of the notochord in zebrafish and other fish embryos. In the present study, we investigated the mechanism underlying the toxicity of thiuram in zebrafish embryos. When embryos were exposed to thiuram (2-1000 nM: 0.48-240 microg/L) from 3 h post fertilization (hpf) (30% epiboly) until 24 hpf (Prim-5), all embryos develop wavy notochords, disorganized somites, and have shortened yolk sac extensions. The thiuram response was specific and did not cause growth retardation or mortality at 24 hpf. The thiuram-dependent responses showed the same concentration dependence with a waterborne EC50 values of approximately 7 nM. Morphometric measurements revealed that thiuram does not affect the rate of notochord lengthening. However, the rate of overall body lengthening was significantly reduced in thiuram-exposed animals. Other dithiocarbamates, such as ziram, caused similar malformations to thiuram. While expression of genes involved in somitogenesis was not affected, the levels of notochord-specific transcripts were altered after the onset of malformations. Distortion of the notochord started precisely at 18 hpf, which is concomitant with onset of spontaneous rhythmic trunk contractions. Abolishment of spontaneous contractions using tricaine, alpha-bungarotoxin, and a paralytic mutant sofa potato, resulted in normal notochord morphology in the presence of thiuram. These results indicate that muscle activity is necessary to reveal the underlying functional deficit and suggest that the developmental target of dithiocarbamates impairs trunk plasticity through an unknown mechanism.
The responsiveness of the renal vascular system was investigated in uninephrectomized Sprague-Dawley rats in which acute renal failure had been induced by norepinephrine. The animals were studied at 1' and 3 wk after norepinephrine infusion. Uninephrectomized littermates served as controls. Compared with controls, there was an absence of renal blood flow autoregulation in 1-wk acute renal failure that returned in part by 3 wk. In 1-wk rats there was a marked increase, rather than decrease, in renovascular resistance as renal perfusion pressure was decreased. The renal vasculature was significantly less responsive in 1-wk rats than in control or 3-wk animals when acetylcholine, angiotensin II, or norepinephrine was infused into the renal artery at minimal vasoactive doses (all P less than 0.01). Paradoxically, renal vasoconstriction in response to renal nerve stimulation was greater in 1-wk than in 3-wk and control rats (P less than 0.01) and was not inhibited by renal artery infusion of phenoxybenzamine. Renal denervation significantly improved renal blood flow autoregulation in 1-wk animals (P less than 0.001) and completely abolished the increase in renovascular resistance as renal perfusion pressure was lowered. No effects of renal denervation on renal blood flow autoregulation were seen in control and 3-wk rats. It is concluded that renovascular responses to neurohumoral stimuli are aberrant in acute renal failure. The loss of renal blood flow autoregulation is related to an increased renovascular resistance that is due to increased activity of non-alpha-adrenergic mechanisms of the autonomic nervous system.
This retrospective study aimed to ascertain the expression of erbB2 in relation to topoisomerase II alpha (T2 alpha) and thymidylate synthase (TS) markers in 30 consecutive metastatic gastric cancer patients with a specimen available for study.
All patients had been entered on consecutive chemotherapeutic clinical trials that were all 5-fluorouracil based. The specimens were evaluated by fluorescence in situ hybridization to ascertain erbB2 and T2 alpha gene amplification, and by immunohistochemical staining for T2 alpha and TS protein expression.
erbB2 amplification was detected in 16.7% of specimens, with co-amplification of the T2 alpha gene in 40%, and 44% had undetectable TS protein expression. Kaplan-Meier survival curves showed significantly prolonged overall survival in patients with erbB2 and T2 alpha gene amplification, T2 alpha protein overexpression and absence of TS protein expression (P = 0.0011, P = 0.0048, P = 0.0061 and P = 0.0267, respectively, by log rank test). There was a positive correlation between erbB2 amplification and T2 alpha amplification, T2 alpha protein overexpression, and a trend towards absence of TS expression (P = 0.0001, P = 0.003 and P = 0.066 by Fisher's exact test).
High dose fluorouracil/leucovorin-based chemotherapy may have the potential to reverse the adverse effects resulting from erbB2 gene amplification in gastric cancer.
We sought to determine whether supplementation of vitamin E (alpha-tocopherol), selenium (L-selenomethionine), or their combination improves arsenical skin lesions.
A 2 x 2 randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind trial among 121 men and women chronically exposed to arsenic in drinking water was conducted in rural Bangladesh. Participants were randomized to one of four treatment arms: vitamin E, selenium, vitamin E and selenium (combination), or placebo and were treated for 6 months.
At baseline, the average skin lesion scores were 2.23, 2.26, and 2.63 and at follow-up, the average skin lesion scores went down to 2.00, 2.06, and 2.47 in those receiving vitamin E, selenium, and the combination, respectively.
Supplementation with vitamin E and selenium, either alone or in combination, slightly improved skin lesion status, although the improvement was not statistically significant.
To investigate the effect of metallothionein (MT) on rifampicin (RFP)-induced hepatotoxicity and the possible mechanisms.
Male MT- I / II null (MT-/-) and wild type (MT+/+) mice were randomly divided into 4 groups, respectively, and were orally administered RFP (50, 100 or 200 mg/kg) or equal volumes of solvent daily for 15 consecutive days. Levels of plasma alanine aminotransferase (ALT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and direct bilirubin (DB) were determined. Liver indexes were calculated and liver histopathologic changes were examined by hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining. The content of glutathione (GSH) as well as the activities of glutathione peroxydase (GPx) and glutathione reductases (GR) were measured in the liver homogenates.
RFP treatment induced significant increases in plasma ALT, AST and DB, as well as liver index. Significant histopathologic changes which were charactered as fatty degeneration in liver were noteced. Moreover, augmentations of GSH content and GR activity and attenuation of GPx activity were observed. More severe hepatic injuries in MT-/- mice were observed as compared to MT+/+ mice, which were evidenced by higher liver/body weight ratio and GR activity, lower GSH content and GPx activity, and more serious fatty degeneration.
RFP-induced hepatotoxicity was associated with cholestasis and oxidative damage. MT -/- mice were more susceptible than MT +/+ mice to RFP-induced hepatotoxicity and the enhanced hepatotoxicity involves increased oxidative stress.
Lithium carbonate is commonly used in psychiatry, particularly in the management of the manic-depressive syndrome. It is also being increasingly tried in a variety of physical disorders. This essentially practical article summarizes important non-psychiatric aspects of the use of the drug, including its less common actions. Contra-indications to the use of lithium are discussed, and the management of lithium intoxication is outlined.
Studies on T-1982 (cefbuperazone), a new cephamycin antibiotic, were carried out in the field of pediatrics, and the following results were obtained. 1. Peak MIC of T-1982 against S. pyogenes (group A) lately isolated was 0.39 micrograms/ml, and the drug was active even against highly resistant strains of macrolides, lincomycin, tetracycline and chloramphenicol. 2. Peak MICs of T-1982 were 0.78 microgram/ml against B. pertussis, 0.2 microgram/ml against E. coli and less than or equal to 0.05 microgram/ml against K. oxytoca, and the drug was also active against ampicillin-resistant bacteria. 3. Serum levels and urinary excretions of T-1982 were investigated in 6 cases. When given at a dose of 20-28 mg/kg by 1 hour intravenous drip infusion, serum concentrations of T-1982 attained the peak level of 63.5-75.9 micrograms/ml at the end of administration and sustained the level of 0.9-2.6 micrograms/ml at 6 hours, the serum half-life (T 1/2) ranging 70-82 minutes. Approximately 20-72% of the dose were excreted in the active form into urine within 6 hours. 4. Twenty-seven cases of acute pediatric infections were treated with T-1982 mainly by intravenous drip infusion, and satisfactory clinical results were obtained in all the cases of angina lacunaris, bronchitis, bronchopneumonia, pertussis, sepsis caused by Serratia and acute urinary tract infections caused by ampicillin-resistant E. coli. The efficacy rate was 96.3%. In this study the drug was administered chiefly at a daily dose of 50-70 mg/kg 2-3 times a day for 2-12 days. 5. Gram-positive cocci (S. aureus, S. pneumoniae, S. pyogenes) and Gram-negative rods (H. influenzae, H. parainfluenzae P. vulgaris, B. pertussis, S. marcescens, E. coli) were eradicated by the treatment with T-1982. 6. No noticeable side effects were observed, except for temporary increase of eosinophil in 2 cases and slight elevation of GOT in 1 case.
The genetic defect in muscle phosphofructokinase deficiency (type VII glycogenosis, Tarui disease) was investigated. Six cDNAs for muscle phosphofructokinase, including a full-length clone, were isolated from a non-amplified library of muscle from a patient. By sequence analysis of these clones, a 75-base in-frame deletion was identified. The rest of the sequence was identical to that of the normal cDNA, except for a silent base transition at position 516 (ACT (Thr) to ACC (Thr]. The deletion was located in the 3'-terminal region of exon 13 (numbered with reference to the rabbit muscle phosphofructokinase gene (Lee, C.-P., Kao, M.-C., French, B.A., Putney, S.D., and Chang, S.H. (1987) J. Biol. Chem. 262, 4195-4199]. Genomic DNA of the patient was amplified by polymerase chain reaction. Sequence analysis of the amplified DNA revealed a point mutation from G to T at the 5'-end of intron 13. This mutation changed the normal 5'-splice site of CAG:GTATGG to CAG:TTATGG. A cryptic splice site of ACT:GTGAGG located 75 bases upstream from the normal splice site was recognized and spliced in the patient.
Nephrotoxicity is an inherent adverse effect of certain anticancer drugs. Mechanisms of chemotherapy-induced renal dysfunction generally include damage to vascular or structures of the kidneys, hemolytic uremic syndrome and prerenal perfusion deficits. Patients with cancer are frequently at risk of renal impairment secondary to disease-related and iatrogenic causes. This article reviews the prevention and management of anticancer drug-induced renal dysfunction. Cisplatin and carboplatin cause dose-related renal dysfunction. In addition to elevation of serum creatinine levels and uremia, electrolyte abnormalities, such as hypomagnesemia and hypokalemia, are well known adverse effects of cisplatin. Methotrexate can cause elevation of serum creatinine levels, uremia and hematuria. Acute renal failure is reported after high dose methotrexate therapy. Urinary alkalization and hydration confer protection against methotrexate-induced renal dysfunction. Dose- and age-related proximal tubular damage is an adverse effect of ifosfamide. In addition to renal wasting of electrolytes, glucose and amino acids, Fanconi syndrome and rickets after ifosfamide administration have been reported in the literature. Hemolytic uremia is a rare but serious adverse effect of gemcitabine.
Felodipine is a new dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, and in hypertension it is a much more effective "third-line" drug than hydralazine. Nifedipine, on the other hand, is the established dihydropyridine calcium antagonist that has been increasingly used to treat hypertension. Information is now needed on the relative merits and demerits of these two drugs. This study appraised, therefore, the therapeutic utility of twelve months' treatment with nifedipine 20-60 mg twice daily in 55 patients with previous drug-resistant hypertension who had been successfully treated for the previous year with felodipine 5-20 mg twice daily, each calcium antagonist being used in combination with atenolol 100 mg daily with or without chlorthalidone 25 mg daily. Initially, nifedipine maintained comparable blood pressure control to that which had been achieved by felodipine, although in the longer term (over eight months) nifedipine proved less effective than felodipine had (p less than 0.02) and more patients became uncontrolled (supine diastolic blood pressure, Phase V, greater than or equal to 90 mmHg) on the maximum tolerated dose of the calcium antagonist (chi 2 = 4.13, p less than 0.05 greater than 0.025). The former degree of blood pressure control was, however, reestablished by increasing the dose of nifedipine or reintroducing the diuretic as necessary, and this control was maintained over the next four months. Minor side effects were less common on nifedipine than they had been during the preceding felodipine treatment phase. Felodipine thus has more pronounced and sustained antihypertensive effects than nifedipine, though its side effect burden may appear to be greater.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Anisodamine (Ani) is an alkaloid first isolated in China from the root of Anisodus tanguticus. Ani 10, 15 mg.kg-1 i.v. markedly shortened the duration of arrhythmias induced by aconitine (10 micrograms.kg-1 i.v.) or by BaCl2 (2 mg.kg-1 i.v.) in anesthetized rats. Ani significantly effected on arrhythmias induced by early coronary artery ligation in rats by reducing total numbers of ectopic beats and shortening the duration of ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation 30 min after coronary ligation. The incidence of ventricular fibrillation of mice induced by chloroform were reduced from 100% to 20% and 10% by i.v. Ani 1 and 10 mg.kg-1 respectively. Ani 0.05, 0.25 mumol.L-1 prolonged the duration of neurologic refractory period of isolated guinea pig left atria and 10 mg.kg-1 i.v. had no effect on tachycardia induced by i.v. isoproterenol (0.01 mg.kg-1) but blocked the stimulation of nervi vagus. After i.v. Ani 15 mg.kg-1 P-P, P-R and QT-c intervals on the ECG were prolonged. Mean arterial pressure and diastolic pressure were reduced but systolic pressure was not effected.
Recent studies have revealed an association between post-translational modification of alpha-dystroglycan (alpha-DG) and certain congenital muscular dystrophies known as secondary alpha-dystroglycanopathies (alpha-DGpathies). Fukuyama-type congenital muscular dystrophy (FCMD) is classified as a secondary alpha-DGpathy because the responsible gene, fukutin, is a putative glycosyltransferase for alpha-DG. To investigate the pathophysiology of secondary alpha-DGpathies, we profiled gene expression in skeletal muscle from FCMD patients. cDNA microarray analysis and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction showed that expression of developmentally regulated genes, including myosin heavy chain (MYH) and myogenic transcription factors (MRF4, myogenin and MyoD), in FCMD muscle fibers is inconsistent with dystrophy and active muscle regeneration, instead more of implicating maturational arrest. FCMD skeletal muscle contained mainly immature type 2C fibers positive for immature-type MYH. These characteristics are distinct from Duchenne muscular dystrophy, suggesting that another mechanism in addition to dystrophy accounts for the FCMD skeletal muscle lesion. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed morphologically aberrant neuromuscular junctions (NMJs) lacking MRF4 co-localization. Hypoglycosylated alpha-DG indicated a lack of aggregation, and acetylcholine receptor (AChR) clustering was compromised in FCMD and the myodystrophy mouse, another model of secondary alpha-DGpathy. Electron microscopy showed aberrant NMJs and neural terminals, as well as myotubes with maturational defects. Functional analysis of NMJs of alpha-DGpathy showed decreased miniature endplate potential and higher sensitivities to d-Tubocurarine, suggesting aberrant or collapsed formation of NMJs. Because alpha-DG aggregation and subsequent clustering of AChR are crucial for NMJ formation, hypoglycosylation of alpha-DG results in aberrant NMJ formation and delayed muscle terminal maturation in secondary alpha-DGpathies. Although severe necrotic degeneration or wasting of skeletal muscle fibers is the main cause of congenital muscular dystrophies, maturational delay of muscle fibers also underlies the etiology of secondary alpha-DGpathies.
Among 392 consecutive patients admitted for acute myocardial infarction and treated with thrombolytic drugs, 4 patients (1%) developed an early hemorrhagic pericardial effusion (without ventricular wall rupture) evolving within 24 h to cardiogenic shock consequent to cardiac tamponade. They all suffered from a large anterior myocardial infarction treated within 4 h after onset of symptoms with intravenous anisoylated plasminogen streptokinase activator complex (one case), recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) (two cases) or streptokinase (one case), anticoagulation with heparin (all cases) and aspirin (three cases). As soon as pericardial effusion was established by echocardiography, emergency percutaneous pericardiocentesis was performed at the bedside 20 +/- 6 h after thrombolytic therapy was started. This corrected immediately the clinical and hemodynamic status of each patient and a catheter was left in the pericardial space for 34 +/- 18 h. Thus, in the presence of unexplained clinical and hemodynamic deterioration occurring during the first 24 h after thrombolytic treatment of a large myocardial infarction, cardiac tamponade should be suspected. Immediate percutaneous pericardiocentesis followed by continuous drainage is a simple and definitive treatment for this complication.
We describe a unique clinical syndrome of flank pain and acute renal failure that is associated with suprofen, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug that has recently been made available in the United States. In the initial 6 months of the drug's distribution in this country, at least 16 patients developed this syndrome. All 16 had acute flank pain and 13 developed mild reversible renal failure within 12 hours of ingestion of one to three suprofen capsules. This syndrome is unlike other nephrotoxic syndromes related to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. The mechanism is not known.
Acute effects of a single intraperitoneal dose of allyl alcohol (AA, 64 mg/kg), dimethylnitrosamine (DMNA, 30 mg/kg), hexachlorobutadiene (HCBD, 50 mg/kg), carbon tetrachloride (CCl4, 24 mg/kg), cocaine (60 mg/kg) and pyrazole (300 mg/kg) on the hepatic histology and monooxygenases in DBA/2 and C57Bl/6 strains of mice were investigated. All substances caused histologically verified injury to the liver, which varied in appearance and severity depending on the compound and the mouse strain. Responses of P450-catalyzed reactions were highly dependent on the toxin and varied between different monooxygenase (MO) reactions and two mouse strains. In DBA/2 strain, coumarin 7-hydroxylase (COH) activity was increased from 3- to 5-fold by pyrazole, cocaine, HCBD and CCl4. With respect to P450 content and other MO activities, no changes or even decreases were generally observed. Some exceptions to this rule were found: HCBD significantly increased T15 alpha OH, PROD and EROD activities in C57Bl/6 mice, whereas cocaine caused a significant stimulation of T15 alpha OH and PROD in DBA/2 mice, It is concluded that i) different hepatoxins cause different types of liver injury and responses of the monooxygenase complex ("hepatotoxinspecific finger prints"), ii) although DBA/2 and C57Bl/6 mice responded rather similarly to hepatotoxins, also with respect to P450 content and most MO activities, they displayed a profound difference in the behaviour of COH activity, and iii) within the P450 superfamily, the regulation of COH activity seems to be rather unique, also when compared to its structurally close enzyme, testosterone 15 alpha-hydroxylase.
Recent reports of cadmium in electronic waste and jewelry have increased public awareness regarding this toxic metal. Human exposure to cadmium is associated with the development of osteoporosis. We previously reported cadmium induces apoptosis in human tumor-derived Saos-2 osteoblasts. In this study, we examine the extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) and protein kinase C (PKC) pathways in cadmium-induced apoptosis and altered osteoblast gene expression. Saos-2 osteoblasts were cultured in the presence or absence of 10μM CdCl(2) for 2-72h. We detected significant ERK activation in response to CdCl(2) and pretreatment with the ERK inhibitor PD98059 attenuated cadmium-induced apoptosis. However, PKCα activation was not observed after exposure to CdCl(2) and pretreatment with the PKC inhibitor, Calphostin C, was unable to rescue cells from cadmium-induced apoptosis. Gene expression studies were conducted using qPCR. Cells exposed to CdCl(2) exhibited a significant decrease in the bone-forming genes osteopontin (OPN) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) mRNA. In contrast, SOST, whose protein product inhibits bone formation, significantly increased in response to CdCl(2). Pretreatment with PD98059 had a recovery effect on cadmium-induced changes in gene expression. This research demonstrates cadmium can directly inhibit osteoblasts via ERK signaling pathway and identifies SOST as a target for cadmium-induced osteotoxicity.
Cefamandole nafate has been shown to have good in vitro activity against a wide spectrum of aerobic and anaerobic pathogens frequently isolated from women with obstetrical and gynecological infections. One hundred and twenty seven women with these infections were treated with cefamandole: 78 had post-cesarean section metritis; 24 acute pelvic inflammatory disease; 18 post-hysterectomy cuff cellulitis/abscess; and 7 had vulvar or abdominal wound abscesses. All but 13% of these women had either polymicrobial aerobic/anaerobic bacterial infections, or had an anaerobic infection alone. Of these 127 women, 116 responded to cefamandole administration alone, and in the other 11 chloramphenicol was added. Of these 11, surgical therapy was necessary to eradicate infection in six women. Phlebitis, mild to severe, was demonstrated in 14% of the women and responded to conservative measures. Of 402 bacterial isolates from these women, 94% were sensitive to cefamandole at 32 microgram/ml, an easily achievable serum level. Anaerobic streptococci were the most common isolate and 94% of these organisms were sensitive at 32 microgram/ml. Of the 43 Bacteroides species isolated, 90% were susceptible at 32 microgram/ml; 84% of Bacteroides fragilis were susceptible ast this concentration. Data now presented indicate that cefamandole given alone is safe and effective for treatment of women with polymicrobial mixed aerobic/anaerobic pelvic infections and approximately 5% will require surgical therapy for eradication of these infections.
Antiarrhythmic effects and minimum antiarrhythmic plasma concentrations (min PC) were examined using three canine ventricular arrhythmia models, i.e., two-stage coronary ligation arrhythmia (Cor), halothane-adrenaline arrhythmia (Adr) and digitalis arrhythmia (Dig). Disopyramide suppressed these three arrhythmias and its min PCs were 5.3 +/- 1.8 (Cor), 4.2 +/- 1.1 (Adr) and 1.7 +/- 0.4 micrograms/ml (Dig). Procainamide suppressed coronary ligation arrhythmia and its min PC was 27.1 +/- 4.0 micrograms/ml, but was not effective on adrenaline arrhythmia. Aprindine was effective on three arrhythmias and its min PCs were 1.6 +/- 0.3 (Cor), 1.0 +/- 0.4 (Adr) and 0.8 +/- 0.4 micrograms/ml (Dig). Lidocaine was not effective on coronary ligation arrhythmia, but was effective on adrenaline arrhythmia and its min PC was 15 micrograms/ml. Phenytoin was effective on three arrhythmias and its min PCs were 9.8 +/- 2.0 (Cor), 12.1 +/- 3.1 (Adr) and 11.3 +/- 3.0 micrograms/ml (Dig). It was not specifically effective on canine digitalis arrhythmia. Propranolol and other beta-blockers were effective on adrenaline arrhythmia, but very high doses were necessary for suppressing coronary ligation and digitalis arrhythmias. Verapamil was only effective on adrenaline arrhythmia and its min PC was 0.03 +/- 0.01 microgram/ml. Canine min PCs of drugs were almost the same as those reported in man except for procainamide and lidocaine. Membrane stabilizing effects seem to be important for suppressing canine ventricular arrhythmias.
The GABRA2 gene has been implicated in addiction. Early life stress has been shown to alter GABRA2 expression in adult rodents. We hypothesized that childhood trauma, GABRA2 variation, and their interaction would influence addiction vulnerability.
African-American men were recruited for this study: 577 patients with lifetime DSM-IV single and comorbid diagnoses of alcohol, cocaine, and heroin dependence, and 255 control subjects. The Childhood Trauma Questionnaire (CTQ) was administered. Ten GABRA2 haplotype-tagging single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were genotyped.
We found that exposure to childhood trauma predicted substance dependence (p < .0001). Polysubstance dependence was associated with the highest CTQ scores (p < .0001). The African Americans had four common haplotypes (frequency: .11-.30) within the distal haplotype block: two that correspond to the Caucasian and Asian yin-yang haplotypes, and two not found in other ethnic groups. One of the unique haplotypes predicted heroin addiction, whereas the other haplotype was more common in control subjects and seemed to confer resilience to addiction after exposure to severe childhood trauma. The yin-yang haplotypes had no effects. Moreover, the intron 2 SNP rs11503014, not located in any haplotype block and potentially implicated in exon splicing, was independently associated with addiction, specifically heroin addiction (p < .005). Childhood trauma interacted with rs11503014 variation to influence addiction vulnerability, particularly to cocaine (p < .005).
Our results suggest that at least in African-American men, childhood trauma, GABRA2 variation, and their interaction play a role in risk-resilience for substance dependence.
Pregnancy is very uncommon in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) and only few reports exist about pregnancy and PBC. However, no data are available on therapy and potential risks of treatment with ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) in PBC, especially in the first trimester of pregnancy. Furthermore, it is not known, whether UDCA is secreted into the breast milk during lactation. We report a 41 year old patient with the diagnosis of PBC stage III, who had been treated with UDCA (750 mg/day) for three years. At the time of diagnosis of pregnancy (5th gestational week), UDCA was withdrawn. Within nine days, severe pruritus developed, alkaline phosphatase and gamma-glutamyltransferase increased. UDCA was administered again (750 mg/day). The pruritus disappeared completely within one week. Liver enzymes decreased to baseline values and remained stable throughout the remainder of the pregnancy. No drug-related side effects were observed. Caesarean section for placental insufficiency unrelated to PBC was performed at the 34th week of pregnancy. The newborn thrived normally during a follow-up period of six months. When the patient's breast milk was analyzed by high pressure liquid chromatography, cholic acid, deoxycholic acid and lithocholic acid, but not UDCA were detected in trace amounts. It is concluded that UDCA therapy in PBC may be continued in the early pregnancy and during the breast feeding period. UDCA may be effective for the prevention of cholestasis in PBC during pregnancy.
Depression is difficult to detect in cancer patients, though its determination offers an opportunity to relieve patients' suffering in palliative care. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are the treatment of choice for mood disorders, but they show a highly variable response. The short allelic variants "s/s" and "s/l" of the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism in the promoter region of the serotonin transporter gene has been consistently associated with a poorer response to SSRIs. The aim of this study has therefore been to examine depression, anxiety and mental adaptation to cancer in terminally ill and depressed cancer patients, in relation to treatment with sertraline and to the 5-HTTLPR genetic polymorphism. Eleven consecutive depressed patients with different forms of advanced cancer who were admitted to the Hospice of the Casa di Cura "Pineta del Carso" (Trieste, Italy) were treated with sertraline for two weeks and their response was determined and related to 5-HTTLPR. Sertraline significantly reduced the average depression and anxiety subscale scores of HADS, as well as the scores of the subscales of Mini-MAC. When the effects of sertraline were analyzed in relation to the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism, only patients with the "l/l" allelic variant had significantly lower scores of HADS anxiety, Mini-MAC hopelessness-helplessness and anxious preoccupation, and a higher score for the fighting spirit of Mini-MAC; the depression score was significantly reduced in patients with both allelic variants. These data indicate that sertraline is effective after two weeks of treatment in terminally ill cancer patients, acting not only on depression but also on anxiety and mental adaptation to cancer. Moreover, the effect of sertraline significantly depended on the genetic polymorphism of the serotonin transporter, being more pronounced in patients carrying the "l/l" genetic variant; these findings seem to encourage the examination of a larger sample of patients.
