Mechanisms for hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia and the effects of KCD-232, a new hypolipidemic agent, on them were studied in male Wistar rats with daunorubicin (DR)-induced nephrosis. Single intravenous injection of DR dose-dependently increased urinary protein loss and serum lipid levels (0,3,6 and 12 mg/kg). Twenty-four days after the injection of DR (6 mg/kg), serum cholesterol (Ch) and triglyceride (TG) levels markedly increased and free fatty acid level tended to decrease with no effects on liver lipid levels. Hepatic Ch synthesis from [14C]acetate in vitro increased by 2.1-fold, while exogenous Ch absorption slightly decreased. The clearance of intravenously injected [3H]Ch from the circulation was delayed. Hepatic fatty acid (FA) synthesis also increased by 2.7-fold, and hepatic TG lipase activity tended to decrease. KCD-232 improved the hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia of DR-treated rats. The drug inhibited the elevated hepatic Ch synthesis and exogenous Ch absorption and thus improved the delayed Ch clearance from the circulation. KCD-232 markedly inhibited the elevated hepatic FA synthesis and stimulated both hepatic FA oxidation and lipoprotein lipase activity from the epididymal adipose tissue of the nephrotic rats. These results suggest that 1. DR-induced hypercholesterolemia is due to both an increased Ch synthesis in the liver and delayed clearance of Ch from the circulation; 2. DR-induced hypertriglyceridemia is caused by both an increased hepatic FA synthesis and depressed TG hydrolysis in the circulation; 3. KCD-232 improves the hypercholesterolemia by inhibiting the elevated Ch synthesis and Ch absorption from the gut; and 4. KCD-232 improves the hypertriglyceridemia by inhibiting the elevated hepatic FA synthesis and by stimulating both hepatic FA oxidation and TG hydrolysis activity in the circulation.
Castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) is an incurable disease with limited treatment options. Herbal supplements are unconventional treatments for a variety of diseases. Active hemicellulose compound (AHCC) is a Japanese supplement discovered by hybridizing several mushrooms used in traditional healing for the purpose of maintaining 'super immunity'. We report on a 66-year-old gentleman with CRPC with an excellent serologic response to AHCC. This case hypothesizes that AHCC may have potential activity against CRPC.
To examine the effect of infusion of the vasodilator sodium nitroprusside (SNP) on the blood flow in normal tissues and BT4An tumors growing subcutaneously or intramuscularly in BD IX rats.
Sodium nitroprusside was given as a continuous intravenous infusion to keep the mean arterial pressure stable at 60 mmHg. The cardiac output, organ blood flow, and perfusion of the BT4An tumors were measured by injection of radiolabelled microspheres at control conditions and after 20 min SNP infusion in each animal. Two series of experiments were performed with two anesthetics with different mechanisms of action, Inactin and the midazolam-fentanyl-fluanisone combination (MFF), to secure reliable conclusions.
Cardiac output, heart rate, and blood flow to the skeletal muscles, heart, and liver increased during SNP infusion in either anesthetic group. In the kidneys and particularly the skin, decreased blood flow by SNP was observed. When located subcutaneously on the foot, the blood flow in the tumor fell to 23.4% and 21.4% of the control values in the MFF- and Inactin-anesthetized animals, respectively. This was accompanied by a similar fall in the blood flow in the foot (tumor bed) itself. In the intramuscular tumor, the blood flow fell to 24.8% of the control value in the MFF group, whereas the corresponding figure was 36.2% in the Inactin group. In the surrounding muscle (tumor bed) the blood flow increased significantly, most pronounced in the MFF experiment, where it was tripled.
The fall in the tumor perfusion by SNP may be exploited therapeutically to increase the tumor temperature during hyperthermia. Predominant heating of the tumor compared to the tumor bed can be expected if the tumor is growing in or near skeletal muscles.
1 Eight healthy subjects (six male, two female, aged 18-21 years) received graded intravenous bolus injections of isoprenaline sulphate. Heart rate and intra-arterial blood pressure were continuously monitored PRE- and POST-atropine (0.04 mg/kg). 2 PRE-atropine, an increase in heart rate of 25 beats/min was produced by 2.15 +/- 0.53 micrograms of isoprenaline and was associated with a fall in mean, systolic and diastolic pressures (18.9 +/- 2.8, 17.7 +/- 3.4 and 20.4 +/- 2.3 mm Hg respectively). 3 POST-atropine, the heart rate dose response curve was shifted to the right so that the dose of isoprenaline which increased heart rate 25 beats/min PRE-atropine, produced a significantly smaller heart rate rise of 20.3 +/- 1.7 beats/min (P less than 0.001). This was associated with a shift of the blood pressure dose-response curves to the left, and larger falls in mean, systolic and diastolic pressures (30.9 +/- 2.8, 31.8 +/- 3.3, 30.1 +/- 3.3 mm Hg respectively; P less than 0.01). 4 It is concluded that there is a significant contribution from a reflex withdrawal of cardiac vagal tone, to the tachycardia produced by a bolus of isoprenaline.
A monoclonal antibody Adnab-9, was raised against antigens derived from benign polyps of the colon. Adnab-9 was tested against pre-colonoscopic effluent material obtained from groups of patients with a macroscopically normal colonscopic examination, histologically confirmed adenomatous polyps and patients with colorectal cancer (CRC). The resultant binding levels displayed little overlap between the CRC group and the normal, and the difference was statistically significant. Since this putative early neoplasia associated antigen is essentially not expressed in CRC extracts, it may originate from a region of the colon predisposed to neoplasia, increasing in expression as the tendency to malignancy progresses, useful in the diagnosis of early stage malignancy.
Bivalirudin (Angiomax) is increasingly used as a substitute for heparin in a variety of percutaneous coronary interventions, and data on its usage in saphenous vein graft interventions are limited. This retrospective, observational study evaluated the efficacy and safety of bivalirudin compared with heparin as an antithrombotic regimen in patients who underwent saphenous vein graft intervention with distal protection devices. We found that bivalirudin use is clinically safe and feasible, with fewer vascular and ischemic complications compared with heparin.
A 37-year-old woman had postpartum myocardial infarction complicated with cardiogenic shock. The infarction was attributed to diffuse coronary artery spasm caused by methylergonovine, which had been used to treat the postpartum haemorrhage due to placenta increta. The haemodynamics could not be maintained with catecholamine infusion and intraaortic balloon counterpulsation. At last, an extracorporeal membrane oxygenator was used to save her life, and the patient was successfully weaned from the machine 100 h later; she made an uneventful recovery thereafter.
In a study comparing low-dose theophylline to montelukast in poorly controlled asthmatics, 285 subjects consented to be screened for alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency. Of the 284 for which complete data was available, 10.5% carried a deficiency gene and 2.4% were mildly deficient with an alpha-1 antitrypsin serum level of less than 20 mu M. In the non-African-American cohort, an abnormal phenotype occurred in 12% and 2.9% were mildly deficient. Baseline pulmonary function and asthma scores were not significantly different between those with normal and abnormal AAT phenotype. However those with the deficiency tended to show a greater bronchodilator response.
This study investigated the preventive effect of ribosomal protein S3 (rpS3) on 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-induced ear edema in mice. A cell permeable expression vector PEP-1-rpS3 was constructed. Topical application of the vector markedly inhibited TPA-induced expression levels of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and pro-inflammatory cytokines. Application of PEP-1-rpS3 also resulted in a significant reduction in the activation of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kB) and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) in TPA-treated ears. These results indicate that PEP-1-rpS3 inhibits inflammatory response cytokines and enzymes by blocking NF-kB and MAPK, prompting the suggestion that PEP-1-rpS3 can be used as a therapeutic agent against skin inflammation.
5-Azactydine inhibits cell growth by direct cytotoxic action as well as by inhibition of DNA methyl transferase enzyme. Inhibitors of DNMT have been reported to potentiate the therapeutic activity of cisplatin in vitro. Dose dependent bone marrow toxicity, neurotoxicity and nephrotoxicity are the major side effects of cisplatin, limiting its use as an effective chemotherapeutic agent. The present study was aimed to reduce the nephrotoxic potential of cisplatin without compensating its potency. To best of our knowledge, this is the first report which shows that the combination of 5-azacytidine with cisplatin leads to remarkable reduction in nephrotoxicity, by involving inhibition of cisplatin induced metallothionein expression. 5-Azacytidine treatment with cisplatin leads to maximum reduction in tumor size in DMH induced colon cancer and tumor volume in DMBA induced breast cancer bearing SD rats. This combination regimen prevents phosphorylation and acetylation of histone H3 which may be involved in inhibition of aberrant gene expression in colon tumors. Further, 5-azacytidine potentiated cisplatin induced antitumor activity by involving decreased expression of pAKT, DNMT1 and an increased expression of p38 in colon tumors. Thus, combination of 5-azactydine with cisplatin attenuates the cisplatin induced nephrotoxicity and potentiates the anti-cancer activity which can have profound clinical implications.
Myeloperoxidase (MPO) is a heme enzyme, released by activated leukocytes at sites of inflammation, which catalyzes the formation of the potent oxidant, hypochlorous acid (HOCl), from H2O2. HOCl is a key component of the inflammatory response and is bactericidal but has been linked with several human pathologies as a result of damage to host tissue. Elevated plasma MPO levels are a strong independent risk factor, and predictor of outcomes, for cardiovascular disease. Rate constants for reaction of HOCl with individual biological targets and the products of these reactions have been determined, but the targets of HOCl in complex biological fluids such as plasma are incompletely defined. In this study, rate constants (M(-1) s(-1)) for the reactions of ascorbate with HOCl (ca. 6 x 10(6)) and imidazole chloramine (7.7 x 10(4)) have been determined to supplement known kinetic parameters. HOCl-mediated oxidation of the major plasma protein, albumin, was investigated both experimentally and computationally; these approaches provide consistent data. The computational studies were extended to examine the fate of HOCl in plasma. The model predicts that plasma proteins consume the majority of HOCl with limited damage to other materials. Ascorbate or alpha-tocopherol, even at the levels achieved in human supplementation studies, do not attenuate these reactions. In contrast, elevated levels of thiocyanate ions (SCN(-)), as detected in heavy smokers, can modulate HOCl-mediated reactions as a result of the formation of the highly specific oxidant hypothiocyanous acid (HOSCN). These observations support the hypothesis that MPO-generated HOSCN is a key agent in smoking-enhanced atherosclerosis.
Despite recent improvements in supportive care, treatment-related death (TRD) remains a serious problem for lung cancer patients undergoing systemic chemotherapy. However, few studies have formally assessed possible changes in the TRD rate over the past two decades.
We searched phase III trials to address the role of systemic treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Time trend was assessed using linear regression analysis.
The overall incidence of TRD was calculated from 119 trials including 263 chemotherapy arms (46 477 patients), with information about the causes of deaths available for 197 arms (75%, 30 147 patients). Cisplatin-based regimens were the most frequently investigated. The crude TRD rate in the overall cohort of 119 trials was 1.26% and has been notably consistent over the investigated time (P = 0.762). The most common cause of death was febrile neutropenia, with no significant change in its incidence over the years (P = 0.139). In contrast, deaths due to renal toxicity decreased significantly (P = 0.042), whereas deaths due to pulmonary disorder increased significantly (P = 0.007). Among the pharmacological agents investigated, docetaxel (Taxotere) and epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) were associated with relatively high rates of deaths from pulmonary disorders, but EGFR-TKIs were not associated with death from any other cause.
Despite of potential confounders in our results, the overall TRD rate has remained low, but not negligible, in phase III trials for advanced NSCLC, over the past two decades. Notably, the incidence and pattern of TRD stratified by cause have changed considerably.
Blockade of angiotensin type 1 (AT1) receptors induces smooth muscle cell (SMC) death and regression of aortic hypertrophy in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). We postulated that SMC death and vascular remodeling in this model may be attenuated by z-Val-Ala-Asp(OMe)-CH2F (z-VAD-fmk), a tripeptide inhibitor of caspase enzymes mediating apoptosis. To determine the time course of SMC death and aortic remodeling, SHR were treated with losartan (30 mg/kg per day) for up to 9.5 days. Transient SMC apoptosis occurred in the aortic media with a peak around day 5 of treatment, with increases in the Bax to Bcl-2 protein ratio (>3-fold), in active caspase-3 (5.6-fold), in TUNEL-positive nuclei (19-fold), preceding by 24 hours the peak activation of capase-9 (3.8-fold), and significant reductions in SMC number (46%) and aortic cross-sectional area (8.5%) at 5.5 days. The decrease in total aortic DNA reached significance at 6.5 days (29%). Blood pressure reduction with losartan was progressive and reached significance at day 7 of treatment. Next, we examined the causal link between vascular apoptosis and remodeling. SHR received placebo or losartan (30 mg/kg per day) for 6 days. During the last 24 hours, a subgroup of losartan-treated rats received 3 IV injections of z-VAD-fmk (cumulative dose: 4.4 mg x kg(-1)). All other rats received the vehicle, DMSO. The 24-hour cotreatment with z-VAD-fmk effectively prevented losartan-induced caspase-3 activation and internucleosomal DNA fragmentation, as well as SMC depletion and the reductions in aortic mass and DNA content. Together, these data suggest that caspase-dependent SMC death mediates the early phase of vascular remodeling in response to AT1 receptor blockade in this model of hypertension.
4-Hydroxy-2(E)-nonenal (HNE), a reactive aldehyde derived from oxidized lipids, has been implicated in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular and neurological diseases, in part by its ability to induce oxidative stress and by protein carbonylation in target cells. The effects of intracellular ascorbic acid (vitamin C) on HNE-induced cytotoxicity and protein carbonylation were investigated in human THP-1 monocytic leukemia cells. HNE treatment of these cells resulted in apoptosis, necrosis, and protein carbonylation. Ascorbic acid accumulated in the cells at concentrations of 6.4 or 8.9 mM after treatment with 0.1 or 1 mM ascorbate in the medium for 18 h. Pretreatment of cells with 1.0 mM ascorbate decreased HNE-induced formation of reactive oxygen species and formation of protein carbonyls. The protective effects of ascorbate were associated with an increase in the formation of GSH-HNE conjugate and its phase 1 metabolites, measured by LC-MS/MS, and with increased transport of GSH conjugates from the cells into the medium. Ascorbate pretreatment enhanced the efflux of the multidrug resistant protein (MRP) substrate, carboxy-2',7'-dichlorofluorescein (CDF), and it prevented the HNE-induced inhibition of CDF export from THP-1 cells, suggesting that the protective effect of ascorbate against HNE cytotoxicity is through modulation of MRP-mediated transport of GSH-HNE conjugate metabolites. The formation of ascorbate adducts of HNE was observed in the cell exposure experiments, but it represented a minor pathway contributing to the elimination of HNE and to the protective effects of ascorbate.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a developmental disorder of the central nervous system of largely unknown aetiology. The prevalence of the syndrome underscores the need for biological markers and a clearer understanding of pathogenesis. For these reasons, a genetic study of idiopathic ASD was undertaken.
Array based comparative genomic hybridisation identified a paternally inherited chromosome 3 copy number variation (CNV) in three
a deletion in two siblings and a duplication in a third, unrelated individual. These variations were fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) validated and the end points further delineated using a custom fine tiling oligonucleotide array. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) products unique to the rearrangements were amplified and sequence analysis revealed the variations to have resulted from Alu Y mediated unequal recombinations interrupting contactin 4 (CNTN4).
CNTN4 plays an essential role in the formation, maintenance, and plasticity of neuronal networks. Disruption of this gene is known to cause developmental delay and mental retardation. This report suggests that mutations affecting CNTN4 function may be relevant to ASD pathogenesis.
Mutations of the otoferlin gene have been shown to underlie deafness disorders in humans and mice. Analyses of genetically engineered mice lacking otoferlin have demonstrated an essential role for this protein in vesicle exocytosis at the inner hair cell afferent synapse. Here, we report on the molecular and phenotypic characterization of a new ENU-induced missense mutation of the mouse otoferlin gene designated Otof(deaf5Jcs). The mutation is a single T to A base substitution in exon 10 of Otof that causes a non-conservative amino acid change of isoleucine to asparagine in the C2B domain of the protein. Although strong immunoreactivity with an otoferlin-specific antibody was detected in cochlear hair cells of wildtype mice, no expression was detected in mutant mice, indicating that the missense mutation has a severe effect on the stability of the protein and potentially its localization. Auditory brainstem response (ABR) analysis demonstrated that mice homozygous for the missense mutation are profoundly deaf, consistent with an essential role for otoferlin in inner hair cell neurotransmission. Vestibular-evoked potentials (VsEPs) of mutant mice, however, were equivalent to those of wildtype mice, indicating that otoferlin is unnecessary for vestibular function even though it is highly expressed in both vestibular and cochlear hair cells.
Chloropicrin is an aliphatic volatile nitrate compound that is mainly used as a pesticide. It has several toxic effects in animals and can cause irritating and other health problems in exposed humans. Since the mode of chloropicrin action is poorly understood, the aim of this study was to investigate molecular responses underlying chloropicrin toxicity. We used human retinal pigment epithelial cells (ARPE-19) as a model cell type because the eyes are one of the main target organs affected by chloropicrin exposure. Transmission electron microscopy images revealed that exposure to a chloropicrin concentration that decreased cell viability by 50%, evoked the formation of numerous electron-lucent, non-autophagy vacuoles in the cytoplasm with dilatation of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Lower concentrations led to the appearance of more electron-dense vacuoles, which contained cytoplasmic material and were surrounded by a membrane resembling autophagy vacuoles. According to immunoblotting analyses chloropicrin increased the amount of the ER-stress related proteins, Bip (about 3-fold compared to the controls), IRE1α (2.5-fold) and Gadd 153/Chop (2.5-fold), evidence for accumulation of misfolded proteins in the ER. This property was further confirmed by the increase of reactive oxygen species (ROS) production (2-2.5-fold), induction of heme oxygenase-1 (about 6-fold), and increase in the level of the tumour suppressor protein p53 (2-fold). Thus, the cytotoxicity of chloropicrin in the retinal pigment epithelium is postulated to be associated with oxidative stress and perturbation of the ER functions, which are possibly among the mechanisms involved in oculotoxicity of chloropicrin.
The anticancer agent, 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-azaCdR, decitabine), causes DNA hypomethylation and a robust, dose-dependent disruption of spermatogenesis. Previously, we have shown that altered testicular histology and reduced sperm production in 5-azaCdR-treated animals is associated with decreased global sperm DNA methylation and an increase in infertility and/or a decreased ability to support preimplantation embryonic development. The goal of this study was to determine potential contributors to 5-azaCdR-mediated infertility including alterations in sperm motility, fertilization ability, early embryo development, and sequence-specific DNA methylation. We find that although 5-azaCdR-treatment adversely affected sperm motility and the survival of sired embryos to the blastocyst stage, the major contributor to infertility was a marked (56-70%) decrease in fertilization ability. Sperm DNA methylation was investigated using Southern blot, restriction landmark genomic scanning, and quantitative analysis of DNA methylation by real-time polymerase chain reaction. Interestingly, hypomethylation was restricted to genomic loci that have been previously determined to acquire methylation during spermatogenesis, demonstrating that 5-azaCdR selectively inhibits de novo methylation activity. Similar to previous studies, we show that mice that are heterozygous for a nonfunctional Dnmt1 gene are partially protected against the deleterious effects of 5-azaCdR; however, methylation levels are not restored in these mice, suggesting that adverse effects are due to another mechanism(s) in addition to DNA hypomethylation. These results demonstrate that clinically relevant doses of 5-azaCdR specifically impair de novo methylation activity in male germ cells; however, genotype-specific differences in drug responses suggest that adverse reproductive outcomes are mainly mediated by the cytotoxic properties of the drug.
To compare the outcomes of reduced-dose argatroban therapy in patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) with those of non-ICU patients.
Retrospective medical record review.
Large, academic, tertiary care hospital.
Thirty-eight ICU patients and 43 non-ICU patients who received the institutional protocol of argatroban 0.8 microg/kg/minute and 1.2 microg/kg/minute, respectively, between March 2004 and September 2005.
Data on patient demographics, argatroban dosing, heparin-induced thrombocytopenia antibody results, activated partial thromboplastin times (aPTTs), new thrombotic events, and major bleeding events were extracted from medical records. Time-weighted mean +/- SD doses of argatroban were 0.82 +/- 0.3 microg/kg/minute for ICU patients and 1.25 +/- 0.29 microg/kg/minute for non-ICU patients. Mean aPTT ratios were similar between groups: 2.07 +/- 0.53 for ICU patients and 2.00 +/- 0.45 for non-ICU patients. More than 70% of all aPTT ratios were therapeutic. More than 95% of patients in both groups achieved a therapeutic aPTT ratio during therapy. Fewer ICU patients than non-ICU patients had all therapeutic aPTT ratios during argatroban therapy (29% vs 51%, p=0.07). Thrombotic events occurred in six (16%) ICU patients versus none of the non-ICU patients (p=0.009). Thrombotic events occurred in 4 (31%) of the 13 ICU patients with confirmed heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. Major bleeding occurred in four (11%) ICU patients versus none of the non-ICU patients (p=0.04).
Both ICU and non-ICU patients require less than the manufacturer-recommended initial dosage of argatroban. However, ICU patients appear to be at an increased risk for bleeding and thrombotic events despite their attainment of therapeutic aPTTs.
To compare the renoprotective and blood pressure-lowering effects of combination losartan-low-dose hydrochlorothiazide with losartan alone in hypertensive patients with stage 3 chronic kidney disease (CKD).
Prospective, open-label, randomized, controlled study.
Outpatient clinic at a university-affiliated hospital in Japan.
Sixty adults (mean age 67 yrs) with stage 3 CKD who had been receiving losartan 50 mg/day and had not achieved their target blood pressure of 130/80 mm Hg.
Patients were randomly assigned to receive combination losartan 50 mg-hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg/day in addition to losartan 50 mg/day (combination therapy group, 30 patients) or to receive losartan 100 mg/day (control group, 30 patients) over a 24-week period.
Efficacy was determined by monitoring clinical and laboratory parameters. Mean baseline systolic and diastolic blood pressures were 158/90 mm Hg in both groups; at 24 weeks of treatment, these blood pressures significantly decreased to 133/79 mm Hg in the combination therapy group compared with both baseline and the values in the control group (145/83 mm Hg). Although serum creatinine concentration increased and the estimated glomerular filtration rate decreased significantly in both groups, the urinary protein:creatinine ratio was significantly lower in the combination therapy group. With stratification of patients on the basis of whether they had diabetes mellitus, we found that the reduction in the urinary protein:creatinine ratio was more evident in the combination therapy group. No significant increase in the occurrence of adverse metabolic effects was noted in either group.
In these hypertensive patients with stage 3 CKD, combination therapy with the maximum recommended daily dose of losartan of 100 mg and a low dose of hydrochlorothiazide of 12.5 mg ameliorated proteinuria and reduced blood pressure more effectively than treatment with losartan 100 mg alone, irrespective of whether the patients had diabetes.
A key in understanding the neurobiology of addiction and developing effective pharmacotherapies is revealing drug-induced plasticity that results in heightened relapse susceptibility. Previous studies have demonstrated that increased extracellular glutamate, but not dopamine, in the nucleus accumbens core (NAcc) is necessary for cocaine-induced reinstatement. In this report, we examined whether drug-induced adaptations that are necessary to generate cocaine-induced reinstatement also determine relapse vulnerability. To do this, rats were assigned to self-administer cocaine under conditions resulting in low (2 h/d; 0.5 mg/kg/infusion, i.v.) or high (6 h/d; 1.0 mg/kg/infusion, i.v.) levels of drug intake since these manipulations produce groups of rats exhibiting differences in the magnitude of cocaine-induced reinstatement. Approximately 19 d after the last session, cocaine-induced drug seeking and extracellular levels of glutamate and dopamine in the NAcc were measured. Contrary to our hypothesis, high-intake rats exhibited a more robust cocaine-induced increase in extracellular levels of dopamine but not glutamate. Further, increased reinstatement in high-intake rats was no longer observed when the D(1) receptor antagonist SCH-23390 was infused into the NAcc. The sensitized dopamine response to cocaine in high-intake rats may involve blunted cystine-glutamate exchange by system x(c(-)). Reduced (14)C-cystine uptake through system x(c(-)) was evident in NAcc tissue slices obtained from high-intake rats, and the augmented dopamine response in these rats was no longer observed when subjects received the cysteine prodrug N-acetyl cysteine. These data reveal a role for drug-induced NAcc dopamine in heightened relapse vulnerability observed in rats with a history of high levels of drug intake.
Inflammation underlines all major bladder pathologies and represents a defense reaction to injury involving a mandatory participation of mast cells and sensory nerves. Mast cells are particularly frequent in close proximity to epithelial surfaces where they are strategically located in the bladder and release their mediators in response to inflammation. Tryptase is specifically produced by mast cells and modulates inflammation by activating protease-activated receptors (PARs). We recently found that PAR-4 mRNA is up-regulated in experimental bladder inflammation regardless of the initiating stimulus. Because it has been reported that PAR-1, PAR-2, and PAR-3 may also be involved in the processes of inflammation, we used immunohistochemistry to characterize the expression of all known PARs in normal, acute, and chronic inflamed mouse bladder. We found that all four PARs are present in the control mouse bladder, and follow a unique distribution. All four PARs are co-expressed in the urothelium, whereas PAR-1 and PAR-2 are predominant in the detrusor muscle, and PAR-4 is expressed in peripheral nerves and plexus cell bodies. The strong expression of PARs in the detrusor muscle indicates the need for studies on the role of these receptors in motility whereas the presence of PAR-4 in nerves may indicate its participation in neurogenic inflammation. In addition, PARs are differentially modulated during inflammation. PAR-1 and PAR-2 are down-regulated in acute inflammation whereas PAR-3 and PAR-4 are up-regulated. Bladder fibroblasts were found to present a clear demarcation in PAR expression secondary to acute and chronic inflammation. Our findings provide evidence of participation of PARs in the urinary system, provide a working model for mast cell tryptase signaling in the mouse bladder, and evoke testable hypotheses regarding the roles of PARs in bladder inflammation. It is timely to understand the role of tryptase signaling and PARs in the context of bladder biology.
Epileptiform neuronal activity during seizures is observed in many brain areas, but its origins following status epilepticus (SE) are unclear. We have used the Li low-dose pilocarpine rat model of temporal lobe epilepsy to examine early development of epileptiform activity in the deep entorhinal cortex (EC). We show that during the 3-week latent period that follows SE, an increasing percentage of neurons in EC layer 5 respond to a single synaptic stimulus with polysynaptic burst depolarizations. This change is paralleled by a progressive depolarizing shift of the inhibitory postsynaptic potential reversal potential in layer 5 neurons, apparently caused by upregulation of the Cl(-) inward transporter NKCC1 and concurrent downregulation of the Cl(-) outward transporter KCC2, both changes favoring intracellular Cl(-) accumulation. Inhibiting Cl(-) uptake in the latent period restored more negative GABAergic reversal potentials and eliminated polysynaptic bursts. The changes in the Cl(-) transporters were highly specific to the deep EC. They did not occur in layers 1-3, perirhinal cortex, subiculum or dentate gyrus during this period. We propose that the changes in Cl(-) homeostasis facilitate hyperexcitability in the deep entorhinal cortex leading to epileptiform discharge there, which subsequently affects downstream cortical regions.
The authors determined whether pretransplant reduction of hepatitis B virus (HBV) load using alpha-interferon-2b (IFN) and passive immunoprophylaxis using hepatitis B immunoglobulin (HBIg) posttransplantation can prevent HBV recurrence in patients undergoing liver transplantation (LT) for HBV cirrhosis.
Liver transplantation in patients with HBV cirrhosis is associated with a high rate of recurrence and reduced survival. In patients with evidence of replicating virus (HBV-DNA or hepatitis B e antigen [HBeAg]-positive serum or both), recurrence is nearly universal. Passive immunoprophylaxis with HBIg alone is not effective in preventing HBV recurrence posttransplant, especially in patients with evidence of active viral replication pretransplant. Higher doses of HBIg posttransplant has reduced recurrence rates to 30% to 50%. Lamivudine, a nucleoside analogue that has shown early promise, also is associated with significant HBV recurrence. The authors report a reliable method of preventing viral recurrence in patients even with evidence for active HBV replication pretransplant.
Pretransplant patients with evidence of replicating HBV were given IFN starting at 1 million IU 3 times per week subcutaneously. This dose was increased to 2 and then 3 million IU 3 times per week when patient's side effects permitted and was maintained until the patient underwent a LT. All patients were tested every 4 weeks for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg), HBeAg, and HBV-DNA. When patients became negative for HBeAg and HBV-DNA, they were listed for LT. Patients that were only HBsAg positive were listed immediately and received a LT without prior IFN treatment. Post-LT, all patients began receiving HBIg 2000 IU (10 mL) daily from days 1 to 20 and then weekly for the first 2 years. After 2 years, all patients received 2000 IU (10 mL) monthly. Additional HBIg immunoprophylaxis was given during intense immunosuppression for rejection. Posttransplant serum was tested for HBsAg, HBeAg, and HBV-DNA in all patients 1 week, 1 month, and every 3 months thereafter. Liver biopsies were done at least yearly and when liver enzymes were abnormal and were always tested for HBsAg and HBcAg by immunoperoxidase.
Thirteen patients with decompensated HBV cirrhosis were transplanted. Pretransplant, eight patients had evidence of active viral replication at the initial assessment (HBeAg or HBV-DNA-positive serum or both). All eight were successfully treated with IFN (median duration, 24 weeks; range, 8-53) and converted to a negative status before transplantation. Side effects from IFN were minimal and well tolerated, except in one patient who required 6 million IU to convert to a nonreplicating status. The five patients that were only HBsAg positive were not treated with IFN pretransplant. After surgery, HBIg given as described achieved consistently serum levels greater than 1000 IU/L. Twelve of the 13 patients are alive with normal liver function and without serologic evidence of HBV recurrence at a median follow-up of 32 months (range, 9-56 months). None have evidence of HBV recurrence as measured by serum HBsAg/HBeAg/HBV-DNA at recent follow-up. The sera of the seven longest survivors has tested negative for HBV-DNA using the polymerase chain reaction method. In addition, a liver biopsy was obtained in six of these patients, the results of which also tested negative for HBV-DNA using polymerase chain reaction. Liver biopsy specimens have been negative for the presence of HBsAg and HBcAg by immunoperoxidase staining in all 12 patients.
A reduction of viral load pretransplant with IFN and posttransplant HBIg prevents recurrence of hepatitis B and permits LT for HBV cirrhosis, even in patients with evidence of replicating virus. The IFN pretransplant was well tolerated, and the small frequent dosing of HBIg posttransplant did not cause side effects while achieving serum levels > 1000 IU/L.
