Human cellular glutathione peroxidase 1 (hGPX1) is a selenium-dependent enzyme that participates in the detoxification of hydrogen peroxide and a wide range of organic peroxides. We conducted a case-control study nested within the alpha-Tocopherol, beta-Carotene Cancer Prevention Study cohort to evaluate the association between the proline to leucine polymorphism at codon 198 of hGPX1 and lung cancer risk. Cases (n = 315) were matched to controls on age (+/-5 years), intervention group, and study clinic using incidence density sampling in a 1:1 ratio. The prevalence of the hGPX1 Pro198Leu variant allele was 58% for controls and 71% for cases (P < 0.001). Using conditional logistic regression, we found a significant association between hGPX1 genotype and lung cancer risk. The odds ratio for heterozygotes was 1.8 (95% confidence interval, 1.2-2.8) and 2.3 (95% confidence interval, 1.3-3.8) for homozygous variants compared to wild-type individuals. Due to its high prevalence, the hGPX1 variant may contribute significantly to lung cancer risk among Caucasians but not among ethnic Chinese who do not exhibit this polymorphism.
The evoked expression of the immediate early gene (IEG)-encoded proteins c-Fos and Krox-24 was used to monitor spinal visceronociceptive processing that results from cyclophosphamide cystitis in behaving rats. Animals received a single dose of 100 mg/kg i.p. of cyclophosphamide and survived for 30 min to 5 h. Longer survival times were not considered because of ethical considerations. Cyclophosphamide-injected animals developed characteristic behavioral signs in parallel with development of bladder lesions and spinal evoked expression of IEG-encoded proteins. Histological examination of the urinary bladder was used to evaluate the degree of cystitis and as a criterion for selection of groups of animals to be quantitatively analyzed. Controls consisted of freely behaving animals including control (un-injected), sham (saline-injected) or diuretic (furosemide-injected) animals. Behavioral modifications consisted of lacrimation, piloerection, assumption of a peculiar "rounded-back" posture, which was accompanied by head immobility and various brief "crises" (tail hyperextension, abdominal retractions, licking of the lower abdomen, backward withdrawal movements). Abnormal behaviors, which first appeared (lacrimation, piloerection) at the end of postinjection hour 1, progressively increased in severity (rounded-back posture) over the following 90 min to reach a plateau at about postinjection hour 2; the rounded-back posture was maintained up to time of death. Histological modifications of bladder tissue were assessed using a 4-grade scale in a blind setting. The 1st grade consisted of control or sham animals with no bladder lesion; 2nd grade, animals with simple chorionic edema; 3rd grade, animals with chorionic edema associated with mucosal abrasion, fibrin deposit, and onset of polymorphonuclear leukocyte infiltration; 4th grade, animals with complete cystitis corresponding to an increase in severity and spread of all the signs of cystitis described above plus petechial hemorrhage. Simple chorionic edema was observed from 30 min to 3 h postinjection, but with a progressive increase in severity over time. Edema accompanied by epithelial abrasion was observed for animals that survived 3-4 h postinjection; complete inflammation was observed in animals that survived 4-5 h postinjection. The study of c-Fos- and Krox-24-encoded protein expression demonstrated that few lumbosacral spinal areas were specifically involved in the processing of visceral inputs in response to bladder stimulation. These areas were the parasympathetic column (SPN), the dorsal gray commissure (DGC as the caudal extent of lamina X), and superficial layers of the dorsal horn.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Rats traversing a straight alley once a day for delivery of a single i.v. injection of cocaine develop over trials an ambivalence about entering the goal box. This ambivalence is characterized by the increasing occurrence of "retreat behaviors" where animals leave the start box and run quickly to the goal box, but then stop at the entry point and "retreat" back toward the start box. This unique pattern of retreat behavior has been shown to reflect a form of "approach-avoidance conflict" that stems from the animals' concurrent positive (cocaine reward) and negative (cocaine-induced anxiety) associations with the goal box. Cocaine blocks reuptake of the serotonergic (5-HT) transporter and serotonin has been implicated in the modulation of anxiety. It was therefore of interest to determine whether inactivation of the serotonergic cell bodies residing in the dorsal raphé nucleus (DRN) and projecting to brain areas critical for the modulation of anxiety, would alter the anxiogenic state exhibited by rats running an alley for single daily i.v. injections of 1.0mg/kg cocaine. Reversible inactivation of the DRN was accomplished by intracranial application of a mixed solution of the GABA agonists baclofen and muscimol. While DRN inactivation had no impact on the subjects' motivation to initiate responding (i.e., latencies to leave the start box were unaffected) it reliably reduced the frequency of approach-avoidance retreat behaviors (conflict behavior). These data suggest that inactivation of the dorsal raphé reduces the conflict/anxiety otherwise present in experienced cocaine-seeking animals.
A forty-two year old female with known alcoholic liver disease was given intravenous lorazepam and diazepam for delirium tremens. This resulted in a comatose state with depression of some brainstem reflexes. Her initial EEG showed a pattern of spindle coma with some responsivity of the background. Clinical improvement occurred with cessation of the benzodiazepines and the EEG showed a return to normal patterns. A review of the literature showed no previous description of this pattern in benzodiazepine coma. Two reports of spindle coma are noted with alcohol and imipramine. The prognostic significance of this pattern in drug overdose is therefore not definitive by itself. Outcome is probably more dependent on the clinical condition of the patient and the reversibility of the drug toxicity.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is an adult-onset neurodegenerative disease characterized by a selective loss of upper and lower motor neurons. Since oxidative stress plays a crucial role in the progression of motor neuron loss observed in ALS, anti-oxidative agents could be an important therapeutic means for the ALS treatment. We have previously developed a drug screening system allowing the identification of small chemical compounds that upregulate endogenous neuronal apoptosis inhibitory protein (NAIP), an oxidative stress-induced cell death suppressor. Using this system, we identified the dopamine D2 receptor agonist bromocriptine (BRC) as one of NAIP-upregulating compounds. In this study, to prove the efficacy of BRC in ALS, we conducted a set of preclinical studies using a transgenic ALS mouse model carrying the H46R mutation in the human Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) gene ALS(SOD1(H46R)) by the post-onset administration of BRC. ALS(SOD1(H46R)) mice receiving BRC showed sustained motor functions and modest prolonged survival after onset. Further, BRC treatment delayed anterior horn cell loss, and reduced the number of reactive astrocytes and the level of inflammatory factors such as inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α in the spinal cord of late symptomatic mice. In vitro study showed the reduced level of extracellular TNF-α after lipopolysaccharide (LPS) exposure in BRC-treated mouse astrocytes. BRC-treated ALS(SOD1(H46R)) mice also showed a reduced level of oxidative damage in the spinal cord. Notably, BRC treatment resulted in an upregulation of anti-oxidative stress genes, activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3) and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), and the generation of a glutathione (GSH) in SH-SY5Y cultured neuronal cells in a dopamine receptor-independent manner. These results imply that BRC protects motor neurons from the oxidative injury via suppression of astrogliosis in the spinal cord of ALS(SOD1(H46R)) mice. Thus, BRC might be a promising therapeutic agent for the treatment of ALS.
CHOP is a first-generation, combination-chemotherapy regimen consisting of cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone that has cured approximately 30 percent of patients with advanced stages of intermediate-grade or high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in national cooperative-group trials. However, studies at single institutions have suggested that 55 to 65 percent of such patients might be cured by third-generation regimens such as ones consisting of low-dose methotrexate with leucovorin rescue, bleomycin, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and dexamethasone (m-BACOD); prednisone, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, and etoposide, followed by cytarabine, bleomycin, vincristine, and methotrexate with leucovorin rescue (ProMACE-CytaBOM); and methotrexate with leucovorin rescue, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, prednisone, and bleomycin (MACOP-B).
To make a valid comparison of these regimens, the Southwest Oncology Group and the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group initiated a prospective, randomized phase III trial. The study end points were the response rate, time to treatment failure, overall survival, and incidence of severe or life-threatening toxicity. Dose intensity was calculated and analyzed.
Of the 1138 patients registered for the trial, 899 were eligible. Each treatment group contained at least 218 patients. Known prognostic factors were equally distributed among the groups. There were no significant differences among the groups in the rates of partial and complete response. At three years, 44 percent of all patients were alive without disease; there were no significant differences between the groups (41 percent in the CHOP and MACOP-B groups and 46 percent in the m-BACOD and ProMACE-CytaBOM groups; P = 0.35). Overall survival at three years was 52 percent (50 percent in the ProMACE-CytaBOM and MACOP-B groups, 52 percent in the m-BACOD group, and 54 percent in the CHOP group; P = 0.90). There was no subgroup of patients in which survival was improved by a third-generation regimen. Fatal toxic reactions occurred in 1 percent of the CHOP group, 3 percent of the ProMACE-CytaBOM group, 5 percent of the m-BACOD group, and 6 percent of the MACOP-B group (P = 0.09).
CHOP remains the best available treatment for patients with advanced-stage intermediate-grade or high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Abstinence from drug occurs in human addicts for several reasons, including the avoidance of adverse consequences.
To explore a model of drug use in the face of adverse consequences in rats through intermittent punishment of drug seeking and to investigate whether the ability to withhold seeking responses depends upon the duration of drug history.
Rats were trained under a seeking-taking chained schedule with sucrose or cocaine as reinforcer. Pressing the seeking lever gave access to the taking lever, and a single press on this lever delivered the reinforcer after which the seeking-taking chain recycled. During punishment, half of the seeking links terminated with a mild foot shock without access to the taking link.
After a moderate history of reinforcement, punishment of the terminal response in the seeking link suppressed both sucrose- and cocaine-seeking responses. By contrast, rats with an extended cocaine history were more resistant to punishment than those with a moderate cocaine history. This enhanced resistance to punishment was due to a sub-group of rats that showed minimal or no suppression of drug seeking. No differences in suppression of sucrose seeking were observed in animals with moderate versus extended sucrose histories.
These results suggest that an extended drug self-administration history decreases the ability of vulnerable rats to suppress their drug seeking.
Sirolimus is a potent immunosuppressant, which may permit the avoidance of nephrotoxic calcineurin inhibitors (CNI). However, cases of proteinuria associated with sirolimus have been reported following renal transplantation. Here, we report three cases of proteinuria (1, 2 and 7 g/day) developing during therapy with sirolimus plus low-dose tacrolimus following clinical islet transplantation (CIT) in type I diabetic subjects. The proteinuria resolved after discontinuation of sirolimus, substituted by mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) combined with an increased dose of tacrolimus. A renal biopsy in one case indicated only the presence of diabetic glomerulopathy. Five other CIT recipients developed microalbuminuria while on sirolimus which all resolved after switching to tacrolimus and MMF. The resolution of proteinuria from the native kidneys of CIT recipients after the discontinuation sirolimus suggests that, at least in some individuals, sirolimus itself may have adverse renal effects. Sirolimus should be used cautiously with close monitoring for proteinuria or renal dysfunction.
Heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) is required for structural folding and maintenance of conformational integrity of various proteins, including several associated with cellular signaling. Recent studies utilizing 17-allylamino-17-demethoxygeldanamycin (17-AAG), an inhibitor of HSP90, demonstrated an antitumor effect in solid tumors. To test whether HSP90 could be targeted in multiple myeloma (MM) patients, we first investigated expression of HSP90 by immunofluorescence and flow cytometric analysis in a myeloma cell line (U266) and primary myeloma cells. Following demonstration of HSP90 expression in myeloma cells, archival samples of 32 MM patients were analysed by immunoperoxidase staining. Myeloma cells in all patients showed strong cytoplasmic expression of HSP90 in all samples and 55% also demonstrated concurrent nuclear immunopositivity. Treatment of U266 and primary MM cells with 17AAG resulted in significantly increased apoptosis compared to untreated control cells. Analysis of anti-apoptotic BCL2 family proteins and akt in MM cells incubated with 17-AAG revealed down-regulation of BCL-2, BCL-XL, MCL-1 and akt. Furthermore, although a low concentration of bortezomib resulted in no cell death, a combination of 17AAG and bortezomib treatment revealed a synergistic apoptotic effect on the U266 cell line. These data suggest that targeted inhibition of HSP90 may prove to be a valid and innovative strategy for the development of future therapeutic options for MM patients.
The authors examined the relation between 45 common agricultural pesticides and prostate cancer incidence in a prospective cohort study of 55,332 male pesticide applicators from Iowa and North Carolina with no prior history of prostate cancer. Data were collected by means of self-administered questionnaires completed at enrollment (1993-1997). Cancer incidence was determined through population-based cancer registries from enrollment through December 31, 1999. A prostate cancer standardized incidence ratio was computed for the cohort. Odds ratios were computed for individual pesticides and for pesticide use patterns identified by means of factor analysis. A prostate cancer standardized incidence ratio of 1.14 (95% confidence interval: 1.05, 1.24) was observed for the Agricultural Health Study cohort. Use of chlorinated pesticides among applicators over 50 years of age and methyl bromide use were significantly associated with prostate cancer risk. Several other pesticides showed a significantly increased risk of prostate cancer among study subjects with a family history of prostate cancer but not among those with no family history. Important family history-pesticide interactions were observed.
There is growing evidence that prenatal and early postnatal environmental factors influence the development and programming of the immune system, causing long-lasting negative health consequences. The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is an important modulator of the development and function of the immune system; however, the mechanism is poorly understood. Exposure to the AhR agonist 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin throughout gestation and during lactation yields adult offspring with persistent defects in their immune response to influenza virus. These functional alterations include suppressed lymphocyte responses and increased inflammation in the infected lung despite normal cellularity and anatomical development of lymphoid organs. The studies presented here were conducted to determine the critical period during immune ontogeny that is particularly sensitive to inappropriate AhR activation. We also investigated the contribution of AhR-mediated events within and extrinsic to hematopoietic cells. Our findings show that AhR activation alters different elements of the immune system at different times during development by affecting different tissue targets. In particular, diminished T-cell responses arise due to deregulated events within bone marrow-derived cells. In contrast, increased interferon gamma levels in the infected lung result from AhR-regulated events extrinsic to bone marrow-derived cells, and require AhR agonist exposure during early gestation. The persistence of AhR activation induced immune modulation was also compared, revealing that AhR activation causes long-lasting functional alterations in the developing immune system, whereas the impact on the mature immune system is transient.
Effects of a novel TRH analog, montirelin hydrate (NS-3), on the coma caused by head concussion and narcosis induced by pentobarbital were compared with those of TRH in mice. Head concussion caused a behavioral comatose state with loss of the righting reflex and spontaneous motor activity. NS-3 shortened the latent periods to the recovery of the righting reflex (0.03-0.1 mg/kg, i.v.) and spontaneous motor activity (0.1 mg/kg, i.v.) following the head concussion. In the case of TRH, higher doses were needed to induce such effects. NS-3 (0.1-0.3 mg/kg, i.v.) reversed the pentobarbital-induced narcosis in a dose-dependent manner. A similar effect was elicited by 30- to 100-fold higher doses of TRH than NS-3. The analeptic effect of NS-3 in the pentobarbital-narcotized mice was antagonized by SCH23390, a dopamine D1 antagonist or by the combined treatment with prazosin and scopolamine, while neither prazosin nor scopolamine alone antagonized the analeptic effect of NS-3. Taken together with the finding that NS-3 did not bind to dopamine, adrenaline or muscarine receptors, it is suggested that NS-3 may restore the disturbance of consciousness by activating the brain dopamine, noradrenaline and acetylcholine neurons without stimulating these receptors directly.
Tocainide is an antiarrhythmic drug structurally related to lignocaine with similar electrophysiological, haemodynamic and antiarrhythmic effects. In contrast to lignocaine (lidocaine) it is well absorbed after oral administration and has a plasma half-life of about 15 hours. In several open and controlled therapeutic trials in patients with ventricular arrhythmias, often following a myocardial infarction, tocainide has been relatively effective and usually well tolerated. In treating ventricular ectopic beats and/or ventricular tachycardia tocainide has demonstrated effective suppression in 60 to 70% of patients in both open and controlled studies. It has an acute effect when infused in patients with ventricular arrhythmias complicating myocardial infarction, as well as a prophylactic effect when given orally. The majority of these studies have demonstrated tocainide to be more effective than placebo, but trials against other antiarrhythmic agents are few in number and vary in design. One study combining an infusion of tocainide with oral therapy compared to a bolus injection of lignocaine followed by a constant infusion in patients after myocardial infarction, found the two agents to be of similar efficacy. The most common adverse effects are neurological and gastrointestinal in nature, nausea and dizziness occurring most frequently. Adverse effects resulting in termination of therapy have been reported in about 16% of patients. Aggravation of pre-existing heart failure, increased ventricular arrhythmia, deterioration of conduction disturbances, convulsions, and cases of lupus erythematosus syndrome have occasionally been reported. Thus, tocainide appears to offer a worthwhile addition to the other antiarrhythmic agents available for ventricular arrhythmias. However, its relative place in therapy compared with other antiarrhythmic drugs is not yet clearly established.
Clinically reversible veno-occlusive disease of the liver developed in a 23-year-old man with acute lymphocytic leukemia after 10 months of maintenance therapy with 6-thioguanine. Serial liver biopsies showed the development and resolution of intense sinusoidal engorgement. Although this disease was clinically reversible, some subintimal fibrosis about the terminal hepatic veins persisted. This case presented a unique opportunity to observe the histologic features of clinically reversible hepatic veno-occlusive disease over time, and may be the first case of veno-occlusive related solely to 6-thioguanine.
To access the safety of low-dose heparin in comparison to a high-dose regimen in patients undergoing intracranial stent-assisted angioplasty.
Sixty-four consecutive patients (53 men; mean age 54 years) undergoing stent-assisted angioplasty of 70 intracranial arterial stenoses were randomized to receive either low-dose (2000-U bolus+500 U/h) or high-dose (3000-U bolus+800 U/h) intravenous heparin during the procedure. The activated clotting time (ACT) was measured. The groups were compared for the following primary endpoints until hospital discharge: target lesion acute thrombosis, intracranial hemorrhage (ICH), and death.
The overall angioplasty success rate was 93% (65/70 lesions). Stents were placed in 94.7% (36/38) and 90.6% (29/32) of patients in the low-dose and high-dose groups, respectively (p = 0.65). The primary endpoint occurred in 6% (2/33) of patients in the low-dose group versus 16% (5/31) of patients in the high-dose group (p = 0.25). Two patients, 1 patient in each group, experienced acute target lesion thrombosis during the procedure (p = NS); ICH occurred in 5 patients: 1 in the low-dose group and 4 in high-dose group (3.0% versus 12.9%, p = 0.19).
The use of a low-dose heparin regimen did not increase the incidence of target lesion thrombosis or ICH in this small pilot trial. Intraoperative low-dose heparin seems to be safe for patients undergoing intracranial stent-assisted angioplasty, but these data should be confirmed in a larger trial.
Copper is necessary for all organisms since it acts as a cofactor in different enzymes, although toxic at high concentrations. ATP7B is one of two copper-transporting ATPases in humans, its vital role being manifested in Wilson disease due to a mutation in the gene that encodes this pump. Our objective has been to determine whether pathways involving protein kinase C (PKC) modulate ATP7B activity. Different isoforms of PKC (α, ɛ, ζ) were found in Golgi-enriched membrane fractions obtained from porcine liver. Cu(I)-ATPase activity was assessed in the presence of different activators and inhibitors of PKC signaling pathways. PMA (10(-8) M), a PKC activator, increased Cu(I)-ATPase activity by 60%, whereas calphostin C and U73122 (PKC and PLC inhibitors, respectively) decreased the activity by 40%. Addition of phosphatase λ decreased activity by 60%, irrespective of pre-incubation with PMA. No changes were detected with 2 μM Ca(2+), whereas PMA plus EGTA increased activity. This enhanced activity elicited by PMA decreased with a specific inhibitor of PKCɛ to levels comparable with those found after phosphatase λ treatment, showing that the ɛ isoform is essential for activation of the enzyme. This regulatory phosphorylation enhanced Vmax without modifying affinities for ATP and copper. It can be concluded that signaling pathways leading to DAG formation and PKCɛ activation stimulate the active transport of copper by ATP7B, thus evidencing a central role for this specific kinase-mediated mechanism in hepatic copper handling.
To compare the safety of nelfinavir and nevirapine-based antiretroviral treatment in HIV-1-infected pregnant women.
In Pediatric AIDS Clinical Trials Group Protocol 1022, 38 antiretroviral-naive pregnant women at 10-30 weeks' gestation were randomized to nelfinavir or nevirapine with zidovudine plus lamivudine. The study was suspended because of greater than expected toxicity and changes in nevirapine prescribing information. The incidence of treatment-limiting hepatic or cutaneous toxicity was compared between groups for all subjects and for the subset with CD4 cell counts greater than 250 cells/microL at study entry.
Toxicity was seen in 1 (5%) of 21 subjects randomized to nelfinavir and 5 (29%) of 17 subjects randomized to nevirapine (P = 0.07). Within the nevirapine group, 1 subject developed fulminant hepatic failure and died, and another developed Stevens-Johnson syndrome. The one adverse event associated with nelfinavir occurred in a subject with a CD4 cell count less than 250 cells/microL. All 5 events among subjects with a CD4 cell count greater than 250 cells/microL were associated with nevirapine (P = 0.04).
Continuous nevirapine may be associated with increased toxicity among HIV-1-infected pregnant women with CD4 cell counts greater than 250 cells/microL, as has been observed in non-pregnant women.
Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription 3 (STAT3) is an oncogene, which promotes cell survival, proliferation, motility and progression in cancer cells. Targeting STAT3 signaling may lead to the development of novel therapeutic approaches for human cancers. Here, we examined the effects of epigallocathechin gallate (EGCG) on STAT3 signaling in pancreatic cancer cells, and assessed the therapeutic potential of EGCG with gemcitabine or JAK3 inhibitor CP690550 (Tasocitinib) for the treatment and/or prevention of pancreatic cancer.
Cell viability and apoptosis were measured by XTT assay and TUNEL staining, respectively. Gene and protein expressions were measured by qRT-PCR and Western blot analysis, respectively. The results revealed that EGCG inhibited the expression of phospho and total JAK3 and STAT3, STAT3 transcription and activation, and the expression of STAT3-regulated genes, resulting in the inhibition of cell motility, migration and invasion, and the induction of caspase-3 and PARP cleavage. The inhibition of STAT3 enhanced the inhibitory effects of EGCG on cell motility and viability. Additionally, gemcitabine and CP690550 alone inhibited STAT3 target genes and synergized with EGCG to inhibit cell viability and induce apoptosis in pancreatic cancer cells.
Overall, these results suggest that EGCG suppresses the growth, invasion and migration of pancreatic cancer cells, and induces apoptosis by interfering with the STAT3 signaling pathway. Moreover, EGCG further enhanced the therapeutic potential of gemcitabine and CP690550 against pancreatic cancer.
Combination chemotherapy has dramatically improved the prognosis of patients with intermediate and high grade histologic subtypes of non-Hodgkin's lymphomas. Treatment-related complications, however, are considerable, and a common problem encountered is respiratory distress or respiratory insufficiency. Usually these difficulties have been attributed to infectious etiologies or to chemotherapy-induced interstitial fibrosis, most often involving bleomycin. We describe five patients presenting with respiratory problems several weeks after the initiation of chemotherapy. These patients, who represent 3 percent of all patients treated with a single bleomycin-containing regimen for intermediate or high grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, were all initially thought to have chemotherapy-induced interstitial fibrosis but were found on subsequent evaluation to have pulmonary emboli. Of the three patients in whom pulmonary emboli were diagnosed antemortem, two had symptoms suggestive of pulmonary emboli and all were successfully treated and remained well and free of lymphoma for over 24 months. Two additional patients were diagnosed at autopsy. We suggest that pulmonary emboli may contribute significantly to the morbidity and mortality of patients undergoing chemotherapy for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and recommend that patients presenting with respiratory difficulties be evaluated for pulmonary emboli.
Using a murine model of a T cell lymphoma, in the present study, we report that tumor growth retarding action of curcumin involves modulation of some crucial parameters of tumor microenvironment regulating tumor progression. Curcumin-administration to tumor-bearing host caused an altered pH regulation in tumor cells associated with alteration in expression of cell survival and apoptosis regulatory proteins and genes. Nevertheless, an alteration was also observed in biophysical parameters of tumor microenvironment responsible for modulation of tumor growth pertaining to hypoxia, tumor acidosis, and glucose metabolism. The study thus sheds new light with respect to the antineoplastic action of curcumin against a tumor-bearing host with progressively growing tumor of hematological origin. This will help in optimizing application of the drug and anticancer research and therapy.
Current therapy for the treatment of hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is standard interferon (IFN) or pegylated interferon (PEG-IFN) in combination with ribavirin (RBV). Hematologic side effects (neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, anemia) are a major reason for dose reduction of anti-HCV therapy. Because treatment adherence and maintenance of IFN or PEG-IFN and RBV doses have been shown to be important in achieving a sustained virologic response, appropriate management of hematologic side effects might play a substantial role in optimizing treatment outcomes. Neutropenia and thrombocytopenia are usually managed by IFN or PEG-IFN dose reduction; the role of hematopoietic growth factors to ameliorate these side effects needs further evaluation, but some studies suggest granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) may be useful in the management of IFN/PEG-IFN-associated neutropenia. Anemia is primarily due to RBV-induced hemolytic anemia, but IFN/PEG-IFN also suppresses bone marrow erythroid precursors. Treatment-induced anemia has usually been managed by RBV dose reduction or discontinuation. However, recent studies suggest that epoetin alfa can increase hemoglobin levels and facilitate maintenance of RBV dosage in patients with chronic hepatitis C who became anemic during standard combination therapy. Results of a randomized, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial suggest that epoetin alfa therapy can maintain RBV dosage, increase hemoglobin levels, and improve quality of life in this population. In patients who have chronic hepatitis C who experience hematologic toxicities during standard therapy, the use of hematopoietic growth factors such as epoetin alfa might have the potential to improve treatment adherence rates and allow optimal doses of IFN or PEG-IFN and RBV to be maintained, thereby leading to improved treatment outcomes.
Qingre Zaoshi Liangxue Fang (QRZSLXF) is a Chinese medicinal herb recipe that is commonly prescribed for the treatment of ulcerative colitis. It includes 5 quality assured herbs: Sophora flavescens Aiton., Baphicacanthus cusia (Nees) Bremek., Bletilla striata Rchb.f., Glycyrrhiza uralensis Fisch. and Coptis chinensis Franch. The main phytochemical ingredient of QRZSLXF includes ammothamnine, sophocarpidine, liquiritin, berberine and indirubin. QRZSLXF has been clinically proven for use in the treatment of ulcerative colitis for over twenty years. In the past ten years, research has confirmed the therapeutic effect of QRZSLXF in ulcerative colitis and partially revealed its mechanism of action. Here, we further reveal the therapeutic mechanism of QRZSLXF in ulcerative colitis. To investigate the role of the DOR-β-arrestin1-Bcl-2 signal transduction pathway in ulcerative colitis and to determine the effects of QRZSLXF on this signal transduction pathway.
Eighty-four Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into six groups: normal control group, model group, mesalazine group, and QRZSLXF high-dose, medium-dose group and low-dose groups (n=14). Experimental colitis was induced by trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS) in each group, except the normal control group. After modeling, bloody stool, mental state and diarrhea were observed and recorded. Two rats were randomly selected from the model groups adfnd sacrificed on day 3 to observe pathological changes in the colon tissue by microscopy. The rats in the QRZSLXF-treated groups received intramuscular injections of different concentrations of QRZSLXF for 15 days. The rats in the mesalazine group were treated with mesalazine solution (0.5 g/kg/day) by gastric lavage for 15 days. The rats in the normal control group and the model group were treated with 3 mL water by gastric lavage for 15 days. On the 16th day, after fasting for 24 h, the remaining rats were sacrificed and their colon tissues were used to detect the mRNA and protein expressions of DOR, β-arrestin1 and Bcl-2 by Real-time PCR and immunohistochemistry, respectively. Histological changes in the colon tissues were also examined.
The expressions of DOR, β-arrestin1 and Bcl-2 were significantly different among the four groups. The expressions of DOR, β-arrestin1 and Bcl-2 protein and mRNA were significantly increased in the model group compared with the other groups (P<0.05). In contrast to the model group, the expressions of DOR, β-arrestin1 and Bcl-2 were significantly decreased in the mesalazine group and the groups that received different doses of QRZSLXF (P<0.05), and there were no statistically significant differences among the mesalazine and QRZSLXF-treated groups (P>0.05). This study indicates that the DOR-beta-arrestin1-Bcl-2 signal transduction pathway may participate in the pathologic course of ulcerative colitis. Moreover, QRZSLXF could attenuate ulcerative colitis by regulating the DOR-β-arrestin1-Bcl-2 signal transduction pathway.
We report the case of a 35-year-old man who contracted vitamin A-induced liver cirrhosis. Five years before, he had been investigated for vitamin A-induced non-cirrhotic portal hypertension. In this case, the clinical and histopathologic evolution from non-cirrhotic portal hypertension to cirrhosis was documented. In spite of the cessation of pharmaceutical vitamin A intake, the disease progressed. Therapy with colchicine and phenobarbital apparently did not influence evolution to cirrhosis. This suggests that vitamin A can trigger largely unknown mechanisms of liver fibrosis which seem to be self-perpetuating.
Fibrinolytic therapy may be effective in the treatment of ischemic stroke, and clinical trials are under way. We evaluated two fibrinolytic agents, an analogue of tissue plasminogen activator (Fb-Fb-CF, the catalytic fragment of the tissue plasminogen activator molecule with a prolonged serum half-life, n = 10) and streptokinase (n = 7), in a rabbit model of embolic stroke. Both agents were given 3 hours after stroke onset, a time relevant to the clinical setting. Fb-Fb-CF was significantly better (p less than 0.04) than saline (n = 7) in restoring blood flow to previously occluded intracranial arteries, but streptokinase was ineffective. Neither fibrinolytic agent was associated with a substantial risk for intracerebral hemorrhagic side effects. Our study demonstrates that Fb-Fb-CF can safely and effectively reperfuse rabbit intracranial arteries 3 hours after occlusion, while streptokinase does not.
Cocaine-primed reinstatement of drug seeking is associated with a decrease in extracellular GABA in the ventral pallidum (VP). The present study investigated the neural mechanism of this cocaine-induced decrease in VP GABA by determining if activity of the glutamatergic projection from the medial prefrontal cortex (PFC) to the nucleus accumbens is required for the effect. Microdialysis was performed to measure extracellular GABA in the VP while simultaneously, either a combination of the GABA agonists baclofen and muscimol was microinjected into the PFC, or the AMPA/kainate glutamate receptor antagonist CNQX was microinjected into the accumbens core. Inhibition of the PFC with GABA agonists and blockade of AMPA glutamate receptors in the accumbens core were both sufficient to prevent the cocaine-induced decrease in VP GABA, further implicating increased activity of the cortico-striato-pallidal circuit in relapse to drug seeking.
To explore the association between eating disorders (EDs) prior to the use of clozapine/olanzapine (pre-clozapine/olanzapine EDs) and after initiation of these antipsychotics (post-clozapine/olanzapine EDs).
Sixty-four consecutively admitted patients receiving clozapine/olanzapine were screened using the M-Composite International Diagnostic Interview (M-CIDI) to identify subjects with pre-clozapine/olanzapine EDs (DSM-IV criteria). We investigated post-clozapine/olanzapine EDs and binge eating behavior using the Questionnaire on Eating and Weight Patterns (QEWP) and used the Naranjo probability scale as objective causality assessment.
Post-clozapine/olanzapine EDs were significantly more frequent in patients with pre-clozapine/olanzapine EDs (5 of 6) when compared to patients without pre-clozapine/olanzapine EDs (4 of 58) [chi(2) = 26.29; df = 1; p < 0.001] [odds ratio (OR) 67.5; 95% CI: 6.3-725.8]. According to the Naranjo probability scale, recurrence or deterioration of EDs in patients with prior EDs was definitely (n = 1) or probably (n = 4) related to the intake of clozapine/olanzapine.
Clozapine/olanzapine may induce recurrence or deterioration of binge eating symptomatology or full-blown EDs in patients with prior EDs.
St John's wort (Hypericum perforatum) is a popular over-the-counter antidepressant. Its antidepressive effect has been attributed in part to inhibition of monoamine transporters and monoamine oxidase, on the basis of in vitro studies.
In a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover study, 16 healthy subjects (11 men and 5 women; mean age, 31 +/- 5 years) ingested either St John's wort (300 mg three times daily) or placebo for 7 days. Imipramine treatment (50 mg three times daily) in 7 subjects served as a positive control. After treatment, physiologic and biochemical tests included cardiovascular reflex testing, graded head-up tilt testing, and plasma catecholamine determinations.
St John's wort had no effect on blood pressure, heart rate, heart rate variability, or blood pressure variability, regardless of the test condition. St John's wort had no effect on plasma concentrations of norepinephrine and its main metabolite, dihydroxyphenylglycol, whereas plasma dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC; the main metabolite of dopamine) concentrations increased in every subject (1661 +/- 924 pg/mL versus 1110 +/- 322 pg/mL with placebo, P=.04). In contrast, imipramine increased resting blood pressure (124 +/- 10 mmHg/71 +/- 5 mmHg versus 110 +/- 8 mmHg/61 +/- 6 mmHg with placebo, P=.005 for systolic values and P=.003 for diastolic values) and heart rate (74 +/- 7 beats/min versus 62 +/- 6 beats/min with placebo, P=.005) and elicited a marked orthostatic tachycardia (increase in heart rate of 43 +/- 17 beats/min versus 26 +/- 8 beats/min with placebo, P=.006).
Our findings challenge the concept that St John's wort elicits a major change in norepinephrine uptake or monoamine oxidase activity in vivo. The consistent increase in plasma DOPAC concentrations might suggest a novel mode of action or an inhibitory effect on dopamine beta-hydroxylase that should be followed up. We propose that a combination of physiologic and biochemical profiling may help better define the mode of action and potential side effects of herbal remedies.
