Asian Indian dyslipidemia is characterized by: borderline high low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and apolipoprotein (apo) B; high triglycerides, low high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol and apoA1; and high lipoprotein(a) (lp[a]). We performed a controlled multicentric trial in India to evaluate the efficacy and safety of a fixed dose combination of lovastatin and niacin extended release (niacin(ER)) formulation in patients with moderate to severe dyslipidemia. Consecutive subjects that satisfied the selection criteria, agreed to an informed consent, and with no baseline presence of liver/renal disease or heart failure were enrolled in the study. After a 4-week run-in period there were 142 patients with LDL levels > or = 130 mg/dL. Eleven patients were excluded because of uncontrolled hyperglycemia and 131 patients were recruited. After baseline evaluation of clinical and biochemical parameters all subjects were administered lovastatin (20 mg) and niacin(ER) (500 mg) combination once daily. Dose escalation was done on basis of lipid parameters at 8 weeks and in 11 patients increased to lovastatin (20 mg) and niacin(ER) (1000 mg). An intention-to-treat analysis was performed and data was analyzed using nonparametric Wilcoxon signed rank test. Thirteen patients (10%) were lost to follow-up and 4 (3%) withdrew because of dermatological adverse effects: flushing, pruritus, and rash. The mean values of various lipid parameters (mg/dL) at baseline, and at weeks 4, 12, and 24 respectively were: total cholesterol 233.9 +/- 27, 206.3 +/- 27, 189.8 +/- 31, and 174.9 +/- 27 mg/dL; LDL cholesterol 153.4 +/- 22, 127.3 +/- 21, 109.2 +/- 27, and 95.1 +/- 23 mg/dL; triglycerides 171.1 +/- 72, 159.5 +/- 75, 149.2 +/- 45, and 135.2 +/- 40 mg/dL; HDL cholesterol 45.6 +/- 7, 48.9 +/- 7, 51.6 +/- 9, and 53.9 +/- 10 mg/dL; lp(a) 48.5 +/- 26, 40.1 +/- 21, 35.4 +/- 21, and 26.9 +/- 19 mg/dL; and apoA1/apoB ratio 0.96 +/- 0.7, 1.04 +/- 0.4, 1.17 +/- 0.5, and 1.45 +/- 0.5 (p < 0.01). The percentage of decline in various lipids at 4, 12, and 24 weeks was: total cholesterol 11.8%, 18.8%, and 25.2%; LDL cholesterol 17.0%, 28.8%, and 38.0%; triglyceride 6.8%, 12.8%, and 21.0%; lp(a) 17.5%, 26.9%, and 44.5% respectively (p < 0.01). HDL cholesterol and apoA1/apoB increased by 7.2%, 13.1%, and 18.2%; and 7.9%, 21.9%, and 51.6% respectively (p < 0.01). Target LDL levels (< 100 mg/dL in subjects with manifest coronary heart disease or diabetes; < 130 mg/dL in subjects with > 2 risk factors) were achieved in 92 (80.7%) patients. No significant changes were observed in systolic or diastolic blood pressure, blood creatinine, transaminases, or creatine kinase. A fixed dose combination of lovastatin and niacin(ER) significantly improved cholesterol lipoprotein lipids as well as lp(a) and apoA1/apoB levels in Asian Indian dyslipidemic patients. Satisfactory safety and tolerability profile in this population was also demonstrated.
This work aimed to evaluate further the role of 5-HT7 receptors during memory formation in an autoshaping Pavlovian/instrumental learning task. Post-training administration of the potential 5-HT7 receptor agonist AS 19 or antagonist SB-269970 enhanced memory formation or had no effect, respectively. The AS 19 facilitatory effect was reversed by SB-269970, but not by the selective 5-HT1A antagonist WAY100635. Amnesia induced by scopolamine (cholinergic antagonist) or dizocilpine (NMDA antagonist) was also reversed by AS 19. Certainly, reservations regarding the selectivity of AS 19 for 5-HT7 and other 5-HT receptors in vivo are noteworthy and, therefore, its validity for use in animal models as a pharmacological tool. Having mentioned that, it should be noticed that together these data are providing further support to the notion of the 5-HT7 receptors role in memory formation. Importantly, this 5-HT7 receptor agonist AS 19 appears to represent a step forward respect to the notion that potent and selective 5-HT7 receptor agonists can be useful in the treatment of dysfunctional memory in aged-related decline and Alzheimer's disease.
Lawn care chemicals are frequently blamed when skin rashes occur in lawn care workers, although proof of a cause-and-effect relationship is often lacking. A lawn care worker developed severe dermatitis of the hands, arms, face, and neck shortly after his company started using a new fungicide. Patch-testing proved that the dermatitis was caused by a contact allergy to Dyrene, the active fungicidal chemical.
Neutrophil infiltration to the tissue, which is one of the important pathogenetic factors in ischemia/reperfusion injury, can be inhibited by glucocorticoids. The purpose of the present study was to clarify the mechanisms by which glucocorticoids inhibit neutrophil infiltration in renal ischemia/reperfusion injury in rats. Pretreatment with dexamethasone significantly attenuated the enhanced neutrophil infiltration and expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 induced by renal ischemia/reperfusion. Treatment with nitroxyl anion releaser known as Angeli's salt abolished the beneficial effect of dexamethasone in renal ischemia/reperfusion. Renal dysfunction and tubular damage induced by renal ischemia/reperfusion were not ameliorated by pretreatment with dexamthasone. These results indicate that the attenuation by dexamethasone of neutrophil infiltration and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 expression during renal ischemia/reperfusion may be mediated by the suppressed production of nitroxyl anion. Thus, neutrophil infiltration in renal ischemia/reperfusion injury may be mediated, at least in part, by the enhanced production of nitroxyl anion.
Twenty-four patients with severe progressive rheumatoid arthritis were randomly assigned to cyclophosphamide or placebo in a double-blind crossover trial. Eleven patients who completed 9 months on cyclophosphamide (average dose: 1.8 mg/kg/day) demonstrated significant decrease in painful joints, swollen joints, and morning stiffness and increase in grip strength when compared to 11 patients on placebo. After crossover, significant improvement was observed in patients switched to cyclophosphamide, and deterioration within 2 months was observed in most patients changed from drug to placebo. Serum immunoglobulins and rheumatoid factor titers decreased with cyclophosphamide but antibody response to Vi antigen was unaffected. Primary delayed immune response to 2,4-dinitrochlorobenzene was markedly depressed. Adverse effects were troublesome--hemorrhagic cystitis affected 4 patients and amenorrhea occurred in 3. Despite striking beneficial effect, cyclophosphamide should be prescribed cautiously and only in severe resistant cases of rheumatoid arthritis.
To describe the first reported case of a death that occurred as a result of chlorpropamide-induced cholestatic liver disease.
We review the clinical and laboratory details of an 81-year-old man with type II diabetes mellitus, who was hospitalized because of nausea, vomiting, and jaundice.
The patient had been taking a sulfonylurea (chlorpropamide, 250 mg orally three times a day) for 2 months. On initial assessment, the patient was noted to have cutaneous and scleral icterus and an erythematous maculopapular rash on the torso. The alkaline phosphatase level was substantially increased, and the transaminases were mildly increased. Use of all medications was discontinued. In the hospital, the patient's status rapidly deteriorated, and death ensued after cardiopulmonary arrest on day 6.
The findings were consistent with a hypersensitivity reaction to chlorpropamide that ultimately resulted in fulminant cholestatic liver disease and death.
A 41-year-old white woman on long-acting opioid therapy was diagnosed with moderate obstructive sleep apnea. On initiation of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP), she manifested severe central apnea that was unresponsive to supplemental oxygen and interfered with CPAP titration. Acetazolamide, 250 mg, nightly at bedtime was initiated, and CPAP titration was repeated. On acetazolamide, optimal CPAP pressure was obtained with no manifestation of clinically significant central respiratory disturbance. This case suggests that acetazolamide may be an effective adjunct to positive airway pressure therapy in patients on long-acting opioids. A need exists for examination of acetazolamide in this capacity.
The choice of initial highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) should take into account the need to balance efficacy, adverse event risk, resistance concerns for the treatment of HIV and treatment costs. Increased risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) may be of special concern in the selection of HAART therapy, because differences in potential CHD risk have been reported for different regimens. This study aimed to estimate the long-term combined effects of HIV disease and antiretroviral (ARV)-related risk for CHD on quality-adjusted survival and healthcare costs for ARV-naive patients.
A previously validated Markov model was updated and supplemented with the Framingham CHD risk equation. In the model, the average patient was male, aged 37 years and had a baseline 10-year CHD risk of 4.6%. Patients started with either lopinavir/ritonavir or unboosted atazanavir as the first protease inhibitor (PI). Clinical trial data were used to estimate the differences between these two therapies. The daily PI costs were $US18.52 for lopinavir/ritonavir and $US22.08 for atazanavir. Other costs were estimated from Medicaid billing databases and average wholesale drug price reports. All model costs were reported as the 2004 present value in US currency. The model's time horizon reflected a patient's lifetime, and the perspective of the analysis was that of the healthcare system and did not include indirect costs in the model cost estimates. Various CHD risk levels were tested in the sensitivity analysis.
In the base case, the model predicted a median duration of initial PI regimen of 5.6 years for lopinavir/ritonavir and 3.8 years for atazanavir. Over 10 years, patients who started on atazanavir had 30 additional AIDS events per 100 patients. Only 0.7 additional CHD events per 100 patients occurred for those who started on lopinavir/ritonavir. The model estimated 10-year total healthcare cost savings of $US12,543 per patient in the lopinavir/ritonavir group. The lifetime incremental cost effectiveness of lopinavir/ritonavir versus atazanavir was $US6797 per quality-adjusted life-year gained.
Lopinavir/ritonavir is a highly cost-effective regimen relative to atazanavir for the treatment of HIV. The effect of lopinavir/ritonavir on long-term CHD risk was minimal compared with the increased risk of AIDS/death projected for a less efficacious first PI regimen. The cost of lipid-lowering drugs and treatment of CHD for patients taking the lopinavir/ritonavir regimen was only 1.2% of the cost of AIDS care per person, which was too small to have a significant effect on the overall cost savings with lopinavir/ritonavir therapy. Thus, a decision to forgo potency and durability in an ARV regimen for an ARV-naive patient in favour of a less potent regimen with an improved lipid profile may prove to be costly over time, in terms of both budget impact and life expectancy.
The effects of (S)-1[6-amino-2[[hydrozy(4- phenylbutyl)phosphinyl]oxy]-1-oxohexyl]-L-proline (SQ 29 852), a phosphorus-containing novel angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), which is synthesized aiming an ACEI with long-lasting activity and with few side effects, were studied using anesthetized dogs. SQ 29 852 was equipotent with captopril to modify blood pressure response of the animals to angiotensin I (Ang I) and bradykinin (Bdk). An intravenous infusion of SQ 29 852 at 0.1 mg/kg/min for 30 min caused a remarkable hypotension without reflex tachycardia in open-chest dogs. In these animals cardiac contractility (dP/dtmax of left ventricular pressure) appeared to be reduced by SQ 29 852 without any changes in right atrial pressure (RAP), left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP) and aortic blood flow (AoF, cardiac output). In sodium-restricted dogs, the hypotension and renal vasodilation by SQ 29 852 (at 0.01, 0.1, and 1 mg/kg, i.v.) were slightly pronounced compared with animals fed with normal diet. It is demonstrated from these results that SQ 29 852 has comparable potency with captopril to inhibit angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) activity and as common a pharmacological profile as ACEI. SQ 29 852 may be a favorable antihypertensive agent, if its long-lasting activity and few side effects are confirmed.
The Health Effects Division of the Office of Pesticide Programs (OPP) assessed the carcinogenic potential of three structurally related chloroalkylthiodicarboximide fungicides using a consensus peer review process and EPA's 1986 guidelines for cancer risk assessment. All of the fungicides were categorized as Group B2 (probable human) carcinogens based upon findings of an increased incidence of malignant tumors, or combined malignant and benign tumors, in multiple experiments involving different strains of mice and rats. The primary sites of tumor formation with the chloroalkylthiodicarboximide fungicides in male and/or female mice (CD-1 and B6C3F1) were the gastrointestinal tract (captan, folpet, and captafol), the lymph system (folpet and captafol), and the vascular system (captafol). The main sites of tumor formation in rats of one or both sexes (CR CD, Wistar, or F344 strains) were the kidney (Captan and captafol), uterus (captan), mammary gland and liver (captafol). In addition, positive trends for thyroid, testicular, mammary gland, and lymph node tumors were observed with folpet in the same strains of rats. All three of the compounds exhibited positive mutagenic activity in a variety of in vitro short-term tests for gene mutation, DNA repair, and chromosomal aberrations in prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells, but were not genotoxic in available studies performed under in vivo conditions. The assessment of human cancer risk for captan, folpet, and captafol was made using low-dose extrapolation models.
Clopidogrel plus aspirin is the treatment of choice for patients undergoing percutaneous, coronary interventions with stenting, but it does not prevent restenosis. NCX-4016, a nitric oxide-releasing aspirin (nitroaspirin), exerts a wider range of antiplatelet actions compared to aspirin, superior antithrombotic activity and reduces restenosis after arterial injury in animals. The aim of the present study was to compare the combination of nitroaspirin plus clopidogrel with aspirin plus clopidogrel in a model of platelet pulmonary thromboembolism, bleeding and intimal thickening in mice. Drugs were administered orally for 5 days; the antithrombotic effects were evaluated against collagen plus epinephrine-induced pulmonary thromboembolism, the haemorrhagic effects by tail transection bleeding time and the effects on neointima proliferation by histomorphology of photochemically injured femoral arteries. Lung platelet emboli were reduced significantly and more effectively by nitroaspirin plus clopidogrel (-56%, p<0.05 vs control) than by aspirin plus clopidogrel (-26%, p<0.05 vs control). Ex vivo platelet aggregation was inhibited maximally by nitroaspirin plus clopidogrel. Aspirin plus clopidogrel strikingly prolonged the bleeding time while nitroaspirin plus clopidogrel induced a lesser prolongation. Nitroaspirin plus clopidogrel significantly reduced intimal thickening of the femoral artery while aspirin plus clopidogrel was ineffective. Nitroaspirin plus clopidogrel is more effective and less prohaemorrhagic than aspirin plus clopidogrel in mice; provided these data are confirmed in other animal models, nitroaspirin plus clopidogrel may represent a new regimen to be tested in patients undergoing coronary revascularization procedures.
We report a case of severe restless legs syndrome (RLS) that occurred as a side effect of olanzapine therapy. It was refractory to treatment with 2 mg of clonazepam and 3 mg ropinirole. There was partial relief with propoxyphene, however, it was stopped because of side effects. The symptoms disappeared once olanzapine was switched to another antipsychotic medication. Only two prior published reports associate olanzapine usage with development of RLS. In one report, low-dose benzodiazepines and ropinirole were associated with resolution of RLS symptoms stating dopamine depletion as the likely etiology. In our patient, however, RLS due to olanzapine was refractory to the trial of both high-dose benzodiazepine and ropinirole. This suggests that RLS occurring as a side effect of olanzapine therapy may have additional causative mechanisms beyond simple dopamine depletion as postulated before. High-dose narcotics, if tolerated, may be an alternative in such refractory cases.
The authors reports eight cases of depression induced by thiazide diuretics prescribed for hypertension and discusses possible mechanisms behind this action. The side effects of thiazide diuretics may be overlooked when they are used with other hypertensives known to cause depression.
Minocycline is an antibiotic commonly used in the treatment of adolescent acne.
To describe the clinical, laboratory, and histological features in 3 cases of minocycline-related autoimmune hepatitis and to review the literature of similar cases in the adolescent population.
Case series.
Patients were cared for in the Division of Gastroenterology, Children's Hospital, Boston, Mass.
Three adolescents (age, 15-16 years), while being treated with therapeutic doses of minocycline for periods of 12 to 20 months, met the 1993 International Autoimmune Hepatitis Group criteria for autoimmune hepatitis. All had a positive antinuclear antibody titer. Other features included hypergammaglobulinemia and a positive anti-smooth muscle antibody titer. Two patients underwent liver biopsy that revealed severe chronic lymphoplasmacytic inflammation, necrosis, and fibrosis. All other causes of liver disease were excluded. One patient had resolution of symptoms with withdrawal of the drug, while 2 required immunosuppression therapy. A review of the literature yielded only 18 similar cases, none in the pediatric literature, the majority of which contained incomplete pertinent data.
Minocycline is related to the development of autoimmune hepatitis in some adolescents. Pediatricians who use this drug for treatment of acne should be aware of this serious potential relation and stop the drug immediately when suspicion is raised.
Different problems regarding erectile dysfunction in men with spinal cord-injury are outlined. Neuroanatomical and neurophysiological aspects of erection and ejaculation are outlined and brought into relation with the different clinical pictures of such lesions. Different therapeutical possibilities are presented, particularly the new treatments like intracavernous papaverine (autoinjection), prostaglandin E1 and transcutaneous nitroglycerin; action, advantages and indications are discussed. The experience in ten para- or tetraplegic patients are discussed. It seems that even in spite of the higher price of PGE1 this treatment of the erectile dysfunction in spinal cord-injured men should be preferred, since it shows more advantages and less complications than other treatments.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis (HITT) is associated with antibodies specific for complexes consisting of heparin and platelet factor 4 (PF4). Studies in individual patients with HITT have demonstrated immunoglobulin (Ig) class switching from IgM to the IgG or IgA isotypes. This transition is thought to require helper T cells, but no studies of the cellular or molecular basis of this process have yet been reported. To characterize T-cell involvement in HITT, peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from two patients with classical HITT obtained shortly after the acute episode were restimulated with heparin:PF4 complexes, PF4 alone, heparin alone, and medium alone in the presence of autologous antigen-presenting cells (APC). Responding T cells were then examined using the technique of "spectratyping," in which sequences encoding CDR3 domains of individual V beta (BV) families are amplified and separated by gel electrophoresis. After 14 days in culture with antigen (heparin:PF4 complexes), but not after culture with PF4, heparin, or medium alone, patient cells, but not cells from normal subjects, preferentially expressed T-cell receptor (TCR)-containing beta chains of the BV 5.1 family. Nucleotide sequencing of BV 5.1 TCR CDR3 showed that each patient had a personal repertoire, but also shared a tetrapeptide motif (PGTG). These findings provide evidence that the humoral immune response associated with HITT is driven by helper T cells that presumably recognize peptides derived from PF4. Identification of a common beta-chain CDR3 motif in responding T cells from each of two patients suggests that a limited number of helper TCRs may be used to mount an antibody response to heparin:PF4 complexes. TCR spectratyping appears to offer a new way to examine the molecular basis of pathologic immune responses and may be useful in further studies of HITT and other immune-mediated hematologic disorders.
Identifying variations in DNA that increase susceptibility to disease is one of the primary aims of genetic studies using a forward genetics approach. However, identification of disease-susceptibility genes by means of such studies provides limited functional information on how genes lead to disease. In fact, in most cases there is an absence of functional information altogether, preventing a definitive identification of the susceptibility gene or genes. Here we develop an alternative to the classic forward genetics approach for dissecting complex disease traits where, instead of identifying susceptibility genes directly affected by variations in DNA, we identify gene networks that are perturbed by susceptibility loci and that in turn lead to disease. Application of this method to liver and adipose gene expression data generated from a segregating mouse population results in the identification of a macrophage-enriched network supported as having a causal relationship with disease traits associated with metabolic syndrome. Three genes in this network, lipoprotein lipase (Lpl), lactamase beta (Lactb) and protein phosphatase 1-like (Ppm1l), are validated as previously unknown obesity genes, strengthening the association between this network and metabolic disease traits. Our analysis provides direct experimental support that complex traits such as obesity are emergent properties of molecular networks that are modulated by complex genetic loci and environmental factors.
A high-sucrose, low-copper-diet (HSD) induces inhibition of glucose-sensitive rats (CDs) but not Cohen diabetes-resistant rats (CDr). Copper-supplemented HSD increased activity of the copper-dependent mitochondrial respiratory chain enzyme cytochrome c oxidase (COX) and reversed hyperglycemia. This study examined the mechanism by which interleukin-1β modulates GSIS and the role of COX in this process. We measured COX activity, ATP content, GSIS, iNOS expression, and nitrite production with and without IL-1β, N(ω)-nitro-l-arginine, copper, or potassium cyanide in isolated islets of CDs and CDr fed different diets. We found reduced COX activity, ATP content, and GSIS in isolated islets of CDs rats fed a regular diet. These were severely reduced following HSD and were restored to regular diet levels on copper-supplemented HSD (P < 0.01 vs. CDr islets). Potassium cyanide chemically reduced COX activity, decreasing GSIS and thus reinforcing the link between islet COX activity and GSIS. Interleukin-1β (2.5 U/ml) reduced GSIS and COX activity in CDs islets. Exposure to 10 U/ml interleukin-1β decreased GSIS and COX activity in both CDs and CDr islets, inducing a similar nitrite production. Nevertheless, the effect on GSIS was more marked in CDs islets. A significant iNOS expression was detected in CDs on the HSD diet, which was reduced by copper supplementation. N(ω)-nitro-l-arginine and copper prevented the deleterious effect of interleukin-1β on COX activity and GSIS. We conclude that reduced islet COX activity renders vulnerability to GSIS inhibition on low-copper HSD through two interrelated pathways: 1) by further reducing the activity of COX that is essential for β-cell ATP-production and insulin secretion and 2) by inducing the expression of iNOS and nitric oxide-mediated COX inhibition. We suggest that islet COX activity must be maintained above a critical threshold to sustain adequate GSIS with exposure to low-copper HSD.
Tumour cells become addicted to the expression of initiating oncogenes like Ras, such that loss of oncogene expression in established tumours leads to tumour regression. HRas, NRas or KRas are mutated to remain in the active GTP-bound oncogenic state in many cancers. Although Ras activates several proteins to initiate human tumour growth, only PI3K, through activation of protein kinase B (PKB; also known as AKT), must remain activated by oncogenic Ras to maintain this growth. Here we show that blocking phosphorylation of the AKT substrate, endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS or NOS3), inhibits tumour initiation and maintenance. Moreover, eNOS enhances the nitrosylation and activation of endogenous wild-type Ras proteins, which are required throughout tumorigenesis. We suggest that activation of the PI3K-AKT-eNOS-(wild-type) Ras pathway by oncogenic Ras in cancer cells is required to initiate and maintain tumour growth.
Endometrial lymphomyeloid cell subsets were evaluated in samples from normal women and from women with abnormal uterine bleeding due to subcutaneous levonorgestrel implants (Norplant) or an intrauterine device (IUD). The frequency of CD3(+), CD68(+), CD43(+) and endometrial granulated lymphoid cells was evaluated by immunohistochemical or phloxine-tartrazine staining of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded samples. In normal women, cyclic variation in lymphomyeloid subsets was seen. In women using Norplant for contraception, the frequency of CD3(+), CD68(+) and CD43(+) cells was dramatically decreased, compatible with endometrial atrophy. When Norplant users with abnormal bleeding were compared to women without bleeding, however, the number of CD68(+) cells was significantly increased and the number of CD3(+) and CD43(+) cells was preserved, contrary to the hypothesis that this group would show a greater degree of atrophy and hence, tissue fragility. A similar pattern was seen in a preliminary study of women with bleeding associated with use of copper-only IUD contraception, and in samples taken from late secretory and menstrual biopsies from normal cycling women. Whether these changes in endometrial lymphomyeloid cells represent a result of bleeding arising from a common mechanism or rather cause the uterine bleeding is discussed.
In Australia, Canada, China, Indonesia, and the UK, physicians performed endometrial biopsies on women with infertility caused by tubal blockage or male factor who had not used exogenous hormones or used an IUD in the last 3 months or who had uterine pathology and on healthy fertile women. Researchers aimed to determine the prevalence of different types of endometrial cells in women with no abnormal bleeding and those with abnormal bleeding caused by levonorgestrel contraceptive implants (Norplant) or an IUD. They used immunohisto-chemical or phloxine-tartrazine staining of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded samples to determine the frequency of CD3+, CD68+, CD43+, and endometrial granulated lymphoid cells. Women with no abnormal bleeding experienced cyclic variation in lymphomyeloid subsets. Norplant users had such significantly lower CD3+, CD68+, and CD43+ cells that the situation corresponded to endometrial atrophy. Norplant users with abnormal bleeding had significantly higher CD68+ cells than Norplant users without abnormal bleeding (399 vs. 254/cu. mm). Their CD3+ and CD43+ cells were not significantly different. Overall, the numbers of lymphomyeloid cells were markedly different than normal women with no abnormal bleeding for all Norplant users and those with abnormal bleeding. These patterns were essentially repeated for users of a copper releasing IUD with abnormal bleeding and during the late secretory and menstrual phases in normal women. These studies demonstrate that researchers can use conventionally processed endometrial samples to study endometrial lymphomyeloid cell populations in uterine bleeding. Further research is needed to examine the role of uterine lymphomyeloid cells and their cytokines in abnormal uterine bleeding as well as the functional activities of these cells.
A 43-year-old male with bronchogenic carcinoma was treated with continuous morphine via a thoracic epidural catheter. On the fifth day, after a total dose of 24 mg morphine chloride in 10 or 20 ml saline, he developed hallucinations, hyperthermia, spasticity, narcolepsy and opisthotonos. Respiratory rate and blood pressure were unaffected. Intravenous naloxone reversed all neurological abnormalities. This unusual syndrome was probably caused by a rostal spread of morphine. The location of the catheter and volume seem to be important variables. Hallucinations are important signs of impending intoxication.
To report the occurrence of bilateral macular hemorrhage following the use of azathioprine for immunosuppression in a corneal transplant recipient.
The patient underwent therapeutic penetrating keratoplasty for progressive fungal keratitis in his left eye. Although the infection did not recur, the graft failed with vascularization of the cornea in three quadrants. He underwent repeat penetrating keratoplasty 2 years later and was treated with azathioprine (100 mg daily) to enhance graft survival. Four months after instituting azathioprine therapy, he developed aplastic anemia and macular hemorrhage in both eyes.
Fluorescein angiography revealed a preretinal location of the macular hemorrhage. After cessation of azathioprine therapy and treatment with blood component replacement, hematological parameters improved and the macular hemorrhage cleared with good visual recovery during the next 2 months.
This report highlights the serious ocular and systemic complications that can occur following the use of systemic immunosuppressants after ophthalmic surgery.
Stress is known to increase drug craving, associated physiological arousal and risk of relapse in drug dependent individuals. However, it is unclear whether these responses are altered by recent frequency of drug use. The current study examined whether frequency of cocaine and alcohol abuse alters drug craving and associated arousal with laboratory exposure to stress and to drug related cues.
Fifty-four recently abstinent treatment-seeking cocaine abusers who were part of a study on stress and drug craving were categorized into high- and low-frequency users on the basis of their recent cocaine use. The high use cocaine group also consumed significantly more alcohol than the low use cocaine group. Participants were exposed to a brief 5-min guided imagery procedure that involved imagining a recent personal stressful situation, a personal drug-related situation and a neutral-relaxing situation, one imagery session on separate days presented in random order. Subjective (craving and anxiety), cardiovascular (heart rate, systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP)) and biochemical (adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), cortisol, prolactin) measures were assessed.
High-frequency abusers demonstrated a significantly greater drug craving, anxiety and associated cardiovascular and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) response to both stress and drug-cue exposure as compared to low-frequency abusers.
Increased frequency of recent cocaine and alcohol use is associated with an enhanced stress and cue-induced drug craving and arousal response that appears to be similar to the effects of cocaine, and one that may increase the vulnerability to drug-seeking behavior and relapse in drug dependent individuals.
A number of observations suggest that cytokines may be important modulators in the ventricular remodeling process. It is unclear whether carvedilol modulates myocardial pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines expression. We hypothesized that carvedilol could improve ventricular remodeling partly through the modulation of cytokines. The goal of this study was to evaluate the effects of carvedilol on cardiac cytokines expression as well as on myocardial and extracellular matrix remodeling in rats with acute myocardial infarction.
Rats with AMI induced by left anterior descending branch ligation were randomized to carvedilol and control group which were further compared to sham-operated group. We studied the effects of 4-weeks therapy with carvedilol starting 24 h after infarction on 1) hemodynamics, 2) tissue weights, 3) myocardial cytokines (TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-10 and TGF-beta1) expression by semi-quantitative RT-PCR and immunoblotting, 4) matrix metalloproteinases activity by gelatin zymography, 5) collagen expression by immunohistochemistry, 6) myocardium fetal gene (alpha and beta myosin heavy chain) expression.
Treatment with carvedilol 1) reduced the pro-inflammatory cytokines and fibrogenic cytokine TGF-beta1 levels in myocardium and was associated with the amelioration of the elevated left ventricular diastolic pressure. 2) increased anti-inflammatory cytokine, IL-10 protein expression. 3) reduced matrix metalloproteinases-2 and matrix metalloproteinases-9 activity 4) reduced myocardial collagens 5) did not modify fetal gene re-expression.
Pro-inflammatory, anti-inflammatory and fibrogenic cytokines are all involved in the process of post-infarction myocardial remodeling. One mechanism underlying the beneficial effects of carvedilol on post-infarction myocardial remodeling may be modulation of the balance between pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines as well as fibrogenic cytokines and extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling.
We administered trientine hydrochloride, a drug used in the treatment of Wilson's disease, to patients with hepatocellular carcinoma after radical treatment with percutaneous ethanol injection or radiofrequency ablation, and examined its effect on the reduction of liver-tissue copper content. We enrolled 24 patients with 3 or fewer primary lesions of Child class A or B hepatocellular carcinoma with diameters of 3 cm or less who had undergone radical treatment with percutaneous ethanol injection or radiofrequency ablation. Trientine hydrochloride was orally administered in a single daily dose of 250 mg to 12 patients before a meal (at fasting, group 1) or at a total daily dosage of 750 mg, divided into 3 doses, to 12 patients (group 2). This study was a randomized between-groups comparative study of 12 weeks' duration. We used the particle-induced x-ray-emission method to determine liver-tissue mineral content. Urine copper and serum mineral levels were also measured, and transaminase levels were examined. Liver-tissue copper content decreased significantly, to 160.1 microg/g dry weight, after treatment, compared with the pretreatment level of 306.8 microg/g dry weight (P <.05). We detected no significant difference in iron or zinc content before and after treatment. The copper content was significantly reduced after treatment in both groups (P <.05). The urine copper level was significantly increased after 1 week of treatment but decreased thereafter. Serum copper levels were significantly reduced after treatment (P <.01). We detected no significant difference in transaminase level before and after treatment. Iron-deficiency anemia in 1 patient after 12 weeks' treatment was the only adverse reaction, and it was improved by the administration of an iron product. We noted no other overt adverse reactions. In patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, trientine hydrochloride therapy may significantly reduce copper content in liver tissue.
Zearalenone (ZEN) and its metabolites are commonly found in many food commodities and are known to cause reproductive disorders and genotoxic effects. The major ZEN metabolites are α-zearalenol (α-ZOL) and β-zearalenol (β-ZOL). Although many studies have demonstrated the cytotoxic effects of these metabolites, the mechanisms by which α-ZOL or β-ZOL mediates their cytotoxic effects appear to differ according to cell type and the exposed toxins. We evaluated the toxicity of α-ZOL and β-ZOL on RAW264.7 macrophages and investigated the underlying mechanisms. β-ZOL not only more strongly reduced the viability of cells than did α-ZOL, but it also induced cell death mainly by apoptosis rather than necrosis. The ZEN metabolites induced loss of mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), mitochondrial changes in Bcl-2 and Bax proteins, and cytoplasmic release of cytochrome c and apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF). Use of an inhibitor specific to c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), p38 kinase or p53, but not pan-caspase or caspase-8, decreased the toxin-induced generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and also attenuated the α-ZOL- or β-ZOL-induced decrease of cell viability. Antioxidative enzyme or compounds such as catalase, acteoside, and (E)-1-(3,4-dihydroxyphenethyl)-3-(4-hydroxystyryl)urea suppressed the ZEN metabolite-mediated reduction of cell viability. Further, knockdown of AIF via siRNA transfection diminished the ZEN metabolite-induced cell death. Collectively, these results suggest that the activation of p53, JNK or p38 kinase by ZEN metabolites is the main upstream signal required for the mitochondrial alteration of Bcl-2/Bax signaling pathways and intracellular ROS generation, while MMP loss and nuclear translocation of AIF are the critical downstream events for ZEN metabolite-mediated apoptosis in macrophages.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a senile dementia characterized by amyloid plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, and synaptic and cell loss. The "amyloid cascade" hypothesis suggests that amyloid-beta (Abeta), the peptide deposited as amyloid plaques, is the primary insult in AD. However, debate continues over the mechanism of Abeta toxicity and whether fibrillar or oligomeric Abeta is the active species of the peptide that ultimately causes the synaptic loss and dementia associated with AD. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is required for survival and function of cells compromised in AD. Decreased BDNF causes defects in long-term potentiation and memory and correlates with cognitive decline. We previously demonstrated that BDNF reduction occurs early in the course of AD, suggesting that decreased BDNF may promote neuronal dysfunction in AD. We also demonstrated that three of seven human BDNF transcripts are specifically downregulated in AD. What pathological feature(s) of AD leads to the decreased BDNF is unknown. In this study, we administered both fibrillar and oligomeric conformations of Abeta(1-42) to differentiated SH-SY5Y, a human neuroblastoma cell line, and measured both phosphorylated cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB), a regulator of BDNF transcription, and BDNF total mRNA. We found that oligomeric but not fibrillar preparations of Abeta(1-42) significantly decrease both phosphorylated CREB and total BDNF mRNA. Furthermore, oligomeric Abeta(1-42) decreases BDNF transcripts IV and V in these cells, demonstrating that Abeta(1-42) downregulates the major BDNF transcript decreased in vivo in the AD brain. Thus, oligomeric Abeta(1-42) could compromise neuronal function, causing memory loss and cognitive dysfunction by downregulation of BDNF in AD.
We conducted a multi-stage, genome-wide association study of bladder cancer with a primary scan of 591,637 SNPs in 3,532 affected individuals (cases) and 5,120 controls of European descent from five studies followed by a replication strategy, which included 8,382 cases and 48,275 controls from 16 studies. In a combined analysis, we identified three new regions associated with bladder cancer on chromosomes 22q13.1, 19q12 and 2q37.1: rs1014971, (P = 8 × 10⁻¹²) maps to a non-genic region of chromosome 22q13.1, rs8102137 (P = 2 × 10⁻¹¹) on 19q12 maps to CCNE1 and rs11892031 (P = 1 × 10⁻⁷) maps to the UGT1A cluster on 2q37.1. We confirmed four previously identified genome-wide associations on chromosomes 3q28, 4p16.3, 8q24.21 and 8q24.3, validated previous candidate associations for the GSTM1 deletion (P = 4 × 10⁻¹¹) and a tag SNP for NAT2 acetylation status (P = 4 × 10⁻¹¹), and found interactions with smoking in both regions. Our findings on common variants associated with bladder cancer risk should provide new insights into the mechanisms of carcinogenesis.
The tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor family are ligand-regulated transmembrane proteins that mediate apoptosis as well as activation of the transcription factor NF-kappaB. Exogenous expression of DR6, a recently identified member of the TNF receptor family, induced apoptosis in untransformed or tumor-derived cells and the apoptotic function of DR6 was inhibited by co-expression of Bcl-2, Bcl-x(L) or the inhibitor-of-apoptosis (IAP) family member, survivin. Expression of a dominant negative mutant of FADD failed to protect from DR6-mediated apoptosis indicating that unlike TNFR1 and Fas, DR6 induced apoptosis via a FADD-independent mechanism. Despite the ability of exogenous DR6 expression to induce apoptosis, DR6 mRNA and protein were found to be elevated in prostate tumor cell lines and in advanced stages of prostate cancer. Analysis of several anti-apoptotic proteins revealed that Bcl-x(L) levels and serine 32 phosphorylation of IkappaB, the natural inhibitor of NF-kappaB, were similarly elevated in cells expressing high levels of DR6, suggesting that NF-kappaB-regulated survival proteins may protect from DR6-induced apoptosis and that DR6 is a target of NF-kappaB regulation. Treatment of LnCAP cells with TNF-alpha resulted in increases in both DR6 mRNA and protein levels, and this induction was suppressed by inhibitors of NF-kappaB. Similarly, treatment of cells expressing high levels of DR6 with indomethacin and ibuprofen, compounds also known to perturb NF-kappaB function, resulted in a dose-dependent decrease in DR6 protein and mRNA levels. These results demonstrate that TNF-alpha signaling induces the expression of a member of its own receptor family through activation of NF-kappaB.
