Systemic fungal infections are a major problem in bone marrow transplant recipients who have prolonged neutropenia or who receive high-dose corticosteroids. Prophylaxis with Fluconazole or low-dose amphotericin B reduces, but does not eliminate these infections. To determine which prophylactic agent is better, we performed a prospective randomized study. Patients undergoing allogeneic (related or unrelated) or autologous marrow or peripheral stem cell transplantation were randomized to receive Fluconazole (400 mg/day p. o. or i.v.) or amphotericin B (0.2 mg/kg/day i.v.) beginning 1 day prior to stem cell transplantation and continuing until recovery of neutrophils to >500/microl. Patients were removed from their study drug for drug-associated toxicity, invasive fungal infection or suspected fungal infection (defined as the presence of fever >38 degrees C without positive culture while on broad-spectrum anti-bacterial antibiotics). Proven or suspected fungal infections were treated with high-dose amphotericin B (0.5-0.7 mg/kg/day). Patients were randomized at each institution and stratified for the type of transplant. The primary end-point of the study was prevention of documented fungal infection; secondary endpoints included fungal colonization, drug toxicity, duration of hospitalization, duration of fever, duration of neutropenia, duration and total dose of high-dose amphotericin B and overall survival to hospital discharge. From July 1992 to October 1994, a total of 355 patients entered into the trial with 159 patients randomized to amphotericin B and 196 to Fluconazole. Patient groups were comparable for diagnosis, age, sex, prior antibiotic or antifungal therapy, use of corticosteroids prior to transplantation and total duration of neutropenia. Amphotericin B was significantly more toxic than Fluconazole especially in related allogeneic transplantation where 19% of patients developed toxicity vs 0% of Fluconazole recipients (p < 0.05). Approximately 44% of all patients were removed from prophylaxis for presumed fungal infection. Proven fungal infections occurred in 4.1% and 7.5% of Fluconazole and amphotericin-treated patients, respectively. Proven fungal infections occurred in 9.1% and 14.3% of related allogeneic marrow recipients receiving Fluconazole or amphotericin B, respectively, and 2.1% and 5.6% of autologous marrow recipients receiving Fluconazole or amphotericin B, respectively (P > 0.05). In this prospective trial, low-dose amphotericin B prophylaxis was as effective as Fluconazole prophylaxis, but Fluconazole was significantly better tolerated.
Thirty six APML patients achieving hematological remission with As2O3 were serially monitored using RT-PCR. Though only 5.5% achieved molecular remission at induction remission, 94.5% became negative during consolidation. At 20 months follow-up, 85% remain in remission but longer follow up studies are needed to monitor late relapses.
Cowden syndrome (CS) and Bannayan-Zonana syndrome (BZS) are two hamartoma syndromes with distinct phenotypic features. Although partial clinical overlap exists between CS and BZS, they are considered to be separate entities. PTEN has been identified as the susceptibility gene for both disorders, suggesting allelism. We have identified a germline mutation, R335X, in PTEN in a family consisting of two female members with the phenotypic findings of CS and two male members with the phenotypic findings of BZS. To our knowledge, this is the first report that shows the presence of separate subjects with CS and with BZS in a single family associated with a single germline PTEN mutation.
We have previously shown in rat primary cultured mesencephalic cells that cyanide induces a high level of oxidative stress and necrotic death. To evaluate the mechanism of the cytotoxicity, the effects of cyanide on intracellular glutathione (GSH) pools and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS)-mediated reactive nitrogen species (RNS) generation were studied. Cyanide rapidly depleted intracellular GSH. Restoration of GSH blocked cell death, whereas depletion of GSH by synthesis inhibition increased the necrosis. Selective depletion of mitochondrial GSH (mtGSH) increased oxidative stress and enhanced cell death, whereas the cytoplasmic pool was not critical to cell survival. These actions were accompanied by increased iNOS expression as determined by Western blot analysis, RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry. Up-regulation of iNOS led to increased generation of NO as reflected by elevated nitrite levels (an end product of NO metabolism). It was determined by use of a selective inhibitor that up-regulation of iNOS expression was transcriptionally regulated by activation of nuclear factor-kappaB, a redox-sensitive transcription factor. It was concluded that, in cyanide-mediated neurotoxicity, mtGSH is a vital component of the cellular antioxidant defense, and its depletion can lead to oxidative stress-mediated iNOS up-regulation, thus enhancing RNS generation and necrosis.
To investigate the regulatory effect of electroacupuncture (EA) at Zusanli (ST36) on tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) in rats with ulcerative colitis (UC), and further elucidate the therapeutic mechanism of EA on UC.
Thirty-two male Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were randomly divided into four groups (n=8): normal control group; UC control group; UC+ST36 group and UC+non-acupoint group. A solution containing ethanol and 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS) was instilled into the distal colon in the rat (at a dose of 100 mg/kg) to set up UC rat model. Rats in wakefulness state of UC+ST36 group were stimulated at ST36 by EA once a day, while those of UC+non-acupoint group were done at 0.5 cm beside ST36. After 10 d treatment, all rats were sacrificed simultaneously. Colon musocal inflammation and damage were assessed by measuring colon mass, morphologic damage score, colonic myeloperoxidase enzyme (MPO) activity, serum TNF-alpha and colonic TNF-alpha mRNA level. Morphologic damage score was examined under stereomicroscope. Colonic MPO activity was measured by spectrophotometer method. Serum TNF-alpha concentration was determined by radioimmunoassay (RIA). Colonic TNF-alpha mRNA expression level was analyzed by semiquantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
Ratio of colonic mass/body mass (m(C)/m(B)) and activity of colonic MPO (microkat/g tissue) markedly increased (8.5+/-2.6 vs 2.5+/-0.4; 145+/-25 vs 24+/-8, P<0.01 vs normal control group). Compared with normal control rats, serum TNF-alpha and colonic TNF-alpha mRNA level in UC control group were increased 2.5 fold (2 278+/-170 vs 894+/-248, P<0.01) and 4.3 fold (0.98+/-0.11 vs 0.23+/-0.11, P<0.01), respectively. After EA at ST36, m(C)/m(B) and MPO activity were reduced significantly (5.3+/-2.0 vs 8.5+/-2.6; 104+/-36 vs 145+/-25, P<0.01, 0.05) compared with those of UC control group. Serum TNF-alpha and colonic TNF-alpha mRNA level were inhibited by EA stimulation at ST36 (P<0.01). The inhibitory rate was 16 % and 44 %, respectively. Morphologic damage score was also increased markedly in rat with UC (P<0.01), whereas it was decreased by EA at ST36 (P<0.05). There was no significant difference between UC control group and UC+EA at non-acupoint (P>0.05). Furthermore, these parameters were highly correlated with each other (P<0.01).
Serum TNF-alpha concentration and colonic TNF-alpha mRNA expression level are increased significantly in UC rats in correlation with the severity of disease. It indicates that TNF-alpha is closely involved in the immune abnormalities and inflammatory responses in UC. EA at ST36 has therapeutic effect on UC by downregulating serum TNF-alpha and colonic TNF-alpha mRNA expression. High levels of TNF-alpha and its corresponding mRNA expression seem to be implicated in the pathogenesis of UC.
Nephrotic syndrome is characterized by severe proteinuria and sodium and water retention. Although endothelin (ET) 1 can cause natriuresis or antinatriuresis, the role played by ET-1 in proteinuria and in sodium retention due to nephrotic syndrome remains unclear.
We investigated the role played by the ET-1 system in sodium and water retention and in proteinuria in puromycin aminonucleoside induced nephrotic syndrome in rats using microdissected nephron segments, competitive polymerase chain reaction, and Western blot.
The expression of prepro ET-1, ET-converting enzyme 1 (ECE-1), and ET A receptor mRNAs, but not ET B receptor mRNA, in the glomeruli was increased in rats with nephrotic syndrome. The cGMP generation in the glomeruli induced by atrial natriuretic peptide and ET-1 was decreased, whereas the ET-3-induced cGMP generation was increased in rats with nephrotic syndrome. ECE-1 mRNA expression was increased not only in the glomeruli, but also in the thick ascending limbs and collecting ducts. The protein expression of ECE-1 was increased in the membrane fraction of the cortex and in the outer and the inner medulla of nephrotic rats. Blockade of ET A and B receptors by bosentan did not inhibit the occurrence of nephrotic syndrome. However, the administration of bosentan increased the urinary sodium excretion.
These data suggest that an activated ET-1-ET A receptor pathway in glomeruli and/or an increased ECE-1 mRNA expression in distal segments may participate in sodium and water retention, but not in the occurrence of nephrotic syndrome.
A 50-year-old woman developed rapidly progressive acute renal failure on the first day after the administration of intravenous acyclovir for acute left retinal necrosis. Intravenous acyclovir was stopped and replaced with intravitreal injections of ganciclovir sodium (2 mg/0.05 mL) and foscarnet (1.2 mg/0.05 mL) 3 times per week for 4 weeks. Acyclovir-induced renal impairment can be reversed if recognised early and treated with careful, timely body fluid replacement. The necrotising retinitis responded well to intravitreal antiviral agents. No complications were seen at the 6 months' follow-up. Constant vigilance is essential for avoiding acute renal failure when treating ophthalmic conditions with intravenous acyclovir. Systematic monitoring of renal function, urine output, and characteristic symptoms like loin pain is warranted.
Propofol and midazolam are commonly used sedatives during regional anesthesia in adults. Smaller doses of these drugs are required in older age due to altered pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics.
To study the sedation, side-effects and the costs involved with smaller doses of propofol and midazolam in patients aged above 60 years during spinal anesthesia.
A randomized single-blind study was conducted in 60 ASA I-II patients aged > or = 60 years undergoing urological surgery under spinal anesthesia.
Sedation was administered after spinal anesthesia using propofol (bolus 0.4 mg.kg -1; infusion 3 mg/kg/hr) or midazolam (bolus 0.02 mg/kg; infusion 0.06 mg.kg -1.h -1) and titrated to achieve a sedation score of 3 on the modified Observer's Assessment of Alertness/Sedation Scale. Perioperative sedation, hemodynamics and respiratory events were monitored.
The analysis for parametric data was done using Student's unpaired t test and the incidence data using Chi-square test.
The onset (13.0+/-4.2 vs. 18.8+/-4.2 min, P < 0.001) and offset (8.9+/-2.8 vs. 12.5+/-3.5 min, P < 0.001) of sedation were faster and the duration of adequate sedation longer (44.7+/-12.5 vs. 29.8+/-12.9% of total infusion time, P < 0.001) with propofol than midazolam. More patients receiving propofol compared to midazolam had hypotension (16 [50%] vs.4 [14.3%], P= 0.003). Airway obstruction occurred frequently in both the groups. Sedation was significantly more expensive with propofol than midazolam (US$ 9.83 +/- 2.80 vs. US$ 0.33 +/- 0.06, P 0.001).
Propofol provided better titration and adequacy of sedation than midazolam in patients above 60 years of age, but caused hypotension. Lighter sedation is recommended in this age group.
Sequence analysis of eosinophil cationic protein (ECP), a ribonuclease of broad antimicrobial activity, allowed identification of residues 1-45 as the antimicrobial domain. We have further dissected ECP(1-45) with a view to defining the minimal requirements for antimicrobial activity. Structure-based downsizing has focused on both α-helices of ECP(1-45) and yielded analogues with substantial potency against Gram-negative and -positive strains. Analogues ECP(8-36) and ECP(6-17)-Ahx-(23-36) (Ahx, 6-aminohexanoic acid) involve 36% and 40% size reduction relative to (1-45), respectively, and display a remarkably ECP-like antimicrobial profile. Both retain segments required for self-aggregation and lipolysaccharide binding, as well as the bacterial agglutination ability of parent ECP. Analogue (6-17)-Ahx-(23-36), in particular, is shown by NMR to preserve the helical traits of the native 8-16 (α1) and 33-36 (α2) regions and can be proposed as the minimal structure capable of reproducing the activity of the entire protein.
It is unclear whether environmental cadmium exposure is associated with cardiovascular disease, although recent data suggest associations with myocardial infarction and peripheral arterial disease.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the association of measured cadmium exposure with stroke and heart failure (HF) in the general population.
We analyzed data from 12,049 participants, aged 30 years and older, in the 1999-2006 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) for whom information was available on body mass index, smoking status, alcohol consumption, and socio-demographic characteristics.
At their interviews, 492 persons reported a history of stroke, and 471 a history of HF. After adjusting for demographic and cardiovascular risk factors, a 50% increase in blood cadmium corresponded to a 35% increased odds of prevalent stroke [OR: 1.35; 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.12-1.65] and a 50% increase in urinary cadmium corresponded to a 9% increase in prevalent stroke [OR: 1.09; 95% CI: 1.00-1.19]. This association was higher among women [OR: 1.38; 95% CI: 1.11-1.72] than men [OR: 1.30; 95% CI: 0.93-1.79] (p-value for interaction=0.05). A 50% increase in blood cadmium corresponded to a 48% increased odds of prevalent HF [OR: 1.48; 95% CI: 1.17-1.87] and a 50% increase in urinary cadmium corresponded to a 12% increase in prevalent HF [OR: 1.12; 95% CI: 1.03-1.20], with no difference in sex-specific associations.
Environmental exposure to cadmium was associated with significantly increased stroke and heart failure prevalence. Cadmium exposure may increase these important manifestations of cardiovascular disease.
We evaluated the efficacy, safety, and dose-response relationship of fosinopril in children aged 6 to 16 years with hypertension or high-normal blood pressure with an associated medical condition requiring treatment. The study was a prospective, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial conducted in 78 clinical sites in the United States, Russia, and Israel. There were 4 phases: a screening phase of 10 days maximum, a 4-week dose-response phase, a placebo withdrawal phase of 2 weeks maximum, and a 52-week open-label safety phase. The primary objective of the dose-response phase was to determine whether low (0.1 mg/kg), medium (0.3 mg/kg), or high (0.6 mg/kg) doses of fosinopril based on established adult dosing affect trough seated systolic blood pressure. During the dose-response phase, all 3 doses were equally effective in lowering systolic blood pressure. During the placebo withdrawal phase, there was an adjusted mean systolic blood pressure increase of 5.2 mm Hg for the placebo group and 1.5 mm Hg for the fosinopril group, a net withdrawal effect of 3.7 mm Hg (P=0.013). Fosinopril was well tolerated; serious adverse events occurred infrequently and were generally not attributed to fosinopril. Because children appear to be more sensitive to lower doses of fosinopril than adults, starting doses for children should be < or =0.1 mg/kg.
A case of ibuprofen-associated meningitis is reported in a previously healthy 26-year-old woman. The association was substantiated with a rechallenge. She had no symptoms of rheumatoid factor and a positive antibody to the intranuclear antigen SS-A.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the relationship between the differential expression of genes related to lipid metabolism in subcutaneous adipose tissue and metabolic syndrome features in lean and obese subjects with habitual high fat intake.
Microarray and RT-PCR analysis were used to analyze and validate differential gene expression in subcutaneous abdominal adipose tissue samples from lean and obese phenotype subjects.
Several genes and transcripts involved in lipolysis were down-regulated, such as AKAP1, PRKAR2B, Gi and CIDEA, whereas NPY1R and CES1 were up-regulated, when comparing obese to lean subjects. Similarly, transcripts associated with cholesterol and lipoprotein metabolism showed a differential expression, with APOE and ABCA being decreased and VLDLR being increased in obese versus lean subjects. In addition, positive correlations were found between different markers of the metabolic syndrome and CES1 and NPY1R mRNA expressions, while APOE showed an inverse association with some of them.
Different expression patterns in transcripts encoding for proteins involved in lipolysis and lipoprotein metabolism were found between lean and obese subjects. Moreover, the dysregulation of genes such as CES1 and APOE seems to be associated with some physiopathological markers of insulin resistance and cardiovascular risk factors in obesity.
Intra-arterial verapamil infusion with or without balloon angioplasty is a common therapy for patients with hypertensive, hypervolemic, and nimodipine-refractory vasospasm following aSAH. Seizures occurring from IA infusion of verapamil are rare.
A 24-year-old Korean-American woman presented with aSAH from the rupture of a 5-mm ICA bifurcation aneurysm. The aneurysm was secured with clip ligation through a craniotomy, and the patient was treated with HHH therapy in the neurosurgical ICU. Routine postoperative cerebral angiography was performed to confirm occlusion of the treated aneurysm and assess for vasospasm. In the first angiogram, vasospasm was detected in the supraclinoid portion of the ICA. Intra-arterial verapamil was started; during this treatment, the patient developed right-sided focal motor seizures. The infusion was terminated and the seizures were halted with midazolam. The patient's course was unremarkable until postoperative day 7, when she developed expressive aphasia, for which she was taken for emergent cerebral angiography under anesthesia. Marked focal spasm was identified in the distal supraclinoid ICA and the left A1. The patient was treated with 25 mg of superselective verapamil infusion. Upon emerging from anesthesia, her aphasia had resolved; however, 90 minutes after angiography, she experienced generalized seizures while she was in the ICU.
Seizures are a rare complication during cerebral angiographic procedures. Intra-arterial verapamil-induced seizures are infrequently reported. Cognizance for the potential of seizures to occur is advised during verapamil infusion for the treatment of refractory vasospasm in certain individuals.
Smac mimetics block inhibitor of apoptosis proteins to trigger TNFα-dependent apoptosis in cancer cells. However, only a small subset of cancer cells seem to be sensitive to Smac mimetics and even sensitive cells can develop resistance. Herein, we elucidated mechanisms underlying the intrinsic and acquired resistance of cancer cells to Smac mimetics. In vitro and in vivo investigations revealed that the expression of the cell surface protein LRIG1, a negative regulator of receptor tyrosine kinases (RTK), is downregulated in resistant derivatives of breast cancer cells sensitive to Smac mimetics. RNA interference-mediated downregulation of LRIG1 markedly attenuated the growth inhibitory activity of the Smac mimetic SM-164 in drug-sensitive breast and ovarian cancer cells. Furthermore, LRIG1 downregulation attenuated TNFα gene expression induced by Smac mimetics and increased the activity of multiple RTKs, including c-Met and Ron. The multitargeted tyrosine kinase inhibitors Crizotinib and GSK1363089 greatly enhanced the anticancer activity of SM-164 in all resistant cell derivatives, with the combination of SM-164 and GSK1363089 also completely inhibiting the outgrowth of resistant tumors in vivo. Together, our findings show that both upregulation of RTK signaling and attenuated TNFα expression caused by LRIG1 downregulation confers resistance to Smac mimetics, with implications for a rational combination strategy.
Alkylphenol ethoxylate, which consists of approximately 80% nonylphenol ethoxylate (NPE), is a major nonionic surfactant. Nonylphenol (NP), the primary degradation product of NPE, has been reported to interfere with reproduction in fish, reptiles, and mammals by inducing cell death in the gonads and by affecting other reproductive parameters. However, the effects of NP on rat adrenal zona glomerulosa cells (ZG) and the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. In this study, we explored the effects of NP on aldosterone release. ZG cells were incubated with NP in the presence or absence of the secretagogues angiotensin II (ANG II), potassium, 8-Br-cAMP, 25-OH-cholesterol, corticosterone or cyclopiazonic acid (CPA). After performing radioimmunoassay (RIA) and Western blot analysis, we found that (1) NP stimulated aldosterone release in cells induced by ANG II, KCl, 8-Br-cAMP, 25-OH-cholesterol, corticosterone, and CPA; (2) NP triggered the release of higher amounts of pregnenolone in cells treated with vehicle and 25-OH-cholesterol+trilostane than in cells treated with other compounds; and (3) the stimulatory effect of NP seemed to be mediated through steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR) and aldosterone synthase activity. These observations suggest that the effects of NP are mediated via increased free Ca(2+) in the cytoplasm.
Rare HFE variants have been shown to be associated with hereditary hemochromatosis (HH), an iron overload disease. The low frequency of the HFE p.C282Y mutation in HH-affected Brazilian patients may suggest that other HFE-related mutations may also be implicated in the pathogenesis of HH in this population. The main aim was to screen for new HFE mutations in Brazilian individuals with primary iron overload and to investigate their relationship with HH. Fifty Brazilian patients with primary iron overload (transferrin saturation>50% in females and 60% in males) were selected. Subsequent bidirectional sequencing for each HFE exon was performed. The effect of HFE mutations on protein structure were analyzed by molecular dynamics simulation and free binding energy calculations. p.C282Y in homozygosis or in heterozygosis with p.H63D were the most frequent genotypic combinations associated with HH in our sample population (present in 17 individuals, 34%). Thirty-six (72.0%) out of the 50 individuals presented at least one HFE mutation. The most frequent genotype associated with HH was the homozygous p.C282Y mutation (n=11, 22.0%). One novel mutation (p.V256I) was indentified in heterozygosis with the p.H63D mutation. In silico modeling analysis of protein behavior indicated that the p.V256I mutation does not reduce the binding affinity between HFE and β2-microglobulin (β2M) in the same way the p.C282Y mutation does compared with the native HFE protein. In conclusion, screening of HFE through direct sequencing, as compared to p.C282Y/p.H63D genotyping, was not able to increase the molecular diagnosis yield of HH. The novel p.V256I mutation could not be implicated in the molecular basis of the HH phenotype, although its role cannot be completely excluded in HH-phenotype development. Our molecular modeling analysis can help in the analysis of novel, previously undescribed, HFE mutations.
Pericarditis is a rare but possibly severe complication of treatment of acute leukemia with cytarabine.
We report a possibly cytarabine-induced acute pericarditis and pleuritis with a rapid onset. A patient with acute myelomonocytic leukemia developed an isolated pericarditis 3 weeks after the first course of chemotherapy with cytarabine and idarubicin. The second course of chemotherapy with cytarabine and amsacrine was started after clinical improvement; 3 days later an acute pericarditis with a large pericardial effusion accompanied by a left pleural effusion developed. A pericardio- and pleuracentesis was performed and the symptoms improved rapidly without reaccumulation of the fluid. The third course of chemotherapy with mitoxantrone and etoposide was completed without further cardiopulmonary complications.
The differential diagnosis of pericarditis in the setting of chemotherapy with cytarabine should include cytarabine- induced pericarditis. The pathogenesis remains unclear, directly toxic and immunological mechanisms are suggested. Severe progression with massive pericardial effusion necessitating risky pericardiocentesis can occur and therefore a therapy with high-dose corticosteroids should be considered early.
The experimentally induced neurotoxic effects of paclitaxel and docetaxel have never been compared, since no animal models of docetaxel peripheral neurotoxicity have yet been reported. In this experiment, we examined the effect of the chronic administration of these two taxanes in the Wistar rat using neurophysiological, neuropathological and morphometrical methods. Our results showed that both paclitaxel and docetaxel induced a significant, equally severe and dose-dependent reduction in nerve conduction velocity. On the contrary, the morphometric examination demonstrated that the effect on the nerve fibres was more severe after paclitaxel administration when the same schedule was used. However, the overall severity of the pathological changes was milder than expected on the basis of the neurophysiological results. Our results support the hypothesis that taxanes (and particularly docetaxel) may exert their neurotoxic effect not only on the microtubular system of the peripheral nerves, but also on other less obvious targets.
A patient with congestive heart failure and normal renal function developed anuria during treatment with nifedipine. This acute renal failure was reversible after discontinuing the drug. Other possible causes of renal function deterioration were excluded. We suggest that nifedipine may have acutely altered renal hemodynamics.
We aimed to examine whether thalidomide might inhibit the neuronal damage resulting from focal cerebral ischemia, and if so to explore the neuroprotective mechanism. Focal cerebral ischemia was induced by permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) in mice, and thalidomide was intraperitoneally administered a total of three times (at 10 min before, just before, and 1 h after MCAO). Thalidomide significantly reduced (a) the infarct area and volume at 24 and 72 h after MCAO and (b) the neurological score at 72 h after MCAO. Brains were also histochemically assessed for apoptosis and lipid peroxidation using terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end-labeling (TUNEL) staining and an antibody recognizing 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), respectively. Thalidomide reduced both the number of TUNEL-positive cells and the oxidative damage. However, post-treatment of thalidomide [20 mg/kg, three times (at just after, 1 h after, 3 h after MCAO)] did not reduce the infarct volume. In an in vitro study, we examined the effects of thalidomide on lipid peroxidation in mouse brain homogenates and on the production of various radical species. Thalidomide inhibited both the lipid peroxidation and the production of H(2)O(2) and O(2).(-) (but not HO(-)) radicals. We also measured the brain concentration of TNF-alpha by ELISA. The TNF-alpha level in the brain was significantly increased at 9-24 h after MCAO. However, thalidomide did not reduce the elevated TNF-alpha level at either 12 or 24 h after MCAO. These findings indicate that thalidomide has neuroprotective effects against ischemic neuronal damage in mice, and that an inhibitory action of thalidomide against oxidative stress may be partly responsible for these neuroprotective effects.
The anti-arrhythmic agent amiodarone (AD) is associated with numerous adverse effects, but serious liver disease is rare. The improved safety of administration of daily low doses of AD has already been established and this regimen is used for long-term medication. Nevertheless, asymptomatic continuous liver injury by AD may increase the risk of step-wise progression of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. We present an autopsy case of AD-induced liver cirrhosis in a patient who had been treated with a low dose of AD (200 mg/d) daily for 84 mo. The patient was a 85-year-old male with a history of ischemic heart disease. Seven years after initiation of treatment with AD, he was admitted with cardiac congestion. The total dose of AD was 528 g. Mild elevation of serum aminotransferase and hepatomegaly were present. Liver biopsy specimens revealed cirrhosis, and under electron microscopy numerous lysosomes with electron-dense, whorled, lamellar inclusions characteristic of a secondary phospholipidosis were observed. Initially, withdrawal of AD led to a slight improvement of serum aminotransferase levels, but unfortunately his general condition deteriorated and he died from complications of pneumonia and renal failure. Long-term administration of daily low doses of AD carries the risk of progression to irreversible liver injury. Therefore, periodic examination of liver function and/or liver biopsy is required for the management of patients receiving long-term treatment with AD.
A 61-year-old woman experienced a cardiopulmonary arrest immediately after the retrobulbar injection of a mixture of 2 ml of 0.5% bupivacaine HCl, 2% mepivacaine HCl, and hyaluronidase. The patient was immediately resuscitated but remained unconscious for a total of 20 minutes. All neurologic deficits resolved completely over the two hours following the cardiopulmonary arrest and no adverse sequelae were noted. We assumed that this cardiopulmonary arrest was precipitated by the local anesthetic being transported via retrograde flow through the ophthalmic artery and then by antegrade flow through the internal carotid artery to the thalamus and other midbrain structures.
A 31-year-old man with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and biopsy-proved Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia developed acute renal failure, elevated creatinine kinase levels, and myoglobin in both serum and urine while being treated with pentamidine. The patient was receiving no other nephrotoxic medications at the time, and these unusual complications were directly related to the pentamidine.
The second generation fibric acid derivative, bezafibrate (Bezalip, Norlip) is widely used as a hypolipemic agent throughout Europe and Israel. Its side-effects are well documented, and include myositis, which is considered very rare. We report a 55-year-old diabetic woman with hypertension who had mild renal dysfunction (creatinine 2.0 mg/dl) who received 400 mg/d bezafibrate because of combined (Type IIb) hyperlipoproteinemia. She developed acute myositis, with extreme muscle weakness, pain and CPK levels of up to 3500 units. On discontinuation of the drug all clinical and biochemical features ceased and complete cure followed. No other symptoms have appeared during 2 years of followup. The few reports of such cases in the German literature point to a greater prevalence of myositis in those with renal dysfunction. Early diagnosis of bezafibrate-induced myositis is crucial, a discontinuation of the drug results in cure.
