The long-term use of methamphetamine (MAP) induces a psychotic state, called MAP psychosis. To understand the neuromechanisms of the persistent psychosis, we used SPECT, MR spectroscopy (MRS), and PET on the MAP users. The SPECT study showed a high incidence of multiple patchy deficits in cerebral blood flow among the users. The MRS study MAP users showed a significantly reduced ratio of creatine plus phosphocreatine (Cr + PCr)/choline-containing compounds (Cho) in the brain compared with the healthy control subjects. In addition, the reduction in the ratio of Cr + PCr/Cho was significantly correlated with the duration of MAP use and with the severity of residual psychiatric symptoms. PET revealed no significant differences between the ex-users of MAP and the healthy controls in the density of striatal dopamine D2 receptors. On the other hand, the density of dopamine transporter in the nucleus accumbens and caudate/putamen in the MAP users was significantly less compared with the controls. This reduction was significantly correlated with the length of use and severity of psychotic symptoms. These findings suggest that long-term use of MAP causes abnormal cerebral blood flow patterns, reduction of brain dopamine transporter density, and metabolite alteration, which may be closely related to a susceptibility to MAP psychosis.
Adult exposure to NMDA receptor antagonists, such as ketamine, produces psychosis in humans, and exacerbates symptoms in schizophrenic patients. We recently showed that ketamine activates the innate immune enzyme NADPH-oxidase in brain, and that the superoxide produced leads to dysfunction of a subset of fast-spiking inhibitory interneurons expressing the calcium-binding protein parvalbumin (PV). Here we show that neuronal production of interleukin-6 (IL-6) is necessary and sufficient for ketamine-mediated activation of NADPH-oxidase in brain. Removal of IL-6 in neuronal cultures by anti-IL-6 blocking antibodies, or in vivo by use of IL-6-deficient mice, prevented the increase in superoxide by ketamine and rescued the interneurons. Accumulating evidence suggests that schizophrenia patients suffer from diminished antioxidant defenses, and a recent clinical trial showed that enhancing these defenses may ameliorate symptoms of the disease. Our results showing that ketamine-induced IL-6 is responsible for the activation of NADPH-oxidase in brain suggest that reducing brain levels of this cytokine may protect the GABAergic phenotype of fast-spiking PV-interneurons and thus attenuate the propsychotic effects of ketamine.
A case of acute arterial thrombosis of the branches of the internal iliac, femoral and popliteal arteries is reported in a 38-year-old man receiving intravenous cisplatin-vinblastine-methotrexate therapy for carcinoma of the urethra. The patient had no angiographic evidence of atheromatous disease or tumour invasion of the occluded arteries and no source of emboli. Although cisplatin and vinblastine are known to cause a variety of vaso-occlusive complications, acute large-vessel arterial occlusion has not previously been reported with this combination of agents.
RGS9-deficient mice show drug-induced dyskinesia but normal locomotor activity under unchallenged conditions.
Genes related to Ca2+ signaling and their functions were regulated in RGS9-deficient mice.
Changes in Ca2+ signaling that compensate for RGS9 loss-of-function can explain the normal locomotor activity in RGS9-deficient mice under unchallenged conditions.
Identified signaling components may represent novel targets in antidyskinetic therapy. The long splice variant of the regulator of G-protein signaling 9 (RGS9-2) is enriched in striatal medium spiny neurons and dampens dopamine D2 receptor signaling. Lack of RGS9-2 can promote while its overexpression prevents drug-induced dyskinesia. Other animal models of drug-induced dyskinesia rather pointed towards overactivity of dopamine receptor-mediated signaling. To evaluate changes in signaling pathways mRNA expression levels were determined and compared in wild-type and RGS9-deficient mice. Unexpectedly, expression levels of dopamine receptors were unchanged in RGS9-deficient mice, while several genes related to Ca2+ signaling and long-term depression were differentially expressed when compared to wild type animals. Detailed investigations at the protein level revealed hyperphosphorylation of DARPP32 at Thr34 and of ERK1/2 in striata of RGS9-deficient mice. Whole cell patch clamp recordings showed that spontaneous synaptic events are increased (frequency and size) in RGS9-deficient mice while long-term depression is reduced in acute brain slices. These changes are compatible with a Ca2+-induced potentiation of dopamine receptor signaling which may contribute to the drug-induced dyskinesia in RGS9-deficient mice.
Two hundred current surgical procedures were done in adult patients using neuroleptanalgesia with either methohexital (1 mg/kg) or etomidate induction (0.3 mg/kg) in half of the cases. The cardiovascular function was less altered with etomidate (less occurrence of tachycardia, blood pressure drops or systolo-diastolic pinching). The etomidate dosage chosen more often gave an immediate satisfactory sleep. However, with methohexital induction, less signs of awakening were observed during the surgical procedure. The frequent postoperative somnolence also points, although indirectly, to a longer residual effect of the barbiturate. Both drugs sometimes gave erythema. The injection of etomidate was more frequently painful in the arm. On the other hand, hiccups occurred with methohexital induction only. Etomidate induced myoclonia in one-third of the cases premedicated with diazepam and after preliminary injection of a minimal amount of fentanyl. Without these precautions, myoclonia can occur in two-thirds of the patients. However, these myoclonia are bothersome and of prolonged duration in rare instances and would be of real annoyance only when this drug would be used alone for surgical procedures of short duration where perfect patient immobility is required. We therefore conclude and confirm that etomidate is a good induction agent for neuroleptanalgesia anesthesia procedures.
Tonsillectomy under general anesthesia, one of the most commonplace operations there are, is more of a problem for the anesthetist than for the surgeon. Once intubated, the child or adult will be protected from any operative risks by correct ventilation and the protection of his upper airways. The only problem is that arising from the anesthesia required to carry out this intubation and from the consequences of this anesthesia on the waking period, which should be brief in order to avoid, after detubation, any reactions which might induce excessively deep sleep at that moment. In this respect we found etomidate, with its short duration of action, even after reinjection, just as interesting as methohexital. We should mention, however, that his product presents certain disadvantages the most troublesome of which seemed to be the pain provoked when this substance is injected. A new solution (of basic etomidate) still hardly presented this disadvantage.
The underlying principle in interpreting data from positron emission tomography (PET) is that increases and decreases of synaptic activity in the brain are accompanied by equivalent changes in regional blood flow. However, given the relatively low spatial resolution of PET, regional indices of neural activity can be influenced by signals from nonneural elements in the intracranial space. We have used PET to study the functional neuroanatomy of headache syndromes, such as cluster headache and experimental headache, by observing activation in brain that is due to synaptic activity. In these studies we noted a bilateral activation in midline structures over several planes that, based on its anatomy, is likely to arise from bilateral large intracranial arteries in the region of the cavernous sinus. We have observed this activity in two different group studies and in 11 of 17 single-subject studies. The most likely explanation for this "activation" is the increased volume of space occupied by dilated large vessels containing H215O. We further defined the anatomy of the PET findings using magnetic resonance angiography, which showed bilateral vasodilatation of the internal carotid artery and the basilar artery in nitroglycerin-induced cluster headache attacks. While the fact that vascular structures can contaminate PET-based blood flow studies may be well known to methodological experts, the issue is less well recognized outside the immediate field.
We investigated the effect of acute renal failure on the neurotoxicity of ranitidine in rats. Experimental acute renal failure was produced by bilateral ureteral ligation. Ranitidine was infused into the ureter ligated (UL) and control rats at the rate of 3.25 mg/min through the jugular vein until the onset of clonic convulsion. In UL rats, the onset time of convulsion was shorter and ranitidine concentrations in plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) were lower than those of control rats. However, the ranitidine concentration in the brain at the onset of convulsion was not different between the UL and control rats. From these findings, we concluded that acute renal failure is one of the risk factors for ranitidine neurotoxicity, and the increased sensitivity to the drug on the central nervous system may contribute to the increased toxicity of ranitidine in renal failure.
We compared three methods: arteriovenous anastomosis, doxorubicin administration, and combination of anastomosis and doxorubicin, with the intention of designing a simple, stable model of chronic heart failure. Twelve dogs were divided into three groups of four. One group received carotid-jugular anastomosis (Ana series), another group received anastomosis and doxorubicin injection (A/D series), and the last group received only doxorubicin (Dox series). Animals were followed for eight weeks. Fifteen different haemodynamic parameters were tracked and compared to baseline values. After eight weeks, diastolic pressure in the right atrium increased from 3.8+/-2.0 mmHg at baseline to 5.3+/-5.9 mmHg in the Ana series, to 6.3+/-3.3 mmHg in the Dox series and to 8.0+/-2.0 mmHg in the A/D series (P<0.05 A/D vs. baseline). Systolic pulmonary wedge pressure increased from 11.6+/-2.0 mmHg at baseline to 15.5+/-3.4 mmHg in the Ana series, 14.0+/-3.7 mmHg in the Dox series and 17.3+/-4.2 mmHg in the A/D series (P = NS vs. baseline). Left ventricular ejection fraction decreased from 53.9+/-10% at baseline to 36.1+/-5.6% in the Ana series (P<0.05 vs. baseline), 31.5+/-5.4% in the Dox series (P<0.05 vs. baseline) and 25.8+/-5.8% in the A/D series (P<0.001 vs. baseline, P<0.05 vs. Ana series and Dox series). In conclusion, eight weeks are not enough to produce stable heart failure using arteriovenous anastomosis alone. Doxorubicin administration alone produces a left ventricular failure. However, a combination of both of these interventions provides a more stable model of right-and left-sided heart failure.
Arsenic is well established as a human carcinogen, but its precise mechanism of action remains unknown. Arsenic does not directly damage DNA, but may act as a carcinogen through inhibition of DNA repair mechanisms, leading indirectly to increased mutations from other DNA damaging agents. The molecular mechanism underlying arsenic inhibition of nucleotide excision repair after UV irradiation (Hartwig et al., Carcinogenesis 1997;18:399-405) is unknown, but could be due to decreased expression of critical genes involved in nucleotide excision repair of damaged DNA. This hypothesis was tested by analyzing expression of repair genes and arsenic exposure in a subset of 16 individuals enrolled in a population based case-control study investigating arsenic exposure and cancer risk in New Hampshire. Toenail arsenic levels were inversely correlated with expression of critical members of the nucleotide excision repair complex, ERCC1 (r(2) = 0.82, p < 0.0001), XPF (r(2) = 0.56, p < 0.002), and XPB (r(2) = 0.75, p < 0.0001). The internal dose marker, toenail arsenic level, was more strongly associated with changes in expression of these genes than drinking water arsenic concentration. Our findings, based on human exposure to arsenic in a US population, show an association between biomarkers of arsenic exposure and expression of DNA repair genes. Although our findings need verification in a larger study group, they are consistent with the hypothesis that inhibition of DNA repair capacity is a potential mechanism for the co-carcinogenic activity of arsenic.
Since its initial description in the early 1990s, the Brugada syndrome has become increasingly familiar to active researchers and practicing clinicians. The Brugada wave, a characteristic electrocardiographic abnormality of downsloping ST-segment elevation in leads V1-V3 and right bundle-branch block morphology, has now been associated with an increased risk of sudden death. Currently, very little is known about the relationship between the Brugada syndrome and tricyclic antidepressants. Accordingly, we report the case of a patient who developed prominent Brugada waves with the administration of increasing doses of desipramine. We believe the mechanism of Brugada wave augmentation or production secondary to tricyclic antidepressants is consistent with the current model of early repolarization. We also speculate that the increased risk of sudden death that may occur with tricyclic antidepressants could be related to the development of the Brugada syndrome. We advocate the judicious use of tricyclic antidepressants in cardiac and elderly patients, with careful monitoring of the electrocardiogram for the development Brugada waves.
Cisplatin is widely used for cancer chemotherapy, but nephrotoxicity is a major dose-limiting side effect. Our recent studies in vitro have shown that pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) ameliorated cisplatin nephrotoxicity and that the renoprotection with PACAP38 was mediated by the PAC(1) receptor and through the p53-dependent and -independent suppression of apoptosis of human renal proximal tubular epithelial cells. In the present studies, PACAP38 prevented the rise in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine in mice treated with cisplatin. Cisplatin-exposed mice treated with PACAP38 had relatively well-preserved tubular integrity, even when the treatment started 24 h after cisplatin exposure. PACAP38 also reduced plasma and kidney levels of tumor necrosis factor-α and restored collagen IV levels. The damage to mouse kidney tubules caused by cisplatin involved p53 accumulation and was partially reversed by treatment with PACAP38. PACAP38 ameliorates cisplatin-induced acute kidney injury even when treatment started 24 h after the onset of injury and increases tubular regeneration, which further facilitates restoration of kidney function in addition to its anti-apoptotic effects.
Cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) has been demonstrated to play a role in regulating the rewarding and reinforcing effects of various drugs of abuse. A recent study demonstrated that i.c.v. administration of CART negatively modulates reinstatement of alcohol seeking, however, the site(s) of action remains unclear. We investigated the paraventricular thalamus (PVT) as a potential site of relapse-relevant CART signaling, as this region is known to receive dense innervation from CART-containing hypothalamic cells and to project to a number of regions known to be involved in mediating reinstatement, including the nucleus accumbens (NAC), medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and basolateral amygdala (BLA).
Male rats were trained to self-administer cocaine before being extinguished to a set criterion. One day following extinction, animals received intra-PVT infusions of saline, tetrodotoxin (TTX; 2.5 ng), CART (0.625 µg or 2.5 µg) or no injection, followed by a cocaine prime (10 mg/kg, i.p.). Animals were then tested under extinction conditions for one hour. Treatment with either TTX or CART resulted in a significant attenuation of drug-seeking behaviour following cocaine-prime, with the 2.5 µg dose of CART having the greatest effect. This effect was specific to the PVT region, as misplaced injections of both TTX and CART resulted in responding that was identical to controls.
We show for the first time that CART signaling within the PVT acts to inhibit drug-primed reinstatement of cocaine seeking behaviour, presumably by negatively modulating PVT efferents that are important for drug seeking, including the NAC, mPFC and BLA. In this way, we identify a possible target for future pharmacological interventions designed to suppress drug seeking.
A variety of movement disorders are known to occur in association with carbamazepine (CBZ) therapy in adults and children, but development of tics has been described infrequently and only in patients with underlying Tourette's syndrome or other movement disorders. We report 3 children with epilepsy who developed facial motor tics after initiation of CBZ for complex partial seizures. All 3 had documented CBZ blood levels in the therapeutic range at the time, and none had other symptoms or signs of clinical intoxication. Neurologic examinations were normal in 2 and showed developmental delay of expressive language in the third. Brain imaging was normal in all. After development of the tics in 2, CBZ was continued at the same or higher dose, and the tics abated and then ceased spontaneously < or = 6 months. In the third child, the tics ceased after CBZ discontinuation. These cases demonstrate that CBZ can induce simple motor tics in children. These idiosyncratic reactions may be transient and do not always necessitate drug discontinuation.
Phenotypically altered liver foci were produced in female Wistar rats by a single dose of N-nitrosomorpholine followed by promotion with phenobarbital (PB) for 20 or 28 weeks. Then treatment was changed to either hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH), or cyproterone acetate (CPA), or nafenopin (Naf) or clofibrate (Clof), two hypolipidemic drugs. Foci were identified by a positive reaction for gamma-glutamyl-transpeptidase (GGT) and other cytological markers. HCH and CPA could substitute for PB as foci promoters; in contrast, Naf and Clof decreased expression of GGT in foci resulting in a decline of number and area of detectable foci, effects particularly pronounced with Naf. Immunohistochemical investigations of serial sections revealed that Naf also reduced expression of the altered phenotype when cytochrome P450-PB and pyruvate kinase (type L) were used as foci markers, but not when glutathione-S-transferase B (GST-B) was used. Thus, the number of foci with enhanced GST-B did not decline significantly after the change from PB to Naf treatment. Furthermore, the reduction of GGT and the decrease of foci number during Naf treatment were not associated with increased evidence of cell death by apoptosis in foci, in contrast to the situation after PB withdrawal. These findings strongly suggest that the disappearance of GGT-positive foci after Naf is due to a phenotypic change resulting in a suppression of GGT expression rather than to physical elimination of foci.
This study clarifies the modulating action of the nicotinic cholinergic system on reinstatement of methamphetamine (MAP)-seeking behavior (craving) using an intravenous, self-administration paradigm in rats. After self-administration of MAP for 10 days, replacing MAP with saline solution (MAP withdrawal) gradually decreased lever-pressing responses. On the sixth day of MAP withdrawal, MAP (1.0 mg/kg, i.p.)-priming injection significantly increased lever-pressing responses (reinstatement of MAP-seeking behavior). This MAP-seeking behavior was attenuated by repeated nicotine administration for 5 days during MAP withdrawal, and this attenuating effect was antagonized by the nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine. These results suggest that the appearance of MAP-seeking behavior may be due to inactivation of the nicotinic cholinergic neuron. Furthermore, it is suggested that nicotinic activating agents may be useful in preventing relapse to drug abuse.
Treatment records of 1800 patients with rheumatoid arthritis who were included in the clinical trials of auranofin in the United States were examined for data on development of proteinuria. Three percent (41) of 1283 auranofin-treated patients had an abnormal 24-hour urine protein level: 15 had mild (0.15 to 1 g/d), 17 had moderate (1 to 3.5 g/d), and 9 had heavy (greater than 3.5 g/d) proteinuria. Permanent renal impairment did not occur, and proteinuria did not persist beyond 12 months in most patients. Seven of eight patients who were rechallenged when the proteinuria had cleared were able to continue treatment without relapse. No clinically discernible risk factors were found. Biopsy specimens from 4 patients showed membranous glomerulonephritis, which indicates an underlying immunopathologic mechanism. In similar groups of patients, the risk of developing proteinuria with auranofin therapy is significantly less than that with parenteral gold therapy (p less than 0.05) and similar to that with background therapy with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (p = 0.92). The lower incidence and relatively benign nature of proteinuria seen in this review support previous findings that auranofin is better tolerated than injectable gold.
Mitotane is an important adrenalytic drug for the treatment of adrenal cancer whose use is limited by toxicity. Reports from another laboratory indicated that a methylated homolog of Mitotane (Mitometh) tested in guinea pigs possessed comparable adrenalytic activity but was less toxic than Mitotane. This observation prompted us to undertake a comparative study of these two drugs on the basis that Mitometh may be a superior agent for the treatment of adrenal cancer. Preliminary studies in guinea pigs failed to show a significant adrenalytic effect for either Mitotane or Mitometh. Thus, we extended the study to 13 mongrel dogs weighing 12-15 kg that were treated daily with Mitometh or Mitotane (50-100 mg/kg) for 6 or 12 days. Cortisol decreased to undetectable levels and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) rose to 10 times the baseline levels within 72 h in Mitotane-treated animals. Despite the achievement of similar drug levels, Mitometh treatment in dogs failed to suppress cortisol or increase ACTH. To determine whether these differences were due to differences in bioavailability, we measured the relative concentration of Mitotane and Mitometh in homogenates of adrenal cortex obtained from Mitotane- and Mitometh-treated dogs. The adrenal concentration of Mitometh determined in Mitometh-treated dogs was 5 times higher than the concentration of Mitotane measured in Mitotane-treated animals. Whereas the adrenal glands of Mitotane-treated dogs showed hemorrhage and necrosis, the Mitometh-treated animals showed no adrenal damage. Despite the lack of adrenalytic activity, Mitometh maintained its toxicity as demonstrated by microscopic evidence of hepatic necrosis and an increase in hepatic enzymes. The adrenalytic effects of both agents was also studied in vitro using a human functioning adrenal cortical carcinoma cell line, NCI-H295. Whereas Mitotane strongly suppressed cell growth, Mitometh had a weaker effect. We conclude that Mitometh is not likely to be effective in the therapy of adrenal cancer. Moreover, the results of this study are supportive of the view that metabolic transformation of Mitotane is in some way linked to its adrenalytic action.
425 patients showing mild coronary artery disease (CAD) on arteriography were enrolled in a multicentre trial and randomised to treatment with nifedipine (80 mg/day) or placebo. The two groups were well matched for age, sex, and risk factors. 348 patients (82%) underwent repeat arteriography 3 years later; 282 (134 nifedipine, 148 placebo) had received treatment throughout, but treatment had been stopped in 39 nifedipine-treated and 27 placebo-treated patients after average periods of 354 and 467 days. Computer-assisted measurements of arteriograms from all restudied patients (175 placebo, 173 nifedipine) showed no significant differences in the number or severity of lesions on initial arteriograms, or in the progression or regression of existing lesions over 3 years. In contrast, the number of new lesions per patient was significantly lower in the nifedipine group than in the placebo group (0.59 vs 0.82 lesions per patient, a 28% reduction). Thus in patients with mild CAD nifedipine substantially suppresses disease progression as shown by the appearance of new lesions detectable by quantitative coronary arteriography.
1. Calcium channel blockers (CCBs) are reported to affect extrapyramidal motor behavior in mammals. Since sex related differences are a common feature in the pharmacological properties of several centrally active drugs, the authors decided to investigate the effects of verapamil (VER), flunarizine (FLU) and nimodipine (NIM), three pharmacologically different CCBs, on neuroleptic-induced catalepsy in male and female albino mice. 2. Catalepsy was induced with haloperidol (0.75 mg/kg, i.p.) and measured at 30-min intervals by means of a bar test. Drugs (or appropriate vehicle, for the controls) were injected i.p. 20 min before haloperidol, with each animal being used only once. 3. VER (1, 5 and 10 mg/kg) did not significantly affect catalepsy in male mice. In females, however, a significant attenuation of catalepsy was found at the two higher doses. 4. FLU (1, 5 and 10 mg/kg) did not significantly affect catalepsy in male mice, whilst a significant attenuation was observed in females with the doses of 1 and 5 mg/kg (but not with the dose of 10 mg/kg). 5. NIM (3, 10 and 30 mg/kg) potentiated neuroleptic-catalepsy in males at the doses of 10 and 30 mg/kg. In females, however, only the higher dose of NIM caused a potentiation of catalepsy. 6. These results demonstrate the existence of sex related differences in the extrapyramidal effects of CCBs in mice. Further, this sex related effect might depend, among other factors, on the particular channel involved.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) are known to exhibit far less cardiac side effects than tricyclic antidepressants. We report three cases in which the SSRI, paroxetine, induced clinically relevant ECG changes in patients with high risk profile. In two cases an increase in QTc time was observed, severe bradycardia was also observed twice.
Acute intravenous administration of doxorubicin (30 and 50 mg/kg) elicited cardiac arrhythmias in the mouse, the severity and extent of which were dependent upon dose of doxorubicin and the anesthetic agent utilized. Fatal arrhythmias occurred in all mice given 50 mg/kg doxorubicin under ether anesthesia. Vasoactive amines may mediate the arrhythmogenicity of acute doxorubicin administration.
We examined whether inhaled frusemide could reduce the potentiation of capsaicin-induced cough by prostaglandin (PG) F2 alpha. Eight non-smoking normal subjects, after a baseline capsaicin challenge were given inhaled frusemide or saline followed by capsaicin challenge, then PGF2 alpha and finally capsaicin challenge again. PGF2 alpha-induced coughs were reduced after frusemide to 3.6 +/- 1.0 compared with 5.7 +/- 1.2 after saline (P less than 0.05). PGF2 alpha increased capsaicin-induced coughs by 11.1 +/- 3.7 and 7.9 +/- 3.4 after placebo and frusemide, respectively (P less than 0.05). Frusemide had no effect on capsaicin-induced cough alone. Changes in local ionic concentrations by frusemide, particularly chloride ions within the vicinity of epithelial cough receptors, may determine the cough response to low chloride solutions and to PGF2 alpha, but not to capsaicin which acts directly on the cough receptors, and alter the sensitivity of the receptors to capsaicin.
Although remifentanil provides profound analgesia during operation, postoperative occurrence of hyperalgesia and tolerance after remifentanil administration could be a challenge to the postoperative pain control. In this investigation, we sought to determine the effect of maintenance with propofol or sevoflurane on postoperative analgesia after remifentanil-based anaesthesia.
Two hundred and fourteen women undergoing breast cancer surgery under remifentanil-based general anaesthesia were randomly included in this prospective and double-blind trial. The patients were anaesthetized with sevoflurane (S) or propofol (P) under high (H) or low (L) effect-site concentration (Ce) of remifentanil-based anaesthesia using a target-controlled infusion system; the patients were allocated into the SH, SL, PH, and PL groups. Pain intensity (visual analogue score, VAS) and cumulative morphine requirements were recorded 30 min, 1, 6, 12, and 24 h after operation.
The patient characteristics were similar. Cumulative morphine consumption at 24 h after surgery was higher in the SH group [38.6 (sd 14.9)] compared with the SL [31.5 (3.7)], PH [31.7 (8.3)], and PL groups [30.1 (6.1)] (P<0.001). The VAS scores during 24 h after surgery were also higher in the SH group than the SL, PH, and PL groups (P<0.001).
Remifentanil hyperalgesia was induced by high dose of remifentanil-based anaesthesia during sevoflurane anaesthesia, whereas that was not apparent during propofol anaesthesia. Also, remifentanil hyperalgesia did not occur during low dose of remifentanil-based anaesthesia. Maintenance of propofol during high-dose remifentanil-based anaesthesia provided better postoperative analgesia.
One hundred and eighteen consecutively identified AIDS patients, 88 of whom received zidovudine (1000-1200 mg/day), were followed for 1 year to investigate prospectively the relationship between zidovudine and myopathy. Clinical and biochemical evidence of proximal myopathy was seen in 7 of 41 patients (17%) who had been receiving zidovudine for more than 270 days, but in none of those on short-term therapy and in none of the controls. Serum creatine kinase levels rose a mean of 76 days (range 34-187) before the onset of clinical signs. Creatine kinase returned to normal within 4 weeks of cessation of zidovudine and strength returned within 8 weeks, though loss of muscle bulk persisted. Chronic malaise, anorexia and nausea accompanied the myopathy and remitted within 8 weeks of stopping zidovudine. Muscle histology in four patients with myopathy showed fibre size variation with atrophic, necrotic and degenerating fibres and an absence of inflammation. Ultrastructural studies showed glycogen-packed sarcoplasm, lipid droplets and grossly giant mitochondria. These abnormalities improved substantially after stopping zidovudine. Similar but less marked changes were seen in a zidovudine treated patient without myopathy, but were absent in one AIDS patient not taking the drug. Long-term zidovudine therapy is associated with a mitochondrial myopathy and the constitutional features suggest that it is part of a wider disorder affecting cellular function in other tissues.
A new clinical evaluation form was developed to compare the clinical features of nicotine dependence with those associated with other abused drugs. A new scoring system for clinical evaluation was developed. The form consisted of five scoring items: subjective effects, liking (of drug), withdrawal syndrome, acute psychic and physical disorders, and social disturbance. A preliminary clinical investigation was performed to test the validity of the evaluation form. Study subjects were those showing dependence on nicotine (cigarette smoking, n = 40), alcohol (n = 39), methamphetamine (n = 31), and inhalants (n = 30), who fulfilled the DSM-IV-TR criteria for drug dependence disregarding the state of "a maladaptive pattern of substance use, leading to clinically significant impairment or distress," and gave written informed consent for participation in the study. Nicotine caused a mild or the least degree of subjective effects, liking, and psychic and physical withdrawal symptoms, without any significant social disturbance or acute disorders. With alcohol, liking, withdrawal syndrome, and acute physical disorders were prominent. Methamphetamine produced the most serious acute psychic disorders, with intensive acute physical disorders and psychic withdrawal symptoms. Inhalants were characterized by an intensive degree of acute psychic disorders. As for social disturbance, alcohol, methamphetamine, and inhalants showed more significant influence than nicotine. Our study findings revealed that the clinical features of drug dependence could be evaluated by using the new clinical evaluation form. Further study is required to clarify the clinical features of nicotine dependence compared with those of other drugs of dependence.
We reported two patients with severe motor and intellectual disabilities syndrome, who were born to mothers having inhaled organic solvents during pregnancy. They had microcephaly, cerebral palsy, mental retardation, seizures, growth failure and minor craniofacial anomalies, variable growth deficiency including a small midface, narrow bifrontal diameter, low-set ears, thin upper lips and micrognathia. Patient 1, a male, died at 8 years and 8 months. The autopsy of his brain revealed marked cerebral atrophy and destruction of bilateral temporal lobes with ventricular enlargements. Microscopic examination revealed migration disorders with polymicrogria at the remaining cerebrum and the cerebellum as well as very thin white matter. Much hemosiderin was found around ventricles, suggesting recurrent minimal bleedings which led to more brain atrophy. Patient 2, a 5 months old male infant, had infantile spasms. On CT and MRI, he had bilateral temporal lobe defect, which might be due to the infarction of bilateral middle cerebral arteries at the prenatal period. These clinical findings are similar to those of other embryopathies, caused by alcohol, phenytoin and other agents. Hersh et al. reported five cases of toluene embryopathy in 1985 and 1988, but they did not report such central nervous system abnormalities. The pathogenesis of toluene embryopathy remains to be solved, but our cases suggested the possible teratogenesis of toluene.
Circulating soluble CD86 (sCD86) levels are elevated in a number of leukaemias and are an independent prognostic factor in acute myeloid leukaemia. We investigated the clinical significance of circulating sCD86 in 299 patients from the UK Medical Research Council myeloma VIth trial, where patients received ABCM [adriamycin, carmustine (BCNU), cyclophosphamide, melphalan] either alone or with prednisolone (ABCM + P). Serum levels of sCD86 were significantly elevated (P = 0.0001) in myeloma patients and using the median normal donor level (0.621 ng/ml) as a cut-off point, 70% of patients had elevated levels (range = 0.015-15.87 ng/ml, median = 1.1 ng/ml). In univariate analysis elevated sCD86 levels were associated with significantly shorter (P < 0.001) survival (median = 22 vs. 51 months) and event-free survival (median = 14 vs. 31 months) in ABCM + P but not ABCM patients. Multivariate analysis demonstrated that sCD86 was a significant, independent prognostic marker of both overall [risk ratio (RR) = 2.04, P = 0.0006] and event-free (RR = 1.95, P = 0.0004) survival in ABCM + P patients. In conclusion, this study demonstrated that sCD86 levels are a significant independent prognostic marker in at least some myeloma treatment groups and its biological role and prognostic value should be further investigated.
