The organophosphorus compound sarin irreversibly inhibits acetylcholinesterase. We examined the acute cardiovascular effects of a sarin-like organophosphorus agent, bis(isopropyl methyl)phosphonate (BIMP), in anaesthetized, artificially ventilated rats. Intravenous administration of BIMP (0.8mg/kg; the LD50 value) induced a long-lasting increase in blood pressure and tended to increase heart rate. In rats pretreated with the non-selective muscarinic-receptor antagonist atropine, BIMP significantly increased both heart rate and blood pressure. In atropine-treated rats, hexamethonium (antagonist of ganglionic nicotinic receptors) greatly attenuated the BIMP-induced increase in blood pressure without changing the BIMP-induced increase in heart rate. In rats treated with atropine plus hexamethonium, intravenous phentolamine (non-selective α-adrenergic receptor antagonist) plus propranolol (non-selective β-adrenergic receptor antagonist) completely blocked the BIMP-induced increases in blood pressure and heart rate. In atropine-treated rats, the reversible acetylcholinesterase inhibitor neostigmine (1mg/kg) induced a transient increase in blood pressure, but had no effect on heart rate. These results suggest that in anaesthetized rats, BIMP induces powerful stimulation of sympathetic as well as parasympathetic nerves and thereby modulates heart rate and blood pressure. They may also indicate that an action independent of acetylcholinesterase inhibition contributes to the acute cardiovascular responses induced by BIMP.
Six female beagle dogs were given a daily dose of 100 mg MOCA, by capsule, 3 days per week for the first 6 weeks and then 5 days per week continuously for periods up to 9.0 years. The dose varied from 8 to 15 mg/kg body weight/day among the dogs. Six female beagle dogs were kept as untreated controls. The test was terminated after 9.0 years of treatment. The average plasma glutamic-pyruvic transaminase activity of the dogs fed MOCA was higher than that of the controls during the first and last two years on test. During the eighth and ninth years the urine sediment from MOCA dogs contained excessive numbers of erythrocytes, leukocytes, and epithelial cells. Some epithelial cells contained abnormalities that suggested neoplasia in the genitourinary tract. One MOCA dog, sacrificed after 8.3 years on test was found to have a papillary transitional cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder. Of four MOCA dogs sacrificed after 9.0 years on test, three were found to have papillary transitional cell carcinomas of the urinary bladder and one had a combined transitional cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma of the urethra. The urethral tumor had metastasized to the liver, but the papillary transitional cell carcinomas found in the other four dogs did not invade the muscle layers of the bladder wall and did not metastasize. Since no urinary bladder tumors were found in the six control dogs, MOCA was considered to be carcinogenic for the urinary bladder of dogs under the conditions employed (p less than 0.025, Fisher's Exact Test, one tail). Three of five MOCA dogs contained hyperplastic nodules in the liver with no such nodules in six control dogs (p greater than 0.05, Fisher's Exact Test, one tail). This was considered to be suggestive of an effect of MOCA treatment.
To determine the mechanisms of glucocorticoids in inhibiting advanced prostate cancer growth.
The cell proliferation and cell cycle of prostate cancer DU145 cells following dexamethasone treatment were determined by proliferation assay and fluorescence-activated cell sorter. Western blot analysis was carried out to evaluate the effects of dexamethasone on phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)1/2 and expression of cyclin D1 in DU145 cells with or without glucocorticoid receptor (GR) antagonist RU486. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction verified the expression of GR mRNA in DU145 cells.
Dexamethasone significantly inhibited DU145 cell proliferation at the G(0)/G(1) phase. Western blot analysis showed a dramatic reduction of ERK1/2 activity and cyclin D1 expression in dexamethasone-treated cells. The decreased phosphorylation of ERK1/2 in dexamethasone-treated cells was attenuated by GR blockade. Additionally, the effects of dexamethasone in inhibiting cyclin D1 expression were altered by GR blockade.
Dexamethasone suppresses DU145 cell proliferation and cell cycle, and the underlying mechanisms are through the inhibition of phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and cyclin D1 expression. The inhibition of ERK1/2 phosphorylation and cyclin D1 expression is attenuated by GR blockade, suggesting that GR regulates ERK1/2 and cyclin D1 pathways. These observations suggest that dexamethasone has a potential clinical application in prostate cancer therapy.
Continuous thoracic epidural analgesia is considered by many the gold standard for post-thoracotomy pain control but is associated with its own complications. In this study we compare continuous paravertebral extrapleural to epidural infusion for post-thoracotomy pain control.
In a prospective fashion, 50 patients were randomized to receive either paravertebral or epidural infusion for post-thoracotomy pain control. The anesthesia department placed epidurals, and the operative surgeon placed unilateral paravertebral catheters. Patients were evaluated for analgesic efficacy and postoperative complications.
We found that both methods of analgesia provide adequate postoperative pain control. Epidural infusion demonstrated an improved efficacy early in the postoperative course but provided statistically similar analgesia to paravertebral by postoperative day 2. Neither group demonstrated a greater number of pain-related complications. Narcotic-induced complications such as pruritus, nausea/vomiting, and postural hypotension/mental status changes/respiratory depression were seen with statistically similar frequency in both epidural and paravertebral arms. Urinary retention, however, was noted to be significantly more frequent in patients with epidural catheters. Drug toxicity was not observed with either epidural or paravertebral infusion.
We recommend continuous paravertebral infusion as an improved method of post-thoracotomy analgesia that can be placed and managed by the surgeon.
After pilocarpine-induced epilepsy in rats, volumetric magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) reveals significant morphologic changes in functionally relevant structures of the brain. To relate structural changes to functional alteration, we studied the correlation of regional brain atrophy (e.g., of the hippocampus) with lesion-induced learning deficits in the Morris water maze.
MRI experiments were performed on an MR scanner at 4.7 Tesla. For volumetric analysis, various cerebral structures were segmented in horizontal and coronal T(2)-weighted MR images. Before the MRI investigations, animals were trained for 10 days in a Morris water maze.
Volumetric MRI revealed a significant loss in hippocampal size in both the dorsal and ventral parts, correlated with an increase in ventricular size. Furthermore, significant losses were found in the relative size of thalamus, putamen, cortex, and the combined areas of perirhinal, entorhinal, and piriform cortices adjacent to the hippocampus. A significant correlation of learning performance in the Morris water maze with the relative hippocampal area and not with other areas tested was observed in pilocarpine-treated animals.
The data provide a quantitative analysis of functionally relevant structural alterations in rats with chronic epilepsy. Water maze performance of pilocarpine-treated animals correlates with the degree of hippocampal but not with the degree of cortical damage, demonstrating the potential of this method for the investigation of cognitive impairments in relation to cerebral changes. In addition, the data point to an important role of even the residual hippocampus in memory formation.
Manifestations of lithium carbonate toxicity include acneform eruptions, sinus node dysfunction, hyperparathyroidism, hypothyroidism, thyrotoxicosis, extrapyramidal side effects, and renal toxicity, which may present as nephrogenous diabetes insipidus. This report concerns a patient with a toxic reaction to lithium carbonate. The patient initially had acneform lesions, hypoglycemia, hypothyroidism, and nephrogenous diabetes insipidus. Features of lithium carbonate-induced acneform eruptions are emphasized. Renal toxicity from a lithium carbonate overdose is common, and the hazards of prescribing potentially nephrotoxic drugs to such a patient are stressed.
Brain function and selenium concentration are well maintained in rodents under conditions of selenium deficiency. Recently, however, targeted deletion of the selenoprotein P gene (Sepp) has been associated with a decrease in brain selenium concentration and with neurological dysfunction. Studies were conducted with Sepp(-/-) and Sepp(+/+) mice to characterize the neurological dysfunction and to correlate it with dietary selenium level. When weanling Sepp(-/-) mice were fed the basal diet (<0.01 mg/kg selenium) supplemented with 0, 0.05 or 0.10 mg selenium/kg, they developed spasticity that progressed and required euthanasia. Supplementing the diet with > or =0.25 mg selenium/kg prevented the neurological dysfunction. To determine whether neurological dysfunction would occur in more mature Sepp(-/-) mice deprived of selenium, Sepp(-/-) mice that had been fed the basal diet supplemented with 1.0 mg selenium/kg for 4 wk were switched to a selenium-deficient diet. Within 3 wk they had developed neurological dysfunction and weight loss. At 3 wk, the 1.0 mg selenium/kg diet was reinstituted. Neurological function stabilized but did not return to normal. Brain selenium concentration did not increase. Weight gain resumed. This study shows that neurological dysfunction occurs when selenium supply to the brain is curtailed and that the dysfunction is not readily reversible. Both the absence of selenoprotein P and a low dietary selenium supply are necessary for the dysfunction to occur, indicating that selenoprotein P and at least one other form of selenium supply the element to the brain.
A 79-year-old white male was admitted to the hospital for treatment of a right-lower-lobe pneumonia. His past medical history included: mild congestive heart failure, asymptomatic ventricular tachycardia, and ethanol abuse. He was initially treated with furosemide for his heart failure, lidocaine for his arrhythmias, and Bactrim for his pneumonia. On day 13 of hospitalization he experienced a tonic-clonic seizure during the time he was being converted from lidocaine to tocainide. At the time of the seizure both tocainide and lidocaine were well within their respective therapeutic ranges. Since the seizure, the patient has tolerated treatment with each drug separately, and at serum concentrations similar to those preceding the seizure, without neurological complications, indicating the possibility of a tocainide-lidocaine induced seizure.
This study examined the impact of methadone maintenance treatment on an inclusive group of adolescent and young adult opiate-dependent patients, ages 15-23, admitted over a 6-year period, during their first year in the program. Retention in treatment was the primary outcome variable, and at 12 months, 48% were still in treatment. The findings were: (a) a stepwise discriminant function analysis revealed that patients who consistently used heroin were at a greater risk of leaving treatment within the first 12 months; (b) the use of cocaine was an indicator of higher levels of heroin use in those who reached the one-year mark; (c) among patients who stayed in treatment for one year, there was a significant reduction in heroin use, a trend toward a reduction in cocaine use, and no significant impact on benzodiazepine use; and (d) the group that stayed in treatment was slightly younger than the group that left before the first year ended. There were no gender or ethnic differences between the two groups. Suggestions for interventions that might improve treatment outcome are presented.
The present study was undertaken to investigate the effects of Convulvulus pluricaulis (CP), considered as Shankhpushpi on learning and memory in rodents. Nootropic activity using Cook and Weidley's Pole Climbing Apparatus, passive avoidance paradigms and active avoidance tests were used to test learning and memory. The ethanolic extract of CP and its ethyl acetate and aqueous fractions were evaluated for their memory enhancing properties. Two doses (100 and 200 mg kg(-1) p.o.) of the ethanolic extract and ethyl acetate and aqueous fractions were administered in separate groups of animals. Both the doses of all the extracts of CP significantly improved learning and memory in rats. Furthermore, these doses significantly reversed the amnesia induced by scopolamine (0.3 mg kg(-1) i.p.). Nootropic activity was compared using piracetam as the standard. Moreover, CP has exhibited potent memory-enhancing effects in the step-down and shuttle-box avoidance paradigms. Further studies are necessitated to identify the exact mechanism of action.
A common late effect of doxorubicin therapy for childhood cancer is reduced left-ventricular (LV) wall thickness resulting in elevated LV afterload and depressed LV function. Many children are given angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, which have been studied primarily in adults. We document the long-term effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in doxorubicin-treated survivors of childhood cancer.
In this retrospective study, we reviewed records of 18 children who had regular echocardiographic examinations during enalapril therapy (mean age at cancer diagnosis, 8 years; mean time between completion of doxorubicin therapy and start of enalapril, 7 years; median follow-up since the start of enalapril, 10 years).
Over the first 6 years of enalapril therapy, there was progressive improvement toward normal values in LV dimension, afterload, fractional shortening, and mass, but all these parameters deteriorated between 6 and 10 years. LV wall thickness deteriorated throughout the study period, as did LV contractility and systolic blood pressure. Diastolic blood pressure fell slightly. By 6 years on enalapril, all six patients who had had congestive heart failure at the start of enalapril therapy had either died or undergone cardiac transplantation, compared with three of the 12 asymptomatic patients.
In doxorubicin-treated long-term survivors of childhood cancer, enalapril-induced improvement in LV structure and function is transient. The primary defect, which is LV wall thinning, continues to deteriorate, and thus the short-term improvement was mostly related to lowered diastolic blood pressure.
Ephedra containing products (ECPs), which most often contain additional sources of caffeine alkaloids, may be an under-recognized cause of hypertension. ECPs, especially when used in combination or at higher than recommended doses, can cause life-threatening cardiovascular and neurological complications. We present a case of hypertensive encephalopathy with new onset generalized tonic-clonic seizure secondary to concomitant use of two OTC supplements containing a mixture of ephedrine and caffeine alkaloids.
We report what we believe to be the first two cases of acute interstitial nephritis associated with vancomycin and ceftriaxone therapy in adults. A 40-year-old man with a medical history of traumatic brain injury and tonic-clonic seizure disorder was admitted to the hospital with a seizure episode and temperature of 103 degrees F. He was administered ceftriaxone, vancomycin, and acyclovir for suspected bacterial and/or viral meningitis. On day 4, the patient was noted to have diffuse erythematous plaques on the neck, chest, arms, abdomen, and back, as well as an elevated serum creatinine level of 3.1 mg/dl (baseline 0.9 mg/dl) and an elevated eosinophil count (6%). Dermatology and renal consultations were obtained, and a diagnosis of suspected acute interstitial nephritis was made. After a 3-day course of antibiotic treatment (day 4 of hospitalization), all antibiotics were discontinued and topical triamcinolone 0.1% ointment and hydrocortisone 2.5% cream were begun for the rash. The patient was discharged 5 days later with improvement in the rash, serum creatinine level (1.0 mg/dl), and eosinophil count (0.9%). A 59-year-old woman with a medical history of diabetes mellitus was admitted to the hospital with a serum creatinine level of 3.7 mg/dl, eosinophil count of 8.4%, and fractional excretion of sodium of 2.94%. The patient had been receiving treatment with vancomycin and ceftriaxone for osteomyelitis for 28 days before this hospital admission. Her baseline serum creatinine level (before antibiotic therapy) was 1.0 mg/dl. Renal consultation was obtained, and a diagnosis of probable acute interstitial nephritis was made. Ceftriaxone and vancomycin were discontinued, and her serum creatinine level gradually decreased to 3.3 mg/dl and then further to 1.5 mg/dl over the next 3 months. Use of the Naranjo adverse drug reaction probability scale revealed that the adverse reaction was possible in the first case and probable in the second case. Health care professionals need to be cognizant that drug-induced acute interstitial nephritis can be associated with concomitant administration of ceftriaxone and vancomycin therapy. Early detection of this rare adverse reaction is paramount in order to prevent acute renal insufficiency.
Nodular lymphocyte predominant Hodgkin's lymphoma (NLPHL) is a rare variant of Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) in children. Since specific immunohistochemical staining has become available, NLPHL can be separated from classical Hodgkin's lymphoma (cHL) more accurately. Scarce information is available about pediatric NLPHL treated with chemotherapy only. Therefore, clinical characteristics, treatment, response and outcome of seven pediatric NLPHL patients, median age 9.2 years (range 7.5 - 14.2 years), diagnosed between 1986 - 2003 among 58 HL patients, uniformly treated in a single center with chemotherapy only, were evaluated. The median follow-up time was 4.2 years (range 2.1 - 10.2 years). NLPHL patients were stage I (n = 5), II (n = 2), whereas cHL, median age 11.4 years (range 3.3 - 15.9 years), were stage I (n = 8), II (n = 17), III (n = 9), IV (n = 1). Upfront treatment of NLPHL patients consisted of six courses of epirubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine and dacarbazine (EBVD) without radiotherapy, whereas cHL patients received six courses of EBVD (n = 14) or 4 - 6 courses of EBVD/MOPP (mitoxin, oncovin, procarbazine, prednison; n = 21). Chemotherapy was used as primary treatment thereby aiming to avoid radiotherapy with potential serious side effects to growing jaws and thyroid. All seven patients reached complete remission (CR). Four patients relapsed, of which three locally. These three were salvaged with second-line chemotherapy without radiation therapy (RT) and are in second CR. One patient relapsing with stage III disease was salvaged by EBVD/MOPP followed by autologous BMT and is also in second CR for 36 months. The event-free survival (EFS) is 43% and overall survival (OS) 100%. This study shows that apart from histology, immunohistochemistry (ICH) is required for diagnosing NLPHL. Moreover, it illustrates that although cure of pediatric NLPHL is feasible with chemotherapy only, high dosages of cytotoxic drugs are necessary as salvage treatment in a relatively high proportion of patients after relapse.
In order to evaluate clinical efficacy of D-penicillamine (DP) a double-blind study was conducted by the Metalcaptase Research Group consisting of forty-one rheumatological centers in Japan. A total of 179 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) was divided into two groups; one treated with 5 mg (control group) and the other with 100 mg (drug group) of DP in capsule form. The trial lasted 24 weeks. Global judgment by physicians revealed that improvement was found in 27% in the controls and 65% in the drug group. Adverse reactions occurred in 34% of the controls and 49% of the drug group. Skin rashes, taste disturbances, gastrointestinal upset and proteinuria were frequent in the drug group, but severe or fatal reactions could not be seen in this trial.
Various types of movement disorder have been reported to occur rarely in patients treated with clozapine. This paper describes five cases in which these phenomena appeared to be clearly associated with clozapine medication and discusses possible pharmacologic mechanisms and treatment options.
Inpatients receiving clozapine were investigated for the presence of movement disorders. We present five patients with clozapine-induced myoclonus, describe their patterns, and compare clinical features.
Five patients treated with clozapine developed a similar pattern of movement disorder that can be described as myoclonus. The neurologic symptoms improved after the treatment was discontinued, the clozapine dose reduced, or concomitant carbamazepine administered.
Clozapine can induce dose-dependent myoclonus. However, these symptoms can be relieved by reducing the dose of clozapine or giving carbamazepine so that discontinuation of clozapine treatment can be avoided.
Alterations in myelin membranes, as well as in the expression of myelin proteins have been reported in experimental models of diabetes. Data here reported show for the first time that the mRNA levels of two isoforms of myelin basic protein (MBP), 18.5 and 21.5 kDa, are decreased in the spinal cord of streptozotocin-treated rats and that treatment with a neuroactive steroid, such as progesterone (P), may counteract this effect. Interestingly, metabolism of progesterone into dihydroprogesterone (DHP) by the enzyme 5alpha-reductase seems to exert an important role in such an effect. As here demonstrated, 5alpha-reductase mRNA and DHP levels are reduced by diabetes in spinal cord, but treatment with P, is able to counteract these effects. Moreover, treatment with DHP is able to mimic the effect of P on MBP gene expression. Thus, the effects of P here observed are due to its enzymatic conversion into DHP. Because DHP, like P, interacts with P receptor (PR), the present results may suggest the importance to analyze the effects of PR modulators as tools of therapeutic strategies for diabetic complications occurring in nervous system.
Mutations in the gene encoding FERM domain-containing 7 protein (FRMD7) are recognized as an important cause of X-linked idiopathic infantile nystagmus (IIN). However, the precise role of FRMD7 and its involvement in the pathogenesis of IIN are not understood. In the present study, we have explored the role of FRMD7 in neuronal development. Using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry, we reveal that FRMD7 expression is spatially and temporally regulated in both the human and mouse brain during embryonic and fetal development. Furthermore, we show that FRMD7 expression is up-regulated upon retinoic acid (RA)-induced differentiation of mouse neuroblastoma NEURO2A cells, suggesting FRMD7 may play a role in this process. Indeed, we demonstrate, for the first time, that knockdown of FRMD7 during neuronal differentiation results in altered neurite development. Taken together, our data suggest that FRMD7 is involved in multiple aspects of neuronal development, and have direct importance to further understanding the pathogenesis of IIN.
We investigated the pattern of changes in serum gastrin level produced by three H2-receptor antagonists (H2RA) in patients with gastric and duodenal ulcers between 1990 and 1999. The subjects were 51 patients (cimetidine: 18 patients; famotidine: 16 patients; ranitidine: 17 patients). The gastrin test (in the fasting and meal-stimulated states) was conducted during drug administration and on the fourth day after drug cessation. After cessation of the drug therapy, the fasting serum gastrin level was significantly lower than that during the drug therapy with the three H2RAs. Gastrin level in the fasting test was significantly higher during famotidine therapy than during cimetidine therapy (p = 0.0123). In the meal-stimulated gastrin test, the AUC of gastrin during treatment with H2RA treatment was significantly higher with famotidine than with cimetidine (p = 0.0024). The results indicate different patterns of change in the serum gastrin level in the fasting and meal-stimulated test according to the H2RA administered. Gastrin level was highest in patients administered famotidine and lowest among those administered cimetidine. The pattern of gastrin change in patients administered ranitidine was intermediate between famotidine and cimetidine.
Immunoblotting studies have previously shown that serum antibodies from halothane hepatitis patients react with several liver microsomal proteins that have been modified by the trifluoroacetyl halide metabolite of halothane. In this study, an 80-kDa protein recognized by the patients' antibodies has been purified from rat liver microsomes and characterized. When the purified trifluoroacetylated 80-kDa and native 80-kDa proteins were employed as test antigens in an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, serum antibodies from halothane hepatitis patients reacted with both of these proteins to a significantly greater extent than did serum antibodies from control patients. Amino acid sequence analyses of several hydrolytic peptide fragments of the 80-kDa protein showed that the protein was 99% identical to the deduced amino acid sequence of a murine cDNA of the luminal endoplasmic reticulum protein ERp72. These results indicate that trifluoroacetylated ERp72 in the liver of halothane hepatitis patients may induce immune responses against epitopes present on the covalently altered protein and those present on the native protein and may have a role in halothane hepatitis. In addition, immunoblot and immunohistochemical studies revealed that the 80-kDa protein was present in all tissues studied, but was in highest concentration in liver, adipose tissue, ovaries, and testes and was enriched in specific cells of some organs. In the future, these findings should help define the physiological function of ERp72.
Nineteen patients with measurable and incurable head and neck carcinoma (17 squamous cell and two adenoid cystic) received intravenous bolus doses of 14 mg/m2 mitoxantrone in the first course. The doses were escalated or de-escalated by 2 mg/m2 in subsequent courses, based on leukocyte nadir, to achieve mild (3,000-3,999/mm3) or moderate (2,000-2,999/mm3) toxicity and response. The courses were repeated every 3 weeks. All 60 courses were evaluated for toxicity. Leukopenia was mild, moderate, severe (1,000-1,999/mm3), and life-threatening (less than 1,000/mm3) in 17%, 23%, 42%, and 2% of courses, respectively. Mild thrombocytopenia (100,000-129,999/mm3) occurred in two courses. The median interval to nadir leukopenia was 14 days (range 7-36) with a median of 13 days (range 3-50) to recover to normal. After the first course, leukopenia was mild in 16%, moderate in 32%, severe in 26%, and life-threatening in 5%. One patient died of pulmonary embolism 8 days after the first course and had concomitant leukocyte count of 700/mm3. Eighteen patients had at least one course resulting in leukopenia. Three of six patients receiving greater than or equal to 4 courses (cumulative dose 56-102 mg/m2) had an asymptomatic decrement of 14%, 17%, and 29%, respectively, in radionuclide left ventricular ejection fraction. The other toxicities were mild. In the 16 patients with squamous cell carcinoma that could be evaluated for response, one had a partial response lasting 8 months, and six had stable disease. One of the two patients with parotid adenoid cystic carcinoma had a minor response lasting 16 months. Mitoxantrone on a bolus schedule has minimal activity and is not indicated in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.
The addition of tryptophan to a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) has been recommended for patients failing to respond to an MAOI alone. The authors report acute behavioral and neurologic toxicity immediately after tryptophan administration in a patient taking phenelzine.
A depressed woman who was treated with amoxapine developed akinesia, which was mistaken for depression. This extrapyramidal syndrome has not previously been linked with this widely used antidepressant, and clinicians should be aware of the association.
Orthostatic hypotension (OH) is defined as a reduction of systolic blood pressure of at least 20 mmHg, or diastolic blood pressure of at least 10 mmHg from a sitting to a standing position. It is a common physical finding among older adults and associated with significant morbidity and mortality. Use of medications that have the potential to induce OH, particularly concomitant use of several of such medications, is a major factor for the development of OH.
To describe the prevalence of symptomatic and asymptomatic OH in veterans aged 75 years and older attending a geriatric clinic, and to assess the association between OH and the number of potentially causative medications used.
Charts of all patients who attended a VA geriatric clinic (Michael E. DeBakey VA Medical Center) during the period of 1 June 2002 to 1 June 2003 were reviewed retrospectively for (i) the use of potentially causative medications, i.e. medications that were reported to cause OH in at least 1% of the general population and that were available in the VA formulary, (ii) the presence or absence of OH, and (iii) the presence or absence of symptomatic OH. Patients with primary autonomic dysfunction, Parkinson's disease, and patients who were unable to stand, or who had no assessment for both sitting and standing blood pressure for other reasons were excluded.
A total of 505 individual patients attended the clinic during the study period, and 342 patients fit the inclusion criteria. About 189 of these patients (55%) had OH. Among patients with OH, 61 patients (33%) were symptomatic, including 52 patients who had falls. The prevalence of OH in patients receiving zero, one, two, and three or more potentially causative medications was 35, 58, 60 and 65% respectively. Receiving hydrochlorothiazide was associated with the highest prevalence of OH (65%), followed by receiving lisinopril (60%), trazodone (58%), furosemide (56%) and terazosin (54%).
The prevalence of OH is very high in older veterans and significantly related to the number of concurrent causative medications used. Providers should be educated to reduce the amount of potentially causative medications in the elderly and better assess patients in which use of such medications is necessary to avoid symptomatic OH.
