Analysing the Holter recordings collected at baseline during the European Myocardial Infarction Amiodarone Trial (EMIAT), we evaluate the possibility of using alpha, the slope of the power spectrum of heart rate variability signals (HRV) in the vicinity of f = 0, for postinfarction risk stratification. We found no relevant difference in the values of alpha for the placebo population. On the contrary, in the amiodarone arm, the distinction in the survival rates of those with high or low alpha-values was highly significant. Moreover, high risk patients with respect to alpha (higher values) did not seem to benefit from amiodarone. The results suggest that alpha might convey physiologic information that is different than what is expressed by other HRV characteristics, such as the triangular index. When combining high risk patients in term of triangular index (<20) and low risk patients with respect to alpha (<median), the difference in survival on placebo and amiodarone became very substantial (24.2% mortality on placebo, 8.7% on amiodarone, p = 0.017). This might offer a possibility of selecting patients likely to benefit from a prophylactic antiarrhythmic treatment after acute myocardial infarction.
Inflammatory myopathy has been associated with systemic inflammatory processes, endocrinopathies, malignancies and infections. Drug induced myopathies have been implicated with the use of several medications. We report a case of biopsy proven myositis whose symptoms began within 10 days of receiving leuprolide acetate therapy for prostate cancer. Drug withdrawal and brief steroid therapy resulted in clinical remission within two months of diagnosis.
The DISC1 gene at 1q42 has generated considerable interest in various psychiatric diseases, since a balanced translocation interrupting the gene was found to cosegregate with schizophrenia and related mental illnesses in a large Scottish pedigree. To date, linkage and association findings to this locus have been replicated in several study samples ascertained for psychotic disorders. However, the biological function of DISC1 in neuronal development would suggest a potential role for this gene also in other, early onset neuropsychiatric disorders. Here we have addressed the allelic diversity of the DISC1, DISC2 and TRAX genes, clustered in 1q42, in Finnish families ascertained for infantile autism (97 families, n(affected)=138) and Asperger syndrome (29 families, n(affected)=143). We established association between autism and a DISC1 intragenic microsatellite (D1S2709; P=0.004). In addition, evidence for association to Asperger syndrome was observed with an intragenic single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) of DISC1 (rs1322784; P=0.0058), as well as with a three-SNP haplotype (P=0.0013) overlapping the HEP3 haplotype, that was previously observed to associate with schizophrenia in Finnish families. The strongest associations were obtained with broad diagnostic categories for both disorders and with affected males only, in agreement with the previous sex-dependent effects reported for DISC1. These results would further support the involvement of DISC1 gene also in the etiopathogenesis of early onset neuropsychiatric disorders.
The ability of the low efficacy D2 agonists preclamol and SDZ 208-911 to both antagonise, and substitute for, the d-amphetamine discriminative cue was investigated in rats trained to discriminate d-amphetamine (0.5mg/kg) from saline. All doses of preclamol (2.0-16.0mg/kg) and SDZ 208-911 (0.125-1.0mg/kg) only partially antagonised d-amphetamine discrimination. In contrast, the lower efficacy D2 agonist SDZ 208-912 completely blocked the cueing properties of d-amphetamine. Preclamol (4.0 and 16.0mg/kg) and SDZ 208-911 (1.0mg/kg) also partially substituted for d-amphetamine. In an additional study, the former drug enhanced the discriminative effects of a low dose of d-amphetamine (0.125mg/kg), whilst antagonising the effects of the training dose. Preclamol also partially antagonised the ability of the selective D2 agonist quinpirole (0.125mg/kg) to substitute for d-amphetamine. In contrast to the drug discrimination findings, preclamol completely antagonised the locomotor hyperactivity induced by acute d-amphetamine, in animals which had received the same long-term d-amphetamine treatment as the drug discrimination rats. The present findings reveal that preclamol and SDZ 208-911 can exert both agonist and antagonist activity in animals trained to discriminate d-amphetamine from saline. This partial agonist profile is probably due to the low efficacy D2 agonists interacting with a postsynaptic D2 receptor population possessing a higher response capability than those D2 receptors mediating d-amphetamine-induced locomotor hyperactivity.
Earlier we have reported that reserpine, an antihypertensive drug, known to downregulate biogenic amines through inhibition of the vesicular monoamine transporter (VMAT), increases longevity of Caenorhabditis elegans with a high quality of life, namely, enhanced and prolonged mobility (Srivastava et al., 2008). As neurodegenerative diseases are of adult onset, we addressed the protective ability of reserpine against neurodegenerative diseases, especially Alzheimer's disease (AD). In the well established AD model in C. elegans, Amyloid beta (Abeta) is expressed in the muscles and Abeta toxicity is manifested as paralysis (Link, 1995). In this model, reserpine significantly delayed paralysis and increased the longevity. In addition, reserpine provided thermotolerance, but interestingly the Abeta transcript and expression levels remains grossly unchanged.
We present two patients who developed necrotizing enterocolitis following their first cycle of chemotherapy for epithelial ovarian/peritoneal cancer. After optimal cytoreductive surgery, both women received gemcitabine as part of a chemotherapy protocol. One patient developed necrotizing enterocolitis, 1 day after chemotherapy and the other 8 days after chemotherapy. The first patient succumbed to the enterocolitis despite aggressive supportive care. The second patient succumbed despite both aggressive supportive care and surgical intervention. Pathologic review for both patients revealed a drug induced vasculitis causing necrotizing enterocolitis.
Coronary artery disease (CAD) is a complex trait caused by a number of genetic and environmental factors. Recently, paraoxonase/arylesterase (PONA) enzyme has been implicated in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. There is a 10-40-fold variability in the activity of this enzyme among individuals. This variability is due to the presence of an A/G polymorphism in the coding region of the gene (HUMPONA). The A and G alleles code for glutamine (A genotype) and arginine (B genotype), respectively. Individuals with A genotype have a lower enzymatic activity than those with B genotype. We determined the HUMPONA genotypes and alleles in 223 patients with angiographically documented CAD and in 247 individuals in the general population. The distribution of genotypes were in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium in patients and in controls. Genotypes A and B were present in 120 (49%) and 28 (11%) individuals in controls and in 68 (30%) and 40 (18%) patients with CAD, respectively (chi squared= 16.5, P= 0.0003). The frequency of the A allele was 0.69 in controls and 0.56 in patients (OR= 1.7, P= 0.0001). There were no differences in the distribution of HUMPONA genotypes in the subgroups of patients with restenosis, myocardial infarction, or any of the conventional risk factors for CAD as compared with corresponding subgroups. In summary, variants of the HUMPONA gene are involved in predisposition to coronary atherosclerosis.
Milrinone (Win 47203) is a potent cardiac bipyridine with inotropic and vasodilator properties. Its effects were studied in anesthetized and unanesthetized dogs and in isolated cardiac tissues from guinea pigs. In the anesthetized dog, the intravenous injection of milrinone (0.01-0.1 mg/kg) increased cardiac contractile force (CF) (23 +/- 6.1 to 87 +/- 8.9%), maximum left ventricular pressure development (24 +/- 5.8 to 119 +/- 16.1%), and cardiac output (16 +/- 4.5 to 33 +/- 8.9%), with less than a 30% increase in heart rate (HR). Significant decreases in systolic and diastolic blood pressures were seen at 0.3-3 mg/kg i.v. Oral doses of milrinone (0.1-1.0 mg/kg), in unanesthetized dogs, increased cardiac CF by 35 +/- 7.0 to 99 +/- 17.0%, with a maximum increase in HR of 40 +/- 7.1% and no significant change in blood pressure. Milrinone was effective in the presence of ouabain and dopamine without enhancing their arrhythmogenic properties. It was also effective in reversing propranolol-, verapamil-, or pentobarbital-induced heart failure. The inotropic response does not seem to involve the stimulation of the autonomic receptors, the release of endogenous catecholamines, histamine, or prostaglandins, or the inhibition of Na+,K+-adenosine triphosphatase. Milrinone is an inhibitor or cardiac adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cAMP) phosphodiesterase, with resultant increases in cardiac cAMP levels. However, the time course for this increase does not seem to correspond to the increase in muscle developed tension, and, therefore, it is unlikely to be responsible for the initiation of the inotropic response. Milrinone is a potent cardioactive agent which should be beneficial in the treatment of acute and chronic congestive heart failure.
In a double blind study, 30 in-patients (14 females, 16 males, ranging in the age from 18 to 55) suffering from an acute paranoid-hallucinatory syndrome, were treated with haloperidol for 30 days. 13 patients (3-day group) received 3 times a day 3 mg haloperidol (at 8 a.m., 12 a.m,, 5 p.m.) and 17 patients received 9 mg haloperidol only in the evening (9 p.m., 1-day group). Placebo instead of medication was given at the same time to the control group. Every 5 days the following assessments were performed: AMP 3 and 4, Webster and Simpson rating scales, handwriting tests according to Haase and psychometric tests according to Schoppe. In the 1-day dosage group the amount of anticholinergics were significantly reduced (2.4 mg biperiden/day compared to 4.6 mg/day in the 3-day group). The 1 daily application of neuroleptics is useful in treating acute psychosis. This treatment schedule has the advantages of sedation during the night, reduction of side-effects during the day, simpler and cheaper application form and induction of social activity.
During treatment with clozapine 59% of 127 patients showed abnormal EEGs. Remarkable are paroxysmal disturbances with sharp waves and/or SW-pattern in ca. 13%. Generalized tonic-clonic convulsive cereberal seizures were observed only twice.
Methotrexate (MTX) is frequently used as an antifolics agent in many malignant neoplasms such as leukemia, lymphoma and osteosarcoma. The major side effects of MTX are liver and renal damages, bone marrow suppression and so on. But careful management and citrovorum factor rescue could decrease the incidence and degree of these side effects. In this report, we described a patient with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma who developed and died of fulminant hepatic failure soon after the administration of intermediate dose MTX. Serological tests for HB virus were not changed throughout, and lymphocyte stimulation test for MTX was strongly positive. His autopsy revealed no inflammatory cell infiltration into the liver, but marked biliary congestion which is a distinctive feature of drug induced hepatitis. From above results, it was suggested that nature of this fulminant hepatic failure was an allergic reaction to MTX. There is no previous report which is concerning about MTX and fetal drug related hepatic failure.
Fluphenazine decanoate treatment causes significantly more depressive syndromes than does placebo. These depressions are primarily pharmacogenic. Depending on the intensity of symptoms patients are handicapped up to suicidal risk. Prophylactical treatment with neuroleptics, which is of great help in many cases, needs careful handling of individual dosage. In case depressive symptoms appear, first and best therapy is to reduce or even discontinue the application of the neuroleptic, later antiparkinsonian drugs should be added (or increased). Only when this regimen is unsuccessful or too slow, thymoleptics should be given carefully and temporarily. -- A schematized long-term neuroleptic treatment often causes needless inconvenience to the patients. Psychiatrists should use the spectrum of psychopharmacological drugs carefully, not only to bring a vita minima without relapse to the formerly schizophrenic patient but to help him live a life worth living after psychosis.
Y-family DNA-polymerases have larger active sites that can accommodate bulky DNA adducts allowing them to bypass these lesions during replication. One member, polymerase eta (pol eta), is specialized for the bypass of UV-induced thymidine-thymidine dimers, correctly inserting two adenines. Loss of pol eta function is the molecular basis for xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) variant where the accumulation of mutations results in a dramatic increase in UV-induced skin cancers. Less is known about the role of pol eta in the bypass of other DNA adducts. A commonly encountered DNA adduct is that caused by benzo[a]pyrene diol epoxide (BPDE), the ultimate carcinogenic metabolite of the environmental chemical benzo[a]pyrene. Here, treatment of pol eta-deficient fibroblasts from humans and mice with BPDE resulted in a significant decrease in Hprt gene mutations. These studies in mammalian cells support a number of in vitro reports that purified pol eta has error-prone activity on plasmids with site-directed BPDE adducts. Sequencing the Hprt gene from this work shows that the majority of mutations are G>T transversions. These data suggest that pol eta has error-prone activity when bypassing BPDE-adducts. Understanding the basis of environmental carcinogen-derived mutations may enable prevention strategies to reduce such mutations with the intent to reduce the number of environmentally relevant cancers.
Michler's ketone, a dye intermediate and derivative of dimethylaniline, was selected for bioassay by the National Cancer Institute because of the elevated incidence of bladder cancer noted among dye manufacturing industry workers. A bioassay for the possible carcinogenicity of technical-grade Michler's ketone was conducted using Fischer 344 rats and B6C3F1 mice. Michler's ketone was administered in the feed, at either of two concentrations, to groups of 50 male and 50 female animals of each species. Twenty animals of each sex and species were placed on test as controls. The high and low dietary concentrations of Michler's ketone were respectively, 500 and 250 ppm for male rats, 1,000 and 500 ppm for female rats, and 2,500 and 1,250 ppm for mice of both sexes. The compound was administered to rats and mice for 78 weeks. The period of compound administration was followed by an observation period of 28 weeks for male and high dose female rats, 29 weeks for low dose female rats and 13 weeks for mice. There were significant positive associations between the concentrations of Michler's ketone administered and mortality in rats and mice of both sexes. Adequate numbers of animals in all groups survived sufficiently long to be at risk from late-developing tumors. There was distinct dose-related mean body weight depression in female rats and in mice of both sexes, and the mean body weight among dosed male rats was slightly lower than that in controls, indicating that the concentrations of Michler's ketone administered tothese animals in this bioassay may have approximated the maximum tolerated concentrations. There were significant positive associations between the concentrations of Michler's ketone administered and the incidences of hepatocellular carcinomas in both sexes of rats and in female mice and hemangiosarcomas in male mice. In all of these cases the high dose to control Fisher exact comparison was also significant. Under the conditions of this bioassay, dietary administration of Michler's ketone was carcinogenic to male and female Fischer 344 rats and female B6C3F1 mice, causing hepatocellular carcinomas, and to male B6C3F1 mice, causing hemangiosarcomas. Levels of Evidence of Carcinogenicity: Male Rats: Positive Female Rats: Positive Male Mice: Positive Female Mice: Positive Synonyms: bis[4-(dimethylamino)phenyl]methanone; 4,4'-bis(dimethylamino)benzophenone; p,p'-bis(dimethylamino)benzophenone; bis[p-(N,N'-dimethylamino)phenyl]ketone; tetramethyldiaminobenzophenone
The administration of single i.p. doses of lindane (20, 40, 60 and 80 mg/kg) to rats produced a progressive increase in the liver microsomal content of cytochrome P-450 and in the rate of superoxide anion generation, as measured by adrenochrome formation. A dose-dependent increase in lipid peroxidation of liver homogenates, assessed by measuring thiobarbituric acid reactants, was also found. Lindane treatment did not alter the activity of liver glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, glutathione reductase or glutathione peroxidase, while that of superoxide dismutase and catalase was significantly reduced. These changes were accompanied by a progressive liver steatosis. The collected metabolic data were interpreted in terms of a causal relationship between an increase in superoxide radical generation, secondary to cytochrome P-450 induction and a resulting increase in lipid peroxidation. The decrease in superoxide dismutase and catalase activities is likely to contribute to the increased levels of lipid peroxidation in view of their antioxidant properties.
We report a patient with lepromatous leprosy who developed a rare variant of type-2 lepra reaction, characterized by pustular lesions, on switching from WHO multi drug therapy (MDT) to ofloxacin-aided MDT.
Dercum's disease or adiposis dolorosa is a poorly understood disorder with painful fatty deposits in the skin localized to the lower extremities. The etiology is unknown. In such a patient the mechanisms of local regulation of blood flow in subcutaneous tissue was investigated by the local 133Xenon washout technique. The patient was reinvestigated one week after treatment with intravenous lidocaine. The local vasoconstrictor response to increase in venous transmural pressure was not present in this patient, but reappeared after lidocaine treatment. Autoregulation of blood flow in subcutaneous tissue was present before as well as after lidocaine treatment. It seems likely that a pain elicited increase in sympathetic activity in the vasoconstrictor fibres abolished the normal vasoconstrictor response to increase in venous transmural pressure. The mechanism of pain relief after intravenous lidocaine infusion is uncertain, but central as well as peripheral mechanisms may be considered.
The effect of isotretinoin on muscle is considered to be uncommon and benign. We analyzed the files of all our patients given isotretinoin over a 5-year period and determined the incidence and gravity of its effect on muscles.
Sixty treatments with isotretinoin were studied. Myalgia and elevated CPK observed at the pretherapeutic consultation and each month or 2 months thereafter were recorded.
Muscle symptoms were noted in 60 p. 100 of the cases: myalgia in 51 p. 100 and elevated CPK in 41 p. 100. In this group, male sex (H/F = 2.6) and sports activities (70 p. 100) were found more often. In 5 patients, CPK level was 5 times the normal, defining rhabdomyolysis. One patient interrupted treatment because of persistently high CPK levels.
Myalgia and elevated CPK signal skeletal muscle involvement. These signs were more frequent in our series than in reports in the literature, probably because we systematically looked for them. Besides use of isotretinoin, one case of viral infection and sports activities, no other explanatory cause could be found. Isotretinoin could have a potentializing effect on other myotoxicity inducers (drugs, infection, fever, muscular exertion...). The benign nature of the muscle effect appears to be validated although there were some patients who had persistent and/or severe signs.
There is clinical evidence linking asthma with the trace element, zinc (Zn). Using a mouse model of allergic inflammation, we have previously shown that labile Zn decreases in inflamed airway epithelium (Truong-Tran AQ, Ruffin RE, Foster PS, Koskinen AM, Coyle P, Philcox JC, Rofe AM, Zalewski PD. Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol 27: 286-296, 2002). Moreover, mild nutritional Zn deficiency worsens lung function. Recently, a number of proteins belonging to the Solute Carrier Family 39 (ZIP) and Solute Carrier Family 30 (ZnT) have been identified that bind Zn and regulate Zn homeostasis. Mice were sensitized, and subsequently aerochallenged, with ovalbumin to induce acute and chronic airway inflammation. Mice received 0, 54, or 100 microg of Zn intraperitoneally. Tissues were analyzed for Zn content and histopathology. Inflammatory cells were counted in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. Cytokine and Zn transporter mRNA levels were determined by cDNA gene array and/or real-time PCR. Zn supplementation decreased bronchoalveolar lavage fluid eosinophils by 40 and 80%, and lymphocytes by 55 and 66%, in the acute and chronic models, respectively. Alterations in Zn transporter expression were observed during acute inflammation, including increases in ZIP1 and ZIP14 and decreases in ZIP4 and ZnT4. Zn supplementation normalized ZIP1 and ZIP14, but it did not affect mRNA levels of cytokines or their receptors. Our results indicate that inflammation-induced alterations in Zn transporter gene expression are directed toward increasing Zn uptake. Increases in Zn uptake may be needed to counteract the local loss of Zn in the airway and to meet an increased demand for Zn-dependent proteins. The reduction of inflammatory cells by Zn in the airways provides support for Zn supplementation trials in human asthmatic individuals.
A strong relationship has been demonstrated between high systemic exposure to busulfan and the occurrence of hepatic veno-occlusive disease (HVOD) after a busulfan-cyclophosphamide regimen (BU CY). We report a prospective study aimed at exploring the pharmacodynamics of high-dose busulfan combined with either melphalan (BU MEL) or thiotepa (BU TTP) followed by autologous stem cell transplantation in children and adolescents with a malignant solid tumor. Busulfan was given orally at a total dose of 600 mg m(-2). In all, 45 patients with a median age of 6.3 years were included in the study: 25 received BU MEL and 20 received BU TTP. The incidence of HVOD was 44% (CI 95% [23-65%]) in the BU MEL group and 25% (CI95% [9-49%]) in the BU TTP group. In the BU TTP group, patients who developed HVOD had a significantly higher AUC 0-6 h after the 13th dose (6201+/-607 h ng ml(-1)) than those who did not (5024+/-978 h ng ml(-1)) (P<0.05). In the BU MEL group, there was no difference in terms of systemic exposure to busulfan between patients who developed HVOD and those who did not. In conclusion, the guidelines established for monitoring BU CY cannot be extrapolated when busulfan is combined with another drug.
D-penicillamine can induce autoimmune disease, particularly in patients with associated immune disorders.
A 67-year old woman who had been taking D-penicillamine for 15 months for rheumatoid arthritis was hospitalized due to the development of a bullous eruption and proximal muscle deficiency. Search for intercellular antisubstance antibodies in serum was negative. The skin biopsy histology revealed intra-epidermal cleavage in the mucosal body and direct immunofluorescence revealed epidermal frame-marking with anti-IgG and anti-C3 antibodies. Other tests revealed muscular cytolysis, and anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies. The electromyogram showed neuromuscular block without muscle deficiency and muscle biopsy showed moderate myositis. D-penicillamine was interrupted and was followed by cure of the pemphigus and aggravation of the myositis, requiring high-dose systemic corticosteroid therapy.
This patient developed D-penicillamine induced pemphigus, a rather frequent observation. The desmoglein immunolabelling favored drug-induced pemphigus and the course was rapidly favorable after withdrawal. Pemphigus had developed simultaneously with signs of myasthenia and polymyositis. Polymyositis and myasthenia are also known complications of D-penicillamine therapy. The association of these three complications suggests that D-penicillamine can unmask certain antigens or have an immunomodulator effect.
Estrogens have a variety of effects in addition to their action on reproductive structures, including permanent effects on the Central Nervous System (CNS). Therefore environmental chemicals with estrogenic activity (xenoestrogens) can potentially affect a number of CNS functions. In the present experiment, female rats receiving ethynylestradiol (EE) or methoxychlor (MXC) via the mothers during pregnancy (pre) or lactation (post) were tested in comparison with females born from mothers treated with OIL. The Object Recognition, Plantar and Formalin tests were carried out to evaluate the effects of these compounds on integrated functions such as memory and pain. Testosterone and estradiol plasma levels were determined by RIA. The results of the Object Recognition and Plantar tests did not differ among groups. However the groups differed in the Formalin test since flexing duration was higher in the EE- and MXC-pre groups than in the EE- and MXC-post and OIL groups. Estradiol plasma levels were higher in EE-pre than in the other groups. These results confirm the possibility that estrogen-like compounds (EE and MXC) can affect complex neural processes like pain when taken during critical stages of CNS development.
After the advent of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors on the U.S. market in 1988, American psychiatrists have been faced with more choices of antidepressants for the treatment of depression. The prescribing of SSRIs has been increasing in popularity because they are easily titrated by the physicians and tolerated by patients. However, the SSRI use is frequently associated with female sexual dysfunction. The aim of this study was to describe these SSRI-associated female sexual side effects.
In a retrospective series, clinic records of 110 female SSRI-treated outpatients were reviewed for loss of or decreased libido, orgasmic disturbances (anorgasmia or delayed orgasm), as well as clinical management patterns to alleviate sexual side effects.
Twenty-one fluoxetine-, nine paroxetine-, and five sertraline-treated cases with female sexual inhibition were identified. The fates of SSRI-associated sexual adverse effects and clinical managements of restoring these side effects were described.
With some limitations in interpreting the data, the findings of this study suggest that SSRI-associated female sexual dysfunction occurs at a higher rate than we previously thought, equal potentials in implicating female sexual side effects among three SSRIs, and the absence or the low incidence of female sexual adverse effects from bupropion, and that these side effects can be managed by waiting for a spontaneous remission, dosage reduction of SSRIs, substitution with bupropion and other antidepressants, or the use of an antidote.
Elastin calcification is a widespread feature of vascular pathology, and circumstantial evidence exists for a correlation between elastin degradation and calcification. We hypothesized that matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-mediated vascular remodeling plays a significant role in elastin calcification.
In the present studies, we determined that short-term periadventitial treatment of the rat abdominal aorta with low concentrations of calcium chloride (CaCl2) induced chronic degeneration and calcification of vascular elastic fibers in the absence of aneurysm formation and inflammatory reactions. Furthermore, the rate of progression of calcification depended on the application method and concentration of CaCl2 applied periarterially. Initial calcium deposits, associated mainly with elastic fibers, were persistently accompanied by elastin degradation, disorganization of aortic extracellular matrix, and moderate levels of vascular cell apoptosis. Application of aluminum ions (known inhibitors of elastin degradation) before the CaCl2-mediated injury significantly reduced elastin calcification and abolished both extracellular matrix degradation and apoptosis. We also found that MMP-knockout mice were resistant to CaCl2-mediated aortic injury and did not develop elastin degeneration and calcification.
Collectively, these data strongly indicate a correlation between MMP-mediated elastin degradation and vascular calcification.
We report a case of phosphate diabetes in a patient with the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) associated with sarcoidosis. Our patient was affected by systemic sarcoidosis and he fits the criteria of Schwartz for the diagnosis of SIADH. He presented with phosphate diabetes which appeared during demeclocycline (DMC) therapy and persisted for about 1 month from the end of DMC. It constitutes the fourth case of phosphate diabetes induced by tetracycline described in the literature and it is the third case of SIADH associated with sarcoidosis.
Examining 8 inbred murine strains [A/J, BALB/c, SM/J, C3H/J, SWR/J, C57BL/6J (B6), DBA-2, B10D2/old (B10D2/o)] for urinary albumin excretion after a single daunomycin (DM) injection (20 mg/kg), we found strain specificity in susceptibility to DM nephrosis. This specificity did not relate to the serum disappearance rate of this drug. A/J and BALB/c were highly susceptible to the nephrosis while C57BL/6J, DBA-2 and B10D2/o were completely resistant to it. Chronological observation revealed that A/J mice had significant proteinuria at 2 weeks after injection, and it persisted for the remaining 4 weeks of this experiment, while C57BL/6J showed no increase over the experimental period. Using segregants obtained from an A/J and B6 backcross, it has been shown that susceptibility is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait and involves approximately three genes. Neither a C5 deficiency, H-2 type nor coat color gene (c-locus) was related to this susceptibility. This strain difference in nephrotoxicity would be a promising way to investigate its subcellular mechanism.
An 80-year-old man was admitted to the hospital with a diagnosis of pulmonary aspergilloma. A new azole antifungal agent, D 0870, was administered to the patient for 7 days orally, and itraconazole (400 mg/day) was started on March 5, 1997. After 1 month of chemotherapy, facial and pretibial edema were observed and the patient's serum potassium concentration decreased to 2.5 mEq/l. A chest radiograph disclosed cardiomegaly with cardiac effusion and right pleural effusion on admission. The serum potassium concentration rose after the cessation of itraconazole therapy. The serum ITCZ concentration remained high for 2 weeks after admission. Although reports of hypopotassemia induced by ITCZ are rare, we concluded that blood concentrations should be monitored more carefully when treating pulmonary aspergilloma patients with high-dose regimens of ITCZ.
