To study the protective effects and related mechanism of bicyclol on liver fibrosis induced by carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)).
Forty male Wistar rats were injected subcutaneously with 25% CCl(4) twice a week for 3 months. Since the 7th week the rats were divided into 4 groups of 10 rats: normal control group, CCl(4) model group, bicyclol 100 mg/kg group (perfused of bicyclol into stomach 100 mg/kg qd for 45 days), and bicyclol 200 mg/kg group (perfused of bicyclol into stomach 200 mg/kg qd for 45 days). Twenty-four hours after the last administration the rats were killed. The serum was isolated to measure the levels of alanine transaminase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), total bilirubin (TB), albumin/globulin (A/G), total protein (TP), hyaluronic acid (HA), and pro-collagen peptide III (PIIIP). Serum TNF alpha content was examined by ELISA assay, and liver TGF beta 1 level was determined by immunohistologic assay. The pathology of liver was examined. Twenty-eight mice were divided into 4 groups of 7 mice: normal control group, subacute group, 100 mg bicyclol group (perfused of bicyclol into stomach 50 mg/kg bid), and bicyclol 200 mg/kg group (perfused of bicyclol into stomach, 100 mg/kg bid), and 200 mg bicyclol group. Carbon tetrachloride was injected subcutaneously to the mice in the latter 3 groups every 3 days for 1 month. Twenty-four hours after the last administration the mice were killed and the serum was isolated to measure the levels of ALT, AST, TP, and albumin. Mitochondria were extracted from the livers of the experimental animals to measure the amount of protein. Mitochondrial glutathione (GSH) and malondialdehyde (MDA) contents were measured. The MDA and GSH contents in the control group were regarded as 100%, and the percentages of MDA and GSH in other groups were calculated. The fluidity of mitochondrial membrane and swelling degree of mitochondria were measured. Imunohistochemistry was used to detect the liver TGF beta 1. Nuclear NF kappa B DNA binding activity was investigated by electrophoretic mobility shift assay.
Three months after the administration of carbon tetrachloride the serum ALT, AST, TB, HA, and PIIIP levels of the CCl(4) model group increased by 24, 10, 8, 28, and 4 times and the levels of albumin and A/G decreased significantly in comparison with those of the normal control group. However, the serum ALT, AST, TB, HA, and PIIIP levels in the 2 bicyclol groups were significantly lower than those in the model group. The pathological changes in the liver of the 2 bicyclol groups were significantly lighter than those in the model group. The serum TNF alpha increased significantly in the model group, however, the serum TNF alpha levels in the 2 bicyclol groups were significantly lower than that of the model group. The liver TGF beta 1 level in the model group was 4 times that of the normal control group. The liver TGF beta 1 level in the 2 bicyclol groups were significantly lower than that of the model group. One month after the administration of carbon tetrachloride to mice the serum ALT and AST increased and A/G decreased significantly. However, in the 2 bicyclol groups the serum ALT and AST were significantly lower and the A/G ratio was significantly higher in comparison with the model group. The mitochondrial GSH decreased by 34% and the mitochondrial MDA increased by 60% in the model group. The mitochondrial GSH was normal in the 2 bicyclol groups and the MDA level was significantly lower than that of the model group. The fluidity and swelling ability of mitochondrial membrane significantly decreased in the model group mice and the fluidity and swelling ability of mitochondrial membrane in the 2 bicyclol group mice were relatively normal. Twelve and twenty-four hours after the damage by carbon tetrachloride the binding activity of nuclear NF kappa B remained very high in the model group mice and was significantly lower in the 2 bicyclol group mice in comparison with the model mice.
Bicyclol alleviates CCl(4)-induced liver fibrosis by its anti-peroxidation and anti-inflammation functions and regulation of NF-kappa B DNA-binding activity.
Obesity has increased dramatically over the past decades, reaching epidemic proportions. The reasons are likely multifactorial. One of the suggested causes is the accelerated exposure to obesity-inducing chemicals (obesogens). However, out of the tens of thousands of industrial chemicals humans are exposed to, very few have been tested for their obesogenic potential, mostly due to the limited availability of appropriate in vivo screening models. In this study, we investigated whether two commonly used flame retardants, the halogenated bisphenol-A (BPA) analogs tetrabromobisphenol-A (TBBPA) and tetrachlorobisphenol-A (TCBPA), could act as obesogens using zebrafish larvae as an in vivo animal model. The effect of embryonic exposure to these chemicals on lipid accumulation was analyzed by Oil Red-O staining, and correlated to their capacity to activate human and zebrafish peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) in zebrafish and in reporter cell lines. Then, the metabolic fate of TBBPA and TCBPA in zebrafish larvae was analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) . TBBPA and TCBPA were readily taken up by the fish embryo and both compounds were biotransformed to sulfate-conjugated metabolites. Both halogenated-BPAs, as well as TBBPA-sulfate induced lipid accumulation in zebrafish larvae. TBBPA and TCBPA also induced late-onset weight gain in juvenile zebrafish. These effects correlated to their capacity to act as zebrafish PPARγ agonists. Screening of chemicals for inherent obesogenic capacities through the zebrafish lipid accumulation model could facilitate prioritizing chemicals for further investigations in rodents, and ultimately, help protect humans from exposure to environmental obesogens.
To investigate the efficacy and safety of famotidine treatment for stress ulcers in neonates.
Fifty-four neonates with stress ulcers from 2001 to 2006 were enrolled. Seven cases were confirmed with stress ulcers by gastroscopy. Famotidine was administered intravenously at a dosage of 0.5 mg/kg every other 12 hrs. After cessation of hematemesis and vomiting, famotidine was administered once a day for two days. Primary diseases and complications were concurrently treated. Clinical symptoms and gastric pH were assessed before and after famotidine treatment. Possible adverse effects of famotidine treatmentdouble ended arrowrelated were observed.
After 24 hrs of famotidine treatment, hematemesis and vomiting ceased in 52 patients (96.3%). Clinical symptoms disappeared in all of the 54 patients 48 hrs after famotidine treatment. Gastric pH value increased 6, 12, 24, 36 and 48 hrs after famotidine treatment from 2.07+/-0.22 (before treatment) to 5.01-5.15 (P<0.01). All of the 54 patients were successfully treated. Famotidine treatment did not lead to abnormal respiration, heart rate and blood pressure. Loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation and rashes were not seen after famotidine treatment. There were significant differences in white cell count, platelet count and hepatic enzyme levels before and after famotidine treatment. An augmented side effect of the other drugs concurrently used due to famotidine treatment was not noted.
Famotidide is effective and safe for the treatment of stress ulcers in neonates.
Gene targeting in mouse embryo-derived stem cells has been used to disrupt the homeobox gene hox-1.5. Mice heterozygous at the hox-1.5 locus appear normal, whereas hox-1.5-/hox-1.5- mice die at or shortly after birth. These homozygotes are athymic, aparathyroid, have reduced thyroid and submaxillary tissue and exhibit a wide range of throat abnormalities. In addition, they often feature defects of the heart and arteries as well as craniofacial abnormalities. These deficiencies are remarkably similar to the pathology of the human congenital disorder DiGeorge's syndrome.
We have previously shown that P11-20 treatment with d-methamphetamine (MA) induces impaired spatial navigation in the Morris water maze (MWM), whereas P1-10 treatment does not. Little is known about the long-term behavioral consequences of MA during juvenile, adolescent, and early adult brain development. In dose-response experiments, we tested successive 10-day intervals of exposure to MA in rats (P21-30, P31-40, P41-50, and P51-60; four doses per day). MA dosing prior to P21 produces little or no toxicity; however, we observed an increased toxicity with advancing age. Across-age comparisons revealed no MWM acquisition or Cincinnati water maze (CWM) effects after MA treatment on P21-30 (2.5-10 mg/kg/dose), P31-40 (1.25-7.5 mg/kg/dose), or P51-60 (1.25-5.0 mg/kg/dose); however, significantly impaired MWM acquisition was observed after P41-50 MA treatment at the highest dose (6.25 mg/kg/dose). Learning in the CWM was also impaired in this group. No effects were seen at 1.25, 2.5, or 5 mg/kg/dose following P41-50 MA treatment. MWM reversal learning trials after P41-50 treatment showed a trend towards longer latency in all MA dose groups, but no effect on double-reversal trials. Reversal and double-reversal also showed no effects at the other exposure ages. No differences in straight channel swimming or cued learning in the MWM were seen after MA treatment at any exposure age. P41-50 is the periadolescent stage of brain development in rodents. The effects observed at this age may suggest a previously unrecognized period of susceptibility for MA-induced cognitive deficits.
Moclobemide (Ro 11-1163), a benzamide derivative, is a MAO-inhibitor which selectively and reversibly inhibits monoamine oxidase type A. Thirty-eight patients with episodic, chronic and atypical depressive disorder (DSM-III) were equally randomized to 6 weeks' treatment with either three daily doses of 100 mg moclobemide or 50 mg clomipramine. Both treatment groups improved with time as assessed weekly by the Hamilton Depression Scale and the Clinician's Overall Assessment of Depression State, and there was no interaction between treatment and time. Anticholinergic complaints, tremor and dizziness occurred more frequently on clomipramine, and they were longer lasting and more severe. Because of its low toxicity, good tolerance, its selectivity and reversibility moclobemide may be a better alternative than the older monoamine oxidase inhibitors.
Effects of intracoronary aspirin on coronary blood flow and reactive hyperemia were evaluated in closed-chest, anesthetized dogs. In 18 dogs the left circumflex coronary artery was cannulated and perfused by arterial blood at a constant pressure. Coronary blood flow was measured by an electromagnetic flowmeter. Intracoronary aspirin at doses of 5, 10, and 20 mg reduced coronary blood flow in a dose-dependent manner. Injection of aspirin at doses of 10 to 25 mg also inhibited reactive hyperemia following the coronary occlusion for fifteen seconds. The mean peak flow ratio was reduced from 2.13 +/- 0.42 to 1.75 +/- 0.35 (p less than 0.005). The increment of coronary blood flow provoked by intracoronary arachidonic acid at doses of 150 to 300 micrograms was almost entirely inhibited by the pretreatment of the coronary artery with aspirin. The authors conclude that aspirin increases coronary arterial resistance in a dose-dependent manner and also restricts the maximal dilating capacity, possibly by inhibition of prostacyclin synthesis.
Alvimopan, a peripherally acting μ-opioid receptor antagonist, was recently approved for the reduction of postoperative ileus after open colectomy. No data are available regarding the use of alvimopan following laparoscopic segmental colectomy.
This study was designed to evaluate the effectiveness of alvimopan in patients undergoing laparoscopic segmental colectomy.
A retrospective review of segmental laparoscopic colectomy was conducted in a population of patients using an accelerated postcolectomy care pathway. Patients that received alvimopan were identified from an institutional review board-approved database and matched with nonalvimopan patients for age, sex, procedure, and diagnosis. Patients with a diverting ileostomy or with contraindications for alvimopam were excluded.
One hundred patients undergoing laparoscopic colectomy received alvimopan perioperatively and were matched with a similar group of nonalvimopan patients. Although patients on alvimopan were significantly less likely to develop postoperative ileus (4% vs 12%; P = .04), there was no difference in length of hospital stay (3.63 days in the alvimopan group vs 3.78 in the nonalvimopan group; P = .84) or 30-day readmission rate (4.0% vs 4.2%; P = .95).
As the cost of providing health care continues to increase, reductions in perioperative complications and hospital stay are important to hospital efficiency and patient care. Alvimopan effectively reduces the incidence of postoperative ileus in patients undergoing open colectomy; however, hospital stay and readmission rates were not altered in this laparoscopic group. Further study is required before alvimopan can be routinely used in patients undergoing laparoscopic colectomy.
Our laboratories have shown the positive effect of estradiol on 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine- and methamphetamine (MA)-induced striatal dopamine (DA) depletion. Most studies on E neuroprotection use chronic administration of the steroid to evaluate its beneficial effect. In the present report, we investigated the neuroprotective potential of 17 beta-estradiol-3-benzoate (E) under acute conditions when administered 24, 12 or 0.5 h before MA. The effects of E on striatal DA and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) contents, and DA transporter (DAT) protein and mRNA were measured using high-performance liquid chromatography, autoradiography and in situ hybridization, respectively. We observed neuroprotection with an acute dose of E, and also that protection presents a different time course for each dopaminergic marker. DAT mRNA responded more quickly to E than its protein (at 0.5 h vs. 24 h). Also, E treatment 12 h prior to MA resulted in 'normal' (equal to control) DA content, while DAT protein was still decreased as compared to control values. These different responses for each marker may represent different mechanisms of action of E (genomic versus nongenomic). Since most experimental studies use DA content as the sole indicator of nigrostriatal toxicity and examine a single time point following chronic E administration, the present results demonstrate the importance of evaluating differences in temporally dependent responses of DA, DAT protein and mRNA, to achieve a more comprehensive indication of the nigrostriatal state and the means by which E can function as a neuroprotectant in this system.
The clinical use of doxorubicin (DOX) and other anthracyclines is limited by a dosage-dependent cardiotoxicity, which can lead to cardiomyopathy. The role of the individual genetic makeup in this disorder is poorly understood. Alterations in genes encoding cardiac cytoskeleton or sarcolemma proteins may increase the susceptibility to doxorubicin-related cardiotoxicity.
Female dystrophin-deficient mice (MDX) and age-matched wild-type mice underwent chronic treatment with doxorubicin. Cardiac function and tissue damage were assessed by echocardiography and histopathology, respectively. Gene expression changes were investigated using microarrays.
DOX treatment resulted in mortality, cardiac insufficiency, and cardiac interstitial fibrosis. These alterations were more pronounced in DOX-treated MDX mice than in DOX-treated wild-type mice. Changes in gene expression were more numerous in MDX mice, including genes involved in cell adhesion, oxidative stress, cytoskeleton organization, inflammatory and immune response and cell death.
Dystrophin deficiency facilitates the development and progression of doxorubicin-induced cardiac injury. The underlying mechanisms may involve changes in cell adhesion, in cytoskeleton, as well as in inflammatory and immune responses. Genetic variants of cytoskeletal proteins in humans may affect the individual susceptibility to doxorubicin. Cardiotoxic drugs may accelerate the manifestation of pre-clinical cardiomyopathies caused by deficiencies in cytoskeletal or sarcolemma proteins.
The pathophysiological changes and the oxidative-antioxidative status were evaluated in the bone microenvironment of rat inoculated with Walker 256/B mammary gland carcinoma cells, and used alpha-tocopherol acetate (ATA) as a countermeasure. Walker 256/B cells were injected into the right femora of aged male rats. Animals were randomized into three groups: 12 rats were injected with saline (control group); 14 rats were injected with Walker 256/B cells (5x10(4)) in the medullar cavity (W256 group); 14 rats were inoculated with Walker 256/B cells and treated with ATA (45mg/kg BW) (W256+ATA group). After 20 days, rats were euthanized and the femurs were radiographed. Micro architectural parameters were measured by microcomputed tomography and histology. Serum, bone and bone marrow were evaluated for oxidative damage. In parallel, cell cultures were done in the presence of ATA and ROS were measured by fluorescence; apoptotic cells were determined in parallel. W256 groups had osteolytic damages with marked resorption of cortical and trabecular bone. W256+ATA animals presented marked osteosclerotic areas associated with tumor necrosis areas inside the bone cavity. Levels of lipid peroxidation and protein oxidation were found to increase in W256 rats; a significant reduction in SOD and GSH-p activities was also observed. W256+ATA group had significantly reduced oxidative damage, but not reversed back to the control levels. The present study shows that Walker 256/B cells induce skeletal metastases associated with oxidative damage in the bone microenvironment. ATA reduced the oxidative stress damage, enhanced osteosclerosis and tumor cell apoptosis both in vitro and in vivo.
The treatment outcome of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) has improved steadily over the last 50 years. However, the cure rates are unlikely to be raised further with current therapies. Since increasing the dosage of chemotherapeutic agents could also elevate toxicity, a solution to how one could achieve maximum therapeutic effect with the minimum dosage possible is imminent. One possibility is the employment of combination drug therapies. Arsenic trioxide (ATO) is a widely used drug for acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). Its combination with other drugs presented therapeutic activities in malignant cancers other than APL. Considering the fact that ATO induces mitotic arrest prior to apoptosis induction, we attempted to investigate the potential anti-cancer effects of ATO in combination with the microtubule-stabilizing agent, paclitaxel (PTX), using malignant lymphocytes as in vitro models. Three malignant lymphocytic cell lines and primary cells were treated with ATO and/or PTX. Using the Chou-Talalay analysis for evaluation of combined effect of ATO and PTX, we found a synergistic effect of the two drugs in the inhibition of cell growth. We also found that the combination of ATO and PTX at low concentrations synergistically induced mitotic arrest followed by apoptosis in malignant lymphocytes, which increased phosphorylated cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (Cdk1) on Thr(161) and promoted the dysregulated activation of Cdk1. The ATO/PTX combination also significantly enhanced the activation of spindle checkpoint by inducing the formation of the inhibitory checkpoint complex BubR1/Cdc20. Our study provided the first in vitro demonstration that low concentrations of ATO and PTX synergistically induce mitotic arrest in malignant lymphocytes.
To measure serum leptin levels and compare them in lean and obese subjects and to identify correlation between serum leptin levels, heart rate and hypertension in lean and obese subjects among adult females.
A case control study.
Jinnah Medical and Dental College Hospital's Outpatient Department (OPD) during the calender year 2003.
Seventy female subjects with different body mass indices were selected from OPD of Jinnah Medical and Dental College Hospital (OPD), Karachi. Heart rate was counted manually; blood pressure was measured by mercury sphygmomanometer while serum leptin was measured using enzyme-linked immunoassay. The outcomes hypertension and heart rate were correlated to risk factor leptin.
Mean heart rate, systolic and diastolic blood pressure and serum leptin levels of obese people were 90 +/- 1, 142 +/- 2, 89 +/- 1 and 24.13 +/- 1.7 respectively, which were significantly higher as compared to lean subjects (p<0.05). All the parameters correlated positively and significantly with increasing BMI.
There was a relationship of tachycardia and hypertension with high serum leptin levels in obesity. Serum leptin levels increase with the level of obesity. Hyper-leptinemia is associated with tachycardia and increases in both systolic and diastolic blood pressure in obesity via complex mechanisms.
Data are now available from three large-scale randomized trials that directly compare the risks and benefits of thrombolytic agents in acute myocardial infarction. In the interpretation of results from the Gruppo Italiano per lo Studio della Sopravvivenza nell'Infarto Miocardico (GISSI-2) trial and its International Extension, the Third International Study of Infarct Survival (ISIS-3), and the Global Utilization of Streptokinase and Tissue Plasminogen Activator for Occluded Coronary Arteries (GUSTO-1) trial, there are areas of both agreement and controversy. It is generally agreed that the agents most commonly used in the United States--tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA), streptokinase and anisoylated plasminogen streptokinase activator complex (APSAC)--all reduce mortality when given to patients with acute evolving myocardial infarction. Further, it is clear that thrombolytic therapy given to such patients presenting up to 12 h after onset of symptoms reduces the mortality rate by approximately 20%, that aspirin therapy for patients presenting up to 24 h reduces the mortality rate by approximately 23% and that the benefits of thrombolytic therapy and aspirin are additive. Finally, and of most importance, the earlier administration as well as the more widespread use of thrombolytic therapy and aspirin would save many more lives. The totality of evidence clearly indicates that streptokinase produces significantly fewer strokes and cerebral hemorrhages than either t-PA or APSAC. Whether or not accelerated t-PA has a small advantage for mortality is less conclusive.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To assess whether there is an association of level of fetal cocaine exposure to developmental precursors of speech-language skills at 1 year of age, after controlling for confounding factors.
In a prospective, longitudinal, quasi-experimental, matched cohort design, 3 cocaine exposure groups were defined by maternal self-report and infant meconium assay: nonexposure (n = 131), heavier exposure (n = 66), >the 75th percentile for maternal self-report and >the 70th percentile of benzoylecgonine concentration, and all others as lighter exposure (n = 68). At 1 year of age, the Preschool Language Scale-3 was administered by examiners unaware of infant drug status.
Independent of confounding drug, medical, and environmental factors, more heavily exposed infants had lower auditory comprehension scores than nonexposed infants and lower total language scores than lighter and nonexposed infants. More heavily exposed infants were also more likely to be classified as mildly delayed by total language score than nonexposed infants. There were positive linear relationships between the concentration of benzoylecgonine in meconium and all outcomes and between maternal report of severity of prenatal cocaine use with poorer auditory comprehension indicating a relationship between amount of exposure and poorer outcomes.
This study documents significant behavioral teratogenic effects of fetal cocaine exposure on attentional abilities underlying auditory comprehension skills considered to be precursors of receptive language. Pediatricians are in a unique position to monitor early development of cocaine-exposed infants and make timely referrals for intervention.
The present study investigated oxidative damage and neuroprotective effect of the antiparkinsonian drug, L-deprenyl in neuronal death produced by intranigral infusion of a potent mitochondrial complex-I inhibitor, rotenone in rats. Unilateral stereotaxic intranigral infusion of rotenone caused significant decrease of striatal dopamine levels as measured employing HPLC-electrochemistry, and loss of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in the perikarya of ipsilateral substantia nigra (SN) neurons and their terminals in the striatum. Rotenone-induced increases in the salicylate hydroxylation products, 2,3- and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid indicators of hydroxyl radials in mitochondrial P2 fraction were dose-dependently attenuated by L-deprenyl. L-deprenyl (0.1-10mg/kg; i.p.) treatment dose-dependently attenuated rotenone-induced reductions in complex-I activity and glutathione (GSH) levels in the SN, tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in the striatum or SN as well as striatal dopamine. Amphetamine-induced stereotypic rotations in these rats were also significantly inhibited by deprenyl administration. The rotenone-induced elevated activities of cytosolic antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase and catalase showed further significant increase following L-deprenyl. Our findings suggest that unilateral intranigral infusion of rotenone reproduces neurochemical, neuropathological and behavioral features of PD in rats and L-deprenyl can rescue the dopaminergic neurons from rotenone-mediated neurodegeneration in them. These results not only establish oxidative stress as one of the major causative factors underlying dopaminergic neurodegeneration as observed in Parkinson's disease, but also support the view that deprenyl is a potent free radical scavenger and an antioxidant.
Naringenin is a naturally occurring flavanone, possessing a variety of biological activity. Due to its rapid elimination, naringenin needs frequent administration to maintain an effective plasma concentration. We have evaluated the therapeutic potential of naringenin-phospholipid complex under oxidative stress conditions compared with free naringenin. Naringenin-phospholipid complex was prepared and assessed for antioxidant activity in carbon tetrachloride intoxicated rats at a dose level of 100 mg kg-1 (p.o.). Liver function tests were studied by assessing serum glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase, serum glutamate pyruvate transaminase, serum alkaline phosphatase and total bilirubin. Marker enzymes of liver, namely glutathione peroxidase, superoxide dismutase, catalase and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, were measured to evaluate the antioxidant potential at the same dose level. The plasma concentration of naringenin was also measured. It was observed that the naringenin-phospholipid complex enhanced the antioxidant activity of the biomolecule and protected the liver significantly for a longer time as compared with free naringenin at the same dose level. Phospholipid complex of naringenin produced better antioxidant activity than the free compound with a prolonged duration of action, which may be helpful in reducing the fast elimination of the molecule from body.
Fulminant hepatic failure developed in the early post-operative period in a patient after third exposure to halothane. Exclusion of other causes of post-operative jaundice and temporal relationship of jaundice to anesthesia suggested halothane as the etiologic agent for the submassive necrosis, which was documented at postmortem liver biopsy.
Previously, we demonstrated the inhibitory effects of Si-Ni-San, a traditional Chinese prescription, on picryl chloride-induced ear contact sensitivity (PCl-CS). This study aimed to evaluate the role of the four major constituents contained in the prescription (saikosaponins, paeoniflorin, naringin and glycyrrhizin) in the inhibitory effect. When administered during the induction phase, saikosaponin a and glycyrrhizin showed significant inhibitory effects, while paeoniflorin and naringin did not. These components in Si-Ni-San also inhibited the activation and proliferation of T lymphocytes as well as the production of cytokines such as tumour necrosis factor-alpha and interferon-gamma to different extents. Saikosaponin a and paeoniflorin dose-dependently reduced the splenocyte adhesion to type I collagen, while glycyrrhizin only showed a slight tendency. Furthermore, treatment with glycyrrhizin or saikosaponin a, rather than paeoniflorin or naringin, moderately inhibited the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 activity of the splenocytes from PCl-CS mice, and the combination of all four components showed a strong inhibition against MMP-2. Moreover, the components markedly decreased the serum level of nitric oxide in PCl-sensitized mice. The results indicated that saikosaponin a and glycyrrhizin may be the major contributors in the alleviation effect of Si-Ni-San on contact sensitivity, and paeoniflorin and naringin may exhibit a co-operative effect.
To understand limb abnormalities it is necessary to understand how the limb develops. The limb is the organ whose development is probably best understood. The limbs develop from small protrusions (the limb buds) that arise from the body wall of the embryo. Positioning and patterning the limb involves cellular interactions both between the ectoderm surrounding the limb bud and between the mesenchymal cells that form the core of the limb bud. As the limb grows out the cells acquire a positional value that relates to their position in the bud with respect to all three axes, proximo-distal, antero-posterior, and dorso-ventral. These positional values largely determine how the cells will develop such as what sort of cartilaginous elements they will form. The positional value of the cells is acquired in the progress zone at the tip of the growing bud. The time spent in the progress zone may determine the positional values along the proximo-distal axis, that is the formation of, for example the humerus, then the radius and ulna. Loss of the progress zone due to damage to the overlying apical ridge leads to truncations, and this progress zone model can also account for the effects of thalidomide. Position along the antero-posterior axis such as the character of the digits is by a signal from the polarizing region at the posterior margin of the limb and involves the signaling protein Sonic hedgehog. A signal from the dorsal ectoderm specifies the dorso-ventral axis. Hox genes that are transcription factors are expressed both along the body axis and in a complex pattern in the limb and may record positional value. Human mutations in these genes lead to limb abnormalities. Muscle cells have a separate origin from the cartilaginous cells and those that form connective tissue and tendons, and they migrate into the bud from the somites and are patterned by the connective tissue. Cell death separates the digits.
The authors reviewed 35 open-label sertraline trials for executive impairment in ischemic cerebrovascular disease. Outcomes included clock-drawing, the Executive Interview (EXIT25), the Geriatric Depression Scale, and the Mini-Mental State Examination. Clinically "meaningful" improvement was defined as a >3.0 EXIT25 point decline from baseline. "Remission" was defined as the achievement of an EXIT25 score <15/50. Only EXIT25 scores improved significantly. Twenty patients (57.1%) experienced a clinically meaningful improvement in executive control function. Twelve (34.3%) achieved remission. Our findings suggest that sertraline may have both statistical and clinically meaningful effects on executive control function in ischemic cerebrovascular disease. The authors discuss the implications for future clinical trials.
Patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) are occasionally prescribed systemic corticosteroids to treat steroid-responsive conditions. Additionally, use of systemic corticosteroids for sickle cell pain episodes and acute chest syndrome is under investigation. We report 4 patients with SCD who developed severe vaso-occlusive events following the administration of systemic steroids. We also review similar cases from the literature and suggest measures for reducing the potential risk associated with use of systemic corticosteroids in this group of patients. We conclude that corticosteroids should be used with caution in patients with SCD.
Morphilne was injected via fine-gauge cannulas permanently implanted in various subcortical sites in the rat brain. In this way the blood-brain barrier was avoided and precise quantities of the drug were delivered to the intended sites. Ten micrograms of morphine in the posterior hypothalamus resulted in siginificant analgesia, while the same dose injected into the medial septum, the caudate, or the periaqueductal gray matter yielded hyperalgesia. The morphine-produced hyperalgesia at the last-mentioned site was accompanied by stereotyped violent circular leaps, an effect of morphine not previously reported. Thus, intracerebral injections of morphine differ significantly from systemic injections and produce either analgesia or hyperalgesia, depending on site and dose.
We report a 60-year-old woman who developed severe cutaneous vasculitis three weeks after commencing quinine sulphate (300 mg at night) for nocturnal cramps. The patient died despite immunosuppressive treatment with prednisolone and cyclophosphamide. We review three previous cases and conclude that cutaneous vasculitis is a rare but life-threatening complication of treatment with this widely-prescribed drug. Quinine sulphate is prescribed frequently for nocturnal cramps, although its efficacy is unsupported by stringently controlled clinical trials. Adverse reactions to the drug are unusual. We describe a 60-year-old woman with fatal cutaneous vasculitis related to quinine treatment.
An accurate and early assessment of the individual patient is critical in deciding whether liver transplantation is indicated in the treatment of fulminant hepatic failure. Based on analysis of patients treated between 1973 and 1985, the Liver Unit at King's College Hospital, London, developed a prognostic model to identify patients with a poor prognosis. The present study was done to determine the applicability of this model in fulminant hepatic failure patients seen at our center in the 1990s.
The records of 145 patients with fulminant hepatic failure, treated conservatively at Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Birmingham between 1990 and 1994, were analyzed. An additional 81 patients, who were transplanted for fulminant hepatic failure during the same period were excluded from the study.
Application of King's College Hospital criteria at the time of admission to this hospital in the acetaminophen group, had a positive predictive value of 88%, negative predictive value of 65% and predictive accuracy of 71%. The positive predictive value, negative predictive value and predictive accuracy of these criteria for non-acetaminophen-induced fulminant hepatic failure, were 79%, 50% and 68%. Multivariate analysis identified prothrombin time, serum creatinine, white cell count and abnormal potassium levels as independent predictors of mortality in acetaminophen-induced fulminant hepatic failure; and prothrombin time alone in fulminant hepatic failure induced by other etiologies.
The King's College Hospital criteria for predicting outcome of fulminant hepatic failure were found to have a slightly lower predictive accuracy than shown in the original study.
Malaria is no doubt a disease of public health significance in the tropics. Plasmodium falciparum, resistant to the majority of the first-line antimalarial drugs, now causes most of the infections treated in sub-Saharan Africa. Although there is increasing use of artemisinin-based combination therapy in many African nations, quinine still remains a commonly used drug for severe and chloroquine-resistant malaria. Cardiotoxicity associated with quinine has been largely reported. However, this was often more common with toxic doses. This case report is on a 5-year-old African Nigerian who was undergoing treatment for uncomplicated malaria with quinine dihydrochloride infusion. All the laboratory investigations done were within normal limits except for positive blood films for malarial parasites. However, pretreatment electrocardiographic evaluation of the patient was not carried out. She developed ventricular fibrillation and died < 1.5 hours into the quinine infusion.
