Recently, the pathogenesis of Parkinson disease (PD) has been focused on microglial activation, especially the subsequent increase of cytokines. A body of clinical evidence suggests that sleep is altered in patients with PD; however, there is a lack of understanding of the basic cellular mechanism. This study was designed to elucidate the influence of brain interleukin (IL)-1beta on sleep changes, in addition to the dopaminergic and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic systems, in an animal PD model.
We employed a long-term subcutaneous infusion of rotenone, a mitochondrial complex-I inhibitor, to induce a parkinsonism-like model in rats. Behavioral tests and tyrosine hydroxylase immunocytochemistry were used for confirmation of PD in this animal model. Pharmacologic agonist and antagonists were administered centrally to test the involvement of dopamine, GABA, and IL-1 in rotenone-induced sleep alteration. Protein expression of cytokines, ie, IL-1beta and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), in 5 distinct brain regions was also determined by Western blot and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).
Sleep-recording equipment in the National Taiwan University and China Medical University. PARTICIPANT AND INTERVENTIONS: Male Sprague-Dawley rats were implanted with electroencephalogram electrodes, a thermistor, and an intracerebroventricular guide cannula. Chronic infusion of rotenone was given by an Alzet minipump implanted subcutaneously on the back of each rat.
We found that locomotion activity was reduced, slow-wave sleep (SWS) was increased during the dark (active) phase and decreased during the light (rest) period, and rapid eye movement sleep (REM) was enhanced in the dark period after rotenone treatment. This rotenone PD animal model successfully causes loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive neurons in the substantia nigra; induces the events of sleep disturbance, such as excessive daytime sleepiness and insomnia during the nighttime, that are seen in patients with PD; and suppresses locomotion. Our results that intracerebroventricular administration of dopamine and blockade of GABA in the brain have less significant effect on rotenone-induced sleep alteration suggest that the sleep disturbance is not primarily mediated by the disruption of dopaminergic and GABAergic systems in the current PD rat model. The expression of TNF-alpha was not altered by rotenone. However, the results of enhanced expression of IL-1beta in the hypothalamus after rotenone and that of the blockade of sleep alteration, but not the locomotion activity, by intracerebroventricular administration of an IL-1 receptor antagonist implies that increased IL-1beta in the hypothalamus mediates sleep alteration, but not the locomotion, in rats with rotenone-induced parkinsonism.
These observations suggest that rotenone-induced sleep-wake alteration is dominated by central increase of somnogenic IL-1.
Topical analgesics are widely marketed for treatment of muscle and joint pain. We have recently developed a model of muscle pain and have used this model to evaluate the efficacy of commercially available topical and peroral ketoprofen in order to evaluate the time- and dose-dependence of analgesia. In the present study, we examined the dose- (0, 50, and 100 mg) and time-dependence (hourly to 8 h) of commercially available peroral and topical ketoprofen. In order to achieve infusion times of 8 h (and thus study the time course of analgesic action), we adapted the model of low pH-induced muscle pain in humans to these requirements by applying the infusions continuously for 10 min every hour for 8 h. We found that the 10 min infusion produced reliable and consistent pain levels that were reproducible over the 8 h of the study. The study was performed double-blind, randomized, and with a 1-week interval between each of five different sessions (cross-over). Altogether six volunteers underwent intramuscular infusions of isotonic phosphate-buffered saline solution of pH 5.2; during each 8 h session the infusion was switched on eight times with a duration of 10 min at 50 min intervals (there was no infusion during the 50 min interval). The intramuscular infusion of low pH phosphate buffer induced a localized dull-aching or stinging muscle pain sensation; the flow rate of the pH infusion was individually adjusted to induce pain of a magnitude of 20% on a visual analogue scale (ranging from "no pain" (0%) to "unbearable pain" (100%)). Twenty minutes after starting the infusion the volunteers received a capsule with either a placebo or 50 or 100 mg ketoprofen perorally and, in addition, either placebo gel or 50 or 100 mg of a 2.5% commercial ketoprofen gel was applied topically to the skin. One of the sessions included a placebo gel and an oral placebo. The intensity of the recurrent pain stimulus was significantly reduced by 59% following administration of 100 mg peroral ketoprofen within the first 3 h (P<0.03, Wilcoxon test); this analgesia lasted up to the sixth hour of the experimental protocol. Oral ketoprofen (50 mg) was less effective and reduced the pain intensity by 45% (P<0.05) from only the second to the third hour. In contrast, pain reduction after topical ketoprofen application was not of the same magnitude but appeared to be faster to develop (with a maximum effect within 1 h) on average. The maximum pain suppression with 100 mg topical 2.5% ketoprofen gel was by 51% (significant with P<0.03), while 50 mg topical ketoprofen produced a non-significant reduction of 29%. The apparent analgesia was rapid to develop but transient and pain ratings increased back to baseline values within 3 h for the 100 mg dose and within 2 h for the 50 mg dose. This data suggests that topical application of commercial gel-based systems does not provide long-lasting analgesia in the muscle when compared to perorally-dosed ketoprofen. In addition, the data show that even doses of 100 mg peroral ketoprofen do not provide complete relief of muscle pain.
Liver transplantation for acutely ill patients with fulminant liver failure carries high intraoperative and immediate postoperative risks. These are increased with the presence of concomitant acute kidney injury (AKI) and intraoperative dialysis is sometimes required to allow the transplant to proceed. The derangements in the procoagulant and anticoagulant pathways during fulminant liver failure can lead to difficulties with anticoagulation during dialysis, especially when continued in the operating room. Systemic anticoagulation is unsafe and regional citrate anticoagulation in the absence of a functional liver carries the risk of citrate toxicity. Citrate dialysate, a new dialysate with citric acid can be used for anticoagulation in patients who cannot tolerate heparin or regional citrate. We report a case of a 40-year-old female with acetaminophen-induced fulminant liver failure with associated AKI who underwent intraoperative dialytic support during liver transplantation anticoagulated with citrate dialysate during the entire procedure. The patient tolerated the procedure well without any signs of citrate toxicity and maintained adequate anticoagulation for patency of the dialysis circuit. Citrate dialysate is a safe alternative for intradialytic support of liver transplantation in fulminant liver failure.
Lewy body dementia (DLB) is common but frequently misdiagnosed as Alzheimer's disease plus delirium or parkinsonism. DRUGS USED IN THIS DISORDER CAN CAUSE EXACERBATIONS: neuroleptic medication is relatively contraindicated because some patients show severe neuroleptic sensitivity, antiparkinsonian medication has the potential to exacerbate psychotic symptoms, and even cholinesterase inhibitors, while relatively safe, have provoked adverse responses in some DLB patients. There are few data available about the use of memantine in DLB.
A 74-year-old man was diagnosed with Alzheimer disease and parkinsonism. After memantine was started he developed severe fluctuations in awareness, visual hallucinations, agitation, and worsened parkinsonism. When he was evaluated thoroughly, the diagnosis was revised to Lewy body dementia, leading to changes in treatment that were associated with dramatic improvement in the patient's mental status.
In our patient, motor and cognitive symptoms worsened with memantine treatment; these resolved after memantine was discontinued.
There is relatively little comparative information on elevations in plasma prolactin level (PRL) with conventional versus novel antipsychotic agents.
This paper examines the comparative effects on PRL of olanzapine, risperidone, and haloperidol based on data from 3 multicenter, double-blind, randomized clinical trials. Magnitude of response, dose dependency, time course, effects of sex and age, and response to switching from haloperidol to olanzapine are assessed.
The effects of olanzapine, risperidone, and haloperidol on PRL were assessed in patients with schizophrenia or related psychoses participating in 3 double-blind clinical trials: (1) a 6-week acute trial comparing olanzapine 5 to 20 mg/d (n = 1,336) and haloperidol 5 to 20 mg/d (n = 660), with a 1-year, open-label olanzapine extension for responders; (2) a 54-week study comparing olanzapine 5 to 20 mg/d (n = 21), risperidone 4 to 10 mg/d (n = 21), and haloperidol 5 to 20 mg/d (n = 23) in early illness; and (3) a 28-week study comparing olanzapine 10 to 20 mg/d (n = 172) and risperidone 4 to 12 mg/d (n = 167).
PRL elevations were significantly greater with risperidone than with either olanzapine or haloperidol in study 2. and significantly greater than with olanzapine in study 3 (all, P < 0.001). PRL elevations were significantly greater with haloperidol than with olanzapine in study 1 (P < 0.001 ). A dose-response relationship was not consistently confirmed with any of the drug treatments. Risperidone-associated PRL elevations peaked relatively early in treatment. In haloperidol- and risperidone-treated patients, the mean change in PRL was greater in women than in men. PRL decreased significantly when treatment was switched from haloperidol to olanzapine.
This side-by-side analysis of 3 independent studies suggests that with the 3 antipsychotic drugs studied, PRL is elevated moderately by olanzapine (mean change, 1-4 ng/mL), intermediately by haloperidol (mean change, approximately 17 ng/mL), and strongly by risperidone (mean change, 45-80 ng/mL). No consistent dose-response relationship was observed, and the time course and sex-dependency of the response differed between the 3 agents. Patients with haloperidol-induced hyperprolactinemia may benefit from a switch to olanzapine. Long-term studies examining the health consequences of chronic hyperprolactinemia during antipsychotic treatment are needed.
In response to unpublished data revealing a doubling of venous thromboembolism risk with oral contraceptives (OCs) containing desogestrel or gestodene compared with levonorgestrel, the UK Committee on Safety of Medicines advised physicians that women taking these third-generation OCs should be switched to another formulation. There are indications, however, that the studies on which this recommendation was based were flawed by prescriber bias and confounding. In addition, laboratory measures of thrombosis and fibrinolysis do not indicate a shift toward a thrombotic state associated with the newer progestogens. Moreover, desogestrel and gestodene OCs have been associated with a reduced risk of arterial disease when compared to levonorgestrel-containing OCs. Since the mortality associated with acute myocardial infarction is almost 50%, compared with 1-2% for venous thromboembolism, this information should be considered when counseling OC users about their risk of cardiovascular disease. Although the European Union Committee on Proprietary Medicinal Products has taken the position that all OCs are contraindicated in women with current or past cardiovascular disease, unlike the UK Committee, it has not made any specific recommendations about the suitability or non-suitability of the third-generation OCs.
The administration of methamphetamine to experimental animals results in damage to dopaminergic neurons. The hypothesis that methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity is mediated by reactive oxygen species was evaluated. It was found that acute administration of methamphetamine (5 and 15 mg kg(-1)) resulted in production of oxidative stress as demonstrated by decreased glutathione and increased oxidized glutathione levels in the rat striatum and prefrontal cortex. These changes in glutathione and oxidized glutathione levels were dose-dependent in striatum but not in prefrontal cortex. In conclusion, the results of present study provide further evidence in support of the notion that oxidative stress may play an important role in the methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity.
Gastroesophageal reflux disease with extra-esophageal symptoms, especially those with respiratory distress was attracting more and more attention. The related mechanisms were still in controversy. The purpose of the work was to explore airway inflammation triggered by gastroesophageal reflux.
Sixteen Sprague-Dawley rats were used as study group and 9 as control. In the study group, a plastic extender with a trumpet-shaped distal end was inserted into the lower esophagus to dilate the cardia, the pylorus was ligated. One ml of 0.1 mol/L hydrochloric acid was injected into the stomach. While a simple laparotomy was performed for control animals. All animals from two groups were sacrificed 24 hours after operation. Then tracheotomy was carried and the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid was collected in all animals. Cells in the fluid were counted and levels of interleukin (IL)-5, -6, -8 in it were measured.
Compared with control group, the study group presented a neutrophil pattern of airway inflammation and an elevated concentration of IL-5, -6, -8 with no significant difference regarding eosinophil count.
The gastroesophageal reflux-triggered airway inflammation is characterized by a neutrophilic airway inflammation which differed from that caused by asthma, and enhanced levels of IL-5, -6 and -8, which are similar to that caused by asthma.
Many factors have been implicated in the pathogenesis of unexplained recurrent spontaneous miscarriage (URSM).
The objective of this preliminary clinical study was to verify whether intravaginal sildenafil citrate tablets (25 mg intravaginally, 4 times/day for 24 days) are effective as a novel treatment of threatened miscarriage in patients with a history of URSM (n=4). We also evaluated changes in the concentrations of some antioxidants, the percent expression of cells positive for tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), CD56+T-cells [CD3+CD56+ natural killer cells (NKT cells) (cluster differentiation 3, 56 NKT cells)], which express one of the NK cell markers, and uterine artery pulsatility index (PI). We compared these results with healthy women in their first trimester of pregnancy (FTP n=4).
Sildenafil improved the measured antioxidants concentrations [total antioxidant capacity (TAC), glutathione S-transferase (GSH-S-T) and catalase (CAT), superoxide dismutase (SOD)], and improved oxidative stress by reducing malondialdehyde (MDA) and nitric oxide (NO) in the four patients under investigation. The improvement in antioxidants was close to concentrations seen in women in their FTP. The four patients had progressed to their third trimester of pregnancy using this novel application. The percentage of [CD3+CD56+ NKT cells] and TNF-alpha in peripheral blood was higher in URSM patients compared to women in their FTP. However, concentrations were greatly reduced and improved after sildenafil administration. We demonstrated that intravaginal sildenafil citrate tablets can reduce vasoconstriction by increasing blood flow through relaxation of uterine arteries as indicated from measured PI in URSM patients.
We conclude that intravaginal sildenafil citrate tablets used as suppositories might be a novel, interesting, safe antiabortive option in the treatment of threatened miscarriage in patients with a history of URSM. We are the first to report this novel clinical application in four case reports in Egypt.
West Nile virus (WNV) infection causes severe meningitis and encephalitis in a subset of patients. WNV-induced apoptosis has been suggested to contribute to WNV pathogenesis. Tetracyclines exert antiviral effects against HIV and inhibit apoptosis in different models of neuronal disease. Here, the effects of the tetracyclines minocycline, demeclocycline and chlortetracycline were observed on WNV replication and WNV-induced apoptosis in different human CNS-derived cell types (primary human brain neurons, primary human retinal pigment epithelial cells and T98G human glioma cell line).
WNV replication was studied by cytopathic effects and virus yield reduction assay. Cell viability was examined by MTT assay. Apoptosis was investigated by immunostaining for activated caspase 3 and cleaved poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase. Expression and phosphorylation of cellular proteins were examined by western blot.
Minocycline exerted the strongest anti-WNV activity. Non-toxic minocycline concentrations that can be achieved in human tissues significantly reduced WNV titres in all cell types tested. Minocycline inhibited WNV-induced apoptosis and suppressed virus-induced activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and its target c-jun. The JNK inhibitor L-JNKi exerted similar effects to minocycline.
These data suggest that minocycline-induced inhibition of JNK activation contributes to minocycline-induced inhibition of WNV replication and WNV-induced apoptosis. Minocycline is a clinically available, inexpensive and generally very well-tolerated drug. It could be readily evaluated for the treatment of humans with serious WNV infection.
Autosomal recessive ichthyosis with hypotrichosis (ARIH) syndrome, which is characterized by congenital ichthyosis, abnormal hair and corneal involvement, has recently been shown in one consanguineous Israeli Arab family to be caused by a mutation in the ST14 gene, which encodes serine protease matriptase. No other families have so far been described since the original report. In this current report we describe a female patient from a second family with ARIH syndrome who carries a homozygous novel mutation, p.M1I. The patient has congenital ichthyosis, light brown, curly, sparse hair, improving with age, and sparse body hair, eyebrows and eyelashes. She does not suffer from photophobia, but has blepharitis. The phenotype of this patient closely resembles that of the affected individuals in the previously reported family, although she does not have tooth abnormalities and the ichthyosis is milder.
N-acetyl-beta glucosaminidase (NAG) enzymuria was used as a marker of renal injury in patients with rheumatic disease. An elevated NAG level was particularly common in patients receiving gold or aspirin therapy. The multiplicity of drugs received and the unknown role of underlying disease in these patients led to a study in healthy volunteers. Customary therapeutic doses of aspirin, choline salicylate, ibuprofen, indomethacin and acetaminophen did not produce enzymuria. Large single doses of salicylates equivalent to 6 tablets of aspirin consistently did produce enzymuria. The size of the individual dose in relation to body weight was more important than the total daily dose. NAG enzymuria appears to be a sensitive tool for identifying potentially nephrotoxic drugs.
Effects of betaxolol, a cardioselective beta-adrenoceptor antagonist, on blood pressure and hypertensive complications in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP) were investigated. Betaxolol was provided in a dose of 33 +/- 1.8 mg/kg/day, orally in drinking water, throughout the experimental period. The chronic treatment with betaxolol inhibited the development of hypertension in SHRSP and reduced values of blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, total cholesterol, free cholesterol, triglyceride, phospholipid and HDL-cholesterol in serum. Treatment with betaxolol apparently inhibited the incidence of hypertensive lesions such as cardiac fibrosis, mesenteric vasculitis, proliferative and/or necrotic vasculitis and glomeruli showing collapse or vasculitis in the kidneys. To shorten the time before the onset of hypertension and the subsequent stroke, SHRSP were kept on a SP diet containing 0.39% Na instead of the F-2 diet. When the SHRSP were kept on the SP diet, all of the control SHRSP had cerebral apoplexy and severe hypertensive lesions in the heart and kidney. When betaxolol was chronically administered to SHRSP, cerebral apoplexy and hypertensive lesions in the heart and kidney were inhibited, but the effect on blood pressure was slight. Treatment with betaxolol reduced serum creatinine levels. Our observations show that betaxolol reduces blood pressure and potently inhibits hypertensive complications in SHRSP.
Levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LIDs) have been associated with a sequence of events that includes pulsatile stimulation of dopamine receptors. The degree of nigrostriatal degeneration, the half-life of dopaminomimetic agents, and the dose of levodopa used to treat parkinsonian symptoms are factors directly correlated with the development of motor complications in Parkinson's disease patients. Long-acting agents producing continuous dopaminergic stimulation are less likely to prime for dyskinesia than short-acting drugs that produce pulsatile stimulation of dopamine receptors. Inhibition of the enzyme catechol-O-methyl transferase (COMT) by entacapone extends the half-life of levodopa and minimizes variability in plasma levodopa levels. The aim of the present study was to characterize the effect of the early administration of the COMT inhibitor entacapone in the recently described model of LIDs in rats with a nigrostriatal lesion induced by 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). Male Sprague-Dawley rats received a unilateral 6-OHDA administration in the nigrostriatal pathway. Animals were treated either with levodopa (6 mg/kg, twice at day, i.p.) plus entacapone (30 mg/kg per day, i.p.) or levodopa (6 mg/kg, twice at day, i.p.) plus vehicle for 22 consecutive days. Early administration of entacapone, in association with levodopa, induces a decrease in the severity of dyskinesia and delays their onset in hemiparkinsonian rats. All dyskinesia subtypes evaluated, such as axial, limb, and orofacial dyskinesias, have shown similar reductions. These results suggest that entacapone, by extending levodopa elimination half-life, might reduce its propensity to induce motor complications.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the relationship between R219K, M883I, and R1587K variants of the ATP-binding cassette transporter subfamily A number 1 (ABCA1) gene and response to rosiglitazone treatment in newly diagnosed patients with type 2 diabetes.
A total of 105 diabetic patients with no history of antihyperglycemia medication were treated with rosiglitazone (4 or 8 mg daily) for 48 weeks. Three non-synonymous variants R219K, M883I, and R1587K, were genotyped in all patients.
Ninety-three patients completed the entire study. The R219K variant of ABCA1 had an effect on rosiglitazone response with the per-allele odds ratio of 2.04 for treatment failure (P<0.05). The RR homozygotes had a better improvement in indicators of insulin sensitivity, as determined by a significantly greater decrease in the homeostasis model assessment index of insulin resistance (-2.39+/-0.46 vs -0.69+/-0.51, P<0.05). No genotype-phenotype association was detected for M883I and R1587K.
The R219K variant of ABCA1 was associated with the therapeutic effect of rosiglitazone. The RR homozygotes had a better response to rosiglitazone treatment in terms of insulin sensitivity improvement than minor K allele carriers. Neither the M883I nor R1587K variant of the ABCA1 gene was associated with rosiglitazone response.
Multiple myeloma is a plasma cell malignancy which is generally incurable in spite of a high initial response to chemotherapy. Relapsing disease commonly heralds an increase in the incidence of drug resistance which is often mediated by the product of the MDR-1 gene, P-glycoprotein (Pgp). One approach to modulating drug resistance due to Pgp overexpression has involved the use of agents known as chemomodulators which inhibit its function. We have developed a human xenograft model of multiple myeloma using the SCID mouse to evaluate the efficacy and toxicities of new MDR-1 chemomodulators. Cyclosporin A (CsA) is a widely used immunosuppressant which has been demonstrated to be a potent inhibitor of Pgp in vitro at concentrations which are clinically achievable. Preliminary studies revealed an acute toxicity in our SCID model which was associated with the combination of CsA and doxorubicin, and which was not observed with either drug alone, nor with cremaphor, the vehicle for CsA. In the current study, non-tumor bearing SCID mice were dosed with doxorubicin or the combination of doxorubicin with cremaphor, verapamil or CsA. Animals were sacrificed and tissues harvested for morphologic examination and for HPLC analysis of doxorubicin levels. In all tissues examined, there was a marked increase in tissue levels of doxorubicin when combined with CsA. Results also revealed a higher incidence and severity of myocardial damage in those animals receiving the combination of doxorubicin and CsA than in those receiving other combinations. The elevations in tissue levels observed with doxorubicin and CsA may contribute to the acute toxicities observed in the SCID mouse model.
We investigated the immunohematoxicities of the antiparasitic drug dapsone (DDS) and the antiretroviral drug zidovudine (ZDV, AZT) given alone or in combination in BALB/c mice. DDS is used for prophylaxis and treatment of Pneumocystis carinii infection in AIDS patients. We examined the impact of concurrent administration of these drugs on the immune and hematopoietic systems because DDS causes hematotoxicity and ZDV therapy results in bone marrow toxicity. Daily oral administration of DDS at 25 and 50 mg/kg for 28 days caused a slight anemia, marked methemoglobinemia, reticulocytosis, and a moderate leukopenia (P < 0.01 for all parameters) but had no discernible effect on platelet count. In DDS-treated mice, the proliferative response of splenic T cells to concanavalin A was > or = 35% higher than that manifested by splenocytes from vehicle-treated control mice. ZDV at 240 and 480 mg/kg was not immunosuppressive but caused low-grade macrocytic anemia, thrombocytosis, and neutropenia; these effects were drug dose-dependent and statistically significant (P < 0.01). Concurrent administration of DDS and ZDV augmented the severity of ZDV-mediated macrocytic anemia, and 7 of 12 (58%) mice did not survive treatment with the high doses of DDS and ZDV (50 and 480 mg/kg, respectively). On the other hand, co-administration of ZDV mitigated DDS-induced methemoglobinemia and the DDS-associated elevation in lymphoproliferative response. These data suggest interaction between DDS and ZDV in mice and indicate a need for caution in using DDS as long-term therapy in AIDS patients receiving ZDV.
To determine the compliance and tolerance with zidovudine (azidothymidine or AZT) therapy among poor, minority, and intravenous drug-using patients, data were collected on all AIDS and ARC patients followed for at least 4 weeks in a New York City Human Immunodeficiency Virus clinic. Ninety-nine patients received zidovudine, of whom 75% were males, 92% were minorities, and 59% had a history of intravenous drug use. Of the 99 patients, 72 had AIDS and 27 had ARC with T-helper (CD4) lymphocytes less than or equal to 500 mm3. Eighty-seven of the 99 patients (88%) were compliant with zidovudine therapy. Fifty-seven percent of these had at least one adverse drug reaction requiring dose reduction (44%) or cessation (13%). Adverse reactions were similar to those reported in other populations with HIV-related illness, although headache and nausea were less common. Twenty opportunistic infections (OIs) or HIV-related malignancies occurred in 15 of 82 (18%) patients who were on zidovudine for at least 4 weeks (7.6 OIs/1,000 patient weeks). Seven of the 82 died (9%), compared to 9 of the 17 patients (53%) who did not complete 4 weeks of zidovudine therapy (p less than 0.05). There were no significant differences in any of these measures when intravenous drug users were compared with other risk groups. We conclude that zidovudine can be administered to intravenous drug users and others in an inner city clinic with acceptable compliance and tolerance.
We prospectively compared gender outcome among 470 MMT patients admitted between June 1993 and Dec 2002. Urine samples were analyzed for drug abuse after one month and after one year. On admission females 131(27.9%) were significantly younger (34.5 +/-7.5 years) than males 339(72.1%) (37.3 +/- 8.3 years) (ANOVA; F = 11, p = 0.001) and had significantly higher cocaine abuse (20% vs. 11.3%) (Fisher's Exact Test, p = 0.02). After one year, groups had: (a) similar retention in treatment (76.3%-females, 72.6%-males), (b) stop in opiate abuse (65%-females, 65.3%-males), (c) a net decrease in cocaine abuse (% positive that became negative minus % negative that became positive) (68.0%-females, 51.6%-males). Females who were admitted to treatment while pregnant (n = 45) were significantly younger (31.5 +/-5.4 years) compared to 86 non-pregnant (36.1 +/- 7.9, ANOVA F = 12.1, p = 0.001). We concluded that compared to males, females started MMT younger and had a higher proportion of cocaine abuse even though females' outcome were similar to males'.
The authors present a case of refractory multiple myeloma in an elderly patient with heterozygosity for the G20210A mutation of factor II and for the C677T mutation of methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase. This patient developed acute, multiple cerebral infarctions 5 months into the treatment with thalidomide. The patient improved on oral anticoagulation. The authors presume that thalidomide increased the risk of cerebral infarction in this predisposed patient. The presence of increased risk for thrombosis should alert clinicians to screen patients presenting with systemic thrombosis for inherited thrombophilia. This risk increases with the presence of diseases and therapies that predispose for a hypercoagulable state. They suggest that patients required to be on thalidomide should be screened for inherited thrombophilia and should be considered for prophylactic anticoagulation therapy.
Blood pressure reduction is associated with a reduced risk for cardiovascular events and death, particularly in patients with both hypertension and type 2 diabetes mellitus.
The aim of this study was to compare the antihypertensive efficacy, tolerability, and effect on metabolic risk factors of manidipine, a new dihydropyridine calcium channel antagonist, and enalapril, a widely used angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, in patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension and type 2 diabetes.
This multicenter, double-blind trial compared manidipine and enalapril in patients with type 2 diabetes and hypertension (diastolic blood pressure [DBP] 90-104 mm Hg, systolic blood pressure [SBP] < or =190 mm Hg). Following a 3-week, single-blind placebo run-in period, eligible patients were randomized to receive either manidipine 10 mg or enalapril 10 mg once daily for 24 weeks. The dose was doubled after 3 weeks in patients who had not responded to treatment (DBP > or =90 mm Hg). The primary efficacy end point was change in DBP from baseline to the end of the study. Secondary outcomes were the responder rate (DBP <90 mm Hg and/or a DBP reduction of > or =10 mm Hg) at the end of the study. Other secondary measures were changes from baseline to the end of the study in heart rate and in the following measures obtained by ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM): 24-hour, daytime, and nighttime mean DBP and SBP, and the trough:peak ratio. Blood glucose, glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c), total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, triglycerides, uric acid, and creatinine were measured at the end of the placebo run-in period and the end of treatment. The study had 80% power to detect a between-treatment difference in mean sitting DBP of >3 mm Hg.
One hundred twenty-four patients were enrolled in the study. After the placebo run-in period, 13 patients were excluded from the study: 4 for DBP values outside the specified limits, 7 at their request, and 2 for adverse events. Thus, 111 patients met the eligibility criteria and were randomized to treatment (53 manidipine, 58 enalapril). The population consisted of 61 men and 50 women with a mean (SD) age of 62 (11) years and a body mass index of 28.2 (2.4) kg/m2. Among patients who completed the study, drug doses were doubled in 67.6% (25/37) of patients in the manidipine group and 60.0% (24/40) of patients in the enalapril group (P = NS). Similar reductions in blood pressure were observed in both groups, from a mean (SD) of 164 (12)/97.5 (5) mm Hg at baseline to 141 (12)/84.5 (6) mm Hg at the end of the study in the manidipine group (P < 0.01), and from 159 (12)/98 (4) mm Hg to 139 (12)/86 (8) mm Hg in the enalapril group (P < 0.01). The proportion of responders was 66.7% (32/48) in the manidipine group and 60.0% (30/50) in the enalapril group; the difference between groups was not significant. Twenty-four-hour ABPM revealed significant (P < 0.01) and similar reductions in blood pressure in both groups, with a trough:peak ratio of approximately -50%. Neither drug affected heart rate. Among the statistically significant changes in metabolic parameters, significant reductions in HbA(1c) (from 6.7% [1.4%] to 6.2% [1.1%]) and blood glucose concentrations (from 152 [44] to 143 [44] mg/dL) were observed only in the manidipine group (P < 0.05). The incidence of adverse events was similar between groups.
In the present study, manidipine was as metabolically neutral and as effective as enalapril in reducing blood pressure in hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes, providing a sustained 24-hour antihypertensive effect.
To determine the prevalence of self-reported, heroin-associated asthma symptoms among inner-city patients treated for life-threatening asthma, and to compare the rates of drug use between ICU patients with asthma and ICU control patients with diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA).
Study 1 was a sequential case series of patients requiring ICU admission for asthma (January to June 1999). Study 2 was a retrospective, case-control study of drug use among asthma patients and control subjects with DKA requiring ICU care (1997 to 1998).
Inner-city, public hospital ICU.
Twenty-three patients (26 ICU admissions) with asthma (age range, 16 to 50 years) admitted to the ICU from January to June 1999, and 84 patients (104 ICU admissions) with asthma and 42 patients with DKA (age range, 15 to 50 years) admitted to the ICU during 1997 to 1998. Outcomes studied: Self-reported, heroin-associated exacerbations, history of heroin or cocaine use, and urine drug screen (UDS) results.
In the sequential ICU admissions, 13 of 23 patients (56%) described asthma exacerbations associated with heroin insufflation. In the case-control study, asthmatics were significantly more likely to report heroin use (41.3% vs 12.5%; p = 0.006) and had a significantly higher prevalence of UDS results positive for opiates (60% vs 7%; p = 0.001) compared to subjects with DKA. The rates of cocaine use by history and UDS results did not differ significantly between the two groups.
At least since 1997, heroin insufflation is a common asthma trigger in this inner-city ICU and should be considered in the care of patients with life-threatening asthma.
Spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1) is a dominantly inherited neurodegenerative disease caused by expansion of a glutamine-encoding repeat in ataxin 1 (ATXN1). In all known polyglutamine diseases, the glutamine expansion confers toxic functions onto the protein; however, the mechanism by which this occurs remains enigmatic, in light of the fact that the mutant protein apparently maintains interactions with its usual partners. Here we show that the expanded polyglutamine tract differentially affects the function of the host protein in the context of different endogenous protein complexes. Polyglutamine expansion in ATXN1 favours the formation of a particular protein complex containing RBM17, contributing to SCA1 neuropathology by means of a gain-of-function mechanism. Concomitantly, polyglutamine expansion attenuates the formation and function of another protein complex containing ATXN1 and capicua, contributing to SCA1 through a partial loss-of-function mechanism. This model provides mechanistic insight into the molecular pathogenesis of SCA1 as well as other polyglutamine diseases.
Pro-inflammatory processes initiated in the endothelium represent a crucial step in the pathogenesis of inflammatory cardiovascular disease, such as atherosclerosis. Recent observations pointed to potential anti-inflammatory properties of the cardiac glycoside digitoxin. Therefore, the present study investigated potential anti-inflammatory and vasoprotective properties of digitoxin as well as the underlying signaling pathways affected in endothelial cells (EC). Digitoxin, employing therapeutical concentrations used in patients (3-30nM), potently inhibited the IL-1beta-induced expression of MCP-1 and VCAM-1 in EC and the capacity of corresponding cell culture supernatants on monocyte migration as well as monocyte adhesion to endothelial monolayers, respectively. Furthermore, digitoxin prevented the IL-1beta-induced activation of p44/42-MAPK and NF-kappaB without affecting activation of JNK and p38-MAPK. Inhibition of NF-kappaB signaling but not p44/42-MAPK mimicked the observed inhibitory effects of digitoxin on MCP-1 expression and monocyte migration. Moreover, digitoxin inhibited NF-kappaB signaling at the level of TAK-1/IKK. Additionally, digitoxin prevented TNF-alpha-induced apoptosis in EC accompanied by activation of Akt. Blockade of PI-3-kinase, activator of Akt, prevented the anti-apoptotic properties of digitoxin and impaired its inhibitory action on NF-kappaB signaling and MCP-1 expression. Finally, digitoxin activated endothelial NO-synthase, which was blocked by inhibition of PI-3-kinase, Ca(2+)/Calmodulin-dependent-proteinkinase-II and chelation of intracellular calcium. Digitoxin elicits anti-inflammatory and vasoprotective properties by blocking NF-kappaB and activating PI-3-kinase/Akt signaling as well as Ca(2+)/Calmodulin-dependent-proteinkinase-II in EC. These observations indicate a potential therapeutical application of digitoxin in the treatment of cardiovascular diseases, such as atherosclerosis.
The mechanisms that are responsible for the development of myocardial fibrosis in inflammatory cardiomyopathy are unknown. We have previously generated lines of transgenic mice with cardiac-restricted overexpression of tumor necrosis factor (MHCsTNF mice), a pro-inflammatory cytokine. The MHCsTNF mice develop a heart failure phenotype that is characterized by progressive myocardial fibrosis, as well as increased levels transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta)(mRNA and protein. In order to determine whether TGF-beta-mediated signaling was responsible for the myocardial fibrosis observed in the MHCsTNF mice, we treated MHCsTNF and littermate control mice from 4 to 12 weeks of age with a novel orally available TGF-beta receptor antagonist (NP-40208). At the time of terminal study, myocardial collagen content was determined using the picrosirius red technique, and left ventricular (LV) systolic and diastolic function were determined using the Langendorff method. Treatment with NP-40208 resulted in a significant (P < 0.05) 65% decrease in nuclear translocation of Smad 2/3, a significant (P < 0.05), decrease in the heart-weight to body-weight ratio from 6.5 to 5.7, a approximately 37% decrease in fibrillar collagen content (P < 0.01) and a significant (P < 0.05) decrease in the LV chamber stiffness by approximately 25% in the MHCsTNF mice when compared to diluent-treated controls. Treatment with NP-40208 had no discernable effect on LV systolic function, nor any effect on cardiac myocyte size or fetal gene expression in the MHCsTNF mice. Taken together, these observations suggest that sustained pro-inflammatory signaling in the adult heart is associated with a pro-fibrotic phenotype that arises, at least in part, from TGF-beta-mediated signaling, with resultant activation of Smad 2/3, leading to increased myocardial fibrosis and increased LV diastolic chamber stiffness.
