We describe nephrotic syndrome occurring in a 53-year-old male patient on continuous rifampicin (RFP) therapy for pulmonary tuberculosis. After the pulmonary tuberculosis was improved by chemotherapy that included RFP, administration of Isoniazid and RFP was continued. After 16 weeks, he suddenly developed nephrotic syndrome, but never developed acute renal failure. He was admitted to hospital and renal biopsy was performed revealing minor glomerular abnormalities and few interstitial changes in light microscopy. No positive immunofluorescent microscopic findings were obtained without fibrinogen. Thus, minimal change nephrotic syndrome (MCNS) was diagnosed. In contrast, electron microscopy showed several injurious glomerular changes, such as the elevation of the endothelial layer, local widening of the subendothelial space which was filled with fine granular or fibrillar materials, irregularity of the endothelial investment, swelling or shrinkage of the endothelial cells, compatible with those seen in many diseased conditions supposedly caused by clinical or subclinical localized intravascular coagulation. Discontinuation of RFP administration completely relieved the patient of MCNS with the aid of predonisolone therapy. Thus, this patient might not have been a case of incidental, but rather drug (RFP)-induced MCNS.
Uremic pericarditis is common in patients undergoing chronic hemodialysis and has been difficult to cure using conservative medical and surgical methods of treatment. Indomethacin therapy for uremic pericarditis has been reported infrequently. We present a case of uremic pericarditis in which indomethacin was particularly effective. The patient was a 45-year-old woman with thrombocytopenia due to Banti's syndrome and congestive heart failure with pericardial effusion. She had been undergoing hemodialysis for 3 years for chronic renal failure due to chronic glomerulonephritis. Uremic pericarditis was diagnosed based on serological laboratory results, aspirated pericardial fluid, and an echocardiogram. She was treated with oral doses of 25 mg t.i.d. indomethacin in addition to hemodialysis and extracorporeal ultrafiltration method. Pericardial effusion and left ventricular dysfunction disappeared after indomethacin therapy for 38 days. There are conflicting reports on the efficacy of indomethacin therapy in patients with uremic pericarditis. While indomethacin therapy was very effective in our case, there may be many causes of uremic pericarditis for which indomethacin may not be efficacious. Further investigations of indomethacin therapy for patients with uremic pericarditis are necessary to elucidate the therapeutic mechanism by which indomethacin acts.
We conducted a genome-wide association study for testicular germ cell tumor, genotyping 298,782 SNPs in 979 affected individuals and 4,947 controls from the UK and replicating associations in a further 664 cases and 3,456 controls. We identified three new susceptibility loci, two of which include genes that are involved in telomere regulation. We identified two independent signals within the TERT-CLPTM1L locus on chromosome 5, which has previously been associated with multiple other cancers (rs4635969, OR=1.54, P=1.14x10(-23); rs2736100, OR=1.33, P=7.55x10(-15)). We also identified a locus on chromosome 12 (rs2900333, OR=1.27, P=6.16x10(-10)) that contains ATF7IP, a regulator of TERT expression. Finally, we identified a locus on chromosome 9 (rs755383, OR=1.37, P=1.12x10(-23)), containing the sex determination gene DMRT1, which has been linked to teratoma susceptibility in mice.
Alzheimer's disease is one of the main causes of dementia among elderly individuals and leads to the neurodegeneration of different areas of the brain, resulting in memory impairments and loss of cognitive functions. Recently, a rare variant that is associated with 3-fold higher risk of Alzheimer's disease onset has been found. The rare variant discovered is a missense mutation in the loop region of exon 2 of Trem2 (rs75932628-T, Arg47His). The aim of this study was to investigate the evidence for potential structural and functional significance of Trem2 gene variant (Arg47His) through molecular dynamics simulations. Our results showed the alteration caused due to the variant in TREM2 protein has significant effect on the ligand binding affinity as well as structural configuration. Based on molecular dynamics (MD) simulation under salvation, the results confirmed that native form of the variant (Arg47His) might be responsible for improved compactness, hence thereby improved protein folding. Protein simulation was carried out at different temperatures. At 300K, the deviation of the theoretical model of TREM2 protein increased from 2.0 Å at 10 ns. In contrast, the deviation of the Arg47His mutation was maintained at 1.2 Å until the end of the simulation (t = 10 ns), which indicated that Arg47His had reached its folded state. The mutant residue was a highly conserved region and was similar to "immunoglobulin V-set" and "immunoglobulin-like folds". Taken together, the result from this study provides a biophysical insight on how the studied variant could contribute to the genetic susceptibility to Alzheimer's disease.
Warfarin-associated intracerebral hemorrhage (W-ICH) is a severe type of stroke. There is no consensus on the optimal treatment for W-ICH. Using a mouse model, we tested whether the rapid reversal of anticoagulation using human prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC) can reduce hemorrhagic blood volume. Male CD-1 mice were treated with warfarin (2 mg/kg over 24 h), resulting in a mean (+/-s.d.) International Normalized Ratio of 3.5+/-0.9. First, we showed that an intravenous administration of human PCC rapidly reversed anticoagulation in mice. Second, a stereotactic injection of collagenase was administered to induce hemorrhage in the right striatum. Forty-five minutes later, the animals were randomly treated with PCC (100 U/kg) or saline i.v. (n=12 per group). Twenty-four hours after hemorrhage induction, hemorrhagic blood volume was quantified using a photometric hemoglobin assay. The mean hemorrhagic blood volume was reduced in PCC-treated animals (6.5+/-3.1 microL) compared with saline controls (15.3+/-11.2 microL, P=0.015). In the saline group, 45% of the mice developed large hematomas (i.e., >15 microL). In contrast, such extensive lesions were never found in the PCC group. We provide experimental data suggesting PCC to be an effective acute treatment for W-ICH in terms of reducing hemorrhagic blood volume. Future studies are needed to assess the therapeutic potential emerging from our finding for human W-ICH.
Accurate determination of ALK rearrangement is important in lung cancer patients, especially in determining their eligibility for crizotinib therapy. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) has been regarded as the gold standard method for detecting ALK rearrangement. However, FISH requires a fluorescence microscope, and the signals are labile and rapidly fade over time. This study evaluates the concordance between ALK gene rearrangement in non-small cell lung cancer assessed by ALK FISH and a newly developed ALK chromogenic in situ hybridization (CISH) and correlates the results with ALK protein expression assessed by immunohistochemistry.
A total of 465 formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded non-small cell lung cancer samples were analyzed by ALK FISH (PathVysion, Vysis, Abbott) and ALK CISH. For comparison, all specimens were stained by immunohistochemistry (clone 5A4, Novocastra) and interobserver reproducibility was assessed.
We found that agreement between the pathologists on the CISH-determined ALK status was achieved in 449 patients (96.6%), and ALK rearrangement was identified in 18 patients (4.0%) in CISH method. Among these cases, 443 cases (95.3%) had results matching the corresponding FISH results: 17 rearranged, 425 wild types, and 1 discordant case. There was high concordance in the assessment of ALK gene rearrangement between FISH and CISH techniques (κ = 0.92) and between observers (κ = 0.97). In addition, there was high concordance in the ALK gene status and ALK protein expression between CISH and IHC tests (κ = 0.82).
CISH is a highly reproducible and practical method to detect ALK gene rearrangement and correlated well with ALK protein expression. Here, we present a diagnostic algorithm (Chung's SNUBH ALK protocol) to detect lung cancer with ALK rearrangements using IHC, FISH and CISH. Because CISH allows a concurrent analysis of histological features of the tumors and gene rearrangement, it appears to be a useful method in determining ALK gene rearrangement.
Urologic examination of 48 male patients exposed in utero to diethylstilbestrol showed genital abnormalities in 29. Only 33 per cent of the patients studied had normal semen analyses by Eliasson scoring. Genital abnormalities demonstrated included varicoceles, epididymal cysts, hypoplastic testes and undescended testes among others. None of the patients had elevations of alpha-fetoprotein or beta-subunit human chorionic gonadotropin. The high incidence of the aforementioned abnormalities suggests that all male patients exposed to diethylstilbestrol should undergo urologic examination and semen analysis. Additionally, a history of diethylstilbestrol exposure should be sought in all patients with apparent idiopathic infertility.
48 male patients exposed in utero to diethylstilbestrol (DES) were studied urologically, retrospectively, to determine residual complications. 29 of the 48 males had genital abnormalities when examined. In addition, only 33% of these patients had normal seman analyses (by the Eliasson scoring method). Other parameters measured included levels of alpha-fetoprotein and beta-subunit human chorionic gonadotropin, but none of the subjects had elevations of these compounds. Genital abnormalities discovered on examination included varicoceles, epididymal cysts, hypoplastic testes, and undescended testes. This high incidence of genital abnormalities and semen deficiency suggests that males as well as female patients exposed in utero to DES should be given periodic examinations for genital abnormalities. As an obvious corollary, histories of DES should be solicited from all patients in urology practices.
Three patients with aplastic anaemia following chloroquine therapy are described. In two, chloroquine had been administered in large doses over a long period. One of them subsequently developed acute myeloblastic leukaemia. The third received only a small dose and pancytopenia with aplasia followed three weeks after ingestion of the drug. The mechanism(s) of chloroquine-induced marrow injury is not known. A parallel to chloramphenicol-induced blood dyscrasias is drawn, but remains unproved.
Antenatal betamethasone treatment is widely used for the prevention of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome in preterm infants and substantially reduces neonatal mortality and morbidity. Fetal exposure to excess glucocorticoids has been proposed as one of the core mechanisms of the fetal origins of adult disease hypothesis. We assessed whether antenatal exposure to betamethasone for the prevention of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome affects cardiovascular risk factors at 30 years of age.
We followed up at age 30 years 534 individuals whose mothers participated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised trial of antenatal betamethasone for the prevention of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome. Mothers received two doses of betamethasone or placebo given by intramuscular injection 24 h apart. Follow-up assessments included anthropometry; measurement of blood pressure, blood lipids (after overnight fasting), and early morning cortisol levels; and a 75 g oral glucose tolerance test.
There were no differences between those exposed to betamethasone and to placebo in body size, blood lipids, blood pressure, plasma cortisol, prevalence of diabetes, or history of cardiovascular disease. After a 75 g oral glucose tolerance test, participants exposed to betamethasone had higher plasma insulin concentrations at 30 min (60.5 vs 52.0 mIU/L; ratio of geometric means 1.16 [95% CI 1.03 to 1.31], p=0.02) and lower glucose concentrations at 120 min (4.8 vs 5.1 mmol/L; difference -0.26 mmol/L [-0.53 to 0.00], p=0.05) than did those exposed to placebo.
Antenatal exposure to betamethasone might result in insulin resistance in adult offspring, but has no clinical effect on cardiovascular risk factors at 30 years of age. Thus, obstetricians should continue to use a single course of antenatal betamethasone for the prevention of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome.
The neuropsychiatric and electroencephalographic (EEG) complications of oral contraceptive (OC) use were investigated in 8 groups of 10 patients each. 61 of the women (76.2%) reported neuropsychiatric side effects, and changes in EEG were found in 48 patients. The reported symptoms were tension and anxiety states (45%), neurasthenic states (62.5%), and depressive states (52.5%). The administration of progesterone or estrogens alone increased the incidence of side effects. It is concluded that the ideal OC formulation provides a balance of both components in the lowest effective concentrations.
The present study has been designed to pharmacologically investigate the role of opioid and gamma-aminobutyric acid receptors on the seizurogenic effect of tramadol. A single injection of pentylenetetrazole (80 mg/kg) was used to elicit seizure activity in mice. Seizures were assessed in terms of the time latency of the onset of Straub's tail phenomenon, onset of jerky movements of whole body, convulsions and death. Tramadol administration (50 mg/kg) caused a marked increase in seizurogenic activity of pentylenetetrazole as measured in terms of a significant decrease in the time latency of the onset of Straub's tail phenomenon, jerky movements of whole body, convulsions and death. Moreover, prior administration of naloxone (2 mg/kg) and gabapentin (25 mg/kg), respectively, attenuated the seizurogenic activity that tramadol exerted on pentylenetetrazole-treated mice. Furthermore, prior administration of naloxone (2 mg/kg) and gabapentin (25 mg/kg), respectively, also attenuated the seizurogenic activity exerted by tramadol per se. Therefore, it is suggested that tramadol exerts a seizurogenic effect on mice possibly via an opioid-dependent gamma-aminobutyric acid inhibitory pathway.
To compare thymidylate synthase (TS), dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) and thymidine phosphorylase (TP) gene polymorphism and expression in colorectal cancer (CRC), and normal mucosa in chemotherapy-naïve patients.
TS, DPD and TP mRNA expression was analysed by real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction in primary CRC and adjacent normal tissues from 53 patients with glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase as housekeeping gene. TS promoter (TSER and C/G SNP) and DPD IVS14+1G>A genotypes were determined by polymerase chain reaction and restriction fragment length polymorphism assays. Moreover, the correlation between TS, DPD and TP expression and cytotoxicity of 5-fluorouracil was evaluated in Colo 320, HT-29, CaCo-2 and SW620 human CRC cell lines.
TP and DPD mRNA expression was significantly different in tumour and normal tissue (7.51+/-13.50 vs. 1.10+/-0.57, P<0.05 and 0.60+/-0.63 vs. 1.17+/-0.55, P<0.0001, respectively), whereas no differences were observed in TS mRNA levels. High-grade, undifferentiated tumours (WHO grade 3) had significantly higher mRNA levels of TS with respect to moderately differentiated (WHO grade 2) carcinomas (0.38+/-0.37 vs. 0.00+/-0.44, respectively; P<0.05). Noteworthy, TS mRNA expression was significantly decreased (P<0.05) in homozygous TSER*3G/3G (-0.35+/-0.35) with respect to pooled homozygous TSER*2/2 and heterozygous TSER*2/3 genotypes (0.14+/-0.41). In-vitro results showed a higher sensitivity to 5-FU of cell lines with the lowest TS expression.
The present results demonstrated significant differences in DPD and TP gene expression between normal mucosa and tumour samples, while TSER*3G/3G and high-grade histology were associated with significant variation in TS gene expression in tumour samples.
Acne vulgaris is a common, inflammatory disease of the pilosebaceous duct. Propionibacterium acnes proliferated in sebum, produces chemotactic factors followed by phagocytosis and this process results in the production of reactive oxygen species which contribute to the inflammatory reaction in papulopustular type acne. Benzoyl peroxide (BP) and BP combination with erythromycin (BP/E) are effective topical medications for the treatment of mild and moderate acne vulgaris. In the present study, the effects of BP and BP/E on antioxidant defence enzymes in 40 patients with papulopustular type acne were evaluated. The activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and catalase (CAT), and also thiobarbituric acid reactive substance (TBARS) levels were determined in peripheral blood leukocytes in all patients, as well as in tissues of a small group of patients before and at the end of 4 weeks of treatment. No difference was detected in leukocyte antioxidant enzyme activities and TBARS levels due to BP treatment. However, SOD, CAT and GSH-Px activities in leukocytes decreased and TBARS levels increased in BP/E-treated patients (p < 0.05). There was no statistically significant difference between pretreatment and posttreatment enzyme activities in tissue samples. The results of this preliminary study may be attributable to in vivo conditions and possible stability problems while compounding the mixture of the BP/E. Influence of the other ingredients of the formulations applied in the study must also be considered.
Recent studies have demonstrated that cloricromene, a coumarin derivative, exerts protective effects in models of inflammation and shock. Tumour necrosis factor plays a pivotal role in the induction of genes involved in physiological processes, as well as in the response to inflammation. We investigated the effect of cloricromene in a rat model of periodontitis. Periodontitis was induced in rats by placing a 2/0 braided silk ligature around the lower left first molar. At day 8 the gingivomucosal tissue encircling the mandibular first molar was removed for evaluation of tumour necrosis factor production, neutrophil infiltration, tissue permeability, nitrotyrosine formation, poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase activation, radiography and histology. Ligation significantly induced an increased tumour necrosis factor production, neutrophil infiltration and a positive staining for nitrotyrosine formation and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase activation. Ligation significantly increased Evans blue extravasation in gingivomucosal tissue and alveolar bone erosion as evaluated by radiography analysis. Intraperitonal injection of cloricromene (10 mg/kg daily for 8 days) significantly decreased all of the parameters of inflammation as described above. This suggests that cloricromene treatment, which reduced tumour necrosis factor production, may be of benefit in the treatment of periodontitis.
Human N-myc downstream-regulated gene 1 (NDRG1) is a metastasis suppressor gene with several potential functions, including cell differentiation, cell cycle regulation and response to hormones, nickel and stress. The purpose of this study was to investigate the immunoexpression of NDRG1 in oral and oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinomas searching for its role in the clinical course of these tumors. We investigated immunohistochemical expression of NDRG1 protein in 412 tissue microarray cores of tumor samples from 103 patients with oral and oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinomas and in 110 paraffin-embedded surgical margin sections. The results showed NDRG1 up-regulation in 101/103 (98.1 %) tumor samples, but no expression in any normal tissue sample. Western blot assays confirmed the immunohistochemical findings, suggesting that lower levels of NDRG1 are associated with a high mortality rate. NDRG1 overexpression was related to long-term specific survival (HR = 0.38; p = 0.009), whereas the presence of lymph-node metastasis showed the opposite association with survival (HR = 2.45; p = 0.013). Our findings reinforce the idea that NDRG1 plays a metastasis suppressor role in oral and oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinomas and may be a useful marker for these tumors.
Interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma)/lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induces delayed dopaminergic neuron loss in midbrain slice cultures, because of nitric oxide production resulting from p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK)-dependent induction of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS). In this study, we show that inhibition of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), but not of extracellular signal-regulated kinase, protects dopaminergic neurons from IFN-gamma/LPS-induced degeneration. In contrast to a p38 MAPK inhibitor, SB203580, however, a JNK inhibitor, anthra[1,9-cd]pyrazol-6(2H)-one (SP600125), did not suppress IFN-gamma/LPS-induced iNOS expression and nitric oxide production. Involvement of NADPH oxidase-derived superoxide production in dopaminergic neurodegeneration was not obvious, in that superoxide dismutase/catalase or manganese 3-methoxy-N,N'-bis(salicylidene)ethylenediamine chloride (EUK-134), a superoxide dismutase/catalase mimetic, did not afford neuroprotection. Moreover, the NADPH oxidase inhibitors apocynin and diphenylene iodonium were protective against IFN-gamma/LPS cytotoxicity only at concentrations that suppressed nitric oxide production. Notably, alpha-tocopherol effectively prevented IFN-gamma/LPS-induced dopaminergic neuron degeneration, without affecting iNOS induction and nitric oxide production. These results underscore the neuroprotective potential of JNK inhibitor and alpha-tocopherol, in the sense that both agents could rescue dopaminergic neurons under inflammatory conditions associated with robust increases in nitric oxide production.
During a 7 month trial for therapy of polymicrobial surgical sepsis, intravenous antibiotic treatment was randomized between gentamicin (1 mg/kg every 8 hours) plus clindamycin (8 mg/kg every 6 hours), and the cephalosporin, ceftriaxone (1 g every 12 hours) in 197 patients, of whom 99 were being treated for peritonitis, 93 for soft tissue sepsis, and 5 for other forms of infection. No significant differences were noted in patient demographics, type of sepsis, associated disease states, surgical procedure, or causative aerobic or anaerobic pathogens. Results demonstrated approximately equivalent efficacy, although cure rates obtained with ceftriaxone in patients with soft tissue sepsis or intraabdominal abscess were superior to those achieved with combination gentamicin and clindamycin. There were no significant side effects with ceftriaxone therapy, such as the renal failure noted in six of the patients treated with gentamicin and clindamycin. We conclude that single agent treatment with ceftriaxone is preferable because of the greater safety and the longer dosing intervals.
The objective of the present study was to evaluate whether germline methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) C677T and A1298C polymorphisms as well as polymorphisms in the thymidylate synthase gene promoter, namely the variable number tandem repeat polymorphism (TS VNTR) and the intrarepeat G to C single nucleotide polymorphism (TS SNP), are predictive markers of tumor regression in rectal cancer patients following preoperative chemoradiotherapy.
Blood samples from 125 patients with primary adenocarcinoma of the mid-low rectum who received 5-fluorouracil-based chemotherapy and external beam radiotherapy (median dose 48.4 Gy), 125 patients (women n=45, men n=80; median age 60 years, range 31-79 years) were genotyped. Response to preoperative treatment was evaluated employing the Tumor Regression Grade criteria. On the basis of the pathologic response, patients were classified as responders (TRG 1-2, n=48) and non-responders (TRG 3-5, n=74). Three patients were excluded because of insufficient data.
Among the polymorphic variants examined, the MTHFR 677T-1298A haplotype was, upon univariate analysis, the only variable found associated with tumor regression (P=0.004). Moreover, at multivariate analysis, the MTHFR 677T-1298A haplotype was an independent predictor of tumor regression. Patients not carrying the MTHFR 677T-1298A haplotype (odds ratio 0.29, 95% confidence interval 0.13-0.64, P=0.002) displayed a higher response rate than patients with the MTHFR 677T-1298A haplotype.
Unlike TS VNTR and SNP polymorphisms, MTHFR 677T-1298A haplotype in genomic DNA has the potential to be a predictive marker of tumor response in rectal cancer patients submitted to preoperative chemoradiotherapy.
A battery of psychometric tests was administered to 110 patients with epilepsy and to 24 non-epileptic controls. Eighty-four patients had been established on treatment with a single anticonvulsant drug (35 carbamazepine (CBZ), 30 sodium valproate (VPA), 19 phenytoin (PHT)) at unaltered dosage for the previous 3 months. The remaining 26 patients were untreated at the time of study. No individual test discriminated between the groups. Tests were converted to standard scores and summated to give overall psychomotor, memory and side-effect assessments. There were no important differences between the performances of untreated epileptic patients and non-epileptic controls. The CBZ-treated patients had poorer psychomotor scores than both control groups and the VPA-treated patients (all P less than 0.05). The PHT patients scored less well on the composite memory scale than did VPA patients and non-epileptic controls (both P less than 0.05). There were no significant differences in subjective side-effects among the groups. This study demonstrated that anticonvulsant monotherapy has little effect on overall cognitive function in patients tolerating treatment. Psychomotor performance appeared to be selectively influenced by CBZ and memory impaired by PHT. VPA may be the drug to chose when cognitive function is an important consideration. Different cognitive modalities can be affected by different first-line anticonvulsants and this should be taken into account when choosing the most appropriate drug for an individual patient.
The R406W tau mutation found in frontotemporal dementia and parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17) causes a hereditary tauopathy clinically resembling Alzheimer's disease. Expression of modest levels of the longest human tau isoform with this mutation under the control of the alpha-calcium-calmodulin-dependent kinase-II promoter in transgenic (Tg) mice resulted in the development of congophilic hyperphosphorylated tau inclusions in forebrain neurons. These inclusions appeared as early as 18 months of age. As with human cases, tau inclusions were composed of both mutant and endogenous wild-type tau, and were associated with microtubule disruption and flame-shaped transformations of the affected neurons. Straight tau filaments were recovered from Sarkosyl-insoluble fractions from only the aged Tg brains. Behaviorally, aged Tg mice had associative memory impairment without obvious sensorimotor deficits. Therefore, these mice that exhibit a phenotype mimicking R406W FTDP-17 provide an animal model for investigating the adverse properties associated with this mutation, which might potentially recapitulate some etiological events in Alzheimer's disease.
The chemopreventive effect of ethanol extract of Indigofera aspalathoides (EIA) on N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN, 200 mg/kg)-induced experimental liver tumor was investigated in male Wistar rats. Oral administration of ethanol extract of Indigofera aspalathoides (250 mg/kg) effectively suppressed liver tumor induced with DEN as revealed by decrease in the levels of extend of serum glutamate pyruvate transaminase (SGPT), serum glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase (SGOT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), total bilirubin, gamma glutamate transpeptidase (GGTP), lipid peroxidase (LPO), glutathione peroxidase (Gpx) and glutathione S-transferase (GST) with a concomitant increase in enzymatic antioxidant (superoxide dismutase and catalase) levels when compared to those in liver tumor bearing rats. The histopathological changes of liver sample were compared with respective control. Our results show a significant chemopreventive effect of EIA against DEN induced liver tumor.
The effects of MCI-154, a novel cardiotonic agent, on mean circulatory filling pressure (an index of total body venous tone), total peripheral resistance and the heart were examined in anesthetized dogs. The bolus injection of MCI-154 (10-100 micrograms/kg i.v.) caused a dose-dependent decrease in mean circulatory filling pressure and resistance to venous return. MCI-154 also decreased the mean blood pressure and total peripheral resistance, and increased cardiac output and heart rate. Right atrial pressure was reduced only by the lowest dose (10 micrograms/kg i.v.) of MCI-154. These hemodynamic effects of MCI-154, except those on mean circulatory pressure and resistance to venous return, reached a maximum with 30 micrograms/kg of the drug. Nitroglycerin (50 micrograms/kg i.v.), a venodilator, decreased mean circulatory filling pressure, resistance to venous return, mean blood pressure and total peripheral resistance, and increased heart rate. However, unlike MCI-154, nitroglycerin did not alter cardiac output and right atrial pressure. These results suggest that the venodilator effect of MCI-154, as well as the positive inotropic and vasodilator effects, could potentially benefit patients with congestive heart failure.
The potential use of SCD inhibitors for the chronic treatment of diabetes and dyslipidemia has been limited by preclinical adverse events associated with inhibition of SCD in skin and eye tissues. To establish a therapeutic window, we embarked on designing liver-targeted SCD inhibitors by utilizing molecular recognition by liver-specific organic anion transporting polypeptides (OATPs). In doing so, we set out to target the SCD inhibitor to the organ believed to be responsible for the therapeutic efficacy (liver) while minimizing its exposure in the tissues associated with mechanism-based SCD depletion of essential lubricating lipids (skin and eye). These efforts led to the discovery of MK-8245 (7), a potent, liver-targeted SCD inhibitor with preclinical antidiabetic and antidyslipidemic efficacy with a significantly improved therapeutic window.
Dose-response curves for the convulsant effect of isoniazid were determined in male rats. The specific benzodiazepine antagonist Ro 15-1788, at doses from 20 to 100 mg/kg i.v. or at 300 mg/kg p.o., failed to produce any relevant shift of the isoniazid dose-response curves to the left (proconvulsant) or to the right (anticonvulsant). In contrast, the benzodiazepine receptor ligand ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate (beta-CCE) 10 mg/kg i.v. produced a clear-cut shift to the left of the isoniazid dose-response curve. Ro 15-1788 was inactive up to high p.o. or i.v. doses, versus convulsions induced by a low supraliminal dose of isoniazid, whereas beta-CCE had a significant proconvulsant effect beginning at 5 mg/kg i.v. This effect of beta-CCE was dose dependently antagonized by Ro 15-1788. In conclusion, in the present experimental conditions Ro 15-1788 showed no inverse agonistic properties at benzodiazepine receptors, in contrast to beta-CCE.
The side-effect profile of levofloxacin was compared with that of other fluoroquinolones based on European and international data from approximately 130 million prescriptions. Levofloxacin was found to be very safe with a low rate of hepatic abnormalities (1/650,000). In contrast, 140 trovafloxacin-treated patients developed hepatic problems, 14 of which were severe, and 8 required transplantation. The main CNS problems associated with fluoroquinolones include dizziness, convulsions, psychosis, and insomnia. Levofloxacin, ofloxacin, and moxifloxacin reportedly have the lowest potential of inducing central nervous system (CNS) adverse events among the fluoroquinolones currently available. Cardiovascular problems were seen in 1/15 million levofloxacin prescriptions compared to 1-3% of sparfloxacin patients having QTc prolongation of greater than 500 msec. Moxifloxacin was also associated with QTc prolongation when compared to non-fluoroquinolone comparators. Nausea, vomiting, and diarrhoea remain the main adverse drug reactions (ADRs) associated with levofloxacin. However, the ADR rate for levofloxacin is still one of the lowest of any fluoroquinolone at 2% (compared to 2-10% for other fluoroquinolones). Ofloxacin and levofloxacin have a very low phototoxic potential, whereas this is a problem for sparfloxacin, enoxacin, and pefloxacin. The tolerance profile of levofloxacin can be considered to be very good, and better than most, if not all of the fluoroquinolones available.
Selenium-containing thioredoxin reductase (TrxR) is an important target of cancer therapy. Many useful anticancer agents including bis-alkylating agents, cisplatin, and arsenic trioxide are known to interact with the selenocysteine dipeptide in the carboxy terminal region of thioredoxin reductase and inactivate its ability to reduce thioredoxin. Some investigators have postulated that the inactivation of TrxR may add to the cytotoxic potential of these anticancer agents. TH-302 is a newly developed antineoplastic drug which represents a potential new class of tumor selective hypoxia-activated prodrugs (HAPs). TH-302 is an inactive prodrug created by the covalent conjugation of 2-nitroimidazole as an oxygen sensor to bromo-isophosphoramide (Br-IPM). In the presence of severe hypoxia and near anoxia, the two imidazole sensor moiety undergoes reduction and the Br-IPM is released in situ. Bromo-IPM is a more potential analog of Chloro-IPM, the active alkylating moiety that is derived by activation of ifosfamide (IFO). We previously demonstrated that IFO could inhibit tumor TrxR activity and chloro-IPM is known to bind covalently to the seleno-cysteine dipeptide in thioredoxin reductase. The present study assessed the ability of TH-302 to activate in the tumors of mice-bearing hepatoma 22 (H22) and inactivate the tumor TrxR. In mice-bearing hepatoma 22 (H22) solid tumors, intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection with TH-302 at the dose of 200 mg/kg administered twice, a regimen which was well tolerated by the mice, significantly inhibited tumor growth. Also in this mice model, i.p. TH-302 at the dose of 300 mg/kg, which would be the maximum single i.p. administration dose tolerated by mice, and which induced only 2% body weight loss, significantly inhibited both TrxR and glutathione reductase (GR) activities by 46% (P < 0.001) and 60% (P < 0.001) as compared with the controls, respectively, at 3 h after the injection. Since TrxR is a key player in thioredoxin system and GR is the major reductase for the reduction of oxidized glutathione in glutathione system, the present results imply the anticancer effect of TH-302 is associated concurrently with modulation of TrxR and GR. These findings suggest that the anticancer activity of TH-302 in this model system may associate with both DNA alkylation and the modulation of TrxR and GR. In addition, they suggest that, by inhibition of these two critical reductases, with less glutathione available to intercept the reactive intermediates involved in DNA alkylation, the antitumor effects of the chemotherapy would be enhanced.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of paclitaxel given at the same dose intensity and administered weekly (arm A) or every 3 weeks (arm B). and to assess the safety of intravenous steroids versus standard peroral premedication. Two hundred and eight patients with advanced ovarian cancer previously treated with no more than one platinum-containing regimen were randomized to receive either a weekly infusion of paclitaxel or an infusion every 3 weeks. The median delivered dose intensity was 77.6 mg/m2/week in the weekly arm, and 72.7 mg/m2/week in the every 3 weeks arm. WHO grade 3-4 hematological and non-hematological toxicity occurred more frequently in arm B. No difference in number of severe events of hypersensitivity, response rate, time to progression or survival between arms was observed. Weekly paclitaxel at a dose of 67 mg/m2/week was found to have a better safety profile and seemed to be as effective as the equivalently dosed schedule every 3 weeks. Intravenous steroids are a safe alternative to oral steroids.
Neurotensin is a tridecapeptide that exhibits selective anatomic and neurochemical interactions with dopaminergic systems. Since dopaminergic neurotransmission underlies many of the behavioral properties of psychostimulants, and since neurotensin has been implicated in modulating dopaminergic neurotransmitter systems, we tested the effect of our novel neurotensin analog, NT69L (N-methyl-Arg(8),L-Lys(9),L-neo-Trp(11),tert-Leu(12)]neurotensin-(8-13)), on hyperactivity caused by cocaine and D-amphetamine. Previously, we showed that NT69L reduces body temperature, blocks apomorphine-induced climbing, and haloperidol-induced catalepsy. In this study, NT69L blocked the hyperactivity induced by both cocaine and D-amphetamine administered at three different doses each, when this peptide was injected intraperitoneally. These results provide further evidence for the involvement of the neurotensin system in some of the behavioral properties of psychostimulants and suggest that NT69L may find clinical application in patients who abuse this class of compounds.
Following unilateral 6-OHDA induced SN lesion, a transient period of contralateral rotation has been reported to precede the predominant ipsilateral circling. In order to clarify the nature of this initial contralateral rotation we examined the effect of the duration of recovery period after the lesion, on amphetamine-induced rotational behavior. Three days post lesion, most rats circled predominantly contralaterally to the lesion. Such contralateral rotation may result from either degeneration-induced breakdown of the DA pool, or lesion-induced increase of DA turnover in the spared neurons. A substantial degree of contralateral preference was still evident when amphetamine was administered for the first time 24 days after lesioning, indicating involvement of spared cells in the contralateral rotation. However, regardless of the duration of recovery (and irrespective of either lesion volume, amphetamine dose, or post-lesion motor exercise), amphetamine-induced rotation tended to become gradually more ipsilateral as the observation session progressed, and all rats circled ipsilaterally to the lesion in response to further amphetamine injections. These findings suggest that amphetamine has an irreversible effect on the post-lesion DA pool contributing to contralateral rotation.
