Iodinated contrast media are widely used in computed tomography and angiography. Adverse reactions such as contrast-medium induced nephropathy (CIN), anaphylactoid reactions and iodine-induced thyrotoxicosis are associated with intravasal administration of contrast agents. Iodinated contrast agents are generally considered to be safe, but in rare cases they can cause severe life threatening situations. In this review we present an overview about the incidence, pathways, and risk factors of adverse reactions. Simple schemes including hydration protocols for prevention of CIN, medication for prophylaxis of iodine-induced thyrotoxicosis with thyreostatics and anaphylactoid reactions with histamine antagonists and corticosteroids are suggested.
Pesticides are widely used in agriculture, and off-target pesticide drift exposes workers and the public to harmful chemicals.
We estimated the incidence of acute illnesses from pesticide drift from outdoor agricultural applications and characterized drift exposure and illnesses.
Data were obtained from the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health's Sentinel Event Notification System for Occupational Risks-Pesticides program and the California Department of Pesticide Regulation. Drift included off-target movement of pesticide spray, volatiles, and contaminated dust. Acute illness cases were characterized by demographics, pesticide and application variables, health effects, and contributing factors.
From 1998 through 2006, we identified 2,945 cases associated with agricultural pesticide drift from 11 states. Our findings indicate that 47% were exposed at work, 92% experienced low-severity illness, and 14% were children (< 15 years). The annual incidence ranged from 1.39 to 5.32 per million persons over the 9-year period. The overall incidence (in million person-years) was 114.3 for agricultural workers, 0.79 for other workers, 1.56 for nonoccupational cases, and 42.2 for residents in five agriculture-intensive counties in California. Soil applications with fumigants were responsible for the largest percentage (45%) of cases. Aerial applications accounted for 24% of cases. Common factors contributing to drift cases included weather conditions, improper seal of the fumigation site, and applicator carelessness near nontarget areas.
Agricultural workers and residents in agricultural regions had the highest rate of pesticide poisoning from drift exposure, and soil fumigations were a major hazard, causing large drift incidents. Our findings highlight areas where interventions to reduce off-target drift could be focused.
Epidemiologic evidence for a causative association between black carbon (BC) and health outcomes is limited.
We estimated associations and exposure-response relationships between acute respiratory inflammation in schoolchildren and concentrations of BC and particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter of ≤ 2.5 μm (PM2.5) in ambient air before and during the air pollution intervention for the 2008 Beijing Olympics.
We measured exhaled nitric oxide (eNO) as an acute respiratory inflammation biomarker and hourly mean air pollutant concentrations to estimate BC and PM2.5 exposure. We used 1,581 valid observations of 36 subjects over five visits in 2 years to estimate associations of eNO with BC and PM2.5 according to generalized estimating equations with polynomial distributed-lag models, controlling for body mass index, asthma, temperature, and relative humidity. We also assessed the relative importance of BC and PM2.5 with two-pollutant models.
Air pollution concentrations and eNO were clearly lower during the 2008 Olympics. BC and PM2.5 concentrations averaged over 0-24 hr were strongly associated with eNO, which increased by 16.6% [95% confidence interval (CI), 14.1-19.2%] and 18.7% (95% CI, 15.0-22.5%) per interquartile range (IQR) increase in BC (4.0 μg/m3) and PM2.5 (149 μg/m3), respectively. In the two-pollutant model, estimated effects of BC were robust, but associations between PM2.5 and eNO decreased with adjustment for BC. We found that eNO was associated with IQR increases in hourly BC concentrations up to 10 hr after exposure, consistent with effects primarily in the first hours after exposure.
Recent exposure to BC was associated with acute respiratory inflammation in schoolchildren in Beijing. Lower air pollution levels during the 2008 Olympics also were associated with reduced eNO.
The objective of the present study was to investigate the potential of the long-acting beta 2-agonist salmeterol as an inhibitor of various components of IgE-mediated inflammatory in man. For this purpose, we measured gross skin reactivity (diameters of wheal and flare reaction [WFR] and late cutaneous reaction [LCR] as well as inflammatory cells, mediators, and protein in cutaneous suction blister chambers in eight subjects with allergic rhinitis. Blisters were induced, two on each forearm, by gentle suction and heating, and were unroofed 12 h later, after which plastic chambers were placed over the denuded area. The chambers were challenged for 2 h with antihuman IgE (titer 1:10) in the presence and absence of salmeterol or terbutaline. Normal goat IgG served as negative control. Chamber fluids were removed hourly for the first 4 h, and this followed by a 4-h incubation before final collection. Salmeterol (10(-6)M) and terbutaline (10(-5)M) injected intradermally 30 min before, aw well as together with anti-IgE (titer 1:100), inhibited the WFRs by up to 30%. The effect of salmeterol on the ensuing LCR (75% inhibition at 24 h) tended to be more pronounced than the corresponding inhibition by terbutaline. Both salmeterol and terbutaline very effectively inhibited the anti-IgE-induced extravasation of alpha 2-macroglobulin into skin chambers, with a significantly more sustained effect by salmeterol. Interestingly, only terbutaline reduced the histamine release evoked by anti-IgE. With the present experimental design, where both drugs were washed out from the chambers after 2 h, neither drug inhibited recruitment of leukocytes (including eosinophils). Taken together, salmeterol had a more sustained inhibitory effect than terbutaline on indices of IgE-mediated edema formation (late induration and plasma protein extravasation). On the other hand, under the present experimental conditions, salmeterol failed to reduce the histamine release (in contrast to terbutaline), and neither salmeterol nor terbutaline affected the recruitment of leukocytes.
A recent Monographs Working Group of the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) concluded that there is sufficient evidence for a causal association between exposure to asbestos and ovarian cancer. We performed a meta-analysis to quantitatively evaluate this association.
Searches of PubMed and unpublished data yielded a total of 18 cohort studies of women occupationally exposed to asbestos.
Two authors independently abstracted data; any disagreement was resolved by consulting a third reviewer.
All but one study reported standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) comparing observed numbers of deaths with expected numbers for the general population; the exception was a study that reported standardized incidence ratios. For simplicity, we refer to all effect estimates as SMRs. The overall pooled SMR estimate for ovarian cancer was 1.77 (95% confidence interval, 1.37-2.28), with a moderate degree of heterogeneity among the studies (I2 = 35.3%, p = 0.061). Effect estimates were stronger for cohorts compensated for asbestosis, cohorts with estimated lung cancer SMRs > 2.0, and studies conducted in Europe compared with other geographic regions. Effect estimates were similar for studies with and without pathologic confirmation, and we found no evidence of publication bias (Egger's test p-value = 0.162).
Our study supports the IARC conclusion that exposure to asbestos is associated with increased risk of ovarian cancer.
Two double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled feasibility trials of minocycline in ALS were conducted. In Trial 1, 19 subjects received 200 mg/day or placebo for 6 months; there were no significant differences in adverse events (AE). In Trial 2, 23 subjects received up to 400 mg/day in an 8-month crossover trial. The mean tolerated dose was 387 mg/day, there was a trend toward more gastrointestinal AE (p = 0.057), and blood urea nitrogen and liver enzymes became elevated (p < 0.05). Using these data, the authors have designed and launched a phase III trial.
Pulmonary toxicity may complicate the treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). The possible drug-related cause of pulmonary toxicity was investigated retrospectively in 207 NHL patients treated between 1981 and 1988 with three regimens containing cyclophosphamide with and without methotrexate or bleomycin: methotrexate, calcium, leucovorin, bleomycin, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and dexamethasone (m-BACOD) (n = 134); methotrexate, calcium, leucovorin, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and dexamethasone (m-ACOD) (n = 43); or cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (CHOP) (n = 30) chemotherapy. These regimens contained the same drugs and were administered in the same schedule; the regimens differed primarily in the addition of bleomycin or methotrexate. Pulmonary toxicity occurred in 24 of 134 (18%) m-BACOD-treated and in six of 43 (14%) m-ACOD-treated patients (P = 0.65). Chest radiography revealed diffuse pulmonary infiltrates in 16 (67%) and six (100%) of the m-BACOD-treated and m-ACOD-treated patients with pulmonary toxicity, respectively. None of the CHOP-treated patients had pulmonary toxicity. The clinical features of pulmonary toxicity and the amount of chemotherapy administered before it occurred did not differ in patients treated with m-BACOD or m-ACOD, although the toxicity tended to be more severe in the m-BACOD group. Open lung or transbronchial biopsies done in six (38%) of the m-BACOD-treated and three (50%) of the m-ACOD-treated patients with pulmonary infiltrates revealed nonspecific pneumonitis compatible with drug-related toxicity. In summary, these results showed that pulmonary toxicity during m-BACOD and m-ACOD therapy occurred with similar frequency and clinicopathologic features. This suggested that bleomycin was not responsible uniquely for the pulmonary toxicity in m-BACOD-treated patients. That pulmonary toxicity was not observed in patients treated with CHOP suggested that methotrexate may play an important role in the pathogenesis of the pulmonary toxicity.
Stereotactic ventroposterolateral pallidotomy in 46 parkinsonian patients resulted in a complete or almost complete and long-lasting relief of rigidity and hypokinesia in 91% of the patients. Good tremor effect was obtained in 80% of them. The L-dopa-induced dyskinesias, gait and speech improved in most patients. Complications were observed in 7 cases after 51 pallidotomies, i.e. 14% (partial homonymous hemianopia in 6 and transient dysphasia and facial weakness in 1). We believe that the good effect of surgery is based on interruption of some striopallidal or subthalamopallidal pathways.
Fried syndrome, first described in 1972, is a rare X-linked mental retardation that has been mapped by linkage to Xp22. Clinical characteristics include mental retardation, mild facial dysmorphism, calcifications of basal ganglia and hydrocephalus. A large four-generation family in which the affected males have striking clinical features of Fried syndrome were investigated for linkage to X-chromosome markers; the results showed that the gene for this condition lies within the interval DXS7109-DXS7593 in Xp22.2. In total, 60 candidate genes located in this region, including AP1S2, which was recently shown to be involved in mental retardation, were screened for mutations. A mutation in the third intron of AP1S2 was found in all affected male subjects in this large French family. The mutation resulted in skipping of exon 3, predicting a protein with three novel amino-acids and with termination at codon 64. In addition, the first known large Scottish family affected by Fried syndrome was reinvestigated, and a new nonsense mutation, p.Gln66X, was found in exon 3. Using CT, both affected patients from the French family who were analysed had marked calcifications of the basal ganglia, as previously observed in the first Scottish family, suggesting that the presence of distinctive basal ganglia calcification is an essential parameter to recognise this syndromic disorder. It may be possible to use this feature to identify families with X-linked mental retardation that should be screened for mutations in AP1S2.
In cases of miosis without other clinical signs and not contributory medical history it is often hard to differentiate Horner's syndrome. In these cases the pharmacological testing with cocaine eye drops is a well established and validated method. The physiological testing, i.e. the detection and measurement of a dilatation lag in Horner's syndrome, is not so common. For this reason we measured the dilatation of pupils in 22 Horner's syndromes and 16 physiological anisocorias to find limit ("cut off") values. We used flash photography and a commercial available camcorder and took photos in bright light (400 cd/m2) as well as 4 and 15 seconds after cessation of light stimulus in darkness. An anisocoria after 4 seconds of darkness greater than 0.6 mm distinguishes both groups with a sensitivity of 82% and a specifity of 69%. A dilatation speed of the smaller pupil during the first 4 seconds of darkness lower than 1.1 mm/4 sec is also a good threshold value. Because of the additional good correlation of these parameters to the anisocoria after cocaine the photographic methods are at least a supplement to pharmacological testing with cocaine, which is sometimes equivocal and always delays the localizing hydroxyamphetamine test. The advantage of using a camcorder is the immediate evaluation on a TV screen. Because of the similar price it is more useful to buy an infrared camera to perform real pupillography. Because of the missing possibility of magnification we prefer the evaluation of slides instead of Polaroid flash photographs.
We evaluated the efficacy of pretreatment with phenytoin and phenobarbital to prevent seizures in mice given convulsive doses of theophylline. The control LD50 for theophylline was determined in 48 mice by intraperitoneal injections of increasing doses without anticonvulsant treatment. Anticonvulsant effects were determined in 105 additional mice pretreated with either phenytoin 30 mg/kg (n = 35), phenobarbital 35 mg/kg (n = 30), or phenobarbital 60 mg/kg (n = 40) one hour before theophylline administration. The theophylline LD50 (95% confidence interval) was 239 mg/kg (range, 229 to 248 mg/kg) for controls, 204 mg/kg (range, 194 to 214 mg/kg) for phenytoin, 305 mg/kg (range, 288 to 323 mg/kg) for low-dose phenobarbital, and 319 mg/kg (range, 307 to 331 mg/kg) for high-dose phenobarbital. Each LD50 differed significantly from control (P less than .05). The phenobarbital groups were significantly different from phenytoin (P less than .05) but not from each other. Theophylline serum concentrations were not significantly different among groups after adjustment for different doses. The mean +/- SEM time to seizure in minutes after adjustment for theophylline dose was 23.5 +/- 4.0 minutes for controls, 5.7 +/- 7.5 minutes for phenytoin, 44.1 +/- 7.1 minutes for low-dose phenobarbital, and 63.7 +/- 6.5 minutes for high-dose phenobarbital.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We have recently shown that morphine withdrawal sensitizes the neural substrates of fear in the midbrain tectum structures--the dorsal periaqueductal gray (dPAG) and inferior colliculus (IC). In the present study, we investigated the role of mu- and kappa-opioid receptors in the mediation of these effects. Periadolescent rats chronically treated with morphine (10 mg/kg; s.c.) twice daily for 10 days were implanted with an electrode glued to a guide-cannula into the dPAG or the IC. Forty-eight hours after the interruption of this treatment, the effects of intra-dPAG or intra-IC microinjections of [D-Ala2,N-Me-Phe4,Gly5-ol]-enkephalin (DAMGO; 0.6 and 1 nmol/0.2 microl)--a selective mu-receptor agonist--or nor-binaltorphimine (BNI; 2.5 and 5 microg/0.2 microl)--a selective kappa-receptor antagonist with tardive action--on the freezing and escape thresholds determined by electrical stimulation of the dPAG and the IC were examined. For both structures, morphine withdrawal produced pro-aversive effects. DAMGO and BNI had antiaversive effects when injected into the dPAG and IC of non-dependent rats. In morphine-withdrawn rats, only BNI continued to promote antiaversive effects in both structures. Whereas DAMGO lost its antiaversive efficacy when injected into the dPAG, only its highest dose promoted antiaversive effects in the IC of morphine-withdrawn rats, suggesting the development of an apparent tolerance. Thus, the enhanced reactivity of the midbrain tectum in morphine-withdrawn periadolescent rats may be due, at least partially, to an impairment of the inhibitory influence of mechanisms mediated by mu-receptors on the neural substrates of fear in this region.
Mycophenolate mofetil is a novel immunosuppressive drug already established in transplantation medicine. Recently, results of three open clinical trials on mycophenolate mofetil in myasthenia gravis have been reported. Mycophenolate mofetil in a dose of 1.0-2.0 g/day was given in 2 patients with severe refractory myasthenia gravis and in 1 patient with myasthenia gravis-polymyositis syndrome. Apart from dose-dependent reversible hemolytic anemia in 1 patient, no severe side effects occurred. Considerable improvement of myasthenic symptoms was seen in all patients within 3-6 months after the initiation of this therapy. Mycophenolate mofetil may be considered as a useful alternative in the treatment of severe myasthenia gravis when standard therapeutic regimens fail. It is usually well tolerated and its application is simple.
Thymidylate synthase (TS) overexpression is a key determinant of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) resistance in human cancer cells. TS is also acutely up-regulated with 5-FU treatment, and, thus, novel strategies targeting TS down-regulation seem to be promising in terms of modulating 5-FU resistance. Here, we report that histone deacetylase inhibitors can reverse 5-FU resistance by down-regulating TS. By using cDNA microarrays and validation experiments, we found that trichostatin A reduced the expression of both TS mRNA and TS protein. Cotreatment with trichostatin A and cycloheximide restored TS mRNA expression, suggesting that TS mRNA is repressed through new protein synthesis. On the other hand, TS protein expression was significantly reduced by lower doses of trichostatin A (50 nmol/L). Mechanistically, TS protein was found to interact with heat shock protein (Hsp) complex, and trichostatin A treatment induced chaperonic Hsp90 acetylation and subsequently enhanced Hsp70 binding to TS, which led to the proteasomal degradation of TS protein. Of note, combined treatment with low-dose trichostatin A and 5-FU enhanced 5-FU-mediated cytotoxicity in 5-FU-resistant cancer cells in accordance with TS protein down-regulation. We conclude that a combinatorial approach using histone deacetylase inhibitors may be useful at overcoming 5-FU resistance.
Tetrachloroisophthalonitrile (TCPN) is an agricultural and horticultural fungicide used in many parts of the world. In Northern Europe it is also used as a wood preservative. The substance has well-known toxic properties through skin contact, and has recently been reported as inducing allergic contact dermatitis. We report an epidemic of contact dermatitis in a Norwegian wooden-ware factory, which we attribute to TCPN. 14 out of 20 workers had skin complaints which were work related. Half of these cases were shown to be of allergic origin. The toxic and allergic properties of TCPN render this compound unsuitable for use in the wooden-ware industry. A re-evaluation of its use in agriculture and horticulture seems appropriate.
Glucocorticoids are widely prescribed to treat autoimmune and inflammatory diseases. Although they are extremely potent, their utility in clinical practice is limited by a variety of adverse side effects. Development of compounds that retain the potent immunomodulating and anti-inflammatory properties of classic glucocorticoids while exhibiting reduced adverse actions is therefore a priority. Using heavy water labeling and mass spectrometry to measure fluxes through multiple glucocorticoid-responsive, disease-relevant target pathways in vivo in mice, we compared the effects of a classic glucocorticoid receptor (GR) ligand, prednisolone, with those of a novel arylpyrazole-based compound, L5 {[1-(4-fluorophenyl)-4a-methyl-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-4H-benzo[f]indazol-5-yl]-[4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]methanol}. We show for the first time that L5 exhibits clearly selective actions on disease-relevant pathways compared with prednisolone. Prednisolone reduced bone collagen synthesis, skin collagen synthesis, muscle protein synthesis, and splenic lymphocyte counts, proliferation, and cell death, whereas L5 had none of those actions. In contrast, L5 was a more rapid and potent inhibitor of hippocampal neurogenesis than prednisolone, and L5 and prednisolone induced insulin resistance equally. Administration of prednisolone or L5 increased expression comparably for one GR-regulated gene involved in protein degradation in skeletal muscle (Murf1) and one GR-regulated gluconeogenic gene in liver (PEPCK). In summary, L5 dissociates the pleiotropic effects of the GR ligand prednisolone in intact animals in ways that neither gene expression nor cell-based models were able to fully capture or predict. Because multiple actions can be measured concurrently in a single animal, this method is a powerful systems approach for characterizing and differentiating the effects of ligands that bind nuclear receptors.
Inhibition of Rho-kinase displays vasodilation property although its effect on cardiac remodeling in heart against pressure overload and ischemia has not been fully elucidated. The present study was designed to examine the effect of fasudil, a Rho-kinase (ROCK) inhibitor, on myocardial remodeling and underlying mechanisms in pressure overload and myocardial infarction (MI) mice. Pressure overload was produced by constriction of the transverse aorta (TAC) for 3 weeks. Left ventricular (LV) geometry, cardiac hypertrophy, fibrosis, and remodeling were evaluated by transthoracic echocardiography and cardiac histology. Expressions of the hypertrophic and profibrotic markers were analyzed in TAC and MI mice with or without fasudil treatment. LV cavity dilatation and dysfunction evaluated by echocardiography were significantly suppressed in the fasudil-treated MI group compared with the MI group (P<0.05); however, there were no significant difference between the TAC group and the fasudil-treated TAC group. Inhibition of ROCK exhibited reduced interstitial fibrosis, which was observed both in TAC and MI mice (P<0.05). The beneficial effects of fasudil were closely associated with the change of the specific profibrotic gene expression and TGF-β1-TAK1 pathway. Taken together, these results indicate that Rho-kinase is substantially involved in the myocardial remodeling after TAC and MI associated with upregulation of profibrotic gene expression and TGF-β1-TAK1 pathway; further suggest the protective effect of fasudil on heart against pathological stimuli by inhibiting reactive fibrosis.
Alterations in hemostasis leading to symptomatic thromboembolism have been observed in patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) receiving Escherichia coli asparaginase (CASP) combined with steroids. Moreover, hereditary prothrombotic risk factors are associated with an increased risk for venous thromboembolism in pediatric ALL patients treated according to the BFM 90/95 protocols (including CASP combined with prednisone during induction therapy). To assess whether the thromboembolic risk associated with established prothrombotic risk factors is modified by treatment modalities (prednisone or dexamethasone), the present analysis was performed. Three hundred thirty-six consecutively recruited leukemic children treated according to different BFM protocols (PRED group, n = 280, 60 mg/m(2) prednisone; DEXA group, n = 56, 10 mg/m(2) dexamethasone during induction therapy) were studied. Study end point was the onset of symptomatic vascular accidents during induction therapy. Cumulative thromboembolism-free survival was significantly reduced in children in the PRED group (thrombosis frequency, 10.4%) compared with children in the DEXA group (thrombosis frequency, 1.8%; P =.028). Although no significant difference was found in the overall prevalence of prothrombotic risk factors, 46.5% of patients in the PRED group who experienced thromboembolic events were carriers of a prothrombotic risk factor, whereas no carrier in the DEXA group had a thromboembolism. At the time of maximum CASP activity, fibrinogen and activities of antithrombin, plasminogen, and protein S were significantly reduced in the PRED group. No significant correlation could be found between CASP activity and levels of coagulation factors. In conclusion, the use of dexamethasone instead of prednisone, administered with CASP, significantly reduced the onset of venous thromboembolism.
Systemic inflammation is strongly involved in the pathophysiology of the metabolic syndrome, a cluster of metabolic risk factors that includes hypertriglyceridemia. Aspirin treatment lowers inflammation via inhibition of NF-κB activity but also reduces hypertriglyceridemia in humans. The aim of this study was to investigate the mechanism by which aspirin improves hypertriglyceridemia. Human apolipoprotein CI (apoCI)-expressing mice (APOC1 mice), an animal model with elevated plasma triglyceride (TG) levels, as well as normolipidemic wild-type (WT) mice were fed a high-fat diet (HFD) and treated with aspirin. Aspirin treatment reduced hepatic NF-κB activity in HFD-fed APOC1 and WT mice, and in addition, aspirin decreased plasma TG levels (-32%, P < 0.05) in hypertriglyceridemic APOC1 mice. This TG-lowering effect could not be explained by enhanced VLDL-TG clearance, but aspirin selectively reduced hepatic production of VLDL-TG in both APOC1 (-28%, P < 0.05) and WT mice (-33%, P < 0.05) without affecting VLDL-apoB production. Aspirin did not alter hepatic expression of genes involved in FA oxidation, lipogenesis, and VLDL production but decreased the incorporation of plasma-derived FA by the liver into VLDL-TG (-24%, P < 0.05), which was independent of hepatic expression of genes involved in FA uptake and transport. We conclude that aspirin improves hypertriglyceridemia by decreasing VLDL-TG production without affecting VLDL particle production. Therefore, the inhibition of inflammatory pathways by aspirin could be an interesting target for the treatment of hypertriglyceridemia.
Myocardial protection conferred by ischemic preconditioning occurs in a bimodal time course. The early cardioprotection wanes rapidly and is succeeded by a delayed phase of protection reducing infarct development, myocardial stunning and arrhythmias. This 'second window' of preconditioning may be evident for up to 72 h. The current mechanistic paradigm for delayed preconditioning against infarction invokes roles for several freely-diffusible molecules, generated during the preconditioning period, that act in autocrine and/or paracrine fashion as triggers of cellular adaptation. These include adenosine, nitric oxide, reactive oxygen species and bradykinin. A role for adenosine receptor activation as a proximal molecular mechanism leading to delayed preconditioning against infarction was established in 1994. Pharmacological adenosine receptor blockade during preconditioning abolishes the acquisition of delayed protection, while transient adenosine A(1) or A(3) receptor activation fully recapitulates protection against infarction (but not against stunning or arrhythmias) 24 h later. Although nitric oxide is a co-trigger of delayed preconditioning, A(1) agonist-induced delayed protection is independent of nitric oxide production. Adenosine receptor activation causes the activation of a complex protein kinase signalling cascade and, putatively, the subsequent activation of gene transcription. The induction or post-translational regulation of several proteins is associated with A(1) agonist-induced delayed protection. These include the mitochondrial manganese-conjugated superoxide dismutase, and the 27-kDa heat shock protein. Opening of K(ATP) channels during the index ischaemic event is an obligatory downstream event mediating A(1) and A(3) agonist induced delayed protection. However, the mechanism of sub-acute regulation of K(ATP) channels following adenosine receptor activation is unknown. Evidence for induction of inducible nitric oxide synthase as a distal mechanism of A(1) agonist-induced delayed protection is equivocal.
Survivin is a member of the inhibitor of apoptosis gene family that is expressed in most human cancers and may facilitate evasion from apoptosis and aberrant mitotic progression. Here, exposure of breast carcinoma MCF-7 or cervical carcinoma HeLa cells to anticancer agents, including Adriamycin, Taxol, or UVB resulted in a 4-5-fold increased survivin expression. Changes in survivin levels after anticancer treatment did not involve modulation of survivin mRNA expression and were independent of de novo gene transcription. Conversely, inhibition of survivin phosphorylation on Thr(34) by the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor flavopiridol resulted in loss of survivin expression, and nonphosphorylatable survivin Thr(34)-->Ala exhibited accelerated clearance as compared with wild-type survivin. Sequential ablation of survivin phosphorylation on Thr(34) enhanced tumor cell apoptosis induced by anticancer agents independently of p53 and suppressed tumor growth without toxicity in a breast cancer xenograft model in vivo. These data suggest that Thr(34) phosphorylation critically regulates survivin levels in tumor cells and that sequential ablation of p34(cdc2) kinase activity may remove the survivin viability checkpoint and enhance apoptosis in tumor cells.
Cytotoxic drugs, which are widely used as immunosuppressive and antiinflammatory agents in patients with neoplastic conditions, and cancer chemotherapy preparations, are of long-range concern due to the problem of cumulative organ toxicity which is not manifested until damage is extensive. These considerations have arisen because of their widespread use in recent years. Those involved in hepatic toxicity are the antimetabolites methotrexate and 6-mercaptopurine. Bisulfin, bleomycin, and methotrexate have been linked to pulmonary toxicity. Daunomycin and adriamycin, used as anticarcinogens, are examined for their cardiac toxicity. Cyclophosphamide and streptozotocin affect the urinary tract. These drugs have specific toxic effects on fertility in both males, through its disruption of the testicular function, and in females, for ovarian disruptions. Antifolics, 6-mercaptopurine, azathioprine, and alkylating agents, used for therapy in pregnant women, particularly in the first 4 months, are linked to the appearance of fetal abnormalities. The process of carcinogenesis is examined for clues to possible chemotherapy-related 2nd tumors, which appear during the course of treatment.
The current study represents an initial investigation of the association between heroin use and anxiety sensitivity (AS). Within a sample of 172 inner-city treatment seeking drug users, AS was compared across past year (1) heroin users with no crack/cocaine use (n=12); (2) crack/cocaine users with no heroin use (n=66); (3) users of both heroin and crack/cocaine (n=45); and (4) individuals with no use of heroin or crack/cocaine (n=49). Consistent with expectations, primary heroin users evidenced higher levels of AS than all other groups, with these differences also evidenced for the physical and social subscales. Differences in AS total score and physical subscale score persisted after controlling for demographic variables, depressive symptoms, and primary use of drugs other than heroin and crack/cocaine including alcohol, nicotine, marijuana, and hallucinogens. Findings suggest a unique relationship between AS and heroin, and set the stage for future work explicating the direction of the observed association.
Two cases are reported of hypertensive crisis, occurring during monoamine oxidase inhibitor treatment, that successfully responded to sublingual nifedipine. The authors discuss the use of sublingual calcium channel blockers as a possible alternative to phentolamine treatment of hypertensive crisis.
Two cases of testicular swelling associated with desipramine therapy are described. In one case, the swelling resolved with discontinuation of desipramine; in the other, the swelling subsided despite continuation and an increase in dose. These cases may represent a local variant of angioneurotic edema; however, further study is required to determine the exact etiologic mechanism.
In conscious adrenalectomized spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) propranolol (5 mg/kg s.c.) induced an acute and profound decrease in blood pressure and heart rate, the maximum effect occurring 15-30 min after propranolol administration. The decrease was associated with a fall in cardiac output. Rauwolscine pretreatment abolished the propranolol-induced hypotension but not the bradycardia. The fall in cardiac output was significantly reduced. These results suggest that in adrenalectomized SHR the hypotensive effect of propranolol is due to the modulation of catecholamine release from nerve terminals.
The neuroanatomical substrate of seizures induced by picomolar amounts of corticotropin-releasing hormone in infant rats was investigated. Electrographic and behavioral phenomena were monitored in 42 rat pups aged 5 to 22 days. Rat pups carried bipolar electrodes implanted in subcortical limbic structures, as well as cortical electrodes and intracerebroventricular cannulae. The administration of corticotropin-releasing hormone produced age-specific seizures within minutes, which correlated with rhythmic amygdala discharges. Paroxysmal hippocampal and cortical discharges developed subsequently in some rats. Corticotropin-releasing hormone-induced electrographic and behavioral seizures originate in the amygdala.
Hepatic stellate cells (HSC) are important mediators of liver fibrosis. HSC express purinergic receptors for extracellular ATP that induce fibrogenesis. Pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2', 4'-disulfonate (PPADS) is a highly bioavailable purinoceptor inhibitor. We sought to determine whether PPADS could prevent experimental liver fibrosis in rats.
The effect of PPADS as an inhibitor of HSC purinoceptors was compared to the effect of suramin using confocal video microscopy. Rats were treated with CCl4, dimethylnitrosamine, or common bile duct ligation in the presence or absence of PPADS. Fibrosis in liver sections was assessed using Trichrome and Sirius red stains. In HSC isolated from experimental animals, proliferation was determined by bromodeoxyuridine uptake, apoptosis was determined using Annexin V flow cytometry, and transcription of alpha(1)-procollagen and fibronectin were determined using quantitative RT-PCR.
Both PPADS and suramin inhibited HSC purinoceptor activation, but PPADS had a more durable effect. PPADS completely blocked the development of cirrhosis due to CCl4 or dimethylnitrosamine but not due to bile duct ligation. PPADS inhibited HSC proliferation, but had no effect on HSC apoptosis. PPADS inhibited transcription of alpha(1)-procollagen and fibronectin by HSC.
Blockade of purinergic receptors is a novel approach to prevention of non- biliary liver fibrosis. The primary action of PPADS is to inhibit HSC proliferation and fibrogenesis. Future design of purinergic receptor inhibitors may be an effective pharmacologic treatment to prevent liver fibrosis.
