Studies have shown that the angiotensin II AT(1) receptor antagonist, losartan, accentuates the hypotensive response in the orthostatic stress test (tilt) performed in anaesthetized rats. The same effect was not reported with other AT(1) antagonists. The aim of this study was to re-evaluate the effects of AT(1) receptor blockade on the cardiovascular response to tilt in a model developed for conscious rats.
Rats (n=5-7 per group) were instrumented for infusion of drugs and recording of cardiovascular parameters and, after recovery, placed in a plastic tube positioned over the tilt board. The tilt test was conducted by raising the head side of the tilt board from horizontal position to 75 degrees head up position for 15 min.
Compared with control group (NaCl 0.9%, 1 ml kg(-1)), oral treatment with 1 mg kg(-1) per day of losartan or telmisartan did not alter the blood pressure response during tilt. With the 10 mg kg(-1) dose, both antagonists altered the blood pressure response during tilt (mean maximum changes -11+/-3 mm Hg; P<0.01). A post-tilt hypotension was observed with both doses in losartan and telmisartan groups (-13+/-1 and -9+/-2 mm Hg, respectively; P<0.01).
The present results indicate that the effect of losartan on the cardiovascular reactivity to tilt shares a similar profile to that of other AT(1) antagonists. Evidence discussed addresses the importance of using a conscious model for testing the influence of antihypertensive drugs on the cardiovascular reactivity to orthostatic challenges.
The use of ibuprofen by patients with systemic lupus erythematosus poses a major threat of aseptic meningitis. Although previously reported cases have all been in young adults, our case of ibuprofen-induced meningitis occurred in a 73-year-old woman. This report greatly expands the age population that may suffer meningitis from this analgesic, now available over the counter, and emphasizes the importance of recognizing this causative relationship in patients with headache.
Four cases of auto-immune Addison's disease are reported in association with hyperprolactinaemia. Two of the females had galactorrhoea. In three cases complete resolution of hyperprolactinaemia occurred with corticosteroid replacement, but it was only partial in the fourth. We suggest that hyperprolactinaemia was due to cortisol deficiency operating directly or indirectly at the level of the pituitary. These data support the animal and in vitro evidence for the influence of corticosteroids on prolactin release.
To investigate the effect of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) + 45 of the adiponectin (ADIPOQ) gene on the response to therapy with rosiglitazone maleate in patients with type 2 diabetes.
A total of 103 newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes patients without taking any drug were enrolled and treated with rosiglitazone maleate (4 or 8 mg/d) for 24 weeks. On scheduled time phenotype measured were height, weight, waist, hip; blood pressure; HbA1c; plasma glucose level, serum insulin level, serum proinsulin level of blood obtained at 0, 2, 4 and 6 minute during arginine stimulation test; serum lipid level including total cholesterol, triglyceride, high-density and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. Response to the rosiglitazone maleate therapy was defined by both a > or = 20% decrease in fasting plasma glucose and a > or = 15% decrease in HbA1c values after 24 weeks of rosiglitazone maleate treatment. All patients were genotyped for the ADIPOQ SNP + 45 by PCR-RFLP.
(1) Of the 103 patients, the frequencies of TT, TG and GG genotypes of ADIPOQ SNP + 45 were 0.55, 0.36 and 0.09 respectively. The T allele frequency and G allele frequency were 0.73 and 0.27 respectively. (2) There was a significant difference in the response rate to rosiglitazone maleate treatment between the TT genotype and the TG + GG genotype (P = 0.0295). Response rate of the TG + GG genotype (56.41%) was higher than that of the TT genotype (33.93%). Furthermore, multivariate Logistic regression analysis revealed that SNP + 45 of ADIPOQ gene and HbA1c were the independent risk factors for rosiglitazone maleate treatment response. (3) After 24 weeks of treatment period, the FPG, 2hPG, HbA1c and HOMA-IR were significantly decreased in comparison with pre-treatment in both genotype groups. (4) The change in the clinical parameters after 24 weeks of treatment period showed no significant difference between the SNP + 45 of ADIPOQ gene.
SNP + 45 of ADIPOQ gene is associated with the response rate to rosiglitazone maleate treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes and may be the major determinant of response rate. The response rate of the TG + GG genotype is higher than that of the TT genotype.
Here we have shown the alteration of transcription factors STAT3, NF-κB and downstream associated molecules much before the appearance of lung tumor and their response to antitumor agent, inositol hexaphosphate. Histological examination revealed the pathophysiology of the lung tissues and the onset or progression of tumor from 4 or 9 to 24 weeks in terms of tumor volume and the number. Over expression of NF-κB (p50/Rel A), COX-2, STAT3, pSTAT3 (Tyr 705), IL-6 and cyclin D1 also progressed from the time of no tumor to the time of tumor appearance and was reduced in mice drinking 2%IP6. We suggest that the alterations of STAT3, NF-κB and downstream associated molecules are critical in the development of lung tumors and can be exploited as possible mechanisms after the exposure. Status of these altered genes before the tumor development suggests their possible use as targets for the tumor control in the predisposed conditions.
The authors report a case of tubulo-interstitial nephritis with acute renal failure due to vancomycin used to treat a patient with enterococcus endocarditis. Rechallenge with vancomycin several days after stopping the drug resulted in the appearance of a maculopapular rash and rapid onset of acute oligo-anuric renal failure. Renal biopsy revealed acute interstitial nephritis. This feature is suggestive of cellular mediated hypersensitivity.
A 77-year-old man was diagnosed as having essential thrombocythemia in 1992. Treatment with hydroxyurea was started in 1997, which stabilized the platelet count. The patient then suffered from pharyngalgia and rhinitis with a high fever, immediately after which he developed tarry stools and anemia and was admitted to our hospital. The physical examination revealed splenomegaly, oral aphthous ulcers, genital ulcers and skin lesions on the lower limbs. His hematological and biochemical tests revealed anemia and increased level of C-reactive protein. He also had an HLA-B51 phenotype. The findings of gastro-intestinal and colon fiberoscopy showed a duodenal ulcer and multiple ulcers on ascending colon. He was thus diagnosed as having intestinal tract-type Behçet disease. After withdrawal of the hydroxyurea administration, the intestinal ulcers, oral aphthous ulcers and genital ulcers improved.
We investigated alterations in nerve growth factor (NGF) and ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) contents during treatment with epalrestat, an aldose reductase inhibitor (ARI), on streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic neuropathy in rats. Diabetic rats showed a statistically significant reduction in H-wave-related sensory nerve conduction velocity (HSNCV) and in NGF content in sciatic nerves during the experiment of 8 weeks. No reduction in the CNTF content in sciatic nerves was seen in the diabetic rats. The epalrestat treatment, which started 4 weeks after STZ injection, resulted in a significantly greater NGF content and faster HSNCV than those in untreated diabetic rats. But no statistically significant alterations of motor nerve conduction velocity (MNCV) or CNTF content were seen during the treatment. ARI showed the stimulating effect for NGF synthesis/secretion in rat Schwann cell culture in vitro. These findings suggest that decreased levels of NGF in diabetic sciatic nerves may be involved in the pathogenesis of diabetic neuropathy in these rats and further show that epalrestat treatment can be useful for the treatment of diabetic neuropathy through NGF-induction in Schwann cells and/or inhibition of the polyol pathway.
Obesity is associated with low-grade systemic inflammation, in part because of secretion of proinflammatory cytokines, resulting into peripheral insulin resistance (IR). Increased oxidative stress is proposed to link adiposity and chronic inflammation. The effects of endurance exercise in modulating these outcomes in insulin-resistant obese adults remain unclear. We investigated the effect of endurance exercise on markers of oxidative damage (4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (4-HNE), protein carbonyls (PCs)) and antioxidant enzymes (superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase) in skeletal muscle; urinary markers of oxidative stress (8-hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), 8-isoprostane); and plasma cytokines (C-reactive protein (CRP), interleukin-6 (IL-6), leptin, adiponectin).
Age- and fitness-matched sedentary obese and lean men (n=9 per group) underwent 3 months of moderate-intensity endurance cycling training with a vastus lateralis biopsy, 24-h urine sample and venous blood samples taken before and after the intervention.
Obese subjects had increased levels of oxidative damage: 4-HNE (+37%; P0.03) and PC (+63%; P0.02); evidence of increased adaptive response to oxidative stress because of elevated levels of copper/zinc SOD (Cu/ZnSOD) protein content (+84%; P0.01); increased markers of inflammation: CRP (+737%; P0.0001) and IL-6 (+85%; P0.03), and these correlated with increased markers of obesity; and increased leptin (+262%; P0.0001) with lower adiponectin (-27%; P0.01) levels vs lean controls. Training reduced 4-HNE (-10%; P0.04), PC (-21%; P0.05), 8-isoprostane (-26%; P0.02) and leptin levels (-33%; P0.01); had a tendency to decrease IL-6 levels (-21%; P=0.07) and IR (-17%; P=0.10); and increased manganese SOD (MnSOD) levels (+47%; P0.01).
Endurance exercise reduced skeletal muscle-specific and systemic oxidative damage while improving IR and cytokine profile associated with obesity, independent of weight loss. Hence, exercise is a useful therapeutic modality to reduce risk factors associated with the pathogenesis of IR in obesity.
To evaluate the efficacy and toxicity in patients with HER2 overexpressing metastatic breast cancer.
Twenty-one patients with HER2 overexpressing metastatic breast cancer entered into the study. Trastuzumab (8 mg/kg day 1, then 6 mg/kg every 21 days or 4 mg/kg, then 2 mg/kg every week) and vinorelbine (25 mg/m(2)) was given on days 1 and 8 every 21 days.
Overall 56 cycles were given to the 21 patients enrolled into the study (mean 2, range 1-6). All can be evaluated. The response rate was 33.33% (7/21), one patient achieved complete response (CR), six patients achieved partial response (PR), four patients achieved stable disease (SD), ten patients achieved progressive disease (PD)]. The median time to progression was 3.5 months. One year overall survival was 33%. The major toxicity was myelosuppression and peripheral neuritis. A few patients were observed with fever and lower grade cardiac failure.
The combination of trastuzumab and vinorelbine is an effective and well tolerated therapy in patients with pretreated metastatic breast cancer.
Melanotransferrin (MTf) or melanoma tumor antigen p97 is an iron (Fe) binding transferrin homolog expressed highly on melanomas and at lower levels on normal tissues. It has been suggested that MTf is involved in a variety of processes such as Fe metabolism and cellular differentiation. Considering the crucial role of Fe in many metabolic pathways, for example, DNA synthesis, it is important to understand the function of MTf. To define the roles of MTf, two models were developed: (i) an MTf knockout (MTf-/-) mouse and (ii) downregulation of MTf expression in melanoma cells by post-transcriptional gene silencing (PTGS). Examination of the MTf-/- mice demonstrated no differences compared with wild-type littermates. However, microarray analysis showed differential expression of molecules involved in proliferation such as Mef2a, Tcf4, Gls and Apod in MTf-/- mice compared with MTf+/+ littermates. Considering the role of MTf in melanoma cells, PTGS was used to downregulate MTf mRNA and protein levels by >90 and >80%, respectively. This resulted in inhibition of proliferation and migration. As found in MTf-/- mice, in melanoma cells with suppressed MTf expression, hMEF2A and hTCF4 were upregulated compared with parental cells. Furthermore, when melanoma cells with decreased MTf expression were injected into nude mice, tumor growth was markedly reduced, suggesting a role for MTf in proliferation and tumorigenesis.
Levodopa-induced dyskinesias frequently limit the clinical efficacy of levodopa therapy in Parkinson's disease. Deanol recently has been reported to be of value in relieving the dyskinesias by acting through a central cholinergic mechanism. Seventeen outpatients with levodopa-induced dyskinesias were given deanol in dosages of 300 to 900 mg per day. The dyskinesias improved in four of the patients, remained unchanged in five, and worsened in eight. In all four patients who showed improvement after institution of deanol therapy, the improvement continued after the patients were switched to a placebo. One of these patients also demonstrated improvement in his parkinsonism, while two others experienced a worsening in their parkinsonism. Deanol does not appear to be effective in the treatment of levodopa-induced dyskinesias.
In vitro work has demonstrated that cinacalcet is a strong inhibitor of cytochrome P450 isoenzyme (CYP) 2D6. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of cinacalcet on CYP2D6 activity, using desipramine as a probe substrate, in healthy subjects.
Seventeen subjects who were genotyped as CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers were enrolled in this randomized, open-label, crossover study to receive a single oral dose of desipramine (50 mg) on two separate occasions, once alone and once after multiple doses of cinacalcet (90 mg for 7 days). Blood samples were obtained predose and up to 72 h postdose.
Fourteen subjects completed both treatment arms. Relative to desipramine alone, mean AUC and C(max) of desipramine increased 3.6- and 1.8-fold when coadministered with cinacalcet. The t (1/2,z) of desipramine was longer when desipramine was coadministered with cinacalcet (21.0 versus 43.3 hs). The t (max) was similar between the regimens. Fewer subjects reported adverse events following treatment with desipramine alone than when receiving desipramine with cinacalcet (33 versus 86%), the most frequent of which (nausea and headache) have been reported for patients treated with either desipramine or cinacalcet.
This study demonstrates that cinacalcet is a strong inhibitor of CYP2D6. These data suggest that during concomitant treatment with cinacalcet, dose adjustment may be necessary for drugs that demonstrate a narrow therapeutic index and are metabolized by CYP2D6.
The study of glial derived factors induced by injury and degeneration is important to understand the nervous system response to deteriorating conditions. We focus on Apolipoprotein D (ApoD), a Lipocalin expressed by glia and strongly induced upon aging, injury or neurodegeneration. Here we study ApoD function in the brain of wild type and ApoD-KO mice by combining in vivo experiments with astrocyte cultures. Locomotor performance, dopamine concentration, and gene expression levels in the substantia nigra were assayed in mice treated with paraquat (PQ). The regulation of ApoD transcription, a molecular screening of oxidative stress (OS)-related genes, cell viability and oxidation status, and the effects of adding human ApoD were tested in astrocyte cultures. We demonstrate that (1) ApoD is required for an adequate locomotor performance, modifies the gene expression profile of PQ-challenged nigrostriatal system, and contributes to its functional maintenance; (2) ApoD expression in astrocytes is controlled by the OS-responsive JNK pathway; (3) ApoD contributes to an autocrine protecting mechanism in astrocytes, avoiding peroxidated lipids accumulation and altering the PQ transcriptional response of genes involved in ROS managing and the inflammatory response to OS; (4) Addition of human ApoD to ApoD-KO astrocytes promotes survival through a mechanism accompanied by protein internalization and modulation of astroglial reactivity. Our data support that ApoD contributes to the endurance of astrocytes and decreases their reactivity level in vitro and in vivo. ApoD function as a maintenance factor for astrocytes would suffice to explain the observed protection by ApoD of OS-vulnerable dopaminergic circuits in vivo.
Evidence for the existence of a hormone that is stimulable by adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and capable of causing hypertension has been collected in several patients. This hormone is not a known mineralocorticoid or glucocorticoid. The hypothesis that a steroid can produce hypertension was tested in an 18-year-old man with dexamethasone-suppressible hypertension. During dexamethasone treatment, when aldosterone secretion was suppressed, less than normal and the patient was normotensive, steroids were given by constant infusion in an attempt to reproduce the hypertension of the dexamethasone-free state. Hypertension was not caused by 5 days of administration of aldosterone, 18-hydroxydeoxycorticosterone (18-OH-DOC) at 1 mg/day, or deoxycorticosterone (DOC) at 30 mg/day. However, sodium retention and potassium loss were observed during infusion of aldosterone and DOC. Hypertension was produced within 5 days during infusion of ACTH or oral metyrapone. The hypertensive effect of the metyrapone was eliminated by the additional treatment with aminoglutethimide. These studies suggest that an ACTH-dependent steroid rather than aldosterone, 18-OH-DOC, or DOC may be the cause of the hypertension in this patient. Study of a 3-year-old child who presented with short stature, hypertension, hypokalemic alkalosis, suppressed renin and ACTH, and decreased excretion of all known steroids suggested excessive secretion of a pressor hormone. Reversal of the hypertension and hypokalemic alkalosis occurred when spironolactone was administered. ACTH exacerbated the clinical and biochemical abnormalities, suggesting that the secretion of the unknown factor was dependent on ACTH. A study of the urinary steroids revealed remarkably low excretion of aldosterone and cortisol. Plasma levels of ACTH were low. The low production of aldosterone was not associated with the increased excretion of precursor metabolites. These finding suggest the secretion of an unknown hypertensive factor of remarkably high potency, with the ability to suppress the secretion of both renin and ACTH.
Alternative assays for developmental toxicity testing are needed to reduce animal use in regulatory toxicology. The in vitro murine neural embryonic stem cell test (ESTn) was designed as an alternative for neurodevelopmental toxicity testing. The integration of toxicogenomic-based approaches may further increase predictivity as well as provide insight into underlying mechanisms of developmental toxicity. In the present study, we investigated concentration-dependent effects of six mechanistically diverse compounds, acetaldehyde (ACE), carbamazepine (CBZ), flusilazole (FLU), monoethylhexyl phthalate (MEHP), penicillin G (PENG) and phenytoin (PHE), on the transcriptome and neural differentiation in the ESTn. All compounds with the exception of PENG altered ESTn morphology (cytotoxicity and neural differentiation) in a concentration-dependent manner. Compound induced gene expression changes and corresponding enriched gene ontology biological processes (GO-BP) were identified after 24h exposure at equipotent differentiation-inhibiting concentrations of the compounds. Both compound-specific and common gene expression changes were observed between subsets of tested compounds, in terms of significance, magnitude of regulation and functionality. For example, ACE, CBZ and FLU induced robust changes in number of significantly altered genes (≥ 687 genes) as well as a variety of GO-BP, as compared to MEHP, PHE and PENG (≤ 55 genes with no significant changes in GO-BP observed). Genes associated with developmentally related processes (embryonic morphogenesis, neuron differentiation, and Wnt signaling) showed diverse regulation after exposure to ACE, CBZ and FLU. In addition, gene expression and GO-BP enrichment showed concentration dependence, allowing discrimination of non-toxic versus toxic concentrations on the basis of transcriptomics. This information may be used to define adaptive versus toxic responses at the transcriptome level.
The antiepileptic drug phenobarbital (PB) is a potent tumor promoter in mouse liver, where it stimulates the selective outgrowth of tumor populations harboring activating mutations in Ctnnb1, encoding β-catenin. A tumor initiation-promotion study was conducted in mice with conditional hepatocyte-specific knockout (KO) of Ctnnb1 and in Ctnnb1 wild-type controls. Mice received a single injection of N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN) at the age of 6 weeks followed by continuous administration of PB given in the diet (0.05%) for 27 weeks. Metabolic activation of DEN in hepatocytes from both Ctnnb1 wild-type and KO mice was demonstrated. PB strongly enhanced liver tumor formation in Ctnnb1 wild-type mice, and 90% of the PB-promoted tumors were Ctnnb1-mutated. A similar increase in carcinogenic response was seen when using glucose-6-phosphatase and glutamine synthetase as tumor markers. The prevalence of tumors in Ctnnb1 KO mice was ∼7-fold higher than in wild-type mice, suggesting an enhancing effect of the gene KO on liver tumor development. However, in strong contrast to wild-type mice, PB did not promote tumor formation in the Ctnnb1 KO mice. Livers of KO mice, particularly from the PB treatment group, demonstrated fibrosis and massive infiltration of immune cells, an effect not seen in wild-type mice. In summary, our data demonstrate that (i) liver tumor promotion by PB requires functional β-catenin signaling and (ii) absence of β-catenin enhances carcinogen-induced hepatocarcinogenesis and induces a pre-cirrhotic phenotype in mouse liver.
It has been documented that green tea (GT) and its catechin components improve renal failure and inhibit the growth of mesangial cells. In the present study we examined the long-term effect of GT extract on streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic nephropathy and on the glycogen accumulation in the kidney tubules. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly assigned to normal control groups (2, 6, 8 and 12 weeks) and five diabetic groups (n 10) of comparable age. A GT diabetic group received 16 % concentration of GT for 12 weeks post-diabetes induction as their sole source of drinking water. GT treatment significantly (P < 0.01) reduced the serum glucose, glycosylated protein, serum creatinine and blood urea N levels by 29.6 (sem 3.7), 22.7 (sem 5.2), 38.9 (sem 10) and 41.7 (sem 1.9) %, respectively, compared with the diabetic group of comparable age. In addition, the GT-treated group showed a significant 44 (sem 10.8) % higher creatinine clearance (Ccr) compared with the untreated diabetic group. Likewise, GT reduced the urea N, creatinine, glucose and protein excretion rates by 30 (sem 7.6), 35.4 (sem 5.3), 34.0 (sem 5.3) and 46.0 (sem 13.0) % compared with the 12 weeks diabetic group. Administration of GT to 12 weeks diabetic rats significantly (P < 0.001) prevented (99.98 (sem 0.27) % less) the accumulation of glycogen in the kidney tubules. These results indicate that in STZ diabetes, kidney function appears to be improved with GT consumption which also prevents glycogen accumulation in the renal tubules, probably by lowering blood levels of glucose. Therefore, GT could be beneficial additional therapy in the management of diabetic nephropathy.
The aim of this study was to investigate the possible protective role of the dietary flavonoid quercetin on cadmium (Cd)-induced nephrotoxicity using biochemical and histopathological approaches. In experimental rats oral administration of CdCl(2) (5mg/kg) for 4 weeks significantly induced renal damage which was evident from the increased levels of serum urea, uric acid and creatinine with a significant (p<0.05) decrease in creatinine clearance. Cd also significantly (p<0.05) decreased the levels of urea, uric acid and creatinine in urine. Cd-induced oxidative stress in kidney tissue was indicated by the increased levels of renal lipid peroxidation markers (thiobarbituric acid reactive substances and lipid hydroperoxides) and protein carbonyl content with a significant (p<0.05) decrease in non-enzymatic (total sulphydryl group, reduced glutathione, vitamin C and vitamin E) and enzymatic antioxidants (superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione S-transferase (GST), glutathione reductase (GR) and glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD)). Moreover the kidneys of Cd-treated rats showed tubular necrosis, degeneration, dilation, desquamation, thickening of basement membrane and luminal cast formation. Quercetin treatment markedly attenuated the Cd-induced biochemical alterations in serum, urine and renal tissue. Quercetin also ameliorated the Cd-induced pathological changes when compared with Cd-alone-treated group. These data indicate that the natural dietary antioxidant quercetin might have protective effect against Cd-induced nephrotoxicity and oxidative stress in rats.
The B-type or brain natriuretic peptides (BNP) and the amino-terminal probrain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) are good markers of prognosis and diagnosis in chronic heart failure (HF). It is unclear, however, whether differences in their biological characteristics modify their clinical correlates and prognostic performance in HF. This work aimed to provide a direct comparison of the prognostic value of BNP and NT-proBNP in patients with chronic and stable HF.
We measured BNP and NT-proBNP at baseline in 3916 patients enrolled in the Valsartan Heart Failure Trial. To identify the variables associated with both peptides, we conducted simple and multivariable linear regression analyses. We used Cox multivariable regression models to evaluate the independent prognostic value for all-cause mortality, mortality and morbidity, and hospitalization for HF. Prognostic performance was assessed by pairwise comparisons of the area under the curve of receiver-operator characteristic curves.
NT-proBNP and BNP had similar relationships with age, left ventrical ejection fraction, and internal diameter and creatinine clearance. Either peptide ranked as the first independent predictor of outcome after adjustment for major confounding clinical characteristics. ROC curves were almost superimposable for all-cause mortality (area under the curve (SE): BNP 0.665 (0.011) vs NT-proBNP 0.679 (0.011); P=0.0734), but NT-proBNP was superior to BNP for predicting mortality and morbidity (P=0.032) or hospitalization for HF (P=0.0143). Overall sensitivity and specificity ranged from 0.590 to 0.696.
The natriuretic peptides BNP and NT-proBNP showed subtle differences in their relation to clinical characteristics and prognostic performance in a large population of patients with chronic and stable HF. They were the most powerful independent markers of outcome in HF.
We evaluated the cytotoxic effects of various human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) reverse transcriptase inhibitors (zidovudine, didanosine, zalcitabine, stavudine, and nevirapine) on HIV-1-infected and uninfected T cell lines. Among the compounds, only stavudine (not the others) proved to be more cytotoxic to MOLT-4/IIIB cells (MOLT-4 cells chronically infected with HIV-1) than to uninfected MOLT-4 cells. Its 50% cytotoxic concentrations were 59.8 and 2.2 microM for MOLT-4 and MOLT-4/IIIB cells, respectively. Stavudine was also more cytotoxic to CEM/ROD (CEM cells chronically infected with HIV type 2) than to uninfected CEM cells. Microscopic analysis revealed that stavudine induced apoptosis in MOLT-4/IIIB cells. Apparent chromatin condensation in the nucleus was observed by electron microscopy. Furthermore, a DNA fragmentation ladder was detected by agarose gel electrophoresis. Addition of thymidine to the culture medium could rescue the cells from stavudine-induced apoptosis. The expression of anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 was partially downregulated in MOLT-4/IIIB cells after treatment with stavudine. This downregulation was not identified in MOLT-4 cells. These results indicate that stavudine selectively induces apoptosis in HIV-1-infected T cells and may have potential as a novel strategy for effective chemotherapy of the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS).
The objective of this study was to establish whether the exclusion of the effect of the sympathetic nervous system prevents vasospasm of cerebral arteries after experimental subarachnoid haemorrhage in rabbits.
The effect of sympathetic exclusion on vasospasm was studied in 29 New Zealand rabbits under conditions similar to human subarachnoid haemorrhage: 1. The activity of the sympathetic nervous system was excluded only after subarachnoid haemorrhage. 2. The effect of this exclusion was evaluated on the eighth day after subarachnoid haemorrhage. 3. The single haemorrhage model of experimental subarachnoid haemorrhage was chosen. Four groups of rabbits were investigated. The control group A comprised rabbits without subarachnoid haemorrhage; group B consisted of those with subarachnoid haemorrhage (1 ml autologous blood/kg BW suboccipitally into the cisterna magna); group C included those with subarachnoid haemorrhage and pharmacological sympathetic exclusion by the alpha blocker phenoxybenzamine, and group D was composed of those with subarachnoid haemorrhage and operative sympathetic exclusion by cervical gangliectomy. Changes in the basilar arteries of rabbits were evaluated by computer image analysis, using histologic specimens of vessel walls. A new measuring procedure was developed to assess the intensity of vasospasm; the method has a corrugation coefficient that expresses changes in intimal corrugation.
Comparison of control group A and group B in regard of vessel intima corrugation showed significantly less corrugated intima in group A (P = 0.0042). In comparison with group B, corrugation of the vessel intima in group C was less intense after sympathetic exclusion by phenoxybenzamine following subarachnoid haemorrhage (P = 0.00012). In comparison with group B, a reduced corrugation was also found in group D after sympathetic exclusion by upper cervical gangliectomy following subarachnoid haemorrhage (P = 0.0026).
The results of the study suggest that exclusion of sympathetic nervous system activity in rabbits prevents vasospasm in circumstances similar to subarachnoid haemorrhage in man. Thus, the sympathetic nervous system could play a critical role in the development of vasospasm in subarachnoid haemorrhage.
Long-term treatment of Parkinson's disease with dopamine-replacing agents such as L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) is compromised by many side-effects, most notably involuntary movements, L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. Acute challenge with dopamine-replacing drugs elicits a rotational response in the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rat model of Parkinson's disease. This rotation is contraversive to the lesion and is considered to represent an antiparkinsonian effect. More recently, it has become clear that the rotational response shows plasticity and that repeated L-DOPA or apomorphine therapy is accompanied by a marked enhancement in this response. In this study, we demonstrate that the enhanced behavioral response to repeated dopamine-replacement therapy seen in the 6-OHDA-lesioned rat has pharmacological characteristics similar to L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia seen in MPTP-lesioned primates and man. Thus, the magnitude and rate of development of the enhanced response to L-DOPA treatment is related to both the number of doses and the size of the dose of L-DOPA administered. In contrast, de novo administration of dopaminergic drugs that are associated with a lower incidence of dyskinesia, e.g., bromocriptine or lisuride, does not lead to an enhanced behavioral response following repeated treatment. However, following a single "priming" administration of apomorphine, the rotational response elicited by subsequent bromocriptine administrations is enhanced with repeated treatment. Once established, the enhanced behavioral response to repeated L-DOPA-administration (6.5 mg/kg, twice daily) can, like L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in man and MPTP-treated monkeys, be selectively reduced by coadministration of L-DOPA with the alpha2-adrenergic receptor antagonist yohimbine (10 mg/kg, -95%), the 5-HT uptake inhibitor 5-MDOT (2 mg/kg, -90%), or the beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist propranalol (10 mg/kg, -35%). While these rats do not exhibit symptoms of dyskinesia per se, this rodent model does exhibit behaviors, the underlying mechanism of which is likely to be similar to that underlying L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia and may prove useful in studying the molecular and cellular mechanisms of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease.
An association between anticonvulsant drugs taken during pregnancy and congenital abnormalities was first identified by Meadow et al. in 1968. Manson and Frederic clarified teratogenic effects of hydantoin in their epidemiological studies in 1973. Varied malformations due to hydantoin intake during pregnancy include digit and nail hypoplasia, growth retardation, typical facial appearance, rib anomalies, abnormal palmar creases, hirsutism, and low hairlines. Ambiguous genitalia is rarely associated with this syndrome. We present two siblings, aged three years and three months, with fetal hydantoin syndrome (FHS). Both were born to an epileptic mother who was given diphenylhydantoin (DPH) and phenobarbital throughout her pregnancies. The patients showed many characteristics of FHS, and ambiguous genitalia. Clinical and laboratory examinations revealed that both have normal female internal genital organs and female karyotypes.
The effects of FK506 (tacrolimus hydrate) ointment on cutaneous allergic reactions in mice and rats were investigated. FK506 ointment showed significant suppressive effects on delayed allergic reactions in both species, and especially in rats, its inhibitory action was much stronger than that of alclometasone dipropionate, a so-called medium class steroid ointment. On the other hand, FK506 ointment did not inhibit the immediate allergic reaction in rats. FK506 ointment suppressed the delayed allergic reactions in locally passively sensitized mice to the same degree as that in actively sensitized mice. Accordingly, it is speculated that FK506 ointment inhibits the activation of sensitized T lymphocytes (Th1 cells) already accumulated in the dermis.
Exposure to ambient fine particulate matter air pollution (PM(2.5); < 2.5 µm in aerodynamic diameter) induces endothelial dysfunction and increases the risk for cardiovascular disease. Endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) contribute to postnatal endothelial repair and regeneration. In humans and mice, EPC levels are decreased upon exposure to elevated levels of PM(2.5).
We examined the mechanism by which PM(2.5) exposure suppresses circulating levels of EPCs.
Mice were exposed to HEPA-filtered air or concentrated ambient fine particulate matter (CAP, 30-100 µg/m³) from downtown Louisville (Kentucky) air, and progenitor cells from peripheral blood or bone marrow were analyzed by flow cytometry or by culture ex vivo.
Exposure of the mice to CAP (6 hr/day) for 4-30 days progressively decreased circulating levels of EPCs positive for both Flk-1 and Sca-1 (Flk-1(+)/Sca-1(+)) without affecting stem cells positive for Sca-1 alone (Sca-1(+)). After 9 days of exposure, a 7-day exposure-free period led to complete recovery of the circulating levels of Flk-1(+)/Sca-1(+) cells. CAP exposure decreased circulating levels of EPCs independent of apoptosis while simultaneously increasing Flk-1(+)/Sca-1(+) cells in the bone marrow. We observed no change in tissue deposition of these cells. CAP exposure suppressed vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-induced Akt and endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) phosphorylation in the aorta, and it prevented VEGF/AMD3100-induced mobilization of Flk-1(+)/Sca-1(+) cells into the peripheral blood. Treatment with stem cell factor/AMD3100 led to a greater increase in circulating Flk-1(+)/Sca-1(+) cells in CAP-exposed mice than in mice breathing filtered air.
Exposure to PM(2.5) increases EPC levels in the bone marrow by preventing their mobilization to the peripheral blood via inhibition of signaling events triggered by VEGF-receptor stimulation that are upstream of c-kit activation. Suppression of EPC mobilization by PM(2.5) could induce deficits in vascular repair or regeneration.
Ambient particulate matter (PM) exposure is known to have adverse effects on respiratory health, but the underlying mechanisms remain obscure. We tested the hypothesis that macrophages and epithelial cells synergize to produce maximal cytokine release in response to PM exposure, thereby promoting inflammatory responses. We developed a co-culture model using MLE-12 (mouse lung epithelial) cells and RAW 264.7 (mouse monocyte/macrophage) cells. MLE-12 cells produced KC (Cxcl1) but not tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF), and KC was upregulated only at high levels of urban particulate matter (UPM; NIST 1648a). RAW 264.7 cells produced TNF but not KC, and TNF production was increased by treatment with UPM. In contrast, KC production was upregulated by co-culture of MLE-12 and RAW 264.7 cells, and it was further increased by treatment with a concentration of UPM that had no effect on MLE-12 cells alone. Multiplex cytokine assay revealed a similar pattern of synergistic production of MIG (Cxcl9) and IP-10 (Cxcl10) in co-cultures in response to UPM. TNF was implicated as mediating the synergistic increase in KC production because TNF upregulated KC production in MLE-12 cells, and UPM-induced KC production in co-cultures could be inhibited by a TNF blocking antibody. Intratracheal instillation of UPM into both wild-type and TNF receptor knockout mice resulted in increased TNF production in lavage fluid and increased TNF mRNA expression in cells recovered from lavage fluid. Additionally, UPM instillation into wild-type mice resulted in increased neutrophils and KC in lavage fluid, and these were inhibited in UPM-exposed TNF receptor knockout mice. These results are consistent with a model in which PM activates TNF production in macrophages which in turn stimulates epithelial cells to produce proinflammatory cytokines such as KC. The findings suggest a potential mechanism by which inhaled PM induces inflammation in the lung.
