Among infants born to women in whom sera are positive for both the hepatitis B surface antigen and the e antigen, 85% to 90% are infected with hepatitis B virus and become chronic hepatitis B surface antigen carriers. In a study to assess the effectiveness of passive-active prophylaxis (hepatitis B immune globulin and hepatitis B vaccine) of such infants, we screened 18,842 pregnant Asian-American women: 8.7% were positive for hepatitis B surface antigen and 3.0% were also positive for hepatitis B e antigen. Thus far, 113 infants have received hepatitis B immune globulin (0.5 mL at birth) and hepatitis B vaccine (three 20-micrograms doses beginning at birth or at 1 month) and have been followed up for nine to 18 months. Among these infants, 16 have become chronic carriers, an incidence of only 14.2%. All of the uninfected infants have retained high levels of antibody to surface antigen, suggesting that they have had an active immune response to the vaccine and should have long-term protection against hepatitis B virus.
In the postoperative period fifty-six healthy patients undergoing cholecystectomy or operations for duodenal ulcer, received, in a randomized order, i.m., "high-level" or "low-level" extradural morphine. Thirty-five per cent in the i.m. group, 33% in the high-level group and 50% in the low-level group suffered urinary retention, in all cases within the first 24 h. The mean cumulative dose of morphine necessary for pain relief was in the same range (13.4-16.5 mg) during the first 2 h of therapy for all groups, while the amounts after 24 and 48 h were twice to four times with the i.m. route compared with the extradural route. A peripheral effect of morphine on the urinary bladder is possible and the mechanism of action is discussed.
The pyridylcyanoguanidine pinacidil exerts its hypotensive effect by opening ATP-sensitive potassium channels (K+ATP) in vascular smooth muscle. Direct glyburide-like antagonism of pinacidil-induced vasorelaxation by the guanidine U37883A (4-morpholinecarboximidine-N-1-adamantyl-N'- cyclohexylhydrochloride) has recently been demonstrated in isolated rabbit mesenteric artery. We herein report the first detailed in vivo cardiovascular interaction between U37883A and pinacidil in an anesthetized rat model. U37883A, administered from 0.1 to 3.0 mg/kg i.v. 10 min subsequent to pinacidil, immediately and dose-dependently reversed pinacidil's steady-state hypotensive effects by 29-100% (ED50 = 0.4 mg/kg), while reversal of pinacidil's tachycardiac effects from 10 to 79% was evident with 0.1-1.0 mg/kg i.v. U37883A (ED50 = 0.5 mg/kg). In contrast to these effects, pretreatment with 0.3-3.0 mg/kg i.v. U37883A only moderately inhibited the acute pinacidil-induced hypotension by 6-58%. Because U37883A's separate bradycardiac effects lowered basal heart rate, U37883A pretreatment precipitated a paradoxical 15-51% augmentation of sustained pinacidil-induced tachycardia, although absolute heart rates were below those seen with pinacidil alone. Qualitatively similar K+ATP blocking effects by U37883A were also observed in rats treated with the K+ATP openers (PCOs) cromakalim (BRL 34915), RPS 49365 and minoxidil. However, U37883A-treated rats remained responsive to the hypotensive action of both i.v. sodium nitroprusside and isoproterenol and buccal nifedipine. This study corroborates prior in vitro and in vivo findings and establishes that the guanidine U37883A is an effective and relatively selective blocker of PCO-induced vasodilation in the anesthetized rat. U37883A also appears more effective at closing basally and pinacidil-opened K+ATP than preventing K+ATP opening by pinacidil in vivo.
The effect of cetamolol (an investigational cardioselective beta blocker with intrinsic sympathomimetic activity) on the hypokalemic response to epinephrine infusions in normal subjects was evaluated and compared with placebo and two other beta-adrenergic blocking drugs. After two daily doses of cetamolol 15 mg, atenolol (a cardioselective beta blocker) 50 mg; a long-acting propranolol preparation (a nonselective beta blocker) 80 mg; or placebo, 12 men (mean age, 26.7 years) were infused with epinephrine. The resulting average plasma epinephrine level was 1123 pg/mL, whereas average baseline serum potassium levels for the four treatment groups ranged from 3.94 to 4.07 mEq/L. Epinephrine-induced hypokalemia occurred in the placebo group (maximum potassium decrease of 1.00 mEq/L) and in the atenolol group (maximum potassium decrease of 0.59 mEq/L); potassium levels did not decrease but rose slightly in subjects receiving cetamolol or propranolol. Subjects treated with placebo or atenolol also demonstrated statistically significant prolongation of the QTc interval (0.039 seconds with placebo; 0.023 seconds with atenolol) and frequently developed T-wave flattening and U-wave appearance. After pretreatment with cetamolol or propranolol, however, the QTc interval was unaffected, T-wave abnormalities did not occur, and U waves appeared only rarely. The results of this study indicate that cetamolol blocks epinephrine-induced hypokalemia and associated electrocardiographic changes.
GnRH analogues (GnRH-a) are well established in the treatment of endometriosis. However, due to hypooestrogenic effects, treatment is limited to 6 months. The aim of this randomized, double-blind, comparative study was to evaluate whether symptoms and signs of hypooestrogenism, e.g. hot flushes, sweating and sleeplessness, could be avoided by a steroidal add-back regimen, while the beneficial effect of a GnRH-a on endometriosis could be maintained. In group A, 14 patients were treated with 3.75 mg leuprorelin acetate depot per month i.m. in combination with 20 mg ethinyloestradiol plus 0.15 mg desogestrel orally for 3 weeks. In group P, 13 patients received leuprorelin acetate, following the same schedule as in group A, and placebo. Treatment duration was 6 months. At first-look laparoscopy (postoperatively) group A had an r-AFS score of 23.57 and group P of 24.23. After 6 months of treatment with leuprorelin acetate depot r-AFS scores had dropped to 16.14 in group A and to 6.25 in group P at second-look laparoscopy, achieving statistical significance in both groups (p < 0.001). Hypooestrogenic adverse drug reactions (e.g. hot flushes, sweating and sleeplessness) were more frequently reported in group P, whereas the occurrence of headache was comparable in both groups. Dysmenorrhoea was significantly reduced in both groups, whereas dyspareunia was only decreased in group P. Variations in laboratory values were within normal ranges and did not give any concern about drug safety. Loss of bone mineral density caused by the GnRH-a was reduced by the combined oestrogen/progestin add-back therapy. In conclusion, this therapy can lead to a reduction in hypooestrogenic adverse drug reactions and mostly preserves agonist efficacy with the chance of treatment prolongation.
Treatment of prostatic cancer with GnRH agonist is a medical alternative to surgical castration, although hyperstimulation of the tumor can occur. We describe an unusual unwanted effect of such a treatment which unmasked a clinically silent gonadotroph adenoma. A 62-year-old man developed after the first injection of leuprorelin-depot a sudden intracranial hypertension, which was related to apoplexy of an unknown pituitary adenoma. Its gonadotroph origin was recognized after surgery by immunocytochemistry. Retrospectively, the tumor was shown to secrete in vivo both FSH and LH when on therapy with the agonist, demonstrating the lack of desensitization. Testosterone levels were also markedly and sustainly high when on therapy, a particularly unwanted effect in prostatic cancer. As gonadotroph adenomas occur in men in the same age group as prostatic cancer, the question is raised whether hormonal testing and pituitary imaging should be performed before starting a therapy with GnRH agonist in men.
Clinical and laboratory data from a patient with Guillain-Barré syndrome indicated a probable etiological correlation of polyradiculitis to the intravenous administration of streptokinase. Oligoclonal IgG bands in the cerebrospinal fluid and serum were shown to be specific for streptokinase. Serum titers of streptokinase were elevated 64-fold for IgG, 16-fold for IgM, and 4-fold for IgA compared to controls. Clinical symptoms of Guillain-Barré syndrome are thought to result from streptokinase antibody complex mediated damage to the local blood-nerve barrier. The pathogenic relevance of autoantibodies to albumin and proteins of the central and peripheral nervous systems, occurring early after onset of symptoms, remains to be determined.
1. Previous study showed that N(G)-nitro-L-arginine (L-NOARG), an inhibitor of nitric bxide synthase, induces catalepsy in a dose-dependent manner in male albino-Swiss mice. 2. The objective of the present work was to further investigate this effect, extending it to other NOS inhibitors. 3. Results showed that L-NOARG (40-80 mg/kg i.p.), N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methylester (L-NAME, 40-160 mg/kg i.p.) or N(G)-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA, 80 mg/kg i.p.) were able to induce catalepsy in mice. The effect of L-NOARG (40 mg/kg) was antagonized by pretreatment with L-arginine (300 mg/kg), but not by D-arginine (300 mg/kg). The catalepsy-inducing effect of L-NOARG suffered rapid tolerance, showing a significant decrease after two days of chronic treatment (40 mg/kg i.p., twice a day). 4. The results suggest that interference with the formation of nitric oxide induces significant motor effects in mice.
Twenty-one patients with liver metastases of various histologies (predominantly colorectal carcinoma) underwent Infusaid pump implantation for long-term hepatic arterial 5-fluorodeoxyuridine (5-FUdR) infusion. Patients received 5-FUdR infusion on a 2-wk cycle alternating with a 2-wk saline--heparin infusion. A dosage of 0.2-0.3 mg/kg/day (average 0.23 mg/kg/day) was infused for a cumulative 5-FUdR administration of 1940 days. Six patients (29%) responded to therapy (five colorectal, one carcinoid); median response duration was 6 mo. Median survival for the treated group was 17 mo from diagnosis of liver metastases and 13 mo from pump implantation. Median survival among the six responding patients was 15 mo from diagnosis of liver metastases and 11 mo from pump implantation. Comparison of survival from the diagnosis of liver metastases of the treated group to ten patients found ineligible for the study by virtue of extrahepatic metastases revealed no significant difference in median (18 mo for ineligible group) or overall survival. However, median survival for the treated group after pump implantation (13 mo) was significantly better than the median survival of the ineligible group after evaluation for this study (4 mo). Toxicities of therapy included fatigue, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, toxic hepatitis, epigastric pain, and diarrhea. No patients died of toxicity, but six patients required hospitalization for management of pain or vomiting. No serious technical complications developed in any patient except separation of the infusion catheter at its junction with the pump in one patient, necessitating pump replacement for continuation of therapy. These survival data suggest identification of new anticancer agents for hepatic arterial infusion.
Silymarin is a potent antioxidant, antiinflammatory and anti-fibrogenic agent in the liver, which is mediated by alteration of hepatic Kupffer cell function, lipid peroxidation, and collagen production. Especially, in hepatic fibrogenesis, mast cells are expressed in chronic inflammatory conditions, and promote fibroblast growth and stimulate production of the extracellular matrix by hepatic stellate cells.
We examined the inhibitory mechanism of silymarin on CCl(4)-induced hepatic cirrhosis in rats. At 4, 8, and 12 wk, liver tissues were examined histopathologically for fibrotic changes produced by silymarin treatment.
In the silymarin with CCl(4)-treated group, increase of hepatic stellate cells and TGF-beta1 production were lower than in the CCl(4)-treated group at early stages. Additionally, at the late fibrogenic stage, expressions of TGF-beta1 were weaker and especially not expressed in hepatocytes located in peripheral areas. Moreover, the number of mast cell in portal areas gradually increased and was dependent on the fibrogenic stage, but those of CCl(1)+silymarin-treated group decreased significantly.
Anti-fibrotic and antiinflammatory effects of silymarin were associated with activation of hepatic stellate cells through the expression of TGF-beta1 and stabilization of mast cells. These results suggest that silymarin prevent hepatic fibrosis through suppression of inflammation and hypoxia in the hepatic fibrogenesis.
N-vinylpyrrolidone dimer (VPD) is a novel experimental formulation excipient intended for preclinical toxicology studies. In a previous 4-week toxicity study, VPD induced dose-dependent hepatocellular and thyroid gland hypertrophy in Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats. The objectives of the current investigation were to define the underlying molecular mechanisms of these changes. Two separate studies were conducted using male SD rats, daily doses of 300, 1000 or 3,000 mg/kg of VPD, and a positive control (phenobarbital at 75 mg/kg/day): (1) a 28-day study to monitor thyroid hormone levels after 7 and 28 days of dosing; (2) a 5-day study to evaluate hepatic and thyroid gland transcriptomic changes, as well as hepatic UGT activity levels. At VPD dosages of 300 mg/kg/day and higher, 2-fold increases of serum thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) levels were observed in male SD rats after 28 days of dosing, while serum thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3) levels were unchanged. Liver UGT enzyme activity levels were increased in VPD-treated rats after 5 days. In addition, in the 5-day study, VPD caused increased hepatic mRNA levels of a panel of drug metabolizing enzymes (DMEs) and transporters, including Cyp3a1, Cyp2b1, Ugt 2b1, and Abcc3. Similar patterns of induction were observed in primary rat hepatocytes exposed to VPD. Transcriptomic changes in the thyroid gland were identified for genes involved in thyroid hormone biosynthesis and in the FAK, PTEN, and Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathways. Collectively, these data indicate that VPD acts as an inducer of hepatic DMEs in SD rats and that this likely leads to enhanced peripheral metabolism of T3/T4, resulting in a feedback response characterized by increased serum TSH levels, and thyroid gland hypertrophy and hyperplasia.
To investigate the therapeutic effects of Guiyuanfang and bone marrow stem cells (BMSCs) on rats with liver fibrosis.
Liver fibrosis model was induced by carbon tetrachloride, ethanol, high lipid and assessed biochemically and histologically. Liver function and hydroxyproline contents of liver tissue were determined. Serum hyaluronic acid (HA) level and procollagen III level were performed by radioimmunoassay. The VG staining was used to evaluate the collagen deposit in the liver. Immunohistochemical SABC methods were used to detect transplanted BMSCs and expression of urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA).
Serum transaminase level and liver fibrosis in rats were markedly reduced by Guiyuanfang and BMSCs. HA level and procollagen III level were also reduced obviously, compared to model rats (HA: 47.18+/-10.97 ng/mL, 48.96+/-14.79 ng/mL; PCIII: 22.48+/-5.46 ng/mL, 26.90+/-3.35 ng/mL; P<0.05). Hydroxyproline contents of liver tissue in both BMSCs group and Guiyuanfang group were far lower than that of model group (1 227.2+/-43.1 microg/g liver tissue, 1390.8+/-156.3 microg/g liver tissue; P<0.01). After treatment fibrosis scores were also reduced. Both Guiyuanfang and BMSCs could increase the expression of uPA. The transplanted BMSCs could engraft, survive, and proliferate in the liver.
Guiyuanfang protects against liver fibrosis. Transplanted BMSCs may engraft, survive, and proliferate in the fibrosis livers indefinitely. Guiyuanfang may synergize with BMSCs to improve recovery from liver fibrosis.
A new combination chemotherapy program (M-BACOD) was administered to 101 patients with advanced diffuse histiocytic and diffuse undifferentiated lymphoma (DHL and DUL). High dose methotrexate (M) 3 g/m2 with leucovorin factor rescue was given on day 14 between cycles of bleomycin (B), adriamycin (A), cyclophosphamide (C), oncovin (O), and dexamethasone (D) administered every 3 weeks for 10 cycles. The complete remission rate (CR) was 72% in all 101 patients or 77% in 95 evaluable patients. The median follow-up is 3 yr 2 mo with one-third of CR patients followed beyond 4 yr. Twenty-six percent of CR patients have relapsed with a projected 5-yr survival rate of 80% (5-yr disease-free rate 65%). The overall survival of all 101 study patients reaches a plateau at 59% projected out to 5 yr. Patients with prior therapy had a significantly lower CR rate than those without prior treatment (p = 0.001); however, no other unfavorable prognostic characteristics could be identified. Relapse in the central nervous system CNS occurred in only 5.4% of CR patients. M-BACOD results in prolonged survival and possible cure in a high proportion of all patients with DHL and DUL.
To analyse clinical manifestations, diagnosis and management in the "body packer syndrome".
We collected 215 patients who had ingested packets of cocaine.
Bowel obstruction, haemorrhagic complications and seizures were observed in 5.1, 4.2 and 2.3%, respectively. Toxic manifestations of cocaine occurred in 4 patients.
Radiographs of abdomen are necessary for diagnosis and follow-up. Close surveillance in necessary to identify intestinal obstruction or acute intoxication by cocaine.
Nickel (Ni) is a known carcinogenic and mutagenic compound and an important contaminant of aquatic environments. Ni toxicity and its potential impact on aquatic organisms are, however, not well understood. This study used an integrated approach to evaluate genotoxic effects, tissue-specific accumulation and transcriptional profiles of key genes in mussels, Mytilus galloprovincialis, exposed to a range of concentrations of Ni. The genotoxic effects assessed were total and oxidative DNA damage (DNA strand breaks measured using the enzyme modified comet assay), and induction of micronuclei (MN; clastogenic and/or aneugenic effects) using haemocytes as the target cells. Six genes (pgp, mt10, mt20, sod, hsp70 and gst) were selected for transcriptional analysis in the gills based on their key role in the stress response. Following exposure to sublethal concentrations of Ni (0-3600μgL(-1)) for 5 days, mussel haemocytes showed significant genotoxicity at >1800μgL(-1) (4-fold increase for DNA strand breaks and 3-fold increase for MN induction). There was no significant difference between buffer (control) and enzyme treatments which target oxidised DNA bases (formamidopyrimidine glycosylase or endonuclease IIII). This suggested that, in haemocytes, oxidative DNA damage is not a major mechanism for Ni-induced genotoxicity. The expression of mt20 and gst genes in gill was up-regulated at genotoxic concentrations, whilst pgp expression was markedly up-regulated, particularly at 18μgL(-1) Ni (19-fold increase). Pearson's correlation analysis revealed significant associations between % tail DNA and MN induction in haemocytes (r=0.88, p<0.05), and between Ni accumulation in foot (r=0.47, p<0.05) and digestive gland (r=0.41, p<0.05) and induction of MN in the haemocytes. Our results are the first to suggest that Ni-induced genotoxicity in mussel haemocytes may not be a result of oxidative DNA damage, and that multixenobiotic resistance (MXR) may play an important role in Ni detoxification in this species.
Although cephalosporins are generally safe, they have been reported to cause neurotoxic effects in some subjects. We report on a 16-year-old boy with no previous history of psychiatric illness, who developed symptoms of delirium during treatment of paronychia infection with cephalexin. Possible reasons for our patient's particular vulnerability to adverse drug effects in the central nervous system include his young age, a developmental delay, and an earlier head injury.
Neurotrophic factors, such as glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), may play a role in drug-induced biochemical and behavioural adaptations that characterize addiction. We found that GDNF mRNA levels are lower in the striatum of rats that chronically self-administered cocaine. Therefore, we examined the effect of transplanted cells used as a biodelivery system for GDNF on cocaine self-administration in rats. A human astrocyte-like cell line, which produces and excretes GDNF, was transplanted into the striatum and nucleus accumbens of rats. These rats showed a significantly lower number of active lever presses in the cocaine self-administration paradigm compared with control rats. Moreover, rats that received a chronic infusion of GDNF via a micro-osmotic pump also exhibited weak cocaine self-administration. Therefore, we conclude that exogenous augmentation of GDNF repositories may be useful in suppressing cocaine self-administration.
A venous thromboembolism (VTE) with the subsequent risk of pulmonary embolism is a major concern in the treatment of patients with multiple myeloma with thalidomide. The susceptibility to developing a VTE in response to thalidomide therapy is likely to be influenced by both genetic and environmental factors. To test genetic variation associated with treatment related VTE in patient peripheral blood DNA, we used a custom-built molecular inversion probe (MIP)-based single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) chip containing 3404 SNPs. SNPs on the chip were selected in "functional regions" within 964 genes spanning 67 molecular pathways thought to be involved in the pathogenesis, treatment response, and side effects associated with myeloma therapy. Patients and controls were taken from 3 large clinical trials: Medical Research Council (MRC) Myeloma IX, Hovon-50, and Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) EA100, which compared conventional treatments with thalidomide in patients with myeloma. Our analysis showed that the set of SNPs associated with thalidomide-related VTE were enriched in genes and pathways important in drug transport/metabolism, DNA repair, and cytokine balance. The effects of the SNPs associated with thalidomide-related VTE may be functional at the level of the tumor cell, the tumor-related microenvironment, and the endothelium. The clinical trials described in this paper have been registered as follows: MRC Myeloma IX: ISRCTN68454111; Hovon-50: NCT00028886; and ECOG EA100: NCT00033332.
1-(3',4',5'-Trimethoxyphenyl)-3-(3'',4''-dimethoxy-2''-hydroxyphenyl)-propane (DP), a novel synthesized 1,3-diarylpropanes compound, showed growth inhibitory effect on human hepatoma HepG2 cells in a concentration-dependent manner. The growth inhibitory effect of DP on HepG2 cells was associated with microtubule depolymerization, G2/M phase arrest and apoptosis induction. The G2/M phase arrest induced by DP resulted from its microtubule-depolymerizing ability, and DP-treated HepG2 cells finally underwent caspase-dependent apoptosis. DP increased the levels of death receptor 4 (DR4), death receptor 5 (DR5) and pro-apoptotic protein Bax, but decreased the levels of anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2. Meanwhile, the decrease in the mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) and the release of cytochrome c from mitochondria were observed in DP-treated HepG2 cells. DP increased the levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in HepG2 cells, and antioxidant N-acetylcysteine (NAC) completely blocked DP-induced ROS accumulation and the disruption of the balance between Bax and Bcl-2 proteins, and effectively blocked the decreased MMP and apoptosis, but had no effect on the activation of caspase-8 and the up-regulations of DR4 and DR5 induced by DP. These results suggest that DP induces G2/M phase arrest through interruption of microtubule network followed by the death receptor- and ROS-mediated apoptosis in HepG2 cells.
The metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes mellitus are both becoming more prevalent, and both increase the risk of cardiovascular disease. Many patients are not receiving appropriate treatment for the type of dyslipidemia that commonly occurs in these disorders--the so-called 'atherogenic lipid triad' of high serum triglyceride levels, low serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) levels, and a preponderance of small, dense, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) particles. All of the processes involved in atherogenesis can be exacerbated by insulin resistance and/or the metabolic syndrome. Hypertriglyceridemia is a strong predictor of coronary heart disease. There is also an inverse relationship between serum levels of HDL-C and triglycerides in diabetic patients, with low serum HDL-C levels possibly representing an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Small, dense, LDL-C particles are also highly atherogenic as they are more likely to form oxidized LDL and are less readily cleared. Insulin resistance, which is central to the metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes mellitus, leads to high levels of very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL), which contain a high concentration of triglycerides, resulting in high serum triglyceride levels and low serum HDL-C levels. Even though modification of the atherogenic lipid triad is probably one of the most effective methods of reducing cardiovascular risk, therapy for diabetic dyslipidemia is often directed to first lowering serum LDL-C levels with a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor. This may leave substantial excess risk for cardiovascular disease in patients with these types of dyslipidemia. The results of recent trials evaluating HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors have been mixed, with two showing no significant effect on cardiovascular outcomes in subgroups of diabetic patients. The recent CARDS (Collaborative Atorvastatin Diabetes Study) showed that atorvastatin can reduce cardiovascular events in a trial specifically designed for a diabetic population, though the population had to have at least one other risk factor in addition to diabetes mellitus. Fibric acid derivatives, such as fenofibrate, bezafibrate and gemfibrozil, are potentially well suited to the treatment of dyslipidemia that is generally associated with type 2 diabetes mellitus and the metabolic syndrome, as they are usually more effective than HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors for normalizing serum levels of HDL-C and triglycerides. Promising results have been obtained from several trials of fibric acid derivatives including the BIP (Bezafibrate Infarction Prevention) study and the VA-HIT (Veterans Affairs Cooperative Studies Program HDL-C Intervention Trial; gemfibrozil). The FIELD (Fenofibrate Intervention and Event Lowering in Diabetes) trial, a clinical outcomes trial specifically designed to evaluate fenofibrate in a large population of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, many of whom have the metabolic syndrome, is underway. The FIELD trial results should shed light on the efficacy and safety of fenofibrate in reducing cardiovascular morbidity in diabetic and metabolic syndrome patients and on the safety profile of combination therapy with fenofibrate and a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor.
The allergenicity and the cross-reactivity of naphthenic acid (NA) and its metallic salts were evaluated in experimental animals. In the guinea pig maximization test, sensitizing skin reactions were observed with cobalt naphthenate (CoN), zinc naphthenate (ZnN) and NA, but not with copper naphthenate, with CoN being the most potent sensitizer. Animals sensitized with 1 naphthenic compound cross-reacted to the other 3 as well. Furthermore, animals in the CoN-sensitized group reacted to the relevant metallic salt cobalt chloride (CoCl2). A dose-response study using the CoN-sensitized group showed that the concentration of CoCl2 required to elicit a skin reaction of similar extent in comparison with CoN was more than 10 times higher, when skin-reaction scores were compared on the basis of cobalt content. In the local lymph node assay, significant increases in stimulation index values without skin irritation were observed with CoN and ZnN, where the former was more potent than the latter. Although CoN is a reported skin sensitizer, this study showed that skin allergenicity of naphthenic compounds is not restricted solely to CoN. In addition, the results suggest the main antigenic determinant of naphthenic compounds to be the structure of NA, even though metal moieties modulate their allergenicity.
Epidemiologic data suggest that zidovudine (ZDV) could prevent the AIDS dementia complex (ADC), but this hypothesis has been specifically studied.
We have reviewed the medical records of all patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection admitted to our section between January 1990 and December 1993 who were diagnosed with ADC, and we have compared them to those of a control group with regard to the interruption of ZDV at least 3 months before. Controls were selected from the remaining HIV-related admissions, matched by calendar year, CD4-cell count and previous HIV-disease stage.
Thirty-nine cases and 39 controls were available for analysis; twenty-nine (74%) and 25 (64%) were male. The median age was similar for both groups: 30. Thirty-one patients (79%) in each group had a previous diagnosis of AIDS, six (15%) in each group had an AIDS-related complex and in two (5%) the ADC was the first complication of their HIV disease. The median CD4-cell counts were 79.6 and 79.4 x 10(6)/l. Twenty-three patients in each group had taken ZDV. Six of these from the ADC had withdrawn treatment, as compared to 2 from the control group (odds ratio [OR] 3.36; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.54-35.76). On the other hand, 16 patients with ADC were still on ZDV at the time of diagnosis, as compared to 21 controls (OR: 0.66; 95% CI: 0.22-1.60).
In this case-control study, the interruption of treatment with ZDV was not found to be a risk factor for the development of ADC.
To identify the risk factors for recurrent diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) in a city hospital.
We performed a retrospective analysis of sequential adult admissions for DKA at Bronx Lebanon Hospital Center in New York between July 1, 2001, and June 30, 2004. The patients were divided into cohorts, which were compared with use of analysis of variance and X2 tests. Multivariate logistic regression analysis was performed where indicated.
In 168 patients (96 men and 72 women), 219 episodes of DKA occurred. The mean age (+/- SD) of the overall study group was 38.6 +/- 14.8 years. Fifty-four patients (32%) had type 2 diabetes, and 44 patients (26%) had new-onset diabetes. The recurrence rate of DKA was 169% in cocaine users and 39% in nonusers (P<0.0001). Active use of cocaine, noncompliance, and Hispanic ethnicity emerged as independent risk factors for recurrent DKA-odds ratio (OR) = 4.38, P = 0.001; OR = 1.96, P = 0.05; and OR = 0.40, P = 0.005, respectively. The commonest precipitants of DKA were noncompliance (44%) and infection (26%). Noncompliance was associated with use of cocaine, use of cannabis, and cigarette smoking (P = 0.008, 0.04, and 0.01, respectively). In 91 of the hospital admissions for DKA (42%), the patients were active smokers.
Active use of cocaine is an independent risk factor for recurrent DKA, as are noncompliance and Hispanic ethnicity. Of these 3 factors, cocaine showed the strongest association with DKA. Therefore, toxicology screening in patients with recurrent DKA may be prudent and worthwhile.
Wistar rats were injected with haloperidol (3.5 mg/kg) that resulted in a high level of cataplexy. Next day after haloperidol injection rat behavior was studied in the open field. The animals were divided in two groups. The first group of animals was tested in the daylight without additional illumination of the open-field chamber. The second group was tested in a darkened room with additional intense illumination of the open-field center with a 60W bulb. The testing time was 240 s. The high level of the open-field locomotor activity in the first group was attributed to anxiety. The low level of locomotor activity in the second group was qualified as depressive state.
The last major survey of adverse reactions to intravenous fluorescein angiography was performed more than 20 years ago. There have been two recent fatalities involving intravenous fluorescein in Australia. It is important to review the current incidence of adverse reactions and latest literature on the pathogenesis, prophylaxis and alternatives to intravenous fluorescein angiography.
A retrospective review of all adverse reactions to intravenous sodium fluorescein in patients undergoing fluorescein angiography between June 1998 and June 2004 was undertaken. The total number of fluorescein angiograms performed and the number of patients with adverse reactions were identified from the photographic department database and the fluorescein adverse reaction register at the Lions Eye Institute.
A total of 11 898 fluorescein angiograms were performed during the study period. There were 132 adverse reactions recorded. The commonest adverse reactions were nausea and vomiting. There were no serious adverse reactions or deaths recorded. There was a statistically significant difference in the incidence of adverse reactions between sodium fluorescein used from two manufacturers.
Fluorescein angiography is a relative safe procedure and comparable to other intravenous radiocontrast media angiography or investigation. The present results are consistent with previous studies. Prophylactic treatment, fluorescein desensitization or oral fluorescein angiography should be considered in high-risk patients. Safe guards should be in place to manage potential serious adverse reactions. Other imaging techniques, like optical coherence tomography, should be considered as an alternative in selected cases.
The pro-oxidant hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) is converted to a reactive oxygen species by transition metals like iron. Since mutations in the p53 tumor suppressor gene contribute to drug resistance, we used genetically-matched human C8161 melanoma harbouring wt or DN-R175H mutant p53, to investigate the influence of p53 status on the potentiation of H(2)O(2) toxicity by: (a) intact sodium nitroprusside or nitroferricyanide (SNP), (b) its light-exhausted NO-depleted form (lex-SNP), (c) potassium ferricyanide, or (d) ferric ammonium sulphate. Whereas single treatments with SNP or H(2)O(2) were partly cytotoxic, preferentially potentiation of H(2)O(2) toxicity was evidenced with intact or lex-SNP. No comparable increase of H(2)O(2) toxicity was induced by ferricyanide, ferric ammonium sulphate or S-nitroso-N-acetyl penicillamine (SNAP), a known NO donor lacking iron. Immune blotting revealed apoptosis-associated PARP cleavage induced by [SNP+H(2)O(2)] irrespective of p53 status. This correlated with an eightfold induction of [Mn-SOD; SOD2] in wt p53 melanoma cells, and with a super-induction of the same enzyme reciprocal with loss of [Cu,Zn-SOD; SOD1], in mutant p53 cells. All these changes were antagonized by the anti-oxidant N-acetylcysteine or the iron chelator o-phenanthroline. We hypothesize that superoxide dismutase imbalance and iron-dependent redox changes involving OH species generated from a Fenton reaction between [SNP+H(2)O(2)], may be important in this anti-tumor activity. Although tumor drug resistance is frequently associated with DN-p53 mutations, our data shows for the first time the preferential ability of SNP to enhance H(2)O(2) toxicity, irrespective of p53 status.
