An assortment of glutamate antagonists with differing selectivities for NMDA and AMPA-type glutamate receptors, were tested for their effects in the mouse pilocarpine model of complex partial seizures. MK 801 (0.1-0.8 mg/kg) and high doses of HA 966 (50 mg/kg) were proconvulsant, whilst CGP 40116 (1-8 mg/kg) and low doses of HA 966 (0.4-10 mg/kg) inhibited pilocarpine-induced convulsions. CPP (5-20 mg/kg) and NBQX (1-50 mg/kg) were without effect. The dopamine D1 agonist SKF 38393 (10 mg/kg) facilitated the convulsant effects of low-dose pilocarpine (100 mg/kg). MK 801 (0.1-0.2 mg/kg) and HA 966 (50 mg/kg) interacted synergistically with SKF 38393 to promote the proconvulsant effects of D1 stimulation, whilst CPP (10-20 mg/kg) and HA 966 (10 mg/kg) had the opposite effect. CGP 40116 and NBQX were without effect. These results show that the convulsant qualities of MK 801 and SKF 38393, that have been detected in animal models of Parkinson's disease, can be reproduced in the pilocarpine model of epilepsy. Whilst the glutamate antagonists all interact synergistically with SKF 38393 to improve its antiparkinson activity, only MK 801 and high doses of HA 966 similarly potentiate the convulsions associated with D1 stimulation. An appropriate mixture of a glutamate antagonist and a D1 agonist could theoretically be used beneficially in the treatment of Parkinson's disease, without causing epilepsy as a side effect.
Based on the cholinergic hypothesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), many cholinomimetics have been tested for the treatment of AD. Although some of them have beneficial effects, peripheral muscarinic side effects limit their utility. Our present experiments showed that muscarinic agonist pilocarpine (pilo) could significantly improve memory deficits induced by scopolamine in step-through task, but be accompanied by pronounced peripheral cholinergic side effects such as hypersalivation, bradycardia, diarrhea and so on. Anisodamine (aniso) is a peripheral muscarinic blocker isolated from a Chinese herb Anisodus tanguticus and is widely used in China. When combined with aniso, pilo preserved its central efficacy with very minor peripheral side effects. Cholinomimetics combined with peripheral muscarinic blockers may provide alternative therapeutic strategies for AD.
This study was designed to evaluate the potential effects of puerarin (PR), an effective isoflavonoid compound purified from Pueraria lobata, in treating hepatic fibrosis (HF) rats induced by carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4), 2 mL kg(-1) d(-1)). Compared to model control, PR treatment effectively lowered the serum levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), albumin (Alb), total protein (TP) in HF rats. Masson stained analysis showed that the condition of HF rats was mitigated. Meanwhile, the tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α), nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) expressions were significantly down-regulated at protein level by PR intervention. Additionally, the activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD) was elevated, while the content of malondialdehyde (MDA) was lessened in liver tissue. As revealed by immunohistochemistry assay, PR therapy resulted in reduced production of transforming growth factor-βl (TGF-βl). Moreover, it also was attributed to decreased mRNA level of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) using RT-PCR analysis. These findings demonstrate that puerarin successfully reverses hepatotoxicity in CCl(4)-induced HF rats via the underlying mechanisms of regulating serum enzymes and attenuating TNF-α/NF-κB pathway for anti-inflammation response, as well as improving metabolic function in liver tissue.
Combined radio- and chemotherapy for primary CNS lymphoma (PCNSL) is associated with a considerable risk of long-term neurotoxicity. The impact of high-dose methotrexate (MTX)-based chemotherapy alone on cognition and quality of life (QOL) is controversial.
To assess the impact of the tumor itself and its treatment with high-dose MTX-based chemotherapy on long-term cognition and QOL in patients with PCNSL.
Prospective neuropsychological examinations and MRI were performed in patients with PCNSL who were in complete remission for more than 12 months after completion of chemotherapy. A QOL assessment was performed at long-term follow-up.
Twenty-three patients were eligible. The median follow-up period was 44 months after diagnosis. In long-term follow-up, 22 (95%) of 23 patients showed either preserved or improved cognitive functions as compared with pretreatment and immediate posttreatment baseline assessment. One patient showed an isolated decline in psychomotor speed. Eleven (48%) of 23 patients displayed at least mild cognitive deficits at long-term follow-up not related to therapy. Nineteen (83%) of 23 patients reported a good QOL. MRI revealed confluent white matter abnormalities in eight patients that were not associated with cognitive decline.
In patients with primary CNS lymphoma (PCNSL) treated with a methotrexate (MTX)-based chemotherapy, no gross cognitive decline has to be expected as a long-term treatment effect. MTX-induced white matter changes apparent on MRI are not inevitably associated with cognitive impairment. Nevertheless, a substantial fraction of patients with PCNSL retain cognitive deficits as a residual symptom of the tumor.
Ten ambulatory patients with unilateral and eight with bilateral ulcers of various etiologies were studied to determine the effects of keeping a wound bed moist under a water vapor and oxygen permeable membrane (VPM). In the bilateral group, VPM healing was compared with a debriding enzyme ointment and 10% benzoyl peroxide in the same patient. The faster healing rate with VPM was compared to the healing rate with control substances by the paired t test, with significance at less than 0.05 level. In the unilateral group two patients with ulcers to bone or joint capsule and one patient who had failed grafting healed without surgery. Two patients failed to heal with the VPM. All healing occurred in the face of gross bacterial contamination. Three patients treated with VPM developed cellulitis. Wound healing under a vapor permeable membrane occurs with an increase of the average healing rate by a factor of 2.6 when compared to control substances in ambulatory patients.
Twenty eight subjects with refractory, moderate to severe peripheral neuropathic pain participated in an open label prospective trial examining perceived analgesic effect, patient satisfaction, and safety of topical amitriptyline 2%/ketamine 1% cream. Outcome measures included an 11-point numerical rating scale for pain intensity (NRS-PI), a 5-point satisfaction scale, blood chemistry screen, drug and metabolite levels, urinalyses, electrocardiogram (ECG), and physical examination. Adverse events were monitored. Twenty-one subjects completed the trial. At 6 months, subjects reported an average long-term reduction in pain of 34% (standard deviation [SD] = 37%); 5 subjects (25%) achieved 50% or greater reduction in pain and 1 subject (5%) achieved 100% reduction in pain. At 12 months, the average reduction in pain was 37% (SD = 40%); 7 subjects (40%) achieved 50% or greater pain reduction. At the end of the study, 89% of subjects rated their satisfaction as 3/5 or greater and 2 subjects (10%) were pain free. Minimal adverse events were reported and there were no serious medication related adverse events. Blood levels revealed minimal systemic absorption. In conclusion, topical 2% amitriptyline/ 1% ketamine cream was associated with long-term reduction (6-12 months) in perceived pain, moderate to complete satisfaction, and was well tolerated in treatment of neuropathic pain. There was no significant systemic absorption of amitriptyline or ketamine.
This study demonstrates that topical 2% amitriptyline/1% ketamine, given over 6-12 months, is associated with long-term perceived analgesic effectiveness in treatment of neuropathic pain. Antidepressants and ketamine both produce multiple pharmacologic effects that may contribute to peripheral analgesia; such actions include block of peripheral N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, local anesthetic properties, and interactions with adenosine systems.
Linezolid is a recent addition to the antibiotic armamentarium against Gram-positive bacteria, including multiresistant staphylococci and enterococci. Linezolid is relatively well tolerated and is not believed to be nephrotoxic. However, we report the case of an 88-year-old woman who was treated for prosthetic joint infection and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia with vancomycin followed by linezolid therapy. On day 7 of linezolid treatment, the patient developed severe pruritus, macular rash, facial edema, eosinophilia, marked increase in serum creatinine level, and mild hepatitis. Renal biopsy showed acute interstitial nephritis with eosinophilic cells. Discontinuation of linezolid and a short course of prednisone led to rapid improvement of renal function. This case of linezolid-associated acute interstitial nephritis within the context of a drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome in a patient treated with linezolid raises concerns about the presumed renal safety of this drug. Clinicians should be aware of this potential life-threatening adverse reaction and monitor kidney function while patients are using linezolid.
Phenazopyridine hydrochloride is an effective oral urinary analgesic commonly used for the treatment of irritative lower urinary tract conditions. We believe that stones already present may serve as a nidus for significant deposition of phenazopyridine hydrochloride.
The cardiovascular effects of acute metabolic alkalosis (NaHCO3) in normal male volunteers anesthetized with halothane were measured. Pure metabolic alkalosis was studied by maintaning the end-tidal carbon dioxide tension at 40 torr. In each subject, cardiac index increased and total peripheral resistance decreased after each dose of NaHCO3. The increased cardiac index was associated with increased central blood volume, left ventricular minute work index, stroke index, and heart rate. Systolic time intervals showed increased myocardial performance. NaHCO3 administered to volunteers whose hearts were depressed by halothane appeared to cause peripheral vasodilation, volume expansion, and myocardial stimulation. The authors conclude that NaHCO3 administered during halothane anesthesia decreases total peripheral resistance and may lead to severe hypotension.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a common disease in tropical areas. Methotrexate which has become the main first-line treatment in western countries is increasingly used in tropics. Well documented liver toxicity of methotrexate led the American College of Rheumatology to provide guidelines about monitoring patients. In endemic areas of hepatitis B and C methotrexate may interfere with the natural history of these infections and exarcerbate liver damage, on the other hand, RA causes extra-articular manifestations which are rare and exceptionnally serious in the liver. The most important hepatic disorders associated with RA are: intrahepatic portal hypertension without cirrhosis, amyloidosis, drug hepato-toxicity and viral interferences. - Intrahepatic portal hypertension Several cases of portal hypertension without cirrhosis have been reported. Most cases were related to Nodural Regenerative Hyperplasia (NRH) which is made of diffuse nodules of hepatocytes without fibrosis. The pathogenesis of this entity is unknown. Distal vascular changes and abnormal perfusion of liver are mentioned. Presentation is cholestasis in one third of cases. Portal hypertension has no particularity and may cause esophageal variceal bleeding. NRH is closely associateed with Felty's syndrome. - Amyloidosis Hepatic amyloidosis is a classical complication of RA even rare. It is a secondary amyloidosis of AA type. Hepatic injury is generally silent and renal symptoms are dominant. - Drug hepatotoxicity Several medications used in the management of RA are potentially hepatotoxic : salicylates, nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAID), corticosteroids, gold, sulfasalazine and methotrexate above all. Methotrexate hepatotoxicity is well documented in carcinology with high doses but also in psoriasis patients treated with low doses. Hepatic damage related to methotrexate includes elevation of aminotransferases, portal fibrosis and cirrhosis. But data on methotrexate toxicity show small risk of serious liver disease in RA patients. Long duration of therapy and age (> 60 years) have been found to be independent risk factors for the development of hepatic disease. Other identified risk factors are alcohol intake, diabetes, obesity and prior history of hepatitis B or C. The American College of Rheumatology has published guidelines about monitoring patients for liver toxicity. Hepatic tests and Hepatitis B and C serologic studies are recommended before starting treatment with methotrexate. Liver biopsy is only recommended in case of alcoholism, prolonged abnormalities of aminotransferases and chronic hepatitis B or C infection. - Methotrexate and hepatitis B or C infection These infections are endemic in tropical areas. Chronic hepatitis B or C is a contra indication for methotrexate therapy, due to the immuno-suppressive effect of the drug. Positive ELISA tests to C virus must be confirmed with RIBA tests to avoïd false positive tests which have been reported in Africa. The "healthy" HBs Ag carrier state is not in theory a contra indication for methotrexate therapy but the risk of hepatitis B reactivation needs a close monitoring. The biological tests required for are sophisticated and quite impossible in routine practice in tropical areas. So HBs Ag carrier state is usually incompatible with methotrexate treatment. Studies would be useful to prove that in endemic areas of viral hepatitis B and C as in western countries, methotrexate is enough safe to become the main first-line treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.
Ligand engagement by integrins induces receptor clustering and formation of complexes at the integrin cytoplasmic face that controls cell signaling and cytoskeletal dynamics critical for adhesion-dependent processes. This study searches for a subset of integrin effectors that coordinates both tumor cell invasion and resistance to the chemotherapeutic drug cisplatin in oral carcinomas. Candidate integrin effectors were identified in a proteomics screen of proteins recruited to clustered integrin αβ1, α(v)β or α(6)β receptors in oral carcinomas. Proteins with diverse functions including microtubule and actin binding proteins, and factors involved in trafficking, transcription and translation were identified in oral carcinoma integrin complexes. Knockdown of effectors in the oral carcinoma HN12 cells revealed that p130Cas, Dek, Src and talin were required for invasion through Matrigel. Disruption of talin or p130Cas by RNA interference increased resistance to cisplatin, whereas targeting Dek, Src or zyxin reduced HN12 resistance to cisplatin. Analysis of the spreading of HN12 cells on collagen I and laminin I revealed that a decrease in p130Cas or talin expression inhibited spreading on both matrices. Interestingly, a reduction in zyxin expression enhanced spreading on laminin I and inhibited spreading on collagen I. Reduction of Dek, Src, talin or zyxin expression reduced HN12 proliferation by 30%. Proliferation was not affected by a reduction in p130Cas expression. We conclude that p130Cas, Src and talin function in both oral carcinoma invasion and resistance to cisplatin.
Despite the advantages in the outcome of patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, 25% of the affected children suffer relapses. As the response to chemotherapy is essentially determined by the development of cellular drug resistance, new drugs that are capable to overcome resistance to conventional chemotherapeutics are urgently needed. With regard to this demand, we investigated the titanium-based anticancer drug Titanocene Y. Treatment with Titanocene Y leads to inhibition of tumour cell proliferation and induces apoptosis in established cell lines of leukemia, lymphoma and melanoma. The extrinsic pathway appears to be responsible, at least in part, for the effect: cell death is partly inhibited in BJAB cells overexpressing a dominant negative Fas-associated death domain (FADD) mutant and via real time PCR we found a significant up-regulation of Fas ligand in the affected cells. Apoptosis is triggered regardless of the expression of anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 and pro-apoptotic smac and the agent is also effective on cells that are multidrug resistant due to overexpression of P-gp. In combination with vincristine impressive synergistic effects could be observed, exposing Titanocene Y as a possible component for polychemotherapy. Taken together, Titanocene Y turns out to be a promising candidate for anti-tumour therapy, especially for the treatment of multidrug resistant malignancies.
We report a case of acute severe functional mitral regurgitation in a patient with cocaine-related anterior myocardial infarction. Transesophageal echocardiography played a pivotal role in excluding a mechanical complication, and determining the presence, severity, and mechanism of this life-threatening complication.
Hypoparathyroidism is an abnormality of calcium metabolism characterized by low serum levels of parathyroid hormone in spite of hypocalcemia. The causes of hypoparathyroidism are numerous. Activating mutations in the calcium-sensing receptor (CaSR) gene are well-known causes of familial isolated hypoparathyroidism, also known as autosomal dominant hypocalcemia (ADH). Here we describe members of a Korean family with a heterozygous Pro221Leu mutation causing ADH. This case is the first report in Korea.
To investigate the frequency of membranous nephropathy associated with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use and identify associated clinical characteristics.
Retrospective chart review.
A large group practice that staffs 2 large teaching hospitals.
All patients diagnosed as having stage I or early stage II membranous nephropathy by renal biopsy between January 1975 and May 1995.
Nephrotic syndrome was said to be associated with NSAID use if patients developed nephrotic syndrome while taking an NSAID and if other causes of membranous nephropathy were excluded and a rapid remission of the nephrotic syndrome followed withdrawal of the drug.
Of 125 patients identified with early membranous nephropathy, 29 were taking NSAIDs at the time symptoms of nephrotic syndrome developed. Thirteen of these patients met the criteria for NSAID-associated membranous nephropathy. None of these patients had any evidence of renal insufficiency or significant proteinuria after follow-up periods ranging from 5 months to 13 years. In addition to diclofenac and fenoprofen, which have previously been implicated, ibuprofen, nabumetone, naproxen, and tolmetin were found to be associated.
Nephrotic syndrome due to membranous nephropathy should be recognized as an idiosyncratic drug reaction to many NSAIDS. Because withdrawal of the drug may result in prompt and complete recovery of normal renal function, a history of NSAID intake should be sought in patients with membranous nephropathy.
Vascular ageing is accelerated in patients with diabetes. However, the underlying mechanism remains unclear. Here, we show that high glucose induces activation of apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1 (ASK1), an apoptosis-inducing signal that mediates endothelial cell senescence induced by hyperglycemia. High glucose induced a time-dependent increase in the levels of ASK1 expression and its activity in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Incubation of endothelial cells with high glucose increased the proportion of cells expressing senescence-associated beta-galactosidase (SA-beta-gal) activity. However, transfection with an adenoviral construct including a dominant negative form of ASK1 gene significantly inhibited SA-beta-gal activity induced by high glucose. In addition, infection with an adenoviral construct expressing the constitutively active ASK1 gene directly induced an increase in the levels of SA-beta-gal activity. Activation of the ASK1 signal also enhanced plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) expression in HUVECs. Induction of senescent endothelial cells in aortas and elevation of plasma PAI-1 levels were observed in streptozotocin (STZ) diabetic mice, whereas these changes induced by STZ were attenuated in ASK1-knockout mice. Our results suggest that hyperglycemia accelerates endothelial cell senescence and upregulation of PAI-1 expression through activation of the ASK1 signal. Thus, ASK1 may be a new therapeutic target to prevent vascular ageing and thrombosis in diabetic patients.
This report describes the efficacy of combined use of aripiprazole in the treatment of a patient with clozapine induced enuresis. Aripiprazole acts as a potential dopamine partial agonist and the dopamine blockade in the basal ganglia might be one of the causes of urinary incontinence and enuresis. We speculate that aripiprazole functioned as a D2 agonist in hypodopaminergic state of basal ganglia caused by clozapine and maintained dopamine level that would improve enuresis ultimately.
From January 1991 to August 1993, 237 women with metastatic breast cancer were recruited into a multicentric phase II clinical trial designed to assess the cardioprotective activity of Cardioxane (ICRF-187). All patients were treated with 5-fluorouracil 500 mg/m2, doxorubicin 50 mg/m2, cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2 (FDC) and Cardioxane 1000 mg/m2, in cycles repeated every 3-4 weeks. Cardiac functions were assessed at baseline by physical examination, ECG, and resting ultrasound left ventricle ejection fraction (LVEF). The same tests were repeated regularly after the 3rd, 6th, 8th cycle and every additional 100 mg/m2 of doxorubicin. At the end of the study there were 212 evaluable patients. Prior to analysis, patients were stratified according to the presence of cardiac risks at study entry. One hundred thirty-three patients (63%) bore one or more cardiac risks. The average total cumulative dose of doxorubicin administered to the group was 311 mg/m2 (range: 200-900 mg/m2). Overall response (CR + PR) was 49.5% (105/212), with 12% of patients entering complete remission. General toxicity (WHO grading) was mild and tolerable; no excessive myelosuppression or related symptoms were observed. Three patients from the risk group experienced cardiotoxicity, with an LVEF fall below 45%, and had to be removed from the study. Another 3 patients (1 from the risk group) were removed from the study due to clinically documented congestive heart failure after 200, 300 and 400 mg/m2 of doxorubicin. In our study, Cardioxane (ICRF-187) did not influence the antitumor efficacy of FDC chemotherapy, nor did concomitant administration of Cardioxane and chemotherapy result in any other or severer toxicity than that already known for this regimen. Finally, the observation that 51% of patients with preexisting cardiac risks received doxorubicin at dose range of 450-900 mg/m2 without significant clinical or laboratory signs of cardiotoxicity supports the evidence that Cardioxane provided cardiac protection offering the possibility of longer doxorubicin chemotherapy.
The present review is directed at imparting the current knowledge regarding functional neuroimaging as a tool for enhancing the understanding of cerebrophysiologic and neurobehavioral consequences of stimulant abuse. Stimulants like cocaine are capable of inducing clinically significant neurocognitive impairment through direct action on the brain, and indirectly through other organs that influence cerebral physiology. Neurochemical dysregulation including profound effects on the serotonergic and dopaminergic systems have substantial physiological and neurobehavioral consequences. Brain hemorrhages, transient ischemic attacks, strokes,and seizures frequently follow cocaine use. The residual cerebropathologic consequences of cocaine are seen only in significant or pronounced brain events when structural neuroimaging techniques such as computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are employed. However, recent research with newer functional neuroimaging techniques such as single photon emission, positron emission tomography, and quantitative electroencephalography have revealed high rates of significant alteration in brain function among cocaine users, with negative structural imaging studies. These findings are often associated with impairment on neuropsychological evaluation, also in the absence of positive findings on CT and MRI. Both cerebral metabolic and hypoperfusion anomalies are seen, especially in anterior and temporal brain regions. Observed changes can persist for months, and for some patients, may represent a permanent change in brain functioning.
The standard treatment of poisoning by organophosphorus (OP) nerve agents with atropine and oximes is not sufficiently effective against all types of nerve agents. Alternative therapeutic strategies are required and bispyridinium non-oximes, acting as nicotinic antagonists, were identified as promising compounds. A previous study showed that the di(methanesulfonate) salt of the bispyridinium compound MB327 could restore soman-impaired neuromuscular function in vitro and improve survival of sarin, soman and tabun poisoned guinea pigs in vivo. Here, by using the indirect field stimulation technique, the ability of MB327 to counteract soman-impaired neuromuscular transmission was investigated in human intercostal muscle and rat diaphragm preparations. MB327 restored muscle force in a concentration-dependent manner in both species without reactivating soman-inhibited acetylcholinesterase. The therapeutic effect of MB327 could be washed out, indicating a direct effect at the nicotinic receptor level. Also the ability of MB327 to restore respiratory muscle function could be demonstrated for the first time in rat and human tissue. In combination with previous in vitro and in vivo findings MB327 may be considered a promising compound for the treatment of nerve agent poisoning and further studies are needed to identify optimized drug combinations, concentrations and dosing intervals to provide an effective therapy for OP poisoning.
Low dose ketamine decreases nociception by blocking NMDA receptor channels. Alpha2-adrenergic receptor activation triggers intense analgesic response. This study aimed at evaluating the effects of epidural ketamine, clonidine and dexmedetomidine, in patients undergoing upper abdominal surgery.
Participated in this randomized double-blind study 70 patients of both genders, aged 18 to 50 years, physical status ASA I or II, submitted to subcostal cholecystectomy under general anesthesia associated to lumbar epidural anesthesia. Lumbar epidural anesthesia was randomly induced as follows:
20 mL of 0.75% ropivacaine and 1 mL of 0.9% saline solution (n = 10); Ketamine group: 20 mL of 0.75% ropivacaine and 0.5 mg.kg-1 ketamine (n = 20); Clonidine group: 20 mL of 0.75% ropivacaine and 1 mL clonidine (150 microg) (n = 20); Dexmedetomidine group: 20 mL of 0.75% ropivacaine and 2 microg.kg-1 dexmedetomidine (n = 20). Anesthesia was induced with etomidate, alfentanil and rocuronium and was maintained with isoflurane and alfentanil. Analgesia was evaluated by clinical signs and inhalational anesthetic inspired concentration was evaluated by anesthetic gases analysis during surgery.
All patients receiving ketamine, clonidine or dexmedetomidine had heart rate and systemic blood pressure decrease and have not required perioperative analgesic complementation. For the same patients, isoflurane inspired concentration varied from 0.5vol% to 1vol% and there were no clinical signs or responses suggesting inadequate anesthetic levels.
Epidural ketamine, clonidine or dexmedetomidine decreases alfentanil consumption and isoflurane inspired concentration in the intraoperative period of upper abdominal surgery.
An 83-year-old man was admitted for right lower lobe pneumonia which did not improve after a 5-day outpatient treatment with amoxicillin/clavulinate and clarithromycin. An empiric treatment with levofloxacin was started with a significant improvement after 24 h of this treatment. On the third day of hospitalization, delirium developed, while the patient was afebrile and with normal blood oxygenation. Treatment with levofloxacin was stopped, and a complete resolution of the patient's delirium was observed 2 days later. To the best of our knowledge, this is the third case of levofloxacin-induced delirium described in the medical literature.
This investigation examines the possibility of interaction between tranylcypromine and butorphanol in comparison to pethidine. The LD50 of pethidine and butorphanol were determined in mice pretreated with the non-selective monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor, tranylcypromine orally for 8 days or with oral saline solution. Tranylcypromine decreased the LD50 of both pethidine and butorphanol by 78% and 41%, respectively. Anesthetized rabbits with halothane pretreated with tranylcypromine or saline were given pethidine (5 mg/kg i.v.) or butorphanol (0.5, 1 and 2 mg/kg i.v.). Pethidine produced a marked increase in blood pressure in rabbits pretreated with tranylcypromine and did not affect significantly the heart rate. Butorphanol did not affect either blood pressure or heart rate at doses of 0.5 or 1 mg/kg. However, the largest dose of butorphanol (2 mg/kg) produced hypotension and tachycardia in rabbits pretreated with tranylcypromine. Neither pethidine nor butorphanol affected the temperature of anesthetized rabbits pretreated with tranylcypromine or saline.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of low iron state in a two-stage mouse skin carcinogenesis model using 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA)-initiated and benzoyl peroxide (BPO)-promoted cutaneous tumorigenesis. All mice were treated with DMBA. Low iron state was achieved by injection with phenylhydrazine hydrochloride and feeding low iron diet. A low iron state resulted in a decrease in tumor incidence (papillomas and carcinomas) and number of tumors/mouse. Also, the conversion of papillomas to carcinomas was lower in mice on a low iron state. BPO treatment enhanced epidermal lipid peroxidation (LPO) and was accompanied by a depletion in the level of epidermal reduced glutathione (GSH) and decrease in the activities of antioxidant enzymes. BPO treatment also increased ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity and [3H]thymidine incorporation into cutaneous DNA. Mice in a low iron state were less susceptible to the effects of BPO treatment, as was apparent from a partial recovery of GSH levels and the activities of antioxidant enzymes, as well as a lower induction in ODC activity, [3H]thymidine incorporation into cutaneous DNA and lesser epidermal LPO. As expected, cutaneous iron levels were lower in mice on a low iron state. Thus, our data show that the tumor-promoting potential of BPO is reduced by low iron state in a two-stage mouse skin carcinogenesis model.
There is some evidence of retroviral infection in ALS. A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of indinavir in ALS was performed to assess safety and efficacy trends. Nephrolithiasis and gastrointestinal side effects were frequent with indinavir treatment. Group differences in the rate of decline were not significant between the groups for the ALS Functional Rating Scale (p = 0.36) or for the secondary variables. The toxicity and negative efficacy trends discourage further indinavir trials in ALS.
Stimulant abuse is associated with an increased risk of contracting human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Although sharing of contaminated needles is one of the routes by which HIV is spread, noninjection abusers are also at high risk. The authors investigated the effect of the stimulant drug methylphenidate (given intravenously) on sexual desire as a possible contributing factor to risky sexual behavior associated with the contraction of HIV.
The effects of intravenous methylphenidate (0.5 mg/kg) on self-reports of sexual desire (rated from 0-10) were evaluated in 39 comparison subjects and 39 cocaine abusers.
Intravenous methylphenidate significantly increased self-reports of sexual desire in comparison subjects (1.4 versus 3.7) and cocaine abusers (2.8 versus 4.8).
Stimulant-induced enhancement of sexual desire could be one mechanism by which stimulant drugs such as cocaine and methamphetamine increase the risk for HIV transmission even when they are not injected.
The present study was conducted to assess the effect of chromium (Cr) administration on glucose tolerance in insulin-dependent diabetes that accompanies hypertension. Four rat groups were used: stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP) and normotensive Wistar Kyoto rats (WKY) with and without streptozotocin (SZ, 40 mg/kg)-induced diabetes. Each group of rats was subdivided to the Cr-dose group and the control group. The Cr-dose group, which was intraperitoneally administered Cr solution (20 micrograms trivalent chromium/kg body weight/d for 4 weeks), and the control group (saline) were studied for plasma glucose and plasma insulin during intraperitoneal glucose tolerance test (IPGTT) and insulin action by isolated adipocytes. For diabetic SHRSP showing the highest plasma glucose and lowest plasma insulin among the four groups, Cr administration led to the greatest reduction in plasma glucose without a significant effect on plasma insulin during IPGTT. For each diabetic WKY and normal SHRSP and WKY, those given Cr showed lower levels of plasma glucose with lower levels of plasma insulin than the controls. For diabetic SHRSP, glucose uptake by isolated adipocytes in the Cr-dose group was higher than that in the control group. This effect of Cr administration involved enhancement of insulin responsiveness and sensitivity, attributed to enhanced affinity of the insulin receptor. A similar tendency was observed for diabetic WKY. However, for normal SHRSP and WKY, the increase in glucose uptake due to Cr administration coincided only with enhanced insulin responsiveness.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The role of felodipine, a new calcium antagonist, as monotherapy in mild and moderate hypertension (supine diastolic blood pressure between 95 and 100mm Hg: phase V) was investigated in a placebo-controlled, double-blind study of 109 patients from 13 centres using 3 different doses. After a 2-week placebo run-in phase the patients were randomised in a double-blind fashion to receive felodipine 2.5mg bid (32 patients), 5 mg bid (30 patients), 10mg bid (24 patients) or placebo (25 patients). Clinical and laboratory measurements were performed after 1, 3 and 8 weeks. 94 patients completed the study. Felodipine reduced supine systolic blood pressure by 22mm Hg from baseline after 8 weeks' treatment on 2.5mg bid, 24mm Hg on 5mg bid and 24mm Hg on 10mg bid at 2 hours after dosage. The corresponding reduction in the placebo group was 6mm Hg. There was a reduction in supine diastolic blood pressure from baseline of 13mm Hg on felodipine 2.5mg bid, 14mm Hg on felodipine 5mg bid and 20mm Hg on felodipine 10mg bid, with no reduction in patients receiving placebo. The percentage of patients completing the study who achieved a supine diastolic blood pressure of 90mm Hg or less after 8 weeks' treatment at 2 hours after dosage was 9% on placebo, 67% on felodipine 2.5mg bid, 57% on felodipine 5mg bid and 92% on felodipine 10mg bid; and at 12 hours after dosage those achieving target supine diastolic blood pressure was 17% on placebo, 37% on felodipine 2.5mg bid, 25% on felodipine 5mg bid and 62% on felodipine 10mg bid. Felodipine was generally well tolerated, although 10 patients on felodipine 10mg bid (42%), 1 on felodipine 5mg bid (3%) and 2 on felodipine 2.5mg bid (6%) withdrew from the study because of adverse effects. One serious adverse event, a myocardial infarction, occurred during the study in a patient with a history of postprandial non-exertional chest pain. In conclusion, felodipine monotherapy appreciably reduces blood pressure in mild and moderate hypertension without significant tachycardia in the short term. Doses of felodipine 2.5mg bid and 5mg bid are better tolerated than 10mg bid and can be recommended for initial treatment in this category of patients.
The problem of a sotalol-induced ventricular arrhythmia (torsade de pointes) is presented and the contributory role of hypokalaemia is emphasized. It is concluded that sotalol may not be a suitable beta-blocker to use with a diuretic.
One hundred twelve patients in preterm labor were followed prospectively, with electrocardiograms taken before ritodrine therapy and at 6 and 24 hours of treatment. Ninety-six percent of patients developed sinus tachycardia. Other changes were seen in 79% of the study group. These changes included ST segment depression in 70%, T wave flattening or inversion in 55%, and prolongation of the QT interval in 35% of our sample. None of the electrocardiograms showed the presence of a significant axis deviation, a change in QRS interval, or arrhythmia. No correlation was seen between symptoms of ischemia and electrocardiographic changes. A drop in potassium concentration was noted initially, but a direct correlation between potassium concentrations and frequency of electrocardiographic changes was not present. We conclude that the electrocardiographic changes that are often observed during myocardial ischemia may be frequent in asymptomatic patients treated with ritodrine and that these changes may be a physiologic expression of ritodrine-induced tachycardia or hypokalemia. The validity of the use of the presence of electrocardiographic changes as the only criterion for discontinuation of ritodrine therapy is questioned.
