Alinidine--N-allyl-clonidine--reduces heart rate without blocking beta adrenoreceptors. It may be used in patients with angina without inducing the adverse effects of beta-adrenergic blockers. We therefore evaluated alinidine efficacy in patients with angiographically proven coronary artery disease and stable angina during a 10-wk placebo-controlled randomized double-blind trial. Alinidine (40 mg three times a day) reduced the number of anginal attacks and the average number of nitroglycerine capsules consumed. The double product was slightly lowered during rest but more pronounced during exercise. This effect was mainly due to decreased heart rate. The ischemic S-T segment depression was diminished. Exercise tolerance was clearly improved in six, slightly improved in two, and unchanged in four subjects.
This case report describes an alternative method for reducing bruxism in a special needs patient who was not a candidate for an intraoral appliance. Bruxism is often seen in patients with special needs and can result in excessive dental wear, temporo-mandibular joint pain, avulsion of teeth and other problems. Current methods of management are not typically effective in this population because most require patient compliance. An 11-year-old male diagnosed with autism and Bannayan-Zonana syndrome received bilateral injections of botulinum toxin type-A (Botox Allergan Pharmaceuticals, Irvine CA) in the masseter muscle. The patient's condition was followed up via post-operative telephone interviews with the parents for 60 days. A reduction in the frequency and severity of bruxism was reported. The only side effects noted were soreness at the injection site and mild, temporary drooling. Although further research is required to determine the optimal doses and injection frequency, botulinum toxin type-A appears to be an alternative method for controlling bruxism in the special needs population.
Case reports suggest a relationship between amphetamine abuse/dependence and aortic dissection, but no population-based epidemiologic studies have examined this link. Our objective was to test the hypothesis that young adults with a diagnosis of amphetamine abuse/dependence would be at higher risk for aortic dissection after accounting for known risk factors.
In this population-based case-control study of 30,922,098 discharges from the Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project Nationwide Inpatient Sample from 1995 to 2007, among persons aged 18 to 49 years, we identified 3,116 thoracic and thoracoabdominal aortic dissections using International Classification of Disease, Ninth Edition, Clinical Modification codes 441.01 and 441.03. The SURVEYLOGISTIC procedure in SAS 9.2 (SAS Institute, Cary, NC) was used to account for the Nationwide Inpatient Sample sampling methodology.
In a multiple logistic regression analysis, while controlling for known risk factors, amphetamine abuse/dependence was significantly associated with aortic dissection (adjusted odds ratio = 3.33, 95% CI = 2.37-4.69, P < .0001).
This statistically significant association suggests that amphetamine abuse/dependence may play a role in aortic dissection in young adults in the United States.
Wistar rats given a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, NG-nitro-L-arginine-methyl ester (L-NAME), for 4 weeks develop time- and dose-dependent hypertension without cardiac hypertrophy. This initial study of the relation between left ventricular weight and L-NAME-induced hypertension has now been extended by giving 50 mg/kg per day L-NAME to Wistar rats (n = 30) for 8 weeks and comparing results with those from control rats (n = 10) and two-kidney, one clip rats (n = 14). Although L-NAME rats and two-kidney, one clip rats had increased systolic blood pressures during the last 3 weeks of the experiment (202 +/- 24 and 224 +/- 16 mm Hg, respectively), the ratio of left ventricular weight to body weight of L-NAME rats (2.12 +/- 0.32 mg/g) was not statistically different from that of control rats (1.93 +/- 0.13 mg/g), whereas that of two-kidney, one clip rats was increased (2.85 +/- 0.20 mg/g). The plasma renin activity of L-NAME rats was not significantly different from that of control rats. Two L-NAME rat subgroups were defined according to the presence of left ventricular hypertrophy (ratio of left ventricular weight to body weight > 2.19 mg/g, control mean +2 SD) (6 of 25) or its absence (19 of 25). Systolic blood pressure, plasma renin activity, and cardiac angiotensin converting enzyme activity of L-NAME rats with left ventricular hypertrophy were significantly higher than those of the subgroup without.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
This study was conducted as part of International Life Sciences Institute (ILSI) program to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of clofibrate, a nongenotoxic, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) alpha agonist, following oral administration to p53+/- heterozygous mice for a minimum of 26 weeks. p-Cresidine, a urinary bladder carcinogen, was given orally at 400 mg/kg/day as a positive control. Initial clofibrate doses were 50, 250, and 400 mg/kg/day for males and 50, 200, and 500 mg/kg/day for females. Due to unexpected mortality during the first week of dosing, clofibrate doses were lowered to 25, 75, and 100 mg/kg/day for males and 25, 75, and 125 mg/kg/day for females. Clinical signs and mortality were greater in p53+/- than wild-type (WT) mice. With the exception of liver weights, no marked differences in any other parameters either between the sexes or between WT and p53+/- mice were noted. Moderate increases in liver weights noted in WT males given 100 mg/kg/day clofibrate were not associated with any microscopic changes. No neoplastic response was observed in p53+/- mice after 6 months of exposure to clofibrate at doses up to 100 mg/kg/day for males and 125 mg/kg/day for females. Transitional-cell hyperplasia and carcinoma of the urinary bladder were noted in both sexes given p-cresidine, demonstrating that the p53+/- mouse responded to a known mouse carcinogen as expected. Clofibrate produced non-neoplastic findings in the adrenals, pancreas, and prostate, whereas p-cresidine affected the kidney, liver, pancreas, and spleen.
Lesions of the dorsal hippocampus have been shown to disrupt both the acquisition and the consolidation of memories associated with contextual fear (fear of the place of conditioning), but do not affect fear conditioning to discrete cues (e.g., a tone). Blockade of central muscarinic cholinergic receptor activation results in selective acquisition deficits of contextual fear conditioning, but reportedly has little effect on consolidation. Here we show for the first time that direct infusion of the muscarinic cholinergic receptor antagonist, scopolamine, into the dorsal hippocampus produces a dose-dependent deficit in both acquisition and consolidation of contextual fear conditioning, while having no impact on simple tone conditioning.
Transgenic mice (TG) were used to define mitochondrial oxidative stress and cardiomyopathy (CM) induced by zidovudine (AZT), an antiretroviral used to treat HIV/AIDS. Genetically engineered mice either depleted or overexpressed mitochondrial superoxide dismutase (SOD2(+/-) KOs and SOD2-OX, respectively) or expressed mitochondrially targeted catalase (mCAT). TGs and wild-type (WT) littermates were treated (oral AZT, 35 days). Cardiac mitochondrial H(2)O(2), aconitase activity, histology and ultrastructure were analyzed. Left ventricle (LV) mass and LV end-diastolic dimension were determined echocardiographically. AZT induced cardiac oxidative stress and LV dysfunction in WTs. Cardiac mitochondrial H(2)O(2) increased and aconitase was inactivated in SOD2(+/-) KOs, and cardiac dysfunction was worsened by AZT. Conversely, the cardiac function in SOD2-OX and mCAT hearts was protected. In SOD2-OX and mCAT TG hearts, mitochondrial H(2)O(2), LV mass and LV cavity volume resembled corresponding values from vehicle-treated WTs. AZT worsens cardiac dysfunction and increases mitochondrial H(2)O(2) in SOD2(+/-) KO. Conversely, both SOD2-OX and mCAT TGs prevent or attenuate AZT-induced cardiac oxidative stress and LV dysfunction. As dysfunctional changes are ameliorated by decreasing and worsened by increasing H(2)O(2) abundance, oxidative stress from H(2)O(2) is crucial pathogenetically in AZT-induced mitochondrial CM.
Cue-induced reinstatement of extinguished drug seeking is a preclinical model of relapse. However, relapse typically occurs after abstinence rather than explicit extinction training. We show that inactivation of the dorsolateral caudate-putamen, but not other structures previously implicated in reinstatement, attenuates cocaine seeking after abstinence. This suggests that there is limited overlap in the substrates of cocaine seeking after abstinence versus extinction, and that habit learning exerts greater control over drug seeking than regions implicated in stimulus-reward associations.
Lung hypoplasia in congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) seems to involve impaired alveolar septation. We hypothesized that disturbed deposition of elastin and expression of fibroblast growth factor 18 (FGF18), an elastogenesis stimulus, occurs in CDH.
To document FGF18 and elastin in human CDH and ovine surgical and rat nitrofen models and to use models to evaluate the benefit of treatments.
Human CDH and control lungs were collected post mortem. Diaphragmatic hernia was created in sheep at 85 days; fetal lungs were collected at 139 days (term = 145 days). Pregnant rats received nitrofen at 12 days; fetal lungs were collected at 21 days (term = 22 days). Some of the sheep fetuses with hernia underwent tracheal occlusion (TO); some of the nitrofen-treated pregnant rats received vitamin A. Both treatments are known to promote lung growth.
Coincidental with the onset of secondary septation, FGF18 protein increased threefold in control human lungs, which failed to occur in CDH. FGF18 labeling was found in interstitial cells of septa. Elastin staining demonstrated poor septation and markedly decreased elastin density in CDH lungs. Consistently, lung FGF18 transcripts were diminished 60 and 83% by CDH in sheep and rats, respectively, and elastin density and expression were diminished. TO and vitamin A restored FGF18 and elastin expression in sheep and rats, respectively. TO restored elastin density.
Impaired septation in CDH is associated with decreased FGF18 expression and elastic fiber deposition. Simultaneous correction of FGF18 and elastin defects by TO and vitamin A suggests that defective elastogenesis may result, at least partly, from FGF18 deficiency.
Despite a wealth of data documenting acute cardiac injury from anthracycline therapy and/or mediastinal radiotherapy used for childhood cancer, little information is available on the long-term consequence of these insults. Twenty-nine patients (mean age 15 +/- 4.3 years) from The Late Effects Follow-Up Clinic For Childhood Cancer study, who had been in continuous, complete remission and off chemotherapy for a minimum of 2 years (mean follow-up 7.2 +/- 3.2) were studied. All patients had normal ejection fractions before and during cancer therapy and all were in New York Heart Association class I at the time of study. Systolic and diastolic functions were assessed by 2-dimensional echocardiography, Doppler flow velocity, and radionuclide angiography, and results were compared with normal control subjects. Left ventricular mass and mass index were significantly reduced in the patient population. Fractional shortening was decreased overall and end-systolic wall stress was much higher in patients than in controls. However, contractility, as assessed by the relation of wall stress to rate-corrected velocity of shortening, was decreased by > or = 2 SDs in only 6 of 28 patients, and the force-mass relation was actually increased in the patient group as a whole. Mitral valve inflow velocities were significantly increased but the pattern was abnormal. These results suggest a pattern consistent with a thin-walled, complaint left ventricle with reduced muscle mass performing under above-normal levels of wall stress. Contractility measurements were normal or increased in the group, but some patients clearly demonstrated development of reduced contractile function.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Thrombomodulin (TM) is the anticoagulant endothelial cell membrane-bound protein cofactor in the thrombin-mediated activation of protein C (PC). It has been clearly demonstrated that the anticoagulant and profibrinolytic functions of the PC system are important for the prevention of a thromboembolic disease. Patients with PC, protein S, or PC "'cofactor"' deficiency and/or dysfunction develop thromboembolic diseases. However, the molecular abnormality in at least 20% to 30% of thrombophilic patients cannot be identified by hitherto recognized defects. A putative pathologic lesion in the TM gene could be one of several candidates for these prothrombotic mutations. A directed search strategy for deletions, insertions, or point mutations in the TM gene has not been performed. Therefore, in the present study, we have analyzed the entire TM gene, including the promoter region, by polymerase chain reaction-single-strand conformation polymorphism (PCR-SSCP) in normal healthy volunteers and in patients presenting with a thromboembolic disease. We have identified a patient with a thromboembolic disease and a TM point mutation. In a 45-year-old Hispanic man with a documented pulmonary embolism, PCR-SSCP showed an aberrant band pattern and subsequent DNA sequence analysis showed a heterozygous substitution for G1456 to T. This substitution predicts an Asp468 to a Tyr change in the amino acid sequence that is located between the transmembrane domain and the sixth epidermal growth factor-like domain. The Asp468 to Tyr change would probably lead to significant structural changes not allowing the expression of the TM protein or to a conformational change that is not functional.
Bortezomib is a first-in-class proteasome inhibitor with remarkable antitumor activity that is approved for the treatment of patients with multiple myeloma. Peripheral neuropathy (PN) is a frequent adverse event reported with bortezomib use.
The aim of this retrospective, single-center study was to determine the characteristics of bortezomib-associated PN in 100 patients with advanced myeloma. Peripheral neuropathy was evaluated by investigator's assessment.
With a median follow-up of 8 months (range, 0.1-32 months) from bortezomib initiation, bortezomib-associated PN was observed in 38 patients (38%; 95% CI, 28%-47%), with grade 3 and 4 PN occurring in 5 patients and 1 patient, respectively. Median time to onset of bortezomib-associated PN was 53 days (range, 11-182 days). Of the 38 patients with bortezomib-associated PN, resolution or improvement occurred in 20 patients (53%) at a median of 3 months (range, 1-8 months). In multivariate analysis, the total number of cycles of bortezomib (< 4 cycles or > 4 cycles; P = .03; odds ratio [OR], 2.6; 95% CI, 1.1-6.1) and a previous history of thalidomide therapy (P = .02; OR, 3.9; 95% CI, 1.2-12.6) were significantly associated with an increased incidence of bortezomib-associated PN.
We conclude that, though relatively frequent, bortezomib-associated PN is reversible in a majority of patients. However, bortezomib-associated PN seems to be dependent on previous therapy with thalidomide, suggesting that bortezomib followed by thalidomide could be an optimal sequence of administration of these drugs in the salvage setting.
The chronic i.c.v. infusion of morphine has been reported for rats but not for mice. In the current report, the antinociceptive tolerance to both i.c.v. morphine infusion and s.c. implantation of morphine pellets in mice was compared. Physical dependence after i.c.v. morphine infusion was also evaluated. Osmotic minipumps were filled with morphine (50 mM), connected to i.c.v. cannulae, and implanted s.c. to deliver 50 nmol/h for 3 days (i.e., 3.6 micromol total). Robust jumping precipitated by naloxone (1 mg/kg, s.c.) indicated the development of physical dependence. Tolerance to i.c.v., i.t., and i.v. morphine (6.3-, 2.0-, and 4.4-fold, respectively) was observed using the tail flick test. Mice implanted with pellets containing 75 mg morphine for 3 days (i.e., approximately 260 micromol total) were also tolerant to morphine (6.5-, 7.5- and 18-fold, respectively). Thus, the tolerance developed using the two methods was not identical. These results allow comparison of morphine tested by 3 different routes (i.c.v., i.t., and i.v.) after chronic morphine treatment by two routes (i.c.v. and s.c.) in a single study.
The role of macrophage (Kupffer cell) stimulation and suppression in the development of a toxic liver damage was studied in rats with acute hepatitis induced by paracetamol (acetaminophen, 1000 mg/kg). Pretreatment with carboxymethylated (1-->3)-beta-D-glucan (25 mg/kg, i.p., 48 h before paracetamol) for the macrophage stimulation or with gadolinium chloride (GdCl3, 7.5 mg/kg, i.v., 24 h before paracetamol) for the macrophage suppression has a protective effect manifested by normalization of the liver function test parameters and by a decrease in the degree of morphological changes in the liver cells. A relation between these positive effects and the TNF-alpha secretion by macrophages is discussed.
Nocturnal hypertension is associated with a high risk of morbidity and mortality. A blunted nocturnal surge in melatonin excretion has been described in nondipping hypertensive patients. We therefore studied the potency of melatonin to reduce nighttime blood pressure (BP) in treated hypertensive patients with nocturnal hypertension.
Thirty-eight treated hypertensive patients (22 males, mean age 64+/-11 years) with confirmed nocturnal hypertension (mean nighttime systolic BP >125 mm Hg), according to repeated 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM), were randomized in a double-blind fashion to receive either controlled release (CR)-melatonin 2 mg or placebo 2 hours before bedtime for 4 weeks. A 24-hour ABPM was then performed.
Melatonin treatment reduced nocturnal systolic BP significantly from 136+/-9 to 130+/-10 mm Hg (P=.011), and diastolic BP from 72+/-11 to 69+/-9 mm Hg (P=.002), whereas placebo had no effect on nocturnal BP. The reduction in nocturnal systolic BP was significantly greater with melatonin than with placebo (P=.01), and was most prominent between 2:00 AM and 5:00 AM (P=.002).
Evening CR-melatonin 2 mg treatment for 4 weeks significantly reduced nocturnal systolic BP in patients with nocturnal hypertension. Thus, an addition of melatonin 2 mg at night to stable antihypertensive treatment may improve nocturnal BP control in treated patients with nocturnal hypertension.
Pancreatic cancer is the fourth leading cause of cancer death in men and women. Smoking is a documented risk factor for pancreatic cancer, and the risk is increased in smokers who also consume alcohol. Arachidonic acid (AA)-metabolizing enzymes have been implicated in aggressive clinical behavior of pancreatic cancer while mutations in the Ki- ras gene have been associated with prolonged survival and responsiveness to therapy. Using a hamster model of exocrine pancreatic cancer induced by transplacental exposure to ethanol and the tobacco-carcinogen NNK, we have analyzed these tumors for mutations in the ras and p53 genes and tested the modulating effects of the COX inhibitor, ibuprofen, and the FLAP inhibitor, MK886, on the development of pancreatic cancer in this animal model.
Hamsters were given 10% ethanol in the drinking water from the fifth to the last day of their pregnancy and a single dose of NNK on the last day. Starting at 4 weeks of age, groups of offspring were given either the COX inhibitor ibuprofen (infant Motrin oral suspension) or the FLAP-inhibitor MK886 (dissolved in carboxymethylcellulose orally) for life while a group of offspring not receiving any treatment served as positive controls.
None of the induced pancreatic cancers demonstrated mutations in the Ki-, N-, or H- ras or p53 genes. The development of pancreatic cancer in offspring who had been given ibuprofen or MK886 was reduced by 50% or 30%, respectively.
In conjunction with the documented over-expression of COX-2 and LOX in human pancreatic cancer, our findings suggest an important role of the AA-cascade in the genesis of this cancer type and indicate that pharmacological or dietary measures that reduce AA-metabolism may be useful for the prevention and clinical management of pancreatic cancer.
The inbred BD rat strains constitute a model system for analysis of the genetic basis of susceptibility or resistance to the development of neural tumors, as they exhibit distinct strain-specific differences regarding the sensitivity to tumor induction by the alkylating carcinogen N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (EtNU). Among the different BD strains, BDIX and BDIV rats, respectively, are either highly susceptible or entirely resistant to the development of EtNU-induced malignant schwannomas of the peripheral nervous system (PNS), predominantly of the trigeminal nerves. We have previously mapped one locus associated with susceptibility/resistance to schwannoma induction to the telomeric third of chromosome 10 (Mss1) in segregating (BDIX x BDIV) crosses. We report on the genetic mapping of 6 further loci controlling tumor incidence or survival time on chromosomes 1 (Mss2), 3 (Mss3), 6 (Mss4), 13 (Mss5) and 15 (Mss6) as well as on chromosome 10 (Mss7) close to the centromere. Interestingly, most of these loci mediate gender-specific effects of variable strength ranging from minor influences on tumor development to complete tumor resistance. The gender specificity is reflected by the fact that male (BDIX x BDIV) F2 rats exhibit a 2-fold higher incidence of EtNU-induced schwannomas than females as well as a shorter survival time. A number of human nervous system tumors too arise with a marked gender bias. Genes mediating gender-specific predisposition of developing malignant schwannomas in the rat may be relevant for the human individual risk of developing nervous system tumors.
A 39-year-old man with schizoaffective disorder experienced somnambulism only when taking a combination of lithium carbonate, chlorpromazine, triazolam, and benztropine. This was confirmed in the sleep laboratory. The sleepwalking occurred during Stage 2 sleep; the sleep record showed a marked paucity of REM sleep. The patient's brother had had one episode of somnambulism, also following exposure to a substance affecting the CNS. A role for CNS-active medications in triggering some pathologic sleep phenomena in predisposed individuals is hypothesized. Medications with central anticholinergic activity may be particularly important.
Transdermal drug delivery systems have been available in the United States for >20 years. Since the introduction of the first transdermal patch (scopolamine) for the treatment of motion sickness, >35 transdermal patch products have been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for a variety of indications that include hormone replacement therapy, nicotine replacement therapy, chronic pain (fentanyl), angina (nitroglycerin), hypertension (clonidine), and more recently, overactive bladder (oxybutynin), and contraception (ethinyl estradiol/norelgestromin). Clinical data demonstrated the efficacy and safety of the contraceptive patch; however, concerns regarding estrogen levels and reports of venous thromboembolism led to the development of 2 epidemiologic studies and, subsequently, revised product labeling. Despite this, the contraceptive patch may be an appropriate option for some patients.
Hereditary hemochromatosis type I is an autosomal-recessive iron overload disease associated with a mutation in HFE gene. The most common mutation, C282Y, disrupts the disulfide bond necessary for the association of HFE with beta-2-microglobulin and abrogates cell surface HFE expression. HFE-deficient mice develop iron overload indicating a central role of the protein in the pathogenesis of hereditary hemochromatosis type I. However, despite significant effort, the role of the HFE protein in iron metabolism is still unknown. To shed a light on the molecular mechanism of HFE-related hemochromatosis we studied protein expression changes elicited by HFE-deficiency in the liver which is the organ critical for the regulation of iron metabolism. We undertook a proteomic study comparing protein expression in the liver of HFE deficient mice with control animals. We compared HFE-deficient animals with control animals with identical iron levels obtained by dietary treatment to identify changes specific to HFE deficiency rather than iron loading. We found 11 proteins that were differentially expressed in the HFE-deficient liver using two-dimensional electrophoresis and mass spectrometry identification. Of particular interest were urinary proteins 1, 2 and 6, glutathione-S-transferase P1, selenium binding protein 2, sarcosine dehydrogenase and thioredoxin-like protein 2. Our data suggest possible involvement of lipocalins, TNF-alpha signaling and PPAR alpha regulatory pathway in the pathogenesis of hereditary hemochromatosis and suggest future targeted research addressing the roles of the identified candidate genes in the molecular mechanism of hereditary hemochromatosis.
This study was conducted in support of the International Life Sciences Institute (ILSI) alternative carcinogenicity models initiative to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of clofibrate, a nongenotoxic peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) alpha agonist, following oral administration to neonatal mice. Male and female neonatal CD-1 mice were dosed with clofibrate at doses of 100, 250, and 500 mg/kg or with the positive control, diethylnitrosamine (DEN), at 2 mg/kg by oral gavage on days 9 and 16 post birth and observed for approximately 1 year for the development of tumors. Plasma levels of clofibric acid after the second administration increased with dose, but were not dose proportional. Clofibrate administered by gavage on litter days 9 and 16 to neonatal mice at doses of 100, 250, or 500 mg/kg did not produce a carcinogenic effect. The positive control DEN did produce tumors in the liver and lung (single and multiple adenomas and carcinomas) and harderian gland (adenoma) of both sexes. Non-neoplastic lesions related to DEN treatment were confined to myocardial degeneration/fibrosis and testicular interstitial hyperplasia in males, and to glomerulonephrosis and gastritis in both sexes.
This is the first case of a 65 year old healthy woman developing de novo mental confusion during treatment with 2 mg tolterodine twice daily. It is a rare complication of therapy for overactive bladder and resolved when dosage was reduced to 1 mg, although overactive bladder symptoms were still controlled.
Studies conducted under the auspices of International Life Sciences Institute (ILSI) have suggested that an alternative mouse carcinogenicity study may be substituted for the traditional 2-year mouse bioassay typically conducted to support the development of drug candidates. The purpose of this study was to characterize the carcinogenic potential of N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU), a DNA alkylating agent, in p53+/- knockout mice to determine its suitability as a positive control agent in an alternative carcinogenicity model. p53+/- knockout mice were administered a single oral dose of 90 mg/kg and maintained for up to 13 weeks prior to evaluation of neoplasms. Treatment was generally well tolerated; however, 4 of 30 mice died between the days of 75 and 92 due to neoplasms. MNU-related macroscopic observations included enlargement of the thymus, spleen, mandibular and mesenteric lymph nodes; and pale liver, heart, kidney, and bone marrow, which correlated with the diagnosis of lymphoma of the hematopoietic system, noted in the thymus of all affected animals and in the spleen, liver, lungs, and kidneys of some animals. Other treatment-related single neoplasms included a squamous-cell carcinoma in the nonglandular stomach and leiomyosarcoma in the glandular stomach. Non-neoplastic proliferative lesions included acanthosis and hyperkeratosis in the nonglandular stomach, focal papillary hyperplasia of the nonglandular stomach, glandular hyperplasia of the stomach, and adenomatous hyperplasia of the duodenum or ileum. The increased incidence of neoplastic and proliferative changes in MNU-treated mice suggests MNU could serve as a positive control in alternative carcinogenicity studies conducted in p53+/- knockout mice.
The authors investigated by echocardiography changes of left ventricular function in 79 patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma or Hodgkin's disease who were treated by chemotherapy containing doxorubicin. In 22% patients they diagnosed during treatment a significant gradual decline of the left ventricular ejection fraction (change > 10% or a drop of EF below 50%) after a cumulative dose of 185 +/- 52 mg/m2 doxorubicin (median 200 mg/m2). Changes of the ejection fraction were at the expense of an increasing endsystolic left ventricular volume. These changes correlated closely with the increase of endsystolic stress of the left ventricular wall (r = -0.87). After administration of a cumulative doxorubicin dose of 100 mg/m2 a significant deterioration of indicators of diastolic filling of the left ventricle occurred--of the isovolumic relaxation period (IRP) and deceleration time (DT). The contribution of these early changes of diastolic function of the left ventricle for assessment of the risk of development of systolic dysfunction is not unequivocal. Prolongation of IRP > 12% as compared with the baseline value and at the same time above 95 ms had a 50% sensitivity, 50% specificity, a 26% positive prediction value a 74% negative prediction value and 50% diagnostic accuracy, change of DT > 13%, and at the same time prolongation above 200 ms had a 47% sensitivity 55% specificity, a 22% positive prediction value, a 78% negative prediction value and a 53% diagnostic accuracy. The authors found a significant relationship between the assessed changes of left ventricular function and clinical and haemodynamic indicators. Only the patients' age correlated significantly with IRP and DT values. Changes of the left ventricular ejection fraction were not associated with clinical signs of cardiac failure, they did not call for cardiological intervention and did not affect the course of chemotherapy. Contrary to some statements in the literature, the authors did not consider the described functional changes as sufficient to justify interference with chemotherapy. On the other hand, their importance for the development of late sequelae of chemotherapy with anthracyclines in adult patients must be based on long-term prospective follow-up.
The effects of beta-blockade in addition to more specific renin-angiotensin system (RAS) blockers on blood pressure (BP) in patients with diabetes are described. After washout of medications other than angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers, patients were titrated to a BP level <130/80 mm Hg using therapy with carvedilol 6.25 to 25 mg bid (n=498) or metoprolol tartrate 50 to 200 mg bid (n=737). At the end of the beta-blocker titration period, a BP level <130/80 mm Hg was achieved in 37% of carvedilol-treated and 36% of metoprolol-treated participants who continued to receive a renin-angiotensin system blocker. In the approximately 60% of participants in whom a BP level <130/80 mm Hg was not attained with renin-angiotensin system blockade plus beta-blockade, hydrochlorothiazide was added in 43% and 44% of carvedilol and metoprolol groups, respectively; 25% (both arms) also required a calcium channel blocker. Among those in whom goal BP was not achieved, 42% of carvedilol- and 40% of metoprolol-treated participants were not titrated to the highest dose of beta-blocker. The use of carvedilol compared with metoprolol did not effect glycemic control.
Epidemiological evidences indicated that substance abuse disorders are increasingly prevalent among Nigerians. The psychosocial deleterious effects of these drugs appear well recognised, but their medical consequences are less often considered in the region. The potential for these drugs to precipitate life threatening cardiac and brain event needs to be reemphasised. We report the clinical and laboratory findings in 4 Nigerians in whom non-intravenous use (recreational and ritualistic) of cocaine was temporally related to acute myocardial ischaemia, cardiac dysarrhythmias, convulsion and cerebrovascular accident. These findings suggest that the observations--that underlying heart disorders were not sinequanon for the cardiotoxic effects of cocaine; the brain and cardiac consequences were not restricted to parenteral use of the drug; the development of seizures were not prerequisite for cerebrovascular accident and vice versa; and that massive doses of the drug needed not be ingested to produce toxic effects on the heart and brain--may also apply in these Nigerian patients. Perhaps with the increase in user population, it is timely to embark on public enlightenment on the medical dangers of cocaine abuse, as these are no less important than the psychosocial consequences.
