Although in both human and experimental pathology ras mutations have been related to the origin and progression of follicular-cell tumours, reports differ considerably with respect to the frequency of such mutations. The present paper reports, using direct sequencing, the incidence of Ki-ras mutations (codons 12 and 13) in follicular-cell carcinomas of the thyroid gland in Wistar rats induced by administration of radioactive iodine and potassium perchlorate. Direct sequencing revealed no mutations in the amplified gene segment of any of the 72 carcinoma samples studied. This absence of mutations agrees with some and is in sharp contrast with other previous reports in the literature, both for experimental animals and in studies of human thyroid follicular-cell carcinoma. Our results suggest that Ki-ras activation via mutations at codons 12 and 13 is neither a constant event nor an early event in the development of rat thyroid follicular-cell carcinoma.
Histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors are promising new compounds for the therapy of fibrotic diseases. In this study we compared the effect of two HDAC inhibitors, trichostatin A and valproic acid, in an experimental model of kidney fibrosis. In mice, doxorubicin (adriamycin) can cause nephropathy characterized by chronic proteinuria, glomerular damage and interstitial inflammation and fibrosis, as seen in human focal segmental glomerulosclerosis. Two treatment regimens were applied, treatment was either started prior to the doxorubicin insult or delayed until a significant degree of proteinuria and fibrosis was present. Pre-treatment of trichostatin A significantly hampered glomerulosclerosis and tubulointerstitial fibrosis, as did the pre-treatment with valproic acid. In contrast, the development of proteinuria was only completely inhibited in the pre-treated valproic acid group, and not in the pre-treated trichostatin A animals. In the postponed treatment with valproic acid, a complete resolution of established doxorubicin-induced proteinuria was achieved within three days, whereas trichostatin A could not correct proteinuria in such a treatment regimen. However, both postponed regimens have comparable efficacy in maintaining the kidney fibrosis to the level reached at the start of the treatments. Moreover, not only the process of fibrosis, but also renal inflammation was attenuated by both HDAC inhibitors. Our data confirm a role for HDACs in renal fibrogenesis and point towards a therapeutic potential for HDAC inhibitors. The effect on renal disease progression and manifestation can however be different for individual HDAC inhibitors.
Although mangiferin which is a naturally occurring glucosylxanthone has exhibited promising anticancer activities, the detailed molecular mechanism of mangiferin on cancers still remains enigmatic. In this study, the anticancer activity of mangiferin was evaluated in breast cancer cell line-based in vitro and in vivo models. We showed that mangiferin treatment resulted in decreased cell viability and suppression of metastatic potential in breast cancer cells. Further mechanistic investigation revealed that mangiferin induced decreased matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-7 and -9, and reversal of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Moreover, it was demonstrated that mangiferin significantly inhibited the activation of β-catenin pathway. Subsequent experiments showed that inhibiting β-catenin pathway might play a central role in mangiferin-induced anticancer activity through modulation of MMP-7 and -9, and EMT. Consistent with these findings in vitro, the antitumor potential was also verified in mangiferin-treated MDA-MB-231 xenograft mice where significantly decreased tumor volume, weight and proliferation, and increased apoptosis were obtained, with lower expression of MMP-7 and -9, vimentin and active β-catenin, and higher expression of E-cadherin. Taken together, our study suggests that mangiferin might be used as an effective chemopreventive agent against breast cancer.
A report of eight cases with grand mal seizures secondary to accidental ingestion/exposure to benzahexachlorine has been presented. Persistant neurological signs and biochemical tests have been described. Seizures affected even the domestic animals like cows and buffaloes. Discussion of various clinical syndromes, treatment of organochlorine pesticide and their persistence in human body for years after removal from source of exposure is emphasized. Preventive measures are recommended. the authors are not aware of any similar reports from this part of the country.
In the past cardiotoxicity has been increasingly reported as 5-fluorouracil is widely used as well in curative adjuvant as in palliative chemotherapy of malignant neoplasms.
We report on two cases of 5-fluorouracil-associated cardiotoxicity on palliative treatment of head and neck cancer and evaluate the importance of intensive drug monitoring.
5-fluorouracil-associated cardiotoxicity occurs with an incidence of 1.1-4.5%. Ischaemic cardiopathy due to vasospasms is believed to be the most common manifestation.
Since most patients with head and neck cancer have risk factors for cardiovascular disease, 5-fluorouracil-associated cardiotoxicity should not be underestimated and patients should be monitored carefully.
Splice site mutations in the COL1A2 gene of type I collagen can give rise to forms of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS) because of partial or complete skipping of exon 6, as well as to mild, moderate, or lethal forms of osteogenesis imperfecta as a consequence of skipping of other exons. We identified three unrelated individuals with a rare recessively inherited form of EDS (characterized by joint hypermobility, skin hyperextensibility, and cardiac valvular defects); in two of them, COL1A2 messenger RNA (mRNA) instability results from compound heterozygosity for splice site mutations in the COL1A2 gene, and, in the third, it results from homozygosity for a nonsense codon. The splice site mutations led to use of cryptic splice donor sites, creation of a downstream premature termination codon, and extremely unstable mRNA. In the wild-type allele, the two introns (IVS11 and IVS24) in which these mutations occurred were usually spliced slowly in relation to their respective immediate upstream introns. In the mutant alleles, the upstream intron was removed, so that exon skipping could not occur. In the context of the mutation in IVS24, computer-generated folding of a short stretch of mRNA surrounding the mutation site demonstrated realignment of the relationships between the donor and acceptor sites that could facilitate use of a cryptic donor site. These findings suggest that the order of intron removal is an important variable in prediction of mutation outcome at splice sites and that folding of the nascent mRNA could be one element that contributes to determination of order of splicing. The complete absence of pro alpha 2(I) chains has the surprising effect of producing cardiac valvular disease without bone involvement.
The plant alkaloid ibogaine has promising anti-addictive properties. Albeit not licensed as a therapeutic drug, and despite hints that ibogaine may perturb the heart rhythm, this alkaloid is used to treat drug addicts. We have recently reported that ibogaine inhibits human ERG (hERG) potassium channels at concentrations similar to the drugs affinity for several of its known brain targets. Thereby the drug may disturb the heart's electrophysiology. Here, to assess the drug's cardiac ion channel profile in more detail, we studied the effects of ibogaine and its congener 18-Methoxycoronaridine (18-MC) on various cardiac voltage-gated ion channels. We confirmed that heterologously expressed hERG currents are reduced by ibogaine in low micromolar concentrations. Moreover, at higher concentrations, the drug also reduced human Nav1.5 sodium and Cav1.2 calcium currents. Ion currents were as well reduced by 18-MC, yet with diminished potency. Unexpectedly, although blocking hERG channels, ibogaine did not prolong the action potential (AP) in guinea pig cardiomyocytes at low micromolar concentrations. Higher concentrations (≥ 10 μM) even shortened the AP. These findings can be explained by the drug's calcium channel inhibition, which counteracts the AP-prolonging effect generated by hERG blockade. Implementation of ibogaine's inhibitory effects on human ion channels in a computer model of a ventricular cardiomyocyte, on the other hand, suggested that ibogaine does prolong the AP in the human heart. We conclude that therapeutic concentrations of ibogaine have the propensity to prolong the QT interval of the electrocardiogram in humans. In some cases this may lead to cardiac arrhythmias.
The psychomotor, sedative and memory effects of a sedative, anticholinergic antidepressant (amitriptyline), a sedative antidepressant (trazodone) and placebo were compared in a double-blind, cross-over study with 12 healthy volunteers. Amitriptyline (37.5 mg) and trazodone (100 mg) were administered for the first 7 days of treatment and in double-dosage for the next 7 days of treatment. Subjects completed a battery of tests before and 2 h after drug administration on days 1, 8 and 14. Over the 2 weeks of treatment, there was no accumulation of effects but subjects experienced marked sedation and psychomotor impairments following a daily dose of both active drugs. Although both amitriptyline and trazodone produced impairments on memory tasks, the effect of amitriptyline was significantly greater and may reflect its anticholinergic action over and above global sedative effects. Tolerance to the effects of amitriptyline built up differentially over measures of sedation, psychomotor function and memory.
Systematic analysis of clinical features and gene mutations has not been performed in Korean patients with early-onset Parkinson disease (PD).
To investigate the clinical characteristics and genetic background of Korean patients with early-onset PD.
Clinical and genetic study.
University hospital.
Ninety-four patients with early-onset PD (mean +/- SD age at onset, 39.8 +/- 7.3 years) of 1100 patients with PD.
Analysis of clinical characteristics and mutation analysis of the parkin and PTEN-induced kinase (PINK1) genes by direct sequencing and gene-dosage analysis using the multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification technique.
The correlation between age at onset and clinical characteristics and the clinical features of patients with onset before age 30 years vs patients with onset after age 30 years.
Because age at onset was younger, levodopa-induced dyskinesia and off-dystonia were more frequently observed (P=.008). Patients affected before age 30 years showed more frequent levodopa-induced dyskinesia and off-dystonia (P=.002). We identified 3 patients (5%) with parkin gene mutations but none with the PINK1 mutation.
Earlier onset of levodopa-induced dyskinesia and off-dystonia were characteristic features of early-onset PD, especially before an onset age of 30 years. However, parkin gene mutations were less frequent in these patients than in Japanese groups reported elsewhere.
The effect of month-long naltrexone (NTX) treatment at a daily oral dose of 0.5 mg/kg/day was contrasted with placebo (PLC) in a double-blind study with conjoint clinical and biochemical evaluations of therapeutic effects. Modest clinical benefits were achieved with both PLC and NTX, with marginally better overall results following NTX, and degree of improvement appeared to be related to plasma chemical profiles. Massively elevated levels of beta-endorphin were observed in all children with assays using C-terminal antibody but not with an N-terminal antibody assay. In addition, 70% of the children exhibited abnormally low levels of adrenocorticotropic hormone, and smaller subsets exhibited elevated norepinephrine (60%), arginine-vasopressin (50%), and serotonin (20%). The best clinical responders exhibited the clearest normalization of the elevated plasma chemistries, especially in C-terminal-beta-endorphin and serotonin. There was some evidence of therapeutic carry-over effects in both clinical and biochemical measures in those children who received NTX before PLC. The results suggest that NTX only benefits a subgroup of autistic children, who may be identified by the presence of certain plasma abnormalities. These results suggest a possible linkage between abnormal plasma chemistries, especially those related to the pro-opiomelanocortin system, and autistic symptoms.
Stereoisomers of 1-amino-2-phosphonomethylcyclopropanecarboxylic acid (APCPr), conformationally restricted analogues of L-AP4 (2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid), have been prepared and evaluated at recombinant group III metabotropic glutamate receptors. They activate these receptors over a broad range of potencies. The most potent isomer (1S,2R)-APCPr displays a similar pharmacological profile as that of L-AP4 (EC50 0.72, 1.95, >500, 0.34 microM at mGlu4, 6, 7, 8 receptors, respectively, and no effect at group I/II mGluRs). It was characterized on native receptors located in the basal ganglia (BG) where it induced a robust and reversible inhibition of synaptic transmission. It was tested in vivo in haloperidol-induced catalepsy, a model of Parkinsonian akinesia, by direct infusion in the globus pallidus of the BG. At a dose of 0.5 nmol/microL, catalepsy was significantly antagonized. This study reveals that (1S,2R)-APCPr is a potent group III mGluR agonist and confirms that these receptors may be considered as a therapeutic target in the Parkinson's disease.
The biotransformation and oxidative stress may contribute to 1,2:3,4-diepoxybutane (DEB)-induced toxicity to human lymphocytes of Fanconi Anemia (FA) patients. Thus, the identification of putative inhibitors of bioactivation, as well as the determination of the protective role of oxidant defenses, on DEB-induced toxicity, can help to understand what is failing in FA cells. In the present work we studied the contribution of several biochemical pathways for DEB-induced acute toxicity in human lymphocyte suspensions, by using inhibitors of epoxide hydrolases, inhibitors of protective enzymes as glutathione S-transferase and catalase, the depletion of glutathione (GSH), and the inhibition of protein synthesis; and a variety of putative protective compounds, including antioxidants, and mitochondrial protective agents. The present study reports two novel findings: (i) it was clearly evidenced, for the first time, that the acute exposure of freshly isolated human lymphocytes to DEB results in severe GSH depletion and loss of ATP, followed by cell death; (ii) acetyl-l-carnitine elicits a significant protective effect on DEB induced toxicity, which was potentiated by α-lipoic acid. Collectively, these findings contribute to increase our knowledge of DEB-induce toxicity and will be very useful when applied in studies with lymphocytes from FA patients, in order to find out a protective agent against spontaneous and DEB-induced chromosome instability.
Data are presented in this paper on the influence of the delta-sleep-inducing peptide (DSIP) on various forms of convulsive activity. The capacity of this peptide to suppress convulsive activity in foci created in the cerebral cortex by the application of strychnine has been demonstrated in experiments on cats. It has been established in experiments on rats that DSIP determines the later development of the convulsive kindling syndrome, and prevents the development of convulsions in mice induced by bicuculline, picrotoxin, and corazol, but is devoid of such action in relation to thiosemicarbazide and strychnine. It was demonstrated that the anticonvulsant action of DSIP is associated with its influence on the reticular portion of the substantia nigra. The lowest level of this peptide itself has been discovered, in the reticular portion of the substantia nigra at the late stages of pharmacological kindling. It is inferred that DSIP may represent one of the factors of the endogenous control of the excitability of the brain.
The behavioral and biochemical effects of the full dopamine D(1/5) receptor agonists, dihydrexidine and (1R,3S)-1-aminomethyl-5,6-dihydroxy-3-phenylisochroman HCl (A 68930), were examined in rats. Both A 68930 (0-4.6 mg kg(-1), s.c.) and dihydrexidine (0-8.0 mg kg(-1), s.c.) caused a dose-dependent suppression of locomotor activity, as assessed in an open-field. This locomotor suppression was dose-dependently antagonized by the selective dopamine D(1/5) receptor antagonist R(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine HCl (SCH 23390; 0-5.0 microg kg(-1), s.c.), but not by the selective dopamine D(2/3) receptor antagonist raclopride (0-25.0 microg kg(-1), s.c.). Furthermore, A 68930 and dihydrexidine did not cause any locomotor activity in habituated rats that displayed a very low base-line activity. Neither did A 68930 nor dihydrexidine produce any excessive stereotypies that could possibly interfere with and mask ambulatory activity. In fact, both A 68930 and dihydrexidine potently blocked hyperactivity produced by d-amphetamine (0-4.0 mg kg(-1), s.c.). Such findings traditionally would be interpreted as a sign of potential antipsychotic properties of A 68930 and dihydrexidine. Examination of neuronal activation, as indexed by the immediate early gene c-fos, showed that A 68930 and dihydrexidine caused a highly significant expression of c-fos in the medial prefrontal cortex. This c-fos expression was sensitive to treatment with SCH 23390, but not with raclopride. The effects of A 68930 and dihydrexidine on c-fos expression in caudate putamen or nucleus accumbens were less marked, or undetectable. The results indicate that stimulation of dopamine D(1/5) receptors, possibly in the medial prefrontal cortex, is associated with inhibitory actions on locomotor activity and d-amphetamine-induced hyperactivity. Assuming an important role of prefrontal dopamine D(1/5) receptors in schizophrenia, such inhibitory actions of dopamine D(1/5) receptor stimulation on psychomotor activation may have interesting clinical implications in the treatment of schizophrenia.
ACTH therapy induces transient behaviour disturbances (irritability, restlessness or drowsiness and apathy), parallel to the EEG. changes. These behaviour abnormalities have a positive relationship with cortisolemic levels and clinical results. A clear relationship between ACTH therapy and pseudoatrophic CT findings can be observed.
Small molecules that bind with high affinity to thyroxine (T4) binding sites on transthyretin (TTR) kinetically stabilize the protein's tetrameric structure, thereby efficiently decreasing the rate of tetramer dissociation in TTR related amyloidoses. Current research efforts aim to optimize the amyloid inhibiting properties of known inhibitors, such as derivatives of biphenyls, dibenzofurans and benzooxazoles, by chemical modification. In order to test the hypothesis that sulfate group substituents can improve the efficiencies of such inhibitors, we evaluated the potential of six polychlorinated biphenyl sulfates to inhibit TTR amyloid fibril formation in vitro. In addition, we determined their binding orientations and molecular interactions within the T4 binding site by molecular docking simulations. Utilizing this combined experimental and computational approach, we demonstrated that sulfation significantly improves the amyloid inhibiting properties as compared to both parent and hydroxylated PCBs. Importantly, several PCB sulfates were of equal or higher potency than some of the most effective previously described inhibitors.
Minimal change nephrotic syndrome has been proposed to be a disorder of T cell dysfunction. It is hypothesized that a circulating factor(s) from activated T cells might alter glomerular permeability to protein. Some studies have provided evidence that up-regulation of interleukin-2 may be involved, not only in the pathophysiology of minimal change nephrotic syndrome, but also in steroid resistance. Basiliximab, an anti-interleukin-2 receptor antibody, is indicated for the prophylaxis of acute organ rejection in adults and children with kidney transplants. Clinical trials have shown that basiliximab is effective and well tolerated. We describe here a pediatric patient who continuously had massive proteinuria and hypoalbuminemia for 5 years, despite pulse therapy with methylprednisolone and cyclophosphamide and prolonged oral treatment with cyclosporine and mizoribine. He had experienced several disease- and treatment-associated complications, such as bacterial infections, indirect inguinal hernias, and cataracts. After he had been given a single dose of basiliximab, he achieved complete remission of proteinuria and then discontinued all immunosuppressant treatment.
The present study evaluated the possible role of alpha-adrenergic receptors of the dorsal hippocampus on scopolamine-induced amnesia and scopolamine state-dependent memory in adult male Wistar rats. The animals were bilaterally implanted with chronic cannulae in the CA1 regions of the dorsal hippocampus, trained in a step-through type inhibitory avoidance task, and tested 24h after training to measure step-through latency. Results indicate that post-training or pre-test intra-CA1 administration of scopolamine (1 and 2 microg/rat) dose-dependently reduced the step-through latency, showing an amnestic response. Amnesia produced by post-training scopolamine (2 microg/rat) was reversed by pre-test administration of the scopolamine that is due to a state-dependent effect. Interestingly, pre-test intra-CA1 microinjection of alpha1-adrenergic agonist, phenylephrine (1 and 2 microg/rat) or alpha2-adrenergic agonist, clonidine improved post-training scopolamine (2 microg/rat)-induced retrieval impairment. Furthermore, pre-test intra-CA1 microinjection of phenylephrine (0.25, 0.5 and 1 microg/rat) or clonidine (0.25, 0.5 and 1 microg/rat) with an ineffective dose of scopolamine (0.25 microg/rat), synergistically improved memory performance impaired by post-training scopolamine. On the other hand, pre-test injection of alpha1-receptors antagonist prazosin (1 and 2 microg/rat) or alpha2-receptors antagonist yohimbine (1 and 2 microg/rat) prevented the restoration of memory by pre-test scopolamine. It is important to note that pre-test intra-CA1 administration of the same doses of prazosin or yohimbine, alone did not affect memory retrieval. These results suggest that alpha1- and alpha2-adrenergic receptors of the dorsal hippocampal CA1 regions may play an important role in scopolamine-induced amnesia and scopolamine state-dependent memory.
Hb-M is a very rare hemoglobinopathy in the Indian subcontinent. We report a family with Hb-M with lifelong cyanosis from the Ratnagiri district in western India. The propositus was a 11-year-old female child with a history of increasing cyanosis exacerbated by fever and weakness. Similar complaints were also noted in her mother and five maternal family members. There was no history of cardiac illness or exposure to drugs and chemicals. The methemoglobin level was 39.3% in the propositus and 21.1% in her mother with normal NADH-methemoglobin reductase activity. Abnormal absorption peaks by spectroscopic analysis, presence of hemoglobin instability, and a slow-moving band on starch gel electrophoresis supported the presence of Hb-M. Automated DNA sequence analysis of the beta globin gene showed a C-->T substitution at codon 63. This leads to a substitution of histidine (CAT) by tyrosine (TAT) at the beta 63 (E7) position, similar to Hb-M Saskatoon. We have named this variant as Hb-M(Ratnagiri).
Previous meta-analysis suggested that transdermal fentanyl was not inferior to sustained-release oral morphine in treating moderate-severe cancer pain with less adverse effects. Now, we updated the data and performed a systematic review.
Updated cohort studies on transdermal fentanyl and oral morphine in the treatment of cancer pain were searched in electronic databases including CBMdisc, CNKI, VIP, Medline, EMBASE and Cochrane Library. Primary end points assessed by meta-analysis were remission rate of pain and incidence of adverse effects. Quality of life was assessed by systematic review, which was the second end point.
32 cohort studies, which included 2651 patients, were included in present study. The remission rate in transdermal fentanyl group and sustained-release oral morphine group were 86.60% and 88.31% respectively, there was no significant difference [RR = 1.13, 95% CI (0.92, 1.38), P = 0.23]. Compared with oral morphine group, there were less adverse effects in terms of constipation [RR = 0.35, 95% CI (0.27, 0.45), P < 0.00001], nausea/vomiting [RR = 0.57, 95% CI (0.49, 0.67), P < 0.00001], and vertigo/somnolence [RR = 0.59, 95% CI (0.51, 0.68), P < 0.00001] in transdermal fentanyl group. Six of selected trials supported either transdermal fentanyl or sustained-release oral morphine improved QOL of cancer patients and one of them showed more patients got better QOL after sustained-release oral morphine transferred to transdermal fentanyl.
Our study showed again that both transdermal fentanyl and oral morphine had the same efficacy in the treatment of moderate-severe cancer pain in Chinese population, but the former might have less adverse effects and better quality of life.
Fluoxetine (Prozac) is a widely prescribed drug in adults and children, and it has an active metabolite, norfluoxetine, with a prolonged elimination time. Although uncommon, Prozac causes QT interval prolongation and arrhythmias; a patient who took an overdose of Prozac exhibited a prolonged QT interval (QTc 625 msec). We looked for possible mechanisms underlying this clinical finding by analysing the effects of fluoxetine and norfluoxetine on ion channels in vitro.
We studied the effects of fluoxetine and norfluoxetine on the electrophysiology and cellular trafficking of hERG K+ and SCN5A Na+ channels heterologously expressed in HEK293 cells.
Voltage clamp analyses employing square pulse or ventricular action potential waveform protocols showed that fluoxetine and norfluoxetine caused direct, concentration-dependent, block of hERG current (IhERG). Biochemical studies showed that both compounds also caused concentration-dependent reductions in the trafficking of hERG channel protein into the cell surface membrane. Fluoxetine had no effect on SCN5A channel or HEK293 cell endogenous current. Mutations in the hERG channel drug binding domain reduced fluoxetine block of IhERG but did not alter fluoxetine's effect on hERG channel protein trafficking.
Our findings show that both fluoxetine and norfluoxetine at similar concentrations selectively reduce IhERG by two mechanisms, (1) direct channel block, and (2) indirectly by disrupting channel protein trafficking. These two effects are not mediated by a single drug binding site. Our findings add complexity to understanding the mechanisms that cause drug-induced long QT syndrome.
The effects of delivering GDNF via an adenoviral vector (AdGDNF) 1 week after lesioning dopaminergic neurons in the rat substantia nigra (SN) with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) were examined. Rats were unilaterally lesioned by injection of 6-OHDA into the striatum, resulting in progressive degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the SN. One week later, when substantial damage had already occurred, AdGDNF or a control vector harboring beta-galactosidase (AdLacZ) was injected into either the striatum or SN (3.2 x 10(7) PFU/microl in 2 microl). Rats were examined behaviorally with the amphetamine-induced rotation test and for forelimb use for weight-bearing movements. On day 30 postlesion, the extent of nigrostriatal tract degeneration was determined by injecting a retrograde tracer (FluoroGold) bilaterally into the lesioned striatum. Five days later, rats were sacrificed within 2 h of amphetamine injection to examine amphetamine-induced Fos expression in the striatum, a measure of dopaminergic-dependent function in target neurons. AdGDNF injection in the SN rescued dopaminergic neurons in the SN and increased the number of dopaminergic neurons that maintained a connection to the striatum, compared to rats injected with AdLacZ. Further support that these spared SN cells maintained functional connections to the striatum was evidenced by increased Fos expression in striatal target neurons and a decrease in amphetamine-induced rotation. In contrast to the effects observed in rats injected with AdGDNF in the SN, rats injected with AdGDNF in the striatum did not exhibit significant ameliorative effects. This study demonstrates that experimentally increasing levels of GDNF biosynthesis near the dopaminergic neuronal soma is effective in protecting the survival of these neurons and their function even when therapy is begun after 6-OHDA-induced degeneration has commenced. Thus, GDNF gene therapy may ameliorate the consequences of Parkinson's disease through rescuing compromised dopaminergic neurons.
The convulsant properties of xanthine amine congener (XAC, 8-(4-(2-aminoethyl)-aminocarboxylmethyloxy)phenyl-1,3-dipropylxant hine) are compared to those of caffeine. Male Swiss albino mice were infused with convulsants through a lateral tail vein. Convulsion thresholds (i.e. the amount of convulsants required to elicit convulsions) of 39.8 +/- 2.0 mg/kg (n = 10) and 109.8 +/- 2.3 mg/kg (n = 10) were calculated for XAC and caffeine respectively. Pretreatment of animals with the adenosine receptor agonists 2-chloroadenosine, N6-cyclohexyladenosine or 5'-N-ethylcarboxamido-adenosine (1 mg/kg, i.p., 20 minutes prior to infusion) significantly decreased the seizure threshold of both XAC and caffeine. The adenosine uptake blockers, 6-nitrobenzylthioinosine or dipyridamole (0.25 mg/kg, i.p., 20 minutes prior to infusion) did not significantly affect the seizure threshold to either XAC or caffeine. The benzodiazepine agonist diazepam (5 mg/kg, i.p., 20 minutes prior to infusion) significantly increased the seizure threshold to both XAC (p less than 0.05) and caffeine (p less than 0.01), whereas the benzodiazepine antagonist Ro 15-1788 (10 mg/kg, i.p., 20 minutes prior to infusion) significantly increased the seizure threshold to caffeine (p less than 0.01), but not XAC. The results suggest that actions at benzodiazepine receptors may be a tenable hypothesis to explain the convulsant actions of caffeine, but not those of XAC.
Ten children with newly diagnosed medulloblastoma/primitive neuroectodermal tumor of the posterior fossa were treated with total surgical resection, radiation therapy, and ICE chemotherapy regimen with ifosfamide (900 mg/m2, days 1-5), cisplatin (20 mg/m2, days 1-5), and etoposide (60 mg/m2, days 1-5) every 4 weeks for eight cycles. Four children under 2 years old were at first treated with eight cycles of ICE chemotherapy, and then irradiated. The ICE regimen was well tolerated by all children, with no irreversible adverse effects. However, dose reductions during the eight cycles were inevitable mainly due to myelosuppression. Complete remissions were achieved in eight of 10 patients at 1 month after completion of the treatment. One child showed recurrence 21 months after complete remission. The disease-free survival rate was 70% with a mean observation period of 24 months after surgery. The ICE regimen is a useful treatment modality for children with medulloblastoma. Further study is warranted to clarify long-term outcome in a number of patients.
It is difficult to assess the degree of optic nerve damage in patients with ethambutol-induced optic neuropathy, especially just after the onset of visual loss, when the optic disc typically looks normal.
To evaluate changes in retinal nerve fibre layer thickness (RNFLT) using optical coherence tomography (OCT) in patients with optic neuropathy within 3 months of cessation of ethambutol treatment.
A retrospective observational case series from a single neuro-ophthalmology practice.
8 patients with a history of ethambutol-induced optic neuropathy were examined within 3 months after stopping ethambutol treatment. All patients underwent a neuro-ophthalmologic examination, including visual acuity, colour vision, visual fields and funduscopy. OCT was performed on both eyes of each patient using the retinal nerve fibre layer analysis protocol.
The interval between cessation of ethambutol treatment and the initial visit ranged from 1 week to 3 months. All patients had visual deficits characteristic of ethambutol-induced optic neuropathy at their initial visit, and the follow-up examination was performed within 12 months. Compared with the initial RNFLT, there was a statistically significant decrease in the mean RNFLT of the temporal, superior and nasal quadrants (p = 0.009, 0.019 and 0.025, respectively), with the greatest decrease in the temporal quadrant (mean decrease 26.5 mum).
A decrease in RNFLT is observed in all quadrants in patients with ethambutol-induced optic neuropathy who have recently discontinued the medication. This decrease is most pronounced in the temporal quadrant of the optic disc.
It has been recently postulated from our laboratory that Arabic gum (AG) offers a protective effect in the kidney of rats against nephrotoxicity induced by gentamicin via inhibiting lipid peroxidation. It has also recently shown a powerful antioxidant effect through scavenging superoxide anions. In this study we utilized a rat model of cisplatin (CP)-induced nephrotoxicity to determine its peak time following (1, 2, 5, and 7 days) of a single CP (7.5 mg/kg, i.p.) injection. Also, a possible protective effect of cotreatment with AG (7.5 g/kg/day p.o.) on CP-induced nephrotoxicity was investigated. Biochemical as well as histological assessments were carried out. CP-induced nephrotoxicity was manifested by significant elevations of the functional parameters blood urea, serum creatinine, and kidney/body weight ratio. Maximum toxic effects of CP were observed 5 days after its injection, while it started after day 1 in the biochemical parameters, such as glutathione depletion in the kidney tissue with concomitant increases in lipid peroxides and platinum content. Additionally, severe necrosis and desquamation of tubular epithelial cells in renal cortex as well as interstitial nephritis were observed after 5 days in CP-treated animals. Five days after AG cotreatment with CP did not protect the kidney from the damaging effects of CP. However, it significantly reduced CP-induced lipid peroxidation. These findings suggest that lipid peroxidation is not the main cause of CP-induced nephrotoxicity but it is rather more dependent on other factors such as platinum disposition in renal interstitial tubules.
The effect of bumetanide, a new potent diuretic, was studied in twelve patients with severe chronic renal failure (GFR 2.7 - 10.7 ml/min). Bumetanide 8 mg i.v. caused increased excretion of water and sodium in all patients. In some patients sodium excretion was greater than 50% of filtered load indicating an effect on proximal tubules. Bumetanide 2 mg i.v. was significantly less effective than 8 mg and a greater diuretic effect was produced by bumetanide 16 mg. In a comparative study bumetanide 8 mg was less potent than furosemide 250 mg, a finding in contrast to the potency rate ratio of 1/40 in other conditions. Side effects consisted of mild to moderate muscle pain and stiffness, especially localized in the neck, shoulders and calves. These side effects occurred only in patients with a GFR less than 5.3 ml/min. They were noted in all patients receiving 16 mg and in 3 out of 12 patients who took bumetanide 8 mg. There was no relationship between the occurrence of side effects and plasma bumetanide levels, electrolyte levels or the renal excretion of bumetanide and electrolytes.
