To examine the safety profile and tolerability of losartan potassium (losartan), a selective antagonist of the angiotensin II type 1 (AT1) receptor.
Approximately 2000 hypertensive patients were treated in double-blind clinical trials with losartan, placebo or other antihypertensive drug classes.
Headache (14.1%), upper respiratory infection (6.5%), dizziness (4.1%), asthenia/fatigue (3.8%) and coughing (3.1%) were the most commonly reported clinical adverse experiences in patients treated with losartan. These adverse experiences were also commonly reported in patients treated with a placebo: 17.2, 5.6, 2.4, 3.9 and 2.6%, respectively. A dry cough was reported by 8.8% of patients treated with angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, statistically greater than that reported in patients treated with losartan and placebo, 3.1 and 2.6%, respectively (P < 0.001, losartan versus ACE inhibitors). Only dizziness was more often considered drug-related in losartan-treated patients (2.4%) than in patients who received placebo (1.3%). In controlled clinical trials, losartan was better tolerated than other antihypertensive agents as determined by the incidence of patients reporting any drug-related adverse experiences. The rate of withdrawal due to clinical adverse experiences in patients treated with losartan was 2.3% compared to 3.7% in patients treated with a placebo. No adverse laboratory results were unexpected or of clinical importance. First-dose hypotension occurred rarely with losartan, and withdrawal effects such as rebound hypertension were not observed in clinical trials. There were no clinically important differences in the clinical or laboratory safety profiles for the demographic subgroups of age, sex or race.
In controlled clinical trials losartan has demonstrated an excellent tolerability profile.
Pain on injection of propofol is unpleasant. We hypothesized that propofol infusion pain might be prevented by infusing remifentanil before starting the propofol infusion in a clinical setting where target-controlled infusions (TCI) of both drugs were used. A prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial was performed to determine the effect-site concentration (Ce) of remifentanil to prevent the pain without producing complications.
A total of 128 patients undergoing general surgery were randomly allocated to receive normal saline (control) or remifentanil to a target Ce of 2 ng ml(-1) (R2), 4 ng ml(-1) (R4), or 6 ng ml(-1) (R6) administered via TCI. After the target Ce was achieved, the infusion of propofol was started. Remifentanil-related complications were assessed during the remifentanil infusion, and pain caused by propofol was evaluated using a four-point scale during the propofol infusion.
The incidence of pain was significantly lower in Groups R4 and R6 than in the control and R2 groups (12/32 and 6/31 vs 26/31 and 25/32, respectively, P<0.001). Pain was less severe in Groups R4 and R6 than in the control and R2 groups (P<0.001). However, both incidence and severity of pain were not different between Groups R4 and R6. No significant complications were observed during the study.
During induction of anaesthesia with TCI of propofol and remifentanil, a significant reduction in propofol infusion pain was achieved without significant complications by prior administration of remifentanil at a target Ce of 4 ng ml(-1).
Bovine mastitis continues to be the most detrimental factor for profitable dairying. Recent research conducted within our laboratory has identified a genetic marker in the CXCR2 gene associated with mastitis susceptibility. The objective of the present study was to evaluate the migratory ability of neutrophils from cows with different CXCR2 +777 genotypes. Neutrophils isolated from peripheral blood of 30 Holstein cows were tested for in vitro migration and adhesion molecule expression. Cows with the CC or GC genotype at CXCR2 +777 showed significantly lower neutrophil migration to recombinant human interleukin-8 (rhIL-8) than cows with the GG genotype (P < 0.05). Cows with the CC genotype at CXCR2 +777 also showed decreased neutrophil migration to zymosan-activated serum compared to these same cows (P < 0.05). Decreased upregulation of CD18 expression was observed after stimulation with rhIL-8 in cows expressing the CXCR2 +777 CC genotype compared to cows expressing the GG genotype (P < 0.05). A similar trend was observed for CD11b (P < 0.10). However, no difference in CD62 downregulation was observed with respect to genotype. These results provide initial evidence for a phenotypic association between a single nucleotide polymorphism and neutrophil function in dairy cows, as well as potential insight into specific mechanisms affected in cows more susceptible to mastitis.
Cisplatin (CDDP) was combined with floxuridine (FUDR) and delivered into the hepatic arteries of 29 patients as induction therapy for colorectal cancer metastatic to the liver. Mitomycin C and FUDR combination was substituted after progression or when response had peaked. Chemotherapy was delivered with an Infusaid pump (Infusaid Corp; Norwood, Mass; 14 patients), Medtronic programmable drug administration device (Medtronic, Inc, Minneapolis; two patients), or percutaneously placed catheters (13 patients). Complete disappearance of liver metastases was observed in four patients and 11 additional patients had a partial remission as determined by computed tomography (CT) scan and substantiated at times by angiography, for a total response rate of 52%. Response as determined by imaging techniques coincided with a concurrent decrease in carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and improvement in performance status. The severity of tumor burden was correlated with the response to therapy and survival. Among those patients who responded to arterial chemotherapy, differences in disease severity did not significantly influence survival. Median survival among responders with greater than 25% liver replacement by tumor was 14 months (P = .28), compared with 28 months for those patients with less than 25% liver replacement. In contrast, differences in tumor burden significantly affected survival among patients who failed to respond to chemotherapy; median survival among nonresponding patients with greater than 25% liver replacement was 4 months, compared with 8 months for those who had less than 25% liver replacement (P = .01). The presence of minimal extrahepatic disease at the time of initiation of intraarterial treatment did not seem to have a significant detrimental effect on survival. The study suggests that hepatic tumor response to arterial administration of CDDP and FUDR and mitomycin C and FUDR is clinically significant because it overrides the effect of tumor burden on survival among patients who have colorectal cancer with liver metastases and may offer effective palliation.
In a six-week multicenter, double-blind comparison study, moxonidine and clonidine HCl were tested in 122 and 30 outpatients, respectively, with mild to moderate hypertension (World Health Organization stage I and II; highest measured diastolic blood pressure, 90 to 115 mm Hg). Each agent reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure to a similar significant extent: moxonidine, 25.4 and 12.4 mm Hg, respectively; clonidine, 25.3 and 10.0 mm Hg, respectively (P less than .001 vs baseline). The mean individually titrated dose of moxonidine and clonidine HCl was found to be 0.36 mg/d. Clonidine slightly reduced heart rate in patients assuming an upright position by 3 beats/min at the end of dose titration (P = .018), while moxonidine did not. Two patients receiving moxonidine and three patients taking clonidine HCl discontinued therapy because of side effects. However, patients administered clonidine experienced significantly more side effects (53%) compared with a 30% incidence of adverse effects associated with moxonidine (P = .031). The most frequent adverse effect of both agents was dryness of mouth, which was mentioned significantly more often with clonidine (47%) than with moxonidine (20%) (P = .005). Edemas were found in 0.8% and 17% of patients during six-week treatment with moxonidine and clonidine, respectively (P = .001). Accordingly, moxonidine was tolerated significantly better than clonidine (P less than .001) in this parallel comparison study. Moxonidine is as effective as clonidine in monotherapy of mild to moderate essential hypertension and, additionally, neither drug produces clinically important changes in biochemical parameters.
We studied the protective effects of selenium in a rat model of 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis to elucidate a possible mechanism of action.
Rats were supplemented with sodium selenite for 21 d with a normal selenium diet (0.02 microg/g body weight), an intermediate selenium diet (ISD; 0.3 microg/g body weight), or a high selenium diet (HSD; 2 microg/g body weight). On day 22, colitis was induced with TNBS. Rats were sacrificed after 24 h and colonic tissue was removed for evaluation.
Selenium supplementation (HSD) resulted in a significant increase in selenium in colonic tissue. Morphologically, the HSD resulted in the preservation of tissue architecture and attenuated neutrophil infiltration; no vasculitis or necrosis was detected. Biochemically, the HSD decreased tissue myeloperoxidase activity and protected the mitochondria in the colon of TNBS-treated animals as evaluated by preserving tissue oxygen consumption, mitochondrial DNA, and expression of cytochrome c. The HSD increased levels of nuclear respiratory factor-1 and mitochondrial transcription factor-A in normal colon tissue and under inflammatory conditions. The ISD resulted in only a minor protective effect.
The results indicate that tissue damage in TNBS-induced colitis is accompanied by the arrest of mitochondrial respiration, loss of mitochondrial DNA, and the expression of nuclear-encoded mitochondrial proteins. Selenium effectively protects colon mitochondria by upregulation of the expression of mitochondrial transcription factors nuclear respiratory factor-1 and mitochondrial transcription factor-A. Selenium prevented inflammatory and necrotic changes after induction of colitis. Selenium in a high dose is therefore a potential therapeutic agent in inflammatory bowel disease.
Extracts of the creosote bush, Larrea tridentata, have been used for centuries by natives of western American and Mexican deserts to treat a variety of infectious diseases and inflammatory disorders. The beneficial activity of this plant has been linked to the compound nordihydroguaiaretic acid (NDGA) and its various substituted derivatives. Recently, tetra-O-methyl NDGA or terameprocol (TMP) has been shown to inhibit the growth of certain tumor-derived cell lines and is now in clinical trials for the treatment of human cancer. In this report, we ask whether TMP also displays anti-inflammatory activity. TMP was tested for its ability to inhibit the LPS-induced production of inflammatory lipids and cytokines in vitro. We also examined the effects of TMP on production of TNF-alpha in C57BL6/J mice following a sublethal challenge with LPS. Finally, we examined the molecular mechanisms underlying the effects we observed.
RAW 264.7 cells and resident peritoneal macrophages from C57BL6/J mice, stimulated with 1 mug/ml LPS, were used in experiments designed to measure the effects of TMP on the production of prostaglandins, cytokines and chemokines. Prostaglandin production was determined by ELISA. Cytokine and chemokine production were determined by antibody array and ELISA.Western blots, q-RT-PCR, and enzyme assays were used to assess the effects of TMP on expression and activity of COX-2.q-RT-PCR was used to assess the effects of TMP on levels of cytokine and chemokine mRNA.C57BL6/J mice injected i.p. with LPS were used in experiments designed to measure the effects of TMP in vivo. Serum levels of TNF-alpha were determined by ELISA.
TMP strongly inhibited the production of prostaglandins from RAW 264.7 cells and normal peritoneal macrophages. This effect correlated with a TMP-dependent reduction in levels of COX-2 mRNA and protein, and inhibition of the enzymatic activity of COX-2.TMP inhibited, to varying degrees, the production of several cytokines, and chemokines from RAW 264.7 macrophages and normal peritoneal macrophages. Affected molecules included TNF-alpha and MCP-1. Levels of cytokine mRNA were affected similarly, suggesting that TMP is acting to prevent gene expression.TMP partially blocked the production of TNF-alpha and MCP-1 in vivo in the serum of C57BL6/J mice that were challenged i.p. with LPS.
TMP inhibited the LPS-induced production of lipid mediators and several key inflammatory cytokines and chemokines, both in vitro and in vivo, raising the possibility that TMP might be useful as a treatment for a variety of inflammatory disorders.
The Sprague-Dawley (SD) rat bearing a heteroplasted pituitary underneath renal capsule was used to observe differential expression of prolactin (PRL), transforming growth factor alpha (TGF alpha) and transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF beta 1) genes during the formation of pituitary prolactin-secreting tumor (prolactinoma) induced by 17 beta-estradiol (E2). Our results indicated that in both eutopic and ectopic pituitaries disconnected from hypothalamus formed simultaneously PRL-secreting tumors after the rats treated with E2 for 120 days in vivo, which was accompanied by overexpression of PRL gene (P < 0.05-0.01). The PRL mRNA level was higher in eutopic prolactinoma than that in ectopic prolactinoma (P < 0.05). Overexpression of TGF alpha and TGF beta 1 genes were also detected in eutopic prolactinoma. However, the expression of TGF alpha and TGF beta 1 genes in ectopic prolactinoma was similar to that in normal pituitary. It is suggested that TGF alpha and TGF beta 1 may be involved in prolactinoma tumorigenesis of eutopic pituitary. However, the mechanism mediating eutopic and ectopic prolactin-secreting tumor formation seems different.
2,6-Dithiopurine (DTP) has been proposed as a possible chemopreventive agent because of its ability to react with electrophiles. Acrolein, an electrophilic metabolite of cyclophosphamide (CP) involved in the toxicities of this anticancer drug, can be scavenged by DTP. The present study examined the effect of DTP treatment on CP-mediated bladder and lung toxicity in male ICR mice. Mice fed a diet containing 4% DTP that were treated intraperitoneally (i.p.) with 350 mg/kg CP showed no significant bladder damage (measured as bladder blood content at 48 h) with respect to the group fed a control diet. DTP (50 and 100 mg/kg), given i.p. 0.5 and 7 h after the initial injection of CP, also prevented the bladder damage when compared with the group receiving CP alone. Surprisingly, although neither parenteral CP nor DTP alone caused any mortality at these doses, the combined treatment resulted in 67% mortality within 3 days. At 24 h after CP + DTP, blood urea nitrogen was elevated 6-fold and urine volumes decreased by 70%. Histopathological analyses revealed a diffuse myocardial degeneration and necrosis, severe granular degeneration in the liver, abundant cellularity and infiltrates in interalveolar spaces in the lung and swollen nephron epithelial cells with some necrosis. All mice survived treatment when the dose of CP was lowered to 250 and 25-75 mg/kg DTP was given i.p. 0.5 and 7 h after CP. These DTP regimens reduced the degree of CP-induced lung toxicity, measured by [3H]thymidine incorporation into lung DNA 7 days after CP, in a dose-dependent manner. DTP (75 mg/kg) also reduced CP-induced lung fibrosis estimated by lung hydroxyproline content 28 days after CP. Analyses of urine from mice given CP + DTP revealed large amounts of the metabolic product dithiouric acid, smaller amounts of the parent DTP and several smaller peaks. The major unique metabolite peak was collected and analyzed by mass spectrometry, but did not correspond to either acrolein-DTP or acrolein-dithiouric acid. Thus, either very small amounts of an acrolein adduct are generated, the adduct is broken down to an unidentified product, or the ability of DTP to prevent CP-induced lung and bladder damage is related to some other mechanism. The possibility that mercapturic acid metabolites of acrolein released the parent electrophile in the urine was not supported by the finding that probenecid did not prevent CP-induced bladder toxicity.
Conflicting findings with regard to the teratogenic risks of first trimester use of paroxetine have prompted the FDA, Health Canada, and the manufacturer of the drug to issue warnings against its use during pregnancy. Given that untreated depression during pregnancy can lead to deleterious effect on the mother and her unborn fetus, data on the relationship between the dose and the range of malformations is warranted. This study attempts to quantify the association between first trimester exposure to paroxetine and congenital cardiac malformations, adjusting for possible confounders, and to quantify the dose-response relationship between paroxetine use and cardiac defects.
The Medication and Pregnancy registry was used. This population-based registry was built by linking three administrative databases (RAMQ, Med-Echo, and ISQ), and includes all pregnancies in Quebec between 01/01/1997 and 06/30/2003. Date of entry in the registry is the date of the first day of the last menstrual period. To be eligible for this study, women had to: 1) be 15-45 years of age at entry; 2) be covered by the RAMQ drug plan >or=12 months before and during pregnancy; 3) be using only one type of antidepressant during the first trimester; and 4) have a live birth. Two nested case-control studies were carried out comparing the prevalence of paroxetine use in the first trimester of pregnancy to the prevalence of other antidepressant exposures during the same time period. Cases were defined as: 1) any major malformations; or 2) any cardiac malformations diagnosed in the first year of life; controls were defined as no major or minor malformations. Multivariate logistic regression techniques were used to analyze data.
Among the 1,403 women meeting inclusion criteria, 101 infants with major congenital malformations were identified; 24 had cardiac malformations. Adjusting for possible confounders, the use of paroxetine (odds ratio [OR] = 1.38, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.49-3.92), and the use of other SSRIs (OR = 0.89, 95% CI = 0.28-2.84) during the first trimester of pregnancy did not increase the risk of congenital cardiac malformations compared with the use of non-SSRI antidepressants. When considering the dose, however, a dose-response relationship was observed, thus women exposed to >25 mg/day of paroxetine during the first trimester of pregnancy were at increased risk of having an infant with major congenital malformations (adjusted [adj] OR = 2.23, 95% CI = 1.19, 4.17), or major cardiac malformations (adj OR = 3.07, 95% CI = 1.00, 9.42).
Gestational exposure to paroxetine is associated with major congenital malformations and major cardiac malformations for only first trimester exposure above 25 mg/day.
Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)-associated vasculitis has been recently recognized in Graves' disease patients treated with antithyroid drugs. We describe the case of an 18-year-old girl who developed antimyeloperoxidase ANCA (MPO-ANCA)-positive vasculitis manifesting as a skin lesion and hemoptysis with hypoxic respiratory failure after taking methimazole. An open lung biopsy was consistent with acute capillaritis. Both skin and sural nerve biopsy showed lymphocytic vasculitis. Administration of steroid and plasmapheresis produced a good clinical response.
A 71-year-old woman was treated for a relapsing pulmonary tuberculosis with reinstitution of rifampicin after a medication-free interval of 2 years. After ingestion of the second dose, she developed severe hemolytic anemia and acute renal failure (ARF) necessitating dialysis. We demonstrated the presence in the patient's serum of rifampicin-dependent immunoglobulin G (IgG) and IgM antibodies, which caused red blood cell lysis through interaction with the I antigen on the erythrocyte surface. A review of the literature yielded 48 cases of rifampicin-associated renal failure. A subgroup of 37 patients could be distinguished, which, analogous to our case, suddenly developed ARF and frequently also developed hemolytic anemia and/or thrombocytopenia during intermittent or interrupted treatment. Regarding the pathogenesis of the ARF, renal biopsy consistently revealed tubular lesions. Although intravascular hemolysis with hemoglobinuria may play a role, it is not uniformly present. Our demonstration of an antibody with anti-I specificity provides a possible explanation. The I antigen is also expressed on tubular epithelium and may, therefore, be the target structure through which rifampicin-antibody complexes lead to tubular cell destruction. The other cases of rifampicin-associated ARF were unrelated to this subgroup: two cases of rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis, five cases of acute interstitial nephritis, and four cases of light chain proteinuria were recorded.
Several lines of evidence suggest that cannabinoid compounds are anticonvulsant. However, the anticonvulsant potential of cannabinoids and, moreover, the role of the endogenous cannabinoid system in regulating seizure activity has not been tested in an in vivo model of epilepsy that is characterized by spontaneous, recurrent seizures. Here, using the rat pilocarpine model of epilepsy, we show that the marijuana extract Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (10 mg/kg) as well as the cannabimimetic, 4,5-dihydro-2-methyl-4(4-morpholinylmethyl)-1-(1-naphthalenyl-carbonyl)-6H-pyrrolo[3,2,1-i,j]quinolin-6-one [R(+)WIN55,212 (5 mg/kg)], completely abolished spontaneous epileptic seizures. Conversely, application of the cannabinoid CB1 receptor (CB1) antagonist, N-(piperidin-1-yl-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamidehydrochloride (SR141716A), significantly increased both seizure duration and frequency. In some animals, CB1 receptor antagonism resulted in seizure durations that were protracted to a level consistent with the clinical condition status epilepticus. Furthermore, we determined that during an short-term pilocarpine-induced seizure, levels of the endogenous CB1 ligand 2-arachidonylglycerol increased significantly within the hippocampal brain region. These data indicate not only anticonvulsant activity of exogenously applied cannabinoids but also suggest that endogenous cannabinoid tone modulates seizure termination and duration through activation of the CB1 receptor. Furthermore, Western blot and immunohistochemical analyses revealed that CB1 receptor protein expression was significantly increased throughout the CA regions of epileptic hippocampi. By demonstrating a role for the endogenous cannabinoid system in regulating seizure activity, these studies define a role for the endogenous cannabinoid system in modulating neuroexcitation and suggest that plasticity of the CB1 receptor occurs with epilepsy.
Two low-osmolality contrast agents, ioxaglate meglumine/sodium and iohexol were compared with diatrizoate meglumine/sodium in a controlled double blind study of 126 patients undergoing arteriography for peripheral vascular disease to determine which caused the least pain. Discomfort was assessed by means of a visual analog scale rating pain from 0 to 100. Average values for pain were 39 +/- 27 for diatrizoate, 14 +/- 15 for ioxaglate and 21 +/- 22 for iohexol. We found that both low-osmolality agents caused significantly less pain in peripheral arteriography than the traditional agent. The p values were p less than 0.0005 for ioxaglate and p less than 0.005 for iohexol versus diatrizoate. In addition, ioxaglate was found to cause significantly less pain than iohexol (p less than 0.05) in this patient group.
Cyproterone acetate, characterised by its antiandrogen and antigonadotrophin actions, is indicated in the treatment of advanced prostatic cancer. It can be used alone or in combination with surgical or chemical castration. This paper reviews the literature concerning the cardiovascular safety of this drug. Metabolic studies evaluating the impact of cyproterone acetate on lipids and certain clotting parameters indicate the absence of any harmful effects on these cardiovascular risk factors. The two trials conducted by the EORTC (30761 and 30 762) demonstrated that the cardiovascular safety of cyproterone acetate was better than that of diethylstilboestrol. Cardiovascular adverse effects were reported in less than 5% of cases. This figure was confirmed by a large number of published studies. A comparable incidence of cardiovascular complications was also observed in series of patients treated by orchidectomy, LHRH agonists and/or pure antiandrogens. It is difficult to formally demonstrate the responsibility of antihormonal treatment in this elderly population in which ischaemic heart disease and cerebral vascular accidents are frequent causes of death.
The nephrotoxicity of 1-[2-carboxy-8-oxo-7-(2-thienylacetamido)-5-thio-1-azabicyclo[4.2.0]oct-2-en-3- yl]methyl-pyridinium hydroxide (cephaloridine, Glaxoridin) in mice was investigated histopathologically in a series of 14 experiments. Using the PAS-reaction lesion formation consisting of epithelial desquamation in the tubuli contorti proximales, coarse cytoplasmic granulation of the tubuli recti proximales epithelium and hyaline cast formation was detected. Regeneration of the tubular epithelium followed subsequently. Optimal lesion formation was detected when mice were given two s.c. injections of an aqueous solution of the compound and the post mortem was carried out two days later. B5D2F1 hybrid mice were more sensitive than NMRI mice. However, a preexperimental acclimatisation period of at least ten days was necessary to obtain reproducible results.
The instability of the mitochondrial genome in individuals harboring pathogenic mutations in the catalytic subunit of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) polymerase gamma (POLG) is well recognized, but the underlying molecular mechanisms remain to be elucidated. In 5 pediatric patients with severe myoclonic epilepsy and valproic acid-induced liver failure, we identified 1 novel and 4 previously described pathogenic mutations in the linker region of this enzyme. Although muscle biopsies in these patients showed unremarkable histologic features, postmortem liver tissue available from 1 individual exhibited large cytochrome c oxidase-negative areas. These cytochrome c oxidase-negative areas contained 4-fold less mtDNA than cytochrome c oxidase-positive areas. Decreased copy numbers of mtDNA were observed not only in the liver, skeletal muscle, and brain but also in blood samples from all patients. There were also patient-specific patterns of multiple mtDNA deletions in different tissues, and in 2 patients, there were clonally expanded mtDNA point mutations. The low amount of deleted mtDNA molecules makes it unlikely that the deletions contribute significantly to the general biochemical defect. The clonal expansion of a few individual-specific deletions and point mutations indicates an accelerated segregation of early mtDNA mutations that likely are a consequence of low mtDNA copy numbers. Moreover, these results suggest a potential diagnostic approach for identifying mtDNA depletion in patients.
Acute isoniazid overdose and toxicity may be complicated by convulsions and death. Six patients are reported, one of whom ingested simultaneously 15 gm of isoniazid and 5 gm of pyridoxine hydrochloride (vitamin B6); no convulsions resulted. In the light of this and other experience, suggestions are made for the use of pyridoxine in the treatment and prevention of acute isoniazid poisoning.
We have observed that spinal liposome administration in the rat resulted in in an allodynia evoked by light touch. We later determined that liposomes composed of D-isomer phospholipids were essentially non-toxic. This study examines the effects of alfentanil encapsulated in liposomes made from the natural L-isomer and synthetic D-isomer of dipalmitoyl phosphatidyl choline on antinoceiception, side effects, and algogenic behaviour. Both unilamellar and multilamellar liposomes were studied. Rats prepared with chronic intrathecal catheters received intrathecal injections of alfentanil (5 or 50 micrograms) in saline or encapsulated in liposomes composed of either L- or D-isomers of dipalmitoyl phosphatidyl choline (DPPC) in unilamellar or multilamellar liposome formulations. Antinociception was measured using the hot plate test (52.5 degrees). Side effects were measured by catalepsy, corneal responses, pinna response, righting reflex, and paw step. Allodynia was measured by lightly stroking the animal's back. Intrathecal alfentanil in saline or in the liposomes produced a dose-dependent increased latency in the hot plate response. Encapsulation of alfentanil in the liposomes produced a significant decrease in the loss of corneal, paw step and righting reflex and a slight decrease in catalepsy and loss of the pinna response. There was no significant difference between liposome preparations in preventing side effects. L-multilamellar-DPPC produced allodynia in 100% of the animals whereas significantly less allodynia was observed with the other preparations. This study indicates that liposomal preparations can significantly enhance the therapeutic ratio of a lipid soluble opioid after spinal delivery. However, the choice of lipids for the formulation of liposomes intended for spinal drug delivery must be considered since the L-isomer and larger lipid load of multilamellar liposomes have a direct spinal effect leading to alledynia. Previous studies have in fact shown that spinal lysolecithin can yield focal demyelination.
The clinical usefulness of doxorubicin is limited by doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy (DoxCM). The prognosis of this disorder is poor, and a sensitive noninvasive method for detection of DoxCM is strongly required. In this study, we examined if the transmural systolic function (TSF) obtained by the novel phased-tracking method is capable of supplying new information on DoxCM. A total of 18 healthy subjects and 30 patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia were examined for TSF, as defined by the transmural profile of % thickening obtained by measuring the velocity at each preset point of 0.75-mm intervals. The total number of measurements was 94. In the patients, a decrease in both the peak velocity and the systolic layer thickening was observed, even in the subclinical phase of the normal ejection fraction. For healthy subjects, systolic thickening occurred in the left ventricular (LV) side of the interventricular septum (IVS), and was characterized by a sharp single-peak configuration of the profile. For the patients, however, the peak became dull and/or unclear, which indicates that a change in transmural functional distribution occurred. We concluded that the TSF is a useful measure for diagnosis of the early phase of DoxCM.
Among 2,391 recipients of plain aspirin tablets, 121 (5.1%) were reported to have adverse reactions. Minor gastrointestinal disturbances, particularly heartburn and nausea, were most common (2.1%). Central nervous system effects were second (1.2%). Among these, tinnitus was reported most often (0.8%); deafness occurred in eight patients (0.3%). Gastrointestinal bleeding, the third major category of adverse reactions, occurred in 1.0% of recipients; it was not considered serious in any of the patients with reactions judged "definitely" or "probably" related to aspirin. The frequency of all adverse reactions increased as the unit dose, daily dose and total dose became larger. Deafness occurred only at high doses. Reactions were more common in females.
Drug hypersensitivity reactions commonly cause acute interstitial nephritis (AIN). Clozapine, a new antipsychotic, can cause fatal bone-marrow toxicity. We report clozapine-induced AIN as another serious adverse drug reaction.
In recent decades, young men in some industrialized areas have reportedly experienced a decrease in semen quality.
We examined effects of perinatal dioxin exposure on sperm quality and reproductive hormones.
We investigated sperm quality and hormone concentrations in 39 sons (mean age, 22.5 years) born between 1977 and 1984 to mothers exposed to dioxin after the accident in Seveso, Italy (1976), and 58 comparisons (mean age, 24.6 years) born to mothers exposed only to background dioxin. Maternal dioxin levels at conception were extrapolated from the concentrations measured in 1976 serum samples.
The 21 breast-fed sons whose exposed mothers had a median serum dioxin concentration as low as 19 ppt at conception had lower sperm concentration (36.3 vs. 86.3 million/mL; p = 0.002), total count (116.9 vs. 231.1; p = 0.02), progressive motility (35.8 vs. 44.2%; p = 0.03), and total motile count (38.7 vs. 98 million; p = 0.01) than did the 36 breast-fed comparisons. The 18 formula-fed exposed and the 22 formula-fed and 36 breast-fed comparisons (maternal dioxin background 10 ppt at conception) had no sperm-related differences. Follicle-stimulating hormone was higher in the breast-fed exposed group than in the breast-fed comparisons (4.1 vs. 2.63 IU/L; p = 0.03) or the formula-fed exposed (4.1 vs. 2.6 IU/L; p = 0.04), and inhibin B was lower (breast-fed exposed group, 70.2; breast-fed comparisons, 101.8 pg/mL, p = 0.01; formula-fed exposed, 99.9 pg/mL, p = 0.02).
In utero and lactational exposure of children to relatively low dioxin doses can permanently reduce sperm quality.
A major product formed during the Maillard reaction is 5-(hydroxymethyl)-2-furfural (HMF), which is present in various foods and beverages such as honey and fruit juice. HMF was shown to be a hepatocarcinogen in female mice using long-term bioassays. Although HMF is not a mutagen in conventional in vitro mutation assays, 5-sulfoxymethylfurfural (SMF), a reactive metabolite of HMF produced following sulfotransferase conjugation, does show mutagenicity. Thus, HMF-induced hepatocarcinogenesis likely involves genotoxic mechanisms. To clarify the mechanisms underlying HMF-induced hepatocarcinogenesis, female B6C3F(1) gpt delta mice were given HMF at carcinogenic doses (188 or 375 mg/kg b.w.) by gavage for 5 days per week for 4 weeks. This treatment produced no significant differences in mutant frequencies (MFs) of gpt and red/gam (Spi(-)) genes among the groups. These results suggest that genotoxicity does not contribute to HMF-induced hepatocarcinogenesis. Parameters related to cell proliferation, such as proliferation cell nuclear antigen-labeling index and Cyclin D1 and E1 mRNA expression, exhibited no significant changes in the livers of HMF-treated groups. In view of the lack of carcinogenicity in rats, HMF may be considered to be a weak carcinogen. These results help us to understand the underlying mechanisms of action of HMF carcinogenesis.
The therapeutic use of Kampo medicine, Sho-seiryu-to (SST) in allergic disorders is well known. As histamine plays a central role in allergic diseases, it is possible that SST affects the allergy-related histamine signaling. In this study, we investigated the effect of SST on allergy-related histamine signaling in the nasal mucosa of toluene 2, 4-diisocyanate (TDI)-sensitized nasal allergy model rats.
Six-week-old male, Brown Norway rats were sensitized for 2 weeks with 10 microl of 10% TDI, and after a 1 week interval, provocation was initiated with the same amount of TDI. SST (0.6g/rat) was given orally 1 hour before TDI treatment began for a period of 3 weeks. Nasal symptoms were scored for 10 minutes immediately after TDI-provocation. The genes expression in nasal mucosa was determined using real-time quantitative RT-PCR.
SST significantly suppressed TDI-induced nasal allergy-like symptoms. TDI provocation showed a significant up-regulation of histamine H(1) receptor (H1R) and histidine decarboxylase (HDC) gene expressions. Prolonged pre-treatment of SST significantly suppressed the mRNA levels of H1R and HDC that was up-regulated by TDI. SST also suppressed TDI-induced interleukin (IL)-4 and IL-5 mRNA elevation. However, SST showed no significant effect for TDI-induced mRNA elevation of IL-13.
These results demonstrate that SST alleviates nasal symptoms by the inhibition of histamine signaling through suppression of TDI-induced H1R and HDC gene up-regulation. SST also suppresses cytokine signaling through suppression of IL-4 and IL-5 gene expression. Suppression of histamine signaling may be a novel mechanism of SST in preventing allergic diseases.
Adverse effects of antipsychotics often lead to noncompliance. Thus, clinicians should address patients' concerns about adverse effects and attempt to choose medications that will improve their patients' quality of life as well as overall health. The side effect profiles of the atypical antipsychotics are more advantageous than those of the conventional neuroleptics. Conventional agents are associated with unwanted central nervous system effects, including extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS), tardive dyskinesia, sedation, and possible impairment of some cognitive measures, as well as cardiac effects, orthostatic hypotension, hepatic changes, anticholinergic side effects, sexual dysfunction, and weight gain. The newer atypical agents have a lower risk of EPS, but are associated in varying degrees with sedation, cardiovascular effects, anticholinergic effects, weight gain, sexual dysfunction, hepatic effects, lowered seizure threshold (primarily clozapine), and agranulocytosis (clozapine only). Since the incidence and severity of specific adverse effects differ among the various atypicals, the clinician should carefully consider which side effects are most likely to lead to the individual's dissatisfaction and noncompliance before choosing an antipsychotic for a particular patient.
