Tacrolimus is an immunosuppressive medication in the class of calcineurin inhibitors that acts by inhibiting T-cell and interleukin-2 activity, and is commonly used after allogeneic organ transplant. We present a patient who used tacrolimus after cadaveric kidney transplant and experienced blurry vision. Ocular examination and patient's course subsequently revealed aqueous tear deficiency as a dose-dependent adverse effect of oral tacrolimus.
Captopril was given orally to 24 patients with moderate to severe essential or renovascular hypertension, with variable degrees of sodium-volume depletion. Initiation of treatment resulted in orthostatic hypotension in 5 and in symptoms and signs of hypotension while still recumbent in 4; bradycardia accompanied the adverse hypotension which was relieved by iv atropine. After iv infusion of 1-2 liters of 0.9% NaCl patients cound resume their normal activities and be treated with captopril. The development of hypotension was related to the prevailing plasma renin level, which was partly determined by the degree of sodium-depletion and the aetiology of hypertension. The degree of sodium-depletion, the aetiology and severity of hypertension and heart rate did not contribute independently from plasma renin activity to the development of hypotension.
The nipecotic acid ester, (+/-)-m-nitrophenyl-3-piperidinecarboxylate hydrochloride (MNPC) is a potent inhibitor of uptake of GABA in vitro and should be able to penetrate into the brain much more readily than the parent compound nipecotic acid. A study of the effects of MNPC on convulsions induced by chemicals which interfere with GABA-mediated neurotransmission was carried out in the mouse, with MNPC being administered by subcutaneous injection 30, 60 or 90 min prior to challenge with bicuculline. It was found that MNPC protected against convulsions induced by bicuculline with ED50 values for clonic and tonic convulsions of 157.8 and 138.8 mg/kg, respectively, at the time of peak effect of 60 min and MNPC abolished both the clonic and tonic components of isoniazid convulsions with respective ED50 values of 255.3 and 76.7 mg/kg at 1 hr. Picrotoxin and pentylenetrazol-induced seizures were also blocked with corresponding ED50 values for clonic convulsions of 224.9 and 235.9 mg/kg at 1 hr. No serious side effects were observed during the 90 min period after the administration of MNPC in doses up to 600 mg/kg.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are activated in dilated failing hearts, and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition prevents left ventricular (LV) dilatation. However, it remains unclear whether activation of MMPs precedes or is secondary to LV remodeling, and an effect of ACE inhibition on MMPs is unknown.
Dahl salt-sensitive rats fed a high-salt diet from 8 weeks served as the hypertensive heart failure (HF) model. LV echo, histological study, measurement of mRNA levels, and gelatin zymography were performed before (at 23 weeks) and after (at 26 weeks) the development of LV dilatation and pulmonary edema. The same procedures were conducted in the HF model rats treated with a subdepressor dose of ACE inhibitor (enalapril 5 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1)) from 9 weeks. Rats fed on normal chow served as age-matched controls. In the untreated HF model rats, gene expression of MMP-2 and MMP-9 and tissue gelatinase activity were elevated at 23 weeks without LV dilatation. LV dilatation, LV systolic dysfunction, and pulmonary edema occurred at 26 weeks, with further enhancement of the expression and activity of MMPs. ACE inhibition prevented such geometrical and functional deterioration. The gene expression and activity of MMPs were suppressed by ACE inhibition at 23 weeks without a decrease in blood pressure, and the suppressive effects continued at 26 weeks.
MMPs are likely to trigger and promote LV remodeling, and ACE inhibition directly exerts inhibitory effect on MMPs, leading to the prevention of LV remodeling and dysfunction.
Compounds that cause peroxisome proliferation in rats and mice have been reported to interfere with mitochondrial (mt) bioenergetics and possibly biogenesis. The purpose of this investigation was to establish whether proliferation of peroxisomes and mitochondria are necessarily related. Perfluorooctanesulfonate (PFOS) and N-ethyl perfluorooctanesulfonamido ethanol (N-EtFOSE) were investigated as peroxisome proliferators in comparison to perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA). Three parameters were chosen to assess peroxisome proliferation, stimulation of lauroyl CoA oxidase activity, reduction of serum cholesterol concentration, and hepatomegaly. mt Biogenesis was assessed through cytochrome oxidase activity, cytochrome content and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) copy number. PFOA, PFOS, or N-EtFOSE was administered via a single i.p. injection at 100 mg/kg in male rats, and measurements were made 3 days later. In this model, PFOS and PFOA share similar potencies as peroxisome proliferators, whereas N-EtFOSE showed no activity. mt Endpoints were altered only in the PFOA treatment group, which consisted of a decrease cytochrome oxidase activity in liver tissue and an increase in the mtDNA copy number. None of the perfluorooctanoates significantly altered mt cytochrome content following acute in vivo treatment. These data demonstrate that acute administration of PFOS or PFOA causes hepatic peroxisome proliferation in rats. However, stimulation of mt biogenesis is not a characteristic response of all peroxisome proliferators.
Hyperlipidemia, inflammation and altered antioxidant profiles are the usual complications in diabetes mellitus. In the present study, we investigated the therapeutic potential of taurine in diabetes associated cardiac complications using a rat model. Rats were made diabetic by alloxan (ALX) (single i.p. dose of 120mg/kg body weight) and left untreated or treated with taurine (1% w/v, orally, in water) for three weeks either from the day of ALX exposure or after the onset of diabetes. Animals were euthanized after three weeks. ALX-induced diabetes decreased body weight, increased glucose level, decreased insulin content, enhanced the levels of cardiac damage markers and altered lipid profile in the plasma. Moreover, it increased oxidative stress (decreased antioxidant enzyme activities and GSH/GSSG ratio, increased xanthine oxidase enzyme activity, lipid peroxidation, protein carbonylation and ROS generation) and enhanced the proinflammatory cytokines levels, activity of myeloperoxidase and nuclear translocation of NFκB in the cardiac tissue of the experimental animals. Taurine treatment could, however, result to a decrease in the elevated blood glucose and proinflammatory cytokine levels, diabetes-evoked oxidative stress, lipid profiles and NFκB translocation. In addition, taurine increased GLUT 4 translocation to the cardiac membrane by enhanced phosphorylation of IR and IRS1 at tyrosine and Akt at serine residue in the heart. Results also suggest that taurine could protect cardiac tissue from ALX induced apoptosis via the regulation of Bcl2 family and caspase 9/3 proteins. Taken together, taurine supplementation in regular diet could play a beneficial role in regulating diabetes and its associated complications in the heart.
The action of ethosuximide (125 or 250 mg/kg, IP) against picrotoxin-induced seizures (3-6 mg/kg, IP) was assessed in rats 12, 18, 25, and 90 days old. In 18-day-old and older controls, picrotoxin regularly elicited clonic seizures; tonic-clonic seizures were induced in all age categories with high consequent mortality. Only the higher dose of ethosuximide (250 mg/kg) increased the latency of clonic seizures in 18- and 25-day-old pups. Tonic-clonic seizures were delayed by ethosuximide in 12-, 18-, and 90-day-old rats. Picrotoxin-induced lethality was suppressed only in 18- and 90-day-old rats by the 250-mg/kg dose of ethosuximide. In contrast, ethosuximide pretreatment increased the incidence of clonic seizures in 12-day-old rats. The results suggest that only high doses of ethosuximide can suppress clonic seizures, and this action is not consistent. Tonic-clonic seizures probably have model-specific sensitivity to ethosuximide because in previous studies ethosuximide completely suppressed pentylenetetrazol-induced tonic-clonic seizures but had no effect on kainic acid-induced tonic-clonic seizures. The suppression of mortality rates is probably due to nonspecific effects of high doses of ethosuximide.
Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) augments proliferation and metastasis of various cancer cells. We recently identified a critical role of the Rho/ROCK pathway for LPA-induced proteolytic enzyme expression and cancer cell progression. In the present study, we elucidate the underlying mechanisms by which LPA induces Rho activation and subsequent cellular invasion, and the reversal of these effects by resveratrol. We observed that both Gi and G13 contribute to LPA-induced EGFR activation. The activated EGFR in turn initiates a Ras/Rho/ROCK signaling cascade, leading to proteolytic enzyme secretion. Further we provide evidence that resveratrol inhibits EGFR phosphorylation and subsequent activation of a Ras/Rho/ROCK signaling. Therefore, we demonstrate a mechanistic cascade of LPA activating EGFR through Gi and G13 thus inducing a Ras/Rho/ROCK signaling for proteolytic enzyme expression and ovarian cancer cell invasion, as well as interference of the cascade by resveratrol through blocking EGFR phosphorylation.
Labetalol (Trandate) is a new antihypertensive agent with both alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor blocking properties. In a double-blind cross-over study the antihypertensive action and side-effects of labetalol and propranolol were compared in 18 previously untreated outpatients with hypertension, WHO stage I--III. Mean daily dose of labetalol was 667 mg and of propranolol 129 mg. Labetalol reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure in the seated and upright position significantly more than propranolol. The pulse rate reduction was greater with propranolol. Side-effects were more pronounced with propranolol. The antihypertensive effect, effect on pulse rate and pharmacokinetics of a single oral dose of 400 mg labetalol were studied in 6 patients with normal and 6 patients with impaired renal function (creatinine clearance less than 20 ml/min), all belonging to WHO stage I--II. A significant fall in pulse rate and systolic and diastolic blood pressure was observed in both groups, the duration being more than 25 h. No difference was found between the two groups. From the serum concentration-time curves the elimination rate constant, elimination half-life and area under the curve were calculated. The mean values of the two groups did not differ significantly. A pronounced interindividual variation was found in both groups.
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is a notorious model compound of highly toxic environmental pollutants, polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs). Their toxic effects are mediated via cytosolic aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR). We studied the effects of several dose levels of TCDD on developing rat bone after maternal exposure at different times of gestation and lactation in three differentially sensitive rat lines. Rat lines A, B, and C differ in their sensitivity to TCDD due to mutated AHR (Ahr(hw)) in line A and another TCDD-resistance allele (B(hw)) in line B. Line C rats have no resistance alleles. Offspring were analyzed for bone mineral density and geometry by peripheral quantitative computed tomography (pQCT) and for bone biomechanics by three-point bending at mid-diaphysis of tibia and femur and by axial loading at femoral neck. TCDD treatment resulted in bone defects, mainly in offspring of the most sensitive line C at a maternal dose of 1 microg/kg. They included decreased bone length, cross-sectional area of cortex, and bone mineral density. Mechanical testing revealed significantly reduced bending breaking force and stiffness of tibia, femur, and femoral neck. The effects were exposure time-dependent, and earlier exposure caused more severe defects. Gestational exposure alone was not sufficient, but lactational exposure was required to cause the bone defects. Most of the defects were recovered at the age of 1 year. The results indicate that dioxins affect developing bone by interfering with bone growth and mechanical strength and that the effects are mainly reversible. The dioxin-resistance alleles, Ahr(hw) and B(hw) increase the resistance to these defects.
A randomized comparative study of rifampicin and ciprofloxacin for eradicating nasopharyngeal carriage of meningococci was undertaken in Malawi. Of 1878 contacts of persons with meningococcal meningitis, 1875 were evaluatable for safety and efficacy of the drugs. Rifampicin was given to 836 contacts, ciprofloxacin to 711, and ceftriaxone to 328 (children < 2 years old or pregnant or lactating women). One and 2 weeks after therapy, side effects in those given rifampicin and ciprofloxacin were not significantly different. In the ciprofloxacin group, with 470 subjects < 18 years old, only one event (mild abdominal pain) occurred that was related to the drug. Nasopharyngeal carriage was detected in 88 (10.5%) of those given rifampicin, 79 (11.1%) given ciprofloxacin, and 41 (12.5%) given ceftriaxone. Eradication rates after 1 and 2 weeks of treatment, respectively, were 96.5% and 97.7% for rifampicin, 88.6% and 91.1% for ciprofloxacin, and 95.1% and 97.6% for ceftriaxone. Ciprofloxacin provides a safe and effective alternative to rifampicin for eradication of meningococcal carriage in children 2-18 years old.
Angiogenesis and the acquisition of an angiogenic phenotype is important for cancer cell proliferation. Copper in an essential trace element that participates in many enzymatic complexes like the cytochrome c, superoxide dismutase and lysyl oxidase and it is involved in processes, like embryogenesis, growth, angiogenesis and carcinogenesis. In particular, its involvement in carcinogenesis was described for the first time in oral submucous fibrosis, where fibroblasts produce large amounts of collagen in the presence of copper. Copper's action in carcinogenesis is two-fold: (1) it participates in reactions with an increased redox potential that result in the production of oxidative products and oxidative stress. Through this mechanism, copper may cause DNA mutations in the nucleus and mitochondria or alterations to membrane phospholipids, (2) it participates in angiogenesis even in the absence of angiogenic molecules, as it was reported for the first time in rabbit cornea models with copolymer pellets charged with PGE1. Copper chelation regimens like penicillamine and tetrathiomolybdate are being described in the literature as having anti-angiogenic, anti-fibrotic and anti-inflammatory actions. Animal models of brain cancer that evaluated the anti-angiogenic properties of copper, have proven evidence of the reduction of tumor's microvascular supply, tumor volume and vascular permeability after plasma copper levels reduction. Interestingly, plasma copper levels reduction was shown to suppress micrometastases generation in mice models of breast cancer. We hypothesize that copper chelation therapy: increases oxidative stress in cancer cells to a level that does not allow survival because of the reduction of anti-oxidative enzymes production. It may also result in inhibition of angiogenesis and of the initiation of the angiogenic switch, because copper normally enhances endothelial cell migration and proliferation, improves binding of growth factors to endothelial cells and enhances the expression of angiogenic molecules. Copper chelation may also reduce extracellular matrix degradation and cancer spread, through reduction of MMP-9 production and probably of other collagenases and may inhibit propagation of micrometastases. However, copper chelation therapy may enhance angiogenesis through reduction of thrombospondin-1, that results into an increase in VEGF-VEGFR2 complexes and a high level of active MMP-9. These hypotheses help in understanding of the anti-angiogenic action of copper chelation therapies and of the complex network of interactions between copper and other molecules involved in angiogenesis. It may also stimulate further research regarding differences in copper metabolism, the effects of anti-copper regimens on organs, the development of resistance, and their possible angiogenic action through thrombospondin expression reduction.
Ropivacaine 1% 40 ml was mistakenly injected as part of an axillary plexus block in an 84-year-old woman. After 15 min the patient complained of dizziness and drowsiness and developed a generalised tonic-clonic seizure followed by an asystolic cardiac arrest. After 10 min of unsuccessful cardiopulmonary resuscitation, a bolus of 100 ml of Intralipid 20% (2 ml.kg(-1)) was administered followed by a continuous infusion of 10 ml.min(-1). After a total dose of 200 ml of Intralipid 20% had been given spontaneous electrical activity and cardiac output was restored. The patient recovered completely. We believe the cardiovascular collapse was secondary to ropivacaine absorption following the accidental overdose. This case shows that lipid infusion may have a beneficial role in cases of local anaesthetic toxicity when conventional resuscitation has been unsuccessful.
The aim of this study was to compare indices of exposure in workers employed at different work posts in a copper smelter plant using neurophysiological tests and to evaluate the relationship between urinary arsenic species with the aid of sensitive respiratory and renal biomarkers. We have attempted to elucidate the impact of different arsenic speciation forms on the observed health effects. We focused on the workers (n = 45) exposed to atmospheres containing specific diverse mixtures of metals (such as those occurring in Departments of Furnaces, Lead and Electrolysis) compared to controls (n = 16). Subjective symptoms from the central (CNS) and the peripheral (PNS) nervous system were recorded and visual evoked potential (VEP), electroneurography (ENeG) and electroencephalography (EEG) curves were analysed. Levels of airborne lead (PbA), zinc (ZnA) and copper (CuA) and Pb levels in blood (PbB) and the relationships between airborne As concentrations (AsA) and the urinary levels of the inorganic (iAs); As(+3), As(+5) and the organic; methylarsonate (MMA(V)), dimethylarsinate (DMA(V)) and arsenobetaine (AsB) arsenic species were determined by Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometry (ICP-MS). Effects of exposure were expressed in terms of biomarker levels: Clara cell protein (CC16) in serum as early pulmonary biomarker and β2-microglobulin (β2M) in urine and serum, retinol binding protein (RBP) as renal markers, measured by sensitive latex-immunoassay (LIA). Abnormal results of neurophysiological tests, VEP, EEG and ENeG showed dominant subclinical effects in CNS and PNS of workers from Departments of Lead and Furnace. In group of smelters from Departments of Furnace exposed to arsenic above current TLV, excreted arsenic species As(+3) and As(+5) seemed to reduce the level of Clara cell protein (CC16), thereby reducing anti-inflammatory potential of the lungs and increasing the levels of renal biomarker (β2M) and copper in urine (CuU). The study confirmed deleterious arsenic effects to the kidney by increased levels of low-molecular weight protein in urine and the extent of the renal copper accumulation/excretion. The results of our work also support the usefulness of application of the sensitive neurophysiologic tests, such as VEP, EEG and ENeG, for the detection of early subclinical effects of the exposure of the nervous system in copper smelters.
3 patients with mycobacterial lung infections, one due to Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare and 2 due to M. tuberculosis, developed ciprofloxacin-induced acute renal dysfunction while receiving the drug together with other antimycobacterial agents. These episodes took place 8-10 days after commencement of therapy and recovered spontaneously after cessation of all antimycobacterial drugs for 2-8 weeks. No recurrence was noted when patients were restarted on regimens that did not contain ciprofloxacin.
Toxicity of a choleretic compound, phloracetophenone (2,4,6-trihydroxyacetophenone; THA) was investigated in mice, rats and hamsters. Acute toxicity of THA was observed to be dependent on species and route of administration, but not sex and age. LD(50) values for an acute toxicity of a single i.p. administration to adult male hamsters and mice were 338 and 365 mg/kg BW, respectively. It was significantly increased to 489 mg/kg BW in adult male rats and greatly increased by i.g. route. Subacute toxicity was investigated in adult male mice by giving THA at a doses of 37-300 mg/kg BW/day, i.g. for 30 consecutive days. High doses of THA induced periportal hepatocyte degeneration whereas plasma concentrations of alanine and aspartate aminotransferases, bilirubin, and blood urea nitrogen, and hepatic triglyceride content were only slightly increased. The possible therapeutic effect of the choleretic THA was evaluated in the ethinylestradiol (EE)-induced cholestasis. THA enhanced the hepatic clearance of sulfobromophthalein and decreased the elevated plasma alkaline phosphatase in EE-cholestatic rats to control levels. These results suggested that THA at biologically active choleretic dose had low toxicity, it might be safe for further development as a therapeutic agent for a short period of treatment in cholestasis.
Minocycline is an effective antibiotic widely used in the treatment of acne vulgaris. We report a previously well 20-year-old woman who developed liver dysfunction with jaundice and malaise following a 1 year course of minocycline for acne vulgaris. Serum antinuclear antibody was strongly positive (1 : 2560) and liver transaminases were grossly deranged. All other causes of liver disease were excluded. Both the clinical symptoms and laboratory abnormalities resolved spontaneously on stopping the drug. We review the three different types of hepatotoxicity associated with minocycline and draw evidence to support the diagnosis of minocycline-induced autoimmune hepatitis. This case supports the call to monitor patients on minocycline therapy for autoimmune disease of the liver and highlights the need for a multicentre prospective trial of the risks and benefits of long-term minocycline therapy.
Ferric and aluminum complexes with ATP have shown the induction of tumors in the site of subcutaneous injection, whereas sodium ATP has not. A concomitant but apparently independent phenomenon was a severe lymphoadenitis. The tumor calcium concentration showed an inverse relationship with the tumor growth rate. Carcinogenesis and lymphoadenitis are discussed considering well known effects of ferric and aluminum complexes with ATP on the cellular calcium homeostasis and of ATP on lymphatic tissue proliferation.
Pellagra is caused by nicotinic acid deficiency; it is rarely encountered in developed countries, and it is mainly related to poverty and malnutrition, as well as with chronic alcoholism. We report the case of an alcoholic patient who was diagnosed with pellagra and administered B-complex vitamin tablets that did not contain niacin. A few weeks later, the patient developed nervousness, irritability, insomnia and, consequently, delusional ideas and hallucinations, for which he had to be hospitalized. After his admission, the patient manifested loss of consciousness and myoclonus. All of his symptoms (cutaneous, neurological, and psychiatric) resolved fully with treatment with niacin in combination with other B-complex vitamins. All undiagnosed encephalopathies in alcoholic patients should be treated with multiple vitamin therapy, including nicotinic acid.
Chromium is an essential element for carbohydrate, fat, and protein metabolism. The therapeutic potential of chromium histidinate (CrHis) in the treatment of diabetes has been elucidated. The present study investigated the effects of CrHis on serum parameters of renal function, on oxidative stress markers (malondialdehyde [MDA] and 8-isoprostane), and on the expression of heat-shock proteins (HSPs) in rats.
Male Wistar rats (n=60, 8 weeks old) were divided into four groups. Group 1 received a standard diet (12% of calories as fat). Group 2 received a standard diet, plus CrHis. Group 3 received a high-fat diet (40% of calories as fat) for 2 weeks, and was then injected with streptozotocin (STZ) on day 14 (STZ, 40 mg/kg intraperitoneally). Group 4 was treated in the same way as group 3 (HFD/STZ), but was supplemented with 110 microg CrHis/kg/body weight/day. Oxidative stress in the kidneys of diabetic rats was evidenced by an elevation in levels of MDA and 8-isoprostane. Protein concentrations of HSP60 and HSP70 in renal tissue were determined by Western blot analyses.
Chromium histidinate supplementation lowered kidney concentrations of MDA, 8-isoprostane levels, serum urea-N, and creatinine, and reduced the severity of renal damage in the STZ-treated group (i.e., the diabetes-induced group). The expression of HSP60 and HSP70 was lower in the STZ group that received CrHis than in the group that did not. No significant effect of CrHis supplementation was detected in regard to the overall measured parameters in the control group.
Chromium histidinate significantly decreased lipid peroxidation levels and HSP expression in the kidneys of experimentally induced diabetic rats. This study supported the efficacy of CrHis in reducing renal risk factors and impairment because of diabetes.
Accumulating evidence supports the hypothesis that the continuous host response to a persistent challenge can polarize the cytokine environment toward a Th2 cytokine phenotype, but the mechanisms responsible for this skewing are not clear.
We investigated the role of Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9) in a Th2-driven pulmonary granulomatous response initiated via the embolization of Schistosoma mansoni eggs to the lungs of mice.
Mice were intravenously injected with S. mansoni eggs. Histological and flow cytometric analysis, cytokine measurement, adoptive transfer of bone marrow (BM)-derived dendritic cells (DCs), and in vitro T-cell treatments with antigen-presenting cells were examined.
In comparison to wild-type mice, TLR9(-/-) mice showed increased pulmonary granuloma size, augmented collagen deposition, increased Th2 cytokine phenotype, and impaired accumulation of DCs. BM-derived DCs, but not macrophages, recovered from animals with developed Th2-type lung granulomas promoted the production of type 2 cytokines from CD4(+) T cells. BM-derived DCs from TLR9(-/-) mice induced impaired Th1 cytokine and enhanced Th2 cytokine production by T cells, compared with DCs from WT mice. Macrophages from TLR9(-/-) mice expressed a significantly higher alternatively activated (M2) phenotype characterized by increased "found in inflammatory zone-1" (FIZZ1) and arginase-1 expression. The adoptive transfer of BM-derived DCs from syngeneic WT mice into TLR9(-/-) mice restored the granuloma phenotype seen in WT mice.
These studies suggest that TLR9 plays an important mechanistic role in the maintenance of the pulmonary granulomatous response.
Neuroendocrine tumors overexpressing the proglucagon- derived peptides have been associated with severe constipation. The relationship between two of the intestinal proglucagon-derived peptides, glucagon-like peptide (GLP)-1 and -2, and delayed gastrointestinal transit, was characterized in a patient with a neuroendocrine proglucagon-derived peptide tumor. A 60-yr-old female presented with intractable constipation and intermittent vomiting. Gastric, oral-ileal and colonic transit times, and plasma hormone levels were determined before tumor resection. Expression of the proglucagon-derived peptides by the tumor was determined by immunohistochemistry, Northern blot analysis, HPLC, and RIA. Oral-cecal transit was more than 3 h, and a barium follow-through study showed dilated and thickened folds with most of the barium concentrated in the ileum at 24 h; residual barium was identified in the colon at 14 d post ingestion. Circulating levels of GLP-1 and -2 were 300- to 400-fold elevated compared with levels in normal human subjects. Normal bowel function was restored by tumor resection. Consistent with the elevated plasma hormone levels, the tumor was found to express the proglucagon gene, and immunoreactive GLP-1 and -2 were detected by both immunohistochemistry and RIA. Overexpression of glucagon-like peptide-1 and -2 is associated with markedly prolonged gastrointestinal transit in humans. These findings are consistent with a role for these peptides in the regulation of gastrointestinal motility.
367 patients with mild-moderate hypertension were included in a multicentre study for the purpose of examining the antihypertensive effect of six weeks of treatment with the ACE-inhibitor lisinopril 10 and 20 mg once daily. Both low-dose and high-dose lisinopril significantly reduced sitting and standing blood pressure values. The fall in blood pressure in the sitting position was slightly but significantly greater among the high-dose group compared with the low-dose group (a 3 mm Hg fall difference in systolic values and a 1 mm Hg fall in diastolic values). No such differences were found in the standing position. Heart rate remained unchanged during lisinopril treatment. Episodes of possible first dose hypotension were reported in six patients. Approximately 90% of the patients in both groups were classified as responders according to defined criteria. The frequency of side-effects was low, and was equal in both treatment groups. An evaluation of reduction in blood pressure, and of response rate and side-effects suggests that an initial dose of 10 mg lisinopril once daily is sufficient, and that this dosage will control blood pressure in the majority of patients.
We hypothesized that tenascin expression is increased in pleural inflammatory and fibrotic diseases and that its expression can be used as a marker of active pleural involvement. For this purpose we analyzed 71 histological samples of inflammatory and fibrotic pleura from patients with asbestos-induced pleural reaction (n = 6), postcardiac injury syndrome (n = 6), parapneumonic infection and/or empyema (n = 23), tuberculosis (n = 5, rheumatoid disease (n = 1), and fibrosis with inflammation of unknown etiology (n = 30). All 71 cases were studied by immunohistochemistry for tenascin. In 19 selected cases tenascin mRNA in situ hybridization was also performed. In every case, tenascin was increased by immunohistochemistry. Most prominent immunoreactivity was detected in areas of newly formed fibrosis. Increased tenascin mRNA expression by in situ hybridization was detected in the individual cells of the newly formed fibrosis underneath the fibrinous exudate. The tenascin mRNA-positive cells localized in areas in which by immunohistochemical studies the cells were positive for alpha-smooth muscle actin, desmin, and vimentin, suggesting a myofibroblast phenotype. Tenascin mRNA expression was also seen less frequently in areas in which some cells were positive for cytokeratin. These cells might represent mesothelial cells entrapped in the inflammatory lesion. Alternatively, they might represent fibroblast-type cells with aberrant cytokeratin expression. We conclude that in pleural inflammatory and fibrotic diseases tenascin immunoreactivity is increased and tenascin mRNA-positive cells localized mainly in the areas of myofibroblast- and, less often, mesothelial-type cells, suggesting that mainly myofibroblasts and, less commonly, also mesothelial cells might be responsible for tenascin expression in pleural inflammatory and fibrotic diseases. (J Histochem Cytochem 48:1257-1268, 2000)
Valproic acid induced coma is presented in an adult patient without a history of metabolic disease. Liver biopsy revealed a reduction in activity of carbamyl phosphate synthetase-I, an enzyme obligated for transformation of ammonia to urea in the urea cycle. After recovery CT scan follow-up showed marked cerebral atrophy which did not exist prior to the state of coma. Risk factors are discussed.
In 12 patients with resistant hypertension labetalol was added to existing therapy. The average dose was 1333 mg (range 400--3600). The subjects were followed up for three and a half years. Mean supine blood pressure (BP) was reduced from 202/123 to 163/103 mm Hg and mean standing BP from 193/127 to 144/100 mm Hg. Mean BP after exercise was 134/93 mm Hg. The main side-effect was postural hypotension during exercise, causing withdrawal of labetalol in two subjects. In patients with severe hypertension, resistant to several combinations of antihypertensive drugs, the addition of labetalol may lead to satisfactory BP reduction, especially when combined with a potent diuretic.
