1. DL-C-Allyglycine, 4-deoxypyridoxine hydrochloride and 3-mercaptopropionic acid have been studied with reference to their convulsant effects in mice and in baboons (Papio papio) with photosensitive epilepsy, and their action on the cerebral enzyme synthesizing gamma-aminobutyric acid (L-glutamate-1-carboxy-lyase).2. In mice, the ED(50) values for seizures following intraperitoneal injection were allylglycine 1.0 mmol/kg body weight, 4-deoxypyridoxine 1.1 mmol/kg and 3-mercaptopropionic acid 0.27 mmol/kg. Latency to seizure onset was longest after allylglycine (44-240 min), intermediate after 4-deoxypyridoxine (9-114 min) and shortest after 3-mercaptopropionic acid (2.5-8 min).3. In Papio papio intravenous administration of subconvulsant doses of allylglycine (0.87-3.1 mmol/kg), or of 4-deoxypyridoxine (0.21-0.53 mmol/kg) enhanced the occurrence and persistence of myoclonic responses to intermittent photic stimulation, and augmented the associated electroencephalographic abnormalities, without modifying their character or distribution. Higher doses produced brief seizures recurring at regular intervals, between 2-14 h after allylglycine (4.0-4.3 mmol/kg) or 1-4 h after 4-deoxypyridoxine (0.53-0.87 mmol/kg). Electroencephalographically these seizures originated unilaterally in the occipital or posterior parietal cortex.4. In Papio papio photically-induced epileptic responses were enhanced 5-10 min after the intravenous injection of 3-mercaptopropionic acid (0.09-0.28 mmol/kg). A sequence of brief generalized seizures followed by complete recovery occurred 4-17 min after the injection of 3-mercaptopropionic acid (0.28-0.38 mmol/kg). Fatal status epilepticus followed the injection of 3-mercaptopropionic acid (0.57-0.75 mmol/kg). E.E.G. records showed generalized cortical involvement at the onset of the seizures.5. L-Glutamate 1-carboxy-lyase (GAD) activity was determined in whole brain homogenates from mice killed at various intervals after receiving i.p. a convulsant dose of one of the compounds. Inhibition of GAD activity was evident 30-60 min before seizure onset following allylglycine or 4-deoxypyridoxine administration, and was maximal (40-60%) just before or during seizure activity. Addition of pyridoxal phosphate to the brain homogenate relieved inhibition produced by 4-deoxypyridoxine but not that produced by allylglycine. Inhibition of GAD activity in brain homogenates from animals killed 2 or 4 min after injection of a convulsant dose of 3-mercaptopropionic acid varied from 0-49% depending on the dose of 3-mercaptopropionic acid and the concentration of substrate in the assay system.6. Kinetic analysis of the inhibition of GAD activity following direct addition of the compounds to mouse brain homogenates indicated that 3-mercaptopropionic acid (0.01-0.5 mM) was competitive with respect to the substrate. A comparable percentage inhibition of GAD activity was obtained only with much higher concentrations of 4-deoxypyridoxne, i.e. 10-50 mM. Allylglycine in vitro was a very weak inhibitor of GAD activity.7. Three biochemically different mechanisms underlie the inhibition of cerebral GAD activity that precedes seizures induced by ailylglycine, 4-deoxypyridoxine and 3-mercaptopropionic acid. The data are consistent with a critical reduction in the rate of synthesis of gamma-aminobutyric acid being responsible for the onset of seizures.
Patients with hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection have a higher morbidity and mortality after heart transplantation (HT). HBV infection is endemic in Taiwan. We studied the effect of lamivudine treatment of HBV infection after HT. From July 1987 to July 2005, 252 patients underwent HT. All recipients and donors underwent routine screening of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg), hepatitis B e antigen, antibody to hepatitis B surface antigen, antibody to hepatitis B core antigen, antibody to hepatitis B e antigen, and an alanine aminotransferase (ALT) level before HT. When ALT was two times greater than the upper limit of normal or serum bilirubin was higher than 3 mg/dL in HBsAg-positive patients, HBV-DNA were checked by a branched DNA assay or polymerase chain reaction. When HVB-DNA was greater than 100,000 copies/mL, lamivudine (100 mg per day) was prescribed indefinitely. There were 14 patients under lamivudine treatment after HT, among whom, none suffered severe adverse reactions from lamivudine. Four patients died: one due to end-stage cirrhosis while awaiting liver transplantation at 14 months after HT. Two died of sudden death at 54 months and 138 months after HT. Another died of diffuse B cell lymphoma at 62 months after HT. All the survivors have normal ALT and undetectable HBV-DNA after lamivudine treatment. But the YMDD mutant was detected in two patients. With successful treatment of HBV infection in HT, it is not necessary to exclude HBV infection patients from HT.
Resveratrol, a polyphenol abundantly found in grapes and red wine, exhibits beneficial health effects due to its anti-inflammatory properties. In the present study, we evaluated the effect of resveratrol on inflammatory responses induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) treatment of human intestinal Caco-2 and SW480 cell lines. In the LPS-treated intestinal cells, resveratrol dose-dependently inhibited the expression of inducible NO synthase (iNOS) mRNA as well as protein expression, resulting in a decreased production of NO. In addition, Toll-like receptor-4 expression was significantly diminished in LPS-stimulated cells after resveratrol pre-treatment. To investigate the mechanisms by which resveratrol reduces NO production and iNOS expression, we examined the activation of inhibitor of κB (IκB) in LPS-stimulated intestinal cells. Results demonstrated that resveratrol inhibited the phosphorylation, as well as the degradation, of the IκB complex. Overall, these results show that resveratrol is able to reduce LPS-induced inflammatory responses by intestinal cells, interfering with the activation of NF-κB-dependent molecular mechanisms.
In an attempt to resolve conflicting reports about the identity of a low-renin subgroup in essential hypertension, the distribution of plasma-renin activity (P.R.A.) has been examined in 82 hypertensive subjects before and after stimulation with bendrofluazide. The unstimulated basal P.R.A. showed no evidence of a separate subgroup of patients with low P.R.A. values although the distribution was slightly skewed with a tail to the right when compared with 83 normotensive subjects. In 38 of the patients post-stimulation P.R.A. observed in age and sex matched normotensive controls exposed to the same stimulus. However the percentage rise in P.R.A. in all 83 patients was less than half that of the controls. Thus the identification of a low-renin subgroup of hypertensive patients is critically determined by the standard of comparison employed: if the percentage rise is considered subnormal responsiveness is a feature of essential hypertension. If absolute post-stimulation values are used, there is a substantial group of patients with "low renin hypertension". The demarcation of such a group is, however, essentially arbitrary.
To report a case of perivesical hematoma without previous trauma in a patient under anticoagulant treatment.
A 70-year-old female admitted with a transitory ischemic cerebrovascular accident was given sodium heparin. Four days later she presented with abdominal distention and hypogastric discomfort. Abdominal ultrasound showed a big perivesical hematoma.
CT scan confirmed the presence of a big hematoma. The hematoma was drained five days later after an optimal coagulation profile. Patient was discharged with normal ultrasound after an uneventful postoperative course.
Spontaneous bleeding in patients with coagulation abnormalities is a well-known event, although there are few bibliographic references about primary perivesical blood collections. We opted for deferred drainage of the hematoma to avoid perivesical fibrosis.
Voluntary movement difficulties in Parkinson's disease are initially relieved by l-DOPA therapy, but with disease progression, the repeated l-DOPA treatments can produce debilitating motor abnormalities known as l-DOPA-induced dyskinesias. We show here that 2 striatum-enriched regulators of the Ras/Rap/ERK MAP kinase signal transduction cascade, matrix-enriched CalDAG-GEFI and striosome-enriched CalDAG-GEFII (also known as RasGRP), are strongly and inversely dysregulated in proportion to the severity of abnormal movements induced by l-DOPA in a rat model of parkinsonism. In the dopamine-depleted striatum, the l-DOPA treatments produce down-regulation of CalDAG-GEFI and up-regulation of CalDAG-GEFII mRNAs and proteins, and quantification of the mRNA levels shows that these changes are closely correlated with the severity of the dyskinesias. As these CalDAG-GEFs control ERK cascades, which are implicated in l-DOPA-induced dyskinesias, and have differential compartmental expression patterns in the striatum, we suggest that they may be key molecules involved in the expression of the dyskinesias. They thus represent promising new therapeutic targets for limiting the motor complications induced by l-DOPA therapy.
New asymmetric piperazines 9-19 were obtained by condensation of 1-acyl-piperazines with 1,2-epoxy-3-chloropropane, arylacid chlorides, phenols, amines and 1-(alpha-naphthyloxy)-2,3-epoxypropane. Most of the compounds produced a transient hypotension and exerted a spasmolytic action of the isolated intestine. Compounds 10, 11 and 13 displayed a weak antiarrhythmic effect in the adrenaline arrhythmia test in rats. Compounds 14 and 15 increased the coronary flow, but their action was weaker than that of compound 4, described in the first part of the paper.
The present study showed that vitamin E, although ineffective by itself, was able to potentiate the ability of selenium to inhibit the development of mammary tumors induced by dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA) in rats. Animals were maintained on a high-polyunsaturated fat (20% corn oil) diet in order to increase the degree of oxidant stress; additional selenium and/or vitamin E were present at a concentration of 2.5 and 1000 mg/kg of diet, respectively. It should be noted that rats tolerated these levels of supplementation very well with no obvious undesirable effect. Furthermore, our results indicated that vitamin E facilitated the anticarcinogenic action of selenium only when it was present during the proliferative phase. We then proceeded to examine whether DMBA administration would lead to any persistent damage in tissue peroxidation or changes in activities of enzymes associated with peroxide metabolism. It was found that DMBA resulted in an acute but modest increase in lipid peroxidation at 24 hr after carcinogen treatment. This perturbation was only of a transient nature. By comparing the response in a target tissue (mammary fat pad) and a non-target tissue (liver), it can be inferred that DMBA may have a differential effect on the degree of oxidant stress. The antagonistic effect of selenium and vitamin E in suppressing lipid peroxidation was then evaluated. Several conclusions can be drawn regarding the antioxidant potency of these agents in conjunction with their efficacies in cancer prevention. First, although vitamin E is a more effective antioxidant than selenium, it is apparent that systemic suppression of lipid peroxidation by vitamin E subsequent to a carcinogenic insult is not sufficient to inhibit tumor formation. Vitamin E supplementation increases significantly the microsomal hydroperoxidase activity. At the present time, it is unclear what role, if any, this enzyme plays in the synergistic effect of vitamin E and selenium in the inhibition of tumorigenesis. Secondly, the anticarcinogenic action of high levels of selenium is not related to its biochemical function in the regulation of the selenium-dependent glutathione peroxidase. The explanation for this is that the enzyme is already operating at near maximal capacity under normal physiological conditions. Additional selenium will not further increase its activity, since the enzyme protein becomes the limiting factor. Finally, vitamin E may be able to provide a more favorable climate against oxidant stress, thereby potentiating the action of selenium via some other mechanism.
To measure health-related quality-of-life (HRQoL) in elderly symptomatic heart failure patients following treatment with an angiotensin II receptor antagonist (losartan) vs. an angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitor (captopril).
Patients (age > or = 65 years) were randomised to losartan, titrated to 50 mg once daily, or captopril, titrated to 50 mg three times daily, as tolerated. Sickness Impact Profile (SIP) and Minnesota Living with Heart Failure (LIhFE) questionnaires were administered at baseline, weeks 12 and 48. Composite hypothesis testing of change in HRQoL from baseline for completers, and withdrawal for unfavourable events (death, clinical/laboratory adverse experience) was used to account for differential dropout rates.
In 203 patients completing the substudy (week 48), significant and comparable improvements in HRQoL from baseline were observed for both treatment groups (p < or = 0.001). Although there was a trend favouring losartan vs. captopril for the composite HRQoL endpoint (unadjusted p = 0.018, one-sided), this was not considered significant after adjusting for multiple testing. Significantly more captopril patients in the substudy subset withdrew for unfavourable reasons (19.6 vs. 10.9%, p = 0.038).
Significant improvements in HRQoL were observed in elderly patients with symptomatic heart failure treated with losartan and captopril long-term. A trend favouring losartan in the composite measure of drug tolerability/quality of life was not significant, but losartan was generally better tolerated than captopril in that significantly fewer losartan patients discontinued therapy.
The present experiment was undertaken to investigate possible synergism in induction of rat prostate tumor. F344 rats were repeatedly administered the prostate carcinogens 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB),N-nitrosobis(2-oxopropyl)amine(BOP), and N-methylnitrosourea (MNU) sequentially or together at times of hormonal castration induced regenerative cell proliferation of prostate epithelial cells. Group 1 animals received two 100 mg/kg doses of DMAB, two 20 mg/kg applications of BOP, and two times 15 mg/kg of MNU. Groups 2, 3, and 4, respectively, received each of the carcinogen treatment alone. Group 5 was given 6 applications of all three in combination, each at one-third the dose administered to the other groups. The results showed a clear synergism in enhanced tumor development in the colon but not in the prostate, in which the incidence of lesions induced by the three carcinogens was similar to that with DMAB alone.
The zebrafish Danio rerio embryo test with metabolic activation (mDarT) was developed to assess the teratogenic effects of proteratogens. In this study induced rat liver microsomes (RLM) were used as a mammalian metabolic activation system (MAS), since they contain various cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoforms at high concentrations. Acetaminophen (APAP) is considered not to be teratogenic in vivo, however, in vitro teratogenic effects were observed, e.g. in rat whole embryo culture. The CYP2E1 activation of APAP to the reactive metabolite N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone imine (NAPQI) mainly occurs, when the glucuronidation and sulfatation pathways are saturated. In vivo the soft electrophile NAPQI is usually inactivated by hepatic reduced glutathione (GSH), a soft nucleophile. In this study, we investigated the teratogenic and lethal effects of APAP after CYP activation in zebrafish embryos. In the test groups with APAP and metabolic activation 11.7+/-7.6% (2mM), 25.0+/-8.7% (4mM) and 50.0+/-21.8% (6mM) affected embryos were seen, reaching statistical significance at 4mM APAP. When embryos were exposed to 6mM APAP, MAS and 3mM GSH the percentage of affected embryos decreased to 6.7+/-5.8%. In contrast teratogenic and lethal effects of metabolically activated cyclophosphamide (CPA) could not be prevented by GSH addition, because the CPA metabolites are strong electrophiles, which preferentially bind to hard nucleophiles like DNA and RNA. The teratogenic and lethal effects of metabolically activated APAP observed in zebrafish embryos with our mDarT standard protocol could be explained by the lack of GSH as a detoxifying system. By adding GSH it was possible to mimic the situation in mammals and thus avoid teratogenic effects in zebrafish embryos.
185 electrocardiograms, of a total of 39 patients were analyzed during and after Adriamycin treatment. Total Adriamycin doses did not exceed 70--120 mg in each course, respecting the 550 mg/m2 limit. ECG changes were found in 80% of such therapeutic regimen, changes of heart-rate, PQ, QT-intervals and ST/T predominating, Arrhythmias (supraventricular and ventricular ectopic beats as well as AV-blocks grade I--II) were observed in several patients.
A number of newer antianginal agents, including nicorandil, trimetazidine, and ivabradine, have been synthesized in recent years, but ranolazine, a piperazine derivative that partially inhibits fatty acid oxidation and the late INa current in animal models, is of particular interest mechanistically. Earlier clinical trials with immediate-release ranolazine led to the current sustained-release version tested in the Monotherapy Assessment of Ranolazine In Stable Angina (MARISA) (n = 193) and Combination Assessment of Ranolazine In Stable Angina (CARISA) trials (n = 823) of patients with chronic angina and severe limitation of exercise capacity (ie, < 5 metabolic equivalents). MARISA was a placebo-controlled, randomized trial that compared ranolazine monotherapy (500 mg, 1000 mg, and 1500 mg, twice daily) to placebo. CARISA was a placebo-controlled trial that randomized patients on background beta-blocker or calcium antagonist therapy to placebo or ranolazine (750 mg or 1000 mg, twice daily). Both studies showed a significant increase in total exercise duration, time to angina onset, and time to 1 mm ST segment depression. The average magnitude of increase in exercise duration over placebo was 29 to 56 seconds at peak and 24 to 46 seconds at trough with the 3 doses tested in MARISA, and 24 to 34 seconds greater than placebo with the 2 doses used in CARISA. The beneficial effect was achieved without clinically important changes in rest or exercise heart rate or blood pressure. Weekly angina attack frequency and nitroglycerin usage were significantly reduced in a dose-dependent manner in the 12-week CARISA trial. Reported adverse effects were similar in MARISA and CARISA and consisted of asthenia, nausea, constipation, and dizziness. Syncope, reported in 8 patients at doses of 1000 mg twice daily or more may be related to attenuation of alpha-1 receptor activity. The mean QTc interval increased with dose and was less than 10 msec on ranolazine at 1000 mg twice daily. The mortality rates at 1 and 2 years in MARISA and CARISA open-label run-on studies were 2% and less than 5%, acceptable for this high-risk population with limited exercise capacity. In conclusion, clinical trial evidence with ranolazine to date is consistent with its proposed mechanism of action and demonstrates an effective antianginal profile that may benefit patients with severe chronic angina.
27 patients with a mean cumulative dose of 450 +/- 150 mg adriamycin for the treatment of solid malignoma and clinical symptoms of left heart failure are examined by echocardiography. 14 patients had an abnormal ejection fraction, 21 patients an abnormal mean circumferential fiber shortening and 4 patients presented with pericardial effusion. The results demonstrate that echocardiography is a safe, noninvasive and reliable method for diagnosing a reduced left ventricular function in patients treated with adriamycin.
quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1) is an enzyme capable of reducing a broad range of chemically reactive quinones and quinoneimines (QIs) and can be strongly upregulated by Nrf2/Keap1-mediated stress responses. Several commonly used drugs implicated in adverse drug reactions (ADRs) are known to form reactive QI metabolites upon bioactivation by P450, such as acetaminophen (APAP), diclofenac (DF), and mefenamic acid (MFA). In the present study, the reductive activity of human NQO1 toward the QI metabolites derived from APAP and hydroxy-metabolites of DF and MFA was studied, using purified bacterial P450 BM3 (CYP102A1) mutant M11 as a bioactivation system. The NQO1-catalyzed reduction of the QI metabolites was quantified relative to spontaneous glutathione (GSH) conjugation. Addition of NQO1 to the incubations strongly reduced the formation of all corresponding GSH conjugates, and this activity could be prevented by dicoumarol, a selective NQO1 inhibitor. The GSH conjugation was strongly increased by adding human GSTP1-1 in a wide range of GSH concentrations. Still, NQO1 could effectively compete with the GST catalyzed GSH conjugation by reducing the QIs. In conclusion, we identified the QI metabolites of the 4'- and 5-hydroxy-metabolites of DF and MFA as novel substrates for human NQO1. NQO1-mediated reduction proves to be an effective pathway to detoxify these QI metabolites in addition to GSH conjugation. Genetically determined deficiency of NQO1 therefore might be a risk factor for ADRs induced by reactive QI drug metabolites.
To determine whether the adenosine A2A receptor might play a role in L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease, we analyzed changes in the expression of A2A receptor mRNA in response to intermittent treatment with L-DOPA in rats with dopaminergic denervation by 6-hydroxydopamine (OHDA) infusion into the medial forebrain bundle. Intermittent treatment with L-DOPA increased A2A receptor mRNA levels in the dopamine-depleted striatum of 6-OHDA-lesioned rats exhibiting behavioral sensitization to L-DOPA. These results suggest that A2A receptor activation is associated with the development of motor complications induced by L-DOPA treatment.
Seasonal allergic rhinitis (SAR) to the Japanese cedar, Cryptomeria japonica (JC) pollen is an IgE-mediated type I allergy affecting nasal mucosa. However, the molecular events underlying its development remain unclear. We sought to identify SAR-associated altered gene expression in nasal epithelial cells during natural exposure to JC pollen. We recruited study participants in 2009 and 2010 and collected nasal epithelial cells between February and April, which is the period of natural pollen dispersion. Fifteen patients with SAR-JC and 13 control subjects were enrolled in 2009, and 17 SAR-JC patients, 13 sensitized asymptomatic subjects (Sensitized), and 15 control subjects were enrolled in 2010. Total RNA was extracted from nasal epithelial cells and 8 SAR-JC patients and 6 control subjects in 2009 were subjected to microarray analysis with the Illumina HumanRef-8 Expression BeadChip platform. Allergen-stimulated histamine release was examined in the peripheral blood basophils isolated from patients with SAR. We identified 32 genes with significantly altered expression during allergen exposure. One of these, CST1 encodes the cysteine protease inhibitor, cystatin SN. CST1 expression in nasal epithelial cells was significantly upregulated in both the 2009 and 2010 SAR-JC groups compared with the control groups. Immunohistochemical staining confirmed the increased expression of CST1 in the nasal epithelial cells of SAR patients. Addition of exogenous CST1 to basophils inhibited JC allergen-stimulated histamine release in vitro. We propose that CST1 may contribute to inactivation of protease allergens and help re-establish homeostasis of the nasal membranes.
5 alpha-Pregnan-3 alpha-ol-20-one (3 alpha-OH-DHP) blocked seizures induced by nicotine (4 mg/kg, i.p.) in C3H male mice with an ID50 of 2.37 +/- 0.66 mg/kg (average +/- 95% confidence limit). This steroid (1 microM) also increased paired-pulse inhibition in the hippocampus approximately 40% after 50 min exposure; nicotine (200 microM) partially reversed this effect. Since nicotine and 3 alpha-OH-DHP may have opposite effects on endogenous inhibitory systems, it is proposed that nicotine-induced seizures may involve a disinhibitory mechanism and that 3 alpha-OH-DHP protects against seizures by preventing disinhibition.
Chronic rejection is a major cause of graft dysfunction after kidney transplantation. Long-term treatment with cyclosporine (CsA) or tacrolimus (FK506) results in chronic nephrotoxicity. Transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGFbeta1) and its receptors type I (TR-I) and type II (TR-II) have been known to contribute to this side effect. The expression of TGF-beta1, TR-I, and TR-II in rat kidneys has not been compared during chronic nephropathy induced by CsA or FK506.
Rat models of chronic CsA- or FK506-induced nephropathy were established using Sandimun Neoral or Prograf administration. The kidneys were dissected and TGF-beta1, TR-I, and TR-II proteins and TR-I and TR-II mRNAs measured by immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization, respectively, to compare the results of the two groups.
The functional and morphologic studies showed that in the rats the nephrotoxic effects of FK506 were not as significant as those of CsA. The results of immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization showed that the expression of renal TGFbeta1, TR I, TR-II proteins and TR and TR II mRNA in the FK506 group were lower than those in the CsA groups.
These results showed that both FK506 and CSA display nephrotoxicity, but that the nephrotoxicity of FK506 was less than that of CsA in chronic nephropathy.
We recently reported that alpha(1)-adrenoceptor (alpha(1)-AR) stimulation induces hypertrophy via activation of the mitogen/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (MEK) 1/2-extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2 pathway and generates reactive oxygen species (ROS) in adult rat ventricular myocytes (ARVM). Here we investigate the intracellular source of ROS in ARVM and the mechanism by which ROS activate hypertrophic signaling after alpha(1)-AR stimulation. Pretreatment of ARVM with the ROS scavenger Mn(III)terakis(1-methyl-4-pyridyl) porphyrin pentachloride (MnTMPyP) completely inhibited the alpha(1)-AR-stimulated activation of Ras-MEK1/2-ERK1/2. Direct addition of H(2)O(2) or the superoxide generator menadione activated ERK1/2, which is also prevented by MnTMPyP pretreatment. We found that ARVM express gp91(phox), p22(phox), p67(phox), and p47(phox), four major components of NAD(P)H oxidase, and that alpha(1)-AR-stimulated ERK1/2 activation was blocked by four structurally unrelated inhibitors of NAD(P)H oxidase [diphenyleneiodonium, phenylarsine oxide, 4-(2-aminoethyl)benzenesulfonyl fluoride, and cadmium]. Conversely, inhibitors for other potential ROS-producing systems, including mitochondrial electron transport chain, nitric oxide synthase, xanthine oxidase, and cyclooxygenase, had no effect on alpha(1)-AR-stimulated ERK1/2 activation. Taken together, our results show that ventricular myocytes express components of an NAD(P)H oxidase that appear to be involved in alpha(1)-AR-stimulated hypertrophic signaling via ROS-mediated activation of Ras-MEK1/2-ERK1/2.
A 31-year-old woman developed bilateral posterior ischemic optic neuropathy and infarctions of the cerebral arterial border zones and spinal cord after correction of malignant hypertension. Although a few reports have described patients with neurologic abnormalities after treatment of malignant hypertension, full clinical and neuroimaging documentation of this combination of findings has not occurred. This case report suggests that the relative hypotension of autoregulatory failure induced by treatment of malignant hypertension may give rise to these neurologic complications.
We studied the effects of adefovir or entecavir in six kidney transplant recipients (mean age 45.7 +/- 7.8 yr) who developed hepatitic flare due to lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection, with 18 months of follow-up. All patients had elevated alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels and HBV DNA >10(5) copies/mL (median 2.15 x 10(8) copies/mL) at baseline. Serum creatinine and creatinine clearance levels were 137.8 +/- 59.7 mumol/L and 62.6 +/- 18.7 mL/min, respectively. Four patients were treated with adefovir and two with entecavir. Median HBV DNA decreased to 1.99 x 10(5) copies/mL (p = 0.028) after six months, 1.5 x 10(4) copies/mL (p = 0.043) after 12 months, and 7.35 x 10(4) copies/mL (p = 0.068) after 18 months of treatment. There was a corresponding improvement in ALT (34.5 +/- 19.1 U/L after 18 months, p = 0.029 compared with baseline). The rate of HBV DNA suppression was variable, and three patients took over six months for the viral load to decrease to <10(5) copies/mL. After 18 months, HBV DNA was <10(5) copies/mL in four patients and <10(2) copies/mL in one patient. Treatment was well-tolerated and renal function remained stable. We conclude that both adefovir and entecavir are effective in the treatment of lamivudine-resistant HBV in renal allograft recipients, and the reduction of HBV DNA to <10(5) copies/mL could be slow.
Certain classes of antihypertensive drugs, such as calcium antagonists, appear to have antiatherogenic properties, as shown in animal models. In these experimental models, only isradipine, a potent new dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, has shown an antiatherogenic effect in doses compatible with that recommended for antihypertensive treatment in humans. The Multicenter Isradipine/Diuretic Atherosclerosis Study (MIDAS) was designed to assess the efficacy of isradipine (2.5 or 5.0 mg twice daily) compared with hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) in reducing the rate of progression of atherosclerotic plaque in carotid arteries, as measured by B-mode ultrasonography. MIDAS is the first clinical trial of hypertension designed to test the hypothesis that antihypertensive drug treatment may have a favourable effect on the progression of atherosclerosis in humans. MIDAS is a double-blind, randomized, controlled clinical trial involving 883 patients. The primary endpoint is the observed change in the rate of progression of the intimal-medial wall thickness of the carotid arteries, as measured quantitatively by B-mode ultrasonography over time. Changes in the mean maximum intimal-medial thickness (IMT) at 12 points in the carotid arteries (near and far walls of the common carotid, the carotid bifurcation, and internal carotid segments on both right and left sides of the neck) were measured over a 3-year period. At baseline, the mean age of the participants was 58.5 years. The mean systolic and diastolic blood pressures were, respectively, 149.8 and 96.5 mmHg. The mean duration of hypertension was 10 years.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To test the hypothesis that alpha 2-adrenoceptor activity exerts a dual control of coronary blood flow, i.e., vasoconstriction and augmentation of the vasodilatory effect of adenosine, four doses of adenosine were infused into left anterior descending coronary artery before and during alpha 2-adrenoceptor stimulation or attenuation in anesthetized open-chest dogs. During a moderate alpha 2-adrenoceptor attenuation (yohimbine or rauwolscine, ic), which did not alter coronary blood flow (CBF) at the base-line condition, the hyperemic response of CBF to infused adenosine was markedly reduced, whereas during the potent attenuation both base-line CBF and adenosine-induced hyperemic CBF were significantly increased. Inversely, the moderate alpha 2-stimulation (0.03 microgram.kg-1.min-1 norepinephrine with prazosin, ic, or 0.04 microgram.kg-1.min-1 clonidine ic, under propranolol pretreatment) augmented the adenosine-induced coronary vasodilation, but the potent alpha 2-stimulation (0.3 microgram.kg-1.min-1 norepinephrine with prazosin ic, or 0.3 microgram.kg-1.min-1 clonidine ic) reduced both base-line CBF hyperemic CBF. In contrast, alpha 2-adrenoceptor activity did not affect papaverine-induced coronary vasodilation. Moreover, the reactive hyperemic flow after a brief coronary occlusion was reduced significantly during the moderate alpha 2-adrenergic attenuation, but it was augmented during the potent one. These results indicate that the moderate activation of the alpha 2-adrenoceptor augments the hyperemic response of CBF to both exogenous and endogenous adenosine, whereas the potent alpha 2-activation may mask this vasodilatory effect through the coronary vasoconstrictive effect.
Peripheral neurotoxicity is a dose-limiting side-effect of a number of effective chemotherapeutic agents. Neuroprotective agents may help to reduce neurotoxicity, thus allowing the intensification of cytostatic therapy in patients.
In this in vitro study, using the rat pheochromocytoma cell line PC-12 neurite-outgrowth assay, the potential of amifostine to protect against cisplatin-, paclitaxel- and vincristine-induced neurotoxicity was investigated Amifostine is described as selectively protecting normal tissue and not tumour tissue. The effect of amifostine on tumour cell kill was investigated using the XTT and colony forming assay.
Paclitaxel and vincristine both caused a significant reduction in the percentage of cells expressing neurites. Co-incubation with amifostine significantly increased this percentage of neurites in paclitaxel-induced neurotoxicity, but not in vincristine-induced neurotoxicity. Post-incubation of amifostine also proved to partly reverse already existing cisplatin-induced neurotoxicity, but not paclitaxel-, or vincristine-induced neurotoxicity. Amifostine did not protect tumour cells against cisplatin- and paclitaxel-induced tumour cytotoxicity, using the XTT assay. However, a stimulation of clonogenic capacity was observed when amifostine was coincubated with cisplatin.
Amifostine protects against paclitaxel-induced neurotoxicity, but not against vincristine-induced neurotoxicity in this in vitro model. Furthermore, amifostine has potential to reverse already existing cisplatin-induced neurotoxicity. The role of amifostine in the proliferative potential of tumour cells in vitro needs further investigation.
Dermatomyositis is a rare inflammatory autoimmune disease. The association between a lipid-lowering drug like pravastatin and the development of a musculocutaneous syndrome has been reported in single case reports only. We present the first report of a simvastatin induced dermatomyositis in a 71-year-old woman with positive Mi-2-Antibodies to point out this rare side effect of the increasingly prescribed statins. In future simvastatin should be considered as a possible trigger of dermatomyositis.
