Approximately 8.3% of the United States (U.S.) population have either diagnosed or undiagnosed diabetes mellitus. Out of all the cases of diabetes mellitus, approximately 90-95% of these cases are type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D). Although the exact cause of T2D remains elusive, predisposing factors include age, weight, poor diet, and a sedentary lifestyle. Until recently the association between exposure to environmental contaminants and the occurrence of diabetes had been unexplored. However, recent epidemiological studies have revealed that elevated serum concentrations of certain persistent organic pollutants (POPs), especially organochlorine pesticides, are positively associated with increased prevalence of T2D and insulin resistance. The current study seeks to investigate if this association is causative or coincidental. Male C57BL/6H mice were exposed to DDE (2.0mg/kg or 0.4mg/kg) or vehicle (corn oil; 1mL/kg) for 5 days via oral gavage; fasting blood glucose, glucose tolerance, and insulin challenge tests were performed following a 7 day resting period. Exposure to DDE caused significant hyperglycemia compared to vehicle and this hyperglycemic effect persisted for up to 21 days following cessation of DDE administration. Intraperitoneal glucose tolerance tests and phosphorylation of Akt in the liver, skeletal muscle, and adipose tissue following insulin challenge were comparable between vehicle and DDE treated animals. To determine the direct effect of exposure to DDE on glucose uptake, in vitro glucose uptake assays following DDE exposure were performed in L6 myotubules and 3T3-L1 adipocytes. In summary, subacute exposure to DDE does produce fasting hyperglycemia, but this fasting hyperglycemia does not appear to be mediated by insulin resistance. Thus, the current study reveals that subacute exposure to DDE does alter systemic glucose homeostasis and may be a contributing factor to the development of hyperglycemia associated with diabetes.
When an 18 month old girl who had tetralogy of Fallot and episodes of severe cyanosis with loss of consciousness was treated with propranolol there was some improvement. But when the dose was increased she had further episodes of near syncope. Holter monitoring showed extreme intermittent bradycardia with pauses of up to 2.6 seconds. The episodes of near syncope and the bradycardia resolved after propranolol was stopped. Apparent failure of propranolol treatment may on rare occasions be related to drug induced bradycardia rather than to continued episodes of severe cyanosis.
To quantify the antiemetic efficacy and adverse effects of cannabis used for sickness induced by chemotherapy.
Systematic review.
Systematic search (Medline, Embase, Cochrane library, bibliographies), any language, to August 2000.
30 randomised comparisons of cannabis with placebo or antiemetics from which dichotomous data on efficacy and harm were available (1366 patients). Oral nabilone, oral dronabinol (tetrahydrocannabinol), and intramuscular levonantradol were tested. No cannabis was smoked. Follow up lasted 24 hours.
Cannabinoids were more effective antiemetics than prochlorperazine, metoclopramide, chlorpromazine, thiethylperazine, haloperidol, domperidone, or alizapride: relative risk 1.38 (95% confidence interval 1.18 to 1.62), number needed to treat 6 for complete control of nausea; 1.28 (1.08 to 1.51), NNT 8 for complete control of vomiting. Cannabinoids were not more effective in patients receiving very low or very high emetogenic chemotherapy. In crossover trials, patients preferred cannabinoids for future chemotherapy cycles: 2.39 (2.05 to 2.78), NNT 3. Some potentially beneficial side effects occurred more often with cannabinoids: "high" 10.6 (6.86 to 16.5), NNT 3; sedation or drowsiness 1.66 (1.46 to 1.89), NNT 5; euphoria 12.5 (3.00 to 52.1), NNT 7. Harmful side effects also occurred more often with cannabinoids: dizziness 2.97 (2.31 to 3.83), NNT 3; dysphoria or depression 8.06 (3.38 to 19.2), NNT 8; hallucinations 6.10 (2.41 to 15.4), NNT 17; paranoia 8.58 (6.38 to 11.5), NNT 20; and arterial hypotension 2.23 (1.75 to 2.83), NNT 7. Patients given cannabinoids were more likely to withdraw due to side effects 4.67 (3.07 to 7.09), NNT 11.
In selected patients, the cannabinoids tested in these trials may be useful as mood enhancing adjuvants for controlling chemotherapy related sickness. Potentially serious adverse effects, even when taken short term orally or intramuscularly, are likely to limit their widespread use.
Under hypercalcemia induced by calcium gluconate the degranulation of renomedullary interstitial cells accompanied with the increase in volume of the rough and smooth surfaced endoplasmic reticulum and enlargement of the Golgi apparatus were observed. The ultrastructural changes can be regarded as an expression of the increase of a synthetic and secretory activity of these cells. Because the changes of renomedullary cells observed in hypercalcemia induced by calcium gluconate are not really different from that observed in hypercalcemia induced by vitamin D3 (Roszkiewicz et al. 1979) it can suppose that these changes may be connected solely with a calcium serum elevation and that the renomedullary interstitial cells rather do not play any important role in vitamin D3 metabolism.
The hepatic cells of rats being fed acetylaminofluorene were transferred into culture at various times. Proliferative hepatocytic foci were obtained from animals treated with the carcinogen for more than 9 weeks. These hepatocytic foci became transplantable and capable of growth in soft agar after 4 to 12 months in culture. Phenobarbital markedly enhanced the growth of these hepatocytes in culture.
In a little prospective study it could be shown that a series of 10-51 low dose heparin injections may be followed by slight or unspecific thrombocyte diminutions without specific heparin antibodies being available. Depending on stress and trauma potential complement activations caused by heparin histon complexes may result in insignificant thrombocyte diminutions by liberating those factors activating platelets from granulocytes. These are not bound to interrupt heparin therapy or heparin prophylaxis.
In order to explore whether monophosphoryl lipid A (MLA)-induced delayed cadioprotection is mediated by calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and the regulatory effect of inducible heme oxygenase isorform (HO-1)/carbon monoxide (CO) on CGRP synthesis and release, the expression of CGRP and HO-1 in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and CGRP concentration in plasma were determined in rats. Pretreatment with MLA (500 microg/kg, i.p.) significantly reduced infarct size and creatine kinase release after the 45-min coronary artery occlusion and 180-min reperfusion. MLA caused a significant increase in the expression of CGRP and HO-1 and plasma concentrations of CGRP. The cardioprotection as well as the synthesis and release of CGRP induced by MLA were completely abolished by pretreatment with zinc protoporphrin IX (ZnPP-9), an inhibitor of HO-1, or by capsaicin (50 mg/kg, s.c.), which selectively depletes transmitters in capsaicin-sensitive sensory nerves. Pretreatment with Znpp-9 had no effect on HO-1 expression, but capsaicin abrogated the expression of HO-1 induced by MLA in DRG. These results suggest that the delayed cardioprotection afforded by MLA is mediated by CGRP via activation of the HO-1 pathway.
There is a close relationship between the central nervous system activity and bone metabolism. Therefore, methamphetamine (METH), which stimulates the central nervous system, is expected to affect bone turnover. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of METH in bone metabolism. Mice were divided into 3 groups, the control group receiving saline injections, and the 5 and 10mg/kg METH groups (n=6 in each group). All groups received an injection of saline or METH every other day for 8 weeks. Bone mineral density (BMD) was assessed by X-ray computed tomography. We examined biochemical markers and histomorphometric changes in the second cancellous bone of the left femoral distal end. The animals that were administered 5mg/kg METH showed an increased locomotor activity, whereas those receiving 10mg/kg displayed an abnormal and stereotyped behavior. Serum calcium and phosphorus concentrations were normal compared to the controls, whereas the serum protein concentration was lower in the METH groups. BMD was unchanged in all groups. Bone formation markers such as alkaline phosphatase and osteocalcin significantly increased in the 5mg/kg METH group, but not in the 10mg/kg METH group. In contrast, bone resorption markers such as C-terminal telopeptides of type I collagen and tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase 5b did not change in any of the METH groups. Histomorphometric analyses were consistent with the biochemical markers data. A significant increase in osteoblasts, especially in type III osteoblasts, was observed in the 5mg/kg METH group, whereas other parameters of bone resorption and mineralization remained unchanged. These results indicate that bone remodeling in this group was unbalanced. In contrast, in the 10mg/kg METH group, some parameters of bone formation were significantly or slightly decreased, suggesting a low turnover metabolism. Taken together, our results suggest that METH had distinct dose-dependent effects on bone turnover and that METH might induce adverse effects, leading to osteoporosis.
Antihypertensive therapies such as angiotensin-converting enzyme-1 inhibitors (ACEi) slow the decline in renal function seen with diabetic nephropathy, although there is still progression ultimately to end-stage renal disease. The aim of this study was to determine if there were added renoprotective benefits seen by combining ACEi with blockade of NADPH oxidase.
Sprague-Dawley diabetic and non-diabetic rats were randomized to receive intervention therapy with apocynin (15 mg/kg/day, weeks 16-32), apocynin + the ACEi ramipril (1 mg/kg/day, weeks 16-32), or ramipril alone (1 mg/kg).
All three treatments retarded the development of albuminuria in the diabetic rats. Apocynin conferred its benefit either as a monotherapy or in combination with ramipril without affecting blood pressure per se. Renal morphological injury was attenuated by all three treatment strategies. Diabetes was associated with increasing renal fibronectin and type IV collagen protein expression, with the combination regimen resulting in the highest decrease in extracellular matrix accumulation. All three treatments prevented the diabetes-associated increases in renal cytosolic superoxide generation as well as urinary isoprostanes. While renal TGF-beta1 activation was reduced by ramipril treatment but not by apocynin as a monotherapy, kidney cortical membranous VEGF was reduced by apocynin as monotherapy and dual therapy but not by ramipril alone.
Combination of NADPH oxidase blockade with ACE inhibitors is a promising regimen which warrants further investigation as a way to confer additional renoprotection in diabetes.
Deficiencies of different proteins involved in copper metabolism have been reported to cause human diseases. Well-known syndromes, for example, are Menkes and Wilson diseases. Here we report a patient presenting with congenital cataract, severe muscular hypotonia, developmental delay, sensorineural hearing loss and cytochrome-c oxidase deficiency with repeatedly low copper and ceruloplasmin levels. These findings were suggestive of a copper metabolism disorder. In support of this, the patient's fibroblasts showed an increased copper uptake with normal retention. Detailed follow-up examinations were performed. Immunoblotting for several proteins including ATP7A (MNK or Menkes protein), ATP7B (Wilson protein) and SOD1 showed normal results, implying a copper metabolism defect other than Wilson or Menkes disease. Sequence analysis of ATOX1 and genes coding for proteins that are known to play a role in the mitochondrial copper metabolism (COI-III, SCO1, SCO2, COX11, COX17, COX19) revealed no mutations. Additional disease genes that have been associated with cytochrome-c oxidase deficiency were negative for mutations as well. As beneficial effects of copper histidinate supplementation have been reported in selected disorders of copper metabolism presenting with low serum copper and ceruloplasmin levels, we initiated a copper histidinate supplementation. Remarkable improvement of clinical symptoms was observed, with complete restoration of cytochrome-c oxidase activity in skeletal muscle.
Doxorubicin-based chemotherapy in the adjuvant treatment of breast cancer has become standard. Use of doxorubicin is limited by cardiac dysfunction; however, the incidence is dramatically reduced by limiting the dose to less than 550 mg/m(2). Although the cumulative dose in breast cancer is typically 240 mg/m(2), multiple gated acquisition (MUGA) scans are still recommended for determining cardiac functional status in these patients. To examine the need for this practice, we reviewed 296 patients who underwent surgery for breast cancer at Roswell Park Cancer Institute between July 1997 and December 1998. Fifty-nine of 95 (62%) patients receiving doxorubicin-based regimens, and 3 of 39 (7%) receiving nondoxorubicin regimens had pretreatment MUGA scans. The MUGA scans showed normal results in 58 patients and low-normal in 4 (6.5%), with no wall motion abnormalities encountered. There were no cases where doxorubicin was not used because of an abnormal MUGA scan. There were no cardiac complications in the 59 women who received doxorubicin-based chemotherapy. MUGA will screen out few, if any, women under consideration for doxorubicin-based adjuvant therapy; the decision to avoid doxorubicin can be made based on age and preexisting comorbidity. Guidelines recommending routine use of MUGA before the administration of doxorubicin for adjuvant therapy for breast cancer should be reconsidered.
Twenty-two patients with refractory or relapsed AML were treated with FLAG [25 mg/m2 fludarabine daily (days 1-5), 2 g/m2 daily Ara-C (days 1-5) and 400 micrograms/m2 daily G-CSF (day -1 till the absolute neutrophil count was > 500/microliter)]. Median age was 46 years (range 24-63). Eight patients had leukemia which was primarily refractory to conventional regimens, six were in first, seven were in second, and one was in third relapse. Overall, 11 of 22 (50%) patients achieved complete remission (CR), three had a partial response (PR), and seven did not respond (NR). One patient died of an early cerebral hemorrhage. The median remission duration from achievement of CR after FLAG was 9.9 months and median survival was 13.0 months. One patient is alive in CR at 31.9 months. Hematological toxicity of the regimen was severe. The median time to neutrophil recovery (ANC > 500/microliter) was 21 days (range 18-33). A median of seven red cell units (range 0-22) and of six platelet concentrate units (range 3-28) had to be given. Median duration of febrile neutropenia was 2 days (range 0-20 days) and patients were on i.v. antibiotics for a median of 16 days (range 0-51). There was no death from infection. Nonhematological toxicity was remarkably low, with almost no neurotoxicity and no major hepatotoxicity. In conclusion, FLAG seems to be an efficient and well tolerated regimen. It may be particularly useful for patients who have a sibling or unrelated donor for subsequent allogeneic bone marrow transplantation.
Initiation of organophosphorus-induced delayed neuropathy (OPIDN) is thought to consist of two molecular events involving the phosphorylation of the target enzyme, neurotoxic esterase, or neuropathy target enzyme (NTE), and a subsequent "aging" reaction which transforms the inhibited NTE into a charged moiety critical to the neuropathic process. Compounds that inhibit NTE but cannot age because of their chemical structure abort this two-stage initiation process, and when administered before a neurotoxic organophosphorus compound (OP), protect against the neuropathy by blocking NTE's active site (Johnson, 1970). In support of this, we report that prior exposure to a nonaging NTE inhibitor, phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF), protects rats from neurological damage after subsequent exposure to a neurotoxic OP, Mipafox. Adult, male, Long Evans rats were exposed to either PMSF (250 mg/kg, sc) or to Mipafox (15 mg/kg, ip) and a time course of brain NTE inhibition and recovery was defined. A separate group of PMSF-treated rats was exposed to Mipafox when brain NTE inhibition was 87.7 +/- 2.3%. Conversely, another group of rats, pretreated with Mipafox, was dosed with PMSF when NTE inhibition was 90.2 +/- 0.8%. A third group of animals, treated with PMSF, was exposed to Mipafox 14 days later, when NTE activity had recovered to within 10 +/- 4.2% of control amounts. Histopathological survey (14 to 21 days post-exposure) indicated severe cervical cord damage (damage score greater than or equal to 3) in the following frequencies: PMSF, 0%; Mipafox, 85%; PMSF-4 hr-Mipafox, 0%; Mipafox-4 hr-PMSF, 100%; PMSF-14 days-Mipafox, 75%; controls, 0%. These data indicate that PMSF pretreatment protects rats against Mipafox-induced neurological damage and that the timing of administration and order of presentation are critical to this protection. These results support the hypothesis that the initiation of OPIDN is a multistage event involving inhibition and aging, and these stages are experimentally separable.
Systemic inflammation may be one of the mechanisms mediating the association between ambient air pollution and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Interleukin-6 (IL-6) and fibrinogen are biomarkers of systemic inflammation that are independent risk factors for cardio-vascular disease.
We investigated the association between ambient air pollution and systemic inflammation using baseline measurements of IL-6 and fibrinogen from controlled human exposure studies.
In this retrospective analysis we used repeated-measures data in 45 nonsmoking subjects. Hourly and daily moving averages were calculated for ozone, nitrogen dioxide, sulfur dioxide, and particulate matter <or= 2.5 microm in aerodynamic diameter (PM2.5). Linear mixed-model regression determined the effects of the pollutants on systemic IL-6 and fibrinogen. Effect modification by season was considered.
We observed a positive association between IL-6 and O3 [0.31 SD per O3 interquartile range (IQR); 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.080.54] and between IL-6 and SO2 (0.25 SD per SO2 IQR; 95% CI, 0.060.43). We observed the strongest effects using 4-day moving averages. Responses to pollutants varied by season and tended to be higher in the summer, particularly for O3 and PM2.5. Fibrinogen was not associated with pollution.
This study demonstrates a significant association between ambient pollutant levels and baseline levels of systemic IL-6. These findings have potential implications for controlled human exposure studies. Future research should consider whether ambient pollution exposure before chamber exposure modifies IL-6 response.
To evaluate the clinical therapeutic effect of the combination therapy of traditional Chinese and Western medicines in treating gouty arthritis based on the stage of disease, and to explore a safe, effective and reasonable therapeutic regimen for prevention and treatment of gouty arthritis.
One hundred and sixty-six cases of gouty arthritis were divided into three groups randomly, 58 cases in traditional Chinese drug (TCD)-treated group, 56 cases in Western medicine (WM)-treated group and 52 cases in TCD plus WM-treated group. They were all treated for 12 weeks. In the acute stage, patients in TCD-treated group were treated with Huzhang Gout Granule and Jinhuang Ointment, and patients in WM-treated group were treated with diclofenac sodium dual release enteric-coated capsules. In the intermission, patients in TCD-treated group were given Yinlian Gout Granule, and patients in WM-treated group were given benzbromarone or allopurinol. Patients in TCD plus WM-treated group were given both TCD and WM. Clinical symptom score and blood uric acid (BUA) level were measured. The effect initiating time, relapse rate, efficacy rate and the incidence rate of adverse effects were also studied.
There were no significant differences in the efficacy rate and effect initiating time among the three groups in the acute stage. The clinical symptom score and BUA level were obviously reduced in three groups. In the intermission, BUA level in the WM-treated group and TCD plus WM-treated group were obviously reduced. Although there was a drop tendency in the BUA level in TCD-treated group, there was no statistical difference. The relapse rates in TCD-, WM- and TCD plus WM-treated groups were 12.07%, 26.79% and 9.62%, respectively. There was statistical difference in relapse rates among the three groups (P<0.05). The relapse rate was decreased in TCD plus WM-treated group as compared with those in TCD-treated and WM-treated groups. The average clinical symptom scores during recurrence in the three groups were (10.00+/-3.61), (12.38+/-1.85) and (10.75+/-1.89), respectively. The incidence of adverse effects in TCD-treated group (3.45%) was lower than the other two groups (21.43% and 15.38%).
The combination therapy of traditional Chinese and Western medicines based on the stage of disease can control the symptoms of gouty arthritis in the acute stage, improve joint function, and can control the BUA level during the intermission, prevent recurrence and relieve the adverse effects.
We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of previous observational epidemiologic studies examining the relationship between residential pesticide exposures during critical exposure time windows (preconception, pregnancy, and childhood) and childhood leukemia.
Searches of MEDLINE and other electronic databases were performed (1950-2009). Reports were included if they were original epidemiologic studies of childhood leukemia, followed a case-control or cohort design, and assessed at least one index of residential/household pesticide exposure/use. No language criteria were applied.
Study selection, data abstraction, and quality assessment were performed by two independent reviewers. Random effects models were used to obtain summary odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs).
Of the 17 identified studies, 15 were included in the meta-analysis. Exposures during pregnancy to unspecified residential pesticides (summary OR = 1.54; 95% CI, 1.13-2.11; I2 = 66%), insecticides (OR = 2.05; 95% CI, 1.80-2.32; I2 = 0%), and herbicides (OR = 1.61; 95% CI, 1.20-2.16; I2 = 0%) were positively associated with childhood leukemia. Exposures during childhood to unspecified residential pesticides (OR = 1.38; 95% CI, 1.12-1.70; I2 = 4%) and insecticides (OR = 1.61; 95% CI, 1.33-1.95; I2 = 0%) were also positively associated with childhood leukemia, but there was no association with herbicides.
Positive associations were observed between childhood leukemia and residential pesticide exposures. Further work is needed to confirm previous findings based on self-report, to examine potential exposure-response relationships, and to assess specific pesticides and toxicologically related subgroups of pesticides in more detail.
Animal experiments demonstrate that gentamycin, kanamycin and carbenicillin affect lipid peroxidation in the kidneys. This can be registered by chemiluminescence of renal and urinary homogenates. This phenomenon was also used in functional examination of the kidneys in 161 neonates treated by antibiotics. The earliest renal dysfunctions due to nephrotoxicity were detected by chemoluminescence induced by ions of bivalent iron. The method is simple and rapid, this making it convenient in neonatal practice for detection of nephropathy before the symptoms presentation.
The clinical uses and side-effects of phenylbutazone in man, horses, and other animals are reviewed. The blood dyscrasias commonly described in man have not been reported in the horse, although several of the more minor side-effects have occasionally been seen (e.g. water retention, depression, transient staggering and phlebitis). Despite the lack of documented evidence, the toxicity of phenylbutazone in the horse is considered to be lower than that in man. This may be associated with the lower dose rates normally used, the more rapid plasma clearance rate and the comparatively younger age of most horses under treatment. The following guidelines for the use of phenylbutazone in practice are put toward. It should only be used under strict veterinary control and then only if there are clear clinical indications. It should not be given if there are signs of gastro-intestinal ulceration, clotting defects or any cardiac, renal or hepatic dysfunction. Dose rates should be kept to a minimum and the drug withdrawn immediately if any side-effects occur or if there is no clinical response within 4 days. If prolonged therapy is necessary, periodic haematological analyses should be carried out.
Prenatal and postnatal tobacco exposure have been reported to be associated with behavioral problems. However, the magnitude of the association with tobacco exposure at specific periods of exposure is unclear.
We assessed the relative risk of behavioral problems in children who had been exposed to tobacco smoke in utero and postnatally.
We analyzed data from a prospective birth cohort study in two cities in Germany: the German Infant Nutrition Intervention. Our sample included 5,991 children born between 1995 and 1998 as well as their parents. We measured behavioral problems using the Strength and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ) at follow-up 10 years after birth. According to prespecified SDQ cutoff values, children were classified as "normal," "borderline," or "abnormal" according to the subscales "emotional symptoms," "conduct problems," "hyperactivity/inattention," "peer-relationship problems," and a total difficulties score. Smoke exposure and further covariates were assessed using parent questionnaires.
Compared with children not exposed to tobacco smoke, children exposed both pre- and postnatally to tobacco smoke had twice the estimated risk [95% confidence interval (CI), 1.4-3.1] of being classified as abnormal according to the total difficulties score of the SDQ at 10 years of age. Children who were only prenatally exposed had a 90% higher relative risk (95% CI, 0.9-4.0), whereas children who were only postnatally exposed had a 30% higher relative risk (95% CI, 0.9-1.9). These results could not be explained by confounding by parental education, father's employment, child's time spent in front of computer or television screen, being a single father or mother, or mother's age.
Prenatal exposure to tobacco smoke is associated with behavioral problems in school-age children. Although our findings do not preclude the influence of postnatal exposure, prenatal exposure seems to be more important.
Inorganic arsenic is a ubiquitous environmental carcinogen affecting millions of people worldwide. Evolving theory predicts that normal stem cells (NSCs) are transformed into cancer stem cells (CSCs) that then drive oncogenesis. In humans, arsenic is carcinogenic in the urogenital system (UGS), including the bladder and potentially the prostate, whereas in mice arsenic induces multi-organ UGS cancers, indicating that UGS NSCs may represent targets for carcino-genic initiation. However, proof of emergence of CSCs induced by arsenic in a stem cell population is not available.
We continuously exposed the human prostate epithelial stem/progenitor cell line WPE-stem to an environmentally relevant level of arsenic (5 microM) in vitro and determined the acquired cancer phenotype.
WPE-stem cells rapidly acquired a malignant CSC-like phenotype by 18 weeks of exposure, becoming highly invasive, losing contact inhibition, and hyper-secreting matrix metalloproteinase-9. When hetero-transplanted, these cells (designated As-CSC) formed highly pleomorphic, aggressive tumors with immature epithelial- and mesenchymal-like cells, suggesting a highly pluripotent cell of origin. Consistent with tumor-derived CSCs, As-CSCs formed abundant free-floating spheres enriched in CSC-like cells, as confirmed by molecular analysis and the fact that only these floating cells formed xeno-graft tumors. An early loss of NSC self-renewal gene expression (p63, ABCG2, BMI-1, SHH, OCT-4, NOTCH-1) during arsenite exposure was sub-sequently reversed as the tumor suppressor gene PTEN was progressively suppressed and the CSC-like phenotype acquired.
Arsenite transforms prostate epithelial stem/progenitor cells into CSC-like cells, indicating that it can produce CSCs from a model NSC population.
Fetal heart rate (FHR) decelerations resembling post-paracervical block (PCB) bradycardia were observed immediately after the inadvertent intrauterine injection of lidocaine hydrochloride. A review of the pathophysiology of post-PCB bradycardia is presented. The administration of a local anesthetic, either into the paracervical tissues or directly into the uterine cavity, may precipitate FHR decelerations principally, through arterial vasoconstriction with subsequent reflex responses and/or hypoxia in the fetus.
Gabapentin is a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) analogue, with GABAmimetic pharmacological properties. Gabapentin is used for the treatment of seizures, anxiety and neuropathic pain. It has been proposed that gabapentin may be useful in the treatment of cocaine dependence. However, clinical trials with gabapentin have shown conflicting results, while preclinical studies are sparse. In the present study, we investigated the effects of gabapentin on intravenous cocaine self-administration and cocaine-triggered reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior, as well as on cocaine-enhanced dopamine (DA) in the nucleus accumbens (NAc). We found that gabapentin (25-200 mg/kg, i.p., 30 min or 2 h prior to cocaine) failed to inhibit intravenous cocaine (0.5 mg/kg/infusion) self-administration under a fixed-ratio reinforcement schedule or cocaine-triggered reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior. In vivo microdialysis showed that the same doses of gabapentin produced a modest increase (approximately 50%, p<0.05) in extracellular NAc GABA levels, but failed to alter either basal or cocaine-enhanced NAc DA. These data suggest that gabapentin is a weak GABA-mimic drug. At the doses tested, it has no effect in the addiction-related animal behavioral models here tested. This is in striking contrast to positive findings in the same animal models shown by another GABAmimetic--gamma-vinyl GABA (see companion piece to present article).
The transmembrane protein ferroportin (Fpn) is essential for iron efflux from the liver, spleen, and duodenum. Fpn is regulated predominantly by the circulating iron regulatory hormone hepcidin, which binds to cell surface Fpn, initiating its degradation. Accordingly, when hepcidin concentrations decrease, Fpn levels increase. A previous study found that Fpn levels were not elevated in copper-deficient (CuD) mice that had anemia, a condition normally associated with dramatic reductions in hepcidin. Lack of change in Fpn levels may be because CuD mice do not display reduced concentrations of plasma iron (holotransferrin), a modulator of hepcidin expression. Here, we examined Fpn protein levels and hepcidin expression in CuD rats, which exhibit reduced plasma iron concentrations along with anemia. We also examined hepcidin expression in anemic CuD mice with normal plasma iron levels. We found that CuD rats had higher liver and spleen Fpn levels and markedly lower hepatic hepcidin mRNA expression than did copper-adequate (CuA) rats. In contrast, hepcidin levels did not differ between CuD and CuA mice. To examine potential mediators of the reduced hepcidin expression in CuD rats, we measured levels of hepatic transferrin receptor 2 (TfR2), a putative iron sensor that links holotransferrin to hepcidin production, and transcript abundance of bone morphogenic protein 6 (BMP6), a key endogenous positive regulator of hepcidin production. Diminished hepcidin expression in CuD rats was associated with lower levels of TfR2, but not BMP6. Our data suggest that holotransferrin and TfR2, rather than anemia or BMP6, are signals for hepcidin synthesis during copper deficiency.
Allergic angina and allergic myocardial infarction (Kounis syndrome) occurring during the course of a drug-induced allergic reaction in the absence of angiographically stenosed coronary arteries, is rare in clinical practice. This paper reports the case of a 70-year-old woman with no significant risk factors for coronary artery disease who developed coronary artery spasm after intravenous injection of cefuroxime. A subsequent coronary angiogram revealed normal coronary arteries (type I variant of the syndrome). The allergic reaction following cefuroxime administration seems to have triggered the development of coronary artery spasm. Susceptible individuals expressing an amplified mast cell degranulation effect may be more vulnerable to coronary artery spasm. The clinical implications of this syndrome are also discussed.
Nifedipine reduces blood pressure predominantly by reducing systemic vascular resistance due to a direct vasodilating action on the arterioles. This peripheral vasodilation appears greater the more severe the hypertension. Nifedipine also causes a long-term loss of sodium, which may be an additive mechanism for the blood pressure fall. In patients who are not controlled on nifedipine alone, studies have demonstrated an additive effect of beta blockers and converting-enzyme inhibitors on blood pressure. There is controversy about whether diuretics have an additive effect on blood pressure in patients already on nifedipine.
I report a case of schizophrenia in which depressive and negative symptoms relapsed on switching from oral risperidone to risperidone long-acting injection (RLAI). The patient, with a 31-year history of schizophrenia, did not fully understand his disease. Therefore, adherence to medication had been extremely poor. The discontinuation of medication led to the recurrence of the disease. After hospital treatment, he was discharged to a group home. From then, the disease had been kept in remission by risperidone at 4 mg/day, and RLAI was introduced for the purpose of further social reintegration and QOL improvement. After starting RLAI at 25 mg, however, a stiff expression and irritability appeared. Therefore, RLAI was increased up to 50 mg, but depressive and negative symptoms relapsed. Subsequently, RLAI was discontinued and oral risperidone was re-administered, and the above mental symptoms improved in a relatively rapid manner. The difference in the ratio of plasma and brain concentrations between each active moiety, risperidone and 9-OH risperidone (paliperidone), resulting from the difference in administration routes, was suggested to be involved as the main factor. In this case, it is likely that positive symptoms did not relapse because plasma concentrations of the active moiety itself were well maintained by introducing RLAI. However, depressive and negative symptoms relapsed possibly as a result of reduced affinity for the alpha2A receptor with relatively decreased plasma concentrations of 9-OH risperidone when compared to oral administration. Another possibility is that negative symptoms were secondary induced by excess administration of antipsychotics, but there has been no such report on RLAI so far. For the reason noted above, careful follow-up is considered necessary when switching from oral risperidone to RLAI because mental symptoms might get worse.
Mefloquine is an important antimalarial drug for treatment and prophylaxis of chloroquine-resistant malaria. Its use has been associated with neuropsychiatric side-effects. We report a case of paranoid psychosis associated with mefloquine occurring in a remote part of Papua New Guinea. Adverse reactions and contraindications are discussed. This case underlines the importance of awareness of neuropsychiatric side-effects with mefloquine use and of taking a careful psychiatric history before prescribing mefloquine.
A 51-year-old woman developed an acute onset of renal dysfunction accompanied by rash, lumbar pain, arthralgias, fever, eosinophiluria, and an elevated serum creatinine after 6 days of intravenous piperacillin-tazobactam therapy. On discontinuing piperacillin-tazobactam and after a 21-day course of prednisone, the patient's constitutional symptoms dissipated and her renal function returned to baseline. Acute interstitial nephritis has been reported as an adverse effect of many drugs, including antibiotics, but not, to our knowledge, after piperacillin-tazobactam. The time course of events suggested that piperacillin-tazobactam was the cause of acute interstitial nephritis in this patient.
