Evidence of central nervous system toxicity was noted in two patients undergoing extradural analgesia for Caesarean section. There was no cardiovascular depression and both patients recovered rapidly. The patients had received total doses of bupivacaine plain solution of 357.5 mg and 356.25 mg, respectively and the relationship of these to the clinical signs of bupivacaine toxicity is discussed.
A 60-year-old woman with systemic sclerosis, systemic hypertension, and chronic renal failure, presented with clinical manifestations of heart failure. An echocardiogram showed a mildly dilated left ventricle and global hypokinesis. A six-month treatment including reduced sodium intake, furosemide, and nifedipine did not change the clinical and instrumental findings. Casually, vitamin E (600 mg daily) was added. After 6 months, clinical manifestations of heart failure were disappeared and the echocardiogram showed a normally-sized left ventricle with normal wall motion.
We have demonstrated that oxidative stress is involved, at least in part, in beta-amyloid protein (Abeta)-induced neurotoxicity in vivo [Eur. J. Neurosci. 1999;11:83-90; Neuroscience 2003;119:399-419]. However, mechanistic links between oxidative stress and memory loss in response to Abeta remain elusive. In the present study, we examined whether oxidative stress contributes to the memory deficits induced by intracerebroventricular injection of Abeta (1-42) in mice. Abeta (1-42)-induced memory impairments were observed, as measured by the water maze and passive avoidance tests, although these impairments were not found in Abeta (40-1)-treated mice. Treatment with antioxidant alpha-tocopherol significantly prevented memory impairment induced by Abeta (1-42). Increased activities of the cytosolic Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase (Cu,Zn-SOD) and mitochondrial Mn-superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD) were observed in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex of Abeta (1-42)-treated animals, as compared with Abeta (40-1)-treated mice. The induction of Cu,Zn-SOD was more pronounced than that of Mn-SOD after Abeta (1-42) insult. However, the concomitant induction of glutathione peroxidase (GPX) in response to significant increases in SOD activity was not seen in animals treated with Abeta (1-42). Furthermore, glutathione reductase (GRX) activity was only increased at 2h after Abeta (1-42) injection. Production of malondialdehyde (lipid peroxidation) and protein carbonyl (protein oxidation) remained elevated at 10 days post-Abeta (1-42), but the antioxidant alpha-tocopherol significantly prevented these oxidative stresses. Therefore, our results suggest that the oxidative stress contributes to the Abeta (1-42)-induced learning and memory deficits in mice.
The selective COX-2 inhibitor celecoxib is widely used to treat pain and inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, and ankylosing spondylitis. The drug has well-known important effects on immune cells but its direct and/or indirect influence on osteoblasts has not yet been explored in detail. This study aimed to investigate the dose-dependent effects of celecoxib on cell viability, energy metabolism and bone remodeling processes in cultured human osteoblastic cells.
Primary human osteoblasts and MG-63 cells were incubated with celecoxib (2, 10, 50microM). Cell viability and apoptosis were determined by trypan blue, 7AAD and Annexin-V staining. Effects on cellular oxygen consumption were measured amperometrically using a Clark electrode. mRNA expression of GLUT-1 and OPG was determined by RT-PCR; OPG protein secretion by ELISA and HIF-1alpha protein expression by immunoblotting.
While celecoxib at a concentration of 2 and 10microM showed only marginal effects, a suprapharmacological concentration of 50microM influenced viability and energy metabolism, as well as OPG expression and secretion of osteoblastic cells. Cell viability was significantly reduced by celecoxib treatment. Celecoxib at 50microM stimulated oxygen consumption significantly. Corresponding experiments with the protonophore FCCP suggest that this effect is due to mitochondrial uncoupling. After 24h, GLUT-1 mRNA expression was significantly increased. HIF-1alpha protein was not expressed under any of our experimental conditions. We also showed that celecoxib at 50microM significantly inhibits OPG protein secretion leading to a compensative increase of mRNA expression.
Pronounced effects of celecoxib on cell viability (reduction), oxygen consumption (stimulation), GLUT-1 mRNA expression (stimulation) and OPG protein secretion (inhibition) in osteoblastic cells were observed only at 50microM-a concentration not reached by therapeutic doses giving plasma concentrations less than 10microM. On the contrary, celecoxib at 2 and 10microM showed only marginal effects, suggesting that celecoxib administration is probably safe with respect to bone metabolism in cases requiring potent treatment of pain and inflammation. However, higher intracellular concentrations, which might occur through accumulation, necessitate investigations with high concentrations.
Combination therapies may be required for long-term management of some patients chronically infected with hepatitis B virus (HBV). Adefovir is a nucleotide analog that has similar activity against wild-type and lamivudine-resistant HBV. In contrast to lamivudine, clinical resistance to the prodrug adefovir dipivoxil emerges infrequently. Based on its clinical efficacy and low frequency of resistance, adefovir dipivoxil may form an important component of combination regimens. We therefore investigated the in vitro antiviral efficacy of combinations of adefovir with other nucleoside analogs (lamivudine, entecavir, emtricitabine [FTC],and telbivudine [L-dT]) and the nucleotide analog tenofovir. Using a novel stable cell line that expresses high levels of wild-type HBV, we assayed the antiviral activity of each drug alone and in combination with adefovir. All two-drug combinations resulted in greater antiviral effects than treatments with single agents and could be characterized as additive by the Bliss independence model. Analysis using the Loewe additivity model indicated that adefovir exerted additive antiviral effects when combined with lamivudine, FTC, or L-dT and moderately synergistic effects when combined with entecavir or tenofovir. There was no evidence of cytotoxicity with any of the drugs when used alone or in combination at the tested doses.
Dysregulation of the Wnt pathway and altered Beta-catenin expression are central early events in colorectal carcinogenesis. We studied the ortho, meta, and para (o-, m-, and p-) positional isomers of NO-donating aspirin (NO-ASA), a chemopreventive agent against colon cancer, for their effect on Beta-catenin/T cell factor (TCF) signaling. In human SW480 colon carcinoma cells, cell-growth inhibition by NO-ASA [IC50 values for p-, o-, and m- were 48.1 +/- 4.3 (mean +/-SEM), 60.4 +/- 2.1, and 900 +/-50 microM, respectively] was accompanied by significant inhibition of Beta-catenin signaling. We determined Beta-catenin-dependent TCF-4 transcriptional activity by measuring the activity of the luciferase gene placed under the control of TCF-4 regulatory sequences. The IC50 values for Beta-catenin/TCF-4-signaling inhibition by NO-ASA were: o-, 2.6 +/- 0.4; m-, 15 +/- 5; p-, 1.1 +/- 0.1 microM; and for ASA, >5,000 microM. Total or nuclear levels of Beta-catenin and its distribution in the cell were not altered by NO-ASA, as judged by protein expression levels and semiquantitative immunofluorescence analysis. NO-ASA disrupted the association of Beta-catenin and TCF-4 in the nucleus, whereas ASA did not affect it. NO-ASA reduced the expression of cyclin D1, a downstream target gene that plays an important role in colon carcinogenesis. In contrast, a structural analog of NO-ASA lacking the -NO2 moiety did not affect TCF-4 transcriptional activity. Thus, NO-ASA inhibits Beta-catenin-mediated TCF activity by preventing the formation of the Beta-catenin/TCF-4 complex. This effect, occurring at NO-ASA concentrations far below those required to inhibit cell growth, may be a critical early event in the chemopreventive activity of NO-ASA against colon cancer.
Patients with myeloproliferative disorders are at a high risk of developing thrombotic events. Several investigators have hypothesized that endothelial cell (EC) abnormalities might contribute to this prothrombotic state. Budd-Chiari syndrome (BCS) and portal vein thrombosis have been reported to be associated with JAK2V617F-positive hematopoiesis. We explored whether JAK2V617F was present in ECs in the vessels of polycythemia vera (PV) patients with BCS using laser capture microdissection followed by nested polymerase chain reaction or reverse-transcribed polymerase chain reaction. The ECs of the 2 BCS patients with PV were homozygous for the JAK2V617F and were shown to express transcripts characteristic of ECs but not hematopoietic cells. ECs of the other BCS patient with PV and 2 patients with hepatoportal sclerosis without PV contained exclusively wild-type JAK2. The presence of JAK2V617F in both ECs and hematopoietic cells belonging to BCS patients with PV indicate that ECs in PV are involved by the malignant process and that in a subpopulation of the patients the disease might originate from a common cell of origin for hematopoietic and ECs.
A double blind check was conducted in two groups of patients with asthma to test ribosomal fraction (Ribomunyl) in a new tablet form: -the first group of 15 patients received the active medicine; -the second group of 9 patients were given placebos. The therapy consisted in prescribing 3 tablets a day for the first 4 days of the week for 3 weeks, next to stop treatment for one month, then to resume treatment for 4 days every month. Clinical improvement was reported in patients who were given the medicine. The "Rosettes" Test is in favor of a stimulation of T lymphocytes with correction of the cellular mediation deficit in the groups that received treatment.
This study examined the hepatoprotective effects of Agrimonia eupatoria water extract (AE) against chronic ethanol-induced liver injury. Rats were fed a Lieber-DeCarli liquid diet for 8 weeks. Animals were treated orally with AE at 10, 30, 100, and 300 mg/kg/day. After chronic consumption of ethanol, serum aminotransferase activities and pro-inflammatory cytokines markedly increased, and those increases were attenuated by AE. The cytochrome P450 2E1 activity and lipid peroxidation increased after chronic ethanol consumption, while reduced glutathione concentration decreased. Those changes were attenuated by AE. Chronic ethanol consumption increased the levels of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and myeloid differentiation factor 88 protein expression, inducible nitric oxide synthase and cyclooxygenase-2 protein and mRNA expression, and nuclear translocation of nuclear factor-kappa B, which was attenuated by AE. Our results suggest that AE ameliorates chronic ethanol-induced liver injury, and that protection is likely due to the suppression of oxidative stress and TLR-mediated inflammatory signaling.
Lithium salts have been widely used for several years in the treatment of manic-depressive psychosis. Various side-effects of lithium salts have been described. The present case report present two patients in whom sinus node dysfunction leading to syncope was caused by lithium. One of the cases showed signs of depressed sinus node function even when not on lithium, but no symptoms arose until lithium treatment was commenced. The second case showed no signs of depressed sinus node function when lithium was withdrawn. To study the prevalence of sinus node dysfunction in patients on lithium therapy, 97 consecutive patients on lithium were examined. The examination included case history, ECG and carotid massage. In two patients lithium could not be ruled out as being responsible for sinus node depression and in one patient the same was true for the atrioventricular node. None of these patients had any symptoms. It is concluded that lithium treatment may result in sinus node dysfunction. This side-effect is, however, not common. Lithium treatment can obviously be instituted in all patients without a history suggesting sinus node dysfunction. Patients with a history of dizziness and/or syncope should not be given lithium until thorough cardiological examination has been carried out. Likewise, a cardiological examination should be performed if patients on lithium develop symptoms of this type.
To investigate the roles of SLC22A2 gene polymorphism 808 G/T and cimetidine on cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity, a total of 123 Chinese cancer patients treated with cisplatin alone (n = 55) or in combination with cimetidine (n = 68) were genotyped. The changes of serum creatinine (SCr), blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and cystatin C levels were used as biomarkers for the evaluation of cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity. The changes of BUN and SCr levels showed no significant difference between groups divided by genotypes and treatments (P > 0.05). However, patients with mutant genotype (GT/TT) or with cimetidine treatment had smaller increase of the cystatin C levels compared to those with wild genotype (GG) or without cimetidine treatment (P < 0.05). In the non-cimetidine-treated group, the changes of cystatin C level in patients with mutant genotype (GT/TT) was significantly smaller than those with wild genotype (GG) (P = 0.043). In the wild type group, the cystatin C level change of patients without cimetidine treatment was significantly larger than those with cimetidine treatment (P = 0.007). These results suggested that SLC22A2 gene polymorphism 808 G/T and cimetidine could attenuate cisplatin nephrotoxicity in Chinese cancer patients. But the renoprotection mechanism of cimetidine might be damaged by the mutation.
Depression and sexual dysfunction have been related to side effects of topical beta-blockers. We performed a preliminary study in order to determine any difference between a non selective beta-blocker (timolol) and a selective beta-blocker (betaxolol) regarding CNS side effects. Eight glaucomatous patients chronically treated with timolol 0.5%/12h, suffering from depression diagnosed through DMS-III-R criteria, were included in the study. During the six-month follow up, depression was quantified through the Beck and Zung-Conde scales every two months. In a double blind cross-over study with control group, the patients under timolol treatment presented higher depression values measured through the Beck and the Zung-Conde scales (p < 0.001 vs control). These results suggest that betaxolol could be less of a depression-inducer than timolol in predisposed patients.
Berberine, a naturally occurring isoquinoline alkaloid, has been shown to possess anti-inflammatory and antitumor properties in some in vitro systems. Here, we report that in vitro treatment of androgen-insensitive (DU145 and PC-3) and androgen-sensitive (LNCaP) prostate cancer cells with berberine inhibited cell proliferation and induced cell death in a dose-dependent (10-100 micromol/L) and time-dependent (24-72 hours) manner. Treatment of nonneoplastic human prostate epithelial cells (PWR-1E) with berberine under identical conditions did not significantly affect their viability. The berberine-induced inhibition of proliferation of DU145, PC-3, and LNCaP cells was associated with G1-phase arrest, which in DU145 cells was associated with inhibition of expression of cyclins D1, D2, and E and cyclin-dependent kinase (Cdk) 2, Cdk4, and Cdk6 proteins, increased expression of the Cdk inhibitory proteins (Cip1/p21 and Kip1/p27), and enhanced binding of Cdk inhibitors to Cdk. Berberine also significantly (P < 0.05-0.001) enhanced apoptosis of DU145 and LNCaP cells with induction of a higher ratio of Bax/Bcl-2 proteins, disruption of mitochondrial membrane potential, and activation of caspase-9, caspase-3, and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase. Pretreatment with the pan-caspase inhibitor z-VAD-fmk partially, but significantly, blocked the berberine-induced apoptosis, as also confirmed by the comet assay analysis of DNA fragmentation, suggesting that berberine-induced apoptosis of human prostate cancer cells is mediated primarily through the caspase-dependent pathway. The effectiveness of berberine in checking the growth of androgen-insensitive, as well as androgen-sensitive, prostate cancer cells without affecting the growth of normal prostate epithelial cells indicates that it may be a promising candidate for prostate cancer therapy.
The effectiveness of administration of glycopyrrolate 5 and 10 micrograms kg-1 and atropine 10 and 20 micrograms kg-1 i.v. immediately before the induction of anaesthesia, to prevent arrhythmia and bradycardia following repeated doses of suxamethonium in children, was studied. A control group was included for comparison with the lower dose range of glycopyrrolate and atropine. A frequency of bradycardia of 50% was noted in the control group, but this was not significantly different from the frequency with the active drugs. Bradycardia (defined as a decrease in heart rate to less than 50 beat min-1) was prevented when the larger dose of either active drug was used. It is recommended that either glycopyrrolate 10 micrograms kg-1 or atropine 20 micrograms kg-1 i.v. should immediately precede induction of anaesthesia, in children, if the repeated administration of suxamethonium is anticipated.
The fluorinated guanosine analog 2',3'-dideoxy-3'-fluoroguanosine (FLG) was shown to inhibit wild-type (wt) hepatitis B virus (HBV) replication in a human hepatoma cell line permanently expressing HBV. Experiments performed in the duck model of HBV infection also showed its in vivo antiviral activity. In this study, we investigated the mechanism of inhibition of FLG on HBV replication and its profile of antiviral activity against different HBV or duck hepatitis B virus (DHBV) drug-resistant mutants. We found that FLG-triphosphate inhibits weakly the priming of the reverse transcription compared to adefovir-diphosphate in a cell-free system assay allowing the expression of an enzymatically active DHBV reverse transcriptase. It inhibits more potently wt DHBV minus-strand DNA synthesis compared to lamivudine-triphosphate and shows a similar activity compared to adefovir-diphosphate. FLG-triphosphate was most likely a competitive inhibitor of dGTP incorporation and a DNA chain terminator. In Huh7 cells transiently transfected with different HBV constructs, FLG inhibited similarly the replication of wt, lamivudine-resistant, adefovir-resistant, and lamivudine-plus-adefovir-resistant HBV mutants. These results were consistent with those obtained in the DHBV polymerase assay using the same drug-resistant polymerase mutants. In conclusion, our data provide new insights in the mechanism of action of FLG-triphosphate on HBV replication and demonstrate its inhibitory activity on drug-resistant mutant reverse transcriptases in vitro. Furthermore, our results provide the rationale for further clinical evaluation of FLG in the treatment of drug-resistant virus infection and in the setting of combination therapy to prevent or delay drug resistance.
The purpose of this study was to identify the incidence of hearing loss in a population of 75 adult (19-68 years old) transfusion-dependent patients with thalassemia major, sickle cell disease, Diamond-Blackfan anemia, and various other hematologic disorders treated with regular transfusion schedules. Ninety-three percent (70/75) of patients had a history of long-term subcutaneous or intravenous desferrioxamine therapy.
The patients underwent routine otolaryngologic history and physical examination, along with standard pure-tone audiometry at 250, 500, 1000, 2000, 3000, 4000, 6000, and 8000 Hz, with hearing loss defined as 25 dB or greater at one or more frequencies.
Hearing loss was present in 57% (43/75) of patients. More importantly, hearing loss attributable to desferrioxamine ototoxicity was present in 29% (22/75) of patients. Sixteen patients treated previously with desferrioxamine were switched to the experimental oral chelating agent, L1. Eight of these 16 patients had hearing loss attributable to desferrioxamine, with 5 of these patients worsening with the experimental oral chelating agent L1. Seventy-nine percent (59/75) of patients were thalassemic. Fifty-four percent (33/59) of these thalassemic patients had hearing loss. However, 35% (21/59) of the thalassemic patients had hearing loss attributable to desferrioxamine ototoxicity. All thalassemic patients with desferrioxamine ototoxicity had high-frequency sensorineural hearing loss, with 33% (7/21) having a notch at 6 kHz. In addition, 5% (1/21) had notching at 3 khz. Few of the hearing losses were disabling.
Management of these patients requires proper dosing of desferrioxamine and transfusion therapy, along with regular monitoring of body iron burden and hemoglobin. In addition, regular otolaryngologic and audiometric follow-up with special care to include the frequencies of 3 and 6 kHz may help recognize and prevent permanent ototoxicity.
To examine the toxicity of cyclosiloxanes (CSs), the predominant low molecular weight cyclic silicones found in breast implants, we injected female CD-1 mice intraperitoneally with different doses of distillate (3.5-35 g/kg body weight) containing cyclosiloxane D3 (hexamethylcyclotrisiloxane; CS-D3), cyclosiloxane D4 (octamethylcyclotetrasiloxane; CS-D4), cyclosiloxane D5 (decamethylcyclopentasiloxane; CS-D5), and cyclosiloxane D6 (dodecamethylcyclohexasiloxane; CS-D6). The distillate was found to be lethal and all the mice injected with 35 g/kg died within 5-8 days. The median lethal dose (LD50) for distillate was estimated to be approximately 28 g/kg. These mice developed inflammatory lesions of the lung and liver as well as liver cell necrosis with elevated serum levels of alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, and lactic acid dehydrogenase. Administration of CS-D4 alone also produced lethality in these mice with an LD50 of 6-7 g/kg. CS-D4-treated mice also exhibited pulmonary and hepatic lesions and elevated serum enzymes. Analysis of LD50 data indicates that CS-D4 is about as toxic as carbon tetrachloride or trichloroethylene. We measured hydroxyl radical formation in CS-D4-treated mice and found increases of approximately 20-fold in liver and approximately 7-fold in lung on day 4 following injection. Our findings are significant because in vitro experiments have demonstrated that CSs can migrate out of breast implants, and in mouse experiments CSs have been shown to be widely distributed in many organs after a single subcutaneous injection and to persist for at least a year.
Low plasma cholinesterase activity is associated with severe cocaine toxicity in human subjects and animal experiments. Exogenously enhanced plasma cholinesterase activity is protective against cocaine toxicity in animals. Cocaine users tend to have lower plasma cholinesterase activity than controls. Yet, when cocaine users are allowed to use cocaine in controlled settings without dietary restriction, their plasma cholinesterase activity increases. This study evaluates the influence of diet on plasma cholinesterase activity and cocaine toxicity.
Forty-five Swiss albino mice were maintained on a high (30%) protein diet for 3 weeks. They were then randomized into equal groups and given either the high protein diet, an isocaloric low protein diet, or a protein and calorie deficient diet which consisted of reduced intake of the high protein diet. Body weights and plasma cholinesterase activities were measured after a 21-day study period. All animals then received a fixed dose of intraperitoneal cocaine and were observed for seizures and death.
Body weights and plasma cholinesterase activities of the high protein animals remained stable. Weights for the low protein and reduced intake animals fell by 5% and 15%, respectively (p < 0.05 for both vs baseline). Similarly, plasma cholinesterase activities for the low protein and reduced intake animals fell by 4% and 10%, respectively (p = 0.06 for low protein and < 0.05 for reduced intake vs baseline). Cocaine caused seizures in 67% of the high protein animals as compared to 93% and 100% of the low protein and reduced intake animals, respectively (p < 0.05 for high protein vs reduced intake). None of the high protein animals died as compared to 20% and 100% of the low protein and reduced intake animals, respectively (p < 0.05 for high protein vs reduced intake).
Protein and calorie malnutrition is associated with a reduction in plasma cholinesterase activity and enhanced cocaine toxicity in mice. Further study is needed to determine if dietary factors are partially responsible for variations in plasma cholinesterase activity and cocaine susceptibility in humans.
We measured cardiac performance sequentially, using quantitative radionuclide angiocardiography to estimate left ventricular ejection fraction in 55 patients receiving doxorubicin for treatment of cancer. With final doxorubicin dosages greater than 350 mg per square meter, the lowest ejection fraction measured was significantly less than the initial determination. Five patients had severe cardiotoxicity (congestive heart failure). All had an ejection fraction of less than 30 per cent at the time of heart failure, and demonstrated moderate cardiotoxicity (a decline in ejection fraction by at least 15 per cent to a final value of less than 45 per cent) before clinical manifestations. Six patients with moderate toxicity in whom doxorubicin was discontinued did not have heart failure or a further decline in ejection fraction during the follow-up period. Moderate toxicity was continued, but mild toxicity (decline of ejection fraction by greater than 10 per cent, noted in 11 patients) was not well predicted. The assessment of radionuclide left ventricular ejection fraction during doxorubicin therapy may make it possible to avoid congestive heart failure.
Cardiac failure is associated with increased levels of oxidized DNA, especially mitochondrial (mtDNA). It is not known if oxidized mtDNA contributes to cardiac dysfunction. To test if protection of mtDNA can reduce cardiac injury, we produced transgenic mice with cardiomyocyte-specific overexpression of the DNA repair enzyme 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase 1 (OGG1) isoform 2a. In one line of mice, the transgene increased OGG1 activity by 115% in mitochondria and by 28% in nuclei. OGG1 transgenic mice demonstrated significantly lower cardiac mitochondrial levels of the DNA guanine oxidation product 7,8-dihydro-8-oxoguanine (8-oxo-dG) under basal conditions, after doxorubicin administration, or after transaortic constriction (TAC), but the transgene produced no detectable reduction in nuclear 8-oxo-dG content. OGG1 mice were tested for protection from the cardiac effects of TAC 13 wk after surgery. Compared with FVB-TAC mice, hearts from OGG1-TAC mice had lower levels of β-myosin heavy chain mRNA but they did not display significant differences in the ratio of heart weight to tibia length or protection of cardiac function measured by echocardiography. The principle benefit of OGG1 overexpression was a significant decrease in TAC-induced cardiac fibrosis. This protection was indicated by reduced Sirius red staining on OGG1 cardiac sections and by significantly decreased induction of collagen 1 and 3 mRNA expression in OGG1 hearts after TAC surgery. These results provide a new model to assess the damaging cardiac effects of 8-oxo-dG formation and suggest that increased repair of 8-oxo-dG in mtDNA decreases cardiac pathology.
Follicular lymphoma (FL) and the GCB subtype of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) derive from germinal center B cells. Targeted resequencing studies have revealed mutations in various genes encoding proteins in the NF-kappaB pathway that contribute to the activated B-cell (ABC) DLBCL subtype, but thus far few GCB-specific mutations have been identified. Here we report recurrent somatic mutations affecting the polycomb-group oncogene EZH2, which encodes a histone methyltransferase responsible for trimethylating Lys27 of histone H3 (H3K27). After the recent discovery of mutations in KDM6A (UTX), which encodes the histone H3K27me3 demethylase UTX, in several cancer types, EZH2 is the second histone methyltransferase gene found to be mutated in cancer. These mutations, which result in the replacement of a single tyrosine in the SET domain of the EZH2 protein (Tyr641), occur in 21.7% of GCB DLBCLs and 7.2% of FLs and are absent from ABC DLBCLs. Our data are consistent with the notion that EZH2 proteins with mutant Tyr641 have reduced enzymatic activity in vitro.
Statins have been reported to exert anti-inflammatory actions and protect against septic organ dysfunction. Herein, we hypothesized that simvastatin may attenuate neutrophil activation and lung damage in abdominal sepsis. Male C57BL/6 mice were pretreated with simvastatin (0.5 or 10 mg/kg) before CLP. In separate groups, mice received an anti-CD40L antibody or a CXCR2 antagonist (SB225002) prior to CLP. BALF and lung tissue were harvested for analysis of neutrophil infiltration, as well as edema and CXC chemokine formation. Blood was collected for analysis of Mac-1 and CD40L expression on neutrophils and platelets, as well as soluble CD40L in plasma. Simvastatin decreased CLP-induced neutrophil infiltration and edema formation in the lung. Moreover, Mac-1 expression increased on septic neutrophils, which was significantly attenuated by simvastatin. Inhibition of CD40L reduced CLP-induced up-regulation of Mac-1 on neutrophils. Simvastatin prevented CD40L shedding from the surface of platelets and reduced circulating levels of CD40L in septic mice. CXC chemokine-induced migration of neutrophils in vitro was decreased greatly by simvastatin. Moreover, simvastatin abolished CLP-evoked formation of CXC chemokines in the lung, and a CXCR2 antagonist attenuated pulmonary accumulation of neutrophils. Our data suggest that the inhibitory effect of simvastatin on pulmonary accumulation of neutrophils may be related to a reduction of CD40L secretion into the circulation, as well as a decrease in CXC chemokine formation in the lung. Thus, these protective mechanisms help to explain the beneficial actions exerted by statins, such as simvastatin, in sepsis.
Telavancin is a bactericidal lipoglycopeptide with a multifunctional mechanism of action. We conducted a randomized, double blind, active-control phase II trial. Patients > or = 18 years of age with complicated skin and skin structure infections caused by suspected or confirmed gram-positive organisms were randomized to receive either telavancin at 10 mg/kg intravenously every 24 h (q24h) or standard therapy (antistaphylococcal penicillin at 2 g q6h or vancomycin at 1 g q12h). A total of 195 patients were randomized and received at least one dose of study medication. Clinical success rates were similar in all analysis populations at test of cure. In microbiologically evaluable patients with Staphylococcus aureus at baseline (n = 91), 96% of the telavancin group and 90% of the standard-therapy group were cured. Among patients with methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) at baseline (n = 45), clinical cure rates were also 96% for telavancin and 90% for standard therapy. Microbiologic eradication in patients with S. aureus infection was better with telavancin compared to standard therapy (92% versus 78%, P = 0.07) and significantly better in patients with MRSA (92% versus 68%; P = 0.04). Therapy was discontinued for an adverse event (AE) in 6% and 3% of the patients receiving telavancin and standard therapy, respectively. Except for two cases of rash in the telavancin group, these AEs were similar in type and severity in the two groups. The overall incidences and severities of AEs and laboratory abnormalities were similar between the two groups. These data support the ongoing studies assessing the efficacy and safety of telavancin in the treatment of serious gram-positive infections, particularly involving MRSA.
Effects of cyclophosphamide immunosuppressive therapy upon reticuloendothelial function in the rat have been studied. Numerous side effects including leukopenia, hematuria, diarrhea, hemorrhagic cystitis, and petechial hemorrhage in the lungs and the small bowel were observed. Studies utilizing (32)P-labeled bacteria revealed no change in the ability of the liver, spleen, lungs, or kidneys to ingest Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Utilization of labeled Staphylococcus aureus revealed an impairment of splenic uptake in animals receiving the maximal dose of 100 mg/kg. However, the liver, lungs, and kidneys were not affected. Although no generalized defect in the ingestive powers of these organs was observed, the ability of the lungs and kidneys from treated animals to kill ingested bacteria was significantly impaired. Regardless of the bacterium employed, the lungs and kidneys revealed a decrease in bactericidal ability with increasing drug dosages. Neither the liver nor the spleen from treated animals exhibited any decrease in bactericidal effect. Possible causes of this reduction in the bactericidal ability of alveolar and renal tissue following immunosuppression with cyclophosphamide are discussed.
A strategy is described for the re-design of DNA damaging platinum(II) complexes to afford elevated toxicity towards cancer cells expressing the estrogen receptor (ER). Two platinum-based toxicants are described in which a DNA damaging warhead, [Pt(en)Cl(2)] (en, ethylenediamine), is tethered to either of two functional groups. The first agent, [6-(2-amino-ethylamino)-hexyl]-carbamic acid 2-[6-(7alpha-estra-1,3,5,(10)-triene)-hexylamino]-ethyl ester platinum(II) dichloride ((Est-en)PtCl(2)), terminates in a ligand for the ER. The second agent is a control compound lacking the steroid; this compound, N-[6-(2-amino-ethylamino)-hexyl]-benzamide platinum(II) dichloride ((Bz-en)PtCl(2))), terminates in a benzamide moiety, which lacks affinity for the ER. Using a competitive binding assay, Est-en had 28% relative binding affinity (RBA) for the ER as compared to 17beta-estradiol. After covalent binding to a synthetic DNA duplex 16-mer, the compound retained its affinity for the ER; specificity of the binding event was demonstrated by the ability of free 17beta-estradiol as a competitor to disrupt the DNA adduct-ER complex. The (Est-en)PtCl(2) compound showed higher toxicity against the ER positive ovarian cancer cell line CAOV3 than did the control compound. (Est-en)PtCl(2) was also more toxic to the ER positive breast cancer line, MCF-7, than to an ER negative line, MDA-MB231.
