To determine the risk of liver toxicity from the long-term administration of methotrexate in patients with rheumatoid arthritis or psoriatic arthritis.
A meta-analysis of 15 studies examining the relationship between long-term, low-dose methotrexate administration and biopsy evidence of liver fibrosis.
A total of 636 patients from 15 studies.
The incidence of progression of liver disease (defined as worsening of at least one grade on the histologic classification of Roenigk) among 636 patients was 27.9% (95% confidence intervals 24.3 to 31.6). The rate of progression of liver disease in the 15 studies was associated with the cumulative dose of methotrexate (p = 0.01). Patients on average had a 6.7% (95% confidence intervals 2.1 to 11.4) chance of progressing at least one histologic grade on liver biopsy for each gram of methotrexate taken. The overall incidence of advanced pathologic changes on liver biopsy (grades IIIB or IV) among 636 patients was 5.0% (95% confidence intervals 3.5 to 7.0). The development of advanced histologic changes was not associated with the cumulative dose of methotrexate (p = 0.08). Patients who according to their history were heavy drinkers (at least 100 g of alcohol per week) were more likely to have advanced changes on liver biopsy (17.8% versus 4.5%, p = 0.0003) and to show histologic progression (73.3% versus 25.9%, p = 0.0002). Patients with psoriasis were more likely than patients with rheumatoid arthritis to have advanced changes (7.7% versus 2.7%, p = 0.003) and histologic progression (33.1% versus 24.3%, p = 0.02).
The risk of liver toxicity in patients undergoing long-term, low-dose methotrexate therapy is substantial, and that risk increases with the total cumulative dose and with heavy consumption of alcohol. Heavy users of alcohol should not receive long-term methotrexate therapy. For most patients who are not heavy users of alcohol, liver biopsies should be done periodically to monitor for the occurrence of liver toxicity.
Remifentanil-induced secondary hyperalgesia has been documented experimentally in both animals and healthy human volunteers, but never clinically. This study tested the hypotheses that increased pain sensitivity assessed by periincisional allodynia and hyperalgesia can occur after relatively large-dose intraoperative remifentanil and that small-dose ketamine prevents this hyperalgesia.
Seventy-five patients undergoing major abdominal surgery were randomly assigned to receive (1) intraoperative remifentanil at 0.05 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1) (small-dose remifentanil); (2) intraoperative remifentanil at 0.40 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1) (large-dose remifentanil); or (3) intraoperative remifentanil at 0.40 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1) and 0.5 mg/kg ketamine just after the induction, followed by an intraoperative infusion of 5 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1) until skin closure and then 2 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1) for 48 h (large-dose remifentanil-ketamine). Pain scores and morphine consumption were recorded for 48 postoperative hours. Quantitative sensory tests, peak expiratory flow measures, and cognitive tests were performed at 24 and 48 h.
Hyperalgesia to von Frey hair stimulation adjacent to the surgical wound and morphine requirements were larger (P < 0.05) and allodynia to von Frey hair stimulation was greater (P < 0.01) in the large-dose remifentanil group compared with the other two groups, which were comparable. There were no significant differences in pain, pressure pain detection threshold with an algometer, peak flow, cognitive tests, or side effects.
A relatively large dose of intraoperative remifentanil triggers postoperative secondary hyperalgesia. Remifentanil-induced hyperalgesia was prevented by small-dose ketamine, implicating an N-methyl-d-aspartate pain-facilitator process.
Hemorrhagic complications are common in patients placed on extracorporeal life support (ECLS), especially in those who have additional risk factors. Several centers use epsilon-aminocaproic acid (EACA) in their high-risk ECLS patients in an attempt to decrease the incidence of such complications, despite the fact that no controlled trials have been performed examining the risks and benefits of its use. The authors report the case of a neonate who had fatal aortic thrombosis during EACA administration. Also included is a discussion of the use of EACA in patients who require cardiopulmonary bypass.
The recent development of mice doubly deficient for monoamine oxidase A and B (MAO-A/B, respectively) has raised questions about the impact of these mutations on cardiovascular function, in so far as these animals demonstrate increased tissue levels of the vasoactive amines serotonin, norepinephrine, dopamine, and phenylethylamine. We recorded femoral arterial pressures and electrocardiograms in adult MAO-A/B-deficient mice during halothane-nitrous oxide anesthesia as well as 30 min postoperatively. During both anesthesia and recovery, systolic, diastolic, and mean arterial pressures were 10-15 mmHg lower in MAO-A/B-deficient mice compared with normal controls (P < 0.01). Mutants also showed a greater baroreceptor-mediated reduction in heart rate in response to hypertension after intravenous pulses of phenylephrine or angiotensin II. Tachycardia elicited in response to hypotension after nitroprusside was greater in mutants than in controls. Heart rate responsiveness to changes in arterial pressure was abolished after administration of glycopyrrolate, with no differences in this phenomenon noted between genotypes. These data suggest that prevention of hypertension may occur in chronic states of catecholaminergic/indoleaminergic excess by increased gain of the baroreflex.
To assess whether patient sex contributes to the interindividual variability in alfentanil analgesic sensitivity, the authors compared male and female subjects for pain sensitivity after alfentanil using a pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic modeling approach.
Healthy volunteers received a 30-min alfentanil or placebo infusion on two occasions. Analgesia was measured during the subsequent 6 h by assaying tolerance to transcutaneous electrical stimulation (eight men and eight women) of increasing intensity or using visual analog scale scores during treatment with noxious thermal heat (five men and five women). Sedation was concomitantly measured. Population pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic models were applied to the analgesia and sedation data using NONMEM. For electrical pain, the placebo and alfentanil models were combined post hoc.
Alfentanil and placebo analgesic responses did not differ between sexes. The placebo effect was successfully incorporated into the alfentanil pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic model and was responsible for 20% of the potency of alfentanil. However, the placebo effect did not contribute to the analgesic response variability. The pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic analysis of the electrical and heat pain data yielded similar values for the potency parameter, but the blood-effect site equilibration half-life was significantly longer for electrical pain (7-9 min) than for heat pain (0.2 min) or sedation (2 min).
In contrast to the ample literature demonstrating sex differences in morphine analgesia, neither sex nor subject expectation (i.e., placebo) contributes to the large between-subject response variability with alfentanil analgesia. The difference in alfentanil analgesia onset and offset between pain tests is discussed.
Stimulation of prejunctional beta 2-adrenoceptors on sympathetic nerve terminals increases vasoconstrictor nerve activity by facilitating release of noradrenaline. Therefore, man's endogenous beta 2-adrenoceptor agonist adrenaline has been implicated in the pathogenesis of hypertension. To test this hypothesis, adrenaline (15 mg/kg per min), noradrenaline (30 ng/kg per min) and saline (0.9% NaCl, 5.4 ml/h) were infused in 10 supine, resting healthy volunteers for 6 h (1000-1600 h) in random order 2 weeks apart in a double-blind crossover fashion. During infusion of noradrenaline and adrenaline, venous plasma concentrations rose to 705 +/- 58 (mean +/- s.e.m) and 230 +/- 28 pg/ml, respectively. Mean arterial pressure rose by 4% (P less than 0.001) during noradrenaline and fell by 5% (P less than 0.001) during the adrenaline infusion compared with the saline infusion. In the postinfusion period (1600-0900 h) mean arterial pressure was 7% higher (P less than 0.01) after adrenaline compared with the saline infusion, whereas after the noradrenaline infusion, values of mean arterial pressure were not different from those during the saline infusion. The pressor effect of adrenaline could not be explained by a central mechanism or by activation of the renin-angiotensin system. Thus, 'stress levels' of adrenaline mediate a delayed and protracted pressor effect. This is most likely due to stimulation of prejunctional beta 2-adrenoceptors, since 'stress levels' of noradrenaline are devoid of such activity. Our data support the 'adrenaline-hypertension' hypothesis in man.
Despite increasing reports on nonionic contrast media-induced nephropathy (CIN) in hospitalized adult patients during cardiac procedures, the studies in pediatrics are limited, with even less focus on possible predisposing factors and preventive measures for patients undergoing cardiac angiography. This prospective study determined the incidence of CIN for two nonionic contrast media (CM), iopromide and iohexol, among 80 patients younger than 18 years and compared the rates for this complication in relation to the type and dosage of CM and the presence of cyanosis. The 80 patients in the study consecutively received either iopromide (group A, n = 40) or iohexol (group B, n = 40). Serum sodium (Na), potassium (K), and creatinine (Cr) were measured 24 h before angiography as baseline values, then measured again at 12-, 24-, and 48-h intervals after CM use. Urine samples for Na and Cr also were checked at the same intervals. Risk of renal failure, Injury to the kidney, Failure of kidney function, Loss of kidney function, and End-stage renal damage (RIFLE criteria) were used to define CIN and its incidence in the study population. Accordingly, among the 15 CIN patients (18.75%), 7.5% of the patients in group A had increased risk and 3.75% had renal injury, whereas 5% of group B had increased risk and 2.5% had renal injury. Whereas 33.3% of the patients with CIN were among those who received the proper dosage of CM, the percentage increased to 66.6% among those who received larger doses, with a significant difference in the incidence of CIN related to the different dosages of CM (p = 0.014). Among the 15 patients with CIN, 6 had cyanotic congenital heart diseases, but the incidence did not differ significantly from that for the noncyanotic patients (p = 0.243). Although clinically silent, CIN is not rare in pediatrics. The incidence depends on dosage but not on the type of consumed nonionic CM, nor on the presence of cyanosis, and although CIN usually is reversible, more concern is needed for the prevention of such a complication in children.
To measure the blood levels of oxygen and lipid-free radicals as lipid peroxidation products and of vitamins E, C and A, in order to explain intraocular inflammation, retinal neovascularization and detachment in Eales' disease.
Levels of the lipid peroxidation products produced by oxygen and lipid free radicals (estimated as thiobarbituric acid reactive substances-TBARS), vitamin E with ferric chloride, vitamin C with 2,6-dichlorophenol-indophenol and vitamin A with antimony trichloride were all evaluated in three groups of subjects between 20 and 40 years of age. Twenty three were patients with Eales' disease in the active perivasculitis stage (Group I), 19 were patients with Eales' disease in the healed-perivasculitis stage (Group II), and 46 were healthy volunteers (Group III), used as normal controls. Patients in each group were subdivided into two age groups, 20-30 and 31-40 years, each group containing both sexes.
The results showed a 4.6- and 5.6-fold increase in the levels of TBARS in erythrocytes of patients with Eales' disease in the active perivasculitis stage (Group I) and a 2-fold increase in patients with Eales' disease in the healed perivasculitis stage (Group II), when compared to levels in the controls (Group III). On the other hand, there was a decrease of 75 and 76.2% in the levels of vitamin E in serum, 34 and 40.9% of vitamin C in plasma and 72.8 and 67% of vitamin A in serum in patients with Eales' disease in the active perivasculitis stage (Group I), as compared to the controls (Group III). Also decreases of 56 and 43.5% of vitamin E in serum, 26.8 and 12.5% of vitamin C in plasma and 50.5 and 49.4% of vitamin A in serum were found in patients with Eales' disease in the healed perivasculitis stage (Group II) as compared to the healthy controls (Group III). The two values of variations between the patients and the normal control group given above for TBARS, vitamins E,C and A are for the two age groups, 20-30 and 31-40 respectively. The differences were statistically significant (P < 0.01 to 0.001).
Lowered levels of antioxidant vitamins E and C and consequent accumulation of oxygen and lipid free radicals, or vice versa, could explain the inflammation, neovascularization and retinal pathology in patients with Eales' disease. Also, vitamin A deficiency could aggravate retinal illness.
A case is reported in which temozolomide, a promising new DNA alkylating agent, was successfully used to treat radiation refractory metastatic brain tumors arising from primary breast cancer. However, the treatment had to be terminated after the second round of treatment due to the development of hemorrhagic cystitis. This side effect was totally unexpected. Another class of alkylating agents (cyclophosphamide and related compounds) exhibits this side effect caused by a prevalent acrolein metabolite. Temozolomide and its sister compounds, dacarbazine and 5-(3-methyltriazen-1-yl)imidazole-4-caroxamide, have never been reported to have this adverse reaction. This case serves to alert physicians to the existence of a possible subpopulation of patients who may experience hemorrhagic cystitis on treatment with imidazotetrazines by a mechanism that is yet to be established.
This paper presents an apparent case of danazol-induced primary hepatocellular carcinoma in a 49-year-old patient, following two years of continuous therapy with this inhibitor of pituitary gonadotrophin. Discontinuation of the drug failed to cause regression of the tumour.
Whether edema is caused by "overflow" or "underfill," the excess retention of salt and water is common to virtually all forms. The use of natriuretic agents has been shown to be effective in most cases of edema. The present study compares the efficacy of a new long-acting indoline compound, indapamide, with that of hydrochlorothiazide, both given once daily, in the treatment of edema. This double-blind study was conducted in 17 centers. Edema was evaluated by weight change and pitting of the lower extremities. Indapamide was given in doses of 2.5, 5.0, and 10.0 mg and was compared with 100 mg of hydrochlorothiazide. Active treatment was continued up to 12 weeks. Weight change efficacy evaluation was done on 219 patients, and efficacy analysis for pitting edema was done on 214 patients. Of the 219 subjects, 90 were men and 129 were women. Mean age was 57.4 years, and mean body weight was 88.5 kg. By the end of 2 weeks of active treatment, the percentages of patients with no edema were 26%, 44%, and 31% for the indapamide groups (2.5, 5.0, and 10.0 mg), respectively, and 40% for the hydrochlorothiazide group (100 mg). Early response to treatment as measured by weight loss was demonstrated by all patients in the study regardless of treatment group. Hypokalemia was the most frequently reported adverse reaction. Other adverse reactions were infrequent, with no significant difference among the treatment groups. This study concluded that indapamide in once-daily oral doses of 2.5, 5.0, or 10.0 mg was as safe and effective as a once-daily 100 mg dose of hydrochlorothiazide for the treatment of 219 patients with edema from various causes.
To highlight some problems that may occur when investigating clozapine-associated deaths including (i) that death may be related to gastrointestinal hypomotility and (ii) that post-mortem blood clozapine and norclozapine concentrations may not reflect ante-mortem concentrations.
A 41-year-old male died 40 min after admission to hospital as a result of aspiration complicating severe, clozapine-induced constipation. At post-mortem the small bowel was dilated and contained bloodstained mucus, particularly within the jejunum. The large bowel was considerably dilated and contained large quantities of foul-smelling, bloodstained fluid and a small amount of stool. Its lining was focally congested, but there was no other obvious abnormality. Analysis of serum obtained on admission revealed clozapine and norclozapine concentrations of 0.56 and 0.43 mg/L, respectively, whereas post-mortem femoral whole blood obtained <34 h after death showed clozapine and norclozapine concentrations of 3.73 and 1.75 mg/L, respectively. In 6 out of a further 12 clozapine-associated deaths investigated 2002-9 there were reports of gastrointestinal tract problems of varying severity.
Severe constipation or paralytic ileus in clozapine-treated patients may lead to intestinal necrosis and/or perforation, or pulmonary aspiration. In some such cases the immediate cause of death may be obvious, but in others only careful assessment of the clinical course of the terminal illness may reveal gastrointestinal hypomotility as a likely underlying cause of death.
Despite the beneficial therapeutic effects of antihypertensive drugs, some agents--particularly diuretics--seem to go in the "wrong direction" chemically. In fact, these changes could counteract some of the benefits resulting from lowering a patient's blood pressure. In the absence of hard evidence of the efficacy of long-term diuretic treatment of mild hypertension, we must be maximally sure that such therapy causes no harm. Thiazide and related diuretics have been associated with four distinct wrong-way chemical changes: increases in plasma concentrations of cholesterol, glucose, and uric acid, and a decrease in plasma potassium levels. The potential ramifications of such changes are well understood. The increase in circulating cholesterol, an established risk factor of myocardial infarction and stroke, is of particular concern--each year approximately one million hypertensive patients have myocardial infarctions. As a result, the search for safer and more effective diuretics must continue. Indapamide, a new antihypertensive drug, appears to meet these criteria. It is an effective diuretic with a considerable peripheral vasodilatory effect. Additionally, it does not appear to induce any significant change in circulating cholesterol, whereas chlorthalidone has been found to increase total cholesterol by 5%. Hydralazine is the only antihypertensive agent that seems to lower total cholesterol levels significantly. Neither indapamide nor hydralazine appears to affect plasma glucose levels; benzothiadiazines, however, have been found to induce an increase in circulating glucose.
Cadmium is a major environmental pollutant that causes kidney failure including the inability to resorb nutrients such as glucose. In a mouse kidney cell culture model, Cd(2+) inhibits Na(+)-dependent glucose uptake mediated by SGLT transporters. This defect has been traced to the down-regulation of SGLT mRNA synthesis mediated by the zinc-finger transcription factor, Zn(3)-Sp1. Incubation of Cd(2+) with Zn(2+)-Sp1 inhibited its capacity to bind to GC1, its binding site in the SGLT1 promoter. The extent of reaction was reduced as increasing concentrations of Zn(2+) are simultaneously present in the reaction mixture. The results are consistent with a Cd(2+)-Zn(2+) exchange reaction that inactivates the DNA binding function of the protein. The equilibrium constant for this reaction was calculated as 14 +/- 3 and 7 +/- 4 for the reactions measured by the binding to GC1 and an analogous SGLT2 promoter site. Sequential addition of Cd(2+) and Zn(2+) to Zn(3)-Sp1 failed to inhibit the reduction in DNA binding seen with Cd(2+) alone, indicating that substitution of Zn(2+) by Cd(2+) was followed by a second reaction that failed to respond to Zn(2+). Buffers for the DNA binding reaction (electrophoretic mobility shift assay) contain EDTA and Cd-EDTA is active in the same concentration range as Cd(2+). During the standard 15 min incubation, Cd(2+) down-regulates Zn(3)-Sp1 but is inactive against the adduct, Zn(3)-Sp1.GC1. Kinetic studies demonstrated that with 5 muM Cd(2+), Zn(3)-Sp1 was about 75% inactivated in 15 min, whereas, Zn(3)-Sp1.GC1 was slowly dissociated with 50% still remaining after 60 min. In contrast, Zn(3)-Sp1 bound to a cognate consensus site resisted any reaction over 60 min. An adduct of Zn(3)-Sp1.(polydI-dC) was just as reactive with Cd(2+) as Zn(3)-Sp1. Reexamination of the NMR structure of Zn- and Cd-finger peptides related to Sp1 fingers has revealed subtle changes in conformation of the metalbinding site and DNA-binding helix that occur when Cd(2+) is substituted by Zn(2+).
Management of the patient who refuses blood products based on religious grounds poses ethical and clinical challenges, especially when the degree of anemia becomes life-threatening. In this report, we present the case of a 52-year-old Jehovah's Witness with sickle cell disease in whom he and his family refused blood products for the treatment of severe anemia associated with profound and progressive acidosis, acute oliguric renal failure, and hemodynamic instability. Attempts carried out during the first 3 hospital days to stabilize the patient using standard therapies to support oxygen delivery as well as the use of sedation, pain control, temperature control, neuromuscular blockade, and mechanical ventilation to reduce oxygen demand were not successful. Thus, because oxygen consumption by the brain represents approximately 20 per cent of the body's oxygen needs, and pentobarbital's primary action is as a central nervous system depressant, the induction of pentobarbital coma was instituted to reduce cerebral oxygen consumption. The institution of pentobarbital on hospital Day 3 was sufficient to acutely stabilize the patient's deteriorating metabolic state and ultimately was associated with survival. Thus, we conclude that there is a potential role for barbiturate coma in Jehovah's Witness patients who refuse blood transfusions and dying of anemia when other modalities of support are not sufficient.
Cocaine abusers show impaired performance on cognitive tasks that engage prefrontal cortex. These deficits may contribute to impaired control and relapse in abusers. Understanding the neuronal substrates that lead to these deficits requires animal models that are relevant to the human condition. However, to date, models have mostly focused on behaviors mediated by subcortical systems. Here we evaluated the impact of long-term self-administration of cocaine in the rhesus monkey on cognitive performance. Tests included stimulus discrimination (SD)/reversal and delayed alternation tasks. The chronic cocaine animals showed marked deficits in ability to organize their behavior for maximal reward. This was demonstrated by an increased time needed to acquire SDs. Deficits were also indicated by an increased time to initially learn the delayed alternation task, and to adapt strategies for bypassing a reliance on working memory to respond accurately. Working memory per se (delay dependent performance) was not affected by chronic self-administration. This pattern of cognitive deficits suggests dysfunction that extends beyond localized prefrontal cortical areas. In particular, it appears that temporal cortical function is also compromised. This agrees with other recent clinical and preclinical findings, and suggests further study into addiction related dysfunction across more widespread cortical networks is warranted.
The pathophysiology of anaphylactic shock during anesthesia is incompletely characterized. It is described as distributive by analogy with septic shock (anaerobic metabolism, high tissue oxygen pressure [Ptio2] values). The Ptio2 profile and its metabolic consequences during anaphylaxis are not known.
Ovalbumin-sensitized anaphylactic shock rats (n = 11) were compared to nicardipine-induced hypotension rats (n = 12) for systemic hemodynamics, Ptio2, sympathetic nervous system activation, skeletal muscle blood flow, and interstitial lactate and pyruvate concentrations using combined microdialysis and polarographic Clark-type oxygen probes.
In both groups, the time course and the magnitude of arterial hypotension were similar. The ovalbumin group but not the nicardipine group displayed decreased skeletal muscle blood flow (from 45 +/- 6.2 ml x 100 g(-1) x min(-1) to 24.3 +/- 5 ml x 100 g(-1) x min(-1); P < 0.0001) and Ptio2 values (from 42 +/- 5 to 5 +/- 2; P < 0.0001). The ovalbumin group had more intense sympathetic nervous system activation with higher plasma epinephrine and interstitial norepinephrine concentrations. For the ovalbumin group, there was skeletal muscle anaerobic metabolism (lactate concentration increased from 0.446 +/- 0.105 to 1.741 +/- 0.459 mm; P < 0.05) and substrate depletion (pyruvate concentration decreased from 0.034 +/- 0.01 mm to 0.006 +/- 0.002 mm; P < 0.05) leading to increased interstitial lactate/pyruvate ratios (from 17 +/- 6 to 311 +/- 115; P < 0.05).
This profile suggests decreased skeletal muscle blood flow and oxygen delivery. Persistent energy consumption results in decreased Ptio2 and substrate depletion through anaerobic glycolysis leading to complete failure of cellular energy production. This could explain rapid organ dysfunction and resuscitation difficulties.
Impedance plethysmography (IPG) and the Doppler ultrasonographic probe were used to assess whether thrombophlebitis, initiated by injection of a sclerosant into superficial varicose veins, extended to involve the deep veins of the leg. Sixty-seven legs were treated with compression sclerotherapy in 50 patients (26 men, 24 women) whose mean age was 53 years. Indications for this therapy were unacceptable appearance (n = 37), pain (n = 13), cramps (n = 11), and stasis ulcer (n = 6). Each leg received an average of six injections (range, three to 11) of 0.5 mL of sodium tetradecyl sulfate. Blood flow in the deep veins was studied immediately before injection of the sclerosant and one week and two weeks afterward. In each leg, no change in either of these studies was found at one and two weeks following injection treatment. In nine extremities, delayed venous emptying was found on IPG. This persisted after sclerosis and was interpreted as evidence of a previous deep vein thrombosis.
The risk factors for visual field loss attributable to vigabatrin (VAVFL) are equivocal. This multinational, prospective, observational study aimed to clarify the principal/major factors for VAVFL.
Interim analysis of three groups with refractory partial epilepsy, stratified by age (8-12 years; >12 years) and exposure to vigabatrin (VGB). Group I comprised participants treated with VGB for >or=6 months, Group II participants previously treated with VGB for >or=6 months who had discontinued the drug for >or=6 months and Group III those never treated with VGB. Perimetry was undertaken at least every six months, for up to 36 months; results were evaluated masked to drug exposure.
Based upon 563 participants in the locked data set, 432 yielded one or more Conclusive visual field examinations. For Group I, the frequency of VAVFL at the last Conclusive examination was 10/32 (31.2%) for those aged 8-12 years and 52/125 (41.6%) for those aged >12 years. For Group II, the proportions were 4/39 (10.3%) and 31/129 (24.0%). No cases resembling VAVFL manifested in Group III. VAVFL was associated with duration of VGB therapy (Odds ratio [OR] 14.2; 95% CI 5.0 to 40.5); mean dose of VGB (OR 8.5; 95% CI 2.2 to 33.2); and male gender (OR 2.1; 95% CI 1.2 to 3.7). VAVFL was more common with static than kinetic perimetry (OR 2.3, 95% CI 1.3 to 4.2).
The therapeutic benefit of VGB is counteracted by the progressive accrual of the risk of VAVFL with continued exposure and with increase in mean dose.
Chronic daily administration of 6.25mg/kg of levodopa in unilaterally 6-OHDA lesioned rats did not induce any observable behavioral effects for the first 12.5+/-2.5 days. Thereafter, levodopa administration induced abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs), involving the contralateral limb, head, neck and trunk, along with the development of contralateral rotations. AIMs and rotations followed a progressively worsening, highly correlated, parallel course. We suggest that rotational behavior does not represent a pure antiparkinsonian response, but along with levodopa-induced dyskinesia is part of the levodopa-induced motor response complications syndrome.
The influence of 2-amino-3-phosphonopropionic acid (AP3) an antagonist of metabotropic glutamate receptors and its N-methyl analog (N-methyl AP3) on locomotor activity in the "open field" test, apomorphine stereotypy and haloperidol catalepsy were tested. Both compounds had not any influence on spontaneous crossings of squares, number of rearings and bar approaches in the "open field" test. AP3 and its N-methyl analog significantly enhanced apomorphine stereotypy at the intracerebroventricular (icv) doses of 100 and 200 micrograms per rat respectively. Although, both compounds significantly diminished haloperidol catalepsy at the icv doses of 50, 100 and 200 micrograms per rat. All observed effects of AP3 and N-methyl AP3 were dose independent. Methyl substitution at the N-position in AP3 did not change pharmacological properties of this compound i.e. its influence on behavior mainly dependent on dopaminergic systems.
Arsenic (As) compounds are reported as environmental toxicants and human carcinogens. Exposure to arsenic imposes a big health issue worldwide. Silibinin (SB) is a major flavonolignan compound of silimarin and is found in milk thistle of Silybum marianum. It has been reported that silibinin has antioxidant efficacy as metal chelators due to the orientation of its functional groups. However, it has not yet been explored in experimental animals. In view of this fact, the purpose of this study was to delineate the ameliorative role of silibinin against arsenic-induced hepatotoxicity in rats. Rats were orally treated with arsenic alone (5 mg/kg body weight (bw)/day) plus silibinin (75 mg/kg bw/day) for 4weeks. Hepatotoxicity was evaluated by the increased activities of serum hepatospecific enzymes namely aspartate transaminase, alanine transaminase, alkaline phosphatase, gamma glutamyl transferase, lactate dehydrogenase and total bilirubin along with increased elevation of lipid peroxidative markers, thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, lipid hydroperoxides, protein carbonyl content and conjugated dienes. The toxic effect of arsenic was also indicated by significantly decreased activities of membrane bound ATPases, enzymatic antioxidants like superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione-S-transferase, glutathione reductase and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase along with nonenzymatic antioxidants like reduced glutathione, total sulfhydryl groups, vitamins C and E. Administration of silibinin exhibited a significant reversal of arsenic-induced toxicity in hepatic tissue. All these changes were supported by reduction of DNA damage in hepatocytes and histopathological observations of the liver. These results suggest that silibinin has a potential protective effect over arsenic-induced hepatotoxicity in rat.
Infusion of 5'-dFUrd (2.0-3.0 g/m2 over 1 h on days 1-5 every 3rd week) resulted in one partial response in 21 patients with advanced and progressing colorectal cancer. No patient had received chemotherapy before the 5'-dFUrd trial. Hematological and gastrointestinal toxicity were generally mild. In 4 patients peripheral neurotoxicity was diagnosed during treatment, whereas transient cerebellopathy was observed in one. Cardiac side effects (repeated angina pectoris following 5'-dFUrd infusion) led to discontinuation of treatment after two courses in one patient. It is concluded that 5'-dFUrd at the above doses is not superior to conventional 5-FU treatment in colorectal cancer. Neurological and cardiac side effects are rare but may be a problem in individual patients.
