The depressant and anticonvulsant activities of iso-6-cassine (ISO) from Senna spectabilis (0.5, 1.0 and 1.5mg/kg) injected by oral route in mice caused a significant decrease in the motor activity of animals when compared with the control group, up to 30 days after the administration and at dose of 1.5mg/kg, it reduced the remaining time of animals on Rota-rod apparatus. Additionally, ISO at doses tested was also capable to promote an increase of latency for development of convulsions induced by pentylenetetrazole and picrotoxin. These results suggest possible depressant and anticonvulsant activities in mice that need further investigation.
Insulin resistance is the primary characteristic of type 2 diabetes. Cocoa and its main flavanol, (-)-epicatechin (EC), display some antidiabetic effects, but the mechanisms for their preventive activities related to glucose metabolism and insulin signalling in the liver remain largely unknown. In the present work, the preventive effect of EC and a cocoa polyphenolic extract (CPE) on insulin signalling and on both glucose production and uptake are studied in insulin-responsive human HepG2 cells treated with high glucose. Pre-treatment of cells with EC or CPE reverted decreased tyrosine-phosphorylated and total levels of IR, IRS-1 and -2 triggered by high glucose. EC and CPE pre-treatment also prevented the inactivation of the PI3K/AKT pathway and AMPK, as well as the diminution of GLUT-2 levels induced by high glucose. Furthermore, pre-treatment of cells with EC and CPE avoided the increase in PEPCK levels and the diminished glucose uptake provoked by high glucose, returning enhanced levels of glucose production and decreased glycogen content to control values. These findings suggest that EC and CPE improved insulin sensitivity of HepG2 treated with high glucose, preventing or delaying a potential hepatic dysfunction through the attenuation of the insulin signalling blockade and the modulation of glucose uptake and production.
To investigate the effects of leptin administration on liver fibrosis induced by thioacetamide (TAA).
Twenty-four male C57Bl/6 mice were randomly allocated into four groups, which were intra-peritoneally given saline (2 mL/kg), leptin (1 mg/kg), TAA (200 mg/kg), TAA (200 mg/kg) plus leptin (1 mg/kg) respectively, thrice a week. All mice were killed after 4 wk. The changes in biochemical markers, such as the levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) in serum and superoxide dismutase (SOD), malondialdehyde (MDA) in liver were determined. For histological analysis, liver tissues were fixed with 10% buffered formalin, embedded with paraffin. Hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining and picric acid-Sirius red dyeing were performed. The level of alpha1(I) procollagen mRNA in liver tissues was analyzed by RT-PCR.
Apparent liver fibrosis was found in TAA group and TAA plus leptin group. Compared to saline group, the levels of ALT and AST in serum and MDA in liver increased in TAA group (205.67+/-27.69 U/L vs 50.67+/-10.46 U/L, 177.50+/-23.65 U/L vs 76.33+/-12.27 U/L, 2.60+/-0.18 nmol/mg pro vs 1.91+/-0.14 nmol/mg pro, P<0.01) and in TAA plus leptin group (256.17+/-22.50 U/L vs 50.67+/-10.46 U/L, 234.17+/-27.37 U/L vs 76.33+/-12.27 U/L, 2.97+/-0.19 nmol/mg pro vs 1.91+/-0.14 nmol/mg pro, P<0.01). The level of SOD in livers decreased (51.80+/-8.36 U/mg pro vs 81.52+/-11.40 U/mg pro, 35.78+/-6.11 U/mg pro vs 81.52+/- 11.40 U/mg pro, P<0.01) and the level of alpha1(I) procollagen mRNA in liver tissues also increased (0.28+/-0.04 vs 0.11+/- 0.02, 0.54+/-0.07 vs 0.11+/-0.02, P<0.01). But no significant changes were found in leptin group and saline group. Compared to TAA group, ALT, AST, MDA, and alpha1(I) procollagen mRNA and grade of liver fibrosis in TAA plus leptin group increased (256.17+/-22.50 U/L vs 205.67+/- 27.69 U/L, P<0.05; 234.17+/-27.37 U/L vs 177.50+/-23.65 U/L, P<0.05; 2.97+/-0.19 nmol/mg pro vs 2.60+/-0.18 nmol/mg pro, P<0.05; 0.54+/-0.07 vs 0.28+/-0.04, P<0.01; 3.17 vs 2.00, P<0.05), and the level of SOD in liver decreased (35.78+/-6.11 U/mg pro vs 51.80+/-8.36 U/mg pro, P<0.05). There were similar changes in the degree of type I collagen deposition confirmed by picric acid-Sirius red dyeing.
Leptin can exacerbate the degree of TAA-induced liver fibrosis in mice. Leptin may be an important factor in the development of liver fibrosis.
The present study was performed to evaluate the role(s) of hypoglycemia, changes in [(3)H]glutamate binding kinetics and dopaminergic activity in the occurrence of scopolamine-induced convulsions in fasted mice after food intake. Plasma glucose levels and density (B(max)) and affinity (K(d)) of [(3)H]glutamate binding sites in whole brain synaptic membranes were determined in animals fed ad lib or fasted for 48 h and treated intraperitoneally (i.p.) with 3 mg/kg scopolamine or saline and allowed to eat for 5 min. Fasting for 48 h decreased plasma glucose levels. After refeeding, plasma glucose concentrations increased in saline treated animals, but remained unchanged in scopolamine treated animals which consumed less food. Fasting for 48 h also produced significant changes in the kinetics of [(3)H]glutamate binding. The B(max) and K(d) of the binding sites decreased in fasted animals. These changes were partially antagonized by scopolamine treatment and food intake. For the evaluation of the contribution of dopaminergic activity, another group of mice fasted for 48 h and pretreated (i.p.) with saline or dopamine antagonists, 2 mg/kg chlorpromazine or 2 or 4 mg/kg haloperidol, were treated 10 min later with either saline or 3 mg/kg scopolamine. Then 20 min later, they were allowed to eat ad lib and were observed for 30 min for the incidence and onset of clonic convulsions. Pretreatment of both 2 mg/kg chlorpromazine and 4 mg/kg haloperidol markedly suppressed the convulsions. These results indicate that the decrease in the [(3)H]glutamate binding induced by fasting, its antagonism by scopolamine treatment and food intake, and the dopaminergic hyperactivity may be possible factors contributing to the occurrence of convulsions.
Nucleoside analogues may induce mitochondrial toxicity, particularly didanosine. Ribavirin increases didanosine exposure, which might be clinically relevant when coadministered in HIV/HCV-coinfected patients.
To evaluate, among 89 patients receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) and therapy for chronic hepatitis C, clinically relevant mitochondrial toxicity in those treated with concomitant ribavirin and didanosine (n=35, 39%).
From January 2000 to July 2002 longitudinal analysis of the incidence and clinical course of didanosine-related hyperamylasaemia, pancreatitis, hyperlactataemia/lactic acidosis or neuropathy. Risk factors were evaluated using univariate and multivariate Cox's proportional hazards model.
Among 35 patients who received concomitant didanosine (400 mg/day in 86%) and ribavirin (> or = 10 mg/kg/day in 91%), 20 (57%) developed one or more adverse events after a mean of 87 days. Most frequent laboratory abnormalities were hyperamylasaemia (18 patients, 51%) and hyperlactataemia (eight patients, 23%). Acute pancreatitis and symptomatic hyperlactataemia developed in 10 (28%) and six (17%) patients, respectively. Two patients (6%) with pancreatitis and severe lactic acidosis died; the other patients recovered uneventfully despite continuation of anti-HCV therapy in 83% after didanosine withdrawal in 40%. In the Cox's model higher baseline amylase levels (HR: 1.04, 95% CI: 1.02-1.06, P=0.001) and three nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor-based HAART (HR: 5.3, 95% CI: 1.73-16.24, P=0.003) were significantly associated to toxicity.
The coadministration of didanosine and ribavirin should be avoided in HIV/HCV-coinfected patients, due to a high rate of clinically significant toxicity, particularly in triple nucleoside-based HAART. Amylase levels should be strictly monitored, especially if elevated at baseline.
The regimen mifepristone/misoprostol is an established and highly effective method for early termination of pregnancy. However, its side effects such as a significantly long bleeding time and hemorrhage have been scantly studied.
Human umbilical artery (HUA) from pregnant women undergoing elective cesarean section at term and rat thoracic aorta (RTA) were isometrically recorded. The vasorelaxing effect of mifepristone was analyzed on the contractile responses induced by KCl or serotonin (5-HT); moreover, the potential response of mifepristone on adenosine diphosphate (ADP)-induced human platelet aggregation was also evaluated.
This study describes that mifepristone elicits (1) rapid and reversible vasorelaxation on KCl- or 5-HT-induced contraction in HUA and RTA with and without endothelium and (2) immediate prevention of ADP-induced human platelet aggregation.
These effects seem to be responsible for increased and prolonged hemorrhage. Since mifepristone-prevented platelet aggregation was observed in the anucleate platelets, and mifepristone-induced vasorelaxation remained unaffected in de-endothelized tissues, by inhibitors of transcription and translation and a nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitor, a nongenomic endothelium- and NO-independent mechanism was revealed. Additionally, the results indicated a blockade of voltage- and receptor-operated calcium channels. The antiglucocorticoid genomic action of mifepristone, by inducing an excess of NO, may also contribute to exacerbated hemorrhage.
Retinoids (vitamin A) serve two distinct functions in higher animals: light absorption for vision and gene regulation for growth and development. Cigarette smoking is a contributing factor for diseases that affect vision such as age-related macular degeneration and increases the risk of birth defects; however, altered retinoid homeostasis has received little attention as a potential mechanism for smoking-associated toxicities. Herein, we demonstrate that nornicotine, a nicotine metabolite and component of cigarette smoke, catalyzes the Z-to-E alkene isomerization of unsaturated aldehydes and ketones, including retinals. Despite the recent explosion in the use of organic compounds as chemical catalysts, minimal effort has been devoted to biologically relevant organocatalysis. Our study demonstrates a system in which a lowest unoccupied molecular orbital-lowering intermediate similar to the endogenous protein rhodopsin effectively catalyzes isomerization under biologically relevant conditions. The product of retinal isomerization is all-E-retinal, which in the eye is a biosynthetic precursor to N-retinylidene-N-retinylethanolamine, a hallmark of age-related macular degeneration. Furthermore, 9-Z- and all-E-retinal isomers are biosynthetic precursors to 9-Z- and all-E-retinoic acids, ligands that mediate specific cellular responses by binding to transcriptional regulatory proteins critical in growth and development. Strict maintenance of retinal isomer composition is essential for proper transcriptional regulation. Nornicotine-catalyzed retinal isomerization implies an underlying molecular mechanism for age-related macular degeneration, the birth defects associated with smoking, and other smoking-associated abnormalities that stem from disruption of retinoid metabolism.
Androgenic anabolic steroids (AAS) are synthetic hormone derivatives of testosterone and are mainly used to enhance athletic performance and muscle mass, but medical applications also have been described. Short- and long-term side effects have been demonstrated in many organs, but the liver adverse effects are the most common and serious ones associated with AAS use. However, these effects have been supported by few clinical and experimental studies.
To evaluate the hepatic function and structure after 5 wk of nandrolone decanoate administration at three different doses.
Twenty-seven adult male Wistar rats were randomly assigned to the following groups: control, clinical, intermediate, and suprapharmacological doses of nandrolone decanoate during 5 wk.
The biochemical studies showed that nandrolone decanoate administration leads to a dose-dependent increase in serum levels of the aspartate aminotransferase (AST) (P < 0.05), alanine aminotransferase (ALT) (P < 0.01), and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) (P < 0.001), as well as a significant decrease in total proteins (P < 0.01), bilirubin (P < 0.05), total cholesterol and fractions (P < 0.05), and triglycerides (P < 0.05). Although a significant statistical difference was found for AST, ALT, and ALP when compared with the control group, their values remained within the normal range. The number of Kupffer cells was increased in the liver parenchyma (P < 0.05), and the content of collagen was increased in the central lobular vein wall, in the hepatic parenchyma, and in the portal space (P < 0.05).
These results suggest that subchronic treatment with nandrolone decanoate, mainly administered at higher-than-clinical doses, are potentially deleterious to the liver, leading to incipient fibrosis.
Several decades ago, diethylstilbestrol (DES) was prescribed to support the pregnancy of women who were diabetic, who had had consecutive abortions, or who were threatening to abort. The use of this estrogen substitute to support human gestation had ceased by the 1960s. In 1971, the first report was published in which DES exposure was linked with clear cell carcinoma of the vagina and cervix. Since then, many other documentations have been published on upper genital tract anomalies, poor reproductive performance, and the high incidence of fetal wastage in DES-exposed women. The author describes a case of clear cell carcinoma of the kidney in an 18-year-old pregnant woman with a prior history of vaginal adenosis who had been exposed to DES in utero.
Cocaine-induced hyperactivity was inhibited by a single administration of naloxone (2 and 5 mg/kg, i.p.), an opioid receptor antagonist, and naloxone administered prior to and during the chronic injection of cocaine attenuated the development of both cocaine-induced reverse tolerance and conditioned place preference (CPP). Dopamine (DA) receptor supersensitivity which developed in cocaine-induced reverse tolerant or CPP mice, was also inhibited by naloxone. Furthermore, naloxone reduced an apomorphine-induced striatal dopaminergic action, climbing behavior. Therefore, the present studies suggest that cocaine-induced dopaminergic behaviors, such as hyperactivity, reverse tolerance and CPP, may be commonly produced via activation of an opioid receptor. The development of DA receptor supersensitivity may be a possible common mechanism of cocaine-induced reverse tolerance and CPP, since cocaine-induced changes in sensitivity to apomorphine, as well as apomorphine-induced climbing behavior in mice, were both inhibited by naloxone.
The concept of antiinflammatory effects of volatile anesthetics is well established in vitro and in some organ systems. Their protective role in lung injury, however, remains to be elucidated. The authors hypothesized that in the lung, isoflurane pretreatment may attenuate neutrophil infiltration and reduce endotoxin-induced injury.
Male C57Bl/6 mice were exposed to aerosolized lipopolysaccharide. Neutrophil recruitment into the pulmonary vasculature and migration into the different lung compartments (interstitium and alveolar air space) were determined by flow cytometry. Capillary protein leakage, formation of lung edema, and concentration of the chemokines keratinocyte-derived chemokine (CXCL1) and macrophage inflammatory protein 2 (CXCL2/3) in bronchoalveolar lavage were compared in mice with or without isoflurane treatment (1.4% inspired for 30 min) at different times before and after endotoxin exposure.
Endotoxin inhalation induced significant neutrophil migration into all lung compartments. Isoflurane pretreatment attenuated both neutrophil recruitment into lung interstitium and alveolar space when given 1 or 12 h before or 1 h after lipopolysaccharide but not at 4, 6, or 24 h before endotoxin exposure. Isoflurane pretreatment 1 or 12 h before lipopolysaccharide also reduced protein leakage and pulmonary edema. Production of CXCL1 and CXCL2/3 in the bronchoalveolar lavage was reduced when isoflurane was given 1 h but not 12 h before lipopolysaccharide, suggesting different mechanisms for early and late protection.
Isoflurane pretreatment reduces acute lung injury when given 1 or 12 h before an endotoxin challenge or within the first hour of an already established inflammation.
To sum up, some hematological side effects are seen after antihypertensive drugs. They are, however, few, usually not severe and furthermore reversible. And so, from the viewpoint of the hematologist, there are no contraindications against antihypertensive treatment. The prevalence of side effects on blood and blood-forming organs from antihypertensive drugs is low. Of certain interest are 1) the tendency of modern diuretics (thiazides) to cause a moderate and reversible thrombocytopenia and 2) the positive antiglobulin reaction (Coomb's test) sometimes seen after alpha-methyldopa therapy and in a few cases causing autoimmune hemolytic anemia. Even though case reports have appeared on leukopenia/agranulocytosis related to almost all drugs used in the treatment of hypertension, none of these drugs seem to be especially prone to cause any damage to leukocytes and/or leukocyte production.
Alpers-Huttenlocher disease (AHD) is a rare encephalopathy of infancy and childhood characterized by myoclonic seizures and progressive neurological deterioration, usually associated with signs and symptoms of liver dysfunction. There is no biological marker of the disease, and ultimate diagnosis still relies on pathological examination. Features of clinical progression and pathological findings suggest AHD to be secondary to a genetically determined disorder of mitochondrial function. We report on four AHD patients and focus on their pathological features in brain, liver and muscle. Liver and muscle biopsy specimens were examined using histochemical markers of the oxidative pathways, probes to immunodetect molecules of the apoptotic cascades and electron microscopy. In liver (but not in muscle) biopsy samples, activated caspases were detected by immunohistochemistry: foci of caspase-9-positive cells were seen in a child affected with chronic, progressive fibrosis. In an 18-year-old boy, who suffered from valproic acid-associated acute hepatitis, caspase-3 cells were clustered among the necrotic foci and the foamy cells. In both patients electron microscopy revealed apoptotic nuclei. Normal muscle biopsy specimens were observed in two children, 2 and 8 years-old respectively; in the 18-year-old patient cytochrome oxidase-negative fibers as well as ultrastructural findings of mitochondrial abnormalities were observed. In no patient was there biochemical evidence of impaired oxidative metabolism. Neuropathological examination of the brains of two patients (13 months and 19 years old, respectively) showed focal distribution of the lesions affecting the telencephalic cortex and, to a lesser extent, subcortical gray nuclei. Along with the necrotizing lesions, characterized by neuronal loss, neuropil microcysts and newly formed vessels, we also observed acutely shrunken neurons and features of apoptotic cell death in the cerebral cortex only. Severe neuronal loss without necrotizing features was observed in the cerebellar cortex. The presence of both anoxic and apoptotic nuclei in brain and liver, the target tissues of the disease, is consistent with the hypothesis that abnormal activation of mitochondrion-related cell death pathways might be involved in the pathogenesis of AHD.
The immunological side-effects under treatment with antihypertensive drugs are mainly limited to autoimmunity and autoimmune disease caused by alpha-methyldopa and hydralazine. Autoimmune hemolytic anemia is more common during treatment with alpha-methyldopa. Hydralazine may induce antinuclear antibodies. Some patients develop a SLE-like syndrome. Its clinical picture is less severe and its prognosis is more favourable than that of spontaneous SLE. During treatment with low doses the disease develops exclusively in patients who are slow acetylators. It may appear also in rapid acetylators during the high dose treatment. The symptoms are usually reversible after withdrawal of the drug.
The case of a 69-year-old woman who developed muscle weakness on chronic amiodarone treatment is reported. Muscle biopsy showed vacuolar alterations and a marked accumulation of amiodarone and of its metabolite desethylamiodarone was found in the muscle sample despite normal blood levels. Amiodarone-induced morphological alterations of the muscle may be related to the actual tissue concentration rather than to the blood level.
Completing previous studies in patients with sinus bradycardia (Med. Klin. 82 [1987], 647-650) we compared metoprolol with carteolol and pindolol, pindolol with carteolol, no treatment with carteolol (in two groups) in five series of the paired comparisons of Holter-ECG each. With change from metoprolol to carteolol or pindolol (dose ratio 10:1) lowest heart rate on Holter-ECG increased by 28 or 29% without change of exercise heart rate. Direct comparison of pindolol and carteolol revealed a very similar heart rate profile, indicating equipotent beta blockade and ISA. In patients with previous beta blocker induced bradycardia, carteolol did not change a normal resting heart rate off treatment. However, in patients with spontaneous sinus bradycardia carteolol increased lowest heart rate (+14%, due to overriding ISA) and lowered exercise heart rate (-15%, due to overriding beta blockade). A beta blocker induced sinus bradycardia consistently improved with change of treatment to carteolol and pindolol. With caution carteolol and pindolol may also be used despite spontaneous sinus bradycardia.
From a population of 111 patients with chronic methamphetamine (MAP) psychosis, who were treated at ten mental hospitals during the past 3 years, 21 patients were selected for study. Sixteen patients who experienced MAP psychosis again used MAP one or more times after long-term abstinence and experienced acute exacerbation of a paranoid psychotic state which was almost identical to the initial psychotic episode. Four of these patients relapsed following a single MAP reuse of an amount less than that initially used, and one relapsed without evidence of MAP reuse. In eight patients, small doses of neuroleptics, e.g., 3 mg per day of haloperidol, prevented the acute provocation of a psychotic state by MPA reuse. Subsequently, three of these relapsed into a psychotic state following MAP reuse without concurrent haloperidol medication. The clinical data were compared with animal experiments which indicate that chronic MAP use can induce a long-term susceptibility to sensitization to MAP. The positive prophylactic effect of small doses of haloperidol on the acute exacerbation may suggest the participation of dopaminergic supersensitivity as a mechanism for the paranoid psychotic state.
The impending phaseout of chlorofluorocarbons as propellants in pressurized metered-dose inhalers used in the treatment of asthma has resulted in the development of alternative devices to deliver drug to the pulmonary airways. These alternative devices include metered-dose inhalers using environmentally friendly hydroflurocarbon propellants and breath-actuated dry-powder inhalers. The purpose of this study was to compare the single- and multiple-dose pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and tolerability of a newly developed hydroflurocarbon formulation of triamcinolone acetonide (Azmacort HFA 225 mcg Inhalation Aerosol) to that of the dry-powder formulation of budesonide (Pulmicort Turbuhaler 200 mcg). This three-way crossover study used 18 normal healthy subjects each receiving a 675 mcg dose of triamcinolone acetonide, 600 mcg dose of budesonide, or placebo twice a day for 5 days. Serial plasma samples were collected after the first and last dose of test medication for pharmacokinetic analysis. Pharmacodynamics were assessed by changes in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis function as measured by 8 a.m. serum cortisol, 24-hour overnight serum cortisol AUC(0-24), and 24-hour urinary-free cortisol after the last evening dose of test drug. Tolerability was assessed through physical examinations, vital signs, 12-lead ECG, routine clinical labs, and adverse events recording. Both compounds were systemically absorbed. However, no significant drug accumulation was noted with chronic dosing. Chronic dosing did result in a statistically significant 20% reduction in basal 24-hour serum cortisol AUC(0-24) for both compounds. There were no clinically significant abnormalities in physical examination, vital signs, 12-lead ECG, or routine clinical labs noted during the study. Overall, the study drugs were well tolerated, with adverse events characterized as mild to moderate in severity.
Rats were administered haloperidol (3-4 mg/kg/day) in their drinking water for 42 days, and experiments conducted on the seventh day of withdrawal. Anaesthetized haloperidol treated rats exhibited a similar mean blood pressure (BP) and heart rate (HR) response to control rats when challenged with phenylephrine (IV). When similarly pretreated rats were challenged with one of four possible doses of clonidine (IV), haloperidol treated rats were less sensitive than control rats to clonidine's hypertensive action, but there were no effects of treatment on the hypotensive (BP) effect of clonidine nor on its bradycardic effect. When one of six possible doses of tyramine was administered a similar mean BP response was seen in both treatment groups, but the positive HR response in the haloperidol-treated group was much less than in the vehicle-treated group. Atria isolated from haloperidol treated or control rats revealed a similar chronotropic response to noradrenaline and tyramine challenge. These data indicate that chronic haloperidol does not cause a generalized change in alpha-adrenergic receptor sensitivity. Nevertheless, it is clear that haloperidol has produced changes in the cardiovascular response of rats to these drugs.
We studied the effects of chronic selective neuronal lesion of rostral ventrolateral medulla on mean arterial pressure, heart rate, and neurogenic tone in conscious, unrestrained spontaneously hypertensive rats. The lesions were placed via bilateral microinjections of 30 nmol/200 nl N-methyl-D-aspartic acid. The restimulation of this area with N-methyl-D-aspartic acid 15 days postlesion failed to produce a pressor response. One day postlesion, the resting mean arterial pressure was significantly decreased in lesioned rats when compared with sham rats (100 +/- 7 versus 173 +/- 4 mm Hg, p less than 0.05). Fifteen days later, the lesioned group still showed values significantly lower than the sham group (150 +/- 6 versus 167 +/- 5 mm Hg, p less than 0.05). No significant heart rate differences were observed between the sham and lesioned groups. The ganglionic blocker trimethaphan (5 mg/kg i.v.) caused similar reductions in mean arterial pressure in both lesioned and sham groups. The trimethaphan-induced hypotension was accompanied by a significant bradycardia in lesioned rats (-32 +/- 13 beats per minute) but a tachycardia in sham rats (+33 +/- 12 beats per minute) 1 day postlesion. Therefore, rostral ventrolateral medulla neurons appear to play a significant role in maintaining hypertension in conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats. Spinal or suprabulbar structures could be responsible for the gradual recovery of the hypertension in the lesioned rats.
To create an evidence-based position statement regarding the treatment of vasomotor symptoms associated with menopause.
The North American Menopause Society (NAMS) enlisted clinicians and researchers acknowledged to be experts in the field of menopause-associated vasomotor symptoms to review the evidence obtained from the medical literature and develop a document for final approval by the NAMS Board of Trustees.
For mild hot flashes, lifestyle-related strategies such as keeping the core body temperature cool, participating in regular exercise, and using paced respiration have shown some efficacy without adverse effects. Among nonprescription remedies, clinical trial results are insufficient to either support or refute efficacy for soy foods and isoflavone supplements (from either soy or red clover), black cohosh, or vitamin E; however, no serious side effects have been associated with short-term use of these therapies. Single clinical trials have found no benefit for dong quai, evening primrose oil, ginseng, a Chinese herbal mixture, acupuncture, or magnet therapy. Few data support the efficacy of topical progesterone cream; safety concerns should be the same as for other progestogen preparations. No clinical trials have been conducted on the use of licorice for hot flashes. Among nonhormonal prescription options, the antidepressants venlafaxine, paroxetine, and fluoxetine and the anticonvulsant gabapentin have demonstrated some efficacy for treating hot flashes and were well tolerated. Two antihypertensive agents, clonidine and methyldopa, have shown modest efficacy but with a relatively high rate of adverse effects. For moderate to severe hot flashes, systemic estrogen therapy, either alone (ET) or combined with progestogen (EPT) or in the form of estrogen-progestin oral contraceptives, has been shown to significantly reduce hot flash frequency and severity. Clinical trials have associated ET/EPT with adverse effects, including breast cancer, stroke, and thromboembolism. Several progestogens (both oral and intramuscular formulations) have shown efficacy in treating hot flashes, including women with a history of breast cancer, although no definitive data are available on long-term safety in these women.
In women who need relief for mild vasomotor symptoms, NAMS recommends first considering lifestyle changes, either alone or combined with a nonprescription remedy, such as dietary isoflavones, black cohosh, or vitamin E. Prescription systemic estrogen-containing products remain the therapeutic standard for moderate to severe menopause-related hot flashes. Recommended options for women with concerns or contraindications relating to estrogen-containing treatments include prescription progestogens, venlafaxine, paroxetine, fluoxetine, or gabapentin. Clinicians are advised to enlist women's participation in decision making when weighing the benefits, harms, and scientific uncertainties of therapeutic options. Regardless of the management strategy adopted, treatment should be periodically reassessed as menopause-related vasomotor symptoms will abate over time without any intervention in most women.
In untreated hepatitis virus (HCV)-positive renal transplant patients, the rate of liver fibrosis progression is low. In contrast, in those treated by ribavirin monotherapy, liver fibrosis score increased significantly after only 1 year of ribavirin monotherapy. The aim of this study was to identify the factors that might contribute to accelerate liver fibrosis progression in this population. Eleven patients were included in the study. Intrahepatic transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta, interferon (IFN)-gamma, and interleukin (IL)-10 mRNA quantification determined by real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) were similar before and after ribavirin therapy. The number of amino acid substitutions observed in the hypervariable region (HVR)-1 of the HCV genome between baseline and 1 year after ribavirin monotherapy was low, i.e., 3 (1-11) amino acid substitutions, suggesting the absence of a high selection pressure induced by ribavirin. In contrast, due to ribavirin-induced hemolysis, there was a significant increase in serum ferritin levels (P = 0.02) and in intrahepatic iron deposition (P = 0.04). Transferrin level and total iron-binding capacity decreased significantly during ribavirin monotherapy (P = 0.004). The increased liver fibrosis observed in renal transplant patients receiving ribavirin monotherapy could be related to ribavirin-induced anemia. Severe chronic hemolysis is responsible for iron overload, liver iron deposition, and an acceleration in the progression of liver fibrosis.
To compare two doses of bolus epidural morphine with bolus iv morphine for postoperative pain after abdominal or genitourinary surgery in infants.
Eighteen infants were randomly assigned to bolus epidural morphine (0.025 mg.kg-1 or 0.050 mg.kg-1) or bolus iv morphine (0.050-0.150 mg.kg-1). Postoperative pain was assessed and analgesia provided, using a modified infant pain scale. Monitoring included continuous ECG, pulse oximetry, impedance and nasal thermistor pneumography. The CO2 response curves and serum morphine concentrations were measured postoperatively.
Postoperative analgesia was provided within five minutes by all treatment methods. Epidural groups required fewer morphine doses (3.8 +/- 0.8 for low dose [LE], 3.5 +/- 0.8 for high dose epidural [HE] vs. 6.7 +/- 1.6 for iv, P < 0.05) and less total morphine (0.11 +/- 0.04 mg.kg-1 for LE, 0.16 +/- 0.04 for HE vs 0.67 +/- 0.34 for iv, P < 0.05) on POD1. Dose changes were necessary in all groups for satisfactory pain scores. Pruritus, apnoea, and haemoglobin desaturation occurred in all groups. CO2 response curve slopes, similar preoperatively (range 36-41 ml.min-1.mmHg ETCO2-1.kg-1) were generally depressed (range, 16-27 ml.min-1.mmHg ETCO2-1.kg-1) on POD1. Serum morphine concentrations, negligible in LE (< 2 ng.ml-1), were similar in the HE and iv groups (peak 8.5 +/- 12.5 and 8.6 +/- 2.4 ng.ml-1, respectively).
Epidural and iv morphine provide infants effective postoperative analgesia, although side effects are common. Epidural morphine gives satisfactory analgesia with fewer doses (less total morphine); epidural morphine 0.025 mg.kg-1 is appropriate initially. Infants receiving epidural or iv morphine analgesia postoperatively need close observation in hospital with continuous pulse oximetry.
Methoxymorpholinyl doxorubicin (MMDX) is a novel liver cytochrome P450 (P450)-activated anticancer prodrug whose toxicity toward cultured tumor cells can be potentiated up to 100-fold by incubation with liver microsomes and NADPH. In the present study, a panel of human liver microsomes activated MMDX with potentiation ratios directly correlated to the CYP3A-dependent testosterone 6beta-hydroxylase activity of each liver sample. Microsome-activated MMDX exhibited nanomolar IC(50) values in growth-inhibition assays of human tumor cell lines representing multiple tissues of origin: lung (A549 cells), brain (U251 cells), colon (LS180 cells), and breast (MCF-7 cells). Analysis of individual cDNA-expressed CYP3A enzymes revealed that rat CYP3A1 and human CYP3A4 activated MMDX more efficiently than rat CYP3A2 and that human P450s 3A5 and 3A7 displayed little or no activity. MMDX cytotoxicity was substantially increased in Chinese hamster ovary cells after stable expression of CYP3A4 in combination with P450 reductase. CYP3A activation of MMDX abolished the parent drug's residual cross-resistance in a doxorubicin-resistant MCF-7 cell line that overexpresses P-glycoprotein. CYP3A-activated MMDX displayed a comparatively high intrinsic stability, with a t(1/2) of approximately 5.5 h at 37 degrees C. MMDX was rapidly activated by CYP3A at low ( approximately 1-5 nM) prodrug concentrations, with 100% tumor cell kill obtained after as short as a 2-h exposure to the activated metabolite. These findings demonstrate that MMDX can be activated by CYP3A metabolism to a potent, long-lived, and cell-permeable cytotoxic metabolite and suggest that this anthracycline prodrug may be used in combination with CYP3A4 in a P450 prodrug activation-based gene therapy for cancer treatment.
Combretastatin A-4 (CA-4) has already entered clinical trials of solid tumors over ten years. However, the limited anticancer activity and dose-dependent toxicity restrict its clinical application. Here, we offered convincing evidence that CA-4 induced autophagy in various cancer cells, which was demonstrated by acridine orange staining of intracellular acidic vesicles, the degradation of p62, the conversion of LC3-I to LC3-II and GFP-LC3 punctate fluorescence. Interestingly, CA-4-mediated apoptotic cell death was further potentiated by pretreatment with autophagy inhibitors (3-methyladenine and bafilomycin A1) or small interfering RNAs against the autophagic genes (Atg5 and Beclin 1). The enhanced anticancer activity of CA-4 and 3-MA was further confirmed in the SGC-7901 xenograft tumor model. These findings suggested that CA-4-elicited autophagic response played a protective role that impeded the eventual cell death while autophagy inhibition was expected to improve chemotherapeutic efficacy of CA-4. Meanwhile, CA-4 treatment led to phosphorylation/activation of JNK and JNK-dependent phosphorylation of Bcl-2. Importantly, JNK inhibitor or JNK siRNA inhibited autophagy but promoted CA-4-induced apoptosis, indicating a key requirement of JNK-Bcl-2 pathway in the activation of autophagy by CA-4. We also identified that pretreatment of Bcl-2 inhibitor (ABT-737) could significantly enhance anticancer activity of CA-4 due to inhibition of autophagy. Taken together, our data suggested that the JNK-Bcl-2 pathway was considered as the critical regulator of CA-4-induced protective autophagy and a potential drug target for chemotherapeutic combination.
Duloxetine hydrochloride was approved by the Food and Drug Administration in August 2004 for the treatment of major depressive disorder and diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain. Initial product labeling contained a precaution regarding the risk for increases in liver function test results. Recently, postmarketing research has revealed episodes of cholestatic jaundice and increases in transaminase levels to greater than 20 times normal in patients with chronic liver disease.
In this case report, we describe a patient with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in remission and depression treated with duloxetine and mirtazapine.
Approximately 6 weeks after increasing her duloxetine dose from 30 to 60 mg daily, she became jaundiced and presented with fulminant hepatic failure. Liver function tests immediately before initiating duloxetine were not available, although the patient carried no prior history of chronic liver disease. A complete work-up for alternate causes failed to reveal another explanation for the patient's clinical presentation. A liver biopsy examination showed histologic changes of subacute injury and the patient's clinical course was consistent with drug-induced liver injury. Despite aggressive measures, the patient's condition deteriorated and the decision was made to withdraw care.
This report shows a case of fulminant hepatic failure and death involving duloxetine use. Given recent reports of severe hepatotoxicity associated with the use of duloxetine in patients with pre-existing liver disease, further investigation into the safety of this compound is warranted.
