We report the case of a 16-year-old male with Mucopolysaccharidosis III type A (Sanfilippo syndrome) who was commenced on risperidone for behaviour management. He rapidly developed extrapyramidal symptoms that have not resolved.
The medication histories of 20 patients with Mucopolysaccharidosis III seen at a Lysosomal Storage Diseases Clinic were reviewed to determine the incidence of extrapyramidal side effects.
Six patients had been treated with risperidone, olanzapine, or lamotrigine. Five of these patients developed extrapyramidal side effects.
The incidence of extrapyramidal side effects was considerably higher than expected. We suggest that these medications be used with considerable caution in these patients.
The effects of an aqueous extract of Puerariae flos (Thomsonide) on ethanol-induced learning and memory impairment and scopolamine-induced amnesia were investigated. Thomsonide exerted an ameliorating effect on the impairment of both memory registration and memory retrieval induced by ethanol. These results indicate that Thomsonide has an antiamnesic effect on the central nervous system in alcoholic intoxication and support the traditional use of Puerariae flos for the treatment of alcoholic intoxication. Thomsonide also improved the scopolamine-induced impairment of memory registration in passive avoidance behavior in mice. The results of this study suggest that it may be possible to use Thomsonide for the treatment of age-related memory impairment and dementia.
The fluoroquinolone class of antibacterial agents are among the most frequently prescribed drugs, with utility in a broad range of bacterial infections. Although very useful agents, the fluoroquinolones as a class are associated with a number of adverse events, some with considerable clinical significance. In the past 15-20 years, tolerability concerns have led to restrictions on the use of the fluoroquinolones and, in some instances, the withdrawal of agents from the market. This review focuses on the safety and tolerability of levofloxacin, a third-generation fluoroquinolone, relative to other fluoroquinolones. A literature search was performed of the MEDLINE database encompassing the dates 1980-2009, using as keywords the drug names levofloxacin and concurrently marketed fluoroquinolones combined with the words 'safety', 'adverse effect' or 'adverse drug reaction', or the name of the specific adverse effect. Adverse events commonly associated with the fluoroquinolones include gastrointestinal and CNS toxicity (most frequently headache and dizziness), as well as other adverse events including ECG abnormalities (for example QT interval prolongation), disrupted glucose metabolism, phototoxicity, tendon and joint disorders, hypersensitivity and skin disorders, and hepatic toxicity. Package inserts for the fluoroquinolones in Europe and the US contain warnings regarding these risks. US package inserts also carry 'black-box' warnings regarding the risk of tendon rupture and joint disorders with these agents; however, there is a substantial body of evidence to indicate that there are marked differences in the tolerability profiles of the individual agents within the fluoroquinolone class. These differences may be explained, at least in part, by structural differences: all fluoroquinolones share a basic quinolone core, with differences in specific side chains underlying the adverse event relationships. Furthermore, many of the fluoroquinolone-associated adverse effects and toxicities occur more frequently in patients with pre-existing risk factors, or in certain subpopulations. Notably, package inserts for the fluoroquinolones carry warnings regarding use in the elderly, paediatric patients and patients with pre-existing, or factors predisposing to, seizure disorders. Because of this, many adverse reactions with these agents could be prevented by improving patient screening and education. The recent withdrawal of gatifloxacin due to dysglycaemia makes it timely to review the safety and tolerability of the individual agents in this class. Overall, it appears that levofloxacin is relatively well tolerated, with low rates of clinically important adverse events such as CNS toxicity, cardiovascular toxicity and dysglycaemia.
Acute oliguric renal failure (ARF) developed in a patient 2 days after she was started on intermittent anti-Brucella therapy including rifampicin. The clinical picture was compatible with acute allergic interstitial nephritis. Renal histology revealed mainly acute tubular necrosis with mild tubulo-interstitial mononuclear cellular infiltrate. Intermittent therapy, as in our patient, has been the major factor in the development of rifampicin induced ARF in cases reviewed in literature.
One hundred sixty-two consecutive patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) were studied for possible association between HLA antigens, particularly DR antigens, and disease characteristics and adverse reactions to gold or D-penicillamine treatment. The frequency of HLA-DR4 was significantly increased: 62% in RA compared to 23% in controls. An association of HLA-DR4 with a positive family history for RA was also found. HLA-DR4 was not associated with subcutaneous nodules or keratoconjunctivitis, presence of rheumatoid factor, or ANA positivity. No increased prevalence of HLA-DR3 was found in patients who developed drug related toxicity (e.g., proteinuria for gold or D-penicillamine). Of the 27 patients in whom proteinuria developed, only 5 were DR3 positive. A significant association with D-penicillamine induced proteinuria and HLA-B8 gene was found. Our results obtained in a systematic survey do not confirm previous reports of a significant association between HLA-DR3 and drug toxicity, but confirm the association between HLA-DR4 and the development of RA and HLA-B8 and D-penicillamine induced proteinuria.
Ropivacaine is a new long-acting amide-type local anesthetic with less toxic effects compared with bupivacaine. Here, we report a case who sustained convulsion immediately after administration of epidural ropivacaine. A 75-year-old woman was scheduled for total knee replacement. Epidural catheter was inserted smoothly. After aspiration test and injection of a test dose of 3 ml of 2% lidocaine containing 15 micrograms epinephrine, 160 mg ropivacaine was administered epidurally. Unfortunately, a generalized tonic-clonic convulsion of sudden onset occurred right after ropivacaine injection. After he was given 100% oxygen and intravenous thiopental 150 mg, the patient recovered uneventfully. During the episode of convulsion sinus tachycardia at a rate of 120 beats/min without the interposal of other form of cardiac arrhythmia was noted, and respiration remained intact. This suggests that ropivacaine offers a good cardiovascular stability. This example serves as another evidence to remind us that even with a negative aspiration following epidural catheter placement and an uneventful test dose injection, inadvertent intravascular injection may still happen, particularly in the elderly.
In this study we investigated the anti-inflammatory effects of an icariin derivative (3,5-dihydroxy-4'-methoxy-6'',6''-dimethy1-4'',5''-dihydropyrano[2'',3'':7,8]-flavone). We found that this icariin derivative inhibits tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) production, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) mRNA expression, and protein expression in lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulated RAW264.7 macrophages. It also alleviates paw edema induced by carrageenan in mice. To clarify the molecular mechanisms underlying these anti-inflammatory effects, we examined the effects of this compound on the phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), phosphorylation of inhibitory kappaBalpha (IkappaBalpha), and nuclear translocation of p65 subunit of nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB, and found it suppresses the activation of p38 MAPK and inhibits translocation of NF-kappaB p65 to the nucleus through decreasing the phosphorylation of IkappaBalpha. As a result of these properties, this icariin derivative can be considered as a potential drug for inflammatory diseases.
The recent sarin attack in Syria killed 1429 people, including 426 children, and left countless more to deal with the health consequences of the exposure. Prior to the Syrian chemical assault, nerve agent attacks in Japan left many victims suffering from neuropsychiatric illnesses, particularly anxiety disorders, more than a decade later. Uncovering the neuro-pathophysiological mechanisms underlying the development of anxiety after nerve agent exposure is necessary for successful treatment. Anxiety is associated with hyperexcitability of the basolateral amygdala (BLA). The present study sought to determine the nature of the nerve agent-induced alterations in the BLA, which could explain the development of anxiety. Rats were exposed to soman, at a dose that induced prolonged status epilepticus. Twenty-four hours and 14-days after exposure, neurons from the BLA were recorded using whole-cell patch-clamp techniques. At both the 24h and 14-day post-exposure time-points, the frequency and amplitude of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs) in the BLA were reduced, along with reduction in the frequency but not amplitude of miniature IPSCs. In addition, activation of α7-nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, a cholinergic receptor that participates in the regulation of BLA excitability and is involved in anxiety, increased spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (sEPSCs) in both soman-exposed rats and controls, but was less effective in increasing sIPSCs in soman-exposed rats. Despite the loss of both interneurons and principal cells after soman-induced status epilepticus, the frequency of sEPSCs was increased in the soman-exposed rats. Impaired function and cholinergic modulation of GABAergic inhibition in the BLA may underlie anxiety disorders that develop after nerve agent exposure.
In a series of 96 patients with membranous glomerulonephritis (MGN) there were 14 who had concomitant rheumatoid arthritis. Ten of these had been treated with gold or D-penicillamine; in four patients neither of these drugs could have been responsible for the MGN. One of them received intrasynovial osmium tetroxide two months before the clinical onset of MGN. Three of the patients had positive rheumatoid factor. HLA-type was examined in three patients and all showed B27 antigen but not DR3. No patient developed signs of systemic lupus erythematosus during the follow-up (mean 5.9 years). In two patients MGN persisted as judged from urinary abnormalities, one patient recovered after a relapse period and one developed secondary amyloidosis.
Acetaminophen (APAP), also known as paracetamol, is the commonest cause of toxic ingestion in the world. Because overdose of APAP has life-threatening effects on kidney, treatment of APAP-induced nephrotoxicity has life-saving importance. Aim of the study was to evaluate the efficacy of medical ozone therapy in experimental model of APAP toxication. Twenty-one male Wistar rats (200-250 g) were randomly assigned into three groups containing seven rats each: Sham, control (only APAP treated), and APAP + ozone therapy groups. Rats were killed 48 hours after administration of APAP. Urea, creatinine levels in the blood, and malondialdehyde (MDA), superoxide dismutase (SOD), and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) activity in renal tissue were measured. Kidney tissues were stained with hematoxylin and eosin for histological assessment. APAP administration deteriorated the renal functions and significantly elevated renal MDA levels and depleted SOD and GSH-Px activities. Ozone therapy significantly reduced the MDA level, increased the SOD and GSH-Px activities, and normalized the renal histology. In conclusion, our study results are consistent with encouraging data for ozone therapy on APAP-induced nephrotoxicity in rats by improving antioxidant mechanism and oxidative stress.
The aim of this study was designed to investigate the possible beneficial effects of the angiotensin (ang) II T(1) (AT(1)) receptor blocker, irbesartan (Irb), and the alpha lipoic acid (ALA) in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic nephropathy (DNP) in rats. The rats were randomly allotted into one of five experimental groups: A, control; B, diabetic untreated; C, diabetic treated with Irb; D, diabetic treated with ALA; and E, diabetic treated with Irb + ALA; each group contains 10 animals. B, C, D, and E groups received STZ. Diabetes was induced in four groups by a single intraperitoneal injection of STZ (50 mg/kg, freshly dissolved in 5 mmol/L citrate buffer, pH 4.5). The rats in Irb-, ALA-, and Irb + ALA-treated groups were given Irb (5 mg/kg), ALA (in a dose of 3 mg/kg), and Irb + ALA (in a dose of 2.5 + 1.5 mg/kg) once a day orally by using intragastric intubation for 12 weeks starting 2 days after STZ injection, respectively. Treatment with ALA and especially Irb reduced the glomerular size; thickening of capsular, glomerular, and tubular basement membranes; increased amounts of mesangial matrix and tubular dilatation as compared with diabetic-untreated rats. Notably, the better effects were obtained when Irb and ALA were given together. We conclude that Irb, ALA, and especially Irb + ALA therapy causes renal morphologic improvement after STZ-induced diabetes in rats. We believe that further preclinical research into the utility of Irb and ALA treatment, alone or its combination, may indicate its usefulness as a potential treatment in DNP.
Experimental ketosis was induced by feeding calves a diet containing 1,3 butanediol for 9 or 10 days. Blood beta-hydroxybutyrate was significantly (P less than 0.05) elevated during clinical ketosis. The mitogenic response of the lymphocytes collected during ketosis was significantly (P less than 0.01) suppressed, and the suppression persisted for 2 weeks. During ketosis, all calves fed a 1,3 butanediol diet had clinical signs of an upper respiratory tract infection. Possible relationships between the suppressed function of lymphocytes, the increased concentration of 1,3 butanediol, and the increased susceptibility of the calves to infections during ketosis were considered.
We studied the effects of prenatal treatment with phenytoin (PHT) on the functional development of the rat brain. Pregnant rats were injected with varying doses (10, 50, 100 or 200 mg/kg) of PHT on days 1-21, 1-10, 14-21 or day 15 of pregnancy. There was no significant difference in the sleeping effect of pentobarbital, ataxic effect of diazepam, or seizure effect of pentetrazol between control-F1 and PHT-F1 rats. Prenatal treatment with PHT on days 1-21 of pregnancy induced a marked increase in the duration of haloperidol-induced catalepsy in the male and female F1 rats when tested once a week, beginning on the 9th week and until the 13th week after birth. Hypersensitivity to haloperidol was induced to a greater extent in females. On the other hand, prenatal treatment with PHT on days 14-21 or on day 15 of pregnancy induced a decline in the duration of haloperidol-induced catalepsy in both male and female F1 rats. There was no significant alteration in the growth of the PHT-F1 rats. However, their eye opening was accelerated. The present results suggest that prenatal exposure to phenytoin induces long-lasting alterations in the dopaminergic and/or other neurons related to the manifestation of cataleptic behavior in the rat brain.
A missense somatic mutation in JAK2 gene (JAK2 V617F) has recently been reported in chronic myeloproliferative disorders, including polycythemia vera, essential thrombocythemia and myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia, strongly suggesting its role in the pathogenesis of myeloid disorders. As activation of JAK2 signaling is occurred in other malignancies as well, we have analysed 558 tissues from common human cancers, including colon, breast and lung carcinomas, and 143 acute adulthood leukemias by polymerase chain reaction -- single strand conformation polymorphism analysis. We found three JAK2 mutations in the 113 acute myelogenous leukemias (AMLs) (2.7%), but none in other cancers. The mutations consisted of two V617F mutations and one K607N mutation. None of the AML patients with the JAK2 V617F mutation had a history of previous hematologic disorders. This is the first report on the JAK2 gene mutation in AML, and the data indicated that the JAK2 gene mutation may not only contribute to the development of chronic myeloid disorders, but also to some AMLs.
This study was undertaken to evaluate whether the therapeutic effect of pranlukast, a selective cysteinyl leukotriene (LT) C4/D4/E4 receptor antagonist, can be observed in patients with the non-atopic or atopic type of asthma, or in asthmatics taking oral steroids. Twenty-two patients with moderate to severe bronchial asthma receiving an inhaled corticosteroid (beclomethasone dipropionate) were treated with pranlukast (225 mg b.i.d.) for 4 weeks, and their peak expiratory flow (PEF) and asthmatic symptoms were monitored during the treatment period. In the patients with the non-atopic type of asthma (n = 13), an increase in their PEF was observed both in the morning and evening following a 4-week administration ofpranlukast, but the degree was slightly inferior to that in patients (n = 9) with the atopic type of asthma. On the other hand, no significant increase was observed in the patients (n = 6) taking oral prednisolone (PSL, 5-15 mg/day). Changes in the symptom score at the end of the 4-week treatment period were closely associated with those in the PEF values; namely, a significant improvement in symptom score was observed for patients with the atopic and non-atopic type of asthma, but no improvement for the patients taking oral PSL. Pranlukast, a selective LT receptor antagonist, will be a valuable asset in the treatment of bronchial asthma, especially asthma requiring no oral steroids.
Three cases of disopyramide-induced urinary retention were reported and effects of disopyramide on agonist-induced contraction of detrusor muscle were studied in vitro. Muscle strips were obtained from rabbit bladder body and changes in isometric contraction of the strips were monitored. Acetylcholine, prostaglandin F2-alpha, potassium chloride, barium chloride, adenosine triphosphate and Ca2+ were used as agonists for detrusor muscle contraction. Disopyramide relaxed the contraction elicited by acetylcholine in normal Krebs solution, but exhibited no relaxing effect on contractions induced by prostaglandin F2-alpha, potassium chloride, barium chloride and adenosine triphosphate. In Ca2+-free Krebs solution, basal tension of the strips declined and spontaneous contractile activity was eliminated. Replenishment of 3 mM Ca2+ induced a slow contraction and redevelopment of spontaneous contraction of the strips. Pretreatment of the strips with disopyramide had no inhibitory effect on the Ca2+-induced contraction or on the spontaneous contractile activity in Ca2+-free solution. In normal Krebs solution, acetylcholine (10(-9)-10(-2)M) caused dose-dependent contractions of the detrusor muscle strips. Pretreatment of the strips with disopyramide (10(-5)-10(-3)M) dose-dependently inhibited the acetylcholine-induced contraction in a competitive way. The inhibitory effect of disopyramide on acetylcholine-induced contraction was less potent than that of atropine. We conclude that disopyramide may inhibit detrusor contractile activity mostly by its anticholinergic effect, resulting clinically in micturition disturbance.
To determine whether there is differential response to placebo or citalopram among older patients with and without deficient response inhibition (DRI).
This is an 8-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
Outpatient psychiatry.
Unipolar depressed patients aged 75 years and older.
Citalopram (20-40 mg/day) or placebo pill.
Baseline Stroop Color-Word Test and weekly 24-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression assessments.
Citalopram-treated patients with DRI did significantly worse than placebo-treated patients with DRI. Conversely, citalopram-treated patients without DRI did significantly better than placebo-treated patients without DRI.
Patients with late-life depression and DRI respond worse to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) than placebo. These findings suggest that there may be a deleterious interaction between DRI and antidepressant medication in late-life depression and that the mechanism of SSRI and placebo response is different.
To assess the clinical effects and safety profile of initial monotherapy with either bisoprolol or enalapril in elderly patients with heart failure (HF).
In CIBIS III, 1010 patients with mild to moderate HF and age>or=65 years were randomized to monotherapy with either bisoprolol or enalapril for 6 months.
Bisoprolol had a similar effect as enalapril on the combined end-point of all-cause mortality or hospitalization (HR 1.02; p=0.90), as well as on each of the individual end-points. A trend towards fewer sudden deaths was observed with bisoprolol (NS). On the other hand, more cases of worsening HF requiring hospitalization or occurring while in hospital were observed in the bisoprolol group (HR 1.67; p=0.03). The two groups were similar with regard to treatment cessations and early introduction of the second drug.
Bisoprolol and enalapril had a similar effect on the combined end-point of mortality or hospitalization during 6 months monotherapy. However, more worsening HF events were observed in the bisoprolol group.
To determine, in preclinical in vivo animal and in clinical studies, whether raloxifene (a selective oestrogen-receptor (ER) modulator that targets ER-beta and induces apoptosis in vitro in androgen-independent prostate cancer, AIPC cells) affects prostate cell differentiation, proliferation and carcinogenesis, and in the pilot phase II clinical trial, the response rate and duration of patients with AIPC treated with a daily oral dose of raloxifene.
Tumour proliferation rate in response to raloxifene treatment, and molecular markers of cell cycle and apoptosis, were evaluated in established ER-beta-positive androgen-dependent (AD) CWR22 and AI CWRSA9 human xenograft prostate cancer models. Twenty-one patients with AIPC and evidence of disease progression were enrolled into the clinical trial and given daily oral raloxifene.
There was significant growth inhibition by raloxifene in the ADPC and AIPC xenograft models (CWR22 68%, P < 0.010; CWRSA9 64%, P < 0.001), with no tumour regression. There was evidence of G1 arrest by increased p27kip1 expression in the raloxifene-treated group. Eighteen patients comprised the efficacy analysis, as three withdrew before the first evaluation. At the first evaluation, five men had stable disease and continued on the study for a median of five cycles. The longest response was 17 cycles. Drug related toxicity was minimal.
Raloxifene has activity in xenograft models, slowing disease progression. This translated to possible disease stabilization in patients with AIPC. Further studies are warranted.
The results of a cohort study of 92,346 labour population for probing the relationship between levamisole (LMS) and encephalitis syndrome was reported. There were five patients suffering from the disease in an exposed group (E) of 10,911 people within two months after taking LMS as an anthelmintic for mass treatment, the incidence of the disease is 4.58/10,000. The nonexposed population was divided into two control groups the first group (N1) includes 37,990 people living in the mass treatment villages and the other group (N2) consists of 43,445 people living in the adjoining villages without mass treatment. None in the two control groups suffered from the syndrome or any other encephalitis-like disease within the same period. Statistical tests for the differences between E and either N1 or N2 separately is highly significant. (between E and N1: P = 0.000553, P < 0.001; between E and N2: P = 0.000325, P < 0.001). The overall attributable risk (AR) is 45.8/100,000 and that for female is 93.8/100,000. However, the difference between the incidence rates of the disease in female and male is not statistically significant (P > 0.025). It is shown that LMS is obviously the causative factor of the disease.
Previous studies have shown that reduction of renal mass in the rat remnant kidney model induces overproduction of transforming growth factor beta1 (TGFbeta1). We investigated whether an antioxidant, vitamin E, administered before the renal mass reduction, could prevent oxidative stress, reduce the overproduction of TGFbeta1, and mitigate against the subsequent glomerulosclerosis. Our results revealed that the oxidative stress, as measured by the change in plasma malondialdehyde, is significantly reduced by prior vitamin E dietary supplementation. Finally, our data show that dietary vitamin E supplementation ameliorates the rise in TGFbeta1 secondary to renal mass reduction and inhibits the glomerular sclerosis of the remnant kidney over the time course of this experiment.
Usnic acid is a naturally occurring dibenzofuran derivative found in several lichen species. The compound has been marketed as an ingredient of food supplements for weight reduction. There is evidence that the compound acts as an uncoupler of mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation and it is also clear that consumption of the drug can lead to severe hepatotoxicity depending on the doses. Based on these and other ideas the objective of the present work was to investigate the possible effects of usnic acid on liver metabolism. Livers of male Wistar rats were perfused in a non-recirculating system. Usnic acid stimulated oxygen consumption at low concentrations, diminished the cellular ATP levels, increased the cytosolic but diminished the mitochondrial NADH/NAD(+) ratio, strongly inhibited gluconeogenesis from three different substrates (IC(50) between 1.33 and 3.61 μM), stimulated glycolysis, fructolysis, glycogenolysis and ammoniagenesis and inhibited ureogenesis. The (14)CO(2) production from [1-(14)C]octanoate and [1-(14)C]oleate was increased by usnic acid, but ketogenesis from octanoate was diminished and that from oleate was not affected. It may be concluded that the effects of usnic acid up to 2.5 μM reflect predominantly its activity as an uncoupler. At higher concentrations, however, several other effects may become significant, including inhibition of mitochondrial electron flow and inhibition of medium-chain fatty acid oxidation. In metabolic terms, toxicity of usnic acid can be predicted to be especially dangerous in the fasted state due to the combination of several deleterius events such as diminished hepatic glucose and ketone bodies output to the brain and increased ammonia production.
Therapy of Sjögren's syndrome remains empirical and symptomatic. The main goals are to treat the disease related features, especially sicca manifestations, since the immunosuppressive therapy has not given promising results. For the treatment of keratoconjunctivitis sicca: local stimulators of tear secretion, protective bicarbonate buffered solutions, replacement therapy or supportive operative procedures should be tried. For oral manifestations: stimulators of salivary secretion such as pilocarpine, or agents changing the consistency of saliva such as bromhexine orally should be tried. Saliva substitutes have a transient effect. Frequent ingestion of sugar free liquids may help. Oral hygiene is important to avoid oral candidiasis and dental caries. Treatment of parotid gland swelling is not necessary. Pulmonary manifestations include pulmonary infiltrates in perialveolar areas, nodular or cavitary lesions which may represent lymphoma. Hilar adenopathy, solid or cavitary lesions should be biopsied. In case of vasculitis prednisolone 1 mg/kg/day with progressive tapering should be tried. Renal involvement is manifested mainly as interstitial disease. Administration of NaHCO3 or sodium citrate is important to prevent acidosis and nephrocalcinosis. Vasculitis, when it is of the leukoclasic form, does not need therapy; when it is manifested with severe major organ involvement corticosteroids and/or cytotoxic therapy should be tried. Lymphoma is treated as in the patients without Sjögren's in close collaboration with the oncology department.
Bexarotene (Targretin), is a synthetic high-affinity RXR receptor agonist with limited affinity for RAR receptors. Bexarotene has shown efficacy in a phase I/II trial of non-small-cell lung cancers. However, the chemopreventive efficacy of bexarotene has not been determined in mouse lung cancer models. In this study, we have investigated the ability of bexarotene to inhibit lung tumor progression in the mutant A/J mouse models with genetic alterations in p53 or K-ras, two of the most commonly altered genes in human lung tumorigenesis. Mice were administered vinyl carbamate (VC), a carcinogen, by a single intraperitoneal injection (i.p.) at 6 weeks of age. Bexarotene was given by gavage starting at 16 weeks after VC and was continued for 12 weeks. Although all mice developed lung tumors, only 7% of lung tumors were adenocarcinomas in wild-type mice, whereas 22 and 26% of lung tumors were adenocarcinomas in p53 transgenic or K-ras heterozygous deficient mice. Bexarotene inhibited both tumor multiplicity and tumor volume in mice of all three genotypes. Furthermore, bexarotene reduced the progression of adenoma to adenocarcinoma by approximately 50% in both p53(wt/wt)K-ras(ko/wt) and p53(wt/wt)K-ras(wt/wt) mice. Thus, bexarotene appears to be an effective preventive agent against lung tumor growth and progression.
Although ras and p53 are the most commonly found oncogene and tumor suppressor gene, respectively, in human cancers, their collective roles in tumor progression have yet to be defined in animal models. Here, we demonstrated the synergistic effect between ras and p53 in promoting tumor progression during lung tumorigenesis using bitransgenic mice. Mice with a heterozygous knockout of K-ras (K-ras(wt/ko)) were mated to p53 transgenic mice (p53(val135/wt)) in lung tumorigenesis (K-ras(wt/ko) x p53(val135/wt)). F(1) mice exhibited a significant increase in lung tumor load (tumor multiplicity x tumor volume) when compared to those seen in either K-ras(wt/ko) mice or p53(val135/wt) mice alone. Furthermore, over 50% of the lung tumors were lung adenocarcinomas in bitransgenic mice compared to only 3% in wild-type mice. Alterations of ras and p53 appear to promote the development of lung adenocarcinomas. These results provide the in vivo experimental evidence of synergistic interactions of ras and p53 in lung tumor progression.
In order to investigate SHR hypertrophied heart myocardial vulnerability, superoxide dismutase, a potent scavenger of superoxide anion, was examined in myocardium of SHR and WKY in relation to aging, as well as under doxorubicin (DOX)-induced cardiomyopathy. Superoxide anion production due to doxorubicin administration was also examined histochemically. Superoxide dismutase (SOD), either as Mn-SOD in mitochondria or as CuZn-SOD in cytoplasm, was found to be lower in aged SHR hypertrophied heart than in age-matched WKY heart. Under DOX-induced cardiomyopathy, SOD activity was significantly lower in SHR hypertrophied heart than either control SHR or treated WKY myocardium. Superoxide anion generation, examined morphologically as formazan deposits, was much more intense in SHR myocardium and some degenerative changes were found such formazan-containing cells. These results clearly indicate that the myocardial vulnerability of SHR hypertrophied heart might be a result of a lowered free radical scavenge ability.
