To see whether intravenous acetylcysteine would improve outcome in patients with fulminant hepatic failure after paracetamol overdose.
A prospective randomised controlled study.
The Institute of Liver Studies, King's College Hospital, London.
50 consecutive patients (21 male) aged 16-60 with fulminant hepatic failure after paracetamol overdose who had not previously received acetylcysteine.
Conventional intensive liver care plus either acetylcysteine (25 patients) in the same dose regimen as used early after a paracetamol overdose, except that the infusion was continued until recovery from encephalopathy or death, or an equivalent volume of 5% dextrose (25 patients).
Survival; incidence of cerebral oedema, renal failure, and hypotension requiring inotropic support; liver function as assessed by prolongation of the prothrombin time; and degree of encephalopathy.
The rate of survival was significantly higher in the acetylcysteine treated group than in the controls (48% (12/25 patients) v 20% (5/25); p = 0.037, 95% confidence interval for difference in proportions surviving 3% to 53%). Acetylcysteine treated patients had a lower incidence of cerebral oedema (40% (10/25) v 68% (17/25); p = 0.047, 95% confidence interval for difference in incidence 2% to 54%), and fewer developed hypotension requiring inotropic support (48% (12/25) v 80% (20/25); p = 0.018, 95% confidence interval 7% to 57%). Rates of deterioration and recovery of liver function, however, were similar in the two groups. No adverse reactions to acetylcysteine were seen.
Acetylcysteine is safe and effective in fulminant hepatic failure after paracetamol overdose.
A subacute toxicological study of the effects of the ethylene-bisdithiocarbamate-containing fungicide Dithane M-45 (80% mancozeb) was carried out in male Wistar rats. The rats were given Dithane mixed in the feed at doses of 0, 10, 50, 75, 113, 169, 253 or 379 mg/kg body weight for 12 wk. One-third of the rats given 379 mg Dithane/kg body weight died, and doses of greater than or equal to 169 mg/kg decreased the growth of the rats as well as the nutrient utilization. The relative weights of the liver and thyroid were significantly increased in rats given greater than or equal to 75 mg Dithane/kg body weight, and those of the kidneys, adrenals and testes were significantly increased in the two highest dose groups. The serum cholesterol level was increased significantly in groups given greater than or equal to 75 mg/kg, and doses of 113, 169 or 253 mg/kg caused the elevation of the triglyceride content of the liver. The two highest doses of Dithane decreased the detoxicating capacity of the liver. The function of the thyroids was impaired even by very small doses of Dithane: at a dose of 10 mg/kg body weight the quantity of iodine stored in the thyroids was decreased by 20%. At doses of greater than or equal to 50 mg/kg statistically significant decreases in thyroid iodine content were observed. Histological examination of the thyroids showed dose-dependent hyperplasia in rats treated with Dithane.
Wilson disease (WD) is a rare hereditary condition that is caused by a genetic defect in the copper-transporting ATPase ATP7B that results in hepatic copper accumulation and lethal liver failure. The present study focuses on the structural mitochondrial alterations that precede clinical symptoms in the livers of rats lacking Atp7b, an animal model for WD. Liver mitochondria from these Atp7b–/– rats contained enlarged cristae and widened intermembrane spaces, which coincided with a massive mitochondrial accumulation of copper. These changes, however, preceded detectable deficits in oxidative phosphorylation and biochemical signs of oxidative damage, suggesting that the ultrastructural modifications were not the result of oxidative stress imposed by copper- dependent Fenton chemistry. In a cell-free system containing a reducing dithiol agent, isolated mitochondria exposed to copper underwent modifications that were closely related to those observed in vivo. In this cell-free system, copper induced thiol modifications of three abundant mitochondrial membrane proteins, and this correlated with reversible intramitochondrial membrane crosslinking, which was also observed in liver mitochondria from Atp7b–/– rats. In vivo, copper-chelating agents reversed mitochondrial accumulation of copper, as well as signs of intra-mitochondrial membrane crosslinking, thereby preserving the functional and structural integrity of mitochondria. Together, these findings suggest that the mitochondrion constitutes a pivotal target of copper in WD.
Persistent thrombocytopenia and thrombotic complications are commonly observed in bone marrow transplant (BMT) patients. We describe two incidents following BMT in which heparin may have played a contributory role. One patient developed subclavian venous thrombosis following autologous BMT in spite of the severe thrombocytopenia. The second patient, who received an HLA-matched sibling allogeneic BMT, developed thrombocytopenia after a normal platelet recovery. Because of the clinical evidence and a normocellular bone marrow biopsy result, heparin-induced thrombocytopenia was suspected and heparin was discontinued. In 2 weeks, the patient was transfusion free and her platelet count returned to normal levels. These two cases demonstrate that heparin-induced thrombocytopenia may be responsible for some cases of post-BMT thrombocytopenia and thrombosis.
The rat lung cancers induced by 3-methylcholanthrene (MCA) and diethylnitrosamine (DEN) are considered to be a good model for illustrating genetic alterations in human lung precancerous and cancerous lesions. Recently, we had reported that the model can also be used to investigate the step-by-step dynamic changes in DNA methylation during lung carcinogenesis. In this study, we have used the same animal model to further study the evolution of methylation alterations of cell cycle regulatory genes CDKN1B (p27) and CDKN1C (p57). Our results showed epigenetic alterations in p27 and p57. Promoter hypermethylation of p27 was detected in one sample of carcinoma in situ (CIS) and two samples of infiltrating carcinoma, all three of which lacked expression of the p27 protein. Methylation of the p57 promoter correlated with the loss of protein expression in lung pathologic lesions, with a gradual increase in methylation frequency from 0 sample in the normal epithelium and hyperplasia, to 11.1% in squamous metaplasia, 18.9% in dysplasia, 26.7% in CIS, and finally 36.0% in infiltrating carcinoma samples. Immunohistochemical analysis showed that p27 and p57 protein expression decreased as lung carcinogenesis progressed. Moreover, weak expression of p27 and p57 in methylated primary tumor cell lines increased markedly after treatment with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-aza-dC), confirming that methylation was indeed responsible for the gene downregulation. These results suggest that the progression of rat lung carcinogenesis induced by MCA/DEN is associated with dynamic changes in promoter hypermethylation of cell cycle regulatory genes, including p27 and p57, accounting for their defective expression.
Increasing evidence suggests that depression may be associated with a lack of hippocampal neurogenesis. It is well established that neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS)-derived NO exerts a negative control on the hippocampal neurogenesis. Using genetic and pharmacological methods, we investigated the roles of nNOS in depression induced by chronic mild stress (CMS) in mice. Hippocampal nNOS over-expression was first observed 4 days and remained elevated 21 and 56 days after exposure to CMS. The mice exposed to CMS exhibited behavioral changes typical of depression, and impaired neurogenesis in the hippocampus. The CMS-induced behavioral despair and hippocampal neurogenesis impairment were prevented and reversed in the null mutant mice lacking nNOS gene (nNOS-/-) and in the mice receiving nNOS inhibitor. Disrupting hippocampal neurogenesis blocked the antidepressant effect of nNOS inhibition. Moreover, nNOS-/- mice exhibited antidepressant-like properties. Our findings suggest that nNOS over-expression in the hippocampus is essential for chronic stress-induced depression and inhibiting nNOS signaling in brain may represent a novel approach for the treatment of depressive disorders.
Clobazam is a new benzodiazepine recently introduced in Canada on an experimental basis. We report our experience with 27 children (average age 9.1 years) with severe intractable seizure disorders. All had mixed seizures (41% focal plus generalized, 59% mixed generalized) and 93% were mentally retarded. Eighty-five percent had multiple daily seizures and all had been on an average of 6 other anticonvulsants in the past. Forty-one percent of our patients responded to clobazam with a reduction of greater than 75% in seizure frequency and 15% had no further seizures. Tolerance to clobazam which could not be overcome by dose increases developed in 26% of patients. Forty-four percent of non-responders had exacerbations of their seizures shortly after starting clobazam, however 43% of these patients had reductions in comedications simultaneously. Side effects of clobazam in responders were minimal. We conclude that clobazam shows sufficient promise to warrant further trials in more benign seizure disorders in children.
Urine profiles (albumin, glucose, N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase [NAG], lactate dehydrogenase [LDH], L-gamma-glutamyltransferase [GGT], sodium, and phosphate) were followed for seven days after intravenous (IV) administration of either diatrizoate, iohexol, ioxilan, or saline in 24 Wistar rats with a tubular dysfunction induced by IV sodium maleate. Ioxilan and saline had a similar effect on albumin excretion, iohexol had an intermediate effect, and diatrizoate increased it significantly from day 2 to day 7. Glucosuria was significantly greater after diatrizoate than after the nonionic contrast media (CM) or saline. Diatrizoate delayed normalization of enzymuria, whereas iohexol and ioxilan did not. None of the CM affected urinary sodium or phosphate excretion. It is concluded that Fanconi's syndrome is significantly aggravated only by diatrizoate.
A 64 year old woman with an 11 year history of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation presented to the emergency room because of palpitations that had started two weeks previously. She had used sotalol 80 mg once daily for three years without any episodes of proarrhythmia or other adverse effects. However, she developed pronounced T wave alternans with giant inverted T waves and excessive QT prolongation following sotalol administration one day after conversion from atrial fibrillation to sinus rhythm. This case demonstrates bizarre T wave changes, T wave alternans, and extreme QT prolongation following sotalol administration shortly after conversion from atrial fibrillation to sinus rhythm. In this situation, sotalol administration may be proarrhythmic, because it enhances repolarisation inhomogeneities based on a spatially inhomogeneous distribution of repolarisation controlling ion channels to induce repolarisation abnormalities that may lead to torsade de pointes.
We compared fenoprofen calcium, 200 mg; fenoprofen calcium, 400 mg; aspirin, 650 mg; and a placebo in 85 women for the relief of primary dysmenorrhea in a double-blind, clinical trial. The usefulness of these drugs was judged from data obtained over four consecutive menstrual periods on: restriction of daily activity, pain intensity scores, need for rescue analgesics, withdrawal due to lack of efficacy, and adverse events. Both fenoprofen, 200 mg, and fenoprofen, 400 mg, offered significant (P less than .01) pain relief when compared to placebo and aspirin. Analyses of data on 1, 2 and 3 indicated that aspirin was not significantly different from placebo. The aspirin-treated group reported the greatest number of adverse reactions, but the differences between the four groups were not statistically significant. Our study lends support to the concept of a "plateau analgesic effect" of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs): fenoprofen, 200 mg, appears to be as effective as fenoprofen, 400 mg. When this type of drug fails to provide relief for a woman suffering from primary dysmenorrhea, switching to another NSAID may be more appropriate than increasing the dosage and the probability of dosage-related side effects.
To investigate the potential activity of cyclosporin A (CsA) to induce mammary hyperplasia in New Zealand White (NZW) rabbits.
Female NZW rabbits were used throughout experiments. To simulate the conditions of immunosuppression, CsA (10 mg/kg of body weight/d) was administered intravenously on a daily basis for 14 days and methylprednisolone (5 mg/kg/d) was administered on the first two days. The CsA (10 mg/kg/d) also was administered without methylprednisolone for 14 days to another cohort of rabbits. Mammary tissue of each rabbit was palpated and serially measured during this treatment period. The CsA was discontinued, and rabbits were monitored for 14 more days during the washout period. Sequential plasma concentrations of prolactin, 17beta-estradiol, and progesterone in each blood sample were determined by use of radioimmunoassay.
All NZW rabbits treated with CsA and methylprednisolone for immunosuppression consistently developed striking mammary tissue hyperplasia. At the end of treatment with CsA and methylprednisolone, mammary glands had extensive changes consistent with actively lactating glands. Similar but less extensive hyperplasia developed in response to CsA alone. Plasma concentration of prolactin increased during treatment and decreased during the washout period. Plasma concentration of 17beta-estradiol increased during treatment and continued to increase during the washout period. Plasma progesterone concentration decreased at the end of treatment. On discontinuation of CsA, mammary hyperplasia regressed.
Cyclosporine A, with or without methylprednisolone, induces mammary hyperplasia and hyperprolactinemia in NZW rabbits. This rabbit model may be a reliable in vivo system by which to study immunosuppressant-induced structural and functional changes of mammary glands similar to those observed in humans.
D-serine is nephrotoxic in rats. Based on circumstantial evidence, it has been suspected that D-amino-acid oxidase is involved in this nephrotoxicity. Since we found that LEA/SENDAI rats lacked D-amino-acid oxidase, we examined whether this enzyme was associated with D-serine-induced nephrotoxicity using the LEA/SENDAI rats and control F344 rats. When d-propargylglycine, which is known to have a nephrotoxic effect through its metabolism by D-amino-acid oxidase, was injected intraperitoneally into the F344 rats, it caused glucosuria and polyuria. However, injection of d-propargylglycine into LEA/SENDAI rats did not cause any glucosuria or polyuria, indicating that D-amino-acid oxidase is definitely not functional in these rats. D-serine was then injected into the F344 and LEA/SENDAI rats. It caused glucosuria and polyuria in the F344 rats but not in the LEA/SENDAI rats. These results indicate clearly that D-amino-acid oxidase is responsible for the D-serine-induced nephrotoxicity.
The full spectrum of physiological effects resulting from exposure to sulfur mustard and its analogs is currently unknown. In a guinea pig model, initially selected to study the role of an inflammatory cytokine cascade in mustard gas induced lung injury, we observed significant body weight gain in guinea pigs exposed to an intratracheally injected single dose of 2-chloroethyl ethyl sulfide, a mustard analog. The body weight gain was not associated with any apparent change in appetite. To further elucidate a molecular basis for the observed weight gain, we evaluated candidate genes for the obese phenotype by quantitative RT-PCR. We observed a time- and dose-dependent decrease in guinea pig pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) message following treatment with mustard gas. This reduction in POMC message is consistent with the onset of obesity in the animals. We hypothesize that the POMC melanocortin pathway provides a mechanistic basis for the observed effects of sulfur mustard on body weight.
Protease-activated receptor-2 (PAR-2) is activated by serine proteases, such as trypsin and mast cell tryptase. Recently, we have shown that activators of PAR-2 contract the rat urinary bladder mainly by stimulating release of prostaglandins (PGs) from the mucosal layer. In the present study, we investigated how the PAR-2-mediated responses are altered in rats with cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis. The contractile responses to trypsin and PAR-2 activating peptide (PAR-2 AP; SLIGRL-NH2) in the urinary bladders were augmented by treatment of rats with CYP. The contractile effects of these PAR-2 activators on the smooth muscles of the urinary bladder were also potentiated after induction of cystitis by CYP. On the other hand, CYP-induced cystitis significantly attenuated contractions produced by PGE2 in the smooth muscles of the urinary bladder. The PAR-2-mediated contractions were significantly prevented by indomethacin or NS-398, an inhibitor of cyclooxygenase-2. Both trypsin and PAR-2 AP increased the release of PGE2 from the urinary bladder mucosa and smooth muscle. CYP-induced cystitis enhanced the PAR-2 activators-induced PGE2 releases from the urinary mucosa without affecting those from the smooth muscle of the urinary bladder. The PGE2 releases were prevented by indomethacin or NS-398. The mRNAs for PAR-2 in the urinary bladder mucosa and smooth muscle preparations were not altered in CYP-induced cystitis. These results suggest that PAR-2-mediated responses were enhanced in bladders from CYP-treated rats. The enhancement of PAR-2-mediated contraction might be ascribed to the increased production of PGs and the altered sensitivity of smooth muscle to PAR-2 activators.
Keratinocyte growth factor (KGF) is secreted by fibroblasts and protects from pulmonary fibrosis in animal models. Interleukin (IL)-1beta is the most potent inducer of KGF in fibroblasts, acting through the c-Jun pathway. We evaluated in vitro KGF production by human lung fibroblasts from patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF, n = 10) and from control subjects (n = 7) at baseline and after IL-1beta stimulation. Basal KGF secretion by IPF fibroblasts was similar to controls. In fibroblasts from control subjects, IL-1beta increased c-Jun expression, c-Jun activation, and KGF secretion. SP600125, a specific c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) inhibitor, inhibited the effect of IL-1beta. By contrast, in IPF fibroblasts, IL-1beta did not increase c-Jun expression and c-Jun activation, and weakly increased KGF secretion, whereas SP600125 had no effect. IL-1beta similarly increased JunB expression in fibroblasts from patients with IPF and control subjects. Total JNK content was not different in either unstimulated or IL-1beta-stimulated IPF and control fibroblasts. IL-1beta increased phosphorylated JNK in control and IPF fibroblasts, but this increase was weaker and heterogeneous in IPF. Altogether, our results demonstrate a dysregulation of KGF secretion by IPF fibroblasts. The weak response to IL-1beta is associated with a defect of c-Jun expression and activation and a defect of JNK activation.
We encountered a case of familial juvenile gouty nephropathy (FJGN) with an autosomal dominant transmission pattern. Hyperuricemia in the propositus was caused by renal underexcretion of urate although his erythrocyte purine enzyme was normal. A renal biopsy specimen from the propositus showed interstitial fibrosis with tubular atrophy. On pyrazinamide and probenecid tests, the tubular secretion of urate selectively decreased without changes in either presecretory or postsecretory reabsorption of urate when his renal function was normal. Probenecid increased the urinary urate excretion and Cur/Ccr. The serum urate concentration was poorly controlled by allopurinol. When his renal function deteriorated, the uricosuric effects of both probenecid and benzbromarone were attenuated. However, the combined administration of probenecid with allopurinol decreased the serum urate concentration. These data suggest that the tubular secretion of urate is selectively impaired in FJGN and at the stage of renal failure, the combination of an uricosuric agent with allopurinol might be effective in treating hyperuricemia in FJGN.
Whereas research into the effects of the gonadal hormones on learning and memory has primarily focused on estrogen in females, recent evidence suggests that testosterone can also modulate learning in males through an interaction with the cholinergic system. In the present study, the interactive effects of testosterone and scopolamine (0.1- 0.32 mg/kg), a muscarinic receptor antagonist, on complex behavioral processes were investigated in male rats trained to respond under a multiple schedule of repeated acquisition and performance. In the acquisition component, subjects acquired a different 3-response sequence each session, whereas in the performance component, they responded on the same 3-response sequence each session. Although gonadectomy did not disrupt responding in either component, gonadectomized rats were less sensitive to the disruptive effects of scopolamine on both response rate and accuracy. In contrast, after receiving exogenous testosterone replacement, these gonadectomized males were more sensitive to the behavioral disruptions produced by scopolamine (i.e., the effects of scopolamine were similar to those obtained in gonadally intact males). These results suggest that testosterone replacement can enhance scopolamine-induced behavioral effects in gonadectomized male rats responding under a multiple schedule of repeated acquisition and performance, a finding that is in contrast to those previously found for certain spatial tasks. Furthermore, the present findings suggest that testosterone may decrease the activity of the cholinergic system during nonspatial tasks and thereby work in concert with the antagonism produced by scopolamine.
In the present study, we have evaluated the chemopreventive potential of geraniol (GOH), an acyclic monoterpene alcohol against ferric nitrilotriacetate (Fe-NTA) induced renal oxidative stress and carcinogenesis in Wistar rats. Chronic treatment of Fe-NTA induced oxidative stress, inflammation and cellular proliferation in Wistar rats. The chemopreventive efficacy of GOH was studied in terms of xenobiotic metabolizing enzyme activities, LPO, redox status, serum toxicity markers and the expression of putative nephrotoxicity biomarker Kim-1, tumor suppressor gene P53, inflammation, cell proliferation and apoptosis related genes in the kidney tissue. Oral administration of GOH at doses of 100 and 200mg/kg b wt effectively suppressed renal oxidative stress and tumor incidence. Chemopreventive effects of GOH were associated with upregulation of xenobiotic metabolizing enzyme activities and down regulation of serum toxicity markers. GOH was able to down regulate expression of Kim-1, NFκB, PCNA, P53 along with induction of apoptosis. However, higher dose of GOH was more effective in modulating these multiple molecular targets both at transcriptional and protein level. These results provide a powerful evidence for the chemopreventive efficacy of GOH against renal carcinogenesis possibly by modulation of multiple molecular pathways.
We have studied the electrically evoked blink reflex (R1 and R2 components) in 40 parkinsonian patients with levodopa-induced dyskinesia (15 with facial dyskinesia, 13 with limb-truncal dyskinesia and 12 with mixed dyskinesia). R2 latencies (both ipsilateral and contralateral) were significantly prolonged in dyskinetic patients. These findings are indicative of decreased excitability of brainstem interneurones in the dyskinetic parkinsonians. We found no correlation between the neurophysiological pattern of blink reflex and the localization of dyskinesia.
Four inhibitors of gamma-aminobutyric acid transaminase (GABA-T) were investigated together with respect to their effects on hole-board exploration and temperature and the relation with effects on quasi-morphine-abstinence behaviour induced by dipropylacetate (DPA) in rats. Amino-oxyacetic acid (AOAA), gamma-acetylenic-GABA (GAG), gamma-vinyl-GABA (GVC) and ethanolamine-O-sulfate (EOS) were found to reduce hole-board exploration especially in the higher doses used, although the time-course of the effect was different for the compounds. For EOS and GVG the decrease in hole-board exploration paralleled a strong hypothermic effect. The compounds AOAA and GAG exerted a less and more transient hypothermic effect. However, the decrease in hole-board exploration did not fall in with this decrease in temperature. AOAA and GAG were found to decrease DPA-induced body shakes and locomotor activity, while GVG and EOS had no effect on body shakes and transient effects but opposite to each other, on locomotor activity. The efficacy of the GABA-T-inhibitors was measured biochemically, and the influence on the activity of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) was also determined. AOAA and GAG were found to be strong inhibitors of GABA-T whereas the other two compounds were less efficient in the used doses. In addition AOAA and GAG influenced the activity of GAD strongly, while using GVG only a small decrease was found. The results suggest that the anti-quasi-withdrawal, the sedative and the hypothermic effects are not related to each other nor related to an effect on GABA-T. The suppressive effects on quasi-withdrawal body shakes, however, could be related to the inhibition of GAD and a hypothesis involving a compartmentalized action of DPA on GABA-metabolism has been proposed.
We describe a patient with progressive systemic sclerosis who developed ischemic colitis and scleroderma renal crisis following steroid pulse therapy. The possible pathogenic mechanisms of ischemic colitis and scleroderma renal crisis development are discussed. We conclude that the administration of steroids in high doses, especially via steroid pulse therapy, should be undertaken with caution for progressive systemic sclerosis patients.
A 20-year-old man developed fever and urinary abnormalities with positive antinuclear antibody (ANA) two months after the start of ethosuximide. A renal biopsy showed mild mesangial cell proliferation and cellular crescents predominantly occupying a vascular pole in 7 out of 80 (8.8%) glomeruli. In the arteriole, mainly in close proximity to the glomerulus, proliferation of smooth muscle cells and luminal narrowing were observed. Discontinuation of ethosuximide led to the disappearance of fever, ANA and urinary abnormalities. These findings are strongly suggestive of a causal relationship between ethosuximide and a lupus-like syndrome with peculiar renal involvement.
We investigated the effect of nitric oxide (NO) upon CA1 neurons of the hippocampal slice. NO was given via perfusate without oxygen and with glucose concentration increased to 10 mM to prevent hypoxic injury. Exposure to NO for 10 min produced severe neuronal injury, with CA1 orthodromic and antidromic population spike regaining only 3 +/- 3% and 9 +/- 3% of initial amplitude after 1 h recovery. Hypoxic controls in contrast, showed orthodromic and antidromic recovery of 98 +/- 5% and 93 +/- 7%. Good protection from NO-induced injury was seen with 10 mM nicotinamide, an inhibitor of poly-ADP-ribosylation, with CA1 PS recovering to 116 +/- 10% orthodromically, and 96 +/- 4% antidromically. Protection was also seen with 3'-aminobenzamide, another poly-ADP-ribosylation inhibitor, suggesting that poly-ADP-ribosylation may play an important role in NO-mediated neuronal injury.
The analgesic and antipyretic drug acetaminophen (APAP) is bioactivated to the reactive intermediate N-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine, which is scavenged by glutathione (GSH). APAP overdose can deplete GSH leading to the accumulation of APAP-protein adducts and centrilobular necrosis in the liver. N-acetylcysteine (NAC), a cysteine prodrug and GSH precursor, is often given as a treatment for APAP overdose. The rate-limiting step in GSH biosynthesis is catalyzed by glutamate cysteine ligase (GCL) a heterodimer composed of catalytic and modifier (GCLM) subunits. Previous studies have indicated that GCL activity is likely to be an important determinant of APAP toxicity. In this study, we investigated APAP toxicity, and NAC or GSH ethyl ester (GSHee)-mediated rescue in mice with normal or compromised GCLM expression. Gclm wild-type, heterozygous, and null mice were administered APAP (500 mg/kg) alone, or immediately following NAC (800 mg/kg) or GSHee (168 mg/kg), and assessed for hepatotoxicity 6 h later. APAP caused GSH depletion in all mice. Gclm null and heterozygous mice exhibited more extensive hepatic damage compared to wild-type mice as assessed by serum alanine aminotransferase activity and histopathology. Additionally, male Gclm wild-type mice demonstrated greater APAP-induced hepatotoxicity than female wild-type mice. Cotreatment with either NAC or GSHee mitigated the effects of APAP in Gclm wild-type and heterozygous mice, but not in Gclm null mice. Collectively, these data reassert the importance of GSH in protection against APAP-induced hepatotoxicity, and indicate critical roles for GCL activity and gender in APAP-induced liver damage in mice.
The role of glutathione (GSH) and chromium (V) in chromium (VI)-induced nephrotoxicity in mice was investigated at 24 h after K2Cr(VI)2O7 ip injection. Nephrotoxicity was assessed by measurements of relative kidney weight and serum urea nitrogen. Cr(VI) nephrotoxicity was accompanied by decreased renal GSH and glutathione reductase (GSSG-R) levels. Pretreatment with buthionine sulfoximine, an inhibitor of GSH biosynthesis, enhanced Cr(VI)-induced nephrotoxicity, and remarkably diminished kidney GSH and GSSG-R levels. In contrast, pretreatment with glutathione methyl ester, a GSH-supplying agent, prevented Cr(VI) from exerting a harmful effect on mouse kidney and restored kidney GSH level. Administration of a Cr(V) compound, K3Cr(V)O8, induced much higher toxicity in mouse kidney than Cr(VI), but it failed to diminish renal GSH level. Another Cr(V) compound, Cr(V)-GSH complex, and Cr(III) nitrate did not cause a nephrotoxic effect in mice. The mechanism of Cr(VI)-induced nephrotoxicity was explained using GSH and Cr(V).
Simvastatin is best known for its antilipidemic action and use in cardiovascular disease due to its inhibition of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl CoenzymeA (HMG CoA) reductase, a key enzyme in the cholesterol synthesis pathway. Inhibition of biological precursors in this pathway also enables pleiotrophic immunomodulatory and anti-inflammatory capabilities, including modulation of growth factor expression. Connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) and persistent myofibroblast formation are major determinants of the aggressive fibrotic disease, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). In this study we used human lung fibroblasts derived from healthy and IPF lungs to examine Simvastatin effects on CTGF gene and protein expression, analyzed by RT-PCR and ELISA, respectively. Simvastatin significantly inhibited (P < 0.05) CTGF gene and protein expression, overriding the induction by transforming growth factor-beta1, a known potent inducer of CTGF. Such Simvastatin suppressor action on growth factor interaction was reflected functionally on recognized phenotypes of fibrosis. alpha-smooth muscle actin expression was downregulated and collagen gel contraction reduced by 4.94- and 7.58-fold in IMR90 and HIPF lung fibroblasts, respectively, when preconditioned with 10 microM Simvastatin compared with transforming growth factor-beta1 treatment alone after 24 h. Our data suggest that Simvastatin can modify critical determinants of the profibrogenic machinery responsible for the aggressive clinical profile of IPF, and potentially prevents adverse lung parenchymal remodeling associated with persistent myofibroblast formation.
This study was designed to ascertain the long-term safety and efficacy profile of the somatostatin analogue octreotide as treatment of refractory acromegaly. Eight patients (aged 21-62 years) with persistent growth hormone (GH) elevation (duration 1-15 years) despite previous therapy were studied. Octreotide was given subcutaneously in increasing doses for the first year to a maximum of 500 micrograms three times daily. The dose then was reduced to 200 micrograms three times daily for the next 3 years. At annual assessments, 24-h GH profiles, insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) and a side-effect profile including gall-bladder ultrasound were studied. Oral glucose tolerance tests (75 g) were performed basally and after 6 months and 3 years of therapy. Haemoglobin A1 (HbA1) was also assessed. Side effects were recorded. Mean GH (+/- SEM) was 36.0 +/- 9 mU/l basally and was reduced significantly at all subsequent assessments on therapy (4-year mean, 9.4 +/- 2.1 mU/l). The IGF-I level also remained suppressed and was normalized in four of eight patients who remained on octreotide. Fasting plasma glucose and HbA1 were not changed by therapy but 2-h glucose was elevated after 6 months and 3 years (basal mean, 7.6 mmol/l (5.3-9.0 mmol/l); 3-year mean, 10.7 mmol/l (8.4-15.7 mmol/l); p < 0.05). Five patients developed gallstones and in three these had disappeared following 1 year of bile salt dissolution therapy. Octreotide continues to suppress serum GH and IGF-I long term without attenuation of effect. Gallstone formation is a major side effect.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To present a case of fluconazole-associated torsade de pointes (TDP) and discuss fluconazole's role in causing TDP.
A 68-year-old white woman with Candida glabrata isolated from a presacral abscess developed TDP eight days after commencing oral fluconazole The patient had no other risk factors for TDP, including coronary artery disease, cardiomyopathy, congestive heart failure, and electrolyte abnormalities There was a temporal association between the initiation of fluconazole and TDP. The TDP resolved when fluconazole was discontinued; however, the patient continued to have premature ventricular contractions and nonsustained ventricular tachycardia (NSVT) until six days after drug cessation
Use of the Naranjo probability scale indicates a probable relationship between the use of fluconazole and the development of TDP. The possible mechanism is depression of rapidly activating delayed rectifier potassium currents. In our patient, there was no other etiology identified that could explain QT prolongation or TDP The complete disappearance of NSVT and premature ventricular contractions followed by normalization of QT interval after the drug was stopped strongly suggests fluconazole as the etiology.
Clinicians should be aware that fluconazole, even at low doses, may cause prolongation of the QT interval, leading to TDP. Serial electrocardiographic monitoring may be considered when fluconazole is administered in patients who are at risk for ventricular arrhythmias.
A patient with propranolol-induced mental status changes was studied during and after the period of propranolol intoxication. While intoxicated he manifested the syndrome of "non-aphasic misnaming," did poorly on the nonverbal portions of the WAIS, and exhibited perseveration and variability of performance. Our observations clarify the nature of the neurobehavioral disturbances in toxic-metabolic encephalopathies.
