this study was performed to clarify the different action mechanisms through which rosiglitazone and pioglitazone regulate lipogenesis in white adipose tissues of db/db mice, an animal model of diabetes.
male C57BLKS/J-Lepr(db/db) (db/db) mice were used for all experiments. Rosiglitazone or pioglitazone were administered once daily by oral gavage for 4 weeks at concentrations of 20mg/kg and 75 mg/kg, respectively. At 0, 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 21, and 28 days of administration, body weights and blood glucose were determined. At the end of experiment, adiposity and gene expression were confirmed by perilipin A immunostaining and real-time PCR.
pioglitazone treatment increased fat mass and the surface area of adipocytes more than rosiglitazone at dosages with equivalent effects on plasma glucose. Lipid parameters including plasma total cholesterol and triglycerides were decreased more in rosiglitazone-treated mice. Relative mRNA expression levels for lipid synthesis and transport including diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT1/2), fatty acid translocase (CD36/FAT), fatty acid transport protein (FATP) were increased in pioglitazone-treated group compared to rosiglitazone-treated mice, but mRNA expression levels of β-oxidation-related genes acyl-Coenzyme A dehydrogenase, very long chain (Acadvl), acyl-Coenzyme A dehydrogenase, medium chain (Acadm), and the energy expenditure-related genes triosephosphate isomerase 1 (Tpi1) and carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1b (Cpt1b) were decreased.
these results suggest that pioglitazone activates lipid deposition by increasing lipid synthesis and transport, but rosiglitazone stimulates β-oxidation and energy expenditure in adipocytes of db/db mice.
In the present study the chemopreventive activities of DFMO, the irreversible inhibitor of ornithine decarboxylase, and finasteride, the inhibitor of prostatic 5a-reductase, against the development of chemically induced prostate adenocarcinoma by methylnitrosourea/testosterone propionate in male Wistar rats were investigated. According to histological examination, oral administration of DFMO and finasteride, either alone or combined, for two months to MNU/TP-inoculated rats reduced the tumor incidence to 11.11%, 10% and 10%, respectively, compared to tumored controls (64.3%). DFMO and/or finasteride treatment resulted in significant reductions in the wet weight of the prostate gland and seminal vesicles and its ratio relative to the total body weight, as well as the levels of prostate total protein, DNA, RNA and DNA/RNA ratio, compared to tumored controls. However, the effect of the combined treatment was of no statistical significance compared to single DFMO or finasteride treatment, as demonstrated by the non-significant differences between the mean values of most of the studied parameters. The tumor chemopreventive activity and the prostate growth inhibitory effect of DFMO and finasteride were due to suppression of prostate polyamine synthesis. ANOVA test revealed that the relative weight of the prostate as well as blood and tissue polyamine levels could be used as significant endpoint biomarkers for DFMO and finasteride as cancer chemopreventive agents.
The attacks of vasospastic angina or coronary spasm can be induced by injection of epinephrine, cold pressor test, Valsalva maneuver, and exercise. The attacks induced by these procedures can be suppressed by injection of phentolamine, an alpha adrenergic blocking agent in 80 per cent of the patients. On the other hand, propranolol, a beta adrenergic blocking agent, is not only ineffective in suppressing the attacks but aggravates the attacks in 50 per cent of the patients. Thus, alpha adrenergic receptors seem to play an important role in the production of vasospastic angina. The attacks of vasospastic angina can also be induced by injection of methacholine, a parasympathomimetic agent, and this reaction is suppressed by atropine, a parasympathetic blocking agent. Thus, parasympathetic nervous system also seems to play a role in the production of vasospastic angina. The attacks of vasospastic angina can be easily induced by adrenergic or parasympathetic stimuli from midnight to early morning but is usually not provoked by these stimuli in the daytime. Thus, there is circadian variation in the reactivity of coronary arteries to adrenergic or parasympathetic stimuli. There are also weekly, monthly and yearly variations of the reactivity of coronary arteries to these stimuli. Thus, alpha adrenergic or parasympathetic activity is not the sole factor in the production of vasospastic angina. Angina pectoris caused by increased myocardial oxygen demand is induced by infusion of isoproterenol, a beta adrenergic stimulant, and is suppressed by propranolol but not by phentolamine. So, beta adrenergic receptors play an important role in the production of angina pectoris caused by increased myocardial oxygen demand or organic angina pectoris.
Quercetin and praziquantel were used to treat mice with hepatic fibrosis due to Schistosoma japonicum infection. Quercetin treatment obviously relieved the degree of hepatic fibrosis, significantly reduced the expression of immediate early gene, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1 (TIMP 1), types I and III collagen compared to the control. The expression of c-jun mRNA, type I and type III collagen were reduced significantly compared to the group treated with praziquantel, whereas no difference in the expression of c-fos mRNA and TIMP1 between the two groups, indicating that quercetin may have better effect on schistosomal liver fibrosis than praziquantel in the long term.
This report describes a patient with pseudo-type II second-degree AV block due to an intermittent parasystolic focus located in the left bundle branch. A paradoxical increase in the fascicular rate was seen following intravenous propranolol, and fascicular extrasystoles were suppressed after intravenous isoproterenol treatment. All propagated fascicular extrasystoles were conducted to the ventricle with incomplete or complete right bundle branch block and a decrease in the H'-V interval compared to the H-V interval during sinus rhythm. Treatment with oral quinidine abolished fascicular extrasystoles without worsening of AV conduction.
Gentamicin (GM) is a widely used antibiotic against serious and life-threatening infections, but its usefulness is limited by the development of nephrotoxicity. Thus, the present study was undertaken to determine if pentoxifylline could protect the kidney in this experimental model. Thirty male Wistar rats were used. The animals were divided into three groups, each with 10 animals. The GM group of animals was treated daily with gentamicin in a dose of 100 mg/kg for eight days. The GMP group of animals was treated daily with pentoxifylline in a dose of 45 mg/kg and the same dose of gentamicin as the GM group for eight days. The control group received 1 mL/day saline intraperitoneally. For histological analysis, 5 microm-thick sections were stained with hematoxylin and eosin (HE), periodic acid Schiff (PAS), and Jones methenamine silver. The morphometric parameters included were glomerular area, major and minor axis, perimeter, diameter, roundness, and mean optical density. Biochemical analyses were used to determine concentrations of blood urea, serum creatinine, sodium, and potassium. In the GM group of rats, glomerular basement membrane was diffusely and unequally thickened with polymorphonuclear leukocyte infiltration, and coagulation-type necrosis and vacuolization of cytoplasm of proximal tubules epithelial cells were observed. In the GMP group of rats, glomeruli were slightly enlarged with thickened basement membrane in some segments but without coagulation-type necrosis of proximal tubules epithelial cells. Blood urea and serum creatinine concentration in the GM group were significantly elevated in comparison with the GMP group, while the potassium level was decreased. The present study indicated that pentoxifylline could provide a marked protective effect against gentamicin-induced acute renal failure, most likely mediated by vascular decongestion.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the prevalence of airway hyperresponsiveness induced by methylene diphenyldiisocyanate (MDI) and toluene diisocyanate (TDI) at a petrochemical industry complex in Korea.
Questionnaires, allergic skin test, and nonspecific airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR) were studied in 64 exposed workers and 27 control subjects. Questionnaires included questions about symptoms of cough, wheezing, chest tightness, dyspnea, rhinorrhea, sneezing, itching, stuffiness, tearing, urticaria, sore throat, and exacerbating time. Methacholine challenge tests were done. Bronchial responsiveness (BRindex) defined as log (% fall in FEV(1))/log (last concentration of methacholine +10).
Prevalence of AHR (PC20 FEV(1) < 16.0 mg/mL of methacholine) was higher in MDI-exposed workers than in TDI-exposed workers [4/20 (20%) vs. 2/42 (4.7%), P<0.05]. Twenty-three workers (36%) of all subjects had respiratory symptoms. MDI-exposed workers, in comparison with control subjects, had higher BRindex (0.73+/-0.04 vs. 0.62+/-0.02, P<0.05). Workers exposed to TDI or MDI who had respiratory symptoms (n = 23), in comparison to workers exposed to TDI or MDI without respiratory symptoms (n = 41), had significantly higher BRindex (0.82+/-0.06 vs. 0.60+/-0.02, P<0.05). FEV(1) was significantly negatively correlated with BRindex (r = -0.253, P<0.05). BRindex was not correlated with atopy, smoking status, and exposure duration.
These findings suggest that workers exposed to MDI are at a higher risk of asthma in comparison with TDI-exposed workers and control subjects at a petrochemical plant in Korea.
To report on long-term events after short doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (ABVD) chemotherapy and adjuvant radiotherapy in favorable early-stage Hodgkin's lymphoma.
We monitored late events and causes of death over 15 years (median follow-up, 120 months) in 120 patients with nonbulky stage IA-IIA Hodgkin's lymphoma, treated with four cycles of ABVD and limited radiotherapy. Pulmonary and cardiac function tests were done throughout the follow-up. Outcome measures included cause-specific mortality, standardized mortality ratio, and standardized incidence ratio for secondary neoplasia.
Projected 15-year event-free and overall survival were 78% and 86%, and tumor mortality was 3%. Standardized mortality ratio was significantly higher than 1 for both males (2.8; P=0.029) and females (9.4; P=0.003). The risk of cardiovascular events at 5 and 12 years was 5.5% and 14%, with a median latent time of 67 months (range: 23-179 months) from the end of radiotherapy. Pulmonary toxicity developed in 8% of patients; all had received mediastinal irradiation and the median time from radiotherapy to pulmonary sequelae was 76 weeks (range: 50-123 weeks). The risk of secondary neoplasia at 5 and 12 years was 4% and 8%, respectively, with no cases of leukemia. Fertility was preserved.
Long-term events were mostly related to radiotherapy; the role of short ABVD chemotherapy was very limited, as documented by fertility preservation and lack of secondary myelodysplasia/leukemia. A proportion of patients died from causes unrelated to disease progression and the excess mortality risk was mostly due to the occurrence of secondary neoplasms and cardiovascular diseases. A moderate dose reduction of radiotherapy from 40-44 Gy to 30-36 Gy did not decrease the risk of late complications; abolishing radiotherapy in nonbulky early-stage Hodgkin's lymphoma is being evaluated.
Convergent lines of evidence support a dual deficit model of stimulant withdrawal, where reductions in synaptic dopamine (DA) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) (5-HT) contribute to dysphoria, drug craving, and relapse. Thus, we predicted that a nonamphetamine compound with substrate activity at DA and 5-HT transporters (i.e., a dual DA/5-HT releaser) would be an effective medication for treating stimulant addictions. Ideally, this type of medication would alleviate withdrawal symptoms, suppress cocaine self-administration, and lack side effects commonly associated with central nervous system stimulants. In the present work, more than 350 compounds were screened in vitro for activity as substrate-type releasing agents at DA, 5-HT, and norepinephrine transporters. These efforts identified PAL-287 (1-napthyl-2-aminopropane) as a nonamphetamine compound with potent substrate activity at biogenic amine transporters. In vivo microdialysis in rats demonstrated that PAL-287 (1-3 mg/kg i.v.) increased extracellular DA and 5-HT in frontal cortex, but effects on 5-HT were somewhat greater. PAL-287 induced substantially less locomotor stimulation than (+)-amphetamine, a drug that increases only extracellular DA. Administration of high-dose (+)-methamphetamine or (+/-)-3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine to rats produced long-lasting depletion of cortical 5-HT, whereas PAL-287 (18 mg/kg i.p. x 3) did not. PAL-287 displayed little or no reinforcing properties in rhesus monkeys trained to self-administer cocaine, yet PAL-287 produced a dose-dependent decrease in responding for cocaine when infused at a dose of 1.0 mg/kg/h. Collectively, the findings reported here demonstrate that nonamphetamine monoamine releasing agents such as PAL-287 might be promising candidate medications for the treatment of stimulant dependence.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is a 36 amino acid peptide which was shown to enhance memory retention, recall and prevent amnesia induced by either scopolamine or anisomycin. In this study, we examined the effects of NPY administration into 6 areas of the mouse brain on memory retention for footshock avoidance training in a T-maze. NPY was injected into the rostral and caudal hippocampus, amygdala, caudate, septum and thalamus shortly after training. NPY improved retention when injected into the rostral portion of the hippocampus and septum, impaired retention in the caudal portion of the hippocampus and amygdala and had no effect in the thalamus and caudate. NPY was ineffective at either improving or impairing retention when injected 24 h after training, thus demonstrating that the effects of NPY on retention were time-dependent and not due to proactive effects on retention test performance per se. In addition, NPY had no effect on retention when injected into overlying cortical areas. NPY antibody impaired retention when administered into the rostral hippocampus and septum; it improved retention in the caudal hippocampus and amygdala. Thus NPY antibody had the opposite effect to that of NPY on memory retention suggesting that NPY has a physiological role as a modulator of memory processing within specific anatomical areas of the central nervous system.
The low dose oral contraceptive Femovan/Gynera which contains 0.03 mg Ethinylestradiol and 0.075 mg Gestoden was examined in several clinical trials. Those trials proved its contraceptive effectiveness, its controlling influence on the menstrual cycle and a low incidence of unwanted side-effects. The data reported are based on the experience of more than 100,000 women representing nearly 600,000 treatment cycles. The results of all the different investigations compiled here underline a high contraceptive effectiveness and excellent control of the cycle when using the respective preparation. The rate of unwanted side-effects was low.
Femovan contains 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol and 75 mcg of gestodene. Gestodene has been used in combination oral contraceptives since 1987 in 38 countries with hardly any effect on carbohydrate and lipid metabolism or fibrinolysis. Its contraceptive reliability for menstrual cycle control and tolerance was examined. A total of 102.769 women aged 18-35 with 593.455 menstrual cycles were included in 2 phases. Most of the women were German women, but the study included women from Europe and Latin America. Although 2-8% of the women took Femovan irregularly, only 3 pregnancies occurred in 414 English women (4704 cycles), 7 in 3267 German women (36.711 cycles), and 124 in 95.906 German women (523.477) as a result of forgetfulness. The pearl index reached .16 and .22 in the 2 phases, respectively, under client failure, and .07 and .06 under method failure. Bleeding ranged from .6-2.8% of cycles, while spotting was 4.5-8.2%. The omission of menstrual bleeding occurred in less than 1% of this population. Tension in the breasts, headache, and nausea with nervousness occurred in up to 10% of the women. Nervousness, vertigo, and depression was significantly less frequent. Acne and edema occurred only in a few cases. The average increase of body weight was a maximum of .8 kg. Blood pressure was unchanged for a few cases. There were 2 and 26 cases, respectively, of thromboembolitic diseases in the 2 phases amounting to .3 and .6/1000 woman years of use which compares to .4-1.7/1000 of the Oxford-Family Planning Association cohort study results. Femovan was discontinued on medical grounds (headache, nausea, and irregular bleeding) in 10.3% of 3267 German women and in 7.5% of 95.906 German women. Femovan's acceptance rate was remarkably high, and it proved to reliable and well-tolerated.
We have found that dopamine (DA) in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) plays an important role in cocaine self-administration. DA in the VTA acts at D1-type receptors on the terminals of GABA afferents causing release of this neurotransmitter. Thus, the neurochemical pathways whereby VTA DA might be involved in cocaine self-administration may include GABA neurotransmission. In the present study, we investigated this possibility. Rats were prepared with intravenous catheters and bilateral guide cannulae positioned to allow microinjections directly into the VTA or a site 1 mm dorsal to it. The rats were then trained to self-administer cocaine (1.0 mg/kg/injection) under a fixed-ratio 1 schedule of reinforcement and tested with microinjections of muscimol (0, 0.05 and 0.1 microg/0.25 microl) or picrotoxin (0, 0.025 and 0.05 microg/0.25 microl) or trained under a progressive ratio (PR) schedule and tested with vehicle and 0.05 microg/0.25 microl muscimol. Muscimol in the VTA, but not immediately dorsal to it, significantly reduced cocaine intake under the FR1 schedule. Furthermore, when analyzed by rostral/caudal site of injection, it was found that rostral injections of muscimol significantly reduced cocaine self-administration whereas caudal injections produced non-significant decreases in self-administration. Inspection of individual records revealed no signs of non-specific behavioral effects of the muscimol treatments. Muscimol in the rostral VTA also significantly increased break points in responding under the PR schedule. Intra-VTA picrotoxin did not significantly affect cocaine self-administration. These data suggest that stimulation of GABA-A receptors in the VTA is involved in cocaine self-administration and reward and that this involvement is more pronounced in the rostral than in the caudal VTA.
A fundamental objective of anesthesia research is to identify the receptors and brain regions that mediate the various behavioral components of the anesthetic state, including amnesia, immobility, and unconsciousness. Using complementary in vivo and in vitro approaches, we found that GABAA receptors that contain the alpha5 subunit (alpha5GABAARs) play a critical role in amnesia caused by the prototypic intravenous anesthetic etomidate. Whole-cell recordings from hippocampal pyramidal neurons showed that etomidate markedly increased a tonic inhibitory conductance generated by alpha5GABAARs, whereas synaptic transmission was only slightly enhanced. Long-term potentiation (LTP) of field EPSPs recorded in CA1 stratum radiatum was reduced by etomidate in wild-type (WT) but not alpha5 null mutant (alpha5-/-) mice. In addition, etomidate impaired memory performance of WT but not alpha5-/- mice for spatial and nonspatial hippocampal-dependent learning tasks. The brain concentration of etomidate associated with memory impairment in vivo was comparable with that which increased the tonic inhibitory conductance and blocked LTP in vitro. The alpha5-/- mice did not exhibit a generalized resistance to etomidate, in that the sedative-hypnotic effects measured with the rotarod, loss of righting reflex, and spontaneous motor activity were similar in WT and alpha5-/- mice. Deletion of the alpha5 subunit of the GABAARs reduced the amnestic but not the sedative-hypnotic properties of etomidate. Thus, the amnestic and sedative-hypnotic properties of etomidate can be dissociated on the basis of GABAAR subtype pharmacology.
We investigated whether vandetanib, an inhibitor of the tyrosine kinase activities of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 (VEGFR-2), epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), and rearranged during transfection (RET), could augment the antitumor activity of radiation with or without cisplatin in preclinical in vitro and in vivo models of human head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC).
OSC-19 and HN5 HNSCC cells that were cisplatin and radioresistant were treated with vandetanib, cisplatin, and radiation alone or in combination in vitro and in vivo using an orthotopic nude mouse model. Treatment effects were assessed using clonogenic survival assay, tumor volume, bioluminescence imaging, tumor growth delay, survival, microvessel density, tumor and endothelial cell apoptosis, and EGFR and Akt phosphorylation data.
Vandetanib plus cisplatin radiosensitized HNSCC cells in vitro and in vivo. The combination treatment with vandetanib, cisplatin, and radiation was superior to the rest of treatments (including the double combinations) in antitumoral effects, prolonging survival, decreasing cervical lymph node metastases in vivo. It also increased both tumor and tumor-associated endothelial cell apoptosis and decreased microvessel density in vivo. An analysis of tumor growth delay data revealed that vandetanib plus cisplatin enhanced radioresponse in vivo. All vandetanib-containing treatments inhibited EGFR and Akt phosphorylation in vitro and in vivo.
The addition of vandetanib to combination therapy with cisplatin and radiation was able to effectively overcome cisplatin and radioresistance in in vitro and in vivo models of HNSCC. Further study of this regimen in clinical trials may be warranted.
This report describes the final results of the ARBITER 6-HALTS (Arterial Biology for the Investigation of the Treatment Effects of Reducing Cholesterol 6-HDL and LDL Treatment Strategies in Atherosclerosis) trial.
The ARBITER 6-HALTS trial was terminated early on the basis of a pre-specified interim analysis showing superiority of niacin over ezetimibe on change in carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT). After termination, an additional 107 subjects completed a close-out assessment.
Patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) or CHD equivalent with low-density lipoprotein cholesterol <100 mg/dl and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol <50 mg/dl for men or 55 mg/dl for women while receiving stable statin treatment were randomly assigned to ezetimibe (10 mg/day) or extended-release niacin (target dose, 2,000 mg/day). The primary end point was change in mean CIMT, analyzed according to a last observation carried forward method. The relationships of study medication adherence, dosage, and cumulative exposure (product of adherence, dose, and time) with change in CIMT were explored.
Results in 315 patients included 208 with 14-month follow-up and 107 after mean treatment of 7 +/- 3 months. Niacin (n = 154) resulted in significant reduction (regression) in mean CIMT (-0.0102 +/- 0.0026 mm; p < 0.001) and maximal CIMT (-0.0124 +/- 0.0036 mm; p = 0.001), whereas ezetimibe (n = 161) did not reduce mean CIMT (-0.0016 +/- 0.0024 mm; p = 0.88) or maximal CIMT (-0.0005 +/- 0.0029 mm; p = 0.88) compared with baseline. There was a significant difference between ezetimibe and niacin treatment groups on mean changes in CIMT, favoring niacin, for both mean CIMT (p = 0.016) and maximal CIMT (p = 0.01). Increased cumulative drug exposure was related to regression of CIMT with niacin, and progression of CIMT with ezetimibe.
Niacin induces regression of CIMT and is superior to ezetimibe for patients taking statins. (Comparative Study of the Effect of Ezetimibe Versus Extended-Release Niacin on Atherosclerosis; NCT00397657).
Retinal degeneration is the leading cause of visual impairment in older adults, but little is known about its relationship to neurotoxic exposures.
The Agricultural Health Study is a cohort study of licensed pesticide applicators from Iowa and North Carolina. We used cross-sectional data from self-administered questionnaires given at enrollment in 1994-1996 to compare pesticide use in 154 applicators who reported retinal degeneration and 17,804 controls.
Retinal degeneration was associated with fungicide use (odds ratio = 1.8, 95% confidence interval = 1.3-2.6). This relationship was seen in subgroups defined by state, demographic characteristics, or medical history, as well as in the entire group. Risk increased with cumulative days of fungicide use (P for trend = 0.011) and was greater when application methods involving greater personal exposure were used. Retinal degeneration was also related to use of organochlorine or carbamate insecticides, but these associations were less consistent. Since nearly all applicators used organophosphate insecticides and herbicides, these exposures could not be effectively evaluated.
These results suggest that exposure to some fungicides and insecticides may increase risk of retinal degeneration.
The use of nonmammal models in teratological studies is a matter of debate and seems to be justified if the embryotoxic mechanism involves conserved processes. Published data on mammals and Xenopus laevis suggest that azoles are teratogenic by altering the endogenous concentration of retinoic acid (RA). The expression of some genes (Shh, Ptch-1, Gsc, and Msx2) controlled by retinoic acid is downregulated in rat embryos exposed at the phylotypic stage to the triazole triadimefon (FON). In order to propose X. laevis as a model for gene-based comparative teratology, this work evaluates the expression of Shh, Ptch-1, Gsc, and Msx2 in FON-exposed X. laevis embryos.
Embryos, exposed to a high concentration level (500 µM) of FON from stage 13 till 17, were examined at stages 17, 27, and 47. Stage 17 and 27 embryos were processed to perform quantitative RT-PCR.
The developmental rate was never affected by FON at any considered stage. FON-exposed stage 47 larvae showed the typical craniofacial malformations. A significant downregulation of Gsc was observed in FON-exposed stage 17 embryos. Shh, Ptch-1, Msx2 showed a high fluctuation of expression both in control and in FON-exposed samples both at stages 17 and 27.
The downregulation of Gsc mimics the effects of FON on rat embryos, showing for this gene a common effect of FON in the two vertebrate classes. The high fluctuation observed in the gene expression of the other genes, however, suggests that X. laevis at this stage has limited utility for gene-based comparative teratology.
Essential fructosuria is one of the oldest known inborn errors of metabolism. It is a benign condition which is believed to result from deficiency of hepatic fructokinase (ketohexokinase, KHK, E.C.2.7.1.3). This enzyme catalyses the first step of metabolism of dietary fructose, conversion of fructose to fructose-1-phosphate. Despite the early recognition of this disorder, the primary structure of human KHK and the molecular basis of essential fructosuria have not been previously defined. In this report, the isolation and sequencing of full-length cDNA clones encoding human ketohexokinase are described. Alternative mRNA species and alternative KHK isozymes are produced by alternative polyadenylation and splicing of the KHK gene. The KHK proteins show a high level of sequence conservation relative to rat KHK. Direct evidence that mutation of the KHK structural gene is the cause of essential fructosuria was also obtained. In a well-characterized family, in which three of eight siblings have fructosuria, all affected individuals are compound heterozygotes for two mutations Gly40Arg and Ala43Thr. Both mutations result from G-->A transitions, and each alters the same conserved region of the KHK protein. Neither mutation was seen in a sample of 52 unrelated control individuals. An additional conservative amino acid change (Val49IIe) was present on the KHK allele bearing Ala43Thr.
Oxidative stress has been suggested to be an important mediator of dopaminergic cell death in Parkinson's disease (PD). We investigated the neuroprotective potential of Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) overexpression in the rat substantia nigra (SN) following adenovirus-mediated gene transfer. Human dopaminergic SK-N-SH cells were transduced with adenoviral vectors expressing either human SOD1 (Ad-SOD1) or beta-galactosidase (Ad-betagal) before exposure to 1 mM of the 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+). A strong neuroprotective effect of SOD1 gene transfer was observed in the SK-N-SH cells exposed to MPP+ compared with controls. Adult rats were then given unilateral injections of either Ad-SOD1 or Ad-betagal into the striatum, and MPP+ was administered 8 days later at the same location. Strong transgene expression was detected in the SN dopaminergic neurons, a consequence of retrograde axonal transport of the adenoviral particles. The amphetamine-induced rotational behavior of the rats was markedly lower in Ad-SOD1-injected rats than in control animals. Also, behavioral recovery significantly correlated with the number of tyrosine hydrolase-expressing neurons in the SN of the treated rats. These results are consistent with oxidative stress contributing to the MPP+ -induced neurodegenerative process. They also indicate that SOD1 gene transfer into the nigrostriatal system may be a potential neuroprotective strategy for treating PD.
Allotypes of the natural killer (NK) cell receptor KIR3DL1 vary in both NK cell expression patterns and inhibitory capacity upon binding to their ligands, HLA-B Bw4 molecules, present on target cells. Using a sample size of over 1,500 human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)+ individuals, we show that various distinct allelic combinations of the KIR3DL1 and HLA-B loci significantly and strongly influence both AIDS progression and plasma HIV RNA abundance in a consistent manner. These genetic data correlate very well with previously defined functional differences that distinguish KIR3DL1 allotypes. The various epistatic effects observed here for common, distinct KIR3DL1 and HLA-B Bw4 combinations are unprecedented with regard to any pair of genetic loci in human disease, and indicate that NK cells may have a critical role in the natural history of HIV infection.
Caffeine is widely consumed in foods and beverages and is also used for a variety of medical purposes. Despite its widespread use, relatively little is understood regarding how genetics affects consumption, acute response, or the long-term effects of caffeine.
This paper reviews the literature on the genetics of caffeine from the following: (1) twin studies comparing heritability of consumption and of caffeine-related traits, including withdrawal symptoms, caffeine-induced insomnia, and anxiety, (2) association studies linking genetic polymorphisms of metabolic enzymes and target receptors to variations in caffeine response, and (3) case-control and prospective studies examining relationship between polymorphisms associated with variations in caffeine response to risks of Parkinson's and cardiovascular diseases in habitual caffeine consumers.
Twin studies find the heritability of caffeine-related traits to range between 0.36 and 0.58. Analysis of polysubstance use shows that predisposition to caffeine use is highly specific to caffeine itself and shares little common disposition to use of other substances. Genome association studies link variations in adenosine and dopamine receptors to caffeine-induced anxiety and sleep disturbances. Polymorphism in the metabolic enzyme cytochrome P-450 is associated with risk of myocardial infarction in caffeine users.
Modeling based on twin studies reveals that genetics plays a role in individual variability in caffeine consumption and in the direct effects of caffeine. Both pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic polymorphisms have been linked to variation in response to caffeine. These studies may help guide future research in the role of genetics in modulating the acute and chronic effects of caffeine.
Effects of an intervention cannot be understood without precise knowledge of the baseline behavior on which the intervention is superimposed. For misusers of illicit drugs, patterns of daily activities and moods have not been studied in a way that is amenable to statistical aggregation.
The aim of the study was to compare hour-by-hour daily activities in cocaine-dependent outpatients during urine-verified periods of use and abstinence.
In a cohort design, a volunteer sample of 112 methadone-maintained cocaine- and heroin-abusing outpatients provided ecological momentary assessment (EMA) data on handheld computers for 10,781 person-days. EMA responses to questions about current location, activities, companions, moods, and recent exposure to putative drug-use triggers were compared across periods of use and abstinence using SAS Proc Glimmix (for binary outcomes) and Proc Mixed (for continuous outcomes).
Periods of cocaine use were associated with idle, solitary, affectively negative afternoons but, unexpectedly, were also associated with a greater likelihood of early-morning or late-evening work. The whole-day concomitants of cocaine use were often distinct from the acute predecessors of use seen in prior analyses from the same sample. Several measures of negative mood increased during abstinence.
Weeks of cocaine use and abstinence in outpatients are associated with distinct patterns of mood and behavior; the detailed hourly data reported here should help inform treatment interventions aimed at changing daily activities. The findings also argue against the contention that cocaine abstinence symptoms decrease monotonically from the day of cessation.
Ifosfamide is one of the most efficient antimitotic in soft tissue sarcoma. To try to find a possible dose-effect, 10 patients with advanced pretraited relapsed soft tissue sarcoma received 15 g/m2/cycle ifosfamide in continuous infusion during 5 days. A pharmacokinetic study was done for 2 patients. All patients received growth factors, ondansetron and 8 clonazepam. Renal toxicity was evaluated after the first and the second cycle. Twenty two cycles were delivered to patients who have been already treated with ifosfamid (10 patients with 15 g/m2 to 54 g/m2, median 27 g/m2) or cis platinum (2 patients). No major renal or neurologic toxicity was observed; only subclinical modifications of urinary enzymes excretion were found. Two patients had visual hallucinations at the end of a cycle and just in the 2 following days; another presented a neuropathy of inferior limbs. Hematological toxicity was very limited. Pharmacokinetic study did not show induction mechanism at this dosage and with this type of administration. So ifosfamide 3 g/m2 during 5 days is feasible. The few level of complications observed is perhaps linked to the daily dose of 3 g/m2 instead of 4 g/m2 or more used in the other studies.
Microglial activation is an invariant feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD). It is noteworthy that cannabinoids are neuroprotective by preventing β-amyloid (Aβ)-induced microglial activation both in vitro and in vivo. On the other hand, the phytocannabinoid cannabidiol (CBD) has shown anti-inflammatory properties in different paradigms. In the present study, we compared the effects of CBD with those of other cannabinoids on microglial cell functions in vitro and on learning behavior and cytokine expression after Aβ intraventricular administration to mice. CBD, (R)-(+)-[2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-(4-morpholinylmethyl) pyrrolo-[1,2,3-d,e]-1,4-benzoxazin-6-yl]-1-naphthalenyl-methanone [WIN 55,212-2 (WIN)], a mixed CB(1)/CB(2) agonist, and 1,1-dimethylbutyl-1-deoxy-Δ(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol [JWH-133 (JWH)], a CB(2)-selective agonist, concentration-dependently decreased ATP-induced (400 μM) increase in intracellular calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)) in cultured N13 microglial cells and in rat primary microglia. In contrast, 4-[4-(1,1-dimethylheptyl)-2,6-dimethoxyphenyl]-6,6-dimethyl-bicyclo[3.1.1]hept-2-ene-2-methanol [HU-308 (HU)], another CB(2) agonist, was without effect. Cannabinoid and adenosine A(2A) receptors may be involved in the CBD action. CBD- and WIN-promoted primary microglia migration was blocked by CB(1) and/or CB(2) antagonists. JWH and HU-induced migration was blocked by a CB(2) antagonist only. All of the cannabinoids decreased lipopolysaccharide-induced nitrite generation, which was insensitive to cannabinoid antagonism. Finally, both CBD and WIN, after subchronic administration for 3 weeks, were able to prevent learning of a spatial navigation task and cytokine gene expression in β-amyloid-injected mice. In summary, CBD is able to modulate microglial cell function in vitro and induce beneficial effects in an in vivo model of AD. Given that CBD lacks psychoactivity, it may represent a novel therapeutic approach for this neurological disease.
Antituberculous treatment is effective but has numerous side effects. Among these isoniazid induced neuropathy is easily preventable.
A female patient of 42 years, infected with HIV, presented with general deterioration associated with an interstitial pulmonary infiltrate and mediastinal lymphadenopathy. Tuberculosis was not confirmed bacteriologically but she responded to antituberculous treatment. Three months later she developed distal leg pains extending proximally. There was superficial sensory impairment up to the groins and loss of the ankle reflexes. The dose of isoniazid was reduced from 5 to 2.5 mg/kg/day on account of slow acetylator status and treatment with pyridoxine 250 mg/day commenced. The clinical signs resolved in a few weeks.
Isoniazid neuropathy develops in the presence of risk factors (HIV, alcoholism, diabetes, renal failure, malnutrition, pregnancy and lactation, neurotoxic medication) and manifests itself initially by burning feet. Pyridoxine is preventative in low dosage and curative in high dosage. The development of symptoms should lead to measurement of acetylator status, and a reduction of the isoniazid dose to 3 mg/kg/day or even less in slow acetylators.
To describe the Clinical and Surface EMG characteristics of Valproate induced Tremors. Sodium Valproate is known to produce tremors as a side effect. We analyzed clinical and surface electromyographic characteristics of tremors in epileptic subjects who presented with tremors while on sodium valproate.
Neurological examination and surface electromyographic recordings were performed on 20 subjects with sodium valproate induced tremors. Surface electromyographic tremerogram was correlated with clinical presentation of tremors.
This study revealed sodium valproate induced tremors involving primarily upper limbs symmetrically. In the present study, all patients presented with action postural tremors except two, who had tremors in the resting position as well. None of these patients had tremors in goal-directed position. The tremors typically were of high frequency (mean 10 Hz), low amplitude, short burst duration and synchronous burst pattern (Synchronous EMG activity in the agonist and antagonistic muscles).
Frequency, amplitude, burst duration and burst pattern of sodium valproate induced tremors resembles benign essential tremors on surface electromyographic recordings.
Pulmonary adenoma susceptibility 1 (Pas1) is the major mouse lung cancer susceptibility locus on chromosome 6 (ref. 1). Kras2 is a common target of somatic mutation in chemically induced mouse lung tumors and is a candidate Pas1 gene. M. spretus mice (SPRET/Ei) carry a Pas1 resistance haplotype for chemically induced lung tumors. We demonstrate that the SPRET/Ei Pas1 allele is switched from resistance to susceptibility by fixation of the parental origin of the mutant Kras2 allele. This switch correlates with low expression of endogenous Kras2 in SPRET/Ei. We propose that the Pas1 modifier effect is due to Kras2, and that a sensitive balance between the expression levels of wild-type and mutant alleles determines lung tumor susceptibility. These data demonstrate that cancer predisposition should also be considered in the context of somatic events and could have major implications for the design of human association studies to identify cancer susceptibility genes.
We identified a set of SNPs in the first intron of the FTO (fat mass and obesity associated) gene on chromosome 16q12.2 that is consistently strongly associated with early-onset and severe obesity in both adults and children of European ancestry with an experiment-wise P value of 1.67 x 10(-26) in 2,900 affected individuals and 5,100 controls. The at-risk haplotype yields a proportion of attributable risk of 22% for common obesity. We conclude that FTO contributes to human obesity and hence may be a target for subsequent functional analyses.
Liver toxicity caused by high-dose myeloablative therapy leads to significant morbidity after hematopoietic cell transplantation. We examined the hypothesis that liver toxicity after cyclophosphamide and total body irradiation is related to cyclophosphamide through its metabolism to toxins. Cyclophosphamide was infused at 60 mg/kg over 1 to 2 hours on each of 2 consecutive days, followed by total body irradiation. Plasma was analyzed for cyclophosphamide and its major metabolites. Liver toxicity was scored by the development of sinusoidal obstruction syndrome (veno-occlusive disease) and by total serum bilirubin levels. The hazards of liver toxicity, nonrelapse mortality, tumor relapse, and survival were calculated using regression analysis that included exposure to cyclophosphamide metabolites (as the area under the curve). Of 147 patients, 23 (16%) developed moderate or severe sinusoidal obstruction syndrome. The median peak serum bilirubin level through day 20 was 2.6 mg/dL (range, 0.5-41.1 mg/dL). Metabolism of cyclophosphamide was highly variable, particularly for the metabolite o-carboxyethyl-phosphoramide mustard, whose area under the curve varied 16-fold. Exposure to this metabolite was statistically significantly related to sinusoidal obstruction syndrome, bilirubin elevation, nonrelapse mortality, and survival, after adjusting for age and irradiation dose. Patients in the highest quartile of o-carboxyethyl-phosphoramide mustard exposure had a 5.9-fold higher risk for nonrelapse mortality than did patients in the lowest quartile. Engraftment and tumor relapse were not statistically significantly related to cyclophosphamide metabolite exposure. Increased exposure to toxic metabolites of cyclophosphamide leads to increased liver toxicity and nonrelapse mortality and lower overall survival after hematopoietic cell transplantation.
Urolithiasis, a condition in which stones are present in the urinary system, including the kidneys and bladder, is a poorly understood yet common disorder worldwide that leads to significant health care costs, morbidity, and work loss. Acetaminophen-induced liver damage is a major cause of death in patients with acute liver failure. Kidney and urinary stones and liver toxicity are disturbances linked to alterations in oxalate and sulfate homeostasis, respectively. The sulfate anion transporter-1 (Sat1; also known as Slc26a1) mediates epithelial transport of oxalate and sulfate, and its localization in the kidney, liver, and intestine suggests that it may play a role in oxalate and sulfate homeostasis. To determine the physiological roles of Sat1, we created Sat1-/- mice by gene disruption. These mice exhibited hyperoxaluria with hyperoxalemia, nephrocalcinosis, and calcium oxalate stones in their renal tubules and bladder. Sat1-/- mice also displayed hypersulfaturia, hyposulfatemia, and enhanced acetaminophen-induced liver toxicity. These data suggest that Sat1 regulates both oxalate and sulfate homeostasis and may be critical to the development of calcium oxalate urolithiasis and hepatotoxicity.
