Elevated mitochondrial reactive oxygen species have been suggested to play a causative role in some forms of muscle insulin resistance. However, the extent of their involvement in the development of diet-induced insulin resistance remains unclear. To investigate, manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), a key mitochondrial-specific enzyme with antioxidant modality, was overexpressed, and the effect on in vivo muscle insulin resistance induced by a high-fat (HF) diet in rats was evaluated. Male Wistar rats were maintained on chow or HF diet. After 3 wk, in vivo electroporation (IVE) of MnSOD expression and empty vectors was undertaken in right and left tibialis cranialis (TC) muscles, respectively. After one more week, insulin action was evaluated using hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp, and tissues were subsequently analyzed for antioxidant enzyme capacity and markers of oxidative stress. MnSOD mRNA was overexpressed 4.5-fold, and protein levels were increased by 70%, with protein detected primarily in the mitochondrial fraction of muscle fibers. This was associated with elevated MnSOD and glutathione peroxidase activity, indicating that the overexpressed MnSOD was functionally active. The HF diet significantly reduced whole body and TC muscle insulin action, whereas overexpression of MnSOD in HF diet animals ameliorated this reduction in TC muscle glucose uptake by 50% (P < 0.05). Decreased protein carbonylation was seen in MnSOD overexpressing TC muscle in HF-treated animals (20% vs. contralateral control leg, P < 0.05), suggesting that this effect was mediated through an altered redox state. Thus interventions causing elevation of mitochondrial antioxidant activity may offer protection against diet-induced insulin resistance in skeletal muscle.
To demonstrate non-inferiority of lumiracoxib 400 mg once daily (o.d.) compared with indomethacin 50 mg three times daily (t.i.d.) in the treatment of acute gout, and to compare the safety and tolerability of these treatments.
In this 1-week, multicentre, randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, active-controlled, parallel-group study, patients with a clinical diagnosis of gout, an acute attack of gout in four or more joints within the 48 h prior to evaluation, and at least moderate pain intensity in the target joint were randomized to treatment with lumiracoxib 400 mg o.d. (n = 118) or indomethacin 50 mg t.i.d. (n = 117). The primary efficacy endpoint was the mean change in pain intensity from baseline over days 2-5, assessed on a 5-point Likert scale, where non-inferiority could be claimed if the lower limit of the confidence interval (CI) was greater than -0.5. The patient's and physician's global assessment of response to treatment, and physician's assessment of tenderness, swelling and erythema of the study joint were also assessed.
The estimated difference between treatments for the change from baseline in pain intensity over days 2-5 was -0.004 (95% CI -0.207 to 0.199, P > 0.05), indicating that lumiracoxib 400 mg o.d. had comparable efficacy to indomethacin 50 mg t.i.d. for the primary efficacy variable. There was no significant difference between treatments in any of the secondary efficacy variables. Adverse events were reported by 10.2% of patients treated with lumiracoxib and 22.2% of those receiving indomethacin.
Lumiracoxib is as effective as indomethacin for treatment of acute gout and may have a better safety and tolerability profile.
Six patients with adult Still's disease who had either failed to respond to or had adverse effects from previous therapy were given weekly low dose methotrexate (MTX) therapy. They were followed for 4-28 months (mean 14 +/- 9 months). At 12 months of therapy 3 patients were evaluated as having a complete response. One patient had a partial response to MTX after 7 months. Therapy was discontinued in 1 patient at 4 months due to flares of rash and arthralgias after each MTX administration. One patient failed to respond to therapy despite maximum dosage, but was able to reduce his corticosteroid dose. MTX may be a useful therapy to consider in patients with adult Still's disease who are resistant to conventional therapy and may allow a reduction in the concomitant dose of corticosteroids.
MEDNIK syndrome-acronym for mental retardation, enteropathy, deafness, neuropathy, ichthyosis, keratodermia-is caused by AP1S1 gene mutations, encoding σ1A, the small subunit of the adaptor protein 1 complex, which plays a crucial role in clathrin coat assembly and mediates trafficking between trans-Golgi network, endosomes and the plasma membrane. MEDNIK syndrome was first reported in a few French-Canadian families sharing common ancestors, presenting a complex neurocutaneous phenotype, but its pathogenesis is not completely understood. A Sephardic-Jewish patient, carrying a new AP1S1 homozygous mutation, showed severe perturbations of copper metabolism with hypocupremia, hypoceruloplasminemia and liver copper accumulation, along with intrahepatic cholestasis. Zinc acetate treatment strikingly improved clinical conditions, as well as liver copper and bile-acid overload. We evaluated copper-related metabolites and liver function retrospectively in the original French-Canadian patient series. Intracellular copper metabolism and subcellular localization and function of copper pump ATP7A were investigated in patient fibroblasts. Copper metabolism perturbation and hepatopathy were confirmed in all patients. Studies in mutant fibroblasts showed abnormal copper incorporation and retention, reduced expression of copper-dependent enzymes cytochrome-c-oxidase and Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase, and aberrant intracellular trafficking of Menkes protein ATP7A, which normalized after rescue experiments expressing wild-type AP1S1 gene. We solved the pathogenetic mechanism of MEDNIK syndrome, demonstrating that AP1S1 regulates intracellular copper machinery mediated by copper-pump proteins. This multisystem disease is characterized by a unique picture, combining clinical and biochemical signs of both Menkes and Wilson's diseases, in which liver copper overload is treatable by zinc acetate therapy, and can now be listed as a copper metabolism defect in humans. Our results may also contribute to understand the mechanism(s) of intracellular trafficking of copper pumps.
One hundred patients with a verified subarachnoid haemorrhage were studied in a double blind, placebo-controlled trial at a single centre to determine the value and relative risks of tranexamic acid (TXA) in the management of ruptured intracranial aneurysms. The incidence of recurrent haemorrhage between active and placebo groups was identical (12%) and the mortality from recurrent haemorrhage was 7% and 5%, respectively. The overall incidence of cerebral infarction before surgery, at discharge and at 6 months follow-up was greater in the TXA group (27%) than in the control group (11%). Post-operative cerebral ischaemia was significantly more frequent in the active, 18 of 29 as compared to 6 of 32 patients, in the placebo group. In a fifth of the patients in whom cerebral blood flow was estimated there was a significant reduction of cerebral blood flow (CBF) on the side of the ruptured aneurysm in the TXA treated group. It is suggested that this may be the cause of the increased incidence of cerebral ischaemia in this group. There was no significant difference in the incidence of cerebral vasospasm, hydrocephalus, visual disturbances and gastrointestinal disturbances. More fatalities were encountered from ischaemia and recurrent haemorrhage in the TXA group but these differences did not reach statistical significance at the 5% level. Given that disability was due to either vasospasm or recurrent haemorrhage than a patient under TXA treatment was significantly more likely to have disability due to vasospasm (p less than 0.04); the reverse was true for the placebo patient (p less than 0.05).
The inhibitory influence of bovine lactoferrin (bLF) on induction of preneoplastic hepatic glutathione S-transferase placental form-positive (GST-P( +)) cell foci and colon aberrant crypt foci (ACF) by diethylnitrosamine (DEN) and 2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline (MeIQx) was investigated in F344 rats. Rats were initially treated with DEN, then placed on basal diet containing MeIQx (200 ppm) alone, MeIQx plus 2% bLF, or MeIQx plus 0.2% bLF from week 2 to week 8, with partial hepatectomy performed at week 3. Concomitant administration of 2% or 0.2% bLF with MeIQx caused significant dose-dependent decreases in both number and unit area of GST-P(+) cell foci (2% bLF, P < 0.001; 0.2% bLF, P < 0.01). Similar results were observed for MeIQx-induced colon ACF in the groups without DEN treatment (2% and 0.2% bLF, P < 0.05). To investigate the underlying mechanisms, we analyzed the influence of bLF on levels of cytochrome P4501A2 (CYP1A2), a metabolically activating enzyme of MeIQx in the liver. The results demonstrated that combined administration of 2% bLF significantly reduced levels of MeIQx-induced CYP1A2 mRNA (P < 0.05) and protein (P < 0.05) to the normal levels, in association with reduced values for MeIQx-DNA adducts (P < 0.05), liver GST-P(+) cell foci and colon ACF. These results suggest that bLF is a chemopreventive agent for DEN alone or DEN plus MeIQx-induced liver, and MeIQx-induced colon carcinogenesis in rats. One possible mechanism is a normalizing down-regulation of CYP1A2 expression by bLF, with consequent reduction of carcinogen activation and adduct formation.
This study investigated the neuroprotective effects of the curcuminoids against lead-induced neurotoxicity. The results show that lead significantly increases lipid peroxidation and reduces the viability of primary hippocampal neurons in culture. This lead-induced toxicity was significantly curtailed by the co-incubation of the neurons with the curcuminoids. In a whole animal experiment, rats were trained in a water maze and thereafter dosed with lead and/or curcumin (CURC), demethoxycurcumin (DMC), or bisdemethoxycurcumin (BDMC) for 5 days. Animals treated with curcumin and demethoxycurcumin but not bisdemethoxycurcumin had more glutathione and less oxidized proteins in the hippocampus than those treated with lead alone. These animals also had faster escape latencies when compared to the Pb-treated animals indicating that CURC- and DMC-treated animals retain the spatial reference memory. The findings of this study indicate that curcumin, a well-established dietary antioxidant, is capable of playing a major role against heavy metal-induced neurotoxicity and has neuroprotective properties.
Gastrointestinal complications of cocaine abuse occur less frequently than those of the cardiovascular and nervous systems. The clinical history and pathologic findings of three patients with cocaine-induced mesenteric ischemia are described, and the mechanism of acute and chronic cocaine-induced mesenteric ischemia is discussed. The role of preoperative angiography in detecting occlusive arterial lesions so that arterial revascularization can be carried out is emphasized. Briefly, recent intravenous cocaine use in a 45-year-old man resulted in sharply demarcated small intestinal ischemia with perforation characterized by pseudomembranous enteritis. Histologic sections of the small-bowel resection showed intraluminal fibrin and intimal hyperplasia in rare submucosal arterioles. Two women, 29 and 35 years of age, both with a 2-year history of intravenous cocaine use, presented with acute abdominal pain and had angiographic documentation of occlusion of the celiac axis and the superior mesenteric arteries. Vascular bypasses were performed in both cases. Microscopic examination of both arteries and their branches revealed total obstruction by luminal thrombus with recanalization.
The effect of timing in providing dexamethasone treatment after intracerebral hematoma was evaluated in rats with hematoma induced by a subcortical collagenase injection. Male Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 30; body weight, 185 to 230 g) received dexamethasone (1 mg/kg) intraperitoneally at 2 h, 4 h, or 6 h (1 group per time point) after intracerebral collagenase injection, with another dose (1 mg/kg) administered at 24 h after collagenase injection. Neurologic examinations and rotarod treadmill tests were used to evaluate motor behavior before and at 24 and 48 h after intracerebral injection. Rats were euthanized after the last behavioral test. Brains were evaluated for hematoma size, number of penumbral necrotic neurons, neutrophils within the hematoma, and astrocytic response. Compared with the control and other treatment groups, rats treated with dexamethasone at 2 and 24 h after intracerebral collagenase injection scored significantly better on neurologic exams and rotarod tests. Hematoma volume was significantly smaller in all treated groups than in the control group but did not differ between treatment groups. Fewer neutrophils were seen in the perihematoma region of all treated rats compared with controls, but the number of necrotic neurons was decreased significantly only in the group treated with dexamethasone at 2 and 24 h. These results indicate that a 1-mg/kg dose of dexamethasone is beneficial for treatment of intracerebral hemorrhage, particularly if administered early after the hemorrhagic insult.
This study was undertaken to examine whether prostaglandin (PG) inhibition with indomethacin interferes with angiotensin II receptor blockade (losartan) during treatment for arterial hypertension. In a double-blind crossover design 10 patients with essential arterial hypertension and treated with losartan were randomized to supplementary treatment with indomethacin or placebo for 1 week, with a 2-week washout period interposed. At the end of each treatment period the following examinations were performed, preceded by 4 days on sodium-fixed diet: 24-h blood pressure (BP), 24-h sodium excretion (UNaV), supine BP, glomerular filtration rate (GFR), renal resistive index (RRI), extracellular fluid volume (ECV), sodium clearance (Cl(Na)), body weight, peripheral blood flow (PBF), and plasma concentrations of aldosterone, renin (PRC), and atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP). Indomethacin did not change BP. Indomethacin increased weight (P < .05) and ECV (P < .05). A nonsignificant decrease in UNaV was seen after indomethacin, as in 24-h Cl(Na). Conversely, in the laboratory in the supine position Cl(Na) increased after indomethacin (P = .05). Indomethacin increased plasma ANP (P < .01). No changes were observed in GFR, RRI, PBF, PRC, or plasma aldosterone. Thus indomethacin did not attenuate the antihypertensive effect of losartan, neither was peripheral blood flow affected. Indomethacin caused sodium retention in the nonresting situation, which was not counterbalanced by the increased Cl(Na) in the resting supine position. The observed changes during prostaglandin (PG) inhibition seem most likely due to lack of PG "protection" of renal function, when the sympathetic nervous system is activated throughout the day.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder; however, there is no treatment able to prevent the loss of dopaminergic neurons or its consequences. Trophic factors such as NGF and BDNF has positive effects on different disorders of the brain, including neurodegeneration. Additionally, studies have suggested the use of venom peptides as a therapeutic strategy for neurological disorders. Therefore, in the present study, we investigated the neuroprotective activity of a peptide isolated from Bothrops atrox venom and its trophic ability by using a cellular model of dopaminergic neurotoxicity induced by 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)) in PC12 cells. We showed that it decreased the activities of the apoptotic proteases caspase-9 (mitochondrial) and caspase-3 (executor) and increased cell viability and proliferation in this model. Additionally, it increased neuritogenesis in non-treated PC12 cells (neuronal model) as well as in PC12 cells treated with the dopaminergic neurotoxin. The amino acid sequence of the peptide was identified as Glutamic acid-Valine-Tryptophan (Glu-Val-Trp). These findings suggest that this tripeptide has the potential to protect against the dopaminergic neurons loss and that trophic stimulation of neuroplasticity might be involved in its mechanism of neuroprotection.
Alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate (ANIT)-induced cholestatic liver injury causes tissue factor (TF)-dependent coagulation in mice, and TF deficiency reduces ANIT-induced liver injury. However, the mechanism whereby TF contributes to hepatotoxicity in this model is not known. Utilizing pharmacological and genetic strategies, we evaluated the contribution of fibrinogen and two distinct receptors for thrombin, protease-activated receptor-1 (PAR-1) and PAR-4, in a model of acute ANIT hepatotoxicity. ANIT administration (60 mg/kg, po) caused a marked induction of the genes encoding the three fibrinogen chains (α, β, and γ) in liver, an increase in plasma fibrinogen, and concurrent deposition of thrombin-cleaved fibrin in liver. Partial depletion of circulating fibrinogen with ancrod did not impact ANIT hepatotoxicity. However, complete fibrin(ogen) deficiency significantly reduced serum alanine aminotransferase activity and hepatocellular necrosis in ANIT-treated mice. ANIT-induced hepatocellular necrosis was similar in PAR-1(-/-) mice compared with PAR-1(+/+) mice. Interestingly, the progression of ANIT-induced hepatocellular necrosis was significantly reduced in PAR-4(-/-) mice and by administration of an inhibitory PAR-4 pepducin (P4Pal-10, 0.5 mg/kg, sc) to wild-type mice 8 h after ANIT treatment. Interestingly, a distinct lesion, parenchymal-type peliosis, was also observed in PAR-4(-/-) mice treated with ANIT and in mice that were given P4Pal-10 prior to ANIT administration. The results suggest that fibrin(ogen), but not PAR-1, contributes to the progression of ANIT hepatotoxicity in mice. Moreover, the data suggest a dual role for PAR-4 in ANIT hepatotoxicity, both mediating an early protection against peliosis and contributing to the progression of hepatocellular necrosis.
Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and its ligands play important roles in the regeneration of damaged epithelium and proliferation of various epithelial tumors. Although the EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitor gefitinib is effective against advanced non-small cell lung cancer with EGFR mutations, some patients treated with this agent develop severe acute interstitial pneumonia. Characteristics of patients who develop interstitial pneumonia include older age, smoking history, and preexisting interstitial pneumonia suggesting a connection between airway injury and alveolar dysfunction.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of gefitinib on airway repair after injury.
C57BL/6J mice received intraperitoneally naphthalene at Day 0. Gefitinib (20, 90, or 200 mg/kg) was given daily at Days--1 to 13 after naphthalene administration. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and lung tissue were obtained at Days 7 and 14. Terminal bronchial epithelial cells from Days 7 and 14 were retrieved with laser capture microdissection, and gene expression analyzed using microarray.
Gefitinib treatment after naphthalene prolonged neutrophil sequestration and worsened acute lung injury. We found 17 genes with more than a threefold increase in bronchiolar epithelial cells from mice treated with 200 mg/kg of gefitinib after naphthalene at Day 14 compared with those treated with naphthalene alone. Up-regulated genes included S100A8, S100A6, and StefinA3. These genes are known to participate in neutrophil sequestration, acute inflammation, and airway remodeling.
EGFR inhibition in repairing airway epithelial cells modulated significant expression of genes involved in the airway microenvironment, prolonged inflammation, and potentiated acute lung injury.
After one week theophylline therapy with a sustained release preparation (TheoDur 200 and 300 mg), a mean theophylline level of 10 mg/l was obtained in a group of ten patients with chronic asthmatic bronchitis with a mean dosage of 760 mg theophylline/24 h. A good improvement of the lung function was achieved, although only statistically significant for the mid maximal expiratory flow rate (MMEF) and the end expiratory specific airway conductance (sGaw) compared to placebo therapy. Tremor measurements and cyclic-AMP determinations showed a slight increase after theophylline therapy compared to placebo, although not statistically significant.
Twenty hyperthyroid patients were randomly assigned in a double-blind fashion to receive either nadolol 80 mg/day or placebo for 2 weeks; all patients then took carbimazole as well from 2-6 weeks. Twenty-four hour Holter ECG recordings at 0, 2 and 6 weeks showed that nadolol reduced the mean maximum heart rate by 19.9% (P less than 0.0005) at 2 weeks and by 30.3% (P less than 0.0005) at 6 weeks compared to 5.2% (ns) and 18.3% (P less than 0.0005) in patients taking placebo. There was no alteration of the normal circadian variation of heart rate by nadolol. The minimum heart rate before therapy was significantly correlated with FT4 (r = 0.52) and with FT3 (r = 0.44). The percentage of time per hour during which the heart rate was greater than 100 was reduced by 79% at week 2 by nadolol compared to 22% in the placebo group. At the 6 week point the placebo group still had a tachycardia (mean maximum heart rate 101.6 beats/min +/- 15.2 SD) compared to the nadolol group (80.4 +/- 7.7). Nadolol did not cause excessive bradycardia. It is effective in the early management of hyperthyroidism and should be given for at least the first 4-6 weeks.
To investigate the prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) biosynthetic mechanism in bladder carcinogenesis, we established Wistar rat model of bladder papilloma and transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) induced by 5% terephthalic acid (TPA) treatment. Then, the mRNA level of cytosolic phospholipase A2 (cPLA2), cyclooxygenases (COX)-1 and -2, membrane-bound PGE2 synthases (mPGES)-1 and -2 was detected using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Immunoblotting was applied to detect the expression of COX-2 protein. Proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) was determined by immunohistochemistry. In addition, the level of PGE2 was measured by radioimmunoassay (RIA). Bladder papilloma (100%, 8/8) was examined in rats after 24-week treatment, and bladder TCC (80%, 16/20) was found after 48-week treatment. Histopathological changes were not found in control group rats. The incidence of bladder papilloma and TCC in test group was significantly higher than that in control group (P<0.01). The mRNA levels of cPLA2, COX-2 and mPGES-1 in the bladder papilloma and TCC were significantly higher than those in normal bladder (P<0.01), while the mRNA levels of COX-1 and mPGES-2 in TCC were unchanged compared with normal bladder. Bladder TCC exhibited a substantial expression of COX-2 protein. On the contrary, normal bladder tissue barely expresses COX-2 protein. PCNA labeling index (LI) and the level of PGE2 in bladder papilloma are much higher than those in normal bladder (P<0.01), but lower than those in bladder TCC (P<0.05). In conclusion, increasing PGE2 level via cPLA2--COX-2--mPGES-1 pathway may play an important role in rat bladder carcinogenesis. PGE2 may be a biomarker for the development of bladder TCC. cPLA2 and mPGES-1 may be targets for development of novel chemoprevention strategies for bladder TCC.
In an experimental model of cardiomyopathy in Syrian hamsters, four principal phases were identified: lesion, reparation, compensation, and decompensation. Calcium overload seems to be a leading pathogenic factor in the 1st phase. If the action of damaging factor persists, the reparation phase is incomplete, and the compensation of the cardiac contractile function occurs due to an altered protein composition in the cells and extracellular matrix.
Five patients are presented, each of whom had an acute idiosyncratic reaction to fenoprofen calcium (Nalfon) characterized by acute renal failure and marked proteinuria. Renal pathology was similar in all patients. Light microscopy revealed marked lymphocytic inflammatory infiltrates and normal glomeruli. Immunofluorescent staining was minimal or absent. Electron microscopy showed fusion of podocytes in otherwise normal glomeruli. Two patients were studied using T-cell and B-cell specific fluorescent staining, which revealed that the interstitial infiltrates were composed exclusively of T-lymphocytes. This finding is considered in relation to prior experimental and theoretic work. It is suggested that the various clinical and pathologic findings in fenoprofen nephropathy are all manifestations of a disordered cell-mediated immunity.
Aminergic signaling pathways have been implicated in a variety of neuropsychiatric illnesses, but the mechanisms by which these pathways influence complex behavior remain obscure. Vesicular monoamine transporters (VMATs) have been shown to regulate the amount of monoamine neurotransmitter that is stored and released from synaptic vesicles in mammalian systems, and an increase in their expression has been observed in bipolar patients. The model organism Drosophila melanogaster provides a powerful, but underutilized genetic system for studying how dopamine (DA) and serotonin (5HT) may influence behavior. We show that a Drosophila isoform of VMAT (DVMAT-A) is expressed in both dopaminergic and serotonergic neurons in the adult Drosophila brain. Overexpression of DVMAT-A in these cells potentiates stereotypic grooming behaviors and locomotion and can be reversed by reserpine, which blocks DVMAT activity, and haloperidol, a DA receptor antagonist. We also observe a prolongation of courtship behavior, a decrease in successful mating and a decrease in fertility, suggesting a role for aminergic circuits in the modulation of sexual behaviors. Finally, we find that DMVAT-A overexpression decreases the fly's sensitivity to cocaine, suggesting that the synaptic machinery responsible for this behavior may be downregulated. DVMAT transgenes may be targeted to additional neuronal pathways using standard Drosophila techniques, and our results provide a novel paradigm to study the mechanisms by which monoamines regulate complex behaviors relevant to neuropsychiatric illness.
Liposomal daunorubicin (DaunoXome = DNX) has been used in 14 children with recurrent or progressive growing brain tumor. DNX was given as a 1-h intravenous infusion with a dose of 60 mg/m2, once every 4 weeks, up to a cumulative dose of 600 mg/m2. At 3-month intervals the tumor process was evaluated on MRI or CT scan. Tumor response and toxicity of DNX were recorded according to the WHO guidelines. In 6 of the children a response has been established: 2 had complete responses, of which one relapsed again after 3 months; in 3 children a partial response was found. Two children showed stable disease. In 6 children the tumors grew progressively. In all responding children a remarkable subjective response was found. The toxicity of DNX at this dose was mild with a mild bone marrow depression and a slight but certain cardiotoxicity in 3 children. For the whole group the left ventricular function decreased with 13.8%. In 1 child the DNX treatment was stopped because of a decrease of the shortening fraction to 20%. In 4 children some hair loss was observed at the end of the treatment. In 3 children mental depression occurred that was associated with the administration of DNX. DNX is a well-tolerated and effective drug in the treatment of slowly progressive or recurrent brain tumors in children.
In a minority of patients, heparin administration is associated with thrombocytopenia and this thrombocytopenia may be associated with thromboembolic events. Heparin-associated thromboembolism is described as heparin-associated thrombocytopenia and thrombosis or white clot syndrome. White clot syndrome is caused by antibodies to a heparin-platelet membrane complex. The diagnosis carries a high mortality and morbidity from limb thromboembolism. Treatment includes discontinuation of heparin, use of alternate anticoagulants, and aggressive treatment of thromboses. A case in which acute renal failure occurred in the setting of heparin treatment and thrombocytopenia is described, and evidence that renal failure was a result of white clot syndrome is provided.
Although described in laboratory animals, the ultrastructural changes in the kidneys of humans with gentamicin-induced acute renal failure have not been well documented. This report details the clinical and pathologic features of a patient with gentamicin-induced nephrotoxicity with special emphasis on the electron microscopic findings.
