The protective effect of hydroxyl radical scavengers and iron chelators has strongly implicated the hydroxyl radical in several models of tissue injury. Based on in vitro studies showing gentamicin-enhanced generation of reactive oxygen metabolites in renal cortical mitochondria, we examined the effect of hydroxyl radical scavengers and iron chelators in gentamicin-induced acute renal failure. Rats treated with gentamicin (G) alone (100 mg/kg, s.c. x 8 d) developed advanced renal failure (BUN 215 +/- 30 mg/dl) compared to saline-treated controls (BUN 16 +/- 1 mg/dl, P less than 0.001). In contrast, rats treated with gentamicin and either dimethylthiourea (DMTU, an hydroxyl radical scavenger, 125 mg/kg, i.p. twice a day) or deferoxamine (DFO, an iron chelator, 20 mg/day by osmotic pump) had significantly lower BUN (G + DMTU 48.8 +/- 8 mg/dl, P less than 0.001, n = 8; G + DFO 30 +/- 7 mg/dl, P less than 0.001, n = 8). In separate experiments, treatment with two other hydroxyl radical scavengers (dimethyl sulfoxide or sodium benzoate) and a second iron chelator (2,3,dihydroxybenzoic acid) had a similar protective effect on renal function (as measured by both BUN and creatinine). In addition, histological evidence of damage was markedly reduced by the interventional agents. Finally, concurrent treatment with DMTU prevented the gentamicin induced increase in renal cortical malondialdehyde content (G: 4.4 +/- 0.2 nmol/mg; G + DMTU: 3.1 +/- 0.2 nmol/mg, P less than 0.0001, n = 8) suggesting that the protective effect of DMTU was related to free radical mechanisms rather than to some other effect. Taken together, these data strongly support a role for hydroxyl radical or a similar oxidant in gentamicin-induced acute renal failure.
A breast cancer patient experienced an accidental propofol extravasation in the dorsum of her hand during a Port-A-Cath replacement. She had heavy pain which was treated with analgesics. The patient's hand was cooled and kept in an upright position. Three days later the patient received her last AC (adriamycin/cyclophosphamide) course without complications. Propofol extravasation did not result in tissue necrosis in this case. AC chemotherapy could be administered safely 3 days after propofol extravasation.
We studied an infant with severe nonimmune hemolytic anemia and hydrops fetalis at birth. His neonatal course was marked by ongoing hemolysis of undetermined etiology requiring repeated erythrocyte transfusions. He has remained transfusion-dependent for more than 2 yr. A previous sibling born with hemolytic anemia and hydrops fetalis died on the second day of life. Peripheral blood smears from the parents revealed rare elliptocytes. Examination of their erythrocyte membranes revealed abnormal mechanical stability as well as structural and functional abnormalities in spectrin. Genetic studies revealed that the proband and his deceased sister were homozygous for a mutation of betaIsigma1 spectrin, L2025R, in a region of spectrin that is critical for normal function. The importance of leucine in this position of the proposed triple helical model of spectrin repeats is highlighted by its evolutionary conservation in all beta spectrins from Drosophila to humans. Molecular modeling demonstrated the disruption of hydrophobic interactions in the interior of the triple helix critical for spectrin function caused by the replacement of the hydrophobic, uncharged leucine by a hydrophilic, positively charged arginine. This mutation must also be expressed in the betaIsigma2 spectrin found in muscle, yet pathologic and immunohistochemical examination of skeletal muscle from the deceased sibling was unremarkable.
Cold hyperalgesia is a major clinical phenomenon, but validated experimental models are still lacking for humans. Topical menthol application has recently been proposed as a possible model for the study of cold pain. We characterized the psychophysical effects of 30% l-menthol in ethanol on glabrous skin in 39 healthy subjects, using a double-blind, randomized, crossover design, with ethanol as a control. Psychophysical testing included an assessment of pain thresholds and detection of mechanical, cold, and heat stimuli, and of the sensations induced by suprathreshold stimuli. Most subjects (90%) perceived a cooling sensation with menthol. Menthol decreased cold pain thresholds and enhanced pain responses to suprathreshold noxious cold stimuli, without affecting responses to other stimuli. Menthol therefore has selective effects on noxious cold processing. No subject displayed signs of skin irritation or redness. These data suggest that 30% menthol application may be a useful experimental model for studies of cold hyperalgesia in humans. The absence of local skin reactions also makes this test potentially suitable for use in patients.
The authors conducted a 3-month, prospective, open-label study assessing the effects of switching from immediate-release carbamazepine formulations to an equal total daily dose of carbamazepine extended-release capsules (CBZ-ERC) in adolescents and adults with epilepsy. Using validated, epilepsy-specific measures the authors found that switching to CBZ-ERC significantly improved patients' adverse events and quality-of-life measures. Switching to CBZ-ERC also improved seizure control.
The aim of this study was to examine whether alterations in iron homeostasis, caused by exposure to vanadium, are related to changes in the gene expression of hepatic hepcidin. Two groups of rats were examined: control and vanadium-exposed. Vanadium, as bis(maltolato)oxovanadium(IV) was supplied in the drinking water. The experiment had a duration of five weeks. Iron and manganese were measured in excreta, serum and tissues. Leptin, ferritin, IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α, red blood cells, haemoglobin and haematocrit were determined. Protein carbonyl group levels and hepcidin gene expression were determined in the liver. In the vanadium-exposed rats, iron absorption, serum iron and leptin and all haematological parameters decreased. Levels of IL-6, TNF-α and ferritin in serum and of iron in the liver, spleen and heart increased. In the liver, levels of protein carbonyl groups and hepcidin mRNA were also higher in the vanadium-exposed group. Exposure to vanadium did not modify manganese homeostasis. The results obtained from this study provide the first evidence that bis(maltolato)oxovanadium(IV) produces an increase in the gene expression of the hepcidin, possibly caused by an inflammatory process. Both factors could be the cause of alterations in Fe homeostasis and the appearance of anaemia. However, Mn homeostasis was not affected.
This study compared the effect of benazepril, an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor to valsartan, an angiotensin AT1 receptor antagonist, on glucose tolerance in the conscious, spontaneously hypertensive rat. Intraperitoneal infusion of benazepril or valsartan at 1, 3 and 10 mg/kg per day produced equivalent dose-related reductions in systolic blood pressure for 12 weeks. Body weight gain during the treatment period was significantly reduced by infusion rates of benazepril. In contrast, only the highest infusion rate of valsartan significantly affected body weight gain. At the end of the 12-week treatment period, neither benazepril nor valsartan significantly affected glucose disposal during intravenous glucose tolerance tests. The insulin response to glucose challenge was unaffected by valsartan whereas following the highest infusion rate of benazepril the plasma levels were significantly reduced. The results demonstrate that benazepril but not valsartan reduces the insulin required to dispose of a glucose load.
The purpose of this study was to determine that the administration of an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor enalapril would confer protection against doxorubicin-induced experimental heart failure, and attenuate the development of left ventricular dysfunction.
Seventeen dogs were chronically instrumented with an intracoronary catheter and received doxorubicin weekly for 4 weeks. Animals were assigned to two groups: group 1: untreated heart failure; and group 2: simultaneous enalapril administration (5 mg twice a week). Hemodynamic data were obtained at week 0 and 12. Echocardiography was performed weekly.
Survival improved with simultaneous enalapril administration (36% in group 1 vs. 100% in group 2, P=0.04). The increase in the left ventricular end-diastolic pressure was significantly reduced at week 12 (17+/-1 mmHg in group 1 vs. 9+/-1 mmHg in group 2, P=0.0042). The fall in left ventricular stroke work index was significantly prevented (52% in group 1 vs. 21% in group 2, P=0.006). The increase in right ventricular end-diastolic diameter was significantly reduced by enalapril prophylaxis.
Simultaneous treatment with enalapril was beneficial in the prevention of doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy.
Acute liver injury is a common cause of intensive care unit visits. In these studies, we used a murine model of acetaminophen poisoning to examine the role of stem cell factor (SCF) on liver damage. In the initial studies, we identified that the liver produces relatively high constitutive levels of SCF. Upon administration of acetaminophen, the levels of SCF fell dramatically, correlating to damage within the liver. When the liver was allowed to regenerate, the levels of SCF again correlated with the liver regeneration. We next treated mice with anti-SCF before sublethal doses of acetaminophen and significantly increased lethality in anti-SCF-treated animals. When exogenous SCF was given to mice, the lethality was significantly reduced compared with the control acetaminophen-treated animals and the damage within the liver tissue was attenuated. The administration of rSCF reduced the level of steady-state mRNA for cytochrome P450 cyp2E1 enzyme both in vitro and in vivo. These data suggest that SCF functions as an important factor that protects livers from acute damage.
180 patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) on maintenance dialysis and those who had undergone renal transplantation were questioned retrospectively. 14 patients had consumed excessive quantities of analgesics (greater than 1 kg) prior to the institution of long-term dialysis or transplantation. Sonographic examination done on these patients indicated that 7 had renal papillary necrosis (RPN). The sonographic features were renal papillary calcifications surrounding the central sinus in a complete or incomplete garland pattern. In 5 of these patients RPN is attibutable to the excessive consumption of paracetamol. We have earlier reported 10 cases of RPN due to excessive consumption of paracetamol. Thus 15 cases of RPN attributable to paracetamol consumption (1.0-15.3 kg over a period ranging from 3 to 23 years) have been documented. It is concluded that paracetamol may assume an increasingly important role in the causation of analgesic nephropathy (AN) and ESRD.
To evaluate the possible therapeutic effect of ambroxol on pulmonary fibrosis induced by paraquat.
Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats (n=144, 200-250 g) were divided into four groups (Control, Ambroxol, Paraquat, and Paraquat+Ambroxol group) and sacrificed on day 1, 3, 5, 7, 14 and 28. Several significant oxidant stress markers (MDA, SOD and GSH-PX), MPO activity, cytokines (TNF-α, MCP-1, TGF-β1, MMP-2 and TIMP-1), total inflammatory cell count, hydroxyproline content, collagen I and III mRNA were analyzed.
In Paraquat group, the MDA, MPO activity, hydroxyproline contents, the mRNA expression of TNF-α, MCP-1, TGF-β1, MMP-2, TIMP-1, collagen I, collagen III and the number of total inflammatory cells were up-regulated in lung tissue, but SOD and GSH-PX activity were down-regulated in lung tissue compared with Control group (p<0.05). In paraquat+ambroxol group, the MDA, MPO activity, hydroxyproline content, the mRNA expression of TNF-α, MCP-1, TGF-β1, MMP-2, TIMP-1 collagen I, collagen III and the number of total inflammatory cells were significantly decreased, while the SOD and GSH-PX activities in lung tissue were increased compared with Paraquat group (p<0.05). Histological examination of paraquat-treated rats showed lung injury with interstitial edema and widespread inflammatory cell infiltration in the alveolar space and septum, as well as pulmonary fibrosis. Ambroxol could markedly reduce such damage in lung tissue and prevent pulmonary fibrosis.
The results of this study indicated that ambroxol could reduce lung damage and prevent pulmonary fibrosis induced by paraquat.
Our recent Veterans Administration Cooperative Study--involving 683 hypertensive male patients--showed that a diuretic was more effective than a beta blocker in controlling hypertension in most respects. In addition, in this study we failed to find evidence that thiazide-induced hypokalemia was associated with increased evidence of cardiac arrhythmias in patients without overt heart disease. We are concerned that the current desire to avoid hypokalemia at all costs may result in the prescription of ineffective dosages of diuretics for the treatment of hypertension.
Although it has side effects, succinylcholine is still widely used in rapid sequence induction. The aim of the present study is to evaluate the effects of pretreat ment with magnesium and precurarization of vecuroni um on succinylcholine-induced fasciculation and subse quent tracheal intubation-induced hemodynamic changes during rapid sequence induction. Fifty-five patients were allocated to three groups by a blinded randomization: Group M received saline 100 ml with magnesium 40 mg x kg(-1) for 5 min at 6.5 min before induction and sub sequently administered saline 1-2 ml at 1.5 min before induction; Group V received saline 100 ml for 5 min at 6.5 min before induction and subsequently administered vecuronium 0.02 mg x kg(-1) at 1.5 min before induction; Group C received saline 100 ml for 5 min at 6.5 min before induction and then saline 1-2 ml at 1.5 min before induction. Fasciculation scores and mean percent changes of heart rate, systolic blood pressure and rate pressure product between baseline and after induction were significantly lower in group M than those in group C and group V. Pretreatment with magnesium is more effective to limit succinylcholine-induced fasciculation and subsequent tracheal intubation-induced hemody namic changes in rapid sequence induction compared with vecuronium pretreatment, although magnesium does not prevent the elevation of serum potassium con centration after induction.
Nicotine is known to generate oxidative stress through cytochrome P450 2A6 (CYP2A6)-mediated metabolism in the liver and other organs, including macrophages. This study has been designed to examine the role of CYP2A6 in nicotine metabolism and oxidative stress in SVGA cells, an immortalized human astrocyte cell line.
SVGA astrocytes were treated with 1 μM nicotine, followed by determination of mRNA and protein levels of several CYPs using quantitative RT-PCR and western blot analyses, respectively. Quantitation of nicotine and the nicotine metabolites, cotinine and nicotine-derived nitrosamine ketones (NNK), was performed using an LC-MS/MS method. The generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) was measured using flow cytometry.
Nicotine significantly upregulated mRNA and protein expression of the most abundantly expressed CYPs in SVGA astrocytes, CYP2A6 and CYP1A1. To characterize the metabolism of nicotine in astrocytes, a highly sensitive LC-MS/MS method was developed which is capable of quantifying very low concentrations of nicotine (0.3 ng/mL), cotinine and NNK (0.11 ng/mL). The LC-MS/MS results showed that nicotine is steadily metabolized to cotinine and NNK from 0.5 to 4h. Finally, we showed that nicotine initially causes an increase in ROS formation which is then gradually decreased, perhaps due to the increase in superoxide dismutase level. Nicotine metabolism and ROS formation by CYP2A6 were further confirmed by using tryptamine, a selective inhibitor of CYP2A6, which significantly lowered the levels of cotinine and NNK and inhibited ROS formation.
CYP2A6 plays a key role in nicotine metabolism and oxidative stress in astrocytes, and this has implications in nicotine-associated brain toxicity.
A series of analogues related to picobenzide (CAS 51832-87-2) have been prepared and have been used as starting material to obtain new trisubstituted oxazole derivatives. Two compounds showed a promising pharmacological profile in screening tests of antipsychotic activity, since they affected apomorphine-induced hyperactivity without significant effects on stereotypies.
Following initial signs of dural infection, or as prophylactic postoperative therapy, three cynomologus macaques were given an intramuscular or a subcutaneous injection of ceftriaxone dissolved in a 1% lidocaine diluent (CL). Two to 15 min later, all three monkeys experienced a long-lasting generalized apnoeic clonic convulsive seizure. The injected doses of lidocaine (0.7-2 mg/kg) were as low as 7-20-fold less than the experimental intravenous dosage (14.2 +/- 3.2 mg/kg) previously reported to induce seizure in healthy rhesus monkeys. Under different clinical conditions, the same three animals were either once (1 animal) or repeatedly given CL without any resultant neurological alterations. The monkeys had a cranial device implanted and two of them were craniotomized. This first report of accidental lidocaine-induced seizure in laboratory non-human primates following CL injection strongly suggests increased susceptibility when lidocaine administration is associated with central nervous system alteration. A novel hypothesis, the possible role of cytokine in lowering the lidocaine seizure threshold, is suggested.
The occurrence of a rectal adenocarcinoma in a 48-year-old man 11 years after he received a cadaveric renal transplant is reported. Since his operation, the patient had been receiving prednisone and azathioprine for immunosuppression. The occurrence of rectal carcinoma in this patient at an early age, after a decade of immunosuppression, suggests an association between the malignancy and his altered immunologic state. Although an increased incidence of skin and reticuloendothelial malignancies in the first five years following renal transplantation has been well documented, few colorectal carcinomas have developed in these patients. Follow-up of transplant patients, however, is only now passing ten years in large numbers of patients. This case suggests that there may be a ten year latency period before transplant patients develop colorectal carcinoma. Such a time course would be similar to that seen in patients with chronic ulcerative colitis, in whom colorectal carcinomas are found. Surveillance colonoscopy for transplant patients beginning ten years after surgery may be necessary.
Fourteen schizophrenic subjects were evaluated for degree of psychosis before and after treatment with the antipsychotic drug haloperidol and for plasma homovanillic acid concentration after four and 28 days of treatment. A significant correlation was found between an increase in homovanillic acid concentration on day 4 or a decrease from day 4 to day 28 and the degree of improvement after four weeks of treatment. Thus, those patients who had the greatest change in plasma homovanillic acid in response to neuroleptic blockade showed the greatest improvement. These and other observations have led us to propose that the central dopaminergic system, through adaptive changes in activity, serves as a physiologic buffer system protecting against destabilization of mental function from diverse biologic or psychologic insults.
Mycophenolate mofetil (MM), an immunosuppressant used after organ transplantation, is also used for treatment of autoimmune myasthenia gravis (MG). A patient with generalized MG was effectively managed with MM but developed CNS lymphoma after 3 years of treatment. Primary CNS lymphoma regressed on withdrawal of MM. Despite minimal short-term side effects and apparent efficacy, chronic treatment of MG with MM may be associated with increased risk of lymphoproliferative disorders.
The complementary antihypertensive effects of the beta-blocker/calcium antagonist combination has to be weighed against their additive and potentially detrimental negative inotropic, chronotropic, and dromotropic effects inherent in both classes of drugs. We reviewed the main adversity, particularly electrophysiological and hemodynamic effects, of combined treatments with beta-blockers and the calcium antagonists verapamil, diltiazem, and nifedipine. In patients with coronary artery disease, a different picture emerged between the verapamil and nifedipine combination with a beta-blocker. Verapamil was more often associated with conduction problems (up to 9%) and dyspnea or heart failure (up to 8%). These problems had rarely been reported with nifedipine but ankle edema (up to 11%), flushing (up to 11%), and headaches (up to 7%) predominated. The cardiovascular unwanted effects led to withdrawal in 5-8% for the verapamil/beta-blocker or nifedipine/beta-blocker combination. Although there was little cardiac adversity with the nifedipine/beta-blocker combination, the intravenous administration of verapamil in patients on beta-blockers is contraindicated and the oral verapamil/beta-blocker combination should not be sought in patients with impaired left ventricular function and when conduction disturbances are likely to occur. In treating hypertensive patients without overt coronary artery disease, there is no argument against the use of the nifedipine/beta-blocker combination but there is a need for definitive studies of the verapamil/beta-blocker combination.
Fifty-three patients with parkinsonism, either with intractable symptoms despite optimum-dosage levodopa therapy or with adverse effects from levodopa limiting its usefulness, were treated with bromocriptine, with gradually increasing doses until benefit or adverse effect was encountered. All were initially maintained on optimal levodopa therapy. Improvement was seen in 26 patients, of whom 19 (36 percent of the total 53 patients) had sustained improvement. Effective doses of bromocriptine ranged from 5 to 90 mg per day. Improvement occurred in all categories of clinical problems, including patients who lost some benefit from chronic levodopa therapy as well as those with adverse effects from levodopa. A high incidence (70 percent) of adverse effects of bromocriptine limited the usefulness of this drug. Since one cannot predict which patients might benefit from bromocriptine, this drug is worth a trial in patients not doing well on levodopa therapy if other means to improve their condition are not successful.
Tardive dyskinesia is one of the major side effects of long-term neuroleptic treatment. The pathophysiology of this disabling and commonly irreversible movement disorder is still obscure. Vacuous chewing movements in rats are widely accepted as an animal model of tardive dyskinesia. Oxidative stress and products of lipid peroxidation are implicated in the pathophysiology of tardive dyskinesia. Repeated treatment with reserpine (1.0 mg/kg) on alternate days for a period of 5 days (days 1, 3 and 5) significantly induced vacuous chewing movements and tongue protrusions in rats. Chronic treatment with Withania somnifera root extract (Ws) for a period of 4 weeks to reserpine treated animals significantly and dose dependently (50 and 100 mg/kg) reduced the reserpine-induced vacuous chewing movements and tongue protrusions. Reserpine treated animals also showed poor retention of memory in the elevated plus maze task paradigm. Chronic Ws administration significantly reversed reserpine-induced retention deficits. Biochemical analysis revealed that chronic reserpine treatment significantly induced lipid peroxidation and decreased the glutathione (GSH) levels in the brains of rats. Chronic reserpine treated rats showed decreased levels of antioxidant defense enzymes, superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase. Chronic administration of Ws root extract dose dependently (50 and 100 mg/kg) and significantly reduced the lipid peroxidation and restored the decreased glutathione levels by chronic reserpine treatment. It also significantly reversed the reserpine-induced decrease in brain SOD and catalase levels in rats. The major findings of the present study indicate that oxidative stress might play an important role in the pathophysiology of reserpine-induced abnormal oral movements. In conclusion, Withania somnifera root extract could be a useful drug for the treatment of drug-induced dyskinesia.
Previous studies from our laboratory suggest that 4-HPROG, the O-glucuronide derivative of 4-HPR, has improved mammary cancer chemopreventive/ antitumor activities as well as reduced toxicity, as compared to 4-HPR. This O-linked glucuronide derivative is a substrate to the P-glucuronidase enzyme and may also undergo hydrolysis in vivo to the vitamin A metabolite, retinoic acid, that is toxic at high concentrations. In an effort to improve analog potency relative to its toxicity, the 4-HPROG's phenolic oxygen was replaced with a methylene group, thus preventing biological cleavage of the glucuronide moiety. The resulting C-linked analog, 4-HPR-C-glucuronide (4-HPRCG), cannot be hydrolyzed to 4-HPR. The results of this study show that 4-HPRCG is an effective chemotherapeutic agent that caused 49% regression of DMBA-induced mammary tumors in rats, while showing almost no side-effects that are often observed with other natural or synthetic retinoids, such as a reduction in blood retinol level, elevation in blood triglyceride (TG) level, and decrease in bone mineral content (BMC). These results suggest that 4-HPRCG should be considered as a better candidate for breast cancer treatment.
Flavonoids are an ubiquitous group of polyphenolic substances with varied chemical structures present in foods of plant origin and act as free radical scavenging and chelating agents with a variety of biological activities. Using a model of spontaneously beating, cultured adult rat cardiomyocytes, this study examined the cardioprotective role of quercetin, naringenin, pycnogenol and a model antioxidant, trolox, against daunorubicin-induced toxicity. Cardiomyocyte protection was assessed by MTT test and extracellular lactate dehydrogenase detection. Protection of cardiomyocytes was concentration/dose dependent for quercetin > naringenin > pycnogenol > trolox. Quercetin (10(-4)-10(-6) mol/L) after 24 h of co-incubation with daunorubicin significantly increased the cardiomyocyte survival in all tested concentrations (p < 0.001). The cytoprotective effect of naringenin (10(-4)-10(-6) mol/L) was similar to those of quercetin (p < 0.001 and p < 0.01, respectively). Pycnogenol was the least effective of the flavonoids studied. On the other hand, all tested flavonoids had significantly better protective effects than trolox. The leakage of lactate dehydrogenase induced by daunorubicin was also prevented by the studied compounds and was in accordance with their cytoprotective activity.
Bis(tri-n-butyltin)oxide (TBTO) is one of the organotin compounds that have been used as biocides and occur as persistent environmental pollutants. Human exposure to these compounds occurs through consumption of meat and fish products in which they accumulate. The most sensitive endpoint of TBTO exposure is immunotoxicity. TBTO causes thymus atrophy and thereby interferes with T-lymphocyte-mediated immune responses. Tributyltin compounds have been found to adversely affect a wide range of cellular components and processes in many species, organ systems, and cell types. Both inhibition of proliferation and induction of apoptosis have been observed in thymocytes. We conducted microarray experiments in mice and rats in order to investigate if the immunosuppressive actions of TBTO could be detected by gene expression profiling, and if so, to elucidate the mechanisms of action. Gene expression changes that were detected in mouse thymuses after exposure to a maximum tolerable dose of TBTO correlated to previously observed effects. Most notably, reduction of expression of cell surface determinants and T-cell receptor chains, suppression of cell proliferation, and a possible involvement of nuclear receptors in interference with lipid metabolism by TBTO were observed. The TBTO-induced thymus involution may therefore primarily be caused by inhibition of thymocyte proliferation. In contrast, in rats only limited effects of a lower dose of TBTO were found at the gene expression level in the thymus, even though thymus involution was observed. Here, most gene expression regulation by TBTO was detected in the liver. These preliminary results indicate that gene expression analysis is able to reveal effects of TBTO and to gain insight into its molecular mechanism of action. It may even be a suitable tool to investigate immunotoxicology in general. However, dose and inter-species differences are apparently clearly reflected in the gene expression profiles.
