This paper reports the results of a study of 50 menopausal women receiving hormonal replacement therapy. The majority (29) had surgical menopause; their mean age was 45.7 years. It was hypothesized that progestins could equilibrate the effects of the estrogenic stimulation on the mammary and endometrial target tissues of women on hormonal replacement therapy. The treatment schedule consisted of conjugated estrogens (Premarin) 1.25 mg/day for 21 days and Medroxyprogesterone acetate 10 mg/day for 10 days in each month. The mean treatment period was 18 months. During the follow-up period, attention was paid to breast modifications as evidenced by symptomatology, physical examination, and plate thermography. Mastodynia was reported by 21 patients, and physical examination revealed a light increase in breast firmness in 12 women and a moderate increase in breast nodularity in 2 women. Themography confirmed the existence of an excessive breast stimulation in 1 women who complained of moderate mastodynia and in 5 of the 7 women who complained of severe mastodynia. Normalization was obtained by halving the estrogen dose. These results suggest that hormonal replacement therapy can be safely prescribed if the following criteria are satisfied: 1) preliminary evaluation of patients from a clinical, metabolic, cytologic, and mammographic perspective; 2) cyclic treatment schedule, with a progestative phase of 10 days; and 3) periodic complete follow-up, with accurate thermographic evaluation of the breast target tissues.
The clinical efficacy of a modified vancomycin dosing protocol with a conventional regimen for managing patients with diabetic foot infections caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) was evaluated.
This prospective study was conducted from January 2002 to December 2004 at the diabetic ward of Chang Gung Memorial Hospital--Linkou in Taiwan. All diabetic patients with MRSA-related diabetic foot infections confirmed by wound cultures were enrolled in this study. Patients treated with the conventional protocol (from 2002 to 2003) received vancomycin 10-15 mg/kg (up to 1 g) over 60 minutes every 12 hours if their serum creatinine (SCr) concentration was 0.4-1.4 mg/dL according to the estimation of creatinine clearance (CL(cr)). Patients treated with the modified vancomycin dosing protocol (from 2003 to 2004) received vancomycin according to their SCr level, age, and concurrent gentamicin dosage. Data analyzed included patients' age, sex, body weight, SCr level, CL(cr), serum vancomycin peak and trough levels, vancomycin dosage, treatment period, and duration of hospital stay.
A total of 85 patients were enrolled in this study. The conventional protocol group achieved substantially higher serum vancomycin levels than those recommended by the British National Formulary (BNF). Although the vancomycin dosage in the modified protocol was lower than that in the conventional protocol, trough and peak vancomycin levels remained within the range recommended by the BNF. The duration of hospitalization and treatment did not significantly differ between the two groups.
A modified vancomycin dosing protocol for treating diabetic foot infections caused by MRSA was superior to the conventional dosing regimen in achieving therapeutic serum levels of vancomycin.
To evaluate the relationship between pesticide use and myocardial infarction (MI) among farm women.
Little is known about the potential association between pesticide use and cardiovascular outcomes.
We used logistic regression to evaluate pesticide use and self-reported incident nonfatal MI among women in the Agricultural Health Study.
Of those MI-free at enrollment (n = 22,425), 168 reported an MI after enrollment. We saw no association with pesticide use overall. Six of 27 individual pesticides evaluated were significantly associated with nonfatal MI, including chlorpyrifos, coumaphos, carbofuran, metalaxyl, pendimethalin, and trifluralin, which all had odds ratios >1.7. These chemicals were used by <10% of the cases, and their use was correlated, making it difficult to attribute the risk elevation to a specific pesticide.
Pesticides may contribute to MI risk among farm women.
We present a rare case of a 66-year-old woman with the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuresis (SIAD) accompanied by an empty sella whose symptoms were seen twice in the eight years after the administration of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) or prochlorperazine. No diuresis or suppression of the plasma level of vasopressin (AVP) was observed after water loading upon cessation of the causative agents. Suppression of the renin-aldosterone system and a low plasma level of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) were observed during natriuresis. The plasma levels of AVP were increased after water loadings. Restriction of water intake ameliorated the symptoms and reduced hyponatremia. These findings suggest that NSAID or prochlorperazine caused overt SIAD twice in eight years. The water loading test itself stimulated the release of AVP and a suppression of the renin-aldosterone system played a more important role in natriuresis than ANP in this case.
We determined the CGG repeat length and AGG interruptions in the FMR1 gene in normal Chinese subjects and patients with infantile autism and mild mental retardation. Genomic DNA was investigated by PCR and Southern hybridisation for CGG repeat number and PCR with Mnl I restriction analysis for AGG interruption. Both the normal subjects and the patients with autism have 53 CGG repeats in FMR1, and the majority have two interspersed AGG. Our normal Chinese subjects have a similar number of interspersed AGG as other populations. When compared with the normal subjects, the autism patients have less AGG interruptions and a different pattern of AGG distribution. There was a significant difference in the CGG configurations between normal subjects and patients with autism. The latter had less interspersed AGG, as in fragile X patients, but they did not have fragile X. A study on mentally retarded patients with no infantile autism should also be carried out to ascertain whether mental retardation alone may have contributed to such AGG pattern.
Rats provided limited daily access to cocaine (1 h) maintain stable levels of drug self-administration over time while those switched to longer access (6 h or more) exhibit escalating patterns of drug intake. These results are reminiscent of human recreational and compulsive drug-taking behavior, respectively. We found that the brains of cocaine-self-administering rats were also qualitatively different in subjects having experienced 6-h (Coc6h) daily access compared to 1-h (Coc1h) access. Fourteen days after an eight-day protocol of cocaine self-administration, all subjects received one infusion of cocaine. Coc1h animals showed enhanced c-Fos reactivity in dopaminergic mesocorticolimbic brain regions and a sensitized locomotor response to IV cocaine. In contrast, both the neural and behavioral sensitization to cocaine was diminished in Coc6h animals. These data suggest that the transition to escalating patterns of drug use is associated with neuroadaptive changes that counteract those initially associated with controlled stable patterns of drug use.
MEK, a kinase downstream of Ras and Raf oncogenes, constitutes a high priority target in oncology research. MEK small molecule inhibitors cause soft tissue mineralization in rats secondary to serum inorganic phosphorus (iP) elevation, but the molecular mechanism for this toxicity remains undetermined. We performed investigative studies with structurally distinct MEK inhibitors GEN-A and PD325901 (PD-901) in Sprague-Dawley rats. Our data support a mechanism that involves FGF-23 signal blockade in the rat kidney, causing transcriptional upregulation of 25-hydroxyvitamin D(3) 1-alpha-hydroxylase (Cyp27b1), the rate-limiting enzyme in vitamin D activation, and downregulation of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(3) 24-hydroxylase (Cyp24a1), the enzyme that initiates the degradation of the active form of vitamin D. These transcriptional changes increase serum vitamin D levels, which in turn drive the increase in serum iP, leading to soft tissue mineralization in the rat.
Fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family signaling mediates cell-to-cell communication in development and organ homeostasis in adults. Of the FGF receptor (FGFR) isotypes, FGFR4 is the sole resident isotype present in mature parenchymal hepatocytes. FGFR1 that is normally associated with activated nonparenchymal cells appears ectopically in hepatoma cells. Ectopic expression and chronic activity of FGFR1 in hepatocytes accelerates diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-initiated hepatocarcinogenesis by driving unrestrained cell proliferation and tumor angiogenesis. Hepatocyte FGFR4 mediates liver's role in systemic cholesterol/bile acid and lipid metabolism and affects proper hepatolobular restoration after damage without effect on cell proliferation. Here we ask whether FGFR4 plays a role in progression of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). We report that although spontaneous HCC was not detected in livers of FGFR4-deficient mice, the ablation of FGFR4 accelerated DEN-induced hepatocarcinogenesis. In contrast to FGFR1 that induced a strong mitogenic response and depressed rate of cell death in hepatoma cells, FGFR4 failed to induce a mitogenic response and increased the rate of cell death. FGFR1 but not FGFR4 induced cyclin D1 and repressed p27 expression. Analysis of activation of Erk, JNK, and PI3K-related AKT signaling pathways indicated that in contrast to FGFR1, FGFR4 failed to sustain Erk activation and did not activate AKT. These differences may underlie the opposing effects of FGFR1 and FGFR4. These results suggest that in contrast to ectopic FGFR1 that is a strong promoter of hepatoma, resident FGFR4 that mediates differentiated hepatocyte metabolic functions also serves to suppress hepatoma progression.
We administered angiotensin (Ang) II receptor type 1 (AT1) blockade (losartan; 10 or 40 mg/kg per day), type II receptor (AT2) blockades (PD123319; 100 mg/kg per day), or angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor (enalapril; 30 mg/kg per day) to spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) from 10 to 20 weeks of age. At the end of the treatment, high doses of losartan and enalapril significantly reduced the arterial systolic blood pressure compared with the untreated SHR to the level of WKY rats. But low doses of losartan and PD123319 were without effect. High doses of losartan and enalapril also significantly reduced both the left ventricular (LV) weight and the ratio of LV to body weight compared with the untreated SHR, which were still larger than that of WKY rats. However, the collagen concentration of SHR treated with high doses of losartan or enalapril was completely reduced to the level of WKY rats. Using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, we examined the mRNA expression for ACE, AT1, and AT2 in experimental animals. The enhanced AT1 mRNA expression was significantly decreased in the SHR treated with a high dose of losartan or PD123319 compared with the untreated SHR. The level of ACE mRNA was also decreased in the SHR treated with a high dose of losartan or enalapril. The level of AT2 mRNA was not significantly different between the Wistar-Kyoto rats and the SHR; however, this expression was decreased significantly after the treatment with a high dose of losartan or PD123319. These results indicate that AT1 receptor and ACE, but not AT2 receptor, play a crucial role in the remodeling of matrix tissue but a smaller role in the development of the hypertrophy of LV myocyte in SHR and that the LV/body weight changes do not fully account for the complete suppression of hypertension.
The aim of the study was the evaluation of structural-functional data of the left ventricle (LV) at doxorubicin chemotherapy and idiopathic dilatative cardiomyopathy. Monitoring of 99 patients had been performed: 49 with onco-hematological diseases and 50 with idiopathic dilatative cardiomyopathy. According to the total dose of doxorubicin the patients had been divided to three sub-groups: I subgroup -- 232.2+/-5.8 mg/m(2), II subgroup - 388+/-15.3mg/m(2), III subgroup - 533.1+/-13.6 mg/m(2). It had been revealed the dose-depending evolution of cardiotoxic effect of doxorubicin leading to the development of anthracyclic cardiomyopathy. At anthracyclic cardiomyopathy LV undergoes the same structural-functional changes as the idiopathic dilatative cardiomyopathy. The cardiotoxic effect of doxorubicin is revealed already at law summary dose of 232 mg/m(2), at "critical dose" 356-388 mg/m(2) develops diastolic dysfunction of LV with clinical manifestation of heart failure, and by summary dose of 533 mg/m(2) develops anthracyclic dilatative cardiomyopathy with systolic-diastolic dysfunction of LV and with clinical manifestation of the heart failure.
Research on the benzodiazepines has shown that they have certain advantages over the opiates as premedicants. Diazepam, which produces good tranquilization, is well absorbed when given orally though absorption is influenced by other drugs given at the same time. Oral lorazepam leads to more prolonged sedation and amnesia but the final elimination is more rapid. Several new intravenous anaesthetics have been introduced during the last five years but none seems likely to replace thiopental. The theoretical disadvantages of thiopental are offset by its water-solubility, and the use of Cremophor EL in preparations of propanidid, alphaxalone, di-isopropyl phenol and one preparation of diazepam has led to many hypersensitivity reactions. Ketamine is gradually finding its rightful place in anaesthesia but its use is becoming limited to anaesthesia in difficult circumstances. The future concomitant use of other drugs and separation of isomers of ketamine may again broaden its applications. The new water-soluble steroid minaxolone has its own disadvantages, and the water-soluble benzodiazepine midazolam is as unpredictable for induction of anaesthesia as diazepam.
The Middle Cerebral Artery Embolism Local Fibrinolytic Intervention Trial (MELT) Japan was organized to determine the safety and clinical efficacy of intraarterial infusion of urokinase (UK) in patients with stroke within 6 hours of onset.
Patients with ischemic stroke presenting within 6 hours of onset and displaying occlusions of the M1 or M2 portion of the middle cerebral artery on carotid angiography were randomized to the UK or control groups. Clinical outcome was assessed by the modified Rankin Scale, National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale, and Barthel Index.
The Independent Monitoring Committee recommended stopping the trial after approval of intravenous infusion of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator in Japan. A total of 114 patients underwent randomization, 57 patients in each group. Background characteristics were comparable between the 2 groups. The primary end point of favorable outcome (modified Rankin Scale 0 to 2) at 90 days was somewhat more frequent in the UK group than in the control group (49.1% and 38.6%, OR: 1.54, 95% CI: 0.73 to 3.23) but did not reach a significant level (P=0.345). However, excellent functional outcome (modified Rankin Scale 0 to 1) at 90 days, a preplanned secondary end point, was more frequent in the UK group than in the control group (42.1% and 22.8%, P=0.045, OR: 2.46, 95% CI: 1.09 to 5.54). There were significantly more patients with National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale 0 or 1 at 90 days in the UK group than the control group (P=0.017). The 90-day cumulative mortality was 5.3% in the UK group and 3.5% in the control group (P=1.000), and intracerebral hemorrhage within 24 hours of treatment occurred in 9% and 2%, respectively (P=0.206).
The trial was aborted prematurely and the primary end point did not reach statistical significance. Nevertheless, the secondary analyses suggested that intraarterial fibrinolysis has the potential to increase the likelihood of excellent functional outcome.
Human serum paraoxonase eliminates carcinogenic lipid-soluble radicals. Because expression of the main human paraoxonase gene PON1 varies widely in humans, certain PON1 polymorphisms might be associated with increased risks of cancer. We sought new functional mutations in PON1 and determined whether known or new PON1 mutations were associated with the risk for prostate cancer in a prospective, random, population-based sample of Finnish men and in a case-control study.
Serum paraoxonase activity was measured in 835 healthy men in the Kuopio Ischaemic Heart Disease Risk Factor Study. PON1 mutations were identified by hierarchical phenotype-targeted sequencing in DNAs from the 100 men with the lowest paraoxonase activity in this cohort, and 1595 men in the cohort were genotyped for PON1 mutations by restriction fragment length polymorphism. Multivariable analysis was used to investigate the association of known and new PON1 mutations with incident prostate cancer in 1569 cancer-free men in the cohort followed for 9-14 years. In a case-control study of Finnish men, the association of prostate cancer with the PON1 mutation identified in the cohort study was investigated in 69 case patients with familial prostate cancer and 69 unmatched healthy control subjects.
We identified a new single-nucleotide PON1 polymorphism associated with decreased serum paraoxonase activity that caused an isoleucine-->valine change at codon 102 in exon 4 (I102V). Of the 1569 men cancer-free at baseline, 56 (3.6%) were carriers of the I102V mutation. After adjusting for age and cholesterol-lowering medications, the relative risk for developing prostate cancer during follow-up was 6.3 (95% confidence interval [CI] = 2.1 to 19.2) among 102V allele carriers compared with noncarriers. Other PON1 alleles were not statistically significantly associated with prostate cancer. In the case-control study, patients with familial prostate cancer were more likely to be carriers of the PON1 I102V mutation than control subjects (odds ratio = 4.3, 95% CI = 0.9 to 21.5).
The PON1 102V allele appears to be associated with an increased risk for prostate cancer.
To assess the role of the renin-angiotensin (RAS) and adrenergic systems in the development and progression of dilated cardiomyopathy in the Syrian cardiomyopathic hamster (SCH), echocardiographic parameters were evaluated in 6-month-old animals after 5 months of treatment with enalapril (25 mg/kg/day) plus losartan (10 mg/kg/day), or with carvedilol (1 mg/kg/day). Cardiac output indexes (COI) increased by 53% after RAS blockade and by 20% after beta-blockade in SCH. Moreover, LVEDV and LVESV decreased 30% and 62%, respectively (P < .05) during RAS blockade, whereas ejection fraction (EF) increased by 48%. By contrast, carvedilol reduced LVESV by only 28% (P < .05) and increased EF by only 15% (P < .05). These results suggest that RAS activation plays a critical role in the development of cardiac dysfunction in SCH and that suppression of RAS may be more effective than beta-blockade in retarding the development of cardiomyopathy in SCH. Owing to timing (pre-heart failure stage) and to the single dose protocol, the implications of this study for human subjects remain to be clarified.
To report and discuss a case of neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) with delayed onset of fever in a patient taking risperidone.
A 59-year-old white female presented with progressive weakness, confusion, and disorientation 10 days after restarting risperidone 2 mg/day therapy for bipolar disorder. She had taken risperidone for several years prior to this episode and had stopped it for approximately 3 weeks; risperidone was discontinued on admission. The patient's creatine kinase (CK) level was elevated (901 IU/L; reference range 39-162) on admission and increased to 1991 IU/L the following day. She was initially afebrile and had no muscular rigidity. Elevated temperature (38.1 degrees C) did not occur until hospital day 2. The patient was successfully treated with diazepam, bromocriptine, and dantrolene and suffered no long-term sequelae.
Other clinicians have reported atypical presentations of NMS in patients taking newer neuroleptic agents. Although this patient met diagnostic criteria for NMS, the hallmark symptoms of fever and muscle rigidity were delayed in onset. Also, the patient never remained febrile for more than 24 hours and her maximum temperature was only 38.6 degrees C. An objective causality assessment suggests that this case of NMS was probably related to restarting risperidone.
Because of the life-threatening nature of this syndrome, clinicians should consider NMS in afebrile patients presenting with diaphoresis, changes in level of consciousness, mutism, tremors, tachycardia, leukocytosis, and elevated CK levels.
Growth impairment and adrenal suppression secondary to inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) is a well-recognised phenomenon. We report a 13-year-old boy, treated long-term for asthma, who presented with short stature while on low-dose inhaled corticosteroid (beclomethasone 200 microg/d). Investigations revealed evidence of severe adrenal suppression. Weaning off the steroid treatment resulted in recovery of adrenal activity and rapid growth. While low-dose ICS are normally considered to have few side effects, this case illustrates the extreme variability of individual sensitivity and the need for careful surveillance of all children treated with long-term steroids.
We investigated the influence of drug-induced hypotension at a mean arterial pressure (MAP) of 60-70 mm Hg on cerebral pressure autoregulation in 45 adult patients during propofol-fentanyl anesthesia. Time-averaged mean blood flow velocity in the right middle cerebral artery (Vmca) was continuously measured at a PaCO(2) of 39-40 mm Hg by using transcranial Doppler ultrasonography. Hypotension was induced and maintained with a continuous infusion of nicardipine, nitroglycerin, or prostaglandin E(1). Cerebral autoregulation was tested by a slow continuous infusion of phenylephrine to induce an increase in MAP of 20-30 mm Hg. From the simultaneously recorded data of Vmca and MAP, cerebral vascular resistance (CVR) was calculated as MAP/Vmca. Furthermore, the index of autoregulation (IOR) was calculated as DeltaCVR/DeltaMAP, where DeltaCVR = change in CVR and DeltaMAP = change in MAP. The test was performed twice for each condition on each patient: baseline and hypotension. The IOR during baseline was similar among the groups. During nitroglycerin- and prostaglandin E(1)-induced hypotension, IOR was not different from baseline. In contrast, during nicardipine-induced hypotension, IOR significantly decreased compared with baseline (0.37 +/- 0.08 versus 0.83 +/- 0.07, P < 0.01). In conclusion, nicardipine, but not nitroglycerin or prostaglandin E(1), significantly attenuates cerebral pressure autoregulation during propofol-fentanyl anesthesia.
Vasodilators may influence cerebral autoregulation by changing cerebral vascular tone. Nicardipine, but not nitroglycerin or prostaglandin E(1), attenuated cerebral pressure autoregulation in normal adult patients during propofol-fentanyl anesthesia.
We showed feasibility and efficacy of topotecan in third or a higher line of chemotherapy in heavily pretreated ovarian cancer (HPOC) patients.
Between January 2004 and June 2007, 25 cases of HPOC were treated with topotecan as 30-min infusion at the dose of 1.5 mg/m2 through 5 consecutive days every 21 days. We assessed toxicity profile using NCI CTC and the response was measured according to RECIST and CA-125 criteria described by Rustin.
Heavily pretreated ovarian cancer received at least two cycles of topotecan (median 6, range 2-6) with prior chemotherapy lines (median 3, range 3-7). In 20 HPOC who met RECIST criteria results were as follows: PR, 6/20 (30%); NC, 7/20 (35%); PD, 7/20 (35%). Biochemical response was noted in 20 patients having ?15% (3/20) of 75% and 20% (4/20) of 50% decline of CA-125. Time to progression was median 6 months (95% CI: 4.06-6.18) and overall survival was median 9 months (95% CI: 8.69-16.27). In multivariate analysis, primary optimal debulking and response to primary chemotherapy (HR = 0.24, 95% CI: 0.08-0.69, P = 0.0084; HR = 0.38, 95% CI: 0.14-0.98, P = 0.0448, respectively) were independent prognostic factors when assessed in relation to salvage therapy with topotecan. We did not observe difference in side effects after topotecan treatment among patients in relation to the higher number of previously used chemotherapy line (3 vs. >3).
We state that topotecan is able to offer a control of ovarian cancer, despite previous treatment, but reliable management is needed to alleviate hematologic toxicity.
A 21-year-old female inpatient who was enrolled in a population pharmacokinetic study of chlorpromazine was given an oral chlorpromazine dose of 100 mg three times daily, and plasma concentrations of chlorpromazine were measured weekly. This dose was well tolerated during the first week of therapy. In the second week the patient took a combined oral contraceptive; this was followed by severe dyskinesias and tremor. Plasma chlorpromazine levels were found to be about sixfold higher than those in the first week, although the dose of chlorpromazine had not changed. This observation suggests that the oral contraceptive increased the plasma concentration of chlorpromazine.
Mitochondria play a critical role in the pathogenesis of cerebral ischemia. Acute hyperglycemia has been shown to activate the mitochondria-initiated cell death pathway after an intermediate period of ischemia. The objective of the present study was to determine if diabetic hyperglycemia induced by streptozotocin activates the cell death pathway after a brief period of global ischemia. Five minutes of global ischemia was induced in nondiabetic and diabetic rats. Brain samples were collected after 30 min, 6 h, 1, 3, and 7 days of recirculation as well as from sham-operated controls. Histopathological examination in the hippocampal CA1, CA3, hilus, and dentate gyrus regions, as well as in the cortical and thalamic areas, showed that neuronal death in diabetic animals increased compared to nondiabetic ischemic controls. Neuronal damage maturation occurred after 7 days of recovery in nondiabetic rats, while it was shortened to 3 days of recovery in diabetic animals. Western blot analyses revealed that release of cytochrome c markedly increased after 1 and 3 days of reperfusion in diabetic rats. Caspase-3 activation was evident in the nuclear fraction of the cortex of diabetic rats after 3 days recovery and it was preceded by activation of caspase-9, but not activation of caspase-8. Electron microscopy demonstrated that chromatin condensation and mitochondrial swelling were features of the diabetes-mediated ischemic neuronal damage. However, no apoptotic bodies were observed in any sections examined. These results suggest that a brief period of global ischemia in diabetic animals activates a neuronal cell death pathway involving cytochrome c release, caspase-9 activation, and caspase-3 cleavage, all of which are most likely initiated by early mitochondria damage.
The anticonvulsant activity of 5-chloro-4-(2-imidazolin-2yl-amino)-2,1,3-benzothiazole, tizanidine, was studied following intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration in DBA/2 mice (which show sound-induced seizures). Protection against sound-induced seizures was observed after tizanidine, (0.5-4 mg/kg i.p.). The ED50 values for suppression of the tonic, clonic and wild running phases of sound-induced seizures were 0.54, 0.76 and 1.43 mg/kg, respectively. This protective action was significantly reduced by pretreatment with aminophylline (25 mg/kg i.p.), yohimbine (1 mg/kg i.p.) or piperoxan (20 mg/kg i.p.). Methysergide, a serotonin antagonists, did not significantly reduce the anticonvulsant effects of tizanidine. The present experiments suggest an involvement of purinergic and adrenergic mechanisms in the anticonvulsant action of tizanidine.
Ineffective erythropoiesis was quantitated in a series of patients with pernicious anaemia at different times in relation to vitamin B12 therapy by measuring the incorporation of [15N]delta aminolaevulinic acid and [15N]glycine into early labelled bilirubin. Prior to therapy ineffective erythropoiesis was grossly increased but this was reversed within 24 h of giving vitamin B12, suggesting that most of the existing megaloblasts are enabled to mature into circulating red cells.
Status epilepticus (SE) is a medical emergency and it is associated to brain damage. 2-deoxy-[14C] glucose (2-DG) procedure has been used to measure the alterations in the functional activity of the brain induced by various pharmacological and toxicological agents. The aim of this study was to determine which changes occur in the seizure anatomic substrates during the SE induced by pilocarpine (PILO) using [14C]-2 deoxyglucose functional mapping technique. Wistar male adult rats were submitted to SE PILO-induced for 6h and received [14C] 2-deoxyglucose injection via jugular vein 45 min before the 6th hour of SE. The control animals were submitted to all procedures but received saline and not pilocarpine. Brain sections were prepared and exposed X-ray film about seven days. The optical density of each region was obtained using a solid state digital analyser. The analysis revealed that 14C-2DG utilisation was pronounced in the SE rats on the areas corresponding to the hippocampal formation (+50.6%), caudate-putamen (+30.6%), frontoparietal cortex (+32.2%), amygdala (+31.7%), entorrinal cortex (+28.2%), thalamic nucleus (+93.5%), pre-tectal area (+50.1%) and substantia nigra (+50.3%) when compared to control. Our results suggest that the different activation levels of the distinct structures may be particularly important for understanding triggering and spreading mechanisms underlying epileptic activity during status epilepticus.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the efficacy, safety and cost-effectiveness of intravenous and oral propafenone in the conversion of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation propafenone to sinus rhythm. We analysed two groups of 100 consecutive patients (pts) treated because of propafenone with duration < 48 h. The first group was treated with intravenous PFN (bolus of 70 to 140 mg) and the second group was treated with oral PFN (300 to 600 mg). These 2 groups were comparable in age, sex, evidence of CAD, hypertension, mitral valve disease, history of hyperthyroidism and the level of K+ at admittance. Conversion to sinus rhythm was achieved in 64 (64%) pts who received i.v. propafenone and in 77 (77%) who received oral propafenone (p < 0.05). We conclude that oral and intravenous propafenone is safe in the termination of propafenone. Oral route of administration appears to be superior to intravenous because of greater efficacy and cost-effectiveness.
20 patients with Haemophilus influenzae meningitis who had been treated with chloramphenicol over the period 1959-1970 and 23 patients who had been treated with ampicillin over the period 1968-1974 were re-examined by hearing tests in 1975. In all the cases the two agents had been given initially by the parenteral route, chloramphenicol in doses varying between 50 and 150 (averaging 101) mg/kg/day and ampicillin in doses varying between 125 and 350 (averaging 229) mg/kg/day. Five of the 20 patients in the chloramphenicol group were found to be deaf on one ear, whereas 1 of the 23 patients in the ampicillin group was completely deaf. A further 3 in the chloramphenicol group and 1 in the ampicillin group had slight sensorineural hearing loss on one ear. Only in 2 of the 6 deaf patients was the loss discovered during the time of hospital care. The present study has not provided any evidence supporting the recently reported observation (Gamstorp and Klockhoff, 1974) that the frequency of hearing loss might be higher after ampicillin than after chloramphenicol treatment for H. influenzae meningitis.
This study was designed to investigate the role of bile in a large animal model of acute esophageal reflux disease.
An agar electrode was used to measure the transmucosal potential difference of the esophagus in anaesthetized dogs. The vascular permeability index and the epithelial permeability index of the mucosa were evaluated by means of the Evans blue and the sodium-fluorescein clearance method, respectively. The tissue adenosine triphosphate (ATP) level and the myeloperoxidase activity were determined from tissue biopsies, while the degree of mucosal damage was evaluated histologically on a grade 0-100 scale. Group 1 (n = 8) served as saline-treated control; groups 2 (n = 8), 3 (n = 5) and 4 (n = 5) were exposed for 4 h to canine bile alone, to hydrochloric acid + bile, or to hydrochloric acid alone, respectively.
In Groups 2, 3 and 4 the degree of mucosal damage was significantly increased, and a 4-fold elevation in myeloperoxidase activity was observed. The transmucosal potential difference was decreased significantly below the control level, while the vascular and epithelial permeability indices were significantly increased compared with the control values. Bile, but not hydrochloric acid, evoked a significant (40%) decrease in the ATP level of the esophageal tissue.
We propose that mucosal dysfunction, structural damage and leukocyte invasion during hydrochloric acid-induced esophageal injury are exacerbated by bile-induced changes in tissue ATP concentrations during experimental esophageal reflux disease.
We report the case of a 78 years old female patient with primary restless legs syndrome (RLS) with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. In addition, the patient also had depression. We emphasize the worsening of symptoms of RLS after the use of a selective serotonin uptake inhibitor (mirtazapine), with improvement after the drug was discontinued, and an excellent recovery with the use of low dose dopaminergic agonist (pramipexol).
