The anticataleptic action of cyproheptadine, a tricyclic compound known as antiserotonin, anticholinergic and antihistaminic drug in comparison to that of atropine, promethazine, imipramine, desipramine, chlorimipramine and nomifensine was studied in rats. The catalepsy induced by spiperon, pimozide or fluphenazine was antagonized by cyproheptadine, atropine and promethazine. Imipramine and nomifensine were less active, desipramine and chlorimipramine without effect. The reserpine- and alpha-methyltyrosine-catalepsy was counteracted by cyproheptadine, promethazine and nomifensine, but not by atropine or tricyclic antidepressants. Only cyproheptadine and promethazine antagonized the catalepsy caused by a combined treatment with reserpine and alpha-methyltyrosine. The pilocarpine-catalepsy was abolished by atropine, promethazine and nomifensine and unaffected by tricyclic antidepressants. Atropine and promethazine antagonized also the physostigmine-catalepsy. The catalepsy induced by both cholinomimetic drugs was not changed or increased by cyproheptadine. The results presented indicate that cyproheptadine differs in its anticataleptic activity from all the drugs used for comparison. Possible mechansims of this activity are discussed.
AMPA and NMDA receptors, abundantly expressed on striatal medium spiny neurons, have been implicated in the regulation of corticostriatal synaptic efficacy. To evaluate the contribution of both glutamate receptor types to the pathogenesis of motor response alterations associated with dopaminergic treatment, we studied the ability of the selective AMPA receptor antagonist GYKI-47261 and the selective NMDA receptor antagonists, MK-801 and amantadine, to mitigate these syndromes in rodent and primate models of Parkinson's disease. The effects of GYKI-47261 and amantadine (or MK-801), alone and in combination, were compared for their ability to modify dyskinesias induced by levodopa. In rats, simultaneous administration of subthreshold doses of AMPA and NMDA receptor antagonists completely normalized the wearing-off response to acute levodopa challenge produced by chronic levodopa treatment (P < 0.05). In primates, the glutamate antagonists GYKI-47261 and amantadine, co-administered at low doses (failing to alter dyskinesia scores), reduced levodopa-induced dyskinesias by 51% (P < 0.05). The simultaneous AMPA and NMDA receptor blockade acts to provide a substantially greater reduction in the response alterations induced by levodopa than inhibition of either of these receptors alone. The results suggest that mechanisms mediated by both ionotropic glutamate receptors make an independent contribution to the pathogenesis of these motor response changes and further that a combination of both drug types may provide relief from these disabling complications at lower and thus safer and more tolerable doses than required when either drug is used alone.
Selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors are widely used due to their efficacy and good safety profile. However, recent case reports have described varying degrees of liver injuries associated with the use of COX-2 inhibitors. We report the case of a patient who developed acute cholestatic hepatitis progressing to hepatic failure requiring liver transplantation, following a 3-d course of celecoxib for treatment of generalized muscle aches and pains. The clinical presentation, the laboratory data, as well as the liver histopathology were supportive of the putative diagnosis of drug induced liver injury.
Thirteen out of 18 young out-patients with simple schizophrenia under neuroleptic treatment completed a double-blind cross-over trial with Madopar [L-Dopa + benserazid (a peripheral decarboxylase inhibitor)] and placebo. Nine patients were given 900 mg L-Dopa + 225 mg benserazid daily, 1 patient received 600 mg L-Dopa + 150 mg benserazid, and 3 patients, 300 mg L-Dopa + 75 mg benserazid. In these doses, L-Dopa was effective against emotional withdrawal, blunted affect, tendency to isolation and apathy, without inducing or aggravating productive, accessory symptoms. The activity score, according to the specific activity-withdrawal scale, was significantly increased (P less than 0.05), whereas the total BPRS score (Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale) was slightly, but significantly reduced (P less than 0.05). In cases where L-Dopa had to be limited to 600 and 300 mg daily, a tendency to anxiety, distortion of thinking, and a sense of unreality were observed, depending on the dose of L-Dopa. In no case were gastrointestinal, cardiovascular or neurological side-effects observed.
Recent evidence suggests that leukocytes infiltrate uterine tissues at or around the time of parturition, implicating inflammation as a key mechanism of human labor. MCP-1 (also known as C-C chemokine motif ligand 2, CCL-2) is a proinflammatory cytokine that is up-regulated in human myometrium during labor. Myometrium was collected from pregnant rats across gestation and at labor. Total RNA and proteins were subjected to real-time PCR and ELISA, respectively. Ccl-2 gene and protein expression was significantly up-regulated in the gravid rat myometrium before and during labor, which might suggest that it is regulated positively by mechanical stretch of the uterus imposed by the growing fetus and negatively by physiological withdrawal of progesterone (P4). We confirmed in vivo that: 1) administration of P4 receptor antagonist RU486 induced an increase in Ccl-2 mRNA and preterm labor, whereas 2) artificial maintenance of elevated P4 levels at late gestation caused a significant decrease in gene expression and blocked labor; 3) Ccl-2 was elevated specifically in the gravid horn of unilaterally pregnant rats suggesting that mechanical strain imposed by the growing fetus controls its expression in the myometrium; 4) in vitro static mechanical stretch of primary rat myometrial smooth muscle cells (25% elongation) induced a release of Ccl-2 protein, which was repressed by pretreatment with P4 (1 microM); and 5) stretch enhanced their monocyte chemoattractant activity. These data indicate that Ccl-2 protein serves to integrate mechanical and endocrine signals contributing to uterine inflammation and the induction of labor and thus may represent a novel target for therapeutic prevention of preterm labor in humans.
A case with a verapamil-sensitive ventricular tachycardia showing right bundle branch block pattern and left axis deviation is described. Electrophysiological evaluation revealed features compatible with previous suggestions of posterior fascicular origin for this unique type of arrhythmia. In contrast to being paroxysmal, as is usually the case, the tachycardia was persistent and led to cardiac enlargement, which was completely reverted following successful treatment with verapamil.
The augmenting effect of chronic inflammation on bladder cancer was studied in female Swiss mice treated with N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl] formamide (FANFT), 0.15% by weight of diet for 20 weeks. To produce chronic inflammation one silk suture and one catgut suture were placed through the bladder wall of 63 mice to receive FANFT and 18 to receive normal diet. In remaining mice (no. = 62) the bladder was simply touched without suture insertion. Thirty-two animals treated with FANFT and 33 treated with FANFT + sutures also received supplements to their drinking water throughout the experiment of the sulfhydryl-reducing agent N-acetylcysteine (500 mg./kg. body weight/day). Seven weeks following FANFT treatment, bladder cancers developed in 12% of mice with sutures and FANFT and in 19% of those with sutures, FANFT, and N-acetylcysteine. No cancers developed in mice receiving FANFT alone or FANFT with N-acetylcysteine and none in mice treated with sutures only. Placement of silk sutures through the bladder wall of mice augments FANFT-induced bladder cancer. N-acetylcysteine at these doses does not influence the incidence.
The histone deacetylase inhibitor (HDACi) suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA) enhances taxol-induced antitumor effects against some human cancer cells. The aim of this study is to investigate whether SAHA can enhance taxol-induced cell death against human breast cancer cells and to illustrate the mechanism in detail.
A panel of eight human breast cancer cell lines and an immortalized human breast epithelial cell line were used to determine the inhibitory effects of SAHA, taxol, or their combination by MTT assay. The effects of SAHA with or without taxol on cell cycle distributions, apoptosis, and protein expressions were also examined. The inhibitory effects on tumor growth were characterized in vivo in BALB/c nude mice bearing a breast cancer xenograft model.
Taxol-resistant and multi-resistant breast cancer cells were as sensitive to SAHA as taxol-sensitive breast cancer cells. A dose-dependent synergistic growth inhibition was found in all the tested breast cancer cell lines treated with the SAHA/taxol combinations. The synergetic effect was also observed in the in vivo xenograft tumor model. The cell cycle analysis and apoptosis assay showed that the synergistic effects resulted from enhanced G2/M arrest and apoptosis.
SAHA increased the anti-tumor effects of taxol in breast cancer in vitro and in vivo. The combination of SAHA and taxol may have therapeutic potential in the treatment of breast cancer.
The present case study provides evidence that a specific deficit can be improved by a treatment specific intervention in a boy who was prenatally exposed to Dilantin and presented with a learning disability. After implementation of a focused intervention for reading, standardized test scores revealed that the child demonstrated a dramatic improvement in reading performance, but remained consistent in other academic areas. This indicated that his reading improvement was the direct effect of specific training in reading, but did not generalize to other content areas. This finding is significant because it provides support for treatment specificity in contrast to treatment generalizability.
The late manifestation of neuroleptic-induced dyskinesia (persistent dyskinesia) is an irreversible complication of long-term treatment that is poorly understood and difficult to treat. Recently, a theory of dopamine receptor hypersensitivity in the dopaminergic-cholinergic system has suggested an explanation of choreiform movements and, thus, an implication for the management of persistent dyskinesia. The case presented is that of bulbar persistent dyskinesia in a patient who had been prescribed a phenothiazine derivative for eleven years; his symptoms improved with the use of deanol, which probably converts to acetylcholine after crossing the blood brain barrier. This improvement suggests that deanol may shift the neuroleptic-induced dopaminergic-cholinergic system unbalance toward equilibrium by matching predominant dopaminergic effect or by enhancing deficient cholinergic action in the dopaminergic-cholinergic system. This isolated finding needs to be confirmed by more research in neuropharmacology.
Ifosfamide nephrotoxicity is a serious adverse effect for children undergoing cancer chemotherapy. Our recent in vitro studies have shown that the antioxidant N-acetylcysteine (NAC), which is used extensively as an antidote for paracetamol (acetaminophen) poisoning in children, protects renal tubular cells from ifosfamide-induced toxicity at a clinically relevant concentration. To further validate this observation, an animal model of ifosfamide-induced nephrotoxicity was used to determine the protective effect of NAC.
Male Wistar albino rats were injected intraperitoneally with saline, ifosfamide (50 or 80 mg kg(-1) daily for 5 days), NAC (1.2 g kg(-1) daily for 6 days) or ifosfamide+NAC (for 6 days). Twenty-four hours after the last injection, rats were killed and serum and urine were collected for biochemical analysis. Kidney tissues were obtained for analysis of glutathione, glutathione S-transferase and lipid peroxide levels as well as histology analysis.
NAC markedly reduces the severity of renal dysfunction induced by ifosfamide with a significant decrease in elevations of serum creatinine (57.8+/-2.3 vs 45.25+/-2.1 micromol l(-1)) as well as a reduced elevation of beta2-microglobulin excretion (25.44+/-3.3 vs 8.83+/-1.3 nmol l(-1)) and magnesium excretion (19.5+/-1.5 vs 11.16+/-1.5 mmol l(-1)). Moreover, NAC significantly improved the ifosfamide-induced glutathione depletion and the decrease of glutathione S-transferase activity, lowered the elevation of lipid peroxides and prevented typical morphological damages in renal tubules and glomeruli.
Our results suggest a potential therapeutic role for NAC in paediatric patients in preventing ifosfamide nephrotoxicity.
Heterogeneously distributed hypoxic areas are a characteristic property of locally advanced breast cancers (BCa) and generally associated with therapeutic resistance, metastases, and poor patient survival. About 50% of locally advanced BCa, where radiotherapy is less effective are suggested to be due to hypoxic regions. In this study, we investigated the potential of bioactive phytochemicals in radio-sensitizing hypoxic BCa cells.
Hypoxic (O2-2.5%; N2-92.5%; CO2-5%) MCF-7 cells were exposed to 4 Gy radiation (IR) alone or after pretreatment with Curcumin (CUR), curcumin analog EF24, neem leaf extract (NLE), Genistein (GEN), Resveratrol (RES) or raspberry extract (RSE). The cells were examined for inhibition of NFκB activity, transcriptional modulation of 88 NFκB signaling pathway genes, activation and cellular localization of radio-responsive NFκB related mediators, eNos, Erk1/2, SOD2, Akt1/2/3, p50, p65, pIκBα, TNFα, Birc-1, -2, -5 and associated induction of cell death.
EMSA revealed that cells exposed to phytochemicals showed complete suppression of IR-induced NFκB. Relatively, cells exposed EF24 revealed a robust inhibition of IR-induced NFκB. QPCR profiling showed induced expression of 53 NFκB signaling pathway genes after IR. Conversely, 53, 50, 53, 53, 53 and 53 of IR-induced genes were inhibited with EF24, NLE, CUR, GEN, RES and RSE respectively. In addition, 25, 29, 24, 16, 11 and 21 of 35 IR-suppressed genes were further inhibited with EF24, NLE, CUR, GEN, RES and RSE respectively. Immunoblotting revealed a significant attenuating effect of IR-modulated radio-responsive eNos, Erk1/2, SOD2, Akt1/2/3, p50, p65, pIκBα, TNFα, Birc-1, -2 and -5 with EF24, NLE, CUR, GEN, RES or RSE. Annexin V-FITC staining showed a consistent and significant induction of IR-induced cell death with these phytochemicals. Notably, EF24 robustly conferred IR-induced cell death.
Together, these data identifies the potential hypoxic cell radio-sensitizers and further implies that the induced radio-sensitization may be exerted by selectively targeting IR-induced NFκB signaling.
The purpose of the study was to determine the effect of nondepolarizing muscle relaxants and waiting time on muscle fasciculations after succinylcholine in anaesthetized patients. Adult men and women, 60-80 kg, received pretreatment doses of atracurium 5 mg (n = 160), pancuronium 1 mg (n = 123), d-tubocurarine 3 mg (n = 97), or vecuronium 1 mg (n = 62). Waiting times between pretreatment and succinylcholine, 100 mg, ranged between 0.6 and 5 min. Data points (presence or absence of fasciculations and waiting time) were entered for each patient. Waiting time response curves were obtained between the logit transformation of the probability of no fasciculations and the log waiting time for each drug. Statistical differences between wait time response curves were determined by non-overlapping of the associated 95% confidence intervals. The frequency of muscle fasciculations was reduced with increased waiting time for all nondepolarizers tested. Following wait times of three, four and five minutes, the probability of not fasciculating was greatest with d-tubocurarine (90, 97 and 99%, respectively) and atracurium (89, 93 and 96%). Corresponding values for pancuronium were 70, 82 and 88% and for vecuronium were 74, 82 and 86%. Waiting times to prevent fasciculations in 80% and 90% of patients were shorter with d-tubocurarine (2.46 and 3.02 min, respectively) or atracurium (2.16 and 3.24 min) than pancuronium (3.77 and 5.35 min) or vecuronium (3.73 and 6.36 min).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The receptor responsible for CGRP-induced ion transport and permeability was examined in tissues from animals treated 7 days previously with trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid to induce colitis or in controls. CGRP caused a concentration-dependent increase in short circuit current (I(sc), EC(50) 21 nM), which was abolished in chloride-free buffer but was not blocked by CGRP(8-37) or tetrodotoxin (TTX). Amylin and adrenomedullin caused only a modest increase in I(sc). The responses to the linear CGRP(2) receptor agonists [Cys(Et)(2,7)] hCGRPalpha and [Cys(Acm)(2,7)] hCGRPalpha were considerably smaller than the response to CGRP. These responses were abolished in chloride-free buffer and were TTX sensitive. Atropine, doxantrazole, and indomethacin did not block the effects of CGRP or the CGRP(2) agonists. The response to [Cys(Et)(2,7)] hCGRPalpha was not affected by prior desensitization of the CGRP receptor and vice versa. Inflamed rats had a similar secretory response to CGRP (I(sc), EC(50) 15 nM) and [Cys(Et)(2,7)] hCGRPalpha as control tissues, while being hyporesponsive to carbachol. CGRP application increased electrical conductance of inflamed preparations. Taken together, these data suggest that CGRP may play an important role in the maintenance of host defense in colitis through an apparently novel CGRP receptor located on the colonic enterocyte.
Recently published studies have demonstrated increased efficacy and cost-effectiveness of combination therapy with interferon and alpha-2b/ribavirin compared with interferon-alpha monotherapy in the treatment of chronic hepatitis C (CHC). Combination therapy is associated with a clinically important adverse effect: ribavirin-induced hemolytic anemia (RIHA). The objective of this study was to evaluate the direct health-care costs and management of RIHA during treatment of CHC in a clinical trial setting.
A systematic literature review was conducted to synthesize information on the incidence and management of RIHA. Decision-analytic techniques were used to estimate the cost of treating RIHA. Uncertainty was evaluated using sensitivity analyses.
RIHA, defined as a reduction in hemoglobin to less than 100 g/L, occurs in approximately 7% to 9% of patients treated with combination therapy. The standard of care for management of RIHA is reduction or discontinuation of the ribavirin dosage. We estimated the direct cost of treating clinically significant RIHA to be $170 per patient receiving combination therapy per 48-week treatment course (range $68-$692). The results of the one-way sensitivity analyses ranged from $57 to $317. In comparison, the cost of 48 weeks of combination therapy is $16,459.
The direct cost of treating clinically significant RIHA is 1% ($170/$16,459) of drug treatment costs. Questions remain about the optimal dose of ribavirin and the incidence of RIHA in a real-world population. Despite these uncertainties, this initial evaluation of the direct cost of treating RIHA provides an estimate of the cost and management implications of this clinically important adverse effect.
Etiology and management of neonatal seizures was retrospectively studied in 39 patients, who were admitted in our neonatal intensive care unit. Midazolam was administered to 22 patients by intravenous bolus injection (0.15 +/- 0.08 mg/kg) and/or continuous intravenous infusion (0.33 mg +/- 0.11 mg/kg/hr), both of which were judged as effective in 71% and 76% of the patients, respectively. Seven patients showed decrease of blood pressure possibly related with administration of midazolam, but five of them were managed by decreasing dose of the drug or observation of clinical pictures. We consider that midazolam is effective and relatively safe for the management of neonatal seizures.
The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate the possible influence of a mixture of pesticides on medium-term carcinogenesis using improved hepatocarcinogenesis protocols. We performed a 12 commercially available pesticides combination with alachlor, atrazine, carbofuran, chlorpyrifos, diazinon, dicofol, endosulfan, iprodione, mancozeb, maneb, procymidone and rotenone. The mixture was given at 1-fold and 10-fold the acceptable daily intake (ADI) level in a set of Solt-Farber-derived protocols involving diethylnitrosamine, 2-acetylaminofluorene treatments and a partial hepatectomy. Co-carcinogenic effect and promoting activity were evaluated using gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) positive altered hepatocyte foci, as well, protein and mRNA levels of glutathione S-transferase P (GSTP) in liver extracts as molecular biomarkers of carcinogenic effects. The pesticide treatments when compared to vehicle treatments always produced the same number of hepatocyte lesions and an equal GSTP expression on liver extracts independently of carcinogenic-protocol utilized. On this base, we concluded that the pesticide mixture evaluated in this report does not have tumor promoting activity or co-carcinogenic effect in the rat medium-term liver carcinogenesis. Altogether these data contribute to the confidence that the ADI represents a safe intake level to mixture of pesticides at dietary exposure.
Previous work suggests that vagus nerve disruption reduces hepatocyte and oval cell expansion after liver injury. The role of postneuronal receptor activation in response to liver injury has not been ascertained. We investigated the actions of scopolamine, a nonselective muscarinic receptor antagonist, and specific genetic ablation of a key cholinergic receptor, muscarinic subtype-3 (Chrm3), on azoxymethane (AOM)-induced liver injury in mice. Animal weights and survival were measured as was liver injury using both gross and microscopic examination. To assess hepatocyte proliferation and apoptosis, ductular hyperplasia, and oval cell expansion, we used morphometric analysis of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine-, activated caspase-3-, hematoxylin and eosin-, cytokeratin-19-, and epithelial cell adhesion molecule-stained liver sections. Sirius red staining was used as a measure of collagen deposition and its association with oval cell reaction. In AOM-treated mice, both muscarinic receptor blockade with scopolamine and Chrm3 ablation attenuated hepatocyte proliferation and augmented gross liver nodularity, apoptosis, and fibrosis. Compared with control, scopolamine-treated and Chrm3(-/-) AOM-treated mice had augmented oval cell reaction with increased ductular hyperplasia and oval cell expansion. Oval cell reaction correlated robustly with liver fibrosis. No liver injury was observed in scopolamine-treated and Chrm3(-/-) mice that were not treated with AOM. Only AOM-treated Chrm3(-/-) mice developed ascites and had reduced survival compared with AOM-treated wild-type controls. In AOM-induced liver injury, inhibiting postneuronal cholinergic muscarinic receptor activation with either scopolamine treatment or Chrm3 gene ablation results in prominent oval cell reaction. We conclude that Chrm3 plays a critical role in the liver injury response by modulating hepatocyte proliferation and apoptosis.
Prostate cancer (PCA), the most frequently diagnosed malignancy in men, represents an excellent candidate disease for chemoprevention studies because of its particularly long latency period, high rate of mortality and morbidity. Infusion of black tea and its polyphenolic constituents have been shown to possess antineoplastic effects in androgen dependent PCA in both in vivo and in vitro models including transgenic animals. In the present study, we report that black tea polyphenol, Theaflavins (TF)-induced apoptosis in human prostate carcinoma, LNCaP cells is mediated via modulation of two related pathways: up-regulation of p53 and down-regulation of NF-kappa B activity, causing a change in the ratio of pro-and antiapoptotic proteins leading to apoptosis. The altered expression of Bcl-2 family member proteins triggered the release of cytochrome-C and activation of initiator capsase 9 followed by activation of effector caspase 3. Furthermore, TF also affected the protein expression of mitogen activated protein kinases (MAPK) pathways. Our results demonstrated that TF treatment resulted in down-regulation of phospho-extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (Erk1/2) and phospho-p38 MAPK expressions. We conclude that TF induces apoptosis in LNCaP cells by shifting the balance between pro-and antiapoptotic proteins and down-regulation of cell survival pathways leading to apoptosis. Further extending this work, we also showed that TF induces apoptosis in androgen independent PCA cell line, PC-3 through caspases and MAPKs mediated pathways. Thus, effect of TF on PCA cell lines seems to be irrespective of their androgen status.
Inflammatory processes seem to be involved in pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). CD40 ligand (L) may promote inflammation and thrombus formation, and we hypothesized that CD40L could be involved in the pathogenesis of PAH.
Several significant findings were revealed when examining the possible role of CD40L in PAH. (1) Patients with primary (n=13) and secondary (n=11) PAH but not those with chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (n=8) had increased plasma levels of soluble (s) CD40L compared with control subjects (n=8). (2) PAH patients using warfarin had markedly lower sCD40L levels than those without such therapy. (3) sCD40L levels were higher in arterial (femoral artery) compared with mixed venous blood (pulmonary artery), suggesting enhanced release or reduced clearance in the pulmonary vasculature. (4) Platelets from PAH patients showed enhanced spontaneous and SFLLRN-stimulated release of sCD40L compared with control subjects. (5) In vitro, recombinant sCD40L induced monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1 and interleukin-8 gene expression in endothelial cells, and plasma levels of these chemokines were raised in all PAH groups, significantly correlated to sCD40L and hemodynamic parameters. (6) Although prostacyclin therapy (3 months) showed clinical benefit, this therapy had no effect on sCD40L and increased MCP-1 levels in PAH patients, and prostacyclin enhanced MCP-1 in CD40L-stimulated endothelial cells.
Our findings suggest a role for CD40L in the pathogenesis of PAH, possibly operating through an interaction between platelets and endothelial cells involving chemokine-related mechanisms.
Amiodarone, bi-iodinated benzofuran derivative, is one of the most frequently prescribed and efficacious antiarrhythmic drugs. Despite its low incidence, amiodarone-induced pulmonary toxicity is of great concern and the leading cause of discontinuation. Autophagy is an essential homeostatic process that mediates continuous recycling of intracellular materials when nutrients are scarce. It either leads to a survival advantage or initiates death processes in cells under stress. In the present study, we investigated the role of autophagy in amiodarone-induced pulmonary toxicity. Amiodarone treatment-induced autophagy in H460 human lung epithelial cells and BEAS-2B normal human bronchial epithelial cells was demonstrated by increased LC3-II conversion, Atg7 upregulation, and autophagosome formation. Autophagic flux, as determined by the lysosomal inhibitor bafilomycin A1, was also increased following amiodarone treatment. To determine the role of autophagy in amiodarone toxicity, amiodarone-induced cell death was evaluated in the presence of 3-methyladenine or by knocking down the autophagy-related genes Atg7. Inhibition of autophagy decreased cellular viability and significantly increased apoptosis. Intratracheal instillation of amiodarone in rats increased the number of inflammatory cells recovered from bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, and periodic acid-Schiff-positive staining in bronchiolar epithelial cells. However, induction of autophagy by rapamycin treatment inhibited amiodarone-induced pulmonary toxicity. In conclusion, amiodarone treatment induced autophagy, which is involved in protection against cell death and pulmonary toxicity.
Integrin-mediated platelet adhesion and aggregation are essential for sealing injured blood vessels and preventing blood loss, and excessive platelet aggregation can initiate arterial thrombosis, causing heart attacks and stroke. To ensure that platelets aggregate only at injury sites, integrins on circulating platelets exist in a low-affinity state and shift to a high-affinity state (in a process known as integrin activation or priming) after contacting a wounded vessel. The shift is mediated through binding of the cytoskeletal protein Talin to the beta subunit cytoplasmic tail. Here we show that platelets lacking the adhesion plaque protein Kindlin-3 cannot activate integrins despite normal Talin expression. As a direct consequence, Kindlin-3 deficiency results in severe bleeding and resistance to arterial thrombosis. Mechanistically, Kindlin-3 can directly bind to regions of beta-integrin tails distinct from those of Talin and trigger integrin activation. We have therefore identified Kindlin-3 as a novel and essential element for platelet integrin activation in hemostasis and thrombosis.
The sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) plays a critical role in excitation-contraction coupling by regulating the cytoplasmic calcium concentration of striated muscle. The histidine-rich calcium-binding protein (HRCBP) is expressed in the junctional SR, the site of calcium release from the SR. HRCBP is expressed exclusively in muscle tissues and binds calcium with low affinity and high capacity. In addition, HRCBP interacts with triadin, a protein associated with the ryanodine receptor and thought to be involved in calcium release. Its calcium binding properties, localization to the SR, and interaction with triadin suggest that HRCBP is involved in calcium handling by the SR. To determine the function of HRCBP in vivo, we inactivated HRC, the gene encoding HRCBP, in mice. HRC knockout mice exhibited impaired weight gain beginning at 11 months of age, which was marked by reduced skeletal muscle and fat mass, and triadin protein expression was upregulated in the heart of HRC knockout mice. In addition, HRC null mice displayed a significantly exaggerated response to the induction of cardiac hypertrophy by isoproterenol compared to their wild-type littermates. The exaggerated response of HRC knockout mice to the induction of cardiac hypertrophy is consistent with a regulatory role for HRCBP in calcium handling in vivo and suggests that mutations in HRC, in combination with other genetic or environmental factors, might contribute to pathological hypertrophy and heart failure.
Local delivery of temozolomide (TMZ) through polymers is superior to oral administration in a rodent glioma model.
We hypothesized that the observed clinical synergy of orally administered TMZ and carmustine (BCNU) wafers would translate into even greater effectiveness with the local delivery of BCNU and TMZ and the addition of radiotherapy in animal models of malignant glioma.
TMZ and BCNU were incorporated into biodegradable polymers that were implanted in F344 rats bearing established intracranial tumors. We used 2 different rodent glioma models: the 9L gliosarcoma and the F98 glioma.
In the 9L rodent glioma model, groups treated with the combination of local TMZ, local BCNU, and radiation therapy (XRT) had 75% long-term survivors (defined as animals alive 120 days after tumor implantation), which was superior to the combination of local TMZ and local BCNU (median survival, 95 days; long-term survival, 25%) and the combination of oral TMZ, local BCNU, and XRT (median survival, 62 days; long-term survival, 12.5%). To simulate the effect of this treatment in chemoresistant gliomas, a second rodent model was used with the F98 glioma, a cell line relatively resistant to alkylating agents. F98 glioma cells express high levels of alkyltransferase, an enzyme that deactivates alkylating agents and is the major mechanism of resistance of gliomas. The triple therapy showed a significant improvement in survival when compared with controls (P = .0004), BCNU (P = .0043), oral TMZ (P = .0026), local TMZ (P = .0105), and the combinations of either BCNU and XRT (P = .0378) or oral TMZ and BCNU (P = .0154).
The survival of tumor-bearing animals in the 9L and F98 glioma models was improved with the local delivery of BCNU and TMZ combined with XRT when compared with either treatment alone or oral TMZ, local BCNU, and XRT.
Methotrexate (MTX) is a very effective chemotherapeutic drug, widely used in various malignant diseases for systemic therapy. In some cases, MTX-induced renal failure occurs which may not be prevented by the standard agent folin acid as a specific antidot. This results in a MTX-accumulation in the body tissue with subsequent massive toxic side effects.
We report on a 62-year-old woman with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (first diagnosis November 1997) receiving chemotherapy with 2,340 mg methotrexate over 24 hours. After an increase of the MTX-plasma-level 36 hours following MTX-application, increased serum creatinine levels (maximum 5.07 mg/dl) were found. The application of folinic acid was without any significant effect. Fifty-six hours following MTX, 50 U/kg carboxypeptidase-G2 was infused. The MTX-plasma-level decreased rapidly and a recovery of renal function was monitored.
CPDG2 may be highly effective in patients after development of an MTX-induced renal failure and delayed MTX-excretion.
