Common variants at only two loci, FTO and MC4R, have been reproducibly associated with body mass index (BMI) in humans. To identify additional loci, we conducted meta-analysis of 15 genome-wide association studies for BMI (n > 32,000) and followed up top signals in 14 additional cohorts (n > 59,000). We strongly confirm FTO and MC4R and identify six additional loci (P < 5 x 10(-8)): TMEM18, KCTD15, GNPDA2, SH2B1, MTCH2 and NEGR1 (where a 45-kb deletion polymorphism is a candidate causal variant). Several of the likely causal genes are highly expressed or known to act in the central nervous system (CNS), emphasizing, as in rare monogenic forms of obesity, the role of the CNS in predisposition to obesity.
Obesity results from the interaction of genetic and environmental factors. To search for sequence variants that affect variation in two common measures of obesity, weight and body mass index (BMI), both of which are highly heritable, we performed a genome-wide association (GWA) study with 305,846 SNPs typed in 25,344 Icelandic, 2,998 Dutch, 1,890 European Americans and 1,160 African American subjects and combined the results with previously published results from the Diabetes Genetics Initiative (DGI) on 3,024 Scandinavians. We selected 43 variants in 19 regions for follow-up in 5,586 Danish individuals and compared the results to a genome-wide study on obesity-related traits from the GIANT consortium. In total, 29 variants, some correlated, in 11 chromosomal regions reached a genome-wide significance threshold of P < 1.6 x 10(-7). This includes previously identified variants close to or in the FTO, MC4R, BDNF and SH2B1 genes, in addition to variants at seven loci not previously connected with obesity.
The hepatic outcome of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) positive patients undergoing chemotherapy after withdrawal of pre-emptive lamivudine is unknown.
To examine the occurrence of hepatitis B virus (HBV) reactivation after withdrawal of pre-emptive lamivudine.
Pre-emptive lamivudine was started one week before initiation of chemotherapy in 46 consecutive HBsAg positive patients and continued for the entire duration of chemotherapy. Pre-emptive lamivudine was stopped at a median 3.1 (range 3.0-3.4) months after completion of chemotherapy. Patients were longitudinally followed up after withdrawal of pre-emptive lamivudine.
Median time of follow up after withdrawal of lamivudine was 25.7 (range 5.7-75.7) months. Eleven of the 46 patients (23.9%) developed HBV reactivation after withdrawal of pre-emptive lamivudine. Eight of the 16 patients with high pre-chemotherapy HBV DNA (> or =10(4) copies/ml) compared with three of the 30 patients with low pre-chemotherapy HBV DNA (<10(4) copies/ml) developed HBV reactivation (50.0% v 10.0%, respectively; p<0.001). Hepatitis B e antigen positive patients were also more likely to develop HBV reactivation (5/11 (45.5%) v 6/35 (17.1%), respectively; p = 0.041). A high pre-chemotherapy HBV DNA (> or =10(4) copies/ml) was the most important risk factor for HBV reactivation after withdrawal of pre-emptive lamivudine on Cox proportional hazards analysis (relative risk 16.13, (95% confidence interval 2.99-87.01; p = 0.001).
HBV reactivation is more likely to occur in patients with high pre-chemotherapy HBV DNA after withdrawal of pre-emptive lamivudine. A more prolonged course of antiviral therapy may be necessary in these patients after completion of chemotherapy in order to reduce post-chemotherapy HBV reactivation.
We report a 44-yr-old female with Philadelphia chromosome positive chronic myeloid leukemia who was initially treated with busulfan, and clinical remission has been achieved. After 4 yr, low-dose busulfan therapy was started again and induced bone marrow aplasia. The patient spontaneously has recovered from aplasia, and complete cytogenetic remission with loss of Ph+ chromosome in bone marrow has been achieved. However, reverse-transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis showed presence of the bcr-abl transcript in bone marrow.
The aim of the present study was to determine (1) if an adrenergic sensitivity of afferent neurons is present in patients with painful polyneuropathy as compared with non-painful polyneuropathy and (2) if there is a correlation between adrenergic sensitisation and the severity of afferent and sympathetic small fiber damage.
10 patients with painful and non painful polyneuropathy and 10 healthy controls were included. The function of small afferent and efferent sympathetic neurons was evaluated. Adrenergic sensitivity of afferent neurons was assessed by cutaneous iontophoresis of norepinephrine. Spontaneous pain, mechanical hyperalgesia as well as warm and heat pain thresholds were measured.
Iontophoresis of norepinephrine did not induce or enhance spontaneous pain or mechanical allodynia, either in painless or painful polyneuropathies. There was no difference in norepinephrine-induced heat hyperalgesia between both neuropathy groups and healthy controls. The response of afferent neurons to norepinephrine was not correlated with the severity of damage to afferent small fibers or efferent sympathetic vasoconstrictor neurons.
The results do not support the assumption that in painful polyneuropathies afferent neurons acquire an adrenergic sensitivity after nerve injury and that adrenergic stimulation leads to an exacerbation of spontaneous pain and thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia.
To report the results from a retrospective chart review looking at the combination of linezolid and serotonergic antidepressants and to report two cases of serotonin syndrome which were identified at our hospital.
During the retrospective chart review one case of serotonin syndrome was identified. A 65-year-old female was receiving escitalopram for the treatment of depression prior to admission. Linezolid therapy was initiated on admission and two days later the patient had a tonic-clonic seizure. Escitalopram was discontinued and the patient did not have any further seizure activity. In a second case, a 37-year-old male was receiving citalopram during hospitalization and was started on concomitant linezolid. The patient had myoclonus and was observed to be tremulous throughout therapy with linezolid. Ten days after discontinuation of linezolid the patient continued to have symptoms until the withdrawal of citalopram. The Naranjo probability scale scores the first case as possibly related and the second case as probably related to the combination.
It has been well documented in the literature that the combination of linezolid and serotonergic antidepressants may cause serotonin syndrome. In this retrospective chart review only one patient of 53 (1.8%) had symptoms highly suggestive of serotonin syndrome. A second patient continued to have symptoms of serotonin syndrome even after withdrawal of linezolid.
This retrospective review and subsequent case reports confirm the rare, but serious, potential of serotonin syndrome associated with the combination of linezolid and serotonergic antidepressants.
Current evidence points to renin-angiotensin system as a key mediator in ischemia-reperfusion injury. Rosiglitazone, a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma) ligand, has recently been shown to confer cardioprotection against ischemia-reperfusion in animal models. We sought to examine the expression of ANG II receptors during PPAR-gamma-mediated cardioprotection. Male Sprague-Dawley rats (nondiabetic) were fed either regular rat chow (control diet group, n = 9) or rosiglitazone-rich diet (rosiglitazone-rich diet group, n = 9) and were subjected to 1 h of myocardial ischemia followed by 1 h of reperfusion. A third group of rats had only thoracotomy and pericardiotomy and served as a sham control group (n = 9). Hemodynamics, infarct size, and expression of ANG II type 1 and type 2 receptors (AT1 and AT2) were measured in all groups. There was a 58% reduction of infarct size in the rosiglitazone-rich diet group (P < 0.01 vs. control diet group). Increased myocardial expression of AT(1) receptors in the ischemic-reperfused myocardium was attenuated in the rosiglitazone-rich diet group (P < 0.05 vs. control diet group). Importantly, myocardial AT2 mRNA and protein expression were significantly increased (by >100-fold) in the rosiglitazone-rich diet group (P < 0.05). These changes were accompanied by inhibition of p42/44 MAPK in the rosiglitazone-rich diet group, while the Akt1 expression, believed to mediate insulin sensitization, remained similar in all three groups. The cardioprotective effects of rosiglitazone against myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury are independent of its insulin-sensitizing properties and are associated with significant overexpression of AT2 receptors along with inhibition of p42/44 MAPK.
The syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) has been described in patients suffering from leukemia or lymphoma involving the central nervous system. Several alkylating agents have also been associated with this syndrome. We describe a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, without evidence of central nervous system involvement, who suffered from SIADH presumably caused by small doses of chlorambucil.
An isoproterenol-mediated increase in cardiomotor tone and a decrease in afterload contribute to the induction of vasovagal syncope. Contrary to conventional belief, a significant decrease in preload is not observed immediately before isoproterenol-induced syncope.
The case is described of a 36-year old female patient who developed a benign hepatic cell adenoma after having taken oral contraceptives (OCs) for several years. The tumor, which was situated on the central part of the right lobe, because of disintegration and hemorrhage broke through to the surface and caused a massive subcapsular hemorrhage. After subtotal hepatectomy the patient recovered uneventfully, and has remained symptom-free since that time. As far as is known, this was the 2nd successful subtotal hepatectomy in Hungary. The authors review the literature on the relationship between OCs and liver tumors. They call attention to the rapidly increasing occurrence, in Hungary, of these tumors, and to a tendency to life-threatening hemorrhages, which in the majority of cases require extensive hepatic resection. They describe various possibilities and methods of surgical care.
A scleroderma-like disease has recently been described in association with taxanes. We present the first case of diffuse scleroderma occurring in a woman treated with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide for breast cancer. The clinical pattern of skin involvement and histological alterations were identical to those found in the classical form of scleroderma. Skin involvement progressed to affect 80% of total body area, and subsequently remained unchanged despite progression of the underlying cancer, making a paraneoplastic aetiology of the scleroderma unlikely. Specific chemotherapeutic agents might be directly responsible for the clinical manifestations and the parameters of progression. Analysis of all similar case reports defines the particular features and clinical course of this phenomenon.
Drug therapy for adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC), a rare and lethal malignancy, is largely empirical and ineffective. New treatments directed at molecular targets critical to the pathophysiology of ACC may prove more efficacious.
The objective of the study was to profile human adrenal tumors and ACC cell lines to assess activated IGF signaling and determine the efficacy of two IGF receptor (IGF-1R) antagonists alone and in combination with mitotane.
ACC cell lines that display or lack activated IGF signaling are used to assess the effects of two IGF-1R antagonists in cultured cells and ACC xenograft tumors.
Transcriptional profiling data derived from DNA microarray analysis of human adrenal tumors implicate IGF2 as the single highest up-regulated transcript in the vast majority of carcinomas. We show that the majority of ACC cell lines tested display constitutive IGF ligand production and activation of downstream effector pathways. Both IGF-1R antagonists cause significant dose-dependent growth inhibition in ACC cell lines. Furthermore, we observe that mitotane, the first-line adrenolytic drug used in patients with ACC, results in enhanced growth inhibition when used in combination with the IGF-1R antagonists. We next examined the activity of IGF-1R antagonists against ACC xenografts in athymic nude mice. IGF inhibition markedly reduced tumor growth greater than that observed with mitotane treatment, and combination therapy with mitotane significantly enhanced tumor growth suppression.
These findings establish a critical role of IGF signaling in ACC pathophysiology and provide rationale for use of targeted IGF-1R antagonists to treat adrenocortical carcinoma in future clinical trials.
After a 3-month, single-blind, run-in period, 151 patients with intermittent claudication were randomly allocated to receive the antiplatelet agent ticlopidine (250 mg twice per day) or an identical placebo. One hundred and twenty patients completed the double-blind phase of the trial, which lasted 21 months. The primary analysis was performed according to the "intention-to-treat principle" in all 151 enrolled patients. There was, continuing on from the third month after randomization, a progressive and sustained improvement of the pain-free and maximum walking distances in the two treatment groups that was significantly greater in the ticlopidine group. The ankle-arm systolic blood pressure ratio at rest and after exercise increased in a significant manner in the ticlopidine group only. In a secondary analysis, with exclusion of 25 patients because of protocol violations at selection, consistently significant differences in favor of the ticlopidine group were still observed for maximum walking distance and systolic ankle-arm blood pressure ratio, both at rest and after exercise. No major side effects were reported in the treated group. It is concluded that long-term treatment with ticlopidine improves walking ability and ankle systolic blood pressure in patients with claudication.
The neurodegeneration that occurs in sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD) is consistently associated with a number of characteristic histopathological, molecular, and biochemical abnormalities, including cell loss, abundant neurofibrillary tangles and dystrophic neurites, amyloid-beta deposits, increased activation of pro-death genes and signaling pathways, impaired energy metabolism/mitochondrial function, and evidence of chronic oxidative stress. The general inability to convincingly link these phenomena has resulted in the emergence and propagation of various heavily debated theories that focus on the role of one particular element in the pathogenesis of all other abnormalities. However, the accumulating evidence that reduced glucose utilization and deficient energy metabolism occur early in the course of disease, suggests a role for impaired insulin signaling in the pathogenesis of AD. The present work demonstrates extensive abnormalities in insulin and insulin-like growth factor type I and II (IGF-I and IGF-II) signaling mechanisms in brains with AD, and shows that while each of the corresponding growth factors is normally made in central nervous system (CNS) neurons, the expression levels are markedly reduced in AD. These abnormalities were associated with reduced levels of insulin receptor substrate (IRS) mRNA, tau mRNA, IRS-associated phosphotidylinositol 3-kinase, and phospho-Akt (activated), and increased glycogen synthase kinase-3beta activity and amyloid precursor protein mRNA expression. The strikingly reduced CNS expression of genes encoding insulin, IGF-I, and IGF-II, as well as the insulin and IGF-I receptors, suggests that AD may represent a neuro-endocrine disorder that resembles, yet is distinct from diabetes mellitus. Therefore, we propose the term, "Type 3 Diabetes" to reflect this newly identified pathogenic mechanism of neurodegeneration.
Aberrant histone deacetylase activity is seen in a variety of malignancies, and histone deacetylase inhibitors such as vorinostat have been shown to induce cell death and sensitize cells to cytotoxic chemotherapy in thyroid cancer cell lines. This phase II study was undertaken to assess objective response to vorinostat in patients with advanced thyroid cancer.
A total of 19 patients with differentiated thyroid cancer (n = 16) and medullary thyroid cancer (n = 3) were enrolled in the study. Patients received oral vorinostat at a starting dose of 200 mg twice daily, with dose adjustments allowed as necessary for toxicity. Patients were treated for 2 wk, followed by 1 wk off therapy (3-wk cycle) until disease progression or study withdrawal. Responses were measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors criteria and correlated with tumor markers.
No patient achieved a partial or complete response. Median duration of therapy in patients with differentiated thyroid cancer was 17 wk, whereas in medullary thyroid cancer patients it was 25 wk. Reasons for termination included progression of disease by RECIST criteria (n = 7), clinical progression (n = 3), and adverse events (AEs) (n = 9). AEs were primarily grade 1-3; no clinical grade 4 or grade 5 events were observed. Clinical grade 3 AEs consisted of fatigue, dehydration, ataxia, pneumonia, bruises, and deep vein thrombosis. Severe thrombocytopenia was seen in seven patients (grade 3, n = 5; grade 4, n = 2) and was associated with minor bleeding or bruises.
Vorinostat at this dose and schedule is not an effective treatment for advanced thyroid cancer.
Paroxetine is commonly used as a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor for the treatment of depression and other psychiatric disorders. However, the molecular mechanisms of the paroxetine effects have not yet been sufficiently clarified. Using Xenopus oocyte expression assays, we investigated the effects of paroxetine on G protein-activated inwardly rectifying K+ (GIRK) channels, which play an important role in reducing neuronal excitability in most brain regions and the heart rate. In oocytes injected with mRNAs for GIRK1/GIRK2, GIRK2, or GIRK1/GIRK4 subunits, paroxetine reversibly reduced inward currents through the expressed GIRK channels. The inhibition was concentration-dependent, but voltage-independent and time-independent during each voltage pulse. However, two structurally different antidepressants: milnacipran and trazodone, caused only a small inhibition of basal GIRK currents. Additionally, Kir1.1 and Kir2.1 channels were insensitive to all of the antidepressants. Furthermore, the GIRK currents induced by activation of A1 adenosine receptors or by ethanol were inhibited by extracellularly applied paroxetine in a concentration-dependent manner, but not affected by intracellularly applied paroxetine. Our results suggest that inhibition of GIRK channels by paroxetine may contribute partly to some of its therapeutic effects and adverse side effects.
Studies were performed in unanesthetized normotensive and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) to compare the effects of naloxone. In normotensive Wistar rats, naloxone did not change blood pressure (BP) and nociceptive threshold, but it induced a dose-related diuretic response. Whereas in SHR naloxone decreased nociceptive threshold and lowered BP when given intracerebroventricularly, it failed to significantly modify diuresis. These differences between hypertensive and normotensive rats in their responses to naloxone may be explained by the fact that vasopressin (VP) levels and opioid activity are different in SHR.
Fabry disease results from an X-linked mutation in the lysosomal alpha-galactosidase A (Gla) gene. Defective Gla results in multi-organ accumulation of neutral glycosphingolipids (GSLs), especially in the vascular endothelium, with the major GSL accumulated being globotriaosylceramide (Gb3). Excessive endothelial Gb3 accumulation is associated with increased thrombosis, atherogenesis and endothelial dysfunction. However, the mechanism(s) by which endothelial dysfunction occurs is unclear. The purpose of the present study was to further characterize the vasculopathy associated with a murine model of Fabry disease. Vascular reactivity was performed in vessels from wild-type (Gla(+/0)) and Gla-knockout (Gla(-/0)) mice. Conscious blood pressure and heart rate were measured in Gla(+/0) and Gla(-/0) mice by telemetry. The present study demonstrates that vascular smooth muscle (VSM) contractions to phenylephrine and serotonin, but not to U46619, were blunted in Gla(-/0) mice. Endothelium-dependent contraction and receptor-mediated endothelium-dependent relaxation to acetylcholine were significantly attenuated in vessels from Gla(-/0) mice. However, receptor-independent endothelium-dependent relaxation to the calcium ionophore ionomycin remained intact in vessels from Gla(-/0) mice. Furthermore, VSM reactivity was normal in aortas from Gla(-/0) mice in the absence of endothelium. These changes in vascular function were observed without changes in whole-animal blood pressure or heart rate. These results suggest that the vasculopathy associated with Fabry disease is localized to the endothelium, despite the accumulation of GSLs throughout the vasculature.
Intracarotid prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) infusions (10 ng X kg-1 X min-1) increased arterial pressure in conscious dogs, sheep, and calves. Total and regional peripheral resistances (renal, superior mesenteric, and iliac) increased in conscious calves. Arterial pH and CO2 tension did not change, implying no activation of the chemoreflex. The arterial baro-reflex was reset upward during intracarotid PGE2 infusion; arterial pressure increased with little heart rate change, but baroreflex sensitivity was unchanged. In contrast, equipotent intracarotid angiotensin II infusions (10 ng X kg-1 X min-1) both reset the baroreflex upward and decreased baroreflex sensitivity. Pretreatment with alpha-, but not beta-, adrenoceptor blocking agents attenuated the intracarotid PGE2 pressor effect. Increasing PGE2 infusions (10-200 ng X kg-1 X min-1) caused dose-related arterial pressure increases; plasma renin activity was increased only at the largest infusion rate. Pretreatment with captopril, an inhibitor of the angiotensin-converting enzyme, attenuated the PGE2 pressor effect. During barbiturate-halothane and chlorolose-urethan anesthesia, no pressor effect was observed during intracarotid PGE2. We conclude that intracarotid PGE2 acts centrally to augment sympathetic vasomotor outflow. The central action of PGE2 is not affected by activation of the arterial chemoreflex or alteration of baroreflex sensitivity and has a small renin-angiotensin component.
To investigate the association between genetic polymorphisms of human leukocyte antigen-DQ (HLA-DQ) and susceptibility to trichloroethylene (TCE)-induced severe generalized dermatitis.
A case-control study was conducted which included 112 patients with TCE-induced severe generalized dermatitis and 142 healthy controls exposed to TCE in the same workshop. The DNA sequences in exon2 of HLA-DQA1 and HLA-DQB1 were performed by direct sequencing of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) products. The frequencies distribution of allelic genotypes and codon polymorphisms were compared.
The frequencies of DQA1*0201 and 060101/0602 in cases [7.6% (17/224) and 16.1% (36/224)] were significantly higher than those of the exposed controls [3.5% (10/284) and 7.0% (20/284)], while frequencies of DQA1*0103 and 050101/0503/0505 in cases [5.8% (13/224) and 8.9% (20/224)] were significantly lower than those of exposed controls [10.9% (31/284) and 17.3% (49/284)]. In terms of codon polymorphisms, there were 5 codons of DQA1 (25, 41, 52, 54 and 69) showing significant differences between cases and controls. There were no significant differences in the frequencies of allelic genotypes of HLA-DQB1 between cases and exposed controls.
The genetic polymorphisms of HLA-DQA1 might be one of the factors influencing the individual susceptibility to TCE-induced severe generalized dermatitis.
Genotoxic carcinogens exert their tumorigenic effects in part by inducing genomic instability. We recently showed that loss of heterozygosity (LOH) on chromosome 12 associates significantly with the induction of chromosome instability (CIN) by the likely human lung carcinogen 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) and vinyl carbamate (VC) during mouse lung carcinogenesis. Here, we demonstrate the carcinogen specificity of this event and its effect on lung tumor evolution. LOH on chromosome 12 was observed in 45% of NNK-induced, 59% of VC-induced, 58% of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1)-induced, 14% of N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU)-induced and 12% of spontaneous lung adenocarcinomas. The frequency of LOH in each of the carcinogen-induced groups, except ENU, was significantly higher than in the spontaneous group (P<0.001). Deletion mapping revealed four potential candidate regions of 1-4 centiMorgans suspected to contain targeted tumor suppressor genes, with at least one expected to have a role in CIN. The relationship between LOH on chromosome 12 and additional chromosomal alterations occurring during lung tumor progression was also examined. LOH on chromosomes 1 and 14 were moderately frequent during malignant progression in tumors from all treatment groups, occurring in 21-35 and 18-33% of tumors. However, these alterations showed significant concurrence with LOH on chromosome 12 in VC-, NNK- and AFB1-induced tumors (P<0.05). The results suggest that a carcinogen-selective mechanism of lung cancer induction involves the frequent inactivation of genes on chromosome 12, including a stability gene that evidently promotes the evolutionary selection of additional chromosomal alterations during malignant progression.
Lung cancer is one of the most common causes of cancer-related mortality worldwide. Effective early diagnosis and targeted therapies for lung cancer to reduce incidence and mortality would benefit from a better understanding of the key molecular changes that occur from normal to malignant tumor cells during lung cancer initiation and development, but these are largely unknown. Previous studies have shown that DNA methylation, an important mechanism for the regulation of gene expression, plays a key role in lung carcinogenesis. In this study, we screened a novel methylation gene, ANKRD18A, encoding ankyrin repeat domain 18A, to determine whether it is regulated by DNA methylation in lung cancer. Methylation-specific PCR and bisulfite sequencing PCR were used to analyze gene methylation status, and real-time quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) examined mRNA levels. Promoter hypermethylation of ANKRD18A was detected in 68.4% (26/38) of lung cancer tissues but not (0/20) in normal lung tissues (P<0.01), whereas ANKRD18A mRNA expression was significantly decreased in lung cancer tissues compared with adjacent normal tissues. In addition, we found that ANKRD18A expression was significantly decreased in 9 of 10 lung cancer cell lines. This was associated with hypermethylation of the ANKRD18A promoter region. Moreover, weak expression of ANKRD18A in methylated lung cancer cell lines increased markedly after treatment with the DNA methylation inhibitor 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine. These results suggest that ANKRD18A hypermethylation and consequent mRNA alterations might be a vital molecular mechanism in lung cancer.
Estrogen receptor beta (ERbeta) is widely expressed in mammary epithelium. ERbeta expression is reported to decline during carcinogenesis of the breast and other tissues. In this study, we examined the consequences of a loss of ERbeta expression in mammary epithelial cells. We knocked down ERbeta transcript levels in human mammary epithelial MCF-10A cells and in MCF-7 breast cancer cells by means of stable transfection with a specific shRNA plasmid. ERbeta knockdown resulted in a significant growth increase of both cell types in a ligand-independent manner. This effect was accompanied by elevated cyclin A2 expression in MCF-10A cells and by decreased expression of growth-inhibitory p21/WAF and epithelial cell marker cytokeratine 8 in both cell lines. Transfection of ERbeta shRNA did not alter the absent proliferative estrogen response of MCF-10A cells, but conferred sensitivity to selective estrogen receptor modulator tamoxifen to this cell line. In contrast, ERbeta knockdown diminished estrogen responsiveness of MCF-7 breast cancer cells and also weakened the effect of tamoxifen on this cell line. These ligand-dependent effects only observed in MCF-7 cells exhibiting a high ERalpha/beta ratio were accompanied by smaller estrogenic repression of p21/WAF expression, an impaired tamoxifen-triggered induction of this gene and by relative downregulation of ERalpha and cyclin A2 transcript levels. Our data suggest that ERbeta exerts antiproliferative effects both on MCF-10A and MCF-7 cells in a ligand- and ERalpha-independent manner by regulation of p21/WAF or cyclin A2 gene expression. Knockdown of ERbeta in both cell types was sufficient to significantly decrease transcript levels of epithelial cell marker cytokeratin 8. The results of this study support the hypothesis that ERbeta acts as a tumor suppressor in mammary epithelium.
The aim of this study was to prepare and characterize a topical formulation for sustained delivery of rizatriptan. Elastic liposomal formulation of rizatriptan was prepared and characterized for different characteristics by evaluating in vitro and in vivo parameters. The in vivo performance of optimized formulation was evaluated for antimigraine activity in mice using morphine withdrawal-induced hyperalgesia. The in vitro skin permeation study across rat skin suggested carrier-mediated transdermal permeation for different elastic liposomal formulation to range between 18.1 +/- 0.6 and 42.7 +/- 2.3 microg/h/cm(2), which was approximately 8-19 times higher than that obtained using drug solution. The amount of drug deposited was 10-fold higher for elastic liposome (39.9 +/- 3.2%) than using drug solution (3.8 +/- 1%); similarly the biological activity of optimized elastic liposome formulation was found to be threefold higher than the drug solution. On the basis of the results, it can be concluded that the elastic liposomal formulation provided sustained action of rizatriptan due to depot formation in the deeper layer of skin.
Paclitaxel, which is known to induce peripheral neuropathy in humans, was administered to BDF1 mice, and a neuropathological examination was then conducted. Paclitaxel was administered at a dose of 30 mg/kg once or several times at different intervals, 3 times, every 3 hours (q3hx3), every day (q1dx3), every 2 days (q2dx3) and 4 times, once a week (q7dx4). The spinal cord, spinal ganglion and peripheral nerves (sciatic and tibial) were then processed for neuropathological examination following perfusion of the anesthetized mice. The effect on the peripheral nerves was evaluated by counting the number of abnormal nerve fibers in the preparations of teased nerve fibers and in the epoxy resin 1-microm-thick sections. The drug-induced degeneration, such as axonal and myelin fragmentations and phagocytosis in the nerve fibers, was detected in the dorsal funiculus, the dorsal spinal roots and the peripheral nerves (sciatic and tibial). No drug-related degeneration was observed in the motor neurons in the spinal cord nor in the ventral spinal roots. The single treatment did not induce any changes. The severity of the degeneration was as follows: q2dx3>q1dx3>q3hx3 and q7dx4. The degeneration in the mice treated on q3hx3 and q7dx4 was very slight, but it was clear that paclitaxel also induced degeneration on these schedules. These results suggest that paclitaxel induces a predominantly sensory neuropathy in mice and the severity is obviously dependent on the treatment schedule.
Renal stent placement improves or cures hypertension in only 60-70% of patients with renal artery stenosis (RAS) and uncontrolled hypertension. There is a need to better identify patients who are likely to respond to percutaneous renal revascularization. We investigated whether an abnormal renal fractional flow reserve (FFR) would predict blood pressure improvement in patients undergoing renal artery stent placement.
We prospectively enrolled 17 patients with unilateral RAS and medically refractory hypertension (BP > 140/90 mm Hg). Renal FFR was measured at maximal hyperemia induced by papaverine followed by renal stent placement. Blood pressure improvement was defined as a blood pressure of <or=140/90 mm Hg or an absolute decrease in diastolic blood pressure by 15 mm Hg on the same or less number of medications. Patients not meeting the above criteria were nonresponders.
Renal stent placement was successful in all patients. The average follow-up was 10 +/- 2 months. In patients with an abnormal renal FFR (< 0.80) blood pressure improved at 90 days in 86% compared with 30% in the normal renal FFR group (P = 0.04). Translesional pressure gradients (resting, peak, or hyperemic) alone failed to differentiate blood pressure responders from nonresponders.
Renal FFR is a promising tool to identify patients likely to benefit following renal stent placement. This finding was independent of translesional pressure gradients, which did not predict blood pressure improvement. The ability to segregate patients with RAS and coexisting hypertension from those with renovascular hypertension may help clinicians select patients most likely to benefit from revascularization.
Abnormalities in WNT signaling are implicated in a broad range of developmental anomalies and also in tumorigenesis. Here we demonstrate that germline mutations in WTX (FAM123B), a gene that encodes a repressor of canonical WNT signaling, cause an X-linked sclerosing bone dysplasia, osteopathia striata congenita with cranial sclerosis (OSCS; MIM300373). This condition is typically characterized by increased bone density and craniofacial malformations in females and lethality in males. The mouse homolog of WTX is expressed in the fetal skeleton, and alternative splicing implicates plasma membrane localization of WTX as a factor associated with survival in males with OSCS. WTX has also been shown to be somatically inactivated in 11-29% of cases of Wilms tumor. Despite being germline for such mutations, individuals with OSCS are not predisposed to tumor development. The observed phenotypic discordance dependent upon whether a mutation is germline or occurs somatically suggests the existence of temporal or spatial constraints on the action of WTX during tumorigenesis.
