Carcinomas of the rat prostate induced by a single injection of N-methyl-N-nitrosourea, 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene, and 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl, after sequential treatment with cyproterone acetate and testosterone propionate, were evaluated as potential animal models for prostatic cancer. All ten carcinomas examined were located in the dorsolateral prostate region and did not involve the distal parts of the seminal vesicles and coagulating glands. The incidence of urinary obstruction leading to the animals' death was 6 of 10 rats, and metastases in the lung, abdominal lymph nodes, and/or liver also occurred in 6 of 10 rats. The tumors were invasive adenocarcinomas, showing frequent perineural invasion and a variable degree of differentiation. There were ultrastructural similarities with human prostatic carcinomas, such as intracellular lumina. Plasma acid phosphatase was increased. Enzyme histochemical analysis revealed similarities with the Dunning R3327H and -HI prostatic carcinomas but was not helpful in determining the site of origin of the tumors. The gross and microscopic appearance of the tumors and the observation of preneoplastic lesions exclusively located in the dorsolateral prostate suggest this lobe as site of origin of the carcinomas. Preneoplastic lesions (n = 9) included atypical hyperplasias (n = 5) and lesions with all histological characteristics of carcinoma except for local invasion and metastases, which were classified as carcinoma in situ (n = 4). Although androgen sensitivity could not be assessed, the observed characteristics of the tumors [their long latency time (46-80 weeks), the presence of preneoplastic lesions, and the short duration of the treatment, leaving the animals intact] all indicate that the present approach is a valid animal model for the study of prostatic carcinogenesis.
1. In four patients with nephrotic syndrome indomethacin not only reduced proteinuria but also inhibited the natriuretic effect of high doses of frusemide. 2. The inhibition of natriuresis by indomethacin could not be antagonized by albumin infusions. 3. Only the combined use of spironolactone and frusemide induced a natriuresis during indomethacin treatment. Spironolactone alone was ineffective. 4. It is suggested that inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis by indomethacin, in the presence of a stimulated renin-angiotensin system and hyperaldosteronism, may cause this strong tendency to sodium retention.
We categorize the three types of renal dysfunction associated with the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID): acute renal failure, acute interstitial nephritis, and hyperkalemia. The paper provides clinical examples of each type, discusses pathophysiology, and describes response to therapy, in addition to outlining the usefulness of labeled leukocyte nuclear studies and kidney biopsy. We conclude that these drugs are relatively common causes of renal dysfunction, particularly in selected subpopulations.
Eczema is very common and increasing in prevalence. Prospective studies investigating environmental and genetic risk factors for eczema in a birth cohort are lacking. We evaluated risk factors that may promote development of childhood eczema in the Cincinnati Childhood Allergy and Air Pollution Study (CCAAPS) birth cohort (n=762) of infants with at least one atopic parent. Objective environmental exposure data were available for each participant. At annual physical examinations, children underwent skin prick tests (SPTs), eczema was diagnosed by a clinician, and DNA was collected. Among Caucasian children, 39% developed eczema by age 3. Children with a pet dog were significantly less likely to have eczema at age one (odds ratio (OR)=0.62, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.40-0.97) or at both ages 2 and 3 (OR=0.54, 95% CI: 0.30-0.97). This finding was most significant among children carrying the CD14-159C/T CC genotype. Carriers of the CD14-159C/T and IL4Ralpha I75V single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) had an increased risk of eczema at both ages 2 and 3 (OR=3.44, 95% CI: 1.56-7.57), especially among children who were SPT+. These results provide new insights into the pathogenesis of eczema in high-risk children and support a protective role for early exposure to dog, especially among those carrying the CD14-159C/T SNP. The results also demonstrate a susceptibility effect of the combination of CD14 and IL4Ralpha SNPs with eczema.
Recent studies have shown that the elevation in calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) may play an important role in amphetamine-induced dopamine release, as well as in the increase of dopamine D2 receptor high-affinitystates in psychosis. Because amphetamine sensitization is a widely used animal model of psychosis or schizophrenia, we investigated whether amphetamine sensitization results in an overall increase in the alpha and beta subunits of CaMKII. To answer this question, we measured CaMKII alpha and beta subunit mRNA expression using Real-Time Quantitative PCR in amphetamine-sensitized rat striata, compared to saline-treated controls. The results were then standardized to beta-glucuronidase, a housekeeping gene. Our results showed a statistically significant increase in the CaMKII beta subunit, and an increase in the alpha subunit which did not reach statistical significance. Because the levels of both CaMKIIbeta and CaMKIIalpha play a role in neuronal function and synapse formation, the present finding of an elevated level of CaMKII beta and alpha subunit mRNA in the amphetamine-sensitized model of psychosis points to the possibility of dysregulated levels of CaMKII subunits in human psychosis.
Glycosylation plays a critical role in the biogenesis and function of membrane proteins. Transient receptor potential channel TRPP2 is a nonselective cation channel that is mutated in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease. TRPP2 has been shown to be heavily N-glycosylated, but the glycosylation sites and the biological role of N-linked glycosylation have not been investigated. Here we show, using a combination of mass spectrometry and biochemical approaches, that native TRPP2 is glycosylated at five asparagines in the first extracellular loop. Glycosylation is required for the efficient biogenesis of TRPP2 because mutations of the glycosylated asparagines result in strongly decreased protein expression of the ion channel. Wild-type and N-glycosylation-deficient TRPP2 is degraded in lysosomes, as shown by increased TRPP2 protein levels upon chemical inhibition of lysosomal degradation. In addition, using pharmacological and genetic approaches, we demonstrate that glucosidase II (GII) mediates glycan trimming of TRPP2. The non-catalytic β subunit of glucosidase II (GIIβ) is encoded by PRKCSH, one of the genes causing autosomal dominant polycystic liver disease (ADPLD). The impaired GIIβ-dependent glucose trimming of TRPP2 glycosylation in ADPLD may explain the decreased TRPP2 protein expression in Prkcsh(-/-) mice and the genetic interaction observed between TRPP2 and PRKCSH in ADPLD. These results highlight the biological importance of N-linked glycosylation and GII-mediated glycan trimming in the control of biogenesis and stability of TRPP2.
The protective effect of oral administration of the thiol compound sodium 2-mercaptoethane sulphonate (MESNA) against urothelial toxicity induced by ifosfamide (IF) was tested in a group of 45 patients with inoperable lung cancer under treatment with IF (2250 mg/m2 on days 2-5) as part of a polychemotherapy regimen repeated in a 4-week cycle. MESNA was given orally on the days of treatment with IF in 3 doses of 840 mg/m2, each administered at 0 hr (= injection of IF), 4 hr and 8 hr p.i. Out of a total of 88 courses of this treatment we observed 10 episodes of asymptomatic microscopic haematuria and no episodes of gross haematuria. In this group of 45 patients under protection with MESNA there were 5 complete remissions and 9 partial remissions (total 31%). A further group of 25 patients under polychemotherapy with IF were treated by conventional prophylactic measures (raised fluid intake and forced diuresis). In this group there were 1 complete and 5 partial remissions (total 24%), but nearly all patients developed either gross haematuria and/or symptoms of bladder irritation (cystitis and pollakisuria). There were no appreciable differences between the MESNA series and the conventional prophylaxis series with respect to either haematological or systemic toxicity of the cytostatic treatment. Our results support the view that MESNA, given orally in conjunction with combined cytostatic regimens which include IF, simplifies the treatment and provides optimum protection for the urinary epithelium. Protection with oral MESNA is particularly suitable for outpatients.
1. The PCO2 gradient between alkaline urine and arterial blood (U-B PCO2) is thought to depend primarily on distal hydrogen ion secretion. However, other variables affecting the U-B PCO2 include the urine flow rate, the urinary bicarbonate and phosphate excretion rates and the glomerular filtration rate. 2. In order to evaluate the effects of acute changes in these factors on the U-B PCO2, bicarbonate-loaded dogs with maximal U-B PCO2 values were subjected to either acute unilateral elevations of ureteral pressure or hypotension caused by nitroprusside infusion. The results demonstrate that acute reduction in the glomerular filtration rate does not cause a decrease in the U-B PCO2 as long as the urinary concentrations of phosphate and bicarbonate do not decline. 3. Urinary concentrations of phosphate and bicarbonate appeared more important than their excretion rates in the maintenance of elevated U-B PCO2 values.
In this study, we aimed to investigate the effect of vitamin A on the transformation of the Ito cells to fibrogenic form and suppression of the development of fibrosis. Carbon tetrachloride intoxication was performed on rats for 2, 8, 12 or 20 weeks and 5x10(4) IU vitamin A (as retinol palmitate) was injected subcutaneously once every 4 weeks. Ito cells were detected by gold chloride impregnation, as well as desmin and alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA) immunohistochemistry. Additionally, all groups were examined ultrastructurally. The number of Ito cells that were labelled positively with gold impregnation decreased in the fibrotic groups; however, alpha-SMA and desmin immunopositive Ito cells increased. The samples from animals that were treated with vitamin A showed an increase in labelling with gold impregnation but a decrease in alpha-SMA immunopositivity. The data showed that vitamin A can prevent hepatic injury, by suppressing the transformation of Ito cells to fibrogenic form. We conclude that vitamin A has potential for the treatment of hepatic fibrotic diseases. Alpha-SMA immunohistochemistry was found to be more informative than desmin immunohistochemistry for monitoring liver fibrosis.
Oxyntomodulin (OXM) is a gut hormone released from intestinal L cell. Synthetic OXM and its analog reduce food intake and body weight in both rodents and human beings by being administered intravenously. However, people find intravenous administration difficult because of its side effects and inconvenience. The aim of this study is to develop a novel oral delivery system for OXM and its analog using genetically engineered Bifidobacterium as the carrier.
An OXM gene expression vector pBBADs-OXM for the Bifidobacterium genus was constructed. Human OXM sequence was fused with extracellular exo-xylanase (XynF) signal peptide (Xs) from Bifidobacterium longum under the control of the pBAD promoter. B. longum NCC2705 was transformed with the recombinant plasmid pBBADs-OXM by electroporation, and the transformed B. longum was selected using MRS plates containing 60 microg ml(-1) ampicillin. The OXM expression in vitro was identified by western blot and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) assay after L-arabinose induction. Overweight BALB/c mice were treated with B. longum transformed with OXM after 0.2% L-arabinose induction every day for 4 weeks to investigate the effects of OXM-transformed B. longum on food intake and body weight by oral administration. The B. longum transformed with the green fluorescent protein (GFP) gene was used as negative control; orlistat, a gastrointestinal lipase inhibitor, was used as positive control; Normal saline (NS, 0.9% saline) was used as blank control. The food intakes of each group were measured every day, and body weights were measured once a week. Normal BALB/c (2 months old) mice were treated with OXM-transformed B. longum after induction by intragastric administration every day for 6 days to reveal the mechanism of transformed B. longum, with OXM exerting its biological function by oral administration. Plasma OXM, plasma ghrelin and the OXM of intestinal contents were detected by the ELISA method. Plasma glucose and triglyceride levels were analyzed using the Automatic Biochemistry Analyzer.
Transformed B. longum with OXM was selected and identified without biological and morphological alteration. An approximately 4-5 kDa OXM peptide was detected in both the supernatant and the cell pellet of transformed B. longum after L-arabinose induction in vitro. The food intake, body weight and blood triglyceride level of overweight mice treated with OXM-transformed B. longum were all significantly reduced compared with that of the GFP negative control group and NS control group (P<0.01). Interestingly, the plasma triglyceride level of the GFP group was significantly decreased compared with that of the NS control group (P<0.01). The OXM level in the intestinal contents of the OXM group was significantly increased compared with that of the GFP negative control group and the NS group (P<0.05). The plasma ghrelin level of the OXM group was significantly decreased compared with that of the GFP and NS groups (P<0.01). Unexpectedly, the ghrelin level of the GFP group was significantly increased compared with that of the NS control group (P<0.01).
A novel oral delivery system of Bifidobacterium for human OXM has been successfully established. The expression of recombinant OXM can be detected in the supernatant and cell pellet of transformed B. longum. OXM-transformed B. longum reduces food intake, body weight and plasma lipid level in overweight mice by oral administration.
Traffic-related particles induce oxidative stress and may exert adverse effects on central nervous system function, which could manifest as cognitive impairment.
We assessed the association between black carbon (BC), a marker of traffic-related air pollution, and cognition in older men.
A total of 680 men (mean ± SD, 71 ± 7 years of age) from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Normative Aging Study completed a battery of seven cognitive tests at least once between 1996 and 2007. We assessed long-term exposure to traffic-related air pollution using a validated spatiotemporal land-use regression model for BC.
The association between BC and cognition was nonlinear, and we log-transformed BC estimates for all analyses [ln(BC)]. In a multivariable-adjusted model, for each doubling in BC on the natural scale, the odds of having a Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score ≤ 25 was 1.3 times higher [95% confidence interval (CI), 1.1 to 1.6]. In a multivariable-adjusted model for global cognitive function, which combined scores from the remaining six tests, a doubling of BC was associated with a 0.054 SD lower test score (95% CI, -0.103 to -0.006), an effect size similar to that observed with a difference in age of 1.9 years in our data. We found no evidence of heterogeneity by cognitive test. In sensitivity analyses adjusting for past lead exposure, the association with MMSE scores was similar (odds ratio = 1.3; 95% CI, 1.1 to 1.7), but the association with global cognition was somewhat attenuated (-0.038 per doubling in BC; 95% CI, -0.089 to 0.012).
Ambient traffic-related air pollution was associated with decreased cognitive function in older men.
Past time-series studies of the health effects of fine particulate matter [aerodynamic diameter ≤ 2.5 µm (PM2.5)] have used chemically nonspecific PM2.5 mass. However, PM2.5 is known to vary in chemical composition with source, and health impacts may vary accordingly.
We tested the association between source-specific daily PM2.5 mass and hospital admissions in a time-series investigation that considered both single-lag and distributed-lag models.
Daily PM2.5 speciation measurements collected in midtown Manhattan were analyzed via positive matrix factorization source apportionment. Daily and distributed-lag generalized linear models of Medicare respiratory and cardiovascular hospital admissions during 2001-2002 considered PM2.5 mass and PM2.5 from five sources: transported sulfate, residual oil, traffic, steel metal works, and soil.
Source-related PM2.5 (specifically steel and traffic) was significantly associated with hospital admissions but not with total PM2.5 mass. Steel metal works-related PM2.5 was associated with respiratory admissions for multiple-lag days, especially during the cleanup efforts at the World Trade Center. Traffic-related PM2.5 was consistently associated with same-day cardiovascular admissions across disease-specific subcategories. PM2.5 constituents associated with each source (e.g., elemental carbon with traffic) were likewise associated with admissions in a consistent manner. Mean effects of distributed-lag models were significantly greater than were maximum single-day effect models for both steel- and traffic-related PM2.5.
Past analyses that have considered only PM2.5 mass or only maximum single-day lag effects have likely underestimated PM2.5 health effects by not considering source-specific and distributed-lag effects. Differing lag structures and disease specificity observed for steel-related versus traffic-related PM2.5 raise the possibility of distinct mechanistic pathways of health effects for particles of differing chemical composition.
The existence of an increased number of Kupffer cells is recognized as critical in the initiation of the inflammatory cascade leading to liver fibrosis. Because 5-lipoxygenase (5-LO) is a key regulator of cell growth and survival, in the current investigation we assessed whether inhibition of the 5-LO pathway would reduce the excessive number of Kupffer cells and attenuate inflammation and fibrosis in experimental liver disease. Kupffer cells were the only liver cell type endowed with a metabolically active 5-LO pathway (i.e., expressed mRNAs for 5-LO, 5-LO-activating protein [FLAP], and leukotriene [LT] C4 synthase and generated LTB4 and cysteinyl-LTs). Both the selective 5-LO inhibitor AA861 and the FLAP inhibitor BAY-X-1005 markedly reduced the number of Kupffer cells in culture. The antiproliferative properties of AA861 and BAY-X-1005 were associated with the occurrence of condensed nuclei, fragmented DNA, and changes in DNA content and cell cycle frequency distribution consistent with an apoptotic process. In vivo, in carbon tetrachloride-treated rats, BAY-X-1005 had a significant antifibrotic effect and reduced liver damage and the hepatic content of hydroxyproline. Together, these findings indicate a novel mechanism by which inactivation of the 5-LO pathway could disrupt the sequence of events leading to liver inflammation and fibrosis.
Amoxicillin is a widely used antibiotic, rarely being considered a cause of hepatic injury. We report the case of a 45-year-old woman who developed a vanishing bile duct syndrome 8 weeks after initiation of amoxicillin therapy. Liver biopsy showed destruction and loss of preformed bile ducts together with an inflammatory infiltrate involving eosinophilic leucocytes. Cholestasis was progressive despite prednisolone treatment and was accompanied by elevation of pancreatic enzymes. The patient died after 18 months from progressive liver failure. This case illustrates that amoxicillin alone can be a cause of progressive and ultimately fatal vanishing bile duct syndrome.
Cross-sections of the vas deferens taken from control adult male rats showed positive histochemical reactivity to acetylcholinesterase and immunoreactivity for antibodies to protein gene product 9.5, tyrosine hydroxylase, neuropeptide Y, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, nitric oxide synthase and calcitonin gene-related peptide. Immunoreactivity to substance P was very sparse. Histochemical reactivity to acetylcholinesterase and immunoreactivity to vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and nitric oxide synthase was concentrated in the subepithelial lamina propria and inner smooth muscle layers. Complete surgical denervation resulting from transection of the nerve arising from the pelvic ganglion which supplies the vas deferens totally abolished the immunoreactivity to all of the antibodies tested as well as the histochemical reactivity to acetylcholinesterase. In sections of the prostatic end of the vas deferens taken from rats neonatally pretreated with capsaicin, immunoreactivity to calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P was reduced by 75 and 83%, respectively. Immunoreactivity to neuropeptide Y, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and nitric oxide synthase was similar in tissue sections taken from capsaicin-treated rats and those taken from control tissues. Pretreatment of rats with guanethidine or 6-hydroxydopamine decreased immunoreactivity to tyrosine hydroxylase and neuropeptide Y by 60-70%, but immunoreactivity to substance P, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and nitric oxide synthase was unchanged, while immunoreactivity to calcitonin gene-related peptide and acetylcholinesterase staining was increased by guanethidine but not by 6-hydroxydopamine treatment. Triple labelling experiments showed nitric oxide synthase, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and acetylcholinesterase all to be co-localized in some nerve fibres. These results indicate that the nitric oxide synthase contained in the nerve fibres innervating the rat vas deferens is unaffected by pretreatment of rats with capsaicin, 6-hydroxydopamine or guanethidine but is abolished by surgical denervation, of postganglionic parasympathetic, sympathetic and sensory nerves. Therefore it appears that nitric oxide synthase is co-localized with vasoactive intestinal polypeptide in the postganglionic parasympathetic nerves which innervate the rat vas deferens.
Diabetic (DB) mice exhibit significant resistance to hepatotoxicants. The role of peroxisome proliferator receptor (PPAR)-alpha activation in diabetes, in protection against lethal acetaminophen (APAP) challenge, was investigated. Upon treatment with APAP (600 mg/kg, i.p., a LD100 dose in wild-type [WT] non-DB mice), WT-DB mice showed only 30% mortality and 40% less liver injury as measured by alanine aminotransferase and histopathology. In contrast, diabetes in PPAR knockout (PPAR-alpha-/-) mice failed to protect against APAP toxicity, suggesting the importance of PPAR-alpha in diabetes-induced protection. S-phase DNA synthesis and PCNA immunohistochemical staining after injury showed early and robust tissue repair in WT-DB mice, but not in the PPAR-alpha-/--DB mice. Microarray analyses were performed on livers from non-DB and DB (WT and PPAR-alpha-/-) mice at 0 and 12 h after APAP. Microarray data were confirmed via real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis of several genes, including stress response, immediate early genes, DNA damage, heat shock proteins, and cell cycle regulators, followed by Western analyses of selected proteins. Gel shift assays revealed higher activation of nuclear factor-kappaB in WT-DB mice after APAP treatment. These findings suggest PPAR-alpha activation as a hepatoprotective adaptive response mediating protection against APAP in diabetes.
Neurogenesis is a process of generation of new neurons in the hippocampus and associated with learning and memory. Carbofuran, a carbamate pesticide, elicits several neurochemical, neurophysiological, and neurobehavioral deficits. We evaluated whether chronic prenatal oral exposure of carbofuran during gestational days 7-21 alters postnatal hippocampal neurogenesis at postnatal day 21. We found carbofuran treatment significantly decreased bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) positive cell proliferation and long-term survival in the hippocampus only but not in the cerebellum. We observed a reduced number of transcription factor SOX-2 and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) colabeled cells, decreased nestin messenger RNA (mRNA) expression, and decreased histone-H3 phosphorylation following carbofuran treatment, suggesting a decreased pool of neural progenitor cells (NPC). Colocalization of BrdU with doublecortin (DCX), neuronal nuclei (NeuN), and GFAP suggested decreased neuronal differentiation and increased glial differentiation by carbofuran. The number of DCX(+) and NeuN(+) neurons, NeuN protein levels, and fibers length of DCX(+) neurons were decreased by carbofuran. Carbofuran caused a significant downregulation of mRNA expression of the neurogenic genes/transcription factors such as neuregulin, neurogenin, and neuroD1 and upregulation of the gliogenic gene Stat3. Carbofuran exposure led to increased BrdU/caspase 3 colabeled cells, an increased number of degenerative neurons and profound deficits in learning and memory processes. The number and size of primary neurospheres derived from the hippocampus of carbofuran-treated rats were decreased. These results suggest that early gestational carbofuran exposure diminishes neurogenesis, reduces the NPC pool, produces neurodegeneration in the hippocampus, and causes cognitive impairments in rat offspring.
One industrially important metal oxide nanoparticle (NP) is cadmium oxide (CdO). A study was performed using timed-pregnant CD-1 mice to determine if Cd associated with inhaled CdO NP could reach the placenta and adversely affect the developing fetus and/or neonate. Pregnant mice were exposed by inhalation either every other day to 100 μg of freshly generated CdO/m(3) (exposure 1) or daily to 230 μg CdO/m(3) (exposure 2). In each exposure, mice were exposed to CdO NP or carrier gas (control) for 2.5 h from 4.5 days post coitus (dpc) through 16.5 dpc. At 17.5 dpc, fetuses and placentas from both exposures 1 and 2 were collected, measured, and weighed. A subgroup from the second exposure was allowed to give birth, and neonates were weighed daily until weaning. Cadmium in the uterus and placenta, as well as in other maternal organs, was elevated in NP-treated mice, but was undetectable in fetuses at 17.5 dpc. Daily inhalation of 230 μg CdO NP/m(3) decreased the incidence of pregnancy (i.e., no evidence of implantation) by 23%, delayed maternal weight gain, altered placental weight, and decreased fetal length, as well as delayed neonatal growth. This study demonstrates that inhalation of CdO NP during pregnancy adversely affects reproductive fecundity and alters fetal and postnatal growth of the developing offspring.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are environmental toxicants that cause vascular inflammation and facilitate the development of brain metastases. The crucial event in metastasis formation is adhesion of blood-borne tumor cells to the vascular endothelium, followed by their transcapillary migration. The aim of the present study was to examine the mechanisms of PCB118-induced brain metastasis formation at the blood-brain barrier level with the focus on tumor cell adhesion to the brain endothelium. PCB118 was administered orally to wild-type or intercellular cell adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1)-deficient mice, followed by an injection of Lewis lung carcinoma cells into the carotid artery. Treatment with PCB118 resulted in enhanced development of brain metastases. Injection of tumor cells induced overexpression of ICAM-1 and vascular endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) in brain endothelium that was further potentiated in mice exposed to PCB118. PCB118 did not affect the number of adhered and extravasated tumor cells in ICAM-1-deficient mice. Additional in vitro studies indicated that VCAM-1-neutralizing antibody protected against PCB118-induced adhesion of tumor cells to cultured brain endothelial cells. These results indicate that exposure to selected PCB congeners, such as PCB118, induces adhesion and transcapillary migration of tumor cells. This process is facilitated by proinflammatory adhesion molecules and results in potentiation of brain metastasis formation.
Fexofenadine, a histamine H1-receptor antagonist, is approved for the treatment of pruritus associated with atopic dermatitis. The effects of fexofenadine on scratching behaviour, and plasma levels of histamine and eotaxin were assessed in a new model of atopic dermatitis. Mice fed a diet low in Mg2+ and Zn2+ (special diet S) were compared with mice on a normal diet (N) or diet S plus fexofenadine HCl for weeks 0-10 (S + F(0-10)), 0-5 (S + F(0-5)) or 6 - 10 (S + F(6-10)) (seven mice per group). Compared with group N, group S mice showed significantly greater scratching frequency, and plasma histamine and eotaxin concentrations; these three variables were significantly lower in group S + F(0-10) than in group S. Scratching frequency increased when fexofenadine was discontinued. Fexofenadine significantly reduced mast cell and eosinophil numbers. Histamine may be important in the pathological changes seen in this model of atopic dermatitis, suggesting that it might aid future development of antihistamines for the treatment of atopic dermatitis.
Risperidone is a serotonin - dopamine antagonist which has got less propensity to cause tardive dyskinesia than conventional antipsychotics. There have been few reports of tardive dyskinesia induced by risperidone. This is a report of a case of risperidone induced tardive dyskinesia. A 56 year old female with a 6 months history of paranoid schizophrenia, developed bucco-oro-masticatory abnormal involuntary movements after receiving risperidone 8 mg/day for about 1 year. She had some of the risk factors for the development of tardive dyskinesia like age, sex, anti-chotinergic drugs and earlier emergence of neuroleptic-induced parkinsonism. Clinicians must be aware of the possibility of the patients developing tardive dyskinesia when they are given the supposedly safe neuroleptic risperidone.
Stress stimuli can lead to remodeling of the actin cytoskeleton and subsequent alteration of cell adhesion and permeation as well as cell functions and cell fate. We investigated redox-dependent Rho GTPase-linked pathways controlling the actin cytoskeleton in the inner ear of the CBA mouse, by using aminoglycoside antibiotics as a noxious stimulus that causes loss of sensory cells via the formation of reactive oxygen species. Kanamycin treatment in vivo interfered with the formation of F-actin, disturbed the arrangement of beta-actin in the stereocilia of outer hair cells, and altered the intermittent adherens junction/tight junction complexes between outer hair cells and supporting cells. The drug treatment also activated Rac1 and promoted the formation of the complex of Rac1 and p67phox while decreasing the activity of RhoA and reducing the formation of the RhoA/p140mDia complex. In inner-ear-derived cell lines, expression of mutated Rac1 changed the structural arrangement of F-actin and diminished the immunoreactivity of p140mDia. These findings suggest that actin depolymerization induced by kanamycin is mediated by Rac1 activation, followed by the formation of superoxide by NADPH oxidase. These changes will ultimately contribute to aminoglycoside-induced loss of hair cells.
To determine the comparative levels of violent offending and victimization among regular methamphetamine and heroin users.
Cross-sectional Setting Sydney, Australia.
A total of 400 regular methamphetamine (METH) and heroin (HER) users (118 methamphetamine users: METH; 161 regular heroin users: HER; 121 regular users of both: BOTH).
Eighty-two per cent reported a life-time history of committing violent crime, 41% in the past 12 months. There were no group differences in life-time violence, but the METH group were significantly more likely than the HER group to have committed violence in the past 12 months (odds ratio 1.94). Nearly all (95%) reported that they had been a victim of violent crime, 46% in the preceding 12 months, with no group differences. Those who had committed a violent crime in the past 12 months were 13.23 times more likely to have been a victim in that period. The majority believed it unlikely that they would be a victim of (78%), or commit (87%), a violent crime in the next 12 months.
Regular methamphetamine use appears to be associated with an increased risk of violent offending, but not victimization, compared with heroin use.
After 12 cycles of MOPP therapy for Hodgkin's Disease, an adolescent black male developed hemorrhagic cystitis, which clinically and histologically was similar to that induced by cyclophosphamide. At that time he had a normal platelet count and had never been irradiated below the diaphram. The markedly contracted bladder returned to normal approximately one month following cessation of therapy.
