There have been only two reports of cimetidine-induced hepatitis. Such a low incidence suggests a hypersensitivity type of reaction. The case of an adult who developed both hepatic dysfunction and an impaired macrophage migration after exposure to cimetidine is discussed.
The purpose of this study was to determine the plasma level of clozapine and its metabolite, N-desmethylclozapine, in Parkinson's disease patients with L-DOPA-induced psychosis responsive to clozapine. The psychotic symptoms of the three patients studied responded to low doses of clozapine with plasma levels of clozapine between 4.5 and 16.1 ng/ml and N-desmethylclozapine between 2.6 and 6.1 ng/ml, much below the plasma clozapine levels usually found in clozapine-treated refractory schizophrenia or affective disorders (range 100 to 687 ng/ml). Possible mechanisms that may account for clozapine's antipsychotic action in dopaminomimetic-induced psychosis in Parkinson's disease, including serotonin2A (5-HT2A) and dopamine D4 receptor blockade, at plasma levels that would be ineffective in refractory schizophrenia, are discussed. It is suggested that 5-HT2A receptor blockade is the most likely basis for the effectiveness of clozapine in L-DOPA psychosis.
Dopamine (DA) has long been implicated in impulsivity, but the precise mechanisms linking human variability in DA signaling to differences in impulsive traits remain largely unknown. By using a dual-scan positron emission tomography approach in healthy human volunteers with amphetamine and the D2/D3 ligand [18F]fallypride, we found that higher levels of trait impulsivity were predicted by diminished midbrain D2/D3 autoreceptor binding and greater amphetamine-induced DA release in the striatum, which was in turn associated with stimulant craving. Path analysis confirmed that the impact of decreased midbrain D2/D3 autoreceptor availability on trait impulsivity is mediated in part through its effect on stimulated striatal DA release.
A 75-year old female underwent coronary angiography for chest pain. Significant proximal stenosis of the left coronary artery was found. During the waiting time for bypass surgery, intravenous heparin treatment was established for several days because of recurrent unstable angina pectoris. 10 days after coronary angiography an acute event with chest pain, hypotension, tachycardia and a new right bundle branch block suspect for myocardial infarction occurred, which was treated with rt-PA. Fever, persistent hypotension, acute progressive renal failure and thrombocytopenia suggested septic shock, and the patient was transferred to our hospital. A pulmonary artery catheter could not be advanced beyond the main stem of the pulmonary artery. The patient died suddenly 24 hours later from acute right ventricular failure. Autopsy demonstrated multiple white clots in both pulmonary arteries. The histological finding of clots rich in leukocytes and fibrin was compatible with the diagnosis of heparin-induced thrombosis-thrombocytopenia or white clot syndrome. Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia may occur after about 5 days of treatment. Two distinct types have been described. The first type occurs in up to 25% of patients receiving heparin and is a result of temporary platelet aggregation, margination and peripheral sequestration. The less common second type of thrombocytopenia is thought to be mediated by a heparin-dependent IgG antibody inducing platelet aggregation and may be associated with thromboembolic events leading to the white clot syndrome, which is rarely reported in the literature. In these cases heparin should be stopped immediately and replaced by oral anticoagulation. Other therapies such as low molecular weight heparin, synthetic heparinoids, hirudin, fibrinolytic agents, plasmapheresis and intravenous immunoglobulins are discussed. Monitoring of the platelet count every 5 days in patients receiving heparin for any extended period should become standard medical practice to avoid potential fatal complications.
A 12-year-old boy with corticosteroid-responsive mitochondrial encephalomyopathy, lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes (MELAS) is described. His mother proved to have an asymptomatic mitochondrial myopathy on examination of a muscle biopsy specimen. Three weeks after the onset of vomiting, headache, ataxia and visual and speech impairment, he presented with a background of somatic growth retardation, deafness and school failure. Examination revealed disorientation, dysphasia, dyspraxia, optic atrophy, hemianopia, hemiparesis and sensory inattention. A cranial computed tomographic scan disclosed a large, low-density area, which was consistent with infarction, in the left posterior hemisphere and marked calcification of the basal ganglia bilaterally. Within two weeks of the commencement of corticosteroid treatment, the neurological dysfunction resolved. Attempts to decrease the dosage of dexamethasone caused an exacerbation of symptoms repeatedly. Two weeks after ceasing corticosteroid therapy, the patient developed a serious neurological relapse and a new, large, low-density area, which resembled an infarction, in the right posterior hemisphere on a computed tomographic scan. The reintroduction of corticosteroid therapy again resulted in the rapid resolution of all symptoms. It became evident that the patient had an exquisitely sensitive corticosteroid dependency, whereby a reduction in the dexamethasone dosage of even 0.25 mg a day caused confusion, headaches and increasing lactic acidaemia. Although it is difficult to assess the impact of various therapies in MELAS because of the episodic natural course of the disease, this remarkable corticosteroid responsiveness also has been noted in four previously reported patients with MELAS syndrome; therefore, it would seem reasonable to suggest that corticosteroid therapy now should be considered as standard treatment for this condition. However, corticosteroid therapy in other forms of mitochondrial disorders still awaits careful evaluation.
The WWOX gene is down-regulated in breast cancer and loss of Wwox expression correlates with important clinical features of breast cancer. Thus, we have examined the effect of restoration of Wwox expression in breast cancer-derived cells.
Wwox protein expression was restored by the following: (a) infection with a recombinant adenovirus carrying WWOX cDNA (Ad-WWOX) or (b) treatment with the DNA methyltransferase inhibitor, 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine, to activate the endogenous WWOX gene, in breast cancer-derived cells in vitro and in vivo.
Restoration of Wwox expression led to suppression of growth of Wwox-deficient breast cancer-derived cells, through activation of the intrinsic caspase pathway, but did not affect growth of Wwox-sufficient MCF7 cells. Intratumoral Wwox restoration, through Ad-WWOX infection or endogenous Wwox reactivation by 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine injection, suppressed tumor growth in nude mice by inducing apoptosis. Alteration of global methylation levels was not observed.
The results confirm that overexpression of exogenous Wwox inhibits breast cancer cell growth in vitro and in vivo and, perhaps more importantly, shows that restoration of endogenous Wwox expression, and likely other proteins, by treatment with a de novo methyltransferase inhibitor, also inhibits breast cancer cell growth and reverses breast cancer xenograft growth.
1, 2-Dimethylhydrazine treatment induced multiple colon tumors in 100% of NMRI mice. Many of these tumors were transplanted and yielded five serially transplantable tumor lines. These subcutaneously transplanted neoplasms were all adenocarcinomas varying in degree of differentiation and mucin production. No evidence of dedifferentiation or change in growth rate has been seen in up to six transplant generations. These tumor lines appeared to provide relatively stable, well-differentiated models for colorectal cancer.
-A prevalence comparison of hypertension among subjects with and those without arsenic exposure through drinking water was conducted in Bangladesh to confirm or refute an earlier observation of a relation in this respect. Wells with and without present arsenic contamination were identified, and we interviewed and examined 1595 subjects who were depending on drinking water from these wells for living, all >/=30 years of age. The interview was based on a questionnaire, and arsenic exposure was estimated from the history of well-water consumption and current arsenic levels. Of the 1595 subjects studied, 1481 had a history of arsenic-contaminated drinking water, whereas 114 had not. Time-weighted mean arsenic levels (in milligrams per liter) and milligram-years per liter of arsenic exposure were estimated for each subject. Exposure categories were assessed as <0.5 mg/L, 0.5 to 1.0 mg/L, and >1.0 mg/L and alternatively as <1.0 mg-y/L, 1.0 to 5.0 mg-y/L, >5.0 but </=10.0 mg-y/L, and >10.0 mg-y/L, respectively. Hypertension was defined as a systolic blood pressure of >/=140 mm Hg in combination with a diastolic blood pressure of >/=90 mm Hg. Corresponding to the exposure categories, and using "unexposed" as the reference, the prevalence ratios for hypertension adjusted for age, sex, and body mass index were 1.2, 2.2, 2.5 and 0.8, 1.5, 2.2, 3.0, in relation to arsenic exposure in milligrams per liter and milligram-years per liter, respectively. The indicated dose-response relationships were significant (P<0.001) for both series of risk estimates. These results suggest that arsenic exposure may induce hypertension in humans.
A previously non-epileptic 17-year-old patient presented with 2 generalized epileptic seizures, which occurred at 6 months of interval, following the oral intake of 200-250 mg of tramadol. Urine analysis showed only the product and its metabolites. Epileptic seizures induced by tramadol and high risk factors are described and discussed.
Four cases of amiodarone-induced restrictive, hypoxaemic lung disease are described. The cumulative dosages of amiodarone were relatively low (30 to 100 g). Alveolar lavage studies showed a lymphocytosis and study of the lymphocytic sub-populations showed an increase in the OKT8 group, and an inversion of the OKT4/OKT8 ratio. The outcome was favourable on withdrawal of amiodarone and steroid therapy. The immunological origin of this form of lung disease was confirmed. Two patients had renal failure; in the first case, hypercalcaemia, hyperphosphoremia and renal calcification were observed. The second patient had endo- and extracapillary glomerulonephritis with C3 deposits and circulating immune complexes. Renal failure regressed in both cases on withdrawal of amiodarone and with steroid therapy.
Atherosclerosis is a complex vascular inflammatory disease. Oxidized low-density lipoprotein (ox-LDL) is directly associated with chronic vascular inflammation. In this study, we hypothesized that nonselective cyclooxygenase inhibitor aspirin might affect the ox-LDL-induced inflammatory responses on human endothelial cells. To test this assumption, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) expression, IkappaB and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) phosphorylation were determined in endothelial cells exposed to ox-LDL in the presence of aspirin. The results showed that aspirin significantly suppressed COX-2 and ICAM-1 expression induced by ox-LDL and also inhibited IkappaB phosphorylation in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Moreover, aspirin reduced the level of p38 MAPK phosphorylation. Our findings suggest that aspirin can decrease inflammatory responses induced by ox-LDL, and the mechanism might be associated with NF-kappaB activation pathway and inhibition of p38 MAPK phosphorylation.
In this report, the temporal sequence of myopathology during a clofibrate-induced muscular syndrome and its recovery in rats is described using histopathologic, histochemical and electron microscopic technics. Two stages of myopathology are described: an early stage characterized by myopathic features, and a later stage characterized by neurogenic features. Although muscle histology returns to normal after 1 week of discontinuing the drug, electron microscopic abnormalities persist through the second week. It is proposed that clofibrate, in addition to its myotoxic effect, may be neurotoxic.
It has been shown that infusions of low-dose angiotensin II (Ang II) for 2 weeks lead to impaired pressure natriuresis and autoregulatory capability. Although intrarenal renin content and renin mRNA levels are markedly reduced, whole-kidney Ang II content has been shown to be increased. However, the intrarenal distribution of the increased intrarenal Ang II has not been established.
To determine the concentrations of Ang II in the proximal tubule fluid achieved in hypertensive rats (n = 16) infused with Ang II, previously prepared by infusion with Ang II at 60 ng/min via osmotic minipump for 13 days.
Rats were anesthetized with pentobarbital sodium and prepared for micropuncture, and then several free-flow proximal tubular fluid collections were obtained and pooled for each rat. At the end of each experiment, a blood sample was collected and the micropunctured kidney was excised and homogenized in chilled methanol. All samples were extracted immediately after collection and stored at 20 degrees C until the day of Ang II radioimmunoassay.
Mean arterial blood pressure averaged 179 +/- 3 mmHg, renal plasma flow was 1.89 +/- 0.15 ml/min per g, and glomerular filtration rate averaged 0.58 +/- 0.04 ml/min per g. The Ang II concentration in proximal tubular fluid averaged 4.5 +/- 1.1 pmol/ml, a value substantially greater than the Ang II concentrations in plasma (0.17 +/- 0.03 pmol/ml), urine (0.06 +/- 0.01 pmol/ml), or total kidney tissue (0.40 +/- 0.10 pmol/g). Plasma renin activity (1.0 +/- 0.21 ng Ang I/ml per h) was markedly suppressed, as observed previously. CONCLUSIONS These findings indicate that Ang II concentrations in proximal tubular fluid collected from kidneys of anesthetized hypertensive rats infused with Ang II are in the nanomolar range, similar to those observed in normotensive rats. The inappropriate maintenance of nanomolar concentrations of Ang II in proximal tubular fluid of Ang II-infused hypertensive rats, even at markedly increased arterial pressures, may contribute to the impaired pressure natriuresis capability previously reported and, thereby, to the development and maintenance of hypertension in this model.
Experimental evidence suggests that in conditions associated with an activated renin-angiotensin system, unopposed activity of angiotensin II underlies the marked renal vasoconstrictor response to nitric oxide synthase inhibition. In the present study, we investigated whether this holds true in hypertensive subjects pretreated with hydrochlorothiazide (HCT).
Systemic N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) infusions (12.5 microg/kg per min for 40 min) were given to eight hypertensive subjects (age 53 +/- 6 years) during placebo, and during pretreatment with HCT (25 mg once daily) or HCT and losartan (LOS) (50 mg twice daily), both for 9 days. The glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and renal plasma flow were estimated from the clearances of radiolabeled thalamate and hippuran. Renal blood flow (RBF) was calculated as renal plasma flow/1 - hematocrit and the renal vascular resistance (RVR) as mean arterial pressure (MAP) divided by RBF.
Compared with placebo, plasma renin increased (P < 0.001) from 15 +/- 4 mU/l during placebo to 26 +/- 7 mU/l during HCT and to 133 +/- 51 mU/l during HCT + LOS. MAP (110 +/- 3 mmHg) decreased to 102 +/- 4 mmHg during HCT and to 98 +/- 5 mmHg during HCT + LOS. RBF (579 +/- 36 ml/min), GFR (97 +/- 6 ml/min) and filtration fraction (29 +/- 2%) did not change, whereas RVR (200 +/- 15 RU) decreased to 183 +/- 13 RU during HCT and to 165 +/- 14 RU during HCT + LOS (P < 0.05). In response to L-NAME, MAP and RVR increased maximally by 10 +/- 3 and 67 +/- 9%, whereas RBF and GFR decreased maximally by 42 +/- 6 and 18 +/- 4%. Compared with these responses, the responses of MAP, RBF and RVR were not affected by pretreatment of HCT or HCT + LOS, but the L-NAME-induced decrease in GFR (26 +/- 5% during HCT and 29 +/- 5% during HCT and LOS) was enhanced (P < 0.01).
In hypertensive subjects with an activated renin-angiotensin system, unopposed activity of angiotensin II is not involved in L-NAME-induced pressor and renal vasoconstrictor response, whereas the L-NAME-induced decrease in GFR is enhanced, indicating greater dependency of GFR on nitric oxide-mediated vasodilator tone during sodium depletion.
The efficacy of magnesium therapy in patients with ventricular tachycardia has previously been reported. Recently completed and ongoing studies validate earlier observations that potassium and magnesium supplementation may control other cardiac arrhythmias, particularly in hypomagnesemic patients. Magnesium treatment is a viable therapeutic option when other antiarrhythmic agents fail to suppress ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, multifocal atrial tachycardia, atrial fibrillation and supraventricular tachycardia.
Occlusion of the central retinal artery with loss of all vision occurred in a 38-year-old white woman given a retrobulbar injection of betamethasone acetate and betamethasone disodium phosphate (Celestone Soluspan) for the treatment of a retrobulbar neuritis. Ophthalmoscopy revealed embolic, whitish material within several of the small retinal arterioles and capillaries. This, together with the absence of any signs of retrobulbar hemorrhage, suggested that the corticosteroid material was accidentally injected into a branch of the central retinal artery and subsequently passed into the main vessel.
To report a case of methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA) bacteremia with suspected MSSA meningitis treated with high-dose daptomycin assessed with concurrent serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations.
A 54-year-old male presented to the emergency department with generalized weakness and presumed health-care-associated pneumonia shown on chest radiograph. Treatment was empirically initiated with vancomycin, levofloxacin, and piperacillin/tazobactam. Blood cultures revealed S. aureus susceptible to oxacillin. Empiric antibiotic treatment was narrowed to nafcillin on day 4. On day 8, the patient developed acute renal failure (serum creatinine 1.9 mg/dL, increased from 1.2 mg/dL the previous day and 0.8 mg/dL on admission). The patient's Glasgow Coma Score was 3, with normal findings shown on computed tomography scan of the head 72 hours following an episode of cardiac arrest on day 10. The patient experienced relapsing MSSA bacteremia on day 9, increasing the suspicion for a central nervous system (CNS) infection. Nafcillin was discontinued and daptomycin 9 mg/kg daily was initiated for suspected meningitis and was continued until the patient's death on day 16. Daptomycin serum and CSF trough concentrations were 11.21 μg/mL and 0.52 μg/mL, respectively, prior to the third dose. Lumbar puncture results were inconclusive and no further blood cultures were positive for MSSA. Creatine kinase levels were normal prior to daptomycin therapy and were not reassessed.
Daptomycin was initiated in our patient secondary to possible nafcillin-induced acute interstitial nephritis and relapsing bacteremia. At a dose of 9 mg/kg, resultant penetration of 5% was higher than in previous reports, more consistent with inflamed meninges.
High-dose daptomycin may be an alternative option for MSSA bacteremia with or without a CNS source in patients who have failed or cannot tolerate standard therapy. Further clinical evaluation in patients with confirmed meningitis is warranted.
Individuals receiving lithium carbonate commonly have nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. There is no effective and practical treatment for this condition. We have found that large doses of desmopressin (DDAVP) may provide effective therapy without adverse effects. A recent report showed that indomethacin improved nephrogenic diabetes insipidus that had persisted after the lithium therapy was discontinued. We have provided additional evidence that indomethacin may be effective, even when treatment with lithium is continued. We also have shown that indomethacin together with desmopressin can markedly decrease polyuria, though indomethacin must be used with care because it may impair renal function.
Three cases of papilledema secondary to chronic excessive vitamin A intake are presented, and the optic disk changes are documented with intravenous fluorescein angiography. Two of the three patients reported in this study were symptomatic with blurred vision and systemic complaints. The symptoms of blurred vision and systemic complaints disappeared within one week, and papilledema resolved over several months after discontinuance of vitamin A. The fluorescein angiographic changes observed in the optic disk of patients with hypervitaminosis A are similar to those associated with other known causes of papilledema. Since vitamin A is a nonprescription drug, and its indiscriminate use is potentially great, any history of vitamin ingestion should be elicited during the evaluation of papilledema.
Chlorpyrifos (CPF) is an organophosphate (OP) insecticide that is metabolically activated to the highly toxic chlorpyrifos oxon. Dietary exposure is the main route of intoxication for non-occupational exposures. However, only limited behavioral effects of chronic dietary exposure have been investigated. Therefore, male Wistar rats were fed a dose of 5mg/kg/day of CPF for thirty-one weeks. Animals were evaluated in spatial learning and impulsivity tasks after 21 weeks of CPF dietary exposure and one week after exposure ended, respectively. In addition, the degree of inhibition of brain acetylcholinesterase (AChE) was evaluated for both the soluble and particulate forms of the enzyme, as well as AChE gene expression. Also, brain acylpeptide hydrolase (APH) was investigated as an alternative target for OP-mediated effects. All variables were evaluated at various time points in response to CPF diet and after exposure ended. Results from behavioral procedures suggest cognitive and emotional disorders. Moreover, low levels of activity representing membrane-bound oligomeric forms (tetramers) were also observed. In addition, increased brain AChE-R mRNA levels were detected after four weeks of CPF dietary exposure. However, no changes in levels of brain APH were observed among groups. In conclusion, our data point to a relationship between cognitive impairments and changes in AChE forms, specifically to a high inhibition of the particulate form and a modification of alternative splicing of mRNA during CPF dietary exposure.
The prognostic significance of a de novo sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmia occurring during a dobutamine infusion is unknown. This study was performed to determine (1) the risk of recurrent ventricular arrhythmia, (2) the safety of future dobutamine infusions, and (3) the role of electrophysiologic testing. The study population consisted of 15 patients, six with coronary artery disease, and nine with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. Mean ejection fraction was 17% +/- 4.1%. The arrhythmia during the infusion was ventricular tachycardia in 13 patients and ventricular fibrillation in two patients and was not associated with preceding hemodynamic instability, electrolyte abnormality, digoxin toxicity, or antiarrhythmic drug therapy. During electrophysiologic testing, 7 of 15 patients had inducible ventricular tachycardia. All patients with inducible ventricular tachycardia were treated with either antiarrhythmic drugs, defibrillators, or ablation. Over a 12.3 +/- 5.2 month follow-up period, all 15 patients received further dobutamine treatment. Seven of 15 (47%) had a recurrent sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmia. Although three of seven recurrences occurred during a dobutamine infusion, all three of these patients had hemodynamically unstable conditions and were receiving high-dose (> 10 micrograms/kg/min) therapy at the time of recurrence. The other four recurrent arrhythmias were not associated with clear precipitating factors. Ejection fraction, origin of left ventricular dysfunction, and inducibility at baseline electrophysiologic testing did not predict arrhythmia recurrence. The de novo occurrence of a sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmia during dobutamine infusion is associated with a significant risk of arrhythmia recurrence (47%), which can occur in the presence or absence of dobutamine therapy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In this study, we evaluated the effect of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) on renal and hepatic function using an experimental cirrhosis model plus acute liver damage (ALD). Male Wistar rats treated with carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) for 8 weeks were used for the cirrhosis model. Cirrhotic rats were further exposed to an additional acute dose of CCl4 to induce ALD and then treated with PGE2 intramuscularly twice a day for 7 days (200 microg/Kg/day). PGE2 administration started 3 h after the additional dosing of CCl4 and PGE2 effect on hepatorenal function was examined on days 1, 2, 3, and 7. PGE2-treatment ameliorated the decrease in urinary sodium excretion, and normalized serum activities of aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and plasma renin observed in cirrhotic rats with ALD. In addition, PGE2-treatment decreased mean arterial pressure, glomerular hypercellularity and thickening of the kidney capillary wall, and liver steatosis and cellular necrosis. Also, PGE2 increased the number of regenerative nodules. Finally, PGE2-treatment inhibited the increase in Alpha 1-acid glycoprotein (pAGP), fibrinogen, and Apo A-1 mRNA expression by 83%, 59%, and 77%, respectively. These results suggest that PGE2 administration may decrease the expression of acute phase proteins. In conclusion, PGE2-treatment improved hepatic and renal function and may be useful to down-regulate the acute phase response in cirrhotic rats presenting ALD induced by CCl4.
Drug-induced calculi are often mis-diagnosed because of inadequate analysis of the urinary calculi. These stones can only be characterized unambiguously by global physical methods like infra-red spectrophotometry. From a series of 2,000 calculi analysed under infra-red, we identified 22, i.e. 1.1% of cases, which contained, partly or entirely, drug products. Ten other cases are still being studied. Amongst the products identified we found metabolites of glafenine (Glifanan) in 7 cases, triamterene and its derivatives (Cycloteriam) in 7 cases, metabolites of phenazopyridine (Pyridium) in 4 cases, sulphonamides in 2 cases : N-acetylsulphamethoxazole hydrochloride (Bactrim) and N-acetylsulphaguanidine (Guanidan), flumequine (Apurone) in 1 case and calcite (Cal-Mag-Na) in 1 case. The authors estimate that about 100,000 calculi are excreted in France each year and that at least 1,000 of these potentially contain drugs and are not diagnosed. Early recognition of drug induced stones is essential in order to protect the patient from recurrences, the risks of renal complications or, more simply, from useless therapeutic or dietetic regimes.
Inositol, a glucose isomer and second messenger precursor, regulates numerous cellular functions and has demonstrated efficacy in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) through mechanisms that remain unclear. The effect of inositol treatment on brain function in OCD has not been studied to date. Fourteen OCD subjects underwent single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with Tc-99m HMPAO before and after 12 weeks of treatment with inositol. Whole brain voxel-wise SPM was used to assess differences in perfusion between responders and nonresponders before and after treatment as well as the effect of treatment for the group as a whole. There was 1) deactivation in OCD responders relative to nonresponders following treatment with inositol in the left superior temporal gyrus, middle frontal gyrus and precuneus, and the right paramedian post-central gyrus; 2) no significant regions of deactivation for the group as a whole posttreatment; and 3) a single cluster of higher perfusion in the left medial prefrontal region in responders compared to nonresponders at baseline. Significant reductions in the YBOCS and CGI-severity scores followed treatment. These data are only partly consistent with previous functional imaging work on OCD. They may support the idea that inositol effects a clinical response through alternate neuronal circuitry to the SSRIs and may complement animal work proposing an overlapping but distinct mechanism of action.
