Induction of anesthesia and tracheal intubation in small children with a difficult airway is a challenging task. We report the experience with a procedure based on sevoflurane inhalation via a nasopharyngeal airway inserted early during induction before airway obstruction occurs. A pediatric fiberscope is used to perform a nasotracheal intubation via the opposite nostril.
All small children with suspected or known difficult airway needing tracheal intubation were scheduled for a fiberoptic intubation following the described protocol.
In 3 years, we performed 27 successful fiberoptic guided tracheal intubations in 19 children, median age 8.2 months (1.0-39.1 months) and median weight 7.6 kg (3.0-15.0 kg). The optimal depth for placement of the nasopharyngeal airway was found to be 8.0 cm (7.0-8.5 cm) from the nostril in the first year of life and 8.5 cm (8.0-10 cm) in the second year. Oxygenation was sufficient during the entire procedure in all cases except one child who had short-lasting laryngeal spasm caused by instillation of lidocaine during light anesthesia. The duration of fiberoptic intubation was significantly shorter when performed by an experienced anesthesiologist (55 s vs. 120 s), but there was no significant correlation between the duration of fiberoscopy and oxygen saturation during fiberoscopy or endtidal CO(2) after intubation.
The combination of nasopharyngeal airway and fiberoptic guided tracheal intubation seems to be a reliable and safe procedure for managing the difficult airway in small children.
Combined spinal-epidural (CSE) analgesia is an effective technique for pain control in labor and is particularly useful in the active phase. Excessive doses of intrathecal bupivacaine may be associated with adverse effects. This study is designed to estimate the ED95 for intrathecal plain bupivacaine with fentanyl 15 microg in labor.
Forty healthy women in active labor (cervical dilatation > or = 5 cm and verbal numeric pain score > or = 6/10) were given CSE for labor analgesia with intrathecal plain bupivacaine and fentanyl 15 microg. The initial dose of bupivacaine was 1.75 mg. Doses were varied in a 0.25-mg testing interval according to a method of sequential allocation designed to cluster the dose around the ED95. Effectiveness was defined as a verbal numeric pain score < or = 1 within 10 min of intrathecal injection.
There was a 100% response rate to the 1.75-mg dose (95% CI 84.6-100.0%) and an 85.0% response rate to 1.50 mg (95% CI 64.0-95.8%). The ED95 for intrathecal plain bupivacaine with fentanyl 15 microg in active labor was 1.66 mg (95% CI 1.50-482.5 mg). The incidence of fetal bradycardia was 7.5%. The incidence of pruritus was 55%. No patient experienced motor block.
This is the first dose-finding study specifically designed to estimate the ED95 of intrathecal bupivacaine combined with a fixed amount of fentanyl for analgesia in active labor. The combination of bupivacaine 1.75 mg with fentanyl 15 microg rapidly and reliably alleviated pain in the active phase of labor.
Recently we reported that intrathalamic microinjection of carbachol triggers generalized convulsive seizures (GCS) followed by severe inflammatory response including edema, microhemorrhages, and subsequent degeneration of amygdaloallocortical area. Our further observations of increased expression of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin (IL)-1β immunoreactivity (IR) confirmed the inflammatory nature of the brain damage following GCS. In the presented experiments, we addressed possible effects of a nonspecific cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitor (ibuprofen), in the development of inflammatory response following thalamic-induced GCS.
In male Wistar rats, intrathalamic microinjection of carbachol (55 nm, 100 nl) within 2 h induced three to four episodes of GCS of an average duration of 57 s, each which led to the development of edema associated with microhemorrhages at 72 h and changes in expression of TNF-α/IL-1β IR in the amygdaloallocortical area as revealed by immunohistochemistry at 24 h.
Ibuprofen when administered intraperitoneally 30 min after the episode of GCS dramatically increased edema and microhemorrhages. It also increased expression of TNF-α/IL-1β in microvessels and decreased IL-1β IR in microglia/macrophages.
Experiments suggest that in our model, inhibition of COX pathway early after GCS may increase rather than reduce the inflammatory consequences of GCS, suggesting that COX products may have a negative feedback effect on the development of edema by modifying the expression of "proinflammatory" cytokines. There is also a possibility that ibuprofen may exert its action through other than COX-associated pathways.
To compare the effect of enalapril with long-acting nifedipine on orthostatic hypotension in older patients.
A prospective, double blinded, cross-over study.
The outpatient clinic of a university hospital.
Thirty-nine patients aged 65 years or older with systolic blood pressure (SBP) of 140-190 mm Hg and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) of 90-110 mm Hg.
Enalapril 5-20 mg od or nifedipine 30-90 mg od for 8 weeks, followed by 4 weeks washout and cross-over for a second 8-week period.
Supine and standing 0-, 1-, and 5-minutes blood pressure was recorded before and at the end of each treatment period.
At baseline, SBP was 158.8 +/- 8.7 mm Hg, and DBP was 97.1 +/- 5.9 mm Hg. There was a decline in SBP of 6.1 +/- 2.7 mm Hg and 8.4 +/- 4.1 mm Hg after 1 and 5 minutes of standing, respectively. Both agents caused a significant decline in supine blood pressure. Enalapril: supine SBP 158.8 +/- 8.7 to 143 +/- 7.3 mm Hg; supine DBP 97.1 +/- 5.9 to 85.1 +/- 5.1 mm Hg (P = .0001). The drop in SBP after standing for 5 minutes was only 2.4 +/- 1.6 mm Hg with no change in diastolic values. A > or = 10 mm Hg drop in SBP was observed in only three patients, and no patient experienced a decline of 20 mm Hg or more. Nifedipine: supine SBP: 160.3 +/- 9 to 145.3 +/- 8.1 mm Hg; supine DBP: 96.3 +/- 5.7 to 86.3 +/- 5.8 (P = .0001). Nifedipine induced an orthostatic decline in SBP values; there was an 8.7 +/- 4.8 mm Hg difference between supine and 5 minutes standing values (P = .0005) without change in diastolic values. An orthostatic decline in SBP of > or = 10 mm Hg occurred in 13 patients, and there was a drop of > or = 20 mm Hg in six patients. The cross-over of enalapril and nifedipine reproduced the hypotensive effect and reversed the postural effect. (P = .0002 nifedipine vs enalapril)
Enalapril and nifedipine were equipotent in reducing supine blood pressure levels. Enalapril also reduced the number of orthostatic episodes significantly, whereas nifedipine aggravated this phenomenon.
An association between cocaine use and stroke has been reported, but few studies have examined cocaine-related neurovascular disease using modern stroke diagnostic techniques. We describe a large cohort of patients with cocaine-related stroke to define the pathophysiology and manifestations of cocaine-related neurovascular disease.
All adult admissions to a tertiary neurovascular service from July 1, 1998 to July 1, 2008 were screened for evidence of current or previous cocaine use. Patients included underwent thorough review of medical records including diagnostic procedure, laboratory, and imaging results.
A total of 5,142 records were screened and 96 patients were identified; 45 (47%) were given the diagnosis of ischemic stroke/transient ischemic attack (TIA), 26 (27%) with intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH), and 25 (26%) with subarachnoid hemorrhage. In all, 61 (63.5%) patients were categorized as active and 35 (36.5%) as previous cocaine users. Stroke type differed significantly between active and prior users (P=.004), with active users more likely to have ICH compared with previous users (37.7% v 8.6%) and less likely to have ischemic stroke or TIA (36.1% v 65.7%). The most common stroke/TIA cause was large artery atherosclerosis in 20 (44%) patients. Of the 25 subarachnoid hemorrhage cases, 22 (88%) were aneurysmal.
Ischemic stroke/TIA is a common neurovascular presentation in patients with a remote history of cocaine use, often as a result of atherosclerotic disease; neither vasculitis nor vasospasm was a common cause of stroke in this cohort. ICH is more common in those currently using cocaine perhaps because of acute spikes in blood pressure. Further prospective trials are needed to confirm these results.
Bromodichloromethane (BDCM) is a trihalomethane found in drinking water as a by-product of disinfection processes. BDCM is hepatotoxic and nephrotoxic in rodents and has been reported to cause strain-specific full-litter resorption in F344 rats during the luteinizing hormone-dependent phase of pregnancy. In humans, epidemiological studies suggest an association between exposure to BDCM in drinking water and increased risk of spontaneous abortion. To begin to address the mechanism(s) of BDCM-induced spontaneous abortion, we hypothesized that BDCM targets the placenta. Primary cultures of human term trophoblast cells were used as an in vitro model to test this hypothesis. Trophoblasts were allowed to differentiate into multinucleated syncytiotrophoblast-like colonies, after which they were incubated for 24 h with different concentrations of BDCM (20 nM to 2 mM). Culture media were collected and assayed for immunoreactive and bioactive chorionic gonadotropin (CG). Cultures exposed to BDCM showed a dose-dependent decrease in the secretion of immunoreactive CG as well as bioactive CG. The lowest effective BDCM concentration was 20 nM, approximately 35-times higher than the maximum concentration reported in human blood (0.57 nM). Trophoblast morphology and viability were similar in controls and cultures exposed to BDCM. We conclude that BDCM perturbs CG secretion by differentiated trophoblasts in vitro. This suggests that the placenta is a likely target of BDCM toxicity in the human and that this could be related to the adverse pregnancy outcomes associated with BDCM.
Recent experimental studies showed that inhibition of angiotensin II synthesis may reduce sympathetic activity as evaluated by plasma catecholamine assay, sharing in the antihypertensive effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Fifteen patients with essential hypertension were studied. Blood pressure and heart rate were evaluated both at rest and after stressor laboratory tests, before and four hours after administration of 20 mg of enalapril maleate and on the 14th and 120th days of continued administration. At the same time, blood samples were drawn for determinations of plasma renin activity, ACE, angiotensin II, plasma aldosterone concentration, and plasma norepinephrine levels. Enalapril in a dosage of 20 mg/day significantly and progressively lowered systolic and diastolic blood pressure at rest, with maximal decreases observed on the 120th day of the study period (P less than 0.001). Heart rate at rest and after exercise showed no significant differences throughout the study period. Good blood pressure control was observed during stressor laboratory tests. The greatest impact of blood pressure was observed on the 120th day during dynamic exercise (mean blood pressure from 139 +/- 3.9 to 111.5 +/- 6.3 mmHg; P less than 0.01) and on the 14th day during the cold pressure test (mean blood pressure from 133.3 +/- 3.9 to 111.2 +/- 4.7 mmHg; P less than 0.005). A marked and persistent ACE inhibition and a gradual and progressive decrease of angiotensin II (from 12.42 +/- 2.15 to 5.45 +/- 1.68 pg/ml; P less than 0.005) characterized the humoral activity of enalapril maleate. Moreover, a significant decrease of plasma norepinephrine levels was observed during the follow-up period with maximal reduction on the 120th day (from 311 +/- 34 to 197 +/- 33 pg/ml; P less than 0.01). It has been demonstrated that the pressor effect of angiotensin II was blunted during exercise. Our hemodynamic and humoral results appear to confirm the hypothesis that enalapril maleate may reduce blood pressure by direct inhibition of ACE and of kininase II as well as by a decreased sympathetic output, which may be secondary to angiotensin II inhibition. These results agree with the recent experimental demonstration of a reduced sympathetic nervous response to nerve stimulation during ACE inhibition.
Although the diagnostic and prognostic importance of perfusion defects has been clearly established, the meaning of the development and characteristics of electrocardiographic (ECG) changes during dipyridamole infusion is less well defined. This study tries to evaluate the prevalence and significance of ECG changes after dipyridamole infusion and their relation to ischemia in myocardial perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT).
Two hundred patients underwent 2-day dipyridamole stress/rest Tc-99m-sestamibi myocardial perfusion SPECT. Basal and post dipyridamole ECGs were analyzed. Myocardial perfusion images were interpreted visually and semiquantitatively.
New ECG changes were noted in 20.2% of cases and consisted of 1.1% T-wave flattening, 1.1% T-wave inversion and 14.8% ST depression and 4.2% psuedonormalization. Abnormal ECG changes were noted after dipyridamole infusion in approximately 27.7% of patients with and 14.3% of patients without reversible defect in myocardial perfusion SPECT. A new ST depression was noted in lateral leads in 72.2% of new ST changes. The mean post-dipyridamole heart rate increment in patients with reversible or partially reversible defects was significantly lesser than in patients with normal myocardial perfusion SPECT. In addition, the corrected QT interval (QTc) increment in patients with reversible defects was significantly more than in patients with fixed defects; however, there was no difference when compared with patients with no defects. Using linear regression model, the severity of ST depression and QTc increment were significant predictors of summed difference score. Sensitivity, specificity, and negative and positive predictive values of ST-segment depression for the diagnosis of ischemia were 20.2, 89.5, 60.7, and 58.4%, respectively.
The most common ECG change seen after dipyridamole infusion is ST-segment depression. The new ST-segment depression after dipyridamole infusion is highly specific for ischemia. Reversible defects are associated with a lesser increment in heart rate, whereas QTc increment and severity of ST segment depression were significant predictors of summed difference score.
The therapy of organophosphorus compound (OP) poisoning is still a challenge to clinical toxicologists. To alleviate peripheral respiratory failure oximes, e.g. obidoxime and pralidoxime, are used to reactivate inhibited acetylcholinesterase (AChE) with the intention to restore the disturbed neuromuscular function. In severe human OP poisoning the persistence of poison may counteract effective reactivation by oximes. Therefore, the study was designed to investigate the effect of the clinically used oximes obidoxime, pralidoxime and the experimental compounds HI 6 and HLö 7 in the presence of different paraoxon concentrations. The mouse phrenic nerve-diaphragm preparation was used as a functional model. After washout of paraoxon remarkably low concentrations of obidoxime or HLö 7 were sufficient for restoration of paraoxon-impaired muscle force. In the presence of paraoxon, obidoxime was the most effective oxime and therapeutically used concentrations (10-20microM) were able to restore muscle function even in the presence of 1microM paraoxon. HLö 7 was less effective, but superior to HI 6 and pralidoxime. Generally, a reactivation of AChE to about 30-40% of normal was sufficient for restoration of muscle force. Thus, the data presented strongly support the administration of appropriately dosed oximes, preferably obidoxime, in paraoxon-poisoned patients to restore paraoxon-impaired muscle force.
Prolonged therapeutic exposure to lithium compounds can have adverse consequences on calcium homeostasis. A unique form of hyperparathyroidism appears to be causally linked to chronic lithium exposure. We provide a comprehensive review of relevant literature using a structured, evidence-based approach.
Published data were identified from systematic electronic literature searches. References are assigned a level of evidence according to a validated classification schema.
Level III and V evidence supports an etiologic link between sustained lithium therapy and both hypercalcemia and hyperparathormonemia (grade C recommendation). Level V evidence supports the use of preoperative parathyroid imaging if a focused exploration is planned (grade C recommendation). Level V evidence supports the use of intraoperative parathyroid hormone monitoring to guide appropriate surgical therapy (grade C recommendation). There is conflicting and equally weighted level V evidence supporting a routine preoperative plan of bilateral neck exploration versus selective unilateral exploration (no recommendation). There may be a role for calcimimetic drug therapy as an alternate, nonsurgical means of controlling lithium-associated hyperparathyroidism (grade C recommendation).
Evidence-based recommendations support screening of patients on chronic lithium therapy for hypercalcemia. Appropriate surgical therapy may consist of either a bilateral or a unilateral approach when performed by an experienced endocrine surgeon. Focused approaches should be guided by preoperative imaging and intraoperative hormone monitoring. Calcimimetic therapy is a potential alternative to parathyroidectomy.
In schizophrenia, well-replicated findings support an attenuated niacin skin-flush response. We have previously reported a delayed skin-flush after niacin ingestion and also an association between niacin non-responding and electrodermal non-responding in schizophrenia. The stability of the niacin and electrodermal tests was now studied in a test-retest design. An additional aim was to assess the association previously found. Twenty-three patients with schizophrenia underwent two sessions 3 months apart during which an oral niacin test was conducted and electrodermal activity was measured. Despite similar values for niacin outcome variables at the group level, there was high intraindividual variation. Test-retest stability for the oral niacin test was thus low, although a trend toward correlation for the dichotomous response criterion was found. Most electrodermal measures correlated between baseline and retest. A significant association between the tests was again found; niacin non-responding implied electrodermal non-responding, providing further support for a common underlying aberration in schizophrenia.
The endocannabinoid, anandamide, which binds to two major receptor proteins, the cannabinoid receptors (CBs) 1 and 2 (CB1 and CB2), has been shown to play a role in first trimester miscarriage possibly through impairment of the developing trophoblast. Although the precise molecular mechanisms underlying this are unknown, plasma anandamide levels are known to be regulated by the progesterone-induced enzyme, fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH). Here, we tested the hypothesis that temporal-spatial expression of FAAH, CB1, and CB2 is regulated during early pregnancy and that anandamide detrimentally alters trophoblast proliferation. Transcripts for CB1, CB2, and FAAH were demonstrated in first trimester trophoblast extracts with only the CB1 transcript being significantly regulated. The significant 4.7-fold increase in expression at wk 10 gestation was reduced to 8.9% of the peak value by wk 12. Transcripts for CB2 showed a similar pattern of expression but were not significantly induced. By contrast, FAAH transcript levels appeared to increase toward the end of the first trimester, but again did not reach significance. These observations were supported by immunohistochemical studies that demonstrated a similar pattern of expression at the protein level, with cellular localization for all three proteins concentrated within the syncytiotrophoblast layer. Anandamide also prevented BeWo trophoblast cell proliferation in a dose-dependent manner, with a 50-60% significant inhibition of cell proliferation with concentrations in excess of 3 mum. This effect was mediated through CB2. Together, these data provide insights into how elevated plasma anandamide levels increase the risk of first trimester miscarriage.
A normally developed 5-year-old boy with no history of convulsive disorder presented with a generalized tonic-clonic convulsion on the second day of oral theophylline therapy. Although the convulsive seizure was abolished by an intravenous bolus of diazepam, he did not regain consciousness. Emergency electroencephalography disclosed continuous irregular seizure activity, occurring predominantly over the right hemisphere, indicating a diagnosis of nonconvulsive status epilepticus (NCSE). The serum theophylline concentration was 19.7 microg/mL. Treatment with an initial intravenous bolus of midazolam (0.26 mg/kg) largely restricted seizure activity to the right hemisphere, with activity then diminishing to continuous right occipital spikes. An additional 0.24 mg/kg bolus followed by continuous infusion at a rate of 0.20 mg/kg/hr completely abolished electrical status. Our case suggests that theophylline treatment can provoke NCSE even after successful control of a brief convulsion by initial antiseizure treatment in some patients predisposed toward localization-related epilepsy. This possibility should be kept in mind in any child receiving theophylline who presents with sustained unconsciousness.
Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) have shown that the risk of stroke and venous thromboembolism (VTE) is increased with hormone replacement therapy (HRT); the effect on coronary heart disease (CHD) remains unclear.
RCTs of HRT were identified. Event rates for cerebrovascular disease [stroke, TIA (transient ischaemic attack)], CHD (myocardial infarction, unstable angina, sudden cardiac death), and VTE (pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis) were analysed. Sensitivity analyses were performed by type of HRT (mono vs. dual) and subject age. 31 trials (44 113 subjects) were identified. HRT was associated with increases in stroke (odds ratio, OR, 1.32, 95% confidence intervals, CI, 1.14-1.53) and VTE (OR 2.05, 95% CI 1.44-2.92). In contrast, CHD events were not increased (OR 1.02, 95% CI 0.90-1.11). Ordinal analyses confirmed that stroke severity was increased with HRT (OR 1.31, 95% CI 1.12-1.54). Although most trials included older subjects, age did not significantly affect risk. The addition of progesterone to oestrogen doubled the risk of VTE.
HRT is associated with an increased risk of stroke, stroke severity, and VTE, but not of CHD events. Although most trials studied older patients, increased risk was not related to age. Combined HRT increases the risk of VTE compared with oestrogen monotherapy.
Amiodarone is an iodinated benzofuran derivative class III antiarrhythmic that is highly effective in suppressing ventricular and supraventricular arrhythmias. It is also associated with an imposing side effect profile, which often limits its use. Numerous adverse effects have been documented including skin discolouration, photosensitivity, hepatitis, thyroid dysfunction, corneal deposits, pulmonary fibrosis, bone marrow suppression and drug interactions. These side effects are thought to be correlated with the total cumulative dose of amiodarone, but idiopathic reactions have been reported. The majority of adverse reactions resolve with discontinuation of the drug; however, rapid progression may occur, which may be fatal. The present report documents a patient who had a combination of serious amiodarone toxicities that, once recognized, were treated and eventually resulted in a good outcome.
Timolol, a non selective beta-blocker was used one daily at a dosage of 10 to 20 mg, in 60 hypertensive patients with a diastolic blood pressure ranging from 100 to 120 mmHg. After 4 weeks of treatment, timolol had normalized diastolic blood pressure in 70% of patients ( less than 100 mmHg). compared to an initial treatment period with placebo (p less than 0.001). Tolerance of timolol was good, adverse clinical effects supervening in only 8% of patients (bradycardia, Raynaud's syndrome); no variation in laboratory values was observed.
The authors studied the effect of seduxen and elenium on 169 patients, particularly their pulse frequency, arterial pressure, electro- and polycardiogramms in a single administration of the drugs parenterally and in a long-term per os administration. A parenteral introduction of both drugs was accompanied by a slight bradycardial effect. However, high doses of seduxen (0.34--0.5 mg/kg) lead to states of tachycardia. Unlike elenium which did not exert a hypotensive effect, seduxen displayed a mild and in some cases significant hypotensive action.
Rubral tremor is a rare movement disorder that occurs typically with midbrain damage. The main features of this tremor are its low frequency, irregular rhythm, presence at rest, and acceleration during posture and active movement. Antipsychotic agent-induced tremors are usually bilateral parkinsonian tremors. We found no previous reports of unilateral rubral tremor in the literature. A 23-year-old man had unilateral rubral tremors as a result of a midbrain lesion plus risperidone exposure for treatment of manic symptoms. After we stopped the use of risperidone, the tremor became less apparent and then disappeared. This case highlights the importance of being aware of this rare complication in susceptible patients receiving risperidone treatment.
This brief report details the case of a woman who was thought, after extensive evaluation, to have idiopathic congestive cardiomyopathy. It was subsequently found that systolic ventricular dysfunction was due to amphetamine abuse, and that ventricular function normalized after discontinuation of this drug.
A 3-months-old boy presented with partial seizures that soon evolved into infantile spasms. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed bilateral perisylvian polymicrogyria with right-sided predominance. ACTH therapy successfully controlled epilepsy and electroencephalograms were normalized. Conventional G-banded chromosomal analysis was performed due to his distinctive features and a derivative chromosome 1 derived from parental balanced translocation with a karyoptype of 46,XY,der(1)t(1;4)(p36.23;q35) was detected. Fluorescent in situ hybridization analysis confirmed the deleted region of 1p36 as large as 8.6Mb. This is the first delineation of concurrent complications of infantile spasms and polymicrogyria in patient with 1p36 deletion. 1p36 deletion syndrome should be broadly recognized as a differential diagnosis of regional polymicrogyria and/or infantile spasms.
Cadmium (Cd) is a heavy metal which causes concern as an environmental toxicant. Therapy with chelating agents is considered to be the rational treatment against metal poisoning. This study was designed to evaluate whether meso-2,3-dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) could alleviate oxidative stress and vascular dysfunction in mice with subchronic exposure to Cd. Male ICR mice received CdCl2 (100 mg/L) via drinking water for 8 weeks. After Cd exposure, DMSA at a dose of 25 mg/kg or 50 mg/kg was intragastrically administered once daily for 5 consecutive days at the end of Cd treatment. It was found that Cd-induced hypertension and markedly blunted vascular responses to vasoactive agents, including acetylcholine, phenylephrine and sodium nitroprusside. Treatment with DMSA significantly restored blood pressure and improved vascular responsiveness when compared with Cd-treated controls. Moreover, DMSA protected against Cd-induced severe oxidative stress by normalization of the redox ratios of glutathione to glutathione disulfide and suppression of plasma malondialdehyde, plasma protein carbonyl, urinary nitrate/nitrite, and superoxide production from thoracic aorta. DMSA partially reduced Cd contents in the blood, heart, liver and kidneys. In conclusion, our present study provides the first evidence of the therapeutic efficacy of DMSA against oxidative stress and vascular dysfunction in Cd-intoxicated mice.
Symptoms due to orthostatic and exertional hypotension occurred in 23-4 per cent of 448 hypertensive patients treated with guanethidine, debrisoquine, or bethanidine. Symptoms were significantly more frequent in patients treated with guanethidine than in those treated with bethanidine or debrisoquine. Women rather than men and patients with radiological evidence of cardiomegaly, electrocardiographic evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy, or ST/T wave changes, developed these symptoms significantly more often than other patients. A raised blood urea was found more frequently in patients with postural hypotensive symptoms. Characteristically guanethidine produced early morning postural hypotensive symptoms, wheras hypotensive symptoms caused by bethanidine and debrisoquine occurred at other times of the day and particularly one to two hours after tablet ingestion. Debrisoquine and guanethidine had a significantly greater negative chronotropic effect than bethanidine. It is suggested that negative chronotropic effects of these drugs may potentiate hypotensive symptoms in patients with cardiovascular, renal, or cerebrovascular disease. It should be possible to minimize symptoms of postural hypotension by attention to predisposing factors and selection of treatment accordingly.
The nephrotoxic potential of ascomycin, the C21-ethyl analogue of FK506, was defined and ways explored to enhance its detection. After 14-day dosing in the Fischer-344 rat, FK506 and ascomycin reduced creatinine clearance by >50% at doses of 1 and 3 mg/kg, i.p., respectively. Ascomycin also had a 3-fold lower immunosuppressive potency in a popliteal lymph node hyperplasia assay, resulting in an equivalent therapeutic index consistent with a common mechanistic dependence on calcineurin inhibition. Renal impairment with different routes of administration was correlated with pharmacokinetics. Sensitivity of detection was not adequate with shorter dosing durations in rats with unilateral nephrectomy or in mice using a cytochrome P-450 inhibitor, SKF-525A. In 14-day studies, nephrotoxicity was not induced by continuous i.p. infusion of ascomycin at 10 mg/kg/day or daily oral administration (up to 50 mg/kg/day) in rats on a normal diet, nor by continuous i.v. infusion (up to 6 mg/kg/day) in rats on a low salt diet to enhance susceptibility. The lack of toxicity at high oral doses of FK506 or ascomycin, and the finding of non-linear oral pharmacokinetics of ascomycin show that this drug class has an oral absorption ceiling. The negative results with continuous infusion suggest that ascomycin nephrotoxicity is governed by peak drug levels. In addition to defining ways to meaningfully compare the nephrotoxic potential of FK506 derivatives, these results have implications for overall safety assessment and improved clinical use.
This paper reports the effects on grooming, related behaviors and levels of anxiety induced by the hypophysiotropic peptides corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH, 1 microgram, 0.2 nmol, icv), thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH, 100 micrograms, 275 nmol, icv) and luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH, 1.5 micrograms, 1.3 nmol, icv) administered into the lateral ventricle of the brain (icv) of adult male rats of a Holtzman-derived colony (N = 15, each group). CRH induced an increase in total grooming scores, whereas LHRH, TRH and vehicle had no effect. CRH strongly increased face and head grooming and induced head shakes. The time spent in rearing and gnawing was significantly decreased. In the plus-maze, CRH reduced the time of exploration in the open arm. TRH increased face grooming and induced body shakes. LHRH had no effect on grooming or rearing behavior. No body or head shakes were observed after LHRH administration. Scoring of individual grooming elements demonstrated differences in action of the three peptides. Although both CRH and TRH increased face grooming, only CRH induced head grooming. Furthermore, CRH induced predominantly head shakes while TRH increased body shake activity. In contrast, CRH was anxiogenic and TRH appeared to induce stereotyped behavior. From the characterization of grooming elements and related responses, we conclude that each hypophysiotropic peptide induces a specific behavioral pattern.
In a rat model of paraquat-induced lung injury, pulmonary alveolar lavage fluid metabolic parameters were assessed to establish damage, and the use of surfactant was employed as a protective agent. Three groups of adult male Sprague-Dawley rats received intraperitoneal injection of paraquat (35 mg/kg body weight) in 1 ml saline, or received 1 ml saline, or no material. On d 3, 7, 14, and 21 after injection, pressure-volume curves and pulmonary alveolar lavage fluids were obtained. On d 3 paraquat significantly increased the lung wet/dry weight ratio and protein content but lowered phosphatidylcholine levels. There were no marked changes at other time points in the parameters examined. The pressure-volume curves initially moved downward and to the right on d 3 and 7 and then returned to control levels in the paraquat-treated rats. Immediate intratracheal administration of Survanta after paraquat injection (70 mg/kg body weight) tended to increase the survival rate on d 1 compared to rats without Survanta administration. Our results suggest that administration of exogenous surfactant may play a role in the treatment of patients poisoned with paraquat.
Parathyroid cell proliferation and parathyroid hyperplasia are features of renal secondary hyperparathyroidism. Since parathyroids have recently been recognized as an important target for 1,25(OH)2D3, the effects of administration of variable doses of 1,25(OH)2D3 on ex vivo radiothymidine incorporation in the parathyroid glands, on parathyroid cell mitoses, on parathyroid weight, morphometric indices and on parathyroid protein/DNA ratio were examined in rats with uremia (subtotal nephrectomy; NX) or with calcium deficiency. 3H-thymidine incorporation (3 hr; 37 degrees C; PBS with 10 mmol glucose) was elevated in NX animals, that is, 204 +/- 51 dpm/micrograms DNA versus 96 +/- 28 in controls. In vivo pretreatment with 1,25(OH)2D3, either by intermittent i.p. injection or by osmotic minipump, dose-dependently decreased 3H-thymidine incorporation and parathyroid cell mitoses without affecting morphometric indices of parathyroid cells. Prophylactic administration (i.p.) of 1,25(OH)2D3, starting on the day of nephrectomy, prevented parathyroid hyperplasia (NX + 1,25(OH)2D3 0.84 micrograms tissue/g body wt vs. 1.25 micrograms in untreated NX and 0.54 in ad libitum fed controls), but 10 days of treatment beginning on the 21st day of uremia did not reverse existing hyperplasia (NX + 1,25(OH)2D3 1.5 micrograms/g body wt vs. 1.37 micrograms in untreated NX and 0.56 micrograms in ad libitum fed controls). The inhibitory effect was specific for 1,25(OH)2D3 and not imitated by Dexamethason. However, the effect was not specific for parathyroid hyperplasia of uremia, since similar inhibition of 3H-thymidine incorporation by 1,25(OH)2D3 was also observed in rats on low calcium diet.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Because rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetes mellitus (DM) have a high solute diuresis (glycosuria of 10 to 12 g/day), we have suggested that this may in part be responsible for their resistance to gentamicin-induced acute renal failure (ARF). The protection from gentamicin nephrotoxicity was studied in non-diabetic rats with chronic solute diuresis induced by blockage of tubular glucose reabsorption with phlorizin (P). DM rats with mild glycosuria (similar in degree to that of the P treated animals) were also studied. Unanesthetized adult female, Sprague-Dawley rats were divided in four groups and studied for 15 days. Group 1 (P alone) received P, 360 mg/day, for 15 days; Group II (P + gentamicin); Group III (gentamicin alone) and Group IV (mild DM + gentamicin). Nephrotoxic doses (40 mg/kg body wt/day) of gentamicin were injected during the last nine days of study to the animals of groups II to IV. In Group I, P induced a moderate and stable glycosuria (3.9 +/- 0.1 g/day, SE), and no functional or morphologic evidence of renal dysfunction (baseline CCr 2.1 +/- 0.1 ml/min, undetectable lysozymuria) or damage (tubular necrosis score [maximum 4], zero). In Group II, P did not prevent gentamicin-ARF (maximal decrease in CCr at day 9.89%, P less than 0.001; peak lysozymuria, 1863 +/- 321 micrograms/day; and tubular necrosis score, 3.9 +/- 0.1). These values were not different from those of Group III: maximal decrease in CCr 73% (P less than 0.001); lysozymuria, 2147 +/- 701 micrograms/day; tubular necrosis score, 3.8 +/- 0.1.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
