The paternally expressed extra-large stimulatory G protein gene (XLalphas) is a splice variant of the stimulatory G-protein gene (Gsalpha) consisting of XL-exon1 and exons 2-13 of Gsalpha. A second open reading frame (ORF) in XL-exon1, that completely overlaps the XL-domain ORF, encodes ALEX, which is translated from the XLalphas mRNA and binds the XL-domain of XLalphas. We previously demonstrated that a paternally inherited functional polymorphism in XL-exon1, consisting of a 36 bp insertion and two nucleotide substitutions, is associated with Gs hyperfunction in platelets, leading to an increased trauma-related bleeding tendency and is accompanied by neurological problems and brachydactyly in two families. Here, we describe eight additional patients with brachydactyly, who inherited the same XLalphas polymorphism paternally and who show Gs hyperfunction in their platelets and fibroblasts. All carriers also have an elongated ALEX protein, as a consequence of the paternally inherited insertion. The in vitro interaction between the two elongated XLalphas and ALEX proteins is markedly reduced. Moreover, XLalphas or ALEX can be co-immunoprecipitated with an antibody against either ALEX or XLalphas in platelets from a control but hardly from patients with the XLalphas/ALEX insertion. In contrast to the strong interaction between the two wild-type proteins, we suggest that this defective association results in unimpeded receptor-stimulated activation of XLalphas. The paternally inherited double XLalphas/ALEX functional polymorphism is also associated with elevated platelet membrane Gsalpha protein levels. Both phenomena contribute to increased Gs signaling in patients with platelet hypersensitivity towards Gs-agonists and may be accompanied by neurological problems or growth deficiency.
Previous studies have shown that chronic subcutaneous administration of heparin significantly reduces blood pressure in hypertensive rats. The intracellular mechanisms of how heparin prevents smooth muscle cell proliferation remain unclear. This study was designed to examine whether heparin affects endothelin-1 action and production, to further elucidate the mechanism of the antihypertensive effect of heparin. Four-week treatment with heparin (300 U/day sc) significantly decreased blood pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR; 199 +/- 8 vs. 164 +/- 9 mmHg; P < 0.001) and completely blunted pressor response to endothelin-1 in SHR. Heparin treatment did not decrease blood pressure response nor did it attenuate blood pressure responses to endothelin-1 in Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY). Heparin significantly suppressed endothelin-1-induced increase in intracellular calcium concentration and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate level in cultured vascular smooth muscle cells in a dose-dependent manner and endothelin-1 release from cultured endothelial cells. These inhibitions were significantly more pronounced in SHR than in WKY. In conclusion, our findings indicate that the antihypertensive effect of heparin is mediated, at least in part, by the inhibition of endothelin-1 action on vascular smooth muscle cells and endothelin-1 production from endothelial cells.
The human Ether-à-go-go related gene (hERG) potassium channel is responsible for the rapid delayed rectifier potassium current that plays a critical role in the repolarization of cardiomyocytes during the cardiac action potential. In humans, inhibition of hERG by drugs can prolong the electrocardiographic QT interval, which, in rare instance, leads to ventricular arrhythmia and sudden cardiac death. As such, several medications that block hERG channels in vitro have been withdrawn from the market due to QT prolongation and arrhythmias. The current FDA guidelines recommend that drug candidates destined for human use be evaluated for potential hERG activity ( www.fda.gov/downloads/Drugs/GuidanceComplianceRegulatoryInformation/Guidances/ucm074963.pdf ). Here, we employed automated planar patch clamp (APPC), high-throughput fluorescent Tl(+) flux, and moderate-throughput [³H]dofetilide competition binding assays to characterize a panel of 49 drugs for their activities at the hERG channel. Notably, we used the same HEK293-hERG cell line for all assays, facilitating comparisons of hERG potencies across screening platforms. In general, hERG inhibitors were most potent in APPC assays, intermediate potent in [³H]dofetilide binding assays, and least potent in Tl(+) flux assays. Binding affinity constants (pK(i) values) and Tl(+) flux potencies (pEC₅₀ values) correlated well with APPC pEC₅₀ values. Further, the inhibitory potencies of many known hERG inhibitors in APPC matched literature values from manual and/or automated patch clamp systems. We also developed a novel fluorescent Tl(+) flux assays to measure the effects of drugs that modulate hERG trafficking and surface expression.
Gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB) is a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) analog that is used to treat narcolepsy but that is also abused. GHB has many actions in common with the GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen, but their underlying GABA(B) receptor mechanisms may be different.
The aim of this study is to further investigate a possible differential role of glutamate in GABA(B) receptor-mediated effects of GHB and baclofen.
The experiments examined the effects of non-competitive antagonists at the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptors on GHB-induced catalepsy and compared these effects with those on baclofen-induced catalepsy.
In C57BL/6J mice, ketamine, phencyclidine (PCP), and dizocilpine (MK-801) all enhanced GHB-induced catalepsy. They did so with a potency order (i.e., MK-801 > PCP > ketamine) consistent with their relative potencies as NMDA antagonists but not as inhibitors of dopamine or organic cation transporters. Ketamine, PCP, and MK-801 enhanced catalepsy along inverted U-shaped dose-response curves likely because higher doses affected motor coordination, which limited their catalepsy-enhancing effects. Doses that were maximally effective to enhance GHB-induced catalepsy did not affect the cataleptic effects of baclofen.
The finding that NMDA receptor antagonists enhance the cataleptic effects of GHB but not those of baclofen is further evidence that the GABA(B) receptor mechanisms mediating the effects of GHB and GABA(B) agonists are not identical. Differential interactions of glutamate with the GABA(B) receptor mechanisms mediating the effects of GHB and baclofen may explain why GHB is effective for treating narcolepsy and is abused, whereas baclofen is not.
The effect of isoproterenol (ISO) on the activity of lactic dehydrogenase (LDH) in the serum and heart was investigated in rats belonging to four different age groups. Serum LDH activity increased in all the ages as a result of ISO injection, however, the magnitude and response varied with age. Younger animals were able to recover from the toxicity of ISO much quicker compared to the older ones. An elevation in the LDH enzyme activity in the serum correlated with a decrease in the activity of cardiac muscle LDH in all the age groups of isoproterenol-treated rats.
Prestin, a membrane protein that is highly and almost exclusively expressed in the outer hair cells (OHCs) of the cochlea, is a motor protein which senses membrane potential and drives rapid length changes in OHCs. Surprisingly, prestin is a member of a gene family, solute carrier (SLC) family 26, that encodes anion transporters and related proteins. Of nine known human genes in this family, three (SLC26A2, SLC26A3 and SLC26A4) are associated with different human hereditary diseases. The restricted expression of prestin in OHCs, and its proposed function as a mechanical amplifier, make it a strong candidate gene for human deafness. Here we report the cloning and characterization of four splicing isoforms for the human prestin gene (SLC26A5a, b, c and d). SLC26A5a is the predominant form of prestin whereas the others showed limited distribution associated with certain developmental stages. Based on the functional importance of prestin we screened for possible mutations involving the prestin gene in a group of deaf probands. We have identified a 5'-UTR splice acceptor mutation (IVS2-2A>G) in exon 3 of the prestin gene, which is responsible for recessive non-syndromic deafness in two unrelated families. In addition, a high frequency of heterozygosity for the same mutation was observed in these subjects, suggesting the possibility of semi-dominant influence of the mutation in causing hearing loss. Finally, the observation of this mutation only in the Caucasian probands indicated an association with a specific ethnic background. This study thereby reveals an essential function of prestin in human auditory processing.
In several brain injury models, zinc accumulates in degenerating neuronal somata. Suggesting that such zinc accumulation may play a causal role in neurodegeneration, zinc chelation attenuates neuronal death. Because histochemically reactive zinc is present in and released from synaptic vesicles of glutamatergic neurons in the forebrain, it was proposed that zinc translocation from presynaptic terminals to postsynaptic neurons may be the mechanism of toxic zinc accumulation. To test this hypothesis, kainate seizure-induced neuronal death was examined in zinc transporter 3 gene (ZnT3)-null mice, a strain that completely lacks histochemically reactive zinc in synaptic vesicles. Intraperitoneal injection of kainate induced seizures to a similar degree in wild type and ZnT3-null mice. Staining of hippocampal sections with a zinc-specific fluorescent dye, N-(6-methoxy-8-quinolyl)-p-carboxybenzoylsulfonamide, revealed that zinc accumulated in degenerating CA1 and CA3 neurons in both groups, indicating that zinc originated from sources other than synaptic vesicles. Injection of CaEDTA into the cerebral ventricle almost completely blocked zinc accumulation in ZnT3-null mice, suggesting that increases in extracellular zinc concentrations may be a critical event for zinc accumulation. Arguing against the possibility that zinc accumulation results from nonspecific breakdown of zinc-containing proteins, injection of kainate into the cerebellum did not induce zinc accumulation in degenerating granule neurons. Taken together, these results support the existing idea that zinc is released into extracellular space and then enters neurons to exert a cytotoxic effect. However, the origin of zinc is not likely to be synaptic vesicles, because zinc accumulation robustly occurs in ZnT3-null mice lacking synaptic vesicle zinc.
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy is increasingly being used to enlarge the cohort of patients who can be offered hepatic resection for malignancy. However, the impact of these agents on the liver parenchyma itself, and their effects on clinical outcomes following hepatic resection remain unclear. This review identifies patterns of regimen-specific chemotherapy-induced hepatic injury and assesses their impact on outcomes following hepatic resection for colorectal liver metastases (CLM).
An electronic search was performed using the MEDLINE (US Library of Congress) database from 1966 to May 2007 to identify relevant articles related to chemotherapy-induced hepatic injury and subsequent outcome following hepatic resection.
The use of the combination of 5-flourouracil and leucovorin is linked to the development of hepatic steatosis, and translates into increased postoperative infection rates. A form of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) related to chemotherapy and otherwise known as chemotherapy-associated steatohepatitis (CASH) is closely linked to irinotecan-based therapy and is associated with inferior outcomes following hepatic surgery mainly due to hepatic insufficiency and poor regeneration. Data on sinusoidal obstruction syndrome (SOS) following treatment with oxaliplatin are less convincing, but there appears to be an increased risk for intra-operative bleeding and decreased hepatic reserve associated with the presence of SOS. Intra-arterial floxuridine therapy damages the extrahepatic biliary tree in addition to causing parenchymal liver damage, and has been shown to be associated with increased morbidity after hepatic resection.
Agent-specific patterns of damage are now being recognized with increasing use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy prior to surgery. The potential benefits and risks of these should be considered on an individual patient basis prior to hepatic resection.
Hypercalcaemia in six patients with sarcoidosis was associated with elevated circulating 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D3 (187-475 pmol/l): the concentration of this metabolite of vitamin D was a function of the concentration of its precursor, 25-hydroxy vitamin D which remained within the normal range. Corticosteroids, in reducing serum calcium, eliminated this abnormal substrate--product relationship by rapidly reducing circulating 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D3 while having no effect on 25-hydroxy vitamin D. The fall in circulating 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D3 preceded the fall of calcium. Studies on the clearance of exogenous 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D3 indicated that during hypercalcaemic episodes, the plasma disappearance time of the sterol was delayed and that this reverted to normal with steroid therapy. Administration of vitamin D3 to these patients with sarcoidosis increased the circulating concentration of 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D3 and this resulted in hypercalcaemia, thus accounting for their hypersensitivity to vitamin D and sunlight.
We evaluated propranolol effects on blood pressure, plasma renin activity, and erythrocyte production in nine chronically hemodialyzed and four nondialyzed patients with hypertension and high plasma renin concentrations. Propranolol, at a maximum daily dose of 240 mg, controlled blood pressure in 12 of the 13 patients. During propranolol treatment of dialyzed patients, mean blood pressure fell from 133 +/- 1 to 113 +/- 4 mm Hg (P less than 0.005) and plasma renin activity from 3093 +/- 423 to 689 +/- 218 ng/dl 3h (P less than 0.001). Similar results were obtained in nondialyzed patients. In both groups hematocrit and red cell mass were unchanged, although ferrokinetic measurements suggested a decrease in erythropoiesis. Thus propranolol alone reduces blood pressure and renin activity in chronically dialyzed patients with hypertension and high renin concentrations. No hematologic complications or other side effects were observed. These findings suggest that propranolol may be an effective alternative to bilateral nephrectomy in the control of renin-dependent hypertension in selected patients.
We evaluated the expression of epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EpCAM) and the potential of MT201 (adecatumumab), a human-monoclonal-antibody that targets EpCAM against chemotherapy-resistant ovarian disease.
EpCAM expression was evaluated by real-time polymerase chain reaction and flow cytometry. Sensitivity to MT201 antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) and complement-dependent cytotoxicity was tested in 4-hour chromium-release assays. The effect of interleukin-2 on MT201 ADCC was also studied.
High messenger RNA expression by real-time polymerase chain reaction and high EpCAM surface expression by flow cytometry was detected in 71% of ovarian cancers (5 of 7 cell lines). Although these cell lines were highly resistant to complement-dependent cytotoxicity and natural killer-dependent cytotoxicity in vitro (range of killing, 0-7%), EpCAM-positive cell lines showed high sensitivity to MT201 ADCC (range of killing, 27-66%). Incubation with interleukin-2 further increased the cytotoxic activity against EpCAM-positive ovarian cancer cell lines.
MT201 may represent a novel, potentially highly effective treatment option for patients with ovarian carcinoma whose body is harboring disease refractory to chemotherapy.
Botulinum neurotoxin serotypes A (BoNT/A) and E (BoNT/E) inhibit neurotransmitter release from peripheral cholinergic nerve terminals by cleaving different sites on SNAP-25, a protein involved in synaptic vesicle docking and exocytosis. Since recovery from BoNT/A is protracted, but reversal of BoNT/E intoxication is relatively rapid, it was of interest to determine whether sequential exposure to BoNT/A and BoNT/E could provide insight into the factors responsible for persistence of BoNT action. Extensor digitorum longus (EDL) muscles from rats were injected locally with 5 mouse LD(50) units of BoNT/A or 20 mouse LD(50) units of BoNT/E; these doses were selected to produce total paralysis of EDL muscles within 48 hr. Additional groups of rats were injected sequentially with either BoNT/A followed 48 h later by BoNT/E or with BoNT/E followed 48 h later by BoNT/A. Muscle tensions were elicited in situ in response to supramaximal stimulation of the peroneal nerve to monitor recovery from BoNT intoxication. Tensions returned to 53% and 94% of control, respectively, 7 and 15 days after injection of BoNT/E. In contrast, tensions in muscles injected with BoNT/A returned to only 2% and 12% of control at these time points. Preparations injected sequentially with BoNT/A followed by BoNT/E or with BoNT/E followed by BoNT/A exhibited slow recovery times resembling those recorded in the presence of BoNT/A alone. Pronounced atrophy of the EDL muscle was observed in rats injected with BoNT/A or in those receiving serotype combinations in either sequence, whereas no loss of muscle mass was observed in animals treated with BoNT/E alone. Data suggesting that BoNT/E can enter BoNT/A-treated preparations was obtained by findings that 3,4-diaminopyridine, which readily reversed muscle paralysis after BoNT/A exposure, lost this ability within 1 h of BoNT/E addition. Evidence that BoNT/E was able to cleave SNAP-25 at its characteristic site during sequential neurotoxin exposure was demonstrated by western blot analysis of cultured primary cortical neurons. Since the sequential exposure studies indicate that recovery from BoNT intoxication is lengthened by exposure to serotype A, but not shortened by exposure to serotype E, the duration of BoNT/A intoxication appears to be determined predominantly by the intracellular stability of catalytically active BoNT/A light chain.
We have compared the clinical and metabolic responses of three groups of patients undergoing subtotal thyroidectomy for hyperthyroid Graves' disease. These patients were prepared for surgery with propranolol alone, propranolol plus potassium iodide or the long acting beta-adrenoceptor antagonist nadolol plus potassium iodide. Pre-treatment with potassium iodide reduced serum T4 to normal or subnormal in all patients. Patients in the propranolol group had significantly higher pulse rates and temperatures after operation and one patient developed an exacerbation of the hypermetabolic state. The perioperative rise in serum cortisol and blood glucose was delayed in patients in the propranolol group and this was also noted in one severely hyperthyroid patient on propranolol + potassium iodide. Nadolol was administered once daily as compared to multiple daily doses with propranolol. Despite this, plasma nadolol levels were consistently higher throughout the perioperative period while propranolol levels in patients on both propranolol alone and propranolol + potassium iodide were highly variable and sometimes undetectable. We conclude that, in the rapid preparation of patients with hyperthyroid Graves' disease for surgery, the combination of nadolol + potassium iodide has significant advantages over the other two regimens.
Side effects of antacid therapy are dose dependant and compound related. High dose antacid intake may lead to fluid retention in the body depending on the sodium content of the different antacid preparations. Sodium bicarbonate ingestion provokes metabolic alkalosis and alkaliuria, the "nonsystemic calcium and magnesium containing antacids" cause these changes too, but to a lower degree. Urinary pH elevation favours the precipitation of calcium and magnesium salts, predisposing to renal stone formation. In patients with renal insufficiency the calcium and magnesium absorption may lead rapidly to toxic serum concentrations. Calcium and magnesium containing acids may provoke an acid rebound, which is clinically not relevant following magnesium-hydroxide-ingestion. Phosphorus depletion is an important side effect of aluminum hydroxide intake. The phosphorus depletion syndrome combined with skeletal demineralisation and osteomalacia may occur. As well as calcium and magnesium cations the tribasic aluminum will be absorbed from the gut in small amounts. In patients with renal insufficiency aluminum deposition in the brain grey matter following Al(OH)3 ingestion will occur and seems to be a co-factor for the development of a dialysis encephalopathy syndrome. The clinical relevance of aluminum absorption from gut in patients with normal renal function is unknown until now.
Remodeling of the cytoskeleton is central to the modulation of cell shape and migration. Filamin A, encoded by the gene FLNA, is a widely expressed protein that regulates re-organization of the actin cytoskeleton by interacting with integrins, transmembrane receptor complexes and second messengers. We identified localized mutations in FLNA that conserve the reading frame and lead to a broad range of congenital malformations, affecting craniofacial structures, skeleton, brain, viscera and urogenital tract, in four X-linked human disorders: otopalatodigital syndrome types 1 (OPD1; OMIM 311300) and 2 (OPD2; OMIM 304120), frontometaphyseal dysplasia (FMD; OMIM 305620) and Melnick-Needles syndrome (MNS; OMIM 309350). Several mutations are recurrent, and all are clustered into four regions of the gene: the actin-binding domain and rod domain repeats 3, 10 and 14/15. Our findings contrast with previous observations that loss of function of FLNA is embryonic lethal in males but manifests in females as a localized neuronal migration disorder, called periventricular nodular heterotopia (PVNH; refs. 3-6). The patterns of mutation, X-chromosome inactivation and phenotypic manifestations in the newly described mutations indicate that they have gain-of-function effects, implicating filamin A in signaling pathways that mediate organogenesis in multiple systems during embryonic development.
Despite popular use of piperacillin, the dire neurotoxicity associated with piperacillin still goes unrecognized, leading to a delay in appropriate management. We report a 57-year-old woman with end-stage renal disease receiving continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD), who developed slurred speech, tremor, bizarre behavior, progressive mental confusion, and 2 episodes of generalized tonic-clonic seizure (GTCS) after 5 doses of piperacillin/tazobactam (2 g/250 mg) were given for bronchiectasis with secondary infection. The laboratory data revealed normal plasma electrolyte and ammonia levels but leukocytosis. Neurologic examinations showed dysarthria and bilateral Babinski sign. Computed tomography of brain and electroencephalogram were unremarkable. Despite the use of antiepileptic agents, another GTCS episode recurred after the sixth dose of piperacillin/tazobactam. Brain magnetic resonance imaging did not demonstrate acute infarction and organic brain lesions. Initiation of high-flux hemodialysis rapidly reversed the neurologic symptoms within 4 hours. Piperacillin-induced encephalopathy should be considered in any uremic patients with unexplained neurological manifestations. CAPD is inefficient in removing piperacillin, whereas hemodialysis can rapidly terminate the piperacillin-induced encephalopathy.
Tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) has been shown to improve 3-month outcome in stroke patients treated within 3 hours of symptom onset. The costs associated with this new treatment will be a factor in determining the extent of its utilization. Data from the NINDS rt-PA Stroke Trial and the medical literature were used to estimate the health and economic outcomes associated with using tPA in acute stroke patients. A Markov model was developed to estimate the costs per 1,000 patients eligible for treatment with tPA compared with the costs per 1,000 untreated patients. One-way and multiway sensitivity analyses (using Monte Carlo simulation) were performed to estimate the overall uncertainty of the model results. In the NINDS rt-PA Stroke Trial, the average length of stay was significantly shorter in tPA-treated patients than in placebo-treated patients (10.9 versus 12.4 days; p = 0.02) and more tPA patients were discharged to home than to inpatient rehabilitation or a nursing home (48% versus 36%; p = 0.002). The Markov model estimated an increase in hospitalization costs of $1.7 million and a decrease in rehabilitation costs of $1.4 million and nursing home cost of $4.8 million per 1,000 eligible treated patients for a health care system that includes acute through long-term care facilities. Multiway sensitivity analysis revealed a greater than 90% probability of cost savings. The estimated impact on long-term health outcomes was 564 (3 to 850) quality-adjusted life-years saved over 30 years of the model per 1,000 patients. Treating acute ischemic stroke patients with tPA within 3 hours of symptom onset improves functional outcome at 3 months and is likely to result in a net cost savings to the health care system.
The synthetic estrogen diethylstilbestrol (DES) was administered to pregnant women between the 1940s and the mid-1970s and is believed to be responsible for numerous uterine/cervical/vaginal malformations and cancers that appeared after birth and in young adult life. This medical tragedy has served as one of the prototypical examples of a phenomenon known as "endocrine disruption," in which either environmental agents or other compounds disrupt normal hormonal signaling in the body. Whereas DES signals through estrogen receptors, the subsequent molecular targets were largely unknown. We had identified Wnt7a as a target in this pathway and have used genetic analyses of mutant mice to demonstrate that disruption of Wnt7a is the key event leading to the DES phenotypes and cancers. We find that Wnt7a expression is only transiently deregulated in response to DES exposure, leading to the conclusion that critical events during early reproductive tract development results in a permanent change or "reprogramming" in subsequent development.
Intramuscular injections of the paralytic botulinum neurotoxin A (Btx) and physical exercise are used in the treatment of chronic spasticity in children with cerebral palsy. We tested whether Btx-induced paralysis and/or exercise training would have differential effects on the expression of mechanosensing and signalling genes implicated in the adaptive remodelling of skeletal muscle. Juvenile (29-day-old) male rats were injected with Btx or saline (NoBtx) into the right gastrocnemius and housed in standard cages (NoEx) or with running wheels (Ex), for 3 weeks (n = 6 per group). The mRNA expression of nine sarcomere-associated genes in the medial gastrocnemius was then determined by quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. The Btx-injected muscles weighed 50% less than NoBtx muscles, but Ex had no effect on the wet mass of Btx or NoBtx muscles. Atrogenic MuRF1, sarcomeric Titin and myogenic MyoD were upregulated (2-fold) with the elimination of contractile activity in Btx muscle. Expression of CARP, Ankrd2 and MLP was increased with mechanical stimuli associated with Btx (5- to 10-fold) or Ex (2- to 4-fold). Expression of CARP and Ankrd2 increased synergistically in Btx-Ex muscle (> or = 20-fold), indicating that these genes may be sensitive to passive stretch of the sarcomeric I-band region of titin to which their proteins bind. Tcap, Myopalladin and Atrogin1 were not, or were no longer responsive to the altered mechanical stimuli after 3 weeks of Btx or Ex. The expression of Ankrd2, CARP and MLP may thus be enhanced by passive stretch within the Btx-paralysed and/or exercising gastrocnemius and contribute to adaptations, other than muscle mass, in juvenile rats.
Hematologic changes that occur with HIV infection and antiretroviral therapy may impact the quality of life of patients and have been associated with morbidity and mortality. The management of anemia and neutropenia has improved survival in persons with HIV.
This meta-analysis was performed to assess the changes in hemoglobin (Hb) levels and neutrophil counts that occur during thymidine analogue-based triple therapy and to establish whether different regimens of triple therapy are similar in efficacy based on CD4(+) T-cell count and viral load changes.
This was a meta-analysis of the impact of zidovudine (AZT) compared with stavudine (d4T) in triple therapy regimens in HIV patients with regard to hematologic parameters and efficacy markers. The peer-reviewed literature was searched with use of MEDLINE, PubMed, EMBASE, and the Cochrane database of systematic reviews (key terms: HIV, antiretroviral therapy, CD4, viral load, three, triple, and highly active antiretroviral therapy [HAART]). Searches were initially not limited by publication type, study design, date, or language but subsequently were sorted to include only studies performed in treatment-naive adult patients; randomized; and comparative of a regimen that included d4T with a regimen that included AZT; to involve regimens that included a minimum of 3 drugs each; and to include hematologic outcomes data. Outcomes were CD4(+), viral load, and hematologic parameters.
This meta-analysis included 6 studies. Treatment efficacy as measured by changes in CD4(+) T-cell counts and viral load did not differ significantly between regimens. Hb levels decreased with AZT treatment by a mean (SE) 0.4 (0.05) g/dL and 0.2 (0.06) g/dL at weeks 24 and 48, respectively, but increased with d4T treatment by 0.45 (0.03) g/dL and 0.58 (0.04) g/dL, respectively. All grades of anemia and neutropenia events were consistently more common with AZT-based regimens relative to d4T-based therapy.
AZT-based HAART has a greater negative impact on hematologic parameters relative to d4T-based regimens. AZT recipients are more likely than d4T recipients to experience anemia and neutropenia events of any grade, and AZT is associated with a net decrease in Hb level relative to a net increase with d4T. These factors may influence the choice of drug used in the treatment of certain patient populations.
We sought to determine whether triclosan (2,4,4'-trichloro-2'-hydroxydiphenylether), an extensively used anti-plaque agent with broad-spectrum anti-microbial activity, with reported anti-inflammatory effects via inhibition of prostaglandin E2 and interleukin 1 (IL-1)beta, could also more broadly suppress multiple inflammatory gene pathways responsible for the pathogenesis of gingivitis and periodontitis.
As an exploratory study, the effects of triclosan on the inflammatory gene expression profile were assessed ex vivo using peripheral whole blood samples from eight periodontally healthy donors. Ten-millilitres whole blood aliquots were incubated 2 h with 0.3 microg/ml Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide (LPS) with or without 0.5 microg/ml triclosan. Affymetrix microarray gene expression profiles from isolated leucocytes and pathway-specific quantitative polymerase chain reaction arrays were used to investigate changes in expression of target cytokines and cell signalling molecules.
Ex vivo human whole blood assays indicated that triclosan significantly down-regulated the LPS-stimulated expression of Toll-like receptor signalling molecules and other multiple inflammatory molecules including IL-1 and IL-6 and the dampening of signals that activate the T-helper type 1 acquired immune response via suppression of CD70 with concomitant up-regulation of growth factors related to bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)2 and BMP6 synthesis.
Anti-inflammatory effects were found in this exploratory survey, including suppression of microbial-pathogen recognition pathway molecules and the suppression of acute and chronic mediators of inflammation.
The optimal trastuzumab-based chemotherapy regimen for HER2-overexpressing, metastatic breast cancer is not known. The trastuzumab and vinorelbine or taxane (TRAVIOTA) study was a prospective, multicenter, randomized trial that was designed to compare these regimens.
Eligible patients had HER2-overexpressing, metastatic breast cancer and had received no prior chemotherapy for advanced disease. Patients were randomized 1:1 to receive either trastuzumab with weekly vinorelbine therapy or weekly taxane therapy (paclitaxel or docetaxel at the investigator's choice). Originally planned for 250 patients, the study was closed because of poor accrual with 81 evaluable patients, including 41 patients who received vinorelbine and 40 patients who received taxane.
Response rates were 51% and 40% for the vinorelbine/trastuzumab arm and the taxane/trastuzumab arm, respectively (Fisher exact test; P = .37). The median time to disease progression was 8.5 months and 6.0 months for the vinorelbine- and taxane-based arms, respectively (log-rank test; P = .09). Treatment with either regimen generally was well tolerated, yielding comparable rates of neurologic and gastrointestinal toxicity. Vinorelbine-based treatment was associated with more anemia and neutropenia and with 2 episodes of cardiotoxicity. Taxane-based therapy was associated with more dermatologic toxicity, myalgias, and fluid retention.
Both vinorelbine/trastuzumab and taxane/trastuzumab treatments were active as first-line therapy for HER2-positive, metastatic breast cancer and had comparable rates of efficacy and tolerability. The toxicities observed were the result of recognized side effects associated with each of the chemotherapy agents and schedules. These data can inform treatment decision making in this clinical setting.
Rio de Janeiro State in Brazil is an endemic area of American tegumentary leishmaniasis (ATL) induced by Leishmania (Viannia) braziliensis. Objective Our purpose was to describe the main clinical and epidemiologic characteristics of the disease in Rio de Janeiro State.
Patients from endemic areas of Rio de Janeiro State attending the Evandro Chagas Hospital were included in the study. A general physical, dermatologic, and otorhinolaryngologic examination was performed in all patients, as well as a Leishmanin skin test. Skin biopsy specimens were obtained and utilized for touch preparations (stained with Leishman dye), culture in special media (Nicolle, Nevy and McNeal; NNN), and histopathologic examination after hematoxylin and eosin stain. Positive cultures were identified with regard to species by the isoenzyme technique. Therapy with pentavalent antimonial compounds was employed in all cases. Eco-epidemiologic characteristics were studied through regular field visits to endemic foci.
Cutaneous disease was present in 87.2% of patients, and mucosal disease in only 12.7%. A single ulcerative cutaneous lesion was the most common clinical presentation. Demonstration of the parasite was always difficult and culture in special media gave the best results for diagnosis. The species involved in transmission was Leishmania (Viannia) braziliensis. Vectors included phlebotomine sand flies (Diptera: Psychodidae) of the genus Lutzomyia, and the most common species was Lutzomyia intermedia, captured mainly on the external walls of houses.
ATL in Rio de Janeiro is mostly a cutaneous disease. In general, the cases showed great sensitivity to antimony. A pattern of peridomestic transmission seems to be the rule.
Following our initial report of the insidious development of reversible, valproate-induced hearing, motor, and cognitive dysfunction in two patients, we evaluated 36 patients in an epilepsy clinic who had been taking therapeutic levels of valproate for at least 12 months; 29 of these patients were examined according to a prospective protocol. We observed varying degrees of parkinsonism and cognitive impairment, from none to severe. Discontinuation of valproate in 32 affected patients led to subjective and objective improvement on follow-up testing at least 3 months later. Improvement was greatest in patients who were affected most. We conclude that a syndrome of reversible parkinsonism and cognitive impairment may develop insidiously in patients who have been treated with valproate for more than 12 months. The association with valproate may be overlooked due to the insidious onset.
This study investigated the effects of an aqueous extract of the stem bark of Mangifera indica L. (Anacardiaceae; Vimang), which contains a defined mixture of components including polyphenols (principally mangiferin, MA), triterpenes, phytosteroids, fatty acids and microelements, on expression of inflammation mediators in inflammatory murine macrophages after stimulation in vitro with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma). In vitro treatment with Vimang at 4 microg/ml reduced levels of NOS-2 mRNA and NOS-2, while treatment at 40 microg/ml also reduced levels of COX-2 mRNA, COX-2, and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). Results suggested that MA is involved in these effects. In vitro treatment with Vimang at 40 microg/ml also inhibited mRNA levels of the proinflammatory cytokines interleukin 1beta (IL-1beta), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), but did not affect mRNA levels of IL-6 or tumor growth factor-beta (TGF-beta). Extracellular release of TNF-alpha by inflammatory macrophages was inhibited by in vitro treatment with Vimang at the same concentrations that showed inhibition of TNF-alpha mRNA levels. The inhibition of TNF-alpha production appears to be at least partially attributable to MA. Vimang at 4 microg/ml decreased mRNA levels of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) but did not affect expression of the NF-kappaB inhibitor (IkappaB). These data indicate that the potent anti-inflammatory effects of Vimang are due to selective modulation of the expression of inflammation-related genes, leading to attenuation of macrophage activation.
Steroid sulfatase inhibitors can alter the metabolism of neurosteroids which modulate brain function. Administration of the non-steroidal steroid sulfatase inhibitor (p-O-sulfamoyl)-N-tetradecanoyl tyramine (DU-14) to rats for 15 days increased plasma dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS) concentrations by 88.2%, decreased plasma dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) concentrations by 84.6%, increased hippocampal acetylcholine (ACh) release determined via in vivo microdialysis by almost 3-fold, and produced a significant blockade of scopolamine-induced amnesia as measured by a passive avoidance test. These results suggest DHEAS rather than DHEA enhances brain cholinergic function and that steroid sulfatase inhibition may become an important tool for enhancing neuronal functions, such as memory, mediated by excitatory neurosteroids.
We analyzed the relationship between cocaine-induced euphoria and measures of frontal and temporal gray matter volumes in eleven cocaine-dependent (CD) patients who underwent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Self-reported ratings of the intensity of euphoric response to cocaine infusion were obtained from the CD subjects at 3, 10, and 30 minutes after cocaine infusion. Significant positive correlation between frontal and temporal cortical gray matter volume and the intensity of euphoria was observed at 10 minutes after IV cocaine. The data suggest that frontal and temporal lobe gray matter volume is associated with some of the reinforcing effects of cocaine. Given the well-established negative linear relationship between cortical gray matter volume and age, cortical gray matter volume may be a marker for the neurobiological substrate of the age-related reduction in addiction rates.
