Screens for agents that specifically kill epithelial cancer stem cells (CSCs) have not been possible due to the rarity of these cells within tumor cell populations and their relative instability in culture. We describe here an approach to screening for agents with epithelial CSC-specific toxicity. We implemented this method in a chemical screen and discovered compounds showing selective toxicity for breast CSCs. One compound, salinomycin, reduces the proportion of CSCs by >100-fold relative to paclitaxel, a commonly used breast cancer chemotherapeutic drug. Treatment of mice with salinomycin inhibits mammary tumor growth in vivo and induces increased epithelial differentiation of tumor cells. In addition, global gene expression analyses show that salinomycin treatment results in the loss of expression of breast CSC genes previously identified by analyses of breast tissues isolated directly from patients. This study demonstrates the ability to identify agents with specific toxicity for epithelial CSCs.
A case of post-partum cardiomyopathy probably due to salbutamol is described. The patient was a young primipara without any cardiovascular disease. She presented a sudden left ventricular failure after Caesarean section for twins: salbutamol had not been given for a week. After 10 days' treatment with diuretics and vasodilators, the patient was cured, no sequellae remaining. It seemed the mechanism was multifactorial: direct myocardial injury, a reduction in the number of receptors, peripheral haemodynamic changes.
In the present study we investigated the effects of lipoic acid (LA) on acetylcholinesterase (AChE), glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and Na+, K+-ATPase activities in rat hippocampus during seizures. Wistar rats were treated with 0.9% saline (i.p., control group), lipoic acid (20 mg/kg, i.p., LA group), pilocarpine (400 mg/kg, i.p., P400 group), and the association of pilocarpine (400 mg/kg, i.p.) plus LA (20 mg/kg, i.p.), 30 min before of administration of P400 (LA plus P400 group). After the treatments all groups were observed for 1 h. In P400 group, there was a significant increase in GPx activity as well as a decrease in AChE and Na+, K+-ATPase activities after seizures. In turn, LA plus P400 abolished the appearance of seizures and reversed the decreased in AChE and Na+, K+-ATPase activities produced by seizures, when compared to the P400 seizing group. The results from the present study demonstrate that preadministration of LA abolished seizure episodes induced by pilocarpine in rat, probably by increasing AChE and Na+, K+-ATPase activities in rat hippocampus.
The present study has been designed to pharmacologically expound the significance of inducible nitric oxide synthase in the pathophysiological progression of seizures using mouse models of chemically induced kindled epilepsy and status epilepticus induced spontaneous recurrent seizures. Pentylenetetrazole (40 mg kg(-1)) (PTZ) administration every second day for a period of 15 days was used to elicit kindled seizure activity in mice. Severity of kindled seizures was assessed in terms of a composite kindled seizure severity score (KSSS). Pilocarpine (100 mg kg(-1)) was injected every 20 min until the onset of status epilepticus. A spontaneous recurrent seizure severity score (SRSSS) was recorded as a measure of quantitative assessment of the progressive development of spontaneous recurrent seizures induced after pilocarpine status epilepticus. Sub-acute PTZ administration induced the development of severe form of kindled seizures in mice. Further, pharmacological status epilepticus elicited a progressive evolution of spontaneous recurrent seizures in the animals. However, treatment of aminoguanidine, a relatively selective inhibitor of inducible nitric oxide synthase, markedly and dose dependently suppressed the development of both PTZ induced kindled seizures as well as pilocarpine induced spontaneous recurrent seizures. Therefore inducible nitric oxide synthase may be implicated in the development of seizures.
In this report a 20-year-old male patient who had suffered tonic-clonic seizure after a single induction dose of etomidate until a bispectral index value of 60 is presented. Our best knowledge, this case is the first report of pure etomidate (with induction dose) induced generalized tonic clonic seizure proven with EEG. Anaesthesiologists should be careful against such a complication even in the induction stage of anaesthesia during etomidate use.
Surveys have reported that rare-earth elements (REEs) could impair cognitive functions of children. Experimental studies have shown the neurological adverse effects of REEs on animals. However, the mechanism underlying these impairments is unclear. Lanthanum is often selected to study the effects of REEs. The purpose of this study was to investigate the memory impairment induced by lanthanum chloride (LaCl3) exposure and the possible mechanism from the aspects of expression of CREB signal pathway and synaptic ultrastructure in the hippocampus. Lactational rats were exposed to 0%, 0.25%, 0.50%, and 1.0% LaCl3 in drinking water, respectively. Their offspring were exposed to LaCl3 by parental lactation for 3 weeks and then administrated with 0%, 0.25%, 0.50% and 1.0% LaCl3 in drinking water for 1 month. The results showed that 0.25%, 0.50%, and 1.0% LaCl3 exposure could significantly impair memory of young rats. Hippocampal pCaMK IV, pMAPK, pCREB, c-fos and egr1 expression were decreased significantly, and synaptic ultrastructure was negatively affected after LaCl3 exposure. These results indicate that LaCl3 exposure impairs memory of rats and this impairment may be attributed to the lower levels of pCaMK IV, pMAPK, pCREB, c-fos and egr1 expression and change of synaptic ultrastructure in hippocampus.
Of 158 asthmatic patients who were placed on inhaled beclomethasone, 15 (9.5%) developed either hoarseness (8), oral thrush (6), or both (1). When their adverse reactions subsided, seven of these 15 patients were rechallenged with inhaled beclomethasone. These included five cases who developed hoarseness and three who developed Candidiasis. One patient had both. Oral thrush did not recur, but 60% (3/5) of patients with hoarseness had recurrence. We conclude that patients may be restarted on inhaled beclomethasone when clinically indicated; however, because of the high recurrence rate, patients who develop hoarseness should not be re-challenged. Concomitant use of oral prednisone and topical beclomethasone may increase the risk of developing hoarseness or candidiasis.
To estimate the frequency of relapses of thrombotic and hemorrhagic complications during moderately intensive therapy for antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) with warfarin with and without aspirin.
Eighty-two patients diagnosed as having the antiphospholipid syndrome were examined. Group 1 patients (n = 49) received warfarin alone as an antithrombotic drug; Group 2 patients (n = 33) had a combination therapy with warfarin plus aspirin. The efficiency of therapy was evaluated from the number and rate of recurrences of thromboses and transient ischemic attacks (TIA) and its safety was assessed from the frequency and number of hemorrhages during the study. The genetic variants of cytochrome P450 CYP2C9 were determined in 52 of the 82 patients; mutations in the gene for vitamin K epoxide reductase complex 1 (VCORC1) were revealed in 22 patients.
During the follow-up, antithrombotic therapy was ineffective in 18.4 and 36.6% of the Groups 1 and 2 patients, respectively (p = 0.07). The rate of poor outcomes (thromboses and TIA) was 7 and 14.8 cases per 100 person-years, respectively. The first six months of warfarin therapy proved to be most risky for thrombotic events to occur--this period was responsible for 37% of bleedings. Hemorrhagic complications of antithrombotic therapy developed in 46.9 and 60.6% of Groups 1 and 2 patients, respectively (p = 0.26). Major hemorrhages were observed more frequently in the combination (warfarin plus low-dose aspirin) therapy group than in the warfarin monotherapy group. Mutant cytochrome P450 gene variants (CYP2C9*2 and CYP2C9*3) were present in 38.5% of the patients; VCORC1 gene mutations were observed in 27.3%. The number of nasal and gingival hemorrhages was increased in patients with CYP2C9*3 and homozygous VCORC1 gene mutations.
Moderately intensive warfarin therapy (international normalized ratio 2.0-3.0) could generally reduce the frequency of recurrent thrombotic events by at least 2-fold as compared with that before warfarin administration. The efficiency of using warfarin alone or in combination with aspirin in APS was found to be similar; and its safety was higher during monotherapy therefore it is undesirable to combine warfarin with antiaggregants in real clinical practice. The determination of CYP2C9 and VCORC1 genotypes in patients with APS before warfarin use allows excessive hypocoagulation and related hemorrhages to be avoided.
The effectiveness of amantadine hydrochloride as a prophylactic against influenza was studied during an epidemic caused by viruses related to influenza A2/Hong Kong/1968 variants in Leningrad, USSR, early in 1969. In all, 8169 subjects, assigned to amantadine-dosed, placebo-dosed, internal control and external control groups, were assessed. The index of effectiveness of the prophylactic medication, based on clinical diagnosis, in subjects who took amantadine regularly was 1.95. When the clinical diagnoses were confirmed serologically the index of effectiveness for the amantadine compared with the placebo group increased to 2.7. A comparison of the medicated group with the non-medicated, non-isolated internal control group showed an index of effectiveness of 5.34. A daily dose of 100 mg of amantadine was associated with an increase of 1.14% in complaints of sleep disturbances but these had no effect on the working capacity of subjects.
Pericarditis is rarely reported in inflammatory bowel disease. Besides its common causes, pericarditis could be related to ulcerative colitis flare or to 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA) treatment.
We report the case of a patient in whom fever, weight loss and pericarditis developed after 16 years of treatment with sulfasalazine for ulcerative colitis, after increasing the daily dosage from 1 to 3 g.
The patient recovered after treatment discontinuation and did not exhibit any recurrence of pericarditis when treatment with mesalazine was introduced.
In conclusion, if pericarditis occurs in ulcerative colitis patients treated with 5-ASA compounds, the treatment should be considered as a possible cause, even after an increase of the dosage. In this case, discontinuation of the treatment and cautious switch to another 5-ASA compound should be tested.
Behavioural and neurochemical evidence indicates a facilitatory effect of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), acting via 5-HT1B receptors, on dopamine (DA) systems. To explore this interaction further, these experiments examined the effects of the 5-HT1A/1B agonist RU-24969 on behaviours known to involve the mesolimbic DA system. These behaviours were locomotor activity, intravenous self-administration of d-amphetamine, responding for a conditioned reward (CR), and the response potentiating effects of amphetamine on CR responding. Locomotor activity was enhanced by 1 and 3 mg/kg RU 24969, and both doses also reduced responding for d-amphetamine (60 microg/kg/infusion). Changing the unit dose produced a characteristic U-shaped dose-response curve. This dose-response relationship was not apparent following injection of RU-24969. Across all unit infusion doses of amphetamine, the level of responding was fairly constant. In the CR experiments, rats responded for a conditioned stimulus that was previously paired with water. RU-24969 completely disrupted responding for CR, and also abolished CR responding in rats injected with 3 microg d-amphetamine in the nucleus accumbens. RU-24969 also markedly suppressed responding for water. The suppressant actions of RU-24969 on amphetamine self-administration and CR responding involve stimulation of 5-HT1B receptors, since they were reversed by the 5-HT1B/1D antagonist GR 127935 (3 mg/kg), but not by the 5-HT1A antagonist WAY-100635 (1 mg/kg). None of the behavioural effects of RU-24969 are consistent with a selective action to enhance mesolimbic DA function. Rather, global activation of 5-HT1B receptors appear to exert a general disruptive effect on operant responding.
Essential tremor is one of the most frequent movement disorders. It is characterized by postural and action tremor that may affect different regions of the body. Among current treatments propranolol and primidone are included. However, these two drugs have demonstrated a limited efficacy and several adverse events. Additionally, they are contraindicated in patients with cardiac insufficiency and several respiratory diseases. New antiepileptic drugs are revealing as a possibility in the treatment of this disease. AIM. To evaluate efficacy and tolerability of zonisamide in the treatment of essential tremor.
We perform a retrospective study about 13 patients with essential tremor refractory to an average of 2.8 drugs. Age, sex, zonisamide dosage, adverse events, duration and response to the treatment before and after the treatment were collected and analysed. Average zonisamide dosage was 215 mg/day and average duration of the treatment was 121 days.
Nine of 13 patients included in our study experienced a good response. A positive response was understood as a decrease on the limitation of daily activities and an improvement on neurological examination. Zonisamide was well tolerated and no patient abandoned the study for this reason.
Our data suggest that zonisamide is effective and well tolerated in the treatment of essential tremor. Placebo-controlled and bigger studies are warranted to confirm these results.
The bladder urothelium exhibits dynamic sensory properties that adapt to changes in the local environment. These studies investigated the localization and function of bradykinin receptor subtypes B1 and B2 in the normal and inflamed (cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis) bladder urothelium and their contribution to lower urinary tract function in the rat. Our findings indicate that the bradykinin 2 receptor (B2R) but not the bradykinin 1 receptor (B1R) is expressed in control bladder urothelium. B2R immunoreactivity was localized throughout the bladder, including the urothelium and detrusor smooth muscle. Bradykinin-evoked activation of this receptor elevated intracellular calcium (EC(50) = 8.4 nM) in a concentration-related manner and evoked ATP release from control cultured rat urothelial cells. In contrast, B1R mRNA was not detected in control rat urinary bladder; however, following acute (24 h) and chronic (8 day) CYP-induced cystitis in the rat, B1R mRNA was detected throughout the bladder. Functional B1Rs were demonstrated by evoking ATP release and increases in [Ca(2+)](i) in CYP (24 h)-treated cultured rat urothelial cells with a selective B1 receptor agonist (des-Arg(9)-bradykinin). Cystometry performed on control anaesthetized rats revealed that intravesical instillation of bradykinin activated the micturition pathway. Attenuation of this response by the P2 receptor antagonist PPADS suggests that bradykinin-induced micturition facilitation may be due in part to increased purinergic responsiveness. CYP (24 h)-treated rats demonstrated bladder hyperactivity that was significantly reduced by intravesical administration of either B1 (des-Arg(10)-Hoe-140) or B2 (Hoe-140) receptor antagonists. These studies demonstrate that urothelial expression of bradykinin receptors is plastic and is altered by pathology.
Herbal medicines are now attracting attention as potential sources of cancer preventive agents. Using inhibition of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) release assay, we studied Acer nikoense, Megusurino-ki in Japanese. Inhibitory potential was found in the leaf extract, and the main active principles were identified as geraniin and corilagin. The IC(50) values for TNF-alpha release inhibition were 43 microM for geraniin and 76 microM for corilagin, whereas that for (-)-epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG), the green tea polyphenol, as control was 26 microM. Furthermore, treatment with geraniin inhibited okadaic acid tumor promotion in a two-stage carcinogenesis experiment on mouse skin. Geraniin and corilagin are present in another well-known Japanese traditional herb, Geranium thunbergii, Genno-shoko in Japanese. Considering seasonal variations of the agents and sites of cultivation of herbs, this paper reviews the significance of geraniin as a new cancer preventive agent. In addition, based on accumulated results of green tea as a cancer preventive, we review two important results with EGCG: the synergistic effects of EGCG with sulindac or tamoxifen on cancer preventive activity in PC-9 cells, and cancer prevention of intestinal tumor development in multiple intestinal neoplasia (Min) mice by cotreatment using EGCG with sulindac. We report here new findings on additional gene expression resulting from cotreatment with EGCG and sulindac in PC-9 cells compared with gene expression by EGCG alone or sulindac alone. Overall, our results indicate that, with the continuing spread of cancer chemoprevention as a fundamental medical strategy, both clinicians and researchers should take a closer look at herbal medicine.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a highly effective chemotherapeutic agent related to dose-dependent cardiomyopathy. Recent evidence suggests that erythropoietin (EPO) can play a protective role in cardiovascular diseases by non-erythropoietic effects. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that EPO may protect against DOX-induced cardiomyopathy through anti-apoptotic mechanisms both in vitro and in vivo.
Isolated neonatal Wistar rat cardiomyocytes were treated with vehicle, DOX with or without EPO, or EPO. Twenty-four hours later, the cells were used to determine cardiomyocyte apoptosis (TUNEL assay). Cardiomyopathy was induced in Wistar rats by intraperitoneal injections (IP) of DOX (2.5 mg/kg, six times for 2 weeks). EPO (2,500 U/kg, six times for 2 weeks) was administered simultaneously in the DOX+EPO group and the EPO group. Two weeks after the last administration, cardiac function was evaluated by echocardiography and invasive haemodynamic measurements. Rats were then sacrificed for histological and TUNEL analyses, with immunological detection for cardiac Troponin-T (cTnT), alpha-actinin, Bax and Bcl-2.
EPO significantly ameliorated DOX-induced apoptosis of cultured cardiomyocytes as demonstrated by TUNEL assay. In the rat model, cardiac function significantly decreased in the DOX group. In contrast, the DOX+EPO group showed considerable improvement in cardiac function, inhibition of cardiomyocyte apoptosis, reduction of fibrosis, as well as up-regulation of Bcl-2 protein expression.
Our results suggest that EPO exerts preventive cardioprotective effects on DOX-induced cardiomyopathy via anti-apoptotic pathways. The up-regulation of Bcl-2 protein expression may contribute to this.
Lytic peptide Hecate (23-amino acid (AA)) fused with a 15-AA fragment of human chorionic gonadotropin-beta (CG-beta), Hecate-CGbeta conjugate (H-CGbeta-c) selectively binds to and destroys tumor cells expressing LH/chorionic gonadotropin receptor (Lhcgr). Transgenic mice (6.5 month old) expressing SV40 T-antigen under the inhibin-alpha promoter (inhalpha/Tag) presenting with Lhcgr expressing adrenal tumors were treated either with H-CGbeta-c, GnRH antagonist (GnRH-a), estradiol (E(2); only females) or their combinations for 1 month. We expected that GnRH-a or E(2) in combination with H-CGbeta-c could improve the treatment efficacy especially in females by decreasing circulating LH and eliminating the potential competition of serum LH with the H-CGbeta-c. GnRH-a and H-CGbeta-c treatments were successful in males (adrenal weights 14 +/- 2.8 mg and 60 +/- 26 vs 237 +/- 59 mg in controls; P < 0.05). Histopathologically, GnRH-a apparently destroyed the adrenal parenchyma leaving only the fibrotic capsule with few necrotic foci. In females, H-CGbeta-c was totally ineffective, whereas GnRH-a (19 +/- 5 mg) or E(2) (77 +/- 50 mg) significantly reduced the adrenal weights compared with controls (330 +/- 70 mg). Adrenal morphometry, cell proliferation markers, post-treatment suppression of serum progesterone, and quantitative RT-PCR of GATA-4, Lhcgr, and GATA-6 further supported the positive outcome. H-CGbeta-c selectively killed the Lhcgr expressing tumor cells, whereas GnRH-a blocked tumor progression through gonadotropin suppression, emphasizing the gonadotropin dependency of these adrenocortical tumors. If extrapolated to humans, H-CGbeta-c could be considered for the treatment of gonadotropin-dependent adrenal tumors in males, whereas in females gonadotropin suppression, but not H-CGbeta-c, would work better.
The present study aims at evaluating the effect of the combination of ferulic acid and ascorbic acid on isoproterenol-induced abnormalities in lipid metabolism. The rats were divided into eight groups: Control, isoproterenol, ferulic acid alone, ascorbic acid alone, ferulic acid+ascorbic acid, ferulic acid+isoproterenol, ascorbic acid+isoproterenol and ferulic acid+ascorbic acid+isoproterenol. Ferulic acid (20 mg/kg b.w.t.) and ascorbic acid (80 mg/kg b.w.t.) both alone and in combination was administered orally for 6 days and on the fifth and the sixth day, isoproterenol (150 mg/kg b.w.t.) was injected intraperitoneally to induce myocardial injury to rats. Induction of rats with isoproterenol resulted in a significant increase in the levels of triglycerides, total cholesterol, free fatty acids, free and ester cholesterol in both serum and cardiac tissue. A rise in the levels of phospholipids, lipid peroxides, low density lipoprotein and very low density lipoprotein-cholesterol was also observed in the serum of isoproterenol-intoxicated rats. Further, a decrease in the level of high density lipoprotein in serum and in the phospholipid levels, in the heart of isoproterenol-intoxicated rats was observed, which was paralleled by abnormal activities of lipid metabolizing enzymes: total lipase, cholesterol ester synthase, lipoprotein lipase and lecithin: cholesterol acyl transferase. Pre-cotreatment with the combination of ferulic acid and ascorbic acid significantly attenuated these alterations and restored the levels to near normal when compared to individual treatment groups. Histopathological observations were also in correlation with the biochemical parameters. These findings indicate the synergistic protective effect of ferulic acid and ascorbic acid on isoproterenol-induced abnormalities in lipid metabolism.
The present investigation was carried out to assess the protective efficacy of nimodipine against dichlorvos-induced organophosphate induced delayed neurotoxicity (OPIDN). Single subcutaneous dose of dichlorvos (200 mg/kg body weight) led to a consistent increase in the activity of both microtubule associated protein kinases viz. Ca2+/Calmodulin-dependent and cAMP dependent protein kinases, at all post exposure intervals (day 7, 15 and 21) as compared to that of controls. Autoradiography followed by microdensitometric studies demonstrated enhanced phosphorylation of 55 kDa and 280 kDa proteins in dichlorvos-exposed animals. These two proteins were confirmed to be tubulin and microtubule associated protein-2 (MAP-2) by western blotting. The hyperphosphorylation of these two proteins was shown to interfere with the assembly of neuronal microtubules as shown by electron microscopic studies that may eventually lead to possible disruption of neuronal cytoarchtecture resulting in axonal degeneration. Administration of nimodipine along with dichlorvos brought about a significant reduction in the activities of both the kinases as well as the extent of microtubule associated protein phosphorylation. This indicates that nimodipine, a centrally acting calcium channel blocker, may contribute to the amelioration of dichlorvos induced neurotoxicity by attenuation of calcium mediated disruption of cytoskeletal proteins and hence, calcium channel blockers like nimodipine have great future as new therapeutic agents for OPIDN.
To determine the role of thrombin in high blood flow, platelet-dependent thrombotic and hemostatic processes we measured the relative antithrombotic and antihemostatic effects in baboons of hirudin, a highly potent and specific antithrombin, and compared the effects of heparin, an antithrombin III-dependent inhibitor of thrombin. Thrombus formation was determined in vivo using three relevant models (homologous endarterectomized aorta, collagen-coated tubing, and Dacron vascular graft) by measuring: (1) platelet deposition, using gamma camera imaging of 111In-platelets; (2) fibrin deposition, as assessed by the incorporation of circulating 125I-fibrinogen; and (3) occlusion. The continuous intravenous infusion of 1, 5, and 20 nmol/kg per minute of recombinant hirudin (desulfatohirudin) maintained constant plasma levels of 0.16 +/- 0.03, 0.79 +/- 0.44, and 3.3 +/- 0.77 mumol/mL, respectively. Hirudin interrupted platelet and fibrin deposition in a dose-dependent manner that was profound at the highest dose for all three thrombogenic surfaces and significant at the lowest dose for thrombus formation on endarterectomized aorta. Thrombotic occlusion was prevented by all doses studied. In contrast, heparin did not inhibit either platelet or fibrin deposition when administered at a dose that maximally prolonged clotting times (100 U/kg) (P greater than .1), and only intermediate effects were produced at 10-fold that dose (1,000 U/kg). Moreover, heparin did not prevent occlusion of the test segments. Hirudin inhibited platelet hemostatic function in concert with its antithrombotic effects (bleeding times were prolonged by the intermediate and higher doses). By comparison, intravenous heparin failed to affect the bleeding time at the 100 U/kg dose (P greater than .5), and only minimally prolonged the bleeding time at the 1,000 U/kg dose (P less than .05). We conclude that platelet-dependent thrombotic and hemostatic processes are thrombin-mediated and that the biologic antithrombin hirudin produces a potent, dose-dependent inhibition of arterial thrombus formation that greatly exceeds the minimal antithrombotic effects produced by heparin.
Recommendations are broadening for the prophylaxis of atherosclerotic disorders, but aspirin is the only widely used agent. Ticlopidine hydrochloride, a new antiplatelet medication, has recently been approved for prescription in North America. We reviewed the major clinical trials of ticlopidine and derived guidelines for its use.
Studies of ticlopidine were sought through MEDLINE for 1980 to 1990 and through bibliographies of retrieved articles. All published, randomized trials of ticlopidine were appraised if they reported major morbidity and mortality as primary end points. All eligible studies were formally reviewed by an expert panel according to published principles for critical appraisal of the medical literature. Both benefits and risks were quantified.
Four randomized trials reported major clinical end points. In these, ticlopidine was more effective than placebo for preventing recurrences after completed stroke; was more effective than aspirin for patients with transient ischemic attacks and partial strokes; and reduced vascular death and nonfatal myocardial infarction in an open trial among patients with unstable angina. For patients with intermittent claudication ticlopidine, was not significantly better than placebo for preventing myocardial infarction or stroke. Side effects were more common with ticlopidine than with aspirin or placebo.
Ticlopidine should be prescribed in place of aspirin for stroke prophylaxis or unstable angina if the patient is unable to tolerate aspirin. Ticlopidine may also benefit patients who experience new ischemic events while taking aspirin or, probably, patients with peripheral vascular disease. A complete blood cell count should be performed every 2 weeks during the first 3 months of therapy to check for leukopenia.
Neuroinflammation triggered by macrophage infiltration into sites of peripheral nerve injury may result in neuropathic pain. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)γ signaling regulates the properties of macrophages. However, the macrophage-mediated effects of PPARγ signaling on neuropathic pain triggered by peripheral inflammation have not been investigated.
To evaluate the peripheral effects of PPARγ signaling on tactile allodynia, we administered the blood-brain barrier-impermeant PPARγ agonist, rosiglitazone, after partial sciatic nerve ligation (PSNL) as (1) systemic treatment during different phases of neuropathic pain development, (2) local injection to the PSNL site in the early phase, or (3) peritoneal macrophages pretreated with rosiglitazone transplanted into the PSNL site. In addition, the direct effect of rosiglitazone was evaluated in peritoneal macrophages activated with interferon-γ.
Systemic rosiglitazone treatment early in the course of progressive inflammation ameliorated tactile allodynia, macrophage infiltration, and production of proinflammatory mediators including cyclooxygenase-2, inducible nitric oxide synthase, and matrix metalloprotease 9 at the PSNL site. Local injection of rosiglitazone and transplantation of rosiglitazone-treated peritoneal macrophages at the ligation site significantly improved tactile allodynia. In peritoneal macrophages, rosiglitazone down-regulated interferon-γ-induced gene expression of cyclooxygenase-2 and inducible nitric oxide synthase and attenuated the chemotactic response to monocyte chemotactic protein-1.
Rosiglitazone treatment in the early phase of neuropathic pain significantly alleviated the development of tactile allodynia by regulating macrophage infiltration and production of proinflammatory molecules at the inflamed site. Our results indicate that the activation of PPARγ signaling in macrophages during the early phase may suppress neuropathic pain development.
Ca(V)1.2, the cardiac L-type calcium channel, is important for excitation and contraction of the heart. Its role in other tissues is unclear. Here we present Timothy syndrome, a novel disorder characterized by multiorgan dysfunction including lethal arrhythmias, webbing of fingers and toes, congenital heart disease, immune deficiency, intermittent hypoglycemia, cognitive abnormalities, and autism. In every case, Timothy syndrome results from the identical, de novo Ca(V)1.2 missense mutation G406R. Ca(V)1.2 is expressed in all affected tissues. Functional expression reveals that G406R produces maintained inward Ca(2+) currents by causing nearly complete loss of voltage-dependent channel inactivation. This likely induces intracellular Ca(2+) overload in multiple cell types. In the heart, prolonged Ca(2+) current delays cardiomyocyte repolarization and increases risk of arrhythmia, the ultimate cause of death in this disorder. These discoveries establish the importance of Ca(V)1.2 in human physiology and development and implicate Ca(2+) signaling in autism.
A method permitting measurement of finger tremor as a displacement-time curve is described, using a test system with simple amplitude calibration. The coordinates of the inversion points of the displacement-time curves were transferred through graphical input equipment to punched tape. By means of a computer program, periods and amplitudes of tremor oscillations were calculated and classified. The event frequency for each class of periods and amplitudes was determined. The actions of fenoterol-hydrobromide, ritodrin-HCl and placebo given to 10 healthy subjects by intravenous infusion in a double-blind crossover study were tested by this method. At therapeutic doses both substances raised the mean tremor amplitude to about three times the control level. At the same time, the mean period within each class of amplitudes shortened by 10--20 ms, whereas the mean periods calculated from all oscillations together did not change significantly. After the end of fenoterol-hydrobromide infusion, tremor amplitudes decreased significantly faster than those following ritodrin-HCl infusion.
Copy number variants (CNVs) are associated with many neurocognitive disorders; however, these events are typically large, and the underlying causative genes are unclear. We created an expanded CNV morbidity map from 29,085 children with developmental delay in comparison to 19,584 healthy controls, identifying 70 significant CNVs. We resequenced 26 candidate genes in 4,716 additional cases with developmental delay or autism and 2,193 controls. An integrated analysis of CNV and single-nucleotide variant (SNV) data pinpointed 10 genes enriched for putative loss of function. Follow-up of a subset of affected individuals identified new clinical subtypes of pediatric disease and the genes responsible for disease-associated CNVs. These genetic changes include haploinsufficiency of SETBP1 associated with intellectual disability and loss of expressive language and truncations of ZMYND11 in individuals with autism, aggression and complex neuropsychiatric features. This combined CNV and SNV approach facilitates the rapid discovery of new syndromes and genes involved in neuropsychiatric disease despite extensive genetic heterogeneity.
The objectives of the study were to assess the magnitude of the effect of the leukotriene receptor antagonist, zafirlukast, against cold air-induced bronchoconstriction following the first dose and to assess magnitude and duration after 5 days of dosing. Nineteen patients with asthma were included. In a randomized cross-over design, either zafirlukast 20 mg or 80 mg b.d. or placebo were given over 5 days. Challenges were performed 3 h post first dose and 3, 8, 12 and 24 h post last dose. The authors assessed the provocative ventilation rate necessary to achieve a 10% (PV10) and 20% (PV20) fall in forced expiratory volume in one second. The median PV20 3 h post first dose was 69.1 L x min-1 for zafirlukast 80 mg compared to 40 L x min-1 for placebo (p=0.004). The corresponding median value for zafirlukast 20 mg was 59.9 L x min-1 (p=0.06). At steady state the differences in PV20, between zafirlukast 80 mg and placebo were significant at 8 h and 12 h post last dose. The corresponding difference for zafirlukast 20 mg was statistically significant at 8 h post last dose. The analysis of PV10 yielded compatible results. There was no significant protection 24 h after last dose. This study has demonstrated that zafirlukast offers significant protection against cold air-induced bronchoconstriction in asthma. The degree and duration of protection were dose-dependent. However, there was a large interindividual variability for the protective effect of this leukotriene receptor antagonist.
