To compare the changes of serum levels and tissue receptor levels of estrogen and progesterone as well as histopathological changes following treatments of endometrial cancer with aminoglutethimide (AG), progesterone caproate, or a combination of both.
Thirty-nine patients of endometrial cancer were treated with hydroxyprogesterone caproate, AG or combination of both, and their effects were compared.
It was observed that: (1) the administration of AG gave a fall of estradiol and progesterone serum levels; hydroxyprogesterone caproates therapy increased the level of progesterone; and following the combination treatment, higher progesterone and lower estradiol levels were found (P < 0.05), (2) treatments by AG as well as by combination therapy brought about a considerable fall of the positive rate of ER and PR in tissues (P < 0.05), (3) histological changes showed inhibition of cell growths in all three types of treatment, secretory cells and decidual reaction were shown under the influence of hydroxyprogesterone caproates, the changes in combination therapy mainly complied with those in AG treatment.
The results suggested that AG was effective in treating patients with endometrial cancer, resulting in changes of endocrine environments and inhibition of cell growth by mechanism different from that of hydroxyprogesterone caproates.
Culture adapted T. b. gambiense isolated from Northwest Uganda were exposed to 0.001-0.14 microg/ml melarsoprol or 1.56-100 microg/ml DL-alpha-difluoromethylornithine (DFMO). Minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of each drug were scored for each isolate after a period of 10 days drug exposure. The results indicate that T. b. gambiense isolates from Northwest Uganda had elevated MIC values for melarsoprol ranging from 0.009 to 0.072 microg/ml as compared with T. b. gambiense isolates from Cote d'Ivoire with MIC values ranging from 0.001 to 0.018 microg/ml or with T. b. rhodesiense from Southeast Uganda with MIC values from 0.001 to 0.009 microg/ml. All MIC values obtained fell below expected peak melarsoprol concentrations in serum of treated patients. However, it may not be possible to maintain constant drug concentrations in serum of patients as was the case in our in vitro experiments. Importantly, the MIC of 0.072 microg/ml exhibited by one of the isolates from Northwest Uganda was above levels attainable in CSF indicating that this isolate would probably not be eliminated from CSF of treated patients. PCR amplification of the gene encoding the P2-like adenosine transporter followed by restriction digestion with Sfa NI enzyme revealed presence of fragments previously observed in a trypanosome clone with laboratory-induced arsenic resistance. From our findings it appears that reduced drug susceptibility may be one factor for the frequent relapses of sleeping sickness after melarsoprol treatment occurring in Northwest Uganda.
Effect of methanolic extract of Hibiscus rosa sinensis (100-300 mg/kg) was studied on reserpine-induced orofacial dyskinesia and neurochemical alterations. The rats were treated with intraperitoneal reserpine (1 mg/kg, ip) for 3 days every other day. On day 5, vacuous chewing movements and tongue protrusions were counted for 5 min. Reserpine treated rats significantly developed vacuous chewing movements and tongue protrusions however, coadministration of Hibiscus rosa sinensis roots extract (100, 200 and 300 mg/kg, per orally) attenuated the effects. Biochemical analysis of brain revealed that the reserpine treatment significantly increased lipid peroxidation and decreased levels of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT) and glutathione reductase (GSH), an index of oxidative stress process. Coadministration of extract significantly reduced the lipid peroxidation and reversed the decrease in brain SOD, CAT and GSH levels. The results of the present study suggested that Hibiscus rosa sinensis had a protective role against reserpine-induced orofacial dyskinesia and oxidative stress.
The laboratory animal is susceptible to biological variation due to a variety of causes. Thus genetic variation and nutrition have become recognized to influence the reaction of the animal to experimental procedures. Severe kidney injury was observed at our institute in preliminary studies with 1% butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) incorporated in a semisynthetic diet fed to Wistar rats for one month. These lesions together with nephrocalcinosis, a common finding in rats fed a semisynthetic diet might suggest that the animals in our experiment were predisposed to kidney damage. In order to show the influence of the rat strain and the type of diet a study was performed with both Wistar and Sprague-Dawley rats fed a semisynthetic or commercial diet mixed with 1% BHT. It was observed that the semisynthetic diet had a marked effect on the severity of the kidney lesions and that the lesions were independent of the rat strain used. In addition, an apparent sex variation was found.
Parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP) increases the growth and osteolytic potential of prostate cancer cells, making it important to control PTHrP expression in these cells. We show that 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25(OH)2D3) and its non-hypercalcemic analog, EB1089, decrease PTHrP mRNA and cellular protein levels in the androgen-dependent human prostate cancer cell line LNCaP and its androgen-independent derivative, the C4-2 cell line. This effect is mediated via a negative Vitamin D response element (nVDREhPTHrP) within the human PTHrP gene and involves an interaction between nVDREhPTHrP and the Vitamin D receptor (VDR). The retinoid X receptor (RXR) is a frequent heterodimeric partner of the VDR. We show that RXRalpha forms part of the nuclear protein complex that interacts with nVDREhPTHrP along with the VDR in LNCaP and C4-2 cells. We also show that the RXR ligand, 9-cis-retinoic acid, downregulates PTHrP mRNA levels; this decrease is more pronounced in LNCaP than in C4-2 cells. In addition, 9-cis-retinoic acid enhances the 1,25(OH)2D3-mediated downregulation of PTHrP expression in both cell lines; this effect also is more pronounced in LNCaP cells. Proliferation of LNCaP, but not C4-2, cells is decreased by 9-cis-retinoic acid. Promoter activity driven by nVDREhPTHrP cloned upstream of the SV40 promoter and transiently transfected into LNCaP and C4-2 cells is downregulated in response to 1,25(OH)2D3 and EB1089 in both cell lines. Co-treatment with these compounds and 9-cis-retinoic acid further decreases CAT activity in LNCaP, but not C4-2, cells. These results indicate that PTHrP gene expression is regulated by 1,25(OH)2D3 in a cell type-specific manner in prostate cancer cells.
To investigate a population of elderly people for atrial fibrillation and to determine how many of the cases identified might benefit from treatment with anticoagulants.
From a practice of four primary care physicians, 1422 patients aged 65 years and over were identified, of whom 1207 (85% of the total population) underwent electrocardiographic screening to detect the presence of atrial fibrillation. Patients with the arrhythmia were further evaluated by echocardiography and interview, to stratify their risk of stroke based on echocardiographic and clinical risk factors, their perceived risk from anticoagulation, and their attitude towards this treatment. Their primary care physician was also interviewed to determine the factors influencing the prescription of anticoagulants.
The arrhythmia occurred in 65 patients (5.4% overall), its prevalence increasing markedly with age (2.3% in 65 to 69 years age group; 8.1% in those over 85). Warfarin was being prescribed to 21.4% of these patients, although the findings of the study indicate that a further 20% were eligible for this treatment. Symptoms suggestive of cardiac failure were common (32.1%) and coexisting pathology was often identified by cardiac ultrasound in these patients (left ventricular hypertrophy, 32.1%; impaired left ventricular contractility, 21.4%; left atrial dilation, 80.4%; mitral annular calcification, 42.9%; mitral stenosis, 7.1%; mitral regurgitation, 48.2%; aortic stenosis, 8.9%). In all but one case, the decision to anticoagulate was based on the clinical rather than the echocardiographic findings.
Individual risk-benefit assessment in elderly patients with atrial fibrillation suggests that almost half (41.4%) are eligible for full anticoagulation with warfarin, whereas presently only one fifth are receiving this treatment. The decision to anticoagulate can be made on clinical grounds in most cases. If these results are confirmed, a doubling of the current number of patients taking anticoagulants can be anticipated.
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is associated with inhibited AMP-activated kinase (AMPK) and activation of sterol regulatory element binding protein 1 (SREBP-1). AMPK phosphorylation inhibits SREBP-1, a major transcription factor of de novo lipogenesis, by inhibiting the liver X receptor (LXR) or by direct phosphorylation. Resveratrol, a polyphenol, has regulatory effects on hepatic lipid metabolism as a potent AMPK activator. In this study, we evaluated the anti-steatogenic effects of resveratrol and its derivatives and identified the molecular mechanism in vitro and in vivo. Resveratrol and its derivatives decreased lipid accumulation by free fatty acids (FFA mixture; 0.5 mM, oleic acid:palmitic acid = 2: 1) in H4IIEC3 cells. Synthesized derivatives of resveratrol had lower cytotoxicity than the parental molecule with similar potency. SY-102 suppressed SREBP-1 maturation by T0901317, an LXR agonist, and decreased SRE luciferase activity and the mRNA levels of lipogenic genes. Inhibition of AMPK by pre-treatment with compound C completely blocked the effects of SY-102. To evaluate their efficacy in vivo, mice were fed a high-fat diet for 5 days, and resveratrol or SY-102 was administered orally for the last 2 days. Oral administration of the SY-102 increased AMPK phosphorylation, followed by reduced hepatic triglyceride accumulation to a similar extent as resveratrol. These data demonstrate that SY-102, a synthesized derivative of resveratrol, might provide a promising therapeutic effect against fatty liver disease.
A 72-year-old woman presented with a decreased level of consciousness and hypotension. The initial electrocardiogram demonstrated atrial fibrillation with a wide QRS complex. Her medical history revealed that she had just been started on propafenone. A diagnosis of propafenone toxicity was made and sodium bicarbonate was administered. A rare phenomenon in which toxicity occurred at therapeutic dosing is reported. Acute propafenone toxicity manifests in a wide range of organ systems; in particular, cardiovascular compromise in the form of hypotension, bradycardia and QRS widening can occur. Sodium bicarbonate therapy is advocated to directly counteract the toxic effects of propafenone. In the case described, this treatment resulted in rapid normalization of the QRS duration and stabilization of the hemodynamic profile.
A 12-year-old girl developed severe autoimmune thrombocytopenia after a bone marrow transplant for acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
Although epsilon-aminocaproic acid helped to control her bleeding, it eventually caused a rare myopathy previously undescribed in a pediatric patient.
The myopathy resolved when the drug was discontinued and a different antifibrinolytic agent was used.
Nicotine is a known risk factor for cancer development and has been shown to alter gene expression in cells and tissue upon exposure. We used Illumina® Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) technology to gain unbiased biological insight into the transcriptome of normal epithelial cells (MCF-10A) to nicotine exposure. We generated expression data from 54,699 transcripts using triplicates of control and nicotine stressed cells. As a result, we identified 138 differentially expressed transcripts, including 39 uncharacterized genes. Additionally, 173 transcripts that are primarily associated with DNA replication, recombination, and repair showed evidence for alternative splicing. We discovered the greatest nicotine stress response by HPCAL4 (up-regulated by 4.71 fold) and NPAS3 (down-regulated by -2.73 fold); both are genes that have not been previously implicated in nicotine exposure but are linked to cancer. We also discovered significant down-regulation (-2.3 fold) and alternative splicing of NEAT1 (lncRNA) that may have an important, yet undiscovered regulatory role. Gene ontology analysis revealed nicotine exposure influenced genes involved in cellular and metabolic processes. This study reveals previously unknown consequences of nicotine stress on the transcriptome of normal breast epithelial cells and provides insight into the underlying biological influence of nicotine on normal cells, marking the foundation for future studies.
T cell receptor engagement with CD28 costimulation is generally required for naive T cell activation, whereas reactivation of memory cells is less dependent on CD28 costimulation. We studied this process in chronic beryllium disease, in which the frequency of antigen-specific CD4+ T cells in the lung is large and circulating antigen-specific cells are also detectable. In the lung, a large fraction of CD4+ T cells stopped expressing CD28 mRNA and protein, and this change in phenotype correlated with lung inflammation. In the presence of concentrations of CTLA-4Ig that inhibited the CD28-B7 interaction, beryllium-specific CD4+ T cells in lung were still able to proliferate and secrete IFN-gamma in response to beryllium in culture. This functional independence of CD28 costimulation included lung CD28+ effector cells. Although lung CD4+CD28- cells retained the ability to secrete Th1-type cytokines in response to beryllium, they showed less proliferative capacity and were more susceptible to cell death compared with CD28+ T cells. In contrast to lung cells, inhibition of the CD28-B7 interaction markedly reduced responses of beryllium-specific T cells in blood. Taken together, these findings suggest transition within memory CD4+ T cells from CD28 dependence in central memory cells to functional independence and then loss of CD28 expression in effector cells.
The two major pathways for the metabolism of estradiol-17beta (E2) are the 2- and 16-hydroxylase pathways. Research has suggested that the increased production of the estrogenically active 16-hydroxy products such as estriol (E3) may be involved in increased susceptibility to breast cancer. 4-Nonylphenol (4-NP) is an environmental estrogen that also can activate the pregnane-X receptor (PXR) and induce P-450 enzymes responsible for the production of E3. It is hypothesized that 4-NP may act in part as an environmental estrogen by increasing E3 production. Based on its affinity for the estrogen receptor (ER) alone, 4-NP may be more potent than predicted at increasing mammary cancer incidence in the MMTVneu mouse. Female mice were treated per os for 7 days at 0, 25, 50 or 75 mg kg(-1) day(-1) 4-NP to investigate the effects of 4-NP on hepatic estrogen metabolism after an acute treatment. 4-Nonylphenol increased the hepatic formation of E3 in a dose-dependent manner. However, serum E3 concentrations were only increased at 25 mg kg(-1) day(-1) presumably due to direct inhibition of E3 formation by 4-NP. MMTVneu mice were then treated for 32 weeks at 0, 30 or 45 mg kg(-1) day(-1) 4-NP to determine its effects on mammary cancer formation and estrogen metabolism. 4-Nonylphenol increased mammary cancer formation in the MMTVneu mice at 45 mg kg(-1) day(-1) but not at 30 mg kg(-1) day(-1). Mice treated with an equipotent dose of E2, 10 microg kg(-1) day(-1), based on the relative binding affinities of nonylphenol and estradiol for ER alpha, did not develop mammary cancer. This suggests that nonylphenol is more potent than predicted based on its affinity for the estrogen receptor. However, no changes in serum E3 concentrations or hepatic E3 production were measured after the chronic treatment. Changes in E3 formation were correlated with increased CYP2B levels after the 7 day 4-NP treatment, and repression of CYP2B and CYP3A after 32 weeks of 4-NP treatment. Microarray analysis and Q-PCR of liver mRNA from the mice treated for 32 weeks demonstrated a decrease in RXR alpha, the heterodimeric partner of the PXR, which may in part explain the repressed transcription of the P450s measured. In conclusion, 4-NP treatment for 32 weeks increased mammary cancer formation at a dose of 45 mg kg(-1) day(-1). However, chronic treatment with 4-NP did not increase hepatic E3 formation or serum E3 concentrations. The transient induction by 4-NP of hepatic E3 formation and serum concentrations is most likely not involved in the increased incidence of mammary cancer in MMTVneu mice since E3 serum concentrations were only increased at 25 mg kg(-1) day(-1), a dose that was not sufficient to induce mammary tumor formation. Nevertheless, the induced hepatic E3 production in the acute exposures to 4-NP was indicative of an increase in mammary cancer incidence after the chronic exposure.
Clobazam (CLB) is known to increase hepatobiliary thyroxine (T4) clearance in Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats, which results in hypothyroidism followed by thyroid follicular cell hypertrophy. However, the mechanism of the acceleration of T4-clearance has not been fully investigated. In the present study, we tried to clarify the roles of hepatic UDP-glucronosyltransferase (UGT) isoenzymes (UGT1A and UGT2B) and efflux transporter (multidrug resistance-associated protein-2; MRP2) in the CLB-induced acceleration of T4-clearance using two mutant rat strains, UGT1A-deficient mutant (Gunn) and MRP2-deficient mutant (EHBR) rats, especially focusing on thyroid morphology, levels of circulating hormones (T4 and triiodothyronine (T3)) and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), and mRNA or protein expressions of UGTs (Ugt1a1, Ugt1a6, and Ugt2b1/2) and MRP2 (Mrp). CLB induced thyroid morphological changes with increases in TSH in SD and Gunn rats, but not in EHBR rats. T4 was slightly decreased in SD and Gunn rats, and T3 was decreased in Gunn rats, whereas these hormones were maintained in EHBR rats. Hepatic Ugt1a1, Ugt1a6, Ugt2b1/2, and Mrp2 mRNAs were upregulated in SD rats. In Gunn rats, UGT1A mRNAs (Ugt1a1/6) and protein levels were quite low, but UGT2B mRNAs (Ugt2b1/2) and protein were prominently upregulated. In SD and Gunn rats, MRP2 mRNA and protein were upregulated to the same degree. These results suggest that MRP2 is an important contributor in development of the thyroid cellular hypertrophy in CLB-treated rats, and that UGT1A and UGT2B work in concert with MRP2 in the presence of MRP2 function to enable the effective elimination of thyroid hormones.
Cyclophosphamide (CP) is an alkylating agent widely used in treating cancer and autoimmune disease. CP is classified as a pregnancy risk factor D drug and is teratogenic in animals, but population studies have not conclusively demonstrated teratogenicity in humans. Six isolated reports of prenatally exposed infants with various congenital anomalies exist, but to date no specific phenotype has been delineated. The purpose of this report is to document a new case of in utero CP exposure with multiple congenital anomalies and to establish an apparent CP embryopathy phenotype. The mother had systemic lupus erythematosus and cyclophosphamide exposure in the first trimester. She also took nifedipine, atenolol, clonidine, prednisone, aspirin, and potassium chloride throughout pregnancy. The infant had growth retardation and multiple anomalies including microbrachycephaly, coronal craniosynostosis, hypotelorism, shallow orbits, proptosis, blepharophimosis, small, abnormal ears, unilateral preauricular pit, broad, flat nasal bridge, microstomia, high-arched palate, micrognathia, preaxial upper limb and postaxial lower limb defects consisting of hypoplastic thumbs, and bilateral absence of the 4th and 5th toes. Chromosomes were apparently normal. The reported cases of in utero exposure to cyclosposphamide shared the following manifestations with our patient: growth deficiency, developmental delay, craniosynostosis, blepharophimosis, flat nasal bridge, abnormal ears, and distal limb defects including hypoplastic thumbs and oligodactyly. We conclude that (a) cyclophosphamide is a human teratogen, (b) a distinct phenotype exists, and (c) the safety of CP in pregnancy is in serious question.
Female Swiss mice were treated for 24 weeks, with 3-hydroxy-4-pyrone (Py) added to their powdered diet at 0.5% (wt/wt), and the effects of this agent on the liver were examined. Serum transaminases (especially GPT) rose continuously, while the GOT/GPT ratio remained at approximately 1.0 throughout the study period. The characteristic changes found from 8 weeks onward were piecemeal necrosis and bridging necrosis of the hepatocytes with dense lymphocytic infiltration. Proliferation of collagen fibers in the portal tracts and formation of narrow fibrous septa dividing the lobules into pseudolobules were also noted from 12 weeks onward. A large number of the infiltrating lymphocytes were identified as T cells by immunohistochemical and electron microscopic studies. These lymphocytes often surrounded or were closely attached to degenerating hepatocytes. Focal apoptosis and necrosis accompanied by a granulomatous reaction of the centrilobular hepatocytes were noted as early changes in the liver. Our findings indicate that the hepatic changes produced in mice by long-term Py administration have characteristics in common with those of human chronic active hepatitis. Immunological cytotoxic mechanisms, especially T cell-mediated ones, appear to play an essential role in the development of hepatic lesions in this murine model of chronic active hepatitis.
In two patients with variant forms of Brugada electrocardiographic abnormalities, ST segment elevation, and reciprocal ST segment depression developed during intravenous administration of pilsicainide. In one patient, pilsicainide accentuated the ST segment elevation in leads I, aV(L), and V(1)-V(3) and caused ST segment depression in leads II, III, and aV(F). Coronary angiograms at the time of ST segment elevation were normal. In the other patient, pilsicainide accentuated the coved-type ST segment elevation in leads II, III, and aV(F) and caused ST segment depression in leads I, aV(L), and V(2)-V(5). Frequent premature ventricular complexes (PVCs) with two different left bundle branch block patterns developed during ST segment elevation. Intravenous isoproterenol returned the ST segment to baseline in both patients and suppressed the PVCs in the second patient. We hypothesize that a wide area of epicardial myocardium with large I(to) current might explain the reciprocal ST segment depression observed at the time of accentuated ST segment elevation.
In January 2008, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention began a nationwide investigation of severe adverse reactions that were first detected in a single hemodialysis facility. Preliminary findings suggested that heparin was a possible cause of the reactions.
Information on clinical manifestations and on exposure was collected for patients who had signs and symptoms that were consistent with an allergic-type reaction after November 1, 2007. Twenty-one dialysis facilities that reported reactions and 23 facilities that reported no reactions were included in a case-control study to identify facility-level risk factors. Unopened heparin vials from facilities that reported reactions were tested for contaminants.
A total of 152 adverse reactions associated with heparin were identified in 113 patients from 13 states from November 19, 2007, through January 31, 2008. The use of heparin manufactured by Baxter Healthcare was the factor most strongly associated with reactions (present in 100.0% of case facilities vs. 4.3% of control facilities, P<0.001). Vials of heparin manufactured by Baxter from facilities that reported reactions contained a contaminant identified as oversulfated chondroitin sulfate (OSCS). Adverse reactions to the OSCS-contaminated heparin were often characterized by hypotension, nausea, and shortness of breath occurring within 30 minutes after administration. Of 130 reactions for which information on the heparin lot was available, 128 (98.5%) occurred in a facility that had OSCS-contaminated heparin on the premises. Of 54 reactions for which the lot number of administered heparin was known, 52 (96.3%) occurred after the administration of OSCS-contaminated heparin.
Heparin contaminated with OSCS was epidemiologically linked to adverse reactions in this nationwide outbreak. The reported clinical features of many of the cases further support the conclusion that contamination of heparin with OSCS was the cause of the outbreak.
Prolactinomas were induced by chronic estrone acetate treatment in female Wistar rats in vivo. After enzymatic dissociation of the tumor tissue, monolayer cell cultures were obtained. In vitro tumor induction was performed by treatment of normal monolayer anterior pituitary cell cultures with a 1:1 mixture of 7,9-dimethylbenz[c]acridine: 8-methylbenz[c]acridine. For immunohistochemistry, the cell cultures were stained by the peroxidase-antiperoxidase method for standardization; the nonspecific hormone release was induced with 30 mM K+. The prolactin, alpha-melanotropin, and adrenocorticotropin levels in the supernatant were measured by specific, sensitive radioimmunoassays. The results indicated surface differences between the in vivo induced prolactinoma cells and normal pituitary cells: the attachment of the prolactinoma cells required 15% collagen treatment, whereas normal cells required only 3-4% collagen. Tumor cells induced in vitro by methylbenz[c]acridine treatment were able to attach only after ammonia activation of the collagen surface. These findings strongly suggest that the mode of tumor induction can result in differences in membrane fluidity; this phenomenon is possibly connected with the levels of prolactin, adrenocorticotropin and alpha-melanotropin hormone production of these endocrine tumor cells.
Cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea and otorrhea are rare complications of conservative and medical management of invasive macroprolactinomas. The slow shrinkage of the tumor during therapy is responsible for delayed rhinorrhea and otorrhea which carry the risk of meningitis. The operative procedure for closure of the fistulae is needed. We report the occurrence of CSF rhinorrhea in two patients with macroprolactinoma who were treated by bromocriptine. In one patient the fistulae is surgically treated and the treatment by bromocriptine is maintained. In the other patient the rhinorrhea is associated with otorrhea and the operation is not required because of the massive destruction of skull base. The CSF rhinorrhea and otorrhea stopped after diminution of bromocriptine doses.
FD & C Red No. 3 was fed to Charles River CD rats as a dietary admixture in two long-term toxicity/carcinogenicity studies. The studies consisted of an in utero and an F1 phase. In the former, the compound was administered to five groups of the F0 generation rats (60 of each sex/group) at levels of 0.0, 0.0, 0.1, 0.5 or 1.0% ('original study') and 0.0 or 4.0% ('high-dose study'). The concurrent control groups received the basal diet. After random selection of the F1 animals, the long-term phase was initiated using the same dietary levels and 70 rats of each sex/group, including the three control groups. Rats were exposed for a maximum of 30 months. No compound-related effects were noted in the in utero phase. Mean body weights of the female F1 rats on 4.0% FD & C Red No. 3 (3029 mg/kg/body weight/day) were significantly lower than those of controls (P less than 0.01) throughout the study. Food consumption increased in all treated groups in a dose-related manner. There were no significant effects on the haematology, serum chemistry and urinalysis and no compound-related effects on survival. In male rats receiving 4.0% FD & C Red No. 3 (2464 mg/kg/day) thyroid weights were increased, with a mean weight of 92 mg compared to 44 mg for controls, and statistically significant increases in the incidence of thyroid follicular cell hypertrophy, hyperplasia and adenomas were recorded. A numerically increased incidence of thyroid follicular adenomas in female rats given 0.5, 1.0 or 4.0% FD & C Red No. 3 was not statistically significant. The no-observed-adverse-effect levels established in these studies were 0.5% (251 mg/kg/day) for male rats and 1.0% (641 mg/kg/day) for females.
The effects of carbamazepine (CBZ) treatment on local anesthetic-kindled seizures and lethality were evaluated in different stages of the kindling process and under different methods of CBZ administration. Chronic oral CBZ inhibited the development of both lidocaine- and cocaine-induced seizures, but had little effect on the fully developed local anesthetic seizures. Chronic CBZ also decreased the incidence of seizure-related mortality in the cocaine-injected rats. Acute CBZ over a range of doses (15-50 mg/kg) had no effect on completed lidocaine-kindled or acute cocaine-induced seizures. Repeated i.p. injection of CBZ (15 mg/kg) also was without effect on the development of lidocaine- or cocaine-kindled seizures. The differential effects of CBZ depending upon stage of seizure development suggest that distinct mechanisms underlie the development versus maintenance of local anesthetic-kindled seizures. The effectiveness of chronic but not repeated, intermittent injections of CBZ suggests that different biochemical consequences result from the different treatment regimens. The possible utility of chronic CBZ in preventing the development of toxic side effects in human cocaine users is suggested by these data, but remains to be directly evaluated.
In essential hypertension, 25 mg and 100 mg of chlorthalidone per day reduced blood pressure to a similar extent. The larger amount (100 mg per day of chlorthalidone) caused a greater reduction in extracellular volume and a larger rise in plasma renin activity and serum uric acid levels. Hypokalaemia was common with 100 mg per day of chlorthalidone, but was rarely seen in patients who took 25 mg per day, and neither dose caused total body potassium depletion. In the management of hypertension, 25 mg of chlorthalidone is the preferred dose as it produces most of the antihypertensive effects with only minor biochemical changes.
Chemical carcinogens induce both benign and malignant mammary gland tumors in female Sprague-Dawley rats. To identify gene expression profiles associated with malignancy, cDNA microarray analysis was used to compare gene expression profiles in rat mammary gland carcinomas, adenomas, and normal mammary gland. Tumors were induced with various chemical carcinogens including 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP), 2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline (MeIQx), 7-12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA), N-nitrosomethylurea (NMU), and 4-aminobiphenyl. The global gene expression profiles in carcinomas and adenomas were distinguishable by hierarchical clustering and multi-dimensional scaling analyses. Permutation analysis revealed 110 clones statistically differentially expressed between benign and malignant tumors (p < 0.0005). Carcinomas showed relatively high expression of several genes associated with mammary epithelial cell growth and proliferation (e.g., cyclin D1, PDGFalpha) and relatively low expression of differentiation marker genes (e.g., beta -casein, whey acidic protein, transferrin). Other categories of genes showing differential expression between carcinomas and adenomas were associated with protein homeostasis, cytoskeleton, extracellular matrix, and cell metabolism (fatty acid metabolism, oxidative phosphorylation, and glycolysis). Major gene families implicated in malignancy by over-expression in carcinomas included the annexins (annexin A1 and A4) and Stat family of transcription factors (Stat3 and Stat5a). The elevated expression of the prolactin receptor in carcinomas concomitant with several components of the mitogenic prolactin signaling pathway implicated prolactin/prolactin receptor/Stat5a/cyclin D1 in rat mammary gland malignancy.
To investigate the effects of verapamil on left ventricular systolic and diastolic function in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, we studied 14 patients at catheterization with a nonimaging scintillation probe before and after serial intravenous infusions of low-, medium-, and high-dose verapamil (total dose 0.17 to 0.72 mg/kg). Percent change in radionuclide stroke counts after verapamil correlated well with percent change in thermodilution stroke volume (r = .87), and changes in diastolic and systolic counts were used to assess relative changes in left ventricular volumes after verapamil. Verapamil produced dose-related increases in end-diastolic counts (19 +/- 9% increase; p less than .001), end-systolic counts (91 +/- 54% increase; p less than .001), and stroke counts (7 +/- 10% increase; p less than .02). This was associated with a decrease in ejection fraction (83 +/- 8% control, 73 +/- 10% verapamil; p less than .001) and, in the 10 patients with left ventricular outflow tract gradients, a reduction in gradient (62 +/- 27 mm Hg control, 32 +/- 35 mm Hg verapamil; p less than .01). The end-systolic pressure-volume relation was shifted downward and rightward in all patients, suggesting a negative inotropic effect. In 10 patients, left ventricular pressure-volume loops were constructed with simultaneous micromanometer pressure recordings and the radionuclide time-activity curve. In five patients, verapamil shifted the diastolic pressure-volume curve downward and rightward, demonstrating improved pressure-volume relations despite the negative inotropic effect, and also increased the peak rate of rapid diastolic filling. In the other five patients, the diastolic pressure-volume relation was unaltered by verapamil, and increased end-diastolic volumes occurred at higher end-diastolic pressures; in these patients, the peak rate of left ventricular diastolic filling was not changed by verapamil. The negative inotropic effects of intravenous verapamil are potentially beneficial in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy by decreasing left ventricular contractile function and increasing left ventricular volume. Verapamil also enhances left ventricular diastolic filling and improves diastolic pressure-volume relations in some patients despite its negative inotropic effect.
The mechanisms by which cocaine produces hyperactivity and reinforcement remain poorly understood. Since reinforcement is also a property of other drugs of abuse including opiates, we examined the possible mediation of these cocaine-induced behaviors by endogenous opioid peptides. In this study, we have confirmed reports that cocaine increases locomotor activity and conditioned place preference in rats. We have also demonstrated that opioid receptor blockade with naloxone antagonizes completely the locomotor-activating effect of cocaine and attenuates the strength of the place preference conditioning produced by cocaine. These data support the thesis that endogenous opioids are involved in mediation of cocaine-induced behavior.
