To assess the efficacy and safety of combination therapy with methimazole and lithium carbonate in management of severe thyrotoxicosis and propylthiouracil-induced hepatotoxicity.
We present a case report of a patient with severe thyrotoxicosis and worsening liver dysfunction after propylthiouracil therapy, and we review the pertinent literature.
In a 49-year-old man with severe thyrotoxicosis and propylthiouracil-induced hepatotoxicity, indices of liver function continued to increase despite discontinuation of propylthiouracil treatment. Adjunctive therapy with methimazole and lithium resulted in prompt remission of clinical manifestations and normalization of thyroid hormone indices, as well as a gradual reversal of liver dysfunction.
Adjunctive therapy with methimazole and lithium is synergistic in promptly achieving a euthyroid state. Therefore, this combination therapy provides a safe and effective alternative option in patients with thyrotoxicosis associated with propylthiouracil-induced hepatotoxicity.
End-stage heart disease is a major health care issue and it represents one of the most costly diseases. Several experimental heart failure models have been developed; however, a single model is not widely accepted as representative of clinical heart failure. The doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy model was used in the current study to address two issues: 1) to define a standardized dose regimen of intracoronary doxorubicin infusion; and 2) to establish a method of determining the onset and time course of heart failure. Twenty dogs underwent placement of an intracoronary catheter. A total dose of 1 mg/kg of intracoronary doxorubicin was infused. Hemodynamics were obtained at weeks 0, 7, and 12. Echocardiography was performed weekly. Right and left ventricular biopsy specimens were examined at weeks 0 and 12. Survival after doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy was 60% at week 12. The development of heart failure was demonstrated by a significant decrease in left ventricular ejection fraction and cardiac index and a significant increase in left ventricular end-diastolic pressure and volume. The leukocyte count, hemoglobin, and hematocrit decreased significantly. Histologic changes of both the right and left ventricular myocardial biopsy specimens included myocellular hypertrophy, loss of myofibrillar material, and vacuolization. Intracoronary doxorubicin reliably produced an experimental model of accelerated heart failure that developed over the course of 12 weeks. Echocardiographic monitoring allowed a close surveillance of heart failure development. This model may be useful to evaluate the efficacy of cardiomyoplasty, mechanical assist devices, transplantation, and reduction ventriculoplasty.
Effects of polyamines on the central nervous system were studied in mice. Intraperitoneal administration of Spermidine (SPD) and Spermine (SPM) decreased spontaneous motor activity as measured by either the photo-cell counters method or the open-field test and lowered rectal temperature. A significant prolongation of sleeping time after pentobarbital was confirmed in small doses of SPD and SPM which had slight influence on spontaneous motor activity. The time to convulsion and death induced by strychnine was elongated by SPD and SPM. SPM in small doses inhibited writhing responses induced by 0.7% acetic acid. In addition, methamphetamine-induced hyperactivity and conditioned avoidance response were blocked by SPM in doses which decreased spontaneous motor activity. In all experiments, SPM appeared to have a powerful pharmacological activity compared with SPD. LD50 for SPD and SPM was 620 (500-769) mg/kg i.p. and 310 (200-480) mg/kg i.p., respectively.
In calcium homeostasis, vitamin D3 is a potent serum calcium-raising agent which in vivo regulates both calcitonin (CT) and parathyroid hormone (PTH) gene expression. Serum calcium is the major secretagogue for CT, a hormone product whose biosynthesis is the main biological activity of thyroid C-cells. Taking advantage of this regulatory mechanism, long-term vitamin D3-induced hypercalcemia has been extensively used as a model to produce hyperactivation, hyperplasia and even proliferative lesions of C-cells, supposedly to reduce the sustained high calcium serum concentrations. We have recently demonstrated that CT serum levels did not rise after long-term hypervitaminosis D3. Moreover, C-cells did not have a proliferative response, rather a decrease in CT-producing C-cell number was observed. In order to confirm the inhibitory effect of vitamin D3 on C-cells, Wistar rats were administered vitamin D3 chronically (25,000 IU/d) with or without calcium chloride (CaCl2). Under these long-term vitamin D3-hypercalcemic conditions, calcium, active metabolites of vitamin D3, CT and PTH serum concentrations were determined by RIA; CT and PTH mRNA levels were analysed by Northern blot and in situ hybridization; and, finally, the ultrastructure of calciotrophic hormone-producing cells was analysed by electron microscopy. Our results show, that, in rats, long term administration of vitamin D3 results in a decrease in hormone biosynthetic activities of both PTH and CT-producing cells, albeit at different magnitudes. Based upon these results, we conclude that hypervitaminosis D3-based methods do not stimulate C-cell activity and can not be used to induce proliferative lesions of calcitonin-producing cells.
Therapeutic attempts have generally failed to reverse the rapid progression of renal failure after mitomycin C (MMC)-induced hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS). A patient who developed HUS after MMC and who showed pathologic changes in the kidney consistent with thrombotic microangiopathy is reported. Treatment with plasmapheresis was followed by a favorable outcome and significant recovery of renal function. Accordingly, this therapeutic modality should be considered for patients with MMC-induced HUS.
We have recently shown that curcumin (a diferuloylmethane, the yellow pigment in turmeric) enhances apoptosis-inducing potential of TRAIL in prostate cancer PC-3 cells, and sensitizes TRAIL-resistant LNCaP cells in vitro through multiple mechanisms. The objectives of this study were to investigate the molecular mechanisms by which curcumin sensitized TRAIL-resistant LNCaP xenografts in vivo.
Prostate cancer TRAIL-resistant LNCaP cells were implanted in Balb c nude mice to examine the effects of curcumin and/or TRAIL on tumor growth and genes related to apoptosis, metastasis and angiogenesis.
Curcumin inhibited growth of LNCaP xenografts in nude mice by inducing apoptosis (TUNEL staining) and inhibiting proliferation (PCNA and Ki67 staining), and sensitized these tumors to undergo apoptosis by TRAIL. In xenogrfated tumors, curcumin upregulated the expression of TRAIL-R1/DR4, TRAIL-R2/DR5, Bax, Bak, p21/WAF1, and p27/KIP1, and inhibited the activation of NFkappaB and its gene products such as cyclin D1, VEGF, uPA, MMP-2, MMP-9, Bcl-2 and Bcl-XL. The regulation of death receptors and members of Bcl-2 family, and inactivation of NFkappaB may sensitize TRAIL-resistant LNCaP xenografts. Curcumin also inhibited number of blood vessels in tumors, and circulating endothelial growth factor receptor 2-positive endothelial cells in mice.
The ability of curcumin to inhibit tumor growth, metastasis and angiogenesis, and enhance the therapeutic potential of TRAIL suggests that curcumin alone or in combination with TRAIL can be used for prostate cancer prevention and/or therapy.
Three adults on unrestricted protein diets receiving valproic aci (VPA) developed gastrointestinal symptoms with encephalopathy and/or deteriorating seizure control associated with arterial hyperammonemia and normal liver function tests. The signs and symptoms did not directly correlate with VPA dosage and the arterial ammonium levels did not correlate with serum VPA concentrations. Two of the three patients had phenobarbital concentrations above the therapeutic range, but remission of neurologic or gastrointestinal symptoms was dependent on a reduction of the VPA concentration. In one case, rechallenge with VPA reproduced hyperammonemia.
Resveratrol, a ubiquitous stress-induced phytoalexin, has demonstrated a wide variety of biological activities which make it a good candidate for the treatment of diabetes mellitus. The present study was aimed to evaluate its therapeutic potential by assaying the activities of key enzymes of carbohydrate metabolism in streptozotocin-nicotinamide-induced diabetic rats. The daily oral treatment of resveratrol (5 mg/kg body weight) to diabetic rats for 30 days demonstrated a significant (p<0.05) decline in blood glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin levels and a significant (p<0.05) increase in plasma insulin level. The altered activities of the key enzymes of carbohydrate metabolism such as hexokinase, pyruvate kinase, lactate dehydrogenase, glucose-6-phosphatase, fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, glycogen synthase and glycogen phosphorylase in liver and kidney tissues of diabetic rats were significantly (p<0.05) reverted to near normal levels by the administration of resveratrol. Further, resveratrol administration to diabetic rats improved hepatic glycogen content suggesting the antihyperglycemic potential of resveratrol in diabetic rats. The obtained results were compared with glyclazide, a standard oral hypoglycemic drug. Thus, the modulatory effects of resveratrol on attenuating these enzymes activities afford a promise for widespread use for treatment of diabetes in the future.
Concern about the malicious applications of botulinum neurotoxin has highlighted the need for a new generation of safe and highly potent antitoxins. In this study, we developed and evaluated the preclinical pharmacology and safety of a new F(ab')₂ antitoxin against botulinum neurotoxin serotype A (BoNT/A). As an alternative to formalin-inactivated toxoid, the recombinant Hc domain of botulinum neurotoxin serotype A (rAHc) was used to immunize horses, and the IgGs from the hyperimmune sera were digested to obtain F(ab')₂ antitoxin. The protective effect of the new F(ab')₂ antitoxin against BoNT/A was determined both in vitro and in vivo. The results showed that the F(ab')₂ antitoxin could prevent botulism in mice challenged with BoNT/A and effectively delayed progression of paralysis from botulism in the therapeutic setting. The preclinical safety of the new F(ab')₂ antitoxin was also evaluated, and it showed neither harmful effects on vital functions nor adverse effects such as acute toxicity, or immunological reactions in mice and dogs. Thus, our results provide valuable experimental data for this new antitoxin as a potential candidate for treatment of botulism caused by BoNT/A, and our findings support the safety of the new F(ab')₂ antitoxin for clinical use. Our study further demonstrates the proof of concept for development of a similar strategy for obtaining potent antitoxin against other BoNT serotypes.
A comparative age-associated study of the efficacy and side effects of amitriptyline and maprotyline was carried out in a group of 93 patients over 50. The health status of the patients was assessed with the aid of Hamilton's depression scale and the scale of side effects on days 0, 7 and 28 of the therapy. It has been discovered that on day 28 maprotyline caused a more complete reduction of depressive disorders as compared to amitriptyline. Maprotyline produced a more intensive action on the anxious component of depression. There were differences in the intensity and range of side effects evoked by amitriptyline and maprotyline. Unlike maprotyline, the antidepressive effect of amitriptyline developed in a group of patients over 70, at later stages of the therapy. Therefore, it is more advisable that tetracyclic antidepressants be used for the treatment of senile patients.
Metabolic syndrome patients have insulin resistance, which causes hyperinsulinemia, which in turn causes aberrant increased renal sodium reabsorption. The precise mechanisms underlying this greater salt sensitivity of hyperinsulinemic patients remain unclear. Abnormal activation of the recently identified with-no-lysine kinase (WNK)-oxidative stress-responsive kinase 1 (OSR1)/STE20/SPS1-related proline/alanine-rich kinase (SPAK)-NaCl cotransporter (NCC) phosphorylation cascade results in the salt-sensitive hypertension of pseudohypoaldosteronism type II. Here, we report a study of renal WNK-OSR1/SPAK-NCC cascade activation in the db/db mouse model of hyperinsulinemic metabolic syndrome. Thiazide sensitivity was increased, suggesting greater activity of NCC in db/db mice. In fact, increased phosphorylation of OSR1/SPAK and NCC was observed. In both SpakT243A/+ and Osr1T185A/+ knock-in db/db mice, which carry mutations that disrupt the signal from WNK kinases, increased phosphorylation of NCC and elevated blood pressure were completely corrected, indicating that phosphorylation of SPAK and OSR1 by WNK kinases is required for the increased activation and phosphorylation of NCC in this model. Renal phosphorylated Akt was increased in db/db mice, suggesting that increased NCC phosphorylation is regulated by the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt signaling cascade in the kidney in response to hyperinsulinemia. A phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor (NVP-BEZ235) corrected the increased OSR1/SPAK-NCC phosphorylation. Another more specific phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor (GDC-0941) and an Akt inhibitor (MK-2206) also inhibited increased NCC phosphorylation. These results indicate that the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt signaling pathway activates the WNK-OSR1/SPAK-NCC phosphorylation cascade in db/db mice. This mechanism may play a role in the pathogenesis of salt-sensitive hypertension in human hyperinsulinemic conditions, such as the metabolic syndrome.
A double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, crossover study was conducted to determine the effect of sertraline on the beta-adrenergic blocking activity of atenolol in 10 healthy male volunteers.
To assess the existence of any possible pharmacodynamic interaction between sertraline and atenolol, the effect of sertraline and placebo on the dose of intravenous isoproterenol required to increase heart rate by 25 beats per minute (bpm; chronotropic dose25 [CD25]) and the change in heart rate during exercise in atenolol-treated subjects were determined.
The mean CD25 of isoproterenol was 2.00 micrograms after administration of placebo plus atenolol 50 mg and 2.03 micrograms after administration of sertralnie 100 micrograms plus atenolol 50 mg. The mean heart rate during exercise testing decreased by 29 bpm after sertraline plus atenolol administration and by 31 bpm after placebo plus atenolol administration. Analysis of variance indicated no statistically significant treatment or sequence effects. Only 1 subject experienced an adverse event--a mild headache after administration of sertraline plus atenolol. No clinically significant electrocardiograph changes were observed after sertraline or placebo administration.
The results of this study demonstrate that sertraline does not alter the beta-blocking activity of atenolol.
A 57-year-old female with advanced gastric cancer was referred to our hospital. She underwent neoadjuvant chemotherapy with S-1 plus cisplatin followed by curative gastrectomy. Weekly paclitaxel and combination chemotherapy with irinotecan plus cisplatin were administered for lymph node recurrence, but the tumor progressed. Since the human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 status of her gastric cancer specimen was strongly positive, docetaxel plus trastuzumab was administered for three cycles. However, the lymph node metastasis appeared to enlarge and abdominal pain worsened. Therefore, combination chemotherapy with lapatinib and weekly trastuzumab was initiated. A computed tomographic scan after 3 months of treatment showed stable disease. Although dose reduction of lapatinib was necessary due to Grade 3 diarrhea, the patient has continued this treatment on an outpatient basis without signs of disease progression for 8 months after initiation. In this case, trastuzumab plus lapatinib resulted in durable stable disease, despite the appearance of progression during prior chemotherapy with trastuzumab.
Clinical trials using fecal egg count reduction tests and coproculture were conducted with yearlings and mares on a farm in 1997. Fecal samples were taken from each horse to estimate the number of strongyle eggs/g feces with Cornell-Wisconsin centrifugal flotation and Cornell-McMaster dilution techniques. Eleven of 15 yearlings, which had been on a daily feeding of grain with pyrantel tartrate for 66 d were found with strongyle eggs in feces. This was the first time the in-feed medication had been used on the farm. Nine yearlings were randomised into three groups; continuation of daily pyrantel tartrate or one treatment with pyrantel pamoate or moxidectin. Two of three yearlings given pyrantel tartrate or pamoate had no reduction in the eggs/g feces. These six yearlings were then given moxidectin and in all yearlings the eggs/g feces was reduced to zero. The 66 d of pyrantel tartrate use was an inadequate time for development of resistant cyathostomes and a hypothesis was the resistance was due to extensive use on the farm over many years of pyrantel pamoate at twice the label dose for control of tapeworms. That hypothesis was tested with 12 mares with strongyle eggs in the feces randomised into two treatment groups: pyrantel pamoate at label dose or moxidectin. Five of six mares given pyrantel had <80% reduction in egg/g feces. These mares were then given moxidectin and in all mares the eggs/g feces was reduced to zero. Only cyathostomes were found on culture and apparently there was side resistance among the pyrantel salts.
Scopolamine butylbromide (SB), a muscarinic receptor antagonist, is used commonly in gastric X-ray examination in the physical check-up in Japan. This study describes clinical features of SB-induced headache.
SB-induced headache was defined as headache that started within 20 minutes after intramuscular administration of SB (20 mg/body). The Primary and the secondary headaches were diagnosed according to the ICHD-II criteria. SB-induced headache was classified as headache induced by acute substance use or that due to exposure (ICHD-II code 8.1). Clinical features and background of subjects with SB-induced headache were analyzed. We also estimated the frequency of SB-related headache between migraineurs and non-migraineurs.
A total of 54 subjects (39 women and 15 men) experienced SB-induced headache. All subjects had the present history of migraine. Nine subjects had > or =2 times of the headache. Mean age (SD) was 46.2 (9.7) years [46.2 (9.7) for women and 46.3 (10.0) for men]. Clinical hallmarks of headache showed that pulsating / throbbing pain occurred in diffuse or bilateral head sites. Headache worsened at 20-30 minutes from the onset and persisted for 6-18 hours, and ameliorated gradually 8 hours later. All subjects had repeated nausea and vomiting. Severity of headache revealed severe degree requiring complete bed rest in 50 subjects (92.6%). SB-induced headache had similar characteristics as migraine without aura (MO) attacks. Liver and renal functions were normal in all SB-related migraineurs. They had no allergic history of medication and food. In 1,865 non-migraine controls, one healthy subject had a mild degree of migraine like headache triggered by SB injection.
SB triggers a severe degree MO like headache or worsens pre-existing migraine in some migraineurs. SB-induced headache could contribute to disequilibrium between acetylcholine and other neuropeptides. We should use SB more carefully as it can be an aggravating drug of migraine.
We investigated the effects of clentiazem, a 1,5-benzothiazepine calcium antagonist, on epinephrine-induced cardiomyopathy in rats. With 2-week chronic epinephrine infusion, 16 of 30 rats died within 4 days, and severe ischemic lesions and fibrosis of the left ventricles were observed. In epinephrine-treated rats, left atrial and left ventricular papillary muscle contractile responses to isoproterenol were reduced, but responses to calcium were normal or enhanced compared to controls. Left ventricular alpha and beta adrenoceptor densities were also reduced compared to controls. Treatment with clentiazem prevented epinephrine-induced death (P < .05), and attenuated the ventricular ischemic lesions and fibrosis, in a dose-dependent manner. Left atrial and left ventricular papillary muscle contractile responses to isoproterenol were reduced compared to controls in groups treated with clentiazem alone, but combined with epinephrine, clentiazem restored left atrial responses and enhanced left ventricular papillary responses to isoproterenol. On the other hand clentiazem did not prevent epinephrine-induced down-regulation of alpha and beta adrenoceptors. Interestingly, clentiazem, infused alone, resulted in decreased adrenergic receptor densities in the left ventricle. Clentiazem also did not prevent the enhanced responses to calcium seen in the epinephrine-treated animals, although the high dose of clentiazem partially attenuated the maximal response to calcium compared to epinephrine-treated animals. In conclusion, clentiazem attenuated epinephrine-induced cardiac injury, possibly through its effect on the adrenergic pathway.
A 59-year-old man was admitted because of congestive heart failure. He was suspected to have acromegaly, and magnetic resonance imaging revealed a pituitary macroadenoma. Endocrine examination revealed elevated plasma levels of growth hormone (GH) and insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1, and an oral glucose tolerance test failed to suppress plasma GH levels, consistent with the diagnosis of GH-producing pituitary tumor. Treatment with octreotide, followed by transsphenoidal surgery resulted in normalization of plasma GH/IGF-1 levels, accompanied by the improvement of cardiac function. Thus, it is suggested that excess GH/IGF-1 axis is involved in the development of acromegaly-related cardiomyopathy in the present case.
Diclofenac is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) commonly prescribed for pain relief in osteoarthritis (OA). The relative efficacy of diclofenac compared to other pain relief medications used in OA (e.g., alternative NSAIDs, cyclooxygenase type 2 [COX-2] inhibitors) is uncertain. The objective of this systematic review is to compare the current evidence on efficacy of diclofenac versus other pain relief medications.
A systematic literature search was carried out for randomised, well controlled clinical trials comparing the efficacy of diclofenac with other pain relief medications in OA (reviews, meta-analyses and n = 1 trials were excluded). The databases searched were EMBASE, Ovid MEDLINE, Ovid MEDLINE In-Process and Other Non-Indexed Citations, and Ovid MEDLINE Daily Update. Articles were included from 1999 onwards. Retrieved articles were discussed by comparator medication.
Of the 263 articles identified in the literature search, 37 were eventually included in this review. These were comparisons with the selective COX-2 inhibitors etoricoxib, celecoxib, lumiracoxib and rofecoxib; comparisons with the NSAIDs aceclofenac, dexketoprofen, etodolac, lornoxicam, meloxicam, nabumetone and nimesulide; and comparisons to acetaminophen, tramadol, diacerein, oxaceprol, oral hydrolytic enzyme therapies, Chinese herbal remedies and castor oil supplementation. Overall, in the majority of the trials at therapeutic doses diclofenac provided similar efficacy to comparator treatments; and in general diclofenac was able to support its position as a reference medication of choice for OA trials.
The efficacy of diclofenac is largely unchallenged in that it remains as effective as newer pain relief medications employed in OA. A review of the available data demonstrates that diclofenac continues to provide physicians with a benchmark pharmacological treatment for OA.
beta-Adrenergic receptors appear in noradrenergic target tissues well before the arrival of nerve terminals, and are thought to play a role in the control of cell differentiation. We examined the ability of beta-agonists to stimulate expression of the nuclear transcription factor, c-fos, in developing rat liver and heart. This factor has been shown to associated with trophic activation of genes involved in both cell differentiation and cell growth. In response to terbutaline, a beta 2-selective agonist, marked stimulation of c-fos was demonstrated in the liver, which contains beta 2-receptors, on Gestational Day 20, as well as on Postnatal Days 1 and 8. In the heart, which contains predominantly beta 1-receptors, isoproterenol (a non-subtype-selective beta-agonist) was more effective that terbutaline, indicating that either receptor subtype can elicit stimulation of c-fos. In both tissues, the response magnitude increased with age, rather than following changes in receptor number, which increase in the heart but decrease in the liver; the same pattern has been seen for the ability of beta-agonists to promote cell differentiation at the expense of replication; the implication is that ontogenetic changes in post-receptor coupling are much more important than is the number of receptors in determining neurotrophic influences on gene expression and cell development. In keeping with the view that fetal/neonatal beta-adrenergic stimulation of c-fos is related to cell differentiation rather than simply to growth, repeated administration of isoproterenol to neonatal rats did not elicit cardiac hypertrophy, whereas the same treatment did produce hypertrophy in adult rats. The intracellular signaling cascade from beta-receptor to c-fos expression may thus provide one of the basic cellular mechanisms for trophic control of differentiation by biogenic amines, and for the teratologies associated with beta-adrenergic agonist therapy.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disease characterized by progressive loss of midbrain dopaminergic neurons with unknown etiology. MPP+ (1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion) is the active metabolite of the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), which induces Parkinson's-like symptoms in humans and animals. MPTP/MPP+ produces selective dopaminergic neuronal degeneration, therefore, these agents are commonly used to study the pathogenesis of PD. However, the mechanisms of their toxicity have not been fully elucidated. Recently, we reported in a microarray study using a midbrain-derived dopaminergic neuronal cell line, MN9D, that MPP+ induced significant changes in a number of genes known to be associated with the dopaminergic system. In this study, we investigated the expression time courses of six genes using real-time RT-PCR, and compared them with the progressive dopaminergic depletion caused by MPP+. Our data showed that dopamine content was significantly decreased after 0.5h of MPP+ (200 microM) exposure and was completely depleted after 40 h. The expression of Gpr37, which is closely related to the pathogenesis of autosomal recessive juvenile Parkinsonism, was up-regulated after 0.5h, and stayed up-regulated up to 48 h. Txnip, which is critical to the adjustment of cellular redox status, was down-regulated after 1h and stayed down-regulated up to 48 h. Ldh1 and Cdo1, which are also involved in oxidative stress, were down-regulated after 16 h and stayed down-regulated up to 48 h. Two pro-apoptotic genes, Egln3 and Bnip3, were down-regulated after 2 and 4h, and stayed down-regulated up to 48 h. These findings suggested that the time course of expression for multiple genes correlated with the dopaminergic depletion; and MPP+-induced neurotoxicity in MN9D cells could be used as a model to further explore the roles of these and other genes in the pathogenesis and possible treatment of PD.
We herein describe two cases of moyamoya vasculopathy occurring in two men who used alkaloidal cocaine for years. One patient presented with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage and one with infarction in both lobes. Particularly impressive was a significant degree of collateral development with lenticulostriate networks.
Sedation is a common side effect of clozapine treatment and may exacerbate metabolic consequences of poor diet and exercise habits that are common in patients with schizophrenia. Modafinil has been proposed as a treatment for clozapine-induced sedation and metabolic abnormalities.
To estimate the effect sizes and person-to-person variation in anthropometric measures, glucose and lipid metabolism, and diet on modafinil treatment for future randomized control trials.
A double-blind, placebo-controlled, flexible-dosed 8-week pilot trial was conducted, adding modafinil up to 300 mg/day to stabilized schizophrenia outpatients receiving clozapine. Blood pressure, weight, BMI, laboratory assays, and dietary intake were tracked to monitor changes in metabolic markers.
Thirty-five participants were randomly assigned to treatment with study drug or placebo and were included in the analysis. Modafinil did not improve blood pressure, weight, BMI, glucose or lipid metabolism compared to placebo. Modafinil was well tolerated and did not worsen psychosis.
Results of this pilot trial do not support routine use of modafinil to counteract increased weight and metabolic diseases in patients taking clozapine. However, the effects of modafinil on weight and insulin regulation warrant further investigation with effect sizes of 0.4 to 0.6.
Selenium's molecular mechanism for cancer chemoprevention remains unknown. We aimed to study the gene expression of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB), tumor growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha) and cyclin D1 and the effects of sodium selenite using preventive and therapeutic approaches in chemically-induced hepatocarcinogenesis in rats.
Rats were divided randomly into six groups: negative control, positive control (diethyl nitrosamine [DEN] + 2-acetylaminofluorene [2-AAF]), preventive group, preventive control (respective control for preventive group), therapeutic group and therapeutic control (respective control for therapeutic group). The relative gene expression of NF-kappaB, TGF-alpha and cyclin D1 in liver tissues were measured using real-time polymerase chain reaction.
The findings showed that the gene expression of NF-kappaB in the preventive group and its respective control was significantly lower (P < 0.05) when compared with both the negative and positive controls. However, the expression of NF-kappaB in the positive controls and therapeutic group was significantly higher (P < 0.05) when compared with the negative controls. The expression of TGF-alpha and cyclin D1 was insignificant in all groups.
The inhibition of the NF-kappaB pathway in the initiation phase of hepatocarcinogenesis could be a promising target for selenium chemoprevention. However, further studies are required.
