To assess the effectiveness of transdermal buprenorphine in patients suffering from moderate to severe pain. Secondary objectives included gathering information about the causes of pain, management of episodic pain, and the safety profile.
Retrospective data were collected from 1,465 patients with moderate to severe pain, ie, > or =50 mm on a 0 to 100 mm visual analog scale (VAS), that were switched to transdermal buprenorphine, and received a dose > or =52.5 microg/hour for at least 14 days during the previous 12 months. Pain could have any etiology. Most patients (72.1%) were on tramadol and/or paracetamol (40.7%) before switching to buprenorphine. Using case report forms, efficacy was determined from changes in VAS score compared with 24 hours prior to the first patch application. Safety was evaluated by retrieving information about the nature and incidence of adverse events (AE), whether they were related to the study compound, and the percentage considered being serious.
An absolute reduction of 25.1 points in VAS score was seen over a median period of 3.7 months treatment. In addition, the VAS score was reduced by at least 10% in 88.4% of patients and the incidence of episodic pain fell significantly. Treatment was rated as "Good" or "Very Good" by 82.5% of patients. Out of 1,465 patients, 50.2% experienced an AE; this was related to the drug in 48.8%, and considered serious in 4.0%.
Transdermal buprenorphine was an effective and considerably safe drug for relieving chronic moderate to severe pain.
Cancer chemotherapy is frequently accompanied by severe emesis. The anti-cancer drugs are classified according to their clinical emetogenic potential. We have already found that kaolin ingestion behavior "pica" is analogous to emesis in rats. The aim of this study was to examine the effects of the clinical emetogenic potential of anti-cancer drugs on the induction of the pica in rats. Rats were housed in individual cages with free access to food and kaolin pellets and the daily food and kaolin intakes were measured for 3 days after the intraperitoneal administration of anti-cancer drugs (cisplatin, cyclophosphamide, actinomycin D, 5-fluorouracil and vincristine). The drugs with high potential for inducing emesis, such as cisplatin and cyclophosphamide, induced pica in all animals on the day of administration and the behavior lasted during the observation period. The drugs with moderate emetogenic potential, i.e. actinomycin D and 5-fluorouracil, also induced pica on the first and second day after the drug administration but the kaolin intake was less than that of the drugs with high potential. Vincristine, a drug with low emetogenic potential, slightly increased the kaolin intake in rats on the only first day of the administration. Cyclophosphamide, actinomycin D and vincristine induced anorexia and decreased their body weight during the observation period. These results suggested that the both amounts of kaolin intake and duration of behavior in the anti-cancer drug-induced pica are related to the clinical emetogenic potential of the drugs and the incidence of the anorexia is not related to their emetogenic potential.
Technical dinitrotoluene (consisting of 2,4- and 2,6-dinitrotoluene isomers) has been widely used as explosives. Both technical isomers are mutagenic in Salmonella typhimurium TA98 strains and carcinogenic in rodents. 2,4-dinitrotoluene shows a dose-dependency of malignant tumors of the kidneys, liver, and mammary glands in rats and mice. In this case report, we discuss a cluster of three cases of urothelial cancer amongst a group of about 60 workers exposed to dinitrotoluenes. The workers were employed in the manufacturing of nitrotoluene explosives in the former German Democratic Republic. The cases occurred within a period of 12 years (1990-2002) leading to a 15.9 fold higher incidence of cancer of the urinary bladder than of the federal state where the chemical factory was located. The observation of the cluster of urothelial cancer in persons highly exposed to nitrotoluenes underlines the putative human carcinogenicity of dinitrotoluenes with the human urothelium as a relevant target tissue.
Many reports have suggested that gap junctional intercellular communication or gap junction proteins (connexins) could have tumor suppression characteristics. We investigated gap junctional intercellular communication capacity and connexin 26, 32 and 43 mRNA expression in four rat bladder cell lines and the results were compared to their tumorigenicity. We also examined connexin expression in rat bladder carcinomas induced by 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl or N-ethyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)nitrosamine (EHBN) and in normal bladders. There was clear tendency that cell lines with greater communication had stronger tumorigenicity and more expression of connexin 26 or 43. We could not detect connexin 32 in these cell lines. In normal bladder tissue, connexin 43 expression was barely detectable and there was no detectable connexin 26. However, in rat bladder carcinomas, especially the EHBN-induced carcinomas, abundant expression of both connexins was observed. These results indicate that increased gap junctional intercellular communication capacity or increased connexin(s) expression may give a growth advantage in rat bladder carcinogenesis.
Screening studies are carried out of the pharmacological activity of 3,4-dihydropapaverine (DHP) and three of its newly-synthesized derivatives: 6'-iodo-DHP, 6'-bromo-DHP and 6'-iodu-DHP methiodide. All compounds studied manifest central depressive action which is manifested in general depression, potentiation of hexobarbital anaesthesia, without inducing sleep when independently applied, as well as inhibition of the spontaneous and amphetamine-induced motor activity of mice. 6'-Iodo-DHP and its methiodide manifest analgesic effect. All four compounds studied reduce the blood pressure of urethane-anaesthesized cats, but they do not change the noradrenaline and the acetylcholine effects. The hypotensive effect of the compounds is preserved even after atropinization of the cats. The compounds studied manifest no antitussive effect. DHP-derivatives eliminate the spasms in guinea-pig colon, induced by BaCl2 and nicotine, while DHP has no effect on them. 6'-Iodo-DHP methoiodide inhibits the hypertensive nicotine effect on cats. DHP and 6'-iodo-DHP methoiodide manifest vasoconstricting action upon perfusion of the blood vessels of isolated rat hind legs.
Activities of delta-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) dehydratase and porphobilinogen (PBG) deaminase, and haem content were determined in EB-virus transformed lymphocytes from two patients with homozygous ALA dehydratase deficiency, and their family members to determine the expression of the specific gene defect in this cell type. ALA dehydratase activity, but not PBG deaminase activity or haem content, was markedly decreased in lymphocyte preparations from both patients with homozygous enzyme deficiency, and moderately decreased in subjects heterozygous for enzyme deficiency. Immunochemical quantitation of erythrocyte ALA dehydratase suggested the presence of a cross-reactive material in a patient with a late-onset of acute hepatic porphyria due to the homozygous enzyme deficiency.
Over four-fifths of all strokes are due to thrombotic or embolic occlusion of cerebral arteries. There is a strong rationale for considering antithrombotic therapy for the treatment of patients with acute ischaemic stroke. Antiplatelet therapy with 150 to 300 mg of aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) started within the first 48 hours of an ischaemic stroke improves patient outcome in the short and long term, with a low risk of adverse effects. Anticoagulants such as heparin may reduce the risk of developing deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in patients with stroke, but randomised controlled trials have demonstrated a significant and dose-dependent risk of intracranial haemorrhage. The routine use of parenteral anticoagulants, including unfractionated heparin, low-molecular-weight heparins and heparinoids in the acute phase of ischaemic stroke is not associated with any net short or long term benefit. Aspirin is, therefore, the antithrombotic drug of choice in the treatment of acute ischaemic stroke.
Cardiotoxicity is a recognised side effect of intravenous 5-fluorouracils. In the two case reports described we demonstrate similar cardiotoxic side effects seen with the use of capecitabine. With the increasing use of oral adjuvant chemotherapeutic agents, capecitabine should be used with caution in those patients with existing coronary artery disease.
The use of cocaine as an illicit drug is associated with various cardiovascular events. In recent decades, because of growing levels of consumption, there has been an increasing incidence of these complications. At the same time, cocaine is also widely used as a local anesthetic, mainly in nasal surgery. Its application in this context is controversial due to the potential associated adverse effects. The authors report the case of a 29-year-old patient, with no known cardiovascular risk factors, admitted for elective nasal surgery, under general anesthesia combined with topical application of cocaine. During surgery the patient developed hemodynamic instability in the context of ventricular arrhythmias, after which she presented evolving electrocardiographic changes and increased levels of myocardial necrosis markers, diagnostic of non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome. The authors review the cardiovascular complications associated with cocaine use and the underlying pathophysiologic mechanisms and discuss the role of cocaine as a topical anesthetic.
Autism is a behaviourally defined neurodevelopmental disorder with unknown etiology. Recent studies in autistic children consistently point to neuropathological and functional abnormalities in the temporal association cortex (TeA) and its associated structures. It has been proposed that the trajectory of postnatal development in these regions may undergo accelerated maturational alterations that predominantly affect sensory recognition and social interaction. Indeed, the temporal association regions that are important for sensory recognition and social interaction are one of the last regions to mature suggesting a potential vulnerability to early maturation. However, direct evaluation of the emerging hypothesis that an altered time course of early postnatal development can lead to an ASD phenotype remains lacking.
We used electrophysiological, histological, and behavioural techniques to investigate if the known neuronal maturational promoter valproate, similar to that in culture systems, can influence the normal developmental trajectory of TeA in vivo. Brain sections obtained from postnatal rat pups treated with VPA in vivo revealed that almost 40% of cortical cells in TeA prematurely exhibited adult-like intrinsic electrophysiological properties and that this was often associated with gross cortical hypertrophy and a reduced predisposition for social play behaviour.
The co-manifestation of these functional, structural and behavioural features suggests that alteration of the developmental time course in certain high-order cortical networks may play an important role in the neurophysiological basis of autism.
The objectives of this study were: to measure some essential metals and toxicants in placentas of mothers delivering neonates with fetal growth restriction, and to establish potential associations between environmental adverse stimulus and antioxidant protective mechanisms. Placentas of 20 mothers delivering neonates with low birth weight (<2500g) and normal birth weight (>3000g) at term were collected. Placental concentration of zinc, mercury, selenium and arsenic were measured by Instrumental Neutron Activation Analysis (INAA), and iron, copper, cadmium and lead by Atomic Absorption Spectrometry (AAS). Total glutathione, lipid peroxidation, total antioxidant activity and antioxidant enzyme activities (superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase) were determined spectrophotometrically. Results showed reduced iron levels and increased concentrations of cadmium, lead and arsenic in placentas of mothers delivering low birth weight neonates, but not differences in oxidative stress parameters or antioxidant enzymatic activities, suggesting a relationship between low birth weight and placental concentration of cadmium, arsenic and lead.
The effects of green tea extract (GTE) on the fetal development and external, visceral and skeletal abnormalities induced by cyclophosphamide were investigated in rats. Pregnant rats were daily administered GTE (100mg/kg) by gavage for 7 d, from the 6th to 12th day of gestation, and intraperitoneally administered with cyclophosphamide (11mg/kg) 1h after the final treatment. On the 20th day of gestation, maternal and fetal abnormalities were determined by Cesarian section. Cyclophosphamide was found to reduce fetal and placental weights without increasing resorption or death. In addition, it induced malformations in live fetuses; 94.6%, 41.5% and 100% of the external (skull and limb defects), visceral (cleft palate and ureteric dilatation) and skeletal (acrania, vertebral/costal malformations and delayed ossification) abnormalities. When pre-treated with GTE, cyclophosphamide-induced body weight loss and abnormalities of fetuses were remarkably aggravated. Moreover, repeated treatment with GTE greatly increased mRNA expression and activity of hepatic cytochrome P-450 (CYP) 2B, which metabolizes cyclophosphamide into teratogenic acrolein and cytotoxic phosphoramide mustard, while reducing CYP3A expression (a detoxifying enzyme). The results suggest that repeated intake of GTE may aggravate cyclophosphamide-induced body weight loss and malformations of fetuses by modulating CYP2B and CYP3A.
We report the confocal microscopic findings in a case of interlamellar stromal keratopathy induced by elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) after laser in situ keratomileusis (LASIK). In vivo confocal microscopy showed swollen and enlarged cellular structures and the presence of microlacunae separating the stromal collagen lamellae. Inflammatory mononuclear cells and granulocytes typically seen in patients with diffuse lamellar keratitis (DLK) were absent. Stopping the topical steroids with concurrent lowering of the IOP resulted in improvement in the uncorrected and best corrected visual acuities and was associated with resolution of the corneal findings. In vivo confocal microscopy is a useful tool to study interlamellar stromal keratopathy induced by elevated IOP after LASIK in humans and the response to treatment and to differentiate interlamellar stromal keratopathy from DLK.
1. In corticosterone-induced hypertension in rats the activity of the peripheral sympathetic nervous system and its modulation by prostaglandins was studied. 2. Plasma concentrations of noradrenaline were reduced if compared with those in normotensive control rats. 3. The sensitivity of the isolated perfused hind-limb preparation to noradrenaline was enhanced before blood pressure rose and increased further with the development of hypertension. 4. Arachidonic acid, prostacyclin (prostaglandin I2), but not 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha, reversed the supersensitivity to noradrenaline. 5. These results suggest that corticosterone induces a supersensitivity to noradrenaline by inhibiting the biosynthesis of prostaglandins. Changes in the sensitivity of the vascular smooth muscle may play a role in the development of glucocorticoid hypertension.
From June of 1986 to May of 1989, we encountered 78 cases of lung cancer and administered CDDP and etoposide, orally and intravenously. We found 3 cases of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) onset after this chemotherapy regimen. It is important to detect AMI onset as soon as possible. We must take prophylactic procedures for patients with coronary risk factors who have had radiation therapy previously.
Tanshinone IIA is a derivative of phenanthrene-quinone isolated from Danshen, a widely used Chinese herbal medicine. It has antioxidant properties, cytotoxic activities against multiple human cancer cells, inducing apoptosis and differentiation of some human cancer cells. The purpose of this study is to confirm its anticancer activity on human glioma cells, and to elucidate mechanism of its activity. Human glioma cells were tested in vitro for cytotoxicity, colony formation inhibition, BrdU incorporation after treatment with tanshinone IIA. Its effect of apoptosis induction was detected through EB/AO staining, cell cycle analysis and the expressions of ADPRTL1 and CYP1A1 genes, the differentiation induction effect was investigated through morphology, mRNA and protein expressions of GFAP and nestin genes by RT-PCR and immunocytochemistry. Tanshinone IIA demonstrated a dose- and time-dependent inhibitory effect on cell growth, IC(50) was 100 ng/ml, and it significantly inhibited colony formation and BrdU incorporation of human glioma cells. After treatment with 25-100 ng/ml of tanshinone IIA, the apoptotic cells increased significantly (P < 0.01), the cells in G(0)/G(1) phase increased (P < 0.01), and decreased in S phase, ADPRTL1 and CYP1A1 mRNA expression increased 1-2 folds. The cells treated with 100 ng/ml tanshinone IIA demonstrated astrocytes or neuron-like morphology, GFAP mRNA and protein expressions increased, nestin mRNA and protein expressions decreased significantly. The findings in this study suggested that tanshinone IIA exhibited strong effects on growth inhibition and induction of apoptosis and differentiation in human glioma cells. It might serve as a novel promising differentiation-inducing and/or therapeutic agent for human gliomas, and need to be investigated further.
Urine profiles (albumin, glucose, NAG, LDH, GGT and sodium) were followed for 22 h or 8 days after intravenous injection of diatrizoate, iohexol or saline in 30 adult Wistar rats in which nephrotoxicity was induced by daily peroral administration of 25 mg/kg body weight cyclosporin A over a 14-day period. Another 10 rats which had the vehicle of the cyclosporin A solution (placebo) and saline injected intravenously served as controls. The effect of iohexol and saline on the albumin excretion was similar, whereas diatrizoate increased it significantly. Both contrast media caused significantly increased excretion of all three enzymes. The contrast media had no effect on the excretion of glucose and sodium. Except for the fact that the excretion of NAG was significantly higher following iohexol than following diatrizoate 24 to 46 h after injection no significant differences between the two media were found from 24 h after injection among the rats given cyclosporin A. No contrast medium related changes were found by light microscopy of the kidneys. Neither iohexol nor diatrizoate potentiate acute cyclosporin A nephrotoxicity.
To establish the value of adjuvant dl-sotalol to digoxin for control of the ventricular response in chronic atrial fibrillation, 60 patients were evaluated in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, parallel, placebo-controlled study. Patients were evaluated with serial ambulatory ECG monitoring and exercise testing during stable digoxin dosing and then with the addition of either a placebo or dl-sotalol, 80 mg/day, or dl-sotalol, 160 mg/day. The combination of digoxin and dl-sotalol, at either 80 or 160 mg/day, resulted in a statistically significant reduction in heart rate at rest and with exercise during both exercise testing and ambulatory monitoring. No significant difference was observed between the two doses of dl-sotalol. There was no significant difference with regard to symptoms or side effects among the three groups. In summary, dl-sotalol was noted to be a safe and effective adjuvant to digoxin for control of the ventricular response in chronic atrial fibrillation.
As one of the chlorinated antifertility compounds, alpha-chlorohydrin (ACH) can inhibit glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (G3PDH) activity in epididymal sperm and affect sperm energy metabolism, maturation and fertilization, eventually leading to male infertility. Further studies demonstrated that the inhibitory effect of ACH on G3PDH is not only confined to epididymal sperm but also to the epididymis. Moreover, little investigation on gene expression changes in the epididymis after ACH treatment has been conducted. Therefore, gene expression studies may indicate new epididymal targets related to sperm maturation and fertility through the analysis of ACH-treated infertile animals.
Rats were treated with ACH for ten consecutive days, and then each male rat copulated with two female rats in proestrus. Then sperm maturation and other fertility parameters were analyzed. Furthermore, we identified epididymal-specific genes that are associated with fertility between control and ACH groups using an Affymetrix Rat 230 2.0 oligo-microarray. Finally, we performed RT-PCR analysis for several differentially expressed genes to validate the alteration in gene expression observed by oligonucleotide microarray.
Among all the differentially expressed genes, we analyzed and screened the down-regulated genes associated with metabolism processes, which are considered the major targets of ACH action. Simultaneously, the genes that were up-regulated by chlorohydrin were detected. The genes that negatively regulate sperm maturation and fertility include apoptosis and immune-related genes and have not been reported previously. The overall results of PCR analysis for selected genes were consistent with the array data.
In this study, we have described the genome-wide profiles of gene expression in the epididymides of infertile rats induced by ACH, which could become potential epididymal specific targets for male contraception and infertility treatment.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic inflammatory disease characterized by destruction of bone and cartilage, which is mediated, in part, by synovial fibroblasts. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are a large family of proteolytic enzymes responsible for matrix degradation. Macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) is a cytokine that induces the production of a large number of proinflammatory molecules and has an important role in the pathogenesis of RA by promoting inflammation and angiogenesis. In the present study, we determined the role of MIF in RA synovial fibroblast MMP production and the underlying signaling mechanisms. We found that MIF induces RA synovial fibroblast MMP-2 expression in a time-dependent and concentration-dependent manner. To elucidate the role of MIF in MMP-2 production, we produced zymosan-induced arthritis (ZIA) in MIF gene-deficient and wild-type mice. We found that MMP-2 protein levels were significantly decreased in MIF gene-deficient compared with wild-type mice joint homogenates. The expression of MMP-2 in ZIA was evaluated by immunohistochemistry (IHC). IHC revealed that MMP-2 is highly expressed in wild-type compared with MIF gene-deficient mice ZIA joints. Interestingly, synovial lining cells, endothelial cells, and sublining nonlymphoid mononuclear cells expressed MMP-2 in the ZIA synovium. Consistent with these results, in methylated BSA (mBSA) antigen-induced arthritis (AIA), a model of RA, enhanced MMP-2 expression was also observed in wild-type compared with MIF gene-deficient mice joints. To elucidate the signaling mechanisms in MIF-induced MMP-2 upregulation, RA synovial fibroblasts were stimulated with MIF in the presence of signaling inhibitors. We found that MIF-induced RA synovial fibroblast MMP-2 upregulation required the protein kinase C (PKC), c-jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), and Src signaling pathways. We studied the expression of MMP-2 in the presence of PKC isoform-specific inhibitors and found that the PKCdelta inhibitor rottlerin inhibits MIF-induced RA synovial fibroblast MMP-2 production. Consistent with these results, MIF induced phosphorylation of JNK, PKCdelta, and c-jun. These results indicate a potential novel role for MIF in tissue destruction in RA.
ST-elevation acute myocardial ischemia occurred after phenylephrine infusion in a patient with severe coronary artery disease and recent myocardial infarction. The subsequent administration of nitroglycerin led to a vasovagal response with symptomatic hypotension and bradycardia. During myocardial ischemia, heart-rate variability and baroreflex sensitivity analysis described a marked activation of sympathetic drive and severe impairment of baroreflex control. The nitroglycerin-induced hypotension-bradycardia was associated with complex changes in the autonomic pattern characterized by subsequent phases of abrupt activation/deactivation of the two limbs of autonomic nervous system developing into a loss of neural control mechanisms.
The effects of aminooxyacetic acid (AOAA) and baclofen on the catalepsy, striatal homovanillic acid (HVA) increase and antinociception caused by methadone were studied in rats. Antinociceptive responses were tested by the electric foot-shock method. A new type of stimulator unit which delivered nearly constant current over a wide range of output voltage and which was noiseless was designed and its construction is described. AOAA (25 mg/kg) which increases the cerebral concentration of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and baclofen (10 mg/kg), a structural analogue of GABA, did not change the catalepsy induced by methadone (5 mg/kg). AOAA (25 and 50 mg/kg) alone did not alter the striatal HVA content and had no effect on the methadone induced HVA increase. Baclofen (10 mg/kg) increased the striatal HVA content by 19% (P less than 0.01) and reduced the methadone-induced HVA increase by 36% (P less than 0.01). AOAA (25 mg/kg). These results suggest that narcotic analgesics might cause catalepsy and increase striatal dopamine turnover by some other mechanism than neuroleptics. The results support the suggestion that GABA might be involved in pain mechanisms.
Skeletal muscle homoeostasis is maintained by a variety of cytoprotective mechanisms. Since ablation of the TauT (taurine transporter) gene results in susceptibility to exercise-induced muscle weakness in vivo, it has been suggested that TauT is essential for skeletal muscle function. However, the regulatory mechanisms of TauT expression remain to be elucidated. In the present study, we demonstrated that TauT was up-regulated during myogenesis in C2C12 cells. Treatment with bFGF (basic fibroblast growth factor), which inhibited muscle differentiation, abrogated myogenic induction of TauT. The promoter activities of TauT were up-regulated during muscle differentiation in C2C12 cells. Database analyses identified an MEF2 (myocyte enhancer binding factor 2) consensus sequence at -844 in the rat TauT gene. Truncation of the promoter region containing the MEF2 site significantly reduced the promoter activity, demonstrating the functional importance of the MEF2 site. Electrophoretic mobility-shift assays confirmed that MEF2 bound to the MEF2 consensus sequence and that DNA-protein complex levels were increased during differentiation. Promoter analyses using mutated promoter-reporter plasmids demonstrated that this site was functional. Importantly, transfection with a MyoD expression vector markedly enhanced TauT promoter activity in the (non-myogenic) 10T1/2 cells. Moreover, co-transfection with an MEF2 expression vector augmented MyoD-induced TauT promoter activity, suggesting that MEF2 is required for full activation of TauT expression. Finally, we examined the effects of taurine on myotube atrophy to clarify the biological significance of the up-regulation of TauT, and demonstrated that taurine attenuated muscle atrophy induced by dexamethasone. TauT expression is regulated under the control of the myogenic programme, and we propose that this is the mechanism for taurine-mediated resistance to muscle atrophy.
The potent 5-lipoxygenase-activating protein (FLAP) inhibitor 3-[3-tert-butylsulfanyl-1-[4-(6-ethoxypyridin-3-yl)benzyl]-5-(5-methylpyridin-2-ylmethoxy)-1H-indol-2-yl]-2,2-dimethylpropionic acid 11cc is described (AM803, now GSK2190915). Building upon AM103 (1) (Hutchinson et al. J. Med Chem.2009, 52, 5803-5815; Stock et al. Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 2010, 20, 213-217; Stock et al. Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett.2010, 20, 4598-4601), SAR studies centering around the pyridine moiety led to the discovery of compounds that exhibit significantly increased potency in a human whole blood assay measuring LTB(4) inhibition with longer drug preincubation times (15 min vs 5 h). Further studies identified 11cc with a potency of 2.9 nM in FLAP binding, an IC(50) of 76 nM for inhibition of LTB(4) in human blood (5 h incubation) and excellent preclinical toxicology and pharmacokinetics in rat and dog. 11cc also demonstrated an extended pharmacodynamic effect in a rodent bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) model. This compound has successfully completed phase 1 clinical studies in healthy volunteers and is currently undergoing phase 2 trials in asthmatic patients.
There is a wide array of options for migraine prophylaxis; many of the available drugs are clearly proven to be effective and yet are underused in Australia. "New" drugs which are gaining favour for migraine prophylaxis include topiramate, candesartan, gabapentin and botulinum toxin. The evidence for efficacy is excellent for topiramate and reasonably good but limited for candesartan and gabapentin. The use of botulinum toxin is controversial and has gained substantial popularity through anecdotal experience rather than convincing published evidence. Transformed or chronic migraine with medication overuse is a particularly difficult problem. New strategies to aid in medication withdrawal are reviewed. The approach to menstrual migraine and migraine with prominent aura may differ from that for typical migraine. Novel approaches are being explored for these problems.
