Griseofulvin, an antibiotic used to treat dermatophystosis, was tested for carcinogenicity in mice, rats and hamsters. Three groups of mice and rats were given the drug in powdered diet in alternating 5-week periods for life, at dose levels of 3.0%, 1.5% and 0.3% (mice) and 2.0%, 1.0% and 0.2% (rats). A group of mice and 3 groups of hamsters received continuous daily treatment for life with griseofulvin at 3.0%, 1.5%, 0.3% and 0.1% dose levels respectively. A significant incidence of hepatic tumours was observed at the 2 higher treatment levels in mice. Also, statistically significant rates (P less than or equal to 0.001 and/or P less than or equal to 0.020) of thyroid tumours, indicating a dose-response, were recorded in male rats at the 2.0%, 1.0%, and 0.2% dose levels, and in females at the 2.0% and 1.0% dose levels. Hamsters did not develop neoplasms in response to treatment at any level.
We recently showed that acute oxidant-related lung injury (ALI) in rats after application of 2-chloroethyl ethyl sulfide (CEES) is attenuated by the airway instillation of antioxidants. We investigated whether intratracheal administration of antioxidant-containing liposomes immediately after instillation of CEES would attenuate short-term as well as long-term (fibrotic) effects of CEES-induced lung injury. In the acute injury model (4 h after injury), N-acetylcysteine (NAC)-containing liposomes were protective and reduced to baseline levels both the lung permeability index and the appearance of proinflammatory mediators in bronchoalveolar lavage fluids from CEES-exposed lungs. Similar results were obtained when rat alveolar macrophages were incubated in vitro with either CEES or lipopolysaccharide in the presence of NAC-liposomes. When lung fibrosis 3 weeks after CEES was quantitated by using hydroxyproline content, liposomes containing NAC or NAC + glutathione had no effects, but liposomes containing alpha/gamma-tocopherol alone or with NAC significantly suppressed the increase in lung hydroxyproline. The data demonstrate that delivery of antioxidants via liposomes to CEES-injured lungs is, depending on liposomal content, protective against ALI, prevents the appearance of proinflammatory mediators in bronchoalveolar fluids, and suppresses progressive fibrosis. Accordingly, the liposomal strategy may be therapeutically useful in CEES-induced lung injury in humans.
Glutamine synthetase plays a major role in ammonia detoxification, interorgan nitrogen flux, acid-base homeostasis, and cell signaling. We report on two unrelated newborns who had congenital human glutamine synthetase deficiency with severe brain malformations resulting in multiorgan failure and neonatal death. Glutamine was largely absent from their serum, urine, and cerebrospinal fluid. Each infant had a homozygous mutation in the glutamine synthetase gene (R324C and R341C). Studies that used immortalized lymphocytes expressing R324C glutamine synthetase (R324C-GS) and COS7 cells expressing R341C-GS suggest that these mutations are associated with reduced glutamine synthetase activity.
Both single and graded administration of an anthracycline antibiotic adriablastine at a dose of 20 mg/kg to white rats have resulted in cardiomyocyte volume decrease, dystrophia and lysis of myofibrils, and reduction of mitochondrial surface density volume. Accumulations of myelin bodies of different configuration and diffuse myolysis were observed. Myelin bodies and diffuse myolysis of cardiomyocytes in adriablastine-induced cardiomyopathy are believed to be a morphological sign of lipid peroxidation.
Paeoniflorin (1) and its derivatives having in common a cage-like pinane skeleton with hemiketal-acetal system, were evaluated for their effects on memory impairment induced by scopolamine in mice using a step-down type passive avoidance task. In the test session, 1 and its derivatives were intraperitoneally (i.p.) administered at doses of 0.002, 0.01, 0.02 and 0.2 mmol/kg, and 30 min later (15 min before the experiment), scopolamine (1 mg/kg, i.p.) was given. These compounds showed dose-dependent attenuation in a dose range of 0.002-0.02 mmol/kg and also enhancement of scopolamine-induced decrease in step-down latency. The effects of these compounds, except that of 2',3',4',5'-O-tetraacetyl-3-O-methylpaeoniflorin (8), followed a bell-shaped dose response profile. 8-Debenzoyl-6-deglucosyl-3-O-methylpaeoniflorin (6) showed no significant increase in the step-down latency at all tested doses. Maximum step-down latency was obtained by 3-O-methylpaeoniflorin (3) and 2',3,3',4',5'-penta-O-methylpaeoniflorin (7) (the minimal effective dose was 0.002 mmol/kg). Relative to 3, debenzoylation, as in 8-debenzoyl-3-O-methylpaeoniflorin (4), slightly increased the latency, while deglucosylation, as in 6-deglucosyl-3-O-methylpaeoniflorin (5), significantly reduced the prolongation of latency. Removal of both glucose and benzoyl moieties resulted in the loss of activity as seen in 6. These results revealed that, in addition to the cage-like pinane skeleton, the benzoyl and the glucosyl moieties are important structural elements of the paeoniflorin skeleton as its effects on scopolamine-induced amnesia.
Methods which might be useful in preventing cephalothin-induced phlebitis following intravenous administration of the buffered drug were investigated. One hundred and twenty adult orthopedic patients were assigned randomly to either a control group or one of five treatment groups. The treatment regimens studied were: addition of hydrocortisone phosphate 10 mg to each liter of intravenous fluid; addition of heparin 1,000 units to each liter of intravenous fluid; addition of heparin 500 units and hydrocortisone phosphate 1 mg to each liter of intravenous fluid; addition of heparin 1,000 units and hydrocortisone phosphate 10 mg to each liter of intravenous fluid; and filtration of intravenous solutions through a 0.22-mum inline filter. All patients in the study received intravenous buffered cephalothin at a dosage of 1 g every six hours for a minimum of 48 hours. Phlebitis was assessed every 12 hours according to predetermined criteria. Significant differences were found in the incidence of phlebitis at 48 hours between the control group and the last three study groups (see above). It is concluded that postinfusion phlebitis following cephalothin administration can be reduced by the concomitant addition of heparin and hydrocortisone to the intravenous solution or by the use of an inline 0.22-mum final filter.
The analgesics aspirin and paracetamol administered as single I.V. doses produce renal lesions in the homozygous Gunn rat. The lesions affect both cortex and medulla but are less severe than the renal lesions of analgesic nephropathy. By contrast the reactive compounds p-aminophenol and 5-aminosalicylic acid which are known to cause renal damage in other less susceptible strains respectively produce cortical and medullary renal lesions in homozygous Gunn rats which are as extensive as those found in patients with analgesic nephropathy. The increased frequency of renal lesions from the analgesics aspirin and paracetamol as compared to heterozygous and albino rats and the increased severity of the lesions due to p-aminophenol and 5-aminosalicylic acid is considered to be at least partly due to impaired glucuronide formation and consequent delayed excretion of nephrotoxic substances.
MicroRNA (miR)-133a regulates cardiac and skeletal muscle differentiation and plays an important role in cardiac development. Because miR-133a levels decrease during reactive cardiac hypertrophy, some have considered that restoring miR-133a levels could suppress hypertrophic remodeling.
To prevent the "normal" downregulation of miR-133a induced by an acute hypertrophic stimulus in the adult heart.
miR-133a is downregulated in transverse aortic constriction (TAC) and isoproterenol-induced hypertrophy, but not in 2 genetic hypertrophy models. Using MYH6 promoter-directed expression of a miR-133a genomic precursor, increased cardiomyocyte miR-133a had no effect on postnatal cardiac development assessed by measures of structure, function, and mRNA profile. However, increased miR-133a levels increased QT intervals in surface electrocardiographic recordings and action potential durations in isolated ventricular myocytes, with a decrease in the fast component of the transient outward K+ current, I(to,f), at baseline. Transgenic expression of miR-133a prevented TAC-associated miR-133a downregulation and improved myocardial fibrosis and diastolic function without affecting the extent of hypertrophy. I(to,f) downregulation normally observed post-TAC was prevented in miR-133a transgenic mice, although action potential duration and QT intervals did not reflect this benefit. miR-133a transgenic hearts had no significant alterations of basal or post-TAC mRNA expression profiles, although decreased mRNA and protein levels were observed for the I(to,f) auxiliary KChIP2 subunit, which is not a predicted target.
These results reveal striking differences between in vitro and in vivo phenotypes of miR expression, and further suggest that mRNA signatures do not reliably predict either direct miR targets or major miR effects.
Cyanosis occurring during a transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE) is usually related to the respiratory depressant effect of the administered sedative. However, acute toxic methemoglobinemia related to topical benzocaine is a rare and not well recognized but potentially life threatening cause of cyanosis during or after TEE. A case of this condition is presented and the literature on its frequency, diagnosis and management is briefly reviewed.
The selective estrogen receptor modulator arzoxifene and the rexinoid LG 100268 were active not only as single agents for prevention and treatment of breast cancer in the rat model that uses nitrosomethylurea as the carcinogen but also showed striking synergy, both preventively and therapeutically, in a series of six experiments with a total of 465 rats. Mechanistic studies in cell culture reported here suggest that enhancement of stromal-epithelial interactions may contribute to this synergy. The possible clinical use of the combination of arzoxifene and LG 100268 for prevention of breast cancer in women at high risk, for treatment of women in the adjuvant setting, or for treatment of end-stage disease should now be considered.
Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), also known as heat shock protein 32, has been shown to protect against oxidant-induced tissue injury. In the present studies, we analyzed expression of this enzyme in macrophages and hepatocytes following acetaminophen administration and its potential role in hepatotoxicity. Treatment of rats with a hepatotoxic dose of acetaminophen (1 g/kg, ip) resulted in a time-dependent induction of HO-1 in the liver. This was observed within 6 h of acetaminophen administration in both hepatocytes and macrophages. Hepatocytes were found to be more sensitive than macrophages to the effects of acetaminophen on HO-1. Up regulation of HO-1 in the liver following acetaminophen administration correlated with induction of ferritin and manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD). To determine if HO-1 was hepatoprotective, rats were pretreated with hemin (30 micromol/kg, ip), a potent inducer of the enzyme. Following hemin treatment, we observed a time-dependent increase in HO-1 protein in the liver and in serum bilirubin levels. Pretreatment of rats with hemin was found to prevent acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity, as measured histologically and biochemically by decreased serum transaminase levels. This was correlated with more rapid increases in expression of hepatic ferritin and MnSOD. Heme metabolism via HO-1 generates biliverdin, which is rapidly converted to bilirubin by biliverdin reductase. Pretreatment of rats with biliverdin (40 micromol/kg, ip) was also found to block acetaminophen-induced injury. These data suggest that HO-1 is an important component of antioxidant defense during acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity.
The effects of chlorthalidone, spironolactone and propranolol in reducing blood pressure were compared in the same 11 normoreninemic hypertensive patients. All three drugs decreased the blood pressure significantly and no agent had a superior blood pressure-lowering effect. The blood pressure did not normalize. The data suggest that no one variable--volume factors, relative hyperactivity of the renin-aldosterone system or beta-adrenergic hyperactivity--is the prime mover in normoreninemic hypertension. Long-term treatment with chlorthalidone resulted in slight hyperreninism (26.3 +/- 4.9 ng-ml-1-3 hours-1) (mean +/- standard error) with concomitant changes in plasma aldosterone (23.0 +/- 3.2 ng-100 ml-1). The body weight decreased significantly (--1.8 kg, P less than 0.005). Plasma potassium concentrations were low (3.2 +/- 0.1 mEq-liter -1). Creatinine clearance was unimpaired (117 +/- 6 ml-min-1). Treatment with spironolactone resulted in more marked hyperreninism (47.0 +/- 14.3 ng-ml-1-3 hours-1) and hyperaldosteronism (61.9 +/-11.8 ng-100 ml-1). The body weight decreased significantly (--1.9 kg, P less than 0.004). Significant hyperkalemia occurred (4.4 +/- 0.1 mEq-liter-1). The glomerular filtration rate decreased significantly to 93 +/- 3 ml-min-1 (P less than 0.004). Treatment with propranolol resulted in marked suppression of the plasma renin activity (1.8 +/- 0.2 ng-ml-1-3 hours-1) and plasma aldosterone levels (8.9 +/- 1.3 ng-100 ml-1). A significant increase in body weight occurred (+2.3 kg, P less than 0.013). The plasma potassium concentration increased to a level not significantly different from the value found after treatment with spironolactone (4.2 +/- 0.1 mEq-liter-1). The creatinine clearance decreased significantly to 99 +/- 5 ml-min-1 (P less than 0.008). Hyperreninemia (by spironolactone and chlorthalidone), effective hyperaldosteronism (by chlorthalidone) and volume retention (by propranolol) are considered to represent expressions of mechanisms counteracting the depressor effects of these different pharmacologic maneuvers, leading to the maintenance of supranormal blood pressure.
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of entecavir (ETV) in treating lamivudine refractory chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients.
This was part of a multicenter, double-blinded, randomized (4:1) and placebo-controlled trial comparing the safety and efficacy of ETV (1.0 mg once q.d.) for 12 weeks in lamivudine refractory CHB patients. All patients were treated with ETV (1.0 mg q.d.) for 168 weeks. During the treatment period, HBV DNA levels were regularly measured by quantitative PCR. Liver function tests, HBV serology and safety assessments were also conducted.
The mean of HBV DNA log10 decreased from 9.14 to 6.27 at week 2, decreased to 6.28 at week 4, to 5.46 at week 8, to 5.10 at week 12, to 4.49 at week 24, to 4.41 at week 48, to 3.91 at week 96, to 4.05 at week 144, and decreased to 4.21 at week 168. The proportion of HBV DNA more than 10(5) copies/ml gradually dropped from 100% at baseline to 46.43% at week 12 and to 17.86% at week 96. HBV DNA less than 10(3) copies/ml raised from 0 at baseline to 7.14% at week 8, to 10.71% at week 12, to 46.43% at week 96, and raised to 57.14% at week 168. The proportion with HBeAg seroconversion was 10.07% at the end of the study. The mean of ALT became normal at week 12 and remained normal throughout week 168. There was one patient who had a severe adverse event during the trial.
ETV can effectively inhibit the replication of HBV DNA and normalize the levels of ALT in lamivudine refractory CHB patients, and from our study we think the use of ETV is safe.
According to our previous study suggesting that antioxidant properties of phytochemicals in the diet decrease glioma aggressiveness, we used a SUVIMAX-like diet ("Supplementation en VItamines et Minéraux AntioXydants") (enriched with alpha-tocopherol, beta carotene, vitamin C, zinc, and sodium selenite), adapted to rats. The present results showed that each of the antioxidants inhibited growth of glioma cells in vitro. When used in combination for in vivo studies, we showed a highly significant delay in the clinical signs of the disease, but not a statistical significant difference in the incidence of glioma in an Ethyl-nitrosourea (ENU)-model. The SUVIMAX-like diet decreased candidate markers of tumoral aggressiveness and gliomagenesis progression. The mRNA expressions of 2 common markers in human glioma: Mn-SOD (Manganese Superoxide Dismutase) and IGFBP5 (insulin growth factor binding protein) were reduced in the tumors of rats fed the antioxidant diet. In addition, the transcripts of two markers linked to brain tumor proliferation, PDGFRb (platelet-derived growth factor receptor beta) and Ki-67, were also significantly decreased. On the whole, our results suggest a protective role for antioxidants to limit aggressiveness and to some extent, progression of gliomas, in a rat model.
Out of ten consecutive patients with DSM-III-R obsessive-compulsive disorder without any previous history of bipolarity, three patients showed antidepressant-induced hypomania (clomipramine, one patient; fluvoxamine, two patients) within the first 5 to 8 weeks of the drug treatment. These data support the previous results on a strong association between obsessive-compulsive disorder and bipolar affective illness.
Despite increased focus in recent years on urinary microRNA (miRNA) biomarkers in patients with diabetes and chronic kidney diseases, few studies have explored urinary miRNA markers in drug-induced nephrotoxicity. Here, we attempted to identify urinary miRNA markers suitable for use in detecting cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity in rats. Cisplatin (6mg/kg) was given as a single intraperitoneal injection to male Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats, and urine collected from Days 4 to 5 for 17h under fed or fasted conditions. MiRNAs were identified using TaqMan(®) Rodent microRNA PCR cards, and rats were euthanized 5 days after administration. Levels of 25 miRNAs were significantly increased in the urine of cisplatin-treated rats under both fed and fasted conditions, while the levels of these miRNAs were decreased in either or both the cortex or outer medulla of the kidney. Analysis of time and dose dependency in the urine from rats treated with cisplatin (1, 3, and 6mg/kg) on Days 1, 3, and 7, showed levels of 25 miRNAs were increased in urine and their appearance correlated with the severity of necrosis in the proximal tubules. Four miRNAs (let-7g-5p, miR-93-5p, miR-191a-5p and miR-192-5p) in urine were measured by absolute quantification, and a strong correlation was found between relative and absolute quantification methods. In summary, we identified 25 miRNAs in urine that were able to be used as non-invasive biomarkers for the detection of cisplatin-induced proximal tubular injury in rats. This study is the first step in demonstrating the potential utility of urinary miRNAs in assessing nephrotoxicity. Further study, such as collaborative programs currently underway in the HESI consortium, will clarify the usability of identified miRNA markers in measurement of other nephrotoxicants and injury-site specificity.
We reported previously that acetaminophen overdose interrupts the signaling pathway of Fas receptor-mediated apoptosis. The aim of our study was to investigate the mechanism of this effect. Male C3Heb/FeJ mice received a single dose of acetaminophen (300 mg/kg ip) and/or anti-Fas antibody Jo-2 (0.6 mg/kg iv). Some animals were treated with allopurinol (100 mg/kg po) 18 and 1 h before acetaminophen injection. After 90 min of Jo treatment, there was processing of procaspase-3 and a significant increase in liver caspase-3 activity, which is consistent with apoptotic cell death. Treatment with acetaminophen 2.5 h before Jo inhibited the increase in hepatic caspase-3 activity by preventing the processing of the proenzyme. When administered alone, acetaminophen did not induce caspase-3 activation but caused significant liver injury. Acetaminophen treatment alone caused mitochondrial cytochrome c release, depletion of the hepatic ATP content by 55%, and a 10-fold increase in mitochondrial glutathione disulfide levels. Pretreatment with allopurinol prevented the mitochondrial oxidant stress and liver injury due to acetaminophen toxicity but had no effect on Jo-mediated apoptosis. Allopurinol did not affect the initial glutathione depletion after acetaminophen. However, allopurinol restored the sensitivity of hepatocytes to Fas receptor signaling in acetaminophen-treated animals. Histochemical evaluation of DNA fragmentation with the TUNEL assay showed that acetaminophen eliminated Fas receptor-mediated apoptosis in all hepatocytes not just in the damaged cells of the centrilobular area. Our data suggest that acetaminophen-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and not the initial glutathione depletion is responsible for the interruption of Fas receptor-mediated apoptotic signaling in hepatocytes.
The role of the immune response in autoimmune hepatitis has not been studied before and after prednisone and azathioprine treatment. Distributions of blood lymphocytes (CD4+, CD8+, CD19+, CD23+, CD16/56+), levels of serum immunoglobulins (IgM, IgG, IgE, IgA) and cytokines (IFN-gamma, IL-4, IL-12, TNFalpha ) were studied in a child (f/14 y/o) with autoimmune hepatitis before and after prednisone (20 mg/d) and azathioprine (50 mg/d) treatment (nephelometry, UniCAP Total IgE Fluoroenzymeimmunoassay, flow cytometry, cytokine ELISA). Patient was studied for 0-2.5 yrs; treatment was initiated 12 weeks post diagnosis. Numbers of CD4+ T cells increased (50%), while CD19+ and CD23+ cells decreased (>50%) post treatment; other lymphocyte subsets were unaffected by treatment. Serum IgG and IgE levels decreased (>50%) after treatment; serum IgM and IgA were within normal range and were not affected by treatment High levels of IFN-gamma (5-23 pg/ml) were initially detected in serum, which decreased after treatment (<0.1 pg/ml). Furthermore, low levels of IL-4 (0.2 pg/mL) were detected before treatment, which were not detected after treatment (<0.1 pg/ml). In contrast, before treatment, IL-12 and TNFalpha were not detected in serum; however after treatment the levels of IL-12 and TNFalpha dramatically increased. Prednisone and azathioprine treatment decreased total serum IgG, IgE, IFN-gamma and IL-4 levels, and blood CD19+ and CD23+ cells; however serum IL-12, TNFalpha and blood CD4+ T cells increased with treatment. Understanding immunomodulation in autoimmune hepatitis will provide better insight and mechanisms of this disease and may tailor more effective therapeutic intervention.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) in body fluids have received attention as potential biomarkers of organ damage because miRNAs that are highly or specifically expressed in a given organ are likely released into body fluids as a result of damage to that organ. We previously determined that the plasma miRNA profile in rats was dramatically changed due to acetaminophen (APAP)-induced pericentral necrosis and methapyrilene (MP)-induced periportal necrosis in the liver. The purpose of this study was to examine whether the expression of hepatic miRNAs is differentially modulated at different zones due to injury and to examine the relationship of the hepatic miRNA profile with the changes in the plasma miRNA expression profile. Through the laser microdissection of the periportal and periportal regions of the liver and TaqMan microRNA Array analysis, we found that 49 miRNAs are differentially expressed between the pericentral and periportal regions of control rats. In both APAP- and MP-treated rats, the miRNAs that presented decreased expression dominated in both the injured and non-injured areas compared with the miRNAs that exhibited increased expression. The changes in miRNA expression in each region of the liver were compared with those observed in the plasma. Of the 301 plasma miRNAs with expression that was changed as a result of APAP administration, only 21% were changed in the injured area of the liver. Of the 263 plasma miRNAs with expression that was changed due to MP administration, only 24% were changed in the injured area of the liver. Thus, the miRNA expression profiles in the plasma do not merely reflect the release of miRNAs from the damaged cells in the liver. This report provides the first demonstration of zonal miRNA expression in the liver and of the relationship of the miRNA expression profile in a tissue with the plasma miRNA profile.
Hypotensive effect of KB-944 was examined in comparison with diltiazem and nifedipine in normotensive rats, spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), renal hypertensive rats and deoxycorticosterone acetate(DOCA)-NaCl hypertensive rats, all in a conscious state. KB-944, diltiazem and nifedipine showed dose-dependent antihypertensive effects in the three different types of hypertensive rats as well as normotensive rats. The relative potency of the test drugs decreased in the following order: nifedipine greater than KB-944 greater than diltiazem. The doses of KB-944 leading to a decrease in systolic blood pressure of 20% of pretreatment level were estimated to be 32.8 mg/kg in normotensive rats, 5.1 mg/kg in SHR, 6.4 mg/kg in renal hypertensive rats and 5.4 mg/kg in DOCA-NaCl hypertensive rats, respectively. The hypotensive effect of KB-944 lasted longer than those of diltiazem or nifedipine. KB-944 and diltiazem increased heart rate in normotensive rats and renal hypertensive rats, though in SHR and DOCA-NaCl hypertensive rats both drugs tended to decrease heart rate. On the other hand, nifedipine increased the heart rate in all types of rats. In SHR, tolerance of KB-944 was not observed with oral administration for 5 weeks at a daily dose of 30 mg/kg.
Germfree (GF) Lobund strain Wistar (LW) rats, fed vegetable diet L-485, have developed prostate adenocarcinomas spontaneously (10% incidence) at average age 34 months. Conventional LW rats, implanted with testosterone at age 4 months, developed a higher incidence of prostate cancer after an average interval of 14 months: 24% had developed gross tumors, and 40% when it included microscopic tumors. Preliminary results indicate that testosterone-treated LW rats that were fed the same diet, which was supplemented with corn oil up to 20% fat, developed prostate cancer after intervals of 6-12 months. Aged GF Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats have not developed prostate cancer spontaneously. Conventional SD rats fed diet L-485 and treated with testosterone developed only prostatitis. Experimental designs should consider genetic susceptibility as a basic prerequisite for studies on experimental prostate cancer.
Many drugs are being used for prevention and treatment of photoaging, especially topical retinoids. The use of systemic retinoids, more specifically, isotretinoin, for this purpose has not been properly addressed to date. Our study was designed to assess the systemic use of isotretinoin used alone for the therapy of cutaneous photoaging.
To demonstrate that isotretinoin is converted into retinoid and improves the appearance of the photoaged skin.
Fifty women aged 40 to 60 years, phototype I, II, or III according Fitzpatrick, were selected to receive 20 mg of isotretinoin orally 3 times a week for a 3-month period. Patients underwent clinical and laboratory evaluation. Two biopsies and photographic control were performed. Patients were requested to use only topical photoprotecting agents during the treatment. Improvement in photoaging clinical parameters were evaluated through pictures taken and also through an evaluation form. Anatomopathologic parameters were obtained by comparing collagen degeneration and skin trophism. Results. Thirty patients fully complied with study requirements and were adequately analyzed. From the anatomopathologic data, an improvement of photoaging in 20 patients was observed.
Isotretinoin improves photoaging with few adverse events because of the low dose used and to the short treatment duration.
Canagliflozin is an SGLT2 inhibitor used for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. Studies were conducted to investigate the mechanism responsible for renal tubular tumors and pheochromocytomas observed at the high dose in a 2-year carcinogenicity study in rats. At the high dose (100mg/kg) in rats, canagliflozin caused carbohydrate malabsorption evidenced by inhibition of intestinal glucose uptake, decreased intestinal pH and increased urinary calcium excretion. In a 6-month mechanistic study utilization of a glucose-free diet prevented carbohydrate malabsorption and its sequelae, including increased calcium absorption and urinary calcium excretion, and hyperostosis. Cell proliferation in the kidney and adrenal medulla was increased in rats maintained on standard diet and administered canagliflozin (100mg/kg), and in addition an increase in the renal injury biomarker KIM-1 was observed. Increased cell proliferation is considered as a proximal event in carcinogenesis. Effects on cell proliferation, KIM-1 and calcium excretion were inhibited in rats maintained on the glucose-free diet, indicating they are secondary to carbohydrate malabsorption and are not direct effects of canagliflozin.
The 24-hour blood pressure (BP) profile of a new sustained-release preparation of nicardipine was assessed in 16 patients with essential hypertension (supine cuff diastolic BP greater than 95 mmHg). Twenty-four hour ambulatory intraarterial BP monitoring (Oxford system) before treatment revealed a mean (SD) daytime BP of 174 (19) mmHg systolic and 105 (8) mmHg diastolic, and a mean nighttime BP of 142 (26) mmHg systolic and 83 (12) mmHg diastolic. Sustained release nicardipine (60 mg) was administered twice daily for 4-6 weeks and the ambulatory BP monitoring repeated. No significant change in heart rate occurred throughout the 24-hour period. However, there was a significant reduction (p less than 0.0001) in the mean daytime BP of 21 (13) mmHg systolic and 12 (9) mmHg diastolic and of mean nighttime BP of 21 (5) mmHg systolic and 13 (11) mmHg diastolic. A similar reduction in hourly mean BP occurred throughout the whole 24-hour period, including the steep early morning rise in BP. Although vasodilatory-type side effects occurred, they were generally mild to moderate and transient. This preparation produces a significant reduction in BP throughout the 24-hour period without reflex tachycardia.
Telephone interviews with 12 patients (11 had Progestasert IUDs; 1 had copper 7 IUD), who were suffering from dysmenorrhea, were conducted to determine the effects of mefenamic acid in dysmenorrheic patients using IUD. Average duration of IUD use was 16 months (range, 6-30 months). 9 patients suffered from menstrual cramps before IUD insertion; 3 suffered from cramps after insertion. 5 started using mefenamic acid for menstrual cramps before IUD insertion, while the other 7 started after insertion. Average duration of use of mefenamic acid for menstrual cramps was 9 months (range, 1-24 months), with doses ranging from 2 to 12 capsules/menstrual cycle. Of 10 patients previously taking analgesics for menstrual cramps, 9 reported mefenamic acid as better. None reported any change in amount of menstrual flow. All patients reported complete or nearly complete relief of cramps after taking mefenamic acid. Mefenamic acid was also found to be effective in relieving other menstrual symptoms such as leg pain, backache, nausea, and increased bowel movement. Mefenamic acid is effective because it not only inhibits formation of contraction-causing prostaglandins and its synthetase, but also blocks contraction of the uterine muscle to remaining prostaglandin intermediates. Scientifically controlled studies should be done to substantiate these findings.
