Urine samples of normal male Fischer rats or rats fed 0.2% N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide for 6,8 or 30 weeks were collected and centrifuged 50 weeks after beginning treatment. After being sonicated and assayed (with purified desialylated ovine submaxillary mucin as acceptor glycoprotein), the exfoliated bladder cells obtained from the urines of treated rats showed uridine 5'-diphosphate galactose:glycoprotein transferase activity. The specific enzymatic activity of the enzyme from cells of 30-week-treated rats was about 10 times higher than from normal rats. The enzyme from cells of hyperplastic rats (treated 6 or 8 weeks) was only slightly higher in specific activity than that of normal rats. A similar was obtained at a later stage of bladder tumor induction, when the urines from 30-week-treated rats contained blood. A correction was made for protein contributed by the blood clot. The possibility that the blood clot contributed galactosyl transferase activity was excluded. Activity of the enzyme was detected in normal rat bladder tissue and in normal human urine.
Earlier we have demonstrated that oral supplementation of vitamin E and curcumin alleviates hyperthyroidism-induced oxidative stress and distorted histoarchitecture in rat liver [5]. To delineate the underlying mechanism of protection, the present study was undertaken to investigate the regulatory role of vitamin E and curcumin on antioxidant gene (AOG) expression in hyperthyroid rat liver. Adult male rats were rendered hyperthyroid by administration of 0.0012% l-thyroxine in their drinking water, while vitamin E (200mg/kg body weight) and curcumin (30mg/kg body weight) were supplemented orally for 30 days. l-Thyroxine-induced hyperthyroidism decreased the transcript levels of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx1) and glutathione reductase (GR) in liver. Alleviated message levels of SOD and CAT were noticed following simultaneous administration of curcumin and vitamin E to hyperthyroid rats. Moreover vitamin E or curcumin treatment ameliorated GPx1 and GR mRNA levels. Translated products of AOGs showed differential expression in the liver of hyperthyroid rats, where Cu/Zn SOD (SOD1), CAT and GR were decreased in contrast to Mn SOD (SOD2) and GPx1. Vitamin E administration was able to alleviate SOD1, CAT and GR translated products while only CAT protein was restored to normal level by curcumin. Co-administration of both antioxidants normalized GPx1 protein expression. Interestingly decreased activities of cytosolic CAT and GPx1 were alleviated following vitamin E and curcumin administration. Increased mitochondrial SOD1 and decreased GR activities were also normalized by antioxidant treatment. Above findings suggest that administration of vitamin E and curcumin may alleviate the hepatic AOG expression in hyperthyroid rats.
Smith-Magenis syndrome (SMS) (OMIM No 182290) is a mental retardation syndrome characterised by behavioural abnormalities, including self injurious behaviours, sleep disturbance, and distinct craniofacial and skeletal anomalies. It is usually associated with deletion involving 17p11.2 and is estimated to occur in 1/25,000 births. Heterozygous frameshift mutations leading to protein truncation in retinoic acid induced 1 gene (RAI1) have been identified in individuals with phenotypic features consistent with SMS. RAI1 lies within the 17p11.2 locus, but these patients did not have 17p11.2 deletions.
Analysis of four individuals with features consistent with SMS for variations in RAI1, using a polymerase chain reaction and sequencing strategy. None of these patients carry 17p11.2 deletions.
Two patients had small deletions in RAI1 resulting in frameshift and premature truncation of the protein. Missense mutations were identified in the other two. Orthologs across other genomes showed that these missense mutations occurred in identically conserved regions of the gene. The mutations were de novo, as all parental samples were normal. Several polymorphisms were also observed, including new and reported SNPs. The patients' clinical features differed from those found in 17p11.2 deletion by general absence of short stature and lack of visceral anomalies. All four patients had developmental delay, reduced motor and cognitive skills, craniofacial and behavioural anomalies, and sleep disturbance. Seizures, not previously thought to be associated with RAI1 mutations, were observed in one patient of the cohort.
Haploinsufficiency of the RAI1 gene is associated with most features of SMS, including craniofacial, behavioural, and neurological signs and symptoms.
A 24-year-old woman who met DSM-III criteria for agoraphobia with panic attacks, and who could not tolerate other medications (imipramine and propranolol), was successfully treated with phenelzine sulfate and salt tablets for the accompanying hypotension.
Administration of puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) to Wistar rats induces proteinuria and enhanced mesangial deposition of circulating macromolecules. After proteinuria of longer duration focal and segmental glomerular hyalinosis and sclerosis (FSGHS) develops. The present report analyzes these aspects of PAN nephrosis in PVG/c rats, a strain previously shown to be remarkably resistant to proteinuria and FSGHS with aging or after uninephrectomy. In Wistar rats multiple injections of PAN during five months resulted in sustained severe proteinuria and FSGHS lesions in 8.1 +/- 1.0% (mean +/- 1 SEM) of their glomeruli (N = 6). In PVG/c rats a 1.3-fold higher dose of PAN was needed to induce chronic proteinuria similar to the Wistar rats. After five months 3.3 +/- 0.9% of their glomeruli showed FSGHS (N = 6, P less than 0.01) and the glomerular lesions were considerably less advanced. In acute PAN nephrosis induced by a single intravenous injection of PAN the mesangium of Wistar rats contained large amounts of lipid in contrast to a few small mesangial lipid droplets in nephrotic PVG/c rats. After injection of colloidal carbon in nephrotic PVG/c rats no enhanced carbon accumulation was found in the mesangium when compared to nonproteinuric controls. This result clearly differs from the increased mesangial sequestration of circulating material in nephrotic Wistar, and most other rat strains. The unchanged mesangial traficking of macromolecules in nephrotic PVG/c rats and the low incidence of FSGHS lesions in the presence of sustained glomerular proteinuria may reflect a relative resistance to PAN-induced glomerular damage in this particular rat strain.
TRPA1 agonists cinnamaldehyde (CA) and mustard oil (allyl isothiocyanate=AITC) induce heat hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia in human skin, and sensitize responses of spinal and trigeminal dorsal horn neurons to noxious skin heating in rats. TRPA1 is also implicated in cold nociception. We presently used behavioral methods to investigate if CA affects sensitivity to thermal and mechanical stimuli in rats. Unilateral intraplantar injection of CA (5-20%) induced a significant, concentration-dependent reduction in latency for ipsilateral paw withdrawal from a noxious heat stimulus, peaking (61.7% of pre-injection baseline) by 30 min with partial recovery at 120 min. The highest dose of CA also significantly reduced the contralateral paw withdrawal latency. CA significantly reduced mechanical withdrawal thresholds of the injected paw that peaked sooner (3 min) and was more profound (44.4% of baseline), with no effect contralaterally. Bilateral intraplantar injections of CA resulted in a significant cold hyperalgesia (cold plate test) and a weak enhancement of innocuous cold avoidance (thermal preference test). The data are consistent with roles for TRPA1 in thermal (hot and cold) hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia.
The aim of our study is to evaluate, in youth schizophrenic responders outpatients coming to the SMILE (Service for Monitoring and for early Intervention Looking at the fight against the onset of mental Even psychological suffering of youths of the Psychiatric Department of the University of L'Aquila), the efficacy and tolerability of a low dose of cabergoline, in the treatment of risperidone-induced symptomatic hyperprolactinemia.
Ten schizophrenic young patients (6 male and 4 female; mean age: 23.3 +/- 0.5 years) who were clinical responders to risperidone treatment and showed symptomatic hyperprolactinemia, were treated with low dosage of cabergoline, 0.125 to 0.250 mg/week for 16 weeks. Plasma prolactin level, clinical symptomatology of hyperprolactinemia (UKU) and psychopathology (PANSS) was assessed at baseline and for three times (4, 8 and 16 week) along the follow-up of the study.
After cabergoline treatment, the mean decrease in plasma prolactin levels was statistically significant (p < 0.05) for the global sample of youths with schizophrenia. Nine of these patients showed remission of clinical signs of hyperprolactinemia with normalization of prolactin values. No side effect was observed neither patients' psychopathological worsening.
Our data confirm previous studies results, suggesting that low-dose cabergoline treatment of risperidone-induced symptomatic hyperprolactinemia may be safe and clinically effective in a relevant number of schizophrenic patients. Our sample didn't show any side-effects associated to cabergoline use, neither any cardiopulmonary complications as recently reported in literature data. These therapeutic strategies seem to be not influencing psychopathological outcome and for such reason could be a good strategy in clinical practice for the treatment of youths with schizophrenia especially when the efficacy of risperidone is so good to not indicate its withdrawal.
JCC76 is a novel nimesulide analog that selectively inhibits the human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) overexpressing breast cancer cell proliferation and tumor progression. To support further pharmacological and toxicological studies of JCC76, a novel and rapid method using liquid chromatography and electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS) has been developed and validated for the quantification of the compound in rat plasma. A C₁₈ column was used for chromatographic separation, and the mobile phase was aqueous ammonium formate (pH 3.7; 5 mm)-methanol (1:9, v/v) with an isocratic elution. With a simple liquid-liquid extraction procedure using the mixture of methyl tert-butyl ether-hexane (1:2, v/v), the mean extraction efficiency of JCC76 in rat plasma was determined as 89.5-97.3% and no obvious matrix effect was observed. This method demonstrated a linear calibration range from 0.3 to 100 ng/mL for JCC76 in rat plasma and a small volume of sample consumption. The intra- and inter-assay accuracy and precision were within ±10%. The pharmacokinetics of JCC76 was also profiled using this validated method in rats. In conclusion, this rapid and sensitive method has been proven to effectively quantify JCC76 for pharmacokinetics study.
Carcinogenesis is a multistep sequential process of clonal expansion of initiated cells associated with the accumulation of multiple cancer-specific heritable phenotypes. The acquisition of these heritable cancer-specific alterations may be triggered by mutational and/or non-mutational changes in the genome that affect the regulation of gene expression. Currently, cancer-specific epigenetically mediated changes in gene expression are regarded as driving events in tumorigenesis. In the present study, we investigated the role of gene-specific expression changes in the mechanism of rat hepatocarcinogenesis induced by the complete hepatocarcinogen 2-acetylaminofluorene (2-AAF). The results of the present study demonstrate significant alterations in gene expression, especially of Mat1a and Mthfr genes, during early stages of rat 2-AAF-induced liver carcinogenesis. Both of these genes were downregulated in the livers of 2-AAF-treated male rats. Inhibition of Mat1a expression was associated with an increase in histone H3 lysine 27 trimethylation and a decrease in histone H3 lysine 18 acetylation at the gene promoter/first exon region. Additionally, we demonstrate for the first time a critical contribution of miR-22 and miR-29b microRNAs in the inhibition of Mat1a and Mthfr gene expression during 2-AAF-induced rat hepatocarcinogenesis. The downregulation of Mat1a and Mthfr genes was accompanied by marked functional alterations in one-carbon metabolism. The results of the present study suggest that downregulation of the Mat1a and Mthfr genes may be one of the main driver events that promote liver carcinogenesis by causing a profound accumulation of subsequent epigenetic abnormalities during progression of the carcinogenic process.
DNA methylation regulates gene expression, and hypomethylation is associated with abnormal T-cell function in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). However, little is known about the methylation levels of the interleukin (IL)-4 and -6 promoters in SLE patients.
T cells were isolated from 20 SLE patients and 10 healthy controls, activated in vitro in the presence or absence of 5- azacytidine (5-azaC), and their IL-4 and -6 transcripts were characterized using semiquantitative RT-PCR. Following bisulfate modification of their genomic DNA, the levels of DNA methylation in the IL-4 or -6 promoter were determined by nested PCR and direct sequencing.
The levels of IL-4 and -6 mRNA transcripts were significantly higher in SLE T cells, as compared with that in the controls. Furthermore, the treatment of healthy T cells with 5-azaC demethylated the CpG islands in the IL-4 or -6 promoter and increased IL-4 and -6 mRNA transcriptions. Importantly, the hypomethylation of the CpG islands in the IL-4 and -6 promoters displayed in SLE patients was similar to that of healthy T cells treated with 5-azaC. Finally, the hypomethylation levels of the CpG islands in the IL-4 and -6 promoters in lupus patients were significantly correlated to the IL-4 and -6 expressions.
The hypomethylation of the CpG islands of the IL-4 and -6 promoters accrued in T cells from SLE patients and was associated with the severity of SLE at the clinic.
Anti-oestrogen therapy is effective for control of hormone receptor-positive breast cancers, although the detailed molecular mechanisms, including signal transduction, remain unclear. We demonstrated here that long-term tamoxifen treatment causes G2/M cell cycle arrest through c-jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) activation, which is dependent on phosphorylation of Fas-associated death domain-containing protein (FADD) at 194 serine in an oestrogen (ER) receptor-positive breast cancer cell line, MCF-7. Expression of a dominant negative mutant form of MKK7, a kinase upstream of JNK, or mutant FADD (S194A) in MCF-7 cells suppressed the cytotoxicity of long-term tamoxifen treatment. Of great interest, similar signallings could be evoked by paclitaxel, even in an ER-negative cell line, MDA-MB-231. In addition, immunohistochemical analysis using human breast cancer specimens showed a close correlation between phosphorylated JNK and FADD expression, both being significantly reduced in cases with metastatic potential. We conclude that JNK-mediated phosphorylation of FADD plays an important role in the negative regulation of cell growth and metastasis, independent of the ER status of a breast cancer, so that JNK/FADD signals might be promising targets for cancer therapy.
Our goal was to determine the risk of stroke or non-cerebral embolism associated with paroxysmal compared with sustained atrial fibrillation (AF).
The risk of stroke and non-cerebral embolism and the efficacy of oral anticoagulation (OAC) in paroxysmal AF as compared with sustained AF are not precisely known.
The ACTIVE W (Atrial Fibrillation Clopidogrel Trial With Irbesartan for Prevention of Vascular Events) was a trial comparing OAC to combined antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and clopidogrel for prevention of vascular events in 6,706 AF patients. The incidence of thromboembolic events and major bleeds were compared in patients with paroxysmal AF (n = 1,202) and persistent or permanent AF (n = 5,495).
Patients with paroxysmal AF were younger, had a shorter AF history, more hypertension, and less valvular disease, heart failure, and diabetes mellitus than patients with sustained AF. At baseline, patients with paroxysmal AF had a CHADS2 (cardiac failure, hypertension, age, diabetes, stroke [doubled]) risk score of 1.79 +/- 1.03 compared with 2.04 +/- 1.12 in patients with sustained AF (p < 0.00001). The annualized risk of stroke or non-central nervous system (CNS) systemic embolism was 2.0 in paroxysmal AF compared with 2.2 in sustained AF (relative risk 0.87, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.59 to 1.30, p = 0.496). After adjusting for confounding baseline variables, the relative risk was 0.94 (95% CI 0.63 to 1.40, p = 0.755). The incidence of stroke and non-CNS embolism was lower for patients treated with OAC irrespective of type of AF. There were more bleedings of any type in patients receiving clopidogrel plus aspirin, irrespective of the type of AF.
Patients with paroxysmal AF treated with aspirin plus clopidogrel or OAC have a similar risk for thromboembolic events than patients with sustained AF. This risk can be significantly lowered with OAC. (The ACTIVE W trial; http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ct/show/NCT00243178;NCT00243178).
It is accepted that inorganic arsenic trioxide is an inducer of apoptosis for many types of cancer. Our previous studies have demonstrated that arsenic trioxide induces apoptosis of esophageal carcinoma cells. Administration of arsenic trioxide results in the inhibition of growth and survival of tumor cells. Esophageal carcinoma cells treated with arsenic trioxide for 3 days demonstrated a typical morphological appearance of apoptosis. To further examine molecular mechanism of arsenic trioxide induced apoptosis of esophageal carcinoma cells, we have investigated the early changes of the apoptotic cell induced by arsenic trioxide. Our results indicated that arsenic trioxide induced apoptosis of esophageal carcinoma cells occurs as early as 2 h after treatment. Annexin-v staining has further proved that the phosphatidylserine is exposed at 2 h. The early morphological change of arsenic trioxide treated cells was in the mitochondria. Arsenic trioxide treated cells displayed aggregated mitochondria. It induces accumulation of high electron-density amorphous substances, swollen and disruption of mitochondria in oesophageal carcinoma cells after 2 h treatment. The alteration of mitochondria induced by arsenic trioxide seems to occur before the condensation of chromatin. Thus, our data demonstrated that the primary target of arsenic trioxide induced apoptosis of esophageal carcinoma cells may be the mitochondria. It is possible that arsenic trioxide is a mitochondriotoxic agent.
A case involving spinal epidural hematoma following tissue plasminogen activator and intravenous heparin therapy administered after acute myocardial infarction is reported here. The symptoms of spinal epidural hematoma following thrombolytic therapy are outlined and a recommended course of action for arriving at a definitive diagnosis of suspected epidural hematoma is provided.
This 12-week double-blind trial compared the efficacy and tolerance of naproxen (750 mg/day) with that of aspirin (3.6 gm/day). There was no statistical difference in efficacy between the two trial drugs for any of the objective (e.g., 25-foot walking time) or subjective (e.g., overall severity of symptoms) variables measured. No side effects were experienced by 69% of the naproxen patients and 37.5% of the aspirin patients. There were a statistically greater number and more severe side effects during aspirin therapy than during naproxen therapy (p = 0.002). The results show naproxen to be a potentially useful drug for the treatment of osteoarthritis.
The compound GYKI-41 099, as a beta-adrenergic antagonist, is 3-8 times more potent than propranolol in vitro and in vivo. Its antiarrhythmic effectiveness surpasses that of propranolol and pindolol inhibiting the ouabain arrhythmia in dogs and cats. GYKI-41 900 has a negligible cardiodepressant activity; it is not cardioselective. The compound shows a rapid and long lasting effect. There was a prolonged elimination of the radioactivity after the injection of 14C-41 099 to rats and dogs. The half life of the unlabeled substance in humans was more than 10 hours.
To characterize the nature, time course and dose dependency of zidovudine-related side effects, we undertook a multicenter, prospective, dose-range finding study. Our study group consisted of 74 HIV-positive homosexual men belonging to groups II B, III and IV C2 from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) classification of HIV disease. Following a 3-week observation period, volunteers were treated with zidovudine 600 mg/day for 18 weeks, 900 mg/day for 9 weeks and 1200 mg/day for 9 weeks, followed by a washout period of 6 weeks after which they were re-started on 1200 mg/day or the highest tolerated dose at 8-hourly intervals. Subjects were randomly assigned to 4-hourly or 8-hourly regimens within CDC groups while taking 600 and 1200 mg/day. Clinical and laboratory evaluations were performed at 3-week intervals. Symptomatic adverse effects were present in 96% of subjects, most commonly nausea (64%), fatigue (55%) and headache (49%). These were generally self-limited, reappearing briefly at each dose increment. A decrease in hemoglobin occurred shortly after initiation of therapy. This was not dose dependent and reversed rapidly upon discontinuation of treatment. A red blood cell count decrease, a mean cell volume increase and a granulocyte count decrease developed early in a dose-independent fashion, reverting at least partially during the washout phase. The decrease in reticulocyte count was dose related between 600 and 900 mg/day with no further change when the dose was escalated to 1200 mg/day. Bone marrow changes occurred rapidly as demonstrated by megaloblastosis in 95% of 65 specimens at week 18.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The residual effects of cocaine during adolescence on memory in male young adult rats were studied. Animals were injected with 20 mg/kg cocaine on postnatal Days 28 through 35, whereas lab-chow (LC) and pair-fed (PF) control subjects received saline. Assessment of spatial working and long-term memory in the Morris water maze, and 72-h retention of an inhibitory avoidance task was conducted at about 5 and 9 weeks postcocaine, respectively. Relative to PF control subjects, cocaine-treated subjects showed impairments in the water maze when required to swim to the hidden platform placed in a quadrant diagonal from the location of its original location (i.e., on reversal learning). These same drug-treated animals, however, exhibited enhanced inhibitory avoidance retention relative to both control groups. These seemingly disparate findings are seen as being consistent with previous data showing that cocaine during adolescence residually impairs spatial memory and leads to enhanced fear responses. Moreover, when taken with previous findings from our laboratory, the present water maze data indicate that the deleterious effects of cocaine, when administered during adolescence, is delayed until 5 weeks after initiation of abstinence. It is speculated that alterations to limbic circuitry, especially those associated with the amygdala, account for the behavioral results observed.
A patient with sinuatrial disease and implanted pacemaker was treated with amiodarone (maximum dose 1000 mg, maintenance dose 800 mg daily) for 10 months, for control of supraventricular tachyarrhythmias. He developed pneumonitis, pleural and pericardial effusions, and a predominantly proximal motor neuropathy. Immediate but gradual improvement followed withdrawal of amiodarone and treatment with prednisolone. Review of this and previously reported cases indicates the need for early diagnosis of amiodarone pneumonitis, immediate withdrawal of amiodarone, and prompt but continued steroid therapy to ensure full recovery.
This study was designed to verify the influence of MPEP (2-methyl-6-phenylethynyl pyridine hydrochloride), an antagonist of metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGluR5), in seizures and status epilepticus (SE) induced by pilocarpine in young rats. In order to investigate the protective effect of MPEP on pilocarpine-induced seizures, young male rats (21-day-old) were pretreated by intraperitoneal route (i.p.) with MPEP (1, 5 and 15 mg/kg) before of pilocarpine administration (400 mg/kg, i.p.). The animals were observed for 1 h after injection of pilocarpine (except pilocarpine group) to determine: number of peripheral cholinergic signs, tremors, stereotyped movements, seizures, SE, latency to the first seizure and number of deaths. Pretreatment with MPEP, at all doses, delayed the onset for the first seizure episode induced by pilocarpine in rats. MPEP abolished the mortality rate caused by administration of pilocarpine in rats. Pretreatment with MPEP (5 and 15 mg/kg) protected against the levels of RS (reactive species), CAT (catalase) and glutathione S-transferase (GST) activities in brain of rats altered by pilocarpine administration. MPEP, at all doses, protected acetylcholinsterase (AChE) activity inhibited by pilocarpine administration in rats. The results suggest that anticonvulsant action of MPEP can be attributed to its mGlu5 receptor antagonism. Therefore, blockade of mGlu5 receptors might represent a novel target for the treatment of seizures in young rats.
[2,3-dioxo-7-(1H-imidazol-1-yl)-6-nitro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-1-quinoxalinyl]-acetic acid monohydrate (YM872 or zonampanel), an AMPA receptor antagonist, is in clinical development for acute ischemic cerebral infarction. Stroke patients are prone to have subsequent intracerebral hemorrhages. In order to predict potential adverse effects, YM872 was tested in a rat model with collagenase-induced intracerebral hemorrhage. The morphologically determined hematoma volumes after 24 h were compared between animal groups intravenously infused with 3600 U/kg/h heparin for 30 min, or with 20 or 40 mg/kg/h of YM872, or placebo for 4 h. Heparin enlarged hematoma volume, but neither dose of YM872 affected hematoma size. In a separate study, neurological deficits were scored at various days after intracerebral hemorrhage induction in animals with intravenous infusion for 24 h of 10 or 20 mg/kg/h YM872, or saline. The YM872 groups scored significantly better than the saline group at 14 days. These data suggest that YM872 does not exacerbate intracerebral hemorrhage and might accelerate recovery.
We have recently found that the frequency of OATP-C*15 is significantly higher in patients who experienced myopathy after receiving pravastatin or atorvastatin than in patients without myopathy. However, there were two patients who experienced pravastatin-induced myopathy despite the fact that they did not possess OATP-C*15 or other known mutations of OATP-C that have been reported to decrease the function of OATP-C. In this study, we sequenced all of the exons and exon-intron junctions of OATP-C of the two patients and found a novel mutation in exon 12 of OATP-C in one of the patients. In this mutation (1628T>G), there is a substitution of Leu to Trp at position 543 in transmembrane-spanning domain 10 of OATP-C. However, the frequency of this mutation in the Japanese population appears to be very low (<1%).
Aspirin caused epithelial hyperplasia, papillary necrosis with calcification and cortical changes in the rat kidney. After unilateral nephrectomy the lesions appeared more rapidly and were more severe. In the electron microscope the earliest changes were observed in the interstitial cells.
