We investigated whether bee venom and melittin, a major component of bee venom, inhibit cell growth through enhancement of death receptor expressions in the human ovarian cancer cells, SKOV3 and PA-1. Bee venom (1-5 μg/ml) and melittin (0.5-2 μg/ml) inhibited the growth of SKOV3 and PA-1 ovarian cancer cells by the induction of apoptotic cell death in a dose dependent manner. Consistent with apoptotic cell death, expression of death receptor (DR) 3 and DR6 was increased in both cancer cells, but expression of DR4 was increased only in PA-1 cells. Expression of DR downstream pro-apoptotic proteins including caspase-3, 8, and Bax was concomitantly increased, but the phosphorylation of JAK2 and STAT3 and the expression of Bcl-2 were inhibited by treatment with bee venom and melittin in SKOV3 and PA-1 cells. Expression of cleaved caspase-3 was increased in SKOV3, but cleaved caspase-8 was increased in PA-1 cells. Moreover, deletion of DR3, DR4, and DR6 by small interfering RNA significantly reversed bee venom and melittin-induced cell growth inhibitory effect as well as down regulation of STAT3 by bee venom and melittin in SKOV3 and PA-1 ovarian cancer cell. These results suggest that bee venom and melittin induce apoptotic cell death in ovarian cancer cells through enhancement of DR3, DR4, and DR6 expression and inhibition of STAT3 pathway.
Plasma serotonin levels are markedly elevated in patients with primary pulmonary hypertension (PPH) and platelet levels of serotonin are low. Furthermore, plasma serotonin levels remain elevated after bilateral lung transplantation, in the absence of any pulmonary hypertension. Dexfenfluramine can cause the anorexigen-induced form of PPH that is clinically and histologically indistinguishable from PPH. We find that dexfenfluramine releases serotonin from platelets and inhibits its reuptake. These observations suggest that serotonin might be involved in, or be a marker for, the mechanism responsible for both forms of PPH. Dexfenfluramine causes inhibition of voltage-sensitive potassium (Kv) channels, membrane depolarization, and calcium entry in pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells and vasoconstriction in isolated perfused rat lungs. We have recently found that dexfenfluramine also inhibits Kv channels in megakaryocytes, the stem cell for platelets. In smooth muscle cells, taken from the pulmonary arteries of PPH patients, Kv channels appear to be dysfunctional. The underlying defect in PPH is likely to be an abnormality of one or more Kv channels in both pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells and platelets. Relatively few patients exposed to dexfenfluramine develop PPH. The factors responsible for susceptibility might be a difference in expression of potassium channels and/or a decrease in the endogenous production of nitric oxide.
Fenfluramine derivatives (Fds) are a well-established risk factor for primary pulmonary hypertension (PPH). We compared 62 Fd-PPH patients (61 women) evaluated in our center between 1986 and 1997 with 125 sex-matched PPH patients nonexposed to Fd referred during the same period (control PPH). In the Fd-PPH group, 33 patients (53%) used dexfenfluramine alone, 7 patients (11%) used fenfluramine alone, and 5 patients (8%) used both drugs. In 17 cases (27%), Fd use was associated with that of amphetamines. Most of the exposed patients used Fd for at least 3 months (81%). The interval between the onset of dyspnea and that of drug intake was 49+/-68 months (27 days to 23 years). At the time of diagnosis, Fd-PPH and control PPH were similar in terms of New York Heart Association functional class and symptoms. The two groups significantly differed only in terms of age (50+/-12 vs 40+/-14 years) and body mass index (28+/-6 vs 23+/-4). The two groups displayed similar severe baseline hemodynamics (total pulmonary vascular resistance: 32+/-12 vs 31+/-12 IU/m2), but the percentage of responders to acute vasodilator testing was higher in control PPH (27% vs 10%, p < 0.01). As a result, more patients were treated with oral vasodilators in the control PPH group (36% vs 16%, p < 0.01) and long-term epoprostenol infusion was more frequently used in the Fd-PPH group (52% vs 31%, p < 0.01). Overall survival was similar in the two groups with a 3-year survival rate of 50%.
These experiments compared the cardiovascular effects and the alterations in orofacial blood flow resulting from hypotension induced with sodium nitroprusside and adenosine triphosphate infusions in 30 male rats. The authors found that sodium nitroprusside did not significantly change heart rate or cardiac output, while adenosine triphosphate caused a significant decrease in heart rate associated with a small increase in cardiac output. Both hypotensive agents produced similar profound decreases in total peripheral resistance. Blood flows to orofacial structures were qualitatively similar with both agents. Both adenosine triphosphate and sodium nitroprusside caused decreased flows to the maxilla and mandible. Sodium nitroprusside increased flows to masseter and suprahyoid muscles. Adenosine triphosphate caused increased flows to suprahyoid muscles but masseter muscle flows were not significantly changed. Tongue flows responded similarly to both agents, initially decreasing, then returning to normotensive levels. Finally, sodium nitroprusside-induced hypotension was associated with the development of tachyphylaxis in some animals, whereas no similar problem was observed with use of adenosine triphosphate. The demonstration of reduced blood flows to orofacial bony structures and the absence of resistance or tachyphylaxis during adenosine triphosphate-induced hypotension support its usefulness as a hypotensive agent during orthognathic and other surgery.
The prophylactic antiemetic efficacy of intravenous (i.v.) ondansetron, droperidol, perphenazine, and metoclopramide was evaluated in a prospective, double-blind study of 360 ASA physical status I-III patients undergoing total abdominal hysterectomy (TAH). Subjects were randomized to receive i.v., one of ondansetron 4 mg, droperidol 1.25 mg, perphenazine 5 mg, metoclopramide 10 mg, or placebo prior to induction of anesthesia. Hypotension immediately after administration of metoclopramide was observed in two patients and four patients given ondansetron developed profound systolic hypotension at induction of anesthesia. Twenty-two percent of patients receiving droperidol became sedated. Postoperatively, patients developing severe nausea, retching, or vomiting, defined as severe emetic sequelae (SES), were deemed to have failed antiemetic prophylaxis and received antiemetic rescue. A significantly larger number of patients who received i.v. ondansetron (63%), droperidol (76%), and perphenazine (70%) were free of SES when compared to placebo (43%); P < 0.05. Metoclopramide was ineffective. Although ondansetron, droperidol, and perphenazine were effective in providing antiemetic prophylaxis, only i.v. perphenazine was free of side effects. Hence, we conclude that perphenazine is the best choice for antiemetic prophylaxis after TAH.
We describe a preterm infant with marked motor automatism and skin manifestations after being exposed to fluoxetine in utero. The fluoxetine level drawn at 96 hours of age was 92 ng/ml, which was in adult therapeutic range. The neurologic symptoms resolved by 7 days and follow-up at 4 months revealed normal neurodevelopmental examination.
Sulfasalazine (SAZ) is a widely used drug in inflammatory bowel disease patients but its mechanism of action is incompletely understood. The objective of our study was to further characterize SAZ mechanism by studying its effect on the colonic transcriptome in a suitable preclinical model of inflammatory bowel disease.
The trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid model of colitis in rats was used. The effect of SAZ on mRNA expression was assessed with Affymetrix Rat Expression 230 2.0 arrays used in triplicate (sextuplicate for controls), validated in separate samples with quantitative reverse-time PCR analysis. Some nongenomic experiments were also carried out.
SAZ (500 mg/kg) had a marked anti-inflammatory effect as expected, which was correlated with a dramatic impact on colonic gene expression. In addition to immune/inflammatory genes, SAZ responsive genes were involved in distinct metabolic and signaling pathways. The effect of sulfasalazine was generally of normalization of colitis-modulated genes to control levels, with very few exceptions. Postgenomic validation showed an excellent correlation with microarray data and seemed to be slightly more sensitive. SAZ generally modulated the expression of nuclear factor-kappaB-driven genes. SAZ was also shown to inhibit IkappaB-alpha phosphorylation in rat primary splenocytes and in HT29 and IEC18 cells. In contrast, SAZ had only a modest effect on peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-gamma-regulated genes and it was confirmed to induce PPAR-gamma in enterocytes but not splenocytes.
Mechanistically, our data are consistent primarily with nuclear factor-kappaB inhibition, and there is little evidence of a prominent role of activation of PPAR-gamma receptors or antioxidative actions.
Stressful life events and chronic stress are implicated in the development of depressive disorder in humans. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) and galanin have been shown to modulate the stress response, and exert antidepressant-like effects in rodents. To further investigate these neuropeptides in depression-like behaviour, NPY and galanin gene expression was studied in brains of mice subjected to chronic restraint stress (CRS) and concomitant treatment with the antidepressant fluoxetine (FLX). CRS caused a significant increase in depression-like behaviour that was associated with increased NPY mRNA levels in the medial amygdala. Concomitant FLX treatment reverted depression-like effects of CRS and led to significant increases in levels of NPY and galanin mRNA in the dentate gyrus, amygdala, and piriform cortex. These findings suggest that effects on NPY and galanin gene expression could play a role in the antidepressant effects of FLX.
The present study examined the associations between drinking water and urinary arsenic levels and skin lesions among 167 residents of three contiguous villages in Bangladesh. Thirty-six (21.6%) had skin lesions (melanosis, hyperkeratosis, or both), of which 13 (36.1%) occurred in subjects who were currently drinking water containing concentrations of arsenic < 50 micrograms/L. The risk for skin lesions in relation to the exposure estimates based on urinary arsenic was elevated more than 3-fold, with the odds ratios for the highest versus the lowest quartiles being 3.6 (95% confidence interval, 1.2 to 12.1) for urinary total arsenic and 3.2 (95% confidence interval, 1.1 to 10.0) for urinary creatinine-adjusted total arsenic. The risks for skin lesions in relation to the exposure estimates based on arsenic in drinking water were less strongly elevated, with the odds ratios for the highest versus the lowest quartiles of exposure being 1.7 (95% confidence interval, 0.6 to 5.1) for drinking-water arsenic and 2.3 for cumulative arsenic index. The study suggests that arsenic exposure is associated with skin lesions in the Bangladesh population and that urinary arsenic may be a stronger predictor of skin lesions than arsenic in drinking water in this population.
To compare baseline characteristics, complications, and treatment-specific outcomes of women and men with acute myocardial infarction treated with thrombolytic therapy.
Randomized controlled trial.
A total of 10315 women and 30706 men with acute myocardial infarction treated in 1081 hospitals in 15 countries as part of the Global Utilization of Streptokinase and Tissue Plasminogen Activator for Occluded Coronary Arteries (GUSTO-I).
One of four thrombolytic regimens: (1) streptokinase with subcutaneous heparin; (2) streptokinase with intravenous heparin; (3) streptokinase plus alteplase (tissue-type plasminogen activator) with intravenous heparin; or (4) accelerated alteplase with intravenous heparin.
Mortality, stroke, and nonfatal complications during 30-day follow-up.
Women were on average 7 years older than men and delayed 18 minutes (median) longer after symptom onset before presenting to the hospital. After adjustment for age, women more often had a history of diabetes, hypertension, and smoking than men. Time to treatment was significantly longer in women (1.2 vs 1.0 hours; P<.001). Women had more nonfatal complications after treatment, including shock (9% vs 5%; P<.001), congestive heart failure (22% vs 14%; P<.001), serious bleeding (15% vs 7%; P<.001), and reinfarction (5.1% vs 3.6%; P<.001). Women had twice as many total strokes as men (2.1% vs 1.2%; P<.001), secondary to their older age at presentation. The unadjusted mortality rate was twice as high in women as men (11.3% vs 5.5%; P<.001); the relative risk (RR) of death was greater among women than men after adjustment for differences in baseline characteristics (RR=1.15; 95% confidence interval, 1.0 to 1.31). Although women and men underwent angiography at similar rates, there were small but significant differences in their rates of revascularization procedures (angioplasty: 35% of women and 32% of men; bypass surgery: 7% of women and 9% of men; P<.001 for both). The higher rate of stroke in women after treatment with alteplase (2.0% vs 1.9% with streptokinase and intravenous heparin) was offset by a greater relative reduction in mortality (10.3% vs 11.1%).
Women who received thrombolytic therapy for treatment of acute myocardial infarction were at greater risk for both fatal and nonfatal complications than men.
Anti-proteases, a new class of anti-HIV drugs used in combination with reverse transcriptase inhibitors have led to spectacular improvement in the patients' clinical status. Since April 1996, indinavir is the most widely prescribed anti-protease in France.
From July 1996 to July 1997, we analyzed 46 spontaneously expulsed stones in 45 HIV+ patients (35 men and 10 women; age range 25 to 64 years) given indinavir in combination with other drugs since one week to ten months. Only six patients were known to have a past history of renal lithiasis.
Forty-one calculi contained indinavir monohydrate (INDM) identified by mass spectrometry and infrared spectrophotometry. INDM was the only component excepting proteins in 39/45 calculi. In the 12 others, other compounds were also identified. Among the 114 urine samples collected 2 to 3 hours after an 800 mg dose of indinavir, 38 (33%) monohydrate indinavir crystals, identified by infrared microscopy. Mean urinary pH was significantly higher than in samples without INDM crystals (6.53 +/- 0.68 versus 5.96 +/- 0.71, p < 0.001).
Two measures could possibly reduce the risk of crystalization: administration of urine acidifiers and increased fluid intake to raise diuresis. Alkalinisation is not indicated. Long-term increased fluid intake should be preferred over acidification which could be reserved solely for the treatment of drug-induced lithiasis.
Rats receiving a single oral dose of 286.8 mumol/kg tris(2,3-dibromopropyl)phosphate (Tris-BP) showed pyknosis of the renal tubular epithelial cells on Day 1, necrosis on Day 2, regeneration from Day 3 and large nuclei formation from Day 4. 13C-NMR spectra were applied to clarify changes of the renal low-molecular-weight components in the kidney injured by Tris-BP, and sialic acid and inositol were found as the desired marker components. The lesions produced by Tris-BP were characterized by changes in the renal components and enzyme activities. Increases in sialic acid content of the kidney were observed both on Day 1, suggesting destruction of the epithelial cell membrane, and on Day 5, suggesting regeneration accompanied by an increase of inositol content on Days 7 and 10. Renal activity of cytoplasmic enzyme, alanine aminopeptidase, was decreased on Days 1 and 5 and elevated on Days 7 and 10. Lactate dehydrogenase activity showed a tendency to decrease in the kidneys on Day 1 and to increase significantly on Days 2, 5, 6 and 7.
Chronic caffeine consumption has been inversely associated with the risk of developing Parkinson's disease. Here we assessed whether chronic caffeine treatment increases the resistance of male Wistar rats to haloperidol (1mg/kg, s.c.)-induced catalepsy, measured in the bar test at 15 min intervals during 3h. Caffeine (5mg/kg/day) was delivered for 6 months via drinking water. Control rats received only tap water. Treatments began when animals were 3-4 months old. In order to unveil long-lasting catalepsy refractoriness not attributable to the presence of caffeine in the brains of rats, they were evaluated from day 18 to day 27 after caffeine withdrawal, a time that is far in excess for the full excretion of a caffeine dose in this species. The average cataleptic immobility measured in caffeine-treated rats (n=23) was 1148+/-140 s, a value 34+/-8% lower than that recorded in control animals (n=20), whose mean immobility was 1736+/-137 s (P=0.0026, t-test). The percentage of catalepsy reduction measured in caffeine-treated rats evaluated on days 18-20 after caffeine discontinuation (-32+/-13%, n=12, P<0.05) was comparable to the catalepsy decrease recorded in those animals tested on days 21-27 (-36+/-10%, n=11, P<0.02), a finding compatible with the notion that the effect was indeed mediated by enduring changes of brain functioning and not by the physical presence of caffeine or its metabolites. Caffeine-treated rats also had higher catalepsy latency scores compared with control rats (P<0.01, U-test). The present findings show that chronic consumption of caffeine produces perdurable resistance to catalepsy induced by dopamine receptor blockade, possibly through enhancement of dopamine transmission, giving further support to the epidemiological results indicating that prolonged caffeine consumption affords neuroprotection against Parkinson's disease.
Recent clinical studies have shown that the insular cortex (IC) is involved in temporal lobe epilepsy and suggested that the IC mediates spreading of epileptic activity from the temporal lobe, including the hippocampus and amygdala, to the frontal cortex. However, little is known about anatomical and physiological features of the IC in models of temporal lobe epilepsy. The present study evaluated the distribution pattern of GABAergic interneurons, especially parvalbumin (PV)- and somatostatin (SS)-immunopositive neurons, and excitatory propagation pattern in the IC of rats 4-7 days and 2 months after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (4-7 d and 2 m post-SE rats, respectively). The number of PV-immunopositive neuron profiles in the agranular IC (AI) significantly decreased by 24.6% and 41.5% in 7 d and 2 m post-SE rats, respectively. The dysgranular and granular IC (DI+GI) exhibited only 5.2% loss of PV-immunopositive neurons in 7 d post-SE rats, while 2 m post-SE rats showed 30.4% loss of PV-immunopositive neurons. There was no significant change of the SS-immunopositive neuron profile numbers in the AI and DI+GI of 7 d and 2 m post-SE rats. The regions with decreased numbers of PV-immunopositive neuron profiles overlapped with those where many degenerating cells were detected by Fluoro-Jade B staining. The area of excitatory propagation responding to electrical stimulation of the caudal AI was expanded in 4-7 d post-SE rats, and excitation frequently propagated to the frontal cortex including the motor cortex. Optical signals in the AI of 4-7 d post-SE rats were larger in amplitude than those of controls. In contrast to the AI, the DI of 4-7 d post-SE rats showed similar excitatory propagation pattern and amplitude to that of controls. These results suggest that the region-specific loss of PV-immunopositive neurons occurred in the AI 4-7 d after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus, which may play an important role in facilitating excitatory propagation in the IC.
Mandibuloacral dysplasia (MAD) is a phenotypically heterogeneous, rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by mandibular and clavicular hypoplasia, acroosteolysis, delayed closure of cranial sutures, joint contractures, and mottled cutaneous pigmentation. Patients with MAD develop two patterns of lipodystrophy: type A pattern, with loss of sc fat from the extremities and normal or slight excess in the neck and truncal regions; and type B pattern, with a more generalized loss of sc fat involving the face, trunk, and extremities. Recently, affected patients from five consanguineous Italian pedigrees with partial lipodystrophy (type A) were reported to have a homozygous R527H mutation in LMNA (lamin A/C) gene. We carried out mutational analysis of LMNA in affected patients from six pedigrees. Affected patients from two pedigrees with type A lipodystrophy had the homozygous R527H mutation in LMNA. The other four affected subjects who had type B lipodystrophy did not have any mutation in the exons and splice site junctions of LMNA; RNA extracted from lymphoblasts of two of these patients also revealed normal sequence. In these four subjects, sequencing of other known genes implicated in lipodystrophies, i.e. AGPAT2, Seipin, and PPARG also revealed no substantial alterations. We conclude that MAD is a genetically and phenotypically heterogeneous disorder. Besides LMNA gene, other as yet unmapped loci could be linked to MAD.
Alpha-2 adrenoceptor agonists (lofexidine, clonidine) are used to alleviate short-term opioid withdrawal in humans. In rats, acute injections of these agents attenuate stress-induced reinstatement of heroin and cocaine seeking at time points that are beyond the acute drug withdrawal phase. Here, we studied whether exposure to lofexidine would attenuate reinstatement of a heroin-cocaine mixture (speedball) seeking induced by exposure to stress or to drug-associated cues. Rats were trained to lever press for speedball for 10 days, and the drug-reinforced behavior was then extinguished for 11 days in the presence (Experiment 1) or the absence (Experiment 2) of the drug cues. Subsequently, rats were tested for reinstatement of drug seeking after exposure to intermittent footshock stress (5-15 min; Experiment 1) or the drug cues (Experiment 2). Starting on day 7 of training, rats received daily injections of saline or lofexidine (0.1 or 0.2 mg/kg). Repeated lofexidine treatment significantly attenuated footshock-induced reinstatement, but did not alter drug cues-induced reinstatement of speedball seeking. In addition, lofexidine did not have a consistent effect on speedball self-administration and extinction behavior. Results extend previous reports with acute drug injections, indicating that lofexidine maintains its effect on stress-induced reinstatement after repeated treatment. The present data also suggest that the neurochemical events underlying stress- and drug cues-induced relapse are not identical.
Nitric oxide-releasing aspirin (NO-ASA) has been shown to inhibit cyclo-oxygenase and prostaglandin generation without causing mucosal damage, but the role of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and cytokines in the action of ASA and NO-ASA against acute gastric damage has been little studied.
We compared the effect of NO-ASA and ASA on gastric lesions provoked by water-immersion and restraint stress (WRS), ischemia-reperfusion, and 100% ethanol. We determined the number and area of gastric lesions, gastric blood flow (GBF), plasma concentration of proinflammatory cytokines IL-1beta and TNFalpha, expression of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx), ROS generation, and the malondialdehyde (MDA) concentration as an index of lipid peroxidation.
Pretreatment with NO-ASA attenuated dose-dependently gastric erosions provoked by WRS, ischemia-reperfusion, and ethanol. In contrast, ASA aggravated significantly WRS-induced lesions, and this was accompanied by a fall in the GBF, suppression of prostaglandin E(2) generation, and significant rise in ROS chemiluminescence and in plasma TNFalpha and IL-1beta levels. ASA also enhanced significantly the mucosal MDA content and downregulated SOD and GPx mRNA, and these effects were markedly reduced by NO-ASA.
Coupling of NO to ASA attenuates stress, ischemia-reperfusion, and ethanol-induced damage due to mucosal hyperemia mediated by NO, which compensates for prostaglandin deficiency induced by ASA. ASA aggravates WRS damage via enhancement of ROS and cytokine generation and suppression of SOD and GPx, and these effects are counteracted by NO released from NO-ASA.
We investigated the activity of telavancin, a novel lipoglycopeptide, alone and combined with gentamicin or rifampin (rifampicin) against strains of Staphylococcus aureus with various vancomycin susceptibilities. Strains tested included methicillin (meticillin)-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) 494, methicillin-sensitive S. aureus (MSSA) 1199, heteroresistant glycopeptide-intermediate S. aureus (hGISA) 1629, which was confirmed by a population analysis profile, and glycopeptide-intermediate S. aureus (GISA) NJ 992. Regimens of 10 mg/kg telavancin daily and 1 g vancomycin every 12 h were investigated alone and combined with 5 mg/kg gentamicin daily or 300 mg rifampin every 8 h in an in vitro model with simulated endocardial vegetations over 96 h. Telavancin demonstrated significantly greater killing than did vancomycin (P < 0.01) for all isolates except MRSA 494 (P = 0.07). Telavancin absolute reductions, in log(10) CFU/g, at 96 h were 2.8 +/- 0.5 for MRSA 494, 2.8 +/- 0.3 for MSSA 1199, 4.2 +/- 0.2 for hGISA 1629, and 4.1 +/- 0.3 for GISA NJ 992. Combinations of telavancin with gentamicin significantly enhanced killing compared to telavancin alone against all isolates (P < 0.001) except MRSA 494 (P = 0.176). This enhancement was most evident against hGISA 1629, where killing to the level of detection (2 log(10) CFU/g) was achieved at 48 h (P < 0.001). The addition of rifampin to telavancin resulted in significant (P < 0.001) enhancement of killing against only MSSA 1199. No changes in telavancin susceptibilities were observed. These results suggest that telavancin may have therapeutic potential, especially against strains with reduced susceptibility to vancomycin. Combination therapy, particularly with gentamicin, may improve bacterial killing against certain strains.
Methamphetamine (MET) is a growing public health concern and is prevalent in, although not limited to, the youth. The drug's association with myocardial infarction is well described and is attributed to accelerated atherosclerosis, hypercoagulable state, and macrovascular epicardial coronary spasm. However, global slow-flow of all coronary systems in the absence of significant stenoses has not been previously reported. We hereby present a young patient who likely experienced severe, global microvascular coronary spasm unrelieved by intracoronary vasodilator therapy, resulting in acute myocardial infarction. The pharmacology of MET, its postulated mechanism in acute coronary syndromes, as well as the pathophysiology and treatments of microvascular coronary spasm are briefly reviewed. Readers are recommended to be vigilant of potential illicit drug use in patients with atypical presentations of acute coronary syndromes.
The conditioning of cocaine's pharmacological actions with environmental stimuli is thought to be a critical factor in long-lasting relapse risk associated with cocaine addiction. To study the significance of environmental stimuli in enduring vulnerability to relapse, the resistance to extinction of drug-seeking behavior elicited by a cocaine-related stimulus was examined. Male Wistar rats were trained to associate discriminative stimuli (S(D)) with the availability of intravenous cocaine (S(+)) vs. the availability of non-rewarding (S(-)) saline solution, and then placed on extinction conditions during which intravenous solutions and S(D) were withheld. The rats were then presented with the S(+) or S(-) alone in 60-min reinstatement sessions conducted at 3-day intervals. To examine the long-term persistence of the motivating effects of the cocaine S(+), a subgroup of rats was re-tested following an additional three months of abstinence during which time the rats remained confined to their home cages. Re-exposure to the cocaine S(+) selectively elicited robust responding at the previously active lever. The efficacy and selectivity of this stimulus to elicit responding remained unaltered throughout a 34-day phase of repeated testing as well as following the additional extended abstinence period. In pharmacological tests, conducted in a separate group of rats, the dopamine (DA) D(1) antagonist SCH 39166 (10 microg/kg), the D(2/3) antagonist nafadotride (1 mg/kg), and the D(2/3) agonist PD 128907 (0.3 mg/kg) suppressed the cue-induced response reinstatement while the D(1) agonist SKF 81297 (1.0 mg/kg) produced a variable behavioral profile attenuating cue-induced responding in some rats while exacerbating this behavior in others. The results suggest that the motivating effects of cocaine-related stimuli are highly resistant to extinction. The undiminished efficacy of the cocaine S(+) to induce drug-seeking behavior both with repeated testing and following long-term abstinence parallels the long-lasting nature of conditioned cue reactivity and cue-induced cocaine craving in humans, and confirms a significant role of learning factors in long-lasting vulnerability to relapse associated with cocaine addiction. Finally, the results support a role of DA neurotransmission in cue-induced cocaine-seeking behavior.
The purpose of the present experiment was to investigate the involvement of NMDA and AMPA/KA receptors in the nucleus accumbens core and shell in the control over cocaine-seeking behavior by drug-associated cues. Rats were trained under a second-order schedule of reinforcement for cocaine with five infusions of cocaine being available in each daily session. The NMDA receptor antagonist AP-5 and the AMPA/KA receptor antagonist LY293558 were infused directly into the core or shell. LY293558 infused into the core produced a dose-dependent decrease in responding during both the first, cocaine-unaffected interval and also after cocaine had been self-administered in subsequent intervals. By contrast, AP-5 infused into the core had no effect on responding. Infusion of AP-5 into the shell had the limited effect of decreasing responding during the second interval only. There were no effects of LY293558 infused into the shell. These results indicate that NMDA and AMPA receptor-mediated glutamate transmission in the core and shell are dissociably involved in cocaine-seeking behavior controlled in part by drug-associated cues.
The cytolytic action of palytoxin (PlTX) was recognized long ago, but its features have remained largely undetermined. We used biochemical, morphological, physiological, and physical tools, to study the cytolytic response in MCF-7 cells, as our model system. Cytolysis represented a stereotyped response induced by the addition of isotonic phosphate buffer (PBS) to cells that had been exposed to PlTX, after toxin removal and under optimal and suboptimal experimental conditions. Cytolysis was sensitive to osmolytes present during cell exposure to PlTX but not in the course of the lytic phase. Fluorescence microscopy showed that PlTX caused cell rounding and rearrangement of the actin cytoskeleton. Atomic force microscopy (AFM) was used to monitor PlTX effects in real time, and we found that morphological and mechanical properties of MCF-7 cells did not change during toxin exposure, but increased cell height and decreased stiffness at its surface were observed when PBS was added to PlTX-treated cells. The presence of an osmolyte during PlTX treatment prevented the detection of changes in morphological and mechanical properties caused by PBS addition to toxin-treated cells, as detected by AFM. By patch-clamp technique, we confirmed that PlTX action involved the transformation of the Na(+),K(+)-ATPase into a channel and found that cell membrane capacitance was not changed by PlTX, indicating that the membrane surface area was not greatly affected in our model system. Overall, our findings show that the cytolytic response triggered by PlTX in MCF-7 cells includes a first phase, which is toxin-dependent and osmolyte-sensitive, priming cells to lytic events taking place in a separate phase, which does not require the presence of the toxin and is osmolyte-insensitive but is accompanied by marked reorganization of actin-based cytoskeleton and altered mechanical properties at the cell's surface. A model of the two-step process of PlTX-induced cytolysis is presented.
We report here a case of vasospastic angina following the administration of Carboplatin (CBDCA) and Etoposide (VP-16) in a patient with small cell lung carcinoma. Although these drugs are commonly used to treat small cell lung carcinoma, there has been no previous report of vasospastic angina in a patient without a history of heart disease. Therefore, we should be aware of the possibility that vasospastic angina may develop even in a patient without any history of heart disease. While calcium antagonist and isosorbide dinitrate are generally helpful for preventing vasospastic angina, these drugs could not completely suppress vasospastic angina in this case.
A report is given on an 83-year-old female who acquired central vein thrombosis in her seeing eye one day after having started topical medication with dipivalyl epinephrine for advanced glaucoma discovered in the other eye. From present knowledge about the effects of adrenergic eye drops on ocular blood circulation, it is difficult to suggest an association between the two events, which may be coincidental only.
The antihypertensive effects of methyldopa and clonidine result from agonist activity at alpha adrenoceptor sites within the brain. Methyldopa is converted enzymatically to alpha-methylnoradrenaline in noradrenergic neurones in rat brain and replaces the natural transmitter, noradrenaline. Radioligand receptor studies show that alpha-methylnoradrenaline differs from noradrenaline in being much more selective (70 times) for the alpha 2 subclass of adrenoceptors than noradrenaline and it is likely that the antihypertensive action of methyldopa results from selective activation of alpha 2 adrenoceptors by alpha-methylnoradrenaline in the nucleus tractus solitarius and the anterior hypothalamus. Radioligand studies also show that clonidine is a selective alpha 2 adrenoceptor agonist although it probably interacts with alpha 1 adrenoceptors at higher concentrations. With regard to a withdrawal syndrome after cessation of clonidine treatment, the cardiovascular and behavioural components can now be characterised in a rat model. The components include increases in basal blood pressure and heart rate, as well as increases in cardiovascular reactivity and also increases in rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, body shakes and tremor which is reminiscent of an opiate withdrawal syndrome. Increased central noradrenergic activity is involved in this syndrome and alpha 1 and alpha 2 adrenoceptors mediate opposing effects on the REM sleep rebound component.
