Adinazolam, which is a 1-dimethylaminomethyl triazolobenzodiazepine, is an effective anxiolytic agent as defined by suppression of stress-induced increases in plasma corticosteroids. Adinazolam is also an effective antagonist of pentylenetetrazole. The 1-dimethylaminoethyl triazolo analog, U-43,465F, was inactive in the stressed rat test and only weakly active against pentylenetetrazole. Adinazolam and U-43,465F have been previously shown to have antidepressant activity in classical screening tests. They have also been found to potentiate the effect of norepinephrine and this is consistent with the activity of the known antidepressants; U-43,465F was found to be equieffective to imipramine in this test. Adinazolam was also effective; however, the magnitude of the potentiation was not as great. The uptake of norepinephrine was only weakly affected by either compound. Potentiation or uptake of serotonin were not significantly-altered pharmacological factors. Receptor binding studies were negative except at the benzodiazepine receptor. Chronic treatment with adinazolam did not decrease the number of beta-adrenergic receptors in the cerebral cortex of the rat, in contrast to the positive effect of imipramine. The discovery of triazolobenzodiazepines with antidepressant activity is of special interest. These agents will hopefully have lower toxicity than the tricyclic antidepressants and thus possess a more favourable therapeutic index. This would be advantageous in the treatment of depression.
Aluminum-induced neuronal cell apoptosis has been implicated in various neurodegenerative disorders. However, whether autophagy, a vital lysosomal degradation pathway, is involved in this pathogenesis still remains unknown. Our present findings demonstrated that aluminum significantly increased rat astrocyte apoptosis and autophagy levels in a dose-dependent manner. Examination of the associated mechanisms revealed that aluminum at low levels (400μM) did not increase apoptosis protein expressions (cleaved caspase-3 and cleaved PARP), but markedly up-regulated autophagy-related protein Beclin 1 expression. This indicates that the autophagy process occurs earlier than neuronal apoptosis. Moreover, aluminum at high levels (1600μM) significantly induced autophagy-related protein (Beclin 1 and LC3II) and apoptosis-related protein expressions, showing that both autophagy and apoptosis processes are activated under high levels of aluminum exposure. We used 3-methyladenine, an inhibitor of class III phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase, to treat astrocytes and found that the apoptosis rate in the 3-MA/aluminum co-treated group was markedly down-regulated compared with aluminum alone-treated astrocytes. The apoptosis protein and autophagy-related protein expressions were also decreased. These observations showed that the mild autophagy process may precede apoptosis in low dose aluminum-insulted astrocytes, and high dose aluminum-induced serious autophagy may result in cell apoptosis via the Beclin 1-dependent autophagy signal pathway.
The objective of this study was to determine which of the many risk factors for nephrocalcinosis (NC) in preterm infants are most relevant.
In 55 neonates born before 32 completed weeks of gestation, parameters relevant to NC were analyzed. Median birthweight was 1010 g (range 500-2070 g). Fifteen (27%) asymptomatic children had ultrasonographic NC.
In multivariate analysis the strongest independent risk factor was furosemide therapy above 10 mg per kg bodyweight cumulative dose, with a 48-fold increased risk of NC (odds ratio confidence interval 4.0-585, P < 0.01). The risk of NC was 1.65-fold higher per 100 g lower weight (1.07-2.56, P= 0.02) and 4.5-fold higher per mmol/l of urinary calcium concentration (1.14-17.7, P= 0.03). Many other risk factors were only significant in univariate analysis (gestational age, mechanical ventilation, infection, broncho-pulmonary dysplasia, blood transfusions, intraventricular hemorrhage, surfactant therapy, vasopressors, phenobarbital or caffeine, duration of hospital stay), indicating an indirect effect only. Other parameters of calcium and phosphate homeostasis were not significant, possibly due to standardized supplementation.
We suggest that in preterm infants, furosemide should be prescribed with caution and close monitoring of calcium excretions is advisable. Some guidelines for infant respiratory distress syndrome now favor calcium-sparing thiazides if diuretics are considered.
Considerable attention has focused on the health-promoting effects of red wine and its nonflavonoid polyphenol compound resveratrol. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms and molecular target(s) of red wine or other potentially active ingredients in red wine remain unknown. Here, we report that red wine extract (RWE) or the red wine flavonoid quercetin inhibited 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-induced transformation of JB6 promotion-sensitive mouse skin epidermal (JB6 P+) cells. The activation of activator protein-1 and nuclear factor-kappaB induced by TPA was dose dependently inhibited by RWE or quercetin treatment. Western blot and kinase assay data revealed that RWE or quercetin inhibited mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) kinase (MEK) 1 and Raf1 kinase activities and subsequently attenuated TPA-induced phosphorylation of ERK/p90 ribosomal S6 kinase. Although either RWE or quercetin suppressed Raf1 kinase activity, they were more effective in inhibiting MEK1 activity. Importantly, quercetin exerted stronger inhibitory effects than PD098059, a well-known pharmacologic inhibitor of MEK. Resveratrol did not affect either MEK1 or Raf1 kinase activity. Pull-down assays revealed that RWE or quercetin (but not resveratrol) bound with either MEK1 or Raf1. RWE or quercetin also dose dependently suppressed JB6 P+ cell transformation induced by epidermal growth factor or H-Ras, both of which are involved in the activation of MEK/ERK signaling. Docking data suggested that quercetin, but not resveratrol, formed a hydrogen bond with the backbone amide group of Ser(212), which is the key interaction for stabilizing the inactive conformation of the activation loop of MEK1.
A prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study was undertaken to evaluate the efficacy and safety of intrathecal morphine for postoperative analgesia after posterolateral lumbar fusion.
To compare the early postoperative analgesia in patients who receive a single dose of intrathecal morphine intraoperatively with that of patients using a patient-controlled analgesia pump only.
Although intrathecal morphine is used as an analgesic in a variety of medical and surgical conditions, very little has been published on its use after posterior lumbar spine surgery. Because the thecal sac is readily available during these procedures, the addition of a single injection of morphine before wound closure can be done with technical ease. If its efficacy and safety can be verified, then it could serve as a useful adjuvant to the postoperative analgesia regimen.
Sixty-eight consecutive patients undergoing posterolateral lumbar fusion were randomly assigned to two groups. The experimental group was injected intrathecally with morphine 30 minutes before wound closure, and the control group was similarly injected with a placebo of normal saline solution. All patients were connected to an on-demand patient-controlled analgesia pump to provide any additional necessary analgesia. Their use of the patient-controlled analgesia pump was tabulated by counting the number of demands and the actual amount of morphine delivered. Additionally, a visual analog scale was used to assess pain levels at pre-established regular intervals.
The visual analog scale measurements were significantly lower for the intrathecal morphine group initially, but they surpassed those of the control group after 24 hours. Likewise, the number of patient-controlled analgesia pump demands and the amount of narcotic delivered initially were significantly lower in the experimental patients, but again reversed after the first postoperative day. The late rebound in pain and patient-controlled analgesia pump use did not reach statistical significance. There were no significant complications related to the analgesia.
Intrathecal morphine can be safe and efficacious as an early postoperative analgesic after lumbar fusion when respiratory monitoring is used.
The Sp4 transcription factor plays a critical role for both development and function of mouse hippocampus. Reduced expression of the mouse Sp4 gene results in a variety of behavioral abnormalities relevant to human psychiatric disorders. The human SP4 gene is therefore examined for its association with both bipolar disorder and schizophrenia in European Caucasian and Chinese populations respectively. Out of ten SNPs selected from human SP4 genomic locus, four displayed significant association with bipolar disorder in European Caucasian families (rs12668354, p = 0.022; rs12673091, p = 0.0005; rs3735440, p = 0.019; rs11974306, p = 0.018). To replicate the genetic association, the same set of SNPs was examined in a Chinese bipolar case control sample. Four SNPs displayed significant association (rs40245, p = 0.009; rs12673091, p = 0.002; rs1018954, p = 0.001; rs3735440, p = 0.029), and two of them (rs12673091, rs3735440) were shared with positive SNPs from European Caucasian families. Considering the genetic overlap between bipolar disorder and schizophrenia, we extended our studies in Chinese trios families for schizophrenia. The SNP7 (rs12673091, p = 0.012) also displayed a significant association. The SNP7 (rs12673091) was therefore significantly associated in all three samples, and shared the same susceptibility allele (A) across all three samples. On the other hand, we found a gene dosage effect for mouse Sp4 gene in the modulation of sensorimotor gating, a putative endophenotype for both schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. The deficient sensorimotor gating in Sp4 hypomorphic mice was partially reversed by the administration of dopamine D2 antagonist or mood stabilizers. Both human genetic and mouse pharmacogenetic studies support Sp4 gene as a susceptibility gene for bipolar disorder or schizophrenia. The studies on the role of Sp4 gene in hippocampal development may provide novel insights for the contribution of hippocampal abnormalities in these psychiatric disorders.
Ilex paraguariensis St Hilaire (Aquifoliaceae) is a plant widely cultivated in South America and with various reputed medicinal properties that can be attributed to phenolic constituents of the leaves: caffeine, theophylline and theobromine, besides the flavonoids, quercetin and rutin. This study examined the antiparkinsonian activity of the hydroalcohol extract of Ilex paraguariensis in models of protection against cerebral injury induced by MPTP and reversal of the catatonia induced by reserpine in mice. The hydroalcohol extract prevented MPTP-induced hypolocomotion at doses of 250 and 500 mg/kg at the all time points observed and also prevented the reserpine-induced catalepsy at the same doses. The extract potentiated the effect of apomorphine in preventing catatonia, suggesting a non-dopaminergic activity, probably through antagonism of adenosine. In biochemical studies the hydroalcohol extract caused a significant decrease in the NO levels, exhibited a DPPH-scavenging ability and was effective in preventing the oxidation of deoxyribose. The results obtained suggest that the hydroalcohol extract of Ilex paraguariensis may have an antiparkinsonian profile in animal models, probably through its antioxidant activity and antagonist action on adenosine A(2A) receptors.
Genistein, a major phytoestrogen of soy, is considered a potential drug for prevention and treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis. The aim of the present study was to compare the effects of genistein, estradiol and raloxifene on the skeletal system in vivo and in vitro. Genistein (5 mg/kg), estradiol (0.1 mg/kg) or raloxifene hydrochloride (5 mg/kg) were administered daily by a stomach tube to mature ovariectomized Wistar rats for 4 weeks. Bone mass, mineral and calcium content, macrometric parameters and mechanical properties were examined. Also the effects of genistein, estradiol and raloxifene (10(-9)-10(-7) M) on the formation of osteoclasts from neonatal mouse bone marrow cells and the activity of osteoblasts isolated from neonatal mouse calvariae were compared. In vivo, estrogen deficiency resulted in the impairment of bone mineralization and bone mechanical properties. Raloxifene but not estradiol or genistein improved bone mineralization. Estradiol fully normalized the bone mechanical properties, whereas genistein augmented the deleterious effect of estrogen-deficiency on bone strength. In vitro, genistein, estradiol and raloxifene inhibited osteoclast formation from mouse bone marrow cells, decreasing the ratio of RANKL mRNA to osteoprotegerin mRNA expression in osteoblasts. Genistein, but not estradiol or raloxifene, decreased the ratio of alkaline phosphatase mRNA to ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase phosphodiesterase 1 mRNA expression in osteoblasts. This difference may explain the lack of genistein effect on bone mineralization observed in ovariectomized rats in the in vivo study. Concluding, our experiments demonstrated profound differences between the activities of genistein, estradiol and raloxifene towards the osseous tissue in experimental conditions.
On the basis of a positive reported single-institution pilot study, the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group initiated phase II trial 9514 to evaluate its neoadjuvant regimen in a multi-institutional Intergroup setting.
Eligibility included a high-grade soft tissue sarcoma > or = 8 cm in diameter of the extremities and body wall. Patients received three cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy (CT; modified mesna, doxorubicin, ifosfamide, and dacarbazine [MAID]), interdigitated preoperative radiation therapy (RT; 44 Gy administered in split courses), and three cycles of postoperative CT (modified MAID).
Sixty-six patients were enrolled, of whom 64 were analyzed. Seventy-nine percent of patients completed their preoperative CT and 59% completed all planned CT. Three patients (5%) experienced fatal grade 5 toxicities (myelodysplasias, two patients; infection, one patient). Another 53 patients (83%) experienced grade 4 toxicities; 78% experienced grade 4 hematologic toxicity and 19% experienced grade 4 nonhematologic toxicity. Sixty-one patients underwent surgery. Fifty-eight of these were R0 resections, of which five were amputations. There were three R1 resections. The estimated 3-year rate for local-regional failure is 17.6% if amputation is considered a failure and 10.1% if not. Estimated 3-year rates for disease-free, distant-disease-free, and overall survival are 56.6%, 64.5%, and 75.1%, respectively.
This combined-modality treatment can be delivered successfully in a multi-institutional setting. Efficacy results are consistent with previous single-institution results.
One of the fundamental principles of pharmacology is that most drugs have side effects. Although considerable attention is paid to detrimental side effects, drugs can also have beneficial side effects. Given the time and expense of drug development, it would be particularly exciting if a systematic method could be applied to reveal all of the activities, including the unappreciated actions, of a potential drug. The present study takes the first step along this path. An activity-based proteomics strategy was used to simultaneously identify targets and screen for their inhibitors in prostate cancer. Orlistat, a Food and Drug Administration-approved drug used for treating obesity, was included in this screen. Surprisingly, we find a new molecular target and a potential new application for Orlistat. Orlistat is a novel inhibitor of the thioesterase domain of fatty acid synthase, an enzyme strongly linked to tumor progression. By virtue of its ability to inhibit fatty acid synthase, Orlistat halts tumor cell proliferation, induces tumor cell apoptosis, and inhibits the growth of PC-3 tumors in nude mice.
Myosin-binding protein C (Mybpc3)-targeted knock-in mice (KI) recapitulate typical aspects of human hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. We evaluated whether these functional alterations can be reproduced in engineered heart tissue (EHT) and yield novel mechanistic information on the function of cMyBP-C. EHTs were generated from cardiac cells of neonatal KI, heterozygous (HET) or wild-type controls (WT) and developed without apparent morphological differences. KI had 70% and HET 20% lower total cMyBP-C levels than WT, accompanied by elevated fetal gene expression. Under standard culture conditions and spontaneous beating, KI EHTs showed more frequent burst beating than WT and occasional tetanic contractions (14/96). Under electrical stimulation (6Hz, 37°C) KI EHTs exhibited shorter contraction and relaxation times and a twofold higher sensitivity to external [Ca(2+)]. Accordingly, the sensitivity to verapamil was 4-fold lower and the response to isoprenaline or the Ca(2+) sensitizer EMD 57033 2- to 4-fold smaller. The loss of EMD effect was verified in 6-week-old KI mice in vivo. HET EHTs were apparently normal under basal conditions, but showed similarly altered contractile responses to [Ca(2+)], verapamil, isoprenaline and EMD. In contrast, drug-induced changes in intracellular Ca(2+) transients (Fura-2) were essentially normal. In conclusion, the present findings in auxotonically contracting EHTs support the idea that cMyBP-C's normal role is to suppress force generation at low intracellular Ca(2+) and stabilize the power-stroke step of the cross bridge cycle. Pharmacological testing in EHT unmasked a disease phenotype in HET. The altered drug response may be clinically relevant.
The Japanese medaka (Oryzias latipes) early-life stage assay was used to investigate the effects of a number of commercially available dimethylated polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) (3,6-dimethylphenanthrene, 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene, and 4,6-dimethyldibenzothiophene) and their unsubstituted congeners, dimethylated and unsubstituted tertiary mixtures, and a complex environmental mixture (with elevated C2-substituted dibenzothiophene) on embryo larval development. Unsubstituted PAHs showed trends of increased blue sac disease (BSD) relative to dimethylated PAHs, although the severity of BSD induction varied. Results demonstrated that the dibenzothiophene congeners were the strongest inducers of BSD of the commercial PAHs tested. These compounds reduced the hatching success of embryonic medaka, an effect that was enhanced in the mixture. The base neutral extract significantly increased the frequency and severity of BSD abnormalities, while significantly reducing larval hatch length. Based on these results, a sublethal maximum allowable toxicant concentration (MATC) of 13.91 microg PAHs/L was calculated.
Vigabatrin (VGB) therapy is associated with a loss of peripheral vision. The characteristics and prevalence of VGB-attributed visual field loss (V-AVFL) and associated risk factors were evaluated in patients with epilepsy.
The material comprised the visual fields and case notes of 88 patients with suspected V-AVFL (25 spontaneous reports and 63 cases from an open-label extension trial) and of 42 patients receiving alternative antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) from a cross-sectional study.
Forty-two reliable cases of visual field loss could not be assigned to an alternative known cause and were therefore attributed to VGB (13 spontaneous reports and 29 from the open-label study). All cases except one were asymptomatic. Seven cases of field loss were present in the reference cohort of 42 patients; all cases could be attributed to a known aetiology. Thirty-six of the 42 confirmed cases of V-AVFL exhibited a bilateral defect that was most profound nasally, and three, a concentric constriction. The prevalence of V-AVFL was 29% (95% confidence interval, 21-39%). Male gender was associated with a 2.1-fold increased relative risk of V-AVFL (95% confidence interval, 1.20-4.6%). Age, body weight, duration of epilepsy, and daily dose of VGB, and concomitant AEDs did not predict the occurrence of V-AVFL.
The unique visual field defect attributed to VGB is profound in terms of the frequency of occurrence and the location and severity of loss. The asymptomatic nature of the field loss indicates that V-AVFL can be elicited only by visual field examination.
Previous research by the authors found evidence that up to 10% of particular household categories may be exposed to elevated carbon monoxide (CO) concentrations from poor quality gas appliance installations. The literature suggests certain neurological symptoms are linked to exposure to low levels of CO. This paper addresses the hypothesis that certain self-reported neurological symptoms experienced by a householder are linked to an estimate of their CO exposure.
Between 27 April and 27 June 2006, 597 homes with a mains supply of natural gas were surveyed, mainly in old, urban areas of London. Qualified gas engineers tested all gas appliances (cooker, boiler, gas fire, and water heater) and reported, according to the Gas Industry Unsafe Situations Procedure, appliances considered At Risk (AR), Immediately Dangerous (ID) or Not to Current Standards (NCS). Five exposure risk categories were defined based on measurement of CO emitted by the appliance, its features and its use, with "high or very high" exposure category where occupants were considered likely to be exposed to levels greater than 26 ppm for one hour. The prevalence of symptoms at each level of exposure was compared with that at lowest level of exposure.
Of the households, 6% were assessed as having a "high or very high" risk of exposure to CO. Of the individuals, 9% reported at least one neurological symptom. There was a statistically significant association between "high or very high" exposure risk to CO and self-reported symptoms compared to "no exposure" likelihood, for households not in receipt of benefit, controlling for "number of residents" and presence of pensioners, OR = 3.23 (95%CI: 1.28, 8.15). Risk ratios across all categories of exposure likelihood indicate a dose-response pattern. Those households in receipt of benefit showed no dose-response pattern.
This study found an association between risk of CO exposure at low concentration, and prevalence of self-reported neurological symptoms in the community for those households not in receipt of benefit. As health status was self-reported, this association requires further investigation.
Epidemiological evidence suggests that carotenoids prevent several types of cancer, including mammary and endometrial cancers. On the other hand, such studies have also shown that estrogens are the most important risk factors for these cancer types. Genistein, the phytoestrogen mainly found in soy, also shows significant estrogenic activity when tested at concentrations found in human blood. The aim of this study was to determine whether carotenoids inhibit signaling of steroidal estrogen and phytoestrogen which could explain their cancer preventive activity. Similar to the known effect of 17beta-estradiol (E(2)), treatment of breast (T47D and MCF-7) and endometrial (ECC-1) cancer cells with phytoestrogens induced cell proliferation, cell-cycle progression and transactivation of the estrogen response element (ERE). However, each of the tested carotenoids (lycopene, phytoene, phytofluene, and beta-carotene) inhibited cancer cell proliferation induced by either E(2) or genistein. The inhibition of cell growth by lycopene was accompanied by slow down of cell-cycle progression from G1 to S phase. Moreover, the carotenoids inhibited estrogen-induced transactivation of ERE that was mediated by both estrogen receptors (ERs) ERalpha and ERbeta. The possibility that this inhibition results from competition of carotenoid-activated transcription systems on a limited pool of shared coactivators with the ERE transcription system was tested. Although cotransfection of breast and endometrial cancer cells with four different coactivators (SRC-1, SRC-2, SRC-3, and DRIP) strongly stimulated ERE reporter gene activity, it did not oppose the inhibitory effect of carotenoids. These results suggest that dietary carotenoids inhibit estrogen signaling of both 17beta-estradiol and genistein, and attenuate their deleterious effect in hormone-dependent malignancies.
Angio-oedema as an adverse effect of angiotensin converting enzyme-inhibitors (ACE-inhibitors) is reported to occur in one to two of 1,000 treated patients per year. This estimate may be too low, since the swelling of face, lips, tongue and throat is very often attributed to food allergy. Furthermore, attacks of oedema may occur after months or even years of ACE-inhibitor treatment, thereby obscuring the link to the medication. This adverse effect is non-immunogenic. The oedema is explained by local enhancement of bradykinin, which under normal circumstances is broken down by angiotensin converting enzyme. The question of what makes some people vulnerable is still unsolved. The oedema can develop quickly and may lead to suffocation. In many cases, conventional antiallergic treatment in the form of steroids, antihistamines and epinephrine has inadequate effect. Intubation of the larynx may be necessary, but can be extremely difficult in the case of massive glassy oedema. Involvement of the neck can sometimes hinder tracheotomy, making early intervention essential. The authors describe two patients with moderate swellings, and discuss a potential, yet experimental, use of C1-inhibitor concentrate in the treatment of ACE-inhibitor provoked angioedema.
This study assessed changes in myocardial ALDH2 expression in the diabetic rat, in particular the diabetic rat pretreated with ALDH2 activator ethanol (EtOH). The rats were divided into six groups: control, EtOH control, diabetic rat at 4th week (DM4W), 8th week (DM8W), 12th week (DM12W) and EtOH+DM8W groups. Compared with control group, fasting blood glucose (FBG) and glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) levels were increased in DM groups. HbA1c level in DM12W group was higher than in DM4W group, HbA1c level in EtOH+DM8W group was lower than in DM8W group. Compared with control group, there were no changes of LVDP, HR and ±dp/dtmax in DM4W group, but there were decreased in DM8W and DM12W groups, and increased in the EtOH+DM8W group. In DM groups, SOD activity, ALDH2 mRNA and protein levels were reduced, MDA content was increased compared with control group; which decreased further as diabetes progressed. Compared with DM8W group, SOD and ALDH2 in EtOH+DM8W group was increased, MDA was decreased. Our results indicated with the development of diabetes, myocardial ALDH2 expression was further decreased accompanying decreased ventricular function. However, activation of ALDH2 can decrease diabetes induced myocardial injury. ALDH2 may be one key endogenous cardiac protective factor in diabetic individuals.
The pathogenesis of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) involves an interaction between hereditary and acquired factors. Prothrombin gene mutation is one of the hereditary risk factors. We evaluated the frequency of the prothrombin gene mutation in patients with DVT and its relation to oral warfarin anticoagulant therapy response.
Prothrombin gene mutation was looked for in 40 DVT patients with poor response to warfarin. The results were compared with 40 DVT patients with a normal response to warfarin and 30 healthy blood donors. Blood samples were also assessed for protein C, protein S, anti-thrombin III and anticardiolipin antibodies (ACA) levels.
Prothrombin gene mutation was found in normal and poor DVT responders (6/40 and 13/40, respectively; p = NS) as well as in healthy controls (1/30). Patients with recurrent DVT or a family history of DVT were significantly (p<0.0001) more likely to have the prothrombin mutation than other DVT patients. Non prothrombin abnormalities (protein C, anti-thrombin III and ACA) were more common in poor responders than controls (p<0.0037) as were ACA (p<0.034).
Prothrombin gene mutation is present in several DVT patients, especially those with recurrent DVT or a family history of DVT. This mutation may contribute to a poor response to warfarin.
Recent data suggest that resistin, an adipocyte-derived cytokine, has a putative role in inflammatory processes and metabolic derangements. In vitro data suggest that resistin stimulates the production of inflammatory chemokines, yet the relationship in vivo is largely unknown. The purpose of this study was to determine if a relationship exists between plasma resistin concentrations, plasma inflammatory chemokine aged concentrations (ie, monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 [MCP-1] and epithelial neutrophil activator 78 [ENA-78]), and components of the metabolic syndrome in nondiabetic subjects without known cardiovascular disease (CVD). Plasma samples were obtained from nondiabetic subjects (N = 123) aged 18 to 55 years without known CVD or CVD risk equivalents. The presence of the metabolic syndrome was assessed using consensus guidelines. Fasting plasma resistin, MCP-1, ENA-78, and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) concentrations were analyzed. The study population consisted of 67.5% women and 68.3% Caucasians (mean age = 44 +/- 7 years and mean body mass index = 33.3 +/- 6 kg/m(2)). The metabolic syndrome was present in 46.3% of study participants. Resistin concentrations were significantly correlated with white blood cell count (r = 0.326, P < .001), hs-CRP concentrations (r = 0.293, P = .005), MCP-1 concentrations (r = 0.251, P = .005), body mass index (r = 0.193, P = .033), and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (r = -0.182, P = .044). Resistin concentrations were 1.21 times higher in subjects with the metabolic syndrome compared with those without the metabolic syndrome (P = .003). In stepwise regression analysis, white blood cell count (P < .001) and MCP-1 concentrations (P = .002) were significantly associated with resistin concentrations, independent of hs-CRP, sex, body mass index, presence of the metabolic syndrome, and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. Data from our cross-sectional study demonstrate that plasma resistin concentrations are associated with circulating chemokine markers of inflammation, namely, MCP-1, and white blood cell count in nondiabetic adults without CVD. Future studies examining the causal relationship between plasma resistin concentrations, chemokine markers of inflammation, CVD, and diabetes are warranted.
Hepatic fibrosis (HF) is a chronic disease, which primarily leads to liver unregulated metabolism. In this study, we aimed to investigate the therapeutic effects of puerarin (PR), an active ingredient from kudzu root, on CCl4-induced HF rats. PR effectively ameliorated the liver metabolic function, resulting in reduced serum enzymatic activities of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), total-bilirubin (T-bilirubin), extracellular matrix (ECM) contents and increased levels of albumin, total-protein (T-protein) in HF rats. Similarly, pathological examination showed that the CCl4-lesioned liver was mitigated by PR treatments. Meanwhile, we also detected significantly reduced levels of hydroxyproline (Hyp), type III precollagen (PCIII) and collagen I (Col I) in the liver tissue of HF rats, whereas the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-γ) expression was effectively increased. Moreover, the expression of tissue inhibitor of metal protease-1 (TIMP-1) was decreased, while the expression of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) was increased. In addition, the expression of p-PI3K and p-Akt was significantly down-regulated by PR treatments. Taken together, PR could attenuate the CCl4-induced toxicity in the hepatocytes of HF rats. It played a protective role in the liver tissue probably through regulating the PPAR-γ expression and blocking the PI3K/Akt pathway to inhibit the excessive deposition of collagen.
Between July, 1992 and June, 1994, 151 pediatric patients who had ceftriaxone therapy for probable or definite bacterial enteritis were prospectively evaluated by serial abdominal ultrasonography. All patients received a dose of > or = 50 mg/kg/day and for a duration of 3 or more days. Five patients developed gallbladder precipitates or pseudolithiasis during treatment. Fasting and patients older than 24 months were probably the significant risk factors associated with this phenomenon (p < 0.05). However, no significant differences in sex, dose (50 vs. > 50 mg/kg/day) or duration of therapy (< 5 vs. > 5 day) were observed between patients who received ceftriaxone with and without the development of this gallbladder abnormality.
Liver X receptors (LXRs) have been identified as sterol sensors that regulate cholesterol and lipid homeostasis and macrophage functions. In this study, we found that LXRs also affect sensitivity to bile acid toxicity and cholestasis. Activation of LXRalpha in transgenic mice confers a female-specific resistance to lithocholic acid (LCA)-induced hepatotoxicity and bile duct ligation (BDL)-induced cholestasis. This resistance was also seen in wild-type female mice treated with the synthetic LXR ligand TO1317. In contrast, LXR double knockout (DKO) mice deficient in both the alpha and beta isoforms exhibited heightened cholestatic sensitivity. LCA and BDL resistance in transgenic mice was associated with increased expression of bile acid-detoxifying sulfotransferase 2A (Sult2a) and selected bile acid transporters, whereas basal expression of these gene products was reduced in the LXR DKO mice. Promoter analysis showed that the mouse Sult2a9 gene is a transcriptional target of LXRs. Activation of LXRs a l so suppresses expression of oxysterol 7alpha-hydroxylase (Cyp7b1), which may lead to increased levels of LXR-activating oxysterols.
We propose that LXRs have evolved to have the dual functions of maintaining cholesterol and bile acid homeostasis by increasing cholesterol catabolism and, at the same time, preventing toxicity from bile acid accumulation.
Adriamycin induces a nephrotic syndrome in rats characterized by severe ultrastructural changes of visceral epithelial cells similar to those observed in puromycin aminonucleoside (PA) nephrosis and in human 'minimal changes' glomerulopathy. Since steroids have been shown to be effective in human 'minimal changes' glomerulopathy and in PA nephrosis, we undertook the present study to assess whether steroids had a therapeutic effect on adriamycin nephrosis. Groups of rats injected with different doses of adriamycin were subsequently treated with prednisolone. No significant differences were observed in proteinuria and in ultrastructural findings between the control and the steroid-injected animals. This study suggests that the mechanism underlying adriamycin-induced nephrotic syndrome might be different from that responsible for PA nephrosis or human 'minimal changes' glomerulopathy.
We studied the interactions between CRL 40028 (benzhydryl sulfinyl) acetohydroxamic acid) and the alpha 1 blocker prazosin, in mouse. CRL 40028 antagonizes prazosin-induced hypothermia and hypomotility; prazosin antagonizes the anticonvulsant effect of CRL 40028 in the quaking mouse.
Obesity is considered as an inflammatory disease, in which free radical-induced oxidative stress and excessive intake of macronutrients exacerbate their symptoms. In this context, we assessed in rats the possible preventive effect of the supplementation with an antioxidant molecule, ascorbic acid, in order to reduce the adiposity induced by the intake of a high-fat diet. For this purpose, during 56 days, three groups of male Wistar rats were fed on: a) standard pelleted diet, b) Cafeteria diet, c) ascorbate-supplemented (750 mg/kg of body weight) Cafeteria diet. At the end of the experimental period, microarray analysis was used to identify genes transcriptionally induced or repressed by both experimental dietary models (Cafeteria diet supplemented or not with ascorbic acid) in subcutaneous adipose tissue. Dietary ascorbic acid was able to protect against high fat diet effects, reducing the increase of body weight, total body fat and enlargement of different adipose depots induced by the Cafeteria diet without affecting food intake. An association analysis accurately and differentially allowed the detection of gene expression changes related with adiposity and insulin resistance. The genes that more strongly correlated with body fat and HOMA insulin resistance index were involved in adipocyte differentiation, lipid and glucocorticoid metabolism, cell cycle regulation, as well as in several insulin-induced processes. Some other transcripts are regulated by the vitamin C-mediated reduction of adiposity, such as genes that participate in glucocorticoid metabolism, adipogenesis, pentose phosphate pathway, or tricarboxylic acid cycle. This strategy was able to link variations in adipose tissue gene expression with markers of diet-induced obesity in rats, such as insulin resistance and body fat content.
High-dose chemotherapy in the adjuvant treatment of breast cancer has been abandoned by many.
885 patients with stage III primary breast cancer and four or more axillary lymph node metastases were randomised to receive either five courses of FEC (fluorouracil, epirubicin and cyclophosphamide) followed by radiation therapy and tamoxifen, or the same treatment but with high-dose alkylating chemotherapy (cyclophosphamide, thiotepa and carboplatin) replacing the fifth course of FEC. Of these patients, 621 had HER2/neu-negative disease, as determined by immunohistochemistry and chromogenic in situ hybridisation.
At a median follow-up of 84 months, a trend for a better relapse-free survival was observed in the high-dose arm: (hazard ratio (HR) 0.84, P = 0.076, two-sided). The 621 patients with HER2/neu-negative disease benefited from high-dose therapy, while patients with HER2/neu-positive disease did not (test for interaction, P = 0.006). There was a marked relapse-free survival benefit for patients with HER2/neu-negative disease (71.5% versus 59.1%, 5 years after randomisation; HR 0.68, P = 0.002) and also a survival benefit (78.2% versus 71.0% at 5 years; HR 0.72, P = 0.02).
The findings from this subgroup analysis provide additional evidence that HER2/neu-positive breast cancer is relatively resistant to alkylating agents. For HER2/neu-negative tumours, however, high-dose chemotherapy should remain the subject of clinical studies.
A patient, treated by mechanical ventilation with pancuronium or atracurium and with intravenously administered corticosteroid for status asthmaticus, presented with rhabdomyolysis (severe amyotrophy and marked of creatine kinase activity) and acute flacid and areflexic quadriplegia, involving the proximal and distal muscles but sparing the cephalic musculature. After review of the investigations (biochemistry, electromyogram, muscle biopsy), the diagnostic of acute corticosteroid myopathy following status asthmaticus was suggested, and a pancuronium neuromuscular complication or a critically ill polyneuropathy excluded. The non-inflammatory rhabdomyolysis concerned all the fiber types. Predominantly distal weakness resolved six months after the insult, in spite of the laboratory recurrence of the rhabdomyolysis at the time of a new status asthmaticus briefly treated with corticosteroid.
Polygonum cuspidatum root has been traditionally used for the treatment of dental diseases in Korea. The purpose of this study was to evaluate effects of P. cuspidatum root on the development of dental caries, especially its effects against bacterial viability and caries-inducing factors of Streptococcus mutans and Streptococcus sobrinus. Among methanol extract of P. cuspidatum root and its fraction tested, ethyl acetate fraction, composed of polydatin, resveratrol, anthraglycoside B, and emodin, showed inhibitory effects on glycolytic acid production and glucosyltransferase activity of S. mutans and S. sobrinus in addition to antibacterial activities.
