Of an original cohort of 39 epileptic patients, 28 were observed for a median of 26.5 months after an initial psychiatric interview. As had been noted in the original cohort, treatment with phenobarbital, as compared with treatment with carbamazepine or no anticonvulsant, was associated with higher rates of depression (38% vs 0%, P = .04). Depression associated with phenobarbital treatment at intake did not remit spontaneously on follow-up as long as phenobarbital use continued. Those patients treated with phenobarbital who were previously depressed and whose medication was changed to either carbamazepine or no medication showed nonsignificant trends toward declines in both the frequency and severity of depressive symptoms. These results provide further evidence that treatment with phenobarbital increases the risk for depression in epileptic patients and should be avoided when clinically feasible, particularly in patients with a personal or family history of affective disorder. Epileptic patients who receive phenobarbital because of clinical considerations should be monitored closely for symptoms of an affective disorder, and if depression is detected, a change to an alternative anticonvulsant may result in amelioration of depressive symptomatology.
Liver cirrhosis, which is caused by the accumulation of extracellular matrix materials, is a serious clinical problem that can progress to hepatic failure. Transforming growth factor-beta (TGFbeta) plays a pivotal role in extracellular matrix production, but bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-7, a member of the TGFbeta superfamily, can antagonise the fibrogenic activity of TGFbeta.
In this study, we examined whether adenovirus-mediated overexpression of BMP-7 (Ad-BMP-7) antagonised the effect of TGFbeta in vitro and in vivo.
In primary cultured rat stellate cells and the LX-2 human stellate cell line, induction of BMP-7 by Ad-BMP-7 infection decreased the expression of collagen 1A2 mRNA and smooth muscle alpha-actin in the presence or absence of TGFbeta, via Smad 1/5/8 phosphorylation. BMP-7 triggered the mRNA expression of inhibitors of differentiation 2 (Id2) in LX-2. Although endogenous expression of BMP-7 was hardly detectable, Smad1 and Id2 overexpression increased BMP-7 expression in LX-2. A liver fibrosis model was induced by the repetitive intraperitoneal injection of thioacetamide (200 mg/kg body weight) twice per week for up to 7 weeks. In rats administered Ad-BMP-7 via the tail vein, hydroxyproline content and the areas stained by Sirius red dye in the liver were significantly reduced compared to controls. Ad-Id2 also reduced fibrosis.
These data demonstrate that BMP-7, Smad 1/5/8 and Ids interact to antagonise hepatic fibrogenesis.
We have treated 6 chronic alcoholics and identified an additional 19 reported in the literature who developed severe hepatotoxicity from acetaminophen taken in apparently moderate doses. The clinical disease in these 25 patients had a characteristic pattern: mild to moderate jaundice; mild to severe coagulopathy; and strikingly abnormal aminotransferase levels, values inconsistent with either acute alcoholic hepatitis or viral hepatitis. The possible causes for the injury from ostensibly nontoxic drug levels appear to be either the induction by chronic alcohol intake of the cytochrome P-450 system responsible for converting acetaminophen to a toxic metabolite, or the effect of alcoholism and the associated malnutrition in reducing the glutathione concentration, responsible normally for preventing hepatotoxicity by conjugation with the toxic metabolite. The research data pertaining to the apparent enhanced toxicity from chronic alcoholism are reviewed. Despite the low frequency of ethanol-potentiated acetaminophen hepatotoxicity, alcoholics should be cautioned about the use of acetaminophen while they persist in heavy consumption of alcohol.
Hydroxychloroquine is widely used in rheumatological disease but hepatic side effects have not been reported previously. Two cases are described of fulminant hepatic failure developing after the start of hydroxychloroquine treatment for a chronic rheumatological disorder. In both cases the symptoms of liver disease developed within two weeks of starting hydroxychloroquine and rapidly progressed to fulminant hepatic failure and in neither case was there any pre-existing liver disease. One patient had emergency orthotopic liver transplantation and the other died before a donor organ became available.
The effect of aniracetam (Ro 13-5057, 1-anisoyl-2-pyrrolidinone) was studied on various forms of experimentally impaired cognitive functions (learning and memory) in rodents and produced the following effects: (1) almost complete prevention of the incapacity to learn a discrete escape response in rats exposed to sublethal hypercapnia immediately before the acquisition session; (2) partial (rats) or complete (mice) prevention of the scopolamine-induced short-term amnesia for a passive avoidance task; (3) complete protection against amnesia for a passive avoidance task in rats submitted to electroconvulsive shock immediately after avoidance acquisition; (4) prevention of the long-term retention- or retrieval-deficit for a passive avoidance task induced in rats and mice by chloramphenicol or cycloheximide administered immediately after acquisition; (5) reversal, when administered as late as 1 h before the retention test, of the deficit in retention or retrieval of a passive avoidance task induced by cycloheximide injected 2 days previously; (6) prevention of the deficit in the retrieval of an active avoidance task induced in mice by subconvulsant electroshock or hypercapnia applied immediately before retrieval testing (24 h after acquisition). These improvements or normalizations of impaired cognitive functions were seen at oral aniracetam doses of 10-100 mg/kg. Generally, the dose-response curves were bell-shaped. The mechanisms underlying the activity of aniracetam and its 'therapeutic window' are unknown. Piracetam, another pyrrolidinone derivative was used for comparison. It was active only in six of nine tests and had about one-tenth the potency of aniracetam. The results indicate that aniracetam improves cognitive functions which are impaired by different procedure and in different phases of the learning and memory process.
The present study was carried out to examine the adverse hematotoxic and genotoxic effects of water nitrate pollution on male adult rats and the use of hyparrhenia hirta methanolic extract in alleviating these effects. Sodium nitrate (NaNO3 ) was administered to adult rats by oral gavage at a dose of 400 mg kg(-1) bw daily for 50 days, while hyparrhenia hirta methanolic extract was given by drinking water at a dose of 1.5 mg mL(-1) (200 mg kg(-1) bw). The NaNO3 -treated group showed a significant decrease in red blood cell count, hemoglobin and hematocrit and a significant increase in total white blood cell, in neutrophil and eosinophil counts. Platelet count, mean corpuscular volume, mean corpuscular hemoglobin, and mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration remained unchanged in treated groups compared to those of controls. Meanwhile, the results showed a marked reduction in the antioxidant enzyme activities, such as superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione peroxidase, along with an elevation in the level of lipid peroxidation and a reduction in the total glutathione content, indicating the induction of oxidative stress in the erythrocytes of NaNO3 -treated group. Interestingly, NaNO3 treatment showed a significant increase in the frequencies of total chromosomal aberrations, aberrant metaphases and micronucleus in bone-marrow cells. The oxidative stress induced by nitrate treatment might be the major cause for chromosomal rearrangements as free radicals leading to DNA damage. Hyparrhenia hirta methanolic extract appeared to be effective against hematotoxic and genotoxic changes induced by nitrate, as evidenced by the improvement of the markers cited above. © 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Environ Toxicol, 2014.
Knowledge of the appropriate metric of dose for a toxic chemical facilitates quantitative extrapolation of toxicity observed in the laboratory to the risk of adverse effects in the human population. Here, we utilize a physiologically based toxicokinetic (PBTK) model for toluene, a common volatile organic compound (VOC), to illustrate that its acute behavioral effects in rats can be quantitatively predicted on the basis of its concentration in the brain. Rats previously trained to perform a visual signal detection task for food reward performed the task while inhaling toluene (0, 1200, 1600, 2000, and 2400 ppm in different test sessions). Accuracy and speed of responding were both decreased by toluene; the magnitude of these effects increased with increasing concentration of the vapor and with increasing duration of exposure. Converting the exposure conditions to brain toluene concentration using the PBTK model yielded a family of overlapping curves for each end point, illustrating that the effects of toluene can be described quantitatively by its internal dose at the time of behavioral assessment. No other dose metric, including inhaled toluene concentration, duration of exposure, the area under the curve of either exposure (ppm h), or modeled brain toluene concentration (mg-h/kg), provided unambiguous predictions of effect. Thus, the acute behavioral effects of toluene (and of other VOCs with a similar mode of action) can be predicted for complex exposure scenarios by simulations that estimate the concentration of the VOC in the brain from the exposure scenario.
Meier-Gorlin syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive genetic condition whose primary clinical hallmarks include small stature, small external ears and small or absent patellae. Using marker-assisted mapping in multiple families from a founder population and traditional coding exon sequencing of positional candidate genes, we identified three different mutations in the gene encoding ORC4, a component of the eukaryotic origin recognition complex, in five individuals with Meier-Gorlin syndrome. In two such individuals that were negative for mutations in ORC4, we found potential mutations in ORC1 and CDT1, two other genes involved in origin recognition. ORC4 is well conserved in eukaryotes, and the yeast equivalent of the human ORC4 missense mutation was shown to be pathogenic in functional assays of cell growth. This is the first report, to our knowledge, of a germline mutation in any gene of the origin recognition complex in a vertebrate organism.
A group of 26 acute psychotic patients received continuous oral treatment with perphenazine for a period of 5 weeks. Once-weekly blood samples were drawn for measurements of perphenazine levels and, simultaneously, the therapeutic outcome was registered. Another 26 acute psychotic patients received continuous oral treatment with perphenazine for a period of up to 4 weeks. A single blood sample was drawn and the perphenazine concentration was related to the appearance of extrapyramidal side effects. The following conclusions were made: (1) a high risk of provoking extrapyramidal side effects was associated with plasma levels of perphenazine above 3 nmol/l; (2) plasma levels below 2 nmol/l were associated with a poor therapeutic outcome; (3) a 'therapeutic window' between 2 and 3 nmol/l gives maximal therapeutic effect with a low risk of provoking extrapyramidal side effects.
Meier-Gorlin syndrome (ear, patella and short-stature syndrome) is an autosomal recessive primordial dwarfism syndrome characterized by absent or hypoplastic patellae and markedly small ears¹⁻³. Both pre- and post-natal growth are impaired in this disorder, and although microcephaly is often evident, intellect is usually normal in this syndrome. We report here that individuals with this disorder show marked locus heterogeneity, and we identify mutations in five separate genes: ORC1, ORC4, ORC6, CDT1 and CDC6. All of these genes encode components of the pre-replication complex, implicating defects in replication licensing as the cause of a genetic syndrome with distinct developmental abnormalities.
Studies into disorders of extreme growth failure (for example, Seckel syndrome and Majewski osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type II) have implicated fundamental cellular processes of DNA damage response signaling and centrosome function in the regulation of human growth. Here we report that mutations in ORC1, encoding a subunit of the origin recognition complex, cause microcephalic primordial dwarfism resembling Meier-Gorlin syndrome. We establish that these mutations disrupt known ORC1 functions including pre-replicative complex formation and origin activation. ORC1 deficiency perturbs S-phase entry and S-phase progression. Additionally, we show that Orc1 depletion in zebrafish is sufficient to markedly reduce body size during rapid embryonic growth. Our data suggest a model in which ORC1 mutations impair replication licensing, slowing cell cycle progression and consequently impeding growth during development, particularly at times of rapid proliferation. These findings establish a novel mechanism for the pathogenesis of microcephalic dwarfism and show a surprising but important developmental impact of impaired origin licensing.
The contradictory amphetamine effects on memory could be due to different protocols of amphetamine administration or the well-known anxiogenic effect of the drug.
The effects of different protocols of administration of amphetamine were investigated on mice tested in the plus-maze discriminative avoidance task (DAT), which provides simultaneous information about memory and anxiety.
Acutely pre- or post-training, 0.3, 1.0, or 3.0 mg/kg amphetamine-treated, 10-day chronically 3.0 mg/kg amphetamine-treated, 0.3 mg/kg amphetamine plus 0.25 mg/kg scopolamine and 3.0 mg/kg amphetamine plus 3.0 mg/kg tacrine-treated mice were conditioned to choose between two enclosed arms (one of which was aversive) while avoiding two open arms. Learning/memory was evaluated by the percentage time in the aversive enclosed arm (PTAV), and anxiety by the percentage time in the open arms (PTO).
Given acutely before conditioning, amphetamine significantly decreased PTO in training, suggesting an anxiogenic effect, and significantly increased PTAV in the test, suggesting an amnestic action. Given acutely after the conditioning, no action of this drug on memory was found. After repeated treatment, the anxiogenic effect disappeared, while the amnestic effect remained. While no effects of subeffective doses of amphetamine and scopolamine co-administration were detected, tacrine attenuated the amnestic effect of amphetamine.
Amphetamine has different effects on DAT when given pre- or post-training. While acute pre-training amnestic action is temporally correlated with an anxiogenic effect, there is tolerance to the anxiogenic but not to the amnestic effect after repeated administration. Because this acute amnestic effect of amphetamine is attenuated by tacrine, a possible relationship with cholinergic system cannot be discarded as a mechanism to amphetamine-induced amnesia in DAT.
This study compared production of IL-2, IFN-gamma, IL-4, IL-13, IL-5 and IL-10 in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 20 children with autism spectrum disorder to those from matched controls. Levels of all Th2 cytokines were significantly higher in cases after incubation in media alone, but the IFN-gamma/IL-13 ratio was not significantly different between cases and controls. Cases had significantly higher IL-13/IL-10 and IFN-gamma/IL-10 than controls.
Children with ASD had increased activation of both Th2 and Th1 arms of the adaptive immune response, with a Th2 predominance, and without the compensatory increase in the regulatory cytokine IL-10.
Several reports have demonstrated that the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(B) agonist baclofen attenuates the reinforcing effects of cocaine in rats, and recent evidence indicates that it might have a similar effect on heroin self-administration.
The specific GABA(B) receptor antagonist CGP56433A was used to further evaluate the involvement of GABA(B) receptors in the baclofen-induced suppression of cocaine and heroin self-administration.
In the first series of experiments, dose-response curves were generated to examine the effect of CGP56433A (0.6, 1.0, or 1.8 mg/kg, i.p.) on cocaine (1.5 mg/kg per injection) and heroin (25 microg/kg per injection) self-administration reinforced under a fixed-ratio (FR1) or progressive ratio (PR) schedule. Separate sets of experiments then examined the effect of the co-administration of CGP56433A and baclofen on responding for cocaine or heroin under both schedules.
Pretreatment with CGP56433A had no effect on cocaine or heroin self-administration, while baclofen dose dependently reduced responding for both cocaine and heroin under both the FR1 and PR schedule. CGP56433A (1.8 mg/kg) blocked the effect of baclofen on cocaine but not on heroin self-administration.
The specific GABA(B) antagonist CGP56433A attenuated the effect of baclofen on cocaine self-administration, suggesting that GABA(B) receptors are critical in mediating the anti-cocaine effect of baclofen. In combination with other studies, the data demonstrate that the susceptibility of baclofen and other GABA(B) agonists to receptor blockade depends on the behavioral response being studied. Whether this indicates different receptor mechanisms are involved (e.g., pre- versus post-synaptic effects or differential receptor reserve) remains to be determined.
This study was designed to examine the protective effects of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) on contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) after coronary angiography.
Contrast-induced nephropathy is a common complication after angiography. Some studies have shown that ANP has renal protective effects, but the beneficial effects for CIN prevention remain to be clearly shown.
In a prospective, controlled, randomized trial in 254 consecutive patients with serum creatinine concentrations of > or =1.3 mg/dl, patients received either ANP (0.042 microg/kg/min; ANP group, n = 126) or Ringer solution alone (control group, n = 128). Treatment of either type was initiated 4 to 6 h before angiography and continued for 48 h.
There were no significant differences in age, sex, diabetes mellitus, or baseline serum creatinine level between the 2 groups. The prevalence of CIN, defined as a 25% increase in creatinine or an increase in creatinine of > or =0.5 mg/dl from baseline within 48 h, was significantly lower in the ANP group than in the control group (3.2% vs. 11.7%, respectively; p = 0.015). Multivariate analysis revealed that the use of >155 ml of contrast medium (odds ratio: 6.89; p < 0.001) and ANP treatment (odds ratio: 0.24; p = 0.016) were significant predictors of developing CIN. The incidence of an increase in creatinine of > or =25% or of > or =0.5 mg/dl from baseline at 1 month was also significantly lower in the ANP group than in the control group (p = 0.006).
In addition to hydration, ANP administration is effective in the prevention of CIN in patients with chronic renal failure, and the effect was maintained for 1 month.
Carbamazepine (CBZ) therapy was associated with development of absence seizures in 4 adults with generalized epilepsy. Two patients had new appearance of absence seizures and 2 patients had recrudescence of remote absence seizures. The seizures abated after discontinuation of CBZ therapy or addition of ethosuximide (ESM) in 1 patient intolerant of valproate (VPA).
We report a case of a patient with fever and intrahepatic cholestasis induced by carbamazepine (CBZ). This adverse reaction has been described in only a single case. We observed complete resolution of the hepatic damage once the agent was discontinued. CBZ rechallenge was followed by recurrence of all symptoms and abnormalities. Hepatic function improved again when CBZ was discontinued.
The immunotoxic risks of multiple pesticide exposure were evaluated. C57BL/6 mouse thymocytes were exposed to lindane, malathion, and permethrin, either separately or in mixtures of two pesticides, in vitro. These pesticide exposures caused both apoptotic and necrotic cell death in thymocytes as evaluated by flow cytometric analysis in combination with 7-aminoactinomycin-D (7-AAD), Annexin-V/propidium iodide (PI) staining assays and lactate dehydrogenase release assays. When cells exposed to mixtures of two pesticides, a significantly greater than additive interaction was observed in both apoptotic and necrotic populations of cells. The gel electrophoresis of DNA of cells showed DNA ladder formation with limited genomic DNA and increased laddering in mixture exposures. Based on these findings, it is suggested that these pesticides are potent immunotoxicants, in vitro, and that the mechanism of cytotoxicity observed upon exposure to these pesticides may, at least in part, be due to induction of apoptosis. We also provided evidence that induction of drug metabolizing mixed function oxidase system with lindane may, in part, be responsible for the potentiation of cytotoxicity in the combined exposures. As more information is obtained on the potential immunotoxic effects of pesticides, further insights will be gained for the risk assessment of these environmental pollutants.
To investigate the effect of DNA methyltransferases inhibitor 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-Aza-CdR) on the histone H3-lysine 9 methylation status and gene expression of RUNX3 in human bladder tumor cells.
Human bladder tumor cells of the line EJ were cultured and treated with 5-Aza-CdR for 24 h. MTT test was used to observe the proliferation and growth of the EJ cells. Other EJ cells were cultured and treated with 5-Aza-CdR and then chromatin immunoprecipitation assay was used to analyze the histone H3-lysine 9 methylation status of RUNX3 promoter and the second exon. The expression of RUNX3 was measured by RT-PCR.
The survival rate of the EJ cells treated with 5-Aza-CdR of the concentrations of 0.1, 0.5, 1.0, 2.0, 5.0, and 10.0 micromol/L were 98.1%, 95.3%, 75.9%, 52.3%, 16.2%, and 7.7% respectively. And the survival rates of the EJ cells treated with 5-Aza-CdR for 12, 24, 36, 48, 72, and 96 hours were 89.4%, 85.2%, 78.6%, 37.1%, 8.9%, and 7.1% respectively. The survival rates of the 1.0, 2.0, 5.0, and 10.0 micromol/L group were significantly lower than that of the control group (all P < 0.05). Before the intervention, the amplified bands of the histone H3-lysine 9 methylation status of RUNX3 gene promoter and the second exon zone were obvious, but both disappeared after the treatment with 2.0 and 5.0 micromol/L 5-Aza-CdR. Before the intervention, RUNX3 gene was not expressed, and was expressed after treatment with 2.0 micromol/L 5-Aza-CdR.
5-Aza-CdR not only obviously inhibits the proliferation of human bladder cancer cells but also reactivates RUNX3 gene through demethylation of histone H3-lysine9 at RUNX3 promoter and the second exon. H3-lysine 9 trimethylation may be one of the most important reasons for gene inactivation of the RUNX3 gene.
The most prominent neoplastic lesions in mice in the 2-year studies of o-nitrotoluene and riddelliine were hemangiosarcomas. Fifteen o-nitrotoluene-induced hemangiosarcomas of the skeletal muscle, subcutaneous tissue, and mesentery; 12 riddelliine-induced hemangiosarcomas of the liver; and 15 spontaneous subcutaneous hemangiosarcomas were examined for genetic alterations in ras, p53, and beta-catenin genes. Mutations in at least one of these genes were identified in 13 of 15 (87%) of the o-nitrotoluene-induced hemangiosarcomas with missense mutations in p53 exons 5-8 detected in 11 of 15 (73%) of these neoplasms. Seven of 15 (47%) hemangiosarcomas from mice exposed to o-nitrotoluene had deletions at exon 2 splice sites or smaller deletions in the beta-catenin gene. K-ras mutation was detected in only 1 of the 15 (7%) o-nitrotoluene-induced hemangiosarcomas. In contrast to the o-nitrotoluene study, 7/12 (58%) riddelliine-induced hemangiosarcomas had K-ras codon 12 GTT mutations and, when screened by immunohistochemistry, 9/12 (75%) had strong staining for the p53 protein in malignant endothelial cells, the cells of origin of hemangiosarcomas. Riddelliine-induced hemangiosarcomas were negative for the beta-catenin protein. Spontaneous hemangiosarcomas from control mice lacked both p53 and beta-catenin protein expression and ras mutations. Our data indicated that p53 and beta-catenin mutations in the o-nitrotoluene-induced hemangiosarcomas and K-ras mutations and p53 protein expression in riddelliine-induced hemangiosarcomas most likely occurred as a result of the genotoxic effects of these chemicals. It also suggests that these mutations play a role in the pathogenesis of the respective hemangiosarcomas in B6C3F1(1) mice.
One third of a patient population with idiopathic parkinsonism was found to suffer from debilitating, painful dystonic movements of the lower extremities. The prevalence of this involuntary movement disorder was found to be positively correlated with the duration of dopaminergic treatment, but it also occurred occasionally in untreated persons. We suggest that the "dystonic foot response of parkinsonism" is a distinct clinical entity that has no localizing value in frontal lobe disorders and is associated with extrapyramidal disease. This disorder, though exacerbated by dopaminergic therapy, also differs from well-accepted dopaminergic side-effects and does not predictably respond to manipulation of antiparkinsonian medications. Although the precise pathophysiology of this movement disorder is unknown, its response to baclofen therapy suggests that neurotransmitter systems other than cholinergic or dopaminergic ones may be implicated.
Since our last report on valproate (VPA)-related hepatotoxicity in 1988, 8 other children have died of VPA-associated liver failure in Germany and Switzerland. We compared the clinical course of these children with that of 6 children with a reversible outcome of severe hepatotoxicity related to VPA. Thirty-five percent of patients with fatal liver failure were normally developed, 23.5% were receiving VPA monotherapy, and 35.3% were aged < or = 2 years. The initial clinical symptoms of VPA-related hepatotoxicity were nausea, vomiting, apathy or coma, and increasing seizures in more than 50% of patients, in combination with febrile infections at onset of symptoms. As compared with the series of German patients reported in 1988, one third of the fatalities occurred after the first 6 months of therapy as compared with 6% in the 1988 series. Clinical symptoms and laboratory findings were the same in patients with reversible and with fatal outcome. Early or immediate withdrawal of VPA after the first signs of VPA-associated hepatotoxicity may be responsible for the increased number of children who recovered after VPA-related severe liver failure. The pathogenesis of liver failure during VPA treatment remains unknown; metabolic defects and cofactors such as polypharmacy or infections have become increasingly likely to contribute by depleting intracellular CoA. Worldwide, 132 patients have died of VPA-associated liver failure and/or pancreatitis. Because a group at risk for fatalities with VPA cannot be defined precisely, patients treated with VPA and their families must be made well aware of the clinical symptoms of hepatotoxicity such as apathy, vomiting, or increased seizure frequency, especially in the presence of febrile infections. Laboratory tests and clinical controls during the first 6 months of therapy should not be neglected.
A case report of a hypertensive crisis resulting from the ingestion of tap beer in a patient on an irreversible monamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI; phenelzine) stimulated the investigation of different kinds of beer for tyramine concentration. The objective was to determine the tyramine concentration in tap and bottled beers. A total of 98 beer samples (79 different brands of beer) were analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography for tyramine. Of these 98 beers, 49 were bottled or canned beers and 49 were beers on tap. All of the bottled beers analyzed had safe tyramine concentrations (< or = 10 mg/liter; range, 0 to 3.16 mg/liter) and, thus, do not require restriction in patients receiving MAOIs. Therefore, the consumption of canned or bottled beer, including dealcoholized beer, in moderation (fewer than four bottles or cans; 1.5 liters within a 4-hour period) appears to be safe and does not require restriction in patients receiving MAOIs. Only 4 of 98 beer samples studied were found to have a dangerous (> 10 mg/liter) tyramine concentration, one of which was the index beer. The tyramine concentration in these four beers ranged from 26.34 to 112.91 mg/liter. All four of these beers were tap beers produced by bottom fermentation (lagers) and brewed by a secondary fermentation process. Although we did not find any visible bacterial growth in the tap beers with high tyramine content, this finding does not preclude the possibility that bacterial contamination, bacterial growth, production of tyramine, and eventually bacterial death occurred at some earlier time. Therefore, to err on the side of caution, it is recommended that patients on irreversible MAOIs avoid beers on tap.
Organophosphorus pesticides (OPs) are implicated in human asthma. We previously demonstrated that, at concentrations that do not inhibit acetylcholinesterase activity, the OP parathion causes airway hyperreactivity in guinea pigs as a result of functional loss of inhibitory M2 muscarinic receptors on parasympathetic nerves. Because macrophages are associated with asthma, we investigated whether macrophages mediate parathion-induced M2 receptor dysfunction and airway hyperreactivity. Airway physiology was measured in guinea pigs 24 h after a subcutaneous injection of parathion. Pretreatment with liposome-encapsulated clodronate induced alveolar macrophage apoptosis and prevented parathion-induced airway hyperreactivity in response to electrical stimulation of the vagus nerves. As determined by qPCR, TNF-α and IL-1β mRNA levels were increased in alveolar macrophages isolated from parathion-treated guinea pigs. Parathion treatment of alveolar macrophages ex vivo did not significantly increase IL-1β and TNF-α mRNA but did significantly increase TNF-α protein release. Consistent with these data, pretreatment with the TNF-α inhibitor etanercept but not the IL-1β receptor inhibitor anakinra prevented parathion-induced airway hyperreactivity and protected M2 receptor function. These data suggest a novel mechanism of OP-induced airway hyperreactivity in which low-level parathion activates macrophages to release TNF-α-causing M2 receptor dysfunction and airway hyperreactivity. These observations have important implications regarding therapeutic approaches for treating respiratory disease associated with OP exposures.
In this study we attempted to specify the behavioural profile of the analgesic flupirtine (1, 10 and 20 mg/kg p.o.) in the rat with respect to (i) its antiparkinsonian potential alone and as an adjunct to L-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) in the haloperidol-induced catalepsy (0.5 mg/kg haloperidol i.p.), (ii) locomotion and exploratory behaviour in the open field with holeboard, and (iii) possible psychomotor stimulating effects in the experimental chamber. In the two latter tests, behaviour was additionally challenged by D-amphetamine (2 mg/kg i.p.). In the catalepsy tests (horizontal bar, podium, grid) flupirtine alone was anticataleptic at doses of 10 and 20 mg/kg p.o., and the antiparkinsonian potential of a subthreshold dose of L-DOPA (50 mg/kg p.o.) was potentiated by 1 and 10 mg/kg p.o. flupirtine. On spontaneous forward locomotion in the open field with holeboard, flupirtine (1 and 10 mg/kg p.o.) had no marked effect but increased the frequency and duration of head dips, indicative for augmenting exploratory behaviour. Spontaneous rearing was reduced and D-amphetamine-induced rearing was enhanced by 1 mg/kg p.o. flupirtine. Grooming was reduced by 1 and 10 mg/kg p.o. flupirtine. In contrast, turning and grooming behaviour (spontaneous as well as D-amphetamine-induced) was not markedly influenced by flupirtine in the experimental chamber. Sniffing was increased in this test by 1 mg/kg p.o. flupirtine but not by the higher dose. Flupirtine is highly effective in antagonising neuroleptic-induced catalepsy as well as in potentiating L-DOPA treatment in the rat, suggesting it is a prospective new candidate for the therapy of Parkinson's disease.
