The anti-cancer activities and toxicities of retinoic acid (RA) and synthetic retinoids are mediated through nuclear RA receptors (RARs) and retinoid X receptors (RXRs) that act as transcription factors. Heteroarotinoids (Hets), which contain a heteroatom in the cyclic ring of an arotinoid structure, exhibit similar anti-cancer activities, but reduced toxicity in vivo, in comparison to parent retinoids and RA. A new class of Flexible Hets (Flex-Hets), which contain 3-atom urea or thiourea linkers, regulate growth and differentiation similar to RA, but do not activate RARs or RXRs. In addition, Flex-Hets induce potent apoptosis in ovarian cancer and in head and neck cancer cell lines through the intrinsic mitochondrial pathway. In this study, 4 cervical cancer cell lines were growth inhibited by micromolar concentrations of Flex-Hets to greater extents than RAR/RXR active retinoids. The most potent Flex-Het (SHetA2) inhibited each cell line of the National Cancer Institute's human tumor cell line panel at micromolar concentrations. Oral administration of Flex-Hets (SHetA2 and SHetA4) inhibited growth of OVCAR-3 ovarian cancer xenografts to similar extents as administration of a RAR/RXR-panagonist (SHet50) and Fenretinide (4-HPR) in vivo. None of these compounds induced evidence of skin, bone or liver toxicity, or increased levels of serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) in the treated mice. Topical application of Flex-Hets did not induce skin irritation in vivo, whereas a RAR/RXR-panagonist (NHet17) and a RARgamma-selective agonist (SHet65) induced similar irritancy as RA. In conclusion, Flex-Hets exhibit improved therapeutic ratios for multiple cancer types over RAR and/or RXR agonists.
Medication-induced sexual dysfunction can significantly interfere with patients' quality of life and lead to poor compliance. This retrospective study examined the records of 100 male veterans with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) selected in alphabetical order from an active treatment file of 230 patients. Forty-two patients had received clonazepam (mean maximum dose: 3.4 +/- 1.6 mg/day) at some point during their treatment. Of these, 18 (42.9%) complained of significant sexual dysfunction (primarily erectile dysfunction). Eighty-four patients received diazepam (mean maximum dose: 52.1 +/- 29.7 mg/day), nine received alprazolam (mean maximum dose: 5.2 +/- 2.8 mg/day) and eight received lorazepam (mean maximum dose: 3.8 +/- 2.4 mg/day). None of these patients complained of sexual dysfunction during treatment with these three other benzodiazepines. Our findings suggest that benzodiazepines, particularly clonazepam in the current study, can be a cause of sexual dysfunction in many male patients. Prospective studies comparing the overall clinical utility of various benzodiazepines are indicated in this and other clinic populations.
Acute psychosis was observed in two patients with AIDS who were treated with clarithromycin for disseminated Mycobacterium avium complex infection. The psychosis resolved when treatment with clarithromycin was discontinued and recurred when it was resumed. An adverse response to clarithromycin therapy is a rare but curable cause of acute psychosis in patients with AIDS.
The aim of this study is to evaluate the effects of RAPA conversion in patients undergoing cyclosporine (CsA) or tacrolimus (Tac) toxicity.
Twenty renal transplant recipients were switched to fixed dose rapamycin (RAPA) (5 mg/day) 0 to 204 months posttransplant. Drug monitoring was not initially used to adjust doses. The indications for switch were chronic CsA or Tac nephrotoxicity (12), acute CsA or Tac toxicity (3), severe facial dysmorphism (2), posttransplant lymphoproliferative disorder (PTLD) in remission (2), and hepatotoxicity in 1. Follow-up is 7 to 24 months.
In the 12 patients switched because of chronic nephrotoxicity there was a significant decrease in serum creatinine [233+/-34 to 210+/-56 micromol/liter (P<0.05) at 6 months]. Facial dysmorphism improved in two patients. No relapse of PTLD was observed. Five patients developed pneumonia (two Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia, one infectious mononucleosis with polyclonal PTLD lung infiltrate) and two had bronchiolitis obliterans. There were no deaths. RAPA was discontinued in four patients, because of pneumonia in two, PTLD in one, and oral aphtous ulcers in one. RAPA levels were high (>15 ng/ml) in 7 of 13 (54%) patients.
RAPA conversion provides adequate immunosuppression to enable CsA withdrawal. However, when converting patients to RAPA drug levels should be monitored to avoid over-immunosuppression and adequate antiviral and Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia prophylaxis should be given.
The present study was designed to test the hypothesis that i.v. nitroglycerin is as effective as sodium nitroprusside for managing acute hypertension early after coronary artery bypass surgery. Seventeen patients received both nitroglycerin and nitroprusside in a randomized crossover protocol. Infusion rates were increased stepwise to lower mean arterial pressures comparably with each drug. In 14 of 17 patients, similar infusion rates of the two vasodilators resulted in equal lowering of both blood pressure and systemic vascular resistance. In the remaining three patients, very high infusion rates of nitroglycerin were required and achieved only 20-50% of nitroprusside's response in two of three. Hemodynamic responses to the two vasodilators were similar, except that nitroglycerin increased cardiac output more than nitroprusside did. In contrast, pulmonary gas exchange responses differed in that nitroglycerin improved intrapulmonary shunting, while nitroprusside worsened it. Similarly, nitroglycerin resulted in a significantly smaller increase in the alveolar arterial oxygen gradient than did nitroprusside. These results suggest that in the majority of patients, i.v. nitroglycerin was as effective as nitroprusside in controlling acute hypertension after coronary artery bypass surgery. In addition, nitroglycerin appeared to have more favorable effects on pulmonary gas exchange. Because nitroglycerin has more beneficial effects on intercoronary collateral blood flow in the setting of regional ischemia, it may be preferable to nitroprusside in patients with ischemic heart disease.
We studied a large sample of male children from birth to adulthood to determine why some children who are maltreated grow up to develop antisocial behavior, whereas others do not. A functional polymorphism in the gene encoding the neurotransmitter-metabolizing enzyme monoamine oxidase A (MAOA) was found to moderate the effect of maltreatment. Maltreated children with a genotype conferring high levels of MAOA expression were less likely to develop antisocial problems. These findings may partly explain why not all victims of maltreatment grow up to victimize others, and they provide epidemiological evidence that genotypes can moderate children's sensitivity to environmental insults.
The nerve growth factor (NGF) is essential for the survival of both peripheral ganglion cells and central cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain. The accelerated loss of central cholinergic neurons during Alzheimer's disease may be a determinant cause of dementia, and this observation may suggest a possible therapeutic benefit from treatment with NGF. In recent years, convincing data have been published involving neurotrophic factors for the modulation of dopaminergic transmission within the brain and concerning the ability of NGF to prevent the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons. In this connection, the administration of NGF may slow down the progression of Parkinson's disease. However, NGF, as well as other peptidic neurotrophic factors, does not significantly penetrate the blood-brain barrier (BBB) from the circulation. Therefore, any clinical usefulness of NGF as a potential CNS therapy will depend on the use of a suitable carrier system that enhances its transport through the BBB. The present study investigates brain delivery of NGF adsorbed on poly(butyl cyanoacrylate) (PBCA) nanoparticles coated with polysorbate 80 and the pharmacological efficacy of this delivery system in the model of acute scopolamine-induced amnesia in rats as well as in the model of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced Parkinsonian syndrome. As shown by the passive avoidance reflex (PAR) test, the intravenous administration of the nanoparticle-bound NGF successfully reversed scopolamine-induced amnesia and improved recognition and memory. This formulation also demonstrated a significant reduction of the basic symptoms of Parkinsonism (oligokinesia, rigidity, tremor). In addition, the efficient transport of NGF across the BBB was confirmed by direct measurement of NGF concentrations in the murine brain. These results demonstrate that the PBCA nanoparticles coated with polysorbate 80 are an effective carrier system for the transport of NGF to the central nervous system across the BBB following intravenous injection. This approach may improve the NGF-based therapy of age-related neurodegenerative diseases.
Nuclear receptor coactivator [peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-binding protein (PBP)/mediator subunit 1 (MED1)] is a critical component of the mediator transcription complex. Disruption of this gene in the mouse results in embryonic lethality. Using the PBP/MED1 liver conditional null (PBP/MED1(DeltaLiv)) mice, we reported that PBP/MED1 is essential for liver regeneration and the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha ligand Wy-14,643-induced receptor-mediated hepatocarcinogenesis. We now examined the role of PBP/MED1 in genotoxic chemical carcinogen diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-induced and phenobarbital-promoted hepatocarcinogenesis. The carcinogenic process was initiated by a single intraperitoneal injection of DEN at 14 days of age and initiated cells were promoted with phenobarbital (PB) (0.05%) in drinking water. PBP/MED1(DeltaLiv) mice, killed at 1, 4 and 12 weeks, revealed a striking proliferative response of few residual PBP/MED1-positive hepatocytes that escaped Cre-mediated deletion of PBP/MED1 gene. No proliferative expansion of PBP/MED1 null hepatocytes was noted in the PBP/MED1(DeltaLiv) mouse livers. Multiple hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) developed in the DEN-initiated PBP/MED1(fl/fl) and PBP/MED1(DeltaLiv) mice, 1 year after the PB promotion. Of interest is that all HCC developing in PBP/MED1(DeltaLiv) mice were PBP/MED1 positive. None of the tumors was PBP/MED1 negative implying that hepatocytes deficient in PBP/MED1 are not susceptible to neoplastic conversion. HCC that developed in PBP/MED1(DeltaLiv) mouse livers were transplantable in athymic nude mice and these maintained PBP/MED1(fl/fl) genotype. PBP/MED1(fl/fl) HCC cell line derived from these tumors expressed PBP/MED1 and deletion of PBP/MED1(fl/fl) allele by adeno-Cre injection into tumors caused necrosis of tumor cells. These results indicate that PBP/MED1 is essential for the development of HCC in the mouse.
Treatment of female rats for 3 weeks with the antigestagen 11 beta-(4-dimethylaminophenyl)-17 beta-hydroxy-17 alpha-(prop-1-ynyl)-estra- 4,9-dien-3-one (mifepristone) results in pituitary and ovarian enlargement. The present study dealt with the possible mechanism(s) of these responses. Ovarian enlargement appeared to be dependent upon prolactin. In the absence of prolactin, during combined treatment with mifepristone and the dopamine agonist 2-Br-alpha-ergokryptine, ovarian growth was significantly suppressed. It was unclear why persistent hyperprolactinaemia, due to treatment with mifepristone, resulted in persistence of functionally active corpora lutea despite intermittent ovulation, while persistent hyperprolactinaemia due to ectopic pituitary grafts did not. Pituitary enlargement appeared to be dependent upon the persistence of ovarian oestrogen secretion during the treatment period. Ovariectomy or lactation fully inhibited this response. Pituitary enlargement and prolactin secretion in ovariectomized rats in response to exogenous oestrogen (injections of oestradiol benzoate) were significantly enhanced by additional treatment with mifepristone. It is concluded that mifepristone facilitates the effect of oestrogen on pituitary lactotrophs, thereby enhancing pituitary growth. Ovarian enlargement during treatment with mifepristone may be specific for rats due to the luteotrophic action of prolactin in these animals. Pituitary enlargement due to facilitation of oestrogen-induced pituitary growth may become a focus of attention when this or similar antigestagenic drugs are being used for prolonged periods in clinical trials, e.g. for limiting steroid-sensitive tumour growth.
Adenylosuccinase (ADSL) deficiency is an autosomal recessive disorder affecting mainly the nervous system. The disease causes psychomotor retardation, frequently with autistic features and epilepsy. ADSL deficiency may be diagnosed by detection of two abnormal metabolites in body fluids--succinyladenosine (S-Ado) and succinylaminoimidazole carboxamide riboside (SAICAr). It is assumed that the former metabolite is neurotoxic. We present clinical, biochemical and neuropathological findings of a child affected by a severe form of ADSL deficiency. She had progressive neurological symptoms that started immediately after birth and died at 2.5 months of age. Macroscopically the brain showed signs of moderate atrophy. Histological examination of all grey matter structures showed widespread damage of neurons accompanied by microspongiosis of neuropile. Cerebral white matter showed lack of myelination in the centrum semiovale and diffuse spongiosis of neuropile. Myelination appropriate for the age was visible in posterior limb of internal capsule, in striatum, thalamus and in brain stem structures but diffuse destruction of myelin sheets was seen with severe marked astroglial reaction with signs of destruction of the cells and their processes. Ultrastructural examination showed enormous destruction of all cellular elements, but astonishingly mitochondria were relatively spared. The neuropathological changes can be considered as the neurotoxic result of metabolic disturbances connected with adenylosuccinase deficiency.
We report 3 patients with nephrotic syndrome ascribed to primary systemic AL amyloidosis that were successfully treated with VAD (vincristine, doxorubicin and dexamethasone) alone. M-protein in serum disappeared soon after VAD, and nephrotic syndrome gradually improved in parallel with a decrease in daily protein excretion in urine. Long-term follow-up of these patients showed neither relapse of nephrotic syndrome nor reappearance of M-protein. High-dose melphalan followed by autologous stem cell support is a standard therapy for primary systemic AL amyloidosis, but in high-risk cases for this treatment, such as elderly patients and those with multiple organ involvement, VAD might be a therapeutic option.
Compulsive drug use is characterized by a pattern of drug seeking and consumption that becomes progressively habitual and less and less modifiable by external and internal factors. Although traditional views would posit that nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) neurons originating in the substantia nigra and innervating the dorsal striatum are primarily concerned with motor functions, recent studies have implicated the dorsal striatum in mediating stimulus-response (habit) learning. In this study, in vivo microdialysis in combination with a second-order schedule of cocaine reinforcement was used to investigate the role of the dorsal striatal dopamine innervation in well established drug-seeking behavior under the control of a drug-associated cue [light conditioned stimulus (CS+)]. Rats were initially trained to self-administer cocaine under a continuous reinforcement schedule where a response on one of two identical levers led to a 20 sec presentation of a light CS+ and an intravenous cocaine infusion (0.75 mg/kg). The response requirement for the CS+ and cocaine was then progressively increased until stable responding was established under a second-order schedule of reinforcement. During microdialysis, rats were presented with the cocaine-associated CS+ either noncontingently or contingent on responding during a session of cocaine-seeking behavior. The results showed a marked increase in DA release in the dorsal striatum during drug-seeking, when cocaine cues were presented contingently, but not when the same cue was presented noncontingently. These data indicate a possible involvement of the dopaminergic innervation of the dorsal striatum in well established, or habitual, cocaine-seeking behavior.
Repeated exposure to psychomotor stimulants produces a striking behavioral syndrome involving repetitive, stereotypic behaviors that occur if an additional exposure to the stimulant is experienced. The same stimulant exposure produces specific alterations in gene expression patterns in the striatum. To identify the dopamine receptor subtypes required for the parallel expression of these acquired neural and behavioral responses, we treated rats with different D1-class and D2-class dopamine receptor agonists and compared the responses of drug-naive rats with those of rats given previous intermittent treatment with cocaine. In rats exposed to repeated cocaine treatment, the effects of a subsequent challenge treatment with either a D1-class agonist (SKF 81297) or a D2-class agonist (quinpirole) were not significantly different from those observed in drug-naive animals: the drugs administered singly did not induce robust stereotyped motor behaviors nor produce significantly striosome-predominant expression of early genes in the striatum. In contrast, challenge treatment with the D1-class and D2-class agonists in combination led to marked and correlated increases in stereotypy and striosome-predominant gene expression in the striatum. Thus, immediately after repeated psychomotor stimulant exposure, only the concurrent activation of D1 and D2 receptor subclasses evoked expression of the neural and behavioral phenotypes acquired through repeated cocaine exposure. These findings suggest that D1-D2 dopamine receptor synergisms underlie the coordinate expression of both network-level changes in basal ganglia activation patterns and the repetitive and stereotypic motor response patterns characteristic of psychomotor stimulant sensitization.
We sought to evaluate changes in RR interval variability during dipyridamole infusion and dipyridamole-induced myocardial ischemia.
Myocardial ischemia and the autonomic nervous system can be mutually interdependent. Spectral analysis of RR interval variability is a useful tool in assessing autonomic tone.
We used a time variant autoregressive spectral estimation algorithm that could extract spectral variables even in the presence of nonstationary signals. Two groups were considered: group A (patients with ischemia, n = 15) with effort or mixed angina, angiographically assessed coronary artery disease and positive exercise and dipyridamole echocardiographic test results, and group B (control subjects, n = 10) with normal exercise and dipyridamole echocardiographic test results. We investigated the following variables: RR interval mean and variance, low frequency (LF) and high frequency (HF) power in normalized units, LF ratio (LF/LFbasal power), HF ratio (HF/HFbasal power) and LF/HF ratio. For each test epoch, we calculated for group A and group B the mean value +/- SE of all indexes considered. Differences due to an effect either of group (ischemic vs. control) or of time (including both drug and ischemia effects) were analyzed by using analysis of variance for repeated measurements.
Dipyridamole injection was characterized by a reduction of all spectral components in negative test. The LF ratio was the only variable able to discriminate patients with ischemia from control subjects (p < 0.05), whereas a time effect was evident for both mean RR interval and high frequency power in normalized units (p < 0.05). The LF ratio decreased in group B from 1 +/- 0.00 (basal) to 0.31 +/- 0.22 (peak), and increased in group A from 1 +/- 0.00 to 15.41 +/- 6.59, respectively. Results of an unpaired t test comparing the peak values of the two groups were also statistically significant (p < 0.01).
Our data show that time variant analysis of heart rate variability evidences an increase in the low frequency ratio that allows differentiation of positive from negative test results, suggesting that the electrocardiogram may contain ischemia information unrelated to ST-T variations, even if their enhancement requires a more complex data processing procedure.
The cardiovascular and neuromuscular interactions of verapamil and dantrolene were evaluated in 20 chloralose-anesthetized swine. The animals were randomly divided into three groups. Group I, ten animals, received a bolus intravenous injection of 0.1 mg . kg-1 of verapamil followed by the continuous infusion of 5 micrograms . kg-1 . min-1. This group was then randomly divided into two equal subgroups. Five of these animals, Group Ia, continued to receive the verapamil infusion alone. The other five animals, Group Ib, received dantrolene in incremental doses of 1.0, 3.3, and 5.6 mg . kg-1 while the verapamil infusion was continued. An additional group of five animals, Group II, received the same incremental doses of dantrolene but did not receive verapamil. Five control animals, Group III, received the alpha-chloralose anesthetic without dantrolene or verapamil. Neuromuscular function, as measured by twitch height, was affected only by dantrolene, which produced a dose-dependent depression. Verapamil resulted in initial decreases in heart rate, arterial blood pressure, cardiac output, left ventricular dP/dt, and an increase in PR interval. Dantrolene alone produced a mild increase in arterial blood pressure. Dantrolene administration to verapamil-pretreated animals resulted in a profound depression in cardiac function, marked elevation in serum K+ (8.0 +/- 0.7 mEq . l-1), and no change in arterial pH (7.39 +/- 0.02). Cardiac arrest preceded by complete atrioventricular heart block occurred in one animal before and in four animals after the final dantrolene dose was given to animals pretreated with verapamil. Although we cannot extrapolate data from our porcine model to humans, further studies are indicated to help evaluate a possible fatal drug interaction before verapamil and dantrolene are used concomitantly in a clinical setting.
Does resveratrol counteract age-associated infertility in a mouse model of reproductive aging?
Long-term-oral administration of resveratrol protects against the reduction of fertility with reproductive aging in mice.
Loss of oocytes and follicles and reduced oocyte quality contribute to age-associated ovarian aging and infertility. Accumulation of free radicals with age leads to DNA mutations, protein damage, telomere shortening, apoptosis and accelerated ovarian aging. Increasing evidence shows that resveratrol, enriched in certain foods, for example red grapes and wine, has anti-tumor and anti-aging effects on somatic tissues by influencing various signaling pathways, including anti-oxidation, as well as activating Sirt1 and telomerase. We investigated the potential of resveratrol to stave off ovarian aging in the inbred C57/BL6 mouse model.
Young C57/BL6 females (aged 2-3 months) were fed with resveratrol added to drinking water at 30 mg/l (providing ∼7.0 mg/kg/day) for 6 or 12 months, and the fertility and ovarian functions were compared among mice treated with or without resveratrol, and young mice served as reproductive controls. Experiments were repeated three times, with an average of 25 females randomly allocated to each treatment group for each repeat.
Reproductive performance of female mice was determined by litter size, ovarian follicles and oocyte quantity and quality, and compared with age-matched controls. The impact of resveratrol on telomeres and telomerase activity, and expression of genes associated with cell senescence also was evaluated.
Young mice fed with resveratrol for 12 months retained the capacity to reproduce, while age-matched controls produced no pups. Consistently, mice fed with resveratrol for 12 months exhibited a larger follicle pool than controls (P < 0.05). Furthermore, telomerase activity, telomere length and age-related gene expression in ovaries of mice fed with resveratrol resembled those of young mice, but differed (P < 0.05) from those of age-matched old mice. Resveratrol improved (P < 0.05) the number and quality of oocytes, as evidenced by spindle morphology and chromosome alignment. Also, resveratrol affected embryo development in vitro in a dose-dependent manner.
The doses of resveratrol and the experimental conditions used by different research groups have varied considerably, and the dosage influences both the effectiveness and toxicity of resveratrol. Fine-tuning the dosage of resveratrol likely will optimize its anti-aging effects on ovarian function.
Our data provide a proof of principle of the fertility-sparing effect of resveratrol in female mice. Although depletion of the ovarian reserve of high-quality oocytes also contributes to increased infertility with reproductive aging in women, the data obtained using a mouse model may not extrapolate directly to human reproduction, and more extensive research is needed if any clinic trials are to be attempted.
This work was supported by MOST of China National Basic Research Program (grant number: 2010CB94500 and 2012CB911200). The authors have no competing interests to declare.
We previously demonstrated that upper abdominal surgery on rats pretreated with phenobarbital and anesthetized with halothane caused centrilobular necrosis of the liver, which may be secondary to hepatic hypoxia induced by vasoconstriction. This study examined the possibility that celiac plexus blockade might decrease the degree of injury seen in the surgical model. Rats, pretreated with phenobarbital, were anesthetized with halothane, enflurane, isoflurane, or fentanyl with 100% oxygen. At the start of the hepatic artery dissection, the celiac plexus was blocked by injection of bupivacaine. Subsequently, the rat livers were evaluated for presence and degree of centrilobular necrosis. Animals anesthetized with halothane or fentanyl had a significantly greater incidence of centrilobular necrosis than controls (rats pretreated with phenobarbital who received no anesthesia or surgery). Hepatic injury in rats anesthetized with isoflurane or enflurane did not differ from that in controls. We conclude that celiac plexus blockade with bupivacaine provides no protection against hepatic necrosis in this model.
A man aged 27 years presented with an acute myocardial infarction after injecting himself intravenously with amphetamine. Soon after admission ventricular fibrillation developed. This was successfully cardioverted. Coronary arteriography was normal.
Manganese (Mn) and bilirubin (BR) induce intrahepatic cholestasis when injected sequentially. It was suggested that accumulation of newly synthesized cholesterol in the canalicular membrane is an initial step in the development of cholestasis. To clarify the involvement of cholesterol in the pathogenesis of Mn-BR-induced cholestasis, we examined biliary secretion and liver subcellular distribution of lipids in the cholestatic conditions (Mn-BR combination). We also examined hepatic metabolism of cholesterol under cholestatic and noncholestatic (Mn or BR given alone) conditions. The Mn-BR combination reduced bile flow by 50%, and bile acid, phospholipids, and cholesterol output by 42, 75, and 90%, respectively. There was a dramatic impairment of cholate excretion but not chenodeoxycholate excretion. Phosphatidylcholine species secreted into bile were unchanged, and microsomal total phospholipid content was significantly increased. Although there was no changes in liver membrane phospholipid content, the cholesterol/phospholipid ratio was increased by more than 50% in the canalicular fraction. Despite the increased concentration of cholesterol in canalicular membrane the activities of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase, key enzyme in cholesterol synthesis, and cholesterol 7alpha-hydroxylase, key enzyme in cholesterol conversion to bile acids, were significantly reduced. However, the injection of Mn alone significantly increased both enzymes, while BR alone inhibited cholesterol 7alpha-hydroxylase by 62%, without affecting HMG-CoA reductase. In conclusion, the critical cholestatic events in Mn-Br-induced cholestasis appear to be mediated through the synergistic effects of Mn and BR acting on synthesis and degradation of cholesterol.
To determine whether pain or discomfort could be provoked by adenosine in skeletal muscle and, if so, whether it was dependent on the vasodilatation produced by adenosine, eight male volunteers were given intra-arterial bolus injections of adenosine and glyceryl trinitrate into the forearm. Local pain was assessed on a scale rate, forearm blood flow was measured by venous occlusion plethysmography, and blood was sampled simultaneously from the deep vein of the same arm. Five different doses of adenosine, ranging between the maximum tolerable and the lowest producing pain or discomfort, were given intra-arterially in random order and repeated in reverse order. Glyceryl trinitrate was given intra-arterially in increasing doses from 1 to 20 micrograms. Pain or discomfort began 12(1)(SEM) s after administration reached its maximum after 17(1) s, and disappeared after 40(2) s. Pain or discomfort appeared 8(1) s (p less than 0.001) after the first recorded increase in forearm blood flow, whereas maximum pain or discomfort preceded maximal forearm blood flow by 5(1) s (p less than 0.001). The flow remained increased after the disappearance of pain or discomfort. The effects of adenosine on pain or discomfort and vasodilatation were dose dependent. Glyceryl trinitrate provoked a similar increase in flow to that with adenosine without producing pain or discomfort. Arterial occlusion for 5 min at rest or forearm exercise with arterial occlusion increased forearm blood flow to the same extent as the maximum dose of adenosine. In addition, ischaemic work slightly increased the plasma concentration of adenosine. The pain or discomfort after ischaemic work was not considered different from the adenosine provoked pain or discomfort by four of the subjects. It is concluded that the symptoms did not appear to be dependent on vasodilatation and therefore adenosine may contribute to ischaemic pain or discomfort.
In 1979 Steinberg and colleagues recognized a unique kindred with normotriglyceridemic hypobetalipoproteinemia (1979. J. Clin. Invest. 64:292-301). We have undertaken an intensive reexamination of this kindred and have studied 41 family members in three generations. In this family we document the presence of two distinct apo B alleles associated with low plasma concentrations of apolipoprotein (apo) B and low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and we trace the inheritance of these two alleles over three generations. One of the alleles resulted in the production of an abnormal, truncated apo B species, apo B-37. The other apo B allele was associated with reduced plasma concentrations of the normal apo B species, apo B-100. H.J.B., the proband, and two of his siblings had both abnormal apo B alleles and were therefore compound heterozygotes for familial hypobetalipoproteinemia. Their average LDL-cholesterol level was 6 +/- 9 mg/dl. All of the offspring of the three compound heterozygotes had hypobetalipoproteinemia, and each had evidence of only one of the abnormal apo B alleles. In the entire kindred, we identified six heterozygotes for familial hypobetalipoproteinemia who had only the abnormal apo B-37 allele and their average LDL cholesterol was 31 +/- 12 mg/dl. We identified 10 heterozygotes who had only the allele for reduced plasma concentrations of apo B-100 and their LDL cholesterol level was 31 +/- 15 mg/dl. Unaffected family members (n = 22) had LDL cholesterol levels of 110 +/- 27 mg/dl. This report describes the first kindred in which two distinct abnormal apo B alleles have been identified, both of which are associated with familial hypobetalipoproteinemia.
Aristolochic acid I (AAI) is a primary nephrotoxin and carcinogen that is found in some Chinese herbal medicines, and AAI is responsible for the progression of aristolochic acid nephropathy. The membrane associated proteins in the eicosanoid and glutathione metabolism (MAPEG) superfamily are associated with cysteinyl leukotrienes (cysLTs) synthesis. The present study investigated whether cysLTs synthesis was involved in AAI-induced renal proximal tubular epithelial cell injury in LLC-PK1 cells. Based on MAPEG and related molecular events, the potential mechanisms of AAI-induced LLC-PK1 cell injury were explored. AAI triggered the mitochondrial/caspase apoptotic pathway in LLC-PK1 cells, which was indicated by an enhanced Bax/Bcl-2 ratio, loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, cytochrome C release, and caspase 3 activation. In addition, AAI-induced cysLTs release was accompanied by selective upregulation of 5-lipoxygenase activating protein (FLAP) and microsomal glutathione S-transferase 3 (mGST3) in a concentration-dependent manner. The FLAP inhibitor MK866 significantly protected cells from AAI-induced apoptosis. Furthermore, activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2 and inhibition of phosphorylated p38-MAPK were demonstrated at the early phase of AAI treatment. Notably, the MEK/ERK inhibitor U0126 reversed AAI-induced apoptosis and reduced both FLAP, mGST3 and mitochondrial/caspase protein expression. Taken together, these findings suggest that cysLTs synthesis is involved in AAI-induced apoptosis via an ERK activation way.
Fourteen clinical trials were conducted in Australia to evaluate the safety and efficacy of salbutamol infusions in the prevention of premature labour. A total of 527 single pregnancies and 36 multiple pregnancies during which this treatment was used were reported sufficiently fully for inclusion in this report. The results suggest that significant prolongation of pregnancy can be achieved in most cases, provided that cervical dilatation is less than 3 cm and that the membranes are intact. If either of these conditions is absent, prolongation of pregnancy is still possible in some cases. The treatment is not without risks, and adequate supervision is essential.
Caffeine is a definite factor of intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR). Previously, we have confirmed that prenatal caffeine ingestion inhibits the development of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, and alters the glucose and lipid metabolism in IUGR fetal rats. In this study, we aimed to verify a programmed alteration of neuroendocrine metabolism in prenatal caffeine ingested-offspring rats. The results showed that prenatal caffeine (120 mg/kg.day) ingestion caused low body weight and high IUGR rate of pups; the concentrations of blood adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and corticosterone in caffeine group were significantly increased in the early postnatal period followed by falling in late stage; the level of blood glucose was unchanged, while blood total cholesterol (TCH) and triglyceride (TG) were markedly enhanced in adult. After chronic stress, the concentrations and the gain rates of blood ACTH and corticosterone were obviously increased, meanwhile, the blood glucose increased while the TCH and TG decreased in caffeine group. Further, the hippocampal mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) expression in caffeine group was initially decreased and subsequently increased after birth. After chronic stress, the 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase-1, glucocorticoid receptor (GR), MR as well as the MR/GR ratio were all significantly decreased. These results suggested that prenatal caffeine ingestion induced the dysfunction of HPA axis and associated neuroendocrine metabolic programmed alteration in IUGR offspring rats, which might be related with the functional injury of hippocampus. These observations provide a valuable experimental basis for explaining the susceptibility of IUGR offspring to metabolic syndrome and associated diseases.
To characterize the tail-tremor and locomotor hyperactivity induced by repeated nicotine administration, the effects of nicotinic, alpha-adrenergic and dopaminergic blockers were investigated in rats. Daily administration of nicotine (0.5 mg/kg, s.c.) induced tail-tremor from the 4th day, which became more marked in intensity by subsequent administration. Locomotor hyperactivity was also induced by nicotine, which was enhanced by daily administration. The tail-tremor and locomotor hyperactivity induced by repeated nicotine administration were inhibited by mecamylamine (0.1-1 mg/kg, i.p.) but not by hexamethonium (0.5 and 1 mg/kg, i.p.). Clonidine (0.02 and 0.04 mg/kg, i.p.) and prazosin (0.5 and 1 mg/kg, i.p.) reduced tail-tremor more markedly than hyperactivity. However, haloperidol (0.05-0.2 mg/kg, i.p.) and chlorpromazine (1-5 mg/kg, i.p.) reduced hyperactivity more markedly than tail-tremor. These results suggest that nicotine-induced tail-tremor and hyperactivity are due to an increased susceptibility of central nicotinic receptors of nicotine followed by catecholaminergic mechanisms, and that tail-tremor may be more associated with the noradrenergic system than the dopaminergic system.
Kala-azar, or visceral leishmaniasis, in India is generally assumed to be a result of infection with Leishmania donovani. 15 parasite isolates collected over the past 10 years from patients with classical disease were typed by monoclonal antibodies, isoenzymes, and kDNA analysis. 4 were shown to be L tropica, a species historically associated with cutaneous disease and more recently a mild "visceralising" disease from the Desert Storm experience. The results confirm that L tropica is a co-endemic agent of visceral leishmaniasis in India, and may shed light on the rising frequency of therapeutic unresponsiveness to sodium antimony gluconate, which complicates treatment of this lethal disease.
Sulindac (Clinoril), a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent, has few reported neurologic toxic effects, all of which have been associated with systemic disease. To our knowledge, we describe the first reported case of isolated paresthesia and peripheral neuropathy, without systemic involvement, secondary to sulindac administration. A healthy, 30-year-old man, exposed to sulindac on two separate occasions, had an incapacitating isolated idential sensory neuropathy. The onset and duration of symptoms correlated directly to drug ingestion. This hypersensitivity response cannot be explained pathophysiologically by any mechanism. Repeated exposure and rechallenge of the subject to sulindac was deemed too dangerous, and precludes exact method to establish mechanisms to explain this transient, reproducible, idiosyncratic, adverse drug reaction.
Benztropine (BZT) analogs, a family of high-affinity dopamine transporter ligands, are molecules that exhibit pharmacological and behavioral characteristics predictive of significant therapeutic potential in cocaine addiction. Here, we examined in mice the effects of 3 alpha-[bis(4'-fluorophenyl)metoxy]-tropane (AHN-1055) on motor activity, conditioned place preference (CPP) and c-Fos expression in the striatum. AHN-1055 produced mild attenuation of spontaneous locomotor activity at a low dose (1 mg/kg) and weak stimulation at a higher dose (10 mg/kg). In parallel, the BZT analog significantly increased c-Fos expression in the dorsolateral caudoputamen at the high dose, whereas producing marginal decreases at low and moderate doses (1, 3 mg/kg) in both dorsal and ventral striatum. Interaction assays showed that cocaine's ability to stimulate locomotor activity was decreased by AHN-1055 treatment, but not by treatment with D-amphetamine. Such reduced ability did not result from an increase in stereotyped behavior. Another dopamine uptake inhibitor, nomifensine, decreased cocaine-induced locomotor activity but evoked by itself intense motor stereotypies. Remarkably, the BZT analog dose-dependently blocked cocaine-induced CPP without producing CPP when given alone, and blocked in conditioned mice cocaine-stimulated early-gene activation in the nucleus accumbens and dorsomedial striatum. These observations provide evidence that AHN-1055 does not behave as a classical psychomotor stimulant and that some of its properties, including attenuation of cocaine-induced striatal c-Fos expression, locomotor stimulation, and CPP, support its candidacy, and that of structurally related molecules, as possible pharmacotherapies in cocaine addiction.
Pheochromocytoma is an infrequent secondary cause of arterial hypertension, often associated with paroxysmal headache, sweating, weight loss, and palpitations. Cardiovascular complications of pheochromocytoma include sudden death, heart failure due to toxic cardiomyopathy, and hypertensive encephalopathy. Here we report the case of a female with an acquired long-QT-syndrome as a rare complication of an extra-adrenal pheochromocytoma. Diagnosis was made after sotalol-induced Torsades de Pointes.
