Paracervical block during labor following normal, uncomplicated pregnancy is occasionally accompanied by fetal bradycardia. To evaluate whether a paracervical block with bupivacaine causes changes in the vascular resistance of uteroplacental and umbilicoplacental blood flow, a total of 12 singleton, uncomplicated pregnancies in active labor at the end of pregnancy were included to this study. By using pulsed color Doppler ultrasound techniques the pulsatility indices were measured from both uterine and umbilical arteries before, one minute and 20 minutes after a paracervical block with bupivacaine. Pulsatility indices of both uterine and umbilical arteries remained unchanged throughout the study period, as did fetal and maternal heart rates. In two cases fetal bradycardia developed, causing a marked increase in the vascular resistance of the umbilical artery one minute after the paracervical block. In the uterine arteries there was only a minor increase. When the fetal bradycardia ceased the pulsatility indices returned to the levels at the beginning of the study. Paracervical block with bupivacaine in normal pregnancies without signs of chronic or acute fetal distress does not change the vascular resistance in the uterine or umbilical arteries. If fetal bradycardia develops, it seems to be due to the direct effect of bupivacaine on the fetus, mainly on the umbilical vessels.
The purpose of this article is to discuss treatment of side effects that can occur during lithium therapy. Side effects from lithium are common but generally benign. For this article, I have divided the side effects into those that occur early, those that are late appearing, side effects related to drug interactions, and lithium toxicity. Side effects can decrease compliance. Lithium is a very effective drug for the stabilization of mood disorder in bipolar patients. Since side effects can affect compliance, recognition and treatment of early and late-appearing side effects are important aspects of lithium pharmacotherapy.
Joining cetuximab, sorafenib, afatinib, intedanib, and crizotinib in phase III development for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) are ramucirumab (developed by ImClone, a subsidiary of Lilly), necitumumab (developed by ImClone and Bristol-Myers Squibb), and tivantinib (ARQ 197, developed by ArQule and Daiichi Sankyo). Necitumumab is a second-generation anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody (mAb) similar to cetuximab. Enrollment has been stopped in one of two necitumumab phase III trials because of safety concerns. Ramucirumab is an anti-VEGFR2 mAb targeting the same pathway as bevacizumab. Although the phase II safety data for ramucirumab appear better than the data for necitumumab, fewer phase III data are available. Tivantinib is a highly selective, orally available MET tyrosine kinase inhibitor. MET is overexpressed in 61% of NSCLC cases. Although tivantinib is the last of the three agents discussed here to enter phase III, its phase II results are the most robust.
We treated 34 primary lung cancer patients with chemotherapy of cisplatin and etoposide. There were 2 cases of CR (15%) and 8 cases of PR (61%) out of 13 cases of small cell lung cancer. No case of CR and one case of PR (5%) were obtained out of 21 cases of non-small cell cancer. Side effects were leukopenia, increase of BUN and creatinine, angina pectoris, supraventricular premature contraction, and renal failure. WBC reached nadir on day 15 on average. When we repeated this regimen, we encountered 3 cases of acute myocardial infarction, and it was useful for small cell lung cancer.
Identification of the specific pollutants contributing most to the health hazard of the air pollution mixture may have important implications for environmental and social policies. In the current study, we conducted a time-series analysis to examine the specific effects of major air pollutants [particulate matter less than 10 microns in diameter (PM(10)), sulfur dioxide (SO(2)), and nitrogen dioxides (NO(2))] on daily mortality in Shanghai, China, using both single-pollutant and multiple-pollutant models. In the single-pollutant models, PM(10), SO(2), and NO(2) were found to be associated with mortality from both all non-accidental causes and from cardiopulmonary diseases. Unlike some prior studies in North America, we found a significant effect of gaseous pollutants (SO(2) and NO(2)) on daily mortality even after adjustment for PM(10) in the multiple-pollutant models. Our findings, combined with previous Chinese studies showing a consistent, significant effect of gaseous pollutants on mortality, suggest that the role of outdoor exposure to SO(2) and NO(2) should be investigated further in China.
Myocardial substrate extraction, coronary sinus flow, left ventricular pressure, and cardiac output were measured in 11 patients with angina pectoris at three pacing rates before and after atenolol (0.2 mg/kg). Left ventricular pressures, and the product of systolic pressure time index and heart rate did not change, but max dP/dt and KV max fell after atenolol. Only at the lowest pacing rate did the drug reduce cardiac output. Coronary sinus blood flow and myocardial oxygen uptake did not change after atenolol. At the highest pacing rate before atenolol four patients developed angina, accompanied by a rise in end-diastolic pressure. After atenolol angina was abolished in three, but the end-diastolic pressure still rose at the highest pacing rate. Myocardial lactate extraction ratio fell as heart rate increased, and was lower in the patients who developed angina. After atenolol, lactate extraction ratio increased significantly at the highest and lowest pacing rates. Myocardial pyruvate extraction rose after the drug. Arterial concentrations of hydroxybutyrate and acetoacetate fell after atenolol, but the decrease in their extraction was not significant. Myocardial extraction of free fatty acids was related to arterial concentration, which fell after atenolol. The changes in lactate and pyruvate extraction after atenolol were related inversely to changes in arterial free fatty acid concentration suggesting that the improvement in myocardial metabolism could have been secondary to reduced peripheral lipolysis. The increase in lactate extraction was associated with relief of angina, but did not abolish the rise in end-diastolic pressure induced by pacing.
An adverse intrauterine environment can increase the incidence of hypertension and other cardiovascular disease risk factors. However, in clinical and experimental studies the magnitude of the effect is variable. Possibly, the relative influence of the prenatal environment on cardiovascular disease is determined in part by genetic factors that predispose individuals to the development of environmentally induced hypertension. We tested this hypothesis by comparing the effects of prenatal dexamethasone treatment (Dex, 300 microg kg(-1) i.p. on days 15 and 16 of gestation) in borderline hypertensive rats (BHR) and control Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats. Blood pressure, heart rate and plasma corticosterone values were measured at rest during the middle of the day, and during 1 h of restraint stress in the adult offspring using indwelling arterial catheters implanted at least 4 days prior to data collection. Compared with the saline (vehicle) control treatment, prenatal dexamethasone significantly (P < 0.05) increased baseline mean arterial pressure in male (123 +/- 2 versus 131 +/- 3 mmHg, saline versus Dex) and female (121 +/- 2 versus 130 +/- 2 mmHg, saline versus Dex) BHR, but not in male (108 +/- 3 versus 113 +/- 2 mmHg, saline versus Dex) or female (112 +/- 2 versus 110 +/- 2 mmHg, saline versus Dex) WKY rats. Relative to saline treatment, prenatal Dex also significantly increased baseline heart rate (328 +/- 6 versus 356 +/- 5 beats min(-1), saline versus Dex) and plasma corticosterone (5 +/- 2 versus 24 +/- 4 microg dl(-1), saline versus Dex), and prolonged the corticosterone response to acute stress, selectively in female BHR. However, prenatal Dex significantly enhanced the arterial pressure response to acute stress only in female WKY, while Dex augmented the elevation in heart rate during stress only in male rats. We conclude that prenatal dexamethasone increased baseline arterial pressure selectively in BHR, and plasma corticosterone only in female BHR. In contrast, prenatal Dex enhanced cardiovascular reactivity to stress in both BHR and WKY rats.
TNF-alpha, including other proinflammatory cytokines alone or in combination, induces iNOS expression and upregulates inflammatory responses. We evaluated the relationship between TNF-alpha and iNOS expression in indomethacin-induced jejunoileitis in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Rats were fed a daily dose of a phosphodiesterase inhibitor-either theophylline or pentoxifylline-for 2 days. Jejunoileitis was induced with two subcutaneous injections of indomethacin (7.5 mg/kg) 24 hr apart and theophylline or pentoxifylline continued for 12 hr or 4 days. Other rats received a single intraperitoneal injection of anti-TNF-alpha monoclonal antibody (TNF-Ab) 30-min before indomethacin. At 4 days TNF-Ab, theophylline, or pentoxifylline treatment significantly decreased indomethacin-induced ulceration, myeloperoxidase activity, and disease activity index. Although indomethacin significantly increased serum TNF-alpha and nitrate/nitrite levels over the control value as early as 12 hr, iNOS expression was detected only after 4 days. Serum IL-1beta level did not change at 12 hr but increased fourfold at 4 days. Treatment with TNF-Ab, theophylline, or pentoxifylline significantly reduced serum/tissue TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, nitrate/nitrite, and iNOS expression. The downregulation of nitrate/nitrite by these inhibitors suggests that TNF-alpha modulates iNOS expression.
In developing an vivo drug-interception therapy to treat cocaine abuse and hinder relapse into drug seeking provoked by re-encounter with cocaine, two promising agents are: (1) a cocaine hydrolase enzyme (CocH) derived from human butyrylcholinesterase and delivered by gene transfer; (2) an anti-cocaine antibody elicited by vaccination. Recent behavioral experiments showed that antibody and enzyme work in a complementary fashion to reduce cocaine-stimulated locomotor activity in rats and mice. Our present goal was to test protection against liver damage and muscle weakness in mice challenged with massive doses of cocaine at or near the LD50 level (100-120 mg/kg, i.p.). We found that, when the interceptor proteins were combined at doses that were only modestly protective in isolation (enzyme, 1mg/kg; antibody, 8 mg/kg), they provided complete protection of liver tissue and motor function. When the enzyme levels were ~400-fold higher, after in vivo transduction by adeno-associated viral vector, similar protection was observed from CocH alone.
Apert syndrome, associated with fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) 2 mutations, is characterized by premature fusion of cranial sutures. We analyzed proliferation and differentiation of calvaria cells derived from Apert infants and fetuses with FGFR-2 mutations. Histological analysis revealed premature ossification, increased extent of subperiosteal bone formation, and alkaline phosphatase- positive preosteoblastic cells in Apert fetal calvaria compared with age-matched controls. Preosteoblastic calvaria cells isolated from Apert infants and fetuses showed normal cell growth in basal conditions or in response to exogenous FGF-2. In contrast, the number of alkaline phosphatase- positive calvaria cells was fourfold higher than normal in mutant fetal calvaria cells with the most frequent Apert FGFR-2 mutation (Ser252Trp), suggesting increased maturation rate of cells in the osteoblastic lineage. Biochemical and Northern blot analyses also showed that the expression of alkaline phosphatase and type 1 collagen were 2-10-fold greater than normal in mutant fetal calvaria cells. The in vitro production of mineralized matrix formed by immortalized mutant fetal calvaria cells cultured in aggregates was also increased markedly compared with control immortalized fetal calvaria cells. The results show that Apert FGFR-2 mutations lead to an increase in the number of precursor cells that enter the osteogenic pathway, leading ultimately to increased subperiosteal bone matrix formation and premature calvaria ossification during fetal development, which establishes a connection between the altered genotype and cellular phenotype in Apert syndromic craniosynostosis.
The activation of alpha2-adrenoceptors has been reported to impair memory functions in both rats and humans. The alpha2-adrenoceptor subtype responsible for this detrimental effect is still unknown. The effect of the alpha2-agonists clonidine and guanabenz on memory processes, in dependence to the time of administration, was evaluated in the mouse passive avoidance test. Clonidine (0.02-0.2 mg kg(-1) i.p.) and guanabenz (0.1-0.3 mg kg(-1) i.p.) induced amnesia in a dose-dependent manner. From time-course experiments emerged that the impairment of memory function was detectable only when clonidine and guanabenz were administered 60 min before or immediately after the training test, respectively. This detrimental effect was prevented by pretreatment with the alpha2-antagonist yohimbine (1-3 mg kg(-1) i.p.) and by the alpha2A-antagonist BRL-44408 (0.3-1 mg kg(-1) i.p.). By contrast, the alpha(2B,C) antagonists ARC-239 (10 mg kg(-1) i.p.) and prazosin (1 mg kg(-1) i.p.) did not revert the amnesia induced by both clonidine and guanabenz. At the highest effective doses, clonidine and guanabenz were devoid of behavioral side-effects as well as maintained unaltered the motor coordination, as revealed by the rota-rod test. Furthermore, none of the compounds used modified the spontaneous motility as indicated by the Animex apparatus. These results indicate that clonidine and guanabenz impaired memory processes in a mouse passive avoidance paradigm through the selective activation of the alpha2A-adrenoceptor subtype.
Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) depletion syndrome (MDS; MIM 251880) is a prevalent cause of oxidative phosphorylation disorders characterized by a reduction in mtDNA copy number. The hitherto recognized disease mechanisms alter either mtDNA replication (POLG (ref. 1)) or the salvage pathway of mitochondrial deoxyribonucleosides 5'-triphosphates (dNTPs) for mtDNA synthesis (DGUOK (ref. 2), TK2 (ref. 3) and SUCLA2 (ref. 4)). A last gene, MPV17 (ref. 5), has no known function. Yet the majority of cases remain unexplained. Studying seven cases of profound mtDNA depletion (1-2% residual mtDNA in muscle) in four unrelated families, we have found nonsense, missense and splice-site mutations and in-frame deletions of the RRM2B gene, encoding the cytosolic p53-inducible ribonucleotide reductase small subunit. Accordingly, severe mtDNA depletion was found in various tissues of the Rrm2b-/- mouse. The mtDNA depletion triggered by p53R2 alterations in both human and mouse implies that p53R2 has a crucial role in dNTP supply for mtDNA synthesis.
The intramuscular administration of 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisoxazolo [4,5-c] pyridin-3-ol (THPO) delayed the onset of isonicotinic acid hydrazide-induced seizures in very young chicks but not in adult mice, the difference being due to the state of development of the blood-brain-barrier which controls access of the drug to the brain tissue. THPO was also effective in preventing seizures induced in epileptic chicks by intermittent photic stimulation. The anticonvulsant action after combined administration of THPO and gabaculine, an inhibitor of GABA-alpha-oxoglutarate aminotransferase activity, was no greater than the anticonvulsant action of gabaculine alone.
Troglitazone (CS-045) is one of the thiazolidinediones that activate the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma), which is expressed primarily in adipose tissues. To elucidate the mechanism by which troglitazone relieves insulin resistance in vivo, we studied its effects on the white adipose tissues of an obese animal model (obese Zucker rat). Administration of troglitazone for 15 d normalized mild hyperglycemia and marked hyperinsulinemia in these rats. Plasma triglyceride level was decreased by troglitazone in both obese and lean rats. Troglitazone did not change the total weight of white adipose tissues but increased the number of small adipocytes (< 2,500 micron2) approximately fourfold in both retroperitoneal and subcutaneous adipose tissues of obese rats. It also decreased the number of large adipocytes (> 5,000 micron2) by approximately 50%. In fact, the percentage of apoptotic nuclei was approximately 2.5-fold higher in the troglitazone-treated retroperitoneal white adipose tissue than control. Concomitantly, troglitazone normalized the expression levels of TNF-alpha which were elevated by 2- and 1.4-fold in the retroperitoneal and mesenteric white adipose tissues of the obese rats, respectively. Troglitazone also caused a dramatic decrease in the expression levels of leptin, which were increased by 4-10-fold in the white adipose tissues of obese rats. These results suggest that the primary action of troglitazone may be to increase the number of small adipocytes in white adipose tissues, presumably via PPARgamma. The increased number of small adipocytes and the decreased number of large adipocytes in white adipose tissues of troglitazone-treated obese rats appear to be an important mechanism by which increased expression levels of TNF-alpha and higher levels of plasma lipids are normalized, leading to alleviation of insulin resistance.
We conducted a case-control study of adulthood asthma and point-source respirable particulate air pollution with asthma-diagnosed case patients (n = 3717) and gastroenteritis-diagnosed control patients (n = 4129) to determine effects of particulate air pollution on public health.
We used hospitalization data from Buffalo, NY, neighborhoods for a 5-year period (1996 through 2000), geographic information systems techniques, the Diggle method, and statistical analysis to compare the locations of case patients and control patients in terms of proximity to different known pollution sources in the study area.
We found a clustering of asthma cases in close proximity to the Peace Bridge Complex and the freeways and a dose-response relationship indicating a decreased risk of asthma prevalence the farther an individual resides from the source of exposure.
These findings provide a basis for the development of new hypotheses relating to the spatial distribution of asthma prevalence and morbidity in this community.
Exposure of male rats to parathion (2.6 mg/kg), lindane (17.6 mg/kg), or their combination through oral intubation daily for a period of 90 days produced histological and biochemical alterations in the liver and testis. The focal necrosis of the liver, although observed in all the treatments, was very prominent in the animals exposed to lindane alone. The kidney and epididymis, however, did not show any significant histological lesions. The activity of acetylcholine esterase in blood and brain decreased markedly, whereas that of succinic dehydrogenase, adenosine triphosphatase, and the alkaline and acid phosphate in liver and testis showed significant alterations for all three treatments.
Human inherited cataract is both clinically diverse and genetically heterogeneous. Here we report the identification of the first mutations affecting the major intrinsic protein of the lens, MIP, encoded by the gene MIP on 12q14. MIP is a member of the aquaporin family of membrane-bound water channels. The mutations identified are predicted to disturb water flux across the lens cell membrane.
To examine the inhibitory effect of melatonin (MLT) on the development of pituitary prolactin-producing tumors (prolactinoma) induced by 17-beta-estradiol (E2), in vivo, and explore MLT's oncostatic mechanisms.
The prolactinomas were established by implanting E2-laden silastic capsules subcutaneously in Sprague-Dawley male rats. MLT doses 0.05, 0.25, 0.50, 1.00, and 2.00 mg/rat were administrated separately to 5 groups subcutaneously starting seven days prior to tumor induction for 97 days. The matched controls were given equal volumes of 4% alcohol in saline.
(1) The prolactinoma weights in 0.05, 0.25, 0.50, 1.00 and 2.00 mg MLT dose groups were 25.91% (P > 0.05), 48.78% (P < 0.01), 36.78% (P < 0.05), 31.04% (P > 0.05) and 35.22% (P > 0.05) respectively which were lower than that of control group; (2) The PRL mRNA levels of prolactinoma in 0.05, 0.25, and 0.50 mg MLT dose groups were 33.67% (P < 0.05), 25.51% (P < 0.05) and 41.84% (P < 0.01) respectively which were lower than that of control group as estimated by Northern Blot, and the in situ hybridization studies; (3) The DNA contents of prolactinoma in 0.05, 0.25 and 0.50 mg MLT dose groups were 40.73% (P < 0.001), 51.15% (P < 0.001) and 60.23% (P < 0.001) respectively which were lower than that of control group by laser scanning confocal microscopy; (4) Plasma peroxidative lipid contents in 0.05, 0.25, 0.50, 1.00 and 2.00 mg MLT dose groups were 26.45% (P < 0.05), 23.97% (P < 0.05), 47.11% (P < 0.001), 66.12%(P < 0.001) and 64.46% (P < 0.001) respectively which were lower than that of control group. The correlation coefficient between MLT doses and plasma peroxidative lipid contents was -0.8257 (P < 0.05).
MLT in suitable doses is able to inhibit the development of E2-induced prolactinoma by inhibiting the expression of PRL gene and the DNA synthesis. The link between MLT antioxidative action and its inhibitory effect on development of prolactinoma should be further investigated.
Recently, we reported that human breast cancer-associated fibroblasts show functional inactivation of the retinoblastoma (RB) tumor suppressor and down-regulation of caveolin-1 (Cav-1) protein expression. However, it remains unknown whether loss of Cav-1 is sufficient to confer functional RB inactivation in mammary fibroblasts. To establish a direct cause-and-effect relationship, mammary stromal fibroblasts (MSFs) were prepared from Cav-1(-/-) null mice and subjected to phenotypic analysis. Here, we provide evidence that Cav-1(-/-) MSFs share many characteristics with human cancer-associated fibroblasts. The Cav-1(-/-) MSF transcriptome significantly overlaps with human cancer-associated fibroblasts; both show a nearly identical profile of RB/E2F-regulated genes that are up-regulated, which is consistent with RB inactivation. This Cav-1(-/-) MSF gene signature is predictive of poor clinical outcome in breast cancer patients treated with tamoxifen. Consistent with these findings, Cav-1(-/-) MSFs show RB hyperphosphorylation and the up-regulation of estrogen receptor co-activator genes. We also evaluated the paracrine effects of "conditioned media" prepared from Cav-1(-/-) MSFs on wild-type mammary epithelia. Our results indicate that Cav-1(-/-) MSF "conditioned media" is sufficient to induce an epithelial-mesenchymal transition, indicative of an invasive phenotype. Proteomic analysis of this "conditioned media" reveals increased levels of proliferative/angiogenic growth factors. Consistent with these findings, Cav-1(-/-) MSFs are able to undergo endothelial-like transdifferentiation. Thus, these results have important implications for understanding the role of cancer-associated fibroblasts and RB inactivation in promoting tumor angiogenesis.
Cancer stem cells (CSCs) are likely critical to carcinogenesis, and, like normal stem cells (NSCs), are affected by microenvironmental factors. Malignant cells release extracellular factors, modifying tumor behavior. Inorganic arsenic, a human carcinogen, is associated with an overproduction of CSCs in various model systems of carcinogenesis.
We aimed to determine if NSCs are influenced by nearby arsenic-transformed malignant epithelial cells (MECs) as a possible factor in arsenic-associated CSC overabundance.
Transwell noncontact co-culture allowed the study of the effects of non-contiguous, arsenic-transformed prostate MECs on the isogenic human prostate NSC line, WPE-stem. Cancer phenotype was assessed by evaluating secreted matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), invasiveness, colony formation, and spheroid formation. Gene expression was assessed at the protein (Western blot) or mRNA (real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) levels.
Noncontact co-culture of MECs and NSCs rapidly (≤ 3 weeks) caused hypersecretion of MMPs and marked suppression of the tumor suppressor gene PTEN in NSCs. NSCs co-cultured with MECs also showed increased invasiveness and clonogenicity and formed more free-floating spheroids and highly branched ductal-like structures in Matrigel, all typical for CSCs. MEC co-culture caused dysregulated self-renewal and differentiation-related gene expression patterns and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition in NSCs consistent with an acquired cancer phenotype. Interleukin-6 (IL-6), a cytokine involved in tumor microenvironment control, was hypersecreted by MECs, and IL-6 exposure of NSCs resulted in the duplication of several responses in NSCs of conversion to CSCs via MEC co-culture (e.g., MMP hypersecretion, decreased PTEN).
Arsenic-transformed MECs recruit nearby NSCs into a cancer phenotype, thereby potentially increasing CSC number. This may be a factor in arsenic-induced CSC overabundance seen in multiple model systems.
1. Habituation was regarded as a difference between exploratory activity measured first (session 1) and that measured second (session 2) in a novel environment. 2. Scopolamine (1.0 mg/kg) significantly increased the horizontal activity in sessions 1 and 2 when administered prior to session 1, resulting in the impairment of habituation. 3. Haloperidol (0.2 mg/kg) inhibited scopolamine-induced hypermotility in session 1, but it did not inhibit the scopolamine-induced impairment of habituation in session 2. 4. The direct cholinergic agonist oxotremorine (0.03 mg/kg), unlike the cholinesterase inhibitor physostigmine, significantly inhibited the scopolamine-induced impairment of habituation in the horizontal and vertical activities. 5. These results suggest that the direct stimulation of cholinergic receptors is more effective for scopolamine-induced amnesia than the indirect stimulation of cholinergic receptors by cholinesterase inhibitors in the habituation task.
Environmental or occupational exposure to high levels of manganese (Mn) can lead to manganism, a symptomatic neuro-degenerative disorder similar to idiopathic Parkinson's disease. The underlying mechanism of Mn neurotoxicity remains unclear. In this study, we evaluate the primary toxicological events associated with MnCl(2) toxicity in rat PC12 cells using whole genome cDNA microarray, RT-PCR, Western blot and functional studies. The results show that a sub-lethal dose range (38-300 μM MnCl(2)) initiated slight metabolic stress evidenced by heightened glycolytic rate and induction of enolase/aldolase - gene expression. The largest shift observed in the transcriptome was MnCl(2) induction of heme-oxygenase 1 (HO-1) [7.7 fold, p<0.001], which was further corroborated by RT-PCR and Western blot studies. Concentrations in excess of 300 μM corresponded to dose dependent loss of cell viability which was associated with enhanced production of H(2)O(2) concomitant to elevation of gene expression for diverse antioxidant enzymes; biliverdin reductase, arsenite inducible RNA associated protein, dithiolethione-inducible gene-1 (DIG-1) and thioredoxin reductase 1. Moreover, Mn initiated significant reduction of gene expression of mitochondrial glutaryl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase (GCDH), an enzyme involved with glutaric acidemia, oxidative stress, lipid peroxidation and striatal degeneration observed in association with severe dystonic-dyskinetic movement disorder. Future research will be required to elucidate a defined role for HO-1 and GCDH in Mn toxicity.
Various methods of induction of labour may be associated with risk and complications. Therefore, this study has been undertaken to compare the safety and efficacy of intra-vaginal misoprostol (PGE1 analogue) with intra-cervical dinoprostone (PGE2) in progress and induction of labour, the maternal side effects and the foetal outcome. 40 pregnant women aged between 16-35 years with indication of induction of labour participated in the study. Twenty patients (control) were administered 0.5 mg dinoprostone intra-cervically, 12 hourly while 20 patients (study group) were given misoprostol 100 microg, 4 hourly, intravaginally. The mean induction of labour initiation interval was 2.08 +/- 1.46 hours in study group and 2.21 +/- 1.20 hours in dinoprostone group. The Induction delivery interval was 6.92 +/- 4.01 hours in misoprostol group and 12.54 +/- 7.73 in dinoprostone group, whereas vaginal route of delivery was 95% in misoprostol group and 85% in dinoprostone group. Average dosages required were 1.55 +/- 1.02 in misoprostol group and 1.30 +/- 0.46 in dinoprostone group. All these result were statistically significant. Very few maternal side effects were reported in study group. There was no significant difference in foetal out come in either group. Therefore, it can be concluded that misoprostol is easy to administer and is cheap, effective, safe and convenient drug for induction of labour.
Peripheral neuropathy has been described as a rare complication of organophosphate toxicity in man. A case of diaphragmatic paralysis occurring after ingestion of malathion in a suicide attempt is reported. The patient required ventilatory support for 3 months during which time there was slow improvement in the diaphragmatic weakness, which by 6 months had resolved completely.
A 42-year-old male treated with carbamazepine developed a skin eruption in the trunk, followed by acute renal failure. Laboratory data revealed leukocytosis (15,700/mm3) with eosinophilia (37%). A renal biopsy disclosed granulomatous necrotizing angiitis that differed from classic periateritis nodosa and hypersensitivity angiitis. All drugs were discontinued immediately, and there was a gradual improvement of the renal function. A carefully performed provocation test using carbamazepine was positive. We made a diagnosis of carbamazepine-induced granulomatous necrotizing angiitis. Only 6 cases of drug-induced granulomatous angiitis have been reported prior to the present case. Drug-induced granulomatous angiitis is often fatal. The present report suggests the importance of making a diagnosis quickly, and providing adequate treatment in order to prevent a fatal course.
Cocaine is a frequently used drug with many known effects on the cardiovascular system. It leads also to structural changes of the coronary arteries that can result in severe chest pain or even acute myocardial infarction. We discuss two patients with infarction, differentiate between chest pain and infarction and suggest some important therapeutic measures.
