Renal failure is associated with aortic valve calcification. Using our rat model of uremia-induced reversible aortic valve calcification, we assessed the role of apoptosis and survival pathways in that disease. We also explored the effects of raloxifene, an estrogen receptor modulator, on valvular calcification. Gene array analysis was performed in aortic valves obtained from three groups of rats (n = 7 rats/group): calcified valves obtained from rats fed with uremic diet, valves after calcification resolution following diet cessation, and control. In addition, four groups of rats (n = 10 rats/group) were used to evaluate the effect of raloxifene in aortic valve calcification: three groups as mentioned above and a fourth group fed with the uremic diet that also received daily raloxifene. Evaluation included imaging, histology, and antigen expression analysis. Gene array results showed that the majority of the altered expressed genes were in diet group valves. Most apoptosis-related genes were changed in a proapoptotic direction in calcified valves. Apoptosis and decreases in several survival pathways were confirmed in calcified valves. Resolution of aortic valve calcification was accompanied by decreased apoptosis and upregulation of survival pathways. Imaging and histology demonstrated that raloxifene significantly decreased aortic valve calcification. In conclusion, downregulation of several survival pathways and apoptosis are involved in the pathogenesis of aortic valve calcification. The beneficial effect of raloxifene in valve calcification is related to apoptosis modulation. This novel observation is important for developing remedies for aortic valve calcification in patients with renal failure.
A study of structure cytotoxic-activity relationship of three hydroxy 4-phenyl-coumarins and basic coumarin molecule against two human cell lines (MRC5 fibroblasts and A375 melanoma cells) is presented. Of all investigated compounds the highest cytotoxic activity in both cell lines was determined for 7,8-dihydroxy-4-phenyl coumarin. SAR studies revealed the influence of phenyl group and hydroxyl group's number and position on cytotoxic activity. In addition, to get an insight about their binding preferences at the active site of the receptor (catalytic subunit of cAMP-dependent protein kinase) molecular docking studies were performed. Docking studies suggest that 4-phenyl hydroxycoumarins are potent cAMP-dependent protein kinase inhibitors, better than their analogs without phenyl group. The teratogenic potential was assessed in zebrafish embryo toxicity test and results showed that 4-phenyl dihydroxycoumarins were more while 7-hydroxy-4-phenyl coumarin was less embryo toxic in comparison to coumarin. In order to examine selected 4-phenyl hydroxycoumarins as a new lead compounds the druglikeness of selected 4-phenyl hydroxycoumarins was estimated by using Lipinski's "rule of five". All selected 4-phenyl hydroxycoumarins proved to have satisfying pharmacokinetic profile.
It is well known that ochratoxin A (OTA) induces neural tube defects (NTDs) in mice. In the present study, OTA was administered to the genetic polydactyly/arhinencephaly mouse (Pdn/Pdn) to investigate the synergistic effect between gene and environmental toxin. OTA treatment on day 7.5 of gestation increased NTDs in the Pdn/Pdn mouse. The responsible gene for Pdn/Pdn is Gli3. So, it was speculated that specific susceptibility for OTA in the Pdn/Pdn mouse embryo may be due to the severe depression of Gli3 gene expression. As correlated genes, Gli3, Shh and Fgf8 gene expressions were examined in the Pdn mouse embryo on day 9 of gestation after administration of OTA on day 7.5. No alteration of Shh expression was observed in the non-treated Pdn/Pdn, and OTA-treated +/+ and Pdn/Pdn. Fgf8 signal was observed at the anterior neural ridge (ANR) in the non-treated +/+, and that was elongated in the non-treated Pdn/Pdn, and further elongated and more intensive in the OTA-treated Pdn/Pdn. It was suggested that Fgf8 gene expression was affected by the depression of Gli3, and alteration of Fgf8 gene expression was accelerated by the toxicity of OTA in the Pdn/Pdn.
We conducted a phase I trial of a 3-hour infusion of Taxol (paclitaxel; Bristol-Myers Squibb Co, Princeton, NJ) to identify the maximum-tolerated dose of Taxol as a 3-hour infusion with and without granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) support.
Thirty-five patients with advanced, untreatable malignancies were treated with a 3-hour infusion of Taxol once every 3 weeks. Groups of three patients were entered at escalating dose levels of Taxol in a traditional phase I design in each of two parallel arms: arm A, without G-CSF, and arm B, with G-CSF. Patients assigned to the G-CSF arm received G-CSF 5 micrograms/kg/d subcutaneously starting on day 2 for 9 to 14 days. All patients were pretreated with dexamethasone, diphenhydramine, and ranitidine, and were monitored continuously for cardiac arrhythmias during the first treatment.
Dose-limiting myelosuppression with Taxol without G-CSF was observed at the 250-mg/m2 dose level. The dose-limiting toxicity for Taxol with G-CSF was peripheral neuropathy at the 300-mg/m2 dose level. One of 35 patients (2.8%) had a grade 3 anaphylactic reaction at 250 mg/m2. No clinically significant cardiac arrhythmias were documented. Twenty-seven of 111 courses (24%) were associated with grade 3 arthralgias or myalgias requiring narcotics for pain control. Taxol plasma concentrations declined in a triexponential fashion, with a final elimination half-life of 10 to 12 hours. The peak Taxol plasma concentrations and total area under the curve (AUC) increased with increasing doses of Taxol, although this increase appeared to be somewhat nonlinear.
The maximum dose of Taxol recommended for phase II and III studies, when administered as a 3-hour infusion alone and with G-CSF support, is 210 mg/m2 and 250 mg/m2, respectively. No increased incidence of hypersensitivity reactions or other side effects were observed, with the possible exception of arthralgias and myalgias. If ongoing trials demonstrate that a 3-hour infusion is as efficacious as a 24-hour infusion, we conclude that with proper monitoring and premedication, high-dose Taxol can be safely administered in the outpatient setting.
The degree and type of melanogenesis, i.e., either eumelanin of pheomelanin, has been shown to be a reliable marker for the differentiation of the melanocyte. If exposed to UV light, these two melanins were reported to behave differently; eumelanin was photoprotective whereas pheomelanin was phototoxic to cultured tumor cells. Our previous study indicated that dysplastic melanocytic nevus (DMN) undergoes altered melanogenesis, forming pheomelanosome-like granules. The present study examined chemically the type and degree of melanin synthesized in 31 melanocytic nevi excised from 27 patients as compared with that occurring in the surrounding normal skin. The tissue content of eumelanin and pheomelanin was expressed by the amounts of pyrrole-2,3,5-tricarboxylic acid (PTCA) and aminohydroxyphenylalanine (AHP), respectively. We found that DMN lesions contain significantly higher amounts of pheomelanin than either common melanocytic nevus (CMN) or normal skin. Differences in pheomelanin content between DMN and CMN could not be accounted for by inherently higher levels of pheomelanin within the skin in general from DMN patients. Our present finding substantiates our previous claim that epidermal melanocytes in DMN undergo deranged melanogenesis.
This study examined the relationship between risk of premenopausal breast cancer and occupational exposure to benzene and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) and whether the proposed relationship between PAH and breast cancer differed by tumor estrogen receptor (ER) status.
In a case-referent study of premenopausal breast cancer, occupational histories and other information were obtained through interviews, and job-exposure matrices were used to assess exposure to PAH and benzene.
A dose-response relationship for the probability of exposure to benzene [low: odds ratio (OR) 1.64, 95% confidence interval (95% CI) 0.64-4.21; high: OR 1.95, 95% CI 1.14-3.33) and to PAH (low: OR 1.56, 95% CI 0.78-3.12; high: OR 2.40, 95% CI 0.96-6.01). Risk increased with duration of exposure to benzene, but not to PAH. A dose-response relationship was not evident for the intensity of exposure to benzene or to PAH. When analyses were stratified by tumor ER status, PAH exposure was related to a greater increase in the risk of ER-positive (OR 2.27, 95% CI 1.14-4.54) than ER-negative (OR 1.12, 95% CI 0.47-2.64) breast cancer. Risk of ER-positive, but not ER-negative, tumors increased with the probability of exposure to PAH.
The findings suggest an association between risk and occupational exposure to benzene. Although it was difficult to study PAH independently of benzene, there was some suggestion of an association between PAH exposure and ER-positive tumors. These data should be interpreted with caution because of the limitations of this study, including low-response rates and small numbers of exposed persons.
Angiotensin-(1-7) [Ang-(1-7)] is the bioactive peptide which may be responsible for some of the pharmacological effects of losartan. Our previous study has demonstrated the antithrombotic action of losartan in a model of experimental thrombosis. In the present study, we compared the antithrombotic action of losartan and Ang-(1-7). Acute (10 mg/kg, p.o.) and chronic (10 mg/kg, p.o., three weeks) losartan administration to spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) induced a decrease in thrombus weight (1.6 +/- 0.6 mg and 1.2 +/- 0.3 mg respectively vs. control 2.9 +/- 0.8 mg; p<0.05, p<0.05). A similar reduction was observed in two-kidney, one-clip hypertensive rats (2K-IC)receiving acute losartan administration (1.39 +/- 0.29 mg vs. 3.25 +/- 0.62 mg; p<0.01). Infusion of Ang-(1-7) to2K-lC rats also reduced the thrombus weight(1.01 +/- 0.34 mg, 1.23 +/- 0.38 mg and 2.17 +/- 0.36 mg for 1, 10, 100 pmol/kg/min, respectively vs. 3.58 +/- 0.6 mg control; p<0.01, p<0.01, p<0.05). Losartan produced a decrease in systolic blood pressure (BP) in SHR as well as in 2K-1C rats, while Ang-(1-7) infusion had no effect on BP. Acute losartan dosing to 2K-1C rats decreased platelet adhesion to fibrillar collagen(24.9 +/- 1.0% vs. control 31.5 +/- 1.1%, p<0.001). The incubation of platelet samples with Ang-(1-7) (10-6 and 10 5 M) also reduced adhesion to fibrillar collagen(38.4 +/- 0.1% and 33.8 +/- 0.8% respectively vs. control 40.0 +/- 0.6%; p<0.05, p<0.001). There were no apparent changes in prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time and euglobulin clot lysis time in losartan and Ang-(1-7)-treated groups. We conclude that, like losartan, Ang-(1-7) is able to act as an antithrombotic agent.
In the course of studying the effects of coronary angioplasty on branch vessel flow using two Doppler flow velocity guidewires, we quantitated simultaneous blood flow responses proximal and distal to a stenosis. The alterations of flow documented a horizontal epicardial steal induced during dipyridamole hyperemia, hyperemic flow reversal by intravenous aminophylline, and subsequent normalization of distal hyperemia after endoluminal enlargement by successful angioplasty. The quantitative physiology of the patient described here confirms one postulated mechanism of abnormal myocardial perfusion stress scintigraphy. Continuous dual flowire spectral coronary flow determinations appear to be a valuable method in verifying postulated mechanisms of various pharmacologic and mechanical stimuli influencing coronary blood flow in patients with atherosclerotic coronary artery disease.
In previous studies, we have shown that losartan possesses nitric oxide-dependent antithrombotic properties in various models of hypertension in rats. It was demonstrated that stimulation of AT2-receptors plays an important role in the pharmacological effects of AT1-receptor antagonists. Thus, in this study, we examine the participation of AT2-receptors in the antithrombotic action of losartan in renal hypertensive rats on venous thrombosis induced by a two-hour ligation of the vena cava. Losartan administration(30 mg/kg, p.o.) resulted in a marked decrease in thrombus weight (by 85%, p<0.001). PD123319, an AT2-receptor antagonist (10 mg/kg, i.v.), administered concomitantly with losartan, abolished its antithrombotic effect, whilst it had no influence on thrombus weight when given alone. A significant decrease in systolic blood pressure was observed in animals given losartan. PD123319 administration didnot abolish this action of losartan and did not alter blood pressure when given alone. No changes in prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, or euglobulin clot lysis time were observed in animals administered losartan and/or PD123319.Similarly, primary haemostatics evaluated by bleeding time and platelet count did not change in any group of rats. In conclusion, we have shown that AT2-receptor stimulation is involved in the antithrombotic action of losartan in renal hypertensive rats.
We have recently shown that USH1C underlies Usher syndrome type 1c (USH1C), an USH1 subtype characterized by profound deafness, retinitis pigmentosa, and vestibular dysfunction. USH1C encodes a PDZ-domain-containing protein, harmonin. Eight different Ush1c transcripts were identified in the mouse inner ear. Moreover, transcripts containing seven alternatively spliced exons (A-F, G/G) were found to be expressed in the inner ear, but not in the eye. These findings suggested that mutations involving USH1C might also be the cause of DFNB18, a form of non-syndromic deafness, which maps to a chromosomal region that includes USH1C. We screened 32 Chinese multiplex families with non-syndromic recessive deafness for USH1C mutations. In one family, congenital profound deafness without RP was associated with a C to G transversion in the alternatively spliced exon D, predicting an arginine to proline substitution at codon 608 in the proline-, serine- and threonine-rich region of harmonin. We also screened 320 deaf probands from other ethnic background and found three who were heterozygous for changes in the alternately spliced exons including Gly431Val in exon B, Arg620Leu and Arg636Cys in exon D. None of these mutations were detected in DNA from 200 control subjects with normal hearing including 110 Chinese. We also screened 121 non-Acadian probands with type 1 Usher syndrome. None carried any mutations in these exons of USH1C. Our findings show that USH1C mutations can also cause non-syndromic deafness and that some harmonin isoforms are specifically required for inner ear function.
Chronic exposure to Mn results in the development of a neurological disorder known as manganism characterized by neurological deficits resembling that seen in Parkinsonism. Although dopaminergic neurons within the nigrostriatal pathway appear intact, Mn-induced irregularities in DA transmission have been observed including decreased amphetamine-induced DA release and loss of the dopamine transporter (DAT). Results of studies to evaluate the effect of Mn and DA on cell viability in control and DAT-transfected HEK cells reveal that Mn is equally toxic to both cell lines whereas DA was only toxic to cells containing DAT. DA toxicity was saturable suggesting that transport may be rate limiting. When Mn and DA were added simultaneously to the media, cell toxicity was similar to that produced by Mn alone suggesting that Mn may suppress DA uptake in the DAT containing cells. Preincubation of DA prior to the addition of Mn resulted in cell death which was essentially additive with that produced independently by the two agents. Mn was also shown to decrease DA uptake and amphetamine-induced DA efflux in DAT containing cells. Time-lapsed confocal microscopy indicates that Mn can promote trafficking of cell surface DAT into intracellular compartments which may account for the decrease in DA uptake and DA efflux in these cells. Mn-induced internalization of DAT may provide an explanation for disruption in DA transmission previously reported in the striatum.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and noradrenaline (NA) have been shown in independent studies to mediate stress-induced reinstatement of drug seeking. To date, however, a functional interaction between the systems in reinstatement has not been demonstrated.
The objectives of this study were to determine whether CRF and NA systems can interact to influence reinstatement responding and, if so, in what direction the interaction occurs.
Rats were trained to self-administer cocaine (0.23 mg/kg per infusion) for 8-10 days. Subsequently, responding for drug was extinguished, and tests for reinstatement were conducted following: (1) pretreatment with the CRF receptor antagonist, D: -Phe CRF(12-41) [1 microg, intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.)], prior to i.c.v. injections of NA (10 microg; Experiment 1); (2) pretreatment with the alpha(2) adrenoceptor agonist, clonidine (40 microg/kg, i.p.), prior to i.c.v. injections of CRF (0.5 microg; Experiment 2); (3) pretreatment with D: -Phe (1, 5 microg, i.c.v.), prior to systemic injections of the alpha(2) adrenoceptor antagonist, yohimbine (1.25 mg/kg; Experiment 3A); or (4) pretreatment with clonidine (40 microg/kg, i.p.) prior to systemic injections of yohimbine (0.625 mg/kg, 1.25 mg/kg; Experiment 3B).
NA reliably induced reinstatement, an effect that was blocked by pretreatment with D: -Phe. In contrast, CRF-induced reinstatement was not attenuated by pretreatment with clonidine. Pretreatment with neither D: -Phe nor clonidine was effective in blocking yohimbine-induced reinstatement.
Together, the present findings suggest a functional interaction between NA and CRF systems in mediating stress-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking, whereby activation of CRF receptors occurs subsequent to, and downstream of, the sites of action of NA.
A number of studies have investigated the effectiveness of the dopamine transporter (SLC6A3) Gene as an antipsychotic target. However, the focus has mainly been on a 40-bp variable number of a tandem repeat (VNTR) in the 3'-region and results have been inconsistent. To fully evaluate SLC6A3 as a therapeutic antipshycotic target we investigated association of the gene with responses to chlorpromazine and clozapine and with chlorpromazine-induced extrapyramidal syndrome (EPS) in the Chinese schizophrenia population. Six polymorphisms across the whole region of this gene were analyzed, namely rs2652511 (T-844C) and rs2975226 (T-71A) in the 5'-regulatory region, rs2963238 (A1491C) in intron 1, a 30-bp VNTR in intron 8, rs27072 and the 40-bp VNTR in the 3'-region. We found that the polymorphic marker, rs2975226, showed significant association of allele and genotype frequencies with response to clozapine (allele-wise: adjusted p=0.00404; genotype-wise: adjusted p=0.024), and that patients with the T allele had a better response to the drug. The haplotype block constructed from the first three markers near the 5'-region showed significant association with response to clozapine (for haplotype T-T-A: p=0.0085; for haplotype C-A-C: p=0.0092). We did not identify any significant association of the six genetic variants or haplotypes with EPS after Bonferoni correction. Our findings suggest that the 5'-regulatory region of SLC6A3 plays an important role in response to clozapine and that its role in EPS needs to be replicated in a large-scale well designed study.
Heme oxygenase is a rate-limiting enzyme in heme degradation, leading to the generation of free iron, biliverdin, and carbon monoxide. Induction of heme oxygenase-1 is implicated in the antioxidant defense mechanism and can modulate vascular function. To test the association of microsatellite polymorphism in the promoter region of human HO-1 gene with the risk of coronary artery disease (CAD) in type 2 diabetic patients, we examined the allele frequencies of (GT) (n) repeats in HO-1 gene in 474 patients with CAD and in 322 controls. A transient-transfection assay with HO-1 promoter/luciferase fusion constructs carrying various lengths of (GT) (n) repeats was performed to explore the regulatory effect of (GT) (n) repeats on HO-1 gene expression in cultured rat aortic smooth muscle cells. Serum thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARs), a measure of lipid peroxidation, was significantly higher in subjects carrying the L/L genotype (> or =32 repeats). Among type 2 diabetic subjects, the frequencies of the L alleles and proportion of genotypes with L alleles were significantly higher in those with CAD than in those without CAD. The adjusted odds ratio for CAD in type 2 diabetic patients with L alleles was 4.7 (95% confidence interval, 1.9-12.0, P=0.001). Transfection experiments in aortic smooth muscle cells revealed that HO-1 promoter/luciferase fusion constructs containing longer (GT) (n) repeats exhibited lower transcriptional activity. These results imply that the length polymorphism in the HO-1 gene promoter modulate the transcription of the gene in vascular cells. Type 2 diabetics carrying longer (GT) (n) repeats might have higher oxidative stress and increased susceptibility to the development of CAD.
A 62-year-old woman was referred to the dermatology department for a history of fever, asthenia and cutaneous rash, which appeared after a 3-day course of digitalin and acenocoumarol for atrial fibrillation. The physical examination revealed multiple round confluent purpuric lesions over her entire legs with no blistering. Laboratory exams were all negative. Biopsy of the involved skin was compatible with leucocytoclastic vasculitis. The acenocoumarol treatment was withheld and the skin lesions resolved spontaneously over the next 10 days. The cause of this purpura was seemingly acenocoumarol because of the close temporal relationship between exposure to the drug and the onset of the symptoms, and the spontaneous resolution of the lesions after acenocoumarol was discontinued. This observation illustrates a rare association between vasculitis and acenocoumarol. Clinicians should be aware of this potential adverse effect and recommend interrupting the drug intake when temporal relation is evocative.
Combined gentamicin-cephalothin therapy in four patients after treatment with cis-dichlorodiammineplatinum(II) (CPDD) for advanced solid tumors was complicated by severe acute renal failure. The total dose of gentamicin varied from 240 to 945 mg and that of cephalothin varied from 28 to 48 g. Low-dose (0.5 mg/kg x 8) CPDD was given to one patient, high-dose (3 mg/kg) CPDD was given to two patients, and very high-dose (5 mg/kg) CPDD was given to one patient. The high and very high doses of CPDD were given with concomitant mannitol diuresis. CPDD therapy was complicated by mild transient azotemia in three patients and by severe acute renal failure in one. In the latter, the azotemia began to improve on Day 7 after CPDD treatment. Following gentamicin-cephalothin therapy, all patients developed severe acute renal failure which persisted until death. At autopsy, all patients had extensive renal tubular necrosis at various stages. These findings indicate that gentamicin-cephalothin therapy after treatment with CPDD can be severely nephrotoxic, and that this antibiotic combination should be given with great caution, if at all, to patients receiving CPDD treatment for malignancy.
Glucagon-like peptides (GLPs) are secreted from enteroendocrine cells in the gastrointestinal tract. GLP-1 actions regulate blood glucose, whereas GLP-2 exerts trophic effects on intestinal mucosal epithelium. Although GLP-1 actions are preserved in diseases such as diabetes, GLP-2 action has not been extensively studied in the setting of intestinal disease. We have now evaluated the biological effects of a human GLP-2 analog in the setting of experimental murine nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug-induced enteritis. Human (h)[Gly(2)]GLP-2 significantly improved survival whether administered before, concomitant with, or after indomethacin. h[Gly(2)]GLP-2-treated mice exhibited reduced histological evidence of disease activity, fewer intestinal ulcerations, and decreased myeloperoxidase activity in the small bowel (P < 0.05, h[Gly(2)]GLP-2- vs. saline-treated controls). h[Gly(2)]GLP-2 significantly reduced cytokine induction, bacteremia, and the percentage of positive splenic and hepatic bacterial cultures (P < 0.05). h[Gly(2)]GLP-2 enhanced epithelial proliferation (P < 0.05 for increased crypt cell proliferation in h[Gly(2)]GLP-2- vs. saline-treated mice after indomethacin) and reduced apoptosis in the crypt compartment (P < 0.02). These observations demonstrate that a human GLP-2 analog exerts multiple complementary actions that serve to preserve the integrity of the mucosal epithelium in experimental gastrointestinal injury in vivo.
In North America, an increasing number of babies are prenatally exposed to cocaine, yet the implications of cocaine use during pregnancy are not fully understood. The effects of cocaine are exerted primarily by its influence on aminergic receptors in the central and peripheral nervous systems. Developmental, physiological, and behavioral problems in infants and children are likely outcomes of maternal cocaine abuse, but these findings are confounded by concomitant use of other drugs such as marijuana and cocaine and by factors such as time, dosage, and route of cocaine intake. Different screening options exist for cocaine and its metabolites, including sampling of neonatal urine, hair and meconium need to be considered, as do the sensitivity and the ethical implications of such testing. Clinical management of cocaine-exposed infants requires attention to several issues, including: central nervous system irritation, cardiac anomalies, apnea, and feeding difficulties, as well as infant safety and follow-up postdischarge. Early detection and intervention remain the primary objectives of caring for cocaine-exposed infants.
We report the case of a 22-year-old man who developed fulminant hepatic failure 3 days after an intentional acetaminophen overdose. The patient had a history of a seizure disorder for which he was taking phenytoin. The acetaminophen level at presentation was in the "nontoxic" range. Emergent liver transplantation was performed 4 days after the ingestion. This is the first reported case of successful liver transplantation for acetaminophen-induced fulminant hepatic failure in the setting of phenytoin therapy.
In contrast to parenteral neomycin, which may result in severe and progressive ototoxicity, oral neomycin has been widely used for 25 years, and its index of safety has been regarded as high. Ototoxicity is viewed as an uncommon complication of oral neomycin most likely to occur in patients with renal failure or gastrointestinal inflammation. Two cases of ototoxicity resulting from oral neomycin are presented. Serial audiometric and neomycin blood level testing are suggested as a means of auditory monitoring in patients receiving the drug. A review of experience with oral vancomycin indicates that this drug has not been shown to cause ototoxicity.
The generation of transgenic 'knock-out' mice which lack genes relevant to pain is becoming increasing common. However, only one visceral pain model, the writhing test, is available in mice. The aim of this study was to adapt cyclophosphamide cystitis, a model of inflammatory visceral pain described in rats, for use in mice, and to characterise its behavioural effects. The toxic metabolites of systemically-administered cyclophosphamide are excreted in the urine, and induce bladder inflammation. We compared the effects of cyclophosphamide (100 and 300 mg/kg i.p., 4 h survival period) and vehicle (saline) in male mice on spontaneous behaviour (4 h continuous video-tape, and a 5-min Open Field test after 4 h). Involvement of the urinary bladder and other abdominal tissues was assessed by macroscopic examination and measurement of Evan's Blue plasma extravasation. Cyclophosphamide (300 mg/kg) produced significant changes in behaviour, including 22 +/- 6 min of 'crises' of visceral pain-related behaviour and a 53% reduction in activity, and also induced haemorrhage and substantial plasma extravasation in the bladder, but no change in other abdominal tissues. We conclude that cyclophosphamide cystitis has many advantages as a model of sub-acute, inflammatory visceral pain in mice. It does not require surgery or intubation, and we have found it to produce consistent, reproducible and quantifiable behavioural changes, which are significantly correlated with the degree of bladder inflammation in the absence of inflammation of other abdominal tissues. Copyright 1999 European Federation of Chapters of the International Association for the Study of Pain.
The fungal neurotoxin penitrem A has previously been found to cause neurological disorders in animals and humans after ingestion of contaminated food and/or feed. It penetrates the blood-brain-barrier and causes cerebellar pathology in rats, including mild effects on granule neurons. The aim of the current study was to investigate the potential toxicity of penitrem A in rat cerebellar granule neurons in vitro, and to examine the involvement of the GABAA, AMPA and NMDA receptors, intracellular signalling pathways as well as the role of oxidative stress in penitrem A-induced neuronal death. Cerebellar granule cells were exposed to penitrem A, alone or together with different pharmacological agents, before cell survival was assessed with the MTT assay or formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) was investigated with the DCF assay. Penitrem A caused a time- and concentration-dependent reduction in cell survival, as well as a concentration-dependent increase in ROS production. Co-incubation with diazepam, GABA, BAPTA-AM, vitamin E, SP600125 and cyclosporine A significantly reduced cell death. Our results show that penitrem A is toxic to cerebellar granule neurons in vitro. Further, ROS production and the GABAA receptor are likely to be involved in the induction of neuronal death following penitrem A exposure. A disruption of calcium homeostasis and activation of the JNK pathway may also play a role in penitrem A neurotoxicity.
The low spontaneous incidence of grossly recognizable adenocarcinomas of the dorsal lobe of the prostate in Nb rats over 13 months old (0.45%) was increased to 18.38% in 130 rats by prolonged treatment with pellets of suitable sex hormones. Although testosterone propionate alone was effective, if the testosterone propionate was combined with treatment by estrone carcinomas of the prostate occurred after a shorter interval. Tumors tended to metastasize and transplanted readily, and all were autonomous, with a single exception that exhibited the growth pattern of a typical estrogen-dependent tumor.
We report a case of recurrent renal calculi containing calcium phosphate associated with long-term acetazolamide treatment for epilepsy. Unfortunately, the cause of stone formation was not recognised for many years, by which time irreversible renal damage had occurred.
The presence of intracoronary thrombus is associated with increased complications during coronary angioplasty. Such thrombus may also mimic the appearance of a critical stenosis. We report a case of nearly occlusive intracoronary thrombus which resolved after prolonged heparin therapy, revealing only a minimal underlying stenosis. The recognition and treatment of this entity is discussed.
