Increasing experimental and clinical evidence suggest a contribution of non-drug related risk factors (e.g., underlying disease, bacterial/viral infection) to idiosyncratic drug reactions (IDR). Our previous work showed that co-treatment with bacterial endotoxin (LPS) and therapeutic doses of diclofenac (Dcl), an analgesic associated with drug idiosyncrasy in patients, induced severe hepatotoxicity in rats. Here, we used an integrated discovery to targeted LC-MS proteomics approach to identify mechanistically relevant liver and plasma proteins modulated by LPS/Dcl treatment, potentially applicable as early markers for IDRs. Based on pre-screening results and their role in liver toxicity, 47 liver and 15 plasma proteins were selected for targeted LC-MS analysis. LPS alone significantly changed the levels of 19 and 3 of these proteins, respectively. T-kininogen-1, previously suggested as a marker of drug-induced liver injury, was markedly elevated in plasma after repeated Dcl treatment in the absence of hepatotoxicity, possibly indicating clinically silent stress. Dcl both alone and in combination with LPS, caused up-regulation of the ATP synthase subunits (ATP5J, ATPA, and ATPB), suggesting that Dcl may sensitize cells against additional stress factors, such as LPS through generation of mitochondrial stress. Additionally, depletion of plasma fibrinogen was observed in the co-treatment group, consistent with an increased hepatic fibrin deposition and suspected contribution of the hemostatic system to IDRs. In contrast, several proteins previously suggested as liver biomarkers, such as clusterin, did not correlate with liver injury in this model. Taken together, these analyses revealed proteomic changes in a rat model of LPS/Dcl co-administration that could offer mechanistic insight and may serve as biomarkers or safety alert for a drug's potential to cause IDRs.
Oxidative stress can play a key role in Cd-induced dysfunctions. Quercetin is a potent oxygen free radicals scavenger and a metal chelator. Our aim was to study the effect of quercetin on Cd-induced kidney damage and oxidative stress as well as its mechanism of action. Wistar rats were distributed in four experimental groups: control rats; Cd; quercetin and Cd+quercetin. Renal toxicity was evaluated by measuring urinary excretion of proteins, albumin, glucose and enzymes markers of tubular necrosis, as well as plasma concentration of creatinine. Plasma TBARS concentration and activity of antioxidant enzymes in kidney were also measured. Renal cell damage was assessed by electron microscopy. Animals that received both Cd and quercetin showed a better renal function than those receiving Cd alone. Cd-induced tubular lesions were markedly reduced in rats that also received quercetin. Cd-induced increase in plasma TBARS was prevented by the administration of quercetin. Total plasma antioxidants and renal superoxide dismutase and glutathione-reductase activities were higher in the group that received Cd and quercetin than in rats that received Cd alone. Quercetin administration does not modify the renal content or the urinary excretion of Cd. In conclusion, quercetin treatment prevents renal tubular damage and increased oxidative stress induced by chronic Cd administration, most probably throughout its antioxidant properties.
Antibiotics are the most common drugs implicated in clinical reports of drug-induced nephrotoxicity. The experimental basis for proposed mechanisms of acute renal failure in association with three groups of antibiotics--aminoglycoside, cephalosporin, and amphotericin B--are reviewed in detail. Proposed mechanisms of antibiotic-induced acute renal tubular necrosis involve either altering plasma membrane permeability or interference with cellular energy derived from mitochondria, For either aminoglycoside or cephalosporin antibiotics, cellular accumulation followed by interruption of mitochondrial respiration is the concept that has greatest support, although the possibility of an induced phospholipidosis involving intracellular lysosomes cannot be excluded. Altered renal tubular cell permeability due to the incorporation of amphotericin B into the pore structure of the plasma membrane is consistent with in vivo observation in either clinical or experimental examples of nephrotoxicity with this agent. The metal cis-platinum, used in treatment of neoplastic disease, has a clearly defined incidence of clinical nephrotoxicity with little insight as to cellular mechanisms. A possible mediation involving cis-platinum reducing the protein-bound sulfhydryl group of renal tissue has been proposed. With the ever increasing potency of modern pharmacologic agents come a rising risk of serious toxic side effects.
To test the hypothesis that enhancement of the activity of heme oxygenase can interfere with processes of fibrogenesis associated with recurrent liver injury, we investigated the therapeutic potential of over-expression of heme oxygense-1 in a CCl(4)-induced micronodular cirrhosis model.
Recombinant adeno-associated viruses carrying rat HO-1 or GFP gene were generated. 1x 10(12) vg of adeno-associated viruses were administered through portal injection at the time of the induction of liver fibrosis.
Conditioning the rat liver with over-expression of HO-1 by rAAV/HO-1 significantly increased the HO enzymatic activities in a stable manner. The development of micronodular cirrhosis was significantly inhibited in rAAV/HO-1-transduced animals as compared to controls. Portal hypertension was markedly diminished in rAAV/HO-1-transduced animals as compared to controls, whereas there are no significant changes in systolic blood pressure. This finding was accompanied with improved liver biochemistry, less infiltrating macrophages and less activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) in rAAV/HO-1-transduced livers.
Enhancement of HO activity in the livers suppresses the development of cirrhosis.
Some patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease experience hallucinations as a result of treatment with levodopa and dopamine agonists. There is evidence for some heterogeneity in these hallucinating patients based on duration of Parkinson's disease at onset of hallucinations. We compared the frequency of polymorphisms in the dopamine D2 and D3 receptor genes between patients with drug-induced hallucinations and non-hallucinating patients. Two polymorphisms close to DRD2 and one in DRD3 were studied. No association was found with the whole group of hallucinating patients and their controls. However, an association was found with late-onset hallucinations and the C allele of the TaqIA polymorphism, 10.5 kb 3' to DRD2. This polymorphism may be in linkage disequilibrium with a mutation in DRD2 or a nearby gene that predisposes to drug-induced hallucinations which occur later in the course of idiopathic Parkinson's disease.
The modulatory influence of tea polyphenols (epigallocatechin gallate, epicatechin gallate and theaflavin) on benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P)-induced lung carcinogenesis in mice was analyzed using histopathological and molecular parameters. Progression of lung lesions was restricted at the hyperplastic stage by tea polyphenols. A significant reduction in cellular proliferative index and an increase in apoptotic index were noted in the restricted lung lesions. High expression of H-ras, c-myc, cyclin D1 and p53 genes was seen at the inflammatory stage (9th week) and in subsequent premalignant lesions, but down-regulation of H-ras at the hyperplastic stage (17th week). Expression of bcl-2 was high in hyperplastic lesions, whereas the expression of mdm2 and bcl-xl increased only at the moderately dysplastic stage (36th week). The tea polyphenols inhibited inflammatory response in the lung lesions on the 9th week, when decreased expression of H-ras and c-myc and increased expression of bax were noted. Prolonged treatment (>9th week) with tea polyphenols resulted in changes in the expression of some additional genes, such as reduced expression of cyclin D1 (from the 17th week), bcl-2 (from the 26th week; mild dysplasia) and p21 (on the 36th week), and high expression of p53 (from the 17th week) and p27 (on the 36th week). These observations indicate that the tea polyphenols can restrict B[a]P-induced lung carcinogenesis by differential modulation of the expression of p53 and its associated genes such as bax, bcl-2, mdm2, p21 and p27, along with H-ras, c-myc and cyclin D1, at different time points.
Although the number of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) is increasing, none displays neuroprotective or antiepileptogenic properties that could prevent status epilepticus (SE)-induced drug-resistant epilepsy. Ketogenic diet (KD) and calorie restriction (CR) are proposed as alternative treatments in epilepsy. Our goal was to assess the neuroprotective or antiepileptogenic effect of these diets in a well-characterized model of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy following initial SE induced by lithium-pilocarpine in adult rats.
Seventy-five P50 male Wistar rats were fed a specific diet: normocalorie carbohydrate (NC), hypocalorie carbohydrate (HC), normocalorie ketogenic (NK), or hypocalorie ketogenic (HK). Rats were subjected to lithium-pilocarpine SE, except six NC to constitute a control group for histology (C). Four rats per group were implanted with epidural electrodes to record electroencephalography (EEG) during SE and the next six following days. From the seventh day, the animals were video-recorded 10 h daily to determine latency to epilepsy onset. Neuronal loss in hippocampus and parahippocampal cortices was analyzed 1 month after the first spontaneous seizure.
After lithium-pilocarpine injection, neither KD nor CR modified SE features or latency to epilepsy. In hippocampal layers, KD or CR exhibited a neuroprotective potential without cooperative effect. Parahippocampal cortices were not protected by the diets.
The antiepileptic effect of KD and/or CR is overwhelmed by lithium-pilocarpine injection. The isolated protection of hippocampal layers induced by KD or CR or their association failed to modify the course of epileptogenesis.
To examine whether withdrawal after abstinence and cue-elicited craving were associated with polymorphisms within two genes involved in regulating the endocannabinoid system, cannabinoid receptor 1 (CNR1) and fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH). Two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the CNR1 (rs2023239) and FAAH (rs324420) genes, associated previously with substance abuse and functional changes in cannabinoid regulation, were examined in a sample of daily marijuana smokers.
Participants were 105 students at the University of Colorado, Boulder between the ages of 18 and 25 years who reported smoking marijuana daily.
Participants were assessed once at baseline and again after 5 days of abstinence, during which they were exposed to a cue-elicited craving paradigm. Outcome measures were withdrawal and craving collected using self-reported questionnaires. In addition, urine samples were collected at baseline and on day 5 for the purposes of 11-nor-9-carboxy-Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC-COOH) metabolite analysis.
Between the two sessions, THC-COOH metabolite levels decreased significantly, while measures of withdrawal and craving increased significantly. The CNR1 SNP displayed a significant abstinence x genotype interaction on withdrawal, as well as a main effect on overall levels of craving, while the FAAH SNP displayed a significant abstinence x genotype interaction on craving.
These genetic findings may have both etiological and treatment implications. However, longitudinal studies will be needed to clarify whether these genetic variations influence the trajectory of marijuana use/dependence. The identification of underlying genetic differences in phenotypes such as craving and withdrawal may aid genetically targeted approaches to the treatment of cannabis dependence.
To describe four cases of hepatic adenoma in adolescents and women with severe inherited bleeding disorders treated with norethisterone.
Case reports.
Necker-Enfants Malades University Hospital, Paris, Department of Pediatric Endocrinology, Gynecology and Diabetes.
Two adolescents and two young women with inherited platelet disorders, treated with high-dose norethisterone (10 to 20 mg/day) to induce amenorrhea.
Immediate cessation of norethisterone.
Spontaneous regression of hepatic adenoma.
In four patients with inherited platelet disorders, hepatic adenoma developed at 14, 18, 22, and 24 years of age, respectively, during continuous norethisterone therapy started at 1.5, 2.5, 10.0, and 13.0 years of age, respectively. Life-threatening bleeding occurred in two patients. Immediate norethisterone discontinuation was followed by complete or nearly complete tumor regression within a few months.
Our four cases strongly support a causal link between norethisterone treatment and hepatic adenoma. Continuous high-dose (10 to 20 mg/day) continuous norethisterone to treat menorrhagia in adolescents and young women with bleeding disorders is inadvisable. If other nortestosterone derivatives are needed, the patient should be closely monitored for the development of hepatic adenoma.
The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of immediate-release (IR) metoprolol and extended-release (XL) metoprolol on measures of heart rate variability in chronic systolic heart failure patients.
Thirteen metoprolol-treated heart failure patients were randomized to a 2-way crossover study of equal daily doses of metoprolol IR and metoprolol XL, each administered for 3 weeks. After each 3-week interval, patients underwent 24-hour Holter and ambulatory blood pressure monitoring. Over the entire 24-hour period, the ratio of high to total variability (normalized measure of parasympathetic activity) was significantly greater (P < .05), the ratio of low to total variability (normalized measure of sympathetic activity) was significantly lower (P < .05), and the ratio of high to low variability (index of parasympathetic to sympathetic balance) was greater (P < .08) for metoprolol XL compared with metoprolol IR. Over the entire 24-hour period, both systolic and diastolic blood pressure were significantly lower for metoprolol XL compared with metoprolol IR (P < .0001, and .0005, respectively).
These data suggest that with twice daily dosing, metoprolol IR is inferior to metoprolol XL in its effects on heart rate variability, autonomic balance, and blood pressure in patients with heart failure.
Biometals play an important role in Alzheimer disease, and recent reports have described the development of potential therapeutic agents based on modulation of metal bioavailability. The metal ligand clioquinol (CQ) has shown promising results in animal models and small phase clinical trials; however, the actual mode of action in vivo has not been determined. We now report a novel effect of CQ on amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) metabolism in cell culture. Treatment of Chinese hamster ovary cells overexpressing amyloid precursor protein with CQ and Cu(2+) or Zn(2+) resulted in an approximately 85-90% reduction of secreted Abeta-(1-40) and Abeta-(1-42) compared with untreated controls. Analogous effects were seen in amyloid precursor protein-overexpressing neuroblastoma cells. The secreted Abeta was rapidly degraded through up-regulation of matrix metalloprotease (MMP)-2 and MMP-3 after addition of CQ and Cu(2+). MMP activity was increased through activation of phosphoinositol 3-kinase and JNK. CQ and Cu(2+) also promoted phosphorylation of glycogen synthase kinase-3, and this potentiated activation of JNK and loss of Abeta-(1-40). Our findings identify an alternative mechanism of action for CQ in the reduction of Abeta deposition in the brains of CQ-treated animals and potentially in Alzheimer disease patients.
To investigate whether adrenomedullin, a potent vasodilator peptide, plays a role in the circulatory disturbance in cirrhosis.
Cirrhosis was induced in rats by weekly gavage of carbon tetrachloride. Hemodynamic studies were performed in vivo using radioactive microspheres and in vitro using isolated aortic rings. The adrenomedullin concentrations were measured by radioimmunoassay.
Acute administration of adrenomedullin to the control rats reduced the systemic arterial pressure along with an increase of serum levels of the stable metabolite of nitric oxide (NOx), in a dose-dependent manner. Chronic infusion of adrenomedullin reduced the vascular resistance and increased the blood flow in the systemic and splanchnic circulation. Intravenous administration of anti-adrenomedullin antibody did not affect any hemodynamic parameters in the cirrhotic rats, whereas this antibody ameliorated the blunted contractile response to phenylephrine, alpha-adrenergic receptor agonist, in the aortic rings of the cirrhotic rats. The adrenomedullin concentrations in the aorta were higher in the cirrhotic rats than in the controls, and correlated with the mean arterial pressure in the cirrhotic rats. Moreover, adrenomedullin blunted the contractile response to phenylephrine in both of the control aorta and cirrhotic aorta, but not in the presence of NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, an NO synthase inhibitor.
Adrenomedullin overproduced in the vascular wall may contribute to the circulatory disturbance in cirrhosis as a local regulator of the vascular tonus rather than a circulating hormone.
In a group of 44 patients with a histologically ascertained metastasizing carcinoma of the prostate gland the palliative hormone treatment with Turisteron which has been performed as routine therapy since 1982 is described. The experiences concerning the advantages of this therapy with regard to the absence of hepatotoxic side effects and the high compliance of patients, the appearance of cardiovascular complications among 39 evaluable cases are compared. A distinct reduction of these side effects is possible by an aimed cardiac therapy, prophylaxis of thrombosis and use of diuretics.
Asymptomatic sinus bradycardia and sinus arrhythmia have been noted in malarial patients receiving mefloquine. The present study was designed to assess the effect of mefloquine on electrocardiogram in malarial patients. The study was carried out in 102 acute uncomplicated falciparum malarial patients who were treated with mefloquine 750 mg and 1,250 mg regimens and 18 healthy male volunteers receiving 750 mg of mefloquine. Electrocardiogram was performed at intervals after mefloquine administration for a period of 42 days. PR, QRS, QT, QTc, RR interval and cardiac arrhythmia were measured and read by EKG-analyser with confirmation by a cardiologist. Sinus bradycardia and sinus arrhythmia were found in 61.8% and 45.1%, respectively during the first week after treatment. The patients' heart rate decreased significantly on day 6 after mefloquine administration when compared to day 0. The occurrence of sinus bradycardia and sinus arrhythmia were significantly higher in malarial patients when compared with findings in healthy subjects of the same age group. It is unlikely that these changes are associated with mefloquine concentration as mefloquine peaks around 12-24 hours after administration. There were no significant changes in PR-interval, QRS-interval and QTc interval on the electrocardiogram. The findings in this study suggest that cardiotoxicity from mefloquine is unlikely. Bradycardia may be the result of autonomic control modulation after resolution of high fever.
The trisubstituted methylxanthine derivative pentoxifylline inhibits hepatic stellate cell proliferation and collagen synthesis in vitro. The antifibrotic effect of pentoxifylline in a suitable in vivo model of chronic liver fibrogenesis remains to be tested.
Groups of adult rats (n=20-23) received oral pentoxifylline at a dose of 8 mg/kg/day from week 1 to week 6, and 16 mg/kg/day from week 1 to week 6 or week 4 to week 6 after complete bile duct occlusion. Animals who underwent sham operation that received 16 mg/kg/day pentoxifylline and untreated rats with bile duct occlusion alone served as controls. After six weeks, animals were sacrificed and parameters of fibrogenesis determined.
Bile duct occlusion caused portal cirrhosis with a 10-fold increased hepatic collagen content in the absence of inflammation or necrosis. This was accompanied by an 11-fold elevated serum aminoterminal procollagen III peptide (PIIINP). The drug induced a dramatic eightfold downregulation of procollagen I mRNA, and suppression of the fibrogenic factors transforming growth factor beta1 and connective tissue growth factor by 60-70%. However, profibrogenic tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1 (TIMP-1) mRNA was increased twofold, resulting in only a moderate decrease in liver collagen, fibrosis score, and PIIINP.
We conclude that targeting pentoxifylline to the fibrogenic cells, thereby avoiding upregulation of TIMP-1, could become a potent antifibrogenic tool in chronic liver disease.
Cross-resistance to molecules used in endocrine therapy is among the main challenges in the treatment of estrogen receptor-alpha (ERalpha) positive breast cancer. In this study, we used two different cell models of resistance to anti-estrogens: MVLN/CL6.7 cells and VP229/VP267 cells selected after exposure to tamoxifen respectively in vitro and in vivo to characterize a phenotype rarely observed, i.e. acquisition of cross-resistance to the pure ER antagonist fulvestrant. As MVLN/CL6.7 cells and VP229/VP267 cell lines are original and valuable models of cross-resistance to tamoxifen and fulvestrant, we examined candidate genes using a RTQ-PCR strategy to identify new biomarkers of endocrine resistance. Out of the 26 candidate genes tested, 19 displayed deregulation of expression at the basal level in at least one of the two resistant cell lines. Eight genes (TACC1, NOV, PTTG1, MAD2L1, BAK1, TGFB2, BIRC5, and CCNE2) were significantly overexpressed in samples from ER-positive breast cancer patients who relapsed after tamoxifen treatment (n=24) compared with samples from patients who did not (n=24). Five genes (TACC1, NOV, PTTG1, BAK1, and TGFB2) were correlated with significantly shorter relapse-free survival (univariate analysis). Finally, we identified TACC1 and a three-gene expression signature (TACC1, NOV, and PTTG1) as independent prognostic markers (multivariate analysis). Aberrant mRNA and protein levels of TACC1, NOV, and PTTG1 were also observed under tamoxifen and/or fulvestrant exposure in resistant CL6.7 cells compared with their respective control MVLN cells. In conclusion, our data identify TACC1, NOV, and PTTG1 as promising new markers that could be used in the clinical management of ER-positive breast cancer patients.
Sildenafil is a selective phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor used in the treatment of erectile dysfunction. We report the use of sildenafil to blunt the rebound pulmonary hypertension seen following withdrawal of inhaled nitric oxide (NO) and milrinone. The relatively long duration of sildenafil's action on pulmonary artery pressures and lack of systemic hemodynamic effect make it an attractive option to facilitate weaning of inhaled NO.
Two patients without prior histories of neurologic disorders experienced generalized seizures while receiving high-dose busulfan (total dose 16 mg/kg) as part of a preparative regimen for allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. A review of the literature revealed 14 similar occurrences. Maintenance of therapeutic blood concentrations of phenytoin in subsequent patients at our institution has resulted in no further patients experiencing generalized seizures. Prophylactic anticonvulsant therapy should be considered in patients receiving high doses of busulfan.
Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) improves liver function tests and prolongs survival in primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC). The dose of 10- 15 mg/kg/day used in the large trials has largely been based on that used for gallstone dissolution. The only dose-response study of UDCA in PBC suggested that a dose of 8 mg/kg/day was the most efficacious. However, disease stage of the patients was not known, higher doses of UDCA were not tried and there was no 'washout period' between the different doses. The aim of this study was to determine the optimum dose of UDCA in early-stage PBC (stage 1 and 2).
Twenty-four biopsy-proven early-stage PBC patients (one male, 23 female) received five doses of UDCA (0, 300, 600, 900, 1200 mg/day) each for 8 weeks with 4-week washout periods between doses. Symptoms (pruritus, fatigue, diarrhoea) were assessed on a four-point scale (none, mild, moderate, severe). Liver function tests (LFTs) were performed using conventional methods, and serum bile acids were measured using gas liquid chromatography.
The dose of 900 mg/day produced the greatest enrichment of UDCA in serum bile acids; although there was no difference in the enrichment of UDCA between the different doses. There was a trend towards normalization of the abnormal LFTs in a dose-dependent manner (for y-glutamyl transferase (yGT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), alanine transaminase (ALT) and IgM). Multi-factorial analysis showed that UDCA treatment, irrespective of dose, was significantly better than placebo for all the variables. The 900 and 1200 mg doses were better than both 300 and 600 mg using yGT and total bilirubin as variables, better than 300 mg using ALP and IgM as variables, and better than 600 mg using albumin as a variable. No variables showed a significant difference between 900 and 1200 mg.
The optimum dose of UDCA is 900 mg/day (equivalent to 13.5 mg/kg/day).
To produce selective spinal anesthesia for adult anorectal surgery.
Double-blinded, randomized, controlled trial.
Operating room and postoperative recovery area.
152 adult, consecutive ASA physical status I, II, and III patients.
After patients underwent dural puncture in the sitting position at L3-L4 or L4-L5, 0.5% hyperbaric bupivacaine was injected over two minutes: Group S7.5 received 1.5 mL, Group S5 received 1.0 mL, and Group S4 0.8 mL. After sitting for 10 minutes, patients were positioned for surgery.
Rate of success, level and duration of sensory and motor block, time to voiding and ambulation, complications, and quality of anesthesia according to the patient and medical staff, were recorded.
Spinal block had a 98% rate of success. Mean level of sensory block was 10.4 +/- 1.7, 7.4 +/- 2.2, and 7.0 +/- 1.8 dermatomes in Groups S7.5, S5, and S4 (P < 0.01 S7.5 vs S5, and S7.5 vs S4). Mean duration of sensory block was 310.5 +/- 42.6, 255.9 +/- 43.7, and 228.8 +/- 34.8 min in Groups S7.5, S5, and S4 (P < 0.01 S7.5 vs S5, S7.5 vs S4, and S5 vs S4). Motor block was Bromage score 2-3 in 70.5% of Group S7.5 patients versus Bromage score 0-1 in 97.3% of Group S5 and 92.1% of Group S4 patients (P < 0.05).
A dose of 4 mg of hyperbaric bupivacaine produces a similar level of sensory and motor block as a 5 mg dose but with shorter duration and faster recovery.
Balb/c and C3H strains male and female mice ingested 750 ppm methoxychlor or 100 ppm DDT in the diet for 2 years. Balb/c strain male mice ingesting methoxychlor developed a highly significant incidence of interstitial cell carcinomas of the testis. Balb/c strain male mice ingesting DDT and C3H strain male mice receiving methoxychlor or DDT did not have testicular tumors. The carcinomas of the testis varied from well-differentiated to poorly differentiated and undifferentiated and were capable of metastasis. Carcinomas of the testis have been described in Balb/c strain male mice, but not C3H, given estrogens. The carcinogenicity for testis of Balb/c strain male mice is most likely related to the estrogenic activity of methoxychlor.
Thalidomide improves clinical symptoms in patients with therapy refractory Crohn's disease, as shown in two recent studies. The mechanism of this effect however is still unknown. Suppression of tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) by thalidomide has been suggested as a possible mechanism. However, effects on other cytokines have not been adequately investigated.
The aim of our study was to investigate the effects of thalidomide on cytokine production in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).
Ten patients with therapy refractory IBD (nine Crohn's disease, one ulcerative colitis) received thalidomide 300 mg daily in a 12 week open label study. Production of TNF-alpha, interleukin (IL)-1 beta, IL-6, and IL-12 was investigated in short term cultures of stimulated colonic lamina propria mononuclear cells (LPMC) and peripheral blood monocytes (PBMC) before and after 12 weeks of treatment. LPMC were also cultured with graded doses of thalidomide.
Three patients discontinued treatment because of sedative side effects. In the other patients, disease activity decreased significantly, with four patients achieving remission. Production of TNF-alpha and IL-12 decreased during treatment with thalidomide: LPMC (TNF-alpha: 42.3 (8.3) pg/ml v 16.4 (6.3); IL-12: 9.7 (3.3) v 5.0 (2.5); p<0.04) and PBMC (TNF-alpha: 62.8 (14.6) v 22.5 (9.2); p<0.02). Production of IL-1 beta and IL-6 did not change significantly. Culturing of LPMC with thalidomide showed a dose dependent decrease in TNF-alpha and IL-12 production.
The clinical effects of thalidomide in Crohn's disease may be mediated by reduction of both TNF-alpha and IL-12.
Calcium metabolism and its response to citrate were examined in 51 patients with glaucoma receiving carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (acetazolamide or methazolamide). Metabolic acidosis, hypocitraturia and increased incidence of nephrolithiasis were induced by both drugs. However, the acidosis was milder with methazolamide administration. Normocalciuria was observed in 29 patients and was shown to be a result of low filtered calcium. Renal hypercalciuria in 16 patients was associated with elevated parathyroid hormone but nephrogenic cyclic adenosine monophosphate remained within normal limits. Citrate in the form of potassium citrate (4.3 mmol.) and sodium citrate (4.0 mmol.) did not correct the metabolic acidosis or hypocitraturia but consistently decreased fasting and 24-hour urinary calcium excretion in patients with renal hypercalciuria. This event did not occur in patients with normocalciuria or absorptive hypercalciuria. These results suggest that a small amount of citrate could reverse renal hypercalciuria without correcting the metabolic acidosis.
To investigate the effect of Qinggan Huoxuefang (QGHXF) on improvement of liver function and pathology in rats, and to analyze the mechanism.
Wistar rats were divided into three groups at random: normal control group (12),micro-amount carbon tetrachloride group (CCl(4))(12) and model group A (60). The model group A was ingested with the mixture (500 mL/L alcohol, 8 mL/kg per day; corn oil, 2 mL/kg per day; pyrazole, 24 mg/kg per day) once a day and intraperitoneal injections of 0.25 mL/kg of a 250 mL/L solution of CCl(4) in olive oil twice a week for 12 wk. The CCl(4) group received intraperitoneal injections only. At the end of 8 wk the model group A (60) was divided into 5 subgroups: model group, Xiaochaihu Chongji (XCH) group, QGHXF high dose group, moderate dose group and low dose group, and were given the drugs respectively. At the end of 12 wk, all the rats were killed and blood samples collected, as well as liver tissue. Blood samples were used for evaluation of alanine transaminase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), gamma-glutamyltransferase (gamma-GT). Liver specimens were obtained for routine HE, apoptosis gene array and flow cytometry analysis.
A liver fibrosis animal model was successfully established. Fibrosis was obviously reduced in QGHXF high dose group, and no fibrosis formed in CCl(4) group. Compared with model group the QGHXF group and XCH group could obviously decrease the level of ALT, AST, ALP, and GGT (P<0.05). QGHXF high dose group was better than XCH group in ALT (615+/-190 vs 867+/-115), and AST(1,972+/-366 vs 2,777+/-608). Moreover, QGHXF could reduce liver inflammation, fibrosis-induced hepatic stellate cell (HSC) apoptosis and regulate apoptosis gene expression. The HSC apoptosis rates of QGHXF groups were 22.4+/-3.13, 13.79+/-2.26 and 10.07+/-1.14, higher than model group, 6.58+/-1.04 (P<0.05). Compared to model group, 39 genes were up-regulated, 11 solely expressed and 17 down-regulated in high dose group.
QGHXF can improve liver fibrosis and induce HSC apoptosis.
Epinephrine has been the mainstay for cardiac resuscitation for more than 30 years. Its vasopressor effect by which it increases coronary perfusion pressure is likely to favor initial resuscitation. Its beta-adrenergic action, however, may have detrimental effects on postresuscitation myocardial function when administered before resuscitation because it increases myocardial oxygen consumption. In the present study, our focus was on postresuscitation effects of epinephrine when this adrenergic agent was administered during cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Postresuscitation myocardial functions were compared with those of a selective alpha-adrenergic agent, phenylephrine, when epinephrine was combined with a beta 1-adrenergic blocking agent, esmolol, and saline placebo.
Ventricular fibrillation was induced in 40 Sprague-Dawley rats. Mechanical ventilation and precordial compression was initiated either 4 or 8 minutes after the start of ventricular fibrillation. The adrenergic drug or saline placebo was administered as a bolus after 4 minutes of precordial compression. Defibrillation was attempted 4 minutes later. Left ventricular pressure, dP/dt40, and negative dP/dt were continuously measured for an interval of 240 minutes after successful cardiac resuscitation. Except for saline placebo, comparable increases in coronary perfusion pressure were observed after each drug intervention. The number of countershocks required for restoration of spontaneous circulation was significantly greater for epinephrine-treated animals (10 +/- 8) when compared with phenylephrine-treated animals (1.8 +/- 0.4, P < .01) and with animals treated with epinephrine combined with esmolol (1.6 +/- 0.9, P < .01). After resuscitation, dP/dt40 and negative dP/dt were significantly decreased and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure was significantly increased in each animal when compared with prearrest levels. However, the greatest impairment followed epinephrine, and this was associated with significantly greater heart rate and the shortest interval of postresuscitation survival of 8 +/- 4 hours, whereas placebo controls survived for 12 +/- 11 hours. Phenylephrine-treated animals survived for 41 +/- 10 hours (P < .01 versus epinephrine), and animals that received a combination of epinephrine and esmolol survived for 35 +/- 11 hours (P < .01 versus epinephrine). When the duration of untreated cardiac arrest was increased from 4 to 8 minutes, the severity of postresuscitation left ventricular dysfunction was magnified, but disproportionate decreases in postresuscitation survival were again observed with placebo and epinephrine when compared with alpha-adrenergic agonists.
In an established rodent model after resuscitation following cardiac arrest, epinephrine significantly increased the severity of postresuscitation myocardial dysfunction and decreased duration of survival. More selective alpha-adrenergic agonist or blockade of beta 1-adrenergic actions of epinephrine reduced postresuscitation myocardial impairment and prolonged survival.
Recently, we identified recurrent gene fusions involving the 5' untranslated region of the androgen-regulated gene TMPRSS2 and the ETS (E26 transformation-specific) family genes ERG, ETV1 or ETV4 in most prostate cancers. Whereas TMPRSS2-ERG fusions are predominant, fewer TMPRSS2-ETV1 cases have been identified than expected on the basis of the frequency of high (outlier) expression of ETV1 (refs 3-13). Here we explore the mechanism of ETV1 outlier expression in human prostate tumours and prostate cancer cell lines. We identified previously unknown 5' fusion partners in prostate tumours with ETV1 outlier expression, including untranslated regions from a prostate-specific androgen-induced gene (SLC45A3) and an endogenous retroviral element (HERV-K_22q11.23), a prostate-specific androgen-repressed gene (C15orf21), and a strongly expressed housekeeping gene (HNRPA2B1). To study aberrant activation of ETV1, we identified two prostate cancer cell lines, LNCaP and MDA-PCa 2B, that had ETV1 outlier expression. Through distinct mechanisms, the entire ETV1 locus (7p21) is rearranged to a 1.5-megabase prostate-specific region at 14q13.3-14q21.1 in both LNCaP cells (cryptic insertion) and MDA-PCa 2B cells (balanced translocation). Because the common factor of these rearrangements is aberrant ETV1 overexpression, we recapitulated this event in vitro and in vivo, demonstrating that ETV1 overexpression in benign prostate cells and in the mouse prostate confers neoplastic phenotypes. Identification of distinct classes of ETS gene rearrangements demonstrates that dormant oncogenes can be activated in prostate cancer by juxtaposition to tissue-specific or ubiquitously active genomic loci. Subversion of active genomic regulatory elements may serve as a more generalized mechanism for carcinoma development. Furthermore, the identification of androgen-repressed and insensitive 5' fusion partners may have implications for the anti-androgen treatment of advanced prostate cancer.
Plasma hyaluronan binding protein (PHBP) is produced only in liver and kidney in mouse. The induction of PHBP mRNA and the conversion of pro PHBP to the active hetero-dimer form were studied after CCl4, D-galactosamine, HgCl2 or turpentine administration and after partial hepatectomy. The results indicated that the administrations of CCl4 and D-galactosamine, which caused hepatic failure, and the partial hepatectomy enhanced the conversion of pro PHBP to the active two-chain form in the plasma. On the other hand, HgCl2 which injured kidney and turpentine which led to inflammation were not involved in the activation of PHBP. The weak induction and suppression of PHBP mRNA were observed in the liver at 3 h and 12 h, respectively, after the CCl4 administration. However, HgCl2 and turpentine did not influence the amount of PHBP mRNA. These results suggested the hepatic injury-specific activation of PHBP in plasma. PHBP may act as an early factor in the cascade for the tissue remodeling in liver following hepatic injury, i.e., PHBP activates urokinase, urokinase activates matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and MMPs degrade extracellular matrix for liver regeneration.
