We report the case of a 25-years old woman with anti-epileptic drugs who presents a visual field defect similar to those described with vigabatrin even though she was successfully treated with valproic acid then carbamazepine without vigabatrin. The association with trichorrhexis nodosa, a hair disease sometimes associated with inherited perturbation of metabolism of urea cycle in which visual loss can occur, could suggest an aspecific inhibition of several aminotransferases which could explain different adverse effects of some anti-epileptic drugs (visual abnormalities, alopecia) perhaps in genetic predisposed patients.
There is still uncertainty about the frequency of side effects associated with the use of malaria prophylaxis. The biggest concern has been that of meflokin. The aim of the study was to compare different symptoms in travellers taking different prophylactic malaria drugs with a control group travelling to the same area. Travellers seeking advice at a vaccination clinic in the south of Sweden were asked to fill in questionnaires before and after returning from their travel. 303 participants returned both questionnaires, a response rate of 62%. The results showed that a greater proportion of the travellers taking malaria prophylaxis reported symptoms in comparison with that of the control group (59% vs. 41%). Also, in comparison to the control group, travellers taking chemoprophylaxis more often felt that their trip had been negatively affected by the reported symptoms. Neuropsychiatric symptoms were most common in the group taking meflokin although no significant difference between the different regimes was found. These symptoms were very rare in the control group. Gastrointestinal symptoms were most frequent in the group taking chloroquine and proguanil. A low proportion of those symptoms were connected to the chemoprofylaxis according to the travellers. Travellers taking meflokin more frequently associated their symptoms with the drug. The travellers, being most worried about taking malaria prophylaxis prior to the trip, reported symptoms more often than those not feeling any anxiety.
Benzene is an established leukemogen at high exposure levels. Although low-level benzene exposure is widespread and may induce oxidative damage, no mechanistic biomarkers are available to detect biological dysfunction at low doses.
Our goals were to determine in a large multicenter cross-sectional study whether low-level benzene is associated with increased blood mitochondrial DNA copy number (mtDNAcn, a biological oxidative response to mitochondrial DNA damage and dysfunction) and to explore potential links between mtDNAcn and leukemia-related epigenetic markers.
We measured blood relative mtDNAcn by real-time polymerase chain reaction in 341 individuals selected from various occupational groups with low-level benzene exposures (> 100 times lower than the Occupational Safety and Health Administration/European Union standards) and 178 referents from three Italian cities (Genoa, Milan, Cagliari).
In each city, benzene-exposed participants showed higher mtDNAcn than referents: mtDNAcn was 0.90 relative units in Genoa bus drivers and 0.75 in referents (p = 0.019); 0.90 in Milan gas station attendants, 1.10 in police officers, and 0.75 in referents (p-trend = 0.008); 1.63 in Cagliari petrochemical plant workers, 1.25 in referents close to the plant, and 0.90 in referents farther from the plant (p-trend = 0.046). Using covariate-adjusted regression models, we estimated that an interquartile range increase in personal airborne benzene was associated with percent increases in mtDNAcn equal to 10.5% in Genoa (p = 0.014), 8.2% (p = 0.008) in Milan, 7.5% in Cagliari (p = 0.22), and 10.3% in all cities combined (p < 0.001). Using methylation data available for the Milan participants, we found that mtDNAcn was associated with LINE-1 hypomethylation (-2.41%; p = 0.007) and p15 hypermethylation (+15.95%, p = 0.008).
Blood MtDNAcn was increased in persons exposed to low benzene levels, potentially reflecting mitochondrial DNA damage and dysfunction.
Mequindox (MEQ) is a synthetic antimicrobial chemical of quinoxaline 1, 4-dioxide group. This study was designed to investigate the hypothesis that MEQ exerts testicular toxicity by causing oxidative stress and steroidal gene expression profiles and determine mechanism of MEQ testicular toxicity. In this study, adult male Wistar rats were fed with MEQ for 180days at five different doses as 0, 25, 55, 110 and 275mg/kg, respectively. In comparison to control, superoxide dismutase (SOD), reduced glutathione (GSH) and 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) levels were elevated at 110 and 275mg/kg MEQ, whereas the malondialdehyde (MDA) level was slightly increase at only 275mg/kg. Furthermore, in LC/MS-IT-TOF analysis, one metabolite 2-isoethanol 4-desoxymequindox (M11) was found in the testis. There was significant decrease in body weight, testicular weight and testosterone at 275mg/kg, serum follicular stimulating hormone (FSH) at 110 and 275mg/kg, while lutinizing hormone (LH) levels were elevated at 110mg/kg. Moreover, histopathology of testis exhibited germ cell depletion, contraction of seminiferous tubules and disorganization of the tubular contents of testis. Compared with control, mRNA expression of StAR, P450scc and 17β-HSD in testis was significantly decreased after exposure of 275mg/kg MEQ while AR and 3β-HSD mRNA expression were significantly elevated at the 110mg/kg MEQ group. Taken together, our findings provide the first and direct evidence in vivo for the formation of free radicals during the MEQ metabolism through N→O group reduction, which may have implications to understand the possible mechanism of male infertility related to quinoxaline derivatives.
Manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) is over-expressed in most brain tumours, and high MnSOD expression is associated with poor prognosis. The mechanisms still remain largely unknown. In the present study, the elevation of hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) level and the enhancement of glioma migration/invasion by over-expression of MnSOD were demonstrated. Subsequent studies showed that over-expression of MnSOD significantly increased the activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) and phosphatidylinositol-3-kinases (PI3Ks), including AKTs, s6-ribosomal protein, ERKs and JNKs. Over-expression of MnSOD was also associated with elevations of matrix metalloproteinases-1(MMP-1) and MMP-9 protein. The promotion of migration/invasion, activation of PI3Ks and MAPKs and up-regulation of MMPs were inhibited by the general reactive oxygen species scavenger N-acetyl-l-cysteine (NAC), over-expression of the H(2)O(2)-detoxifying enzyme mitochondrial catalase (mCat) and specific inhibitors of AKTs or ERKs. Collectively, our study indicated that H(2)O(2) would contribute to the MnSOD-promoted migration/invasion in glioma cells through activation of AKTs and ERKs. This study provided new molecular insights into the understanding of glioma migration and invasion.
Effective treatment for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) remains elusive. Two of the primary hypotheses underlying motor neuron vulnerability are susceptibility to excitotoxicity and oxidative damage. There is rapidly emerging evidence that the cannabinoid receptor system has the potential to reduce both excitotoxic and oxidative cell damage. Here we report that treatment with Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta(9)-THC) was effective if administered either before or after onset of signs in the ALS mouse model (hSOD(G93A) transgenic mice). Administration at the onset of tremors delayed motor impairment and prolonged survival in Delta(9)-THC treated mice when compared to vehicle controls. In addition, we present an improved method for the analysis of disease progression in the ALS mouse model. This logistic model provides an estimate of the age at which muscle endurance has declined by 50% with much greater accuracy than could be attained for any other measure of decline. In vitro, Delta(9)-THC was extremely effective at reducing oxidative damage in spinal cord cultures. Additionally, Delta(9)-THC is anti-excitotoxic in vitro. These cellular mechanisms may underlie the presumed neuroprotective effect in ALS. As Delta(9)-THC is well tolerated, it and other cannabinoids may prove to be novel therapeutic targets for the treatment of ALS.
Fatigue may be induced by drug. Here, we reported that patients had fatigue after medication with colchicines.
Eight patients (8 Males, age: 42-72 years old) had fatigue but without weakness as their chief complaints. They all described an inability to maintain a sustained effort, which was ameliorated by rest.
The course of fatigue was insidious and progressive (mean 3.1 2.3 months, range 1-7 months) along with medication of colchicines (mean 20.3 5.5 months, range 11-28 months). Fatigue severity scale (patient: before drug withdrawal 5.41 0.19; 4 weeks after drug withdrawal 2.46 0.28; control 2.12 0.45) showed fatigue as their most disabling symptom, sometimes preventing them to carry on professional as well as socio-familial activities. The plasma creatine kinase elevated in these 8 patients before withdrawal of colchicines and returned to normal range in each subject 4 weeks after drug withdrawal. A probable diagnosis of drug-induced fatigue was made when symptom subsided after colchicines were discontinued.
It is emphasized that side effect of drug should be considered as a differential diagnosis of fatigue in patients having colchicines. Early recognition and diagnosis will prevent serious muscle damage.
It has been demonstrated that the Phellinus linteus (PL) mushroom, which mainly consists of polysaccharides, possesses antitumour activity. The mechanisms of PL against malignant growth remain unknown. The anticancer drug doxorubicin (Dox) has been shown to induce apoptosis via initiating a caspase cascade. In this investigation, we tested the effect of PL on Dox-induced apoptosis in prostate cancer LNCaP cells. We showed that PL or Dox, at relatively low doses, does not induce apoptosis in the cells. However, combination treatment with low doses of PL and Dox results in a synergistic effect on the induction of apoptosis. In this apoptotic process, caspases 8, 3 and BID are cleaved, and the addition of caspase inhibitor z-VADfmk completely blocks apoptosis. In addition, JNK is activated in response to PL or the combination treatment in LNCaP cells. The suppression of JNK partially inhibits the induction of apoptosis elicited by the co-treatment. These findings indicate that PL has a synergistic effect with Dox to activate caspases in prostate cancer LNCaP cells. Our study also suggests that PL has therapeutic potential to augment the magnitude of apoptosis induced by antiprostate cancer drugs.
There are few data on combining ketamine with tramadol for postoperative analgesia in humans. We tested the hypothesis that adding ketamine to tramadol would improve analgesia after major abdominal surgery.
In this double-blind, randomized, controlled trial, adult patients (n = 120) having elective laparotomy were randomly assigned to a ketamine group (intraoperative ketamine 0.3 mg/kg and postoperative infusion at 0.1 mg x kg(-1) x h(-1) or control group (equivalent volume/rate of normal saline). All patients received intraoperative tramadol 3 mg/kg and a tramadol infusion (0.2 mg x kg(-1) x h(-1) for 48 h postoperatively and had morphine patient-controlled analgesia available for rescue analgesia.
The ketamine group had less pain at rest (P = 0.01) and with movement (P = 0.02) and required less morphine (P = 0.003) throughout the 48-h study period. In the 0-24 h period, ketamine improved subjective analgesic efficacy (P = 0.008), was less sedating (P = 0.03), and required fewer physician interventions to manage severe pain (P = 0.01). Hallucinations were more common in ketamine patients, but other side effects were similar.
Small-dose ketamine was a useful addition to tramadol and morphine after major abdominal surgery.
Nodular regenerative hyperplasia (NRH) is a rare hepatic disorder that may lead to severe portal hypertension. Cases of NRH have been reported in patients receiving thiopurines for inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Since azathioprine (AZA) is used more and more frequently as a maintenance treatment in IBD, the risk of NRH must be known. The objective of this study was to evaluate the prevalence of NRH and its predictive factors in IBD patients treated with AZA.
From the same tertiary referral center, 1888 consecutive IBD patients treated with AZA were studied. Clinical diagnosis of NRH was proven by liver biopsy in all cases except one. The cumulative risk of NRH was estimated with the Kaplan-Meier method. Factors associated with NRH were tested independently with the log-rank method and multivariate proportional hazards model with time-dependent covariates.
Fifteen patients developed NRH in a median treatment duration of 52.4 months (SE 1.6). The cumulative incidence of NRH was 1.28±0.45% at 10 years. Only two variables were independently associated with NRH occurrence: male gender (P=0.0001, hazard ratio [HR] 8.5, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.9-37.9) and small bowel resection≥50 cm (P<0.0001, HR 6.6, 95% CI 2.2-20.0), either prior to or after AZA initiation.
The risk of developing NRH during AZA treatment is low. This study suggests that male patients with small bowel resection≥50 cm constitute the group with the higher risk of developing NRH while treated with AZA.
In an open study involving 30 schizophrenic patients the neuroleptic threshold dose (measured via Haase's graphopathological test), the maximum dose, and the maintenance dose were determined. The neuroleptic threshold dose was 5.6 mg/day (0.08 mg/kg body weight); the maximum dose was 11 mg/day (0.16 mg/kg body weight); and the maintenance dose was 6 mg/day (0.09 mg/kg body weight). With reference to the effectiveness, good to very good results were obtained in 19 cases. Regarding side effects 15 patients complained of extrapyramidal disturbances, this was to be expected in view of the study design aiming at the determination of the maximum dose level. When administered in one single dose in the evening, bromperidol influenced the night sleep positively, so that sleep-inducing drugs could be reduced, and, in some cases, even dispensed with.
It was shown in the experiments with albino rats that legalon and essentiale had a pronounced hepatoprotective effect in tetracycline affections of the liver. They retarded the increase in the activity of alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase and alkaline phosphatase in blood serum, prevented suppression of cholopoiesis by tetracycline and inhibited lipid peroxidation. The drugs may be used for prevention and treatment of tetracycline affections of the liver.
A resurgence of interest in the surgical treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) came with the rediscovery of posteroventral pallidotomy by Laitinen in 1985. Laitinen's procedure improved most symptoms in drug-resistant PD, which engendered wide interest in the neurosurgical community. Another lesioning procedure, ventrolateral thalamotomy, has become a powerful alternative to stimulate the nucleus ventralis intermedius, producing high long-term success rates and low morbidity rates. Pallidal stimulation has not met with the same success. According to the literature pallidotomy improves the "on" symptoms of PD, such as dyskinesias, as well as the "off" symptoms, such as rigidity, bradykinesia, and on-off fluctuations. Pallidal stimulation improves bradykinesia and rigidity to a minor extent; however, its strength seems to be in improving levodopa-induced dyskinesias. Stimulation often produces an improvement in the hyper- or dyskinetic upper limbs, but increases the "freezing" phenomenon in the lower limbs at the same time. Considering the small increase in the patient's independence, the high costs of bilateral implants, and the difficulty most patients experience in handling the devices, the question arises as to whether bilateral pallidal stimulation is a real alternative to pallidotomy.
Nuclear factor (NF) kappaB is a transcription factor which plays a pivotal role in the induction of genes involved in physiological processes as well as in the response to injury and inflammation. Dithiocarbamates are anti-oxidants which are potent inhibitors of NF-kappaB. We postulated that pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC) would attenuate multiple-organ failure (MOF).
Rats in a university research laboratory.
We investigated the effects of PDTC (10 mg/kg) on the MOF caused by zymosan (500 mg/kg, administered i.p. as a suspension in saline) in mice. MOF in mice was assessed 18 h after administration of zymosan and/or PDTC and monitored for 7 days (for loss of body weight and mortality).
Treatment of mice with PDTC (10 mg/kg i.p., 1 and 6 h after zymosan) attenuated the peritoneal exudation and the migration of polymorphonuclear cells caused by zymosan. PDTC also attenuated the lung, liver and pancreatic injury and renal dysfunction caused by zymosan as well as the increase in myeloperoxidase activity and malondialdehyde levels caused by zymosan in the lung, liver and intestine. Immunohistochemical analysis for inducible nitric oxide synthase, nitrotyrosine and poly(ADP-ribose) revealed positive staining in lung, liver and intestine tissues obtained from zymosan-treated mice. The degree of staining for nitrotyrosine and poly(ADP-ribose) were markedly reduced in tissue sections obtained from zymosan-treated mice which received PDTC. Furthermore, treatment of mice with PDTC significantly reduced the expression of nitric oxide synthase in lung, liver and intestine.
This study provides the first evidence that PDTC attenuates the degree of zymosan-induced MOF in mice.
A 39-year-old man was hospitalized because of continually rising urinary creatinine and blood urea nitrogen concentration. He was known to have familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP), first diagnosed 18 years previously and re-Physical examination was unremarkable except for pain on percussion over both kidney regions. There was a well-healed laparotomy scar.
Ultrasound revealed chronic bilateral obstructive renal disease, grade II-III, and computed tomography showed a conglomerate retroperitoneal tumour with obstruction of both ureters at the level of the lower pelvis. This tumour had first been noted first 3 years after the colectomy when the patient complained of abdominal pain. It had been identified histologically as a nonresectable retroperitoneal desmoid tumour.
An external fistula was made, relieving the renal retention. To suppress growth of the desmoid tumour Sulindac, a nonsteroid anti-inflammatory drug, was administered. Genetic molecular analysis revealed a germ line defect in codon 1690 of the APC gene. It is intended to examine other members of the family for the presence of this defect.
Desmoid tumours are more common in persons with FAP and are among the most frequent extracolic causes of their death. Treatment options are critically analysed.
In an experimental condition of hyperthyroidism, obtained by repeated administration of triiodothyronine in adult rats (100 micrograms/kg/day, sc for 7 consecutive days), there is an increased susceptibility to the convulsant effect of isoniazid (300 mg/kg, ip) and picrotoxin (4 mg/kg, ip). On the other hand, the characteristics of brain [3H] flunitrazepam binding sites are not modified. These data afford further experimental evidence of the influence of thyroid hormones on brain function.
Intravenous high-dose methotrexate chemotherapy may produce acute, subacute, or chronic neurotoxicity in patients with cancer. Acute encephalopathies following high-dose methotrexate treatment are recognized with increasing frequency. This study describes a model of acute high-dose methotrexate neurotoxicity in the rat characterized by a profound dose-dependent depression of cerebral glucose metabolism in association with behavioral and electroencephalographic abnormalities. Alterations in the amino acid profile, similar to those described in cancer patients after high-dose methotrexate treatment, were observed in the absence of biochemical evidence of systemic organ toxicity. This model facilitates the study of the biochemical mechanisms of antifolate neurotoxicity in humans and permits the evaluation of potential therapeutic interventions.
This is the first report of the successful use of magnesium sulfate (MgSO4) in 3 consecutive patients with torsades de pointes (TdP). In 1 patient, TdP was induced by a combination of quinidine and amiodarone, in the second by procainamide, and in the third by an overdose of imipramine. The QT intervals before TdP were 0.70, 0.64 and 0.56 second, respectively. A bolus of 1.0 to 2.0 g MgSO4 25% abolished the TdP in all 3 patients; but in the third patient, because of recurrent TdP, a second bolus of 1.0 g and a continuous 24-hour infusion of 1.0 mg/min were administered, preventing TdP. There was no immediate shortening in the QT interval in any patient after MgSO4. Magnesium can be given safely even in patients with acute myocardial infarction, angina pectoris or systemic hypertension, conditions in which isoproterenol is contraindicated; it can be applied faster than temporary cardiac pacing; and its use for TdP appears worthy of additional trials.
The tumor-promoting ability of clonazepam (CZP), a widely used benzodiazepine anticonvulsant, was investigated in an in vivo mouse liver tumor promotion assay and an in vitro mouse hepatocyte intercellular communication assay. The development of preneoplastic hepatocellular foci of cellular alteration and hepatocellular neoplasms was studied in male B6C3F1 mice initiated, at 5 weeks of age, with a single i.p. injection of N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA; 90 mg/kg body weight) in tricaprylin, followed by administration of either phenobarbital (PB; 0.05%) or CZP (0.068% or 0.136%) in diet beginning 2 weeks after carcinogen injection and continuing to 60 weeks of age. Several mice from each group were killed after 9, 21, 33 or 53 weeks on test diet, and portions of liver and other organs were fixed in formalin and examined histologically. Unlike PB, CZP did not promote the development of preneoplastic hepatocellular foci or neoplasms (adenomas and carcinomas) in NDEA-initiated mice. Following limited (2 weeks) dietary exposure at 0.15%, CZP was a potent inducer of hepatic P450IIB1-mediated alkoxyresorufin O-dealkylase activities. In contrast, the degree of induction in hepatic tissue from mice fed 0.136% CZP for 53 weeks was markedly lower than that in mice fed 0.05% PB for 53 weeks. In the in vitro assay, diazepam, a strong tumor promoter in mouse liver, significantly inhibited mouse hepatocyte gap junctional intercellular communication, while CZP had no significant effect on this parameter. Thus, CZP, a drug structurally related to diazepam, is inactive as a liver tumor promoter in mice.
Ecstasy, which is used as a recreational drug, is a common street name for 3, 4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA). Another drug of abuse chemically related, though less common than MDMA, is the amphetamine derivative 4-methylthioamphetamine (MTA). MDMA and MTA induce different systemic and organ-specific effects, including neurotoxicity, hyperthermia, nephrotoxicity, cardiotoxicity and hepatotoxicity. Therefore, it is clear that MDMA and MTA are responsible for inducing organ toxicity. The mechanisms underlying MDMA and MTA-induced hepatotoxicity are multifactorial, and therefore not completely understood. Recent findings indicate interference with cellular bioenergetics as an important toxicological feature of ecstasy. However, less is known about the involvement of mitochondria in MTA-induced hepatotoxicity. Thus, we compared the direct influence of MDMA and MTA on rat liver mitochondrial function [mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT), mitochondrial oxidative stress, and mitochondrial bioenergetics]. It was shown that MTA (from 0.025 up to 0.1mM) was more potent than MDMA (from 0.2 up to 0.5mM) in decreasing the sensitivity of rat liver mitochondria to MPT. However, higher concentrations of MTA (from 0.5 up to 2mM) were highly toxic to mitochondria. MTA simultaneously increased H(2)O(2) production in a monoamine oxidase (MAO)-dependent way, and uncoupled and inhibited mitochondrial respiration. In contrast, MDMA had only limited or no effects on these mitochondrial parameters. According to these results, it is possible to postulate that, depending on the concentration, MTA can potentially be more efficient in its effects on liver mitochondria than MDMA and, also, that its harmful effects may contribute to its hepatotoxicity.
The usefulness of the intravenous dipyridamole-echocardiography test (12-lead and two-dimensional [2-D] echo monitoring during dipyridamole infusion) in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease recently has been suggested. However, the intravenous form of dipyridamole is not available for clinical use in some countries and therefore the administration of oral dipyridamole has been employed in combination with echocardiography. In order to evaluate the relative usefulness of the oral (300 mg of pulverized tablets) vs the intravenous (up to 0.84 mg/kg in 10 min) dipyridamole-echocardiography test, we performed the two tests, on different days and in random order, in 28 inhospital patients: 21 had coronary artery disease (seven had one-vessel disease, eight had two-vessel disease, and six had three-vessel disease); seven patients had no significant coronary artery disease. For both tests, the diagnostic end-point was the development of a transient dyssynergy of contraction. Sensitivity was 95 percent for the intravenous and 52 percent for the oral dipyridamole-echocardiography test (p < 0.01); in positive cases, the dyssynergy after the dipyridamole administration appeared at 6.5 +/- 2.5 min for the intravenous and at 27.8 +/- 12.4 min for the oral test (p < 0.01). Specificity was 100 percent for both the intravenous and oral dipyridamole-echocardiography test. One or more extracardiac side effects (headache, gastrointestinal upset, flushing, etc) occurred in 61 percent of the intravenous and 68 percent of the oral tests (p = ns). Nine patients with a positive intravenous and oral dipyridamole-echocardiography test also had a positive exercise-electrocardiography test. A significant correlation between exercise time (ie, the time from onset of exercise and 0.1 m V of ST segment shift) and dipyridamole time (ie, the time from onset of dipyridamole administration and the development of frank dyssynergy) was present for the intravenous (r = 0.6, p < 0.05) but not for the oral test. We conclude that the oral dipyridamole-echocardiography test, in comparison with the intravenous dipyridamole-echocardiography test, has a lower sensitivity and requires a substantially longer imaging time. The dipyridamole time is related to exercise time for intravenous but not for the oral dipyridamole-echocardiography test.
Doxorubicin is an anthracycline antineoplastic antibiotic that acts at the cell nucleus by intercalating between base pairs of DNA, thus inhibiting DNA-directed mRNA synthesis. Intraneural micro-injection of 0.19-0.38 micrograms of this substance into rat sciatic nerve results in a delayed subacute demyelination that is secondary to focal Schwann cell degeneration. Remyelination eventually occurs but is not complete until at least days 60-75 postinjection. Toxic Schwann cell disorders produced by agents such as doxorubicin may serve as useful models in understanding the pathogenesis of human demyelinative neuropathies.
Imipramine and serotonin (5-HT) were used to produce a myopathy in rats. Imipramine was used to stimulate a defect in transport of 5-HT observed in the platelets of Duchenne's dystrophy patients. The most effective dosage schedule was imipramine, 10 mg per kilogram, for 7 days followed by 5-HT, 100 mg per kilogram, 6 hours after the final imipramine dose. A single series of injections produced focal groups of necrotic and regenerating muscle fibers. In some rats, multiple series of injections resulted in a chronic myopathy with a predilection for proximal muscles, particularly quadriceps. In addition to skeletal muscle lesions, focal areas of myocardial damage were seen. The affected rats had a marked elevation of plasma creatine phosphokinase (including MB isoenzyme), serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase, and lactic dehydrogenase. Femoral nerve section did not affect the development of muscle lesions.
To study the effect of Lichong Decoction (Lichong Decoction for strengthening anti-pathogenic Qi and eliminating blood stasis) on the expression of insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) mRNA in a rat model of uterine leiomyoma.
Fifty female Wistar rats were randomized into a normal control group, model group, Lichong Decoction group, Guizhifuling Capsule (Capsule containing Cassia Twig and Poria) group, and Mifepristone group. The uterine leiomyoma model was established by peritoneal injections of exogenous estrogen and progesterone hormone. The ultrastructural changes in cells of rat uterine tissues were observed with transmission electron microscopy, and the expression of IGF-I and PCNA mRNA was detected by real-time fluorescent quantitative PCR.
Following treatment, cells in the Lichong Decoction group appeared to be arranged normally, the cellular morphology were almost in a normal state, hyperplasia and hypertrophy of the chondriosome was reduced, collagen fibers were arranged in a regular manner, without obvious hyperplasia, and the expression of IGF-I and PCNA mRNA was significantly decreased compared with the model group (P < 0.01).
The effect of Lichong Decoction on uterine leiomyoma is related to its function in reducing the expression of IGF-I and PCNA mRNA.
