The aim of this study was to investigate the association between Paraoxonase 1 (PON1) gene polymorphisms (M55L and Q192R) and lymphohaematopoietic cancers (LHC) in an agricultural region of Greece. A hospital-based case-control study was conducted. A structured questionnaire including information on demographics, residence, occupation, agricultural practices, pesticide exposure, family history, smoking, alcohol consumption and medical history, was used. Genotyping of 316 cases of LHC and 351 healthy controls by using standard laboratory methods was performed. To control for confounders, Binary and Multinomial Logistic Regression analyses were used. Possession of QQ genotype or presence of the Q allele were associated with increased risk of developing LHC (OR 1.94, 95% CI 1.42-2.66 and OR 1.72, 95% CI 1.33-2.23 respectively). The QQ genotype in the recessive model was independently associated with LHC (OR 1.92, 95% CI 1.40-2.65), leukaemia (OR 1.99, 95% CI 1.13-3.49), lymphoma (OR 2.17, 95% CI 1.21-3.90) and plasmacell disease (OR 1.92, 95% CI 1.40-2.65) even after controlling for age, sex, pesticide exposure, smoking and family history (cancers, LHC and immunological disorders) as confounders. Possession of QQ genotype was found to have a stronger association with LHC in the high and medium pesticide exposed groups(OR 2.15, 95% CI 1.35-3.40, P-value 0.001 and OR 2.25, 95% CI 1.21-4.19, P-value 0.010 respectively), compared with the Low/No exposed group where the association was not statistically significant (OR 1.51, 95% CI 0.76-3.00, P-value 0.224). We found no association between M55L polymorphism and LHC. PON1 polymorphisms may influence the risk for LHC in our agricultural area. The results encourage further investigation on the PON1 polymorphisms and their importance on the individual's susceptibility especially when exposure to pesticides occurs.
An autosomal-recessive mutation that causes hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism was isolated during an N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea mutagenesis screen in mice. Affected males had micropenis and small, undescended testes with spermatogenesis arrested at the pachytene stage of meiosis, leading to sterility. Androgen-sensitive organs were small and immature. Affected females were externally normal but sterile with small ovaries due to an arrest at the secondary stage of folliculogenesis, and the uterus and oviducts were thin and immature. Circulating reproductive hormones were significantly decreased in affected males and females. There was also a dramatic reduction in the numbers of FSH- and LH-producing gonadotrophs. Meiotic mapping of the mutation and candidate gene sequencing determined that the N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea-induced lesion is in the third transmembrane domain of the GnRH receptor gene (Gnrhr). In vitro studies indicate that the mutant receptor is not coupled to the plasma membrane signal transduction system. Moreover, this mutant cannot be rescued with defined GnRH receptor pharmacoperones (pharmacological chaperones), an approach that rescues many other misfolded mutants. The mutant GnRH receptor was also shown to exert a dominant-negative effect on wild-type receptor function, indicating that the mutant receptor is unable to fold properly and likely misrouted within the cell, not reaching the plasma membrane. Surprisingly, Gnrhr mutant transcripts were significantly up-regulated in the pituitaries of Gnrhr mutants, revealing a previously unknown autoregulatory feedback loop. This is the first report of a mouse with a Gnrhr loss of function mutation. These GnRH-insensitive mice provide a novel animal model for the study of human idiopathic hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism.
Nine elderly parkinsonian volunteers took single doses of 384 mg of chlormethiazole, 10 mg of temazepam and placebo capsules in a double-blind three-way cross-over study on separate visits at least one week apart. In the 6 hours following the dose, the level of drowsiness, performance on a series of psychomotor tests, effects on parkinsonian symptoms and signs, and standing and lying blood pressure were recorded. Chlormethiazole produced drowsiness on all tests and impaired psychomotor performance, as compared with placebo, without affecting parkinsonian symptoms and signs, or postural blood pressure. Temazepam was consistently less potent than chlormethiazole on tests of drowsiness and psychomotor performance. Both treatments were well tolerated. It is suggested that chlormethiazole is safe to use as a hypnotic at this dosage in this group of patients with Parkinson's disease, while temazepam did not appear to be effective as a hypnotic at this dosage.
The past few years have seen an increase in the reported incidence of endometrial carcinoma, one of the most frequently diagnosed malignancies of the female genital tract. Estrogen production is vital for the mitogenesis of endometrial tumors. Inhibition of steroid sulfatase (STS), an enzyme responsible for the synthesis of steroids with estrogenic properties, may represent a novel therapeutic target for this type of cancer. This study investigates the effects of STX64 (also known as 667Coumate and BN83495) and STX213, two potent STS inhibitors, on hormone-dependent endometrial cancer cell growth in vivo. When tested in intact mice with endometrial cancer xenografts, STX64 had limited effect on tumor growth. In contrast, the microtubule disruptor STX140 reduced tumor growth by 55%. In a hormone-dependent endometrial xenograft model in ovariectomized mice, both STX64 and STX213 given orally, daily at 1 mg/kg significantly inhibited tumor growth by 48 and 67%, respectively. However, when given orally at 1 mg/kg once weekly, only STX213 still inhibited tumor proliferation. At a higher dose of STX64 (10 mg/kg, orally, daily), a greater tumor growth inhibition of 59% was observed. Liver and tumor STS activity was completely inhibited in all daily treatment groups. Plasma estradiol (E2) levels were also significantly decreased. A significant correlation was observed between plasma E2 concentrations and STS activity, indicating the importance of circulating E2 on tumor growth. This novel study demonstrates for the first time that STS inhibitors are potent inhibitors of endometrial cancer growth in nude mice.
Maturation of the fetal hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis is critical for the timely somatic development of the fetus and readiness for birth. Recently, we proposed that prostaglandin generation within the fetal central nervous system is critical for the modulation of hypotension-induced fetal ACTH secretion. The present study was designed to test the hypothesis that the preparturient increase in fetal ACTH secretion is dependent upon fetal central nervous system prostaglandin synthesis mediated by the activity of prostaglandin endoperoxide synthase (PGHS)-2 (cyclooxygenase-2) in the fetal brain. We performed two studies in chronically catheterized fetal sheep. In the first study, we infused nimesulide or vehicle intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v) into singleton fetal sheep and collected blood samples until spontaneous parturition. Nimesulide significantly delayed parturition, and inhibited fetal ACTH and proopiomelanocortin secretion but did not prevent the preparturient increase in fetal plasma cortisol concentration. In the second study, we used twin fetuses. One fetus received intracerebroventricular nimesulide and the other intracerebroventricular vehicle. Nimesulide reduced brain tissue concentrations of prostaglandin estradiol, while not affecting plasma prostaglandin E(2) concentrations, demonstrating an action restricted to the fetal brain. Nimesulide reduced PGHS-2 mRNA and increased PGHS-2 protein, while not altering PGHS-1 mRNA or protein in most brain regions, suggesting an effect of the inhibitor on PGHS-2 turnover and relative specificity for PGHS-2 in vivo. We conclude that the preparturient increase in fetal ACTH and proopiomelanocortin is dependent upon the activity of PGHS-2 in the fetal brain. However, we also conclude that the timing of parturition is not solely dependent upon ACTH in this species.
Although many articles have reported immune abnormalities in autism, NK cell activity has only been examined in one study of 31 patients, of whom 12 were found to have reduced NK activity. The mechanism behind this low NK cell activity was not explored. For this reason, we explored the measurement of NK cell activity in 1027 blood samples from autistic children obtained from ten clinics and compared the results to 113 healthy controls. This counting of NK cells and the measurement of their lytic activity enabled us to express the NK cell activity/100 cells. At the cutoff of 15-50 LU we found that NK cell activity was low in 41-81% of the patients from the different clinics. This NK cell activity below 15 LU was found in only 8% of healthy subjects (p<0.001). Low NK cell activity in both groups did not correlate with percentage and absolute number of CD16(+)/CD56(+) cells. When the NK cytotoxic activity was expressed based on activity/100 CD16(+)/CD56(+) cells, several patients who had displayed NK cell activity below 15 LU exhibited normal NK cell activity. Overall, after this correction factor, 45% of the children with autism still exhibited low NK cell activity, correlating with the intracellular level of glutathione. Finally, we cultured lymphocytes of patients with low or high NK cell activity/cell with or without glutathione, IL-2 and IL-15. The induction of NK cell activity by IL-2, IL-15 and glutathione was more pronounced in a subgroup with very low NK cell activity. We conclude that that 45% of a subgroup of children with autism suffers from low NK cell activity, and that low intracellular levels of glutathione, IL-2 and IL-15 may be responsible.
Up to 10% of the HIV-positive population is coinfected with hepatitis B virus (HBV). Generally, combined treatment includes agents against both viruses, such as lamivudine (3TC). However, HBV resistance to 3TC is high. Adefovir dipivoxil (ADV) has shown its efficacy for treating 3TC-resistant (3TC-R) HBV in HIV-coinfected patients. ADV combined with pegylated interferon (PEG-IFN) has never been evaluated in this population.
HIV-HBV-coinfected patients with positive HBV e antigen (HBeAg), documented 3TC-R HBV mutation and antiretroviral treatment including 3TC were selected and received ADV (10 mg daily) and PEG-IFN-alpha2a (180 microg weekly) for 48 weeks.
Of 18 eligible patients (n=16 [89%] male, mean +/-SD age 40.45 +/-4.82 years), 17 were treated for 48 weeks. One stopped IFN treatment because of adverse events and continued ADV only. The median (interquartile range) HBV DNA at baseline was 8.0 (5.30-8.97) log10 copies/ml and the median (95%/ confidence interval [CI]) decrease after 48 and 72 weeks was 3.6 (4.9-2.4) and 1.4 (-5.0-2.2) log,0 copies/ml, respectively. None of the patients became HBeAg-negative. Median (95%/ CI) decrease of serum alanine aminotransferase was 27.8 (-66.2-10.5) IU/ml after 48 weeks and 93.0 (-80.0-26.1) IU/ml after 72 weeks.
ADV and PEG-IFN is safe and effective for treating 3TC-R HBV in HIV patients. However, on-treatment response was not maintained off therapy and did not lead to HBV seroconversion. The combination had no effect on HIV disease progression.
A 65-year-old woman with height of 156 cm and weight of 54 kg, who had previously been healthy, was scheduled for resection of axillary abscess. She was not premedicated. After local infiltration of 1%-lidocaine 25 ml, operation was started under electrocardiographic monitoring. Blood pressure was 190/100 mmHg, heart rate being 80 bpm and EKG showed sinus rhythm. During next 25 minutes, 60 ml of 1%-lidocaine was used because of inadequate pain relief. Two minutes after the last injection of 1%-lidocaine 10 ml, the patient developed significant bradycardia followed by cardiac standstill. Resuscitation was started immediately. Within two minutes, EKG showed idioventricular rhythm followed by junctional escaped rhythm and then sinus rhythm at a rate of 42 bpm appeared. Bradycardia below 50 bpm continued for 9 minutes despite of intravenous administration of atropine. After the recovery of heart beat, the patient became responsive, alert, and oriented, and neither arrhythmia nor ST-T change was observed. Laboratory data showed no abnormality which might have predisposed her to the development of cardiac arrest. Because the cardiac arrest occurred soon after lidocaine injection and no drug other than lidocaine had been used, lidocaine was thought to be the cause of the cardiac arrest.
We report the synthesis of new compounds 4-35 based on structural modifications of different moieties of previously described lead UCM-2550. The new nonpiperazine derivatives, representing second-generation agonists, were assessed for binding affinity, selectivity, and functional activity at the 5-HT(1A) receptor (5-HT(1A)R). Computational β(2)-based homology models of the ligand-receptor complexes were used to explain the observed structure-affinity relationships. Selected candidates were also evaluated for their potential in vitro and in vivo neuroprotective properties. Interestingly, compound 26 (2-{6-[(3,4-dihydro-2H-chromen-2-ylmethyl)amino]hexyl}tetrahydro-1H-pyrrolo[1,2-c]imidazole-1,3(2H)-dione) has been characterized as a high-affinity and potent 5-HT(1A)R agonist (K(i) = 5.9 nM, EC(50) = 21.8 nM) and exhibits neuroprotective effect in neurotoxicity assays in primary cell cultures from rat hippocampus and in the MCAO model of focal cerebral ischemia in rats.
We have recently reported that viral vector-mediated supplementation of fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in a lesioned, epileptogenic rat hippocampus limits neuronal damage, favors neurogenesis, and reduces spontaneous recurrent seizures. To test if this treatment can also prevent hippocampal circuit reorganization, we examined here its effect on mossy fiber sprouting, the best studied form of axonal plasticity in epilepsy.
A herpes-based vector expressing FGF-2 and BDNF was injected into the rat hippocampus 3 days after an epileptogenic insult (pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus). Continuous video-electroencephalography (EEG) monitoring was initiated 7 days after status epilepticus, and animals were sacrificed at 28 days for analysis of cell loss (measured using NeuN immunofluorescence) and mossy fiber sprouting (measured using dynorphin A immunohistochemistry).
The vector expressing FGF-2 and BDNF decreased both mossy fiber sprouting and the frequency and severity of spontaneous seizures. The effect on sprouting correlated strictly with the cell loss in the terminal fields of physiologic mossy fiber innervation (mossy cells in the dentate gyrus hilus and CA3 pyramidal neurons).
These data suggest that the supplementation of FGF-2 and BDNF in an epileptogenic hippocampus may prevent epileptogenesis by decreasing neuronal loss and mossy fiber sprouting, that is, reducing some forms of circuit reorganization.
Heterozygous mutations of ELA2, encoding the protease neutrophil elastase (NE), cause either autosomal dominant cyclic neutropenia or severe congenital neutropenia (SCN). Three hypotheses have been proposed for how allelic mutations produce these different disorders: 1) disruption of proteolytic activity; 2) mislocalization of the protein; or 3) destabilization of the protein resulting in induction of the unfolded protein response. As with other dominant diseases with reduced reproductive fitness, sporadic cases can result from new mutations not inherited from either parent. Here we report an exceptional genetic phenomenon in which both a cyclic neutropenia patient and an SCN patient each possess two new ELA2 mutations. Because of the rarity of the phenomenon, we investigated the origins of the mutations and found that both arise nonmosaically and in cis from the paternally-inherited allele. Moreover, these cases offer a unique opportunity to investigate molecular pathways distinguishing these two forms of hereditary neutropenia. We have characterized the mutants separately and in combination, with respect to their effects on proteolysis, subcellular trafficking, and induction of the unfolded protein response. Each pair of mutations acts more or less additively to produce equivalent net effects on reducing proteolytic activity and induction of the unfolded protein response, yet each has different and somewhat opposing effects on disturbing subcellular localization, thus offering support for a role for protein mistrafficking as a disease mechanism.
To examine the in vitro antitumor activity of resveratrol against multiple myeloma (MM) cell lines (RPMI 8226, U266, and KM3), and the mechanisms involved.
The growth inhibition of resveratrol was determined by 3-(4, 5-dimethyl-2-thiazyl)-2,5-diphenyl-2H-tetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay. The effect of resveratrol on the apoptosis was investigated by combined annexin V-propidium iodide staining. The effect of resveratrol on the invasion through Matrigel matrix was detected by transwell invasion analyses. The activity of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 and -9 proteins were determined by gelatin zymography analysis. The expression of MMP-2, MMP-9, Bcl-2, Bcl-x(L), XIAP and Bax protein were detected using Western blotting analysis.
Resveratrol inhibited proliferation of MM cells in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Incubation of MM cells with resveratrol resulted in apoptotic cell death. Resveratrol down-regulated the expression of the antiapoptotic proteins Bcl-2, Bcl-x(L) and XIAP and up-regulated the expression of the proapoptotic protein Bax. Furthermore, resveratrol inhibited invasion of RPMI 8226, U266, and KM3 cells with IC50 values of 64+/-8 micromol/L, 93+/-11 micromol/L, and 153+/-11 micromol/L, respectively. Resveratrol inhibited the constitutive expression of MMP-2 and -9 proteins of MM cells and suppressed its gelatinolytic activity.
Resveratrol inhibits the proliferation of MM cells by inducing apoptotic cell death. Resveratrol also inhibits MM cell invasion. The inhibition of invasion may be associated with the attenuation of the enzymatic activities of MMP-2 and -9.
The electrocardiographic effects of dobutamine stress testing (10 to 40 microg/kg/minute) were investigated in five conscious healthy dogs. We studied the changes in the duration and amplitude of P wave, PR interval, duration of QRS complex, R wave amplitude, QT interval, and heart rate. Development of arrhythmias and ST segment abnormalities were also recorded. It was observed that dobutamine significantly affects atrioventricular-nodal conduction and total electrical systole time at higher infusion rates. Only a single episode of sustained ventricular tachycardia was observed, which was promptly restored to sinus rhythm shortly after dobutamine infusion was discontinued. No ST segment abnormalities were detected. Dobutamine stress testing was concluded to play a role in some ECG parameters at higher infusion rates.
Retinoid is a collective term for compounds which bind to and activate retinoic acid receptors (RARalpha, beta, gamma and RXRalpha, beta, gamma), members of nuclear hormone receptor superfamily. The most important endogeneous retinoid is all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) which is an RARalpha, beta and gamma ligand. ATRA and its mimics have been in clinical use for treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) and some skin diseases. Many synthetic retinoids have been developed and attempts to improve their medicinal properties have been made. Among them, tamibarotene (Am80) is an RARalpha- and RARbeta-specific (but RARgamma- and RXRs-nonbinding) synthetic retinoid that is effective in the treatment of psoriasis patients and relapsed APL. Experimentally, this compound is also active in animal models of rheumatoid arthritis and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. On this background, possible application of retinoids for the treatment of autoimmune diseases was discussed. In particular, Th1 dominant autoimmune diseases may be the targets of the retinoids.
We attempted to elucidate the antitussive principles of Glycyrrhizae radix, a main component of Bakumondo-to (Mai-men-dong-tang). Although the 50% methanol-eluted fraction (100 mg/kg, p.o.) caused a more than 60% reduction in the number of capsaicin-induced coughs, neither the water-eluted nor 100% ethanol-eluted fractions of water extract of G. radix had antitussive effects. The water extract of G. radix contained high levels of liquiritin, liquiritin apioside, isoliquiritin, isoliquiritin apioside and glycyrrhizin. On the other hand, the 50% methanol-eluted fraction contained mainly liquiritin and liquiritin apioside, but not the other compounds. Liquiritin apioside (3-30 mg/kg, p.o.), but not liquiritin, isoliquiritin, isoliquiritin apioside or glycyrrhizin, dose-dependently inhibited the number of coughs. Methysergide, a serotonin receptor antagonist, antagonized the antitussive effect of liquiritin apioside. However, the antitussive effect of liquiritin apioside was not antagonized by naloxone. Pretreatment with glibenclamide (3 mg/kg, i.p.), an ATP-sensitive potassium channel blocker, also significantly reduced the antinociceptive effect of liquiritin apioside. These results suggest that G. radix contains a potent antitussive compound, liquilitin apioside, whose antitussive effect may depend on both peripheral and central mechanisms.
Pathological hypersexuality developed in 13 patients with PD and two patients ultimately diagnosed clinically with MSA. Hypersexuality began within 8 months after starting dopamine agonist therapy in 14 of 15 cases, including four on agonist monotherapy. It resolved in the four cases where the agonist was stopped, despite continued levodopa therapy. This was not an isolated behavioral problem in most, with additional compulsive or addictive behaviors coinciding in nine patients (60%). A systematic literature review of pathological hypersexuality in PD revealed similar medication histories; combining these cases with our series, 26 of 29 patients (90%) were on adjuvant dopamine agonists.
We conducted a population-based 45-day follow-up study of 232,390 people who were prescribed trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMZ), 266,951 prescribed trimethoprim alone, and 196,397 prescribed cephalexin, to estimate the risk of serious liver, blood, skin, and renal disorders resulting in referral or hospitalization associated with these drugs. The results were based on information recorded on office computers by selected general practitioners in the United Kingdom, together with a review of clinical records. The risk of clinically important idiopathic liver disease was similar for persons prescribed TMP-SMZ (5.2/100,000) and those prescribed trimethoprim alone (3.8/100,000). The risk for those prescribed cephalexin was somewhat lower (2.0/100,000). Only five patients experienced blood disorders, one of whom was exposed to TMP-SMZ; of seven with erythema multiforme and Stevens-Johnson syndrome, four were exposed to TMP-SMZ. The one case of toxic epidermal necrolysis occurred in a patient who took cephalexin. Finally, only five cases of acute parenchymal renal disease occurred, none likely to be caused by a study drug. We conclude that the risk of the serious diseases studied is small for the three agents, and compares reasonably with the risk for many other antibiotics.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a complex disease influenced by genetic and environmental contributing factors. Endocrine disrupting compounds (EDCs) such as bisphenol A (BPA) affect gene expression and hormone-regulated systems throughout the body. We investigated the effects of BPA on Theiler's-virus induced demyelination (TVID), a mouse model of MS. Perinatal BPA exposure, combined with viral infection, resulted in a decreased level of viral antibodies, accelerated the onset of TVID symptoms, increased inflammation in both the spinal cord and digestive tract, and amplified immune-related gene expression changes induced by viral infection. These results demonstrate the effect of BPA on the trajectory of TVID, and illustrate how multiple factors collectively influence autoimmune disease.
Acute liver failure (ALF) shares striking similarities with septic shock where a decrease in HLA-DR expression on monocytes is associated with disease severity and predicts outcome. We investigated monocyte HLA-DR expression in ALF in relation to inflammatory mediator levels and clinical outcome. Monocyte HLA-DR expression was determined in 50 patients with acetaminophen-induced ALF (AALF) and 20 non-acetaminophen-induced ALF (NAALF). AALF patients were divided into dead/transplanted (AALF-NS, n = 26) and spontaneous survivors (AALF-S, n = 24). Fifty patients with chronic liver disease (CLD) and 50 healthy volunteers served as controls. Monocyte HLA-DR expression was determined by double-color flow-cytometry with monoclonal antibodies detecting HLA-DR and monocyte specific CD14. Serum levels of interleukin (IL) -4, -6, -10, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and interferon (IFN)-gamma were concomitantly measured by ELISA. Compared to healthy volunteers (75%) and CLD (67%) monocyte HLA-DR percentage expression was lower in AALF (15%, P < .001) and NAALF (22 %, P < .001). Compared to AALF-S, AALF-NS had lower monocyte HLA-DR % (11% vs. 36%, P < .001) and higher levels of IL-4, IL-6, IL-10 and TNF-alpha (P < .001). HLA-DR percentage negatively correlated with INR, blood lactate, pH and levels of encephalopathy (r = -0.8 to -0.5, P < .01), IL-10 (r = -0.8, P < .0001), TNF-alpha (r = -0.4, P = .02). HLA-DR percentage level <or=15% has a 96% sensitivity and 100% specificity and 98% accuracy in predicting poor prognosis. In conclusion, the strong relationship of monocyte HLA-DR expression with indices of disease severity, mediators of inflammation and outcome indicates a key role for this molecule as a biomarker of disease severity and prognosis.
Iron-chelating therapy with deferoxamine in patients with thalassemia major has dramatically improved the prognosis of this disease. However, the limitations of this treatment have stimulated the design of alternative orally active iron chelators.
To compare the effectiveness and safety of, and compliance with, oral deferiprone (L1), and deferoxamine, in thalassemia major patients.
All patients were followed up in one center in Lebanon. Sixteen patients were on L1 (75 mg/kg/d), and 40 patients on subcutaneous deferoxamine (20-50 mg/kg/d). Serum ferritin level, urinary iron excretion (UIE) and side effects were monitored over a two year period.
Patients on L1 had an initial serum ferritin concentration of 3663+/-566 microg/l (mean+/-SEM), that dropped to 2599+/-314 at 6 months (p<0.02; paired t-test), and stabilised at that level over the 24 months follow up. Patients on deferoxamine had an initial mean serum ferritin concentration of 3480+/-417 (NS compared to the L1 group), which dropped gradually to 3143+/-417 (p<0.05) and 2819+/-292 (p<0.02) at 6 and 24 months, respectively. The most common adverse reactions associated with L1 were arthralgia and nausea, but they did not necessitate stopping the drug.
L1 had comparable efficacy as deferoxamine with minimal side effects and better compliance. Provided long term side effects are not encountered, L1 seems to be a valuable alternative iron chelator for patients unable or unwilling to use deferoxamine effectively.
We present a case of halothane-associated-hepatitis in a 34-year-old woman. She received halothane anesthesia twice within a 6-day interval, 2 weeks prior to the onset of symptoms. Liver histology was nonspecific, and unusual in showing not only lobular hepatitis but also granulomatous changes. Since the clinical picture and the laboratory values were more and the liver histology less in keeping with the diagnosis, we emphasize that the former two parameters should play a vital role in establishing or discarding the diagnosis of halothane-induced hepatitis.
Mexiletine is an oral sodium channel antagonist that has been reported to be effective in a variety of neuropathic pain syndromes. However, recent reports question the efficacy of oral mexiletine in neuropathic pain. The objectives of this study were to examine the effect of oral mexiletine on pain, neurosensation, allodynia, and quality of life.
Twenty subjects suffering from neuropathic pain with prominent allodynia were enrolled in a randomized placebo-controlled crossover study. Patients were titrated to a maximum dose of 900 mg/d or dose-limiting side effects, whichever occurred first. At baseline and on days 0, 4, 7, and 10, the following tests were performed: (1) Quality of Life Questionnaires; (2) pain scores; (3) area of allodynia; (4) side effects; (5) neurosensory testing; and (6) peak and trough plasma mexiletine levels.
Peak plasma levels occurred on day 10 and were 0.54 microg/mL. There was no significant effect on any quality of life measurement. There was no significant effect on any neurosensory threshold or the area of allodynia. There was a significant effect of mexiletine on stroking-induced pain. There were no significant effects on any other pain score. Side effects were negligible.
At doses of up to 900 mg/d, mexiletine has minimal effects on pain and allodynia of neuropathic pain. However, side effects may preclude higher doses.
Mexiletine is a sodium channel blocker that has been used for the treatment of a variety of neuropathic pain syndromes. A recent double-blinded placebo-controlled study concluded that it was ineffective in the treatment of allodynia associated with neuropathic pain. However, this study failed to achieve adequate plasma levels of mexiletine. This was a study in healthy volunteers that sought to push the drug to dose-limiting side effects and then evaluate the effects on human experimental pain.
Twelve healthy volunteers were studied using a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study. The subjects were titrated to a maximum dose of 1,350 mg/d or dose-limiting side effects, whichever occurred first. At baseline and day 10 and 17, neurosensory testing, train-of-three thermal pulses, and side-effect measurements were performed and on day 17, intradermal capsaicin was injected on the volar aspect of the forearm and the pain and secondary hyperalgesia to von Frey hair, stroking, and thermal stimuli were measured.
Peak plasma levels occurred on day 10 and were 0.36 +/- 0.21 microg/mL. All subjects experienced dose-limiting side effects. The mean maximum tolerable daily dose achieved was 859 mg (range, 300 to 1,350 mg). The side effects reported by the subjects included nausea, lightheadedness, muscle twitching and weakness, blurred vision, headache, tremors, difficulty concentrating, dysphoria, sedation, pruritus, and rash. These side effects occurred at an average daily dose of 993 mg (range, 600 to 1,350 mg). Compared with placebo, mexiletine had no significant effects on any of the neurosensory thresholds and pain scores after intradermal capsaicin. There was a significant reduction in the area of secondary hyperalgesia to von Frey hair stimulation only. There was a significant correlation between plasma mexiletine level and flare response.
Mexiletine has minimal effects on human experimental pain. It is severely limited by side effects and tolerable doses seem to be void of effects on normal neurosensation and facilitated pain induced by capsaicin and thermal heat pulses.
We have described a patient with muscle weakness caused by ingestion of quinidine sulfate. Intrafascicular perivasculitis and rare muscle fiber regeneration were present in the muscle at biopsy. A similar clinical picture has previously been reported in patients taking other medications, but not quinidine.
UDP-Glucuronyltransferase 2B7 (UGT2B7) is involved in benzidine metabolism, as demonstrated by in vitro experiments with liver slices. To evaluate the possible association of UGT2B7 gene polymorphism with bladder cancer risk for benzidine-exposed subjects, diagnosed bladder cancer cases (n = 36) who were members of a cohort of benzidine-exposed workers in the Chinese dyestuff industry were investigated. UGT2B7 polymorphism at locus C802T (His268Tyr) was detected using a PCR-RFLP based procedure. Nondiseased cohort members (156 men, 95 women) were taken as work-related control, and unexposed healthy individuals (113 men, 105 women) were taken as community control. The data showed that the polymorphism at locus UGT2B7 C802T in a general Chinese population significantly differs from that in a Caucasian population (p = 0.00018), displaying a distinctly lower frequency of T/T genotypes (9.2 vs. 25.3%), while no significant difference to a Japanese population could be detected (p = 0.17). A higher prevalence of T/T genotype carriers was found in the cancer cases, compared with unexposed healthy controls (25 vs. 9%, odds ratio [OR] 3.30, 95% confidence interval [95% CI] 1.37-7.98, p = 0.006). A higher presentation of T allele carriers in the patients group was also confirmed (46 vs. 33%, OR 1.73, 95% CI 1.05-2.87, p = 0.03). A higher portion of the T/T genotype was also observed in bladder cancer patients compared with nondiseased members of the same benzidine-exposed cohort, although some of them displayed different degrees of cellular alterations in their exfoliated urothelial cells. This study points for the first time to an association between a homozygous mutant genotype of human UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 2B7 catalyzing the biotransformation of benzidine and an elevated bladder cancer risk for formerly benzidine-exposed workers of the dyestuff industry.
