The widely used benzodiazepine tranquilizers diazepam and oxazepam promoted development of hepatocellular hyperplastic foci and hepatocellular neoplasms (adenomas and carcinomas) when they were fed in diet to male B6C3F1 mice after initiation by N-nitrosodiethylamine. Diazepam was more effective than oxazepam and its effect was proportionate to dose. Both diazepam and oxazepam induced hepatomegaly, cytochrome P-450 and cytochrome P-450-dependent aminopyrine N-demethylase activity in hepatocytes, effects similar to those produced by a well-known rodent liver tumor promoter, phenobarbital. In view of the importance and widespread use of this class of compounds, more work is warranted to examine their effects on tumor development in different mammalian species.
Three children who presented with a Fanconi syndrome induced by the chemotherapeutic drug ifosfamide were found to have renal abnormalities on sonogram examinations. Renal echographic changes consisted in hyperechogenicity of the parenchyma with good corticomedullar differentiation. After discontinuation of the chemotherapy, the serum and urine metabolic abnormalities due to proximal tubulopathy were completely or greatly improved. Imaging studies at that time showed a complete resolution of the renal hyperechogenicity. We suggest that in patients exposed to ifosfamide, renal sonogram may be of value to monitor the tubular toxicity of this drug. In these patients, urine and serum monitoring as well as prospective echographic follow-up kidney abnormalities may lead to earlier detection of ifosfamide-induced Fanconi syndrome as well as earlier detection of disease reversibility.
Fluid refractory septic shock can develop into a hypodynamic cardiovascular state in both children and adults. Despite management of these patients with empirical inotropic therapy (with or without a vasodilator), mortality remains high.
The effect of cardiovascular support using intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation was investigated in a hypodynamic, mechanically ventilated canine sepsis model in which cardiovascular and pulmonary support were titrated based on treatment protocols.
Each week, three animals (n = 33, 10-12 kg) were administered intrabronchial Staphylococcus aureus challenge and then randomized to receive intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation for 68 hrs or no intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation (control). Bacterial doses were increased over the study (4-8 x 10(9) cfu/kg) to assess the effects of intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation during sepsis with increasing risk of death.
Compared with lower bacterial doses (4-7 x 10(9) colony-forming units/kg), control animals challenged with the highest dose (8 x 10(9) colony-forming units/kg) had a greater risk of death (mortality rate 86% vs. 17%), with worse lung injury ([A - a]O2), and renal dysfunction (creatinine). These sicker animals required higher norepinephrine infusion rates to maintain blood pressure (and higher FIO2) and positive end-expiratory pressure levels to maintain oxygenation (p < or = 0.04 for all). In animals receiving the highest bacterial dose, intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation improved survival time (23.4 +/- 10 hrs longer; p = 0.003) and lowered norepinephrine requirements (0.43 +/- 0.17 microg/kg/min; p = 0.002) and systemic vascular resistance index (1.44 +/- 0.57 dynes/s/cm5/kg; p = 0.0001) compared with controls. Despite these beneficial effects, intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation was associated with an increase in blood urea nitrogen (p = 0.002) and creatinine (p = 0.12). In animals receiving lower doses of bacteria, intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation had no significant effects on survival or renal function.
In a canine model of severe septic shock with a low cardiac index, intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation prolongs survival time and lowers vasopressor requirements.
The occurrence of a left atrial thrombus without a haemodynamic predisposing factor (arrhythmia, mitral valvulopathy, severe left ventricular dysfunction) is a rare event. We report a case during the progression of refractory myeloma, four months after stopping treatment with thalidomide. The promoting haemodynamic factors for left atrial thrombosis in sinus rhythm, described in the literature, had been excluded. In our case the potential role of thalidomide is debatable, in the light of recent publications about venous and arterial thromboses observed with this treatment.
Seven drugs were administered to nude mice with transplanted TNB9 neuroblastoma. DTIC, cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide were the first-line drugs against TNB9. Chemotherapy including ifosfamide was effective to three of six children with malignant solid tumor resistant to cisplatin and/or cyclophosphamide. Two of the patients who were pretreated with radiotherapy were found to have hemorrhagic cystitis after ifosfamide administration. It therefore seems that chemotherapy with ifosfamide should be withheld after radiotherapy.
Long term effects of air pollution on mortality were studied in 14,284 adults who resided in 24 areas from seven French cities when enrolled in the PAARC survey (air pollution and chronic respiratory diseases) in 1974. Daily measurements of sulphur dioxide, total suspended particles, black smoke, nitrogen dioxide, and nitric oxide were made in 24 areas for three years (1974-76). Cox proportional hazards models controlling for individual confounders (smoking, educational level, body mass index, occupational exposure) were applied, and frailty models used to take into account spatial correlation. Indicators of air pollution were the mean concentration.
Models were run before and after exclusion of six area monitors influenced by local traffic (NO/NO2 >3 in ppb). After exclusion of these areas, analyses showed that adjusted risk ratios (95% CI) for TSP, BS, NO2, and NO for non-accidental mortality were 1.05 (1.02 to 1.08), 1.07 (1.03 to 1.10), 1.14 (1.03 to 1.25), and 1.11 (1.05 to 1.17) for 10 microg/m3 respectively. Consistent patterns for lung cancer and cardiopulmonary causes were observed.
Urban air pollution assessed in the 1970s was associated with increased mortality over 25 years in France.
Asbestos fibers produce diffuse malignant mesotheliomas in chronic rodent inhalation assays or after direct intrapleural or intraperitoneal injection. In vitro models have provided evidence that asbestos fibers are genotoxic carcinogens that can directly or indirectly generate reactive oxygen- and nitrogen-derived species that cause DNA damage. Heterozygous p53+/- mice show an increased incidence and reduced latency of malignant mesotheliomas induced by weekly intraperitoneal injections of crocidolite asbestos fibers. In this study, we investigated whether loss of heterozygosity (LOH) at the p53 tumor-suppressor gene locus contributes to accelerated tumor progression. LOH was found in 50% of the tumors produced in heterozygous p53+/- mice. In contrast to tumors that arise in p53+/+ mice or those that retained one p53 allele, LOH was associated with large tumor masses with central areas of necrosis, local invasion, and penetration of lymphatics. Increased tumor size was not associated with increased levels of cell proliferation as determined by BrdU incorporation, but it was correlated with a reduction in apoptosis as determined morphologically and by the TUNEL assay. Wild-type p53 protein is essential for cell cycle arrest in response to DNA damage and in maintenance of genomic stability. Cell lines established from tumors that showed LOH at the p53 tumor-suppressor gene locus were nearly tetraploid. These results suggest that p53 haplo-insufficiency sensitizes mice to the clastogenic or aneuploidogenic effects of crocidolite asbestos fibers, resulting in a shorter latent period. As solid tumors develop, spontaneous loss of the wild-type allele accompanied by decreased apoptosis and genetic instability is associated with accelerated tumor growth, invasion, and lymphatic dissemination.
Ifosfamide is relatively well tolerated but it can be associated occasionally with life-threatening complications such as arrhythmias and heart failure, severe encephalopathy and hemorrhagic cystitis. Mesna administration can control the urothelial toxicity of ifosfamide, but it is without effect on the other complications. Other preventive measures, such as amifostine or methylene blue administration, have not yet been adequately evaluated in a sufficient number of patients. Clinicians prescribing ifosfamide, especially in high doses, should be watchful for early signs of toxicity in order to discontinue ifosfamide administration soon enough to avoid development of major toxicity.
It is postulated that the hepatotoxicity of valproic acid (VPA) results from the mitochondrial beta-oxidation of its cytochrome P450 metabolite, 2-propyl-4-pentenoic acid (4-ene VPA), to 2-propyl-(E)-2,4-pentadienoic acid ((E)-2,4-diene VPA) which, in the CoA thioester form, either depletes GSH or produces a putative inhibitor of beta-oxidation enzymes. In order to test this hypothesis, 2-fluoro-2-propyl-4-pentenoic acid (alpha-fluoro-4-ene VPA) which was expected to be inert to beta-oxidative metabolism was synthesized and its effect on rat liver studied in comparison with that of 4-ene VPA. Similarly, the known hepatotoxicant 4-pentenoic acid (4-PA) and 2,2-difluoro-4-pentenoic acid (F2-4-PA) were compared. Male Sprague-Dawley rats (150-180 g, 4 rats per group) were dosed ip with 4-ene VPA (0.7 mmol/kg per day), 4-PA (1.0 mmol/kg per day), or equivalent amounts of their alpha-fluorinated analogues for 5 days. Both 4-ene VPA and 4-PA induced severe hepatic microvesicular steatosis ( > 85% affected hepatocytes), and 4-ene VPA produced mitochondrial alterations. By contrast, alpha-fluoro-4-ene VPA and F2-4-PA were not observed to cause morphological changes in the liver. The major metabolite of 4-ene VPA in the rat urine and serum was the beta-oxidation product (E)-2,4-diene VPA. The N-acetylcysteine (NAC) conjugate of (E)-2,4-diene VPA was also found in the urine. Neither (E)-2,4-diene VPA nor the NAC conjugate could be detected in the rats administered alpha-fluoro-4-ene VPA. In a second set of rats (3 rats per group), total liver GSH levels were determined to be depleted to 56% and 72% of control following doses of 4-ene VPA (1.4 mmol/kg) and equivalent alpha-fluoro-4-ene VPA, respectively. Mitochondrial GSH remained unchanged in the alpha-fluoro-4-ene VPA treated group but was reduced to 68% of control in the rats administered 4-ene VPA. These results strongly support the theory that hepatotoxicity of 4-ene VPA, and possibly VPA itself, is mediated largely through beta-oxidation of 4-ene VPA to reactive intermediates that are capable of depleting mitochondrial GSH.
Endothelial dysfunction is one of the important mechanisms of coronary spasm. Recently, the angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor quinapril, which has a high affinity for vascular ACE, has improved endothelial dysfunction in coronary artery disease. This study investigated whether quinapril improves coronary vasoconstriction induced by acetylcholine in vasospastic angina.
Twenty-four patients with vasospastic angina without significant organic stenosis diagnosed by the acetylcholine provocation test (vessel with spasm defined as > or = 90% stenosis provoked with chest pain and/or ischemic ST change) were enrolled in this study. Patients were randomly assigned to 2 groups: the quinapril group (receiving quinapril 20 mg/day, n = 12), and the non-quinapril group (not receiving quinapril, n = 12). All patients received calcium antagonist. Six months later, coronary angiography was repeated and changes in coronary spasm were compared between the groups. Seven patients were withdrawn from this study, so 17 patients were evaluated (the quinapril group: 8 patients, the non-quinapril group: 9).
Angina symptoms were completely or almost suppressed in all patients during the study period. Angiographically, the number of patients with improvement of spasm, patients with deterioration of spasm and patients with stability of spasm were 1, 0, 7 in the quinapril group versus 0, 1, 8 in the non-quinapril group, respectively. There was no significant change between the 2 groups. Quantitative angiographic analysis showed that the coronary spasm rate (percentage of minimal lumen diameter at the site of spasm after administration of acetylcholine to minimal lumen diameter after administration of isosorbide dinitrate) at the first and second angiography were 71 +/- 10% and 62 +/- 21% in the quinapril group versus 73 +/- 14% and 67 +/- 15% in the non-quinapril group, respectively. There were no significant interval changes between the 2 groups (p = 0.60).
Our results did not indicate that quinapril had improved coronary vasoconstriction induced by acetylcholine in patients with vasospastic angina.
Zebrafish embryos have been shown to be a useful model for the detection of direct acting teratogens. This communication presents a protocol for a 3-day in vitro zebrafish embryo teratogenicity assay and describes results obtained for 10 proteratogens: 2-acetylaminofluorene, benzo[a]pyrene, aflatoxin B(1), carbamazepine, phenytoin, trimethadione, cyclophosphamide, ifosfamide, tegafur and thio-TEPA. The selection of the test substances accounts for differences in structure, origin, metabolism and water solubility. Apart from 2-acetylaminofluorene, which mainly produces lethal effects, all proteratogens tested were teratogenic in zebrafish embryos exposed for 3 days. The test substances and/or the substance class produced characteristic patterns of fingerprint endpoints. Several substances produced effects that could be identified already at 1 dpf (days post fertilization), whereas the effects of others could only be identified unambiguously after hatching at ≥ 3 dpf. The LC₅₀ and EC₅₀ values were used to calculate the teratogenicity index (TI) for the different substances, and the EC₂₀ values were related to human plasma concentrations. Results lead to the conclusion that zebrafish embryos are able to activate proteratogenic substances without addition of an exogenous metabolic activation system. Moreover, the teratogenic effects were observed at concentrations relevant to human exposure data. Along with other findings, our results indicate that zebrafish embryos are a useful alternative method for traditional teratogenicity testing with mammalian species.
Here we perform whole-exome sequencing of samples from 105 individuals with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), the most frequent leukemia in adults in Western countries. We found 1,246 somatic mutations potentially affecting gene function and identified 78 genes with predicted functional alterations in more than one tumor sample. Among these genes, SF3B1, encoding a subunit of the spliceosomal U2 small nuclear ribonucleoprotein (snRNP), is somatically mutated in 9.7% of affected individuals. Further analysis in 279 individuals with CLL showed that SF3B1 mutations were associated with faster disease progression and poor overall survival. This work provides the first comprehensive catalog of somatic mutations in CLL with relevant clinical correlates and defines a large set of new genes that may drive the development of this common form of leukemia. The results reinforce the idea that targeting several well-known genetic pathways, including mRNA splicing, could be useful in the treatment of CLL and other malignancies.
Doppler echocardiographic determination, left ventricular (LV) fractional shortening (FS), cardiac output (CO), diastolic function parameter (E/A ratio) and carotid artery pulse wave velocity and stiffness were evaluated in 36 patients with essential hypertension before and after nisoldipine treatment. Blood pressure decreased significantly, and carotid artery width and fractional shortening increased significantly following nisoldipine administration (p < 0.0001). Carotid artery pulse wave peak velocity did not change following the treatment period (p > 0.05). In conclusion, short term nisoldipine administration improved blood pressure and LV systolic function, whereas LV diastolic function and carotid artery stiffness did not change. Nisoldipine did not alter serum biochemical parameters, including cholesterol, triglyceride, HDL-cholesterol, and LDL-cholesterol (p > 0.05). Only one patient manifested symptoms of hypotension as an adverse effect of the drug.
The safety and efficacy of imipenem/cilastatin were evaluated in 21 children, ages 3 to 48 months, with bacterial meningitis. Eradication of bacteria from the cerebrospinal fluid was demonstrated within 24 hours of antibiotic therapy in all but 2 patients who had Haemophilus influenzae type b meningitis and ultimately achieved bacteriologic cure after 2 to 3 days of imipenem/cilastatin therapy. Cerebrospinal fluid penetrations of imipenem and cilastatin were determined at various times after drug administration with mean cerebrospinal fluid: serum ratios of 14 and 10% for imipenem and cilastatin, respectively. The study was terminated when 7 (33%) patients developed seizure activity after antibiotic therapy was administered. The usefulness of imipenem/cilastatin for the treatment of bacterial meningitis in children may be limited by a possible increased incidence of drug-related seizure activity.
We conducted a three-stage genetic study to identify susceptibility loci for type 2 diabetes (T2D) in east Asian populations. We followed our stage 1 meta-analysis of eight T2D genome-wide association studies (6,952 cases with T2D and 11,865 controls) with a stage 2 in silico replication analysis (5,843 cases and 4,574 controls) and a stage 3 de novo replication analysis (12,284 cases and 13,172 controls). The combined analysis identified eight new T2D loci reaching genome-wide significance, which mapped in or near GLIS3, PEPD, FITM2-R3HDML-HNF4A, KCNK16, MAEA, GCC1-PAX4, PSMD6 and ZFAND3. GLIS3, which is involved in pancreatic beta cell development and insulin gene expression, is known for its association with fasting glucose levels. The evidence of an association with T2D for PEPD and HNF4A has been shown in previous studies. KCNK16 may regulate glucose-dependent insulin secretion in the pancreas. These findings, derived from an east Asian population, provide new perspectives on the etiology of T2D.
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are hematopoietic stem cell disorders that often progress to chemotherapy-resistant secondary acute myeloid leukemia (sAML). We used whole-genome sequencing to perform an unbiased comprehensive screen to discover the somatic mutations in a sample from an individual with sAML and genotyped the loci containing these mutations in the matched MDS sample. Here we show that a missense mutation affecting the serine at codon 34 (Ser34) in U2AF1 was recurrently present in 13 out of 150 (8.7%) subjects with de novo MDS, and we found suggestive evidence of an increased risk of progression to sAML associated with this mutation. U2AF1 is a U2 auxiliary factor protein that recognizes the AG splice acceptor dinucleotide at the 3' end of introns, and the alterations in U2AF1 are located in highly conserved zinc fingers of this protein. Mutant U2AF1 promotes enhanced splicing and exon skipping in reporter assays in vitro. This previously unidentified, recurrent mutation in U2AF1 implicates altered pre-mRNA splicing as a potential mechanism for MDS pathogenesis.
Myhre syndrome (MIM 139210) is a developmental disorder characterized by short stature, short hands and feet, facial dysmorphism, muscular hypertrophy, deafness and cognitive delay. Using exome sequencing of individuals with Myhre syndrome, we identified SMAD4 as a candidate gene that contributes to this syndrome on the basis of its pivotal role in the bone morphogenetic pathway (BMP) and transforming growth factor (TGF)-β signaling. We identified three distinct heterozygous missense SMAD4 mutations affecting the codon for Ile500 in 11 individuals with Myhre syndrome. All three mutations are located in the region of SMAD4 encoding the Mad homology 2 (MH2) domain near the site of monoubiquitination at Lys519, and we found a defect in SMAD4 ubiquitination in fibroblasts from affected individuals. We also observed decreased expression of downstream TGF-β target genes, supporting the idea of impaired TGF-β-mediated transcriptional control in individuals with Myhre syndrome.
To investigating genetic effects of workers occupationally exposed to mercury (Hg).
The peripheral lymphocytes from 20 workers exposed to mercury and 20 controls were measured with micronucleus test, comet assay, hrpt gene mutation test and TCR gene mutation test.
The mean micronuclei rate(MNR) and mean micronucleated cells rate(MCR) in 20 workers were (5.90 +/- 0.91) per thousand and (5.30 +/- 0.81) per thousand, respectively while MNR and MCR in controls were (1.50 +/- 0.47) per thousand and (1.30 +/- 0.31) per thousand respectively, The difference of MNR and MCR between workers and controls was very significant (P < 0.01). The mean tail length (MTL) of workers and controls were (3.16 +/- 0.31) and (0.99 +/- 0.07) microm, respectively. The mean tail moment (MTM) of workers and controls were 1.63 +/- 0.22 and 0.39 +/- 0.03, respectively, There was a significant difference in MTL and MTM between workers and controls(P < 0.01). When the average mutation frequencies (Mfs-hprt) of hprt and (Mfs-TCR) of TCR of workers were compared with those of controls, there were not significant difference (P > 0.05).
The results of the investigation indicated that the adverse genetic effects in workers occupationally exposed to mercury could be detected.
To investigate simple, economical, stable and efficient methods of in vivo and in vitro cardiovascular calcification models in rats.
Rats received Vitamin D(3) (300 000 U/kg, i.m.) and nicotine (25 mg/kg, 5 mL/kg in peanut oil, p.o.) at 8 a.m. on day 1. The nicotine administration was repeated at 6 p.m. Rats in control group received an injection of normal saline (i.m.) and two gavages of medium oil. All of the rats were then allowed to recover for 4 weeks and given standard rodent chow. After the measurement of cardiac function the rats were sacrificed and the calcium content in myocardium and aorta were measured. Von Kossa staining was used to detect the deposit of calcium in myocardium and aorta. Cultured smooth muscle cell(SMC) derived from rat thoracic aorta was treated with beta-glycerophosphate for 14 days, then the calcium content and deposit were measured.
Compared with control group, the rats with cardiovascular calcification showed a lower body weight, The ratio of left heart to body weight, myocardial and aortic calcium content were increased respectively. Alkaline phosphatases activity in calcified myocardium and aorta were increased respectively, compared with the control. The values of animal mean blood pressure (MBP), heart rate (HR) and left ventricle end-distolic pressure (LVEDP) showed no significant alteration (P>0.05) in vitamin D3 plus nicotine (VDN) group. The values of +LV dp/dt(max) and -LV dp/dtmax were significantly lower in VDN group (P<0.05 and P<0.01, respectively). In calcified vascular smooth muscle cells(VSMCs), von Kossa staining for calcification, showed positive staining as black/brown areas within the main, large, nodular structures as shown in extracellular matrix and cytoplasma. The content of calcium, (45)Ca(2+) uptake and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity in calcified VSMCs were increased (all P<0.01), respectively, compared with that of the control.
These methods can be used to produce calcification models in vivo and in vitro, which save money and time and are easy to manipulate.
Acute interstitial nephritis is a frequent cause of acute renal failure, representing about 10% of all biopsied cases. Early recognition of drug-induced acute immunoallergic interstitial nephritis prevents the development of severe chronic renal injury. The list of imputable drugs includes phenindione, a vitamin K antagonist. Fluindione which is also an indanedione derivative is another vitamin K antagonist. We report three biopsy-proved cases of fluindione related acute interstitial nephritis with recovery of renal function after drug withdrawal and prednisone therapy.
In humans, ingested inorganic arsenic is metabolized to monomethylarsenic (MMA) then to dimethylarsenic (DMA), although in most people this process is not complete. Previous studies have identified associations between the proportion of urinary MMA (%MMA) and increased risks of several arsenic-related diseases, although none of these reported on lung cancer. In this study, urinary arsenic metabolites were assessed in 45 lung cancer cases and 75 controls from arsenic-exposed areas in Cordoba, Argentina. Folate has also been linked to arsenic-disease susceptibility, thus an exploratory assessment of associations between single nucleotide polymorphisms in folate metabolizing genes, arsenic methylation, and lung cancer was also conducted. In analyses limited to subjects with metabolite concentrations above detection limits, the mean %MMA was higher in cases than in controls (17.5% versus 14.3%, p=0.01). The lung cancer odds ratio for subjects with %MMA in the upper tertile compared to those in the lowest tertile was 3.09 (95% CI, 1.08-8.81). Although the study size was too small for a definitive conclusion, there was an indication that lung cancer risks might be highest in those with a high %MMA who also carried cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS) rs234709 and rs4920037 variant alleles. This study is the first to report an association between individual differences in arsenic metabolism and lung cancer, a leading cause of arsenic-related mortality. These results add to the increasing body of evidence that variation in arsenic metabolism plays an important role in arsenic-disease susceptibility.
Phytoestrogens are plant compounds that structurally mimic the endogenous estrogen 17beta-estradiol (E(2)). Despite intense investigation, the net effect of phytoestrogen exposure on the breast remains unclear. The objective of the current study was to examine the effects of quercetin on E(2)-induced breast cancer in vivo. Female ACI rats were given quercetin (2.5 g/kg food) for 8 months. Animals were monitored weekly for palpable tumors, and at the end of the experiment, rats were euthanized, breast tumor and different tissues excised so that they could be examined for histopathologic changes, estrogen metabolic activity and oxidant stress. Quercetin alone did not induce mammary tumors in female ACI rats. However, in rats implanted with E(2) pellets, co-exposure to quercetin did not protect rats from E(2)-induced breast tumor development with 100% of the animals developing breast tumors within 8 months of treatment. No changes in serum quercetin levels were observed in quercetin and quercetin+E(2)-treated groups at the end of the experiment. Tumor latency was significantly decreased among rats from the quercetin+E(2) group relative to those in the E(2) group. Catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) activity was significantly downregulated in quercetin-exposed mammary tissue. Analysis of 8-isoprostane F(2alpha) (8-iso-PGF(2alpha)) levels as a marker of oxidant stress showed that quercetin did not decrease E(2)-induced oxidant stress. These results indicate that quercetin (2.5 g/kg food) does not confer protection against breast cancer, does not inhibit E(2)-induced oxidant stress and may exacerbate breast carcinogenesis in E(2)-treated ACI rats. Inhibition of COMT activity by quercetin may expose breast cells chronically to E(2) and catechol estrogens. This would permit longer exposure times to the carcinogenic metabolites of E(2) and chronic exposure to oxidant stress as a result of metabolic redox cycling to estrogen metabolites, and thus quercetin may exacerbate E(2)-induced breast tumors in female ACI rats.
The determination of differences in hormonal regulation of tumor promotion-related response to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzop-dioxin (TCDD) between males and females may identify factors contributing to the female-specific hepatocarcinogenicity of TCDD in rats. In the current study, diethylnitrosamine-initiated male Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to TCDD or corn oil vehicle in the presence and absence of 17beta-estradiol (E2), and cell proliferation and development of preneoplastic altered hepatic foci (AHF) were determined. After 30 weeks of exposure, gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (GGT)-positive AHF and the number of placental glutathione-s-transferase (PGST)-positive AHF were significantly higher in TCDD-treated rats than in control rats. Both the number and volume fraction of GGT-positive AHF were significantly lower in rats cotreated with E2 regardless of TCDD exposure compared with corresponding non-E2-treated groups and were unaffected by TCDD. In contrast, the number of PGST-positive AHF was significantly higher in E2-treated rats in the absence of TCDD treatment. In addition, whereas E2 had no effect on the volume fraction of PGST-positive foci, the levels in rats cotreated with both E2 and TCDD were significantly higher than in controls. No differences were observed in cell proliferation between TCDD-treated and control rats, although cell proliferation was lower in rats exposed to E2 compared with placebo controls. The weaker potency of tumor promotion and lack of induction of cell replication and DNA damage in male rats likely explain the female-specific hepatocarcinogenicity of TCDD in chronic bioassays.
Occupational exposure to polymeric diphenylmethane-diisocyanate (MDI), a known human asthmagen, can be attributed to two potential routes: the skin and the respiratory tract. While the skin as the route of sensitization was the focus of a previous investigation (Pauluhn, 2008), this paper describes a modified sensitization protocol using a 5-day inhalation exposure (days 0-4) of Brown Norway (BN) rats to two concentration x exposure time (C x t) relationships of 1000, 5000, and 10,000 mg MDI/m³ x min at exposure durations of either 10 or 360-min. Apart from the differences in the induction protocol, all other experimental variables remained identical. This was followed by four 30-min inhalation challenges to 40 mg MDI/m³ on target days 20, 25, 50, and 65. After the last challenge, changes in breathing patterns delayed in onset were recorded and allergic lung inflammation was probed by bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL). In a subsequent study groups of rats were sensitized using the 10-min C x t protocol and challenged 3-times at 40 mg MDI/m³. At the fourth challenge a dose-escalation regimen was used to determine the elicitation threshold on 'asthmatic' rats. Consistent with the skin-sensitization protocol, the most sensitive endpoints characterizing an allergic pulmonary inflammation were again BAL-neutrophils and physiological measurements showing respiratory changes delayed in onset. The dose-escalation challenge yielded an elicitation threshold of 5 mg MDI-aerosol/m³ at 30 min challenge duration. In topically sensitized rats this threshold was estimated to be 3mg/m³. In summary, these data suggest the C x t product of MDI-aerosol that triggers an elicitation response in 'asthmatic' rats is slightly below of that causing acute pulmonary irritation in naïve rats. The high concentration delivered to the respiratory tract during the 10-min exposure period elicited a more vigorous response than the similar C x t at 360 min. Therefore, short high-level exposure patterns appear to bear a higher sensitizing potency than equal C x t products at longer exposure periods. Taking into account the respective differences in exposure intensities, the comparison of elicitation thresholds of BN rats sensitized by inhalation or skin exposure did not demonstrate essential differences.
Supplementation of the antihypertensive action of the peripheral vasodilator sodium nitroprusside (SNP) with clonidine, a centrally-acting agent, was studied in ten dogs anesthetized with isoflurane to evaluate the efficacy of clonidine for reducing the amount of SNP required during induced hypotension. The dose of SNP required to lower mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) by 40% was determined prior to the administration of intravenous clonidine (control), and after incremental doses of 1, 4, and 15 micrograms/kg. After each dose of clonidine, hypotension was induced with SNP and maintained for 30 min, followed by a 30-min recovery period. Plasma levels of norepinephrine (NE) and epinephrine (EPI) were determined before hypotension, at 5 min and 30 min during hypotension, and at 5 min and 30 min during recovery. During the control period (no clonidine), SNP-induced hypotension resulted in increases in plasma catecholamine levels, with larger increases in EPI (from 70 +/- 26 to 851 +/- 140 pg/ml, at 30 min) than NE (from 171 +/- 26 to 334 +/- 58 pg/ml, at 30 min). There was no significant difference between the control MAP and the MAP after each incremental dose of clonidine. In these anesthetized dogs with low sympathetic tone there was no significant decrease in EPI levels after administration of up to 20 micrograms/kg of clonidine. Increasing doses of clonidine correlated inversely with depression in catecholamine output during induced hypotension and the dose of SNP required to produce this hypotension.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a frequent neurological disorder characterized by an imperative urge to move the legs during night, unpleasant sensation in the lower limbs, disturbed sleep and increased cardiovascular morbidity. In a genome-wide association study we found highly significant associations between RLS and intronic variants in the homeobox gene MEIS1, the BTBD9 gene encoding a BTB(POZ) domain as well as variants in a third locus containing the genes encoding mitogen-activated protein kinase MAP2K5 and the transcription factor LBXCOR1 on chromosomes 2p, 6p and 15q, respectively. Two independent replications confirmed these association signals. Each genetic variant was associated with a more than 50% increase in risk for RLS, with the combined allelic variants conferring more than half of the risk. MEIS1 has been implicated in limb development, raising the possibility that RLS has components of a developmental disorder.
Microcystins (MCs), a cyclic heptapeptide hepatotoxins, are mainly produced by the bloom-forming cyanobacerium Microcystis, which has become an environmental hazard worldwide. Long term consumption of MC-contaminated water may induce liver damage, liver cancer, and even human death. Therefore, in addition to removal of MCs in drinking water, novel strategies that prevent health damages are urgently needed. Sulforaphane (SFN), a natural-occurring isothiocyanate from cruciferous vegetables, has been reported to reduce and eliminate toxicities from xenobiotics and carcinogens. The purpose of the present study was to provide mechanistic insights into the SFN-induced antioxidative defense system against MC-LR-induced cytotoxicity. We performed cell viability assays, including MTS assay, colony formation assay and apoptotic cell sorting, to study MC-LR-induced cellular damage and the protective effects by SFN. The results showed that SFN protected MC-LR-induced damages at a nontoxic and physiological relevant dose in HepG2, BRL-3A and NIH 3T3 cells. The protection was Nrf2-mediated as evident by transactivation of Nrf2 and activation of its downstream genes, including NQO1 and HO-1, and elevated intracellular GSH level. Results of our studies indicate that pretreatment of cells with 10muM SFN for 12h significantly protected cells from MC-LR-induced damage. SFN-induced protective response was mediated through Nrf2 pathway.
The detection of the sensitizing potential of chemicals is of great importance to industry. A promising in vitro alternative to the currently applied animal assays for sensitization testing makes use of dendritic cells (DCs) that have the capability to process and present antigens to naive T cells and induce their proliferation. Here, we studied changes in gene expression profiles after exposing DCs to the contact allergen nickel sulfate. CD34+-progenitor-derived DCs, initiated from 3 different donors, were exposed to 60 microM nickel sulfate, during 0.5, 1, 3, 6, 12 and 24 h. cDNA microarrays were used to assess the transcriptional activity of about 11,000 genes. Significant changes in the expression of 283 genes were observed; 178 genes were up-regulated and 93 down-regulated. These genes were involved in metabolism, cell structure, immune response, transcription, signal transduction, transport, and apoptosis. No functional information was found for 74 genes. Real-time RT-PCR was used to confirm the microarray results of 12 genes. In addition, 3 DC maturation markers not present on the microarrays (DEC205, DC LAMP and CCR7) were analyzed using real-time RT-PCR and found to be up-regulated at several time points. Our data indicate that a broad range of biological processes is influenced by nickel. Some processes are clearly linked to the immune response and DC maturation, others may indicate a toxic effect of nickel.
