Air pollution exposure studies in the past decade have focused on acute (days) or long-term (years) effects. We present an analysis of medium-term (weeks to months) exposure effects of particulate pollution and temperature. We assessed the associations of particulate pollution (black smoke) and temperature with age-standardized daily mortality rates over 17 years in Dublin, Ireland, using a polynomial distributed lag model of both temperature and particulate air pollution simultaneously through 40 days after exposure. When only acute effects (3-day mean) were considered, we found total mortality increased by 0.4% for each 10-microg/m3 increase in black smoke concentration. When deaths in the 40 days after exposure were considered, we found a 1.1% increase. For respiratory mortality, the estimated effect was 0.9% for acute exposures, but 3.6% for the extended follow-up. We found each increase in current-day temperature by 1 degree C was associated with a 0.4% increase in total mortality, whereas each decrease of 1 degree C was associated with a 2.6% increase in mortality in the following 40 days. For both temperature and pollution, the largest effects on cardiovascular mortality were observed immediately, whereas respiratory mortality was delayed and distributed over several weeks. These effects were two to three times greater than the acute effects reported in other studies, and approach the effects reported in longer-term survival studies. This analysis suggests that studies on the acute effects of air pollution have underestimated the total effects of temperature and particulate air pollution on mortality.
A total of 266 patients entered into a study comparing the effect of intravenous magnesium and propranolol following acute myocardial infarction. Of these, 97 were able to receive either drug and were therefore randomized into the magnesium (n = 51) or propranolol group (n = 46). 88 patients were unable to receive propranolol and formed a third group (NR) while a further 81 patients could not receive either drug and formed a fourth group (N). The study showed that intravenous magnesium was as effective in preventing potentially lethal arrhythmias as propranolol and could be given to some 70 per cent of such patients whereas propranolol could only be given to 36 per cent.
There have been many reports of an association of certain musculoskeletal disorders especially Reiter's syndrome and psoriatic arthritis with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. A review of the first 1,100 HIV positive patients at the University of Cincinnati AIDS Clinic and Treatment Center has revealed 9 with psoriasis of whom 4 developed arthritis, 1 with Reiter's syndrome which predated HIV infection, 9 with nonspecific arthralgias, 7 with diffuse myalgias of whom 5 were AZT and one alpha-interferon related. Three patients with temporal arteritis/polymyalgia rheumatica, 2 of whom are biopsy proven, have been observed. The frequency distribution for race, age, sex for this population was contrasted to that expected. The only increased frequencies were in psoriatic arthritis with 4 cases observed and 0.73 expected and in temporal arteritis/polymyalgia rheumatica with 3 cases observed and 0.3 expected. Whether there is a coincidental or real increase is an important question requiring prospective, epidemiological studies to help determine if the differences reported are demographic or genetic.
Hypokalaemia is a common finding in acutely ill patients and may be related in part to increased sympathoadrenal activity. In an investigation to determine whether pretreatment with thiazide diuretics causes the serum potassium to fall to an even lower level during increased sympathoadrenal activity, adrenaline was infused into healthy subjects after pretreatment for 7 days with either bendrofluazide (5 mg) or placebo. Thiazide diuretic pretreatment had no effect on the adrenaline-induced changes in blood pressure and heart rate. However, not only was the baseline serum potassium lower after bendrofluazide (3 . 40 mmol/l vs 3 . 83 mmol/l) but the serum potassium also fell to a significantly lower level during adrenaline infusion after bendrofluazide (2 . 73 mmol/l vs 3 . 08 mmol/l). Transient profound hypokalaemia may increase the risk of ventricular arrhythmias in patients on diuretics, and routine monitoring of the resting serum potassium may underestimate this risk.
Erlotinib is a potent inhibitor of epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase and has been demonstrated to treat advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer to prolong survival after failure of first-line or second-line chemotherapy. However, little is known about its effects on immune system. In the present study, we aimed to investigate the immunosuppressive activity of erlotinib on T lymphocytes both in vitro and in vivo, and further explore its potential molecular mechanism. Erlotinib exerted a significant inhibition on the T cell proliferation and activation induced by concanavalin A, anti-CD3 plus anti-CD28, staphylococcal enterotoxin B or phorbol myristate acetate respectively in a concentration-dependent manner and it also inhibited the secretion of the proinflammatory cytokines such as IL-2 and IFN-γ of activated T cells. Further study showed that erlotinib caused G0/G1 arrest and suppressed the phosphorylations of c-Raf, ERK and Akt in activated T cells. Moreover, erlotinib significantly ameliorated picryl chloride-induced ear contact dermatitis in a dose-dependent manner in vivo. In summary, these findings suggest that erlotinib may cause the impairment of T-cell-mediated immune response both in vitro and in vivo through inhibiting T cell proliferation and activation, which is closely associated with its potent down-regulation of the c-Raf/ERK cascade and Akt signaling pathway.
The case is presented of a hypertensive patient on reserpine, who developed ventricular irritability after administration of alfentanil, a new ultra-short-acting narcotic used in anesthesia. The dysrhythmias resolved after cessation of the offending agent. There are no reported cases of interaction of reserpine and alfentanil in the literature.
Sulfur mustard (SM) is a chemical weapon stockpiled today in volatile regions of the world. SM inhalation causes a life-threatening airway injury characterized by airway obstruction from fibrin casts, which can lead to respiratory failure and death. Mortality in those requiring intubation is more than 80%. No therapy exists to prevent mortality after SM exposure. Our previous work using the less toxic analog of SM, 2-chloroethyl ethyl sulfide, identified tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) an effective rescue therapy for airway cast obstruction (Veress, L. A., Hendry-Hofer, T. B., Loader, J. E., Rioux, J. S., Garlick, R. B., and White, C. W. (2013). Tissue plasminogen activator prevents mortality from sulfur mustard analog-induced airway obstruction. Am. J. Respir. Cell Mol. Biol. 48, 439-447). It is not known if exposure to neat SM vapor, the primary agent used in chemical warfare, will also cause death due to airway casts, and if tPA could be used to improve outcome.
Adult rats were exposed to SM, and when oxygen saturation reached less than 85% (median: 6.5 h), intratracheal tPA or placebo was given under isoflurane anesthesia every 4 h for 48 h. Oxygen saturation, clinical distress, and arterial blood gases were assessed. Microdissection was done to assess airway obstruction by casts.
Intratracheal tPA treatment eliminated mortality (0% at 48 h) and greatly improved morbidity after lethal SM inhalation (100% death in controls). tPA normalized SM-associated hypoxemia, hypercarbia, and lactic acidosis, and improved respiratory distress. Moreover, tPA treatment resulted in greatly diminished airway casts, preventing respiratory failure from airway obstruction.
tPA given via airway more than 6 h after exposure prevented death from lethal SM inhalation, and normalized oxygenation and ventilation defects, thereby rescuing from respiratory distress and failure. Intra-airway tPA should be considered as a life-saving rescue therapy after a significant SM inhalation exposure incident.
Male mouse pups of the Swiss-CD1 strain received on postnatal days 2 and 4 either an intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of 30 micrograms murine nerve growth factor (NGF) or cytochrome c. Pups were then tested for suckling behavior on their anesthetized multiparous dam on day 5, following intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of either the muscarinic cholinergic antagonist scopolamine (2 mg/kg) or saline solution (0.9%). Scopolamine produced a significant increase in latency time to suckle, while reducing the time pups spent attached to the nipple. NGF exposure enhanced scopolamine effects on latency to suckle as well as on time spent attached to the nipple. More striking, NGF pups showed a marked hyperactivity after scopolamine, an effect which normally appears only around weaning time. These results support the hypothesis that NGF plays a crucial role in the functional maturation of central cholinergic mechanisms involved in the control of behavior.
Two cases of gross soft tissue calcification following intramuscular administration of vitamin E in two premature babies are described. The drug was administered for prevention of retinopathy of prematurity. The relation between this complication and both the dosage used and the duration of the treatment is discussed. In spite of the extent of the calcifications, a benign course was observed. Other reports about this complication are reviewed.
To evaluate the possibility of predicting development of heart failure, we monitored left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) in addition to demographic data in patients with advanced breast cancer treated with epirubicin.
LVEF determination by radionuclide angiocardiography was performed serially before, during, and after treatment with 130 mg epirubicin/m2 every 3 weeks until disease progression or a cumulative dose of 1000 mg/m2 was reached (or heart failure occurred). Among 67 patients, heart failure developed in eight (12%). Age was 5 to 8 years greater and baseline LVEF was 7% less (95% confidence interval 3% to 13%) in patients who had heart failure than in the remaining patients. LVEF was slightly reduced in all patients during treatment. Three combined criteria, age > or =50 years, baseline LVEF < or =0.60, and decrease in LVEF to 0.50, had a positive predictive value of 70% (95% confidence interval 35% to 93%) and a negative predictive value of 98% (95% confidence interval 90% to 100%) with respect to development of heart failure. Conventional LVEF criteria were of less diagnostic value.
Our results indicate that age and baseline LVEF determination mark a group of patients at high risk for development of epirubicin-induced heart failure. Monitoring of serial LVEF is indicated during treatment of these patients.
Excess accumulation of endogenous all-trans-retinal (atRAL) contributes to degeneration of the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) and photoreceptor cells, and plays a role in the etiologies of age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and Stargardt's disease. In this study, we reveal that human RPE cells tolerate exposure of up to 5 µM atRAL without deleterious effects, but higher concentrations are detrimental and induce cell apoptosis. atRAL treatment significantly increased production of intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) and up-regulated mRNA expression of Nrf2, HO-1, and γ-GCSh within RPE cells, thereby causing oxidative stress. ROS localized to mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum (ER). ER-resident molecular chaperone BiP, a marker of ER stress, was up-regulated at the translational level, and meanwhile, the PERK-eIF2α-ATF4 signaling pathway was activated. Expression levels of ATF4, CHOP, and GADD34 in RPE cells increased in a concentration-dependent manner after incubation with atRAL. Salubrinal, a selective inhibitor of ER stress, alleviated atRAL-induced cell death. The antioxidant N-acetylcysteine (NAC) effectively blocked RPE cell loss and ER stress activation, suggesting that atRAL-induced ROS generation is responsible for RPE degeneration and is an early trigger of ER stress. Furthermore, the mitochondrial transmembrane potential was lost after atRAL exposure, and was followed by caspase-3 activation and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase cleavage. The results demonstrate that atRAL-driven ROS overproduction-induced ER stress is involved in cellular mitochondrial dysfunction and apoptosis of RPE cells.
Mercury-induced autoimmune glomerulonephritis in the Brown-Norway (BN) rat is characterized by the successive appearance of linear and granular glomerular IgG deposits. Anti-laminin autoantibodies represent the major part of the anti-glomerular basement membrane (GBM) antibodies produced in this model. Fusions were performed in this model and four anti-GBM monoclonal antibodies (mAb) were obtained. Three of them were laminin specific. Using rabbit anti-idiotype antibodies, cross-reactive idiotypes (CRId) were characterized on anti-laminin antibodies. They were expressed on the three anti-laminin mAb, on kidney-eluted and circulating anti-laminin antibodies. CRId-bearing immunoglobulins were detected transiently in the circulation and paralleled the anti-laminin antibody activity. By immunofluorescence studies on kidney cryostat sections two different CRId were defined. One was localized close to the antigen-combining site since it was not revealed on kidney-bound antibodies, in contrast with the second CRId. This latter CRId was also found deposited in a typical linear pattern in the early phase of the disease and in a granular pattern in the late phase, demonstrating that these CRId are components of immune deposits. Taken together, these results suggest that in this model of T-dependent polyclonal B cell activation, restricted sets of V genes encode for at least a part of the anti-GBM autoantibodies.
To avoid the main drawbacks of prolonged treatment with levodopa (involuntary movements and the "on-off" phenomenon), we administered apomorphine by mouth to 14 patients with Parkinson's disease. This treatment caused azotemia, which we circumvented by switching to N-propylnoraporpine, whose nephrotoxic dose (80 mg six times per day) was larger than its therapeutic dose (10 to 15 mg six times per day). Slowly increasing doses induced significant improvement (P less than 0.005) in all 24 patients studied, transitory mental aberrations in seven, and release of growth hormone in three patients tested. In patients previously on prolonged levodopa administration, the dyskinesia and "on-off" phenomenon were almost identical with N-propylnoraporphine, but both drawbacks were reduced or abolished in six patients by coadministration of alpha-methyldopa hydrazine plus levodopa. This coadministration seemed to abolish tachyphylaxis. We conclude that N-propylnoraporphine is very useful in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
The short- and long-term effects of two calcium channel blocking drugs, verapamil and nifedipine, on blood pressure, heart rate, plasma catecholamines, plasma renin activity, plasma volume and cardiac performance (echocardiography) were studied in essential hypertensive patients and in normal subjects. Verapamil, 160 mg orally, reduced blood pressure within 60 minutes in 22 hypertensive patients, but not in 12 normotensive subjects. Nifedipine, 10 mg sublingually, reduced blood pressure within 15 minutes in 19 hypertensive patients, but not in 7 normotensive subjects. Plasma noradrenaline was significantly increased both in normal subjects and in hypertensive patients only after nifedipine was administered. Verapamil (80 mg three times a day) first, and nifedipine (10 mg three times a day) thereafter, or vice versa, were given to 12 hospitalized hypertensive patients on a fixed sodium and potassium intake; the drugs produced similar blood pressure reductions, but heart rate and plasma catecholamines were increased only after nifedipine (p less than 0.05). Neither drug affected plasma volume, aldosterone or plasma renin activity. Long-term ambulatory treatment with verapamil (80 or 160 mg three times a day for 2 to 4 months) or nifedipine (10 mg three times a day for 2 months) produced changes in all variables that were similar to those observed in the hospital (controlled) study. Shortening fraction was significantly increased after nifedipine (p less than 0.05) but no change was observed after verapamil. In conclusion, blood pressure is effectively reduced by both verapamil and nifedipine; an appreciable adrenergic stimulation may be caused by nifedipine, but usually not by verapamil, and fluid retention, renin release or myocardial depression is not observed during verapamil or nifedipine treatment.
Experimental data are presented on the influence of acute doxorubicin intoxication with 7.47 and 2.34 mg/kg body mass on glutathione metabolism in cardiac tissues of albino non-inbred rats. Doxorubicin toxic effect resulted in such marked changes as decreased concentration of reduced glutathione and abnormal levels of glutathione reductase, glucoso-6-phoshate dehydrogenase, glutathione peroxidase and glutathione-S-transferase. Possible causes of such biochemical changes as well as their role in causation of doxorubicin cytotoxic effect are discussed. New methods of prophylaxis and lab diagnosis of doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy are suggested.
Neutrophil function is defective in acute liver failure (ALF) and the in vitro ability of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) to reverse these defects has been reported. The effects of administering G-CSF to ALF patients are presented in this study.
This was a prospective, phase I/II, open label, study.
The liver intensive therapy unit at King's College Hospital, London.
Sequential patients admitted with acute liver failure due to acetaminophen overdose.
G-CSF was given to four groups (each n = 6) of ALF patients as a daily infusion at 25, 50, 100 or 150 microg/m2. A control group of eight patients did not receive G-CSF.
Neutrophil phagocytosis and killing of Staphylococcus aureus and superoxide release before G-CSF administration and at 24 and 96 h thereafter.
Neutrophils from patients receiving 50, 100 or 150 microg/m2 G-CSF, but not from control patients or those receiving 25 microg/m2, showed significantly increased phagocytosis and killing at 96 h. Doses of 50 or 150 microg/m2 G-CSF resulted in increased superoxide production at 96 h. No patients discontinued treatment as a consequence of side effects related to G-CSF administration.
G-CSF administration is a safe and effective means of reversing the neutrophil defects of ALF, and may have a role in the prevention and treatment of infection in these patients. A dose of 50 microg/m2/day is as effective as higher doses and was associated with fewer side effects.
The long-term disease-free survival in patients with metastatic transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) is still considerably low. Novel chemotherapeutic agents are needed to decrease the morbidity and mortality of TCC. In this study, we have evaluated several epigenetic modifiers for their therapeutic application in bladder cancer. Both histone deacetylase inhibitors (FK228, TSA) and DNA hypomethylating agent (5-Azacytidine) were tested using in vitro assays such as cell viability, cell cycle analysis and western blot to determine their mechanisms of action. Drug combination experiments were also designed to study any additive or synergistic effects of these agents. In addition, two bladder cancer xenograft models (one subcutaneous and one orthotopic) were employed to assess the therapeutic efficacy of these agents in vivo. Three agents exhibited various growth inhibitory effects on 5 different TCC cell lines in a dose- and time-dependent manner. In addition to G2/M cell cycle arrest, FK228 is more potent in inducting apoptosis than the two other single agents, and combination of both FK228 and 5-Aza further enhances this effect. p21 induction is closely associated with FK228 or TSA but not 5-Aza, which is mediated via p53-independent pathway. Consistent with in vitro results, FK228 exhibited a significant in vivo growth inhibition of TCC tumor in both subcutaneous and orthotopic xenograft models. FK228 is a potent chemotherapeutic agent for TCC in vivo with minimal undesirable side effects. The elevated p21 level mediated via p53 independent pathway is a hallmark of FK228 mechanism of action.
Cannabis use may increase the risk of developing schizophrenia by precipitating the disorder in genetically vulnerable individuals. Neuregulin 1 (NRG1) is a schizophrenia susceptibility gene and mutant mice heterozygous for the transmembrane domain of this gene (Nrg1 HET mice) exhibit a schizophrenia-related phenotype. We have recently shown that Nrg1 HET mice are more sensitive to the behavioral effects of the main psychoactive constituent of cannabis, Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC). In the present study, we examined the effects of THC (10 mg/kg i.p.) on neuronal activity in Nrg1 HET mice and wild type-like (WT) mice using c-Fos immunohistochemistry. In the lateral septum, THC selectively increased c-Fos expression in Nrg1 HET mice with no corresponding effect being observed in WT mice. In addition, THC promoted a greater increase in c-Fos expression in Nrg1 HET mice than WT mice in the central nucleus of the amygdala, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. Consistent with Nrg1 HET mice exhibiting a schizophrenia-related phenotype, these mice expressed greater drug-free levels of c-Fos in two regions thought to be involved in schizophrenia, the shell of the nucleus accumbens and the lateral septum. Interestingly, the effects of genotype on c-Fos expression, drug-free or following THC exposure, were only observed when animals experienced behavioral testing prior to perfusion. This suggests an interaction with stress was necessary for the promotion of these effects. These data provide neurobiological correlates for the enhanced behavioral sensitivity of Nrg1 HET mice to THC and reinforce the existence of cannabinoid-neuregulin 1 interactions in the CNS. This research may enhance our understanding of how genetic factors increase individual vulnerability to schizophrenia and cannabis-induced psychosis.
Intracoronary infusion of bone marrow cells (BMCs) is thought to induce cardiac regeneration in ischemic heart disease and dilated cardiomyopathy. The aim of our study was to develop a new method to inject BMCs into coronary arteries of small experimental animals. Transient atrioventricular block (AVB) was induced in 25 rats and 39 hamsters by intracarotid injection of adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP). Contrast echocardiography was obtained. BMCs (0.2-0.5 ml) were collected through femoral puncture, stained with PKH26 and injected into the carotid artery (CA). Animals were immediately sacrificed or followed for 1 month. To evaluate BMCs transfer from CA to myocardium, AVB and BMCs injections were performed in 10 hamsters subjected to coronary ligation for 30 min. Induction of transient AVB was possible in all animals by injecting 20-30 mg of ATP. Animals recovered a basal cardiac activity spontaneously or by dopamine injection. Flash injection of contrast medium through the CA induced staining of aortic root, coronary arteries, and myocardium. BMCs injection was possible in all cases. No immediate or late ECG changes were observed. Immediately after injection in healthy animals, histological examination showed the presence of BMCs in small coronary arteries and, after 1 month, the absence of infarction. In ischemic hearts, the presence of BMCs in the myocardium was observed 24h after ischemia. ATP-induced AVB block allows for percutaneous intracoronary injection of BMCs in small experimental animals with no immediate or late mortality and morbidity. This method offers new perspectives for the investigation of BMCs coronary infusion and engraftment in heart diseases.
Cardiotoxicity is the major limiting factor in anthracycline chemotherapy of advanced neoplastic disease. Epirubicin shows a more favorable therapeutic index than does doxorubicin, but it is still cardiotoxic. Limited data regarding epirubicin cardiotoxicity are available, and suggested guidelines for doxorubicin with left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) measurement may not be empirically useful for epirubicin therapy. This study evaluates the diagnostic role of antimyosin immunoscintigraphy for early identification of patients at risk for late pump dysfunction from cardiotoxicity induced by high-dose administration of epirubicin up to high cumulative dosages.
Chemotherapy with epirubicin was administered to 36 patients with cancer at a dosing rate of 160 mg/m2 as a bolus injection every 21 days to a cumulative dosage of 960 mg/m2. Radionuclide angiography (LVEF) and antimyosin immunoscintigraphy with heart-lung ratio (HLR) measurements were performed before chemotherapy, at intermediate cumulative epirubicin dosages, at the end of treatment, and during the follow-up. LVEF decreased significantly at the end of the treatment and after therapy discontinuation. HLR values were significantly increased at intermediate epirubicin dosage levels and continued to increase to the end of the treatment but thereafter remained substantially unmodified for 3 to 6 months after therapy discontinuation. A value of HLR >1.85 at intermediate epirubicin dosage level showed a sensitivity of 95% and a specificity of 57% as a predictor of late LVEF impairment.
LVEF appears more useful at high cumulative dosages and during follow-up to monitor late pump dysfunction, whereas HLR may be effective during the early phase of the therapy in determining which patients are at risk for development of late cardiac dysfunction.
A common adverse effect of niacin therapy is flushing, manifested by cutaneous warmth, redness, itching and/or tingling. The Flushing ASsessment Tool (FAST) was developed to assess flushing symptoms and their impact on patients receiving niacin therapy. This study evaluated the reliability, validity and responsiveness of the FAST. The minimal important difference (MID) of the FAST was also examined.
This was a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group 8-week study conducted to evaluate the psychometric characteristics of the FAST. The instrument is administered daily using an electronic patient diary. The study was conducted at 41 clinical sites in the US. 276 patients with dyslipidaemia were randomized to treatment and were at least 18 years of age, with fasting laboratory values of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) <250 mg/dL and one of the following: high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) <40 mg/dL for males or <50 mg/dL for females; or triglycerides (TG) > or = 150 and < or = 400 mg/dL; or LDL-C > or = 70 mg/dL for patients with a history of coronary heart disease (CHD) or CHD risk equivalents, or > or = 100 mg/dL for subjects with two risk factors, or > or = 160 mg/dL for subjects with 0-1 risk factors. Patients were randomized (1 : 1 : 1) to receive niacin extended-release (NER) 500 mg/day in week 1, 1000 mg/day in week 2 and 2000 mg/day in weeks 3-6/aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid [ASA]), NER/ASA placebo, or NER placebo/ASA placebo.
FAST test-retest reliability in stable patients during the first 2 weeks was demonstrated for overall flushing severity using patient and physician overall treatment effect (OTE) ratings (intraclass correlation coefficients of >0.7 for mean overall and individual flushing severity scores). Over the 6-week treatment period, FAST scores demonstrated significant correlations with individual symptoms, impact on daily activities and sleep, and dissatisfaction related to flushing (p < 0.01). Changes in FAST scores were associated with treatment satisfaction (p < 0.01) and patient- and physician-rated OTE (p < 0.01). Using patient-rated OTE, the mean maximum flushing severity scores improved 1.85 points in responders and only 0.18 points in non-responders (p < 0.001); responders were defined by improved patient- or physician-rated OTE. Among patients with flushing, mean maximum overall flushing scores differed between patients who subsequently discontinued due to flushing (7.9 points) and those who did not discontinue (4.7 points; p < 0.001). The probable range in this study for a detectable change in flushing symptoms (MID) was 0.29-0.38 points for mean flushing severity and 0.66-0.86 points for maximum flushing severity.
The FAST exhibited test-retest reliability, good evidence of construct validity, and, overall, flushing severity was responsive to change over time. The FAST is a reliable and valid instrument for assessing the impact of niacin-induced flushing in patients with dyslipidaemia.
The postoperative pain and stress experienced by tonsillectomy patients are often underestimated. For this reason traditional methods of analgesia are frequently used but with an ineffective result. Our study involved an analysis of pain sensation with regard to postoperative analgesia after adult tonsillectomies. In all, 150 patients following tonsillectomy were treated with different methods of analgesia, which included Diclofenac monotherapy and combined treatment with Tramadol-retard and Naproxen. Postoperative sensations of pain were realized in a visual analogous pain score, with consideration given to individual experiences of subjective pain. In addition, circulatory and hemopoiesis parameters were controlled. Results showed that the postoperative analgesic effect of Diclofenac was significantly less than that of Tramadol-retard and Naproxen. Diclofenac monotherapy after tonsillectomy was only sufficient in cases involving an individual's low pain sensation. In cases with moderate or stronger pain the tonsillectomy patient requires an effective postoperative analgesia, as achieved with combined therapy using Tramadol retard and Naproxen. Aggravating side effects were not found in both schemes of analgesia.
Chromium is a toxic metal implicated in human diseases. This study was focused on investigating the possible protective effect of Se against K(2)Cr(2)O(7). Female Wistar rats, used in this study, were divided into four groups of six animals each: group I served as control which received standard diet; group II received orally only K(2)Cr(2)O(7) (700 ppm equivalent to 67 mg/kgbw); group III received both K(2)Cr(2)O(7) and Se (0.5 mg/kg of diet); group IV received Se (0.5mg Na(2)SeO(3)/kg of diet). The exposure of rats to K(2)Cr(2)O(7) for 21 days provoked renal damages with a significant increase in kidney malondialdehyde, superoxide dismutase, plasma creatinine, and uric acid levels, while catalase, glutathione peroxidase, non-protein thiol, Metallothionein and plasma urea levels decreased. Coadministration of Se in the diet of chromium-treated group improved malondialdehyde, renal biomarkers levels and antioxidant enzyme activities. Kidney histological studies confirmed biochemical parameters and the beneficial role of selenium.
We compared the efficacy of two classes of antihypertensive therapy on ambulatory blood pressure control and proteinuria in patients with hypertension. Furthermore, we determined the effects of the interaction of these therapies on neurohormonal activation and of the patients' ambient sodium intake on the outcomes.
Sustained-release nifedipine (nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system, GITS) 30-120 mg/day was compared in a double-blind sequential randomized placebo-controlled trial with enalapril 5-30 mg/day regarding office and 24-hour blood pressure control, plasma renin activity, noradrenaline and adrenaline levels and 24-hour urinary protein and sodium in 46 elderly nondiabetic hypertensive patients in a 16- to 18-week trial.
Both nifedipine GITS and enalapril controlled ambulatory blood pressure during the day and at peak effect. Nifedipine GITS controlled ambulatory blood pressure during the early morning surge and at night time as well. Nifedipine GITS increased plasma renin activity and noradrenaline by 50 and 20%, respectively, compared to the 150 and 0% change produced by enalapril. Both nifedipine GITS and enalapril reduced proteinuria by 37%. Patients had increasing levels or proteinuria proportional to higher ambient sodium intake (r = 0.48; p < 0.01). This effect was accentuated during nifedipine GITS therapy as compared to enalapril.
Nifedipine GITS was superior to enalapril in controlling ambulatory blood pressure, but they were equivalent in reducing proteinuria (37%). They had disparate effects on neural activation and the duration of action. Raised protein excretion appears to be associated with raised sodium intake. This was apparent especially during nifedipine XL therapy.
Amantadine is known to be a noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist and may be useful in preventing postoperative central sensitization, acute opioid tolerance, and opioid-induced hyperalgesia, thereby decreasing pain and analgesic requirements. The aim of this pilot study was to evaluate the effects of perioperative oral amantadine on postoperative pain and analgesic consumption.
Twenty-four patients scheduled to undergo radical prostatectomy were given oral amantadine before and after surgery in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled manner. After surgery, patients received intravenous patient-controlled analgesia with morphine for 48 h. Wound pain intensity, sensitivity to mechanical pressure around the surgical wound, and incidence of bladder spasm pain were assessed. Blood samples were drawn for analysis of amantadine, morphine, and the morphine metabolites. Adverse effects and patient satisfaction were assessed.
The cumulative morphine consumption was significantly lower in the amantadine group at all time points (except at 48 h), amounting to a 32% reduction over the 48-h period. Forty-eight hours after surgery, visual analog pain scores to pressure applied near the wound were significantly lower in the amantadine group than in the placebo group. In addition, the number of patients reporting bladder spasm pain was significantly lower in the amantadine group. Plasma concentration of morphine-3-glucuronide was significantly lower at the end of surgery in the amantadine group. Pharmacokinetic analyses showed that the plasma clearance of morphine at 22-24 h after surgery was also significantly lower in the amantadine group.
The results suggest that perioperative oral amantadine reduces postoperative opioid consumption by pharmacokinetic mechanisms, although additional pharmacodynamic interactions may also be involved.
