Approximately half of all gliomas are resistant to chemotherapy, and new therapeutic strategies are urgently needed to treat this cancer. We hypothesized that disrupting iron homeostasis in glioma cells could block tumor growth, based on an acute requirement for high levels of iron to meet energy requirements associated with their rapid growth. Ferritin is best known as an intracellular iron storage protein, but it also localizes to tumor cell nuclei where it seems to protect DNA from oxidative damage and to promote transcription. In this study, we hypothesize that silencing the H-ferritin (heavy chain ferritin) gene could increase tumor sensitivity to chemotoxins. To test this hypothesis, H-ferritin siRNA was delivered to several human cancer cell lines by using cationic liposomes (C-liposome). H-ferritin siRNA decreased protein expression by 80% within 48 hours, and this decrease was associated with more than 50% decrease in the LD(50) for DNA-alkylating agent carmustine (BCNU), which is commonly used to treat glioma in clinic. In a subcutaneous mouse model of human glioma, intratumoral injections of liposomes containing H-ferritin siRNA reduced the effective dose of BCNU needed for tumor suppression by more than 50%. A plasmid supercoil relaxation assay showed that H-ferritin specifically and directly protected DNA from BCNU treatment. H-ferritin siRNA additionally seemed to increase apoptosis in glioma cells in vitro upon H-ferritin knockdown. Overall, our results illustrate how silencing H-ferritin can effectively sensitize tumors to chemotherapy and also show the ability of C-liposomes to serve as a novel in vivo delivery tool for siRNAs.
The use of artemisinin derivatives has increased exponentially with the deployment of artemisinin combination therapy (ACT) in all malarious areas. They are highly effective and are considered safe, but in animal studies artemisinin derivatives produce neurotoxicity targeting mainly the auditory and vestibular pathways. The debate remains as to whether artemisinin derivatives induce similar toxicity in humans.
This prospective study assessed the effects on auditory function of a standard 3-day oral dose of artesunate (4 mg/kg/day) combined with mefloquine (25 mg/kg) in patients with acute uncomplicated falciparum malaria treated at the Shoklo Malaria Research Unit, on the Thai-Burmese border. A complete auditory evaluation with tympanometry, audiometry and auditory brainstem responses (ABR) was performed before the first dose and seven days after initiation of the antimalarial treatment.
Complete auditory tests at day 0 (D0) and day 7 (D7) were obtained for 93 patients. Hearing loss (threshold > 25 dB) on admission was common (57%) and associated with age only. No patient had a threshold change exceeding 10 dB between D0 and D7 at any tested frequency. No patient showed a shift in Wave III peak latency of more than 0.30 msec between baseline and D7.
Neither audiometric or the ABR tests showed clinical evidence of auditory toxicity seven days after receiving oral artesunate and mefloquine.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) type II is characterized by a decrease in platelet count and thrombosis following heparin administration. We anesthetized a 67-year-old woman with suspected HIT type II undergoing carotid endarterectomy (CEA). Preoperatively, the patient had received anticoagulation therapy with heparin for cerebral infarction due to thrombosis and she developed thrombocytopenia with deterioration of cerebral infarction. Platelet level recovered by discontinuation of heparin and platelet infusion. During the surgical procedure, a substitution for heparin as an anticoagulant was necessary and we used argatroban, a direct thrombin inhibitor, with monitoring activated coagulation time (ACT). The ACT values were maintained above 200 sec during endoarterectomy and the operation was successfully carried out. We believe that argatroban is one of the choices for anticoagulants in a patient with HIT type II.
We report here a case of ticlopidine-induced aplastic anemia that responded to G-CSF and review the literature. An 83-year-old woman was started on ticlopidine for coronary artery disease after an episode of upper gastrointestinal bleeding secondary to aspirin. She developed aplastic anemia seven weeks after initiation of ticlopidine. She was hospitalised and received empiric antibiotic therapy and granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF). Her bone marrow started to recover quickly, and white blood cell and platelet counts returned to normal within three weeks. A review of medical literature revealed 20 similar cases of ticlopidine-induced aplastic anemia resulting in death in seven cases. G-CSF has been used previously with variable success. Ticlopidine is associated with serious, sometimes fatal hematological side effects. This risk should be seriously taken into consideration when prescribing ticlopidine. G-CSF may be helpful in the treatment of ticlopidine-induced aplastic anemia.
Amiodarone is an antiarrhythmic drug widely used to treat a variety of supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias. However its drawback is a very slow elimination and very frequent adverse effects (thyroid, pulmonary, neurologic, ocular, dermatologic, hepatic disorders). We describe a patient who developed a pseudoalcoholic liver disease and a cirrhosis after use of Amiodarone for a long period of time.
All-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) induces complete clinical remissions in a high proportion of patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia and has become the standard induction therapy. Its use as a single agent results in short-lived remissions; thus, cytotoxic drugs are used for "consolidation" therapy. Side effects reported during treatment with ATRA include retinoic acid syndrome and Sweet's syndrome. Sweet's syndrome has been associated with acute myelogenous leukemia at presentation, but only two cases of Sweet's syndrome involving the musculoskeletal system in patients treated with ATRA have been described. We describe two additional patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia who had unexplained fever and myalgias (cutaneous lesions in one patient) during induction therapy with ATRA. Radiologic findings were similar to those in previously reported ATRA-associated Sweet's syndrome of the musculoskeletal system. The clinical course was characterized by a rapid resolution of the symptoms during treatment with dexamethasone. Recognition of the syndrome is important, especially considering the rapid resolution of symptoms after early institution of therapy with corticosteroids.
Therapeutic effect of Hypericum perforatum L. has been well known. The aim of this study is to investigate the anticonvulsant effects of Hypericum methanolic extract against seizure induced by picrotoxin in mice. The study were performed on four groups of animals. They received percolated extract of Hypericum perforatum at the doses of 25, 50, 100 & 200 mg/kg intra peritoneally. After 20 minutes animals received picrotoxin 10 mg/kg for induction of seizure. Latency of seizure, duration of seizure, death latency and percent of mortality were determined. The results indicated that latency of seizure increased in pretreated group with the dose of 50 mg/kg (p<0.01). The higher dose of extract 200 mg/kg significantly decrease duration of seizure and death latency. It maybe due to unknown ingredients in this plant or producing concentrations higher than the therapeutic level. The results showed that Hypericum perforatum L. at the dose of 50 mg/kg maybe have some beneficial effect in seizure induced by picrotoxin and this plant is suitable for continuing search in this field.
AMPA-type glutamate receptors have been suggested to be involved in the neurobiological mechanisms of drug addiction. We have made use of two mouse lines, which both have modulated AMPA receptor responses. The first line is entirely deficient in glutamate receptor-A (GluR-A) subunits (A-/- knock-out line) and, in the second one, the Q582 residue of GluR-A subunits is replaced by an arginine residue (R/R mutants), which reduces the calcium permeability and channel conductance of the receptors containing this mutated subunit. Mice of both lines are healthy, but they show slightly increased locomotor activity. Acute morphine administration enhanced locomotor activity of the GluR-A-/- and GluR-A(R/R) mice, at least as much as that of their wild-type littermates. Only in the GluR-A-/- mice did we observe reduced tolerance development in tail-flick antinociception and less severe naloxone-precipitated withdrawal symptoms after treatment with increasing morphine doses, without differences in plasma and brain morphine levels when compared with wild type. Repeated daily morphine administration sensitized the locomotor activity responses in the GluR-A-/- and GluR-A(R/R) mice only when given in the measuring cages, whereas the wild-type mice showed slightly increased responses also when the repeated treatment was given in their home cages. Normal or even enhanced context-dependent sensitization was observed also with repeated amphetamine administration in the GluR-A subunit-deficient mice. The results indicate that AMPA receptors are involved in the acute and chronic effects of morphine, including context-independent sensitization, and that the GluR-A subunit itself is important for morphine tolerance and dependence.
Several non-antiarrhythmic drugs including antibiotic and antipsychotic agents have been shown to prolong cardiac repolarization predisposing to torsade de pointes ventricular tachycardia. Blockade of the delayed rectifier (repolarising) potassium current and drug interactions with inhibitors of the CYP-mediated metabolism are the most common underlying mechanisms. In the present case report, an elderly woman receiving a long-term medication with azathioprine, olanzapine and valsartan developed a marked QT interval prolongation after intravenous administration of ciprofloxacin.
The incidence of contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) after coronary angiography and the prognostic value in patients with acute myocardial infarction remains to be determined. This study investigated the frequency, predictors of CIN, and the prognostic significance of CIN in acute myocardial infarction patients undergoing emergent coronary angiography.
This study included 132 consecutive acute myocardial infarction patients undergoing emergent coronary angiography within 24 hr after the onset between January 1999 and June 2001. The serum creatinine concentration was measured on admission and at 48 hr after contrast medium exposure. CIN was defined as an increase in serum creatinine from the baseline > or = 0.5 mg/dl or > or = 25% at 48 hr after emergent coronary angiography. The patient characteristics, and in-hospital and long-term mortality were compared between the CIN and non-CIN groups.
CIN occurred in 15 patients (11.4%) after emergent coronary angiography. The predictor of CIN development was preexisting renal impairment (serum creatinine concentration > or = 1.2 mg/dl on presentation; 21.9% vs 8.0%, odds ratio 3.22, 95% confidence interval 1.07-9.74, p = 0.04). In-hospital mortality was significantly higher in the CIN group than in the non-CIN group (13.3% vs 1.7%; odds ratio 8.85, 95% confidence interval 1.15-68.2, p = 0.01). The long-term mortality (mean follow-up period of 40 months) was also higher in the CIN group (26.7% vs 8.6%; hazard ratio 3.91, 95% confidence interval 1.21-12.5, p = 0.02).
CIN was an independent predictor of both in-hospital and long-term mortality in acute myocardial infarction patients undergoing emergent coronary angiography. Preexisting renal insufficiency was associated with subsequent CIN.
Heparin-associated thrombocytopenia and thrombosis (HATT) is an infrequently encountered syndrome characterized by ischemic necrosis of soft tissue and vital organs following anticoagulation with heparin. The syndrome is thought to be due to heparin-dependent platelet aggregation and thrombosis, which is mediated by pathologic immunoglobulins.
A 60-year-old man developed truncal livedo reticularis and ischemic necrosis of the left foot associated with thrombocytopenia, disseminated intravascular coagulopathy (DIC), and microangiopathic hemolytic anemia during intravenous heparin therapy. Skin biopsy from an area of livedo reticularis revealed fibrin thrombi in dermal blood vessels, which is characteristic of HATT. The diagnosis of HATT promoted discontinuation of heparin and a resulting rapid resolution of the livedo reticularis and hematologic abnormalities. No other potential causes of DIC were identified, and, other than stopping heparin, no specific therapy was employed.
Periodic monitoring of platelets should be performed on all patients receiving treatment with heparin, as early detection of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia followed by discontinuation of the drug may prevent life threatening thrombotic complications. HATT should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients with livedo reticularis that occurs during heparin therapy.
Previous studies have implicated a role for nitric oxide (NO) and peroxynitrite in methamphetamine-induced dopaminergic neurotoxicity. The present study was undertaken to investigate whether NO is involved in serotonergic neurotoxicity caused by fenfluramine. In the first experiment, the effect of the neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) inhibitor 7-nitroindazole (7-NI; 25 mg/kg x 4) on fenfluramine (25 mg/kg x 4)-induced serotonergic neurotoxicity in Swiss Webster mice was investigated. In the second experiment, the effect of fenfluramine (25 mg/kg x 4) on nNOS (-/-) and wild-type (WT) mice was investigated. Fenfluramine induced hypothermia in all three mouse strains, and 7-NI had no thermoregulatory effect. Selective depletion of 5-HT and 5-HT transporter binding sites in the striatum, frontal cortex and hippocampus in all three mouse strains was observed, with no evidence of dopaminergic neurotoxicity. In the first experiment, 7-NI did not attenuate serotonergic neurotoxicity in Swiss Webster mice. In the second experiment, nNOS(-/-) and WT mice were equally sensitive to serotonergic neurotoxicity. These findings suggest that NO and peroxynitrite do not mediate fenfluramine-induced serotonergic neurotoxicity, and that NO is a selective mediator of amphetamines-induced dopaminergic neurotoxicity.
Multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNT) are new materials with a wide range of industrial and commercial applications. However, their nano-scaled size and fiber-like shape render them respirable and potentially fibrogenic if inhaled into the lungs. To understand MWCNT fibrogenesis, we analyzed the pathologic and molecular aspects of the early phase response to MWCNT in mouse lungs. MWCNT induced rapid and pronounced lesions in the lungs characterized by increased cellularity and formation of fibrotic foci, most notably near where MWCNT deposited, within 14 days post-exposure. Deposition of collagen fibers was markedly increased in the alveolar septa and fibrotic foci, accompanied by elevated expression of fibrotic genes Col1a1, Col1a2, and Fn1 at both mRNA and protein levels. Fibrosis was induced rapidly at 40 μg, wherein fibrotic changes were detected on day 1 and reached a maximal intensity on day 7 through day 14. Induction of fibrosis was dose-dependent at the dose range of 5-40 μg, 7 days post-exposure. MWCNT elicited rapid and prominent infiltrations of neutrophils and macrophages alongside fibrosis implicating acute inflammation in the fibrotic response. At the molecular level, MWCNT induced elevated expression of proinflammatory cytokines TNFα, IL1α, IL1β, IL6, and CCL2 in lung tissues as well as the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, in a dose- and time-dependent manner. MWCNT also increased the expression of fibrogenic growth factors TGF-β1 and PDGF-A in the lungs significantly. These findings underscore the interplay between acute inflammation and the early fibrotic response in the initiation and propagation of pulmonary fibrosis induced by MWCNT.
Chemoresistance to anticancer drugs is a major issue in the successful treatment of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). In this study, we developed an AML cell line (AML-2/IDAC) that is resistant to treatment with a combination of idarubicin and cytosine arabinoside (Id/AraC) by chronic exposure for more than 3 months. We then investigated the ability of indomethacin to alleviate the chemoresistance of AML-2/IDAC cells. Treatment with indomethacin alone induced growth arrest, but not the death of AML-2/IDAC cells. However, when AML-2/IDAC cells were treated with combinations of indomethacin and Id/AraC, the cell death and apoptosis rate of AML-2/IDAC cells were significantly increased in a dose- and time-dependent manner. The combined treatment with indomethacin and Id/AraC caused the collapse of the mitochondrial membrane potential and was also demonstrated to enhance the activities of caspase-3 and -8 in AML-2/IDAC cells. Furthermore, indomethacin down-regulated expression of the ABCA3 and MRP1 genes, which were over-expressed in AML-2/IDAC cells. Taken together, the results of this study suggest that indomethacin can be used to increase the therapeutic potential against drug-resistant AML when combined with anti-leukemic drugs.
Cytochrome P4502E1 (CYP2E1) has been demonstrated to play crucial roles in chronic ethanol-induced fatty liver, while its role in acute ethanol-induced fatty liver remains unclear. The current study was designed to evaluate the effects of chlormethiazole (CMZ), a specific inhibitor of CYP2E1, on acute ethanol-induced fatty liver, and to explore the mechanisms. Mice were pretreated with single dose of CMZ (50mg/kg body weight) by intraperitoneal injection or equal volume of saline, and then exposed to three doses of ethanol (5g/kg body weight, 25%, w/v) by gavage with 12h intervals. The mice were sacrificed at 4h after the last ethanol dosing. It was found that CMZ significantly attenuated acute ethanol-induced increase of the hepatic and serum triglyceride levels, and reduced fat droplets accumulation in mice liver. Acute ethanol-induced increase of the hepatic malondialdehyde (MDA) and 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) levels (two biomarkers for oxidative stress) and decrease of glutathione (GSH) level was significantly suppressed by CMZ. CMZ also suppressed ethanol-induced decline of serum adiponectin level, but did not significantly affect the serum tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and ethanol levels. Furthermore, a significant decline of p62 protein level was observed in CMZ/ethanol group mice liver compared with that of the ethanol group mice. However, acute ethanol-induced increase of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α (PPAR-α) protein level was suppressed by CMZ, while the protein levels of sterol regulatory element-binding protein-1c (SREBP-1) and diacylglycerol acyltransferase 2 (DGAT2) were not significantly affected by ethanol or CMZ. Collectively, the results of the current study demonstrated that CMZ could effectively attenuate acute ethanol-induced fatty liver possibly by suppressing oxidative stress and adiponectin decline, and activating autophagy, which suggest that CYP2E1 might also play important roles in acute ethanol-induced fatty liver.
Growth-differentiation factor-15 (GDF-15) is emerging as a prognostic biomarker in patients with coronary artery disease. Little is known about GDF-15 as a biomarker in patients with heart failure.
The circulating concentration of GDF-15 was measured at baseline (n=1734) and at 12 months (n=1517) in patients randomized in the Valsartan Heart Failure Trial (Val-HeFT). GDF-15 levels at baseline ranged from 259 to 25 637 ng/L and were abnormally high (>1200 ng/L) in 85% of patients. Higher levels were associated with features of worse heart failure and biomarkers of neurohormonal activation, inflammation, myocyte injury, and renal dysfunction. Baseline GDF-15 levels (per 100 ng/L) were associated with the risks of mortality (hazard ratio, 1.017; 95% confidence interval, 1.014 to 1.019; P<0.001) and first morbid event (hazard ratio, 1.020; 95% confidence interval, 1.017 to 1.023; P<0.001). In a comprehensive multiple-variable Cox regression model that included clinical prognostic variables, B-type natriuretic peptide, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein, and high-sensitivity troponin T, GDF-15 remained independently associated with mortality (hazard ratio, 1.007; 95% confidence interval, 1.001 to 1.014; P=0.02) but not first morbid event. At 12 months, the GDF-15 levels had increased by a similar amount in the placebo and valsartan groups (P=0.94). Increases in GDF-15 over 12 months were independently associated with the risks of future mortality and first morbid event also after adjustment for clinical prognostic variables, B-type natriuretic peptide, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein, and high-sensitivity troponin T and their changes.
GDF-15 reflects information from several pathological pathways and provides independent prognostic information in heart failure. GDF-15 levels increase over time, suggesting that GDF-15 reflects a pathophysiological axis that is not completely addressed by the therapies prescribed in Val-HeFT.
YY1 is a zinc finger transcription factor involved in the regulation of cell growth, development, and differentiation. Although YY1 can regulate human papillomavirus-type (HPV) viral oncogenes E6 and E7, it remains unknown if YY1 plays a key role in carcinoma progression of HPV-infected cells. Here we sought to determine whether YY1 is upregulated in the cervical cancer tissues and YY1 inhibition contributes to apoptosis of cervical cancer cells, which is at least partly p53 dependent. Therefore, YY1 can be a potential therapeutic target for cervical cancer treatment by arsenic trioxide (As2O3).
The expression level of YY1 was examined and analyzed by Western blot in pathologically confirmed primary cervical cancer samples, in the adjacent normal samples, as well as in normal cervix samples. The effects of YY1 inhibition by specific small interfering RNA in HeLa cells were determined by Western blot analysis of p53 level, cell growth curve, colony formation assay, and apoptosis. The contribution of YY1 to As2O3-induced p53 activation and apoptosis was also examined by Western blot and cell cycle analysis.
Here we report that the expression level of YY1 is significantly elevated in the primary cancer tissues. In HPV-positive HeLa cells, small interfering RNA-mediated YY1 inhibition induced apoptosis and increased the expression of p53. Treatment of HeLa cells with As2O3, a known anti-cervical cancer agent, reduced both protein and mRNA levels of YY1 in HeLa cells. YY1 knockdown significantly further enhanced As2O3-induced apoptosis.
These results demonstrated that the expression of YY1 is upregulated in cervical carcinomas and that YY1 plays a critical role in the progression of HPV-positive cervical cancer. In addition, YY1 inhibition induces p53 activation and apoptosis in HPV-infected HeLa cells. Thus, YY1 is an As2O3 target and could serve as a potential drug sensitizer for anti-cervical cancer therapy.
The treatment-associated toxicity in 189 patients entered in the COSS-80 Study was analyzed. The sequential use of high-dose methotrexate (HDMTX) with citrovorum factor rescue (CFR) and cis-platinum may be additive or synergistic in causing renal toxicity. However, evaluation of the 48-h serum methotrexate level and the incidence of elevated serum creatinine levels throughout treatment failed to indicate prolonged methotrexate elimination or severe kidney damage from this regimen where an interval of 3 weeks between cis-platinum administration and the next course of HDMTX was mandatory. The treatment-related mortality was 3.2% (6 out of 189 patients). Three patients died of septicemia during chemotherapy-induced bone-marrow depression following treatment with adriamycin or the combination of bleomycin, cyclophosphamide, and dactinomycin (BCD). Three deaths occurred following the use of high-dose methotrexate with citrovorum factor rescue. Two of these deaths were associated with delayed excretion of methotrexate. The toxicity is within the range reported in the literature.
Both all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) and arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) have proven to be very effective in obtaining high clinical complete remission (CR) rates in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), but they had not been used jointly in an integrated treatment protocol for remission induction or maintenance among newly diagnosed APL patients. In this study, 61 newly diagnosed APL subjects were randomized into three treatment groups, namely by ATRA, As(2)O(3), and the combination of the two drugs. CR was determined by hematological analysis, tumor burden was examined with real-time quantitative RT-PCR of the PML-RAR alpha (promyelocytic leukemia-retinoic acid receptor alpha) fusion transcripts, and side effects were evaluated by means of clinical examinations. Mechanisms possibly involved were also investigated with cellular and molecular biology methods. Although CR rates in three groups were all high (> or =90%), the time to achieve CR differed significantly, with that of the combination group being the shortest one. Earlier recovery of platelet count was also found in this group. The disease burden as reflected by fold change of PML-RAR alpha transcripts at CR decreased more significantly in combined therapy as compared with ATRA or As(2)O(3) mono-therapy (P < 0.01). This difference persisted after consolidation (P < 0.05). Importantly, all 20 cases in the combination group remained in CR whereas 7 of 37 cases treated with mono-therapy relapsed (P < 0.05) after a follow-up of 8-30 months (median: 18 months). Synergism of ATRA and As(2)O(3) on apoptosis and degradation of PML-RAR alpha oncoprotein might provide a plausible explanation for superior efficacy of combination therapy in clinic. In conclusion, the ATRA/As(2)O(3) combination for remission/maintenance therapy of APL brings much better results than either of the two drugs used alone in terms of the quality of CR and the status of the disease-free survival.
A sequence variation in the 3'-untranslated region of the prothrombin (PT) gene (20210 G-->A) was recently claimed to be associated with elevated plasma prothrombin levels and an increased risk for venous and arterial thrombosis. We examined the prevalence of the 20210 A allele in the prothrombin gene in 400 healthy controls and in 263 patients with proven premature atherosclerotic disease. In addition, we measured prothrombin, prothrombin fragment 1 + 2, thrombin-antithrombin (TAT) complex and D-dimer levels in plasma from carrier and non-carrier patients. The frequency of the variant allele was 1% in the control subjects and 2.7% in the patient group, yielding a relative risk (RR) for the 20210 A allele of 2.7 (95% CI 0.8-9.4). All heterozygotes in the patient group were found to have had a myocardial infarction (MI), yielding a RR for MI of 4.2 (95% CI 1.2-14.6). Plasma prothrombin levels in carriers (126+/-10) were higher than in non-carriers (103+/-1, P=0.02). The levels of TAT complexes (16+/-9 v 6+/-1 microg/ml, P=0.02) as well as of prothrombin fragment 1 + 2 (1.5+/-0.3 v 1.0+/-0.1 nmol/l, P=0.02) were also elevated in carriers of the mutation. Our findings suggest that the 20210 G-->A mutation in the prothrombin gene is a genetic risk factor for MI. In addition, our data provide evidence for an association of the mutation with excessive thrombin generation, which may contribute to the understanding of its role in venous and arterial disease.
N-acetylglutamate synthase (NAGS) is the key enzyme for the regulation of the hepatic urea cycle and is also highly expressed in kidney and gut. The reaction product, N-acetylglutamate, is an allosteric activator of carbamylphosphate synthetase 1 in the liver, catalyzing the initial step of ammonia detoxification. NAGS deficiency is a rare inborn error of metabolism inherited as an autosomal recessive trait leading to hyperammonemia. Using homology search based on genetic information of ascomycetes, we identified the human gene for NAGS on chromosome 17q21.31. There is a distinct pattern of organospecific expression of transcripts in liver, small intestine, and kidney similar to the other mitochondrially located enzymes of the urea cycle. The encoded 534 amino acid polypeptide has a consensus sequence for a 49 amino acid mitochondrial leader peptide. We identified private mutations of the NAGS gene in patients with severe early onset of clinical symptoms (IVS3-2A>T, c.1306_1307insT, c.971G>A/W324X, c.1289T>C/L430P, c.1299G>C/E433S, c.1450T>C/W484R), as well as in a case with late onset (c.835G>A/A279P). Four out of seven mutations were detected on exon 6. This is the first report of mutation analysis in a series of families affected with deficiency of NAGS. Molecular analysis of patients and reliable antenatal diagnostics for affected families are now feasible.
We compare the analgesic efficacy and adverse effects of oral prednisolone/acetaminophen and oral indomethacin/acetaminophen combination therapy in the treatment of acute goutlike arthritis in patients presenting to an emergency department (ED).
This is a double-blind, randomized, controlled study in a university hospital emergency department (ED) in the New Territories of Hong Kong. Patients older than 17 years and presenting between February 1, 2003, and June 30, 2004, with a clinical diagnosis of goutlike arthritis were randomized to receive either oral prednisolone/acetaminophen or oral indomethacin/acetaminophen combination therapy. Primary outcome measures were pain scores, time to resolution of symptoms and signs, and adverse effects. Secondary outcome measures were the need for additional acetaminophen and relapse rate.
There were 90 patients randomized: 46 patients to the indomethacin group and 44 patients to the prednisolone group. Baseline characteristics, including pain scores, were similar in the 2 groups. Both treatment groups had a similar decrease in pain score in the ED. The mean rate of decrease in pain score with activity for indomethacin was -1.7+/-1.6 (SD) mm per day and for prednisolone was -2.9+/-2.0 (SD) mm per day (mean difference 1.2 mm/day; 95% confidence interval 0.4 to 2.0 mm/day; P=.0026). Although these differences were statistically significant, at no time was the difference in mean pain score greater than 13 mm. Therefore, it is unclear whether these differences are clinically significant. The mean total dose of acetaminophen consumed by the prednisolone group was significantly more than in the indomethacin group (mean 10.3 g, range 1 to 21 g versus mean 6.4 g, range 1 to 21 g). Twenty-nine patients in the indomethacin group and 12 patients in the prednisolone group experienced adverse effects (P<.05). The commonest adverse effects in the indomethacin group were nausea, indigestion, epigastric pain, dizziness, and gastrointestinal bleeding (N=5; 11%). None of the patients in the prednisolone group developed gastrointestinal bleeding. The relapse rate for both groups was similar.
In the treatment of acute goutlike arthritis, oral prednisolone/acetaminophen combination is as effective as oral indomethacin/acetaminophen combination in relieving pain but is associated with fewer adverse effects.
In a randomized double-blind study with parallel design involving 20 hypertensive patients, the antihypertensive activity and effect on platelet function of ketanserin have been compared with those of atenolol. Patients in both treatment groups were matched for age, body weight, duration of hypertension and blood pressure values on placebo. After 12 weeks of oral treatment, both ketanserin and atenolol significantly reduced blood pressure from 183/113 and 187/111 mmHg, at the end of the placebo run-in period, to 159/91 and 169/99 mmHg, respectively (P less than 0.05). No significant differences were noted between the hypotensive effect of both drugs. In contrast to ketanserin, atenolol significantly reduced the heart rate after 12 weeks of therapy (P = 0.025). Ketanserin significantly inhibited serotonin-induced platelet aggregation and serotonin uptake by thrombocytes, whereas atenolol failed to alter these variables. The results indicate that the antihypertensive activity of the serotonin antagonist ketanserin is comparable with that of the beta-receptor blocker atenolol.
Twenty-eight patients with various types of pituitary adenomas were studied endocrinologically and neuroradiologically. We observed the changes of tumor size during bromocriptine treatment. After various periods of bromocriptine therapy, we operated on these tumors and examined then histologically. One of 5 patients with nonfunctioning adenomas improved remarkably in his visual field and acuity after 7-month bromocriptine therapy. The pathological findings disclosed remarkable changes in tumors composed of shrunken island-like cell nests and acellular spaces. These shrunken island-like cell nests were composed of tumor cells whose cytoplasmic volume decreased and whose nuclear chromatin clumped. In acellular spaces, there were irreversibly destructed tumor cells, hyaline substances, tumor cell debris and collagen fibrils. One of 8 cases of acromegalies showed a remarkably reduced tumor on CT with clinical improvement after treatment with bromocriptine for 10 months. This patient's serum growth hormone titer was raised by an abnormal response to intravenously injected TRH (thyrotropin releasing hormone), and his serum prolactin was abnormally high. Therefore, this tumor was thought to be a mixed adenoma with growth hormone secreting and/or prolactin secreting cells. Histological examinations disclosed cell shrinkage of tumor cells. Interestingly, there were scanty fibrotic changes in this tumor in spite of the long term bromocriptine therapy. In 15 cases of prolactinomas, the larger the tumor size and the longer the period of the bromocriptine therapy, the more fibrosis was seen. Under a period of bromocriptine therapy longer than 3 months, the fibrotic changes of tumor progressed, and this made more difficulty in selective adenomectomy even in the case of intrasellar adenomas. Therefore we thought that transsphenoidal surgery could successfully be done within 3 months during continuation of bromocriptine therapy.
Alendronate sodium is an aminobiphosphonate, an analog of inorganic pyrophosphate, indicated for the treatment of osteoporosis in post-menopausal women. We analyzed events reported in patients prescribed alendronate by general practitioners (GPs) in England. A non-interventional observational cohort study was conducted using the technique of prescription event monitoring (PEM). Exposure data were obtained from dispensed prescriptions issued between October 1995 and January 1997. Outcome data were obtained by sending questionnaires to prescribing GPs. The cohort comprised 11,916 patients. Events most frequently reported as suspected adverse drug reactions and reason for stopping alendronate were recognized gastrointestinal events listed in the Summary of Product Characteristics. These included nausea/vomiting, abdominal pain, dyspepsia, esophagitis and esophageal reflux. Events with the highest incidence density (ID(1) per 1000 patient months treatment) were dyspeptic conditions (32.2), nausea/vomiting (20.8) and abdominal pain (13.8). The term dyspeptic conditions included dyspepsia, esophagitis, esophageal reflux, duodenitis, gastritis and heartburn. Serious suspected adverse reactions possibly related to alendronate were single reports of angioedema, erythema multiforme, hypercalcemia and hypocalcemia. There were 540 deaths in this elderly cohort. This study suggests that alendronate appears to be well tolerated, though there may be risk of developing gastrointestinal side effects including esophagitis and esophageal ulcers.
This exploratory study compared the neurocognitive performances of individuals with methamphetamine-induced psychotic disorder (MA psychosis) and paranoid schizophrenia.
MA psychosis presents very similarly to paranoid schizophrenia and the relationship between the 2 disorders is not well-understood. Neurocognitive functioning is one potential factor for comparison, as deficits are documented in both schizophrenia and methamphetamine dependence.
Participants were selected through chart review. Neurocognitive test scores for participants with paranoid schizophrenia (n=20) and MA psychosis (n=19) were obtained from hospital records and compared.
Results of multivariate analysis of variance found no significant differences between the groups in any neurocognitive domain.
These preliminary findings suggest that similarities between the disorders may extend to neurocognition. Low power and sampling limitations may contribute to the null findings.
In polycystic kidney disease, abnormal epithelial cell proliferation is the main factor leading to cyst formation and kidney enlargement. Cyclic AMP (cAMP) is mitogenic in cystic but antimitogenic in normal human kidney cells, which is due to reduced steady-state intracellular calcium levels in cystic compared to the normal cells. Inhibition of intracellular calcium entry with channel blockers, such as verapamil, induced cAMP-dependent cell proliferation in normal renal cells. To determine if calcium channel blockers have a similar effect on cell proliferation in vivo, Cy/+ rats, a model of dominant polycystic kidney disease, were treated with verapamil. Kidney weight and cyst index were elevated in verapamil-treated Cy/+ rats. This was associated with increased cell proliferation and apoptosis, elevated expression, and phosphorylation of B-Raf with stimulation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase MEK/ERK (mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase/extracellular-regulated kinase) pathway. Verapamil had no effect on kidney morphology or B-Raf stimulation in wild-type rats. We conclude that treatment of Cy/+ rats with calcium channel blockers increases activity of the B-Raf/MEK/ERK pathway accelerating cyst growth in the presence of endogenous cAMP, thus exacerbating renal cystic disease.
Insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) reduces arterial blood pressure. Since administration of capsaicin and isoflavone increases serum levels of IGF-I by sensory neuron stimulation in subjects with alopecia, it is possible that administration of capsaicin and isoflavone reduces arterial blood pressure in patients with hypertension. Systolic and diastolic blood pressure (BP) and serum levels of IGF-I were determined before and at 1, 3, and 5 months after administration of capsaicin and isoflavone in 42 volunteers with alopecia, 29 normotensive and 13 hypertensive volunteers. Neither systolic nor diastolic BP changed in the normotensive volunteers after combined administration of capsaicin and isoflavone. In contrast, systolic and diastolic BP was significantly reduced in hypertensive volunteers after administration of capsaicin and isoflavone. Serum levels of IGF-I significantly increased in both normotensive and hypertensive volunteers after administration of capsaicin and isoflavone. These observations suggest that administration of capsaicin and isoflavone might reduce BP in hypertensive, but not in normotensive subjects, probably by increasing serum levels of IGF-I.
