An analysis of complications resulting from a long-term administration of chloroquinine derivatives is presented in the paper. The efficacy of chloroquinine derivatives for patients with rheumatological and dermatological pathologies was demonstrated. However, the remote results showed, after the administration of the above preparations, highly serious complications in different organs and primarily in the organ of vision. As for our practice, complications of various severity degrees were found in 6 patients with rheumatoid arthritis, who received the preparations in question, such complications were classified as highly severe in 1 patient. Taking into consideration that the chloroquinine derivatives have been widely used, while many doctors are not aware of the complications caused by them. We found it advisable to compile a literature survey and to enlarge it with our own observations. Eventually, we concluded that the pathogenesis of disorders in visual functions could be explained by a toxic effect produced by the chloroquinine derivatives not only on the retina but also on the optic nerve and chiasm. Our opinion is that a thorough and differentiated approach is needed to patients with the mentioned pathologies while using the chloroquinine derivatives for treatment.
UCP2, an inner membrane mitochondrial protein, has been implicated in bioenergetics and reactive oxygen species (ROS) modulation. High levels of UCP2 mRNA were recently found in erythroid cells where UCP2 is hypothesized to function as a facilitator of heme synthesis and iron metabolism by reducing ROS production. We examined UCP2 protein expression and role in mice erythropoiesis in vivo. UCP2 was mainly expressed at early stages of erythroid maturation when cells are not fully committed in heme synthesis. Iron incorporation into heme was unaltered in reticulocytes from UCP2-deficient mice. Although heme synthesis was not influenced by UCP2 deficiency, mice lacking UCP2 had a delayed recovery from chemically induced hemolytic anemia. Analysis of progenitor cells from bone marrow and fetal liver both in vitro and in vivo revealed that UCP2 deficiency results in a significant decrease in cell proliferation at the erythropoietin-dependent phase of erythropoiesis. This was accompanied by reduction in the phosphorylated form of ERK, a ROS-dependent cytosolic regulator of cell proliferation. Analysis of ROS in UCP2 null erythroid cells revealed altered distribution of ROS, resulting in decreased cytosolic and increased mitochondrial ROS. Restoration of the cytosol oxidative state of erythroid progenitor cells by the pro-oxidant Paraquat reversed the effect of UCP2 deficiency on cell proliferation in in vitro differentiation assays. Together, these results indicate that UCP2 is a regulator of erythropoiesis and suggests that inhibition of UCP2 function may contribute to the development of anemia.
Intravenous thrombolysis with tissue plasminogen activator is an approved and effective therapy for acute ischemic stroke within the first 3 hours from onset. In addition to the risk of hemorrhage, there is a risk of postrecanalization cerebral edema. The authors present the case of a patient with an ischemic stroke treated successfully with intra-arterial thrombolysis who subsequently developed massive brain edema in the face of clinical improvement.
An 81-year-old man presented within 1 hour of developing a full right middle cerebral artery (MCA) syndrome. Computed tomography (CT) was normal. A cerebral angiogram demonstrated an occlusion of the M1 segment of the right MCA. The patient was treated with intra-arterial urokinase 750,000 units. He recovered during the procedure. Serial CT scans demonstrated progressive edema with mass effect in the right MCA distribution. The patient remained asymptomatic except for a mild sensory deficit.
Postrecanalization cerebral edema is an uncommon but potentially lethal complication of thrombolysis. It is postulated that the edema is due to ischemic injury aggravated by reperfusion with vasogenic edema. The presence of this massive edema is usually associated with clinical worsening. The present case illustrates that this disorder can be associated with good outcome.
Infants born to chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infected mothers may be infected in spite of receiving passive-active immunoprophylaxis.
The purpose of this study was to assess the outcome of infants born to women actively infected by HBV.
From April 2004 to September 2009, infants born to women actively infected by HBV received hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) and the first dose of hepatitis B vaccine at birth. The second and third doses of HBV vaccine were administered at 1 and 6 months of age. Post-vaccination tests to detect HBsAg and anti-HBs were assessed between 12 and 15 months of age. Those who had anti-HBs titers<10mIU/ml received the second series of HBV vaccine.
Thirty-four and 201 infants were born to HBeAg-seropositive and anti-HBe-seropositive mothers, respectively. HBsAg was detected in 6 (17.6%) infants born to HBeAg-seropositive mothers and in 3 (1.5%) to anti-HBe-seropositive mothers (p=0.0001). Anti-HBs ≥ 10mIU/ml were achieved in 26 (76.5%) and 178 (88.6%) infants of HBeAg-seropositive and anti-HBe-seropositive mothers, respectively (p>0.05). Twenty-two (9.4%) infants were non-responders and 11(50%) of them responded to the second series of HBV vaccine.
The results show that infants of HBeAg-seropositive mothers have higher risk of developing of HBV infection. Some HBsAg-seronegative infants may not respond to passive-active immunoprophylaxis and may remain at risk of HBV infection.
A prospective study of 34 patients treated with 39 courses of intravenous vancomycin, was undertaken in order to assess toxicity. Six patients received vancomycin alone and 27 courses were associated with aminoglycoside administration either concurrently or within two weeks of the first dose of vancomycin. Hearing loss was slight and uncommon; patients were unaware of its occurrence. Tinnitus and dizziness was noted by two patients and resolved on withdrawal of vancomycin. Diminution of renal function was seen both during (7%) and after (9%) vancomycin therapy. A striking feature of these patients with renal deterioration was the severity of their underlying disease. No evidence of synergistic toxicity between vancomycin and aminoglycosides was seen.
The extreme vulnerability of developing nervous system to methylmercury (MeHg) is well documented. Still unclear is the consequence of different postnatal period exposure to MeHg. We investigated the critical postnatal phase when MeHg induced neurotoxicity in rats and the underlying mechanism. Rats were given 5mg/(kg day) methylmercury chloride (MMC) orally on postnatal day (PND) 7, PND14, PND28, and PND60 for consecutive 7 days. A control group was treated with 0.9% sodium chloride solution 5 ml/(kg day) instead. On PND69, spatial learning and memory was evaluated by Morris water maze test. Behavior deficits were found in MMC-treated rats of PND7 and PND14 groups (p<0.01). N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor 2 subunits mRNA expressions were evaluated 3 days after the last administration. In hippocampus, the mRNA expression of NR2A and NR2B decreased, but the NR2C expression increased in PND14 group following MMC-treatment (p<0.01). In cerebral cortex, mRNA expression of NR2A decreased, with NR2C expression elevating in PND14 group following MMC-treatment (p<0.05). These observations suggest that the postnatal exposure to MeHg during PND7-20 could cause neurobehavioral deficits which extend to adulthood. Furthermore, the abnormal expression of NMDAR 2 subunits might associate with the impairment.
Previous studies suggest that ropivacaine causes the least neurotoxicity among local anaesthetics. Most data derive from a single injection of ropivacaine into the subarachnoid space. The histological changes and behavioural effects of repeated intrathecal administration have yet to be studied. We examined the possible neurotoxicity of multiple doses of intrathecal ropivacaine in rats. Rats received 0.12 ml/kg body weight ropivacaine in normal saline at concentrations of 0.25%, 0.5%, 0.75% and 1.0% at 90-minute intervals via an implanted intrathecal catheter (ID 0.12 mm, OD 0.35 mm) for 48 hours. At L3, the spinal cord and posterior roots were examined by light and electron microscopy. We performed in situ TUNEL assay to evaluate apoptosis in the spinal cord. Sensory threshold to noxious stimulation along with behavioural change were also studied. Both 0.75% and 1.0% ropivacaine induced neuronal injury characterised by infiltration of inflammatory cells, vacuolation of myelin sheaths and axons, abnormal morphology of neurons and apoptosis in the spinal cord, mainly in posterior roots and the adjacent posterior white matter Compared to controls, the percentage of maximum possible effect did not show any significant differences between the rats treated with variable concentrations of ropivacaine or tested with either heat or mechanical stimulation. As expected, the recovery time to normal ambulation was prolonged as the ropivacaine concentration was increased. Ropivacaine can induce neurotoxicity and trigger apoptosis in a dose-dependent manner after repeated intrathecal administration. Although the clinical safety profile of ropivacaine appears favourable compared with other local anaesthetics, it is possible our findings have clinical significance.
Chronic exposure to high concentrations of PO induced inflammation in the respiratory nasal mucosa (RNM) of rodents and, for concentrations >or= 300 ppm, caused nasal tumors. Considering the nose to be the most relevant target organ for PO-induced tumorigenicity, we developed a physiological toxicokinetic model for PO in rats and humans. It includes compartments for arterial, venous, and pulmonary blood, liver, muscle, fat, richly perfused tissues, lung, and nose. It simulates inhalation of PO, its distribution into tissues by blood flow, and its elimination by exhalation and metabolism. In nose, lung, and liver of rats, PO conjugation with glutathione (GSH), PO-induced GSH depletion, and formation of PO adducts to DNA are described. Also modeled are PO adducts to hemoglobin of rats and humans. Required partition coefficients and metabolic parameters were derived experimentally or from publications. In rats, simulated PO concentrations in blood and GSH levels in tissues agreed with measured data. If compared with reported values, levels of adducts with hemoglobin were underpredicted up to a factor of about 2. Adducts with DNA differed up to a factor of 3. Hemoglobin adducts predicted for PO-exposed workers were 1.5-1.9 times higher than the reported ones. Considering identical conditions of PO exposure, similar PO concentrations in RNM were modeled for rats and humans. Also, PO concentrations in blood, about 1/30th of those in RNM, were similar in both species. Since the model was evaluated on all available data in rats and humans, we consider it to be useful for estimating the risk from inhalation exposure to PO.
The effects of electrical stimulation of the arcuate nucleus on blood pressure, heart rate and baroreflex sensitivity were studied in urethane-anesthetized Sprague-Dawley rats. Stimulation of the mid-anterior parts of the arcuate nucleus at 80 Hz, 0.8 ms and 50-200 microA caused a biphasic, depressor/pressor, response and moderate bradycardia. Intravenous administration of a vasopressin V1-receptor antagonist eliminated the pressor component and unmasked a pure depressor response. This depressor response could be inhibited by naltrexone, 2 mg/kg i.v., by an antiserum against beta-endorphin, 100 nl injected directly into the ipsilateral nucleus tractus solitarii, or by deafferentation of the dorsal vagal complex (nucleus tractus solitarii and dorsal vagal nucleus) by an ipsilateral, dorsolateral knife-cut of the medulla oblongata. Stimulation of the arcuate nucleus at currents of 20-40 microA did not influence basal blood pressure or heart rate but potentiated the reflex bradycardia induced by phenylephrine, and this effect was completely blocked by naltrexone. It is concluded that a beta-endorphin-containing pathway projecting from the arcuate nucleus to the ipsilateral dorsal vagal complex is involved in depressor cardiovascular regulation and in the facilitation of baroreflex bradycardia.
The Rop (radial opacity) mutation, which was recovered in a mutagenicity screen after paternal treatment with procarbazine, was analyzed to determine phenotype, chromosomal localization, candidate genes, and molecular lesion.
Native lenses were photographed under a dissecting microscope. Histologic sections of the eye were made according to standard procedures. Fine mapping of the mutation in relation to microsatellite markers for mouse chromosome 1 was performed. Candidate genes were amplified by PCR from cDNA or genomic DNA and sequenced.
The nuclear opacity of the heterozygous mutants showed radial structures, whereas the opacity of the homozygotes was homogenous. The histologic analysis revealed changes in the lens nucleus, which corresponds to the pronounced opacification in lenses of homozygous mutants. The allelism of Rop to the Cat2 group of dominant cataracts on mouse chromosome 1 was confirmed by linkage to microsatellite markers D1Mit156 and D1Mit181. The cluster of the Cryg genes and the closely linked Cryba2 gene were tested as candidates. A T-->A exchange in exon 2 of the Crygf gene leads to a Val-->Glu exchange in codon 38 and was considered to be causative for the cataract phenotype; therefore, Crygf(Rop) has been suggested as the designation for the mutation.
Crygf(Rop) is the first mutation affecting the Crygf gene. Dominant cataract mutations for all six Cryg genes on mouse chromosome 1 have now been characterized, demonstrating the importance of this gene cluster in lens transparency.
A case is reported of an adult who presented with hyperkalaemic muscular paralysis induced by spironolactone.
Nine patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) and ten non-diabetic patients with mild hypertension were treated with enalapril 20 mg daily. None had overt nephropathy, though 4 diabetic subjects had microalbuminuria. Subjects with the highest baseline albumin excretion rates (AER) showed the greatest fall on therapy. Metabolic control of diabetes did not deteriorate. Enalapril had no significant effect on AER in NIDDM patients with AER below 20 micrograms/minute or in the non-diabetic group.
Of the 766 patients with eczematous skin disease patch tested in 2003 at the Department of Dermatology, University Clinic Gentofte, 38 (4.9%) showed a positive reaction to methyldibromo glutaronitrile (MDBGN), and in an additional 2 patients, a doubtful positive patch test reaction was found to be of relevance. Among these, 27 had hand eczema, with a relevant exposure predominantly from wash-off products, either liquid soaps or shampoos, in 24 patients. Following identification of the allergen by patch testing and subsequent avoidance of products containing MDBGN, the hand eczema either improved or cleared in 19 patients. Chemical analysis showed 11 p.p.m. to 473 p.p.m. MDBGN in products used by the patients. Based on the present clinical study and accumulated evidence in the literature, it is concluded that MDBGN is not suitable for use in any type of cosmetic product.
Elevated high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) levels are associated with an increased risk of atherosclerotic coronary heart disease (CHD). The addition of the bile acid sequestrants, such as colesevelam hydrochloride (HCl), to statins further reduces low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels. However, the effects of approved cholesterol-lowering bile acid sequestrants on hs-CRP have not previously been reported. Three randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel, 6-week clinical trials of similar design investigated the efficacy of adding colesevelam HCl to stable simvastatin, atorvastatin, or pravastatin treatment in 204 patients with primary hypercholesterolemia. The primary end point was the mean percent change in the LDL cholesterol levels. Secondary end points included the effects on other lipid parameters and hs-CRP levels. A pooled analysis showed that adding colesevelam HCl to statin therapy significantly lowered LDL cholesterol levels (21 mg/dl or 16% mean reduction from baseline, p = 0.0013, and 11 mg/dl or 9% mean reduction compared with placebo, p = 0.0003). Four times as many patients receiving colesevelam HCl plus a statin achieved a LDL cholesterol target of <100 mg/dl compared with patients receiving a statin plus placebo (39% vs 10%, respectively, p <0.0001). The incidence of mild gastrointestinal adverse effects was slightly higher in the colesevelam HCl plus statin group than in the placebo plus statin group. Finally, the differences in the change in hs-CRP levels with colesevelam HCl plus statin therapy were significant compared with the changes with placebo plus statin (median change -23%, p = 0.0069). In conclusion, this is the first report suggesting that an approved cholesterol-lowering bile acid sequestrant, specifically colesevelam HCl, decreases hs-CRP levels when added to statin therapy.
Contact allergy to and allergic contact dermatitis from methyldibromo glutaronitrile (MDBGN) have frequently been reported. As there has been no agreement on which MDBGN test preparation to use, a study was initiated to help determine the optimal patch test preparation for MDBGN. 2661 consecutively patch tested patients at 11 test clinics representing 9 European countries participated. Petrolatum preparations with MDBGN at 1.0%, 0.5%, 0.3% and 0.1% were inserted in the standard series. Contact allergy rates were noted in the range 4.4-1.1% following decreasing test concentrations. Reactions not fulfilling all criteria to be classified as allergic reactions could represent either weak allergic or irritant reactions, and such reactions were noted in the range 8.2-0.5% with decreasing concentrations. A significant number of these reactions represented weak allergic reactions, as allergic reactions were obtained to higher patch test concentrations in the same individual. Morphologically irritant reactions were noted only for the highest test concentrations. In summary, the contact allergy rates and frequencies of doubtful and irritant reactions vary with the patch test concentration. The final decision on patch test concentration for MDBGN should not only rely on these factors but also include information on patch test concentrations required to diagnose individual cases with allergic contact dermatitis from MDBGN as well as results of repeated open application tests.
To evaluate the clinical feature of nummular headache and the efficiency of treatment in China.
The data of 21 NH patients treated from February 2006 to February 2008, were analyzed.
They were 9 men, 12 women, aged 37 +/- 12 (18 - 63) years. Headache history ranged from 7 days to 30 years. 13 patients reported head pain confined to a circular area of 0.6 to 5 centimeter, and the other 8 patients had pain in an elliptical area of 1 - 2 centimeter x 1.5 - 3 centimeter. The symptomatic area was located in the parietal (n = 7), occipital(n = 8), temporal (n = 6), or border regions between temporal and parietal (n = 1). The right side was affected in 10 patients and the left side in the 9 patients, the middle of occipital and parietal areas were affected in 1 patient, respectively. Seven patients had mild pain, 8 patients had moderate pain and 6 patients had severe pain. The characteristics of headache included stabbing pain (n = 6), sharp pain (n = 3), pulsating apin (n = 3), grinding pain (n = 1), exploding pain (n = 5), included light-dull apin (n = 3). Three patients were treated by local nerve block with lidocaine plus dexamethasone phosphate/acetate and one of them got some 30 hours of prominent pain relief, no relief was obtained for other two patients. One patient obtained pain remission by acupuncture after amitriptyline, paroxetine had been tried ineffectively. One patient, woman, 38 years old, was treated by carbamazepine (tegretol) and amitriptyline for 3 months and pain relief was obtained gradually and the head pain disappeared finally. 8 patients were treated effectively by amitriptyline combining indomethacium, ibuprofen or carbamazepine. One patient was treated effectively by nimodipine. 2 patients were treated ineffectively by amitriptyline combining indomethacium. 4 patients were not treated. 3 patients were lost to follow-up.
NH is not very rare and some of NH patients may be treated effectively by acupuncture or amitriptyline combining indomethacium, ibuprofen or carbamazepine.
Proper regulation of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR), a ligand-activated transcription factor, is required for normal vertebrate cardiovascular development. AHR hyperactivation by 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) during zebrafish (Danio rerio) development results in altered heart morphology and function, culminating in death. To identify genes that may cause cardiac toxicity, we analyzed the transcriptional response to TCDD in zebrafish hearts. Zebrafish larvae were exposed to TCDD for 1 h at 72 h after fertilization (hpf), and the hearts were extracted for microarray analysis at 1, 2, 4, and 12 h after exposure (73, 74, 76, and 84 h postfertilization). The remaining body tissue was also collected at each time for comparison. TCDD rapidly induced expression in 42 genes within 1 to2hof exposure. These genes function in xenobiotic metabolism, proliferation, heart contractility, and pathways that regulate heart development. Furthermore, these expression changes preceded signs of cardiovascular toxicity, characterized by decreased stroke volume, peripheral blood flow, and a halt in heart growth. This identifies strong candidates for important AHR target genes. It is noteworthy that the TCDD-induced transcriptional response in the hearts of zebrafish larvae was substantially different from that induced in the rest of the body tissues. One of the biggest differences included a cluster of genes that were down-regulated 12 h after exposure in heart tissue, but not in the body samples. More than 70% of the transcripts in this heart-specific cluster promote cellular growth and proliferation. Thus, the developing heart stands out as being responsive to TCDD at both the level of toxicity and gene expression.
To date, only a limited number of studies have reported finding an influence of ordinary nutrients on hepatitis C virus (HCV) RNA replication. However, the effects of other nutrients on HCV RNA replication remain largely unknown. We recently developed a reporter assay system for genome-length HCV RNA replication in hepatoma-derived HuH-7 cells (OR6). Here, using this OR6 assay system, we comprehensively examined 46 nutrients from four nutrient groups: vitamins, amino acids, fatty acids, and salts. We found that three nutrients-beta-carotene, vitamin D(2), and linoleic acid-inhibited HCV RNA replication and that their combination caused additive and/or synergistic effects on HCV RNA replication. In addition, combined treatment with each of the three nutrients and interferon alpha or beta or fluvastatin inhibited HCV RNA replication in an additive manner, while combined treatment with cyclosporine synergistically inhibited HCV RNA replication. In contrast, we found that vitamin E enhanced HCV RNA replication and negated the effects of the three anti-HCV nutrients and cyclosporine but not those of interferon or fluvastatin. These results will provide useful information for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C patients who also take anti-HCV nutrients as an adjunctive therapy in combination with interferon. In conclusion, among the ordinary nutrients tested, beta-carotene, vitamin D(2), and linoleic acid possessed anti-HCV activity in a cell culture system, and these nutrients are therefore considered to be potential candidates for enhancing the effects of interferon therapy.
Five patients with apparent adverse cardiovascular effects of disopyramide are reveiwed. Attention is drawn to the following problems. (1) A vagolytic effect may produce a sinus tachycardia with wide QRS complexes due to aberrant conduction or intraventricular block superficially resembling a ventricular tachycardia, or may allow increased transmission of an atrial tachycardia or atrial flutter to the ventricles by improving atrio-ventricular conduction. (2) Although the vagolytic effect is helpful in increasing sinus rate in patients with sinus node disease, disopyramide may lead to bradycardia and asytolic cardiac arrest, and should not be used without a demand pacemaker. (3) Dangerous ventricular arrhythmias may be provoked in susceptible subjects, as with quinidine. (4) Rapid intravenous injection may produce transient toxic effects before the drug is distributed. The rate of injection as a loading dose for prophylaxis should be slower (2 mg/kg in 15 min) than for the urgent conversion of a resistent tachycardia (2 mg/kg in 5 min). Although disopyramide seems less toxic than quinidine, caution is advised, as over-enthusiastic application of disopyramide, particularly with rapid intravenous injection, might tend to bring a useful new agent into disrepute.
Cushing's disease (CD) is a common endocrinological disorder in dogs with an estimated incidence of 1 to 2 cases/1,000 dogs/year. This is in contrast to humans in whom CD is rare. The clinical presentation of CD, however, is highly similar between dogs and humans, with characteristic signs, such as abdominal obesity, weight gain, fatigue, muscle atrophy and skin changes. Canine CD may therefore serve as an animal model for human CD, especially since therapeutic canine hypophysectomy can generate substantial amounts of primary corticotroph adenoma tissue for in vitro research purposes. In a recent study, we found that dopamine (DA) D(2) and somatostatin (SS) receptor subtypes are well expressed in canine corticotroph adenomas, but there are some distinct differences compared with the expression profile observed in human CD. These differences need to be considered when using canine CD as a model to evaluate the efficacy of novel DA/SS compounds for potential use in human CD.
This case involves an 8-year-old female dog that developed signs of exercise intolerance, muscle weakness and polyuria/polydipsia due to an adrenocorticotropic hormone-secreting pituitary adenoma. The dog underwent curative transsphenoidal hypophysectomy and has remained in complete remission in the 3.5 years since surgery.
We report on seven patients affected with Nevo syndrome, a rare, autosomal recessive disorder characterized by increased perinatal length, kyphosis, muscular hypotonia, and joint laxity. Since its first description by Nevo et al. [1974], only a few cases have been reported. Because some of these patients present clinical features similar to those of the kyphoscoliotic type of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS VIA), an inherited connective tissue disorder characterized by a deficiency of lysyl hydroxylase due to mutations in PLOD1, we studied seven patients with Nevo syndrome, three of whom have previously been reported, and four of whom are new. In the five patients from whom urine was available, the ratio of total urinary lysyl pyridinoline (LP) to hydroxylysyl pyridinoline (HP) was elevated (8.2, 7.8, 8.6, 3.5, and 4.8, respectively) compared with that in controls (0.20 +/- 0.05, range 0.10-0.38), and similar to that observed in patients with EDS VIA (5.97 +/- 0.99, range 4.3-8.1). Six patients were homozygous for a point mutation in exon 9 of PLOD1 causing a p.R319X nonsense mutation, while one patient was homozygous for a large deletion comprising exon 17 of PLOD1. We conclude that the Nevo syndrome is allelic to and clinically indistinguishable from EDS VIA, and present evidence that increased length at birth and wristdrop, in addition to muscular hypotonia and kyphoscoliosis, should prompt the physician to consider EDS VIA earlier than heretofore.
Positive inotropic agents are used to improve the impaired cardiac contractility that characterizes chronic heart failure. Digitalis is the traditional drug given for this purpose. However, there is controversy about the effectiveness of digitalis in chronic heart failure. Analysis of the available data indicates the efficacy of digoxin in mild heart failure (i.e., New York Heart Association functional classes I and II) and the relative lack of efficacy in advanced heart failure (i.e., NYHA functional class IV). Further, digoxin can be stopped in a substantial number of patients without recurrence of congestive heart failure. In selected patients whose condition no longer responds to digoxin, the long-term administration of dobutamine may be an effective alternative approach.
The authors report 8 cases of Horton's disease and/or polymyalgia rheumatica treated with prednisone with an initially favourable result. However, the disease progressed despite relatively high dose steroid therapy, complications of which contraindicated increasing the dosage and even necessitated rapid withdrawal of steroids. The association of dapsone 100 mg/day orally had a rapid favourable effect in all 8 cases. However this treatment was well tolerated in only 3 patients and could only be continued in 4 out of the 8 cases. Manifestations of intolerance (methemoglobinaemia) rapidly regressed after withdrawal of dapsone but this was followed by another exacerbation of the disease, resulting in a therapeutic impasse. Despite the incidence of these iatrogenic complications, dapsone would appear to provide a therapeutic option in patients with Horton's disease and/or polymyalgia rheumatica resistant to high dose steroid therapy or in whom complications of steroid therapy impose a reduction in dosage or complete withdrawal of the drug.
We compared the short-term hemodynamic effects of isosorbide dinitrate (40 mg orally) and captopril (25 mg orally) in 18 patients with severe chronic heart failure in a randomized, crossover study conducted on consecutive days. Captopril and isosorbide dinitrate produced similar decreases in systemic vascular resistance, but whereas nitrate therapy decreased pulmonary arteriolar resistance significantly, captopril did not; the difference between the two drugs was highly significant (-25% vs -5%, p less than 0.001). Left ventricular filling pressures declined similarly with both captopril (-10.5 mm Hg) and with isosorbide dinitrate (-9.3 mm Hg), but because pulmonary arteriolar resistance fell significantly with nitrate therapy, mean right atrial pressure decreased more with isosorbide dinitrate than with captopril (-5.4 vs -2.8 mm Hg, respectively; p less than 0.001). Although systemic resistance declined similarly with both drugs, cardiac index increased more with nitrate therapy than during converting-enzyme inhibition (+0.47 vs +0.23 L/min/m2) (p less than 0.01), and therefore mean arterial pressure fell less with isosorbide dinitrate than with captopril (-10.5 mm Hg vs -16.7 mm Hg); p less than 0.05); two patients developed symptomatic hypotension with captopril, whereas none did so with the nitrate. The difference in the effects of the two drugs on cardiac index was not due to differences in their effects on heart rate, since heart rate fell similarly with both drugs, and thus both drugs produced similar increases in stroke volume index. These data indicate that, in patients with severe chronic heart failure, nitrates exert favorable dilating effects on the pulmonary circulation not shared by captopril.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effect of aminooxyacetic acid (AOAA, 90 mg/kg i.v.) on bicuculline, picrotoxin and 3-mercaptopropionic acid (3-MPA) induced convulsions and on GABA concentrations in cerebellum, whole brain and a synaptosomal fraction of whole brain was investigated. At various intervals after AOAA the rats were either injected with one of the convulsive drugs or sacrificed for analysis of the GABA concentration. AOAA caused a rapid initial (0-30 min) and a later slower increase of GABA in cerebellum and whole brain. In the synaptosomal fraction the GABA accumulation was delayed and less pronounced when compared to the whole brain. The bicuculline induced convulsions were markedly potentiated during the first hour but completely blocked from 2-6 h after AOAA. Picrotoxin showed a somewhat different pattern to bicuculline in the interactions with AOAA. The initial strong potentiation was not observed but the later phase of protection was present. In the interactions with 3-MPA, the effect of AOAA was always protective. The time to onset of convulsions was gradually increased during the first 30 min after AOAA. This protective effect remained practically unchanged up to 6 h after AOAA. However, once started, the convulsions were generally of the same duration and intensity. The results can be interpreted as GABA accumulating after AOAA stimulates GABA receptors to a degree more or less proportional to the whole brain GABA concentration and further that GABA synthetized in neurons is liberated, stimulates inhibitory bicuculline sensitive (predominant) and excitatory bicuculline insensitive receptors and is captured to a large extent by non-neuronal cells.
