A 64-year-old male developed severe anaemia during procainamide therapy. At the same time granulocytopenia was found. Discontinuation of procainamide led to complete recovery. Severe anaemia due to the use of procainamide is not well known. The available data indicate a maturation block of the erythropoiesis as the possible cause of the anaemia, perhaps in combination with an autoimmune haemolysis.
The genetic basis of disease susceptibility can be studied by several means, including research on animal models and epidemiological investigations in humans. The two methods are infrequently used simultaneously, but their joint use may overcome the disadvantages of either method alone. We used both approaches in an attempt to understand the genetic basis of aflatoxin B(1) (AFB(1))-related susceptibility to hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Ingestion of AFB(1) is a major risk factor for HCC in many areas of the world where HCC is common. Whether humans vary in their ability to detoxify the active intermediate metabolite of AFB(1), AFB(1)-exo-8,9-epoxide, is not certain but may explain why all exposed individuals do not develop HCC. To determine whether human variability in detoxification may exist, in a study of 231 HCC cases and 256 controls, we genotyped eleven loci in two families of AFB(1) detoxification genes; the glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) and the epoxide hydrolases (EPHX). After adjustment for multiple comparisons, only one polymorphism in the epoxide hydrolase family 2 locus remained significantly associated with HCC (odds ratio = 2.06, 95% confidence interval = 1.13-3.12). To determine whether additional susceptibility loci exist, we developed a mouse model system to examine AFB(1)-induced HCC. Susceptibility of 7-day-old mice from two common inbred strains (C57BL/6J, DBA/2J) was assessed. DBA/2J animals were 3-fold more sensitive to AFB(1)-induced HCC and significantly more sensitive to AFB(1) acute toxicity than were C57BL/6J animals. Analysis of the xenobiotic metabolizing genes in the two strains revealed single nucleotide polymorphisms in three genes, Gsta4, Gstt1, and Ephx1. Although the GSTT1 and EPHX1 loci did not appear to be related to HCC in the total population of the human study, a polymorphism in GSTA4 was significantly related to risk in the male subset. The mouse model also demonstrated that absent or compromised p53 was not necessary for the development of carcinogenesis. These results indicate that the comparison of results from human studies and the AFB(1)-susceptible mouse model may provide new insights into hepatocarcinogenesis.
There are few published reports of complications following intravenous diazepam administration. However, more than 200 cases were reported to the United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare during a 7-year period. The systemic complications have been categorized by the authors, and common contributing factors are emphasized. The information obtained from these reports provides further knowledge of both the avoidance and the treatment of such complications and emphasizes the importance of reporting the adverse effects of any drug to a central body.
Quinidine coadministered with propranolol produces antiarrhythmic potentiation. The mechanism is uncertain although some in vitro electrophysiologic studies have suggested that it may be due to propranolol-induced cardiac beta receptor blockade. Other effects of propranolol, however, including a decrease in cardiac sympathetic nerve activity as well as some direct cardiac membrane effects might also contribute. The possible contributions of these effects were studied indirectly by coadministering quinidine with several compounds (d-propranolol, l-propranolol, d-practolol, practolol, pronethalol, and phenytoin) which have varying effects on these parameters. Antiarrhythmic activity was determined as protection against chloroform-induced ventricular arrhythmias and beta blockade as inhibition of isoproterenol-induced tachycardia. Only d- and l-propranolol and phenytoin potentiated quinidine. The d-isomer was only approximately 1/8th as potent as the l-isomer for inhibiting isoproterenol tachycardia, and the lowest dose of the d-isomer coadministered with quinidine produced antiarrhythmic potentiation but little if any inhibition of isoproterenol tachycardia. The results suggest that cardiac beta blockade alone does not adequately explain the potentiation of quinidine by propranolol in the mouse. Perhaps a decrease in cardiac sympathetic nerve activity and the direct membrane effects as occur with d-, l-, and d,l-propranolol and phenytoin may also contribute to the potentiation.
Cerebrocortical Fos induction after picrotoxin-induced seizure occurs in spiny neurons and, to a lesser extent, in neurons defined by calcium-binding protein immunoreactivity. In motor and sensory cortex of rats we have defined the laminar distribution of Fos expression in these neurons. Initially we defined the laminar distributions of parvalbumin-, calbindin-D 28K-, and calretinin-immunoreactive aspiny neurons; these were unique for each class and similar across cortical regions. Spiny cells defined by SMI32 immunoreactivity were distributed with two peaks and there were differences between cortical regions. Parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons exhibited peak numbers where numbers of SMI32-immunoreactive neurons were low. The distribution of Fos induction across laminae matched that of its class for calbindin-D 28K and calretinin neurons; however, Fos induction was less in infragranular compared with supragranular for parvalbumin in motor cortex and SMI32 containing neurons in both cortices. In both these latter cell classes Fos induction was inversely correlated with neuronal size. It is suggested that cell size within some cell classes is one factor that determines the extent of Fos induction within that class following seizures.
Administration of tacrine (5 mg/kg i.p.), an anticholinesterase agent, in rats pretreated (24 h beforehand) with lithium chloride (LiCl; 12 mEq/kg i.p.) enhances the expression of neuronal nitric oxide (NO) synthase (NOS), increases NO, and causes seizures and hippocampal damage. Here we report immunohistochemistry evidence showing that in rat LiCl and tacrine enhance the expression of cyclooxygenase type 2 (COX-2) enzyme protein in the dorsal hippocampus and elevate brain PGE2 content during the preconvulsive period. The latter effect, but not enhanced COX-2 expression, is inhibited by previous (30 min before tacrine) administration of N omega-nitro-L-arginine-methyl ester (L-NAME; 10 mg/kg i.p.), an inhibitor of NO synthesis, thus implicating NO in the mechanism of stimulation of COX activity leading to elevation of brain PGE2 content. Indomethacin (10 mg/kg given i.p. 30 min before tacrine), an inhibitor of COX activity, prevented brain PGE2 elevation and abolished the expression of seizures and hippocampal damage thus supporting a role for this metabolite of the arachidonic acid cascade in the mechanisms of LiCl and tacrine-evoked neurotoxicity in rat.
Phenytoin (pht) is an anticonvulsant drug commonly used for the prevention of seizures. A common side effect of PHT therapy is gingival hyperplasia, occasionally so severe that it requires surgical intervention. Cyclosporine A (CSA) is a drug widely used for the control of rejection phenomena following solid organ and bone marrow transplantation. A frequent side effect of CSA administration is gingival overgrowth. As yet, the molecular mechanisms of drug-induced gingival hyperplasia are unknown although it has been postulated that certain drugs increase fibroblastic activity through alterations in levels of various growth factors and cytokines. The purpose of this study was to: 1) evaluate monocyte/macrophage platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) and interleukin (IL)-1 beta production in vitro after exposure to CSA; 2) determine the levels of PDGF-B and IL-1 beta gene expression in minimally inflamed gingival tissues of control patients and PHT-treated patients exhibiting gingival overgrowth as well as patients with severe gingival inflammation; and 3) combine characterization of macrophage phenotype with clinical presentation and expression of PDGF-B and IL-1 beta in gingival tissues from the control and PHT-treated patients. For the in vitro studies, commercial ELISA kits were used to measure PDGF-A/PDGF-B and IL-1 beta levels in conditioned media from rat and human monocyte/macrophage cell cultures. CSA caused a significant elevation of PDGF but did not cause any changes in IL-1 beta levels. For the in vivo studies, quantitative competitive reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (QC-RTPCR) techniques were utilized to measure PDGF-B and IL-1 beta mRNA levels in experimental groups. PHT-treated patients exhibiting gingival overgrowth demonstrated a significant increase in PDGF-B mRNA compared with minimally inflamed controls. Patients with severe gingival inflammation also demonstrated a significant increase in PDGF-B mRNA however, PHT-induced PDGF-B upregulation is approximately 6 times larger than PDGF-B upregulation produced by inflammation alone. PHT-treated patients exhibiting gingival overgrowth demonstrated no significant increase in IL-1 beta mRNA; however, IL-1 beta mRNA levels in the severely inflamed gingival samples demonstrated a significant increase. Additionally, for the clinical samples, macrophage phenotype was characterized immunohistochemically in adjacent sections using specific monoclonal antibodies for inflammatory and reparative/proliferative phenotypes. There were no significant differences in the numbers of either macrophage phenotype in minimally inflamed gingival tissues; however, in the severely inflamed tissue, there was a significant increase in the inflammatory macrophage phenotype and in the hyperplastic gingival tissue, there was a significant increase in the reparative/proliferative macrophage phenotype. The results of this investigation indicate that the clinical presentation of inflamed and hyperplastic gingival tissues is associated with specific macrophages phenotypes which express the pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-1 beta in inflamed tissues or the essential polypeptide growth factor PDGF-B in PHT-induced hyperplastic tissues.
Impaired myocardial beta-adrenergic receptor (betaAR) signaling, including desensitization and functional uncoupling, is a characteristic of congestive heart failure. A contributing mechanism for this impairment may involve enhanced myocardial beta-adrenergic receptor kinase (betaARK1) activity because levels of this betaAR-desensitizing G protein-coupled receptor kinase (GRK) are increased in heart failure. An hypothesis has emerged that increased sympathetic nervous system activity associated with heart failure might be the initial stimulus for betaAR signaling alterations, including desensitization. We have chronically treated mice with drugs that either activate or antagonize betaARs to study the dynamic relationship between betaAR activation and myocardial levels of betaARK1.
Long-term in vivo stimulation of betaARs results in the impairment of cardiac +betaAR signaling and increases the level of expression (mRNA and protein) and activity of +betaARK1 but not that of GRK5, a second GRK abundantly expressed in the myocardium. Long-term beta-blocker treatment, including the use of carvedilol, improves myocardial betaAR signaling and reduces betaARK1 levels in a specific and dose-dependent manner. Identical results were obtained in vitro in cultured cells, demonstrating that the regulation of GRK expression is directly linked to betaAR signaling.
This report demonstrates, for the first time, that betaAR stimulation can significantly increase the expression of betaARK1 , whereas beta-blockade decreases expression. This reciprocal regulation of betaARK1 documents a novel mechanism of ligand-induced betaAR regulation and provides important insights into the potential mechanisms responsible for the effectiveness of beta-blockers, such as carvedilol, in the treatment of heart failure.
The authors report the case of a 45-year-old woman admitted for pneumonia who presented anuric acute renal failure after 12 days of intravenous amoxycillin-clavulanate treatment. Acute renal failure resolved rapidly and completely after antibiotic withdrawal. Analysis of the first post-anuric urine specimen showed many crystals. Infrared spectrophotometry revealed that the crystals were composed of trihydrated amoxycillin. The possibility of intrarenal obstruction due to massive drug crystalluria should not be overlooked in the face of abrupt anuria.
Aberrant accumulation of beta-catenin protein because of mutation of either the beta-catenin or adenomatous polyposis coli gene plays an essential role in the development of colorectal carcinoma. We established previously a stable clone of the rat small intestinal epithelial cell line IEC6, which is capable of inducing stabilized beta-catenin protein lacking NH(2)-terminal glycogen synthase kinase-3beta phosphorylation site under a strict control of the tetracycline-regulatory system. This clone, IEC6-TetOFF-beta-catenin DeltaN89, shows in vitro polypoid growth on the removal of doxycycline and seems to be an appropriate model for analyzing the molecular mechanisms of early intestinal carcinogenesis. Of >2000 protein spots displayed by newly developed two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis, 22 were found to be up- or down-regulated on the induction of stabilized beta-catenin. The majority of these proteins fell into two categories: (a) redox-status regulatory proteins and (b) cytoskeleton-associated proteins. Representatively, a key redox-status regulatory protein, manganese superoxide dismutase, up-regulated in IEC6 cells expressing stabilized beta-catenin protein, was overexpressed in adenoma and adenocarcinoma cells of familial adenomatous polyposis patients in parallel with the accumulation of beta-catenin. These results suggest that aberrant accumulation of beta-catenin might contribute to colorectal carcinogenesis by affecting redox status in the mitochondria of intestinal epithelial cells.
Adipokines are linked to the development of cardiovascular dysfunction in type 2 diabetes (DM2). In DM2-patients, circulating levels of omentin-1, an adipokine preferentially expressed in epicardial adipose tissue, are decreased. This study investigated whether omentin-1 has a cardioprotective function.
Omentin-1 levels in plasma and cardiac fat depots were determined in DM2-patients versus controls. Moreover, the relation between omentin-1 levels and cardiac function was examined in men with uncomplicated DM2. Finally, we determined whether omentin-1 could reverse the induction of cardiomyocyte dysfunction by conditioned media derived from epicardial adipose tissue from patients with DM2.
Omentin-1 was highly expressed and secreted by epicardial adipose tissue, and reduced in DM2. Circulating omentin-1 levels were lower in DM2 versus controls, and positively correlated with the diastolic parameters early peak filling rate, early deceleration peak and early deceleration mean (all P<0.05). The improved diastolic function following pioglitazone treatment associated with increases in omentin-1 levels (P<0.05). In vitro, exposure of cardiomyocytes to conditioned media derived from epicardial adipose tissue from patients with DM2 induced contractile dysfunction and insulin resistance, which was prevented by the addition of recombinant omentin.
These data identify omentin-1 as a cardioprotective adipokine, and indicate that decreases in omentin-1 levels could contribute to the induction of cardiovascular dysfunction in DM2.
Acute cocaine poisoning is a common problem in the United States. Sedation with benzodiazepines is the standard treatment, but animal studies have suggested that ziprasidone is also protective.
To assess whether the combination of these two medications would offer more protection than either treatment alone.
This was a randomized, blinded, placebo-controlled trial in CF-1 mice. The authors administered intraperitoneal injections of 2 mg/kg diazepam (group D), 4 mg/kg ziprasidone (group Z), the same dose of both drugs (group DZ), or saline 15 minutes before intraperitoneal administration of 105 mg/kg cocaine (an estimated lethal dose to 70%). The number of animals with seizures and apparent lethality over the following 30 minutes was recorded.
All treatments increased survival relative to placebo (relative risk: D = 2.6, Z = 2.3, DZ = 2.9) and decreased seizures (relative risk: D = 0.5, Z = 0.3, DZ = 0.02).
This study suggests that diazepam and ziprasidone have efficacy for preventing lethality from cocaine poisoning in an animal model but that the combination offers little addition to either therapy alone. However, the combination may be more effective for prevention of cocaine-induced seizures.
Hemolytic uremic syndrome spontaneously arises in a few patients with advanced cancer, but it is more commonly related to the use of certain chemotherapeutic agents. Mitomycin-C is, etiologically, the most common causative agent inducing hemolytic uremic syndrome, in a dose dependent manner. We report this syndrome, attributable to mitomycin-C at a cumulative dose of 40 mg/m2, in a gastric cancer patient. A 42-year-old female with stage III gastric cancer underwent radical gastrectomy and was given mitomycin-C at 10 mg/m2 intravenously every four weeks as adjuvant therapy. Hemolytic uremic syndrome was diagnosed three months after the last dose of mitomycin-C administration. The most prominent symptoms included pallor, hypertension and anasarca, with laboratory evidence of microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, azotemia and hyperkalemia. Her disease was progressive, but fortunately stabilized after staphylococcus column A dialysis. Her disease remained in remission for 24 months from the time of diagnosis, and then relapsed in the form of peritoneal carcinomatosis with partial intestinal obstruction.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are often used in the management of those with acute pain secondary to sickle cell disease due to potent analgesic effects along with a lack of addictive potential, respiratory depression, and central nervous system effects, as may occur with narcotics. Caution should be observed in the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs in patients with compromised renal function. We present a case of a 17-year-old sickle cell disease patient with an acute painful episode and normal renal function indices who subsequently developed irreversible renal failure and a perirenal hematoma following the administration of ketorolac, despite adequate hydration. Due to its inhibitory effect on prostaglandin-mediated vasodilation, we advise caution in the use of ketorolac for the pain management of sickle cell painful episodes. We recommend following the administration guidelines for ketorolac for renal-compromised patients in those with painful episodes of sickle cell disease, and if used in this patient population, renal function must be very closely monitored.
Aquaporin (AQP) water channels are expressed in high-grade tumor cells of different tissue origins. Based on the involvement of AQPs in angiogenesis and cell migration as well as our previous studies which show that AQP3 is involved in human skin fibroblasts cell migration, in this study, we investigated whether AQP3 is expressed in cultured human ovarian cancer cell line CaOV3 cells, and whether AQP3 expression in these cells enhances cell migration and metastatic potential.
Cultured CaOV3 cells were treated with EGF and/or various reagents and subjected to cell migration assay by phagokinetic track mobility assay or biochemical analysis for expression or activation of proteins by SDS-PAGE/Western blot analysis.
In this study, we demonstrate that AQP3 is expressed in CaOV3 cells. EGF induces CaOV3 migration and up-regulates AQP3 expression. EGF-induced cell migration is inhibited by specific AQP3 siRNA knockdown or AQP3 water transport inhibitor CuSO4 and NiCl2. We also find that curcumin, a well known anti-ovarian cancer drug, down-regulates AQP3 expression and reduces cell migration in CaOV3, and the effects of curcumin are mediated, at least in part, by its inhibitory effects on EGFR and downstream AKT/ERK activation.
Collectively, our results provide evidence for AQP3-facilitated ovarian cancer cell migration, suggesting a novel function for AQP3 expression in high-grade tumors. The results that curcumin inhibits EGF-induced up-regulation of AQP3 and cell migration, provide a new explanation for the anticancer potential of curcumin.
Diuretics are frequently required to treat fluid retention in patients with chronic heart failure (CHF). Unfortunately, they can lead to a decline in renal function, electrolyte depletion, and neurohormonal activation. Arginine vasopressin (AVP) promotes renal water reabsorption via the V(2) receptor (V(2)R) and its levels are increased in CHF. This study was conducted to characterize the diuretic effect of tolvaptan, a non-peptide AVP V(2)R antagonist, and furosemide, a loop diuretic in a rat model of CHF after experimental autoimmune myocarditis. CHF was elicited in Lewis rats by immunization with porcine cardiac myosin, and 28 days after immunization rats were treated for 28 days with oral tolvaptan, and furosemide. CHF was characterized by left ventricular remodeling and impaired systolic and diastolic function. Tolvaptan produces a diuresis comparable to furosemide. Unlike tolvaptan, furosemide significantly increased urinary sodium and potassium excretion. Tolvaptan markedly elevated electrolyte-free water clearance (E-CH(2)O) or aquaresis to a positive value and increased urinary AVP excretion. In contrast to tolvaptan, furosemide elevated only electrolyte clearance (E-Cosm) but not E-CH(2)O. The differences in diuretic profile reflected the changes in plasma sodium and hormone levels. Tolvaptan dose dependently elevated plasma sodium concentration, but furosemide tended to decrease it. Furosemide significantly elevated plasma renin activity and aldosterone concentration. On the other hand, tolvaptan did not affect these parameters. Our results suggest that, tolvaptan have a potential medical benefit for the treatment of edematous conditions in CHF by removing excess water from the body without activating the RAAS or causing serum electrolyte imbalances.
In a double-blind randomised study, 100 women who underwent induced abortion under midazolam anaesthesia were given the benzodiazepine antagonist Ro 15-1788 or placebo after termination of anaesthesia. Recovery was assessed by means of a modified Steward coma scale. Following incremental doses of Ro 15-1788, 56% of the patients were fully awake within 3 minutes and 92% after 5 minutes, which was significant compared to the placebo group. The median duration of amnesia was 91 minutes after Ro 15-1788 compared to 121 minutes in the placebo group (p less than 0.001). The median dose of Ro 15-1788 was 0.4 mg. A slight positive correlation between total dose of Ro 15-1788 and total amount of midazolam was found. Nausea and/or vomiting were found to be more frequent in the Ro 15-1788 group, but otherwise we found no differences between groups with regard to either side effects or cardiorespiratory function. Ro 15-1788 is evidently an effective antagonist to the sedation induced by midazolam.
The insulin-resistant state of the polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) was found to be associated with a decreased glucose transporter GLUT4 expression in the insulin target tissues. This study was performed to explore whether the well-known clinical, hormonal and metabolic efficacy of metformin or rosiglitazone treatment is reflected in the modulation of adipocyte GLUT4 mRNA expression in patients with PCOS.
We enrolled 35 women with PCOS. They received either metformin or rosiglitazone for 6 months. A history, blood samples for the measurement of androgens and s.c. adipose tissue samples were taken at baseline and end point. Quantification of GLUT4 mRNA expression in adipose tissue was performed using real-time quantitative PCR. Homeostasis model assessment (HOMA(IR)) score calculation was applied as a measure for insulin resistance (IR).
GLUT4 mRNA expression in adipose tissue increased significantly in both groups (P<0.001). The increase was more pronounced in the rosiglitazone group (P=0.040). There was a statistically significant improvement of HOMA(IR) in both groups (P=0.008). After treatment, frequencies of menstrual bleeding were significantly higher (P<0.001) and serum total testosterone levels significantly lower in both groups (P=0.001).
A 6-month therapy with insulin sensitizers resulted in marked improvement in adipose tissue GLUT4 mRNA expression in PCOS patients, rosiglitazone being more effective when compared with metformin. The augmentation of the insulin signal transduction was accompanied by a significant improvement of HOMA(IR), menstrual pattern and androgen profile.
To present a unilateral central visual field defect in a patient with psoriatic arthritis treated with Methotrexate and folic acid supplement, probably induced by toxic posterior optic neuropathy. The scotoma incompletely resolved after cessation of Methotrexate (MTX) therapy.
Serial fundoscopic, perimetric and electrophysiological examination as well as comprehensive neurological investigation including lumbar puncture, carotid sonography, electroneurography, and MRI of the brain.
A female patient with psoriatic arthritis on long-standing Methotrexate (MTX 15 mg IM/once a week) therapy suffered first from an acute attack of central visual field defect in her right eye and later on from two subsequent deteriorations of her scotoma within one year. A demyelinating retrobulbar optic neuritis was excluded through repeated comprehensive neurological investigations and unresponsiveness to systemic corticosteroid therapy. A MTX-induced posterior optic neuropathy was suspected and the patient experienced improvement of her visual field defects only six weeks after discontinuing MTX therapy. Further improvement was observed through follow-up perimetric examinations half a year after cessation.
Central scotoma with unremarkable optic disc can occur after long-standing treatment with MTX and despite folic acid supplementary therapy. This is most probably due to posterior optic neuropathy. Early cessation of the drug or change to another antimetabolite therapy can stop the deterioration of the visual field changes and even improve them. The exact pathomechanism is still unclear and the involvement of only one eye requires more investigation. MTX-induced posterior optic neuropathy should be included in the differential diagnosis of toxic optic neuropathy. This is getting more frequent than before because of the nowadays standard use of MTX in treatment of many autoimmune collagen diseases.
Isoflurane (ISF)-induced hypotension causes equal reductions of cerebral blood flow (CBF) and the cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen (CMRO2) so that no disturbance of cerebral energy stores or metabolites occurs. While hypocapnia during ISF-induced hypotension causes a further reduction of CBF, the effects on cerebral energy stores and metabolites produced by combining hypocapnia with ISF-induced hypotension are not known. This study examined the effect of hypocapnia (PaCO2 = 20 mmHg) on CMRO2, the electroencephalogram (EEG), and levels of adenine nucleotides, phosphocreatine, lactate, pyruvate, and glucose in brain tissue in 12 dogs during ISF-induced hypotension. All dogs were examined at: normocapnia with normotension; hypocapnia with normotension; hypocapnia combined with ISF-induced hypotension to cerebral perfusion pressures of 60, 50, and 40 mmHg; and restoration of normocapnia with normotension. In six dogs CMRO2 was determined, and the EEG was evaluated using compressed spectral analysis. In the other six dogs brain tissue metabolites were determined. Hypocapnia combined with ISF-induced hypotension (all levels) caused a decrease of the power of the beta-2 spectra, an increase of the power of the alpha and beta-1 spectra, but no change in total power of the EEG. There was no change in cerebral energy stores or brain tissue metabolites. CMRO2 was reduced by approximately 27%. Thirty minutes after restoration of normocapnia with normotension, cerebral metabolites remained unchanged and CMRO2, and the power of the alpha, beta-1, and beta-2 spectra of the EEG returned to control values. These results suggest no adverse effect on cerebral metabolism or function during hypocapnia combined with ISF-induced hypotension.
Three young women with systemic lupus erythematosus who were given ibuprofen for arthritis voluntarily discontinued taking the drug. On reinstitution of therapy, profound hypotension, fever, and headaches developed within hours, without other identifiable cause. A possible relationship to salicylate intolerance was considered. Because of these apparent side effects, we stress caution in the use of ibuprofen in systemic lupus erythematosus, particularly if there is any history of salicylate intolerance.
A reduced dose of plasma derived hepatitis B vaccine (Hevac B) was tested for efficacy in the prevention of perinatal hepatitis B virus (HBV) transmission in high risk neonates born from e-antigen positive HBsAg carrier mothers. Forty newborn infants born of these mothers were given hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) 100 IU intramuscularly immediately after birth, combined with either standard or reduced doses of HBV vaccine. The infants were divided into two groups of 20 infants each. The standard dose of HBV vaccine (5 micrograms) was given to group I, while infants in group II received reduced dose (2 micrograms) at birth and at 1, 2 and 12 months of age. There was no statistically significant difference in the efficacy and antibody responses of these two combined prophylaxis regimens. The protective efficacy rate of HBV vaccine was found to be 94.0 and 93.2 percent in group I and group II, respectively. At twelve months of age, the anti-HBs seroconversion rates were 80.0 percent in group I and 86.7 percent in group II, with geometric mean titres of 84.57 mlU/ml and 78.56 mlU/ml, in group I and group II, respectively. One month after a booster at one year of age, anti-HBs could be detected in 86.7 percent of the infants in both groups. The geometric mean titres were 429.04 and 664.81 mlU/ml, in group I and group II, respectively. Anti-PreS2 antibody was detected in high titre as early as 4 months after the first dose of HBV vaccine, with a geometric mean titre of 116.30 mlU/ml and 107.97 mlU/ml, in group I and group II, respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Pilot research has suggested that D-cycloserine (DCS) enhances treatment outcomes for anxiety disorders when employed as an adjunct to exposure therapy (ET). The aim of this study was to determine whether 50 mg of DCS enhances ET for social anxiety disorder (SAD) according to a comprehensive set of symptom and life impairment measures.
In a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial, we administered 50 mg of DCS or placebo in combination with ET to 56 participants who met primary diagnosis for SAD.
Participants administered DCS reported greater improvement on measures of symptom severity, dysfunctional cognitions, and life-impairment from SAD in comparison with placebo-treated participants. Effect sizes were mostly in the medium range. Results also indicated that the amount of adaptive learning about one's ability to give speeches in front of an audience interacted with DCS to enhance treatment outcome.
This study shows that the administration of DCS before ET enhances treatment outcomes for SAD. Results also provide the first preliminary evidence to suggest that DCS moderates the relationship between a reduction in negative appraisals about one's speech performance and improvement in overall SAD symptoms.
Valvular heart disease in patients being treated with ergot-derivative dopamine agonists (Ergot-DA) for Parkinson's disease has been reported to occur as a consequence of serotonine receptor stimulation. Goal of this analysis was to estimate the incidence of those changes from recently published studies and to determine its clinical relevance. Medline searches were performed to identify cross-sectional, echocardiographic studies comparing patients treated with dopamine agonists or controls, in terms of valvular changes. Observational studies of valve changes in Parkinsonian patients were used to estimate the incidence of severe valvulopathy. The results from 7 cross-sectional studies including 477 patients treated with Ergot-DA, 127 patients with non-Ergot-DA, and 364 control patients were analyzed. Moderate-to-severe valvular changes were detected in 26% of patients treated with Ergot-DA, 10% of patients treated with non-Ergot DA, and 10% of control patients. Severe valvulopathy was less than 1% both in cross-sectional and observational studies. The high rate of moderate valvular changes in patients treated with Ergot-DA suggests that close surveillance of the patients is required. Severe valvulopathy was less than 1% in the studies analyzed.
The cause of Parkinson's disease (PD) is unknown, but epidemiological studies suggest an association with pesticides and other environmental toxins, and biochemical studies implicate a systemic defect in mitochondrial complex I. We report that chronic, systemic inhibition of complex I by the lipophilic pesticide, rotenone, causes highly selective nigrostriatal dopaminergic degeneration that is associated behaviorally with hypokinesia and rigidity. Nigral neurons in rotenone-treated rats accumulate fibrillar cytoplasmic inclusions that contain ubiquitin and alpha-synuclein. These results indicate that chronic exposure to a common pesticide can reproduce the anatomical, neurochemical, behavioral and neuropathological features of PD.
