1. The antihypertensive and renal effects of cilazapril, a new angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, were evaluated in both two-kidney, one-clip Goldblatt hypertensive rats (n = 11) and normotensive rats (n = 6). 2. Intravenous infusion of cilazapril (1 mg/kg followed by 25 micrograms min-1 kg-1) caused significant reductions of blood pressure from 163 +/- 3 to 122 +/- 4 mmHg and from 157 +/- 2 to 113 +/- 3 mmHg in two separate groups of hypertensive rats and from 124 +/- 1 to 105 +/- 2 mmHg in normotensive rats. The hypotensive effect in terms of absolute value of percentage change was greater in hypertensive rats than in normotensive rats (41 +/- 6 vs 20 +/- 3 mmHg or 25 +/- 4% vs 16 +/- 2%, respectively). 3. Cilazapril increased glomerular filtration rate, urine flow, and absolute and fractional excretion rates of sodium and potassium in the non-clipped kidney of hypertensive rats. In contrast, the clipped kidney exhibited a depressed renal function during cilazapril infusion. 4. In normotensive rats, the hypotensive and enhanced renal function responses to cilazapril were much less than those of the non-clipped kidney of hypertensive rats. 5. Superimposed administration of either angiotensin II or angiotensin III during cilazapril infusion completely reversed the blood pressure and bilateral renal responses of cilazapril in both hypertensive and normotensive rats. 6. These results indicate that cilazapril reduces arterial pressure and enhances renal excretion mainly via inhibition of angiotensin II and angiotensin III formation.
The study compared two commercial chlorhexidine mouthrinses (Chlorhexamed 0.1% and Corsodyl 0.2%) for their effects on dental plaque and gingival inflammation, their side effects (eg, tooth staining and mucosal irritation), and patient acceptance.
One hundred thirty healthy volunteers were randomly distributed into two groups of 65 each. Each volunteer had gingivitis or chronic marginal periodontitis and used the rinse two times a day for 4 weeks. The sulcular bleeding index, approximal plaque index, gingival index, and a discoloration index were taken at baseline and once a week thereafter. The patients were questioned about taste disturbances, mucosal irritation, and their perception of the taste of the mouthrinse.
In both groups, after 4 weeks, the mean sulcular bleeding index, approximal plaque index, and gingival index scores had decreased significantly. The discoloration index had increased significantly in both groups. There were no statistically significant differences between the two mouthrinses in any of these measurements. There were no significant differences in side effects reported by the two groups.
The increase in concentration of chlorhexidine provided no clinical advantages or disadvantages.
Prophylactic therapy is generally used to prevent reactivated hepatitis B after transplantation of an antibody to hepatitis B core antigen (anti-HBc)-positive liver. To gain insight into current practice, a questionnaire was e-mailed to 89 liver transplant physicians in the United States, Europe, and Asia/Australia and 4 hepatitis B experts. Addressees were asked if they prefer lamivudine or other nucleoside analogs and whether these drugs are used indefinitely. They were also questioned about the use of hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIg), the preferred duration of its administration, and whether treatment strategies differ according to the knowledge of the serologic status of the recipient. Responses were obtained from 78 physicians. All transplant physicians reported the use of nucleoside analog therapy, and 65% prefer lamivudine (58% versus 81% for US and non-US physicians, P = 0.05). Sixty-one percent use HBIg (38% always, 23% sometimes). HBIg was used more frequently in the United States than other parts of the world (69% versus 46%, P = 0.03). Eighty-one percent of transplant physicians use nucleoside analog therapy for an indefinite period, but the duration of HBIg treatment varies widely. Although some centers omit nucleoside analog or HBIg therapy in antibody to hepatitis B surface antigen-positive recipients, 90% will not omit these agents if the recipient is positive for anti-HBc alone. In conclusion, nucleoside analog therapy is nearly always used for anti-HBc-positive livers, and most transplant physicians treat for an indefinite period. Lamivudine continues to be preferred as first-line therapy. Many programs also use HBIg, but there is wide variation in the way this is administered. Further study is needed to determine the most cost-beneficial regimen.
Pathogenesis in kala-azar is associated with depressed cellular immunity and significant elevation of antileishmanial antibodies. Since these antibodies are present even after cure, analysis of the parasite-specific isotypes and immunoglobulin G (IgG) subclasses in kala-azar patients may shed new light on the immune responses during progression and resolution of infection. Using leishmanial membrane antigenic extracts, we investigated the relative levels of specific IgG, IgM, IgA, IgE, and IgG subclasses in Indian kala-azar patient sera during disease, drug resistance, and cure. Acute-phase sera showed strong stimulation of IgG, followed by IgE and IgM and lastly by IgA antibodies. IgG subclass analysis revealed expression of all of the subclasses, with a predominance of IgG1 during disease. Following sodium stibogluconate (SAG) resistance, the levels of IgG, IgM, IgE, and IgG4 remained constant, while there was a decrease in the titers of IgG2 and IgG3. In contrast, a significant (2.2-fold) increase in IgG1 was observed in these individuals. Cure, in both SAG-responsive and unresponsive patients, correlated with a decline in the levels of IgG, IgM, IgE, and all of the IgG subclasses. The stimulation of IgG1 and the persistence, most importantly, of IgE and IgG4 following drug resistance, along with a decline in IgE, IgG4, and IgG1 with cure, demonstrate the potential of these isotypes as possible markers for monitoring effective treatment in kala-azar.
Some treatment as Piroxicam and sulfoconjugated oestrin usually used in current practices, have a rare ear toxicity which may occur hearing loss. The authors report two cases of a toxic hearing loss observed after using these two medicaments.
Propofol was compared to midazolam with regard to its quality as a sedative in regional anesthesia. 81 patients undergoing varicose-vein stripping under epidural anesthesia were divided into two groups: 39 were given propofol and 42 were given midazolam. Both groups were then subdivided into 3 subgroups. 30 min after epidural block, a bolus of propofol 1 mg/kg or midazolam 0.03 mg/kg was given followed by infusion of equipotent solutions: propofol 1.0, 1.5, or 2.0 mg/kg/h or midazolam 0.03, 0.045, 0.06 mg/kg/h. Continuous registration of blood pressure, respiratory rate, and end-expiratory pCO2 was carried out and blood gas analysis was performed every 30 min.
Clinically unimportant changes of circulatory and respiratory parameters were seen. Blood gas analyses showed hypercapnia greater than 50 mmHg in some patients. Brief apnea occurred after bolus propofol in 7.7% of cases and pain during injection in 66.6%. Restlessness: propofol 28.2%, midazolam 9.5%. Upper airway obstruction: propofol 30.8%, midazolam 57.1%. Recovery time after infusion ranged from 130 s with propofol to 26 min with midazolam. Postoperative evaluation included the following questions and responses: Sedation pleasant? propofol 97.5%, midazolam 100%. Sleep during surgery? propofol 94.8%, midazolam 83.5%. Prolonged tiredness? propofol 25.6%, midazolam 69%. Postoperative nausea? propofol 38.5%, midazolam 14.2%. Vomiting? propofol 17.9%, midazolam 11.9%. Our study showed that propofol is highly suitable as a sedative for regional anesthesia in spite of injection pain and frequent postoperative nausea. It is superior to midazolam because of the significantly shorter recovery time, providing improved control-lability and reduced posthypnotic sleep.
Crescentic glomerulonephritis is a rapidly progressive form of glomerulonephritis, but treatment remains non-specific. The methylxanthine derivative pentoxifylline (PTX) is a clinically available phosphodiesterase inhibitor with anti-inflammatory and immunoregulatory activities. This study examined whether PTX has beneficial effects in a rat model of anti-glomerular basement membrane (GBM) crescentic glomerulonephritis.
Experimental crescentic glomerulonephritis was induced in Wistar rats by intravenous injection of rabbit anti-rat GBM serum and treated with either vehicle (phosphate-buffered saline) or PTX (0.1 g/kg/day) intravenously on a daily basis. Groups of six animals were euthanized at days 3, 7, 14 or 28 after induction of disease. Effects of PTX on renal function, histology and expression of cytokines, chemokines and adhesion molecules were determined.
Compared with the vehicle-treated nephritic rats, PTX treatment beginning at the start of the nephritis significantly suppressed mRNA expression of tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, but not interleukin-1 beta, throughout the course of nephritis. Moreover, PTX decreased renal mRNAs for intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), regulated on activation, normal T-cell expressed and secreted (RANTES) and osteopontin (OPN) at all time points examined. These effects were associated with a significant inhibition of macrophage and T-cell infiltration, a reduction of 24-h urinary protein excretion (50-75%, P<0.05), an improvement of histological damage including glomerular crescent formation (60-70%, P<0.01) and a decrease of cortical mRNAs for type I (alpha 1) collagen and fibronectin. The efficacy of PTX could also be seen, though to a lesser extent, in rats with established nephritis.
PTX is an effective anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory agent capable of suppressing rat crescentic glomerulonephritis. Inhibition of renal TNF-alpha, ICAM-1, RANTES, MCP-1 and OPN expression may be a mechanism whereby PTX suppresses progressive renal injury in rat crescentic glomerulonephritis.
Four patients with chronic hepatitis C who did not respond to treatment with alpha interferon were treated with oral ribavirin at a dose of 1.000-1.200 mg/day for 6 months. A marked, although transitory, decrease was observed in the transaminase values which returned to pre-treatment values on termination of the same. Normal transaminase values were only obtained at some point in the treatment in two patients. Ribavirin was well tolerated with very slight anemia being detected in all the cases. These results, which are superposable to those of other authors who have studied the effects of this antiviral agent in chronic hepatitis C, suggest that ribavirin may play a role in the treatment of this disease. Given the existing data, this role would be one of a drug associated with interferon with which it may have a synergic action rather than as a monotherapy.
Previous studies showed that significant differences in mutation frequency of the human c-Ha-ras transgene between vinyl carbamate (VC)- and ethyl carbamate (urethane)-induced lung tumors were observed in rasH2 mice. It remains unclear why the point mutation frequency is extremely low in VC-induced lung tumors, although this compound is much more carcinogenic than urethane. In this study, we examined the somatic point mutations of the transgene at the RNA level in VC- and urethane-induced lung tumors of rasH2 mice. We did not find any mutation at codon 12 of the transgene in any of these lung tumors, but codon 61 showed frequent mutations in not only urethane-induced lung tumors (15 out of 16) but also VC-induced lung tumors (11 out of 11) in rasH2 mice. These results suggested that point mutations at codon 61 of the transgene play an important role in the carcinogenesis of VC- and urethane- induced lung tumors in rasH2 mice.
In atopic dermatitis, the concentration in the skin of sphingosylphosphorylcholine (SPC), which is produced from sphingomyelin by sphingomyelin deacylase, is increased. In the present study, we investigated the itch-eliciting activity of SPC and related substances and the mechanisms of SPC action in mice. An intradermal injection of SPC, but not sphingomyelin and sphingosine, induced scratching, an itch-associated response, which was not suppressed by a deficiency in mast cells or the H(1) histamine receptor antagonist terfenadine. The action of SPC was inhibited by the mu-opioid receptor antagonist naltrexone. SPC action also was inhibited by the 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor zileuton and the leukotriene B(4) antagonist ONO-4057, but not by the cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin. Moreover, SPC action was inhibited by the antiallergic agent azelastine, which suppresses the action and production of leukotriene B(4). Administration of SPC to the skin and to primary cultures of keratinocytes increased leukotriene B(4) production. SPC increased intracellular Ca(2+) ion concentration in primary cultures of dorsal root ganglion neurons and keratinocytes. These results suggest that SPC induces itching through a direct action on primary afferents and leukotriene B(4) production of keratinocytes. Sphingomyelin deacylase and SPC receptors may be previously unreported targets for antipruritic drugs.
Convergent evidence indicates that in later stages of Parkinson's disease raphestriatal serotonin neurons compensate for the loss of nigrostriatal dopamine neurons by converting and releasing dopamine derived from exogenous administration of the pharmacotherapeutic L-3,4-dihydroxyphenyl-L-alanine (L-dopa). Because the serotonin system is not equipped with dopamine autoregulatory mechanisms, it has been postulated that raphe-mediated striatal dopamine release may fluctuate dramatically. These fluctuations may portend the development of abnormal involuntary movements called L-dopa-induced dyskinesia (LID). As such, it has been hypothesized that reducing the activity of raphestriatal neurons could dampen supraphysiological stimulation of striatal dopamine receptors thereby alleviating LID. To directly address this, the current study employed the rodent model of LID to investigate the contribution of the rostral raphe nuclei (RRN) in the development, expression and treatment of LID. In the first study, dual serotonin/dopamine selective lesions of the RRN and medial forebrain bundle, respectively, verified that the RRN are essential for the development of LID. In a direct investigation into the neuroanatomical specificity of these effects, microinfusions of +/-8-OH-DPAT into the intact dorsal raphe nucleus dose-dependently attenuated the expression of LID without affecting the antiparkinsonian efficacy of L-dopa. These current findings reveal the integral contribution of the RRN in the development and expression of LID and implicate a prominent role for dorsal raphe 5-HT1AR in the efficacious properties of 5-HT1AR agonists.
Taurine has a variety of actions in the body such as cardiotonic, host-defensive, radioprotective and glucose-regulatory effects. However, its action in the central nervous system remains to be characterized. In the present study, we tested to see whether taurine exerts anti-anxiety effects and to explore its mechanism of anti-anxiety activity in vivo. The staircase test and elevated plus maze test were performed to test the anti-anxiety action of taurine. Convulsions induced by strychnine, picrotoxin, yohimbine and isoniazid were tested to explore the mechanism of anti-anxiety activity of taurine. The Rotarod test was performed to test muscle relaxant activity and the passive avoidance test was carried out to test memory activity in response to taurine. Taurine (200 mg/kg, p.o.) significantly reduced rearing numbers in the staircase test while it increased the time spent in the open arms as well as the number of entries to the open arms in the elevated plus maze test, suggesting that it has a significant anti-anxiety activity. Taurine's action could be due to its binding to and activating of strychnine-sensitive glycine receptor in vivo as it inhibited convulsion caused by strychnine; however, it has little effect on picrotoxin-induced convulsion, suggesting its anti-anxiety activity may not be linked to GABA receptor. It did not alter memory function and muscle activity. Taken together, these results suggest that taurine could be beneficial for the control of anxiety in the clinical situations.
Tenoxicam 20 mg OD was compared with piroxicam 20 mg OD for patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). One hundred and two patients from 5 centers were enrolled: 51 in the tenoxicam group and 51 in the piroxicam group. Evaluation of the primary efficacy variables demonstrated no difference in efficacy between treatment groups. The overall incidence of adverse clinical/laboratory experiences was similar between treatment groups. Six patients discontinued the study because of gastrointestinal intolerance, 3 from each treatment group. Our study demonstrates that tenoxicam 20 mg OD and piroxicam 20 mg OD have similar efficacy and safety in patients with active RA.
Polybrominated diphenyl ether (PBDE) toxicity in rodents can be associated with disruptions in endocrine signaling. We previously reported that the penta-BDE mixture, DE-71, disrupts thyroid hormones and vitamin A metabolism in rats during lactation, and that this disruption is amplified in animals fed diets marginal in vitamin A. The ability of the DE-71 to disrupt vitamin A metabolism during the prenatal period has not been evaluated. While penta-BDE mixtures are not strong teratogens in pregnant animals fed standard commercial laboratory diets, we hypothesized that they could be teratogenic under conditions of marginal vitamin A status.
rats were fed diets containing 0.4 retinyl equivalents (RE, marginal) or 4.0 RE (adequate) of vitamin A per gram of diet. Pregnant animals were exposed to DE-71 (0, 6, 18, 60, or 120 mg/kg) from gestation days (GD) 6-11.5, or on GD 6-19.5.
DE-71 treatment resulted in dose-responsive reductions in maternal thyroid hormone and markers of vitamin A metabolism, with the latter reduction amplified in marginal vitamin A dams. Fetuses from marginal vitamin A, DE-71-exposed dams exhibited a dose-responsive increase in liver retinol binding protein levels. DE-71 treatment did not result in gross malformations; however, consistent with our hypothesis, GD 20 fetal weights were lower, and skeletal ossification was less when DE-71 exposure occurred concomitant with a marginal vitamin A status. For several endpoints, observable effects were evident at the lowest dose tested, consistent with a dose-response trend.
The results of this study support the concept that marginal vitamin A status enhances the disruptive effects of DE-71 during prenatal development.
In addition to blocking nociceptive input from surgical sites, long-acting local anesthetics might directly modulate inflammation. In the present study, we describe the proinflammatory effects of bupivacaine on local prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) production and cyclooxygenase (COX) gene expression that increases postoperative pain in human subjects.
Subjects (n = 114) undergoing extraction of impacted third molars received either 2% lidocaine or 0.5% bupivacaine before surgery and either rofecoxib 50 mg or placebo orally 90 min before surgery and for the following 48 h. Oral mucosal biopsies were taken before surgery and 48 h after surgery. After extraction, a microdialysis probe was placed at the surgical site for PGE2 and thromboxane B2 (TXB2) measurements.
The bupivacaine/rofecoxib group reported significantly less pain, as assessed by a visual analog scale, compared with the other three treatment groups over the first 4 h. However, the bupivacaine/placebo group reported significantly more pain at 24 h and PGE2 levels during the first 4 h were significantly higher than the other three treatment groups. Moreover, bupivacaine significantly increased COX-2 gene expression at 48 h as compared with the lidocaine/placebo group. Thromboxane levels were not significantly affected by any of the treatments, indicating that the effects seen were attributable to inhibition of COX-2, but not COX-1.
These results suggest that bupivacaine stimulates COX-2 gene expression after tissue injury, which is associated with higher PGE2 production and pain after the local anesthetic effect dissipates.
The effect of co-administration of MAO inhibitors together with a low dose of the neurotoxic amphetamine p-chloroamphetamine (pCA) on neurotoxicity was examined. Neurotoxicity was assessed by measuring decreases in the binding of [3H]cyanoimipramine to serotonin uptake sites using quantitative autoradiography. By itself, a low dose of pCA (2 mg/kg) did not produce any alterations in radioligand binding, measured 7 days after drug administration. However, co-administration of the MAO-B selective inhibitor deprenyl (1 mg/kg) or the non-selective inhibitor pargyline (50 mg/kg) produced significant decreases in radioligand binding. Measurements of the effects of these drugs on body temperature ruled out the possibility that deprenyl and pargyline were increasing neurotoxicity by producing a drug-induced hyperthermia. In contrast to the effects of deprenyl and pargyline, co-administration of the MAO-A selective inhibitor clorgyline (1 mg/kg) did not alter binding. By themselves none of the MAO inhibitors produced neurotoxic effects. There are a number of possible explanations for these results. Administration of deprenyl or pargyline, together with pCA, itself a MAO-A inhibitor, will lead to inhibition of both MAO-A and MAO-B activities. This will likely lead to an enhanced release of dopamine and serotonin compared with the release following administration of pCA alone or pCA together with clorgyline. Elevation of the extracellular levels of either or both of these monoamines could lead to enhanced neurotoxicity. Whatever the mechanism involved, our results show that the co-administration of a type-B MAOI enhances the neurotoxic effects of pCA on serotonin neurons.
Vincristine (VCR) and actinomycin D (ACD) form the backbone of chemotherapeutic regimens of Wilms tumor treatment. Veno-occlusive disease (VOD) is a potentially life-threatening complication of ACD.
To investigate the incidence of VOD after preoperative chemotherapy and assess the effect of dose and frequency of administrating ACD on the occurrence of VOD.
A single-center retrospective study of patients where liver biopsies were performed after 4 or 8 weeks of preoperative chemotherapy. Patients had localized or metastatic Wilms tumor and were treated according to SIOP 9, 93-1, or 2001 protocol. A correlation was analyzed between histologically confirmed VOD, laboratory parameters, and mode and frequency of ACD administration. Long-term hepatic toxicity was assessed 5 years after the end of therapy.
Ninety-one patients were included in this analysis. Forty-one patients (45.1%) had histological evidence of VOD. The incidence of histologically proven VOD was significantly correlated with single administration of 45 microg/kg ACD (SIOP 2001 protocol) as compared to repeated dosing of l5 microg/kg (P = 0.003). Fifty-two percent of all patients had mild-to-severe abnormal liver enzymes 5 years after accomplishing therapy.
Despite short-course preoperative chemotherapy regimen, patients are at risk of developing histological VOD. This risk is higher when ACD is administered in a 1-day 45 microg/kg regimen as compared to 3 days l5 microg/kg.
The aim of this study was to examine the effect of fexofenadine hydrochloride (FEX), a histamine H1-receptor antagonist, on nitric oxide (NO) production in-vitro and in-vivo. Nasal fibroblasts (5 x 10(5) cells per mL) were stimulated with 25 ng mL(-1) tumour necrosis factor-alpha in the presence of various concentrations of FEX. NO levels in 24-h-culture supernatants were measured by the Griess method and levels of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) mRNA levels in 12-h-cultured cells were measured by ELISA. FEX at more than 0.5 microg mL(-1) suppressed NO production from fibroblasts by inhibiting expression of iNOS mRNA. We also examined whether FEX could suppress NO production induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation in-vivo. BALB/c mice were treated with 5.0 mg kg(-1) LPS i.p. after daily oral doses of FEX, 1.0 mg kg(-1), for 1-3 weeks. Plasma was obtained 6 h later and NO levels measured by the Griess method. Expression of iNOS mRNA in lung tissues was measured by ELISA 6 h after LPS injection. Oral administration of FEX for 2 and 3 weeks, but not 1 week, significantly suppressed NO levels in plasma through the inhibition of iNOS mRNA expression, which were enhanced by LPS stimulation. These results suggest that the attenuating effect of FEX on NO production may be of therapeutic benefit in allergic diseases.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and urocortin (Ucn I) are endogenous members among a family of CRF-related peptides that activate two different and synaptically localized G-protein-coupled receptors, CRF1 and CRF2. These peptides and their receptors have been implicated in stress responses and stress with cocaine abuse. In this study, we observed significant alterations in excitatory transmission and CRF-related peptide regulation of excitatory transmission in the lateral septum mediolateral nucleus (LSMLN) after chronic cocaine administration. In brain slice recordings from the LSMLN of control (saline-treated) rats, glutamatergic synaptic transmission was facilitated by activation of CRF1 receptors with CRF but was depressed after activation of CRF2 receptors with Ucn I. After acute withdrawal from a chronic cocaine administration regimen, CRF1 activation remained facilitatory, but CRF2 activation facilitated rather than depressed LSMLN EPSCs. These alterations in CRF2 effects occurred through both presynaptic and postsynaptic mechanisms. In saline-treated rats, CRF1 and CRF2 coupled predominantly to protein kinase A signaling pathways, whereas after cocaine withdrawal, protein kinase C activity was more prominent and likely contributed to the CRF2-mediated presynaptic facilitation. Neither CRF nor Ucn I altered monosynaptic GABA(A)-mediated IPSCs before or after chronic cocaine administration, suggesting that loss of GABAA-mediated inhibition could not account for the facilitation. This switch in polarity of Ucn I-mediated neuromodulation, from a negative to positive regulation of excitatory glutamatergic transmission after chronic cocaine administration, could generate an imbalance in the brain reward circuitry associated with the LSMLN.
Events that contribute to tumor formation include mutations in the ras gene and loss or inactivation of cell cycle inhibitors such as p21(Cip1) and p27(Kip1). In our previous publication, we showed that mice expressing the MMTV/v-Ha-ras transgene developed tumors earlier and at higher multiplicities in the absence than in the presence of p21(Cip1). To further evaluate the combinatorial role of genetic alterations and loss of cell cycle inhibitors in tumorigenesis, we performed two companion studies. In the first study, wild type and p21(Cip1)-null mice were exposed to the chemical carcinogen, urethane. Similar to its effects in v-Ha-ras mice, loss of p21(Cip1) accelerated tumor onset and increased tumor multiplicity in urethane-treated mice. Lung tumors were the predominant tumor type in urethane-treated mice regardless of p21(Cip1) status. In the second study, tumor formation was monitored in v-Ha-ras mice expressing or lacking p27(Kip1). Unlike p21(Cip1), the absence of p27(Kip1) had no effect on the timing or multiplicity of tumor formation, which was largely restricted to mammary and salivary glands. However, once tumors appeared, they grew faster in p27(Kip1)-null mice than in p27(Kip1)-wild type mice. Increases in growth rate were particularly striking for salivary tumors in ras/p27(-/-) mice. Loss of p21(Cip1), on the other hand, had no effect on tumor growth rate in v-Ha-ras mice. Collectively, our data suggest that p21(Cip1) suppresses tumor formation elicited by multiple agents and that p21(Cip1) and p27(Kip1) suppress tumor formation in different ways.
The involvement of chymase has been implicated in fibrotic response to tissue injuries. Besides its direct action, chymase indirectly promotes fibrotic response by generating angiotensin (Ang) II from Ang I. In the present study, we examined whether chymase and angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE), that also generates Ang II, were activated in the pulmonary inflammation and fibrosis induced by paraquat (PQ) in hamsters. In an acute PQ intoxication group, PQ was administered subcutaneously and the lungs were excised four days after administration. In a chronic PQ intoxication group, PQ was administered at the same dose once a week for six weeks. The lungs were excised five weeks after the last administration. On dissection, alveolar hemorrhage and capillary stasis were found in the acute PQ intoxication group while interstitial pulmonary fibrosis was found in the chronic PQ intoxication group. The pulmonary tissue chymase activity was elevated in both intoxication groups when compared with a respective age-matched, vehicle (saline)-administered group. Pulmonary tissue ACE activity, on the other hand, decreased in both intoxication groups. These data suggested that activated chymase may be involved in the establishment of PQ-induced pulmonary fibrosis in hamsters.
The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that the longer duration of ventricular action potentials in hypertrophied hearts predisposes to the development of early after-depolarizations and triggered ventricular tachyarrhythmias.
For unknown reasons, the incidence of sudden death is greater in patients with myocardial hypertrophy.
We measured left ventricular monophasic action potentials in normal dogs and dogs with left ventricular hypertrophy before and after administration of the calcium agonist BAY K 8644 and the potassium channel blocker cesium.
We demonstrated longer action potential durations in dogs with than in those without left ventricular hypertrophy. Also, BAY K 8644 produced phase 2 early afterdepolarizations and ventricular tachyarrhythmias more frequently in the dogs with than in those without left ventricular hypertrophy. Phenylephrine, an alpha agonist, further increased the action potential duration in hypertrophied hearts and the propensity to develop early afterdepolarizations and ventricular tachyarrhythmia after administration of BAY K 8644. Control and hypertrophied hearts developed early afterdepolarizations and ventricular tachyarrhythmia equally when exposed to cesium.
Although in vitro studies have shown that fibers of hypertrophied ventricular myocardium can develop triggered activity as a result of both early and late afterdepolarizations, the present study is the first to show in vivo that the hypertrophied ventricular myocardium compared with the normal ventricle is predisposed to develop phase 2 early afterdepolarizations that appear to trigger ventricular tachyarrhythmia. It is possible that such a mechanism contributes to the development of ventricular tachyarrhythmia and sudden cardiac death in patients with left ventricular hypertrophy. If this is shown to be true, specific pharmacologic interventions can be suggested.
This brief report describes a case of transient left ventricular dysfunction in a 42-year-old woman associated with methamphetamine abuse. Transient (stress-induced) left ventricular dysfunction has been described previously, usually in postmenopausal women following emotional stress and also severe medical illness. This is the first reported case associated with methamphetamine abuse.
Distributive shock is defined as circulatory insufficiency induced by excessive dilatation of the peripheral vasculature or maldistribution of cardiac output. Septicemia, systemic inflammatory response syndrome, anaphylaxis, injuries to the central nervous system, and drug intoxication are causative factors of shock. Circulatory derangements induced by bacterial infection have been divided into hyperdynamic and hypodynamic shock. Administration of inotropic drugs, vasopressors, and/or vasodilators are primary treatments in this type of shock. Continuous infusion of norepinephrine to maintain blood pressure or administration of inoptropes such as dopamine or dobutamine are recommended to improve tissue perfusion. High-dose intravenous epinephrine is required to reestablish cardiac function, followed by continuous infusion of norepinephrine in severe anaphylactic shock. Vasoconstrictors such as norepinephrine, vasopressin, or amaminone are administered to maintain vascular tone in shock caused by nerve damage or drug overdose.
Transient neurotoxicity of concentrated local anaesthetics has been thought to be the main reason for transient neurological symptoms after spinal anaesthesia. Profound musculoligamental relaxation by high doses of local anaesthetics may contribute to the development of postoperative musculoskeletal pain. In order to evaluate the role of the loss of strength of the supportive structures of the spine in the development of transient neurological symptoms, 60 patients (ASA I-II) undergoing minor orthopaedic, varicose vein or inguinal hernia operations were allocated randomly to receive spinal anaesthesia with hyperbaric lidocaine 50 mg ml-1 (85-100 mg) or balanced general anaesthesia with neuromuscular block. Patients were interviewed 24 h later and after 1 week they returned a written questionnaire. Transient neurological symptoms, consisting of pain in the buttocks or pain radiating symmetrically to the lower extremities, occurred in eight patients (27%) receiving spinal anaesthesia and in one patient (3%) receiving general anaesthesia (P < 0.05). We conclude that a transient neurotoxic effect of hyperbaric lidocaine 50 mg ml-1 is probably the main reason for transient neurological symptoms after spinal anaesthesia but musculoligamental relaxation may contribute to the development of low back or leg pain after both anaesthetic techniques.
Arterial remodeling contributes to elevated pulmonary artery (PA) pressures and right ventricular hypertrophy seen in pulmonary hypertension (PH). Resveratrol, a sirtuin-1 (SIRT1) pathway activator, can prevent the development of PH in a commonly used animal model, but it is unclear whether it can reverse established PH pathophysiology. Furthermore, atrophic ubiquitin ligases, such as atrogin-1 and MuRF-1, are known to be induced by SIRT1 activators but have not been characterized in hypertrophic vascular disease. Therefore, we hypothesized that monocrotaline (MCT)-induced PH would attenuate atrophy pathways in the PA while, conversely, SIRT1 activation (resveratrol) would reverse indices of PH and restore atrophic gene expression. Thus, we injected Sprague-Dawley rats with MCT (50 mg/kg i.p.) or saline at Day 0, and then treated with oral resveratrol or sildenafil from days 28-42 post-MCT injection. Oral resveratrol attenuated established MCT-induced PH indices, including right ventricular systolic pressure, right ventricular hypertrophy, and medial thickening of intrapulmonary arteries. Resveratrol also normalized PA atrogin-1 mRNA expression, which was significantly reduced by MCT. In cultured human PA smooth muscle cells (hPASMC), resveratrol significantly inhibited PDGF-stimulated proliferation and cellular hypertrophy, which was also associated with improvements in atrogin-1 levels. In addition, SIRT1 inhibition augmented hPASMC proliferation, as assessed by DNA mass, and suppressed atrogin mRNA expression. These findings demonstrate an inverse relationship between indices of PH and PA atrogin expression that is SIRT1 dependent and may reflect a novel role for SIRT1 in PASMCs opposing cellular hypertrophy and proliferation.
In the present study, the side effects of d-Penicillamine therapy in 54 patients with rheumatoid arthritis are analyzed. The therapeutic efficacy of the drug is emphasized; but in the meantime, the necessity is also stressed that the choice of this antirheumatic agent must imply the knowledge of the possible complications caused by its use and of the clinical features and laboratory data which would be useful for their early detection.
Accidental intravascular administration of bupivacaine during performance of a brachial block precipitated convulsions followed by asystole. The patient was rapidly resuscitated using cardiopulmonary resuscitation, supplemented by 150 mL of 20% lipid emulsion. Nonetheless, cardiac toxicity reappeared 40 min after completion of the lipid emulsion. In the absence of further lipid emulsion, amiodarone and inotropic support were used to treat cardiotoxicity. This case suggests that local anesthetic systemic toxicity may recur after initial lipid rescue. Since recurrence of toxicity may necessitate administration of additional doses of lipid emulsion, a sufficient quantity of lipid emulsion should be available when regional anesthesia is performed.
The etiology of congenital heart disease is multifactorial, with genetics and nutritional deficiencies recognized as causative agents. Maternal zinc (Zn) deficiency is associated with an increased risk for fetal heart malformations; however, the contributing mechanisms have yet to be identified. In this study, we fed pregnant rats a Zn-adequate diet (ZnA), a Zn-deficient (ZnD), or a restricted amount of Zn adequate diet (RF) beginning on gestation day (GD) 4.5, to examine whether increased cell death and changes in cardiac neural crest cells (NCC) play a role in Zn deficiency-induced heart defects. Fetuses were collected on GD 13.5, 15.5, and 18.5 and processed for GATA-4, FOG-2, connexin-43 (Cx43), HNK-1, smooth muscle alpha-actin (SMA) and cleaved caspase-3 protein expression. Fetuses from ZnA-fed dams showed normal heart development, whereas fetuses from dams fed with the ZnD diet exhibited a variety of heart anomalies, particularly in the region of the outflow tract. HNK-1 expression was lower than normal in the hearts of GD13.5 and 15.5 ZnD fetuses, particularly in the right atrium and in the distal tip of the interventricular septum. Conversely, Cx43 immunoreactivity was increased throughout the heart in fetuses from ZnD dams compared to fetuses from control dams. The distribution and intensity of expression of SMA, GATA-4, FOG-2, and markers of apoptosis were similar among the three groups. We propose that Zn deficiency induced alterations in the distribution of Cx43 and HNK-1 in fetal hearts contribute to the occurrence of the developmental heart anomalies.
