We propose to study the bradycardia associated with propofol anesthesia. Ten women undergoing laparoscopy for benign disease were studied using ambulatory electrocardiogram monitoring. Anesthesia was induced with an intravenous bolus of propofol and maintained with an infusion. After ventilation using positive pressure via a mask for 5 min, relaxants (succinylcholine or vecuronium) and opioids (alfentanil or fentanyl) were administered and the trachea was intubated. Approximately 15 min later, the laparoscopic trocar was placed and carbon dioxide insufflated. Heart rate variability spectra using a fast Fourier transformation technique were determined from the recordings in four separate time periods (preinduction, postinduction, postintubation, and posttrocar placement). Total, high-frequency, and low-frequency power in each time period was determined. Induction of anesthesia with propofol was associated with a significant reduction in total, low-frequency, and high-frequency power. Maintenance of anesthesia with propofol alone resulted in further reductions in total and low-frequency, but not high-frequency, power. Placement of the laparoscopic trocar and insufflation of carbon dioxide resulted in a decrease in heart rate and an increase in high-frequency power. We conclude that high-frequency variability reflects parasympathetic tone. Propofol anesthesia reduces parasympathetic tone to a lesser degree than sympathetic tone. This autonomic milieu predisposes the patient to developing bradycardia in response to parasympathetic stimuli.
Excessive proliferation of mesangial cells is observed in various types of glomerular disease including glomerulonephritis (GN), which is progressive in nature and eventually results in end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Vitamin K(1) 2,3-epoxide reductase (VKOR) and the vitamin K-dependent growth arrest-specific gene 6/Axl pathway play a key role in mesangial cell proliferation in GN. In the present study, we indicate the potential of a VKOR inhibitor, 3-acetyl-5-methyltetronic acid (AMT), to prevent the proliferation of glomerular mesangial cells and suppress the progression of GN. AMT was administered intravenously to rats once daily for 12 days and a mouse anti-Thy1 monoclonal antibody was injected intravenously after the AMT treatment on Day 6. Creatinine clearance (CCr) significantly increased and the albumin-to-creatinine ratio (ACR) significantly decreased in the AMT-treated group of the Thy-1 GN rats. In addition, glomerular and tubular damage was improved histopathologically in the AMT-treated group. AMT did not affect blood coagulation due to its unique pharmacokinetic properties. The concentration of AMT reached the IC(50) for VKOR in kidney, but not in liver. A novel VKOR inhibitor, AMT, reduced renal mesangial cell proliferation and could be a supportive treatment for GN.
To determine whether magnesium sulfate (MgSO(4)) exposure is associated with a reduced risk for neonatal intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH).
In a randomized, controlled trial, women in preterm labor were randomly assigned to receive MgSO(4), "other" tocolytic, or saline control. At delivery, we collected maternal antecubital and umbilical cord blood for determination of serum ionized magnesium levels. Neonatal IVH was diagnosed by cranial ultrasonogram.
Among 144 infants, 24 were diagnosed with IVH. Using crude intention-to-treat analysis, we found that 18% (13/74) of survivors exposed after birth to MgSO(4) had IVH compared with 16% (11/70) of babies who were not exposed. Infants who had IVH were more likely to have been delivered by mothers with higher serum ionized magnesium (Mg) levels (0.75 vs 0.56 mmol/L) (P =.01). Using multivariable logistic regression, we confirmed that higher Mg levels are a significant predictor of neonatal IVH (adjusted odds ratio, 15.8; 95% CI, 1.4-175.0) even when adjusted for birth weight, gestational age, antenatal hemorrhage, and neonatal glucocorticoid exposure.
In mothers with preterm labor, our data indicate that antenatal MgSO(4) exposure may be associated with an increased risk for IVH among their newborns.
The influence of pentoxifylline on normal and diseased neutrophil function has been studied in vitro. In high concentrations pentoxifylline stimulated human neutrophil chemotaxis toward both bacterial oligopeptides and complement components. Pentoxifylline was also shown in vitro to restore the normal chemotactic capacity of neutrophils from patients with known functional defects, i.e. myelodysplastic syndromes, lazy leucocyte syndrome, juvenile parodontitis, hyper-IgE-syndrome and liver cirrhosis. Pentoxifylline was also shown to strongly inhibit the release of primary and secondary granule release of granulocytes. Moreover, pentoxifylline inhibits both basal and stimulated neutrophil adhesion to both aortic and pulmonary artery calf endothelium. The mechanism whereby pentoxifylline exerts this action is not adequately understood. While our results partially imply interference of pentoxifylline with neutrophil cyclic AMP and/or prostaglandin metabolism, down-regulation of neutrophil functional antigen (e.g. CD11, CD18) expression seems to play a key role in the observed drug effects. Finally, these results indicate that pentoxifylline may be useful in the treatment of granulocyte mediated diseases and symptoms.
The effects of the calcium entry blocker diltiazem (iv loading dose 0.4 mg/kg, iv maintenance dose 0.4 mg/min) and subsequent isoflurane-induced hypotension to mean aortic pressures of 70 and 55 mmHg on global and regional right ventricular (RV) and left ventricular (LV) performance (ultrasonic dimension technique), on coronary (electromagnetic flow probes) and systemic hemodynamics, and on electrophysiologic parameters (PR, QRS, QTc intervals) were studied in eight open-chest dogs, anesthetized and paralyzed by continuous infusions of fentanyl and pancuronium. Diltiazem at a plasma concentration of 282 +/- 33 ng/ml (mean +/- SE) caused significant (P less than 0.05) increases in coronary blood flows, and decreases in coronary and systemic vascular resistances with only little effect on global and regional RV and LV function. However, the PR interval increased by 40%, and three animals developed II degrees atrioventricular block type I. At stable diltiazem plasma levels, administration of isoflurane caused dose-dependent decreases in myocardial segment shortening and stroke volume with unchanged LV or increased RV preload, and little changed RV or reduced LV afterload indicating myocardial depression. Coronary and systemic vascular resistances remained unaffected. At the higher concentration of isoflurane (mean inspired 1.3 +/- 0.2%), seven animals developed intermittent sinus node arrests with pauses up to 12 s followed by intermittent junctional escape or sinus rhythms. Similar interactions might develop in patients on diltiazem receiving isoflurane.
The results of treatment of 25 patients admitted from psychiatric institutions indicate that diazepam is the drug of first choice in the treatment of status epilepticus. The dangers of treatment appeared to result from combined use with other drugs. Respiratory depression occurred in one patient and hypotension in five patients, all of whom had been given intramuscular phenobarbitone in addition to intravenous diazepam. The two serious cases of hypotension had also been given parenteral paraldehyde.
We identified a duplication of the MYB oncogene in 8.4% of individuals with T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) and in five T-ALL cell lines. The duplication is associated with a threefold increase in MYB expression, and knockdown of MYB expression initiates T cell differentiation. Our results identify duplication of MYB as an oncogenic event and suggest that MYB could be a therapeutic target in human T-ALL.
The World Health Organization conservatively estimates that 80 million people suffer from infertility worldwide. Male factors are believed to be responsible for 20-50% of all infertility cases, but microdeletions of the Y chromosome are the only genetic defects altering human spermatogenesis that have been reported repeatedly. We focused our work on infertile men with a normal somatic karyotype but typical spermatozoa mainly characterized by large heads, a variable number of tails and an increased chromosomal content (OMIM 243060). We performed a genome-wide microsatellite scan on ten infertile men presenting this characteristic phenotype. In all of these men, we identified a common region of homozygosity harboring the aurora kinase C gene (AURKC) with a single nucleotide deletion in the AURKC coding sequence. In addition, we show that this founder mutation results in premature termination of translation, yielding a truncated protein that lacks the kinase domain. We conclude that the absence of AURKC causes male infertility owing to the production of large-headed multiflagellar polyploid spermatozoa.
Deficiency of the alpha-gamma subunit of the eighth component of complement (C8alpha-gammaD) is frequently associated with recurrent neisserial infections, especially meningitis caused by Neisseria meningitidis. We here report the molecular basis of C8alpha-gammaD in two unrelated Japanese subjects. Screening all 11 exons of the C8alpha gene and all 7 exons of the C8gamma gene and their boundaries by exon-specific PCR/single-strand conformation polymorphism demonstrated aberrant single-stranded DNA fragments in exon 2 of C8alpha gene in case 1 and in exons 2 and 9 of C8alpha gene in case 2. Nucleotide sequencing of the amplified DNA fragments in case 1 revealed a homozygous single-point mutation at the second exon-intron boundary, inactivating the universally conserved 5' splice site consensus sequence of the second intron (IVS2+1G-->T). Case 2 was a compound heterozygote for the splice junction mutation, IVS2+1G-->T, and a nonsense mutation at Arg394 (R394X). R394X was caused by a C to T transition at nucleotide 1407, the first nucleotide of the codon CGA for Arg394, leading to a stop codon TGA. No mutations were detected in the C8gamma gene by our method. Our results indicate that the pathogenesis of C8alpha-gammaD might be caused by heterogeneous molecular defects in the C8alpha gene.
We present a genome-wide association study of ileal Crohn disease and two independent replication studies that identify several new regions of association to Crohn disease. Specifically, in addition to the previously established CARD15 and IL23R associations, we identified strong and significantly replicated associations (combined P < 10(-10)) with an intergenic region on 10q21.1 and a coding variant in ATG16L1, the latter of which was also recently reported by another group. We also report strong associations with independent replication to variation in the genomic regions encoding PHOX2B, NCF4 and a predicted gene on 16q24.1 (FAM92B). Finally, we demonstrate that ATG16L1 is expressed in intestinal epithelial cell lines and that functional knockdown of this gene abrogates autophagy of Salmonella typhimurium. Together, these findings suggest that autophagy and host cell responses to intracellular microbes are involved in the pathogenesis of Crohn disease.
We evaluated the interaction between neurotensin (NT) and mu-opioid receptors at the locus coeruleus (LC), using fentanyl-induced muscular rigidity as our experimental index. Adult, male Sprague-Dawley rats anesthetized with ketamine (120 mg/kg, i.p., with 24 mg/kg/h i.v. infusion supplements) were used. Intravenous injection of fentanyl (100 micrograms/kg) consistently promoted a significant increase in the electromyographic activity recorded from the sacrococcygeus dorsalis lateralis muscle. This implied muscular rigidity was appreciably and dose-dependently antagonized by prior intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) application of NT (15, 30 or 60 nmol/5 microliter). Microinjection of the tridecapeptide (300 or 600 pmol/100 nl) into the bilateral LC produced similar results. This suppressive effect of NT on fentanyl-induced muscular rigidity was antagonized by simultaneously administered NT antiserum (1:80), or partially blocked by its antagonist, (D-Trp11)-NT (300 pmol), but not by normal rabbit serum (1:80). These results suggest that NT may interact with the mu-opioid receptors at the LC, resulting in the suppression of fentanyl-induced muscular rigidity in the rat.
The loss of a DNA mismatch repair occurs in approximately 15% of sporadic colorectal cancer (CRC) and is usually caused by the lack of expression of the hMLH1 gene due to promoter methylation. Despite undergoing adjuvant 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) therapy after a curative surgical resection, some patients with advanced-stage CRC develop recurrence. In the present study, we investigated whether the hMLH1 mRNA expression or promoter methylation is a prognostic factor in CRC patients treated with adjuvant 5-FU. The hMLH1 mRNA expression levels were measured by quantitative reverse transcription PCR in cancer and normal epithelial cells that were obtained from 94 CRC patients using a laser capture microdissection. Then, the methylation status of the hMLH1 promoter in the CRC tissues was examined by methylation-specific PCR. The hMLH1 mRNA expression levels were significantly lower in the cancer cells than in the normal mucosa (p<0.01) and the hMLH1 mRNA expression levels in the cancer cells were significantly lower in the CRC tissues with methylated versus unmethylated hMLH1 (p<0.01) in the 94 patients. Among the 35 patients receiving adjuvant 5-FU, the disease-free survival rate was significantly better in the patients demonstrating a low hMLH1 mRNA expression in the cancer cells in comparison to that of the patients with a high hMLH1 mRNA expression (p<0.01). Moreover, a multivariate analysis revealed that hMLH1 mRNA expression was a significant independent prognostic factor for tumor recurrence in CRC patients treated with adjuvant 5-FU. However, hMLH1 methylation was not correlated with the survival in these 35 patients. These data suggest that the hMLH1 mRNA quantitation in colorectal cancer cells may be helpful for evaluating the prognosis of CRC patients receiving 5-FU-based adjuvant chemotherapy after a surgical resection.
Curcumin, a yellow pigment obtained from turmeric (Curcumina longa), is a dietary polyphenol that has been reported to possess anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties. The effect of curcumin against the development of pulmonary emphysema in animal models is unknown. The aim of this study was to determine whether curcumin is able to attenuate the development of pulmonary emphysema in mice. Nine-week-old male C57BL/6J mice were treated with intratracheal porcine pancreatic elastase (PPE) or exposed to mainstream cigarette smoke (CS) (60 min/day for 10 consecutive days or 5 days/wk for 12 wk) to induce pulmonary inflammation and emphysema. Curcumin (100 mg/kg) or vehicle was administrated daily by oral gavage 1 h and 24 h before intratracheal PPE treatment and daily thereafter throughout a 21-day period in PPE-exposed mice and 1 h before each CS exposure in CS-exposed mice. As a result, curcumin treatment significantly inhibited PPE-induced increase of neutrophils in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid at 6 h and on day 1 after PPE administration, with an increase in antioxidant gene expression at 6 h and significantly attenuated PPE-induced air space enlargement on day 21. It was also found that curcumin treatment significantly inhibited CS-induced increase of neutrophils and macrophages in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid after 10 consecutive days of CS exposure and significantly attenuated CS-induced air space enlargement after 12 wk of CS exposure. In conclusion, oral curcumin administration attenuated PPE- and CS-induced pulmonary inflammation and emphysema in mice.
Multiple myeloma is characterized by the accumulation of clonal malignant plasma cells in the bone marrow, which stimulates bone destruction by osteoclasts and reduces bone formation by osteoblasts. In turn, the changed bone microenvironment sustains survival of myeloma cells. Therefore, a challenge for treating multiple myeloma is discovering drugs targeting not only myeloma cells but also osteoclasts and osteoblasts. Because resveratrol (trans-3,4',5-trihydroxystilbene) is reported to display antitumor activities on a variety of human cancer cells, we investigated the effects of this natural compound on myeloma and bone cells. We found that resveratrol reduces dose-dependently the growth of myeloma cell lines (RPMI 8226 and OPM-2) by a mechanism involving cell apoptosis. In cultures of human primary monocytes, resveratrol inhibits dose-dependently receptor activator of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) ligand-induced formation of tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRACP)-positive multinucleated cells, TRACP activity in the medium, up-regulation of cathepsin K gene expression, and bone resorption. These inhibitions are associated with a down-regulation of RANK expression at both mRNA and cell surface protein levels and a decrease of NFATc1 stimulation and NF-kappaB nuclear translocation, whereas the gene expression of c-fms, CD14, and CD11a is up-regulated. Finally, resveratrol promotes dose-dependently the expression of osteoblast markers like osteocalcin and osteopontin in human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (hMSC-TERT) and stimulates their response to 1,25(OH)2 vitamin D3 [1,25(OH)2D3]. Moreover, resveratrol up-regulates dose-dependently the expression of 1,25(OH)2D3 nuclear receptor. Taken together, these results suggest that resveratrol or its derivatives deserve attention as potential drugs for treating multiple myeloma.
Ticlopidine is a commonly prescribed drug in cerebrovascular or cardiovascular diseases. Since the first introduction in 1970's, ticlopidine was shown to be a relatively safe drug. The adverse effects of ticlopidine were mainly bone marrow toxicity and elevation of liver function tests. Ticlopidine-induced hepatitis is rare and only 33 cases were reported in previous English literature. The 33 cases were mostly categorized in cholestatic liver injury; only 2 cases were hepatocellular. In Taiwan, a case of ticlopidine-induced cholestatic hepatitis was ever reported. Herein, we present another rare case of ticlopidine-induced hepatitis in Taiwan with the nature of hepatocellular injury.
In the last ten years ivermectin appeared an efficient and safe alternative to diethylcarbamazine which is known to induce severe adverse reactions in loiasis, including encephalitis. After these results, large scale ivermectin treatments against onchocerciasis were carried out in Central Africa where loiasis is also endemic; and seven cases of severe reaction were reported in Cameroon since 1991, during these mass ivermectin treatments. In order to study adverse reactions in patients harbouring high load of Loa loa microfilariae (mf), we realized careful hospital based treatment in 112 patients with more than 3,000 mf/ml (ml) blood. Patients received once 200 micrograms ivermectin per kilogram at day 0 (D0). Clinical examination was made daily during the four following days (D1 to D4). Blood and urine samples were analysed before treatment and at D1 and D3. Lumbar puncture was made at D1 for 39 patients with more than 10,000 mf/ml; at D3 for the 49 following patients without consideration for the level of parasitaemia, and at D0 and D3 for ten voluntary patients. For analysis the patients were distributed in 3 groups according to initial parasitaemia: the first group included 50% out of the patients, those whose parasitaemia was fewer than 15,000 mf/ml blood; the second group included 25% patients whose parasitaemia was between 15,000 and 30,000 mf/ml; the third group included the last 25% patients whose parasitaemia was higher than 30,000 mf per ml blood. Adverse reactions were observed in 71% out of the patients. Symptoms described were fever, pruritus, headache, arthralgia. Most symptoms appeared 24 to 36 hours after treatment. Temperature increased significantly in group 3. Microfilaraemia decreased by 85% in the 3 groups during the 4 days following treatment. C-reactive-protein increased dramatically after treatment in all patients (p < 10(-4)). Some patients presented blood in urine in three groups but haematuria reached 35% of patients in group 3. Proteinuria is noted among 33% of all patients but 20% in group 1 and 2 versus 70% in group 3. Loa loa mf were observed in urine of half the patients, but in low amounts (< 10 mf per 50 ml urine). In cerebro-spinal fluid (CSF), some mf appeared at D1 or D3 in people heavily infected with Loa loa, reaching 80% of the patients of group 3. LP made at D0 in ten patients with parasitaemia higher than 30,000 mf/ml blood confirmed that CSF was naturally microfilaria free before treatment. One patient presented severe troubles with fever, asthenia and conscience troubles beginning at D3, reactive coma at D4, renal impairment with transitory anuria; progressive improvement in 2 weeks and complete recovery at D22; he presented 102 mf/ml CSF at D6. The study confirmed that ivermectin treatment is generally well tolerated. Among people with high Loa loa parasitaemia the symptoms after treatment are frequent but mild. However severe cases with conscience troubles are possible, and may occur in about 1% of subjects with more than 3,000 mf/ml blood. Severity of adverse reactions was linked to level of parasitaemia before treatment. The critical parasitaemia level which could lead to expect serious adverse effects seems to be 30,000 ml/ml blood. These informations should induce carefulness to carry out large scale treatments against filariosis in endemic areas of Loa loa.
Retinol (vitamin A) is thought to exert its effects through the actions of its metabolite, all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA), on gene transcription mediated by retinoic acid receptors (RAR) and retinoic acid response elements (RARE). However, retinoic acid resistance limits the chemotherapeutic potential of ATRA. We examined the ability of retinol to inhibit the growth of ATRA-sensitive (HCT-15) and ATRA-resistant (HCT-116, SW620, and WiDR) human colon cancer cell lines. Retinol inhibited cell growth in a dose-responsive manner. Retinol was not metabolized to ATRA or any bioactive retinoid in two of the cell lines examined. HCT-116 and WiDR cells converted a small amount of retinol to ATRA; however, this amount of ATRA was unable to inhibit cell growth. To show that retinol was not inducing RARE-mediated transcription, each cell line was transfected with pRARE-chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) and treated with ATRA and retinol. Although treatment with ATRA increased CAT activity 5-fold in ATRA-sensitive cells, retinol treatment did not increase CAT activity in any cell line examined. To show that growth inhibition due to retinol was ATRA, RAR, and RARE independent, a pan-RAR antagonist was used to block RAR signaling. Retinol-induced growth inhibition was not alleviated by the RAR antagonist in any cell line, but the antagonist alleviated ATRA-induced growth inhibition of HCT-15 cells. Retinol did not induce apoptosis, differentiation or necrosis, but affected cell cycle progression. Our data show that retinol acts through a novel, RAR-independent mechanism to inhibit colon cancer cell growth.
Thyroid carcinomas show a high prevalence of mutations in the oncogene BRAF which are inversely associated with RAS or RET/PTC oncogenic activation. The possibility of using inhibitors on the BRAF pathway as became an interesting therapeutic approach. In thyroid cancer cells the target molecules, implicated on the cellular effects, mediated by inhibition of BRAF are not well established. In order to fill this lack of knowledge we studied the proliferation and survival pathways and associated molecules induced by BRAF inhibition in thyroid carcinoma cell lines harbouring distinct genetic backgrounds.
Suppression of BRAF pathway in thyroid cancer cell lines (8505C, TPC1 and C643) was achieved using RNA interference (RNAi) for BRAF and the kinase inhibitor, sorafenib. Proliferation analysis was performed by BrdU incorporation and apoptosis was accessed by TUNEL assay. Levels of protein expression were analysed by western-blot.
Both BRAF RNAi and sorafenib inhibited proliferation in all the cell lines independently of the genetic background, mostly in cells with BRAF(V600E) mutation. In BRAF(V600E) mutated cells inhibition of BRAF pathway lead to a decrease in ERK1/2 phosphorylation and cyclin D1 levels and an increase in p27(Kip1). Specific inhibition of BRAF by RNAi in cells with BRAF(V600E) mutation had no effect on apoptosis. In the case of sorafenib treatment, cells harbouring BRAF(V600E) mutation showed increase levels of apoptosis due to a balance of the anti-apoptotic proteins Mcl-1 and Bcl-2.
Our results in thyroid cancer cells, namely those harbouring BRAF(V600E) mutation showed that BRAF signalling pathway provides important proliferation signals. We have shown that in thyroid cancer cells sorafenib induces apoptosis by affecting Mcl-1 and Bcl-2 in BRAF(V600E) mutated cells which was independent of BRAF. These results suggest that sorafenib may prove useful in the treatment of thyroid carcinomas, particularly those refractory to conventional treatment and harbouring BRAF mutations.
The case reported concerns a symptomatic transitory sinus node abnormality in a 75 years old woman treated with Lithium Carbonate (750 mg/d) for a manic-depressive psychosis. This patient, admitted to the hospital for bradycardia and repeated episodes of syncope was shown to present sinus pauses greater than 3 seconds. Lithium therapy was discontinued. 72 hours later electrophysiologic studies, performed to evaluate sinus node function, were normal. It is therefore the author's opinion that in patients receiving Lithium therapy who present syncope, dizziness, or bradycardia a sinus node abnormality of iatrogenic origin must be considered. The importance of this diagnosis is in the rapid reversibility of the sinus node dysfunction with discontinuation of therapy.
Epidemiologic and animal studies provide evidence for a chemopreventive effect of selenium on colorectal cancer, which may be mediated by the antioxidative and anti-inflammatory properties of selenoenzymes. We therefore investigated whether genetic variants in selenoenzymes abundantly expressed in the colon are associated with advanced colorectal adenoma, a cancer precursor.
Cases with a left-sided advanced adenoma (n = 772) and matched controls (n = 777) screen negative for polyps based on sigmoidoscopy examination were randomly selected from participants in the Prostate, Lung, Colorectal, and Ovarian Cancer Screening Trial. The underlying genetic variation was determined by resequencing. We genotyped 44 tagging single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in six genes [glutathione peroxidase 1-4 (GPX1, GPX2, GPX3, and GPX4), selenoprotein P (SEPP1), and thioredoxin reductase 1 (TXNRD1)] to efficiently predict common variation across these genes.
Four variants in SEPP1 were significantly associated with advanced adenoma risk. A rare variant in the 5' region of SEPP1 (-4166C>G) was present in nine cases but in none of the controls (exact P = 0.002). Three SNPs located in the 3' region of SEPP1, which is overlapping with the promoter region of an antisense transcript, were significantly associated with adenoma risk: homozygotes at two SEPP1 loci (31,174 bp 3' of STP A>G and 43,881 bp 3' of STP G>A) were associated with increased adenoma risk [odds ratio (OR), 1.48; 95% confidence interval (95% CI), 1.00-2.19 and OR, 1.53; 95% CI, 1.05-2.22, respectively] and the variant SEPP1 44,321 bp 3' of STP C>T was associated with a reduced adenoma risk (CT versus CC OR, 0.85; 95% CI, 0.63-1.15). Furthermore, we observed a significant 80% reduction for advanced colorectal adenoma risk for carriers of the variant allele at TXNRD1 IVS1-181C>G (OR, 0.20; 95% CI, 0.07-0.55; P trend = 0.004). Consistent with the individual SNP results, we observed a significant overall association with adenoma risk for SEPP1 and TXNRD1 (global P = 0.02 and 0.008, respectively) but not for the four GPX genes.
Our study suggests that genetic variants at or near the SEPP1 and TXNRD1 loci may be associated with advanced colorectal adenoma. As this is the first study to comprehensively investigate this hypothesis, confirmation in independent study populations is needed.
Three patients with analgesic nephropathy are reported who, in addition to the accepted features of this syndrome, had dilatation of one or both upper urinary tracts due to ureteric or periureteric fibrosis without intraluminal obstruction. We attribute this lesion to analgesic abuse and suggest that any patient with unexplained ureteric fibrosis should be questioned about analgesic consumption. This association also suggests a possible role for analgesic abuse in the pathogenesis of retroperitoneal fibrosis.
In recent years, several lines of evidence have shown an increase in Parkinson's disease prevalence in rural environments where pesticides are heavily used. Although, the underlying mechanism for neuronal degeneration in sporadic PD remains unknown, mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress and proteasomal dysfunction are proposed as contributing factors. In this study rats were chronically and continuously exposed to the pesticide, dichlorvos to identify the molecular mechanism of nigrostaital neuronal degeneration.
Chronic dichlorvos exposure (2.50 mg/kg b.wt.s.c/daily for 12 weeks) caused nigrostriatal dopaminergic degeneration. The degenerative changes were accompanied by a loss of 60-80% of the nigral dopamine neurons and 60-70% reduction in striatal dopamine and tyrosine hydroxylase levels. Dichlorvos exposed animals also showed α -synuclein and ubiquitin positive inclusions along with swollen, dystrophic neurites and mitochondrial abnormalities like decreased complex I&IV activities, increased mitochondrial size, axonal degeneration and presence of electron dense perinuclear cytoplasmic inclusions in the substantia nigra of rats. These animals also showed evidence of oxidative stress, including increased mitochondrial ROS levels, decreased MnSOD activity and increased lipid peroxidation. Measurable impairments in neurobehavioral indices were also observed. Notable exacerbations in motor impairments, open field and catalepsy were also evident in dichlorvos exposed animals.
All these findings taken together indicate that chronic dichlorvos exposure may cause nigrostaital neurodegenaration and significant behavioral impairments.
