Involuntary movements, or dyskinesia, represent a debilitating complication of levodopa therapy for Parkinson's disease. Taking advantage of a monkey brain bank constituted to study the pathophysiology of levodopa-induced dyskinesia, we here report the changes affecting D1, D2 and D3 dopamine receptors within the striatum of four experimental groups of non-human primates: normal, parkinsonian, parkinsonian treated with levodopa without or with dyskinesia. We also report the possible role of arrestin and G protein-coupled receptor kinases.
Patients with Mahaim fibres are susceptible to tachycardias which can be refractory to conventional drug therapy, leading to treatment with surgery and catheter ablation. The effects of flecainide acetate were studied in 3 patients (61, 21 and 35 years of age) with Mahaim fibres presenting with tachycardias refractory to beta-blockers, quinidine and verapamil. One also had ophthalmic side-effects from amiodarone. Three types of tachycardias were induced: a reentrant tachycardia with left bundle branch block morphology (LBBBM) in all 3 patients, atrial flutter in one and atrial fibrillation in another. Intravenous flecainide acetate (2 mg kg-1) terminated reentrant tachycardia and abolished duality of atrioventricular conduction in patient 1. In patient 2, it abolished preexcitation during atrial flutter prior to termination. Atrial fibrillation could not be induced in patient 3 after flecainide acetate. In all patients, retrograde conduction was blocked, preexcitation was not present with atrial pacing and no tachycardia was induced after flecainide. All have remained asymptomatic on oral flecainide acetate (100 mg bd) for a mean follow-up period of 9 months. We conclude that (1) flecainide acetate is effective for the treatment of various tachycardias associated with Mahaim fibres; (2) since different mechanisms responsible for the tachycardia with LBBBM may be present in the same patient and difficult to determine in some, treatment with flecainide acetate which affects both the atrioventricular node and Mahaim fibre conduction may be appropriate for the condition and; (3) its use should be considered before more aggressive therapies.
Mutations in the CLN6 gene cause a variant late infantile form of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (NCL; Batten disease). CLN6 loss leads to disease clinically characterized by vision impairment, motor and cognitive dysfunction, and seizures. Accumulating evidence suggests that alterations in metal homeostasis and cellular signaling pathways are implicated in several neurodegenerative and developmental disorders, yet little is known about their role in the NCLs. To explore the disease mechanisms of CLN6 NCL, metal concentrations and expression of proteins implicated in cellular signaling pathways were assessed in brain tissue from South Hampshire and Merino CLN6 sheep. Analyses revealed increased zinc and manganese concentrations in affected sheep brain in those regions where neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration first occur. Synaptic proteins, the metal-binding protein metallothionein, and the Akt/GSK3 and ERK/MAPK cellular signaling pathways were also altered. These results demonstrate that altered metal concentrations, synaptic protein changes, and aberrant modulation of cellular signaling pathways are characteristic features in the CLN6 ovine form of NCL.
Fibric acid derivatives (FADs) are a class of drugs that have been shown to reduce the production of very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) while enhancing VLDL clearance due to the stimulation of lipoprotein lipase activity. The drugs can reduce plasma triglyceride levels while raising high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels. Their effects on low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels are less marked and more variable. There is evidence that oral gemfibrozil (Lopid, Parke-Davis, Morris Plains, NJ) can reduce the risk of serious coronary events, specifically in those patients who had elevations of both LDL cholesterol levels and total plasma triglyceride levels with lower HDL cholesterol levels. Newer FADs (bezafibrate, ciprofibrate, fenofibrate) have been shown to have greater efficacy in reducing LDL cholesterol than gemfibrozil but, in general, these drugs are not as effective as the other primary drugs used to lower LDL levels. The FADs are also used to treat adult patients with very high levels of triglycerides who have pancreatitis and whose disease cannot be managed with dietary therapy. The FADs are well tolerated, with dyspepsia and abdominal pain the most common adverse effects. A small risk of cholelithiasis exists with these drugs, and caution should be used when combining these drugs with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors because the combination increases the incidence of hyperlipidemic myositis and rhabdomyolysis.
Induction of mania by tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) is controversial, with indirect evidence for and against it. Unusual direct evidence of it was observed in a 77-year-old female patient having ingested an amitriptyline overdose. Mania developed while the TCA blood levels were high, and responded to a combination of charcoal and valproate. However, mania reappeared when charcoal was discontinued, and disappeared again when it was restarted. This time course suggests a therapeutic advantage for adding charcoal to valproate in treating tricyclic-induced mania. Presumably, charcoal might have removed a mania-inducing metabolite of amitriptyline. Moreover, repeated doses of oral activated charcoal accelerated the elimination of TCA from the blood stream to several times its original rate, which is consistent with interruption of the enterohepatic circulation. This enhanced elimination and improved outcome illustrate the value of repeated charcoal doses after TCA overdose, and suggest its use when mania develops in a patient who takes an antidepressant, at least amitriptyline or nortriptyline.
The long-term clinical usefulness of doxorubicin (DOX), an anthracycline with potent antitumor activity, is limited by DOX-induced cardiotoxicity. Kaempferol, one of the most common dietary flavonoids, is known to have anti-apoptotic, anti-oxidative, and anti-inflammatory properties. The current study aimed to investigate the possible protective effect of kaempferol against DOX-induced cardiotoxicity and the underlying mechanisms. Rats were intraperitoneally (i.p.) treated with DOX (3 mg/kg) every other day for a cumulative dose of 9 mg/kg. After 28 days, DOX caused retarded body and heart growth, oxidative stress, apoptotic damage, mitochondrial dysfunction, and Bcl-2 expression disturbance. In contrast, kaempferol pretreatment (10 mg/kg i.p. before DOX administration) attenuated the DOX-induced apoptotic damage in heart tissues. In vitro studies also indicated that kaempferol may have used the mitochondrion-dependent pathway to counteract the DOX-induced cardiotoxicity. This counteraction was achieved by inhibiting p53 expression and its binding to the promoter region of the Bax proapoptotic gene, but not to the Bcl-2 antiapoptotic gene. Kaempferol also effectively suppressed DOX-induced extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2 activation, but had no effect on p38 and JNK. Therefore, kaempferol protected against DOX-induced cardiotoxicity, at least, partially, by inhibiting the activation of p53-mediated, mitochondrion-dependent apoptotic signaling, and by being involved in an ERK-dependent mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway. These findings elucidated the potential of kaempferol as a promising reagent for treating DOX-induced cardiotoxicity, and may have implications in the long-term clinical usefulness of DOX.
Baroreflex function and plasma angiotensin II (Ang II) were examined in five elderly and five young or middle-aged essential hypertensive patients before and after enalapril treatment. Baroreflex sensitivity (BS) during blood pressure (BP) elevation by phenylephrine (PE) but not during BP reduction by sodium nitroprusside (SNP) was significantly attenuated in the elderly compared with the younger group, while plasma Ang II concentration was not different between the two groups. Enalapril treatment reduced BP without significant changes in heart rate and plasma norepinephrine in both groups, suggesting a leftward shift of barofunction curve. It also increased the BS in some cases in each group. However, plasma Ang II was not significantly reduced during enalapril treatment. The changes in BS did not correlate with changes in plasma Ang II. These results suggest that BS may be attenuated with increasing age independent of plasma Ang II and that ACE inhibitor influences the set point of the barofunction curve and BS by different mechanisms.
In amygdala-kindled rats, single-dose administration of primidone did not reduced seizure activity 2 h after i.p. injection, i.e. when plasma levels of the drug were highest, but significant anticonvulsant effects were found 24 h after administration, when the drug was almost completely eliminated. During chronic treatment with primidone, marked anticonvulsant efficacy was determined after 3-15 days of three times daily treatment with 50 mg/kg i.p., indicating that this effect was due to the accumulation of metabolites, especially phenobarbital. Maximum anticonvulsant activity attained during chronic primidone medication was almost equal to that found during chronic treatment of kindled rats with phenobarbital, 30 mg/kg once daily. However, drug plasma level determinations during both treatments showed that on days when both treatments were about equieffective, levels of metabolically derived phenobarbital in the primidone group were significantly lower than levels in rats treated with phenobarbital alone, thus indicating that primidone potentiated the anticonvulsant effect of metabolically derived phenobarbital. Additional evidence for potentiation of the anticonvulsant effect of phenobarbital by primidone was found in single dose experiments with combined injection of both drugs, whereas side-effects, such as ataxia and muscle relaxation, induced by phenobarbital were not increased by combined treatment with primidone. Accordingly, side-effects occurring during chronic primidone treatment were less pronounced than side-effects found during chronic phenobarbital medication. In both treatment groups, tolerance to the anticonvulsant effect developed during the 2nd week of administration, while attenuation of side-effects took place already in the first week. Following cessation of treatment, signs of physical dependence, such as withdrawal hyperexcitability and weight loss, were observed. The data indicate that, at least in kindled rats, the anticonvulsant activity of primidone during chronic treatment is due to the combined and possibly synergistic actions of primidone and metabolically derived phenobarbital.
Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) reported in some patients treated for cancer with mitomycin is of unknown pathogenesis, and evidence implicating mitomycin is inconclusive. To determine whether mitomycin can induce direct renal damage, left kidneys in Lewis rats were perfused with mitomycin (60-4000 micrograms). Control rats received perfusions of saline only. Renal tissue was examined from 1 hour up to 1 month later. In 29 of 31 rats left renal disease developed: in 9 (mitomycin, 1000-4000 micrograms), severe cortical infarction; in 20 (mitomycin, 60-500 micrograms), lesions indistinguishable from human HUS. Glomerular endothelial damage was the earliest detectable abnormality, followed by platelet accumulation and later capillary wall splitting typical of microangiopathy. Some kidneys had interlobular artery necrosis and thrombosis. Right kidneys were normal. In no rats in the control group (10) did HUS develop. Thus, mitomycin directly produced renal lesions indistinguishable from human HUS, which suggested a mechanism for injury seen in mitomycin-treated patients and provided a new model of HUS.
Gabapentin and pregabalin are amino acid derivatives of gamma-amino butyric acid that have anticonvulsant, analgesic, and anxiolytic-like properties in animal models. The mechanisms of these effects, however, are not well understood. To ascertain whether these drugs have effects on sensory neurons, we studied their actions on capsaicin-evoked release of the sensory neuropeptides, substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide from rat spinal cord slices in vitro. Although release of immunoreactive peptides from non-inflamed animals was not altered by either drug, prior in vivo treatment by intraplantar injection of complete Freund's adjuvant enhanced release from spinal tissues in vitro, which was attenuated by gabapentin and pregabalin. These drugs also reduced release of immunoreactive neuropeptides in spinal tissues pretreated in vitro with the protein kinase C activator, phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate. Our results suggest that gabapentin and pregabalin modulate the release of sensory neuropeptides, but only under conditions corresponding to significant inflammation-induced sensitization of the spinal cord.
Previous investigations have demonstrated that delayed preconditioning induced by nitroglycerin is mediated by endogenous calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). In the present study, we examined whether CGRP-mediated delayed preconditioning induced by nitroglycerin is involved in activation of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS). Male Wistar rats were pretreated with nitroglycerin 24 h before the experiment, and then the left main coronary artery of rat heart was subjected to 60-min occlusion followed by 3 h reperfusion. Infarct size, the plasma level of cGMP and CGRP, and expression of CGRP isoforms (alpha-CGRP and beta-CGRP) mRNA in lumbar dorsal root ganglia were measured. Pretreatment with nitroglycerin (120 microg/kg, i.v.) markedly reduced infarct size. Nitroglycerin caused a significant increase in the expression of alpha-CGRP mRNA, but not beta-CGRP mRNA, concomitant with an increase in plasma concentrations of cGMP and CGRP. These effects of nitroglycerin were completely abolished by pretreatment with aminoguanidine (300 mg/kg, i.p.), a selective inhibitor of iNOS activity, or dexamethasone (5 mg/kg, i.p.), the iNOS expression inhibitor. The present results suggest that delayed cardioprotection afforded by nitroglycerin is mediated by the alpha-CGRP isoform via generation of NO derived from iNOS.
We previously demonstrated the therapeutic effects of ethinyl estradiol (EE), an orally active estrogen and a component of birth control pills, in encephalitogenic autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). In this study, we report the effectiveness of EE in treating collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) induced with bovine type II collagen (bCII) in DBA/1LacJ mice, a CIA susceptible strain. Both low and high doses of EE notably suppressed clinical and histological signs of CIA in a dose-dependent manner compared to vehicle-treated controls. Oral treatment with EE decreased proliferation and secretion of pro-inflammatory factors, TNF-alpha IFN-gamma, MCP-1 and IL-6 by bCII peptide-specific T cells, production of bCII-specific IgG2a antibodies, and mRNA for cytokines, chemokines and chemokine receptors in joint tissue. This is the first report demonstrating effective treatment of joint inflammation and clinical signs of CIA with orally administered ethinyl estradiol, thus supporting its possible clinical use for treating rheumatoid arthritis in humans.
There is increasing evidence to suggest that cannabis can ameliorate muscle-spasticity in multiple sclerosis, as was objectively shown in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis models. The purpose of this study was to investigate further the involvement of CB1 and CB2)cannabinoid receptors in the control of experimental spasticity.
Spasticity was induced in wildtype and CB1-deficient mice following the development of relapsing, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Spastic-hindlimb stiffness was measured by the resistance to flexion against a strain gauge following the administration of CB1 and CB2 agonists.
As previously suggested, some CB2-selective agonists (RWJ400065) could inhibit spasticity. Importantly, however, the anti-spastic activity of RWJ400065 and the therapeutic effect of non-selective CB1/CB2 agonists (R(+)WIN55,212-2 and CP55, 940) was lost in spastic, CB1-deficit mice.
The CB1 receptor controls spasticity and cross-reactivity to this receptor appears to account for the therapeutic action of some CB2 agonists. As cannabinoid-induced psychoactivity is also mediated by the CB1 receptor, it will be difficult to truly dissociate the therapeutic effects from the well-known, adverse effects of cannabinoids when using cannabis as a medicine. The lack of knowledge on the true diversity of the cannabinoid system coupled with the lack of total specificity of current cannabinoid reagents makes interpretation of in vivo results difficult, if using a purely pharmacological approach. Gene knockout technology provides an important tool in target validation and indicates that the CB1 receptor is the main cannabinoid target for an anti-spastic effect.
Effects of nano-sized materials (nanomaterials) on sensitive population have not been well elucidated. This study examined the effects of pulmonary exposure to (latex) nanomaterials on lung inflammation related to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or allergen in mice, especially in terms of their size-dependency. In protocol 1, ICR male mice were divided into 8 experimental groups that intratracheally received a single exposure to vehicle, latex nanomaterials (250 microg/animal) with three sizes (25, 50, and 100 nm), LPS (75 microg/animal), or LPS plus latex nanomaterials. In protocol 2, ICR male mice were divided into 8 experimental groups that intratracheally received repeated exposure to vehicle, latex nanomaterials (100 microg/animal), allergen (ovalbumin: OVA; 1 microg/animal), or allergen plus latex nanomaterials. In protocol 1, latex nanomaterials with all sizes exacerbated lung inflammation elicited by LPS, showing an overall trend of amplified lung expressions of proinflammatory cytokines. Furthermore, LPS plus nanomaterials, especially with size less than 50 nm, significantly elevated circulatory levels of fibrinogen, macrophage chemoattractant protein-1, and keratinocyte-derived chemoattractant, and von Willebrand factor as compared with LPS alone. The enhancement tended overall to be greater with the smaller nanomaterials than with the larger ones. In protocol 2, latex nanomaterials with all sizes did not significantly enhance the pathophysiology of allergic asthma, characterized by eosinophilic lung inflammation and Igs production, although latex nanomaterials with less than 50 nm significantly induced/enhanced neutrophilic lung inflammation. These results suggest that latex nanomaterials differentially affect two types of (innate and adaptive immunity-dominant) lung inflammation.
A brief review of the neurochemical effects of the convulsant agent L-methionine-dl-sulfoximine (MSO) on cerebral methylation reactions is presented. Our findings point to the involvement of a number of endogenous methyl acceptor molecules, including histamine, membrane phospholipids, and membrane proteins, in the mediation of the convulsant effect. Our findings also associate the inhibition of methylations by high levels of S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine in brain with protection against MSO-induced seizures. We propose that MSO acts by eliciting the acceleration of a regulatory methylation-demethylation sequence at key molecular sites, including the benzodiazepine receptor complex, which creates an imbalance in this sequence's normal mediation of convulsant-anticonvulsant mechanisms.
Cisplatin (CDDP) is a widely useful chemotherapeutic agent for the treatment of tumors including lung, ovary and testis. Acute renal injury, however, is the main side effect observed after CDDP treatment. This side effect is related to the apoptotic death in proximal tubular cells in the kidney and p53 protein has a central role in this process. On the other hand, alpha-mangostin (alpha-M), a xanthone derived from the pericarp of mangosteen, exerts a renoprotective effect against cisplatin-induced renal damage in rats. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether alpha-M protects proximal tubule renal epithelial cells (LLC-PK1) from CDDP-induced apoptotic death. Cells were co-incubated with 5 microM alpha-M and 100 microM CDDP for 24h. It was found that alpha-M attenuated the following alterations: the apoptotic cell death, the increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS), the glutathione depletion and the increase in p53 expression induced by CDDP. In conclusion, the preventive effect of alpha-M on CDDP-induced apoptotic death is associated to the inhibition of p53 expression and ROS generation.
Nitroglycerin (NTG), a NO donor, induces an attack in migraine patients approximately 4-6 h after administration. The causative mechanisms are not known, but the long delay leaves room for a central effect, such as a change in neuronal excitability and synaptic transmission of various CNS areas involved in pain and behaviour including trigeminal nucleus caudalis and monoaminergic brain stem nuclei. To explore the central action of NTG, we have studied its effects on amplitude and habituation of the nociceptive blink reflex (nBR) and the visual evoked potential (VEP) before, 1 h and 4 h after administration of NTG (1.2 mg sublingual) or placebo (vehicle sublingual) in two groups of 10 healthy volunteers. We found a significant decrease in nBR pain and reflex thresholds both 1 and 4 h post-NTG. At the 4 h time point R2 latency was shorter (p=0.04) and R2 response area increased (p<0.01) after NTG but not after placebo. Habituation tended to become more pronounced after both NTG and placebo administration. There was a significant amplitude increase in the 5th VEP block (p=0.03) at 1h after NTG and in the 1st block (p=0.04) at 4 h. VEP habituation was replaced by potentiation at both delays after NTG; the change in habituation slope was significant at 1h (p=0.02). There were no significant VEP changes in subjects who received sublingual placebo. In conclusion, we found that in healthy subjects sublingual NTG, but not its vehicle, induces changes in a trigeminal nociceptive reflex and an evoked cortical response which are comparable to those found immediately before and during an attack of migraine. These changes could be relevant for the attack-triggering effect of NTG in migraineurs.
We treated 6 patients with Stage II primary biliary cirrhosis with cholic acid (CA) 10 mg.kg-1 per day for 3 months and then with the same dose of ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA). A matching group of 6 patients was observed for 3 months without any therapy. Liver function tests and serum and stool bile acids were investigated before, during and at the end of CA and UDCA therapy. The results of liver function tests deteriorated after 6-8 weeks of CA therapy and the changes were correlated (r = 0.92) with an increase in alpha-dihydroxy-bile acids (chenodeoxycholic acid and deoxycholic acid) in the serum. The 24 h excretion of DCA in 24 h faeces was markedly increased. Ursodeoxycholic acid treatment improved liver function tests; after 4 weeks glutamate dehydrogenase (GLDH) had decreased. After 8-12 weeks of therapy ursodeoxycholic acid had increased to 50-60% of the total serum bile acids whereas the more apolar bile acids were significantly decreased. No changes in liver function tests or bile acid metabolism were found in the untreated group. Since CA and UDCA are non-toxic in man, this trial indicates that the apolar bile acids chenodeoxycholic acid and deoxycholic acid may be responsible for the deterioration of liver function in primary biliary cirrhosis. However, the therapeutic effect of UDCA cannot be explained merely by the decrease in alpha-dihydroxy-bile acids in the serum, since the laboratory results had improved prior to the decrease in the serum apolar bile acids.
We examined several parameters of urine excretion during a two-year initiation-promotion experiment in male Fischer rats using four weeks of N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazoly]formamide at 0.2% of the diet as the initiating agent and either 5% sodium saccharin or 2% L-tryptophan in the diet as promoting agents. Rats fed sodium saccharin increased their intake of water; this was accompanied by diarrhea and an increased urinary volume. Osmolality was decreased slightly. The total amount of sodium excreted was increased, although the concentration in the urine was similar to that of the controls or slightly increased. No abnormalities were observed in urinary potassium, calcium, urea, or other parameters measured except for the pH, which was slightly increased during the first three months of the experiment. There was no increase in the size or concentration of crystals in the urine of rats fed sodium saccharin, and no calculi were observed. Hypoglycemia and hypoglycosuria were present in sodium saccharin-fed rats and to a lesser extent in L-tryptophan-fed rats. No other abnormalities were seen in the urine of rats fed L-tryptophan. These data suggest that none of the urinary factors measured in our experiment, including crystal and calculus formation, correlated with the induction of urinary bladder lesions by sodium saccharin.
It is well established that a fully competent immune response is required for the successful drug treatment of visceral leishmaniasis. However, recent studies have cast some doubt as to which elements of the immune response synergize with chemotherapeutic treatment. The role of the Th2 response and IL-4 in particular during visceral leishmaniasis awaits clarification. We, therefore, examined the effectiveness of sodium stibogluconate treatment on Leishmania donovani infection in BALB/c wild-type and IL-4-/- mice. Parasite burdens in L. donovani-infected IL-4+/- and IL-4-/-, as we have previously shown for B6/129 mice, were similar, despite an apparent type 1 antibody response in infected IL-4-/- mice, demonstrated by increased levels of parasite-specific IgG2a and decreased IgG1. Unexpectedly IL-4-/- mice responded poorly to sodium stibogluconate treatment with increased parasite burdens in all tissues examined. Furthermore, drug therapy of IL-4-/- but not IL-4+/+ mice resulted in significant reductions in splenocyte IFN-gamma mRNA transcripts and in serum IFN-gamma levels. These results demonstrate that IL-4 has an important role in effective anti-leishmanial chemotherapy which seems to be related to modulation of IFN-gamma production.
Preclinical studies have shown that the vitamin D analogue EB 1089 has significantly less calcaemic activity than its parent compound 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (1,25(OH)2D3) and significant anti-tumour activity. This phase I trial was designed to evaluate the calcaemic effect of the drug in patients with advanced cancer. EB 1089 was given to 36 patients with advanced breast and colorectal cancer in doses of between 0.15 and 17.0 microg m(-2) day(-1). Serial serum and urine calcium, urine creatinine and serum parathyroid hormone (PTH) were monitored. Hypercalcaemia was seen in all patients receiving 17.0 microg m(-2) day(-1). Hypercalcaemia attributable to EB 1089 was reversible by discontinuing or reducing EB 1089 therapy. During the first 5 days of treatment, urine calcium (P = 0.0001) and serum-corrected calcium (P = 0.027) were related to EB 1089 dose, whereas serum parathyroid hormone (P = 0.0001) showed an inverse relationship. Twenty-one patients received compassionate treatment for between 10 and 234 days. No complete or partial responses were seen. Six patients on treatment for more than 90 days showed stabilization of disease. EB 1089 was well tolerated and adverse events considered to be caused by EB 1089 were limited to dose-dependent effects on calcium metabolism. The dose estimated to be tolerable for most patients from this study is around 7 microg m(-2) day(1). These data support previous work that has demonstrated EB 1089 to be significantly less calcaemic than 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3.
To evaluate the influence of renal function on the efficacy of converting-enzyme inhibition in patients with severe chronic heart failure, we measured the long-term hemodynamic and clinical responses to captopril in 101 consecutive patients with heart failure grouped according to pretreatment serum creatinine concentration (group I, less than 1.4 mg/dL; group II, 1.4 to 2.8 mg/dL; and group III, greater than 2.8 mg/dL). After 1 to 3 months of treatment, patients with preserved renal function (group I) had greater increases in stroke volume index and greater decreases in left ventricular filling pressure and systemic vascular resistance than did patients with renal impairment (groups II and III) (p less than 0.05). Clinical improvement paralleled these hemodynamic benefits; only 2 of 12 patients with severe renal insufficiency (group III) improved clinically compared with 29 of 40 patients with preserved renal function (group I) and 29 of 49 patients with mild-to-moderate renal impairment (group II), (p less than 0.005). Therapy-limiting rash and dysgeusia occurred most frequently in patients with renal impairment. Our findings support an important role for the kidneys in mediating the beneficial actions of captopril in patients with severe congestive heart failure.
In this study, we compared the roles of CysLT receptor type 1 (CysLTR1) and leukotriene C4 synthase (LTC4S) gene polymorphisms in two major aspirin-related allergic diseases, aspirin-intolerant asthma (AIA) and aspirin-induced chronic urticaria/angioedema (AICU). CysLTR1-634C>T and LTC4S-444A>C polymorphisms were genotyped and its functional effect on the promoter activity was compared. As in vivo functional study, changes of peripheral mRNA level of CysLTR1 were measured by real-time PCR before and after aspirin challenge. A significant association was found for the CysLTR1 promoter polymorphism and the AIA phenotype compared to AICU (P = 0.015). In U937 cells, the variant genotype reporter construct showed significantly higher promoter activity than the common genotype (P < 0.05). The CysLTR1 mRNA levels increased significantly after aspirin challenge in AIA patients (P = 0.013). In conclusion, the CysLTR1 polymorphism may contribute to develop to the AIA phenotype and be used as a genetic marker for differentiating two major aspirin hypersensitivity phenotypes.
