The intermittent administration of methamphetamine produces behavioral sensitization to methamphetamine. In the limbic forebrain, mainly including the nucleus accumbens, of mice that had been intermittently treated with methamphetamine, we found a significant increase in mRNA of a chemokine, CCR2. This increase was accompanied by a significant increase in histone H3 lysine 4 (H3K4) trimethylation at its promoter. Interestingly, the maintenance of sensitization to methamphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion was significantly decreased in CCR2 knockout mice. These findings suggest that increased CCR2 associated with epigenetic modification after the intermittent administration of methamphetamine may be associated with the maintenance of sensitization to methamphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion.
Pneumonitis, bilateral pleural effusions, echocardiographic evidence of cardiac tamponade, and positive autoantibodies developed in a 43-year-old man, who was receiving long-term sulfasalazine therapy for chronic ulcerative colitis. After cessation of the sulfasalazine and completion of a six-week course of corticosteroids, these problems resolved over a period of four to six months. It is suggested that the patient had sulfasalazine-induced lupus, which manifested with serositis and pulmonary parenchymal involvement in the absence of joint symptoms. Physicians who use sulfasalazine to treat patients with inflammatory bowel disease should be aware of the signs of sulfasalazine-induced lupus syndrome.
To determine whether myalgias/arthralgias occurring in cancer patients who receive quinupristin/dalfopristin are associated with biliary tract dysfunction.
We studied 56 patients with vancomycin-resistant enterococcal infections who were treated with quinupristin/dalfopristin 7.5 mg/kg every 8 h for a mean duration of 12 days (range 2-52 days). Liver function tests, including a test for alkaline phosphatase, were performed before, during and after the end of therapy. All patients were followed for 1 month after completion of therapy.
Thirty-eight (68%) of the 56 patients responded. Myalgias/arthralgias were the leading adverse events occurring in 20 (36%) of the patients. Patients with myalgias/arthralgias had significantly higher levels of alkaline phosphatase (mean 318.7 IU/L) during the mid-term therapy cycle compared with patients without any joint or muscular pain (mean 216.3 IU/L, P = 0.05). In addition, 3/18 (16.6%) patients with myalgias/arthralgias had more than five-fold the normal levels of alkaline phosphatase, which did not occur in any of the other patients who did not develop myalgias/arthralgias (P = 0.04). All myalgias/arthralgias resolved after the discontinuation of quinupristin/dalfopristin. By univariate analysis, other factors associated with myalgias/arthralgias were relapse of haematological malignancy (P = 0.01), receiving tacrolimus within 1 month prior to treatment (P = 0.04) and receiving methotrexate during antimicrobial therapy (P = 0.05).
Myalgias/arthralgias occur frequently in cancer patients receiving quinupristin/dalfopristin and may be associated with biliary tract dysfunction, as measured by alkaline phosphatase or other factors that could lead to intra-hepatic cholestasis, such as relapse of haematological malignancy or treatment with tacrolimus or methotrexate.
A 9-year-old boy developed acute renal failure following intravenous acyclovir (30 mg/kg per day) administered for 6 days to treat herpetic encephalitis. Physical findings and urine output were normal, except for increasing blood urea nitrogen (BUN), serum creatinine and mild proteinuria. Acyclovir was discontinued. However BUN and serum creatinine continued to increase and peaked on the following day at 8.6 mmol/l of urea (24 mg/dl) and 194 mumol/l (2.2 mg/ml), respectively. Conservative treatment and hydration were carried out. The kidney function returned to normal within 1 week. The use of acyclovir when necessary in renal failure patients is discussed.
The purpose of this study is to determine the prevalence and the patterns of movement disorders (MD) in outpatients submitted to the chronic use of cinnarizine (cz) or flunarizine (fz), and to establish the main risk factors for MD development. Over a period of 3 months, data were collected from outpatients who were chronic users of cz or fz in a municipal health institute. A total of 26 outpatients were included and all of them were submitted to a protocol that included DSM-4 diagnosis criteria for drug-induced movement disorders, parkinsonism (PK) and depression. Parkinsonism was diagnosed in 34% of the patients, PK plus akathisia, PK plus akathisia and bucco-linguo-masticatory syndrome (BLMS), isolated BLMS and dystonia were found in 4% patients each. Patients with BLMS had the highest median age and the longest average period in which they used the drugs. The affected group, when compared to the non-affected one, presented with higher rates of depression. This study demonstrates the existence of a direct relationship between the time of use of cz and fz, the age and the prevalence of PK and other MD. It also suggests that these drugs increase the incidence of depression.
A single injection of mipafox was administered to both Long-Evans hooded rats and White Leghorn hens in dosages which inhibited the activity of brain neurotoxic esterase 30-50%, 60-80%, or greater than 80% four hr after intoxication. All animals were monitored for clinical evidence of organophosphorus induced delayed neuropathy for 21 days, euthanatized, and regions of the nervous system were histologically evaluated. Only hens manifested clinical signs of neuropathy; however, light and electron microscopic lesions were present in the nervous systems of both species. In rats, these lesions were well developed in only the highest dosage group and confined to the rostral level of the fasciculus gracilis in the medulla oblongata. Swollen axons containing a single vacuole filled with flocculent material were the most prominent lesion in rats. Hens manifested more extensive and varied fiber breakdown in multiple spinal cord tracts, with the intensity of degeneration increasing with increasing dosages of mipafox. Both marked Wallerian-like degeneration and swollen axons filled with aggregates of cellular debris were observed in the nervous systems of hens. This study indicates that both rats and hens are susceptible to OPIDN. However, there are qualitative and quantitative differences in both clinical manifestations and histologic appearances between the two species.
To present an unusual cause of bilateral sensorineural hearing loss mimicking chemotherapy-induced ototoxicity.
A 76-year-old woman with bilateral sudden sensorineural hearing loss after chemotherapy for non-Hodgkin lymphoma was referred for cochlear implantation.
Prednisone and acyclovir were administered empirically during the course of the diagnostic evaluation.
Diagnostic tests were obtained, including audiometry, positron emission tomography/computed tomographic imaging, and magnetic resonance imaging scan of the brain with gadolinium.
Audiometry revealed bilateral profound sensorineural hearing loss without improvement after steroid and acyclovir treatment. Postchemotherapy positron emission tomography/computed tomographic imaging obtained 1 week after onset of hearing loss suggested the lymphoma to be in remission. However, magnetic resonance imaging obtained a few weeks later, concurrent with progression of symptoms to include facial palsy and numbness, demonstrated enhancement and thickening of multiple cranial nerves, consistent with neurolymphomatosis (malignant lymphocytic infiltration of nerves).
Particular vigilance must be given to the potential for malignant invasion of the peripheral nervous system in the context of new-onset sensorineural hearing loss after chemotherapy. Such a neurologic deficit should not be assumed to be chemotherapy induced even if the hearing loss is bilaterally symmetric and the only neurologic abnormality.
Continuous vancomycin infusion is increasingly used for outpatient management of infections, but the relationship between vancomycin and nephrotoxicity is controversial. We investigated the risk factors associated with nephrotoxicity in this setting.
A retrospective cohort study of patients receiving continuous vancomycin infusion as outpatient parenteral antibiotic therapy (OPAT) was performed. The likelihood of developing nephrotoxicity (> or =50% increase in serum creatinine from baseline) was evaluated in relation to demographic variables, underlying co-morbidities, infectious disease diagnoses, concomitant drug exposures and vancomycin concentration. Logistic regression was used to determine the association of various variables. Classification and regression tree analysis was used to determine the most significant breakpoint for continuous variables.
We examined 102 adult patients between January 2004 and June 2007. The mean +/- SD age, baseline serum creatinine and steady-state vancomycin concentration were 48.2 +/- 17.6 years, 78.0 +/- 32.5 micromol/L and 15.5 +/- 10.8 mg/L, respectively. The majority of the patients (66.7%) were treated for bone and joint infection. The cumulative incidence of nephrotoxicity was 15.7%. Nephrotoxicity was found to be associated with hypertension [odds ratio (OR) 5.302 (95% confidence interval (CI) 1.159-24.246), P = 0.031], exposure to aminoglycosides [OR 6.594 (95% CI 1.026-42.385), P = 0.047], loop diuretics [OR 8.123 (95% CI 1.449-45.528), P = 0.017], and steady-state vancomycin concentration > or =28 mg/L [OR 21.236 (95% CI 2.687-167.857), P = 0.004].
We have identified independent risk factors for nephrotoxicity in patients receiving continuous infusion vancomycin in OPAT. A serum steady-state vancomycin concentration > or =28 mg/L markedly increases the risk.
Tumor cells have an invasive and metastatic phenotype that is the main cause of death for cancer patients. Tumor establishment and penetration consists of a series of complex processes involving multiple changes in gene expression. In this study, intraperitoneal administration of a high concentration of ascorbic acid inhibited tumor establishment and increased survival of BALB/C mice implanted with S-180 sarcoma cancer cells. To identify proteins involved in the ascorbic acid-mediated inhibition of tumor progression, changes in the liver proteome associated with ascorbic acid treatment of BALB/C mice implanted with S-180 were investigated using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry. Eleven protein spots were identified whose expression was different between control and ascorbic acid treatment groups. In particular, Raf kinase inhibitory protein (RKIP) and annexin A5 expression were quantitatively up-regulated. The increase in RKIP protein level was detected in the tumor tissue and accompanied by an increase in mRNA level. Our results suggest a possibility that these proteins are related to the ascorbic acid-mediated suppression of tumor formation.
The mode of action of amitraz is thought to be its toxic effects on a receptor for a neuromodulator, octopamine. Resistance could arise from modifications of this receptor so that it would not be affected by amitraz. A putative octopamine receptor cDNA was cloned and sequenced from a cattle tick in Australia. However, when the sequence was compared between Australian strains of amitraz-susceptible and resistant ticks, no differences were detected. We have sequenced this putative octopamine receptor gene in tick strains from America. The American ticks have a sequence almost identical to that of the Australian ticks with no deletions or additions in the open reading frame. In a Brazilian strain and a Mexican strain that are very resistant to amitraz, there are two nucleotide substitutions that result in amino acids different from all the susceptible strains. Discovery of these mutations only in amitraz-resistant ticks provides the first evidence for the possibility of an altered pesticide target site as a mechanism of amitraz resistance in ticks.
Lamivudine treatment of hepatitis B after orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) is often accompanied by fast viral-resistance formation. Although no clinical data are available, in vitro data indicate that lamivudine-resistant reinfection has a mild course because of defective viral replication. Between 1996 and 1999, a total of 34 patients were treated with lamivudine because of hepatitis B recurrence after OLT. All patients developed reinfection despite long-term passive immunoprophylaxis with hepatitis B immunoglobulin, diagnosed by positive hepatitis B surface antigen and positive hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA. Before treatment with lamivudine, 21 of these patients underwent a course of famciclovir and developed resistance. Monthly laboratory tests and sequential liver biopsies were performed during the follow-up period. Nineteen of 34 patients (56%) developed lamivudine resistance during the follow-up period of 12 to 49 months. One- and 3-year graft survival rates after the diagnosis of lamivudine resistance were 89% and 66%, respectively. In most cases, lamivudine resistance was associated with high viral replication (3,012 +/- 574 pg/mL 1 month after the diagnosis of lamivudine resistance); however, liver enzyme levels were only moderately elevated (alanine aminotransferase [ALT], 45 +/- 16 U/L). Only 3 patients (15%) showed a rapid increase in ALT level to more than 500 U/L within 3 months after resistance developed. All other patients had mildly elevated liver enzyme levels during the first 6 to 8 months after lamivudine resistance. In the later course, liver enzyme levels increased in most patients. Fourteen patients with elevated transaminase levels were switched to lamivudine plus interferon alfa (n = 8) or lamivudine plus famciclovir therapy (n = 6). This combination was successful in most cases, decreasing HBV DNA and liver enzyme levels. Four patients with lamivudine resistance died during follow-up, only 1 patient because of HBV reinfection. In addition, 2 patients underwent retransplantation because of hepatitis B cirrhosis of the first graft. Compared with historic courses of wild-type recurrence, lamivudine-resistant reinfection is characterized by a milder clinical course. Fulminant cases were not observed; however, in three cases, chronic liver failure developed. The combination of different antivirals diminished viral replication after lamivudine resistance. In the future, new antiviral agents, such as adefovir, might further expand therapeutic options.
The purpose of our study was to examine the effect of intravenous (IV) nicardipine pretreatment (30 micrograms.kg-1), given three minutes before an IV bolus of bupivacaine to determine its effect on the incidence of fatal bupivacaine cardio-respiratory toxicity in adult male Sprague Dawley rats anaesthetized with intraperitoneal pentobarbital. Fifty rats were divided into four groups. Groups I and II (n = 10 each) received 3.5 mg.kg-1 0.5 per cent bupivacaine and Groups III and IV (n = 15 each) received 5.0 mg.kg-1, 0.5 per cent bupivacaine. Groups I and III received pretreatment with normal saline before bupivacaine, whereas Groups II and IV were given pretreatment with nicardipine, 30 mg.kg-1. There was no difference in the incidence of survival between the nicardipine pretreatment group and the saline placebo pretreatment group given 3.5 mg.kg-1, 0.5 per cent bupivacaine (no fatalities in either group). However, there was significant protection by nicardipine pretreatment in the group given 5 mg.kg-1, 0.5 per cent bupivacaine (13 of 15 survived, compared with only 4 of 15 in the saline pretreatment group, P less than 0.001). In conclusion, our data demonstrate that in rats given 0.5 per cent bupivacaine, 5 mg.kg-1, nicardipine pretreatment protected against fatal cardio-respiratory toxicity.
Because pesticides may operate through different mechanisms, the authors studied the risk of prostate cancer associated with specific pesticides in the Agricultural Health Study (1993-2007). With 1,962 incident cases, including 919 aggressive prostate cancers among 54,412 applicators, this is the largest study to date. Rate ratios and 95% confidence intervals were calculated by using Poisson regression to evaluate lifetime use of 48 pesticides and prostate cancer incidence. Three organophosphate insecticides were significantly associated with aggressive prostate cancer: fonofos (rate ratio (RR) for the highest quartile of exposure (Q4) vs. nonexposed = 1.63, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.22, 2.17; P(trend) < 0.001); malathion (RR for Q4 vs. nonexposed = 1.43, 95% CI: 1.08, 1.88; P(trend) = 0.04); and terbufos (RR for Q4 vs. nonexposed = 1.29, 95% CI: 1.02, 1.64; P(trend) = 0.03). The organochlorine insecticide aldrin was also associated with increased risk of aggressive prostate cancer (RR for Q4 vs. nonexposed = 1.49, 95% CI: 1.03, 2.18; P(trend) = 0.02). This analysis has overcome several limitations of previous studies with the inclusion of a large number of cases with relevant exposure and detailed information on use of specific pesticides at 2 points in time. Furthermore, this is the first time specific pesticides are implicated as risk factors for aggressive prostate cancer.
One of the major complications after high-dose methotrexate (HDMTX) infusions is renal damage. We investigated the occurrence of proteinuria after HDMTX administration in children with pediatric malignancies (acute lymphoid leukaemia, osteosarcoma Burkitt's lymphoma). In the period 1989-1990 we gave 52 HDMTX courses to 24 children. During this period, prehydration and extra urinary alkalisation were performed only if the urinary specific gravity was over 1010 or if the urinary pH fell below 7. Using this schedule the mean values obtained for protein extraction were: before the therapy, 0.12 +/- 0.03 g/m2; on day 1 after MTX treatment, 0.38 +/- 0.06 g/m2; and on day 2 after the MTX infusion, 0.39 +/- 0.11 g/m2 (P < 0.01). A significant increase in proteinuria (> 0.2 g/m2 post- vs pretreatment) was detectable in 54% of the patients. In the period 1991-1992 we modified the hydration-alkalisation schedule to include i.v. prehydration for 18-24 h at 3 l/m2/day with a 0.45% NaCl-5% glucose solution along with sodium bicarbonate and posthydration for 72 h with the same solution. On this protocol the mean values determined for the urinary protein content were all in the normal range (pretreatment, 0.03 g/m2/day; day 1, 0.05 g/m2/day; and day 2, 0.08 g/m2/day). These findings were significantly different from the previous results (P < 0.05).
Individuals with cancer have two to four times an increased risk of depressive disorders compared to the general population. Depressive symptoms are related to impaired daily life functioning and a rise in health care utilization. Pharmacological treatments for depression are usually effective to reduce depressive symptoms, but sometimes lead to serious adverse reactions. We describe a cancer patient who developed sudden psychological and behavioral abnormalities after administration of the antidepressant paroxetine. Impulsive and aggressive symptoms are a so-called activation syndrome that can cause violent or suicidal tendencies. Palliative care staff should pay close attention to these potentially lethal reactions and make an immediate and correct diagnosis.
To evaluate new drugs' potential for hepatosteatosis, we developed a cell-based assay using a fluorescent fatty acid analog: BODIPY558/568 C12. Rat primary hepatocytes were exposed to positive reference compounds [cyclosporine A (CsA), clofibrate (CFR), tetracycline (TC), valproic acid (VPA), carbon tetrachloride (CCl4), tamoxifen (TMX)] in the presence of BODIPY558/568 C12. The formation of fluorscecent particles or lipid droplets in the cytoplasm was confirmed by confocal laser scanning microscopy and electron microscopy respectively. The accumulation of BODIPY558/568 C12 was measured by fluorometry and high content imaging method. All positive reference compounds increased fluorescent particles in number and fluorescence intensity. High content imaging was more sensitive and selective method than fluorometry to detect fluorescent particles. Gene expression analysis of the hepatocytes showed two patterns: genes related to lipid metabolism/synthesis were down-regulated by oxidative stress inducing compounds: CsA, TC and TMX, and up-regulated by peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha agonists: CFR and VPA. From these findings, we concluded that the cell-based assay developed in this study is an appropriate method to predict drugs' potential for hepatosteatosis, and gene expression analysis is useful to profile the mechanism of the hepatosteatosis.
Motorcycle exhaust (ME) is a major source of air pollution and a potential health hazard in urban areas where motorcycles are a popular means of transportation. The main objectives of this study were to determine the ability of ME to cause cardiotoxicity in rats and investigate the possible mechanisms of toxicity. Male rats were exposed to 1:10 diluted ME by inhalation 2 h daily and Monday through Friday for 8 weeks. Exposure to ME increased heart weight and decreased cardiac antioxidant enzymes glutathione S-transferase (GST), superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase activities in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. Analysis of echocardiographic parameters indicated that ME increased left ventricle posterior wall thickness, interventricular septum thickness and left ventricle mass. Histopathological examinations of the hearts revealed that ME exposure caused focal cardial degeneration and necrosis, mononuclear cell infiltration, and fibrosis. The results of reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction studies showed that ME decreased GST-M1 and GST-P1 mRNA expression and increased the expression of proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-1β, hypertrophy marker atrial natriuretic peptide, fibrosis markers type I and III collagen, profibrotic cytokine connective tissue growth factor, and hypertrophy and fibrosis mediator transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1 in the heart. The data of Western blot analysis showed that cardiac TGF-β1 protein was induced by ME. These findings demonstrate that subchronic ME exposure caused hypertrophy and fibrosis, and modulated GST and TGF-β1 expression in rat heart possibly by mechanisms involving oxidative stress and inflammation.
Between 1981 and 1989, 3 of 134 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) treated with methotrexate (MTX) developed clinically significant hepatic dysfunction and showed histologic evidence of severe liver disease (fibrosis and cirrhosis). Factors identified in these patients that may have been linked to liver toxicity included diabetes, congestive heart failure and Felty's syndrome. In the patient group that received a post-MTX liver biopsy, pulmonary fibrosis and obesity were significantly associated with hepatic fibrosis/cirrhosis. Severe liver disease may occur in patients with RA treated with low dose MTX (less than 3%). Early liver biopsy is recommended in selected cases.
Bortezomib (BTZ) is a proteasome inhibitor approved in the treatment of multiple myeloma (MM). Bortezomib-induced peripheral neuropathy (BIPN) is an unpredictable dose-limiting adverse event in one-third of patients. In the present study, 58 relapsed/refractory MM patients treated with BTZ were analyzed. The study's aim was to compare BIPN incidence and severity between both groups and to identify risk factors of BIPN. Twenty-four MM patients were evaluated by a neurologist periodically during BTZ treatment in order to prevent high-grade BIPN. Thirty-five MM patients previously treated with BTZ were reviewed. Seven (29%) patients in the monitored group and 19 (56%) in the historical cohort developed BIPN (p = 0.044). In the univariate analysis, factors related to BIPN in the whole series were age, number of vincristine and BTZ cycles, lactate dehydrogenase and neurological monitoring. Multivariate analysis revealed that absence of neurological monitoring (Hazard Ratio [HR]: 4.94 IC 95% [1.31-18.68], p = 0.019) and prior treatment with vincristine (HR: 1.34 IC 95% [1.04-1.74], p = 0.026) were associated with greater risk of BIPN. Baseline total neuropathy score-clinical version (TNSc) was a good predictor of BIPN, with higher risk for patients with TNSc >2 (p = 0.038). Neurological monitoring is useful for diminishing BIPN. Neurological monitoring of patients with baseline TNSc >2 should be considered.
The current study evaluated the effects of chronic administration of lithium on renal functioning in an intellectually disabled population.
Fifty-seven lithium-treated individuals were compared with 24 behaviorally symptomatic controls using a retrospective chart review method. Serum creatinine levels and creatinine clearance activities were compared at baseline, at the time of peak creatinine levels, and at the end of the study in 2006.
The mean length of lithium administration was 8.76 years (range, 1-23 years). Chronic lithium administration yielded a significant increase in peak serum creatinine levels and a decrease in the corresponding creatinine clearance activity. Of the subjects, 22.8% had peak creatinine levels of 1.5 mg or higher per 100 mL (a common threshold for renal insufficiency). This contrasted with 0% (none) for the symptomatic control subjects (P = 0.008). In addition, 26.3% of the lithium-treated subjects had creatinine clearance activities less than 55 mL/min and 17.5% had less than 50 mL/min, both indicative of renal insufficiency, versus none of the symptomatic control subjects (P = 0.004 and P = 0.029, respectively). With lithium withdrawal, further deterioration of renal function did not occur in most cases, and many showed improvement, with decreases in serum creatinine levels and increases in creatinine clearance activity.
Chronic administration of lithium led to clinically significant increases in serum creatinine levels and decreases in creatinine clearance in lithium-treated intellectually disabled individuals.
The well-known teratogenicity of several anticonvulsant medications is associated with an elevated level of oxidative metabolites that are normally eliminated by the enzyme epoxide hydrolase. In this study, we attempted to determine whether infants who are at risk for congenital malformations could be identified prenatally by the measurement of epoxide hydrolase activity. Before fetuses at risk could be identified, it was necessary to measure epoxide hydrolase activity in a randomly selected sample of amniocytes from 100 pregnant women. According to a thin-layer chromatographic assay, the randomly selected sample population had an apparently trimodal distribution, suggestive of an enzyme regulated by a single gene with two allelic forms. Fetuses homozygous for the recessive allele would have low epoxide hydrolase activity and would therefore be at risk if exposed to anticonvulsant drugs during gestation. In a prospective study of 19 pregnancies monitored by amniocentesis, an adverse outcome was predicted for four fetuses on the basis of low enzyme activity (less than 30 percent of the standard). In all four cases, the mother was receiving phenytoin monotherapy, and after birth the infants had clinical findings compatible with the fetal hydantoin syndrome. The 15 fetuses with enzyme activity above 30 percent of the standard were not considered to be at risk, and all 15 neonates lacked any characteristic features of the fetal hydantoin syndrome. These preliminary results suggest that this enzymatic biomarker may prove useful in determining which infants are at increased risk for congenital malformations induced by anticonvulsant drugs.
Increased masticatory muscle tone after administration of suxamethonium has been demonstrated in children when combined with volatile anaesthetics. Whether volatiles are a prerequisite for this phenomenon is not known. In this study upper airway muscle tone, including the tone of the masticatory muscles, was determined in 54 children (age range 2-15 years), anaesthetized with propofol, fentanyl and nitrous oxide and avoiding any use of volatiles. The children were either relaxed with suxamethonium (n = 26) or vecuronium (n = 28). The forces applied during laryngoscopy were used to quantify upper airway muscle tone and were significantly greater in the suxamethonium group than in the vecuronium group: maximally applied force was 25 N versus 21 N (P = 0.008), and mean applied force was 16 N versus 13 N (P = 0.006), respectively. The results of this study indicate that upper airway muscle tone increases after administration of suxamethonium in children independent of the presence of volatile anaesthetics. Moreover, increased muscle tone had no effect on the difficulty of laryngoscopy or the intubation conditions. Increased masseter muscle rigidity after suxamethonium could be due to the very unique characteristics of this muscle.
We have studied the effectiveness of pretreatment with atracurium 0.05 mg kg-1 and placebo before administration of suxamethonium, in the prevention of postoperative myalgia in inpatients having surgery in which rapid postoperative mobilization was possible (vaginal hysterectomy). On the second day after operation, the patients pretreated with atracurium had significantly fewer postoperative myalgias than those receiving placebo (P < 0.025). All patients were significantly more active on the second day compared with the first day after operation (P < 0.025). Possible causal relationships are discussed.
Recently we demonstrated that centrally administrated melittin, a phospholipase A(2) (PLA(2)) activator, caused the pressor effect in normotensive, conscious rats. In the present study, we aimed to determine the cardiovascular effect of peripherally injected melittin and the involvement of the central cholinergic system on these effects in the normotensive conscious rats. For this reason, 250, 500 or 1000microg/kg doses of melittin were injected intraperitoneally to normotensive male Sprague Dawley rats. Melittin produced dose- and time-dependent increases in mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR). Both peripheral (5mg/kg; i.p.) and central (500microg; i.c.v.) pretreatment with indomethacin, nonselective inhibitor of cyclooxygenase (COX) 1 and 2, totally abolished cardiovascular effect of melittin. Intraperitoneal (i.p.) pretreatment with propranolol, a nonselective beta-adrenergic receptor blocker, completely abolished the tachycardic response to melittin. Also, the pressor effect of melittin was partially attenuated in these rats. In order to test the mediation of the central cholinergic system on the pressor and tachycardic effects of melittin, the rats were pretreated with atropine sulfate (10microg; i.c.v.), a cholinergic nonselective muscarinic receptor antagonist, mecamylamine (50microg; i.c.v.), a cholinergic nonselective nicotinic receptor antagonist, methyllycaconitine (10microg; i.c.v.) or alpha-bungarotoxin (10microg; i.c.v.), selective antagonists of alpha7 subtype nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (alpha7nAChRs) 15min prior to melittin (500microg/kg; i.p.) injection. Pretreatment with mecamylamine, methyllycaconitine or alpha-bungarotoxin partially diminished the pressor and tachycardic response to melittin in the normotensive conscious rats whereas pretreatment with atropine sulfate had no effect. In conclusion, our data demonstrate that peripherally administered melittin exerts a clear pressor and tachycardic effect by activating COX pathway. The activation of central cholinergic nicotinic receptors, predominantly alpha7nAChRs, appears to be involved in the pressor and tachycardic effects of the drug.
The zebrafish is an excellent model for mammalian hemostasis and thrombosis since it possesses coagulation factors, thrombocyte receptors and responds to anti-coagulant and anti-platelet drugs commonly used in clinical treatment. In this study, exposure of larvae to FeCl(3) or laser irradiation produced a vessel injury that caused a visible vascular occlusion as a result of thrombus formation. Using the time to vascular occlusion as an assay, two screening strategies were tested for their utility in identifying novel genes involved in thrombosis. Morpholino knockdown studies of zebrafish factor VII showed a prolongation of the time to occlusion of the vessel whereas knockdown of the recently discovered factor VIIi resulted in a shortening of the time. Genetic screening of a population of zebrafish identified mutants that showed a prolongation of the time to occlusion. Bulk segregant analysis showed linkage of one mutant to a locus, victoria, on linkage group 7. Thus, the vascular occlusion assay developed in this report measures in vivo thrombus formation and is a powerful tool for identifying novel genes involved in thrombosis.
Hearing loss can be caused by a variety of insults, including acoustic trauma and exposure to ototoxins, that principally effect the viability of sensory hair cells via the MAP kinase (MAPK) cell death signaling pathway that incorporates c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). We evaluated the otoprotective efficacy of D-JNKI-1, a cell permeable peptide that blocks the MAPK-JNK signal pathway. The experimental studies included organ cultures of neonatal mouse cochlea exposed to an ototoxic drug and cochleae of adult guinea pigs that were exposed to either an ototoxic drug or acoustic trauma. Results obtained from the organ of Corti explants demonstrated that the MAPK-JNK signal pathway is associated with injury and that blocking of this signal pathway prevented apoptosis in areas of aminoglycoside damage. Treatment of the neomycin-exposed organ of Corti explants with D-JNKI-1 completely prevented hair cell death initiated by this ototoxin. Results from in vivo studies showed that direct application of D-JNKI-1 into the scala tympani of the guinea pig cochlea prevented nearly all hair cell death and permanent hearing loss induced by neomycin ototoxicity. Local delivery of D-JNKI-1 also prevented acoustic trauma-induced permanent hearing loss in a dose-dependent manner. These results indicate that the MAPK-JNK signal pathway is involved in both ototoxicity and acoustic trauma-induced hair cell loss and permanent hearing loss. Blocking this signal pathway with D-JNKI-1 is of potential therapeutic value for long-term protection of both the morphological integrity and physiological function of the organ of Corti during times of oxidative stress.
