Anaphylaxis to propofol is rare and has not been previously reported in Asia. We describe a 35-year-old man with nasopharyngeal carcinoma who developed acute respiratory distress and hypotension after propofol infusion for parenteral anesthesia for Port-A-Cath insertion. Chest roentgenogram showed bilateral diffuse alveolar infiltrates. Respiratory failure ensued, and vocal cord swelling was found during endotracheal intubation. Hemodynamic data included a low cardiac index, a low systemic vascular resistance, and a high pulmonary vascular resistance. His condition and the shadows on the chest roentgenogram improved quickly after fluid challenge and the use of vasopressors, antihistamine, and intravenous steroids. Early awareness and appropriate management are necessary to prevent a fatal outcome in patients with propofol anaphylaxis.
In this work, we show extensive phosphorylation of the alpha subunit of translation initiation factor 2 (eIF2alpha) occurring in the brain of mice subjected to 30 min of status epilepticus induced by pilocarpine. eIF2alpha(P) immunoreactivity was detected in the hippocampal pyramidal layer CA1 and CA3, cortex layer V, thalamus and amygdala. After 2 h of recovery, there was a marked decrease in total brain eIF2alpha(P), with the cortex layer V showing the most pronounced loss of anti-eIF2alpha(P) labeling, whereas the CA1 subregion had a significant increase in eIF2alpha(P). These results indicate that inhibition of protein synthesis in experimental models of epilepsy might be due to low levels of eIF2-GTP caused by the phosphorylation of eIF2alpha, and suggest that translational control may contribute to cell fate in the affected areas.
Forty-five patients with moderately severe perennial bronchial asthma were challenged by ingestion of: acetylsalicyclic acid (ASA); 4 azo dyes (tartrazine, sunset yellow, amaranth, and ponceau); 3 non-azo dyes (erythrosine, brilliant blue, and indigotin); sodium benzoate (NaB); parahydroxybenzoic acid (OHBA); butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA); and butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT). A fall in forced expiratory volume is one second (FEV1) greater than 25% from baseline was considered positive. Seven patients who gave an unequivocal history of aspirin intolerance were not challenged with ASA; an additional 13 had positive open challenges to ASA, giving an apparent incidence of aspirin sensitivity of 20/45. The presence of nasal polyps, simusitis, or the regular use of corticosteroids, either singly or in combination, was not associated with an increased incidence of reactions to ASA. Significant bronchoconstriction to open challenges with agents other than ASA was less frequent. Positive open challenges to all substances except aspirin were followed by double-blind challenges which were positive in only 3 instances: 1 each with erythrosine, ponceau, and NaB/OHBA. Our findings confirm that ASA intolerance is relatively common but suggest on the other hand that reactions to dyes and preservatives are uncommon cause of clinically significant bronchoconstriction in moderately severe perennial asthmatics.
Patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) constitute a unique population at high risk for the premature development of coronary artery disease (CAD) and in whom long-term hypocholesterolemic therapy to reduce elevated levels of low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol is most clearly indicated. Optimal therapy invariably requires diet regulation plus hypolipidemic drug therapy. When used as single agents, the bile-acid sequestrants, cholestyramine and colestipol, lower LDL cholesterol concentrations by 20% to 35% in compliant patients, whereas decreases of 20% to 30% can be achieved with nicotinic acid in doses of 3 to 6 g/day. Bezafibrate, fenofibrate, and ciprofibrate have also been shown to lower LDL cholesterol levels by 20% to 30%, and these drugs are more effective than gemfibrozil and clofibrate. Probucol, neomycin, and D-thyroxine reduce LDL cholesterol concentrations by 10% to 15% in single-drug use. Clinical trials with a new class of drugs that inhibit the rate-limiting enzyme in cholesterol biosynthesis, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase, and that includes lovastatin, simvastatin, and pravastatin indicate that these drugs lower LDL cholesterol concentrations by 30% to 50% in patients with heterozygous FH. Combined drug therapy with a bile-acid sequestrant and nicotinic acid lowers LDL cholesterol by 40% to 55%, whereas fenofibrate, bezafibrate, or probucol plus a bile-acid sequestrant results in reductions varying from 25% to 50%. The combinations of an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor with either a bile-acid sequestrant or nicotinic acid appears to be the most promising, and these regimens reduce LDL cholesterol levels by 45% to 60%. With appropriate use, the currently available hypocholesterolemic drugs have the potential to markedly change the natural history of premature atherosclerosis that occurs in untreated patients with FH.
Cardiac failure is a leading cause of the mortality of diabetic patients. In part this is due to a specific cardiomyopathy, referred to as diabetic cardiomyopathy. Oxidative stress is widely considered to be one of the major factors underlying the pathogenesis of the disease. This study aimed to test whether the antioxidant alpha-lipoic acid (alpha-LA) could attenuate mitochondrion-dependent myocardial apoptosis through suppression of mitochondrial oxidative stress to reduce diabetic cardiomyopathy.
A rat model of diabetes was induced by a single tail intravenous injection of streptozotocin (STZ) 45 mg/kg. Experimental animals were randomly assigned to 3 groups: normal control (NC), diabetes (DM) and DM treated with alpha-LA (alpha-LA). The latter group was administered with alpha-LA (100 mg/kg ip per day), the remainder received the same volume vehicle. At weeks 4, 8, and 12 after the onset of diabetes, cardiac apoptosis was examined by TUNEL assay. Cardiomyopathy was evaluated by assessment of cardiac structure and function. Oxidative damage was evaluated by the content of malondialdehyde (MDA), reduced glutathione (GSH) and the activity of manganese superoxide diamutase (Mn-SOD) in the myocardial mitochondria. Expression of caspase-9 and caspase-3 proteins was determined by immunohistochemistry and mitochondrial cytochrome c release was detected by Western blotting.
At 4, 8, and 12 weeks after the onset of diabetes, significant reductions in TUNEL-positive cells, caspase-9,-3 expression, and mitochondrial cytochrome c release were observed in the alpha-LA group compared to the DM group. In the DM group, the content of MDA in the myocardial mitochondria was significantly increased, and there was a decrease in both the mitochondrial GSH content and the activities of Mn-SOD. They were significantly improved by alpha-LA treatment. HE staining displayed structural abnormalities in diabetic hearts, while alpha-LA reversed this structural derangement. The index of cardiac function (+/-dp/dtmax) in the diabetes group was aggravated progressively from 4 weeks to 12 weeks, but alpha-LA delayed deterioration of cardiac function (P < 0.05).
Our findings indicate that the antioxidant alpha-LA can effectively attenuate mitochondria-dependent cardiac apoptosis and exert a protective role against the development of diabetic cardiomyopathy. The ability of alpha-LA to suppress mitochondrial oxidative damage is concomitant with an enhancement of Mn-SOD activity and an increase in the GSH content of myocardial mitochondria.
Opioid dependence is a chronic, relapsing disorder with important public health implications.
In a 17-week randomized study of 220 patients, we compared levomethadyl acetate (75 to 115 mg), buprenorphine (16 to 32 mg), and high-dose (60 to 100 mg) and low-dose (20 mg) methadone as treatments for opioid dependence. Levomethadyl acetate and buprenorphine were administered three times a week. Methadone was administered daily. Doses were individualized except in the group assigned to low-dose methadone. Patients with poor responses to treatment were switched to methadone.
There were 55 patients in each group; 51 percent completed the trial. The mean (+/-SE) number of days that a patient remained in the study was significantly higher for those receiving levomethadyl acetate (89+/-6), buprenorphine (96+/-4), and high-dose methadone (105+/-4) than for those receiving low-dose methadone (70+/-4, P<0.001). Continued participation was also significantly more frequent among patients receiving high-dose methadone than among those receiving levomethadyl acetate (P=0.02). The percentage of patients with 12 or more consecutive opioid-negative urine specimens was 36 percent in the levomethadyl acetate group, 26 percent in the buprenorphine group, 28 percent in the high-dose methadone group, and 8 percent in the low-dose methadone group (P=0.005). At the time of their last report, patients reported on a scale of 0 to 100 that their drug problem had a mean severity of 35 with levomethadyl acetate, 34 with buprenorphine, 38 with high-dose methadone, and 53 with low-dose methadone (P=0.002).
As compared with low-dose methadone, levomethadyl acetate, buprenorphine, and high-dose methadone substantially reduce the use of illicit opioids.
To define the prevalence of PTEN mutations in a clinical cohort of pediatric subjects with autism spectrum disorders (ASDs), developmental delay/mental retardation (DD/MR), and/or macrocephaly and to assess genotype-phenotype correlations.
Medical records of patients who had clinical PTEN gene sequencing ordered through our institution between January 1, 2005 and December 31, 2007 were abstracted to confirm genetic test results and medical diagnoses. Phenotypic information related to the diagnoses, prenatal history, early developmental milestones, physical characteristics, and family history for those with a confirmed PTEN mutation was also recorded.
One hundred fourteen patients were tested during this time period for indications of ASDs (N = 60), DD/MR (N = 49), or macrocephaly only (N = 5). Eleven mutations were identified: five in patients with ASDs and six in those with DD/MR, resulting in a prevalence of 8.3% and 12.2% in these respective clinical populations. All individuals with a PTEN mutation had significant macrocephaly (>2.0 SD) CONCLUSIONS: These data illustrate that PTEN gene sequencing has a high diagnostic yield when performed in a selected population of individuals with ASDs or DD/MR and macrocephaly. Germline mutations in PTEN are an important, identifiable etiology among these patients.
The relation between cocaine use and cardiovascular disease has been well documented including coronary artery vasoconstriction, coronary thrombosis, accelerated atherosclerosis, myocarditis, cardiomyopathies and endocarditis. Cocaine use has reached epidemic proportions. Cocaine is the most commonly abused drug among young patients. We report the case of a 32-year-old male admitted to the emergency department with myocardial infarction secondary to an overdose of cocaine.
The aim of this prospective study was to compare the long-term follow-up after transisthmic ablation of patients with preablation lone atrial flutter, coexistent AF, and drug induced atrial flutter to determine if postablation AF followed a different clinical course and displayed different predictors in these groups. The study evaluated 357 patients who underwent transisthmic ablation for typical atrial flutter. These were divided into four groups according to their preablation history. Group A included patients with typical atrial flutter and without preablation AF (n=120, 33.6%). Group B included patients with preablation AF and spontaneous atrial flutter (n=132, 37.0%). Group C patients had preablation AF and atrial flutter induced by treatment with IC drugs (propafenone or flecainide) (n=63, 17.6%) Group D included patients with preablation AF and atrial flutter induced by treatment with amiodarone (n=42, 11.8%). During a mean follow-up of 15.2 double dagger 10.6 months (range 6-55 months) AF occurred more frequently in groups B (56.1%) and C (57.1%) patients than in groups A (20.8%, P <0.0001) and D (31.0%, P <0.0001) patients. The results of multivariate analysis revealed that different clinical and echocardiographical variables were correlated with postablation AF occurrence in the different groups. Patients with atrial flutter induced by amiodarone have a significantly lower risk of postablation AF than patients with spontaneous atrial flutter and AF, and those with atrial flutter induced by IC drugs. Different clinical and echocardiographical variables predict postablation AF occurrence in different subgroups of patients.
Exposure to pesticides has been suggested to increase the risk of Parkinson's disease (PD), but the mechanisms responsible for this association are not clear. Here, we report that perinatal exposure of mice during gestation and lactation to low levels of dieldrin (0.3, 1, or 3 mg/kg every 3 days) alters dopaminergic neurochemistry in their offspring and exacerbates MPTP toxicity. At 12 wk of age, protein and mRNA levels of the dopamine transporter (DAT) and vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT2) were increased by perinatal dieldrin exposure in a dose-related manner. We then administered MPTP (2 x 10 mg/kg s.c) at 12 wk of age and observed a greater reduction of striatal dopamine in dieldrin-exposed offspring, which was associated with a greater DAT:VMAT2 ratio. Additionally, dieldrin exposure during development potentiated the increase in GFAP and alpha-synuclein levels induced by MPTP, indicating increased neurotoxicity. In all cases there were greater effects observed in the male offspring than the female, similar to that observed in human cases of PD. These data suggest that developmental exposure to dieldrin leads to persistent alterations of the developing dopaminergic system and that these alterations induce a "silent" state of dopamine dysfunction, thereby rendering dopamine neurons more vulnerable later in life.
In West Bengal, India more than 6 million people are exposed to high levels of arsenic through drinking water. Since, only 15-20% of the exposed individuals show arsenic-induced skin lesions, it is assumed that genetic variation might play an important role in arsenic toxicity and carcinogenicity. Arsenic exposure often leads to the development of hyperkeratosis, the precursor of arsenic-induced skin cancer. ERCC2 (excision repair cross-complementing rodent repair deficiency, complementation group 2) is a nucleotide excision repair pathway gene, and its SNPs have been implicated in several types of epithelial cancers. We investigated the possible association of ERCC2 codon 751 A-->C polymorphism (lysine to glutamine) with arsenic-induced hyperkeratosis and correlated ERCC2 genotypes with increased frequencies of chromosomal aberration to ascertain whether any genotype leads to sub-optimal DNA repair. For this association study, 318 unrelated arsenic exposed subjects (165 with hyperkeratosis and 153 without any arsenic-induced skin lesions), drinking water contaminated with arsenic to a similar extent, were recruited. Genotyping was done through PCR-RFLP procedure. Lys/Lys genotype was significantly over-represented in the arsenic-induced hyperkeratosis-exhibiting group [odds ratio (OR) = 4.77, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 2.75-8.23]. A statistically significant increase in both CA/cell and percentage of aberrant cells was observed in the individuals with AA genotype compared to those with AC or CC genotype combined (P < 0.01) in each of the two study groups, as also, in the total study population. This study indicates that ERCC2 codon 751 Lys/Lys genotype is significantly associated with arsenic-induced premalignant hyperkeratosis and is possibly due to sub-optimal DNA repair capacity of the ERCC2 codon 751 Lys/Lys genotype.
Hepatoprotective effect of turmeric together with its sesquiterpenes and curcuminoids fractions were examined on D-galactosamine induced liver injury in rats. All the diets individually contained the turmeric extract, the curcuminoids fraction, and the sesquiterpenes fraction suppressed the increase of LDH, ALT, and AST levels caused by D-GalN treatment. Since few anti-oxidative activities are expected in the sesquiterpenes fraction, it is presumed that hepatoprotective mechanism of sesquiterpenes in turmeric is different from that of curuminoids.
The human hypothalamus produces an endogenous membrane Na+-K+ ATPase inhibitor digoxin. Digoxin is a steroidal glycoside and could be synthesised by the isoprenoid pathway. The other metabolites of the isoprenoid pathway are cholesterol, dolichol and ubiquinone. We have tried to find out the extent of incorporation of 14C acetate into digoxin in rat brain. The effects of digoxin administration on the rat brain was also studied. The results show that the percentage incorporation of 14C acetate into digoxin is low but detectable. The maximum incorporation was observed for cholesterol, followed by dolichol and finally ubiquinone. The histopathological changes observed after digoxin administration were focal degeneration of the ganglion cells in the cerebrum and cerebellum. The carbohydrate components of the glycoproteins were reduced and the concentration of serotonin, dopamine, and epinephrine showed a significant increase. The role of digoxin in mediating neuronal cell death is discussed.
Endothelial dysfunction is an early key event in the development of arteriosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD), thus an early marker of subclinical ASCVD. Endothelial function is impaired in renal transplant recipients (RTR) treated with cyclosporine (CyA). Tacrolimus is associated with less hyperlipidemia and hypertension than CyA, however, there are no data on endothelial function in tacrolimus-treated RTR.
High-resolution brachial ultrasonography was used to assess endothelium-dependent dilatation (EDD), and endothelium-independent dilatation (EID) in 20 stable RTR and a control group of 10 healthy subjects without clinical evidence of ASCVD. The RTR group included patients receiving CyA (n=10) and tacrolimus (n=10). EDD and EID were measured as percent increase in brachial artery diameter in response to reactive hyperemia and nitroglycerin, respectively.
EDD was significantly lower in RTR versus controls (1.7+/-0.7 vs. 7.3+/-0.7%, P<0.0001), whereas EID was similar in the two groups. No significant differences were found in EDD or in EID between CyA- and tacrolimus-treated RTR. Glomerular filtration rate, plasma homocysteine, blood pressure, and lipid profiles were similar in CyA- and tacrolimus-treated RTR.
The effect of three ifosfamide/mesna regimens on urinary N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) activity and beta-2-microglobulin (beta 2 M) was studied. All regimens produced significant increases in these urinary proteins, indicating nephrotubular damage. In regimen A (n = 15), plasma nitrobenzylpyridine (NBP) alkylating activity area under the curve (AUC) on day 1 correlated with the percentage increase above baseline of maximum urinary NAG activity (r2 = 0.538, P = 0.0022) and maximum beta 2 M concentration (r2 = 0.413, P = 0.0097). In regimen B (n = 5), plasma NBP alkylating activity AUC correlated with the percentage increase above baseline of maximum NAG activity (r2 = 0.843, P = 0.03) and beta 2 M (r2 = 0.78, P = 0.046). In these two regimens the renal exposure to ifosfamide metabolites correlated with the increases in urinary NAG and beta 2 M. The relation of these urinary protein abnormalities to longer term effects on renal function with different ifosfamide/mesna schedules requires further study.
A 64-year-old Japanese male suffering from very slowly progressive amyloidosis was studied by immunohistopathologic, mass spectrometric, and molecular genetic methods. After confirming the immunoreactivity of transthyretin (TTR) in the amyloid deposits using an anti-TTR polyclonal antibody, matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization/time-of-flight-mass spectrometry (MALDI/TOF-MS) was employed to look for the presence of variant TTR(s) in the serum. Two variant forms of TTR, one with a molecular weight 32 Da greater and another with a molecular weight 19 Da less than that of normal TTR encoded by the two respective alleles, were detected in this patient. Direct sequence analysis confirmed the presence of a double substitution: one at codon 30 from GTG (Val) to ATG (Met) and the other at codon 104 from CGC (Arg) to CAC (His) in the two alleles. MALDI/TOF-MS of the parents of the proband revealed that his father was a heterozygote of ATTR Arg104His and his mother was a heterozygote of ATTR Val30Met. The total TTR and retinol binding protein (RBP) concentrations in the serum samples of the proband were very high compared with those of FAP ATTR Val30Met patients and control subjects. We report here a new compound heterozygote in the TTR gene with familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy (FAP).
The efficacy and safety of fluoxetine (N = 65; median sustained dose, 20 mg/day) and of trazodone (N = 61; median sustained dose, 250 mg/day) were compared in a trial in outpatients with major depressive episode. The incidence and temporal patterns of activation and sedation were also assessed.
Men and women who met DSM-III criteria for nonpsychotic major depressive episode (but with a current episode greater than or equal to 4 weeks) and had a 21-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D21) score greater than 20 were selected. After single-blind placebo was administered for 1 week, eligible patients were randomized to double-blind fluoxetine or trazodone treatment for up to 6 weeks. Efficacy (HAM-D21, Clinical Global Impressions Scales for Severity and Improvement, Patient Global Impressions Scale for Improvement, Guild Memory Test) and adverse events were evaluated weekly.
The HAM-D21 score improved within both treatment groups (p less than .001). The groups were similar with respect to endpoint mean HAM-D21 improvement. For individual adverse events that developed or worsened during therapy, more fluoxetine-treated patients reported rhinitis and tremor (p less than or equal to .05), while more trazodone-treated patients reported somnolence and dizziness (p less than or equal to .05). More combined events suggesting activation (agitation, anxiety, nervousness, insomnia) were reported with fluoxetine than with trazodone (15.4% vs. 3.3%, p less than or equal to .05), while more combined events suggesting sedation (somnolence, asthenia) were reported with trazodone than with fluoxetine (42.6% vs. 21.5%, p less than or equal to .05). Discontinuation rates for activation and sedation did not differ between treatments. Numerically, more sedation (21.5%) than activation (15.4%) was reported with fluoxetine.
There was little clinical difference between treatments with regard to efficacy and safety. The occurrence and temporal patterns of activation and sedation differed within and between treatments.
The aim of this article was to assess whether abnormal dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) can be due to a dobutamine-induced coronary spasm in patients with angiographically documented vasospastic coronary arteries.
Between January 2004 and April 2008, we prospectively evaluated all patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease (CAD) referred to the echocardiography laboratory for dobutamine stress tests (6061 examinations). Those with abnormal DSE underwent coronary angiogram with a systematic methylergometrine intracoronary injection in the case of absence of significant coronary stenosis or spontaneous occlusive coronary spasm. Patients who had spontaneous occlusive coronary spasm or positive methylergometrine test, but no significant stenoses, were ultimately included in this study. About 581 patients had abnormal DSE, among them only 20 (3.4%) fulfilled the inclusion criteria. There were 15 males and 5 females, and mean age was 64.35 years (range 52-85); 8 patients had a known history of CAD and all of them had at least two established cardiovascular risk factors. The culprit vessel was the left anterior descending artery in 10 cases (50%), right coronary artery in 8 cases (40%), and left circumflex in 2 cases (10%). There was a systematic correspondence between the culprit arteries and dobutamine-induced wall motion abnormality territories. No complications occurred during examination or during the provocation test. All the patients were discharged with a calcium channel blocker and were doing well after 13 months of mean follow-up.
Coronary artery spasm can be induced at DSE, but is a rare finding; it could, though, be clinically relevant as it may partly explain some erroneously labelled 'false-positive' examinations. Methylergometrine provocation test is a safe and advisable approach in such situations.
The combination chemotherapy regimen of mitomycin/vinblastine has been used in the treatment of metastatic breast cancer since the early 1980s. We report results of use of mitomycin/vinblastine in 35 women with metastatic breast cancer who had failed prior treatment with one to four chemotherapeutic regimens. Despite heavy prior treatment and significant tumor burdens, 34% of patients achieved a partial remission and another 14% had disease stabilization with a very acceptable toxicity profile. This regimen was also used for the first time as first-line chemotherapy in 11 women with metastatic breast cancer. Response was observed in 9 of 11 patients (82%). Hemolytic-uremic syndrome occurred in 6 of the 46 women (13%) treated in the two protocols and is the most serious potential complication. Mitomycin/vinblastine is an effective salvage regimen and an excellent first-line chemotherapeutic treatment for women with metastatic breast cancer.
Workers involved in the Deepwater Horizon oil spill cleanup efforts reported acute pulmonary and dermatological adverse health effects. These studies were undertaken to assess the immunotoxicity of COREXIT 9500A, the primary dispersant used in cleanup efforts, as a potential causative agent. COREXIT 9500A and one of its active ingredients, dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate (DSS), were evaluated using murine models for hypersensitivity and immune suppression, including the local lymph node assay (LLNA), phenotypic analysis of draining lymph node cells (DLN), mouse ear swelling test (MEST), total serum immunoglobulin E (IgE), and the plaque-forming cell (PFC) assay. Dermal exposure to COREXIT 9500A and DSS induced dose-responsive increases in dermal irritation and lymphocyte proliferation. The EC3 values for COREXIT 9500A and DSS were 0.4% and 3.9%, respectively, resulting in a classification of COREXIT 9500A as a potent sensitizer and DSS as a moderate sensitizer. A T-cell-mediated mechanism underlying the LLNA was supported by positive responses in the MEST assay for COREXIT and DSS, indicated by a significant increase in ear swelling 48 h post challenge. There were no marked alterations in total serum IgE or B220+/IgE+ lymph-node cell populations following exposure to COREXIT 9500A. Significant elevations in interferon (IFN)-γ but not interleukin (IL)-4 protein were also observed in stimulated lymph node cells. The absence of increases in IgE and IL-4 in the presence of enhanced lymphocyte proliferation, positive MEST responses, and elevations in IFN-γ suggest a T-cell-mediated mechanism. COREXIT 9500A did not induce immunosuppression in the murine model.
To study the effects of total saponins of Panax notoginseng (PNS) on the overall model and vitro model of cardiac hypertrophy, and investigate the mechanism of its action.
Cardiac hypertrophy of rats due to pressure overload was induced by constricting of abdominal aorta. The rats were given ip PNS for three weeks after operation. Three weeks later, the systolic blood pressure (SBP), heart weight (HW), left ventricular weight (LVW), the ratio of HW/BW, LVW/BW (LVI) and the myofibril diameters (MD) in left ventricles were measured. Cardiac hypertrophy was induced by norepinephrine (NE) in cultured neonatal rat myocardial cells. PNS were given to the cultured myocardial cells, 72 hours later, the cell surface area and protein content (used as the index of cardiac hypertrophy) were determined.
PNS inhibited the markers of cardiac hypertrophy in rats (HW/BW, LVI, MD) in a dose dependent manner, but SBP of rats wasn't obviously influenced; 0.1-0.5 g x L(-1) PNS significantly inhibited the NE induced increase of surface area and protein content in the cultured myocardial cells, P < 0.01.
PNS can prevent the overall model and vitro model of cardiac hypertrophy in rats, and this action may be related to its inhibitory action on neurohormonal factor NE, but not on pressure overload.
To evaluate whether the enalaprilat, an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, was able to prevent the myocardial damage induced by doxorubicin (DOX).
Four groups composed of 10 Wistar rats each were followed for seven weeks: control (CONT); treated with enalaprilat (ENA, 1mg/kg/d/sc) treated with doxorubicin (DOX, 25 mg/kg/d/sc), and treated with doxorubicin plus enalaprilat (DOX+ENA). In eight animals of each group, the left ventricle (LV) was prepared for morphometric study and stained with HE and picro-sírius for identifying muscle fibers and collagen. In each group three fragments of the LV were examined with electronic microscopy (EM). For statistical analysis: the one-way analysis of variance was performed and was followed by multiple comparisons test when the difference between groups were detected p values < or = 0.05 were considered significant.
Light microscopy-it was not found any significant difference among the groups for muscle fibers patterns and proportion of collagen fibers of left ventricle. Electronic microscopy-the cristolysis index (proportion between normal and damage mitochondria) demonstrated significant difference between DOX and DOX+ENA groups (30.1 vs 11.6, p < or = 0.01).
ENA prevented cardiotoxic alterations induced by DOX minimizing the aggression to the mitochondria and these findings, if confirmed in anima nobilis, may open a new clinical use for this type of drug.
Mefloquine hydrochloride is now one of the major antimalarial drugs used both in prophylactic and therapeutic regimens. Large-scale studies have shown that it is efficacious and relatively well tolerated. However, some severe side effects, particularly neuropsychiatric reactions, have been described. We describe two young men with no previous medical history who experienced severe psychiatric reactions during prophylactic and curative mefloquine therapy. In both cases, full recovery was rapid after cessation of the therapy. There is no explanation for these reactions. Serum levels of mefloquine were within the normal range. The absence of contraindications and minor side effects during an initial course of mefloquine should be confirmed before another course is prescribed.
The key to the discovery of new pharmaceuticals is to develop molecules that interact with the intended target and minimize interaction with unintended molecular targets, therefore minimizing toxicity. This is aided by the use of various in vitro selectivity assays that are used to select agents most potent for the desired target. Typically, molecules from similar chemical series, with similar in vitro potencies, are expected to yield comparable in vivo pharmacological and toxicological profiles, predictive of target effects. However, in this study, we investigated the in vivo effects of two analogue compounds that similarly inhibit several receptor tyrosine kinases such as vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 1 (VEGFR/Flt1), vascular endothelial growth factor 2 (VEGFR2/kinase domain receptor/Flk-1), vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 3 (VEGFR3/Flt4), platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR), and Kit receptors, which bear similar chemical structures, have comparable potencies, but differ markedly in their rodent toxicity profiles. Global gene expression data were used to generate hypotheses regarding the existence of toxicity triggers that would reflect the perturbation of signaling in multiple organs such as the liver, adrenal glands, and the pancreas in response to compound treatment. We concluded that differences in pharmacokinetic properties of the two analogues, such as volume of distribution, half-life, and organ concentrations, resulted in marked differences in the chemical burden on target organs and may have contributed to the vast differences in toxicity profiles observed with the two otherwise similar molecules. We propose including select toxicokinetic parameters such as V(ss), T(1/2), and T(max) as additional criteria that could be used to rank order compounds from the same pharmacological series to possibly minimize organ toxicity. Assessment of toxicokinetics is not an atypical activity on toxicology studies, even in early screening studies; however, these data may not always be used in decision making for selecting or eliminating one compound over another. Finally, we illustrate that in vivo gene expression profiles can serve as a complementary assessor of this activity and simultaneously help provide an assessment of on or off-target biological activity.
