The purpose of the study was to determine the value of MR imaging of the pelvis in the diagnostic work-up of the endometrium in breast cancer patients in tamoxifen therapy.
MR imaging of the pelvis was performed on 24 patients (mean: 62 years, range: 51 - 74 years) and 30 healthy women (mean: 65 years, range: 51 - 73 years). The volume of the uterus and cervix and the maximal thickness of the endometrium, junctional zone and myometrium of the uterus were determined and compared to the confidence interval of the parameters in healthy women. The Mann-Whitney U-test was used to identify differences in the volume of the uterus and cervix and in the thickness of the uterine wall layers in both groups.
A comparison of the volume of the uterus and cervix and the thickness of the uterine wall layers in the two groups yielded no significant differences. The volume of the uterus and cervix showed no statistical differences between the two groups. The maximal height of the endometrium in the patient group showed a mean of 0.6 cm (range: 0.1 - 2.2 cm), and a mean of 0.4 cm (range: 0.1 - 1.2 cm) in the group of healthy women. The differences were not statistically significant. In all healthy women the endometrium showed homogeneous signal intensity in the sagittal T2-weighted images. In 12 of the 24 breast cancer patients, the endometrium showed inhomogeneous signal intensity. In 9 of 12 patients with an inhomogeneous endometrium with a thickness equal to or greater than 0.6 cm, histopathology confirmed polyps. In 3 patients endometrium hyperplasia was found. In one patient histopathology revealed a polyp and an endometrium carcinoma in stage T1 a N0. The endometrium carcinoma was not able to be seen via MR imaging.
MR imaging might be helpful in the diagnosis of endometrium pathologies during tamoxifen therapy. Therefore, MR imaging of the pelvis could be used as a diagnostic tool in the follow-up diagnosis of the endometrium in breast cancer patients in tamoxifen therapy.
We investigated the effects of orally supplemented L-arginine, the substrate of nitric oxide (NO) and N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), a nitric oxide-synthase inhibitor in gentamicin-induced renal failure. Rats were given gentamicin (100 mg/kg/day s.c.), gentamicin and L-arginine (2 g/l, drinking water), gentamicin and L-NAME (100 mg/l, drinking water) or gentamicin plus L-arginine and L-NAME. After 8 days, the gentamicin group developed marked renal failure, characterized by a significantly decreased creatinine clearance and increased blood creatinine, fractional excretion of sodium, fractional excretion of lithium, urine gamma glutamyl transferase, systolic blood pressure and daily urine volume when compared to controls. Renal histological analysis confirmed tubular necrosis. L-arginine administration caused normalization of these parameters, whereas L-NAME led to aggravation of the failure. Concomitant administration of L-NAME and L-arginine to gentamicin-treated rats caused no significant changes when compared to the rats receiving gentamicin alone. We conclude that L-arginine supplementation has beneficial effects in gentamicin-induced renal failure in rats and that these effects are reversed by the NO-synthase inhibitor, L-NAME.
We report a case of thyrotoxicosis with prolonged post-treatment muscle cramp and hypocalcemia. A 36 year-old woman with hyperthyroidism was treated with Methimazole (MMI). As plasma levels of T4 and T3 were normalized, hypocalcemia was noted and severe cramp of skeletal muscle appeared so that the patient was unable to walk. The cramp was gradually relieved as the levels of thyroid hormones re-increased by discontinuance of MMI, and recurred as the hormone levels were normalized by readministration of MMI. The plasma levels of free calcium ion was positively correlated with those of thyroid hormones, and the muscle cramp was worsened with lowering of the calcium level. Serum examination also revealed vitamin D-deficiency, which was probably due to an unbalanced diet of the patient. A therapeutic trial with 1 alpha-vitamin D3 and calcium lactate in addition to MMI improved both thyrotoxicosis and muscle cramp. These findings suggested that hypocalcemia due to vitamin D-deficiency was involved in the exceptionally prolonged muscle cramp associated with the treatment of hypothyroidism in this patient.
Rats were administered either 80 escapable shocks or yoked inescapable shocks, were then injected with saline or several ataxic doses of either ethanol or midazolam, and then had their motoric impairment assessed by Rotarod performance. No motoric impairment was observed following saline injection. However, inescapable shock impaired Rotarod performance in response to both ethanol and midazolam at 2 hr, but not immediately poststress. Conversely, escapable shock reduced the ataxic potency of ethanol, although it had no influence on midazolam-induced ataxia. These results indicate functional alterations in behavioral reactivity to low doses of several classes of central nervous system depressants by psychological dynamics of stress exposure. Our findings demonstrate the impact of stress controllability on behavioral reactivity to two classes of drugs of abuse.
A case of acute left ventricular failure following an intravenous dose of amphetamine is described. The diagnosis was made by right heart catheterization. This is the first description of acute amphetamine cardiomyopathy in the medical literature.
Two cases of factitious hypoglycaemia due to intentional or inadvertent intake of glipizide by non-diabetic subjects were identified through the measurement of this sulphonylurea in plasma by a modified assay procedure.
Acetylcysteine treatment reduces liver damage after paracetamol overdose, but can affect the prothrombin index, which is used to assess the progress of overdose patients. We aimed to assess retrospectively the effect of intravenous acetylcysteine on the prothrombin index in patients with paracetamol poisoning without signs of hepatocellular injury. Prothrombin index had been recorded before, and serially during, acetylcysteine treatment in 87 patients. After initiation of treatment, prothrombin index decreased (mean 0.33, 95% CI 0.29-0.38) in all patients, and was strongly associated with the start of acetylcysteine infusion. In patients with uncomplicated paracetamol poisoning, a fall in this index might be misinterpreted as a sign of liver failure, leading to prolonged treatment time.
Certain plants used in folk medicine serve as a source of therapeutic agent by having antimicrobial and other multi-potential effects. This prospective, randomized, placebo and positively controlled clinical trial was designed to evaluate the short-term clinical effects of a commercially available gel containing Acacia arabica in the reduction of plaque and gingival inflammation in subjects with gingivitis.
Ninety subjects diagnosed with chronic generalized gingivitis were selected and randomly divided into three groups: Group I - placebo gel, Group II - gumtone gel and Group III - 1% chlorhexidine gel. Clinical evaluation was undertaken using the gingival index of Loe and Silness and the plaque index at baseline, 2 weeks, 4 weeks and 6 weeks. A subjective evaluation was undertaken by questionnaire.
Gumtone gel showed significant clinical improvement in gingival and plaque index scores as compared to a placebo gel. This improvement was comparable to 1% chlorhexidine gel. Unlike chlorhexidine gel, gumtone gel was not associated with any discolouration of teeth or unpleasant taste.
Gumtone gel may be a useful herbal formulation for chemical plaque control agent and improvement in plaque and gingival status.
The effects of a novel antipsychotic agent, 7-(4-[4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)-1-piperazinyl]butyloxy)-3,4-dihydro-2 (1H)-quinolinone (OPC-14597, generic name aripiprazole), on prolactin (PRL) release from isolated rat anterior pituitary slices and on the serum PRL levels were investigated in male rats. In in vitro experiments on the isolated anterior pituitary, the spontaneous PRL release was decreased by talipexole, a dopamine D2 receptor full agonist, in a dose-dependent manner to 36% of the basal release, and the decrease was antagonized by haloperidol, a D2 receptor antagonist. OPC-14597 also decreased the release of PRL at the same concentration range with a maximal decrease to 78%, the potency being weaker than that of talipexole. The decrease in PRL release induced by OPC-14597 was completely antagonized by haloperidol. Moreover, OPC-14597 antagonized the inhibition of PRL release induced by talipexole. In in vivo experiments, haloperidol increased the serum PRL levels to 8 times the basal PRL level, whereas talipexole decreased the levels to 49% of the basal level. OPC-14597 increased the serum PRL levels by 2-fold and also antagonized the talipexole-induced decrease. The hyperprolactinemia induced by estrogen, which was inhibited by talipexole but enhanced by haloperidol, was enhanced by OPC-14597, whereas the hyperprolactinemia induced by reserpine, which was inhibited by talipexole but elevated by haloperidol, was inhibited by OPC-14597. In addition, the OPC-14597-induced inhibition was antagonized by haloperidol. These results suggest that OPC-14597 has a mixed agonist/antagonist profile at D2 receptors on lactotroph cells and thereby exerts either an antagonistic or an agonistic action, depending on the preexisting tone of the dopaminergic neuronal activities.
To assess the safety and tolerability of three different dosing schedules of memantine in patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease (AD).
This 12-week, randomised, double-blind study, investigated three dosing schedules of memantine: OD1 (20 mg once daily with a 1-step up-titration); OD3 (20 mg once daily with a 3-step up-titration); and BID3 (10 mg twice daily with a 3-step up-titration as currently recommended in the memantine labelling). The study comprised 78 patients with moderate to severe AD (DSM-IV-TR criteria; MMSE score < or = 18), 70% of whom were on stable dosing of acetylcholinesterase inhibitor (AChEI) initiated > or = 3 months prior to study start. Safety and tolerability were assessed by the number of withdrawals, adverse events (AEs) and monitoring of vital signs.
The number of patient withdrawals was low: 3 of 27 in OD1, 1 of 25 in OD3 and 2 of 26 in BID3. One or more AEs were reported in 9 patients in OD1, 7 patients in OD3 and 12 patients in BID3. Most AEs were mild or moderate, and typical for the population studied; no clinically important differences in AEs or vital signs were observed between the different dosing schedules. There were no between-group differences in efficacy, as assessed by clinical global severity and clinical global change. These results are consistent with the good safety profile of memantine observed in larger studies.
Although relatively small in size, the study indicates that once-daily dosing and twice-daily dosing of memantine are similar in terms of safety and tolerability.
To assess the influence of calcium channel antagonists on the expression of behavioral sensitization to cocaine, the L-type calcium channel antagonist diltiazem or the N-type calcium channel antagonist omega-conotoxin GVIA was microinjected into the medial nucleus accumbens before a systemic cocaine challenge injection among rats that were previously treated with daily systemic saline or cocaine injections. The results indicated that both of these drugs attenuated the expression of behavioral sensitization to cocaine. Among saline-pretreated rats, diltiazem did not influence the behavioral response to an acute injection of cocaine, whereas omega-conotoxin significantly impaired acute cocaine-induced behavioral hyperactivity. A second series of experiments assessed the influence of protein kinases on the expression of behavioral sensitization to cocaine. Inhibitors of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (KN-93, N-[2-[[[3-(4'-chlorophenyl)-2-propenyl]methylamino]methyl]phenyl]-N-( 2-hydroxyethyl)-4'-methoxy-benzenesulfonamide phosphate), protein kinase A (H-89, N-[2((p-bromocinnamyl)amino)ethyl]-5-isoquinolinesulfonamide) or calcium-dependent protein kinase C (bisindolymaleimide I, 2-[1-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)-1H-indol-3-yl]-3-(1H-indol-3-yl)-maleimi de) were microinjected into the medial nucleus accumbens before a challenge injection of cocaine among rats repeatedly administered either saline or cocaine. None of the kinase inhibitors influenced the behavioral response induced by cocaine in saline-pretreated rats. Among cocaine-sensitized animals, the microinjection of KN-93 or bisindolymaleimide I blocked the expression of behavioral sensitization to cocaine, whereas H-89 had no effect. Taken together, these results indicate that neuronal calcium, acting via calcium-dependent kinases, promotes the expression of behavioral sensitization to cocaine.
To refine our understanding of anti-Helicobacter pylori treatment regimens further, we evaluated the efficacy and safety of lansoprazole given in combination with clarithromycin and metronidazole for 7 days in an open-label, multicenter study.
H. pylori-positive patients self-administered lansoprazole, 30 mg; clarithromycin, 500 mg; and metronidazole, 500 mg bid for 7 days. Patients were assessed at pretreatment, at which time the presence of H. pylori was documented by rapid urease test or histology and culture, following study drug administration (week 1) for a brief evaluation only, and at least 4 weeks posttreatment (week 5), including endoscopy with collection of biopsy specimens for culture and histology testing.
Of the 60 patients enrolled in the study, 59 had confirmed H. pylori infection, and 51 were included in an intent-to-treat analysis of efficacy. Primary metronidazole and clarithromycin resistance were observed in 84% and 8% of study patients, respectively. One month after the end of therapy, H. pylori infection was cured in 40 of 51 patients (78%); 95% confidence interval, (65%-89%). The triple-therapy regimen was well-tolerated, with only 2 patients (4%) requiring premature withdrawal from the study due to treatment-related adverse events. Taste perversion (15.0%) and diarrhea (11.7%) were the most frequently reported adverse events possibly or probably related to study medication during the treatment period.
Despite a high prevalence of metronidazole resistance, a 1-week, triple-drug combination of lansoprazole, clarithromycin, and metronidazole is effective treatment for and well-tolerated by patients with H. pylori infection.
Treatment with amoxicillin plus omeprazole results in disappointing cure rates of Helicobacter pylori infection. The minimal inhibitory concentration of lansoprazole for H. pylori in vitro is lower than that for omeprazole, prompting interest in treatment with amoxicillin plus lansoprazole.
H. pylori-infected patients with endoscopically documented duodenal ulcer either currently or within the past year were randomized to 14 days of (1) lansoprazole, 30 mg bid, plus amoxicillin, 1 gm tid; (2) lansoprazole, 30 mg tid, plus amoxicillin, 1 gm tid; (3) lansoprazole, 30 mg tid alone; or (4) amoxicillin, 1 gm tid alone. Endoscopy was done at enrollment and at 4 to 6 weeks after completion of treatment or for recurrent symptoms. H. pylori status was assessed by culture and histology. Ulcer prevalence was evaluated at follow-up endoscopy.
Two hundred sixty-two patients met enrollment criteria and were treated. By per-protocol analysis, H. pylori infection was cured in 57% of those treated with lansoprazole twice daily plus amoxicillin and in 67% of those treated with lansoprazole three times daily plus amoxicillin, compared with 0% treated with lansoprazole alone or amoxicillin alone (p < .001 for dual therapy versus either monotherapy). Amoxicillin resistance was not observed. At follow-up endoscopy, ulcer prevalence was 17% in patients treated with lansoprazole twice daily plus amoxicillin, 23% in those treated with lansoprazole three times daily plus amoxicillin, 33% in those treated with lansoprazole alone, and 35% in those treated with amoxicillin alone (p = .024; lansoprazole twice daily plus amoxicillin versus amoxicillin alone).
Treatment with amoxicillin plus lansoprazole, 30 mg tid, led to cure of H. pylori infection in 67% of patients with active or recently healed duodenal ulcer.
Toxic peripheral neuropathy is still a significant limiting factor for chemotherapy with paclitaxel (PAC), although glutamate and its closely related amino acid glutamine were claimed to ameliorate PAC neurotoxicity. This pilot trial aimed to evaluate the role of glutamate supplementation for preventing PAC-induced peripheral neuropathy in a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded clinical and electro-diagnostic study. Forty-three ovarian cancer patients were available for analysis following six cycles of the same PAC-containing regimen: 23 had been supplemented by glutamate all along the treatment period, at a daily dose of three times 500 mg (group G), and 20 had received a placebo (group P). Patients were evaluated by neurological examinations, questionnaires and sensory-motor nerve conduction studies. There was no significant difference in the frequency of signs or symptoms between the two groups although neurotoxicity symptoms presented mostly with lower scores of severity in group G. However, this difference reached statistical significance only with regard to reported pain sensation (P = 0.011). Also the frequency of abnormal electro-diagnostic findings showed similarity between the two groups (G: 7/23 = 30.4%; P: 6/20 = 30%). This pilot study leads to the conclusion that glutamate supplementation at the chosen regimen fails to protect against peripheral neurotoxicity of PAC.
Ethosuximide is the drug of first choice in absence seizures. Idiosyncratic side effects are rare. Valproate is effective against absence, generalized tonic-colonic, and partial seizures. It is the drug of choice in photosensitive seizures. Valproate is, on the whole, free from unpleasant side effects, but fatal hepatotoxicity and hyperamnionemia have been reported very rarely.
We previously reported the induction of 73-kilodalton heat-shock protein (HSP73) in injured tubular epithelial cells in rat kidneys with gentamicin-induced acute renal failure. In the present study, we examined serial expression of 90-kilodalton heat-shock protein (HSP90), another major HSP, in this animal model.
Sprague-Dawley rats received gentamicin (80 mg/kg/day) for 14 days and developed acute proximal tubular injury. Serial immunohistochemical localization of HSP90 was observed at both light microscopic and electron microscopic levels, using a specific antibody against HSP90. In addition, serial renal extracts were analyzed by immunoblot.
On light microscopy, HSP90 was induced in injured proximal tubular epithelial cells and accumulated in fine granules 36 hours after the gentamicin exposure. The size and number of these granules gradually increased to Day 12 and decreased from Day 18, and the granules disappeared on Day 27. Electron microscopy showed the accumulation of HSP90 in the swollen lysosomes and the nucleoli of the injured proximal tubular epithelial cells. On serial immunoblot analysis of renal extracts, increased amounts of HSP90 were found in association with the induction of HSP90 in injured cells. Furthermore, on immunoblot of nuclear fractions from kidneys at Days 0 and 6, HSP90 was detected in the fraction at Day 6.
These results demonstrate that HSP90 is induced in the lysosomes and the nucleoli of damaged cells during the course of gentamicin-induced acute tubular injury. HSP90 may have roles in the disposition of degenerated proteins and in the new protein synthesis for the protection and repair of target cells from gentamicin nephrotoxicity.
Terminal chronic renal failure was discovered in a patient who had received CCNU 1 940 mg/m2 during the previous two years. The renal function was normal before treatment, and there was no evidence of other causes of renal failure. The clinical picture was identical with that observed in patients receiving such treatment and recently published. This case emphasizes the need for limiting the dose of nitrosyl-urea compounds to 1 200 mg/m2 and for monitoring the renal function very closely during and towards the end of the treatment.
The effect of some B vitamins in chemical and thermal models of nociception in mice was investigated. The association thiamine/pyridoxine/cyanocobalamin (TPC, 20-200 mg/kg, i.p. or per os), thiamine, pyridoxine (50-200 mg/kg, i.p.) or riboflavin (3-100 mg/kg, i.p) induced an antinociceptive effect, not changed by naloxone (10 mg/kg, i.p.), in the acetic acid writhing model. Treatment for 7 days with thiamine/pyridoxine/cyanocobalamin (100 or 200 mg/kg, i.p.), thiamine (50 or 100 mg/kg) or pyridoxine (50 or 100 mg/kg) or acute treatment with riboflavin (6 or 12 mg/kg, i.p) inhibited the nociceptive response induced by formaldehyde. The B vitamins did not inhibit the nociceptive response in the hot-plate model. Both 7-day thiamine/pyridoxine/cyanocobalamin (100 mg/kg, i.p.) or acute riboflavin (25 or 50 mg/kg, i.p.) treatment partially reduced formaldehyde-induced hindpaw oedema. The B vitamins antinociceptive effect may involve inhibition of the synthesis and/or action of inflammatory mediators since it was not observed in the hot-plate model, was not reversed by naloxone, only the second phase of the formaldehyde-induced nociceptive response was inhibited, and formaldehyde-induced hindpaw oedema was reduced.
Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus occurred in a 7-year-old child who had received a high dose of demethylchlortetracycline hydrochloride (DMC). The patient had a relatively elevated urinary sodium concentration in addition to isosthenuria. The nephrogenic diabetes insipidus was completely reversible within one month after cessation of DMC administration.
Exposure of living organisms to reactive oxygen species (ROS), notably oxygen free radicals and hydrogen peroxide is closely linked to the very fact of aerobic life. Oxidants, however, are not always detrimental for cell survival, indeed moderate concentrations of ROS serve as signaling molecules. To maintain this level, cells have evolved an antioxidant defense system. Disruption of this balance leads either to oxidative or reductive stress. Down syndrome (DS) is a genetic disorder associated with oxidative stress. Overexpression of superoxide dismutase-1 (SOD-1) as a result of gene loading is suggested to be responsible for this phenomenon. To examine this view, we investigated the expression of thirteen different proteins involved in the cellular antioxidant defense system in brains of control and DS fetuses by two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) coupled with matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectroscopy (MALDI-MS). No detectable change was found in expression of SOD-1, catalase, phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, antioxidant enzyme AOE372, thioredoxin-like protein and selenium binding protein between control and DS fetuses. By contrast, a significant reduction was observed in levels of glutathione synthetase (P < 0.01), glutathione-S-transferase mu2 (P < 0.01), glutathione-S-transferase p (P < 0.05), antioxidant protein 2 (P < 0.05), thioredoxin peroxidase-I (P < 0.05) and thioredoxin peroxidase-II (P < 0.01) in DS compared with controls. The data suggest that oxidative stress in fetal DS does not result from overexpression of SOD-1 protein, rather oxidative stress appears to be the consequence of low levels of reducing agents and enzymes involved in removal of hydrogen peroxide.
Six patients treated with theophylline, including five with advanced chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, developed generalized seizures with serum theophylline concentrations ranging from 7 to 21 mg/l. Cerebral computed tomographic scans showed a small sylvian infarction in one patient. In the other five patients nothing, except theophylline, could account for the seizures. There were no clinical signs of theophylline toxicity prior to the failures, all of which had a favourable outcome. Patients with acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease seem to be prone to develop generalized seizures when treated with theophylline.
The aim of the present study was to determine the apolipoprotein A (APO-A) an the high density lipoprotein (HDL) plasma concentrations in 25 patients with alcoholic liver cirrhosis. To evaluate the severity of liver disease serum albumin, bilirubin and total bile acids were measured. The serum level of APO-A and HDL was significantly lower in patients with alcoholic liver cirrhosis than in normal controls (p < 0.01) and markedly lower in patients with advanced liver cirrhosis. Apolipoprotein A concentrations in plasma correlated positively with serum albumin (p < 0.01) and negatively with serum bilirubin (p < 0.01) and bile acids (p < 0.01). Thus, he apoliprotein A level seems to reflect the severity of liver disease.
1. Previous studies have demonstrated the presence of antibodies to trifluoroacetylated hepatic proteins (TFA-proteins) in sera from patients with the severe form of halothane-associated hepatitis (halothane hepatitis). The TFA-proteins are produced via cytochrome P450-mediated metabolism of halothane to the reactive species TFA-chloride. 2. To investigate the presence of autoantibodies (which recognize various non-TFA-modified human hepatic polypeptides) in patients with halothane hepatitis immunoblotting experiments were performed using microsomal fractions prepared freshly from livers of five different (halothane-free) tissue donors. Blots were developed using 15 well-characterised sera from patients with halothane hepatitis. 3. Autoantibodies to human hepatic polypeptides were detected in most, but not all, of the patients' sera. The pattern of antibody reactivity varied markedly between sera. Although no common pattern of antibody recognition was observed, polypeptides of molecular mass between 60 and 80 kDa were the predominant targets. A similar protein recognition pattern was seen when each positive serum was tested against the five individual human liver samples. 4. Such autoantibodies were not detected in sera from 16 normal human blood donors, but were detected in three of six sera from patients exposed to halothane without developing hepatitis. 5. The autoantibodies are thought to arise in patients exposed to halothane as a consequence of a halothane-induced immune response to chemically-modified proteins. Such antibodies could contribute to the complex pathological processes involved in halothane hepatitis.
Thrombotic microangiopathy, which broadly includes thrombotic thrombocytopaenic purpura (TTP) and haemolytic uraemic syndrome (HUS), is a multisystemic disorder that is characterised by thrombocytopaenia, microangiopathic haemolytic anemia and ischaemic manifestations, resulting from platelet agglutination in the arterial microvasculature. Acral necrosis (distal necrosis of fingers and toes) occurs usually as a sequel to severe Raynaud's phenomenon, a vasculospastic disorder frequently related to endothelial cell dysfunction. We report a case of quinine induced TTP-HUS and acral necrosis, two distinct clinical abnormalities which have not yet been reported together in association with quinine. Both of these conditions in this case resolved promptly to treatment with corticosteroids.
Histamine H2-receptor antagonists (H2RAs) often are administered to intensive care unit patients in an attempt to reduce gastric acidity and to prevent stress-related mucosal damage. These agents have an extremely low overall incidence and severity of adverse reactions; however, hemodynamically significant hypotension has been noted. Clinical studies with rapidly administered intravenous cimetidine in critically ill patients have demonstrated a depression in blood pressure in up to 75 percent of patients. Ranitidine, also studied in this setting, does not appear to induce similar hemodynamic changes. The newer H2RAs, famotidine and nizatidine, have not been evaluated in critically ill patients.
Chordoma is a rare primary bone malignancy that arises in the skull base, spine and sacrum and originates from remnants of the notochord. These tumors are typically resistant to conventional chemotherapy, and to date there are no FDA-approved agents to treat chordoma. The lack of in vivo models of chordoma has impeded the development of new therapies for this tumor. Primary tumor from a sacral chordoma was xenografted into NOD/SCID/IL-2R γ-null mice. The xenograft is serially transplantable and was characterized by both gene expression analysis and whole genome SNP genotyping. The NIH Chemical Genomics Center performed high-throughput screening of 2,816 compounds using two established chordoma cell lines, U-CH1 and U-CH2B. The screen yielded several compounds that showed activity and two, sunitinib and bortezomib, were tested in the xenograft. Both agents slowed the growth of the xenograft tumor. Sensitivity to an inhibitor of IκB, as well as inhibition of an NF-κB gene expression signature demonstrated the importance of NF-κB signaling for chordoma growth. This serially transplantable chordoma xenograft is thus a practical model to study chordomas and perform in vivo preclinical drug testing.
Carbon nanotubes (CNTs) are novel materials with unique electronic and mechanical properties. The extremely small size, fiberlike shape, large surface area, and unique surface chemistry render their distinctive chemical and physical characteristics and raise potential hazards to humans. Several reports have shown that pulmonary exposure to CNTs caused inflammation and lung fibrosis in rodents. The molecular mechanisms that govern CNT lung toxicity remain largely unaddressed. Here, we report that multiwalled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) have potent, dose-dependent toxicity on cultured human lung cells (BEAS-2B, A549, and WI38-VA13). Mechanistic analyses were carried out at subtoxic doses (≤20 μg/mL, ≤ 24 h). MWCNTs induced substantial ROS production and mitochondrial damage, implicating oxidative stress in cellular damage by MWCNT. MWCNTs activated the NF-κB signaling pathway in macrophages (RAW264.7) to increase the secretion of a panel of cytokines and chemokines (TNFα, IL-1β, IL-6, IL-10, and MCP1) that promote inflammation. Activation of NF-κB involved rapid degradation of IκBα, nuclear accumulation of NF-κBp65, binding of NF-κB to specific DNA-binding sequences, and transactivation of target gene promoters. Finally, MWCNTs induced the production of profibrogenic growth factors TGFβ1 and PDGF from macrophages that function as paracrine signals to promote the transformation of lung fibroblasts (WI38-VA13) into myofibroblasts, a key step in the development of fibrosis. Our results revealed that MWCNTs elicit multiple and intertwining signaling events involving oxidative damage, inflammatory cytokine production, and myofibroblast transformation, which potentially underlie the toxicity and fibrosis in human lungs by MWCNTs.
Cure rates of Hodgkin's disease (HD) with chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy are high. However, a few patients are refractory to treatment or relapse. We describe a patient with mixed cellularity (MC)-type HD with frequent relapses. As all Hodgkin's or Hogan-Reed-Sternberg (HRS) cells expressed CD20, treatment with the anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody rituximab was given.
A 55-year-old man presented with cervical lymphadenopathy. Biopsy revealed HD of MC type in stage IVA (Ann Arbor classification). Complete remission (CR) was achieved after six cycles of doxorubicin-bleomycin-vinblastin-dacarbazine (ABVD) and cyclophosphamid-vincristine-procarbazine-prednison (COPP) regimens. The first relapse occurred 12 months later and was treated with DEXA-BEAM and autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation. 7 years later, the patient relapsed again. Histology confirmed the initial diagnosis. Staging revealed a stage IVA. A partial remission was induced with two further DEXA-BEAM cycles (dexamethasone, BCNU [1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea], ectoposide, ara-C, melphalan). 4 months later, the disease progressed. Despite treatment with gemcitabine there was no response. As all Hogan-Reed-Sternberg (HRS) cells were CD20 positive, rituximab (monoclonal antibodies) was given at a dose of 375 mg/m2 once a week for 4 weeks in an outpatient setting.
Treatment was well tolerated. A complete remission was achieved 2 months later. No infectious episodes occurred. After 30 months, the patient relapsed again. A second treatment with rituximab yielded another complete remission which was maintained for 20 months.
HRS cells are derived from germinal center B-cells in more than 90% of cases, B-cell markers being present in 80% of classical HD. CD20 expressions vary from 21-80%. A few patients with HD treated with rituximab have been reported. Most of these cases had lymphocyte-predominant HD. In our patient the safety and efficacy of rituximab in relapsed CD20-positive classical HD of an MC type was demonstrated to achieve long-lasting remission.
The role of combined laparoscopic surgery and postoperative danazol treatment for endometriosis in infertile patients has been reviewed in 66 cases. Thirty-five patients with mild endometriosis and twenty-five patients with moderate endometriosis received a standardized laparoscopic surgical procedure followed by danazol therapy with a minimum of 6 months' follow-up. Six patients with severe endometriosis received 4 months of danazol treatment followed by conservative surgery. Fifty-four per cent of these patients conceived, with 92% delivering a live child. By excluding patients with other significant infertility factors, a "corrected" fertility rate of 68% was obtained. The majority of patients conceiving after danazol treatment did so within the first 6 months after therapy. Reported complications to drug treatment were minimal. Second-look laparoscopy when performed in patients who had not conceived within 6 months revealed a significant decrease in residual endometriosis.
It was shown in the experiments on rats that intracerebroventricular administration of kainic acid (0.01, 0.05 microgram) after brain trauma, resulted in the occurrence of behavioral and electrographic convulsive disturbances; maximal expression of epileptic activity was obtained in entorhinal cortex and ventral hippocampus. Kainic acid induced epileptic reactions in nontraumatized rats only if injected in dose 0.1 microgram. Brain trauma did not lead to changes in seizures intensity induced by systemic picrotoxin administration. It is concluded that the formation of generator of pathologically enhanced excitation in limbic structures via increase of excitor glutamatergic neurotransmission is the important mechanism of traumatic epilepsy.
