A 9-year-old child was admitted to the hospital with congenital left ureteropelvic junction obstruction with massive left pyelocaliectasis and underwent dismembered pyeloplasty of the left kidney under general anesthesia without complications. Postoperatively, the child was placed on patient-controlled analgesia, with morphine as the drug of choice. The patient was discharged to the ward with adequate pain control and no complaints of nausea or vomiting. Once on the ward, a transdermal scopolamine patch was placed for nausea and vomiting. More than 24 hours after patch placement, the child experienced central anticholinergic syndrome (CAS) with hallucinations and incontinence. The scopolamine patch was promptly removed, and all symptoms of CAS rapidly ceased. A transdermal scopolamine patch should not be used in the pediatric population, and with extreme caution in the elderly. Treatment of CAS includes prompt removal of the patch, cleansing of the area, and possible physostigmine administration.
We report cases of several side-effects from the anti-depressant fluoxetine. We suggest that, at therapeutic doses, fluoxetine may have a beneficial effect on sexual function in some men with erectile failure and premature ejaculation.
Dopaminergic neurons are lost mainly through apoptosis in Parkinson's disease. Insulin like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) inhibits apoptosis in a wide variety of tissues. Here we have shown that IGF-1 protects PC12 cells from toxic effects of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridiniumion (MPP(+)). Treatment of PC12 cells with recombinant human IGF-1 significantly decreased apoptosis caused by MPP(+) as measured by acridine orange/ethidium bromide staining. IGF-1 treatment induced sustained phosphorylation of glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta) as shown by western blot analysis. The anti-apoptotic effect of IGF-1 was abrogated by LY294002, which indirectly inhibits phosphorylation of GSK-3beta. Lithium chloride (LiCl), a known inhibitor of GSK-3beta, also blocked MPP(+)-induced apoptosis. Finally, although IGF-1 enhanced phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases ERK1 and 2 (ERK1/2), PD98059, a specific inhibitor of ERK1/2, did not alter the survival effect of IGF-1. Thus, our findings indicate that IGF-1 protects PC12 cells exposed to MPP(+) from apoptosis via the GSK-3beta signaling pathway.
We tested the hypothesis that treatment with nicotinic acid results in a differential blood lipid response in subjects classified as having a low-density lipoprotein (LDL) pattern A or B. One hundred eighty hypercholesterolemic subjects were randomized to placebo (n = 61), immediate-release niacin (3,000 mg/day, n = 59), or extended-release niacin (1,500 mg/day, n = 60) for 14 weeks. Lipids and lipoprotein cholesterol were determined with enzymatic methods. LDL subclass distribution was determined with 2% to 16% polyacrylamide gradient gel electrophoresis. Extended- and immediate-release niacin had significant effects on the decrease of triglycerides, total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, apoprotein B, lipoprotein(a), and apoprotein A-I and significantly increased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. The 2 nicotinic acid compounds and doses significantly increased mean LDL peak particle diameter and percent distribution in large LDL I and IIa, with a significant decrease in small LDL IIIa, IIIb, and IVb. In patients with LDL pattern B compared with those with pattern A, extended-release niacin (1,500 mg/day) increased LDL peak particle diameter significantly more and decreased the percent distributions of small LDL IIIa, LDL IIIb, and LDL IVa significantly more. With 3,000 mg/day, immediate-release nicotinic acid in patients with LDL pattern B exhibited a significantly greater increase in LDL peak particle diameter and large LDL IIa and IIb and significantly greater decreases in small LDL IIIa, IIIb, and IVa compared with patients with pattern A. These differences in response between patients with LDL pattern A and those with pattern B were not reflected by changes in the standard lipid profile, including apoproteins A-I and B. Nicotinic acid has a significantly different effect on lipids and lipoprotein subclass distribution in subjects classified as having LDL subclass pattern A or B. Nicotinic acid has a significantly greater effect on the decrease of small LDL subclass distribution and increase in LDL peak particle diameter in pattern B versus pattern A.
The Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial has shown that flecainide was associated with an increased incidence of sudden cardiac death in postinfarction patients. The exact mechanism(s) of the proarrhythmic effects of flecainide remain unclear. We performed a detailed analysis of the electrophysiological and proarrhythmic effects of flecainide in a well-characterized model of reentrant arrhythmias in the subacute phase of myocardial infarction.
Sixteen dogs were studied 4 days after ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery. Isochronal mapping of ventricular activation showed that flecainide facilitated both the induction and sustenance of ventricular tachycardia, especially at shorter basic cycle lengths. Flecainide had negligible effect on the length of the arc of functional conduction block but markedly depressed conduction of the common reentrant wave front that was usually oriented parallel to fiber axis. Whole heart mapping was analyzed in combination with basic measurements of the effects of flecainide on conduction and refractory properties of both normal and ischemic myocardia using a high-resolution cross electrode consisting of four orthogonal arms, each comprised of 16 poles with an interelectrode spacing of 500 microns. The electrode was especially designed to study the effects of the drug on anisotropic conduction as determined by a linear regression of activation time and distance in each direction. Flecainide resulted preferentially in more marked rate-dependent depression of conduction in ischemic compared with normal myocardium. On the other hand, the effect of flecainide on refractoriness in both normal and ischemic myocardia was negligible.
Because flecainide caused no significant change in refractoriness in both normal and ischemic myocardia, there was no difference in the dimension of the potential reentrant pathway, that is, the continuous line of functional conduction block, around which the reentrant wave fronts circulate. Yet, flecainide resulted in significant rate-dependent slowing of conduction preferentially in ischemic myocardium. The additional slowing of conduction of the common reentrant wave front coupled with minimal changes in the length of the reentrant pathway allowed additional time for the wave front to reexcite normal myocardium on the proximal side of the arc of block. After flecainide, reentry could be induced in hearts in which reentry could not be induced during control. The same proarrhythmic mechanism explains the propensity of nonsustained figure-8 reentrant tachycardias to become sustained after flecainide.
Repeated administration of methamphetamine (m-AMPH) to rats induces dopamine (DA) terminal damage, and coadministration of antagonists of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) or dopamine D1 or D2 receptors are protective. Striatal microdialysis of rats given a neurotoxic regimen of 4 x m-AMPH (4 mg/kg, s.c.) treatments revealed a dramatic and prolonged elevation of extracellular DA after the final m-AMPH administration. Neuroprotective regimens of MK-801, SCH 23390, or eticlopride greatly attenuated the overflow of DA resulting from the fourth m-AMPH treatment. By itself, MK-801 had no significant influence on striatal DA overflow, whereas either DA antagonist given alone elevated dialysate DA concentrations. A significant correlation was found between the magnitude of the m-AMPH-induced DA overflow of individual microdialyzed rats and their striatal DA content at sacrifice one week later. We conclude that the ability of non-competitive NMDA antagonists and of the D1 or D2 antagonists to protect against m-AMPH-induced striatal DA terminal injury can be accounted for by their attenuation of m-AMPH-evoked DA overflow. These findings underscore the important role played by elevated extracellular DA concentrations to the injurious effects of this stimulant drug.
To evaluate safety, tolerability, and symptom improvement with once-daily esomeprazole in children with endoscopically proven gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD).
In this 8-week, multicenter, randomized, uncontrolled, double-blind study, children ages 1 to 11 years were stratified by weight to receive esomeprazole 5 or 10 mg (children <20 kg) or 10 or 20 mg (children >or=20 kg) once daily. Safety and tolerability was assessed by evaluating adverse events (AEs; both treatment- and non-treatment-related AEs) and changes from baseline in medical history, physical examinations, and clinical laboratory tests. Investigators scored symptom severity every 2 weeks using the Physician's Global Assessment (PGA). Patients' parents rated GERD symptoms of heartburn, acid regurgitation, and epigastric pain (none to severe, 0-3) at baseline (based on past 72 hours) and daily (from past 24 hours).
Of 109 patients randomized, 108 had safety data. AEs were experienced by 68.0% and 65.2% of children <20 kg receiving esomeprazole 5 and 10 mg, respectively, and 83.9% and 82.8% of children >or=20 kg receiving esomeprazole 10 and 20 mg, respectively, regardless of causality. Overall, only 9.3% of patients reported 13 treatment-related AEs; the most common were diarrhea (2.8% [3/108]), headache (1.9% [2/108]), and somnolence (1.9% [2/108]). Vomiting, a serious AE in 2 patients, was not judged by the investigator to be related to treatment. At the final visit, PGA scores improved significantly from baseline (P < 0.001). Of 58 patients with moderate to severe baseline PGA symptom scores, 91.4% had lower scores by the final visit. GERD symptom scores were significantly improved from baseline to the final week of the study in all of the treatment groups (P < 0.01)
In children ages 1 to 11 years with endoscopically proven GERD, esomeprazole (at daily doses of 5, 10, or 20 mg) was generally well tolerated. The frequency and severity of GERD-related symptoms were significantly reduced during the active treatment period.
Ischemic priapism (IP) is a urologic condition, which necessitates prompt management. Intracavernosal injection of phenylephrine is a usual treatment modality utilized for the management of these patients. Aim. We present a case of subarachnoid hemorrhage following intracavernosal injection of phenylephrine for IP in a patient with sickle cell disease.
We analyzed the degree of subarachnoid hemorrhage in our patient after intracavernosal injection of phenylephrine. The patient had an acute rise in blood pressure during corporal irrigation. This was followed by the onset of severe headache. Computed tomography (CT) scan confirmed the diagnosis of a subarachnoid hemorrhage.
Subarachnoid hemorrhage associated with intracavernosal injection of phenylephrine. Result. A 23-year-old African American male with a history of sickle cell disease presented with a painful penile erection. The patient was started on intravenous fluids, oxygen by nasal canula, and analgesic medication. After this, a blood gas was obtained from his left corpora cavernosa. This was followed by normal saline irrigation and injection of phenylephrine. The patient complained of a sudden, severe "terrible headache" immediately following the last injection, and noncontrast CT scan of the head was obtained and a subarachnoid hemorrhage was noted. The patient was admitted for observation and no significant changes were noted.
Intracavernosal injection of phenylephrine for the management of IP can be associated with several possible complications. We present our single case complicated with the formation of a subarachnoid hemorrhage. The patient was treated conservatively and had no long-term neurologic sequelae. Davila HH, Parker J, Webster JC, Lockhart JL, and Carrion RE. Subarachnoid hemorrhage as complication of phenylephrine injection for the treatment of ischemic priapism in a sickle cell disease patient.
Bladder wall calcification is a rare complication of intravesical therapy of superficial bladder cancer with Mitomycin C. A review of the literature revealed 2 other cases. We report a new case and discuss the pathogenic mechanism of this consequence of the intravesical treatment with Mitomycin C.
Our previous studies showed that the neuronal impulses connected with catalepsy, which have their origin at dopamine D2 receptors in the ventro-rostral part of the nucleus caudatus-putamen in rats, are conveyed to the zona incerta-lateral hypothalamic region. The aim of the present study was to investigate the route of the neuronal impulses between these structures. The experiments were carried out on rats with cannulae chronically implanted in the brain structures. We showed that (1) bilateral injection of bicuculline methiodide (5-50 ng) into the ventro-medial part of the globus pallidus (GPv) and (2) bilateral injection of muscimol (2.5-25 ng) into the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNR) inhibit, in a dose dependent manner, the catalepsy induced by sulpiride (1 microgram) administered bilaterally into the ventro-rostral part of the nucleus caudatus-putamen. It was also demonstrated that muscimol (25 ng), injected bilaterally into the ventro-medial part of the globus pallidus, induces catalepsy which, in turn, is dose-dependently inhibited by either (1) muscimol (5-25 ng) injected into the substantia nigra pars reticulata, or (2) bicuculline (1.0-2.5 ng) injected into the zona incerta-lateral hypothalamus (ZI-LH). Moreover, even a dose as high as 50 ng of bicuculline, injected into the ventro-medial part of the globus pallidus, had no significant effect on the locomotor activity of rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Painful peripheral neuropathy is a debilitating complication of the treatment of HIV with nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs). Patients are living longer with these drugs; however many develop excruciating, unremitting, and often treatment-limiting neuropathy that is resistant to conventional pain management therapies. Improving patient comfort and quality of life is paramount and depends on a clearer understanding of this devastating side effect. The mechanisms underlying the development of NRTI-induced neuropathy, however, remain unclear. Using a mouse model of NRTI-induced neuropathy, the authors conducted an unbiased whole-genome microarray screen to identify molecular targets in the spinal dorsal horn, which is the location where integration of ascending sensory transmission and descending modulatory effects occur. Analysis of the microarray data identified a change in the gene giant axonal neuropathy 1 (Gan1). Mutation of this gene has been linked to the development of giant axonal neuropathy (GAN), a rare autosomal recessive condition characterized by a progressive sensorimotor neuropathy. Gan1 has not been previously linked to nerve pathologies in other populations. In this study, downregulation of the Gan1 gene and the gene protein product, gigaxonin, was validated via quantitative polymerase chain reaction ([qPCR] gene expression) and Western blot analyses (protein level). Our report is the first to suggest that Gan1 might be a novel molecular target in the development of NRTI-induced peripheral neuropathy with implications for new therapeutic approaches to preventing or reducing a significant side effect of HIV treatment.
6 cases of hypersensitivity to Tixocortol pivalate and 3 to Amcinonide are reported. The 9 female patients all presented with features of contact dermatitis.
Dystonia and parkinsonism may present as part of the same genetic disorder. Identification of the genetic mutations that underlie these diseases may help to shed light on the aetiological processes involved.
We identified two unrelated families with members with an apparent autosomal recessive, novel, young-onset, generalised form of dystonia parkinsonism. We did autozygosity mapping and candidate gene sequencing in these families.
High-density genome-wide SNP genotyping revealed a disease-segregating region containing 277 homozygous markers identical by state across all affected members from both families. This novel disease locus, designated DYT16, covers 1.2 Mb at chromosome 2q31.2. The crucial interval contains 11 genes or predicted transcripts. Sequence analysis of every exon of all of these transcripts revealed a single disease-segregating mutation, c.665C>T (P222L), in the stress-response gene PRKRA, which encodes the protein kinase, interferon-inducible double-stranded RNA-dependent activator.
We describe a mutation within the gene PRKRA that segregates with a novel, autosomal recessive, dystonia parkinsonism syndrome. These patients have progressive, generalised, early-onset dystonia with axial muscle involvement, oromandibular (sardonic smile), laryngeal dystonia and, in some cases, parkinsonian features, and do not respond to levodopa therapy.
ATP-sensitive P2X(7) receptors are localized on cells of immunological origin including glial cells in the central nervous system. Activation of P2X(7) receptors leads to rapid changes in intracellular calcium concentrations, release of the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), and following prolonged agonist exposure, cytolytic plasma membrane pore formation. P2X(7) knockout mice show reduced inflammation as well as decreased nociceptive sensitivity following peripheral nerve injury. A-740003 (N-(1-{[(cyanoimino)(5-quinolinylamino) methyl] amino}-2,2-dimethylpropyl)-2-(3,4-dimethoxyphenyl)acetamide) is a novel competitive antagonist of P2X(7) receptors (IC(50) values = 40 nM for human and 18 nM for rat) as measured by agonist-stimulated changes in intracellular calcium concentrations. A-740003 showed weak or no activity (IC(50) > 10 muM) at other P2 receptors and an array of other neurotransmitter and peptide receptors, ion channels, reuptake sites, and enzymes. A-740003 potently blocked agonist-evoked IL-1beta release (IC(50) = 156 nM) and pore formation (IC(50) = 92 nM) in differentiated human THP-1 cells. Systemic administration of A-740003 produced dose-dependent antinociception in a spinal nerve ligation model (ED(50) = 19 mg/kg i.p.) in the rat. A-740003 also attenuated tactile allodynia in two other models of neuropathic pain, chronic constriction injury of the sciatic nerve and vincristine-induced neuropathy. In addition, A-740003 effectively reduced thermal hyperalgesia observed following intraplantar administration of carrageenan or complete Freund's adjuvant (ED(50) = 38-54 mg/kg i.p.). A-740003 was ineffective in attenuating acute thermal nociception in normal rats and did not alter motor performance at analgesic doses. These data demonstrate that selective blockade of P2X(7) receptors in vivo produces significant antinociception in animal models of neuropathic and inflammatory pain.
Cis-1,2-dichloroethylene was administered daily by corn oil gavage to male and female Sprague-Dawley rats at the following dose levels: 1.0, 3.0, 10.0 and 22.0 mmol/kg/day for 14 days. Doses gavaged during the 90-day subchronic study were 0.33, 1.00, 3.00 and 9.00 mmol/kg/day. There were no compound-related deaths or histopathological changes demonstrated. Significant increases in relative liver weights were seen after 14- and 90-days of treatment in both sexes. This study demonstrates some indication of toxicity at subacute and subchronic exposure levels as low as 0.33 mmol/kg/day. Implications of liver abnormalities were demonstrated at an exposure level of 1 mmol/kg/day while kidney abnormalities (relative weights) were demonstrated at an exposure level of 0.33 mmol/kg/day.
Anethol dithiolthione (ADT), usually prescribed as a choleretic drug, when given orally 1 hour prior to acetaminophen (AAP) (450 mg/kg intraperitoneally) in Swiss female mice, exhibited an hepatoprotective potency at doses as low as 10 mg/kg relative to serum aminotransferase activities and hepatic glutathione related enzyme system (glutathione reductase, peroxidase, transferase). These preliminary results are relevant with the use of pharmacologic dosage of ADT in hepatotoxicity prevention.
Studies in patients with epilepsy undergoing telemetry evaluation for surgery have suggested that discontinuation of carbamazepine (CBZ) is associated with increased seizures. The period of observation in that setting, however, was limited to a few days. The authors reviewed the occurrence of seizures in patients with epilepsy who had all their antiepileptic medications discontinued during an 8-week period, converted to gabapentin monotherapy, and observed for 26 weeks as part of the gabapentin trial #945-082. Two hundred and seventy-five patients were enrolled. Kaplan-Meier estimates of time to exit for all patients showed that 18% of patients previously treated with CBZ completed the study as compared with 30% of the patients receiving other antiepileptic medications. Increase in the frequency of seizures was maximal in the 2 weeks following CBZ discontinuation. Seizures increased both in frequency and severity but no new seizure types were observed. The findings in this study show that removal of CBZ is associated with increased frequency of seizures in patients with a previous history of epilepsy with incompletely controlled seizures. The period of maximal increase was the first 2 weeks after CBZ discontinuation.
A single family has been described in which obesity results from a mutation in the leptin-receptor gene (LEPR), but the prevalence of such mutations in severe, early-onset obesity has not been systematically examined.
We sequenced LEPR in 300 subjects with hyperphagia and severe early-onset obesity, including 90 probands from consanguineous families, and investigated the extent to which mutations cosegregated with obesity and affected receptor function. We evaluated metabolic, endocrine, and immune function in probands and affected relatives.
Of the 300 subjects, 8 (3%) had nonsense or missense LEPR mutations--7 were homozygotes, and 1 was a compound heterozygote. All missense mutations resulted in impaired receptor signaling. Affected subjects were characterized by hyperphagia, severe obesity, alterations in immune function, and delayed puberty due to hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. Serum leptin levels were within the range predicted by the elevated fat mass in these subjects. Their clinical features were less severe than those of subjects with congenital leptin deficiency.
The prevalence of pathogenic LEPR mutations in a cohort of subjects with severe, early-onset obesity was 3%. Circulating levels of leptin were not disproportionately elevated, suggesting that serum leptin cannot be used as a marker for leptin-receptor deficiency. Congenital leptin-receptor deficiency should be considered in the differential diagnosis in any child with hyperphagia and severe obesity in the absence of developmental delay or dysmorphism.
A double-blind clinical trial of 51 patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria using oral astemizole for 8 weeks demonstrated significant improvement in symptoms and lesions in 75% of treated patients versus 20% in the placebo group. The suppression of urticaria persisted for an average of 38 days, demonstrating the long duration of action of astemizole.
In order to elucidate the molecular mechanism of Realgar treatment for multiple myeloma (MM), cDNA microaaray was used to compare the gene expression profiles of MM cell line RPMI8226 at 72 hrs pre- and post-Realgar treatment on three separate days. 54 up-regulated and 60 down-regulated genes were identified by cDNA microarray. Further analysis screened out 17 up-regulated and 3 down-regulated genes with Z-score greater than 2 or less than -2, which can be considered the significantly altered genes after Realgar treatment in this study. CCL2, CCL3, BTG1,TNFAIP3, TNFAIP8, SLC38A2, IGFBP4 were important up-regulated genes and they were associated with a variety of cell life functions such as cell growth, cell-cell signaling, regulation of apoptosis and cell homeostasis based on biological process of gene. There are only 3 significantly down-regulated genes (Z-score <-2.0) involved in muscle contract. Several of these genes have been previously identified in relation to MM in published papers. Subsequent validation of selected genes (CCL2, TNFAIP3 and BTG1) by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction was consistent with our microarray analysis. CCL2 may be involved in MM pathobiology by tumor growth suppression. BTG1 could be used as a potential treatment-related biomarker for monitoring the therapy effect and the remission status of leukemia patients.
Metoclopramide, 4-amino-5-chloro-2-methoxy-N-(2-diethyl-aminoethyl) benzamide, is advocated for use in gastro-intestinal diagnostics, and in treating various types of vomiting and a variety of functional and organic gastro-intestinal disorders. Published data have indicated that metoclopramide assists radiological identification of lesions in the small intestine, facilitates duodenal intubation and small intestine biopsy, and eases emergency endoscopy in upper gastro-intestinal haemorrhage. Metoclopramide reduces post-operative vomiting and radiation sickness, and ameliorates some types of drug-induced vomiting. It may provide symptomatic relief in dyspepsia and possibly in vertigo, reflux oesophagitis and hiccups, but further controlled trials are needed to confirm the efficacy of metoclopramide in these proposed areas of use. It promotes gastric emptying prior to anaesthesia. Its effects in healing gastric ulcer and preventing relapse of duodenal ulcer remain unproven. Side-effects are few and transient, though alarming extrapyramidal reactions can occur in a small proportion of patients receiving therapeutic doses but more usually following excessive doses in young subjects. They respond rapidly to withdrawal of the drug.
Lung cancer is the most common malignancy in the Western world, and the main risk factor is tobacco smoking. Polymorphisms in metabolic genes may modulate the risk associated with environmental factors. The glutathione S-transferase theta 1 gene (GSTT1) is a particularly attractive candidate for lung cancer susceptibility because of its involvement in the metabolism of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons found in tobacco smoke and of other chemicals, pesticides, and industrial solvents. The frequency of the GSTT1 null genotype is lower among Caucasians (10-20%) than among Asians (50-60%). The authors present a meta- and a pooled analysis of case-control, genotype-based studies that examined the association between GSTT1 and lung cancer (34 studies, 7,629 cases and 10,087 controls for the meta-analysis; 34 studies, 7,044 cases and 10,000 controls for the pooled analysis). No association was observed between GSTT1 deletion and lung cancer for Caucasians (odds ratio (OR) = 0.99, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.87, 1.12); for Asians, a positive association was found (OR = 1.28, 95% CI: 1.10, 1.49). In the pooled analysis, the odds ratios were not significant for either Asians (OR = 0.97, 95% CI: 0.83, 1.13) or Caucasians (OR = 1.09, 95% CI: 0.99, 1.21). No significant interaction was observed between GSTT1 and smoking on lung cancer, whereas GSTT1 appeared to modulate occupational-related lung cancer.
A series of 2-substituted indan-1,3-dione derivatives, including alkyl (C-1-C-5), mono- and disubstituted phenyl, and other 2-aryl derivatives, were tested for hypolipidemic activity of CF1 male mice at 20 mg/kg per day. These derivatives reduced both serum cholesterol and triglycerides after 16 days of administration intraperitoneally. 2-(4-Methoxyphenyl)indan-1,3-dione was one of the more active compounds with 41% reduction of serum cholesterol and 58% reduction of serum triglyceride levels on day 16. This activity was confirmed in the rat after oral administration. 2-(2-Methylphenyl)- and 2-(4-chlorophenyl)indan-1,3-dione were effective in reducing serum triglyceride levels 58% and 53%, respectively, in mice. Serum cholesterol on day 16 was effectively reduced 46% by 2-(2,4-dimethylphenyl)indan-1,3-dione. The indan-1,3-dione derivatives were more effective than clofibrate in lowering lipid levels in mice. A more detailed study on the effects of 2-(4-methoxyphenyl)indan-1,3-dione demonstrated that key enzymes in the de novo synthesis of lipids were inhibited by the drug lowering tissue levels of lipids but raising those in the feces. The alterations in lipid content of rat lipoprotein fractions by the drug appeared favorable.
This work tests the mode-of-action (MOA) hypothesis that maternal and developmental triclosan (TCS) exposure decreases circulating thyroxine (T4) concentrations via up-regulation of hepatic catabolism and elimination of T4. Time-pregnant Long-Evans rats received TCS po (0-300mg/kg/day) from gestational day (GD) 6 through postnatal day (PND) 21. Serum and liver were collected from dams (GD20, PND22) and offspring (GD20, PND4, PND14, PND21). Serum T4, triiodothyronine (T3), and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) concentrations were measured by radioimmunoassay. Ethoxy-O-deethylase (EROD), pentoxyresorufin-O-depentylase (PROD) and uridine diphosphate glucuronyltransferase (UGT) enzyme activities were measured in liver microsomes. Custom Taqman(®) qPCR arrays were employed to measure hepatic mRNA expression of select cytochrome P450s, UGTs, sulfotransferases, transporters, and thyroid hormone-responsive genes. TCS was quantified by LC/MS/MS in serum and liver. Serum T4 decreased approximately 30% in GD20 dams and fetuses, PND4 pups and PND22 dams (300mg/kg/day). Hepatic PROD activity increased 2-3 fold in PND4 pups and PND22 dams, and UGT activity was 1.5 fold higher in PND22 dams only (300mg/kg/day). Minor up-regulation of Cyp2b and Cyp3a expression in dams was consistent with hypothesized activation of the constitutive androstane and/or pregnane X receptor. T4 reductions of 30% for dams and GD20 and PND4 offspring with concomitant increases in PROD (PND4 neonates and PND22 dams) and UGT activity (PND22 dams) suggest that up-regulated hepatic catabolism may contribute to TCS-induced hypothyroxinemia during development. Serum and liver TCS concentrations demonstrated greater fetal than postnatal internal exposure, consistent with the lack of T4 changes in PND14 and PND21 offspring. These data support the MOA hypothesis that TCS exposure leads to hypothyroxinemia via increased hepatic catabolism; however, the minor effects on thyroid hormone metabolism may reflect the low efficacy of TCS as thyroid hormone disruptor or highlight the possibility that other MOAs may also contribute to the observed maternal and early neonatal hypothyroxinemia.
19 allergic, occupational contact eczemas and 1 irrative contact dermatitis caused by pesticides from 1985-86 in the GDR are described. The 20 casuistic reports are supplemented with data concerning age, sex, exposure time, patch-test results, occupation site and dermatological details. The following pesticides were determined: maneb, zineb, mancozeb, propineb, thiram, demephion, dimethoate, propachlor, metham-Na, benomyl, chloralhydrate with chloralmethylhalbacetal, carbaryl, dinocap captan, phenyl-Hg-acetate and trichlodinitrobenzene. Each individual case adhered to the recommended test concentration for skin tests. Contact eczemas brought about by the pesticides demephion and trichlordinitrobenzene have not yet to be described. Those working in gardening seem to be particularly prone.
