Immunosuppressive treatment with cyclosporin A (CsA) improves the survival of renal allografts, but is associated with renal vasoconstriction and hypertension. Previous reports suggest that the calcium-channel blockers nifedipine and amlodipine may improve graft function in CsA-treated patients. We have compared the effects of amlodipine (5-10 mg once daily) and nifedipine retard (10-40 mg twice daily) on renal function and blood pressure in renal transplant recipients treated with CsA.
This was a multicentre, two-way, crossover study in 27 evaluable hypertensive patients with renal insufficiency following renal transplantation, who were maintained on a stable dose of CsA. Patients received either amlodipine (5-10 mg once daily) or nifedipine retard (10-40 mg twice daily) for 8 weeks, and were then crossed over to the other treatment for a further 8 weeks.
Trends were seen during amlodipine treatment towards larger improvements, in serum creatinine (by 8% of baseline on amlodipine vs 4% on nifedipine), lithium clearance (13% vs 2%), and glomerular filtration rate 11% vs 7%). Effective renal plasma flow was increased by 11% of baseline on nifedipine vs 9% on amlodipine. There were no significant differences between treatments. Amlodipine and nifedipine lowered systolic blood pressure to a similar extent (21 mmHg vs 15 mmHg respectively, P=0.25), but amlodipine was more effective than nifedipine in lowering diastolic blood pressure (13 mmHg vs 8 mmHg, P=0.006). Both treatments were well tolerated.
Once-daily amlodipine is at least as effective as twice-daily nifedipine retard in controlling blood pressure and does not adversely affect graft function in hypertensive renal allograft recipients.
To examine how demographic and pregnancy characteristics can affect the risk of recurrent preterm delivery and the how the effectiveness of progesterone treatment for prevention alters these relationships.
This was a secondary analysis of a randomized trial of 17alpha-hydroxyprogesterone caproate to prevent recurrent preterm delivery in women at risk. Associations of risk factors for preterm delivery (less than 37 completed weeks of gestation) were examined separately for the women in the 17alpha-hydroxyprogesterone caproate (n = 310) and placebo (n = 153) groups.
Univariate analysis found that the number of previous preterm deliveries and whether the penultimate delivery was preterm were significant risk factors for preterm delivery in both the placebo and progesterone groups. High body mass index was protective of preterm birth in the placebo group. Multivariate analysis found progesterone treatment to cancel the risk of more than 1 previous preterm delivery, but not the risk associated with the penultimate pregnancy delivered preterm. Obesity was associated with lower risk for preterm delivery in the placebo group but not in the women treated with progesterone.
The use of 17alpha-hydroxyprogesterone caproate in women with a previous preterm delivery reduces the overall risk of preterm delivery and changes the epidemiology of risk factors for recurrent preterm delivery. In particular, these data suggest that 17alpha-hydroxyprogesterone caproate reduces the risk of a history of more than 1 preterm delivery.
I.
Pretreatment of mice with 30 mg xylazine/kg ip protected against convulsions induced by amphetamine, but it intensified pentylenetetrazole- and strychnine-induced seizures. Xylazine pretreatment also protected rats against electroshock-induced convulsions. These findings support a noradrenergic mechanism being involved in the proconvulsant and/or anticonvulsant effects of xylazine.
The safety and efficacy of sustained-release diltiazem, 120 to 180 mg twice daily, was compared with those of hydrochlorothiazide, 25 to 50 mg twice daily, in 207 patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension (supine diastolic blood pressure [BP] 95 to 114 mm Hg) using a baseline, placebo, parallel-design study protocol. All patients received placebo for 2 to 4 weeks, followed by either study drug during the double-blind phase, titrated over 8 weeks to achieve a goal of supine diastolic BP reduction of at least 10 mm Hg and/or a diastolic BP of less than 90 mm Hg. Patients not achieving the treatment goal with either drug alone received the other drug in combination. Both drugs produced significant decreases in supine and upright BP throughout the 26-week study. The magnitude of decrease in mean supine diastolic BP was similar for both drugs as monotherapy at week 14 (-11.4 and -12.1 mm Hg, respectively). Hydrochlorothiazide produced significantly greater reductions at week 14 in mean supine systolic BP than sustained-release diltiazem (-19.5 and -12.7 mm Hg, respectively). The difference in mean supine diastolic BP reduction with the 2 drugs diminished when hydrochlorothiazide (50 mg/day) was compared with sustained-release diltiazem. The BP effects were sustained for 6 months with both drugs. The 2 drugs appeared to lower BP more in patients older than 60 years and more in black than in white patients. The combination of the 2 drugs decreased supine diastolic BP to goal levels in about 56% of the patients not achieving goal with either drug alone. Adverse effects were minimal with either drug alone and in combination, except for hypokalemia, which increased with thiazide alone and in combination.
In order to evaluate the effects on behaviour of some anti-epileptic drugs, we studied 300 children treated with phenobarbital and other drugs; their age ranged from 3.1 months to 15.9 years. The children were divided into two groups: group A: 197 (116 male and 81 female) children, mean age +/- SD 5.3 +/- 2.8 years, treated with phenobarbital; group B: 103 (66 male and 37 female) children, mean age 6.4 +/- 3.1 years, treated with anti-epileptic drugs other than phenobarbital. In all patients hyperactivity, irritability, disturbances of sleep, and drowsiness were investigated. The parents of patients completed a questionnaire with seven items. In group A, 150 (76.1%) children showed one or more behaviour disturbances, while in Group B a smaller number of patients 32 (31%) had such disorders. There was a significant difference between the two groups (P < 0.0001). The most frequent disorder was hyperactivity. The results of this study suggest that anti-epileptic drugs, in particular phenobarbital, can cause behaviour disturbances.
Both the acute blood pressure lowering and renal effects of the calcium antagonist nicardipine and those after 1 week's treatment were investigated in 10 normotensive volunteers and in 10 patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension. After 1 week of placebo, nicardipine was administered orally for 1 week (20 mg three times daily), Investigations, done on the first and last day of nicardipine treatment were compared with those on the last day of placebo. During water loading, nicardipine increased urinary volume and urinary excretion of sodium significantly after 1 week nicardipine treatment. In the normotensive group the natriuretic effect was caused by a decrease of fractional proximal and distal reabsorption of sodium. In the hypertensive group the natriuresis was achieved mainly by an increase of the rate of glomerular filtration (GFR) and also by a slight distal effect. Our results show that nicardipine had natriuretic effects. There were trends suggesting that the renal effects may differ between patients with essential hypertension and normotensive volunteers, but the findings might also be related to differences in age between the groups.
Ciliary dysfunction leads to a broad range of overlapping phenotypes, collectively termed ciliopathies. This grouping is underscored by genetic overlap, where causal genes can also contribute modifier alleles to clinically distinct disorders. Here we show that mutations in TTC21B, which encodes the retrograde intraflagellar transport protein IFT139, cause both isolated nephronophthisis and syndromic Jeune asphyxiating thoracic dystrophy. Moreover, although resequencing of TTC21B in a large, clinically diverse ciliopathy cohort and matched controls showed a similar frequency of rare changes, in vivo and in vitro evaluations showed a significant enrichment of pathogenic alleles in cases (P < 0.003), suggesting that TTC21B contributes pathogenic alleles to ∼5% of ciliopathy cases. Our data illustrate how genetic lesions can be both causally associated with diverse ciliopathies and interact in trans with other disease-causing genes and highlight how saturated resequencing followed by functional analysis of all variants informs the genetic architecture of inherited disorders.
Although intrarenal dopamine is known to behave as an endogenous natriuretic hormone the role of the renal dopaminergic system in the sodium handling of nephrotic oedema remains unknown.
We monitored the daily urinary excretion of free dopamine, L-DOPA-its precursor, and its metabolites, DOPAC and HVA, during sodium retention accompanying the nephrotic state and natriuresis leading to oedema mobilization in eight patients (mean age 8.0+/-2.4 years) with drug-induced remission of minimal-change nephrotic syndrome (MCNS).
During natriuresis the urinary levels of dopamine did not increase in parallel with sodium excretion in any of the eight patients studied. Moreover, after remission of the nephrotic syndrome the urinary levels of dopamine were significantly lower than during the nephrotic state (1565.3+/-361.7 vs 2416.1+/-558.4, P= 0.02). In contrast, the urinary excretion of L-DOPA increased markedly during natriuresis resulting from remission of proteinuria (from 87.0+/-40.5 up to 296.9+/-86.3 nmol/24 h; P< 0.01).
We conclude that the natriuretic response resulting from drug-induced remission of proteinuria in MCNS is accompanied by a decrease in the renal uptake/decarboxylation of L-DOPA to dopamine.
S-Allylcysteine (SAC), an organosulfur compound of aged garlic extract (AGE) regulates the thiol status of the cell and scavenges free radicals. Depletion of thiols along with free radical generation has been implicated in cyclophosphamide (CP)-induced urotoxicity. We studied modulatory effect of SAC on CP-induced urotoxicity in mice focusing on hemorrhagic cystitis (HC). SAC (150 and 300 mg kg(-1)) was administered in CP treated animals (200 mg kg(-1)) and bladder was observed for histological and biochemical changes. CP treatment caused a marked increase in the lumen exudates, edema, vasodilation and HC in lamina propia in the bladder. These changes were accompanied by increase in lipid peroxidation (LPO), and decrease in reduced glutathione (GSH) and activities of antioxidant enzymes. SAC not only showed protection in tissue histology but also improved the decreased activities of antioxidant enzymes. SAC treatment also reduced LPO and increased GSH levels. Although SAC treatment did not ensure full recovery, the marked improvement in histology and antioxidants of bladder suggests that it has a significant modulatory effect on CP-induced urotoxicity. Since decrease in antioxidant level is the major cause of CP urotoxicity, the protective effect of SAC deserves its further exploration involving laboratory and clinical investigations.
3MC syndrome has been proposed as a unifying term encompassing the overlapping Carnevale, Mingarelli, Malpuech and Michels syndromes. These rare autosomal recessive disorders exhibit a spectrum of developmental features, including characteristic facial dysmorphism, cleft lip and/or palate, craniosynostosis, learning disability and genital, limb and vesicorenal anomalies. Here we studied 11 families with 3MC syndrome and identified two mutated genes, COLEC11 and MASP1, both of which encode proteins in the lectin complement pathway (collectin kidney 1 (CL-K1) and MASP-1 and MASP-3, respectively). CL-K1 is highly expressed in embryonic murine craniofacial cartilage, heart, bronchi, kidney and vertebral bodies. Zebrafish morphants for either gene develop pigmentary defects and severe craniofacial abnormalities. Finally, we show that CL-K1 serves as a guidance cue for neural crest cell migration. Together, these findings demonstrate a role for complement pathway factors in fundamental developmental processes and in the etiology of 3MC syndrome.
The effects of brimonidine, an alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonist, on blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate, renal function and some blood parameters were investigated in 10 dogs. Dogs were divided into two groups, low dose (LD; 0.2 mg/kg) and high dose (HD; 0.5 mg/kg) of brimonidine given orally. The alpha(2)-adrenergic antagonist yohimbine hydrochloride was injected to dogs at a dose of 0.1 mg/kg in both groups at the fifth hour after brimonidine administration. The results demonstrated that after administration of brimonidine, mean arterial blood pressure decreased dramatically at 2 h by 23% and 20% in LD and HD groups, respectively. Heart rate was decreased in a similar manner and both remained low at 5 h after brimonidine administration. Respiratory rate was decreased by 50%, while the electrocardiogram showed prolongation of the PR interval. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and effective renal blood flow were reduced when measured at 4 h after brimonidine ingestion in both groups, but the effect was more pronounced in the LD group. Brimonidine caused natriuresis and kaliuresis in both LD and HD groups. The packed cell volume was decreased and hyperglycaemia was detected. Most of the effects can be reversed completely after administration of yohimbine. However, yohimbine can restore GFR only partially. These data suggest that brimonidine caused cardiovascular and respiratory depression. The adverse effects of this drug can be antagonized by yohimbine, suggesting that these effects were mediated via the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor.
Resveratrol pretreatment can protect the heart by inducing pharmacological preconditioning. Whether resveratrol protects the heart when applied at reperfusion remains unknown. We examined the effect of resveratrol on myocardial infarct size when given at reperfusion and investigated the mechanism underlying the effect. Isolated rat hearts were subjected to 30 min ischemia followed by 2 h of reperfusion, and myocardial samples were collected from the risk zone for Western blot analysis. Mitochondrial swelling was spectrophotometrically measured as a decrease in absorbance at 520 nm (A(520)). Resveratrol reduced infarct size and prevented cardiac mitochondrial swelling. Resveratrol enhanced GSK-3beta phosphorylation upon reperfusion, an effect that was mediated by the cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP)/protein kinase G (PKG) pathway. Resveratrol translocated GSK-3beta from cytosol to mitochondria via the cGMP/PKG pathway. Further studies showed that mitochondrial GSK-3beta was co-immunoprecipitated with cyclophilin D but not with VDAC (voltage dependent anion channel) or ANT (adenine nucleotide translocator). These data suggest that resveratrol prevents myocardial reperfusion injury presumably by targeting the mPTP through translocation of GSK-3beta from cytosol to mitochondria. Translocated GSK-3beta may ultimately interact with cyclophilin D to modulate the mPTP opening.
A patient on disopyramide developed disopyramide toxicity when treated concurrently with azithromycin. Evidence of toxicity included an elevated serum disopyramide level and ventricular tachycardia requiring cardioversion. The azalide antibiotic presumably inhibited dealkylation of disopyramide to its major metabolite, mono-N-dealkyldisopyramide. Physicians should avoid using azithromycin in patients on disopyramide. If this drug combination is unavoidable, disopyramide levels must be closely monitored.
Polyoxyethylene esters of ketoprofen (1a-e), naproxen (2a-e) and diclofenac (3a-e) were tested in vitro to determine their stability in pH 7.4 phosphate buffer and in simulated gastric fluid (pH 2.0 buffer) and their susceptibility in undergoing enzymatic cleavage in human plasma. Furthermore their in vivo antiinflammatory and analgesic activity and GI toxicity were evaluated in rodents. All the prodrugs showed a good stability both in pH 7.4 phosphate buffer and in pH 2.0 buffer. They were readily hydrolyzed by human plasma and, for each group of prodrugs, no significant difference in hydrolysis rate was observed as the length of the oligoethylene chain increased. Esters 1a-e, 2a-e and 3a-e showed an anti-inflammatory activity (expressed as inhibition percent of carrageenan-induced edema in the rat) similar to that of their respective parent drug although at higher doses. The results obtained in the writhing test in mice demonstrated that all the prodrugs tested exhibited, following acute administration, a good analgesic effect. Furthermore these esters were significantly less irritating to the gastric mucosa, although administered at doses higher than the respective parent drug.
The effects of dithiolethione modified valproate, diclofenac and sulindac on non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cells were investigated. Sulfur(S)-valproate and S-diclofenac at 1 microg/ml concentrations significantly reduced prostaglandin (PG)E(2) levels in NSCLC cell lines A549 and NCI-H1299 as did the COX-2 inhibitor DuP-697. In vitro, S-valproate, S-diclofenac and S-sulindac half-maximally inhibited the clonal growth of NCI-H1299 cells at 6, 6 and 15 microg/ml, respectively. Using the MTT assay, 10 microg/ml S-valproate, NO-aspirin and Cay10404, a selective COX-2 inhibitor, but not SC-560, a selective COX-1 inhibitor, inhibited the growth of A549 cells. In vivo, 18mg/kg i.p. of S-valproate and S-diclofenac, but not S-sulindac, significantly inhibited A549 or NCI-H1299 xenograft proliferation in nude mice, but had no effect on the nude mouse body weight. The mechanism by which S-valproate and S-diclofenac inhibited the growth of NSCLC cells was investigated. Nitric oxide-aspirin but not S-valproate caused apoptosis of NSCLC cells. By Western blot, S-valproate and S-diclofenac increased E-cadherin but reduced vimentin and ZEB1 (a transcriptional suppressor of E-cadherin) protein expression in NSCLC cells. Because S-valproate and S-diclofenac inhibit the growth of NSCLC cells and reduce PGE(2) levels, they may prove beneficial in the chemoprevention and/or therapy of NSCLC.
To evaluate the efficacy of the mass hepatitis B vaccination program in Taiwan in interrupting perinatal hepatitis B virus transmission, 3464 randomly selected 18-month-old infant vaccinees born to hepatitis B surface antigen-carrier mothers were recruited from 9697 eligible infants during a six-month period of the program. They were divided into ten groups according to maternal infectivity and compliance with the vaccination schedule. Serum samples were tested for hepatitis B surface antigen, antibody to hepatitis B surface antigen, and antibody to hepatitis B core antigen. In 786 infants who had highly infectious mothers and who received hepatitis B immune globulin and vaccine on schedule, the protective efficacy was about 85%. The efficacy seemed to be slightly lower in those immunized off schedule. Overall, 11% of infants still carried hepatitis B surface antigen, and 81% of the infants had antibody to hepatitis B surface antigen that exceeded 10 mIU/mL in more than 90% of them. The geometric mean titers of antibody to hepatitis B surface antigen were more than 200 mIU/mL in every group of infants. We conclude that the mass vaccination program is efficacious in preventing perinatal hepatitis B virus transmission and the chronic carrier state; most infant vaccinees have adequate levels of protective antibody at 18 months of age. This program is extremely significant in the control of hepatitis B virus infection in Taiwan.
Elucidation of the mechanism of action of the atypical antipsychotic clozapine is complicated by the finding that this molecule interacts with multiple targets including dopaminergic and serotonergic receptors. Binding studies have suggested that clozapine also antagonises GABA(A) receptors, but physiological evidence for such a block at functional synapses is lacking. In this study, we explored this antagonism by using electrophysiological techniques on GABAergic neurones of the ventral tegmental area in culture. Inhibitory post-synaptic currents (IPSCs) evoked in isolated GABAergic neurones were found to be dose-dependently inhibited by clozapine. Compatible with a post-synaptic mechanism, we found that membrane currents evoked by exogenous applications of GABA were similarly dose-dependently inhibited by clozapine. An analysis of miniature inhibitory post-synaptic currents (mIPSCs) showed that clozapine reduced the amplitude of quantal events in a way similar to SR-95531, a specific GABA(A) receptor antagonist. Both drugs caused a similar leftward shift of the cumulative probability distribution of mIPSC amplitudes. This suggests that clozapine acts on both synaptic and extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors. In conclusion, our work demonstrates that clozapine produces a functional antagonism of GABA(A) receptors at synapses. Because this effect occurs at concentrations that could be found in the brain of patients treated with clozapine, a reduction in GABAergic synaptic transmission could be implicated in the therapeutic actions and/or side-effects of clozapine.
Gallbladder carcinoma (GBC), an aggressive and mostly lethal malignancy, is known to be resistant to a number of apoptotic stimuli. Here, we report for the first time the pro-apoptosis role of arsenic trioxide (As2O3) in gallbladder carcinoma and identify the contribution of Bcl-2 in the As2O3-induced apoptosis. The treatment of As2O3 in gallbladder carcinoma cells could induce apoptosis in a dose-dependent manner and downregulate the expression of anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 at mRNA level. Moreover, Bcl-2 overexpression could protect gallbladder carcinoma cells from As2O3-induced apoptosis, indicating the contribution of Bcl-2 in As2O3-induced apoptosis. Taken together, these results suggest that arsenic trioxide induces gallbladder carcinoma cell apoptosis via downregulation of Bcl-2, which may have important therapeutic implications in gallbladder carcinoma patients.
The aim of the study was to investigate the hypothesis that agmatine (AGM) provides protection against oxidative stress in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Wild-type (WT) and knockout (KO) CBA/H iNOS-/- 3 months old (15 ± 5 g) mice, were used for EAE induction by myelin basic protein (MBP), dissolved in Complete Freund's Adjuvant (CFA). The animals were divided into control, EAE, CFA, EAE+AGM and AGM groups. After the development of full clinical remission, animals were decapitated and oxidative stress parameters were determined in whole encephalitic mass (WEM) and cerebellum homogenates. The EAE clinical expression manifested to greater extent in WT than KO mice, was significantly decreased during AGM treatment. We demonstrated significant elevations of superoxide dismutase activity in WT and KO EAE animals, in WEM and cerebellum tissues, which were decreased during AGM treatment in both groups. Superoxide anion content was increased in WEM of both study groups, with a decrease during AGM treatment. The observed changes were more pronounced in WT than in KO animals. Also, the increased expressions of transferrin receptor and glial fibrillary acidic protein observed in WT and KO EAE mice were significantly decreased during AGM treatment. The results suggest potentially beneficial AGM effects in EAE, which might be used for a modified antioxidative approach in MS therapy.
Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) is a new immunosuppressive drug whose active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), blocks the action of inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase, resulting in the inhibition of the novo purine synthesis. Thus, MPA has an antiproliferative effect on T and B lymphocytes and also inhibits the glycosylation of cell surface adhesion proteins involved in cell-cell contact and in the recruitment of circulating leukocytes to sites of tissue damage and inflammation. In this study, the effect of MMF in the mercury model of nephritis was examined. Repeated exposure to HgCl(2) induces an autoreactive Th2 cell subset-inducing polyclonal B cell activation in the Brown Norway (BN) rat. This leads to the development of an autoimmune syndrome characterized by synthesis of autoantibodies (mainly anti-glomerular basement membrane [GBM] Abs) with glomerular linear deposits of IgG, proteinuria, and tubulointerstitial nephritis. Results show that MMF has a preventive effect on mercury-induced disease as it blocks anti-GBM Ab synthesis, thus avoiding glomerular IgG deposits and proteinuria and the development of interstitial nephritis. However, the therapeutic effect of MMF seems to be restricted to its antiinflammatory properties blocking the extravasation of circulating leukocytes to renal interstitium by interfering with the very late activation antigen 4/vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) cell adhesion pathway. Also, MMF administration to mercury-injected rats reduces the secretion of the proinflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha. These findings confirm that MMF has a strong effect on the primary immune response in this model. Nevertheless, when the disease is in progress, MMF acts exclusively on the inflammatory response. MMF could be useful in the treatment of diseases associated with renal inflammation.
Chronic hypoxic pulmonary hypertension (PH), associated with increased pulmonary arterial pressure (PPA) and right ventricular hypertrophy (RVH), correlates significantly with calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and somatostatin (SOM) levels in lung and blood. CGRP's role in regulation of PPA in chronic hypoxia and its potential interactions with SOM were investigated. CGRP, its antibody (ab) and blocker, CGRP-(8-37), SOM-14, SOM-28, and SOM-ab, respectively, were infused into the pulmonary circulation of hypobaric hypoxia rats for 4, 8, and 16 days. Thereafter, under pentobarbital sodium anesthesia, PPA was measured in the right ventricle and main pulmonary artery. Chronic CGRP infusion prevented PH at all times, whereas immunoneutralization and receptor blocking exacerbated PH. SOM-28 also exacerbated while SOM-14 and SOM-ab decreased PH. RVH generally reflected the PPA. Radioimmunoassay confirmed successful infusion of the peptides with negligible peptide degradation in the pumps throughout 16 days and showed complete immunoneutralization of CGRP with its ab. Peptide levels in lung tissue suggest inhibition of CGRP release by SOM-28 and increased plasma SOM with CGRP infusion. In vitro pharmacological studies suggest that CGRP exerts a receptor-mediated nonadrenergic, nonmuscarinic vasodilatory effect in the lung which is independent of endothelium-derived relaxing factor and does not involve ATP-dependent potassium channels. We conclude that endogenous CGRP plays an important role in pulmonary pressure homeostasis during hypoxia, by directly dilating pulmonary vasculature, thus ameliorating the development of chronic hypoxic pulmonary hypertension in rats.
The aim of the present study was the evaluation of anti-proliferative potentials of apigenin (Ap), (a dietary flavonoid) loaded in poly (lactic-co-glycolide) nanoparticles (NAp) in A375 cells in vitro. NAp was characterized for particle size, morphology, zeta potential, drug release and encapsulation. Cellular entry and intracellular localization of NAp were assessed by transmission electron and confocal microscopies. Circular dichroic spectral analysis and stability curve for Gibb's free energy of dsDNA of A375 cells were also analyzed. DNA fragmentation, intracellular ROS accumulation, superoxide-dismutase activity, intracellular glutathione-reductase content and mitochondrial functioning through relevant markers like mitochondrial transmembrane potential, ATPase activity, ATP/ADP ratio, volume changes/swelling, cytochrome-c release, expressions of Apaf-1, bax, bcl-2, caspase-9, 3, and PARP cleavage were analyzed. NAp produced better effects due to their smaller size, faster mobility and site-specific action. Photostability studies revealed that PLGA encapsulations were efficient at preserving apigenin ultraviolet-light mediated photodegradation. NAp readily entered cancer cells, could intercalate with dsDNA, inducing conformational change. Corresponding increase in ROS accumulation and depletion of the antioxidant enzyme activities exacerbated DNA damage, mediating apoptosis through mitochondrial dysfunction. Overall results indicate that therapeutic efficacy of NAp may be enhanced by PLGA nanoparticle formulations to have better ameliorative potentials in combating skin melanoma.
