We determined whether photodynamic therapy after the oral administration of 5-aminolevulinic acid in patients with superficial bladder cancer that cannot be controlled by transurethral resection and intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) immunotherapy would preserve the bladder, while stopping tumor progression. Side effects of treatment were also assessed.
We performed photodynamic therapy after the oral administration of 5-aminolevulinic acid in 24 patients with rapidly recurring, multifocal, BCG refractory superficial pTa-pT1 transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder and carcinoma in situ.
At a median followup of 36 months (range 12 to 51) 3 of the 5 patients with carcinoma in situ and 4 of the 19 with papillary tumors were free of recurrence. Three patients were rendered disease-free by repeat photodynamic therapy with 5-aminolevulinic acid and 3 underwent cystectomy. Tumor progression was stopped in 20 of our 24 cases. Immediately after the oral administration of 5-aminolevulinic acid hypotension and tachycardia occurred in 19 and 10 patients, respectively, with previously known severe cardiovascular disease. No phototoxic skin reaction or decreased bladder capacity was observed.
These initial clinical results suggest that photodynamic therapy with orally administered 5-aminolevulinic acid is effective as an organ preserving procedure for treating superficial bladder cancer even in patients with bacillus Calmette-Guerin refractory carcinoma. One should be aware of hemodynamic instability after the oral administration of 5-aminolevulinic acid, particularly in patients with cardiovascular co-morbidity.
Among the side effects attributed to sodium valproate administration, the production of a parkinsonian syndrome is very uncommon, particularly in children. We report a 12-year-old girl with secondary epilepsy; 7 days after the initiation of valproate therapy she developed parkinsonism that disappeared completely when valproate was replaced by carbamazepine. We discuss the possible role of alterations in GABAergic neurotransmission in the extrapyramidal syndrome that developed.
3-Amino-1,4-dimethyl-5H-pyrido[4,3-b]indole (Trp-P-1) or 3-amino-1-methyl-5H-pyrido[4,3-b]indole (Trp-P-2), which is a potent mutagen from pyrolysates of tryptophan, was given subcutaneously to neonatal ICR mice, and all animals were observed for 1 year. Tumors of the livers and lymphoreticular tissue were induced. In the mice given Trp-P-1, the incidences of these tumors were as follows: liver tumors in 45% of the males; malignant lymphoma in 13% of the males and in 24% of the females. In the mice given Trp-P-2, the incidences of liver tumors in the males were dose-dependent (12.5 mg/kg, 12%; 25 mg/kg, 18%), while those of malignant lymphoma varied within a range from 5 to 19%. Statistical analysis revealed that the incidences of the liver tumor in the mice given Trp-P-1 or Trp-P-2 and those of lymphoma in the mice given Trp-P-1 were significantly higher than those of the controls. In the control mice, the incidences of tumors were as follows: malignant lymphoma in 5% of the females; lung tumor in 14% of both sexes.
Previously administered in cases of acetaminophen toxicity, N-Acetylcysteine (NAC) is now also being used in the management of acute myocardial ischemia and reperfusion injury. NAC potentiates the beneficial effects of nitrates such as nitroglycerin and reduces oxidative stress on the heart. The critical care nurse plays an important role in optimizing the therapeutic benefits of NAC and minimizing its potential harmful effects.
In a single-blinded study involving 120 patients neither the incidence nor severity of phlebitis observed with cephapirin and cephalothin was significantly different.
Uranium (U) is found in the environment and its use in industrial or military activities has led to concerns about its potential toxicity. The reprotoxicity of this heavy metal has been established in adult animals; however, no studies have examined its effect on human fetal gonads. Using an organ culture system, we investigated the effects of uranyl acetate on human gonads during the first trimester of gestation (7-12 weeks), which is a critical step in the development of a functional reproductive system. In human fetal ovaries, 0.05 mM U significantly decreased germ cell density by increasing their apoptosis rate. In human fetal testes, 0.1mM U similarly reduced the number of germ cells. The human fetal germ cells are more sensitive to U than mouse germ cells in the same experimental conditions. This is the first evidence that U may impair the development of the human gonads.
It has been postulated that ischemic stroke due to acute cocaine usage involves constriction of the cerebral vasculature. However, the mechanism underlying the constriction remains unclear. This study tested whether cocaine constriction was mediated via endothelin-1. Cocaine suffusion induced maintained constriction in the rabbit basilar artery in situ. The constriction was relaxed by PD145065, an endothelin A and B receptor antagonist. These results support the hypothesis that constriction of the cerebral vasculature due to acute cocaine exposure is via endothelin-1 release. Endothelin receptor antagonists may be of therapeutic benefit in cerebrovascular pathophysiologies involving cocaine constriction.
Thymidine phosphorylase (TP) is an enzyme which converts thymidine to thymine. TP is expressed in a variety of human carcinomas and is known to be a potent angiogenic factor. A recent in vitro study indicated that TP is involved in the intracellular apoptotic signal transduction pathway. The aim of this study was to investigate the correlations between the expression of TP, microvessel density (MVD) and the occurrence of spontaneous apoptosis in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC).
The expression of TP, intratumoral MVDs and percentages of apoptotic cancer cells, expressed by the apoptotic index (AI), of 155 tumors from 155 patients with ESCC were analyzed by immunohistochemistry and compared.
Positive TP expression in cancer and stromal cells was detected in 89 (57.4%) and 104 (67.1%) cases, respectively. The mean MVD and mean AI of the 155 tumors were 288/mm(2) (range: 36-668/mm(2)) and 2.1% (range: 0-20.4%). The mean MVD of 104 tumors with TP-positive stromal cells (336/mm(2)) was higher than that of 51 tumors with TP-negative stromal cells (188/mm(2), p < 0.001). However, the mean MVD of 89 tumors with TP-positive cancer cells (293/mm(2)) did not differ from that of 66 tumors with TP-negative cancer cells (280/mm(2), p = 0.509). On the other hand, the mean AI of 89 tumors with TP-positive cancer cells (1.2%) was lower than that of 66 tumors with TP-negative cancer cells (3.4%, p < 0.001). However, the mean AI of 104 tumors with TP-positive stromal cells (1.9%) did not differ from that of 51 tumors with TP-negative stromal cells (2.6%, p = 0.058). No significant correlation between the MVDs and the AIs was observed (rho = -0.067, p = 0.409).
In ESCC, TP may play an important role in tumor progression by increasing microvessels and suppressing apoptosis of cancer cells.
We have routinely applied an extra-strong graduated compression stocking to cesarean section patients to reduce the incidence of spinal anesthesia hypotension. Because bupivacaine has recently become available in Japan, we compared the incidence of spinal hypotension using either 2.0 ml of hyperbaric 0.3% dibucaine or 0.5% bupivacaine. There were 98 full-term parturients wearing the stocking who received 2.0 ml injection of dibucaine or bupivacaine for elective cesarean section. When systolic blood pressure decreased to 90-100 mm Hg or to less than 70% of the pre-anesthesia value, ephedrine was injected intravenously. There was no significant difference in systolic blood pressure or heart rate during spinal anesthesia between the dibucaine and bupivacaine groups. Although the demographic data and various data related to anesthesia or surgery were similar in the groups, the fluid volume and the dose and incidence of ephedrine injection during anesthesia showed significant differences: the mean dose was 3.6 and 1.5 mg and the incidence was 41% and 19% in the dibucaine and bupivacaine groups, respectively. Spinal anesthesia using bupivacaine results in a lower incidence of spinal hypotension compared with dibucaine and, in combination with fitting the extra-strong stockings onto both legs, is clinically useful for cesarean sections.
The purpose of this study was to identify differentially expressed genes in normal and nitrofen-induced hypoplastic lungs in fetal mice. Such genes may play a role in the regulation of lung development. CD-1 pregnant dams were gavaged with 25 mg of nitrofen on gestational day (Gd) 8 to induce pulmonary hypoplasia and diaphragmatic hernia (DH). Normal and nitrofen-treated fetuses were removed on Gd 14 and Gd 16. Lungs were examined in all nitrofen-exposed fetuses and only those that had developed severely hypoplastic lungs with coexistent diaphragmatic hernia were taken for molecular analyses. RNA was extracted from normal and nitrofen-treated lungs, reverse transcribed, and PCR-amplified using 48 combinations of anchor and arbitrary primers for each condition. The resulting cDNAs from normal and hypoplastic lungs were run on 6% polyacrylamide differential display gels. In Gd 14 lungs, we observed 10 differentially expressed cDNA bands, of which 6 were identified to be inhibited and 4 were reduced in the hypoplastic lungs compared to normal fetal lungs. From the Gd 16 lungs, a total of 29 differentially expressed cDNA bands were found, of which 11 were reduced, 4 were inhibited, 11 were enhanced, and 3 were induced in the hypoplastic compared to the normal lungs. All 39 differentially expressed cDNAs were cloned, sequenced, and identified through BLAST searches. Among the sequences that were identified, results were as follows: 1) Hypoplastic Gd 14 lungs had two unknown cDNA sequences with reduced/inhibited expressions, whereas one was a known sequence having 77% similarity with a promoter region regulating various cytokines such as IL-1, IL-2, and IL-11. The expression of this sequence was inhibited in the hypoplastic lungs. This sequence also had similarity to lipid-binding proteins. 2) On Gd 16, hypoplastic lungs had one cDNA sequence with reduced expression which had 82% similarity with thyroid hormone receptor gene exon 1 and two other cDNA sequences with enhanced expressions. One of these enhanced cDNA sequences in hypoplastic lungs had 98% similarity with the fibroblast growth factor receptor-3 gene, and the other was an unknown sequence. Northern blot hybridizations were performed to confirm the differential expression of the two sequences of interest, which were identified as thyroid hormone receptor and fibroblast growth factor (FGF) receptor-3. Overall, out of a total of 39 RT-PCR products (i.e., cDNAs), the abundance of which was altered by nitrofen, 6 were found to be homologous to sequences in Gen Bank through BLAST searches. These 6 sequences became the products of interest, and 3 of these 6 products were similar to previously identified genes. Our results may shed some light on regulatory aspects of lung development and open avenues for treatment of hypoplastic lungs and other respiratory problems in human neonates.
Deferoxamine is a chelating agent that has extended the life expectancy of patients with thalassemia. In the 1980s, many investigators reported otologic and visual toxicity caused by deferoxamine. In July 1999 and 2 years later, the authors performed audiologic and ophthalmologic assessments in 30 transfusion-dependent patients receiving deferoxamine therapy (40-50 mg/kg per dose, subcutaneously for 8-10 hours, 4-7 days per week). In 1999, six patients (20%) had deferoxamine-related hearing impairment (>25 dB), all at high frequencies. Because the authors believed the benefits of chelation therapy outweighed the risk of ototoxicity, the dose of deferoxamine was not reduced. Two years later, the hearing impairment had not progressed in any of the patients. There was no association between ototoxicity and ferritin level. No patients had abnormalities of visual acuity or funduscopy in either 1999 or 2001. Based on this experience, deferoxamine at doses lower than 50 mg/kg/d was safe for the eyes and slightly toxic to the ears. The ototoxicity probably relates to individual susceptibility. Regular monitoring of auditory function and close follow-up of abnormal findings are recommended. According to this limited experience, reducing the dose or withdrawing deferoxamine might not be necessary if the hearing loss is stable in the face of ferritin levels above 2,000 ng/mL. Because of the relatively small patient numbers, more data are needed to confirm these conclusions.
In this study we investigated the effects of subacute exposure to methylmercury (MeHg) on male reproductive functions in rats by means of determination of alterations in structural and functional parameters. Adult male Wistar rats received 0, 0.5, 1.0 or 3.0 mg/kg/body weight/day orally, daily MeHg for 14 days. Sperm motility, the relative sperm count and transit time in the caput/corpus epididymis, were all reduced at all doses. The lowest dose increased the number of sperm head abnormalities; daily sperm production was elevated at the intermediate dose; while at the highest dose there was a decrease in serum testosterone levels and a rise in mercury (Hg) content in reproductive organs, liver and kidneys. In conclusion, MeHg exposure produced damages on male reproductive functions which may be attributed, at least in part, to the reduction in serum testosterone levels. These consequences could potentially result in infertility in rats.
CO2 responsiveness of the cerebral circulation has been measured in baboons before, during, and after halothane-induced hypotension. At a systolic blood pressure (BP) of 60 mmHg, C02 responsiveness was abolished, but was maintained at higher levels of BP. After hypotension, CO2 responsiveness returned to control values. Autoregulation to BP increases induced by intravenous noradrenaline was impaired when cerebral perfusion pressure during the hypotensive period had been below 30-40 mmHg. It is concluded that at levels of halothane-induced hypotension commonly employed clinically, CO2 responsiveness of the cerebral circulation may be absent. The return of CO2 responsiveness in the post-hypotensive phase argues in favour of controlled hyperventilation after neurosurgery which has involved induced hypotension.
A case of a 39 years old woman on therapy with Monodicloroacetilajmaline for repetitive crises of Ventricular Tachycardia is shown. We have observed neurological symptoms by central compromission of 3rd, 4th, 6th pair of cranial nerves, cutaneous symptoms and a neurodisletic crisis. We particularly analyse the dosage of the drug in relation to the progression of symptoms and also the possible pathogenesis. Symptoms disappeared completely about 20 days after withdrawal of the drug.
The hepatic lipase (HL) gene C-480T promoter polymorphism affects gene transcription and enzyme activity and leads to CC, CT, and TT genotypes. Recently, HL expression was detected in macrophages. It has been postulated that HL might have a direct role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis without changes in the plasma profile. We hypothesized that the difference of plasma cholesterol level may not influence the effect of HL genotype on coronary reactivity.
A total of 108 young men (aged 34+/-5 years) were genotyped and divided into three groups. These groups contained 45, 49 and 14 men having either normal (4.9+/-1.2 mmol/L), mildly (5.5+/-0.8 mmol/L) or severely (7.8+/-1.9 mmol/L, subjects with familial hypercholesterolemia) elevated mean plasma cholesterol level, respectively. Myocardial blood flow (MBF) was measured at rest and during adenosine or dipyridamole-induced hyperemia with positron emission tomography using [(15)O] H(2)O.
The effect of HL genotype on the indices of MBF was parallel within all cholesterol groups and therefore they were combined. In all subjects, basal flow did not differ between the genotypes. However, men with CC genotype had a significantly higher hyperemic blood flow (3.86+/-1.26 mLg(-1)min(-1) versus 3.20+/-1.38 mLg(-1)min(-1), p=0.007), higher coronary flow reserve (CFR, 4.80+/-1.77 versus 3.77+/-1.43, p=0.001) and lower coronary resistance during hyperemia (25.63+/-9.98 mmHg min g mL(-1) versus 35.00+/-23.95 mmHg min g mL(-1), p=0.003) than T allele carriers. In multivariate regression analysis, after adjustment for age, body mass index, serum lipids, blood pressure, adenosine or dipyridamole administration, and study group, HL polymorphism was an independent predictor of blood flow during hyperemia (p=0.016), coronary resistance (p=0.014), and CFR (p=0.005), respectively.
The HL C-480 T polymorphism is associated with CFR, which is an early indicator of atherosclerosis, independently of the level of plasma cholesterol in young men.
We have studied prospectively the acute blood pressure lowering effect on an oral dose of captopril, 25 mg in 240 hypertensive patients. The mean relative reduction of systolic and diastolic BP was 16 and 15% respectively and the mean time to the mean arterial pressure nadir was 59 minutes. Systolic BP fell by more than 30% in 4.6% of patients and diastolic BP and mean arterial pressure dropped by more than 30% in 4.2 and 3.3% of patients respectively. Patients over 60 years of age showed a significantly larger fall in systolic and diastolic BP. Patients with renal artery stenosis reached the BP nadir in a significantly shorter time compared with patients with essential hypertension (50.5 vs. 59.7 minutes, P less than 0.05) and showed a significantly larger fall in systolic BP (20.7 vs. 15.4%, P less than 0.05). A forward stepwise regression analysis showed that only baseline plasma renin activity had a significant relation to the fall in BP (P less than 0.01, R = 0.57). We conclude that according to our definition of a greater than 30% decrease of the mean arterial pressure, a first dose hypotension after captopril was seen in 3.3% of 240 patients. Captopril treatment should be introduced carefully since not all those patients at risk of hypotension can be identified in advance.
The high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol level is a strong predictor of cardiovascular events in epidemiologic studies. Until recently, it has been less extensively studied as a therapeutic target.
To assess the angiographic and clinical effects of a pharmacologic strategy to increase HDL cholesterol levels.
Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial conducted from 1993 to 1996.
Outpatient specialty clinic of a large U.S. military medical center.
143 military retirees younger than 76 years of age with low HDL cholesterol levels and angiographically evident coronary disease.
Gemfibrozil, niacin, and cholestyramine or corresponding placebos, with aggressive dietary and lifestyle intervention at baseline.
Change from baseline to 30 months and a composite measure of clinical events that included hospitalization for angina, myocardial infarction, transient ischemic attack and stroke, death, and cardiovascular procedures.
At baseline, mean (+/-SD) lipid values were as follows: total cholesterol, 5.1 +/- 0.8 mmol/L (196 +/- 31 mg/dL); low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, 3.3 +/- 0.7 mmol/L (128 +/- 27 mg/dL); and HDL cholesterol, 0.9 +/- 0.2 mmol/L (34 +/- 6 mg/dL). Compared with placebo, the pharmacologically treated group experienced a 20% (95% CI, 14.8% to 24.3%) decrease in total cholesterol level, a 36% (CI, 28.4% to 43.5%) increase in HDL cholesterol level, a 26% (CI, 19.1% to 33.7%) decrease in LDL cholesterol level, and a 50% (CI, 40.5% to 59.2%) reduction in triglyceride levels. Focal coronary stenosis increased by 1.4% in the placebo group but decreased by 0.8% in the drug group (difference, -2.2 percentage points [CI, -4.2 to -0.1 percentage points]). A composite cardiovascular event end point was reached in 26% of patients in the placebo group and 13% of those in the drug group (difference, 13.7 percentage points [CI, 0.9 to 26.5 percentage points]). Side effects, particularly flushing and gastrointestinal intolerance, were more common in the drug group but rarely led to withdrawal from the study.
The study was small and used a composite clinical outcome. Whether improvements in angiographic findings were due to reductions in LDL cholesterol or increases in HDL cholesterol was not established. Flushing may have led to inadvertent unblinding in patients who were randomly assigned to active study drugs.
A combination regimen aimed at increasing HDL cholesterol levels improves cholesterol profiles, helps prevent angiographic progression of coronary stenosis, and may prevent cardiovascular events in some people who exercise regularly and eat low-fat diets.
A recent analysis by the Blood Pressure Lowering Treatment Trialists' Collaboration revealed that any commonly-used blood pressure (BP)-lowering regimen reduced the risk of total major cardiovascular events, and larger reductions in BP produced larger reductions in the risk. These observations suggest that most of the differences among treatment regimens in their effects on cardiovascular outcomes could be explained by the differences in achieved BP level. However, it may also be true that some treatment regimen is superior or inferior to others with regard to the risk reduction of cardiovascular events. Indeed, the data from dihydropyridine-based calcium antagonist (DHP) trails are consistent in that they could not protect against new-onset heart failure or progression of renal disease in patients with left-ventricular systolic dysfunction or overt proteinuria, respectively. However, a multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind ACTION trial, which compared the effect of long-acting nifedipine or placebo on mortality and cardiovascular morbidity in patients with stable angina, revealed that nifedipine reduced the risk for new-onset overt heart failure by 29%. Further, an open-label, randomized prospective J-MIND trial, which compared the effect of long-acting nifedipine or enalapril, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor on onset and progression of nephropathy in hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes, showed that long-acting nifedipine had an equipotent reoprotective effect on diabetic nephropathy. In this paper, we would like to propose our hypothesis that nifedipine may be unique and superior in its effects on heart failure and proteinuria compared with various DHPs. For ensuring our hypothesis, the following clinical issues would be addressed. Does nifedipine treatment alone decrease the progression of renal disease with overt proteinuria? If these answers are yes, are these beneficial effects of nifedipine superior to that of other DHPs with equihypotensive properties? Does nifedipine treatment also reduce oxidative stress markers? Are these unique effects of nifedipine correlated with its anti-oxidative properties? These prospective studies will provide further valuable information whether nifedipine may be a preferred DHP to achieve BP goals in hypertensive patients with systolic dysfunction or overt proteinuria.
Attenuated androgens control attacks of hereditary angioedema. Short-term studies of such patients treated at our institution with attenuated androgens demonstrated no adverse effects. However, the side-effect frequencies in patients receiving long-term treatment are relatively less well characterized.
To assess the frequencies of various side effects of the attenuated androgen stanozolol in a population of patients with hereditary angioedema treated for 20 to 40 years.
Data on side effects in patients who continued stanozolol therapy since 1987 were obtained by means of questionnaire. Patients were evaluated by physical examination; biochemical assays of hepatic function, serum lipids, and prostate specific antigen; and liver ultrasound.
The minimal initial effective dosage of stanozolol was 0.5 to 2.0 mg daily, although most patients achieved symptomatic control and decreased the dose and frequency as the frequency of attacks decreased. Treatment-related symptoms developed in 10 of 21 patients. No interruption in stanozolol therapy was required because symptoms subsided with a reduction in the stanozolol dosage. Adverse side effects included hirsutism, weight gain, menstrual irregularities or postmenopausal bleeding, acne, and mood changes. Liver enzyme assays revealed no persistent abnormalities. Liver ultrasounds in 8 patients revealed 3 abnormalities deemed unrelated to therapy. Five patients had a reduced high-density lipoprotein, and 2 patients had elevated triglycerides.
Stanozolol is a safe and effective drug for the long-term management of hereditary angioedema.
Stanozolol may be used in the long-term treatment of patients with hereditary angioedema provided such patients are closely supervised with routine clinical, biochemical, and radiologic assessments.
To determine if depression of creatinine clearance after administration of contrast medium may be prevented with theophylline.
A nonionic, low-osmolality contrast medium (iopamidol) or an ionic, high-osmolality contrast medium (sodium diatrizoate) was administered to 93 patients. Before the examination, these patients were given theophylline or a placebo orally. There were also 30 patients who received an adenosine-uptake inhibitor (dipyridamole). Creatinine clearance and urinary adenosine levels were measured before and after angiography.
Creatinine clearance decreased 18% +/- 4 in the placebo-iopamidol group but did not decrease in the theophylline group; urinary adenosine increased 67% +/- 7. Creatinine clearance decreased 42% +/- 5 in the placebo-sodium diatrizoate group and decreased 24% +/- 3 in the theophylline group; urinary adenosine increased 119% +/- 8. In the dipyridamole group in which iopamidol was given, urinary adenosine increased 96% +/- 7 and creatinine clearance decreased 37% +/- 5.
Intrarenal adenosine can be implicated in the pathogenesis of hypertonic contrast medium nephrotoxicity.
We examined the effect of pranlukast, the receptor antagonist of the cysteinyl leukotrienes (CysLTs; LTC(4), LTD4 and LTE4), on indomethacin-induced small intestinal lesions in rats. Animals non-fasted were given indomethacin (10 mg/kg) s.c., and killed 24 hr later. Pranlukast (1-10 mg/kg) was given p.o. twice, 30 min before and 6 hr after the administration of indomethacin. A single s.c. administration of indomethacin provoked multiple haemorrhagic lesions in the small intestine, mainly in the jejunum and ileum. This treatment also caused an increase in MPO activity, microvascular permeability, and enterobacterial counts in the mucosa. Pretreatment of the animals with pranlukast (1-10 mg/kg) dose-dependently reduced the severity of these lesions and improved the patho-physiological alterations occurred after indomethacin treatment. Although indomethacin increased intestinal motility and decreased mucus secretion, the events being responsible for bacterial invasion, these changes were not significantly affected by pranlukast. These results showed that pranlukast prevents indomethacin-induced small intestinal lesions, probably through its inhibitory action, primarily on bacterial invasion and secondly on neutrophil migration as well as vascular permeability, and suggest the importance of CysLTs in the pathogenic mechanism of this lesion model.
During an epidemic of cutaneous leishmaniais in northeast Brazil a prospective study was conducted in order to assess clinical, parasitological and immunological features of cutaneous leishmaniasis in a representative sample of patients. A general examination was done and demographic and anthropometric data as well as numbers, duration, location, size, consistency and tenderness of enlarged lymph nodes and lesions recorded. Hematologic and biochemical parameters as well as Leishmania-specific antibodies were measured in the blood. Lymph node aspirations were performed to detect Leishmania-specific DNA by PCR. Cellular immunity was assessed by a leishmanin skin test. Ninety-seven patients with cutaneous leishmaniasis presented with a total of 181 lesions and 127 enlarged regional lymph nodes. In 36% the lymph node enlargement had been observed 2 days to 2 months before the development of a lesion. In 59% the lesions were followed by lymphadenopathy by 3 days to 3 months. The skin test was positive in all patients tested. PCR of the lymph node aspirates was positive in 63.2%. No significant correlations were found between positive PCR results, antibody levels or number of lesions. In northeast Brazil cutaneous leishmaniasis due to Leishmania braziliensis is constantly accompanied by an extensive lymphadenopathy. This may help to identify patients when lesions are still small or have not even developed and lymphadenopathy is the only clinical sign.
Calcium channel blockers (CCBs) may produce profound myocardial depression. Glucagon antagonized verapamil-induced hypotension and bradycardia in rats; however, glucagon's ability to antagonize other CCBs is unexplored. This study determined: a) if glucagon reverses verapamil-induced depression by a direct cardiac effect, b) if myocardial depression induced by diltiazem and nifedipine (representing different classes of CCBs) is also reversed by glucagon, and c) the glucagon concentration needed to reverse myocardial depression. Isolated rat hearts were perfused at a constant flow rate in a Langendorff preparation. Developed pressure (dP), contractility (+dP/dtmax), relaxation (-dP/dtmax), heart rate, and coronary vascular resistance were recorded. A CCB (n = 6, each blocker) was infused until greater than 50% depression of contractility was achieved. Glucagon was then simultaneously infused (perfusion concentration of 0.6-1.1 x 10(-7) M), and repeat cardiac variables were recorded. In a separate group of 36 hearts, glucagon dose response was determined. After producing a greater than 50% depression in dP/dtmax with 3 mumol of diltiazem, a single concentration of glucagon was infused simultaneously into each heart (perfusion concentrations between 10(-6) and 10(-9) M) and percent recovery of baseline function was determined. Glucagon restored baseline contractility and dP with all three CCBs. Complete reversal of diltiazem-induced myocardial depression occurs at glucagon concentrations greater than or equal to 5 x 10(-7) M. We conclude that a) glucagon directly reverses myocardial depression from three classes of CCBs at concentrations achieved in vivo, and b) glucagon may be useful in the treatment of CCB-induced myocardial toxicity.
Cephalothin (1 g every 2 h), buffered cephalothin, and diluent alone (5% dextrose in water) were each administered for 4 days intravenously to 12 volunteers in a double-blind crossover study. The incidence of phlebitis with buffered cephalothin was significantly lower than that with unbuffered drug (P < 0.01) and almost identical to the incidence with diluent alone.
We elucidated the pharmacological and biological effects of Oenothera laciniata extracts on the production of inflammatory mediators in macrophages. The CH(2)Cl(2) fraction of O. laciniata extract effectively inhibited LPS-induced NO, PGE(2), and proinflammatory cytokine production in RAW264.7 cells. These inhibitory effects of the CH(2)Cl(2) fraction of O. laciniata were accompanied by decreases in the expression of iNOS and COX-2 proteins and iNOS, COX-2, TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and IL-6 mRNA. Asiatic acid and quercetin were present in the HPLC fingerprint of the O. laciniata extract. We tested the potential application of O. laciniata extract as a cosmetic material by performing primary skin irritation tests. In New Zealand white rabbits, primary irritation tests revealed that application of O. laciniata extracts (1%) did not induce erythema or edema formation. Human skin primary irritation tests were performed on the normal skin (upper back) of 30 volunteers to determine if any material in O. laciniata extracts had irritation or sensitization potential. In these assays, O. laciniata extracts did not induce any adverse reactions. Based on these results, we suggest that O. laciniata extracts be considered possible anti-inflammatory candidates for topical application.
At least 119 mutations in the gene encoding copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1) cause amyotrophic lateral sclerosis by an unidentified toxic gain of function. We compared the dynamic properties of 13 as-isolated, partially metallated, SOD1 variant enzymes using hydrogen-deuterium exchange. We identified a shared property of these familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-related SOD1 variants, namely structural and dynamic change affecting the electrostatic loop (loop VII) of SOD1. Furthermore, SOD1 variants that have severely compromised metal binding affinities demonstrated additional structural and dynamic changes to the zinc-binding loop (loop IV) of SOD1. Although the biological consequences of increased loop VII mobility are not fully understood, this common property is consistent with the hypotheses that SOD1 mutations exert toxicity via aggregation or aberrant association with other cellular constituents.
