Time and dose-response functions of 4 concentrations of epidural bupivacaine (0.075, 0.125, 0.25, and 0.5%; 20 ml) on somatosensory and motor functions were examined in 10 healthy volunteers. Every hour for 8 h the effect of epidural bupivacaine on perception of painful and non-painful stimuli was quantified with 12 psychophysical measures. In addition knee extension strength, reaction time and skin temperature were examined. The two lowest concentrations of bupivacaine induced hypoalgesia without impairment of motor function. Epidural bupivacaine produced differential blockade of non-painful somatosensory functions in the following order: warmth perception > cold perception > perception of electrical stimuli. Epidural bupivacaine induced more pronounced hypoalgesia for short-lasting than for prolonged stimuli. A modality-related blocking order was observed for prolonged painful stimuli: heat > mechanical > electrical. It is suggested that differential blockade of somatosensory functions is caused by differences both in conduction blockade of nerve fibres and in central integration of afferent nerve impulses.
Spinal anaesthesia is widely employed in clinical practice but has the main drawback of post-spinal block hypotension. Efforts must therefore continue to be made to obviate this setback
To evaluate the cardiovascular and respiratory changes during unilateral and conventional spinal anaesthesia.
With ethical approval, we studied 74 American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA), physical status class 1 and 2 patients scheduled for elective unilateral lower limb surgery. Patients were randomly allocated into one of two groups: lateral and conventional spinal anaesthesia groups. In the lateral position with operative side down, patients recived 10 mg (2mls) of 0.5% hyperbaric bupivacaine through a 25-gauge spinal needle. Patients in the unilateral group were maintained in the lateral position for 15 minutes following spinal injection while those in the conventional group were turned supine immediately after injection. Blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate and oxygen saturation were monitored over 1 hour.
Three patients (8.1%) in the unilateral group and 5 (13.5%) in the conventional group developed hypotension, P= 0.71. Four (10.8%) patients in the conventional group and 1 (2.7%) in the unilateral group, P= 0.17 required epinephrine infusion to treat hypotension. Patients in the conventional group had statistically significant greater fall in the systolic blood pressures at 15, 30 and 45 minutes when compared to the baseline (P= 0.003, 0.001 and 0.004). The mean respiratory rate and oxygen saturations in the two groups were similar.
Compared to conventional spinal anaesthesia, unilateral spinal anaesthesia was associated with fewer cardiovascular perturbations. Also, the type of spinal block instituted affected neither the respiratory rate nor the arterial oxygen saturation.
An 85-year-old woman, with known stable angina pectoris, was prescribed 5-fluorouracil cream to treat a small basal cell carcinoma on the forehead. Half an hour after application the patient developed her typical ischemic pain which persisted for 2 hours. Rechallenge, during hospitalization, resulted in recurrence of symptoms that were effectively controlled with sublingual isosorbide dinitrate. Prophylactic therapy with nitroglycerin patch enabled further use of the 5-fluorouracil cream for the next month.
Vinorelbine is a moderate vesicant that is well known to cause local venous toxicity such as drug induced-phlebitis. We conducted a prospective randomized trial to determine whether a 1-min bolus injection (1 min bolus) of vinorelbine reduced the incidence of local venous toxicity compared with a 6-min drip infusion (6 min infusion). Non-small cell lung cancer patients who were to receive chemotherapy containing vinorelbine were randomly assigned to receive either 6 min infusion or 1 min bolus of the drug. All infusions were administered through a peripheral vein. Local venous toxicity was evaluated at each infusion up to two cycles. Eighty-three patients were randomized into the study and 81 of them assessable for analysis. One hundred thirty-eight infusions to 40 patients in 6 min infusion and 135 infusions to 41 patients in 1 min bolus were delivered. Vinorelbine induced-local venous toxicity was observed in 33% of patients in 6 min infusion and 24% in 1 min bolus. There was no statistically significant difference between the two arms (P=0.41). The incidence of local venous toxicity per infusions was 16% (22 of 138 infusions) in 6 min infusion and 11% (15 of 135 infusions) in 1 min bolus (P=0.47). No severe local venous toxicity was seen in either arm. In this study, the administration of in 1 min bolus of vinorelbine did not significantly reduce the incidence of local venous toxicity compared with 6 min infusion. Further studies for the control of local venous toxicity of vinorelbine are warranted.
Vitamin D has been reported as renoprotective agents in various studies. Recently, a few in vitro studies highlighted cross talk between vitamin D and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR-γ). The present study investigated the activation of PPAR-γ as novel mechanism in vitamin D-mediated protection against ischemia reperfusion-induced acute kidney injury (AKI) in rats.
The AKI was induced by clamping renal pedicles for 40 min followed by reperfusion for 24 h. The AKI was assessed by measuring creatinine clearance, serum urea, uric acid level, and lactate dehydrogenase activity. Moreover, serum potassium, calcium level, fractional excretion of sodium, and microproteinuria were measured in rats. The oxidative stress in renal tissues was assessed by quantification of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances, superoxide anion generation, reduced glutathione level, and catalase and myeloperoxidase activities. The hematoxylin-eosin staining was carried out to observe histopathologic changes in renal tissues. Vitamin D (0.25, 0.5, and 1 μg/kg) was administered for 7 d before subjecting rats to renal ischemia reperfusion injury (IRI).
The renal IRI in rats induced significant changes in serum, urinary, and oxidative stress parameters in renal tissues. Moreover, hematoxylin-eosin staining revealed marked damage produced by IRI in renal tissues. The administration of vitamin D at 0.5 μg/kg dose afforded maximum protection against renal IRI. The prior treatment with PPAR-γ antagonist bisphenol A diglycidyl ether significantly attenuated protective effect of vitamin D, thus confirming involvement of PPAR-γ in vitamin D-mediated renoprotection.
It is concluded that activation of PPAR-γ significantly contributes toward vitamin D-mediated protection against ischemia reperfusion-induced AKI.
We report the clinical, neuropsychological, and neuroimaging findings of two patients of diffuse encephalopathy associated with the use of metronidazole. Both patients showed characteristic abnormalities on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) and recovered incompletely after the discontinuation of metronidazole. We also suggest that MRI with DWI may be useful in the diagnosis of metronidazole-induced encephalopathy, and that they have a role in the prediction of prognosis.
To determine the impact of the species difference between rodents and humans in response to peroxisome proliferators (PPs) mediated by peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)alpha, PPAR alpha-humanized transgenic mice were generated using a P1 phage artificial chromosome (PAC) genomic clone bred onto a ppar alpha-null mouse background, designated hPPAR alpha PAC. In hPPAR alpha PAC mice, the human PPAR alpha gene is expressed in tissues with high fatty acid catabolism and induced upon fasting, similar to mouse PPAR alpha in wild-type (Wt) mice. Upon treatment with the PP fenofibrate, hPPAR alpha PAC mice exhibited responses similar to Wt mice, including peroxisome proliferation, lowering of serum triglycerides, and induction of PPAR alpha target genes encoding enzymes involved in fatty acid metabolism in liver, kidney, and heart, suggesting that human PPAR alpha (hPPAR alpha) functions in the same manner as mouse PPAR alpha in regulating fatty acid metabolism and lowering serum triglycerides. However, in contrast to Wt mice, treatment of hPPAR alpha PAC mice with fenofibrate did not cause significant hepatomegaly and hepatocyte proliferation, thus indicating that the mechanisms by which PPAR alpha affects lipid metabolism are distinct from the hepatocyte proliferation response, the latter of which is only induced by mouse PPAR alpha. In addition, a differential regulation of several genes, including the oncogenic let-7C miRNA by PPs, was observed between Wt and hPPAR alpha PAC mice that may contribute to the inherent difference between mouse and human PPAR alpha in activation of hepatocellular proliferation. The hPPAR alpha PAC mouse model provides an in vivo platform to investigate the species difference mediated by PPAR alpha and an ideal model for human risk assessment PPs exposure.
We report a case of a patient with cardiac sarcoidosis presenting with a non-sustained ventricular tachycardia (VT), mimicking arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy. After the pathological diagnosis and confirmation of gallium-67 uptake by the myocardium, corticosteroid therapy was initiated. The myocardial gallium accumulation disappeared shortly after the treatment, but the VTs deteriorated into multifocal and sustained VTs almost all day. Those drug-refractory VTs were finally controlled with 3 catheter ablation sessions.
The genetic mechanism of aspirin intolerant acute urticaria (AIAU) is unknown. To demonstrate an association between the beta 2 adrenergic receptor (ADRB2) polymorphism and the phenotype of AIAU, one hundred fourteen patients with AIAU, 110 patients with aspirin intolerant chronic urticaria (AICU), and 498 normal healthy controls (NC) based on a Korean population were enrolled. The genotype of ADRB2 at 46 A > G was analyzed using a direct sequencing method. The ADRB2 polymorphism at 46 A > G showed a significant difference between AIAU and NC; the frequency of the major genotype was significantly higher in the AIAU group (p= 0.017 in recessive model), while no differences were noted in allele and genotype frequencies between AICU and NC. In conclusion, the ADRB2 (46 A > G) gene polymorphism may contribute to the development of the phenotype of AIAU.
Treatment of schizophrenia's symptoms with typical antipsychotic drugs shows some efficacy, but the induction of extrapyramidal symptoms represents a serious handicap, which considerably limits their usefulness. Recent evidence suggests that Nur77 (nerve growth factor-induced B) and retinoids are involved in biochemical and behavioral effects of antipsychotic drugs associated with striatal functions.
We evaluated the effect of retinoid ligands on oral dyskinesias (vacuous chewing movements) induced by haloperidol in wild-type and Nur77-deficient mice.
Nur77 gene ablation (knockout) or administration of a retinoid antagonist induced vacuous chewing movements and exacerbated those induced by haloperidol, whereas the retinoid agonist docosahexaenoic acid (an omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid) reduced them. Both the prodyskinetic effect of the retinoid antagonist and the antidyskinetic effect of docosahexaenoic acid are dependent on the presence of Nur77, since these drugs remained inactive in Nur77 knockout mice.
These results suggest that nuclear receptors Nur77 and retinoid X receptor are involved in haloperidol-induced dyskinesias and that retinoid agonists may represent a new way to improve typical antipsychotic drug therapy.
At dosages above 0.1 mg/kg, droperidol induces a dose-dependent QTc interval prolongation. Although subject to controversy, low-dose droperidol has recently been suspected to induce cardiac arrhythmias. Hence, 5-hydroxytryptamine type 3 antagonists have become the first-line drug for management of postoperative nausea and vomiting. These drugs are also known to prolong the QTc interval at high dosages. This study describes QTc interval changes associated with postoperative nausea and vomiting treatment by droperidol or ondansetron at low doses.
Eighty-five patients with postoperative nausea and vomiting were included in this prospective, single-blind study. Patients received either 0.75 mg intravenous droperidol (n = 43) or 4 mg intravenous ondansetron (n = 42). Electrocardiographic recordings were obtained before administration of antiemetic drug and then 1, 2, 3, 5, 10, and 15 min after. Electrocardiographic monitoring was maintained for 3 h in eight patients in each group.
The QTc interval was prolonged (> 450 ms in men, > 470 ms in women) in 21% of the patients before antiemetic drug administration. This was significantly correlated with lower body temperature and longer duration of anesthesia. Compared with predrug QTc measurement, both antiemetics were associated with a significant QTc interval prolongation (P < 0.0001). The mean maximal QTc interval prolongation was 17 +/- 9 ms after droperidol occurring at the second minute and 20 +/- 13 ms after ondansetron at the third minute (both P < 0.0001). Compared with predrug measurement, the QTc interval was significantly lower after the 90th minute in both groups.
Droperidol and ondansetron induced similar clinically relevant QTc interval prolongations. When used in treatment of postoperative nausea and vomiting, a situation where prolongation of the QTc interval seems to occur, the safety of 5-hydroxytryptamine type 3 antagonists may not be superior to that of low-dose droperidol.
Unilateral locus ceruleus lesion enhances leakage of radioiodinated human serum albumin into the ipsilateral cerebral cortex of rats with norepinephrine-induced hypertension. This ultrastructural study was undertaken, to determine the mechanism by which this permeability alteration occurs, using horseradish peroxidase (HRP) as a tracer. Unilateral locus ceruleus lesion was produced in male Wistar-Furth rats by stereotaxic microinfusion of 5 micrograms of 6-hydroxydopamine. Two weeks later, rats were injected with HRP intravenously and acute hypertension was induced in awake rats by an intravenous infusion of norepinephrine (6 micrograms), epinephrine (6 micrograms) or angiotensin amide (12 micrograms) given over a 2-min period. Thirty seconds later, the rats were perfused with fixative under deep anesthesia and their brains were sliced and processed for demonstration of HRP reaction product. Leakage of HRP occurred in both cerebral hemispheres in response to hypertension induced by the three pressor agents, but the leakage was greater on the lesioned side in response to epinephrine and norepinephrine, while in the case of angiotensin-induced hypertension side-to-side differences in permeability alterations were not observed. In both cerebral hemispheres increased permeability affected mainly arterioles, which showed enhanced pinocytosis as the principal mechanism of HRP extravasation.
We have investigated the mechanism of antiapoptotic and cell renewal effects of lansoprazole, a proton pump inhibitor, to protect and heal gastric mucosal injury in vivo induced by indomethacin, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). Lansoprazole prevents indomethacin-induced gastric damage by blocking activation of mitochondrial and Fas pathways of apoptosis. Lansoprazole prevents indomethacin-induced up-regulation of proapoptotic Bax and Bak and down-regulation of antiapoptotic Bcl-2 and Bcl(xL) to maintain the normal proapoptotic/antiapoptotic ratio and thereby arrests indomethacin-induced mitochondrial translocation of Bax and collapse of mitochondrial membrane potential followed by cytochrome c release and caspase-9 activation. Lansoprazole also inhibits indomethacin-induced Fas-mediated mucosal cell death by down-regulating Fas or FasL expression and inhibiting caspase-8 activation. Lansoprazole favors mucosal cell renewal simultaneously by stimulating gene expression of prosurvival proliferating cell nuclear antigen, survivin, epidermal growth factor, and basic fibroblast growth factor. The up-regulation of Flt-1 further indicates that lansoprazole activates vascular epidermal growth factor-mediated controlled angiogenesis to repair gastric mucosa. Lansoprazole also stimulates the healing of already formed ulcers induced by indomethacin. Time course study of healing indicates that it switches off the mitochondrial death pathway completely but not the Fas pathway. However, lansoprazole heals mucosal lesions almost completely after overcoming the persisting Fas pathway, probably by favoring the prosurvival genes expression. This study thus provides the detailed mechanism of antiapoptotic and prosurvival effects of lansoprazole for offering gastroprotection against indomethacin-induced gastropathy.
In a multicenter, parallel, double-blind study, lisinopril was compared with atenolol in the treatment of mild to moderate essential hypertension. Four hundred ninety patients were randomized to a once-a-day treatment with lisinopril 20 mg or atenolol 50 mg for 4 weeks, and the doses of lisinopril or atenolol were increased up to 80 mg or 200 mg, respectively, at 4-week intervals if sitting diastolic blood pressure (SDBP) was not well controlled. Hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) 12.5 or 25 mg was added after 12 weeks, if necessary, and titrated upward after 4 weeks to a maximum dose of 25 or 50 mg/day. Lisinopril and atenolol reduced SDBP to a similar extent. All reductions from baseline in sitting diastolic and systolic blood pressure were significant (less than 0.01). Lisinopril produced a significant (less than 0.01) greater reduction in sitting systolic blood pressure (SSBP) than atenolol. Addition of HCTZ caused further blood pressure reductions (p less than 0.01). Five patients (1.7%) on lisinopril and four (2.0%) on atenolol developed skin rashes during weeks 1-12. Two patients (0.7%) on lisinopril 80 mg developed proteinuria (greater than 1 g/day). Cough occurred more often with lisinopril (4.5%), and elevated triglycerides occurred more often with atenolol (2.0%).
Cyclosporine (CsA)-induced renal injury causes renal tubular acidosis. The current study was performed to evaluate the influence of CsA-induced renal injury on the ammonia transporter family members, Rh B-glycoprotein (Rhbg) and Rh C-glycoprotein (Rhcg).
Rats were treated daily for 1 or 4 weeks with vehicle (VH) or CsA. Induction of chronic CsA-induced nephropathy was confirmed by demonstrating impaired renal function and characteristic histopathology. Rhbg and Rhcg expression was evaluated with immunoblot, immunohistochemistry, real-time RT-PCR and electron microscopy.
CsA treatment for 4 weeks developed mild metabolic acidosis and decreased urinary ammonia excretion. Rhcg mRNA expression was unchanged in both the cortex and outer medulla, but Rhcg protein expression in the CsA group was significantly reduced in the cortex and outer medulla. There were no significant differences in Rhbg mRNA and protein expression between the CsA and VH group.
Long-term treatment with CsA in rats results in decreased urinary ammonia excretion accompanied by decreased expression of Rhcg; these changes are likely to mediate the CsA-induced defect in ammonium excretion in the collecting duct.
We report a case of benign cerebral angiopathy in a 37 year-old woman in the postpartum period occurring after bromocriptine therapy to suppress lactation. She presented with severe headache, hyperthermia and bradycardia. She had partial seizure. Angiography excluded cortical vein thrombosis but revealed multiple narrowing of intracerebral arteries. Bromocriptine was stopped. The patient totally recovered. A second angiography performed 3 months later was normal. Postpartum cerebral angiopathy is considered as rare but the prevalence is probably underestimated. Neurological features of this affection are multiple. Diagnosis is made by angiography performed in emergency and which showed narrowing of intracerebral arteries which are reversible. Prognosis is good. Reversible vasoconstriction may be due to acute arterial hypertension, sometimes triggered by ergot derivatives.
Metformin may benefit the macrovascular complications of diabetes independently of its conventional hypoglycemic effects. Accumulating evidence suggests that inflammatory processes participate in type 2 diabetes and its atherothrombotic manifestations. Therefore, this study examined the potential action of metformin as an inhibitor of pro-inflammatory responses in human vascular smooth muscle cells (SMCs), macrophages (Mphis), and endothelial cells (ECs).
Metformin dose-dependently inhibited IL-1beta-induced release of the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6 and IL-8 in ECs, SMCs, and Mphis. Investigation of potential signaling pathways demonstrated that metformin diminished IL-1beta-induced activation and nuclear translocation of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB) in SMCs. Furthermore, metformin suppressed IL-1beta-induced activation of the pro-inflammatory phosphokinases Akt, p38, and Erk, but did not affect PI3 kinase (PI3K) activity. To address the significance of the anti-inflammatory effects of a therapeutically relevant plasma concentration of metformin (20 micromol/L), we conducted experiments in ECs treated with high glucose. Pretreatment with metformin also decreased phosphorylation of Akt and protein kinase C (PKC) in ECs under these conditions.
These data suggest that metformin can exert a direct vascular anti-inflammatory effect by inhibiting NF-kappaB through blockade of the PI3K-Akt pathway. The novel anti-inflammatory actions of metformin may explain in part the apparent clinical reduction by metformin of cardiovascular events not fully attributable to its hypoglycemic action.
Several studies indicate that nitric oxide (NO) is involved in the aetiopathogenesis of many neuropsychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, depression, Alzheimer's disease, Hungtington disease and stroke. Although it has not been investigated yet, several recent studies proposed that NO may have a pathophysiological role in autism. Adrenomedullin (AM), a recently discovered 52-amino acid peptide hormone, induces vasorelaxation by activating adenylate cyclase and also by stimulating NO release. AM immune reactivity is present in the brain consistent with a role as a neurotransmitter. It has been stated that NO and AM do function in the regulation of many neurodevelopmental processes. We hypothesized that NO and AM activities have been affected in autistic patients and aimed to examine these molecules. Twenty-six autistic patients and 22 healthy control subjects were included in this study. AM and total nitrite (a metabolite of NO) levels have been measured in plasma. The mean values of plasma total nitrite and AM levels in the autistic group were significantly higher than control values, respectively (p < 0.001, p = 0.028). There is no correlation between total nitrite and AM levels (r = 0.11, p = 0.31). Certainly, this subject needs much further research investigating autistic patients in earlier periods of life and with subtypes of the disorder.
Currently, there is no effective therapy for metastatic breast cancer after surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy have been used against the primary tumor. Because curcumin suppresses nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) activation and most chemotherapeutic agents activate NF-kappaB that mediates cell survival, proliferation, invasion, and metastasis, we hypothesized that curcumin would potentiate the effect of chemotherapy in advanced breast cancer and inhibit lung metastasis. We tested this hypothesis using paclitaxel (Taxol)-resistant breast cancer cells and a human breast cancer xenograft model. As examined by electrophoretic mobility gel shift assay, paclitaxel activated NF-kappaB in breast cancer cells and curcumin inhibited it; this inhibition was mediated through inhibition of IkappaBalpha kinase activation and IkappaBalpha phosphorylation and degradation. Curcumin also suppressed the paclitaxel-induced expression of antiapoptotic (XIAP, IAP-1, IAP-2, Bcl-2, and Bcl-xL), proliferative (cyclooxygenase 2, c-Myc, and cyclin D1), and metastatic proteins (vascular endothelial growth factor, matrix metalloproteinase-9, and intercellular adhesion molecule-1). It also enhanced apoptosis. In a human breast cancer xenograft model, dietary administration of curcumin significantly decreased the incidence of breast cancer metastasis to the lung and suppressed the expression of NF-kappaB, cyclooxygenase 2, and matrix metalloproteinase-9. Overall, our results indicate that curcumin, which is a pharmacologically safe compound, has a therapeutic potential in preventing breast cancer metastasis possibly through suppression of NF-kappaB and NF-kappaB-regulated gene products.
Silybin, the main active component of silymarin, has been reported to reduce hepatic fibrosis by 30% in bile duct ligated rats, whereas Vitamin E alone does not significantly modify liver damage and collagen deposition in chronic liver injury.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the hepatoprotective and the antifibrotic properties of a new silybin-phosphatidylcholine-Vitamin E complex, characterised by elevated oral bioavailability and lipophilicity, on rat hepatic fibrosis induced by dimethylnitrosamine administration and by bile duct ligation.
The complex was administered by gastric gavage at a dose of 250 and 75 mg/kg (as silybin and Vitamin E, respectively). Treatment with the complex was able to prevent the dimethylnitrosamine-induced loss in body and liver weight, as well as to reduce the degree of liver injury, as determined by alanine aminotransferase values and necroinflammatory score. This was associated with reduced hepatic stellate cells proliferation both after 1 and 5 weeks of treatment. Treatment with the complex reduced also hepatic stellate cells activation and collagen deposition. Treatment with dimethylnitrosamine induced an increase in alpha1(I) procollagen, TGF(beta1), tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1 and metalloproteinase 2 mRNA expression, which were significantly reduced by administration of the complex. In the bile duct ligation model, the administration of the complex was able to reduce hepatic stellate cells proliferation and activation, as well as collagen deposition and alpha1(I) procollagen mRNA expression.
These results suggest that this new silybin-phosphatidylcholine-Vitamin E complex could be an interesting drug to be tested in patients with chronic liver disease.
Several lines of evidence suggest that alterations of the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) and autophagy-lysosome pathway (ALP) may be involved in cardiac diseases. Little is known, however, in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM). This study studied these pathways in two mouse models of HCM that mainly differ by the presence or absence of truncated mutant proteins. Analyses were performed in homozygous Mybpc3-targeted knock-in (KI) mice, carrying a HCM mutation and exhibiting low levels of mutant cardiac myosin-binding protein C (cMyBP-C), and in Mybpc3-targeted knock-out (KO) mice expressing no cMyBP-C, thus serving as a model of pure cMyBP-C insufficiency. In the early postnatal development of cardiac hypertrophy, both models showed higher levels of ubiquitinated proteins and greater proteasomal activities. To specifically monitor the degradation capacity of the UPS with age, mice were crossed with transgenic mice that overexpress Ub(G76V)-GFP. Ub(G76V)-GFP protein levels were fourfold higher in 1-year-old KI, but not KO mice, suggesting a specific UPS impairment in mice expressing truncated cMyBP-C. Whereas protein levels of key ALP markers were higher, suggesting ALP activation in both mutant mice, their mRNA levels did not differ between the groups, underlying rather defective ALP-mediated degradation. Analysis of key proteins regulated in heart failure did not reveal specific alterations in KI and KO mice. Our data suggest (1) UPS activation in early postnatal development of cardiac hypertrophy, (2) specific UPS impairment in old KI mice carrying a HCM mutation, and (3) defective ALP as a common mechanism in genetically engineered mice with cardiac hypertrophy.
Mice given sodium valproate 0.71% weight/volume in drinking water for 7, 14 and 21 days were assessed for pathomorphological changes in liver and kidney tissues at certain time points. This treatment caused a marked alteration in liver and kidney cell morphology, which was proportional to the period of treatment. This treatment induced fatty degeneration of hepatocytes, increased the number of Kupffer cells and caused them to swell. These changes were irregular after days 7 and 14 of treatment but with time increased in intensity, producing inflammation of the portal tracts, albuminous degeneration and necrosis of septa. Precirrhotic conditions, cirrhosis, acidophilic degeneration of hepatocytes and glassy eosinophilic homogenous cytoplasm were a constant feature after 21 days' treatment. In some cases the portal area was invaded by small, round inflammatory cells. Hepatocytes in this group were swollen, with large nuclei and increased amounts of condensed chromatin. The kidney sections of the same animals revealed severe morphological changes, indicated by significant epithelial necrosis and sloughing of tubules, as well as cast formation and mild lymphocytic infiltrate after 21 days' treatment. The results suggest that the histopathologic changes induced by sodium valproate are dependent upon the duration of exposure of these organs to the drug. Prolonged use of this drug should be carefully assessed.
A recent trial unexpectedly reported that atrial fibrillation, when defined as serious, occurred more often in participants randomized to an annual infusion of the relatively new parenteral bisphosphonate, zoledronic acid, than among those given placebo, but had limited power. Two subsequent population-based case-control studies of patients receiving a more established oral bisphosphonate, alendronic acid, reported conflicting results, possibly due to uncontrolled confounding factors.
We used the United Kingdom General Practice Research Database to assess the risk of atrial fibrillation and flutter in women exposed to the oral bisphosphonates, alendronic acid and risedronate sodium. The self-controlled case-series method was used to minimise the potential for confounding. The age-adjusted incidence rate ratio for atrial fibrillation or flutter in individuals during their exposure to these oral bisphosphonates (n = 2195) was 1.07 (95% CI 0.94-1.21). The age-adjusted incidence rate ratio for alendronic acid (n = 1489) and risedronate sodium (n = 649) exposed individuals were 1.09 (95% CI 0.93-1.26) and 0.99 (95% CI 0.78-1.26) respectively. In post-hoc analyses, an increased risk of incident atrial fibrillation or flutter was detected for patients during their first few months of alendronic acid therapy.
We found no robust evidence of an overall long-term increased risk of atrial fibrillation or flutter associated with continued exposure to the oral bisphosphonates, alendronic acid and risedronate sodium. A possible signal for an increase in risk during the first few months of therapy with alendronic acid needs to be re-assessed in additional studies.
