Information from standardised tests of intelligence, school attainments, attention, memory and visuomotor function, together with parent and teacher questionnaire information about various aspects of behaviour, was obtained for 63 schoolchildren with newly diagnosed epilepsy before treatment with sodium valproate or carbamazepine, and again at intervals for a total period of 12 months. The same information was collected on 47 matched controls. The children with epilepsy represented those under non-specialised paediatric care. The result showed that both drugs were effective in most cases at modest dosage without causing notable psychological effects 12 months into treatment. Modest and temporary adverse cognitive effects seen earlier in treatment could have been the result of uncontrolled seizure discharge. Improved function was the same in children with epilepsy and controls. Some psychological abnormalities in the children with epilepsy were evident before treatment suggesting early unwanted effects of the epileptic process itself.
Suicide is the major cause of premature death in patients with schizophrenia. Among these patients, 40% report suicidal thoughts, 20% to 40% make unsuccessful suicide attempts, and 9% to 13% end their lives by suicide. Traditional antipsychotic drugs undertreat many schizophrenic patients and can produce serious side effects, such as tardive dyskinesia. Clozapine is the only antipsychotic drug that has been shown in controlled clinical trials to be effective in reducing both positive and negative symptoms in schizophrenic patients who fail to respond to typical neuroleptic drugs. The potential decrease in suicide among schizophrenic patients treated with clozapine is estimated to be as high as 85%. Treatment with clozapine is cost-effective, and the significant decrease in the risk of suicide far outweighs the very low risk of mortality from agranulocytosis. Clozapine should be considered for treatment of both neuroleptic-resistant and neuroleptic-responsive schizophrenic patients who have persistent suicidal thoughts or behavior.
We report on the transient and persistent effects of JP-8 jet fuel exposure on auditory function in rats. JP-8 has become the standard jet fuel utilized in the United States and North Atlantic Treaty Organization countries for military use and it is closely related to Jet A fuel, which is used in U.S. domestic aviation. Rats received JP-8 fuel (1000 mg/m(3)) by nose-only inhalation for 4 h and half of them were immediately subjected to an octave band of noise ranging between 97 and 105 dB in different experiments. The noise by itself produces a small, but permanent auditory impairment. The current permissible exposure level for JP-8 is 350 mg/m(3). Additionally, a positive control group received only noise exposure, and a fourth group consisted of untreated control subjects. Exposures occurred either on 1 day or repeatedly on 5 successive days. Impairments in auditory function were assessed using distortion product otoacoustic emissions and compound action potential testing. In other rats, tissues were harvested following JP-8 exposure for assessment of hydrocarbon levels or glutathione (GSH) levels. A single JP-8 exposure by itself at 1000 mg/m(3) did not disrupt auditory function. However, exposure to JP-8 and noise produced an additive disruption in outer hair cell function. Repeated 5-day JP-8 exposure at 1000 mg/m(3) for 4 h produced impairment of outer hair cell function that was most evident at the first postexposure assessment time. Partial though not complete recovery was observed over a 4-week postexposure period. The adverse effects of repeated JP-8 exposures on auditory function were inconsistent, but combined treatment with JP-8 + noise yielded greater impairment of auditory function, and hair cell loss than did noise by itself. Qualitative comparison of outer hair cell loss suggests an increase in outer hair cell death among rats treated with JP-8 + noise for 5 days as compared to noise alone. In most instances, hydrocarbon constituents of the fuel were largely eliminated in all tissues by 1-h postexposure with the exception of fat. Finally, JP-8 exposure did result in a significant depletion of total GSH that was observable in liver with a nonsignificant trend toward depletion in the brain and lung raising the possibility that the promotion of noise-induced hearing loss by JP-8 might have resulted from oxidative stress.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a severe developmental disorder of the central nervous system characterized by impairments in social interaction, communication, and range of interests and behaviors. The syndrome's prevalence is estimated to be as high as 1 in 150 American children yet its etiology remains largely unknown. Examination of observed cytogenetic variants in individuals with ASD may identify genes involved in its pathogenesis. As part of a multidisciplinary study, an apparently balanced de novo translocation between chromosomes 2 and 9 [46,XY,t(2;9)(p13;p24)] was identified in a subject with pervasive developmental disorder not otherwise specified (PDD-NOS), and no distinctive dysmorphic features. Molecular characterization of the rearrangement revealed direct interruption of the RAB11 family interacting protein 5 (RAB11FIP5) gene. RAB11FIP5 is a Rab effector involved in protein trafficking from apical recycling endosomes to the apical plasma membrane. It is ubiquitously expressed and reported to contribute to both neurotransmitter release and neurotransmitter uptake at the synaptic junction. Detailed analysis of the rearrangement breakpoints suggests that the reciprocal translocation may have formed secondary to incorrect repair of double strand breaks (DSBs) by nonhomologous end-joining (NHEJ).
The anti-arrhythmic action of 2,3-cis-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-5-[(2-hydroxy-3-tert-butylamino)propoxy]2,3-naphthalenediol (nadolol) was evaluated and compared with that of propranolol in several experimental models of cardiac arrhythmias. Both nadolol and propranolol antagonized isoproterenol-induced tachycardia and ouabain-induced arrhythmias in cats, antagonized coronary artery ligation-induced ventricular fibrillation and suppressed ventricular ectopic activity during vagal stimulation in dogs. In contrast to propranolol, nadolol was considerably weaker in suppressing existing digoxin-induced arrhythmias, lacked local anesthetic activity and did not depress the heart in dogs. Because of these findings, it is concluded that the anti-arrhythmic activity of nadolol is apparently related to blockade of beta-adrenergic receptors.
Macrocyclic trichothecene mycotoxins produced by indoor air molds potentially contribute to symptoms associated with damp building illnesses. The purpose of this investigation was to determine (1) the kinetics of nasal inflammation and neurotoxicity after a single intranasal instillation of roridin A (RA), a representative macrocyclic trichothecene; and (2) the capacity of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to modulate RA's effects. C57Bl/6 female mice were intranasally instilled once with 50 mul of RA (500 mug/kg body weight [bw]) in saline or saline only and then nose and brain tissues were collected over 72 h and processed for histopathologic and messenger RNA (mRNA) analysis. RA-induced apoptosis specifically in olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) after 24 h postinstillation (PI) causing marked atrophy of olfactory epithelium (OE) that was maximal at 72 h PI. Concurrently, there was marked bilateral atrophy of olfactory nerve layer of the olfactory bulbs (OBs) of the brain. In the ethmoid turbinates, upregulated messenger RNA (mRNA) expression of the proapoptotic gene FAS and the proinflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin (IL)-6, IL-1, and macrophage inhibitory protein-2 was observed from 6 to 24 h PI, whereas expression of several other proapoptotic genes (PKR, p53, Bax, and caspase-activated DNAse) was detectable only at 24 h PI. Simultaneous exposure to LPS (500 ng/kg bw) and a lower dose of RA (250 mug/kg bw) magnified RA-induced proinflammatory gene expression, apoptosis, and inflammation in the nasal tract. Taken together, the results suggest that RA markedly induced FAS and proinflammatory cytokine expression prior to evoking OSN apoptosis and OE atrophy and that RA's effects were augmented by LPS.
A complement factor D deficiency was found in a young woman who had experienced a serious Neisseria meningitidis infection, in a deceased family member with a history of meningitis, and in three relatives without a history of serious infections. The patient and these three relatives showed a normal activity of the classical complement pathway, but a very low activity of the alternative complement pathway and a very low capacity to opsonize Escherichia coli and N. meningitidis (isolated from the patient) for phagocytosis by normal human neutrophils. The alternative pathway-dependent hemolytic activity and the opsonizing capacity of these sera were restored by addition of purified factor D. The family had a high degree of consanguinity, and several other family members exhibited decreased levels of factor D. The gene encoding factor D was found to contain a point mutation that changed the TCG codon for serine 42 into a TAG stop codon. This mutation was found in both alleles of the five completely factor D-deficient family members and in one allele of 21 other members of the same family who had decreased or low-normal factor D levels in their serum. The gene sequence of the signal peptide of human factor D was also identified. Our report is the first, to our knowledge, to document a Factor D gene mutation. The mode of inheritance of factor D deficiency is autosomal recessive, in accordance with the localization of the Factor D gene on chromosome 19. Increased susceptibility for infections in individuals with a partial factor D deficiency is unlikely.
One host susceptibility factor for ozone identified in epidemiologic studies is NAD(P)H quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1). We hypothesized that after ozone exposure, NQO1 is required to increase 8-isoprostane (also known as F(2)-isoprostane) production, a recognized marker of ozone-induced oxidative stress, and to enhance airway inflammation and hyperresponsiveness. In this report, we demonstrate that in contrast to wild-type mice, NQO1-null mice are resistant to ozone and have blunted responses, including decreased production of F(2)-isoprostane and keratinocyte chemokine, decreased airway inflammation, and diminished airway hyperresponsiveness. Importantly, these results in mice correlate with in vitro findings in humans. In primary human airway epithelial cells, inhibition of NQO1 by dicumarol blocks ozone-induced F(2)-isoprostane production and IL-8 gene expression. Together, these results demonstrate that NQO1 modulates cellular redox status and influences the biologic and physiologic effects of ozone.
We conducted a rat cirrhosis and recovery model, on the basis of which proteomics was used to audit liver resolution from cirrhosis.
Micronodular cirrhosis was established using Sprague-Dawley rats fed thioacetamide, and spontaneous recovery from cirrhosis was acquired after thioacetamide withdrawal.
Over the course of a 2-, 3-, and 6-week recovery, macronodular cirrhosis, uneven liver surface, and nearly normal liver surface were acquired, respectively. Specific liver enzymes, hepatitis activity index, hepatocytes apoptosis index, number of activated Kupffer cells and hepatic stellate cells, and area of fibrosis bands consistently peaked at the end of thioacetamide administration and decreased progressively during the recovery period. mRNA expression of proinflammatory cytokines and proapoptotic molecules peaked around the end of thioacetamide administration and decreased thereafter. Using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, the seven most upregulated and six most downregulated protein spots were analyzed by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight. Of these, GST-P2 and its isoforms, GST-alpha and GST-M, were chosen for further validation using immunohistochemistry. Expression of GST-P peaked at the 2-week recovery, whereas GST-alpha and GST-M remained at strong levels at the 6-week recovery.
The mechanism of resolution from cirrhosis can be extensively investigated using the presented model which, for example, showed GST isoforms performing their roles at different time phases.
After renal transplantation, persistent glomerular disease affecting the native kidneys typically causes albuminuria, at least for a period of time, making it difficult to determine in a noninvasive fashion whether proteinuria originates in the native kidneys or the renal allograft. To address this problem, dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) using gadolinium (Gd)-based albumin-bound blood pool contrast agent (MS325) to localize proteinuria was investigated. Glomerular proteinuria was induced in Sprague-Dawley rats by intravenous injection of puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN), whereas control rats received physiologic saline vehicle. Both groups of animals underwent a 40-min dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI using radio frequency spoiled gradient echo imaging sequence after injection of Gd-labeled MS325. Contrast uptake and clearance curves for cortex and medulla were determined from acquired MR images. Compared with controls, proteinuric rats exhibited significantly lower elimination rate constants. The use of gadopentetate dimeglumine (Gd-DTPA) as a contrast agent showed smaller and less specific differences between proteinuric and control groups. In rats with one proteinuric kidney (PAN-treated) and one normal kidney (transplanted from a normal rat), MRI using MS325 was able to differentiate between the two kidneys. The results suggest that MRI with an albumin-bound blood pool contrast agent may be a useful noninvasive way to localize proteinuria. If this technique can be successfully applied in human patients, it may allow for the localization of proteinuria after kidney transplant and thereby provide a noninvasive way to detect disease affecting the renal allograft.
Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is a neurological condition associated with neuron loss, axon sprouting, and hippocampal sclerosis, which results in modified synaptic circuitry. Cannabinoids appear to be anti-convulsive in patients and animal models of TLE, but the mechanisms of this effect are not known. A pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus mouse model of TLE was used to study the effect of cannabinoid agonists on recurrent excitatory circuits of the dentate gyrus using electrophysiological recordings in hippocampal slices isolated from control mice and mice with TLE. Cannabinoid agonists WIN 55,212-2, anandamide (AEA), or 2-arachydonoylglycerol (2-AG) reduced the frequency of spontaneous and tetrodotoxin-resistant excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) in mice with TLE, but not in controls. WIN 55,212-2 also reduced the frequency of EPSCs evoked by glutamate-photolysis activation of other granule cells in epileptic mice. Secondary population discharges evoked after antidromic electrical stimulation of mossy fibers in the hilus were also attenuated by cannabinoid agonists. Agonist effects were blocked by the cannabinoid type 1 receptor (CB1R) antagonist AM251. No change in glutamate release was observed in slices from mice that did not undergo status epilepticus. Western blot analysis suggested an up-regulation of CB1R in the dentate gyrus of animals with TLE. These findings indicate that activation of CB1R present on nerve terminals can suppress recurrent excitation in the dentate gyrus of mice with TLE. This suggests a mechanism for the anti-convulsive role of cannabinoids aimed at modulating receptors on synaptic terminals expressed de novo after epileptogenesis.
Despite the strong association of asbestos exposure to mesothelioma, only a fraction of persons exposed develop this neoplasm which is characterized by long latency and shortened survival. Familial clustering implicates both exposure and genetic predisposition as causative, but a biologically relevant mesothelioma phenotype essential to genetic analysis has not been defined. To identify a more extensive set of traits that would define a mesothelioma phenotype for the purpose of genetic analysis, we set to determine characteristics that distinguish mesothelioma patients from others exposed to asbestos and to identify factors that predict the presence of mesothelioma over other mesenchymal tumors of the peritoneum and carcinoma metastatic to the pleura. We compared demographics in four asbestos-exposed groups (controls n=347, bronchogenic cancer n=67, mesothelioma n=179 and benign asbestos-induced lung disease (BALD) n=3757). Within the mesothelioma group, we compared traits to identify characteristics associated with shortened survival. We found that compared to other asbestos-exposed groups, subjects with mesothelioma were younger at first asbestos exposure, had a greater risk of a second cancer diagnosis (odds ratio=3.29), had a longer disease latency, and had a greater risk of cancer among first-degree relatives (point estimate for risk 2.93; 95% CI 2.5-3.5). Thoracic tumor location, work exposure and male gender were consistently associated with shortened survival (1.9+/-1.3 years). We conclude that thoracic tumor location, work exposure, male gender, long latency, early age at first exposure, presence of a second cancer, and first-degree relative with cancer define a phenotype that sets mesothelioma patients with a short survival apart from other asbestos-exposed individuals. We propose that this phenotype be applied to candidate gene analysis.
Burkitt's lymphoma cell lines have been important in vitro models for studying the pathogenesis of Burkitt's lymphoma (BL) and for exploring new treatment strategies. A new EBV(-) Burkitt's lymphoma cell line (GA-10) was established from a patient with a clinically aggressive, chemorefractory BL and characterized. Although functional p-glycoprotein could not be demonstrated by dye-efflux assays, both p53 genes were mutated in the GA-10 cells, perhaps contributing to the resistant phenotype of the original neoplasm. Two properties of BL cells which may be useful targets for novel cytotoxic therapeutics are their surface expression of CD77, the receptor for Shiga toxin (Stx), and their high rate of proliferation. Expression of CD77 on the GA-10 cells was heterogeneous in that certain subclones expressed high levels of CD77 and correspondingly exhibited strong growth inhibition by Stx while others showed low levels of CD77 expression and weak Stx-induced growth inhibition. Flavopiridol, a potent inhibitor of cell cycle progression through G1 and G2, induced cytotoxicity of the GA-10 cells with an LC(50) of approximately 40 nM vs 70 nM for HL-60 cells (P < 0.05). The concentrations of flavopiridol at which only 10% of the cells were viable (LC(10)) were approximately 280 nM for the GA-10 cells and 520 nM for the HL-60 cells (P < 0.05). Dose-related induction of apoptosis in response to flavopiridol was demonstrated in the GA-10 cells by morphology, TUNEL assay, and activation of caspase-3. Flavopiridol was also cytotoxic to seven other BL cell lines tested. These data suggest that flavopiridol may have therapeutic value in the treatment of Burkitt's lymphoma.
A 16-year-old boy had rectal blood loss due to haemorrhagic colitis probably resulting from oral and intravenous administration of amoxicillin. He also had haemolytic anaemia and thrombocytopenia, both also most likely resulting from the use of amoxicillin and/or ibuprofen. In the week following the discontinuation of amoxicillin and ibuprofen, the symptoms of bloody diarrhoea disappeared spontaneously and the blood picture became normal. Haemorrhagic colitis is a known side effect of amoxicillin that is rarely seen. Discontinuation of treatment typically results in a quick and uneventful recovery.
Selective infusion of urokinase into occluded coronary bypass vein grafts is effective in restoring patency. We report the occurrence of intracerebral hemorrhage complicating an intra-graft urokinase infusion protocol. The patient had known cerebral vascular structural pathology without recent clinical complications. Caution with the use of thrombolysis in this setting is suggested.
Guillain-Barré syndrome and its clinical variants, including the anti-GQ1b ganglioside-mediated Miller Fisher syndrome (MFS), comprise the world's leading cause of acute neuromuscular paralysis. Presently, no specific drug therapies exist. The complement cascade, which is activated in these patients, forms an attractive drug target. In this study, we tested whether the complement C5-inhibiting recombinant protein, rEV576, was able to prevent neural injury in a previously developed in vitro mouse model for MFS. Mouse hemidiaphragm preparations were treated with anti-GQ1b antibody and normal human serum as a source of complement with added rEV576 or control protein. Immunohistology in control tissue showed deposition of C3c and membrane attack complex at neuromuscular junctions (NMJs), along with terminal motor axonal neurofilament degradation as well as ethidium homodimer-2 staining showing perisynaptic Schwann cell (pSC) injury. Electrophysiological and functional analyses showed block of synaptic transmission at the NMJ after an initial period of a dramatically high level of asynchronous acetylcholine release. In tissue treated with rEV576, all these indicators of motor neuronal damage were absent, except for the presence of C3c, indicating effective inhibition of C5. These results demonstrate that rEV576 effectively prevents development of neuronal and pSC damage in experimental murine neuropathy.
Two cases of postinfarction ventricular septal rupture in patients on long-term steroid therapy are presented and the favourable outcome in both cases described. A possible association between steroid therapy and subsequent postinfarction septal rupture is discussed.
Polyphenols are the abundant micronutrient in our diet and attention has been given to them for the prevention of degenerative diseases. Since over production of ROS and proinflammatory cytokine are often act as the triggers for the promotion stage of carcinogenesis by transcriptional up-regulation of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) and cycloxygenage-2 (COX-2). We investigated the protective effects of caffeic acid (CA) on 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) induced oxidative and inflammatory responses, expression of NF-κB and COX-2 in mouse skin. Animals were given pre-treatment of CA at two different doses 10μmol (D1) and 20μmol (D2)/0.2ml of acetone 30min prior to each TPA (10nmol/0.2ml of acetone) application. Our results show that CA significantly inhibit the TPA induced lipid peroxidation (LPO), inflammatory responses, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) release and also found to up regulate GSH content and the activity of different antioxidant enzymes. Further, CA was found to inhibit the TPA induced expression of NF-κB and COX-2. Thus, our results suggest that CA attenuates TPA induced tumor promotional triggers possibly by inhibition of oxidative and inflammatory responses thereby diminishing the expression of NF-κB and COX-2.
An experimental model was developed, in which urinary bladder cancer was induced by cyclophosphamide in rats, thus reproducing cyclophosphamide-induced urinary bladder carcinogenesis observed in humans. It was possible in this model to achieve a highly significant reduction of cyclophosphamide-induced urinary bladder cancer by concomitant administration of sodium 2-mercaptoethane sulfonate (mesna). A significant delay of urinary bladder carcinogenesis by administration of the uroprotective substance mesna was also observed when using butylbutanolnitrosamine for inducing urinary bladder cancer. It was thus for the first time possible to assure chemoprevention of this tumor type by administration of a specific antidote.
A case of apparent gabapentin withdrawal symptoms after discontinuation of gabapentin therapy is reported.
A 53-year-old woman had coffee ground emesis, a two-day history of black tarry stools, and abdominal pain. The patient did have an elevated ethanol concentration (323 mg/dL), with the last reported ingestion of ethanol about 12 hours before admission. Her medical history included liver cirrhosis secondary to ethanol abuse, ascites, portal hypertension, esophageal varices (with previous band ligation three weeks prior), anemia, gastroesophageal reflux disease, neuropathic pain, and depression. Her home medications included spironolactone, nadolol, lactulose, ursodiol, ferrous sulfate, omeprazole, gabapentin, citalopram, and trazodone. She was admitted to the intensive care unit, and upper gastrointestinal endoscopy was performed, with 12 band ligations applied. After the procedure, she ingested nothing orally, including home medications, for the first two days. On day 3 of hospitalization, she developed restlessness, disorientation, confusion, agitation, and anxiety. She was presumed to be suffering from ethanol withdrawal and was treated with benzodiazepines but had no improvement in symptoms. During days 4 and 5, the patient became increasingly confused, agitated, and anxious, with complaints of headache, light sensitivity, and increasing nervousness. On day 5, gabapentin was reinitiated, and the patient's confusion and agitation improved that evening. The next morning, the patient was calm, alert, and cooperative. Her symptoms resolved, and she was discharged on hospital day 7.
A patient developed apparent withdrawal symptoms beginning two days after gabapentin therapy was discontinued. The symptoms were unresponsive to treatment with benzodiazepines but completely resolved with the reinitiation of gabapentin therapy.
The vitamin E derivative (+)α-tocopheryl succinate (α-TOS) exerts pro-apoptotic effects in a wide range of tumors and is well tolerated by normal tissues. Previous studies point to a mitochondrial involvement in the action mechanism; however, the early steps have not been fully elucidated. In a model of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) derived from hCG-PML-RARα transgenic mice, we demonstrated that α-TOS is as effective as arsenic trioxide or all-trans retinoic acid, the current gold standards of therapy. We also demonstrated that α-TOS induces an early dissipation of the mitochondrial membrane potential in APL cells and studies with isolated mitochondria revealed that this action may result from the inhibition of mitochondrial respiratory chain complex I. Moreover, α-TOS promoted accumulation of reactive oxygen species hours before mitochondrial cytochrome c release and caspases activation. Therefore, an in vivo antileukemic action and a novel mitochondrial target were revealed for α-TOS, as well as mitochondrial respiratory complex I was highlighted as potential target for anticancer therapy.
Studies about formaldehyde (FA) published since the guideline of 0.1 mg/m(3) by the World Health Organization (WHO) in 2010 have been evaluated; critical effects were eye and nasal (portal-of-entry) irritation. Also, it was considered to prevent long-term effects, including all types of cancer. The majority of the recent toxicokinetic studies showed no exposure-dependent FA-DNA adducts outside the portal-of-entry area and FA-DNA adducts at distant sites were due to endogenously generated FA. The no-observed-adverse-effect level for sensory irritation was 0.5 ppm and recently reconfirmed in hypo- and hypersensitive individuals. Investigation of the relationship between FA exposure and asthma or other airway effects in children showed no convincing association. In rats, repeated exposures showed no point mutation in the p53 and K-Ras genes at ≤15 ppm neither increased cell proliferation, histopathological changes and changes in gene expression at 0.7 ppm. Repeated controlled exposures (0.5 ppm with peaks at 1 ppm) did not increase micronucleus formation in human buccal cells or nasal tissue (0.7 ppm) or in vivo genotoxicity in peripheral blood lymphocytes (0.7 ppm), but higher occupational exposures were associated with genotoxicity in buccal cells and cultivated peripheral blood lymphocytes. It is still valid that exposures not inducing nasal squamous cell carcinoma in rats will not induce nasopharyngeal cancer or lymphohematopoietic malignancies in humans. Reproductive and developmental toxicity are not considered relevant in the absence of sensory irritation. In conclusion, the WHO guideline has been strengthened.
Thrombosis associated with a drop in the platelet count may occur in 33-50% of the patients who develop heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) during treatment with unfractionated heparin; the deep veins are commonly involved while cardiac thrombosis is considered as a rare complication. We report the case of a 64-year-old woman who was treated with unfractionated heparin following a myocardial infarction and an episode of deep vein thrombosis which occurred 13 days after myocardial revascularization including triple coronary artery bypass grafting; a drop in the patient's platelet count was documented and a transesophageal echocardiogram revealed massive thrombosis of the four cavities of her heart. The diagnosis of HIT was supported by high blood levels of PF4-antiheparin antibodies. Heparin infusion was stopped and the patient was started on sodium warfarin therapy; the platelet count promptly returned to normal and the size of the clots slowly decreased, although they were still detectable 1 month later. Aspirin (325 mg daily) was then prescribed as an adjunct to warfarin and 6 months later we documented the total disappearance of the thrombotic masses without embolic complications.
Anaesthesia was induced with propofol 2.5 mg kg-1 followed by suxamethonium 1.5 mg kg-1 in six young healthy females undergoing laparoscopy. ECG was monitored continuously. In two unpremedicated patients, this was followed by severe sinus bradycardia, while no bradycardia was observed in the other four patients who were premedicated with atropine 0.6 mg i.m. These observations suggest that propofol-suxamethonium sequence may be followed by severe bradycardia in patients who have not received atropine. The bradycardia may be prevented by premedication with atropine. In contrast to thiopentone, propofol apparently lacks central vagolytic activity and may exert a central vagotonic effect which can exaggerate the muscarinic effects of suxamethonium.
Hepatic fibrosis is the key stage of the pathological progress from hepatic injury to cirrhosis. Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) has been known as having significant clinical therapeutic effects on chronic liver diseases. Our research aimed to study the effect of UDCA on the signaling pathway of transforming growth factor beta1 (TGFbeta1)/Smad and discuss its possible molecular mechanisms of inhibiting hepatic fibrosis.
Rat hepatic stellate cells were cultured in vitro and randomly assigned to 4 groups. Group A was control group, with only DMEM culture medium applied, and groups B, C, D were experimental groups, with different doses of UDCA (1.0 mmol/L, 0.5 mmol/L and 0.25 mmol/L respectively) added into their DMEM culture medium for further culture of 24 hours and 48 hours. The protein expressions of TGFbeta1, TGF type I receptor, Smad3, Smad4 and Smad7 were measured by Western blotting, as well as the expressions of TGFbeta1, Smad3, Smad7 and cAMP response element (CREB) binding protein (CBP) mRNA by real-time PCR. SPSS 11.5 statistical package was adopted for data analyses.
Compared with control group, the mRNA expressions of TGFbeta1 in the high and middle UDCA dose groups for 24 hours and 48 hours significantly decreased (P < 0.05), the protein expressions of TGFbeta1 in the two above groups for 48 hours and in the high dose group for 24 hours significantly decreased (P < 0.05). The protein and mRNA expressions of Smad3 in each UDCA dose group for 24 hours and 48 hours significantly decreased, with significant difference among different UDCA dose groups and between that of 24 hours and 48 hours observed (P < 0.05). The protein and mRNA expressions of Smad7 in the high and middle UDCA dose groups for 24 hours and 48 hours significantly increased. The CBP mRNA expression in each UDCA dose group for 24 hours and 48 hours significantly decreased (P < 0.05), with significant difference among different UDCA dose groups observed (P < 0.05).
UDCA could curb the development of hepatic fibrosis through affecting the signaling pathway of TGFbeta1/Smad by inhibiting the expressions of TGFbeta1, Smad3 and CBP and increasing the expression of Smad7.
