The effects of bretylium tosylate in managing acute myocardial infarction were studied in 16 patients within 24 hours from the onset of symptoms and were compared to those of lidocaine in a comparable group of 15 patients. Both drugs were equally effective in preventing cardiac arrhythmias during the 48 hours of trial. No deleterious hemodynamic effects were associated with lidocaine treatment. However, marked supine hypotension developed in seven patients treated with bretylium. No changes occurred simultaneously in heart rate, left ventricular ejection time, or central venous pressure. The occurrence of hypotension correlated with a poor initial hemodynamic state. The substantial and unpredictable circulatory effects of bretylium in acute myocardial infarction contraindicates its routine use in the prevention of infarction arrhythmias.
Cocaine causes acute hypertension by blocking catecholamine reuptake. There is evidence that it also impairs the peripheral endothelial nitric oxide system, which is normally vasodilatory. We further explored the role of nitric oxide in cocaine-induced vasoconstriction in anesthetized rats, and in vitro by using isolated carotid artery segments. Cocaine administered intravenously in rats increased mean arterial pressure by 30 to 40 mm Hg within 1 min. This effect was dose dependent and the maximum effect was observed at a dose of 1.25 mg/kg. The prototype catecholamine norepinephrine induced a similar increase in blood pressure. When rats were pretreated with NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA, a blocker of nitric oxide) and challenged with cocaine, the increase in blood pressure was blocked by 80%, whereas pretreatment with L-NMMA did not block norepinephrine-induced vasoconstriction. Both cocaine and norepinephrine also induced an immediate vasoconstriction in isolated carotid artery preparations. The in vitro vasoconstriction induced by cocaine was blocked by pretreatment with L-NMMA, whereas L-NMMA did not block the norepinephrine-induced vasoconstriction in vitro. Furthermore, carotid artery stripped of endothelium responded to norepinephrine but failed to respond to L-NMMA or cocaine. S-nitroso-N-acetyl-D,L-penicillamine (SNAP)-a precursor of nitric oxide- stimulated nitric oxide production in control coronary artery fragments. When these fragments were incubated with cocaine there was a 20% reduction in the production of nitrite oxide. These results suggest that cocaine exerts its peripheral vasoconstriction at least in part by inhibiting local vasodilator nitric oxide.
Experimental induction of neoplasia in the urogenital tract was studied in male Lobund-Wistar rats. Animals were given single 30.0-mg/kg i.v. injections of N-nitroso-N-methylurea (NMU) followed 7 days later by s.c. implantation of a 2.0-cm Silastic capsule containing testosterone propionate (TP). Additional rats were given the NMU or TP treatments individually. Control animals were given a single i.v. injection of saline followed by implantation of an empty Silastic capsule. The Silastic implants for each group were replaced every 2 months. This hormone treatment regimen produced significantly (P less than 0.05) elevated serum testosterone concentrations relative to control for 42 days following implantation. Animals were killed at 92, 177, 259, 361, or 427 days post-NMU injection. A high treatment-related incidence of adenocarcinoma occurred in the dorsal and lateral prostatic lobes of animals given the combined NMU-TP treatment. In addition, a few animals had adenocarcinomas of the coagulating gland or the seminal vesicle. The estimated probability of neoplasia in the accessory sex organs by 427 days after initiation of the NMU-TP treatment was 68%, with no occurrence before 9 months. The NMU-TP treatment was also associated with an incidence of focal dysplasia in the accessory sex organs, particularly in the coagulating gland. These findings indicate that NMU-TP treatment of Lobund-Wistar rats can provide a useful experimental system to study the biochemical and molecular events involved in the induction of accessory sex organ neoplasia.
Increased plasma tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF) concentration correlates with mortality in sepsis. We suggested that pentoxifylline (PTXF), which is known to inhibit TNF production, may improve survival and attenuate clinical symptoms of sepsis in neonates. Plasma TNF levels were evaluated in 29 newborn infants with sepsis. Patients were randomly assigned into two groups, receiving PTXF in a dose of 5 mg/kg per hour for 6 h or placebo (saline), on 3 successive days. Both groups were subjected to the same conventional therapy. TNF was evaluated before and after PTXF or placebo administration on the 1st and 3rd days of therapy. There was a statistically significant decrease in plasma TNF level in the PTXF group when the values before the first and after the last PTXF infusion were compared [mean: 671.5 pg/ml; SD: 438; med: 729.6 vs mean: 41.0 pg/ml; SD: 64.1; med: 11.5; P < 0.000004]. In the placebo group, decrease was not significant [mean: 633.0 pg/ml SD: 488.6; med: 618.9 vs 246.9 pg/ml; SD: 243.9; med: 191.0]. A significantly higher plasma TNF level, evaluated after the last PTXF infusion, was found in the placebo group [246.9 pg/ml vs 41.0 pg/ml; P < 0.001]. Only one of four infants with signs of shock in the placebo group survived, whereas all of five newborns with symptoms of shock in the PTXF group survived [P < 0.04]. An increased incidence of metabolic acidosis [P < 0.05], necrotizing enterocolitis [P < 0.04] and renal insufficiency [P < 0.05] was observed in infants in the placebo group.
PTXF inhibits production of TNF and may have therapeutic value in the treatment of premature infants with sepsis complicated by shock.
The Brenner hypothesis states that a congenital reduction in nephron number predisposes to adult-onset hypertension and renal failure. The reduction in nephron number induced by proportionally smaller kidney mass may predispose offspring to glomerular hyperfiltration with maturity onset obesity. Developmental cigarette smoke exposure (CSE) results in intrauterine growth retardation with a predisposition to obesity and cardiovascular disease at maturity. Utilizing a mouse model of 'active' developmental CSE (gestational day [GD] 1-postnatal day [PD] 21; cotinine>50 ng/mL) characterized by persistently smaller offspring with proportionally decreased kidney mass, the present study examined the impact of developmental CSE on the abundance of proteins associated with cellular metabolism in the kidney. Following cessation of CSE on PD21, kidney tissue was collected from CSE and Sham exposed pups for 2D-SDS-PAGE based proteome profiling with statistical analysis by partial least squares-discriminant analysis (PLS-DA) with affected molecular pathways identified by ingenuity pathway analysis. Proteins whose expression in the kidney were affected by developmental CSE belonged to the inflammatory disease, cell to cell signaling/interaction, lipid metabolism, small molecule biochemistry, cell cycle, respiratory disease, nucleic acid and carbohydrate metabolism networks. The present findings indicate that developmental CSE alters the kidney proteome. The companion paper details the liver proteome alterations in the same offspring.
In this study, the neurobehavioral toxicity of lactational exposure to a representative mixture of the six indicator non-dioxin-like-polychlorinated biphenyls (∑6 NDL-PCBs 28, 52, 101, 138, 153 and 180) found in contaminated fish matrices were assessed in neonatal (postnatal day 0) to adult (postnatal day 275) mice. Thus, a battery of developmental, behavioral and cognitive tests was performed. The performance of mice whose mothers were orally exposed to ∑6 NDL-PCBs at environmental doses of 1 ng/kg, 10 ng/kg or 100 ng/kg was compared to that of mice whose mothers were orally exposed to vehicle. Our results showed that neonatal offspring mice exposed to ∑6 NDL-PCBs through lactation exhibited significantly longer turning reflexes on postnatal days 7 and 9 (p=0.001, p=0.002, respectively) at 100 ng/kg and showed a reduction in their general activity at 1 ng/kg (p=0.002) and 10 ng/kg (p=0.001) compared to controls. However, these developmental alterations were sex-dependent; only the female reflexes and male locomotor activity were affected. These disturbances were transient, and they disappeared with age. In addition, the males' visuomotor integration was also altered at the doses of 1 ng/kg (p=0.02) and 100 ng/kg (p=0.004), as revealed by the WESPOC test. Nevertheless, lactational exposure to ∑6 NDL-PCBs (1-100 ng/kg) resulted in persistent disturbances despite a long post-weaning period; the exposed mice exhibited anxious behavior that was detected at more progressive life stages, i.e., at postnatal days 40 and 160, using an elevated plus maze and the light/dark choice test, respectively. This persistent anxious behavior could be related to the overexpression of RyR₃ in the cerebellum via the disruption of calcium signaling in the neurons. We found no differences in the offspring mice with regard to their cognitive function and mood or mRNA neurotransmitter receptor gene expression in several brain areas, including 5-HT(1A), MOR₁ and GABA(Aα1), suggesting the absence of adverse effects of postnatal exposure to ∑6 NDL-PCBs under these conditions. Therefore, our results suggest that regular consumption of contaminated fish matrices by lactating women could be detrimental to the neurodevelopment of their newborns.
RISPERDAL(®) CONSTA(®) is a long-acting, intramuscular formulation of risperidone microspheres for the biweekly treatment of schizophrenia and other psychiatric disorders. In a 24-month carcinogenicity study male and female Wistar Hannover rats received RISPERDAL(®) CONSTA(®) by intramuscular injection at dosages of 5 or 40 mg/kg once every 2 weeks. Bone changes described as "osteodystrophy" were observed by routine microscopic examination at 40 mg/kg in the sternum of female rats after 12 months, and in the sternum and stifle joint of both male and female rats after 24 months of treatment, respectively. To investigate the etiology of these bone changes, a 12-month mechanistic study was conducted in female Wistar Hannover rats at dosages of 5, 20 and 40 mg/kg once every 2 weeks. In addition to routine parameters, this study included bone markers, hormone measurements, and peripheral quantitative computed tomography (pQCT) and dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) bone density measurements. It revealed a treatment-related reduction in metaphyseal trabecular bone density of the femur and tibia at 20 and 40 mg/kg, which was evident in the tibia from Week 13 of treatment onwards. There was no convincing evidence for any of the modes of action known to underlie trabecular bone loss in rats including renal, nutritional, or hepatic osteodystrophy, estrogen deficiency, hyperthyroidism or glucocorticoid excess. It is hypothetized that prolonged hyperprolactinemia accompanied by an increase in parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP) levels and a slight hypoestrogenic state could have caused the reduced trabecular bone density in RISPERDAL(®) CONSTA(®)-treated rats. The relevance of this finding in terms of human risk is unknown.
Tri-ortho-cresyl phosphate (TOCP), an organophosphorus ester, is capable of producing organophosphorus ester-induced delayed neuropathy (OPIDN) in human being and sensitive animals. In the present study, adult hens were treated with TOCP by gavage at single dosage of 750 mg/kg, and sacrificed by decapitation on the corresponding time points of 1, 5, 10, and 21 day post-dosing, respectively. The tibial nerves were dissected, homogenized, and centrifuged at 100,000 xg. The level of neurofilaments protein in both pellet and supernatant fractions was determined. Western blot analysis showed a nearly depletion of NF-M and a dramatic decrease of NF-L in both fractions of tibial nerves. These changes were observed within 24h of TOCP administration and then followed by an obvious recovery. In contrast, a progressive reduction in NF-H was observed in tibial nerves of TCOP-treated hens throughout the period of experiment. With the reduction of NF-L level, the rate of NF-L degradation demonstrated a significant increase in both fractions of tibial nerves. Furthermore, the expression of mu-calpain in tibial nerves was increased following TOCP. Taken together, these results demonstrated that NFs changes occurred much earlier than the clinical appearance of ataxia in TOCP-induced delayed neuropathy, indicating that disruption of NF homeostasis in peripheral nerves might be an early molecular event in the development of OPIDN.
Abrin toxin is a plant glycoprotein, which is similar in structure and properties to ricin and is obtained from the seeds of Abrus precatorius (jequirity bean). Abrin is highly toxic, with an estimated human fatal dose of 0.1-1 μg/kg, and has caused death after accidental and intentional poisoning. Abrin is a potent biological toxin warfare agent. There are no chemical antidotes available against the toxin. Neurological symptoms like delirium, hallucinations, reduced consciousness and generalized seizures were reported in human poisoning cases. Death of a patient with symptoms of acute demyelinating encephalopathy with gastrointestinal bleeding due to ingestion of abrin seeds was reported in India. The aim of this study was to examine both dose and time-dependent transcriptional responses induced by abrin in the adult mouse brain. Mice (n=6) were exposed to 1 and 2 LD50 (2.83 and 5.66 μg/kg respectively) dose of abrin by intraperitoneal route and observed over 3 days. A subset of animals (n=3) were sacrificed at 1 and 2 day intervals for microarray and histopathology analysis. None of the 2 LD50 exposed animals survived till 3 days. The histopathological analysis showed the severe damage in brain and the infiltration of inflammatory cells in a dose and time dependent manner. The abrin exposure resulted in the induction of rapid immune and inflammatory response in brain. Clinical biochemistry parameters like lactate dehydrogenase, aspartate aminotransferase, urea and creatinine showed significant increase at 2-day 2 LD50 exposure. The whole genome microarray data revealed the significant regulation of various pathways like MAPK pathway, cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, calcium signaling pathway, Jak-STAT signaling pathway and natural killer cell mediated toxicity. The comparison of differential gene expression at both the doses showed dose dependent effects of abrin toxicity. The real-time qRT-PCR analysis of selected genes supported the microarray data. This is the first report on host-gene response using whole genome microarray in an animal model after abrin exposure. The data generated provides leads for developing suitable medical counter measures against abrin poisoning.
Aliskiren is the first in a new class of direct renin inhibitors to be approved for the treatment of hypertension.
In this double-blind, multicentre trial, 694 patients with hypertension (mean sitting diastolic blood pressure [BP] > or = 95 and < 110 mmHg) were randomised to once-daily aliskiren 150 mg (n=231), atenolol 50 mg (n=231) or the combination (150/50 mg; n=232) for six weeks, followed by a further six weeks on double the initial doses of aliskiren and atenolol. Efficacy (reduction from baseline in mean sitting systolic and diastolic BP) and tolerability of study treatments were assessed; plasma renin activity (PRA) was measured in a subset of patients.
At Week 12 endpoint, aliskiren, atenolol and aliskiren/atenolol lowered systolic and diastolic BP from baseline by 14.3/11.3, 14.3/13.7 and 17.3/14.1 mmHg, respectively. Systolic BP reductions with aliskiren/atenolol were significantly greater than those with aliskiren (p=0.039) or atenolol (p=0.034) alone, and diastolic BP reductions were greater than with aliskiren alone (p<0.001). Diastolic BP changes were larger with atenolol than with aliskiren (p=0.003, correlating with the large reductions in pulse rate (> 10 bpm) observed with atenolol. Aliskiren, atenolol and aliskiren/atenolol reduced geometric mean PRA from baseline by 65%, 52% and 61%, respectively. In patients with moderate or high baseline PRA (> or = 0.65 ng/ml/hour), PRA was reduced to low levels (< 0.65 ng/ml/hour) at Week 12 endpoint in a greater proportion of patients receiving aliskiren (11/15 patients, 73.3%) or aliskiren/atenolol (18/23, 78.3%) than with atenolol (10/21, 47.6%). Aliskiren treatment was associated with numerically lower rates of adverse events and discontinuations due to adverse events compared with atenolol or combination treatment, and unlike atenolol was not associated with bradycardia.
Direct renin inhibition with aliskiren may be an appropriate substitute for beta-blocker treatment in patients with uncomplicated hypertension. Aliskiren also represents an attractive option for dual therapy with atenolol to improve systolic BP/pulse pressure reductions and BP control with maintained tolerability compared with atenolol alone.
Although glucocorticoids have been used to treat patients with hormone-refractory prostate carcinoma (HRPC), reports have varied regarding the types and doses of glucocorticoids used as well as their clinical benefits. In the current study, low doses of dexamethasone were investigated for their specific beneficial effects and the feasibility of long term treatment.
Thirty-seven patients diagnosed with HRPC were treated with oral dexamethasone (0.5-2 mg/day). The patients ranged in age from 53-89 years (median, 74 years). Thirty-two patients, including 6 with lymph node metastases, had bone involvement whereas only 5 patients were found to have elevated serum prostate specific antigen (PSA) levels.
Twenty-three patients (62%) who received no other concomitant therapy demonstrated a decline in their serum PSA level of > or = 50%, which was confirmed by a second PSA value obtained > or = 4 weeks later. The median time to PSA progression was 9 months. Among 18 patients with bone pain, 11 (61%) had improvement and in 5 patients (28%) the pain became stable. Among 21 patients with interpretable bone scans, 4 (19%) showed improvement and 8 (38%) achieved stable disease. Both symptomatic and objective responses of bone metastases were correlated with declines in the serum PSA level of > or = 50%. Ten patients achieved an increase in their hemoglobin level of at least 2 g/dL. Patients whose PSA level declined by > or = 50% with therapy had significantly prolonged survival (median, 22 months). As pretreatment markers, a longer interval before the initial evidence of disease progression appeared was found to correlate significantly with posttherapy PSA declines of > or = 75%. All side effects of the glucocorticoids were reported to be mild.
Low doses of dexamethasone were found to be beneficial in the treatment of HRPC, decreasing the severity of anemia and osseous disease as well as reducing serum PSA levels. A posttherapy serum PSA decline of > or = 50% appears to be a reliable marker of improved survival with this therapy.
Development of antipsychotics with slight/no extra-pyramidal symptoms (EPS) and/or other side effects is one of the exploring fields of drug research. Haloperidol is a high potency typical neuroleptic used in the treatment of schizophrenia but produces muscles related side effects commonly known as EPS. These effects are not produced following the administration of atypical neuroleptics such as clozapine. A severe side effect of clozapine treatment is however, agranulocytosis. This involves investigation on the mechanism by which a typical neuroleptic acting via serotonergic mechanism tends to produce less or no EPS. The present study was, therefore, designed to determine the effect of serotonin precursor tryptophan and a large neutral amino acid other than tryptophan (valine) on the modulation of haloperidol induced catalepsy and akinesia. Cataleptic effects of the drug and activity reducing effects were monitored on inclined surface and in an activity box or open field respectively. The results are discussed in the context of a role of tryptophan and valine induced changes of brain serotonin in modifying the extrapyramidal and monoaminergic effects of the typical neuroleptic haloperidol. In the present study administration of TRP and valine decreased activity in rats, haloperidol-induced catalepsy' was not modulated by prior administration of tryptophan or valine. Brain serotonin levels were elevated by haloperidol treatment and correlated very well with the behavioral response. These findings suggest a possible serotonergic involvement in neuroleptic induced tardive dyskinesia and an amelioration of the disorder through TRP supplementation.
Sildenafil, a type 5 phosphodiesterase isoenzyme (PDE5) inhibitor with a short half-life, increases brain cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) levels and improves neurological functional recovery when administered after stroke. In the present study, we investigated the effects of tadalafil (Cialis), a long acting PDE5 inhibitor, on brain cGMP levels, neurogenesis, angiogenesis, and neurological function during stroke recovery in a rat model of embolic stroke. Male Wistar rats (n=28) were subjected to embolic middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion. Tadalafil was orally administered every 48 h at a dose of 2 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg for 6 consecutive days starting 24 h after stroke onset. Control animals received the equivalent volume of saline at the same time points. For mitotic labeling, bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU, 100 mg/kg) was administered twice a day at 5, 6, and 7 days after stroke. ELISA assays were performed to evaluate the specificity of the effect of tadalafil on cGMP. Treatment with tadalafil at a dose of 2 or 10 mg/kg significantly improved neurological functional recovery compared with saline-treated rats. In addition, tadalafil treatment increased cerebral vascular density and the percentage of BrdU-positive endothelial cells around the ischemic boundary compared with saline-treated rats. Moreover, tadalafil-treated rats showed greater ipsilateral SVZ cell proliferation than saline-treated rats. However, treatment with tadalafil did not reduce infarct volume when compared to the saline group. Tadalafil selectively increased cGMP but not cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) in brain. Our data demonstrate that treatment of ischemic stroke with tadalafil improved functional recovery, which was associated with increases of brain cGMP levels and enhancement of angiogenesis and neurogenesis.
Polymorphisms in the VKORC1 and CYP2C9 genes influence warfarin requirements. It has been suggested that dosing algorithms incorporating them might outperform usual care. Standardized warfarin initiation nomograms are safe and effective and patients' responses to them could be used to predict warfarin requirements without the need for genetic testing.
To develop a model to predict warfarin dose requirements based on the response to a standard nomogram without using genetic testing.
We included 363 outpatients with acute venous thromboembolism who were started on treatment using a standardized warfarin nomogram and achieved a stable maintenance warfarin dose defined as a dose prescribed twice consecutively after two consecutive INR measurements between 2.0 and 3.0. Linear regression was used to derive equations predicting the maintenance dose and models were validated using non-parametric bootstrapping and tested in an independent cohort.
Three models were constructed for patients completing the nomogram until day 3 (warfarin dose (mg week(-1)) = Exp [2.737 + 1.896(INR(3)(-1))-0.008(Age)]; R2adj = 0.462), day 5 (warfarin dose (mg week(-1)) = Exp[2.261 + 2.412(INR(3)(-1)) -0.285(DeltaINR(5-3))]; R2adj = 0.603) and day 8 (warfarin dose (mg week(-1)) = Exp[1.574 + 1.788(INR(8)(-1)) + 0.024(cumulated warfarin dose until nomogram day 7)]; R2adj = 0.643), where Exp is the exponential function; INR3 and INR8 are the INR on days 3 or 8 of the nomogram, and DeltaINR(5-3) is the difference in the INR on days 5 and 3. All models were internally and externally validated and were accurate to within 25% of the actual dose in >60% of patients.
Maintenance warfarin dose can be accurately predicted using individual response to a standard warfarin initiation nomogram without the need for costly genetic testing.
Drugs are at the origin of around 10% of the cases of vasculitis involving the small vessels. Recent cases report vasculitis related to the administration of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory selective inhibitors of cyclo-oxygenase 2.
Vasculitis associated with ketoprofen appeared in a 76 year-old man: the symptoms disappeared when treatment stopped. A few weeks later, during treatment with rofecoxib, a relapse appeared, including purpura. The diagnosis of rofecoxib-induced cutaneous vasculitis was confirmed by regression of all symptoms when treatment stopped.
Coxibs, like other nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs, may cause vasculitis, at an as-yet undetermined frequency.
We report a patient with compensated congestive heart failure who developed acute anuric renal failure immediately after indomethacin and triamterene had been added to the treatment regimen. Renal function failed to improve promptly with discontinuation of these medications, anuria persisting for 11 days. While it is well known that patients suffering from edematous states are prone to develop renal insufficiency when given nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents, it is not generally appreciated that the specific combination of prostaglandin inhibitors with triamterene may carry a particularly high risk of acute renal failure, even in euvolemic subjects.
Amoxycillin/clavulanic acid (Augmentin) has been widely used as a broad spectrum antibiotic since its introduction in 1981, since which time a number of reports of adverse hepatic reaction to the drug combination have been published. This paper describes five patients presenting with cholestatic illness within 8 weeks of a course of amoxycillin/clavulanic acid. The clinical picture indicated a direct link between the illness and the drug combination. Hepatic histology revealed a distinctive focal destructive cholangiopathy in all five patients, which has not previously been reported. Two also showed a granulomatous reaction, which has only previously been reported in one patient. Parallels are drawn with other diseases displaying bile duct destruction, and it is suggested that immunologically mediated drug-induced biliary damage may be involved. One of the five patients developed chronic liver disease with persistence of cholestatic liver biochemical tests, which has not previously been reported. The severity of the reaction and its prolonged course merit wider recognition of the possible adverse hepatic reaction to amoxycillin/clavulanic acid.
Two patients with low renin hypertension showing an increased urinary excretion with 17-KS, with normal level of plasma deoxycorticosterone and no signs of virilization were reported. Dexamethasone induced reduction in blood pressure and elevation of serum K, in spite of acceleration of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. Thus, it has been inferred that the hypertension was not associated with adrenogenital syndrome but was due to excessive production of an unknown mineralocorticoid.
142 patients with postoperative jaundice following anaesthesia with halothane were divided into two groups:-group A (76 cases) in which halothane appeared to be the sole responsible agent for jaundice, and- group B (66 cases) in which other causes were detected. The incidence of clinical signs considered to be specific for halothane-induced hepatitis (skin rash, arthralgia, bronchospasm, fever of unexplained origin, leukocytosis) was the same in both groups. Only a high eosinophil count was more common in group A. The author found a clear-cut relationship between the frequency of exposure and the onset of hepatitis as well as a shortening of the latent period with increasing numbers of exposures.
A 53-year-old man with scalp cellulitis developed acute renal failure after sodium cephalothin therapy. The patient probably had preexisting renal disease. Discontinuance of cephalothin was followed by improvement of the renal function. Specimens from a renal biopsy performed during the recovery phase showed nonspecific changes in the renal tubular epithelium, similar to those seen in animals treated with large doses of cephalothin. Previously reported cases of cephalothin nephrotoxicity, along with this case, caution the clinician to proceed with care in the treatment of azotemic patients with cephalothin.
Holoprosencephaly (HPE) is the most common structural anomaly of the human brain, resulting from incomplete cleavage of the developing forebrain during embryogenesis. Haploinsufficient mutations in the TG-interacting factor (TGIF) gene were previously identified in a subset of HPE families and sporadic patients, and this gene is located within a region of chromosome 18 that is associated with nonrandom chromosomal aberrations in HPE patients. TGIF is a three-amino-acid loop extension (TALE) homeodomain-containing transcription factor that functions both as a corepressor of the transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) pathway and as a competitor of the retinoic acid pathway. Here we describe mice deficient in Tgif that exhibited laterality defects and growth retardation and developed kinked tails. Cellular analysis of mutant mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) demonstrated for the first time that Tgif regulates proliferation and progression through the G1 cell cycle phase. Additionally, wild-type human TGIF was able to rescue this proliferative defect in MEFs. In contrast, a subset of human Tgif mutations detected in HPE patients was unable to rescue the proliferative defect. However, an absence of Tgif did not alter the normal inhibition of proliferation caused by treatment with TGF-beta or retinoic acid. Developmental control of proliferation by Tgif may play a role in the pathogenesis of HPE.
Rats treated with kainic acid develop limbic seizures and have elevated levels of circulating catecholamines resulting from an extensive stimulation of the adrenal gland. We investigated the levels of several constituents of chromaffin granules in rat adrenal medulla after injection of kainic acid. This treatment increased mRNA steady-state levels of enkephalin, neuropeptide Y and chromogranin B 2-6-fold. Elevated levels of these constituents were found as early as 2 h after treatment and lasted up to 24 h. Chromogranin A and secretogranin II mRNA levels, on the other hand, remained unchanged. Adrenal catecholamine concentrations were reduced by 80%. Pre-treatment of rats with thiopental prior to kainic acid prevented seizures, the decline in catecholamines and the elevation of enkephalin and neuropeptide Y mRNAs but not that of chromogranin B. On the other hand, the peripherally acting ganglionic blocker chlorisondamine did not protect from the kainic acid-induced up-regulation of chromogranin B mRNA, suggesting that chromogranin B mRNA may be regulated by a direct effect of kainic acid on chromaffin cells. The pattern of changes in mRNA expression differed from that seen after insulin hypoglycemia or reserpine treatment. Thus, stimulation of the splanchnic innervation in vivo by various means leads to an individual and independent regulation of granule constituents by quite different mechanisms.
