The introduction of carboplatin as a replacement for cisplatin into treatment strategies against ovarian cancer has ameliorated major toxicities related to cisplatin, but carboplatin-evoked myelosuppression requires further study, especially since the addition of growth factors for bone marrow and hematologic support has been introduced into clinical practice. Since higher doses of platinating agents seem to be related to higher response rates, the protective effect of interleukin-3 on 800 mg carboplatin, a twofold increment over the usual dose, was studied. A modest myeloprotective potency was documented in the second treatment cycle of this aggressive chemotherapy program, but this effect tapered away in subsequent treatment courses, which occasionally included severe side effects (eg, headache, kidney function impairments). Another study addressed the anemia frequently observed with both cisplatin- and carboplatin-based treatment regimens in ovarian cancer, which is probably related to low erythropoietin levels. Very preliminary analysis of an ongoing phase III trial studying two erythropoietin doses given continuously subcutaneously versus a retrospective analysis of a "control group" (drawn from historical data on the occurrence of anemia in cisplatin- and/or carboplatin-treated patients) has shown beneficial effects of erythropoietin during treatment with these platinating agents.
Groups of 40 male and 40 female C57BL/6 mice were maintained for 75-80 weeks on meal form diets containing aspirin, phenacetin and caffeine either singly or in combination. The maximum daily doses of phenacetin alone and the APC combination were approximately one-half of their previously determined respective oral LD50's. Mild, nonprogressive histopathologic changes of the urinary tract were noted with these changes first evident in animals given the highest dose of phenacetin. Sulfhemoglobinemia was also induced in all groups of animals given phenacetin alone or in combination indicating that toxic doses were administered oral LD50's. Mild, nonprogressive histopathologic changes of the urinary tract were noted with these changes first evident in animals given the highest dose of phenacetin. Sulfhemoglobinemia was also induced in all groups of animals given phenacetin alone or in combination indicating that toxic doses were administered oral LD50's. Mild, nonprogressive histopathologic changes of the urinary tract were noted with these changes first evident in animals given the highest dose of phenacetin. Sulfhemoglobinemia was also induced in all groups of animals given phenacetin alone or in combination indicating that toxic doses were administered. Under the conditions of this study, evidence of carcinogens was not demonstrated for any of the drugs given alone or in combination.
The role of the cardiac current Ik1 in arrhythmogenesis remains highly controversal. To gain further insights into the mechanisms of IK1 involvement in cardiac excitability, we studied the susceptibility of transgenic mice with altered IK1 to arrhythmia during various pharmacological and physiological challenges. Arrhythmogenesis was studied in transgenic mice expressing either dominant negative Kir2.1-AAA or wild type Kir2.1 subunits in the heart, models of IK1 suppression (AAA-TG) and up-regulation (WT-TG), respectively. Under normal conditions, both anesthetized wild type (WT) and AAA-TG mice did not display any spontaneous arrhythmias. In contrast,WT-TG mice displayed numerous arrhythmias of various types. In isolated hearts, the threshold concentration for halothane-induced ventricular tachycardias (VT) was increased to 167% [corrected] in the AAA-TG and decreased to 54% [corrected] in WT-TG hearts when compared to WT hearts. The number of PVCs induced by AV node ablation combined with hypokalemia was reduced in AAA-TG hearts and increased in WT-TG mice. After AV node ablation AAA-TG hearts were more tolerant, and WT-TG less tolerant to isoproterenol- induced arrhythmias than WT hearts. Analysis of monophasic action potentials in isolated hearts shows a significant reduction in the dispersion of action potential repolarization in mice with suppressed IK1. The data strongly support the hypothesis that in the mouse heart upregulation of IK1 is proarrhythmic, and that under certain conditions IK1 blockade in cardiac myocytes may be a potentially useful antiarrhythmic strategy.
Streptozotocin was administered in a dose of 50 mg/kg body weight intraperitoneally on three consecutive days to 35 8-week old male Syrian golden hamsters. At sacrifice 16-36 weeks later, macroscopic liver tumors had developed in 27 of 29 surviving animals. The majority of animals had multiple hepatic nodules. Some tumors were already large (greater than 1 cm) 16 weeks after streptozotocin. By histologic criteria, five animals (17%) had hepatocellular carcinoma, 23 (79%) had adenomas with varying degrees of atypia, and one (4%) had a normal liver. No metastases to organs outside the liver were noted. No other primary tumors were observed. Sixteen of 29 animals had ascites. Twenty-five age-matched untreated animals showed no evidence of liver tumors. Although sporadic liver tumors due to streptozotocin have been reported in rats and mice, the high incidence of tumors and short latency period to tumor induction seem to be unique to the Syrian hamster. The development of liver carcinoma without the necessity for long-term administration of the carcinogen and without adjunctive procedures such as partial hepatectomy represents a potential improvement over other animal models of hepatic neoplasia.
Patients who had survived a stroke or transient ischaemic attacks (TIA) were admitted to a trial of low-dose aspirin (50 mg) alone, sustained release dipyridamole (400 mg/day) alone, or a combination of the two agents, and results compared with a placebo over 24 months. This low-dose aspirin regimen produced in pairwise comparisons a significant risk reduction of 18% for stroke, 13% for stroke and/or death but no reduction in all cause mortality. The sustained release dipyridamole produced a significant risk reduction of 16% for stroke, 15% for stroke and/or death but no significant reduction of mortality. In combination, aspirin and dipyridamole produced a risk reduction of 37% in stroke, 24% in stroke and/or death, and no reduction in mortality. Similar findings were found in TIA, which was a secondary endpoint. These results are highly significant in comparison with placebo. As expected, there were enhanced reports of alimentary side-effects in the aspirin groups and also enhanced bleeding. Dipyridamole was associated with a slight increase in headache, which resolved in most patients if therapy was continued. The conclusions are that 50 mg/day of aspirin alone or 400 mg/day of sustained release dipyridamole alone are equally effective in stroke and TIA prevention. When used in combination the effects were additive and were significantly more effective than the single agents.
Gemcitabine is a nucleosid analog approved for use in the treatment of metastatic urothelial carcinoma of the bladder. We describe an unusual case of scleroderma-like changes of the lower extremities after treatment by gemcitabine for metastatic carcinoma of the bladder. The patient developed initial inflammatory edema (3 kg) restricted to the lower extremities and subsequent scleroderma-like changes after 2 cycles of gemcitabine. Cutaneous biopsy specimen revealed diffuse sclerosis without involvment of the fascia or muscle. Discontinuation of gemcitabine resulted in dramatic removal of the edema, softening of the skin, and partial reversibility of the fibrotic process. This is the first case report of a scleroderma-like reaction associated with gemcitabine. This antineoplastic agent must be added to the very limited number of cytostatic agents capable of giving rise to scleroderma-like features.
Eosinophilic cystitis appears to have an allergic origin to different substances causing an immunological reaction. Up to now it was unknown that Mitomycin-C could cause this reaction. We present 6 cases of eosinophilic cystitis induced by Mitomycin-C analysing their clinical and pathological characteristics.
A case report of a 27-year-old man who developed significant hypotension and ischaemic ECG changes as a result of a disulfiram ethanol reaction. He was treated with intravenous fluids and norepinephrine, which has been advocated as the pressor agent of choice. This case highlights the potential dangers of disulfiram, a drug that can be beneficial in the short term, but not proven to improve long-term outcome in the treatment of alcoholism.
To assess the efficacy of quetiapine, a recently introduced second generation antipsychotic medication, in reducing cognitive impairment in patients with schizophrenia.
Prospective, randomized, double-blind clinical trial.
25 patients who met the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, fourth edition, (DSM-IV) criteria for schizophrenia were recruited from 3 Canadian hospitals.
After a 48-hour washout period, 25 patients with schizophrenia were randomly assigned to double-blind treatment with quetiapine or haloperidol for 6 months and evaluated with rating scales for psychotic symptoms, mood and extrapyramidal side effects, as well as standardized neuropsychological measures sensitive to 6 cognitive domains: fine motor skill, attention span, verbal reasoning and fluency, visuospatial construction and fluency, executive skills and visuomotor tracking, and immediate recall of verbal and nonverbal materials. The measures were repeated 8 weeks and 6 months after treatment was initiated.
Quetiapine improved psychosis and mood without inducing extrapyramidal symptoms. Quetiapine also had beneficial effects on cognitive skills, particularly verbal reasoning and fluency skills and immediate recall, with additional improvements on executive skills and visuomotor tracking and on the average of the 6 cognitive domains with sustained treatment. Patients taking haloperidol showed improvements in general clinical status, but no specific improvements on the positive syndrome, the negative syndrome, depression ratings or cognitive skills.
These preliminary results support the potential value of quetiapine for improving cognitive impairment in patients with schizophrenia and emphasize the importance of further research with this promising atypical antipsychotic.
The active transport of Krebs cycle intermediates, such as succinate, alpha-ketoglutarate, and citrate, is mediated by sodium-coupled transporters found in the luminal (NaDC-1) and basolateral plasma membranes (NaDC-3) of proximal tubule cells. This study used the two-electrode voltage clamp technique to examine steady-state currents associated with the influx of three sodium ions and one divalent dicarboxylate into oocytes expressing the sodium-dicarboxylate transporter from winter flounder kidney, fNaDC-3. The substrate concentration, where half-maximal current was observed (K(0.5)), was 30 micro M for succinate. Besides 2,2-dimethylsuccinate, fNaDC-3 also accepted 2,3-dimethylsuccinate and the oral lead-chelating agent, meso-2,3-dimercaptosuccinate (DMSA or Succimer). Whereas the K(0.5) for succinate and 2,2-dimethylsuccinate was independent of membrane voltage within -90 and -10 mV, K(0.5) for 2,3-dimethylsuccinate and 2,3-dimercaptosuccinate increased with decreasing voltage, indicating a critical role of the position of the methyl- or sulfhydryl-group in voltage-sensitive affinity. In addition to meso-2,3-dimercaptosuccinate, fNaDC-3 translocated dimercaptopropane-1-sulfonate (DMPS or Dimaval), an oral chelator for the treatment of mercury intoxication. The chelates formed by HgCl(2) and DMSA or DMPS and by Pb(NO(3))(2) and DMSA, however, were not translocated by fNaDC-3. The data suggest that NaDC-3 is an essential component in the delivery of uncomplexed antidotes for renal heavy metal detoxification.
The clinical course and the side effects of high-level levodopa therapy over a six-year period were studied in 80 severely akinetic parkinsonian patients treated for the first time before June 1968. Levodopa improved the quality of life in greater than 53% of patients, but failed to modify the progression of the disease or change the prognosis. Seventeen "idiopathic Parkinson" patients died after a duration of illness of 9.5 years. Despite the drawbacks, levodopa is still the best available treatment for akinetic parkinsonism.
A series of 4-alkylamino-2-ethoxycyclobut-3en-1,2-diones has been synthesized, characterized and their inhibitory effect on pancreatic lipase (PL) was evaluated. The compound 1 has shown relatively high potency (IC(50) = 0.11 mM) compared with the most effective anti-obesity drug, tetrahydrolipstatin (Orlistat) (IC(50) value = 0.08 mM). The compounds have showed good selectivity toward PL and did not affect the activity of trypsin, another digestive enzyme.
Two immunologically different mouse strains, C57BL/6 and SNF(1), were exposed to a mid-gestation dose of TCDD. The C57BL/6 mouse has a high-affinity aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) and is sensitive to TCDD. The SNF(1) mouse has a low-affinity AhR but spontaneously develops autoimmune nephritis. Autoreactive Vβ(+)CD4(+)17a and Vβ(+)CD3(+) T cells were increased at 24-weeks-of-age in offspring of C57BL/6 mice, more so in females than males. The cytokine IFN-γ was elevated in the females, while IL-10 was elevated in males. Phenotypic changes in B-lineage cells were present in bone marrow and spleen, and circulating autoantibodies were increased after prenatal TCDD. Kidneys of males showed significant anti-IgG and anti-C3 deposition, suggesting early-stage autoimmune disease. The SNF(1) offspring similarly showed increased peripheral Vβ(+) cells in the females, increased autoantibody production in both sexes, and increased IFN-γ production in females. Male SNF(1) mice had increased anti-IgG and anti-C3 deposition in kidneys. Both mouse models therefore showed clear signatures of enhanced autoimmunity after prenatal TCDD.
There is much individual variation in the response of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) to penicillamine, some patients deriving benefit from very small doses. A dose of 750 mg daily is widely regarded as standard, and, while their RA commonly responds, many patients discontinue treatment because of adverse reactions to penicillamine. A more flexible prescribing policy might be more successful in the long term and was tested in 1 group of 20 patients, another receiving a 'standard' regimen, each beginning treatment at a low dose level. Of those who were given increases of dose only if response was poor 17 completed 1 year of treatment on an average maintenance dose of 308 mg daily, but only 11 of the other group on an average dose 613 mg daily. Proteinuria, which was found only in the latter group accounted for 6 withdrawals, all at doses of 625 mg daily or above. The reduction in rheumatoid activity appeared to be of about the same degree among the members of both groups who completed 12 months of treatment. Penicillamine should be given initially in a low dose and this should be raised only if there is lack of response after at least 4 weeks.
After more than a year had elapsed since a single oral exposure to 2 and 4 microgram 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD)/kg, there was an apparent dose-related increased incidence of significant endocervical squamous metaplasia in a group of cynomolgus macaques (Scott et al., 1998). In the present experiments we investigated the mechanisms by which chemicals like TCDD could induce epithelial cell transdifferentiation in the primate endocervix. One focus of investigation was epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and the key cytosolic signaling kinases, c-Src and protein tyrosine kinase (PTK), whose responses to TCDD are well characterized. A second focus was the distal kinase Erk2 that transduces the cytosolic signal into a nuclear signal, and which in combination with nuclear casein kinase II (CKII), can lead to activation of p53. Finally, we studied three key target proteins of activated p53 (wafl/p21, Cdc2 p34, and Cdk4), whose modulation could produce cell cycle effects. The studies were carried out using primary cell cultures prepared from endocervical epithelium recovered at necropsy from TCDD-treated (2 and 4 microgram TCDD/kg) and untreated macaques. There was a significant decrease in EGFR binding activity in cells from TCDD-treated animals as compared to controls. A marked increase in the protein amount of H-Ras and a significant increase in the activity of c-Src kinase, PTK, and Erk2 were found in cells from TCDD-treated animals. A significant decrease in the activity of CKII and in the protein amount of p53, wafl/p21, and Cdc2 p34 was found. On the other hand, a substantial increase in the protein amount of Cdk4 and DNA binding activity of AP-1 was found in cells from TCDD-treated animals. In vitro experiments using primary cultures of endocervical cells from untreated macaques revealed that these cells have AhR, and that c-Src protein is functionally attached to the AhR and is specifically activated upon ligand binding as judged by the following criteria. (1) A structure-activity relationship study with TCDD and three dioxin congeners revealed a rank order for their potency in activation of AhR-associated c-Src kinase from cervical cells which was identical to that of previously determined toxicity indices. (2) TCDD-induced, AhR-associated c-Src kinase activity was abolished when an AhR immunoprecipitate from cervical cells was preincubated with alpha-naphthoflavone (AhR blocker) or geldanamycin (Src kinase inhibitor) prior to the addition of TCDD. (3) The analysis of the AhR complex showed three proteins of molecular weights of 100 (AhR), 90, and 60 kDa. (4) The same protein with molecular weight 60 kDa was found when the immunoprecipitate with anti AhR-antibody was analyzed by SDS-PAGE, then transferred into nitrocellulose membrane followed by immunobloting the membrane with anti c-Src-antibody. Our data suggest that TCDD induced pathology in endocervical cells through changes in growth factor receptor signaling, other cytosolic signaling proteins, tumor suppressor proteins, and cell cycle proteins.
The physiological basis of erectile function is described and the possibilities and limits of therapy with intracavernous papaverine are discussed. It is of extreme importance that, whenever possible, patients should perform self-injections at home. Thus, 20% of our patients regained potency after a few self-injections. Another 40% practiced self-injections as long-term treatment.
Drug resistance has emerged as a major obstacle to chemotherapy for many infectious diseases. Trifluralin, an antimicrotubule herbicide, is a new experimental drug for treatment of leishmaniasis. Here, we found that it was effective against two strains of Leishmania that express the multidrug-resistant genes ldmdr1 and lmpgpA and two strains that express proteins that are immunologically cross-reactive with mammalian P glycoproteins. These results suggest that trifluralin is not subject to counteractions of these multidrug resistance mechanisms of Leishmania species.
Osteopontin (OPN), an extracellular matrix glycoprotein, has been reported to inhibit inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS). We examined if recombinant OPN (r-OPN) inhibits iNOS and prevents brain injury in a mouse collagenase-induced intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) model.
One hundred one mice were randomly assigned to five groups: sham, ICH + vehicle, ICH + r-OPN (10, 50, or 100 ng per mouse) groups. Vehicle or r-OPN was administered via an intracerebroventricular infusion 20 min pre-ICH. Neurological scores and brain water content were evaluated at 24 and 72 h, and hemoglobin assay, Nissl staining and Western blot for iNOS, Stat1, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9 and zonula occludens (ZO)-1 were performed at 24 h post-ICH.
r-OPN did not affect hematoma formation. Middle (50 ng)- and high (100 ng)-dose, but not low (10 ng)-dose of r-OPN treatment significantly improved neurological scores and brain water content compared with the vehicle group. The protective effect of r-OPN was associated with significantly rescued neuronal cells in the peri-hematoma region as well as a decrease in the Stat1 phosphorylation, iNOS induction, MMP-9 activation, and ZO-1 degradation.
This study suggests that r-OPN may down-regulate iNOS expression by the inhibition of Stat1 phosphorylation, and therefore suppressing the MMP-9 activation, preventing ICH-induced brain injury in mice.
Protein tyrosine kinases (PTKs) play an integral role in T cell activation and differentiation. Defects in the Src-family PTKs in mice and in T cell lines have resulted in variable defects in thymic development and in T cell antigen receptor (TCR) signal transduction. Here, three siblings are described with an autosomal recessive form of severe combined immunodeficiency disease (SCID) in which ZAP-70, a non-Src PTK, is absent as a result of mutations in the ZAP-70 gene. This absence is associated with defects in TCR signal transduction, suggesting an important functional role for ZAP-70.
Fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-9 belongs to the FGF family which modulate cell proliferation, differentiation, and motility. Benzo(a)pyrene is a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) and ubiquitous environmental carcinogen present in automobile exhaust, cigarette smoke, and foods. The major purposes of this study were to explore the roles of FGF-9 in the benzo(a)pyrene-induced lung cancer invasion in vitro and the metastatic development of lung adenocarcinoma in human. The data of RT-PCR analysis indicated that treatments of human lung adenocarcinoma CL5 cells with benzo(a)pyrene and a PAH mixture motorcycle exhaust particulate (MEP) extracts increased FGF-9 mRNA expression. The increased expression was blocked by cotreatments with a p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitor SB202190 and an extracellular signal-regulated kinase inhibitor PD98059. The results of immunoblot analysis and Matrigel assay showed that benzo(a)pyrene and MEP extracts produced a concomitant induction of FGF-9 protein and invasive ability of CL5 cells. The benzo(a)pyrene- and MEP-induced invasion was suppressed by FGF-9 neutralizing antibodies. The results of immunohistochemistry analysis of human lung adenocarcinoma specimens showed that FGF-9 protein was detected in the adenocarcinoma cells but not in normal epithelium. FGF-9 staining intensity was positively correlated with status of disease and degree of lymph node metastasis in these lung adenocarcinomas. These present findings suggest that FGF-9 has potential roles in benzo(a)pyrene-induced CL5 cell invasion and human lung adenocarcinoma metastasis.
Post-opioid toxic encephalopathy is described associated with the synthetic opioid, methadone, and after heroin intoxication, (inhaled, injected or ingested).
We describe the clinical and radiologic findings of a 46-year-old man with oxycodone and oxycontin overdose who developed multifocal encephalopathy and severe cerebellitis causing acute obstructive hydrocephalus, and discuss the possible mechanisms involved.
Brain MRI showed a non-vascular distribution of diffusion positive lesions in both cerebellar hemispheres and globi pallidi with preserved cerebral perfusion, suggesting an inflammatory process. Management required ventilatory support and intraventricular catheter placement.
To our knowledge, this is the first report of this condition associated with oxycodone and oxycontin ingestion. The occurrence of this rare toxic encephalopathy may be related to distribution patterns of opioid receptor subtypes, genetic susceptibility, sensitization, and other specific comorbidities.
This study reports 2 cases of severe coronary artery spasm with anaphylactoid shock caused by contrast medium. The first patient had anaphylactoid shock in response to contrast medium and severe coronary spasms of both the left anterior descending coronary artery and the left circumflex coronary artery. The patient developed ventricular arrhythmia and complete atrioventricular block following the severe coronary spasm. The second patient had a totally occluded right coronary artery, owing to a spasm after anaphylactoid shock. Anaphylactoid shock should always be considered when persistent shock is noted after the coronary artery spasm has been relieved.
Increasing pulmonary blood flow aggravated ventilation-associated lung injury in ex vivo animal experiments, but data were less consistent in an in vivo animal model and do not reflect redistributed lung perfusion seen in clinical acute lung injury. We sought to determine the effects of increased cardiac output on markers of lung injury in an in vivo model of inhomogeneous lung perfusion and injury.
Prospective, controlled animal study.
Experimental research laboratory of a university hospital.
A total of 50 anesthetized, mechanically ventilated, male Wistar rats.
Unilateral lung injury was induced in rats by left lung acid instillation. After 24 hrs, animals were anesthetized and subjected to mechanical ventilation (tidal volume, 8 mL/kg; positive end-expiratory pressure, 7 cm H2O; FIO2, 0.4) and continuous infusion of either 10 microg x kg x min dobutamine or isotonic saline (control) for 4 hrs.
Cardiac output and differential lung perfusion were recorded throughout the ventilation period. Right and left lung wet-to-dry weight ratio, cytokines and inflammatory cells in lung lavage, and histologic lung injury were measured postmortem. After acid injury, lung perfusion was preferentially distributed to the noninjured lung. Dobutamine increased baseline cardiac output (>70%) and perfusion of both lungs (left, acid-instilled lung: from 16 +/- 2 to 29 +/- 6 mL/min; right, non-acid-instilled lung: from 54 +/- 3 to 98 +/- 7 mL/min). There was no difference in left lung injury between dobutamine- and saline-infused animals, but right lung injury was aggravated in dobutamine-infused animals, as indicated by increased lung edema, histologic lung injury, and cell counts in lavage.
In the setting of unilateral lung injury and uneven lung perfusion, a dobutamine-induced increase in cardiac output has potentially detrimental effects on the opposite lung.
