Hypospadias is a developmental anomaly of the penis and urethra that can be steroid mediated. It is characterized by a urethral opening occurring below the normal location at the tip of the penis. The link between loratadine, the active ingredient in a common over-the-counter antihistamine, and hypospadias, the most common congenital abnormality, has been the subject of controversy. We examined the effect of in utero exposure to an over-the-counter loratadine syrup on urethral development, and expression of androgen and estrogen receptors.
We orally gavaged pregnant dams with the equivalent of a daily dose of loratadine syrup, with 3 times that dose or with a corn oil gavage control from GD 12 through GD 17. Using gross and histological assessment and 3D reconstruction, we looked for urethral abnormalities in fetal GTs at E 19. We also used real-time quantitative PCR to characterize the expression levels of steroid receptor mRNA in the GT at E 19, a critical stage for completion of urethral and penile development in this species.
Loratadine syrup disrupted normal urethral development in the mouse, based on gross morphology and histological assessment, and also disrupted steroid receptor expression, producing an expression profile similar to that resulting from in utero exposure to ethinyl estradiol.
In utero exposure to over-the-counter loratadine syrup can result in hypospadias in this model, and creates changes in the steroid receptor mRNA expression profile similar to those elicited by a synthetic estrogen.
Terminalia chebula is an ayurvedic drug recommended for the treatment of heart diseases. Earlier studies by the authors validated the beneficial cardioprotective effect of T chebula against isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction.
To evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of T chebula in protecting against isoproterenol-induced lysosomal membrane damage.
Lysosomal enzyme activities from the serum, heart and lysosomal fractions were determined. The triphenyltetrazolium chloride assay was used to confirm the protective effect of T chebula on the myocardium.
Isoproterenol administration produced significant cardiac damage (as seen by the triphenyltetrazolium chloride assay) and significantly altered lysosomal enzyme activities. Pretreatment with an ethanol extract of T chebula was found to retain near normal activities of lysosomal enzymes in rats given T chebula or T chebula plus isoproterenol compared with rats given isoproterenol alone.
Pretreatment with T chebula extract stabilizes the lysosomal membrane and, thus, may have prevented myocardial damage.
This study reports a new measure of psychotomimetic states in the context of cannabis and ketamine use. The Psychotomimetic States Inventory (PSI) has sub-scales of Delusory Thinking, Perceptual Distortions, Cognitive Disorganization, Anhedonia, Mania and Paranoia.
The PSI was administered in two independent group, repeated measures designs: an experimental study of ketamine and a naturalistic study of cannabis.
Both cannabis and ketamine produced reliable increases in ratings of psychotomimetic state effects across several sub-scales.
The PSI is a potentially useful measure of the nature and extent of the phenomenological effects of psychotropic drugs in schizophrenia-related research.
Podocyte foot process effacement and disruption of the slit diaphragm are typically associated with glomerular proteinuria and can be induced in rats by the injection of puromycin aminonucleoside. Here, we show that the induction of puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis involves podocyte migration conducted by a coordinated interplay between the cysteine protease cathepsin L and alpha(3) integrin. Puromycin aminonucleoside treatment up-regulates cathepsin L expression in podocytes in vivo as well as expression and enzymatic activity of cathepsin L in podocytes in vitro. Isolated podocytes from mice lacking cathepsin L are protected from cell puromycin aminonucleoside-induced cell detachment. The functional significance of cathepsin L expression was underscored by the observation that puromycin aminonucleoside-induced cell migration was slowed down in cathepsin L-deficient podocytes and by the preservation of cell-cell contacts and expression of vital slit diaphragm protein CD2AP. Cathepsin L expression and activity were induced in podocytes lacking alpha(3) integrin. Similarly, acute functional inhibition of alpha(3) integrin in wild type podocytes with a blocking antibody increased the expression of cathepsin L activity. Down-regulation of alpha(3) integrin protected against puromycin aminonucleoside-induced podocyte detachment. In summary, these data establish that podocyte foot process effacement is a migratory event involving a novel interplay between cathepsin L and alpha(3) integrin.
Hydrochlorothiazide and other thiazide-like diuretics are considered as a first-line drug for initial therapy in uncomplicated arterial hypertension [1]. There are several reports [2-6] of thiazide-induced cholecystitis, but here we report a case of serious hepatotoxicity associated with hydrochlorothiazide treatment.
Cocaine esterase (CocE) is a naturally occurring bacterial enzyme, is a very efficient protein catalyst for the hydrolysis of cocaine, and has previously been shown to protect rodents from the lethal effects of cocaine. The current studies were aimed at evaluating the capacity of a longer acting mutant form (CocE T172R/G173Q; DM CocE) of CocE to protect against the lethal effects of cocaine, and alter ongoing intravenous cocaine self-administration in rats. A dose-response analysis revealed a dose-dependent suppression of cocaine-reinforced responding with 1.0 mg of CocE T172R/G173Q producing saline-like rates of responding. The effects of 1.0 mg of CocE T172R/G173Q on cocaine-reinforced responding were then compared with responding when saline was available for injection, whereas the selectivity of CocE T172R/G173Q's effects was assessed by evaluating the effects of 1.0 mg of CocE T172R/G173Q on (-)-2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-phenyltropane (WIN-35065-2)- and food-reinforced responding. Although 1.0 mg of CocE T172R/G173Q suppressed responding maintained by 0.1 mg/kg/injection cocaine, a significant increase in responding was observed when responding was maintained by 1.0 mg/kg/injection cocaine, resulting in a 10-fold rightward shift in the dose-response curve for cocaine self-administration at a dose that did not significantly alter responding maintained by either WIN-35065-2 or food. These findings demonstrate that a long-acting form of CocE is effective at abruptly reducing the ongoing self-administration of low doses of cocaine, and provides a robust antagonism of cocaine's reinforcing effects. Furthermore, these studies provide strong evidence for the potential usefulness of a suitable, stable, and long-acting form of CocE as a pharmacotherapy for cocaine abuse in humans.
Affective apomorphine-induced aggression was induced in originally nonaggressive rats after withdrawal from prolonged ethanol or haloperidol treatment. If the animals were co-administered Ca(2+)-channel blockers like diltiazem or verapamil the aggressive response to apomorphine was markedly decreased. Nicardipine (2 and 5 mg/kg b.i.d.) significantly attenuated the aggression-enhancing effect of chronic ethanol or haloperidol withdrawal in nonaggressive rats. Chronic nicardipine, alone, did not enhance aggressive behavior in the nonaggressive rats. Acutely, it suppressed apomorphine-induced aggression but did not alter open field activity when injected into aggressive rats. These results demonstrate that a Ca(2+)-channel blocker of the dihydropyridine type can prevent the development of an ethanol or haloperidol-withdrawal supersensitivity to apomorphine-induced aggression. It attenuates the aggression-inducing effect of apomorphine without impairing general activity.
Felbamate is a novel anticonvulsant agent recently approved by the FDA for treatment of epilepsy in the US. While the mechanism of action of felbamate has not been fully eludicated, recent evidence has accumulated to suggest that felbamate may act at the strychnine-insensitive glycine binding site on the NMDA receptor complex. Since this receptor has been strongly implicated in cognitive processes, the current study was designed to investigate the potential effects of felbamate on learning performance. Doses of felbamate up to 1000mg/kg, administered subcutaneously (s.c.), did not produce deleterious effects on performance in either mice or rats, using a passive avoidance task. In contrast, the non-competitive NMDA antagonist dizocilpine produced performance deficits at doses from 0.1 to 1.0mg/kg s.c. in both rats and mice. Felbamate and dizocilpine prevented NMDA-induced convulsions with ED(50)s of 20.3 and 0.82mg/kg s.c., respectively. Calculations for the therapeutic index (ratio of the deficit-producing to anticonvulsant doses) for dizocilpine resulted in less than a 1-fold separation in dose, while the therapeutic index for felbamate was greater than 50. Taken together, these results indicate that felbamate does not produce cognitive deficits at doses more than 50 times the dose needed to block seizure activity in animals.
Resveratrol is a phytoestrogen with various antiproliferative and proapoptotic effects. This in vitro study aimed to analyze the effect of resveratrol on the viability and expression of modulators of apoptosis in GH3 pituitary adenoma cells of the rat.
GH3 cells were incubated with resveratrol concentrations from 20 to 100 μM for 48-72 hours. Cell viability was quantified using a hemocytometer. We assessed the ability of resveratrol to kill GH3 cells by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) of nucleosome liberation and by DNA degradation (unidimensional gel electrophoresis). Relative messenger RNA (mRNA) expression of survivin, B-cell lymphoma-2 protein (BCL-2) and BCL-2-associated X protein (BAX) normalized to β2 microglobulin was measured using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR).
GH3 cell survival significantly decreased with increasing concentrations of resveratrol. In GH3 cells treated with 100 μM resveratrol, ELISA demonstrated a significant rise of nucleosome liberation, which typically occurs during apoptosis. In parallel, gel electrophoresis showed degradation of DNA into random fragments, pointing to a necrotic mode of cell death in most GH3 cells. In GH3 cells treated with 100 μM resveratrol, qRT-PCR detected a significant decrease of BCL-2 mRNA expression and a decrease of survivin mRNA expression, whereas a change of BAX mRNA expression could not be found. The BAX/BCL-2 ratio was significantly increased in GH3 cells after resveratrol treatment.
Resveratrol reduces GH3 cell viability in a dose-dependent manner by inducing nonapoptotic cell death and apoptosis. Apoptosis in GH3 cells is probably mediated by resveratrol-dependent downregulation of apoptosis inhibitors, namely BCL-2 and possibly survivin. Further investigation of the potential effects of resveratrol on pituitary adenoma cells is warranted.
The potential antidepressant properties of tolcapone, a new catechol-O-methyl transferase (COMT) inhibitor, were investigated in a novel animal model of depression. Chronic mild stress (CMS)-induced anhedonia in rats is recognized as a model of depression with predictive and etiological validity. Here, the effects of CMS on the hedonic state of animals were assessed using a self-stimulation paradigm in which rats self-activate the ventral tegmental area. Frequency thresholds for self-stimulation responses were determined prior to, during and after a 19 day period of exposure to a variety of intermittent, unpredictable, mild stressors. In vehicle-treated stressed animals, stimulation threshold was significantly increased after about 12 days, reflecting a gradual development of an "anhedonic" state. This anhedonia persisted throughout the stress period and subsequently disappeared over a 10 day period. This stress-induced anhedonic state was not observed in stressed rats concomitantly treated with tolcapone (10 or 30mg/kg b.i.d.). In non-stressed vehicle- or drug-treated animals, no significant change in self-stimulation threshold was consistently observed. These results suggest that selective, reversible COMT inhibitors such as tolcapone may offer an innovative approach to the treatment of depression, in addition to their potential therapeutic use in Parkinson's disease.
The patient was a 74 years-old male who had suffered arthralgia since April 1986. Gold therapy was performed from June 1986 based on a diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). This treatment was ineffective and administration of D-penicillamine (D-Pc) was started from March 1987, which alleviated the arthralgia. However, proteinuria appeared, and the nephrotic syndrome (NS) and acute renal failure (ARF) gradually developed. Four items, not including the renal symptoms, fulfilled the diagnostic criteria for systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Thereafter, D-Pc was withdrawn, and the symptoms were improved by hemodialysis and steroid therapy. This case was considered to be NS and ARF caused by treatment of RA with rather small doses of D-Pc (18.3 g in total), but the involvement of other factors could not be ruled out. Since the four items conforming to the SLE diagnostic criteria were alleviated by steroid therapy, the case was considered to be drug-related lupus-like syndrome. In recent years, D-Pc has frequently been used in the treatment of RA and its effects have been confirmed. However, side effects often appear, and considerable caution is required in the presence of drug-related SLE as well as proteinuria. When drug-related SLE is suspected, withdrawal of the drug concerned and steroid therapy appear to be useful.
We investigated the cytoprotective effect of melatonin in epirubicin-induced cardiotoxicity using four experimental groups of male Wistar rats: untreated control rats, epirubicin-treated rats, epirubicin+melatonin-treated rats, and melatonin-treated rats. We examined the histopathological and biochemical effects of melatonin on the epirubicin-induced changes and measured the levels of the lipid peroxidation end-product (malondialdehyde, MDA), an indicator of nitric oxide (NO) synthesis (nitrite/nitrate production), and reduced glutathione (GSH) in the heart. We also studied the extracellular matrix components (fibronectin, laminin) in the heart. Vacuole formation, mitochondrial deformation and degeneration, and disordered myofibrillary structures were detected ultrastructurally in the epirubicin-treated group. The degeneration was reduced in the heart tissues of the epirubicin+melatonin group. Epirubicin increased the nitrite/nitrate production, but did not change the MDA and GSH levels significantly. Melatonin treatment lowered the nitrite/nitrate concentrations, while increasing the GSH levels, which exceeded the levels in epirubicin+melatonin-treated rats. We conclude that the epirubicin increased the nitrozative stress, not the oxidative stress, in heart tissue, and the cardioprotective effect of melatonin was partially attributed to the suppression of epirubicin-induced nitrozative stress. These results suggest that melatonin partially protects against epirubicin-induced cardiotoxicity.
The authors describe a hypomanic-like reaction in a patient taking disulfiram and marijuana simultaneously and suggest there was an adverse interaction between the two drugs.
Nickel is a potent hapten that induces contact hypersensitivity in human skin. While nickel induces the maturation of dendritic cells via NF-κB and p38 MAPK activation, it also exerts immunosuppressive effects on T cells through an unknown mechanism. To elucidate the molecular mechanisms of its effects on T cells, we examined the effects of NiCl(2) on mRNA expression in human CD3+ T cells stimulated with CD3 and CD28 antibodies. Using a DNA microarray and Gene Ontology, we identified 70 up-regulated (including IL-1β, IL-6 and IL-8) and 61 down-regulated (including IL-2, IL-4, IL-10 and IFN-γ) immune responsive genes in NiCl(2)-treated T cells. The DNA microarray results were verified using real-time PCR and a Bio-Plex(TM) suspension protein array. Suppression of IL-2 and IFN-γ gene transcription by NiCl(2) was also confirmed using Jurkat T cells transfected with IL-2 or IFN-γ luciferase reporter genes. To explore the NiCl(2)-regulated signaling pathway, we examined the binding activity of nuclear proteins to NFAT, AP-1, and NF-κB consensus sequences. NiCl(2) significantly and dose-dependently suppressed NFAT- and AP-1-binding activity, but augmented NF-κB-binding activity. Moreover, NiCl(2) decreased nuclear NFAT expression in stimulated T cells. Using Jurkat T cells stimulated with PMA/ionomycin, we demonstrated that NiCl(2) significantly suppressed stimulation-evoked cytosolic Ca(2+) increases, suggesting that NiCl(2) regulates NFAT signals by acting as a blocker of Ca(2+) release-activated Ca(2+) (CRAC) channels. These data showed that NiCl(2) decreases NFAT and increases NF-κB signaling in T cells. These results shed light on the effects of nickel on the molecular regulation of T cell signaling.
1. Physical dependence was induced in mice by repeated injections of increasing doses of morphine for either 4 or 7 days. 2. Withdrawal symptoms induced by naloxone (1 mg/kg, i.p.) given 3 hr postmorphine were more severe in mice treated for 7 than for 4 days. 3. In mice that developed a similar degree of dependence, various doses of naloxone (0.1-10 mg/kg) given 3 hr postmorphine produced withdrawal symptoms of different intensities. 4. Withdrawal jumping was maximal at naloxone (1 mg/kg) but declined with further increases in the dose of the antagonist. 5. "Wet dog" shakes progressively increased with increasing doses of naloxone (0.1-10 mg/kg). 6. Variation in the temporal time interval between the last dose of morphine and that of naloxone (1 mg/kg) influenced the intensity of withdrawal symptoms. 7. In male and female mice that developed a similar degree of dependence, no major differences were observed in the severity of withdrawal symptoms-induced by naloxone (1 mg/kg) given 3 hr postmorphine.
To increase the efficacy of currently used anti-cancer genotoxins, a combination use of different drugs is a potential new therapeutical tool. Here, we reported that a synthetic RasGAP-derived peptide 38GAP with RasGAP(301-326) and TAT penetration sequences could enhance the effect of chemotherapeutic agent CDDP in human colon carcinoma HCT116 cells. Our results showed that 38GAP significantly increased the CDDP-induced apoptosis in HCT116 cells. This synergistic effect was associated with abrogation of CDDP-induced G2/M arrest by down-regulations of phospho-Cdc2 and p21, and inhibitions of phospho-AKT, phospho-ERK and NF-κB. In animal models, 38GAP combined with CDDP significantly suppressed CT26 tumor growth, while 38GAP alone showed slight inhibitory effect. Our data suggest that 38GAP in combination with chemotherapeutics will become a potential therapeutic strategy for colon cancers.
Altered copper homeostasis and oxidative stress have been observed in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. Non-ceruloplasmin copper, the free form, is a potent pro-oxidant than the protein bound copper. The aim of the present study was to evaluate which form of copper can be correlated with the oxidative stress in the circulation and in the malignant liver tissues of hepatocellular carcinoma patients. Hepatocellular carcinoma patients (grades II and III, n = 18) were enrolled in this study. Serum levels of total, free and bound copper, ceruloplasmin, iron, iron-binding capacity, lipid peroxidation products, and enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidants were quantified in serum and in malignant liver tissues and compared with those of normal samples (n = 20). A significant positive correlation between the serum non-ceruloplasmin copper and lipid peroxidation products and negative correlation with antioxidants were observed in hepatocellular carcinoma patients. In liver tissue, glutathione peroxidase, superoxide dismutase, and catalase activity were significantly decreased with concomitant elevation in oxidative stress markers. Our experiment revealed that the elevation in non-ceruloplasmin copper has high relevance with the oxidative stress than the bound copper.
The authors report a case of a 55-year-old man undergoing a triazolam withdrawal syndrome that was recognized and treated with high doses of benzodiazepines, but the patient nevertheless developed seizures. Reasons for the occurrence of these seizures despite treatment are discussed within the context of the differential potency that exists among benzodiazepines in binding to central and peripheral benzodiazepine receptors.
A unilateral model of puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced albuminuria was produced in Munich-Wistar rats to examine the mechanisms responsible for renal salt retention. 2 wk after selective perfusion of left kidneys with PAN (n = 8 rats) or isotonic saline (control, n = 7 rats), increases in albumin excretion and decreases in sodium excretion were demonstrated in PAN-perfused but not in nonperfused kidneys of PAN-treated rats although systemic plasma protein concentration remained at control level. Total kidney glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and superficial single nephron (SN) GFR were also reduced selectively in PAN-perfused kidneys, on average by approximately 30%, due primarily to a marked decline in the glomerular capillary ultrafiltration coefficient (Kf), which was also confined to PAN-perfused kidneys. Values for absolute proximal reabsorption (APR) were also selectively depressed in PAN-perfused kidneys, in keeping with a similarly selective decline in peritubular capillary oncotic pressure measured in these kidneys, the latter also a consequence of the fall in Kf. In a separate group of seven PAN-treated rats, however, no differences were detected between PAN-perfused and nonperfused kidneys in the absolute amount of sodium reaching the early (0.77 +/- 0.09 neq/min vs. 0.74 +/- 0.08, P greater than 0.40) and late portions of superficial distal tubules (0.31 +/- 0.02) neq/min vs. 0.32 +/- 0.05, P greater than 0.50), despite the lesser filtered load of sodium in PAN-perfused kidneys. Suppressed sodium reabsorption in both proximal convoluted tubules and short loops of Henle of PAN-perfused kidneys contributed to this equalization of sodium delivery rates to the late distal tubule, as did comparable reabsorption along distal convolutions. In two additional groups of PAN-treated rats, infusion of saralasin (0.3 mg/kg per h, i.v.) led to substantial increases in total kidney GFR and SNGFR in PAN-perfused but not in nonperfused kidneys. Despite these increases in total and SNGFR, urinary sodium excretion by PAN-perfused kidneys remained at a level far below that for nonperfused kidneys, again indicating that the antinatriuresis characterizing the PAN-perfused kidney is due to alterations in sodium handling by the tubules rather than changes in GFR. These results therefore indicate (a) that reductions in Kf and depressed sodium reabsorption by proximal tubules and Henle's loop segments in this model are brought about by intrarenal rather than circulating or systemic factors, and (b) assuming that superficial nephrons are representative of the entire nephron population, renal salt retention in this model is due primarily to intrarenal factor(s) acting beyond the distal convolution.
The environmental contaminant 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) has previously been shown to directly suppress humoral immunity in mice when administered either in vivo or to isolated low-density B lymphocytes in culture. Because TCDD-mediated suppression of the antibody forming cell response to both LPS and SRBC was found to require early xenobiotic exposure (i.e., within 3 and 24 hr of antigen addition, respectively), an early B cell activation event is most likely to be affected by TCDD. Antigen recognition via the surface immunoglobulin (sIg) receptor leads to B cell activation and clonal expansion, priming the cell to secrete specific antibody. The signal transduction events triggered by either antigen or anti-Ig antibodies are similar and relatively well characterized in comparison to other models of B cell activation, such as stimulation by LPS or activated T-helper cell membranes. In order to study the potential effects of TCDD on early B cell activation events, we examined murine low-density B cell responses to activation by anti-IgM in the presence of immunosuppressive concentrations of TCDD. Compared to vehicle controls, TCDD inhibited anti-IgM-stimulated proliferative responses but not Ia expression induced by sIgM ligation. In addition, B cell proliferative responses to the combination of PMA and ionomycin were suppressed by up to 50% of control levels at 30 nM TCDD, indicating that TCDD may disrupt signaling pathways distal to phospholipase C. The magnitude of TCDD-induced suppression of the PMA plus ionomycin induced proliferative response was dependent upon the ionomycin concentration but not the PMA concentration, suggesting that TCDD manifests its anti-proliferative effects on B cells by inhibiting calcium-dependent activation.
In animal models of drug self-administration, response rates often decrease with dose suggesting that a regulative process may mask the reinforcing effects of the drug.
The purpose of the present experiments was to dissociate the role of regulative and reinforcement processes in intravenous cocaine self-administration by rats using a paradigm that explicitly distinguishes between drug-seeking and drug-taking.
Rats were trained to respond for intravenous cocaine (0.25 mg/infusion) under a heterogeneous chain (tandem FR1 RI 30 s) FR1 schedule of reinforcement using different levers in the first (seeking) and second (taking) links of the chain. After 10 days of training, rats were switched to one of three doses of cocaine (0.08, 0.25, or 0.5 mg/infusion) and self-administration patterns were recorded for a further ten sessions in experiment 1. In experiment 2, a time-out (TO) period (0, 4, or 12 min) was imposed between successive cycles of the chain schedule. Finally, the effect of allowing animals to perform a drug-taking response on subsequent drug-seeking was assessed in experiment 3.
Having verified that seeking responses for a conventional reinforcer (sucrose) were sensitive to changes in reward magnitude, experiment 1 demonstrated that the number of self-administered infusions was inversely related to dose whereas the latency to initiate drug-seeking increased with dose. Variations in the cocaine dose had no reliable effect on the number of drug seeking response per cycle of the chain schedule. The effect of dose on the latency to initiate drug-seeking was reversed in experiment 2 with increasing TO periods. Moreover, at the longest TO period, drug-seeking responses per cycle increased and the latency to initiate drug seeking decreased with dose. Experiment 3 showed that the latency to drug-seek for the low dose was reduced dramatically when the first drug-seeking response was preceded by a drug-taking response, even when this response did not produce a drug infusion.
The overall pattern of results suggests that drug-seeking and drug-taking are controlled by three interacting processes: a regulative process depresses drug-seeking in the short-term; behavioral activation enhances drug-seeking and is sustained over longer intervals by higher drug doses; the reinforcing effect of cocaine increases with dose once the satiety producing effects of the drug dissipate.
Benzodiazepine- and alcohol-induced ataxias in rodents have been proposed to be affected by the gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABAA) receptor alpha 6 subunit, which contributes to receptors specifically expressed in cerebellar granule cells. We have studied an alpha 6 -/- mouse line for motor performance and drug sensitivity. These mice, as a result of a specific genetic lesion, carry a precise impairment at their Golgi-granule cell synapses. On motor performance tests (rotarod, horizontal wire, pole descending, staircase and swimming tests) there were no robust baseline differences in motor function or motor learning between alpha 6 -/- and alpha 6 +/+ mice. On the rotarod test, however, the mutant mice were significantly more impaired by diazepam (5-20 mg/kg, i.p.), when compared with alpha 6 +/+ control and background C57BL/6J and 129/SvJ mouse lines. Ethanol (2.0-2.5 g/kg, i.p.) produced similar impairment in the alpha 6 -/- and alpha +/+ mice. Diazepam-induced ataxia in alpha 6 -/- mice could be reversed by the benzodiazepine site antagonist flumazenil, indicating the involvement of the remaining alpha 1 beta 2/3 gamma 2 GABAA receptors of the granule cells. The level of activity in this synapse is crucial in regulating the execution of motor tasks. We conclude that GABAA receptor alpha 6 subunit-dependent actions in the cerebellar cortex can be compensated by other receptor subtypes; but if not for the alpha 6 subunit, patients on benzodiazepine medication would suffer considerably from ataxic side-effects.
Blockade of the renin-angiotensin system is an important approach in managing high blood pressure, and has increasingly been shown to affect cardiovascular disease processes mediated by angiotensin II throughout the cardiovascular and renal continua. Telmisartan is an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) displaying unique pharmacologic properties, including a longer half life than any other ARB, that result in large and sustained reductions of blood pressure. In patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension, telmisartan has proved superior to other antihypertensive agents (valsartan, losartan, ramipril, perindopril, and atenolol) in controlling blood pressure particularly towards the end of the dosing interval. There is also clinical evidence that telmisartan reduces left ventricular hypertrophy, reduces arterial stiffness and the recurrence of atrial fibrillation, and confers renoprotection. The ONgoing Telmisartan Alone and in combination with Ramipril Global Endpoint Trial (ONTARGET) study has demonstrated that telmisartan has similar cardiovascular protective effects to ramipril in a large, high-risk patient population but was better tolerated. The powerful and sustained blood pressure control apparent in clinical trials, together with cardiovascular protection and tolerability demonstrated in ONTARGET means that telmisartan may be a preferred option for patients with hypertension.
The treatment of 62 dogs with blastomycosis was reviewed to identify prognostic factors and response to various treatment regimens. Severity of lung involvement, as determined by radiography, and the number of nonsegmented neutrophils were useful prognostic factors. Females survived treatment better than did males, but females were more prone to relapse. Ketoconazole treatment at a dose of 10 mg/kg daily for 60 days was not as effective as amphotericin B. The most notable adverse effect of amphotericin B treatment was nephrotoxicosis . Treatment with amphotericin B followed by ketoconazole was as effective as amphotericin B alone and resulted in less nephrotoxicosis . Most dogs that had relapses were retreated effectively with amphotericin B and/or ketoconazole. Canine blastomycosis was shown to be a treatable disease, with a cure rate of approximately 75%.
Fifteen yearling steers were used to study the preventive effect of vitamin E on the protection against free radicals produced by carbon tetrachloride (CCl4). The animals were randomly divided in three equal groups and treated as follows: group A--previously injected (i.m.) with 15 IU/kg BW on the 15th and second day before the trial and drenched with 0.05 ml/kg BW CCl4; group B--only drenched with the same dose of CCl4; group C--drenched with a placebo. Food intake was recorded and blood samples collected daily for 8 days after the CCl4 drenching to compare the activity of aspartate aminotransferase (AST), gamma-glutamyltransferase (gamma-GT) and the levels of erythrocyte reduced glutathione (GSH) and serum malonyldialdehyde (MDA). Food intake was reduced in group B for the first 3 days (P < 0.05); higher activities of AST and gamma-GT were observed in the poisoned groups, nevertheless the overall values were lower in the group A than B (P < 0.02); only the group A reached the basal values of AST at the seventh day; higher levels of GSH and MDA were recorded in the poisoned cattle indicating the generation of free radicals. It was concluded that the preventive use of Vitamin E lessened the damage in hepatic tissue caused by the free radicals and prevented the anorexia caused by CCl4.
