Ninety-eight outpatients with major depressive disorder were treated with alprazolam, imipramine, or placebo in a 6-week, double-blind study. Average doses were 3.67 mg of alprazolam and 167 mg of imipramine, given at bedtime. Fifty percent of patients taking alprazolam, 38.2% taking imipramine, and 17.7% receiving placebo improved their HAM-D scores by more than 50%. Eight patients on imipramine, 6 on alprazolam, and 1 on placebo dropped out because of side effects. The most common side effects for imipramine were tachycardia, constipation, light-headedness, and sedation; common side effects of alprazolam were light-headedness, sedation, and unsteadiness.
A 5-year-old boy with a history of a bifid uvula and a submucosal cleft palate presented for evaluation of brittle nails. The physical examination demonstrated cup-shaped ears, a broad nasal root, thin upper lip, mid-facial hypoplasia, coarse hair, and twenty-nail dystrophy. The clinical presentation of ectodermal dysplasia with cleft palate was consistent with Rapp-Hodgkin syndrome, which is one of several allelic diseases associated with mutations in the TP63 gene. The clinical manifestations of Rapp-Hodgkin as well as other ectodermal dysplasias with clefting are discussed.
Oxamniquine has now been in general use for 11 years for the treatment of schistosomiasis mansoni. Dosage varies with the geographical origin of the parasites due to different susceptibilities of local strains, and the appropriate regimen can be expected to cure over 80% of patients and reduce egg excretion in others by over 90%. The drug has been used safely in all stages of the disease. Some late-stage and complicated forms have shown clinical improvement, and prognosis has been improved in all by the removal of the causative organisms. Toleration is usually good with side effects limited to a mild, transient dizziness. Neuropsychiatric disturbances have been recorded in a small number of patients, and care should be taken in treating subjects with a history of such disorders. Nevertheless, these effects have not limited use of the drug which has been used widely for the field treatment of several million people in rural communities. These schemes have led to reductions in incidence, prevalence and the occurrence of hepatosplenic involvement.
The goal of this study was to assess the hypothesis that transdermal scopolamine would increase vagal activity in patients after myocardial infarction.
In postmyocardial infarction patients, low heart rate variability and reduced baroreceptor reflex sensitivity are associated with increased mortality. Accordingly, there is an increasing interest in a mechanism for shifting the sympathovagal balance toward vagal dominance.
The effects of transdermal administration of scopolamine on heart rate variability and baroreceptor reflex sensitivity were assessed in 20 patients (mean age 59 +/- 11 years) by pharmacologic washout 14 +/- 3 days after myocardial infarction. Heart rate variability and baroreceptor reflex sensitivity were measured 24 h after application of the scopolamine patch and compared with the values measured before scopolamine and after application of a placebo patch. The following variables were derived from a 15-min electrocardiographic recording: the mean RR interval and its standard deviation, the mean square successive difference, the percent of intervals differing > 50 ms from the preceding RR interval and the low and high frequency areas resulting from power spectral analysis.
The placebo patch had no effect on the variables measured. Scopolamine increased both heart rate variability and baroreceptor reflex sensitivity significantly. Specifically, the mean RR interval and its standard deviation increased by 7.1% (p = 0.01) and 25% (p = 0.004), respectively. The mean square successive difference increased by 38% (p = 0.0003) and the percent of intervals differing > 50 ms from the preceding interval by 100% (p = 0.001). The ratio of low to high frequency areas of the power spectrum decreased by 24% (p = 0.02), and baroreceptor reflex sensitivity increased by 42% (p = 0.0006). These effects were also evident in patients with very low initial values. Side effects were minimal.
Transdermal scopolamine increased measures of heart rate variability and baroreceptor reflex sensitivity in patients with a recent myocardial infarction toward values associated with a better prognosis. Pharmacologic modulation of the autonomic balance by scopolamine or related drugs deserves evaluation as a new and promising approach to reduce risk after myocardial infarction.
To determine the effect of the 5-HT2A receptor in control of spinal nociception, cerebral circulation, and nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) expression in trigeminovascular neurons.
The plasticity of the 5-HT2A receptor is a possible factor determining the course of migraine. Up-regulation of this receptor has been demonstrated to correlate with the increasing frequency of migraine attacks and may underlie the development of chronic daily headache.
Adult male Wistar rats were divided into groups receiving the 5-HT2A agonist, 1,2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl-2-aminopropane (DOI), nitroglycerin, or normal saline. The tail flick test and chemical nociception-evoked Fos-expression in dorsal horn neurons were used as indicators of nociception. Regional cerebral blood flow was monitored using laser Doppler flowmetry. Expression of Fos and nNOS was studied using immunohistochemical method.
Administration of DOI led to the shortening of tail flick latency (1.3 +/- 0.2 and 7.2 +/- 0.6 seconds for DOI-treated and control groups, respectively). The number of Fos-immunoreactive neurons was also greater in the DOI-treated group compared with the control group. DOI also produced long-lasting cerebral hyperemia (123% of baseline value) associated with the enlargement of perivascular nNOS-immunoreactive nerve fibers and increased nNOS-immunoreactive neurons in trigeminal ganglia and trigeminal nucleus caudalis. These findings resembled those observed in the rats exposed to nitroglycerin.
Our results suggest that activation of the 5-HT2A receptor leads to an enhancement of NO production in trigeminovascular pathway. NO may trigger migraine attacks by inducing cerebral vasodilation and sensitizing the perivascular nociceptors and central nociceptive neurons in trigeminovascular system. Up-regulation of this pronociceptive receptor can increase headache attacks and contributes to the development of chronic daily headache.
Epidemiologic data on genetic susceptibility to cardiovascular effects of arsenic exposure from drinking water are limited.
We investigated whether the association between well-water arsenic and cardiovascular disease (CVD) differed by 170 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 17 genes related to arsenic metabolism, oxidative stress, inflammation, and endothelial dysfunction.
We conducted a prospective case-cohort study nested in the Health Effects of Arsenic Longitudinal Study, with a random subcohort of 1,375 subjects and 447 incident fatal and nonfatal cases of CVD. Well-water arsenic was measured in 2000 at baseline. The CVD cases, 56 of which occurred in the subcohort, included 238 coronary heart disease cases, 165 stroke cases, and 44 deaths due to other CVD identified during follow-up from 2000 to 2012.
Of the 170 SNPs tested, multiplicative interactions between well-water arsenic and two SNPs, rs281432 in ICAM1 (padj = 0.0002) and rs3176867 in VCAM1 (padj = 0.035), were significant for CVD after adjustment for multiple testing. Compared with those with GC or CC genotype in rs281432 and lower well-water arsenic, the adjusted hazard ratio (aHR) for CVD was 1.82 (95% CI: 1.31, 2.54) for a 1-SD increase in well-water arsenic combined with the GG genotype, which was greater than expected given aHRs of 1.08 and 0.96 for separate effects of arsenic and the genotype alone, respectively. Similarly, the joint aHR for arsenic and the rs3176867 CC genotype was 1.34 (95% CI: 0.95, 1.87), greater than expected given aHRs for their separate effects of 1.02 and 0.84, respectively.
Associations between CVD and arsenic exposure may be modified by genetic variants related to endothelial dysfunction.
Wu F, Jasmine F, Kibriya MG, Liu M, Cheng X, Parvez F, Islam T, Ahmed A, Rakibuz-Zaman M, Jiang J, Roy S, Paul-Brutus R, Slavkovich V, Islam T, Levy D, VanderWeele TJ, Pierce BL, Graziano JH, Ahsan H, Chen Y. 2015. Interaction between arsenic exposure from drinking water and genetic polymorphisms on cardiovascular disease in Bangladesh: a prospective case-cohort study. Environ Health Perspect 123:451-457; http://dx.doi.org/10.1289/ehp.1307883.
Patients with bundle branch block and syncope, especially those with abnormal electrophysiologic study, are at high risk of progression to second-or third-degree atrioventricular block and therefore they often receive a permanent back-up pacemaker. The aim of this study was to evaluate of the incidence of bundle branch block progression to second or third-degree atrioventricular block during long-term follow-up.
A retrospective study was performed on 60 patients (49 males, age 77 +/- 9 years) with bundle branch block and permanent back-up pacemaker. The patients were subdivided into 3 groups: 13 patients, at pre-implant electrophysiologic study had HV interval > or = 100 msec and/or second- or third-degree atrioventricular block induced by ajmaline i.v. administration (Group 1); 20 patients with HV interval of 70-100 msec and/or HV > or = 120 msec after ajmaline administration (Group 2); 27 patients who had received a permanent pacemaker because of carotid sinus syndrome or sick sinus syndrome (22 patients) or because of recurrent syncopes and negative electrophysiologic study (5 patients) (Group 3).
During a mean follow-up of 62 +/- 41 months, 17/60 patients (28%) had progression to second- (n = 4) or third-degree (n = 13) atrioventricular block: atrioventricular block occurred in 54% of Group 1 patients in 25% of Group 2 patients and in 19% of Group 3 patients. The actuarial rate of progression to atrioventricular block for the overall population was, at 5 and 10 years, 25% and 58% respectively; in Group 1 it was 46% and 62%; in Group 2 it was 22% and 55% and in Group 3 it was 21% and 59% (p = 0.06). The patients with right bundle branch block and left anterior hemiblock were at higher risk of progression to atrioventricular block than those with right bundle branch block or left bundle branch block (risk 42% vs 14%, p = 0.06). The presence of an abnormal electrophysiologic study did not increase the progression rate either in the patients with right bundle branch block and left anterior hemiblock (risk of 43%), nor did it in those patients with other types of bundle branch block (risk of 18%). Moreover, the induction of second- or third-degree atrioventricular block during ajmaline administration was associated with a higher risk of block during the follow-up (60% vs 25%, p = 0.06).
Patients treated with pacemaker because of symptomatic bundle branch block have a high risk of progression to second- or third-degree atrioventricular block in the long-term follow-up. The results argue against the practical usefulness of electrophysiological study since a risk stratification could be obtained by the simpler surface electrocardiogram; moreover, risk of block was also present in the patients affected by carotid sinus syndrome or sick sinus syndrome, and in those affected by unexplained syncope with negative electrophysiologic study.
The case records of 99 consecutive children with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia who received either 6-thioguanine (6-TG) or 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) as maintenance therapy for at least 1 year were reviewed for hepatic veno-occlusive disease (VOD). Overall, 12% of those on 6-TG developed VOD (all boys). Isolated persistent thrombocytopenia appeared to be the earliest indicator of incipient VOD. Multivariate analysis identified male sex and 6-TG as risk factors. In all cases, VOD was mild and reversible on withdrawing 6-TG or replacing it with 6-MP. The data implicate a sex-linked polymorphic variation in xenobiotic pathways of thiopurine metabolism in the pathogenesis of VOD.
Here we investigated the mechanisms by which cardiovascular CB1 cannabinoid receptors may modulate the cardiac dysfunction, oxidative stress, and interrelated cell death pathways associated with acute/chronic cardiomyopathy induced by the widely used anti-tumour compound doxorubicin (DOX).
Both load-dependent and -independent indices of left-ventricular function were measured by the Millar pressure-volume conductance system. Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation, cell-death markers, and oxidative/nitrosative stress were measured by molecular biology/biochemical methods and flow cytometry. DOX induced left-ventricular dysfunction, oxidative/nitrosative stress coupled with impaired antioxidant defense, activation of MAPK (p38 and JNK), and cell death and/or fibrosis in hearts of wide-type mice (CB1(+/+)), and these effects were markedly attenuated in CB1 knockouts (CB1(-/-)). In human primary cardiomyocytes expressing CB1 receptors (demonstrated by RT-PCR, western immunoblot, and flow cytometry) DOX, likewise the CB1 receptor agonist HU210 and the endocannabinoid anandamide (AEA), induced MAPK activation and cell death. The DOX-induced MAPK activation and cell death were significantly enhanced when DOX was co-administered with CB1 agonists AEA or HU210. Remarkably, cell death and MAPK activation induced by AEA, HU210, and DOX +/- AEA/HU210 were largely attenuated by either CB1 antagonists (rimonabant and AM281) or by inhibitors of p38 and JNK MAPKs. Furthermore, AEA or HU210 in primary human cardiomyocytes triggered increased reactive oxygen species generation.
CB1 activation in cardiomyocytes may amplify the reactive oxygen/nitrogen species-MAPK activation-cell death pathway in pathological conditions when the endocannabinoid synthetic or metabolic pathways are dysregulated by excessive inflammation and/or oxidative/nitrosative stress, which may contribute to the pathophysiology of various cardiovascular diseases.
Furosemide and acetazolamide are often used concurrently to treat posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus in premature infants with intraventricular hemorrhage. Eleven premature infants with posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus were monitored for the development of hypercalciuria during treatment using urine calcium/creatinine (Ca/Cr) ratios (normal: less than or equal to 0.21). Seven of 11 infants (64%) developed hypercalciuria; 5 of those 7 infants had nephrocalcinosis on renal ultrasonography. Infants who developed nephrocalcinosis had urine Ca/Cr ratios of 0.5-4.0. In all 5 infants with nephrocalcinosis, renal calculi decreased and urine Ca/Cr improved after drug therapy was discontinued. The combined use of acetazolamide and furosemide as therapy for posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus places premature infants at high risk for nephrocalcinosis. It is suggested that urine Ca/Cr be monitored closely in infants receiving these drugs and that other treatment modalities be considered when the urine Ca/Cr ratio exceeds 0.21.
Azathioprine is a useful agent in the management of inflammatory bowel disease. Its use is limited by its side-effect profile. Marrow toxicity occurs in approximately 3.2% of patients and is known to be associated with diminished thiopurine methyltransferase enzyme activity resulting from genetic polymorphisms.
To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of screening for thiopurine methyltransferase gene polymorphisms prior to initiation of azathioprine therapy.
Analysis of the literature was undertaken to calculate the expected frequency of leucopenia and its relationship with thiopurine methyltransferase polymorphisms in a model of theoretical inflammatory bowel disease patients. Decision analysis was then applied to assess the cost of a pre-treatment genotyping strategy, taking account of direct costs and cost per life-year saved.
In 1000 inflammatory bowel disease patients treated with azathioprine, 32 will develop myelosuppression and one will die because of this. Of those who develop myelosuppression during azathioprine therapy, 32% are attributable to lower thiopurine methyltransferase activity. Pre-treatment genotyping costs pound 347 per life-year saved for a 30 year old and pound 817 per life-year saved for a 60 year old. This compares favourably with other health care technologies.
The use of pre-treatment screening for thiopurine methyltransferase polymorphisms in inflammatory bowel disease patients commencing azathioprine therapy represents good value for money.
Exposure of pregnant mothers to elevated concentrations of circulating testosterone levels is associated with fetal growth restriction and delivery of small-for-gestational-age babies. We examined whether maternal testosterone crosses the placenta to directly suppress fetal growth or if it modifies placental function to reduce the capacity for transport of nutrients to the fetus.
Pregnant rats were exposed to testosterone propionate (TP; 0.5 mg/kg) by daily subcutaneous injection from gestational days (GD) 15-19. Maternal and fetal testosterone levels, placental nutrient transport activity and expression of transporters and birth weight of pups and their anogenital distances were determined.
This dose of TP doubled maternal testosterone levels but had no effect on fetal testosterone levels. Maternal daily weight gain was significantly lower only on GD 19 in TP treated dams compared to controls. Placental weight and birth weight of pups were significantly reduced, but the anogenital distance of pups were unaffected by TP treatment. Maternal plasma amino acids concentrations were altered following testosterone exposure, with decreases in glutamine, glycine, tyrosine, serine, proline, and hydroxyproline and increases in asparagine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, histidine and arginine. In the TP dams, placental system A amino acid transport activity was significantly reduced while placental glucose transport capacity was unaffected. Decreased expression of mRNA and protein levels of slc38a2/Snat2, an amino acid transporter, suggests that reduced transporter proteins may be responsible for the decrease in amino acid transport activity.
Taken together, these data suggest that increased maternal testosterone concentrations do not cross the placenta to directly suppress fetal growth but affects amino acid nutrient delivery to the fetus by downregulating specific amino acid transporter activity.
Treatment options for non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) are limited. Weight loss remains the most recommended therapy. Orlistat is an effective adjunct to dietary weight loss therapy.
To evaluate the efficacy of orlistat, given for 6 months to patients with obesity and biopsy confirmed NASH.
Ten obese patients with biopsy proven NASH were enrolled. Orlistat was given with meals for 6 months. Body Mass Index (BMI), liver enzymes, haemoglobin A1c, fasting lipids and glucose were assessed at baseline and at completion of the study. Paired liver histology was obtained.
Six women and four men were enrolled. The mean weight loss was 22.7 lb and ranged from 0 to 24.3%. The following clinical values significantly improved: mean BMI: 43.4-39.8 (P = 0.007); mean haemoglobin A1c (%): 7.14-5.95 (P = 0.021); mean alanine aminotransferase (ALT) (U/L): 93 -54 (P = 0.009); and mean aspartate aminotransferase (AST) (U/L): 79-48 (P = 0.008). Steatosis improved in six patients, and fibrosis improved in three patients.
Orlistat therapy and dietary counselling were associated with significant decreases in body weight, haemoglobin A1c, ALT and AST. A 10% or greater reduction in weight improved steatosis and fibrosis as well as haemoglobin A1c levels in the majority of patients treated for 6 months. Controlled trials of longer duration are warranted to assess for histopathologic improvement as well as cost-efficacy in comparison to diet and exercise alone.
The potassium-sparing agent triamterene and its metabolites have been identified as components of kidney stones passed by patients receiving that drug. We have analyzed 66 such kidney stones by use of quantitative thin-layer chromatography. The stones contained not only the unchanged triamterene but also significant amounts of an intermediate metabolite, hydroxytriamterene, and large amounts of the sulfate ester of hydroxytriamterene. Of the stones 49 per cent contained less than 5 per cent triamterene and its metabolites, and no stone comprised 100 per cent triamterene-derived material. Of all the triamterene-related material unchanged triamterene dominated. However, the relative fractions of triamterene and hydroxytriamterene in the kidney stones exceeded the relative fractions of these 2 components in the urine.
The Rel/NF-kappaB transcription factors regulate the expression of many genes. The activity of RelA, a member of the Rel/NF-kappaB transcription factor family, is constitutively activated in the majority of pancreatic adenocarcinomas and cell lines. We report that the urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA), one of the critical proteases involved in tumor invasion and metastasis, is overexpressed in pancreatic tumor cells and its overexpression is induced by constitutive RelA activity. The uPA promoter contains an NF-kappaB binding site that directly mediates the induction of uPA expression by RelA. Expression of a dominant-negative IkappaBalpha mutant inhibits kappaB site-dependent transcriptional activation of a uPA promoter-CAT reporter gene. Treating the pancreatic tumor cell lines with the known NF-kappaB inhibitors, dexamethasone and n-tosylphenyalanine chloromethyl ketone (TPCK), abolishes constitutive RelA activity and uPA overexpression. These results show that uPA is one of the downstream target genes induced by constitutively activated RelA in human pancreatic tumor cells, and suggests that constitutive RelA activity may play a critical role in tumor invasion and metastasis. Inhibition of constitutive RelA in pancreatic tumor cells may reduce their invasive and metastatic potential.
Acetone potentiation of 1,1,2-trichloroethane (TCEA) hepatotoxicity was found to be strongly dose-dependent for both acetone and TCEA. An oral dose of 0.5 ml of acetone/kg was the most effective potentiating pretreatment when administered 16 h prior to TCEA. Surprisingly, higher doses of acetone did not potentiate the hepatotoxicity of TCEA, but may have decreased the severity of this toxicity. Acetone potentiation of hepatotoxicity was most pronounced at or near the hepatotoxic threshold for TCEA. While acetone treatment alone did not affect hepatic glutathione (GSH) stores the most consistent effect produced by acetone pretreatment was a significant potentiation of TCEA-induced depletion of hepatic GSH. These findings suggest that critical doses of acetone may enhance the subsequent hepatotoxicity of TCEA via mechanisms that affect the interaction of TCEA and hepatic GSH stores.
Despite obvious participation of endothelins in pathogenesis of heart failure therapeutic approaches to the use of endothelin receptor antagonists remain to be elucidated. Experimental heart failure caused by prolonged infusion of norepinephrine is associated with diminished endothelin induced coronary constricting effect of stimulation of ET(A) receptors and inversion of coronary dilating effect of stimulation of these receptors. The latter effect is mediated by smooth muscle ET(B)-receptors and is indicative of functional derangement of vascular control by endothelial cells. The use of selective ET(A)-antagonist is effective on early stages of heart failure while on later stages administration of nonselective ET(AB)-antagonist produces more pronounced effect.
A case of X-linked ichthyosis diagnosed antenatally by molecular analysis of fetal DNA is described. The diagnosis was made at 16 weeks gestation, following the finding of a maternal serum unconjugated estriol level lower than 0.1 MoM when performing a triple test. Fetal DNA was obtained from cultured amniocytes; two specific regions were amplified by polymerase chain reaction at 5' and 3' ends of the steroid sulfatase (STS) gene on Xp22.3 region. Analysis showed complete deletion of the STS gene on the distal tip of the X-chromosome short arm.
Dysregulated cellular proliferation is a characteristic property of cancer. We show that, despite this fact, cancers maintain high amplitude, circadian rhythms in their growth, DNA synthesis, and mitosis. These patterns are accompanied by the daily traverse of BMAL-1 protein between the cytoplasm, where it is produced, and nucleus, where it influences timing of cancer cell proliferation. This core clock gene product gates cancer cell proliferation by coordinating clock-controlled proteins, thymidylate synthase [thymidylate synthase activity (TSA) cell DNA replication], WEE-1 (cell mitosis), and vascular endothelial growth factor (growth). 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU)-induced host bone marrow and gut toxicity and tumor shrinkage following administration at six equispaced times of day allowed determination of circadian relationships among tumor growth, relevant clock, and clock-controlled proteins and dependence of 5-FU target availability (TSA) in normal and cancer tissues and resultant 5-FU toxic-therapeutic index. The time of day (hours after lights on) of low TSA in each tissue and tumor is respectively associated with greatest toxicity to that tissue and greatest tumor shrinkage. 5-FU treatment near daily awakening results in least damage to bone marrow and gut, greatest antitumor effect, and best survival. This time of day is associated with maximum tumor nuclear BMAL-1 and total cell WEE-1 protein. The described chain of events, for the first time, links cancer cell clock proteins, cancer cell DNA synthesis, proliferation, TSA, and 5-FU toxic-therapeutic index, explaining the dependence of cancer outcome on circadian timing of 5-FU.
Mining of an in-house collection of angiotensin II type 1 receptor antagonists to identify compounds with activity at the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ (PPARγ) revealed a new series of imidazo[4,5-b]pyridines 2 possessing activity at these two receptors. Early availability of the crystal structure of the lead compound 2a bound to the ligand binding domain of human PPARγ confirmed the mode of interaction of this scaffold to the nuclear receptor and assisted in the optimization of PPARγ activity. Among the new compounds, (S)-3-(5-(2-(1H-tetrazol-5-yl)phenyl)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-1-yl)-2-ethyl-5-isobutyl-7-methyl-3H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (2l) was identified as a potent angiotensin II type I receptor blocker (IC(50) = 1.6 nM) with partial PPARγ agonism (EC(50) = 212 nM, 31% max) and oral bioavailability in rat. The dual pharmacology of 2l was demonstrated in animal models of hypertension (SHR) and insulin resistance (ZDF rat). In the SHR, 2l was highly efficacious in lowering blood pressure, while robust lowering of glucose and triglycerides was observed in the male ZDF rat.
Diisocyanates are an important cause of chemical-induced occupational asthma. This type of immunologically mediated asthma is often characterized by a predominant granulocytic inflammation in the airways, rather than an infiltration by lymphocytes. We sought to determine the contribution of granulocytes in the outcome of chemical-induced asthma using general and specific leukocyte depletion strategies in an established mouse model of isocyanate asthma. On days 1 and 8, BALB/c mice received dermal applications with toluene-2,4-diisocyanate (TDI) or vehicle (acetone olive oil), followed by two ip injections of cyclophosphamide (CP, days 11 and 13), or one iv injection of antigranulocyte receptor 1 (aGR1, day 13) monoclonal antibody (mAb), or two ip injections of Ly6G-specific mAb (1A8, days 13 and 14). On day 15, the mice were challenged (oropharyngeal administration) with TDI or vehicle. The next day, we assessed methacholine airway hyperreactivity (AHR); bronchoalveolar lavage differential cell count; histopathology and total serum IgE; and auricular lymphocyte subpopulations and release of interleukin (IL)-2, IL-4, IL-10, IL-13, and gamma interferon by these lymphocytes. CP depleted all leukocyte types and completely prevented AHR and airway inflammation. aGR1 depleted granulocytes and CD8(+) lymphocytes, which resulted in a partial prevention in AHR but no decrease in airway inflammation. Depletion of Ly6G-positive granulocytes, i.e., both neutrophils and eosinophils, prevented AHR and lung epithelial damage and significantly reduced airway inflammation. Injection of aGR1 or 1A8 led to significantly changed cytokine release patterns in TDI-treated mice. Granulocytes, both neutrophils and eosinophils, are key cellular players in this model of chemical-induced asthma.
