Clonidine acts within the rostral ventrolateral medulla to lower arterial pressure. The receptor mechanism for this action is unknown. In the rostral ventrolateral medulla clonidine binds not only to the alpha 2-adrenergic receptor but also to a novel class of sites which are specific for imidazolines and imidazoles and are distinct from adrenergic or histaminergic receptors. In order to distinguish whether a putative imidazole receptor or the alpha 2-receptor mediates the clonidine hypotensive response, a series of clonidine analogues were tested (1) in radioligand binding assays of their affinity at imidazole and alpha 2-adrenergic receptors, and (2) by microinjection into the rostral ventrolateral medulla of anaesthetized rats to measure their capacity to lower arterial pressure. The hypotensive response elicited by the test agents was strongly correlated with affinity at imidazole sites (r = 0.92) but not with alpha 2-adrenergic affinity (r = 0.36). An imidazole receptor in the rostral ventrolateral medulla may participate in the hypotensive action of clonidine.
Three cases of digital vasculitis attributable to naproxen ingestion are reported. The vasculitic changes were reversed by withdrawal of the drug. These three cases emphasize the need to consider drug sensitivity as a cause of unexplained digital vascular lesions.
Paraquat (PQ) poisoning has caused a large number of human fatalities due to the progressive and irreversible pulmonary fibrosis. Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) is well-recognized as important modulators of multiple biological pathways that affect health and disease. A line of studies have shown that DHA supplementation is associated with the alleviation of some tissue fibrosis. In the current study, pulmonary fibrosis of rats was produced by a single oral dose of 50 mg/kg bw PQ treatment. Daily 500 mg/kg bw DHA supplementation was provided 7 days before PQ treatment and lasted for consecutive 35 days. DHA was found to ameliorate the pulmonary fibrotic alterations induced by PQ, which was evidenced by significant reduction of histological changes, hydroxyproline content and level of the transforming growth factor-β₁ (TGF-β₁) mRNA. Furthermore, the protein levels of Smad 7 and SnoN in the DHA supplemented rats were significantly increased compared with those in the rats of the PQ group. These results suggested that DHA ameliorated pulmonary fibrosis induced by PQ might be attributed to its enhancement of Smad 7 and SnoN expression.
Therapies to limit the life-threatening vascular leak observed in patients with acute lung injury (ALI) are currently lacking. We explored the effect of simvastatin, a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl (HMG)-CoA reductase inhibitor that mediates endothelial cell barrier protection in vitro, in a murine inflammatory model of ALI. C57BL/6J mice were treated with simvastatin (5 or 20 mg/kg body wt via intraperitoneal injection) 24 h before and again concomitantly with intratracheally administered LPS (2 microg/g body wt). Inflammatory indexes [bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) myeloperoxidase activity and total neutrophil counts assessed at 24 h with histological confirmation] were markedly increased after LPS alone but significantly reduced in mice that also received simvastatin (20 mg/kg; approximately 35-60% reduction). Simvastatin also decreased BAL albumin (approximately 50% reduction) and Evans blue albumin dye extravasation into lung tissue (100%) consistent with barrier protection. Finally, the sustained nature of simvastatin-mediated lung protection was assessed by analysis of simvastatin-induced gene expression (Affymetrix platform). LPS-mediated lung gene expression was significantly modulated by simvastatin within a number of gene ontologies (e.g., inflammation and immune response, NF-kappaB regulation) and with respect to individual genes implicated in the development or severity of ALI (e.g., IL-6, Toll-like receptor 4). Together, these findings confirm significant protection by simvastatin on LPS-induced lung vascular leak and inflammation and implicate a potential role for statins in the management of ALI.
In vitro brainstem-spinal cord preparations isolated from neonatal (0-5 days old) rats were used to investigate the GABAB receptor-mediated modulation of the dorsal root evoked potentials in lumbar motoneurons recorded intracellularly. The GABAB receptor agonist, baclofen, at low concentrations (1-10 microM), caused a reduction of the amplitude of the monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP), in a concentration-dependent manner. The depression of EPSPs was likely exerted at a presynaptic level since it occurred without any significant change of the passive membrane properties of the motoneurons. The two GABAB receptor antagonists, CGP 35348 and CGP 55845A blocked the effects of baclofen. These two compounds may be useful tools to study the evolution of GABAB receptor-mediated presynaptic inhibition during ontogenesis.
Both excitotoxicity and apoptosis contribute to neuronal loss in various neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease as well as stroke, and a drug inhibiting both types of cell death may lead to practical treatment for these diseases. Post-treatment with troglitazone, a potent and specific activator of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-gamma attenuated the cell death of cerebellar granule neurons, triggered by glutamate exposure. The inhibitory effect of troglitazone against glutamate excitotoxicity, in vitro, was observed even when added 2.5 h after the end of glutamate exposure, a time when glutamate antagonists are no longer neuroprotective. However, troglitazone did not block the glutamate-induced elevation of calcium influx, suggesting that troglitazone interfered with downstream consequences of excitotoxic glutamate receptor overactivation. In addition, troglitazone also suppressed low-potassium-induced apoptosis in cerebellar granule neurons in a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase independent manner. In conclusion, although the mechanisms of troglitazone's neuroprotective effects are unknown, the post-treatment-neuroprotective effect and the dual-inhibitory-activity against both excitotoxicity and apoptosis may provide a novel therapy for various neurodegenerative diseases.
Mice with a targeted deletion of the basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor, Nescient Helix-Loop-Helix 2 (Nhlh2), display adult-onset obesity with significant increases in their fat depots, abnormal responses to cold exposure, and reduced spontaneous physical activity levels. These phenotypes, accompanied by the hypothalamic expression of Nhlh2, make the Nhlh2 knockout (N2KO) mouse a useful model to study the role of central nervous system (CNS) control on peripheral tissue such as adipose tissue.
Differences in body temperature and serum analysis of leptin were performed in fasted and ad lib fed wild-type (WT) and N2KO mice. Histological analysis of white (WAT) and brown adipose tissue (BAT) was performed. Gene and protein level expression of inflammatory and metabolic markers were compared between the two genotypes.
We report significant differences in serum leptin levels and body temperature in N2KO mice compared with WT mice exposed to a 24-hour fast, suggestive of a defect in both white (WAT) and brown adipose tissue (BAT) function. As compared to WT mice, N2KO mice showed increased serum IL-6 protein and WAT IL-6 mRNA levels. This was accompanied by slight elevations of mRNA for several macrophage markers, including expression of macrophage specific protein F4/80 in adipose, suggestive of macrophage infiltration of WAT in the mutant animals. The mRNAs for beta3-adrenergic receptors (beta3-AR), beta2-AR and uncoupling proteins were significantly reduced in WAT and BAT from N2KO mice compared with WT mice.
These studies implicate Nhlh2 in the central control of WAT and BAT function, with lack of Nhlh2 leading to adipose inflammation and altered gene expression, impaired leptin response to fasting, all suggestive of a deficient torpor response in mutant animals.
This study characterizes the receptor subtypes and investigates some of the mechanisms by which glutamate, injected intraplantarly (i.pl.) into the mouse paw, produces nociception and paw oedema. I.pl. injection of glutamate induced a rapid-onset, dose-related pain response associated with oedema formation, with mean ED(50) values of 2.6 (1.6-4.3) and 0.5 (0.4-0.7) micromol/kg, respectively. Pretreatment with Chicago sky blue 6B (100 microg/kg), an inhibitor of glutamate uptake, caused a significant (about sixfold) reduction of the mean ED(50) value for glutamate-induced nociception, but not paw oedema. NMDA receptor antagonist MK 801, given by systemic (i.p.), intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.), i.pl. or intrathecal (i.t.) routes, produced graded inhibition of glutamate-induced nociception. Non-NMDA receptor antagonists NBQX or GAMS, metabotropic antagonist E4CPG, and also the antagonist that acts at the NMDA receptor-associated glycine binding site felbamate, significantly inhibited the nociception induced by glutamate. L(omega)-N-nitro-arginine (given i.p., i.t., i.pl. or i.c.v.) prevented the nociception and paw oedema caused by glutamate, an effect that was reversed by L-arginine but not by D-arginine. S-nitroso-N-acetyl-D,L-penicillamine (SNAP), given i.pl., greatly potentiated glutamate-induced nociception and oedema formation. Finally, the i.pl. injection of glutamate was accompanied by a graded increase in the nitrite levels of the hindpaw exudate. It is concluded that the nociception caused by i.pl. injection of glutamate probably involves the activation of NMDA and non-NMDA receptors by a mechanism which largely depends on the activation of L-arginine-nitric oxide pathway. Glutamate-induced paw oedema seems to be primarily mediated by non-NMDA ionotropic glutamate receptors and release of nitric oxide.
Amiodarone-associated torsade de pointes (Tdp) has been reported increasingly in China in recent years. In this study, we made clinical analysis of amiodarone-associated Tdp in Chinese people.
Two major Chinese medical databases were searched to identify articles published during the last 26 years that presented data on amiodarone-associated proarrhythmic events. The articles were divided into two categories: case reports and observational studies.
Fifty-two Chinese-language case reports with 98 patients and 2 patients registered in our hospital, total 100 patients about amiodarone-associated Tdp, were enrolled in the study. Amiodarone-associated Tdp occurred more frequently in females (68.0%, 68/100). The major primary disease of females was rheumatic heart disease (40.7%, 24/59), while that of males was coronary heart disease (45.8%, 11/24). In most patients, Tdp occurred repeatedly and terminated in 24-48 hours. Some Tdp worsen to ventricular fibrillation and caused 19 patients' death (mortality rate 21.8%, 19/87). Known predisposing factors to the development of Tdp, such as heart failure, hypokalemia, drugs combination, and bradyarrhythmia, existed in many cases. Tdp also occurred in six patients (4 females, 2 males) without any known predisposing factors except QTc interval prolongation. Fourteen observational studies each reported data from at least 100 patients who were treated with amiodarone for at least 1 month. Of 2,354 patients included in these studies, 455 patients exposed to amiodarone were reported to have proarrhythmic events (an overall incidence of 19.3%), while only 4 patients were reported to have Tdp or ventricular fibrillation (an incidence of 0.17%).
In conclusion, approximately one-fifth of the patients have amiodarone-induced proarrhythmic events, while the incidence of Tdp or ventricular fibrillation is remarkably low. Amiodarone-associated Tdp occurred more frequently in Chinese females. Known predisposing factors for occurrence of Tdp prevailed in Chinese patients. QTc interval prolongation may be an independent risk factor of amiodarone-associated Tdp.
We have previously shown that targeted disruption of the mouse Kcnq1 gene produces a long QT phenotype in vivo that requires extracardiac factors for manifestation (Casimiro et al., 2001). In the present study, we explore the hypothesis that autonomic neuroeffector transmission represents the "extra cardiac" stimulus that induces a long QT phenotype in mouse hearts lacking Kcnq1. Using the isolated perfused (Langendorff) mouse heart preparation, we challenged wild-type (Kcnq1+/+) and mutant (Kcnq1-/-) mouse hearts with nicotine, an autonomic stimulant. ECGs were recorded continuously, and QT intervals were compared at baseline and peak nicotine-induced heart rates. No significant differences in QT or any other ECG parameters were observed in Kcnq1+/+ versus Kcnq1-/- hearts at baseline. In the presence of nicotine, however, the JT, QT, and rate-corrected QT (QTc) intervals were significantly prolonged in Kcnq1-/- hearts relative to Kcnq1+/+ hearts (e.g., QTc = 92 +/- 11 ms versus 66 +/- 2 ms, respectively, p < 0.01). Similar findings were obtained when the hearts were challenged with either epinephrine or isoproterenol (0.1 microM each), thereby suggesting that sympathetic stimulation drives the long QT phenotype in Kcnq1-deficient hearts. This idea is supported by in vivo ECG data obtained from unrestrained conscious mice using radiotelemetry recording techniques. Again, no significant ECG differences were observed in Kcnq1-/- versus Kcnq1+/+ mice at baseline, but handling/injection stress led to significant QTc increases in Kcnq1-/- mice relative to wild-type controls (11 +/- 3 versus -1 +/- 1%, respectively, p < 0.05). These data suggest that sympathetic stimulation induces a long QT phenotype in Kcnq1-deficient mouse hearts.
Treatment of chronic hepatitis C consists of inteferon plus ribavirin. The major adverse effect of ribavirin is hemolytic anemia, a complication that limits therapy. Folic acid supplementation is used to improve erythropoiesis in chronic hemolytic anemia. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of folic acid supplementation in the prevention of ribavirin-induced anemia in patients being treated for hepatitis C. Twenty one patients enrolled in treatment protocols for hepatitis C received folic acid 1 mg daily and 22 did not. Groups were similar in age, gender, ribavirin dose and baseline hemoglobin. Folic acid supplementation had no effect in the decrease in hemoglobin or the measured parameters of hemolysis. No difference between males and females was noted for hemoglobin decrease or lowest hemoglobin levels. In our study, folic acid showed no beneficial effect in the prevention of ribavirin-induced anemia.
A 28-year-old woman presented to the emergency department for evaluation of acute chest pain. She lacked risk factors for coronary artery disease and her initial electrocardiogram (ECG) was nondiagnostic. Within 45 minutes of presentation she developed nausea, vomiting, restrosternal chest pain, and ECG changes compatible with an acute inferoposterior myocardial infarction. Emergent cardiac catheterization revealed three-vessel coronary artery ectasia and two-vessel occlusion. She underwent emergency coronary artery bypass grafting. Her myocardial ischemia was believed to have been induced by methergine, which she had been taking over the preceding 3 days. The etiology and pathophysiology of coronary artery ectasia, as well as the cardiovascular effects of methergine and a related drug, ergotamine, are discussed.
The effect on blood pressure and heart rate, following administration of the same intracerebroventricular (ivt) and intravenous (iv) doses of captopril, was compared in freely moving DOCA-salt hypertensive rats, with chronically implanted ivt, iv and intraarterial cannulae. Ivt captopril (500 micrograms) in DOCA-salt rats showed an initial pressor response followed by a long lasting hypotensive effect. The ivt effect was greater than that following iv administration. No effect was observed in normotensive controls either ivt or iv. ASA or naloxone pretreatments significantly lowered the captopril hypotensive effect, thus suggesting an involvement of prostaglandin and opioid systems in blood pressure elevation in "non renin dependent" hypertension.
To compare the efficacy of Thio-tepa and Mitomycine C to obviate recurrence; to compare cost-efficacy ratios; to evaluate their facility of use and their complications.
In a prospective blinded study, 36 patients undergoing surgery for 46 primary and recurrent pterygium were assigned randomly to three groups: group 1 received 0.02 mg/ml of Mitomycine C three times daily for 5 days; group 2 received Thio-tepa four times daily for 6 weeks, group 3 served as a control receiving distilled water three times daily for five days.
Recurrence rates were 38%, in group 1; 28% in group 2; 82% in group 3 respectively. Follow-up ranged from 15 to 44 weeks (mean 27.93 +/- 8.9 weeks). Mean delay recurrence time was 6.3 weeks. Topical Mitomycin caused: iritis, conjunctival irritation, excessive lacrymation, photophobia, ocular pain; Thio-tepa caused: photophobia, foreign body sensation, headache.
Mitomycine C appears to be an effective and safe adjunctive treatment for this cost-efficacy and this facility of use comparison.
Sodium meta-arsenite (NaAsO2), a novel compound synthesized by Komipham International Co. Ltd, is an orally bioavailable, water-soluble trivalent arsenical that has shown potent cytotoxic activity in human solid cancer cells in vitro and in vivo, and is currently undergoing phase I/II clinical trials for the treatment of prostate cancer. In this study, mechanisms of cell death induced by sodium meta-arsenite were investigated. Sodium meta-arsenite reduced cell viability and increased the sub-G1 population in cell cycle analysis in both androgen-sensitive LNCaP and androgen-insensitive CWR22RV1 cells. The apoptosis induced by sodium meta-arsenite was associated with cleavage of caspases 3, 8, and 9, and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) and increased annexin V-positive cells, and was inhibited by the pan-caspase inhibitor Z-VAD-fmk. Sodium meta-arsenite also increased the level of the autophagy marker microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 (LC3)-II and the number of autophagic vacuoles as shown by electron microscopy. Both the autophagy inhibitor 3-methyladenine and the necrosis inhibitor necrostatin-1 blocked cell death induced by sodium meta-arsenite. Moreover, sodium meta-arsenite led to the accumulation of intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) and N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC), a ROS scavenger, decreased sodium meta-arsenite-induced levels of cleaved PARP and LC3-II. Propidium iodide (PI) staining also showed that NAC restored membrane integrity, damaged by sodium meta-arsenite. Therefore, these results suggest that sodium meta-arsenite induces apoptotic, necrotic, and autophagic cell death through intracellular ROS accumulation in both androgen-sensitive and androgen-insensitive prostate cancer cells and may be used as a new anticancer drug for the treatment of prostate cancer.
To identify factors associated with YMDD mutation in patients with chronic hepatitis B before and after lamivudine treatment in Zunyi region.
53 patients with chronic hepatitis B were enrolled in this study, HBV DNA,HBV markers, ALT, AST, TBil, albumin in the serum were examined at 0, 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months after lamivudine treatment. HBV genotype and YMDD mutation were determined by sequencing before lamivudine treatment. YMDD mutation was checked again if serum HBV DNA rebound to more than 1 x 10(4) copies/ml after the initial decrease.
HBV genotype in Zunyi region is constitute of B, C and B+C genotype. YMDD mutation occurred in 18 cases after lamivudine treatment, the rate of YMDD mutation was 15.1%, and 34.0% after 1 year and 2 years treatment. There are four types of mutation: rtL180M/M204V, rtL180M/M204I, rtM204I, rtL180M. rtM204V mutation in C gene was always accompanied by rtL180M mutation (100%). The rate of rtL180M/M204V mutation in genotype C group was significantly higher than that in genotype B group (77.8% to 25.0%), the same was true for the rtL180M/ M204I mutation (22.2% to 12.5%). There was no point mutation in genotype C group. The point mutation of rtM204I and rtL180M appeared only in genotype B group. Gender, nation, family history of hepatitis B and HBeAg were not associated with YMDD mutation (P more than 0.05), while the mutation rate was associated with the disease course and severity of disease. YMDD mutation did not occur in patients with low HBV DNA level (less than 10(5) copies/ml).
YMDD mutation after lamivudine therapy is associated with HBV genotype and P gene mutation type, and prolonged treatment increases the the mutation rate. In order to reduce the incidence of YMDD mutation, patients with shorter disease course, lower HBV DNA level, more serious liver damage should be treated with lamivudine.
Two children developed acute liver failure while taking carbamazepine. Clinical and laboratory findings suggested an immunoallergic reaction, but only one child improved on steroids. Determination of liver function during the first few weeks of treatment and early detection of signs of idiosyncrasy may prevent this rare but severe complication.
The Helicase-Like Transcription Factor (HLTF/SMARCA3) belongs to the family of SWI/SNF proteins that use the energy of ATP hydrolysis to remodel chromatin in a variety of cellular processes. Several SWI/SNF genes are disrupted in cancer, suggesting a role of tumor suppressor. Similarly, the HLTF gene was recently found to be inactivated by hypermethylation in a number of advanced colon and gastric tumors. However, other evidences indicated a 20-fold HLTF overexpression in cell lines derived from various neoplasms (ovary, breast, cervix, kidney...).
In the present study, we investigated HLTF expression by immunohistochemistry in a model of kidney tumors induced by continuous administration of diethylstilbestrol to male Syrian golden hamsters. A strong labeling was already detected in small tumor buds, making HLTF an early cancer marker in this model. Although every cell stained for HLTF at this early stage, the number of HLTF-positive cells decreased to 10% with cancer progression, and these positive cells were dispersed in the tumor mass. HLTF expression was conserved in the HKT-1097 cell line established from kidney tumors, but again only 10% of positive cells were found in xenografts produced by HKT-1097 cells in nude mice.
In conclusion, our data suggest that HLTF gene activation is linked to initial steps of carcinogenesis in this model and should be investigated in early stages of other neoplasms.
The anti-inflammatory mechanisms of adapalene, a synthetic retinoid used for the treatment of acne patients, are partially understood. They seem particularly related to the modulation of the non-specific immunity. Recent studies have shown that Toll-like receptor (TLR)-2 expression, a receptor of the innate immune system, was increased in acne lesions and could play an essential role in acne-linked inflammation. The aim of our study was to investigate the new mechanisms of the anti-inflammatory activity of adapalene in vitro, and more specifically the modulatory effect of adapalene on the expression of TLR-2, CD1d, a cell surface glycoprotein that plays a role as antigen-presenting molecules and is responsible for the development of cutaneous inflammation, and also on the expression and the secretion of the anti-inflammatory interleukin (IL)-10 cytokine. Both explants of normal human skin and explants of acne patients were incubated with adapalene (10(-7) or 10(-6) M) or the control medium for 24 h. Evaluation of epidermal expression by immunohistochemistry showed a decreased expression of TLR-2 and IL-10 in explants of normal skin and explants of acne with adapalene. On the contrary, adapalene increased CD1d expression in explants of acne patients. Thus, adapalene can modulate the epidermal immune system by increasing the CD1d expression and by decreasing the IL-10 expression by keratinocytes. Moreover, these modulations could increase the interactions between dendritic cells and T lymphocytes and could strengthen the antimicrobial activity against Propionibacterium acnes. The decreased expression of TLR-2 by the keratinocytes can contribute to explain the anti-inflammatory activity of adapalene observed in clinical practice.
Four siblings with hepatic fibrosis are described. The liver damage in these patients was secondary to chronic ingestion of massive doses of vitamin A for congenital ichthyosis. Although the extrahepatic manifestations were helpful in the diagnosis of hypervitaminosis A, the distinctive features of hepatic histopathology were confirmatory. The plasma concentrations of vitamin A and retinol-binding protein were misleading. The recovery from the liver damage in these patients was slow despite a complete withdrawal of the vitamin A intake. These cases show the importance of hepatic vitamin A assessment in the diagnosis of hepatic fibrosis.
Antibiotic-associated hepatotoxicity is rare. With widespread use of antimicrobial agents, however, hepatic injury occurs frequently, and among adverse drug reactions, idiosyncratic reactions are the most serious.
A 25-year-old male patient, with a height of 175 cm and weight of 72 kg presented to Marmara University Hospital Emergency Department, Istanbul, Turkey, with 5 days' history of jaundice, malaise, nausea, and vomiting. He had been prescribed telithromycin 400 mg/d PO to treat an upper respiratory tract infection 7 days prior. Admission laboratory tests were as follows: alanine aminotransferase, 67 U/L (reference range, 10-37 U/L); aspartate aminotransferase, 98 U/L (10-40 U/L); alkaline phosphatase, 513 U/L (0-270 U/L); gamma-glutamyltransferase, 32 U/L (7-49 U/L); amylase, 46 U/L (0-220 U/L); total bilirubin, 20.1 mg/dL (0.2-1.0 mg/dL); direct bilirubin, 14.8 mg/dL (0-0.3 mg/dL); and albumin, 4.7 mg/dL (3.5-5.4 mg/dL). No toxin, alcohol, or other drugs were reported. The patient had suffered a previous episode of "acute hepatitis of unknown origin," that occurred after telithromycin usage. Both incidents occurred within a year.
Telithromycin is the first of the ketolide antibacterials to receive US Food and Drug Administration approval for clinical use. It has been associated with infrequent and usually reversible severe hepatic dysfunction. Based on a score of 8 on the Naranjo adverse drug reaction probability scale, telithromycin was the probable cause of acute hepatitis in this patient, and pathological findings suggested drug-induced toxic hepatitis. Recurrence of hepatitis attack might have been avoided if the initial incident had been communicated to the attending physician who prescribed telithromycin the second time.
Here we report a case of acute hepatitis probably associated with the administration of telithromycin.
Cetaben and clofibrate were each administered to groups of 6 rats (3 male and 3 female) by gavage at dosages of 50 mg/kg per day and 200 mg/kg per day for 2 weeks. Cetaben caused 1 death at 200 mg/kg per day and decreases in body weight gain and food consumption at 50 mg/kg per day or more. There were no effects on body weight or food consumption in the clofibrate-treated groups. At 200 mg/kg per day cetaben and clofibrate induced comparable increases in liver weight and in numbers of liver peroxisomes while cetaben caused increases in liver catalase activity as well.
One of the causes of long-term morbidity associated with the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is late neurotoxicity manifesting as impairment of higher cognitive functions. Cranial radiation therapy (CRT) and chemotherapeutic agents, particularly methotrexate (MTX), are often suggested to be major contributing factors for its development. Homocysteinemia that arises as a result of MTX-induced folate depletion was proposed to play a role in MTX-related neurotoxicity. Several enzymes are essential to maintain the homocysteine levels. Their different functional forms, associated with common genetic polymorphisms, may modulate homocysteine levels and thereby influence MTX-associated neurotoxicity.
To test this hypothesis we assessed whether the variants of the methylene tetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR), methionine synthase (MTR), methionine synthase reductase (MTRR), cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS) and endothelial nitric acid synthase (eNOS, NOS3) genes, acting either independently or in conjunction with other risk factors, influenced the cognitive functioning in ALL patients. The influence of the genes was measured by estimating the change in IQ scores over a period of 4 years post ALL diagnosis.
Two variants, the CBS 844ins68 polymorphism and NOS3 894T homozygosity, were associated with a change in IQ scores (p = 0.01 and 0.007, respectively). A multivariate model obtained through step-wise selection pointed to the importance of the NOS3 894TT genotype only. This effect appears to be dependent on CRT; IQ decline was apparent among individuals with the 894TT genotype who received radiation therapy (p = 0.03). Furthermore, additional factors affecting IQ were identified, including the treatment administered (i.e., CRT; p = 0.02) and a younger age at diagnosis (p = 0.003), and the modifying effect of the treatment protocols was also noted (p = 0.04).
The results suggest that NOS3 genotyping might identify individuals that are susceptible to intellectual impairment following ALL treatment.
Four children with vincristine toxicity unrelated to dose are described. Fever, haematological toxicity, and abdominal distension occurred 2-7 days after vincristine was given. Convulsions occurred 6-8 days after vincristine in all 4. Inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone was thought to have occurred in 3 patients. 2 patients died during the acute toxicity phase. Necropsy findings did not show neuronal changes which could be directly ascribed to vincristine.
Subchronic exposure to arsenic in rats was investigated to identify sensitive indicators of subclinical toxicity in rats. Immunological, pathological, and biochemical bioindicators were examined in rats exposed to arsenic in their drinking water. Juvenile male Wistar rats were allocated to four treatment groups receiving 0, 0.4, 4, and 40 ppm of arsenite in drinking water for 18 wks. Besides daily monitoring for clinical signs of adverse health effects, clinical biochemistry, B-cell-mediated and innate immune responses, plus gross, and histopathology were examined. In vitro tests of oxidative damage to basic cellular constituents, lipids, proteins, and nucleic acids, were measured using thiobarbituric acid reacting substances (TBARS) assays, protein carbonyl formation, and 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), respectively. Clinical changes in the rats were limited to decreased feed and water intake in the high- (40 ppm) dose group (P < 0.05), however, growth rate was not affected. Serum biochemical changes occurred in blood urea nitrogen, K(+) , Cl(-) , and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) from arsenic exposure. Immunotoxicity was evident through a dose-dependent suppression of the secondary antibody-mediated response to a T-cell-dependent antigen, keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH). Histopathology of the liver revealed marked fatty infiltration and vacuolization particularly evident in periacinar hepatocytes. This pattern of toxicopathology in the high-exposure group may be related to the significantly higher (P < 0.05) oxidative stress, demonstrated through lipid peroxidation (TBARS assay) in the rats exposed to 40 ppm arsenite. The present study revealed that young, growing rats exposed to arsenic for 18 wks tolerated exposures up to 4 ppm. At higher doses, there was evidence of hepatotoxicity, humoral immunity was compromised, and an adverse effect on hepatic organelle and cell membranes was evident through a dose dependent increased in oxidative stress.
Tonsillectomy is one of the commonest procedures performed in the United Kingdom. Peri-operative infiltration of local anaesthetic is a well documented adjunct to post-operative analgesia. We report the first case of temporary Horner's syndrome in a patient who received such treatment and postulate an anatomical explanation.
Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) encodes for 13 polypeptides critical for normal functioning of the electron transport chain and damage to mtDNA has been associated with aging, and implicated in several disease processes. Although damage to mtDNA is being implicated in mutagenesis and carcinogenesis, there are limited studies demonstrating the role and extent of mtDNA damage in human or rodent cancers. Using serial dilution and competitive polymerase chain reaction analysis, we have quantitated the amount of total mtDNA and analyzed the extent of mtDNA damage in estrogen-induced and estrogen-dependent hamster kidney tumors. The hamster kidney tumor model is a useful and widely investigated rodent model of hormonal carcinogenesis, which shares several characteristics with human breast and uterine cancers, and point to a common mechanistic pathway. Our data indicate a significant decrease in the copy number of total mtDNA and the activity of a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial enzyme citrate synthase in hamster kidney tumors compared to age-matched controls. Since there are several hundred mitochondria in a cell and each mitochondrion has multiple copies of mtDNA, a very small percentage of somatic deletion mutation may not be enough to result in a decreased capacity of the mitochondrial genome. However, a significant increase in deletion mutations or a decrease in the mtDNA copy number can result in a decreased oxidative phosphorylation capacity of the mitochondria and decreased energetics, and thus increased susceptibility to the disease process. Therefore, estrogen-induced hamster kidney tumor model can be a useful rodent model of carcinogenesis to understand the role of mtDNA damage in cancer progression and development.
Patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (PAF) are prone to recurrence. We compared the efficacy and tolerability of flecainide acetate in the control of PAF by means of conventional treatment with quinidine in 19 patients without structural heart disease. A randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover protocol consisting of 8 weeks of treatment with either agent was used. The recurrence of PAF was documented in a symptom diary and confirmed by event ECG recording. Complete control of symptoms was achieved in 4 of 19 and 2 of 11 of patients with flecainide and quinidine, respectively. Both agents prolonged the time to the first recurrence and significantly reduced the total duration of PAF recurrence by 40% and 47%, respectively (p less than 0.05 compared with placebo). Compared with quinidine, flecainide significantly reduced the frequency of recurrence and the rate of PAF during a recurrent episode. However, treatment with flecainide was associated with a higher incidence of symptomatic sinus pauses and visual disturbances compared with a higher incidence of gastrointestinal side effects with quinidine. During a follow-up period of 32 months, satisfactory control was achieved in 74% of patients with the use of these two antiarrhythmic agents.
