Dermatologic side effects of cytosine arabinoside (ara-C) are rare and most commonly occur after high-dose (more than 100 to 200 mg/m2 per day) therapy has been administered for several days. Although vascular reactions after combination chemotherapeutic regimens with ara-C have been anecdotally described, they have not been previously reported after single-agent chemotherapy with ara-C. Herein we describe two patients with acute nonlymphoblastic leukemia in whom cutaneous small vessel necrotizing vasculitis developed after high-dose single-agent chemotherapy with ara-C. Cutaneous lesions developed 3 to 5 days after initiation of therapy and resolved spontaneously within a week after the chemotherapeutic regimen was completed. No evidence of systemic vasculitis was present in either patient. Prior experimental data have demonstrated a direct toxic effect of ara-C on endothelial cells, and this outcome may represent the underlying mechanism of vascular injury.
Several studies indicate long-term cognitive impairment of MDMA (ecstasy) users. In the present study we attempted to establish whether electrophysiological correlates of low-level cognitive processes present a long-term alteration, dependent on the level of use of ecstasy. We addressed this issue by investigating amplitude and latency of VEPs related to a very simple discrimination task involving sustained attention (arousal). Eight heavy-MDMA users, eight moderate-MDMA users and 18 drug-free control subjects were asked to discriminate whether the digit at the centre of the screen was 1 or 2. None of the subjects (except one) had used MDMA in the 6 months previous testing. We measured psychophysical performance and EEG, recorded in Oz and Fz during task execution. The heavy-MDMA users made significantly more errors than the other two groups (p < .05). Moreover, they presented reduced amplitude but not latency of VEPs in both Oz and Fz. The effect in Oz is present in P200 (for heavy users only, p < .05) and in P300 components (for both MDMA groups; heavy users: p < .001, moderate users: p < .0.5). In Fz, the amplitude effect is present in N250 (for heavy users only, p < .05) and in P300 components (for both MDMA groups; heavy users: p < .05, moderate users: p < .05). The three groups do not differ in early components, reflecting low-level processing. These results provide evidence of long-term electrophysiological abnormality displayed by ecstasy users and agree with the suggestion that even typical recreational doses of ecstasy are sufficient to cause long-term altered cortical activity in humans.
The authors describe a case of spontaneous angina during catheterization in a patient with left anterior descending and circumflex stenosis promptly relieved by diltiazem, 10 mg, given in the left ventricle. Coronary and systemic haemodynamics measured during and at the end of angina demonstrated an increase in blood flow to the ischaemic myocardium as the mechanism responsible for the diltiazem-induced angina relief.
Allergic asthma is associated with airway eosinophilia, which is regulated by different T-effector cells. T cells express transcription factors T-bet, GATA-3, RORγt and Foxp3, representing Th1, Th2, Th17 and Treg cells respectively. No study has directly determined the relative presence of each of these T cell subsets concomitantly in a model of allergic airway inflammation. In this study we determined the degree of expansion of these T cell subsets, in the lungs of allergen challenged mice. Cell proliferation was determined by incorporation of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) together with 7-aminoactnomycin (7-AAD). The immunohistochemical localisation of T cells in the lung microenvironments was also quantified. Local expression of cytokines, chemokines and receptor genes was measured using real-time RT-PCR array analysis in tissue sections isolated by laser microdissection and pressure catapulting technology. Allergen exposure increased the numbers of T-bet(+), GATA-3(+), RORγt(+) and Foxp3(+) cells in CD4(+)CD25(+) and CD4(+)CD25(-) T cells, with the greatest expansion of GATA-3(+) cells. The majority of CD4(+)CD25(+) T-bet(+), GATA-3(+), RORγt(+) and Foxp3(+) cells had incorporated BrdU and underwent proliferation during allergen exposure. Allergen exposure led to the accumulation of T-bet(+), GATA-3(+) and Foxp3(+) cells in peribronchial and alveolar tissue, GATA-3(+) and Foxp3(+) cells in perivascular tissue, and RORγt(+) cells in alveolar tissue. A total of 28 cytokines, chemokines and receptor genes were altered more than 3 fold upon allergen exposure, with expression of half of the genes claimed in all three microenvironments. Our study shows that allergen exposure affects all T effector cells in lung, with a dominant of Th2 cells, but with different local cell distribution, probably due to a distinguished local inflammatory milieu.
P8 80-100% incidence of multinodular hepatocellular carcinomas was observed in castrated male hamsters following synthetic estrogen treatment in the presence of 0.2-0.4% alpha-naphthoflavone (ANF) in the diet after 8.5-10 months. Induction of these liver tumors was detected as early as 3.5-4.0 months in low frequency. Of the synthetic estrogens studied, ethynylestradiol (CAS: 57-63-6) was a more potent inducer of these hepatic carcinomas than either diethylstilbestrol (CAS: 56-53-1) or hexestrol (CAS: 84-16-2). ANF, considered an inhibitor of P450-dependent multisubstrate monooxygenases, did not produce any liver tumors when administered alone for up to 12 months. Neither concomitant androgen nor progesterone (CAS: 57-83-0) treatment resulted in any hepatic carcinomas in animals maintained on ANF. Moreover, beta-naphthoflavone (CAS: 6051-87-2) treatment alone or in combination with these synthetic estrogens also resulted in no hepatic tumors. This new estrogen-induced liver tumor model could be useful to elucidate the casual relationship that exists between estrogenic hormones and hepatic tumors in humans.
Elevated selenium concentrations documented in water, sediment, and biota in irrigation drain water studies by U.S. Department of the Interior agencies and academia have raised concerns that selenium may be adversely affecting endangered fish in the upper Colorado River basin. The objective of the study was to determine the effects on endangered razorback sucker (Xyrauchen texanus) larvae from exposure to selenium and other trace elements in water and zooplankton collected from sites adjacent to the Colorado River near Grand Junction, CO. A 30-day study was initiated with 5-day-old larvae exposed in a 4 x 4 factor experiment with four food and four water treatments, and the biological endpoints measured were survival, growth, development, and whole-body residues of selenium. Mean selenium concentration in reference water (24-Road) was <0.7 microg/l, in reference food (brine shrimp) was 3.2 microg/g, at Horsethief was 1.6 microg/l in water and 6.0 microg/g in zooplankton, at Adobe Creek was 3.4 microg/l in water and 32 microg/g in zooplankton, and at Walter Walker was 13 microg/l in water and 52 microg/g in zooplankton. Although there were differences in concentrations of inorganic elements in water and biota among the three sites, selenium was apparently the only element elevated to concentrations of concern. Effects on survival were more prominent from dietary exposure compared to waterborne exposure. Selenium concentrations of >or=4.6 microg/g in food organisms adversely affected the survival of razorback sucker larvae. The onset of mortality in larvae exposed to food and water from Walter Walker seemed delayed compared to mortality in larvae exposed to food and water from Horsethief, which has been observed in two other studies. Elevated arsenic in one food source seemed to interact with selenium to reduce the toxic effects of selenium.
A case is reported of severe hypovolaemic shock occurring in a 53-year-old female patient undergoing a second course of chemotherapy with intravenous DTIC for a malignant melanoma. A few hours after the injection of DTIC, she became shocked, with loss of peripheral pulses, polypnoea and cutaneous vasoconstriction. She also had pain and guarding of the right hypocondrium. She was given 4 litres of colloids within 2 hours, together with 10 micrograms.kg-1.min-1 dopamine. Abdominal echography showed hepatomegaly, with a permeable portal vein. However biological investigations revealed lactic acidosis with hepatic cytolysis and hepatic failure. Nuclear magnetic resonance imaging displayed a reduced portal venous flow, with abnormally small hepatic veins. Fluid replacement was continued, together with administration of small doses of heparin (1 mg.kg-1.day-1) and hydrocortisone hemisuccinate 5 mg.kg-1.day-1. The status of patient worsened over the next few hours, because of the development of a very large volume of exudative ascites and bilateral pleural effusions. Despite continuing fluid replacement (91), she became anuric at the 24th hour, requiring haemodialysis. However, her condition became stable, and then slowly improved. Fluid replacement was stopped after 72 h, steroids after a fortnight. Liver function tests returned to normal after the third week, together with diuresis. The patient was able to leave the ICU after 24 days. Physicians should be aware of this rare, often fatal side-effect, probably of immuno-allergic origin.
We are report 3 cases of hemorrhagic central retina vein occlusion following continuous use of fenethylline hydrochloride. The hemorrhage, the edema and the engorged veins showed marked improvement after discontinuing the drug and laser supplement in one case.
Thiazide diuretics are widely accepted as the cornerstone of antihypertensive treatment programs. Hypokalemia is a commonly encountered metabolic consequence of chronic thiazide therapy. We treated 38 patients (22 low renin, 16 normal renin) with moderate diastolic hypertension with hydrochlorothiazide (HCTC) administered on a twice daily schedule. Initial dose was 50 mg and the dose was increased at monthly intervals to 100 mg, 150 mg and 200 mg daily until blood pressure normalized. The serum K during the control period was 4.5 +/- 0.2 mEq/l an on 50, 100, 150 and 200 mg HCTZ daily 3.9 +/- 0.3, 3.4 +/- 0.2, 2.9 +/- 0.2, and 2.4 +/- 0.3 mEq/l, respectively. Corresponding figures for whole body K were 4107 +/- 208, 3722 +/- 319, 3628 +/- 257, 3551 +/- 336, and 3269 +/- 380 mEq, respectively. In 13 patients we observed the effects of HCTZ therapy (100 mg daily) on the occurrence of PVC's during rest as well as during static and dynamic exercise. During rest we observed 0.6 +/- 0.08 PVC beats/min +/- SEM and during static and dynamic exercise 0.6 +/- 0.06 and 0.8 +/- 0.15, respectively. Corresponding figures during HCTZ therapy 100 mg daily were 1.4 +/- 0.1, 3.6 +/- 0.7 and 5.7 4/- 0.8, respectively. The occurrence of PVC's correlated significantly with the fall in serum K+ observed r = 0.72, p less than 0.001. In conclusion we found that thiazide diuretics cause hypokalemia and depletion of body potassium. The more profound hypokalemia, the greater the propensity for the occurrence of PVC's.
Intranasal aspiration of satratoxin G (SG), a mycotoxin produced by the black mold Stachybotrys chartarum, selectively induces apoptosis in olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) in mouse olfactory epithelium (OE) through unknown mechanisms. Here, we show a dose-dependent induction of apoptosis 24 h post-SG exposure in vitro as measured by increased activated caspases in the OP6 olfactory placodal cell line and increased propidium iodide staining in primary OE cell cultures. Intranasal aspiration of SG increased TUNEL (Terminal dUTP Nick End Labeling) staining in the neuronal layer of the OE and significantly increased the latency to find a buried food pellet, confirming that SG selectively induces neuronal apoptosis and demonstrating that SG impairs the sense of smell. Next, we investigated whether ATP can prevent SG-induced OE toxicity. ATP did not decrease apoptosis under physiological conditions but significantly reduced SG-induced OSN apoptosis in vivo and in vitro. Furthermore, purinergic receptor inhibition significantly increased apoptosis in OE primary cell culture and in vivo. These data indicate that ATP is neuroprotective against SG-induced OE toxicity. The number of cells that incorporated 5'-bromodeoxyuridine, a measure of proliferation, was significantly increased 3 and 6 days post-SG aspiration. Treatment with purinergic receptor antagonists significantly reduced SG-induced cell proliferation, whereas post-treatment with ATP significantly potentiated SG-induced cell proliferation. These data indicate that ATP is released and promotes cell proliferation via activation of purinergic receptors in SG-induced OE injury. Thus, the purinergic system is a therapeutic target to alleviate or restore the loss of OSNs.
We report the case of a 51-years-old female who was prophylactically treated with diphenylhydantoin after surgery of an intracranial aneurysm. Twenty-four days after beginning the treatment, a general syndrome appeared, in addition to a diffuse cutaneous exanthema. Four days later, a cholestatic syndrome, compatible with "toxic cholestatic acute hepatitis", was developed. The suppression of the drug, was followed by rapid clinical improvement and gradual normalization of transaminases values, although biochemical cholestasis persisted for months.
The nucleus reticularis pontis oralis (RPO) is necessary for the expression of tonic hindlimb extension (THE) in maximal electroshock seizures (MES) of rats. Previous work in this laboratory has demonstrated that focal RPO microinfusion of NMDA antagonists inhibited THE while focal RPO microinfusion of NMDA induced convulsive activity similar to the audiogenic seizure response of rats. The purpose of the present study was to identify other receptors in the RPO that influence THE or induce convulsive activity. Bilateral microinfusion of bicuculline had no effect on the THE component of MES except when the bicuculline induced wild-running convulsions in which case the subsequent THE response to the MES stimulus was inhibited. The GABAergic agents muscimol, baclofen or 2-hydroxysaclofen neither altered the THE response nor induced convulsions. In addition, bilateral RPO microinfusion of the clinically effective antiepileptic drugs phenytoin, phenobarbital, valproate, ethosuximide or felbamate had no effect on the THE component of MES. These results indicate that the role of GABAergic receptors in the anticonvulsant activity mediated by the RPO is not prominent and that the RPO is unlikely to be the site of antiepileptic drug action in MES.
Calcineurin inhibitor (CI) therapy has been associated with chronic nephrotoxicity, which limits its long-term utility for suppression of allograft rejection. In order to understand the mechanisms of the toxicity, we analyzed gene expression changes that underlie the development of CI immunosuppressant-mediated nephrotoxicity in male Sprague-Dawley rats dosed daily with cyclosporine (CsA; 2.5 or 25 mg/kg/day), FK506 (0.6 or 6 mg/kg/day), or rapamycin (1 or 10 mg/kg/day) for 1, 7, 14, or 28 days. A significant increase in blood urea nitrogen was observed in animals treated with CsA (high) or FK506 (high) for 14 and 28 days. Histopathological examination revealed tubular basophilia and mineralization in animals given CsA (high) or FK506 (low and high). We identified a group of genes whose expression in rat kidney is correlated with CI-induced kidney injury. Among these genes are two genes, Slc12a3 and kidney-specific Wnk1 (KS-Wnk1), that are known to be involved in sodium transport in the distal nephrons and could potentially be involved in the mechanism of CI-induced nephrotoxicity. The downregulation of NCC (the Na-Cl cotransporter coded by Slc12a3) in rat kidney following CI treatment was confirmed by immunohistochemical staining, and the downregulation of KS-Wnk1 was confirmed by quantitative real-time-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). We hypothesize that decreased expression of Slc12a3 and KS-Wnk1 could alter the sodium chloride reabsorption in the distal tubules and contribute to the prolonged activation of the renin-angiotensin system, a demonstrated contributor to the development of CI-induced nephrotoxicity in both animal models and clinical settings. Therefore, if validated as biomarkers in humans, SLC12A3 and KS-WNK1 could potentially be useful in the early detection and reduction of CI-related nephrotoxicity in immunosuppressed transplant patients when monitoring the health of kidney xenographs in clinical practice.
Homeostasis of selenium (Se), a critical antioxidant incorporated into amino acids and enzymes, is disrupted by exposure to aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) agonists. Here we examined the importance of dietary Se in preventing the toxicity of the most toxic polychlorinated biphenyl congener, 3,3',4,4',5-pentachlorobiphenyl (PCB 126), a potent AhR agonist. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were fed a modified AIN-93 diet with differing dietary Se levels (0.02, 0.2, and 2 ppm). Following 3 weeks of acclimatization, rats from each dietary group were given a single ip injection of corn oil (vehicle), 0.2, 1, or 5 μmol/kg body weight PCB 126, followed 2 weeks later by euthanasia. PCB exposure caused dose-dependent increases in liver weight and at the highest PCB 126 dose decreases in whole body weight gains. Hepatic cytochrome P-450 (CYP1A1) activity was significantly increased even at the lowest dose of PCB 126, indicating potent AhR activation. PCB exposure diminished hepatic Se levels in a dose-dependent manner, and this was accompanied by diminished Se-dependent glutathione peroxidase activity. Both these effects were partially mitigated by Se supplementation. Conversely, thioredoxin (Trx) reductase activity and Trx oxidation state, although significantly diminished in the lowest dietary Se groups, were not affected by PCB exposure. In addition, PCB 126-induced changes in hepatic copper, iron, manganese, and zinc were observed. These results demonstrate that supplemental dietary Se was not able to completely prevent the toxicity caused by PCB 126 but was able to increase moderately the levels of several key antioxidants, thereby maintaining them roughly at normal levels.
To perform a phase 1 trial to determine the maximum tolerated dose and the dose-limiting toxicities of paclitaxel in children with refractory or recurrent solid tumors. Paclitaxel was administered twice weekly, increasing from four to six doses every 21 to 28 days.
Paclitaxel was administered as a 3-hour intravenous infusion twice weekly. The initial dose was fixed at 50 mg/m2/dose twice weekly for 2 weeks (four doses), every 21 days. The number of twice-weekly doses per course was increased to six in the next cohort. In subsequent cohorts, the number of twice-weekly doses per course was fixed at six, every 28 days, and dosage was increased in 25% increments.
Sixteen assessable patients were enrolled at three levels. Neutropenia was the dose-limiting toxicity at 65 mg/m2/dose, twice weekly x 6 doses, every 28 days. Nonhematologic toxicities were minor. No antitumor responses were observed.
Protracted twice-weekly dosing of paclitaxel is limited by neutropenia. The maximum tolerated dose of paclitaxel administered twice weekly x 6 doses, every 28 days, was 50 mg/m2/dose.
We report 3 new cases of a centrofacial destructive process associated with chronic nasal abuse of cocaine. This complex first described in 1988 is a rare entity involving sinonasal tract necrosis after cocaine abuse. Of special interest in this report is a male patient with columella and lip involvement instead of the more usual rhinopalatal destruction. This cocaine abuse complex should be included in the differential diagnosis of centrofacial midline destructive processes in young patients as the first diagnostic possibility. We suggest a management strategy for these patients.
cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) is a major modulator of synaptic transmission likely to be involved in molecular and cellular events leading to epileptogenesis, but little is known about how it affects the onset of acute epileptic seizures. In this study, we determined PKA enzymatic activity in the rat hippocampus during picrotoxin-induced seizures, using H-9 dihydrochloride, a PKA inhibitor, to investigate the in vivo effects of this enzyme on seizures induced by picrotoxin microdialysis in the rat hippocampus. No significant modifications were found in PKA activity during seizures as compared to control rats, but H-9 dihydrochloride microperfusion (100 microM) prevented picrotoxin seizures in 50% of the animals and significantly reduced the mean number of seizures and mean seizure duration. These results suggest that acute picrotoxin-induced seizures occur without an increase in hippocampal PKA activity, but reduced PKA-mediated phosphorylation protects against picrotoxin seizures, probably by increasing the inhibitory potential of GABA(A) receptors. The possibility of other targets for H-9 dihydrochloride, such as PKC, PKG or CAMKII, however, cannot be ruled out.
Drug use reminders are associated with localized changes in brain activity related to intense drug wanting or craving in cocaine-dependent men. While cocaine dependence is prevalent and disabling in women, and certain clinically relevant sex differences exist, there is an absence of knowledge related to the neural correlates of cocaine craving in cocaine-dependent women.
The differential neural response to imagery depicting cocaine use and neutral imagery was defined by using [15O]H2O positron emission tomography (PET) imaging in eight cocaine-dependent women. Results were compared with a matched group of eight cocaine-dependent men.
Cocaine-related imagery was associated with relative increases in cocaine craving and increases in regional cerebral blood flow in the superior temporal gyrus, dorsal anterior and posterior cingulate cortex, nucleus accumbens area, and the central sulcus. Compared with the results of an identical PET study in matched cocaine-dependent men, conditioned cocaine craving in women was associated with less activation of the amygdala, insula, orbitofrontal cortex, and ventral cingulate cortex and greater activation of the central sulcus and widely distributed frontal cortical areas.
These findings suggest the presence of sex differences in the functional anatomy of cue-induced cocaine craving associated with drug dependence. Such differences may reflect sex differences in conditioned associations to cocaine use, in affective and other corollaries of cocaine craving, or in their volitional regulation and may underlie apparent sex differences in the effects of cocaine abstinence and the expectations of treatment outcome. Some support for the need for sex-specific strategies for treatment of cocaine dependence is also furnished by the findings of this study.
Most antipsychotic medications produce motoric side effects, including parkinsonism and tardive dyskinesia (TD). Correlates of these behaviors in rats (catalepsy and vacuous chewing movements, respectively) were used as a model to assess the usefulness of chronic naloxone administration in symptom reduction. Previous studies have suggested that increased neurotransmission in the endogenous opioid system modulates neuroleptic-induced motoric side effects. Rats were treated with haloperidol decanoate or vehicle for 27 weeks, and withdrawn for 30 weeks. Subsequently, naloxone (0.5 to 2.0 mg/kg SC twice daily) was given for 5 weeks. Long-term haloperidol treatment produced a syndrome of vacuous chewing movements (VCMs) that persisted during the drug withdrawal period. Catalepsy developed rapidly and also persisted. Naloxone treatment had little effect on VCMs but increased catalepsy scores in both haloperidol and vehicle treated groups. Naloxone reduced rearing and grooming in haloperidol rats while increasing these measures in vehicle treated rats. The results indicate that neuroleptic-induced motoric side effects are not reversed by naloxone in rats. Furthermore, they suggest that increased opioid neurotransmission may not underlie the expression of VCMs. This does not rule out the possibility that endogenous opioid system may be involved in the development of VCMs. To the extent that this animal model is valid, naloxone may not be effective in treating TD and neuroleptic-induced parkinsonism in humans.
A 60-year-old woman was admitted because of acute ischemia of the right leg. The patient had been immobilized during diagnostic procedures for a thoracic paraspinal space-occupying lesion and over 5 days had received unfractionated sodium heparin by subcutaneous injection. The pedal pulses were no longer palpable.
The thrombocyte count had fallen from 207,000/microliter to 45,000/microliter. Angiography revealed occlusion of the common femoral artery. Heparin-induced platelet aggregation (HIPA) test demonstrated type II heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. Thrombectomy was performed and intraoperatively an i.v. bolus of the recombinant hirudin, lepirudin (Refludan), was given (0.2 mg/kg body weight), continual lepirudin infusion being continued postoperatively. Normal blood flow was re-established in the limb and the pedal pulse was palpable. There were no complications.
Recombinant hirudin is the only alternative licensed in Germany to heparin and seem to be suitable also for the intraoperative bolus administration in heparin-induced thromboembolic vascular occlusions.
Analysis of incidence of haemolytic anaemia during INF-alpha + ribavirin (RBV) treatment of chronic hepatitis C (CHC).
95 patients (M=64, F=31, mean age: 42.5 +/- 11.9) with CHC. All patients received IFN-alpha 3 MU three times a week and 1000-1200 mg of RBV daily. Basic haematological and biochemical parameters were checked. HCV-RNA (Cobas Amplicor, Roche) was checked before and after 6 months of therapy.
After the first month of treatment a reduction of haemoglobin level occurred at 30% patients (not always characteristic for anaemia), an increase of the total bilirubin was observed in 16.8%, ferrum in 15.8%, while that of lactate dehydrogenase only in 22.1%. 37% of the patients required a reduction of ribavirin doses. No patient had treatment stopped because of side effects.
Lower HGB, RBC, WBC, HCT and PLT levels and raised total and unconjugated bilirubin levels were the most frequent changes observed during the combined antiviral treatment. Improvement of haematological and biochemical parameters most often occurs spontaneously or after RBV dose reduction. Presence of haemolytic anaemia does not require stopping of RBV treatment, but only RBV dose reduction. At about 2/3 of patients who start therapy with interferon and RBV treatment has to be continued up to 48 weeks.
Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) is characterized by a specific t(15;17) chromosomal translocation that fuses the genes encoding the promyelocytic leukemia protein (PML) and the retinoic acid receptor (RAR). The resulting PML-RAR protein induces a block in the differentiation of the myeloid progenitor cells, which can be released by retinoic acid (RA) in vitro and in vivo. The RA-induced differentiation of APL blasts is paralleled by the degradation of the fusion protein and the relocation of wild-type PML from aberrant nuclear structures to its normal localization in nuclear bodies. Recently, arsenic trioxide (As2O3) treatment was proposed as an alternative therapy in APL, because it can induce complete remission in both RA-sensitive and -resistant APL patients. Intriguingly, As2O3 was also shown to induce degradation of the PML-RAR chimera and to reorganize PML nuclear bodies. Here we show that trivalent antimonials also have striking effects on RA-sensitive and RA-resistant APL cells. Treatment of the APL-derived NB4 cells and the RA-resistant subclone NB4R4 with antimony trioxide or potassium antimonyl tartrat triggers the degradation of the fusion protein and the concomitant reorganization of the PML nuclear bodies. In addition, as reported for As2O3, the antimonials provoke apoptosis of NB4 and NB4R4 cells. The mechanism of antimony action is likely to be similar to that of As2O3, notably both substances induce the attachment of the ubiquitin-like SUMO-1 molecule to the PML moiety of PML-RAR. From these data, we propose that, in analogy to As2O3, antimonials might have a beneficial therapeutic effect on APL patients, perhaps with less toxicity than arsenic.
A case of hyponatremia following the first course of systemic adjuvant chemotherapy with cisplatin (CDDP) and 5-FU in a previously treated patient with esophageal cancer is reported. A 61-year-old man was admitted to our hospital for adjuvant chemotherapy after transthoracic esophagectomy and 3-field lymphadenectomy for esophageal cancer. Six days following chemotherapy, his serum sodium concentration was found to be 118 mEq/L, without edema or dehydration. This hyponatremic state was diagnosed as the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) induced by CDDP, based on the hypo-osmolality of his serum and urine, and an inappropriate level of plasma vasopressin.
Pregnant guinea pigs were treated with Kanamycin at three different stages of gestation (dating by method of post-partum ovulation). Twenty-nine newborn guinea pigs were tested electrophysiologically by recording the cochlear microphonic potential and the compound action potential from the round window in response to clicks and filtered clicks at 8,000 Hz. Six of the test animals showed the same electrophysiological changes as those found in adult mammals after Kanamycin intoxication. The results suggest a relationship between the ototoxicity of Kanamycin and the onset of auditory function. Cochlear potential and compound action potential were mostly affected when intoxication was performed during the last 15 days of gestation. This study confirms the results previously published by Uziel 1979.
To investigate whether BCL-2 expression would improve MVP/IGF-1R prediction of clinical outcome in cervix carcinoma patients treated by radiochemotherapy, and suggest possible mechanisms behind this effect.
Fifty consecutive patients, who achieved complete response to treatment, from a whole series of 60 cases suffering from non-metastatic localized cervical carcinoma, were prospectively included in this study from July 1999 to December 2003. Follow-up was closed in January 2011. All patients received pelvic radiation (45-64.80 Gy in 1.8-2 Gy fractions) with concomitant cisplatin at 40 mg/m2/week doses followed by brachytherapy. Oncoprotein expression was studied by immunohistochemistry in paraffin-embedded tumour tissue.
No relation was found between BCL-2 and clinicopathological variables. High MVP/IGF-1R/BCL-2 tumour expression was strongly related to poor local and regional disease-free survival (P<0.0001), distant disease-free survival (P=0.010), disease-free survival (P<0.0001), and cause-specific survival (P<0.0001). NHEJ repair protein Ku70/80 expression was significantly repressed in tumours overexpressing all three oncoproteins (P=0.047). No differences were observed in proliferation (Ki67 expression) or P53 alteration.
BCL-2, MVP, and IGF-1R overexpression were related to poorer clinical outcome in cervical cancer patients who achieved clinical complete response to radiochemotherapy. The NHEJ repair protein Ku70/80 expression could be involved in the regulation of these oncoproteins.
To compare the efficacy of ropivacaine 7.5 mg x ml(-1) with bupivacaine 5.0 mg x ml(-1) for subclavian perivascular brachial plexus block.
After informed consent, 104 ASA I-III adults participated in a randomized, double-blind, multi-center trial to receive 30 ml of either ropivacaine 7.5 mg x ml(-1) or bupivacaine 5.0 mg x ml(-1) for subclavian perivascular brachial plexus block prior to upper limb surgery. Onset and duration of sensory and motor block in the distribution of the axillary, median, musculo-cutaneous, radial and ulnar nerves were assessed.
Onset times and duration of sensory and motor block were similar between groups. Mean duration of analgesia for the five nerves was between 11.3 and 14.3 hr with ropivacaine and between 10.3 and 17.1 hr with bupivacaine. Quality of muscle relaxation judged as excellent by the investigators was not significantly different (ropivacaine - 35/49, bupivacaine - 30/49). The median time to first request for analgesia was comparable between the two groups (11-12 hr). One patient developed a grand mal seizure shortly after receiving bupivacaine and recovered consciousness within 30 min. There were no serious adverse events in the ropivacaine group.
Thirty ml ropivacaine 7.5 mg x ml(-1) (225 mg) produced effective and well tolerated brachial plexus block of long duration by the subclavian perivascular route. In this study, the results were similar to those of 30 ml bupivacaine 5.0 mg x ml(-1).
Thrombotic risk associated with chemotherapy including doxorubicin (DOX) has been frequently reported; yet, the exact mechanism is not fully understood. Here, we report that DOX can induce procoagulant activity in platelets, an important contributor to thrombus formation. In human platelets, DOX increased phosphatidylserine (PS) exposure and PS-bearing microparticle (MP) generation. Consistently, DOX-treated platelets and generated MPs induced thrombin generation, a representative marker for procoagulant activity. DOX-induced PS exposure appeared to be from intracellular Ca²⁺ increase and ATP depletion, which resulted in the activation of scramblase and inhibition of flippase. Along with this, apoptosis was induced by DOX as determined by the dissipation of mitochondrial membrane potential (Δψ), cytochrome c release, Bax translocation, and caspase-3 activation. A Ca²⁺ chelator ethylene glycol tetraacetic acid, caspase inhibitor Q-VD-OPh, and antioxidants (vitamin C and trolox) can attenuate DOX-induced PS exposure and procoagulant activity significantly, suggesting that Ca²⁺, apoptosis, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) were involved in DOX-enhanced procoagulant activity. Importantly, rat in vivo thrombosis model demonstrated that DOX could manifest prothrombotic effects through the mediation of platelet procoagulant activity, which was accompanied by increased PS exposure and Δψ dissipation in platelets.
