The process of postinjury hippocampal epileptogenesis may involve gradually developing dentate granule cell hyperexcitability caused by neuron loss and synaptic reorganization. We tested this hypothesis by repeatedly assessing granule cell excitability after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) and monitoring granule cell behavior during 235 spontaneous seizures in awake, chronically implanted rats. During the first week post-SE, granule cells exhibited diminished paired-pulse suppression and decreased seizure discharge thresholds in response to afferent stimulation. Spontaneous seizures often began during the first week after SE, recruited granule cell discharges that followed behavioral seizure onsets, and evoked c-Fos expression in all hippocampal neurons. Paired-pulse suppression and epileptiform discharge thresholds increased gradually after SE, eventually becoming abnormally elevated. In the chronic epileptic state, interictal granule cell hyperinhibition extended to the ictal state; granule cells did not discharge synchronously before any of 191 chronic seizures. Instead, granule cells generated only low-frequency voltage fluctuations (presumed "field excitatory postsynaptic potentials") during 89% of chronic seizures. Granule cell epileptiform discharges were recruited during 11% of spontaneous seizures, but these occurred only at the end of each behavioral seizure. Hippocampal c-Fos after chronic seizures was expressed primarily by inhibitory interneurons. Thus, granule cells became progressively less excitable, rather than hyperexcitable, as mossy fiber sprouting progressed and did not initiate the spontaneous behavioral seizures. These findings raise doubts about dentate granule cells as a source of spontaneous seizures in rats subjected to prolonged SE and suggest that dentate gyrus neuron loss and mossy fiber sprouting are not primary epileptogenic mechanisms in this animal model.
We have recently shown that proteasome inhibitor PS-341 induces apoptosis in drug-resistant multiple myeloma (MM) cells, inhibits binding of MM cells in the bone marrow microenvironment, and inhibits cytokines mediating MM cell growth, survival, drug resistance, and migration in vitro. PS-341 also inhibits human MM cell growth and prolongs survival in a SCID mouse model. Importantly, PS-341 has achieved remarkable clinical responses in patients with refractory relapsed MM. We here demonstrate molecular mechanisms whereby PS-341 mediates anti-MM activity by inducing p53 and MDM2 protein expression; inducing the phosphorylation (Ser15) of p53 protein; activating c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase (JNK), caspase-8, and caspase-3; and cleaving the DNA protein kinase catalytic subunit, ATM, and MDM2. Inhibition of JNK activity abrogates PS-341-induced MM cell death. These studies identify molecular targets of PS-341 and provide the rationale for the development of second-generation, more targeted therapies.
Pemetrexed is a newly developed multitargeted antifolate with promising clinical activity in many solid tumors including gastric cancer. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the cytotoxicity of pemetrexed and its mode of interaction with cisplatin in gastric cancer cell lines, and to identify genes associated with sensitivity to pemetrexed. The cytotoxic activity of pemetrexed was assessed by tetrazolium-based colorimetric assay (MTT assay) and the interaction between pemetrexed and cisplatin was evaluated by the isobologram method. Western immunoblotting and real time RT-PCR analysis of thymidylate synthase (TS), folylpoly-gamma-glutamate synthetase (FPGS) and reduced folate carrier (RFC1) were performed in order to determine whether sensitivity to pemetrexed would be predictable by protein or mRNA expression levels. Pemetrexed was more cytotoxic than 5-fluorouracil, with IC50 between 17 and 310 nM in most of the gastric cancer cell lines examined and the pemetrexed/cisplatin combination resulted in additive or synergistic interaction. The protein expressions of TS, FPGS, and RFC1 were significantly associated with IC50 for 5-fluorouracil, but no such association was found for pemetrexed chemosensitivity. The mRNA expressions of RFC1, FPGS and other target and resistance related genes revealed no significant association with pemetrexed sensitivity. In conclusion, pemetrexed is active against gastric cancer cell lines and the pemetrexed/cisplatin combination showed a synergistic or additive interaction, supporting its clinical use in gastric cancer. Drug sensitivity toward pemetrexed could not be predicted by the expressions of TS, RFC1, or FPGS and we suggest that it is determined by interactions between multiple genes.
In a previous study, we demonstrated that apoptosis in rats with adriamycin (ADR)-induced cardiomyopathy occurred through a Fas-dependent pathway. Pirarubicin, a new anthracycline derivative, seems to have a lower cardiotoxicity than ADR. To investigate whether pirarubicin has a lower chronic cardiotoxicity compared with ADR, ADR or pirarubicin were injected weekly for 8 wk into young Wister rats via the tail vein. To block the Fas-Fas ligand interaction, an anti-Fas ligand antibody (FasL) was injected with ADR 7, 8, and 9 wk after first administration of ADR. In the control group, saline was injected instead of ADR. ADR significantly induced apoptosis and left ventricular dysfunction 10 wk after the first administration of ADR. Pirarubicin also induced apoptosis, however, its apoptosis was significantly (p = 0.0069) less than that induced by ADR. Fas antigen was overexpressed in the hearts of ADR and ADR+FasL groups, however, an expression of Fas antigen in the pirarubicin group was similar to the expression of Fas antigen in the control group. Thus, pirarubicin has a significantly lower chronic cardiotoxicity compared with ADR.
The objective of this study was to characterize the mechanisms of action of the model environmental toxicant methyl mercury (MeHg) in the zebrafish embryo. Zebrafish embryos were exposed to MeHg, and the effective concentration and window of exposure were determined in wild-type and fluorescent reporter transgenic zebrafish embryos. Genes were systematically assessed for altered expression in response to MeHg by in situ hybridization. MeHg impairs development of the fin fold and the tail fin primordium. Alterations in transgene expression were noted at 6 microg/l MeHg, making this shh:gfp line the most sensitive biosensor of MeHg exposure. The matrix metalloproteases mmp9 and mmp13 and eight other genes are induced in the embryonic tail in response to MeHg. Our data suggest that MeHg impairs tail development at least partially by activation of the tissue remodeling proteases Mmp9 and Mmp13.
We describe a 36-year-old patient with an aggressive, midline intranasal and naso- and oropharyngeal destructive process. For months the patient denied heavy abuse of nasal cocaine, but finally admitted it. Necrosis and atrophy of the inferior and middle nasal turbinates bilaterally, prominent naso and oropharyngeal ulcers, nasal septal as well as hard palate perforation were observed clinically. Repeated biopsies revealed focal areas of chronic inflammation and necrosis, but there was no evidence of vasculitis or granuloma formation. Since serum was slightly positive for antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody, the initial diagnosis was Wegener's granulomatosis. In the United States there have been a few reports on a new cocaine-associated syndrome presenting as an aggressive, midline, intranasal and intrapharyngeal destructive process mimicking limited Wegener's granulomatosis and midline reticulosis. We report the first such case in Europe and offer guidelines for the diagnostic work-up of such cases.
Ciprofloxacin is a widely used fluoroquinolone for the treatment of patients with complicated and uncomplicated infections. With rare exceptions, only immune-mediated interstitial nephritis was described, with direct renal damage reported only in case of overdose. Experimental studies indicated that crystalluria may be associated with the administration of this drug, but the likelihood that ciprofloxacin crystal nephropathy would occur in humans was believed to be very low on the basis of previous data showing that ciprofloxacin crystalluria depended on a urine pH greater than 6.8. However, we report 2 cases of ciprofloxacin crystal-induced nephropathy with a clinical pattern of acute reversible tubular damage and intratubular crystals identical to that previously described in elderly patients treated with ciprofloxacin dosages within therapeutic schedules. Crystals in the tubules were negative for both the von Kossa stain for phosphates and alizarin red stain for calcium.
Platinum-based compounds are widely used and effective chemotherapeutic agents; however, sensory peripheral neuropathy is a dose-limiting and long term side effect for 20-30% of patients. A critical question is whether the mechanisms of cell death underlying clinical efficacy can be separated from the effects on neurons in order to develop strategies that prevent platinum-induced neuropathy. In rodent dorsal root ganglion neurons (DRG), cisplatin has been shown to bind and damage neuronal DNA, inducing apoptosis; however genetic manipulation in order to study mechanisms of this phenomenon in the rodent model system is costly and time-consuming. Drosophila melanogaster are commonly used to study neurological disorders, have DNA damage-apoptosis mechanisms homologous to mammalian systems, and have readily-available, inexpensive tools for rapid genetic manipulation. We therefore sought to develop adult Drosophila as a new model to study cisplatin-induced neurotoxicity. Adult Drosophila were exposed to 10, 25, 50, 100, 200 and 400 μg/ml cisplatin for 3 days and observed for fly survival and geotactic climbing behavior, cisplatin-DNA binding and cellular apoptosis. On day 3, 50 μg/ml cisplatin reduced the number of flies able to climb above 2 cm to 43% while fly survival was maintained at 92%. 100% lethality was observed at 400 μg/ml cisplatin. Whole fly platinum-genomic DNA adducts were measured and found to be comparable to adduct levels previously measured in rat DRG neurons. Brain, ovaries, kidney and heart harvested from cisplatin treated flies were stained for active caspase 3. Apoptosis was found in ovaries and brain but not in heart and kidney. Brain apoptosis was confirmed by transmission electron microscopy. Expression of the anti-apoptotic baculoviral protein, p35, in neurons using the GAL4-UAS system prevented cisplatin-induced apoptosis in the brain and restored climbing behavior. In conclusion, cisplatin-induced behavioral and apoptotic changes in Drosophila resemble those seen in mammals. Furthermore, the use of lethality and climbing assays combined with powerful gene manipulation, make Drosophila a suitable model to study mechanisms of cisplatin neurotoxicity.
Disorders with overlapping diagnostic features are grouped into a network module. Based on phenotypic similarities or differential diagnoses, it is possible to identify functional pathways leading to individual features. We generated a Smith-Magenis syndrome (SMS)-specific network module utilizing patient clinical data, text mining from the Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man database, and in vitro functional analysis. We tested our module by functional studies based on a hypothesis that RAI1 acts through phenotype-specific pathways involving several downstream genes, which are altered due to RAI1 haploinsufficiency. A preliminary genome-wide gene expression study was performed using microarrays on RAI1 haploinsufficient cells created by RNAi-based approximately 50% knockdown of RAI1 in HEK293T cells. The top dysregulated genes were involved in growth signaling and insulin sensitivity, neuronal differentiation, lipid biosynthesis and fat mobilization, circadian activity, behavior, renal, cardiovascular and skeletal development, gene expression, and cell-cycle regulation and recombination, reflecting the spectrum of clinical features observed in SMS. Validation using real-time quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction confirmed the gene expression profile of 75% of the selected genes analyzed in both HEK293T RAI1 knockdown cells and SMS lymphoblastoid cell lines. Overall, these data support a method for identifying genes and pathways responsible for individual clinical features in a complex disorder such as SMS.
In previous studies, the treatment of postoperative hypertension with sodium nitroprusside induced ischemic metabolism without a decrease in coronary sinus blood flow. In contrast, the calcium antagonists diltiazem and nifedipine reduce blood pressure and may improve myocardial metabolism. A prospective randomized trial was performed in 62 patients, in whom hypertension developed (mean arterial pressure greater than 95 mm Hg) after coronary bypass procedures, to compare diltiazem (n = 22), nifedipine (n = 20), and nitroprusside (n = 20). All three agents reduced blood pressure equally (p less than 0.0001, by analysis of variance). Heart rate decreased with diltiazem (p = 0.006) but increased with nifedipine and nitroprusside (p less than 0.05). Left ventricular diastolic function (the relation between left atrial pressure and left ventricular end-diastolic volume) was not changed with the three drugs. Systolic function (the relation between systolic blood pressure and left ventricular end-systolic volume) was depressed with diltiazem (p = 0.05 by analysis of covariance) and nifedipine (p = 0.05) but not with nitroprusside. Myocardial performance (the relation between left ventricular stroke work index and end-diastolic volume) was depressed most by diltiazem (p = 0.001 by analysis of covariance), and to a lesser extent with nifedipine (p = 0.03), but not with nitroprusside. Myocardial lactate flux in response to the stress of atrial pacing decreased with nitroprusside but not with diltiazem or nifedipine (p = 0.03 by analysis of variance). Diltiazem and nifedipine are effective agents for treating postoperative hypertension after coronary artery bypass operations.
Patients who smoke have higher complication rates than nonsmokers following many surgical procedures. It is not known if the adverse effects of smoking are caused by a nicotine effect or by some other potentially harmful agents that exist in tobacco smoke. It is also not known if these vasoactive effects are mediated through sympathetic nerve fibers (via nicotinic receptors in ganglia) or through elevated circulating levels of vasoactive hormones. We designed a 5-day protocol to measure relative blood flow both before and after a digital sympathetic block in the digits of subjects who were regular smokers following both smoking and wearing of a transdermal nicotine patch. Suitable pulse/wave tracings were recorded on 23 subjects. We also measured serum levels of nicotine, cotinine, vasopressin, norepinephrine, epinephrine, dopamine, and carboxyhemoglobin on each test day. Data for these serum levels were available in 30 test subjects. Digital sympathetic block had a significant beneficial effect in reversing the decreased digital blood flow that occurred after smoking (and also with use of the nicotine patch), despite the elevated circulating levels of vasopressin and norepinephrine seen with smoking. The vasoactive effects of smoking are probably due to the nicotinic effects on sympathetic fibers at the ganglionic levels.
The effect of Tiapride on levodopa-induced hyperkinesia and on-off phenomena was evaluated in 13 patients with Parkinson's disease in a randomized dose-finding, double-blind placebo cross-over study. The patients were checked using a modified Webster rating scale; hyperkinesia were rated on a 0-3 points scale for 5 regions and on-off periods measured by duration and frequency. Tiapride in doses not accompanied by significant recurrence of Parkinsonian symptoms revealed no significant diminution of the involuntary movements, and no effect on on-off periods was found.
A simple method that can be performed at the bedside using a spring balance was developed in order to quantify spasticity. The effects of tizanidine on spasticity were evaluated in 30 patients with sequelae of cerebrovascular disease using this method. Treatment with tizanidine was effective in 60% of the patients; there were high correlations between spasticity before and after tizanidine administration and the severity of symptoms and also between the degree of improvement in spasticity and in that of the symptoms. Atonic seizures, due to overdose of tizanidine, were observed in only one patient. The simple spasticity quantification method developed was useful for monitoring tizanidine administration in order to prevent drug overdose. The method appears to be very useful for evaluating the degree of spasticity at the bedside and in measuring the effects of antispastic drugs.
Old age is recognized to be the commonest time in life to develop epilepsy. There is a perception that older patients are more sensitive to the deleterious cognitive effects of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). Elderly patients (median age 70 years, range 60-88 years) taking anticonvulsant monotherapy (10 carbamazepine [CBZ], 8 sodium valproate [VPA], 5 phenytoin [PHT]) took an extra dose of their usual medication (200mg CBZ, 500mg VPA, 100mg PHT) and matched placebo each for a month in random order. The concentrations of AEDs were higher after 7 and 28 days of active treatment compared with placebo (7 days: CBZ 9.5 vs. 7.8 mg L(-1), p < 0.05; VPA 97 vs. 64 mg L(-1), p < 0.05; PHT 13 vs. 11 mg L(-1), p < 0.05; 28 days: CBZ 9.4 vs. 7.7 mg L(-1); p < 0.01, VPA 85 vs. 60 mg L(-1), p < 0.05; PHT 16 vs. 13 mg L(-1), p < 0.05). Despite these increases in concentration, there were no significant changes in attention, reaction time, finger tapping, memory, side-effect scale or sedation scoring during the active phases compared with placebo phases for the three drugs analysed together and separately. Elderly patients taking standard AEDs as monotherapy did not develop cognitive impairment when the dose was modestly increased within the target range for each drug.
In this study, the effects of rosiglitazone on renal matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) expression and its possible renoprotective mechanisms were investigated in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. We examined the urinary excretion rates of albumin (ALB), retinal-binding protein (RBP) and MMP-9 in control healthy rats (group C, n = 8), untreated diabetic rats (group D, n = 8) and diabetic rats treated with rosiglitazone (5mg/kg/day) (group R, n = 8) at eighth week. The renal tissue of diabetic rats was obtained for observing renal pathological changes by electron microscope and examining the expression of renal MMP-9 mRNA by RT-PCR. Our results showed that urinary excretion rates of MMP-9. ALB and RBP were significantly increased concurrently with the expression of renal MMP-9mRNA in group D compared with those of group C. Rosiglitazone significantly reduced urinary excretion rates of ALB, RBP and MMP-9 as well as the expression of renal MMP-9 mRNA. In addition, urinary excretion rate of MMP-9 showed positive relationship with urinary excretion rates of ALB and RBP. In conclusion, rosiglitazone definitely protects diabetic rats against renal injury, which may be partly associated with decreasing expression of renal MMP-9 mRNA and urinary MMP-9 production.
In a single-blind comparative study of the cases of 30 moderately hypertensive patients, clonidine hydrochloride and prazosin hydrochloride had similar effectiveness in lowering blood pressure. Neither agent had significant effects on the renin-aldosterone axis. Addition of polythiazide to prazosin and chlorthalidone to clonidine notably increased the antihypertensive effect of both drugs. Serum cholesterol levels were observed to decrease when prazosin and clonidine were given and to rise when the diuretics were added to the regimen. The patients treated with clonidine were troubled by side effects, particularly drowsiness and dry mouth. Prazosin was better tolerated, with side effects tending to diminish with time. The "first-dose" effect was seen in two patients given prazosin, but it did not limit treatment. Both diuretics induced notable hypokalemia.
A case of acute neonatal renal failure in twins following tocolytic treatment with ketoprotene is described. The twins had visible signs in utero of developed anhydramniosis associated with morphological renal abnormalities on ultrasound. At birth both twins had acute renal failure with reduced creatinine and urea levels, which could only be normalized after 3 and 18 months, respectively.
Many bacteria, including Vibrio spp., regulate virulence gene expression in a cell-density dependent way through a communication process termed quorum sensing (QS). Hence, interfering with QS could be a valuable novel antipathogenic strategy. Cinnamaldehyde has previously been shown to inhibit QS-regulated virulence by decreasing the DNA-binding ability of the QS response regulator LuxR. However, little is known about the structure-activity relationship of cinnamaldehyde analogs.
By evaluating the QS inhibitory activity of a series of cinnamaldehyde analogs, structural elements critical for autoinducer-2 QS inhibition were identified. These include an α,β unsaturated acyl group capable of reacting as Michael acceptor connected to a hydrophobic moiety and a partially negative charge. The most active cinnamaldehyde analogs were found to affect the starvation response, biofilm formation, pigment production and protease production in Vibrio spp in vitro, while exhibiting low cytotoxicity. In addition, these compounds significantly increased the survival of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans infected with Vibrio anguillarum, Vibrio harveyi and Vibrio vulnificus.
Several new and more active cinnamaldehyde analogs were discovered and they were shown to affect Vibrio spp. virulence factor production in vitro and in vivo. Although ligands for LuxR have not been identified so far, the nature of different cinnamaldehyde analogs and their effect on the DNA binding ability of LuxR suggest that these compounds act as LuxR-ligands.
The effects of propofol on anesthetic induction were evaluated in 40 dogs anesthetized with isoflurane. Propofol is a rapidly acting, nonbarbiturate drug that induces anesthesia of ultrashort duration with IV administration. Four preanesthetic regimens were used: anesthesia without preanesthetic drugs; or with preanesthetic administration of acepromazine (0.1 mg/kg of body weight, IM), diazepam (0.2 mg/kg, IV), or acepromazine (0.02 mg/kg) and butorphanol (0.4 mg/kg) IM. Heart rate, systolic arterial blood pressure (SAP), respiration, quality of induction and recovery, and adverse effects were induction and recovery, and adverse effects were recorded. Intravenous propofol administration induced a variable period of apnea in 34 of 40 dogs. Cyanosis (in 2 dogs) and signs of pain on injection (in 3 dogs) were infrequently observed during induction. One dog developed ventricular premature depolarizations after propofol administration. Venous CO2 tension increased and pH decreased immediately after propofol administration, regardless of preanesthetic regimen. The SAP significantly (P < 0.05) decreased after propofol administration in dogs treated with acepromazine (SAP, 178 mm of Hg before vs 128 mm of Hg after propofol) and with acepromazine/butorphanol (SAP, 184 mm of Hg before vs 98 mm of Hg after propofol). When used for induction, propofol induces anesthetic-related adverse effects, some of which can be minimized by preanesthetic medication. Recovery characteristics varied with preanesthetic medication, independent of propofol administration.
The proposed benefit of long-term dobutamine therapy is explained, relevant clinical trials are described, and recommendations for this treatment are discussed. Dobutamine increases cardiac contractility and causes vasodilation with little change in heart rate. It is routinely administered for short periods to relieve exacerbations of congestive heart failure (CHF) in hospitalized patients. Sustained effects have been seen with dobutamine infusions, although the known properties of the drug do not explain these effects. Long-term dobutamine therapy can lessen the symptoms of CHF and improve exercise tolerance and cardiac function. Nine published reports showed consistent improvement in 77 patients treated with multiple infusions of dobutamine. At Ohio State University, long-term dobutamine therapy (typically 5.0-7.5 micrograms/kg/min infused continuously) is used in patients with refractory CHF and those awaiting heart transplantation. Because the therapy does not prolong survival in most patients, specific endpoints of therapy should be determined for each patient. Because it may cause sudden death, patients receiving this therapy must be carefully monitored. Long-term use of dobutamine infusion lessens the symptoms of CHF but does not prolong survival.
A case of toxicity encountered with low-dose methotrexate therapy is discussed.
A 59-year-old African American woman receiving long-term therapy for psoriasis came to the hospital with painful ulcers, difficulty swallowing, cutaneous lesions, and acute renal failure. Her medical history included type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, coronary artery disease, morbid obesity, and psoriasis. On admission, the patient looked ill and had a low-grade fever; maculopapular skin lesions; and bullae and vesicles in her mouth and on her hands, legs, groin, and buttocks. With the exception of carvedilol, all home medications, including methotrexate, were discontinued. A complete medication history revealed that the patient had been taking methotrexate 2.5 mg daily, instead of 2.5 mg three times weekly as prescribed. This error translated into an estimated cumulative dose of 360 mg, nearly twice the prescribed amount. There were no clinically significant drug-drug interactions noted among her prescribed medications; however, the patient did report increased ibuprofen use secondary to the painful ulcerations in the previous few months. Leucovorin 15 mg i.v. every six hours was initiated along with additional supportive care. Skin and mucosal lesions, as well as her pain, had dramatically improved on day 5 of hospitalization. The patient was discharged after a six-day hospitalization and was provided with leucovorin 15 mg orally ever day for seven additional days until rheumatology follow-up. The patient was instructed to avoid any future methotrexate therapy.
A patient who erroneously took oral methotrexate daily rather than thrice weekly for psoriasis developed multiple manifestations of methotrexate toxicity.
The aim of the present study was to assess the efficacy of pramipexole (2-amino-4,5,6, 7-tetrahydro-6-propyl-amino-benzthiazole-dihydrochloride), a new dopamine D(2)/D(3) receptor agonist, to attenuate parkinsonian-like muscle rigidity in rats. Muscle tone was examined using a combined mechano- and electromyographic (EMG) method, which simultaneously measured the muscle resistance of a rat's hindlimb to passive extension and flexion at the ankle joint, and the EMG acitivity of the antagonistic muscles of that joint: gastrocnemius and tibialis anterior. Muscle rigidity was produced by reserpine (5 mg/kg) injected in combination with alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine (250 mg/kg) or by haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg). Pramipexole in doses of 0.5-5 mg/kg antagonized both reserpine+alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine- and haloperidol-induced muscle rigidity. Pramipexole also reduced reserpine-enhanced tonic and reflex EMG activities in the gastrocnemius muscle. The present results suggest that stimulation of the postsynaptic dopamine receptor may be chiefly responsible for the antiparkinsonian action of pramipexole. The ability of pramipexole to diminish the parkinsonian-like muscle rigidity seems to indicate a therapeutic value of this compound in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Mercury has been recognized as an industrial hazard that adversely affects male reproductive systems of humans and animals. However, less information is available concerning the underlying mechanism in the pathogenesis of male reproductive dysfunction. The present study investigated the possible involvement of oxidative stress to induce oxidative deterioration of testicular functions in adult rats. Wistar male rats (n=132) were continuously exposed to HgCl(2) at 0, 50 and 100 ppm during 90 days through oral administration in the drinking water. Mercury exposure for 90 days resulted in an increase in the absolute and relative wet weight of the testis and a decrease in the absolute and relative wet weight of the accessory sex glands, with respect to the matched control. Marked perturbation in testosterone serum level was also detected during the treatment for the treated groups. Cauda epididymal sperm count/motility decreased significantly in the mercury-treated group and qualitative examination of testicular sections revealed a fewer mature luminal spermatozoa in comparison to the control. When the mercury-treated males were mated with normal cyclic females, mercury exposure resulted in a decline of the reproductive performance of male rats. These effects were associated with a significant increase in mercury content of testes and blood in time-dependent and dose-dependent fashion, respectively. The HgCl(2) treatment was associated with oxidative stress. Evidence of induction of oxidative stress was obtained in terms of perturbations in antioxidant defense and a significant dose-dependent increase in the testicular lipid peroxidation as a consequence of pro-oxidant exposure. Taken together, the results suggest that an increase in free radical formation relative to loss of antioxidant defense system after mercury exposure may render testis more susceptible to oxidative damage leading to their functional inactivation.
The development of atherosclerotic cardiovascular complications is a common and serious problem for the long-term survivors of organ transplantation. Cyclosporine A plus steroid-based immuno-suppression regimens in these patients are associated with the development of hypertension, hyperlipidemia, obesity, and diabetes mellitus. Whether the new immunosuppressive agent tacrolimus (FK506) confers any advantage in terms of these cardiovascular risk factors has been less well studied. We compared serial changes in blood pressure, lipids, body weight, and glucose levels during the first 12 months after liver transplantation in patients using either cyclosporine A (n = 39) or tacrolimus (n = 24)-based immunosuppression. By 12 months, the prevalence of hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and obesity was increased in the cyclosporine A group compared to tacrolimus: 82% versus 33%, 33% versus 0%, and 46% versus 29%, respectively (all p < .05). Triglyceride and total cholesterol levels were 196 +/- 23 versus 125 +/- 13 mg/dL and 225 +/- 9 versus 159 +/- 7 mg/dL for the cyclosporine A versus tacrolimus groups, respectively (p < .05). Cumulative posttransplant steroid dose was not related to the observed lipid changes in either group, although the increase in triglycerides was positively correlated to weight gain and diuretic use in the cyclosporine A group. The incidence of diabetes mellitus was not increased from baseline in either group. These results indicate that tacrolimus, compared to cyclosporine A, is associated with a less adverse cardiovascular risk profile in the first year after liver transplantation. Whether these differences persist and become clinically relevant to a liver transplant recipient population that is increasingly older and has more preexisting cardiovascular disease remains to be determined.
The intraocular pressure effect of fluorometholone 0.1% was compared with that of dexamethasone 0.1% by performing corticosteroid provocative tests on 24 matched pairs of eyes. Fifteen of the 24 dexamethasone treated eyes, 62.5%, showed a change in intraocular pressure greater than 5 mmHg, with mean delta P = 8.58 mmHg and range 0 to +20 mmHg. Only 2 of the 24 fluorometholone treated eyes, 8.3%, showed a change in pressure greater than 5 mmHg, with mean delta P = 2.96 mmHg and range -2 to +14 mmHg. There was a highly statistically significant difference between the intraocular pressure effects of topical dexamethasone and fluorometholone (correlated t test, p less than 0.001). Fluorometholone would appear to be the topical steroid of choice for patients with glaucoma and other known steroid responders when topical steroid treatment is indicated.
The toxicity of azidothymidine (AZT) was studied in monkey dams and fetuses that were exposed to the drug over the entire gestational period. Fourteen virus-free female macaques (Macaca nemestrina) were randomly assigned to AZT or control groups. AZT animals received the drug through a gastric catheter at a dose of 1.5 mg/kg every 4 hours, which produced plasma concentrations similar to those in humans taking 500 to 600 mg/day of AZT. Control animals received water placebo, also through gastric catheter. Some animals participated in both groups. All females were mated with the same male; 41 matings produced 20 pregnancies, of which 16 were carried to term (9 in AZT females; 7 in control females). The AZT animals developed an asymptomatic macrocytic anemia, but hematologic parameters returned to normal when AZT was discontinued. Total leukocyte count decreased during pregnancy and was further affected by AZT administration. AZT-exposed infants were mildly anemic at birth. AZT caused deficits in growth, rooting and snouting reflexes, and the ability to fixate and follow near stimuli visually, but the deficits disappeared over time. These data indicate that early exposure to AZT in utero should have no irreversible adverse effects on the fetus.
Basonuclin 2 is a recently discovered zinc finger protein of unknown function. Its paralog, basonuclin 1, is associated with the ability of keratinocytes to multiply. The basonuclin zinc fingers are closely related to those of the Drosophila proteins disco and discorelated, but the relation between disco proteins and basonuclins has remained elusive because the function of the disco proteins in larval head development seems to have no relation to that of basonuclin 1 and because the amino acid sequence of disco, apart from the zinc fingers, also has no similarity to that of the basonuclins. We have generated mice lacking basonuclin 2. These mice die within 24 h of birth with a cleft palate and abnormalities of craniofacial bones and tongue. In the embryonic head, expression of the basonuclin 2 gene is restricted to mesenchymal cells in the palate, at the periphery of the tongue, and in the mesenchymal sheaths that surround the brain and the osteocartilagineous structures. In late embryos, the rate of multiplication of these mesenchymal cells is greatly diminished. Therefore, basonuclin 2 is essential for the multiplication of craniofacial mesenchymal cells during embryogenesis. Non-Drosophila insect databases available since 2008 reveal that the basonuclins and the disco proteins share much more extensive sequence and gene structure similarity than noted when only Drosophila sequences were examined. We conclude that basonuclin 2 is both structurally and functionally the vertebrate ortholog of the disco proteins. We also note the possibility that some human craniofacial abnormalities are due to a lack of basonuclin 2.
