Two groups of six beagle dogs received rapid intravenous (IV) injections of ropivacaine or bupivacaine on two occasions in a blinded random fashion. Initially, a dose sufficient to cause convulsions (CD) was given followed by twice the CD (2 x CD), which was administered 48 h later. The CD of bupivacaine (4.3 mg/kg) and ropivacaine (4.9 mg/kg) caused significant (P less than 0.05) increases in heart rate and mean arterial blood pressure. There was no difference between drug groups. Seizures were abolished by 10 mg/kg of intravenous thiamylal. Endotracheal intubation and controlled respiration with O2-enriched air with no other treatment resulted in rapid and complete recovery in all dogs. All dogs receiving 2 x CD of bupivacaine (8.6 mg/kg) or ropivacaine (9.8 mg/kg) were initially treated with thiamylal and mechanical ventilation. Two dogs in the bupivacaine group developed hypotension, respiratory arrest, ventricular tachycardia, and ventricular fibrillation, which were resistant to closed chest cardiac massage, treatment with epinephrine, bretylium, and atropine, and direct current cardioversion. The four remaining dogs in the infusion group were successfully resuscitated. All of the animals in the ropivacaine-treated group survived the administration of the 2 x CD dose. Mild hypotension developed in one dog and was treated with intravenous epinephrine (0.75 mg). This resulted in nodal tachycardia, which was abolished after treatment with bretylium. Another dog had two 1-s bursts of premature ventricular contractions requiring no treatment. The rapid treatment of convulsions and cardiovascular toxicity resulted in a decreased number of deaths in both groups when compared with dogs from a previously published study in which no therapy was instituted. Thus, early aggressive treatment of central nervous system and cardiovascular system toxicity is capable of reducing the incidence of mortality associated with the rapid intravenous administration of excessive doses of local anesthetics.
Since polyamines have been suggested to be one of the uremic "toxins," the levels of each polyamine, its oxidized product, acrolein, and amine oxidase in plasma of patients with renal failure were investigated. The level of putrescine was increased, whereas the level of spermine was decreased in the plasma of patients with renal failure. The patients also had increased serum amine oxidase activity leading to increased degradation of spermine. Both levels of free and protein-conjugated acrolein were also increased in plasma of patients with renal failure. The accumulated acrolein found as protein conjugates was equivalent to 180 microM, which was 6-fold higher than in plasma of normal subjects. It was found that acrolein is mainly produced by polyamine oxidase in plasma. A cell lysate containing polyamine oxidase was cytotoxic in the presence of spermine. Our results indicate that the level of acrolein is well correlated with the degree of seriousness of chronic renal failure.
Animal studies have suggested that the temporal summation of nociceptive inputs might play a significant role in the development of central sensitization (i.e., hyperexcitability of central nociceptive neurons) and hyperalgesia via the activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. To further analyze these processes in humans, we evaluated the effects of small systemic doses of ketamine on the temporal summation (i.e., wind-up) of both the nociceptive flexion (R(III)) reflex and sensations of pain in six healthy volunteers. The R(III) reflex was recorded from the biceps femoris and was elicited by electrical stimulation of the sural nerve. First, the recruitment (stimulus/response) curve for the reflex was built using stimuli up to the pain tolerance threshold (applied once every 6 s). A series of 15 stimuli was then applied once a second at an intensity of 1.2 times the reflex threshold. These procedures were performed both before and after the randomized IV injection of either 0.15 mg/kg ketamine or a placebo. The R(III) reflex threshold and its recruitment curve were not significantly altered after the injection of ketamine or placebo. By contrast, the significant increases (i.e., wind-up) in both the reflex responses and the sensations of pain observed during the higher frequency stimulation were significantly reduced after the administration of ketamine, but not placebo. This method might be useful for quantifying and analyzing the wind-up phenomenon and, thus, for studying the neurophysiological and pharmacological mechanisms underlying hyperalgesia in humans.
The wind-up phenomenon (i.e., the progressive increase of the responses induced by repetitive nociceptive stimuli) was characterized in humans by using electrophysiological recordings of the nociceptive flexion reflex. We showed that, as in animals, this phenomenon, which might represent an elementary form of the central sensitization involved in various painful syndromes, depends on the activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, because it was selectively reduced after the administration of ketamine.
Methadone treatment is a well recognised cause of QT interval lengthening in adults. In this case report, we present for the first time, clinically significant QT interval lengthening in a neonate secondary to maternal methadone treatment. Neonatal paediatricians should be aware of this important and potentially serious clinical phenomenon.
Bradycardia, tachycardia or an irregular heart rate in an infant born to a mother on methadone treatment should not be ignored and a 12-lead electrocardiogram should be performed. Furthermore, there is also a need for a prospective study of QTc intervals in infants born to mothers receiving methadone.
The objective was to evaluate whether motor nervous pathways are affected when patients are treated for childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).
Thirty-two children with ALL were studied at the end of treatment by means of motor evoked potentials (MEPs) elicited by magnetic stimulation (MS) transcranially and peripherally and underwent a detailed neurological examination. Thirty-two healthy children matched with them for age, sex, and height served as a control group.
The latencies of the MEPs were significantly prolonged along the entire motor nervous pathway in the patients with ALL compared with the healthy controls, indicating demyelination in the thick motor fibres. The MEP amplitudes of the distal extremities elicited by stimulation at the brachial plexus and LV spinal level were significantly lowered in the patients treated for ALL, also indicating anatomical or functional loss of descending motor fibres and/or muscle fibres. The MEP amplitudes elicited by cortical MS showed wider variation and no clear abnormalities were found. Neurological signs and symptoms were common after treatment: 41% of the patients had depressed deep tendon reflexes, 31% had fine motor difficulties and 63% gross motor difficulties, and 34% had dysdiadochokinesia. The conduction delay within the peripheral nerve was related to the post-therapeutic interval after administration of vincristine and the lesions within the CNS to the number of injections of intrathecal methotrexate.
The present results show adverse effects of the ALL treatment on the entire motor nervous pathways. In our experience, the measurement of MEPs by MS provides an objective, painless, and practical tool for assessing the treatment-related neurotoxicity in both the CNS and the peripheral nerves. These disturbances in the motor nervous pathways at the end of treatment raise the question of the long-term effects of ALL treatment on the motor nerve tracts, and have led us to employ MEPs to study these effects in long-term survivors of ALL.
We examined the effects of repeated stress and D1 receptor activation in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) on acute-cocaine-induced locomotor activity in rats. Male rats were given 7 days of either handling (Controls) or a variety of stressors. After 8-17 days' withdrawal, rats received an intra-mPFC microinjection of the full D1 agonist, SKF 81297: 0, 0.03, 0.1 or 0.3 microg/side followed by an i.p. saline or cocaine injection (15 mg/kg, i.p.). The target sites were either the dorsal or ventral mPFC. We also divided rats into either high or low responders based on their locomotor response to an acute cocaine injection. In the dorsal PFC, low responder Control and Stress groups demonstrated an augmentation of cocaine-induced increases in activity after SKF 81297, compared with vehicle, microinjection. In contrast, high responder rats demonstrated a suppression of cocaine-induced increases in activity after intra-mPFC SFK 81297 infusion, with an apparent 10 times higher sensitivity in the Stress group. In the ventral PFC, low responder Controls showed no changes after SKF 81297 infusion, while the Stress group showed an increase in cocaine-induced activity in response to SKF 81297. In high responders given SFK 81297 into the ventral mPFC, cocaine-induced activity was suppressed in Controls, while stress pretreatment rendered animals resistant to SKF 81297 effects. These results indicate that D1 receptor activation effects in the mPFC are bidirectional depending on whether rats have a high or low locomotor response to cocaine. Further, daily stress alters the sensitivity of the mPFC to SKF 81297, which is dependent on whether the dorsal or ventral mPFC is targeted.
The authors reviewed the pathogenesis of cocaine-related cerebral ischemia, appraised current knowledge of its sequelae, and assessed the role of putative therapeutic agents, particularly dihydropyridine-class calcium channel antagonists.
The authors performed an OVID-based literature review of all indexed journals between 1966 and 2000.
Cocaine abuse significantly increases the risk of ischemic stroke. The principal mechanism of cocaine-induced cerebral ischemia is vasospasm of large cranial arteries or within the cortical microvasculature. Increased levels of extracellular monoamines, particularly dopamine, mediate vasospasm. Neuroanatomical and labeling studies also have shown that dopamine-innervated neurons may regulate cerebral blood flow. Indeed, dopamine-rich brain regions appear to be relatively specific targets for cocaine-induced cerebral ischemia. Neuroimaging studies show that cocaine-induced hypoperfusion can persist even after 6 months of abstinence. Hypoperfusion can result in deficits on complex and simple psychomotor tasks but perhaps not on memory or attention. Severe cerebral ischemia can directly precipitate neuronal death and degradation, a condition exacerbated by liberation of the excitatory amino acid glutamate. Dihydropyridine-class calcium channel antagonists inhibit cocaine-mediated dopamine release on neurons involved in vasospasm and the control of cortical circulation. Other causes of cerebral ischemia include thrombogenesis and vasculitis. Although antithrombotic agents have potential in alleviating cocaine's neurotoxic effects, their use may be limited by the risk of spontaneous hemorrhage.
Cocaine abuse can result in stroke, neuroischemia, and cognitive deficits that can persist even after prolonged abstinence. Dihydropyridine-class calcium channel antagonists, such as isradipine, show promise as therapeutic agents for preventing cocaine-induced cerebral ischemia.
The glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa antagonists and the low-molecular weight heparins are the newest additions to the armamentarium of antiplatelet drugs for the treatment of acute coronary syndromes. They are extremely potent inhibitors of platelet aggregation and thrombin generation, respectively. There are currently three GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors (abciximab, eptifibatide, and tirofiban) and two low-molecular weight heparins (dalteparin and enoxaparin) approved for use with acute coronary syndromes. Data continue to accumulate outlining the specific roles for these drugs in the treatment of patients with acute coronary syndromes. Clinical trials in patients with acute coronary syndromes have demonstrated that the GP IIb/IIIa antagonists and low-molecular weight heparins offer significant benefit with acceptable safety profiles. Future issues that need to be addressed include refinement of indications for administration and patient selection, comparison between existing agents, evaluation of newer agents, and optimization of dosing to maximize benefit and safety in the use of these powerful new classes of drugs.
A deficient L-arginine-nitric oxide system is implicated in cortisol-induced hypertension. We investigate whether abnormalities in L-arginine uptake contribute to this deficiency. Eight healthy men were recruited. Hydrocortisone acetate (50 mg) was given orally every 6 hours for 24 hours after a 5-day fixed-salt diet (150 mmol/d). Crossover studies were performed 2 weeks apart. Thirty milliliters of blood was obtained for isolation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells after each treatment period. L-arginine uptake was assessed in mononuclear cells incubated with L-arginine (1 to 300 micromol/L), incorporating 100 nmol/L [3H]-l-arginine for a period of 5 minutes at 37 degrees C. Forearm [3H]-L-arginine extraction was calculated after infusion of [3H]-L-arginine into the brachial artery at a rate of 100 nCi/min for 80 minutes. Deep forearm venous samples were collected for determination of L-arginine extraction. Plasma cortisol concentrations were significantly raised during the active phase (323+/-43 to 1082+/-245 mmol/L, P<0.05). Systolic blood pressure was elevated by an average of 7 mm Hg. Neither L-arginine transport into mononuclear cells (placebo vs active, 26.3+/-3.6 vs 29.0+/-2.1 pmol/10 000 cells per 5 minutes, respectively, at an l-arginine concentration of 300 micromol/L) nor L-arginine extraction in the forearm (at 80 minutes, placebo vs active, 1 868 904+/-434 962 vs 2 013 910+/-770 619 disintegrations per minute) was affected by cortisol treatment; ie, that L-arginine uptake is not affected by short-term cortisol treatment. We conclude that cortisol-induced increases in blood pressure are not associated with abnormalities in the l-arginine transport system.
Human malignant mesothelioma (MM) is a highly aggressive neoplasm related to occupational asbestos exposure and characterised by a long latency period between the exposure and onset of disease. Previous studies indicate that losses at different genomic regions are present in MM. We examined allele loss at three known tumour suppressor gene regions (22q/NF2 gene, 9p/p16 gene, and 3p/FHIT gene) and at two other frequently deleted areas (14q and 6q) in MM. Loss of heterozygosity (LOH) was investigated in cell cultures and primary tumours with several highly polymorphic markers for each site. To study if LOH of the NF2 gene is a consistent feature in MM, we performed a more detailed analysis of chromosome 22q that included a NF2 marker (NF2CA3). We observed a high frequency of LOH occurring simultaneously at multiple loci. In particular, 100% of the cultured MM cells exhibited LOH at the NF2 gene region. From the other chromosomal sites analysed, recurrent allele loss was detected at 9p (5/7; 71%), 3p (4/7; 57%), 14q (3/7; 43%), and 6q (3/7; 43%). Of the 32 tumours, even those trimmed to exclude normal tissue, few showed LOH, suggesting consielment by normal cells within MM tumours, whereas tumour cells in primary cultures showed LOH already in passages 1-2. In conclusion, our present LOH data indicate that MM cells exhibit allele losses at multiple tumour suppressor gene sites concurrently, involving NF2 gene preferentially. This supports the view that the accumulation of multiple genetic hits is characteristic to malignant transformation of MM cells.
Postoperative muscle pains occurred in 16% of 25 patients given 10 mg diazepam IV 5 minutes prior to succinylcholine. Postoperative muscle pains occurred in 60% of 25 patients not given diazepam before succinylcholine. The difference is statistically significant. Diazepam reduced the severity and duration of postoperative muscle pains, as well as their frequency.
We describe full exposure of an acquired Long QT Syndrome (aLQTS) in an elderly female patient on long-term Amiodarone treatment. We propose that the aLQTS is the result of combined block of the rapid (I(Kr)) and delayed (I(Ks)) components of the outward potassium current (I(K)), translated to the ECG in a (more than expected) prolonged QT interval, an augmented transmural dispersion of repolarization (TDR) and an interrupted T wave. The unequal regression of repolarization lengthening made possible to individualize I(K) current components in the inscription of the interrupted T wave, which argues against the U wave as a separate entity. Silent ion channel gene mutations or polymorphisms and downregulation of beta-adrenergic activation of I(Ks) may underlie the unusual repolarization behaviour. The unequal regression over time of Amiodarone-induced repolarization lengthening could have clinical significance.
We have studied the ability of the plasma to induce aggregation of both homologous and heterologous platelets in four patients with hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS) associated with chemotherapy with mitomycin C (MMC). Neither platelet aggregation was elicited by patients' plasmas nor the in vitro addition of purified von Willebrand factor (vWF) had any effect on the aggregation pattern. In addition, ristocetin-induced binding of patients' vWF to formaldehyde-fixed platelets was normal, and multimeric vWF analysis revealed a normal structure of patients' plasmatic vWF whatever the clinical stage in which it was studied. These findings suggest that, in spite of the existence of common clinical and biological features in the various forms of HUS, the pathogenesis of MMC-related HUS may be, at least in part, different from that of the other forms of HUS in which both platelet-aggregating activity and alterations in the vWF are found.
Amiodarone chlorhydrate is a diiodated benzofuran derivative, and it is used to treat cardiac rhythm abnormalities. Hepatotoxicity is a relatively uncommon side effect of amiodarone, and symptomatic hepatic dysfunction occurs in fewer than 1% of the patients taking amiodarone. Cirrhosis is a rare complication that's been confirmed in 12 cases. Peripheral neuropathy occurs in 10% of patients taking aminodarone. We report here on an unusual case of amiodarone-induced hepatotoxicity and peripheral neurotoxicity. A 75 year old man with normal liver function was given amiodarone for treating his atrial fibrillation and heart failure. He developed nausea, vomiting, muscle weakness and wasting after 17.8 months therapy with amiodarone (400 mg orally once per day). Liver biopsy showed the presence of foam cells in the hepatic sinusoids and Mallory bodies in the periportal hepatocytes on light microscopy. Sural nerve biopsy showed demyelination, and nerve conduction studies showed mixed sensorimotor polyneuropathy. These observations show the necessity of monitoring the hepatic function and conducting neurologic examination of the patients treated with amiodarone.
Our aim in this study was to investigate the changes of serum high-sensitive C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) and uric acid (UA), and evaluate the synergistic effect of amlodipine and atorvastatin on blood pressure and left ventricular remodeling in hypertensive patients with primary hypercholesterolemia. One hundred and twenty-six hypertensive patients with hypercholesterolemia were randomized into amlodipine group (10 mg/day, group A, n = 65) and amlodipine (10 mg/day) plus atorvastatin group (20 mg/day, group B, n = 61), treated for 4 months continuously. Serum concentrations of total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, triglycerides, hs-CRP, and UA were determined, and blood pressure of both groups was examined before and after treatment. Left ventricular posterior wall thickness and interventricular spectum thickness were measured by echocardiography, and left ventricular mass index (LVMI) was calculated. After 4-months of treatment with atorvastatin, serum concentrations of total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, triglycerides, hs-CRP, and UA were significantly decreased in group B (P < 0.05, P < 0.01), while serum concentrations of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol was elevated (P < 0.05). Meanwhile, systolic blood pressure and diastolic blood pressure were reduced in both groups (P < 0.05), and blood pressure in group B was markedly lower than that in group A after treatment (P < 0.05). Compared with that before treatment, LVMI in both groups decreased (P < 0.05), to a significantly lower degree in group B than in group A (P < 0.05). Atorvastatin can decrease serum concentrations of hs-CRP and UA. The amlodipine-atorvastatin combination markedly reduces blood pressure and reverses left ventricular hypertrophy more than amlodipine monotherapy. The positive effect suggests that in hypertensive and hypercholesterolemic patients, the combination of amlodipine and atorvastatin could be the treatment of choice.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative disorder that follows an autosomal-dominant inheritance pattern. The pathogenesis of the disease depends on the degree of expansion of triplet (CAG) repeats located in the first exon on the gene. An expanded polyglutamine tract within the protein huntingtin (Htt) enables a gain-of-function phenotype that is often exhibited by a dysfunctional oligomerization process and the formation of protein aggregates. How this process leads to neurodegeneration remains undefined. We report that expression of a Htt-fragment containing an expanded glutamine tract induces DNA damage and activates the DNA damage response pathway. Both single-strand and double-strand breaks are observed as the mutant protein accumulates in the cell; these breaks precede the appearance of detectable protein aggregates containing mutant Htt. We also observe activation of H2AX, ATM, and p53 in cells expressing mutant Htt, a predictable response in cells containing chromosomal breakage. Expression of wild-type Htt does not affect the integrity of DNA, nor does it activate the same pathway. Furthermore, DNA damage and activated H2AX are present in HD transgenic mice before the formation of mutant Htt aggregates and HD pathogenesis. Taken together, our data suggest that the expression of mutant Htt causes an accumulation of DNA breaks that activates the DNA damage response pathway, a process that can disable cell function. Because these events can lead to apoptosis, it is possible that the DNA damage response pathway activated by single- and double-strand breaks that we found contributes to neurodegeneration.
This study examined the safety and efficacy of gamma vinyl-GABA (GVG, vigabatrin) for the treatment of methamphetamine and/or cocaine addiction. A total of 30 subjects, who met DSM-IV criteria for methamphetamine and/or cocaine dependence, were enrolled in an open label 9-week safety study. The protocol was specifically designed to include extensive visual field monitoring as well as outcome measures of therapeutic efficacy. Patients were screened twice weekly for the presence of urinary cocaine, methamphetamine, heroin, alcohol, and marijuana. In total, 18/30 subjects completed the study and 16/18 tested negative for methamphetamine and cocaine during the last 6 weeks of the trial. GVG did not produce any visual field defects or alterations in visual acuity. Furthermore, it did not produce changes in vital signs even with continued use of methamphetamine and cocaine. Thus, under conditions that appear to be appropriate for the successful treatment of methamphetamine and/or cocaine addiction, GVG is safe.
The efficacy of amiodarone was assessed in 38 patients with atrial fibrillation resistant to quinidine and an effort made to identify factors correlated with amiodarone response. The study group included 29 patients with and 9 without organic heart disease and either persistent (n = 11) or paroxysmal (n = 27) atrial fibrillation. All patients were treated with amiodarone and followed up in a research clinic. Efficacy was classified as excellent (no recurrent symptomatic atrial fibrillation) in 15 (55%) of 27 patients with paroxysmal and 5 (45%) of 11 patients with persistent atrial fibrillation. Efficacy was poor (no effect on atrial fibrillation) in 5 (19%) of 27 patients with paroxysmal and 6 (55%) of 11 patients with persistent atrial fibrillation. Efficacy was good (amelioration but not total suppression) in 7 (26%) of 27 patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. Efficacy was related to echocardiographic left atrial dimension, left ventricular ejection fraction and, in patients with persistent atrial fibrillation, the duration of the arrhythmia. During the follow-up period of 15 months (range 1 to 36), overall efficacy (considering response and toxicity) was 67% in the 27 patients with paroxysmal and 45% in the 11 patients with persistent atrial fibrillation. It is concluded that amiodarone offers an additional therapeutic alternative in quinidine-resistant atrial fibrillation and that certain clinical factors are correlated with amiodarone response.
Organotin compounds have been implicated as reproductive toxicants and endocrine disruptors primarily through studies in aquatic organisms, with little information available in mammals. Among the organotins, aryltins have been less studied than alkyltins. Extensive data is available on mammalian developmental and reproductive toxicity of one aryltin compound, triphenyltin (TPT), from toxicity studies conducted in connection with the registration of triphenyltin hydroxide (TPTH) as a pesticide and supporting publications from the open literature. Indications of adverse functional and morphological effects on the reproductive tract of rats were reported in a dose range of 1.4-20 mg/kg/d. Gonadal histopathology (both ovaries and testes) and infertility were affected at the higher doses, while reproductive-tract cancer, smaller litter sizes, and reproductive organ weights were affected at the lower end of the dose range. In vitro studies indicate that TPT can directly activate androgen receptor-mediated transcription and inhibit enzymes that are involved in steroid hormone metabolism. These data suggest that the aryltin TPT can be active as a reproductive toxicant in mammals and may be a human endocrine disruptor.
Erythermalgia is a rare clinical syndrome characterised by intermittent, usually symmetrical burning pain, warmth and dermal erythema of the extremities with an amelioration of discomfort by cooling of the extremity. In this report, we describe a patient with erythermalgia caused by long-term verapamil use. After discontinuing the verapamil, the symptoms improved dramatically within two weeks.
A case of oral penicillin anaphylaxis is described, and the terminology, occurrence, clinical manifestations, pathogenesis, prevention, and treatment of anaphylaxis are reviewed. Emergency physicians should be aware of oral penicillin anaphylaxis in order to prevent its occurrence by prescribing the antibiotic judiciously and knowledgeably and to offer optimal medical therapy once this life-threatening reaction has begun.
In utero and lactational exposure to organophosphate dimethoate exerted toxic impact on the reproductive system of male mice. Pregnant mice were exposed to 4, 8, and 16 mg/kg of the pesticide, the sublethal doses (2.5, 5, and 10% of Lethal Dose(50) [LD(50)]), via gavaging from gestation day (GD) 6 to postnatal day (PND) 21. The effects on the male reproductive system were evaluated at two stages: at prepubertal age (PND 22) and at the postpubertal age of PND 63. Gonadal inhibition was reflected in the significant reduction of weight and distinct histopathological alteration of testis and epididymis as well as in decreased sperm counts, which could be linked to hormonal imbalance caused by dimethoate interference of reproductive axis. Disruption of pituitary-testicular axis was shown in the weak immunointensity of luteinizing hormone (LH) cells, reduction in their size and number, and lowered plasma LH and testosterone levels as observed in the neonates exposed to two higher tested doses. In addition, the direct toxic impact of the pesticide on the testicular Leydig cells and inhibition of steroidogenesis could be suggested. Drastic reduction in the testosterone level (approximately 70%) was suggestive of this effect. The adverse effects were persisted in the young adult mice. Developmental toxicity was evident in the highest dose-exposed (10% LD(50)) group where GD length and stillbirths were significantly increased along with a decrease of body weight and anogenital distance of the fetus. Maternal exposure of pesticide during gestation and lactation periods thus adversely affected the pituitary-testicular axis of mice neonates, which further caused reproductive dysfunctioning of young adult mice.
Applying jet propulsion-8 (JP-8) jet fuel to the skin of mice induces immune suppression. Applying JP-8 to the skin of mice suppresses T-cell-mediated immune reactions including, contact hypersensitivity (CHS) delayed-type hypersensitivity and T-cell proliferation. Because dermal mast cells play an important immune regulatory role in vivo, we tested the hypothesis that mast cells mediate jet fuel-induced immune suppression. When we applied JP-8 to the skin of mast cell deficient mice CHS was not suppressed. Reconstituting mast cell deficient mice with wild-type bone marrow derived mast cells (mast cell "knock-in mice") restored JP-8-induced immune suppression. When, however, mast cells from prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2))-deficient mice were used, the ability of JP-8 to suppress CHS was not restored, indicating that mast cell-derived PGE(2) was activating immune suppression. Examining the density of mast cells in the skin and lymph nodes of JP-8-treated mice indicated that jet fuel treatment caused an initial increase in mast cell density in the skin, followed by increased numbers of mast cells in the subcutaneous space and then in draining lymph nodes. Applying JP-8 to the skin increased mast cell expression of CXCR4, and increased the expression of CXCL12 by draining lymph node cells. Because CXCL12 is a chemoattractant for CXCR4+ mast cells, we treated JP-8-treated mice with AMD3100, a CXCR4 antagonist. AMD3100 blocked the mobilization of mast cells to the draining lymph node and inhibited JP-8-induced immune suppression. Our findings demonstrate the importance of mast cells in mediating jet fuel-induced immune suppression.
Inorganic arsenic is a major water pollutant and a known human carcinogen that has a suppressive influence on spermatogenesis and androgenesis in male reproductive system. However, the actual molecular events resulting in male reproductive dysfunctions from exposure to arsenic remain unclear. In this context, we evaluated the mode of action of chronic oral exposure of sodium arsenite on hypothalamo-pituitary- testicular activities in mature male albino rats.
The effect of chronic oral exposure to sodium arsenite (5 mg/kg body weight/day) via drinking water without or with hCG (5 I.U./kg body weight/day) and oestradiol (25 micrograms oestradiol 3-benzoate suspended in 0.25 ml olive oil/rat/day) co-treatments for 6 days a week for 4 weeks (about the duration of two spermatogenic cycle) was evaluated in adult male rats. Changes in paired testicular weights, quantitative study of different varieties of germ cells at stage VII of spermatogenic cycle, epididymal sperm count, circulatory concentrations of hormones (LH, FSH, testosterone and corticosterone), testicular activities of delta 5, 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (delta 5, 3beta-HSD), 17 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (17 beta-HSD), sorbitol dehydrogenase (SDH), acid phosphatase (ACP), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), as well as the levels of biogenic amines (dopamine, noradrenaline and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)) in the hypothalamus and pituitary were monitored in this study. Hormones were assayed by radioimmuno- assay or enzyme- linked immunosorbent assay and the enzymes were estimated after spectrophotometry as well as the biogenic amines by HPLC electrochemistry.
Sodium arsenite treatment resulted in: decreased paired testicular weights; epididymal sperm count; plasma LH, FSH, testosterone and testicular testosterone concentrations; and increased plasma concentration of corticosterone. Testicular enzymes such as delta 5, 3 beta-HSD, 17 beta-HSD, and sorbitol dehydrogenase (SDH) were significantly decreased, but those of acid phosphatase (ACP), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) were significantly increased. A decrease in dopamine or an increase in noradrenaline and 5-HT in hypothalamus and pituitary were also noted after arsenic exposure. Histological evaluation revealed extensive degeneration of different varieties of germ cells at stage VII of spermatogenic cycle in arsenic exposed rats. Administration of human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) along with sodium arsenite partially prevented the degeneration of germ cells and enhanced paired testicular weights, epididymal sperm count, plasma and intratesticular testosterone concentrations, activities of delta 5, 3beta-HSD, 17 beta-HSD and sorbitol dehydrogenase along with diminution in the activities of ACP, ALP and LDH. Since many of the observed arsenic effects could be enhanced by oestradiol, it is suggested that arsenic might somehow acts through an estrogenic mode of action.
The results indicate that arsenic causes testicular toxicity by germ cell degeneration and inhibits androgen production in adult male rats probably by affecting pituitary gonadotrophins. Estradiol treatment has been associated with similar effects on pituitary testicular axis supporting the hypothesis that arsenite might somehow act through an estrogenic mode of action.
This series of experiments examined whether gestational cocaine exposure alters later social behavior exhibited during competition for biologically relevant stimuli. Rat offspring were derived from dams that received subcutaneous injections of 40 mg/kg/3cc cocaine HCl daily on gestational Days 8-20, pair-fed dams injected with saline, or nontreated control dams. Offspring competed with peers for access to a nipple in infancy, and to water in adolescence or adulthood. Prenatal cocaine exposure resulted in a decreased ability of cocaine-exposed infant rats to compete successfully for a nipple. Although adolescent and adult cocaine-exposed rats were no less successful than controls when competing for water, they exhibited a notable increase in aggression toward competitors during testing. Data provide evidence of alterations in social behavior and social competition as a result of prenatal cocaine exposure.
1. Eighteen healthy male volunteers were treated at random in double-blind conditions with mianserin, amitriptyline, or placebo for 8 days. Measurements were made of various parameters indicative of anticholinergic and blood pressure effects. 2. Mianserin showed no significant anticholinergic effects on any of the measures used. Compared with placebo, mianserin significantly reduced pupil diameter and tended to increase salivary production and increase the distance of the near point. 3. Amitriptyline showed evidence of anticholinergic effects in that salivary production fell to a level significantly lower than that of the mianserin- or placebo-treated subjects. The distance of the near point tended to increase during amitriptyline treatment. Compared with placebo, amitriptyline also significantly reduced pupil diameter on some occasions. 4. Amitriptyline produced postural hypotension to a statistically significant degree, whereas this effect was not observed during mianserin treatment. 5. In conclusion, mianserin in doses of up to 60 mg daily given to healthy males seemed to lack the anticholinergic effects and postural hypotension associated with amitriptyline treatment.
The purpose of our study was to determine the inhibitory effect of combined phytochemicals on chemically induced murine skin tumorigenesis. Our hypothesis was that concurrent topical and dietary treatment with selected compounds would lead to more efficient prevention of skin cancer. We tested ellagic acid and calcium D-glucarate as components of diets, while resveratrol was applied topically; grape seed extract was applied topically or in the diet. The 4-week inflammatory-hyperplasia assay based on the 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA)-induced skin carcinogenesis model in SENCAR mice was used. We have found that all the selected combinations caused a marked decrease of epidermal thickness compared with the DMBA-treated group and also with groups treated with a single compound and DMBA. All combinations of resveratrol with other compounds showed a synergistic effect on hyperplasia and Ha-ras mutations. Skin tissue of mice receiving the combinations showed decreased cell proliferation and Bcl2 expression; decreased p21, a regulator of cell cycle; and decreased marker of inflammation cyclooxygenase-2. All the selected combinations diminished the DMBA-induced mRNA expression of the CYP1B1 level, and also caused a marked decrease of proto-oncogenes c-jun and c-fos, components of transcription factor activator protein. In conclusion, all combinations showed either additive or synergistic effects and their joint actions allowed for decreasing the doses of the compounds. Especially, resveratrol combinations with ellagic acid, grape seed extract, and other phytochemicals are very potent inhibitors of skin tumorgenesis, based on the suppression of epidermal hyperplasia as well as on the modulation of intermediate biomarkers of cell proliferation, cell survival, inflammation, oncogene mutation, and apoptosis.
