Ochratoxin A (OTA) is one of the most abundant food-contaminating mycotoxins world wide, and is detrimental to human and animal health. This study evaluated the protective effect of quercetin against OTA-induced cytotoxicity, genotoxicity, and inflammatory response in lymphocytes. Cytotoxicity determined by MTT assay revealed IC20 value of OTA to be 20 µM, which was restored to near control values by pretreatment with quercetin. Oxidative stress parameters such as antioxidant enzymes, LPO and PCC levels indicated that quercetin exerted a protective effect on OTA-induced oxidative stress. Quercetin exerted an antigenotoxic effect on OTA-induced genotoxicity, by significantly reducing the number of structural aberrations in chromosomes and comet parameters like, % olive tail moment from 2.76 ± 0.02 to 0.56 ± 0.02 and % tail DNA from 56.23 ± 2.56 to 12.36 ± 0.56 as determined by comet assay. OTA-induced NO, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-8 were significantly reduced in the quercetin pretreated samples indicating its anti-inflammatory role. Our results demonstrate for the first time that quercetin exerts a cytoprotective effect against OTA-induced oxidative stress, genotoxicity, and inflammation in lymphocytes. © 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Environ Toxicol, 2014.
Sertraline, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, has been used for the treatment of depression. Although it is generally considered safe, cases of sertraline-associated liver injury have been documented; however, the possible mechanism of sertraline-associated hepatotoxicity is entirely unknown. Here, we report that mitochondrial impairment may play an important role in liver injury induced by sertraline. In mitochondria isolated from rat liver, sertraline uncoupled mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation and inhibited the activities of oxidative phosphorylation complexes I and V. Additionally, sertraline induced Ca(2+)-mediated mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT), and the induction was prevented by bongkrekic acid (BA), a specific MPT inhibitor targeting adenine nucleotide translocator (ANT), implying that the MPT induction is mediated by ANT. In freshly isolated rat primary hepatocytes, sertraline rapidly depleted cellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and subsequently induced lactate dehydrogenase leakage; both were attenuated by BA. Our results, including ATP depletion, induction of MPT, inhibition of mitochondrial respiration complexes, and uncoupling oxidative phosphorylation, indicate that sertraline-associated liver toxicity is possibly via mitochondrial dysfunction.
Human arsenic exposure is associated with increased risk of skin cancer, and arsenite greatly enhances ultraviolet (UV)-induced skin tumors in a mouse model of carcinogenesis. Inhibition of DNA repair is one proposed mechanism for the observed cocarcinogenicity. We have previously demonstrated that low concentrations of arsenite inhibit poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP)-1, thus interfering with DNA repair process triggered by UV radiation. Because overactivation of PARP-1 often leads to apoptotic cell death, and unrepaired DNA lesions promote genomic instability and carcinogenesis, we hypothesized that inhibition of PARP-1 by arsenic may promote the survival of potentially "initiated carcinogenic cells," i.e., cells with unrepaired DNA lesions. In the present study, we tested this hypothesis on UV-challenged HaCat cells. Cells were pretreated with 2μM arsenite for 24 h before UV exposure. Outcome parameters included apoptotic death rate, PARP-1 activation, apoptotic molecules, and retention of DNA lesions. UV exposure induced PARP-1 activation and associated poly(ADP-ribose) production, apoptosis-inducing factor release, cytochrome C release, and caspases activation, which led to apoptotic death in HaCat cells. Pretreatment with 2μM arsenite significantly inhibited UV-induced cell death as well as the associated molecular events. Notably, knockdown of PARP-1 with small interfering RNA completely abolished the antagonism of arsenite. Furthermore, arsenite pretreatment led to long-term retention of UV-induced cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers. Together, these results suggest that low concentration of arsenite reduces UV-induced apoptosis via inhibiting PARP-1, thus promoting the survival of cells with unrepaired DNA lesions, which may be an important mechanism underlying arsenic cocarcinogenic action.
Brominated flame retardants (BFRs) are incorporated into a wide variety of consumer products, are readily released into home and work environments, and are present in house dust. Studies using animal models have revealed that exposure to polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) may impair adult male reproductive function and thyroid hormone physiology. Such studies have generally characterized the outcome of acute or chronic exposure to a single BFR technical mixture or congener but not the impact of environmentally relevant BFR mixtures. We tested whether exposure to the BFRs found in house dust would have an adverse impact on the adult male rat reproductive system and thyroid function. Adult male Sprague Dawley rats were exposed to a complex BFR mixture composed of three commercial brominated diphenyl ethers (52.1% DE-71, 0.4% DE-79, and 44.2% decaBDE-209) and hexabromocyclododecane (3.3%), formulated to mimic the relative congener levels in house dust. BFRs were delivered in the diet at target doses of 0, 0.02, 0.2, 2, or 20 mg/kg/day for 70 days. Compared with controls, males exposed to the highest dose of BFRs displayed a significant increase in the weights of the kidneys and liver, which was accompanied by induction of CYP1A and CYP2B P450 hepatic drug-metabolizing enzymes. BFR exposure did not affect reproductive organ weights, serum testosterone levels, testicular function, or sperm DNA integrity. The highest dose caused thyroid toxicity as indicated by decreased serum thyroxine (T4) and hypertrophy of the thyroid gland epithelium. At lower doses, the thickness of the thyroid gland epithelium was reduced, but no changes in hormone levels (T4 and thyroid-stimulating hormone) were observed. Thus, exposure to BFRs affected liver and thyroid physiology but not male reproductive parameters.
Animal and human newborn studies suggest that exposure to cocaine in utero delays glial maturation and white matter myelination. Postmortem data show that in the frontal and temporal lobes, white matter myelination continues into middle age. Recent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data have confirmed continued white matter volume increase in these regions, reaching a maximum at age 47.
Thirty-seven male cocaine dependent (CD) and 52 normal control subjects between ages 19 and 47 were evaluated with MRI. Coronal images focused on the frontal and temporal lobes were acquired using pulse sequences that maximized gray/white matter contrast.
Highly significant positive correlations between white matter volume and age were observed in both the frontal and temporal lobes of the control group (r =.52, p =.0001 and r =.54, p =.0001, respectively); however, CD subjects did not demonstrate any age-related increase in white matter volume of the frontal (r = -.001; p =.99) and temporal (r = -.07; p =.67) lobes in this age range.
The age-related expansion in white matter volume occurring in normal control subjects was absent in CD subjects. The findings suggest that in adults, cocaine dependence may arrest normal white matter maturation in the frontal and temporal lobes of addicts who continue using cocaine.
The nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subtypes alpha4beta2 and alpha7 comprise the majority of brain nicotine-binding sites. Classical genetic strategies using inbred mice and their hybrids suggest that nicotine's effects on locomotor activity and body temperature are influenced by alpha4beta2 but not alpha7 receptors. To evaluate directly the role of these nicotinic subtypes on responses to nicotine, beta2 and alpha7 null mutant (-/-) mice, as well as wild-type (+/+) and heterozygous (+/-) mice, were tested for baseline body temperature and locomotion and nicotine (0-1.5 mg/kg)-induced changes in these responses. Basal responses for these measures were similar for all beta2 genotypes, but baseline Y-maze activity was higher in alpha7-/- mice compared with alpha7+/+ mice. Following nicotine injection, dose-dependent decreases in body temperature and locomotor activity were observed for all three genotypes of both beta2 and alpha7 mice. Although responses in alpha7 mice did not differ among genotypes, beta2 gene deletion was found to have a gene-dependent effect on nicotine's effects. beta2-/- mice were less sensitive to nicotine-induced locomotor depression and hypothermia at low nicotine doses (.25-.5 mg/kg) but were no different from beta2+/+ mice at the highest doses tested (1.0-1.5 mg/kg). Residual responses at high nicotine doses in beta2-/- mice as well as responses in all alpha7 and beta2 mouse genotypes were mediated by nicotinic receptors, since mecamylamine (1.0 mg/kg) blocked all responses following 1.0 mg/kg nicotine. This finding suggests receptors that include the beta2 nAChR subunit partially mediate nicotine's effects on locomotor activity and body temperature.
We have investigated the pharmacologic effects of a new bisphosphonate compound, CGP 42'446 [2-(imidazol-1-yl)-1-hydroxyethylidene-1,1-bisphosphonate], on bone metabolism. The compound exhibited potent inhibitory activity on the bone resorption induced by 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 both in vivo in the thyroparathyroidectomized rat (ED50 0.072 microgram/kg SC) and in vitro in mouse calvarial cultures (IC50 0.002 microM). A comparison of the in vivo and in vitro inhibitory potencies of a total of nine bisphosphonates revealed an excellent correlation between the two assays (r = 0.97). CGP 42'446 also potently inhibited calvarial bone resorption induced by parathyroid hormone (1-34), parathyroid hormone-related protein (1-34), and recombinant human interleukin-1 beat. Short-term treatment of growing rats with CGP 42'H446 dose-dependently increased the radiographic density of the tibial proximal metaphysis (ED50 1.7 micrograms/kg SC) as well as increasing the calcium and hydroxyproline content of femoral trabeculae (ED50 values 0.17 and 1.1 micrograms/kg SC, respectively), but there was no detectable effect on cortical bone. On a molar basis in this range of in vivo screening assays, CGP 42'H446 was between 940-fold (thyroparathyroidectomized rat) and 87-fold (rat femoral trabecular calcium content) more potent than pamidronate. It is concluded that CGP 42'446 is a promising new, highly potent bisphosphonate for the suppression of the increased bone resorption associated with various diseases.
Alteration in noradrenergic regulation as well as alteration in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis have been associated with opioid dependence and acute abstinence symptoms.
This double-blind, placebo-controlled study evaluated subjective, physiologic, and biochemical responses to yohimbine (.4 mg/kg, IV) in eight patients receiving methadone and compared results to those from a pool of nine healthy volunteers. All subjects were compared for panic anxiety symptom scale (PASS) scores, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart rate, plasma 3-methoxy-4 hydroxyphenethyleneglycol (MHPG), and cortisol.
Yohimbine elicited objective and subjective opioid withdrawal and elevated craving for opioid drugs in methadone patients. Significant yohimbine effects were seen across the combined subject group for PASS, physiologic measures, MHPG, and cortisol. Methadone patients had lower baseline MHPG levels. Methadone group interactions with yohimbine were seen for systolic blood pressure and cortisol levels.
Methadone-maintained patients are sensitive to the postsynaptic effects of noradrenergic-facilitating medications, experiencing greater physiologic and psychological symptoms, including an increase in craving. The effect on cortisol supports the above conclusion and is consistent with HPA axis perturbation in opioid dependence as reported in other studies and extends these observations to stable methadone-maintained patients. Medications that increase synaptic noradrenaline should be used with care in opioid-dependent patients.
Factors increasing vulnerability of a cocaine user to develop psychotic symptoms are unknown. Deficits in sensory gating and attention, such as those occurring in idiopathic psychosis, might represent experimentally tractable factors contributing to vulnerability to cocaine-induced paranoia.
Severity of cocaine-induced paranoid symptoms was assessed with the Cocaine Experience Questionnaire (CEQ) in 30 abstinent cocaine-dependent individuals. Sensory gating was assessed in a paired-click auditory evoked potential paradigm (S1 and S2) using the S2/S1 attenuation ratio of the P50 evoked response as the primary outcome measure. The Wender-Utah Rating Scale (WURS) for attention deficit was also administered.
Subjects were divided into those with high CEQ scores (n = 10) and those with low CEQ scores (n = 20). The mean P50 ratios were significantly higher for the high CEQ subjects compared with the low CEQ group (F = 4.6, p <.04). The WURS did not correlate with the total CEQ but correlated with the CEQ Severity subscale, r =.432, p <.02.
The data suggest that deficient P50 sensory gating and attention deficits may be associated with increased proneness to developing psychotic symptoms in the context of cocaine use. Further exploration of these factors seems warranted.
We present the case of a 25-year-old woman who developed a large central liver adenoma after 8 years of continuous oral contraceptive use. The first diagnosis was made by ultrasonography, after a rise in plasmatic gamma-glutamyl-transpeptidase and alkaline phosphatase levels was noted. Withdrawal of the oral contraceptive was followed by shrinkage of the adenoma, with complete disappearance 9 months after the diagnosis. Hepatic adenoma (HA) still presents problems in terms of differential diagnosis and clinical management. There are reports of complete or partial regression of an HA after discontinuation of oral contraceptives, but they are poorly documented. To our knowledge, a patient with such rapid disappearance of a large HA has never been reported.
Acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) constitute a recently discovered family of excitatory cation channels, structurally related to the superfamily of degenerin/epithelial sodium channels. ASIC1b and ASIC3 are highly expressed in primary sensory neurons and are thought to play a role in pain transmission related to acidosis. ASIC1a, ASIC2a, and ASIC2b are also distributed in the central nervous system where their function remains unclear. We investigated here the regulation of their expression during status epilepticus (SE), a condition in which neuronal overexcitation leads to acidosis. In animals treated with pilocarpine (380 mg/kg) to induce SE, we observed a marked decrease of ASIC2b mRNA levels in all hippocampal areas and of ASIC1a mRNA levels in the CA1-2 fields. These changes were also observed after protective treatment from neuronal cell death with diazepam (10 mg/kg) and pentobarbital (30 mg/kg). These findings suggest a key role of channels containing ASIC1a and ASIC2b subunits in both normal and pathological activity of hippocampus.
Both beta-adrenergic blockers and angiotensin-II receptor blockers were reported to improve the prognosis of patients with heart failure, but the efficacy of combination therapy with these agents has not been fully elucidated. Also the efficacy of celiprolol, a beta1-selective adrenoceptor antagonist with partial beta2-agonist properties, for heart failure treatment is still controversial. We examined the cardioprotective effects and mechanisms of the therapy with celiprolol or candesartan, an angiotensin-II receptor blockers and their combination in heart failure induced by isoproterenol (ISO).
ISO 300 mg/kg was injected in rats to produce heart failure. Two months after the injection, the ISO-injected rats were divided into 4 groups (8 rats each) and treated for 4 weeks as follows: (a) vehicle; (b) celiprolol 10 mg/kg per day (BB); (c) candesartan 0.2 mg/kg per day (ARB); and (d) their combination BB+ARB. ISO significantly elevated left ventricular (LV) end-diastolic pressure, decreased peak-negative dP/dt and LV ejection fraction. BB and ARB similarly ameliorated cardiac dysfunction due to ISO, but BB+ARB were more potent than the individual therapies. Separately, ARB preserved the histological structure in LV myocardium. In contrast, BB ameliorated calcium handling, as shown by the increased ratio of SERCA2 to phospholamban protein, despite having little effect on the histology.
Both celiprolol and candesartan showed cardioprotective effects in this heart failure model. The potential use of the combination treatment in heart failure might result in a synergistic effect through the different cardioprotective mechanisms of celiprolol and candesartan.
The anticonvulsants ethosuximide, sodium valproate, and trimethadione that are specific for petit mal epilepsy abolished in rats the electrical seizure activity and behavioral abnormalities produced by leucine enkephalin, whereas phenobarbital and phenytoin had no effect. The dose-response curve for naloxone against seizure activity induced by leucine enkephalin was the same as that in gamma-hydroxybutyrate-induced petit mal. These data indicate that the epileptic properties of leucine enkephalin are petit mal-like and raise the possibility of involvement of enkephalinergic systems in. The dose-response curve for naloxone against seizure activity induced by leucine enkephalin was the same as that in gamma-hydroxybutyrate-induced petit mal. These data indicate that the epileptic properties of leucine enkephalin are petit mal-like and raise the possibility of involvement of enkephalinergic systems in petit mal epilepsy.
Therapeutic strategies exist for human pulmonary neoplasia, however due to the heterogeneity of the disease, most are not very effective. The innate immunity gene, toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), protects against chronic pulmonary inflammation and tumorigenesis in mice, but the mechanism is unclear. This study was designed to identify TLR4-mediated gene expression pathways that may be used as prognostic indicators of susceptibility to lung tumorigenesis in mice and provide insight into the mechanism.
Whole lung mRNA was isolated from C.C3H-Tlr4(Lps-d) (BALB(Lps-d); Tlr4 mutant) and BALB/c (Tlr4 normal) mice following butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT)-treatment (four weekly ip. injections; 150-200 mg/kg/each; "promotion"). mRNA from micro-dissected tumors (adenomas) and adjacent uninvolved tissue from both strains were also compared 27 wks after a single carcinogen injection (3-methylcholanthrene (MCA), 10 microg/g; "control") or followed by BHT (6 weekly ip. injections; 125-200 mg/kg/each; "progression"). Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid was analyzed for inflammatory cell content and total protein determination, a marker of lung hyperpermeability; inflammation was also assessed using immunohistochemical staining for macrophages (F4/80) and lymphocytes (CD3) in mice bearing tumors (progression).
During promotion, the majority of genes identified in the BALB(Lps-d) compared to BALB/c mice (P < 0.05) were involved in epithelial growth factor receptor (EGFR) signaling (e.g. epiregulin (Ereg)), secreted phosphoprotein 1(Spp1)), which can lead to cell growth and eventual tumor development. Inflammation was significantly higher in BALB(Lps-d) compared to BALB/c mice during progression, similar to the observed response during tumor promotion in these strains. Increases in genes involved in signaling through the EGFR pathway (e.g. Ereg, Spp1) were also observed during progression in addition to continued inflammation, chemotactic, and immune response gene expression in the BALB(Lps-d) versus BALB/c mice (P < 0.05), which appears to provide more favorable conditions for cell growth and tumor development. In support of these findings, the BALB/c mice also had significantly reduced expression of many immune response and inflammatory genes in both the tumors and uninvolved tissue.
This transcriptomic study determined the protective effect of TLR4 in lung carcinogenesis inhibition of multiple pathways including EGFR (e.g. Ereg), inflammatory response genes (e.g. Cxcl5), chemotaxis (e.g. Ccr1) and other cell proliferation genes (e.g. Arg1, Pthlh). Future studies will determine the utility of these pathways as indicators of immune system deficiencies and tumorigenesis.
CD4+ T-cell DNA hypomethylation may contribute to the development of drug-induced and idiopathic human lupus. Inhibiting DNA methylation in mature CD4+ T cells causes autoreactivity specific to the major histocompatibility complex in vitro. The lupus-inducing drugs hydralazine and procainamide also inhibit T-cell DNA methylation and induce autoreactivity, and T cells from patients with active lupus have hypomethylated DNA and a similarly autoreactive T-cell subset. Further, T cells treated with DNA methylation inhibitors demethylate the same sequences that demethylate in T cells from patients with active lupus. The pathological significance of the autoreactivity induced by inhibiting T-cell DNA methylation has been tested by treating murine T cells in vitro with drugs that modify DNA methylation, then injecting the cells into syngeneic female mice. Mice receiving CD4+ T cells demethylated by a variety of agents, including procainamide and hydralazine, develop a lupuslike disease. This chapter describes the protocols for inducing autoreactivity in murine T cells in vitro and using the cells to induce autoimmunity in vivo.
Phthalate esters have been implicated as xenoestrogens. One among them is di-ethylphthalate (DEP), which is used as plasticizer, detergent base, and binder in incense sticks and after-shave lotions. DEP is one of the contaminants of freshwater and marine ecosystems. Incense stick workers are occupationally exposed to DEP and some workers are chronic alcoholics. Therefore, a study was undertaken to evaluate the interactive toxicity of DEP with ethyl alcohol (EtOH) in young male Sprague-Dawley rats. The rats were given 50 ppm DEP (w/v), 5% EtOH (v/v) and a combined dose of 50 ppm DEP (w/v)+EtOH (5% v/v) in water ad libitum for a period of 120 days and were maintained on normal diet. Control animals received normal diet and plain water. During the treatment rats were weighed every week and water consumption per day was measured. After the completion of treatment, liver weight/body weight, liver weight, body weight, serum enzymes and other biochemical parameters were assessed. It was found that there was no significant change observed in body weight, liver weight, liver weight/body weight and water consumption. It was observed that there was a significant decrease in liver aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels in EtOH, DEP and EtOH+DEP treated rats in the order of EtOH>DEP>EtOH+DEP as compared with control. Serum AST, ALT, acid phosphatase (ACP), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) and liver ACP showed significant increase in DEP and EtOH+DEP treated rats in the order of DEP>EtOH+DEP as compared with control and EtOH treated rats. On the contrary, there was no significant change in liver ALP levels in treated rats. There was significant increase in liver SDH, glycogen, total triglyceride, total cholesterol and lipid peroxidation in DEP and EtOH+DEP treated rats, but no significant changes in the serum SDH, glucose and total triglyceride levels. Serum total cholesterol levels in DEP and EtOH+DEP treated rats were significantly high as compared to control and EtOH treated rats. These results show that there is no interaction of DEP with EtOH but DEP alone leads to severe impairment of lipid metabolism coupled with toxic injury to the liver as evident from significantly altered lipid and enzyme levels in the liver and serum. Long term simultaneous exposure to DEP and EtOH may have severe implications for humans who are occupationally exposed to these two xenobiotics.
The salvage therapy of recurrent embryonal brain tumors in children is disappointing. Temozolomide is a newly developed chemotherapeutic agent in central nervous system tumors. This study analyzed the efficacy of temozolomide on the treatment of recurrent embryonal brain tumors in children.
There were eight patients, including four with medulloblastoma (MB), three with atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor (AT/RT) and one with supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumor, whose tumors recurred after surgery and radiotherapy, with or without conventional intravenous cisplatin-based chemotherapy. They all received once daily oral temozolomide (150 mg/m(2)/day) for five consecutive days in a 28-day cycle. The responsiveness of the tumors to temozolomide was judged by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) during regular follow-up.
The median treatment cycles received by these eight patients were 17 (range from two to 59 cycles). The follow-up MRI showed no tumor progression in five patients at 6 months and four patients at 12 months. The median progression-free survival (PFS) of the eight patients was 15.7 months (range from 0 to 59 months). Complete response was achieved in one patient with MB accompanying with a long period of PFS for 26 months. Another patient with AT/RT showed partial response accompanying with a long period of PFS for 59 months. The observed adverse effects of temozolomide included nausea, vomiting, headache, constipation, mild marrow suppression, and decreased activity; none of them was severe enough to discontinue the treatment. No patient experienced moderate or severe marrow suppression in this series.
In this preliminary study, oral temozolomide shows promising results on recurrent embryonal brain tumors in children. The adverse effects of temozolomide are mild and tolerable. When conventional chemotherapy fails and/or the adverse response is too severe to tolerate, temozolomide is a reasonable alternative. However, a further well-designed, controlled study and more long-term follow-up are needed to assess the exact role of temozolomide in children with embryonal tumors in brain.
To determine whether stopping nitroglycerin and sodium nitroprusside (both vasodilators) infusions in hypertensive, postcardiac surgical patients requiring a high FIO2 improves PaO2 and venous admixture.
Prospective, clinical trial.
Intensive care unit in a university-affiliated hospital.
Thirty postcardiac surgical patients who, because of high FIO2 requirements, did not meet the criteria for weaning from mechanical ventilation and who were receiving infusions of nitroglycerin and/or sodium nitroprusside to control blood pressure.
PaO2, venous admixture, and oxygen transport data were determined at baseline using arterial and mixed venous blood gas samples and hemodynamic values from a pulmonary artery catheter. The nitroglycerin and sodium nitroprusside infusions were stopped, and intravenous boluses of labetalol were administered to maintain a target blood pressure. After the vasodilator infusions were stopped, the baseline measurements were repeated to redetermine PaO2, venous admixture, and oxygen transport values.
Results included a mean increase in PaO2 from 79.3 +/- 15 torr (10.5 +/- 2.0 kPa) to 118.3 +/- 38 torr (15.7 +/- 5.1 kPa) and a mean decrease in venous admixture from 26.4 +/- 5.8% to 17.6 +/- 5.6% when the vasodilators were stopped. All 30 patients had an increase in PaO2 and a decrease in venous admixture. Because of the improvement in oxygenation, 28 of the 30 patients met the criteria for weaning from mechanical ventilation once nitroglycerin and sodium nitroprusside were stopped or decreased. Labetalol was well tolerated in this group of patients who had preserved ventricular function.
Substituting labetalol for nitroglycerin and sodium nitroprusside improves arterial oxygenation and venous admixture in hypertensive postcardiac surgical patients who require a high FIO2. This change in therapy may allow patients to be weaned from mechanical ventilation sooner.
The influence of arterial baroreceptors on secretion of catecholamines from the adrenal medulla was evaluated by several methods. Conscious mongrel dogs with surgically denervated hearts were hemorrhaged until an estimated 16% of their blood volume had been removed. On a separate day they were anesthetized and their blood pressure was lowered with intravenous nitroglycerin. Neither of these maneuvers produced appreciable increases in heart rate in these dogs. In contrast, in a group of sham-operated control dogs, hemorrhage induced a mean increase in heart rate of 20 beats/min (P less than 0.05), and nitroglycerin-induced hypotension induced an increase of 50 beats/min (P less than 0.05). In a separate group of conscious dogs with aortic arch denervation but intact cardiac nerves, occlusion of the common carotid arteries for 5 min increased blood pressure and heart rate significantly but elicited only small, insignificant increases in plasma epinephrine and norepinephrine; the peak concentration of epinephrine achieved was considerably less than the amount necessary to cause appreciable effects on blood pressure and heart rate as determined in another experiment by infusing varying amounts of epinephrine into conscious, cardiac-denervated dogs. We conclude that the arterial baroreceptor reflex, within the range of activity likely to occur during most physiological and pathophysiological adjustments in the conscious dog, exerts only minimal effects on the secretion of catecholamines from the adrenal medulla.
The syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) is characterized by hyponatremia, plasma hypo-osmolality, a urine sodium concentration >30-40 mmol/L, normal acid-base balance, a normal plasma potassium concentration and, frequently, hypouricemia. There are different types of SIADH: idiopathic, iatrogenic, and forms caused by central nervous system or lung disorders, neoplasia and major surgical interventions. Drug-induced SIADH is becoming the most frequent cause of hyponatremia encountered in clinical practice. Here we report the case of a 60-year-old man in a coma (I-II) and with very severe hyponatremia (99 mmol/L) due to SIADH induced by fluphenazine and amitriptyline, which he had been taking since many years as antidepressant drugs. SIADH became very quickly more severe due to the recent administration of cisplatin. There was rapid improvement of the clinical symptoms after withdrawal of the drugs involved and correction of hyponatremia. In conclusion, in rare cases like the present one hyponatremia related to SIADH may be so severe as to represent a true clinical emergency. The administration of drugs known to cause hyponatremia should be avoided, if possible; otherwise, very careful monitoring of the plasma sodium concentration is mandatory to avoid severe neurological complications which may lead to the death of the patient.
L-(-)2',3'-Dideoxythiacytidine (L(-)SddC, Lamivudine) resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV) develops in patients after prolonged treatment. Point mutations detected in the viral genome from these patients have been shown to be responsible for L(-)SddC resistance. Therefore, new drugs active against L(-)SddC resistant HBV are needed. Using a transient transfection system, we studied the sensitivity of L(-)SddC resistant HBV to other anti-HBV nucleoside analogues. It was found that the L526M mutation alone caused greater resistance to penciclovir (PCV) than did the V553I mutation alone. Both mutations also caused the virus to be less sensitive to L(-)SddC and 2'-fluoro-5-methyl-beta-L-arabinofuranosyluracil (L-FMAU), although the degree of resistance was much less than that to PCV. The A546V mutation had no impact on the sensitivity to L(-)SddC, L-FMAU, and PCV. When these single mutations were coupled with the M550V/I mutation, all the double mutants were resistant to those drugs. Although 2',3'-dideoxy-2',3'-didehydro-beta-L(-)-5-fluorocytidine (L(-)Fd4C) was also less active, the IC50 of L(-)Fd4C against the L(-)SddC resistant mutant was at least fifty times lower than that against cell growth in culture. DNA polymerase associated with L(-)SddC resistant virions was also found to be less sensitive than that with wild-type HBV to those L-nucleoside triphosphates. All the L(-)SddC resistant mutants were still sensitive to 9-(2-phosphonylmethoxyethyl)-adenine (PMEA). These results suggest that different mutations in the HBV genome have a different impact on its sensitivity to those compounds, and L(-)SddC resistant HBV may also be resistant to PCV, L-FMAU, and L(-)Fd4C. A nucleoside analogue less toxic than PMEA could be developed against L(-)SddC resistant HBV.
Effects of three kinds of antagonists against reactive oxygen species were evaluated at the same time in chemically induced apoptosis of human leukemic HL-60 cells. Apoptosis of HL-60 cells induced by actinomycin D, H7, 1-beta-D-arabinofuranosylcytosine, and daunorubicin was inhibited significantly by radical scavengers (vitamin E, N-acetyl-L-cysteine, and mercaptoethanol), catalase, and a spin trap, N-t-butyl-alpha-phenylnitrone. These results suggest that hydrogen peroxide and hydroxyl radical are common mediators of apoptosis caused by these chemicals with apparently different functional mechanisms. The consumption of vitamin E to inhibit apoptosis induced by actinomycin D was undetectable, suggesting that the generation of reactive oxygen species during apoptosis was not very extensive. Radicals were suggested to be a mediator of apoptosis of HL-60 cells induced by cisplatin based on the observations that the above inhibitors, except catalase, effectively inhibited apoptosis by the drug.
Although the molecular bases of its actions remain debated, tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA) is a paradoxical brain protease, as it favours some learning/memory processes, but increases excitotoxic neuronal death. Here, we show that, in cultured cortical neurons, tPA selectively promotes NR2D-containing N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR)-dependent activation. We show that tPA-mediated signalling and neurotoxicity through the NMDAR are blocked by co-application of an NR2D antagonist (phenanthrene derivative (2S(*), 3R(*))-1-(phenanthrene-2-carbonyl)piperazine-2,3-dicarboxylic acid, PPDA) or knockdown of neuronal NR2D expression. In sharp contrast with cortical neurons, hippocampal neurons do not exhibit NR2D both in vitro and in vivo and are consequently resistant to tPA-promoted NMDAR-mediated neurotoxicity. Moreover, we have shown that activation of synaptic NMDAR prevents further tPA-dependent NMDAR-mediated neurotoxicity and sensitivity to PPDA. This study shows that the earlier described pro-neurotoxic effect of tPA is mediated by NR2D-containing NMDAR-dependent extracellular signal-regulated kinase activation, a deleterious effect prevented by synaptic pre-activation.
Coronary artery spasm has an important function in the etiology of variant angina and other acute coronary syndromes. Abnormal activation of Rho-family GTPases has been observed in cardiovascular disorders, but the function of genetic variability in Rho-family GTPases remains to be evaluated in cardiovascular disorders. We examined the genetic variability of Rho-family GTPases and their regulators in coronary artery spasm. We performed a comprehensive candidate gene analysis of 67 single nucleotide polymorphisms with amino-acid substitution in Rho-family GTPases and their regulators in 103 unrelated Japanese patients with acetylcholine-induced coronary artery spasm and 102 control Japanese subjects without acetylcholine-induced coronary artery spasm. We noted an association of the single nucleotide polymorphism of ARHGAP9 (rs11544238, Ala370Ser) with coronary artery spasm (odds ratio =2.67). We found that ARHGAP9 inactivated Rac as RacGAP and that the mRNA level of ARHGAP9 was strongly detected in hematopoietic cells. ARHGAP9 negatively regulated cell migration. The Ala370Ser polymorphism counteracted ARHGAP9-reduced cell migration, spreading and adhesion. The Ala370Ser polymorphism in the ARHGAP9 gene is associated with coronary artery spasm. These data suggest that the polymorphism of ARHGAP9 has a critical function in the infiltration of hematopoietic cells into the endothelium and inflammation leading to endothelial dysfunction.
To clarify breeding failure in avian species caused by the estrogenicity of chemicals, alterations in the reproductive systems of Japanese quail exposed in ovo to a xenoestrogen were investigated. An injection of diethylstilbestrol (DES) into the yolk before incubation decreased, after sexual maturation, egg-laying performance of female quails, which accompanied inducing abnormal development of the oviducts. All females treated with 50 ng DES/g of egg did not lay eggs, while 0.5-5 ng DES/g reduced egg weight and eggshell strength and thickness. In the uterus (shell gland), the mRNAs for calcium regulating factors, osteopontin and calbindin D28 K, were reduced dose-dependently by DES. Scanning electron microscopy showed that shell thinning was pronounced in the mammillary and cuticular layers of the eggshell, regions where osteopontin proteins are reportedly located. These indicate that transovarian exposure to xenoestrogens causes malformation and dysfunction of the oviducts, where calcium regulating molecules could play key roles in eggshell thinning.
