Preclinical data suggest that the anti-tumour activity of capecitabine is enhanced by taxanes and mitomycin C through up-regulation of thymidine phosphorylase (TP). Here, we studied safety and efficacy of the combination of capecitabine with docetaxel and mitomycin C. Two dose levels (DL) were investigated: capecitabine 1000 mg m(-2) b.i.d. on days 1-14, docetaxel 40 mg m(-2) i.v. day 1, mitomycin C 4 or 6 mg m(-2) i.v. day 1 (DL I or II). Cycles were repeated every 3 weeks. The primary aim was to determine the dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) during the first two treatment cycles and the maximum tolerated dose (MTD). A total of 46 patients (pts) refractory to standard therapies were enrolled, of whom the majority had gastrointestinal tumours (n=40). 14 pts had received >/=3 lines of prior chemotherapy. At DL I, one out of six pts experienced DLT. At DL II, two out of six pts had DLT (mucositis grade 3). Thus, DL I was determined as MTD. Among a total of 37 pts treated on DL I the following toxicities were observed during cycles 1 and 2 (number of patients with grade 1/2/3/4 toxicity; NCI-CTC v. 3.0): anaemia 10/8/3/0, leucocytopenia 4/11/1/2, thrombocytopenia 0/1/2/0, diarrhoea 8/1/2/0, stomatitis/mucositis 3/3/1/0, nausea/vomiting 10/2/0/0, and hand-foot skin reaction 5/1/1/0. Of 30 pts who received at least two treatment cycles nine achieved complete or partial remissions, six pts achieved minor remissions, and seven pts had stable disease (tumour control rate 73%). Of note, four out of 10 patients with pancreatic cancer had partial remissions. In conclusion, capecitabine can safely be combined with docetaxel (40 mg m(-2)) and mitomycin C (4 mg m(-2)). The established regimen was well tolerated and the preliminary efficacy data in this heavily pre-treated patients population appears to be promising.
Berlin-Frankfurt-Munster 95 (BFM-95) is a common chemotherapeutic protocol against acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). This prospective study investigates whether this protocol has an adverse effect on the medial olivocochlear bundle (MOCB) and/or outer hair cells' (OHCs) function. The distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs) and their suppression by means of contralateral application of white noise were used for assessing the function of OHCs and the MOCB, respectively.
Prospective study.
Oncology and otorhinolaryngology departments in a pediatric hospital.
Thirty-six children treated with ALL-BFM-95.
Before chemotherapy, a baseline audiologic evaluation with tympanogram, standard and extended high frequency, pure-tone audiometry, and DPOAEs in the absence and presence of white noise was performed in all children. This population was divided in three groups. In a first group (n = 12), the evaluation was repeated after four sessions of vincristine administration; in the second group (n = 12), after 8 sessions; and in the third group (n = 12), several months after completion of the protocol.
DPOAEs suppression by contralateral application of white noise.
In the first and the third groups, we observed no changes in DPOAE amplitudes. Nevertheless, in the second group, the DPOAEs demonstrated significant decrease at 1416, 1685, 2002, and 2380 Hz. At baseline examination, all groups presented significant suppression at all frequencies. After eight vincristine sessions, instead of suppression, an increase of amplitudes was noted at 5 of 12 frequencies. Efferent-mediated DPOAE suppression reappeared in the third group at all frequencies (significant at 5 of 12 frequencies).
ALL-BFM-95 seems to exert an early and reversible toxic effect on the MOCB, whereas its effects on OHCs are minimal and reversible. These minimal cochleotoxic and neurotoxic properties of ALL-BFM-95 might prove useful for research studies on the role of efferent innervation in hearing.
To study the effect of folic acid-containing multivitamin supplementation in epileptic women before and during pregnancy in order to determine the rate of structural birth defects and epilepsy-related side effects.
First a randomised trial, later periconception care including in total 12225 females.
Of 60 epileptic women with periconceptional folic acid (0.8 mg)-containing multivitamin supplementation, no one developed epilepsy-related side effects during the periconception period. One epileptic woman delivered a newborn with cleft lip and palate. Another patient exhibited with a cluster of seizures after the periconception period using another multivitamin. This 22-year-old epileptic woman was treated continuously by carbamazepine and a folic acid (1 mg)-containing multivitamin from the 20th week of gestation. She developed status epilepticus and later symptoms of systemic lupus erythematodes. Her pregnancy ended with stillbirth.
The epileptic pregnant patient's autoimmune disease (probably drug-induced lupus) could damage the blood-brain barrier, therefore the therapeutic dose (> or =1 mg) of folic acid triggered a cluster of seizures. Physiological dose (<1 mg) of folic acid both in healthy and 60 epileptic women, all without any autoimmune disease, did not increase the risk for epileptic seizures.
Cyanobacteria-derived microcystin-LR (MC-LR) commonly characterized as a hepatotoxin has recently been documented to show potential neurotoxicity, but the detailed neurotoxic effects of MC-LR and its mechanisms are unclear. In the present study, the neuroendocrine PC12 cell line was used to investigate whether MC-LR causes alterations of neuronal morphology and abnormalities in the phosphorylation status of cytoskeletal-associated proteins, and to elucidate the underlying mechanisms. The results showed that treatment of PC12 cells with MC-LR-triggered microtubule (MT) and actin cytoskeleton rearrangement, leading to a loss of their filamentous distribution and the display of a similar rearrangement pattern with decreased amounts of tubules or actin fibers in the cytosol and increased amounts of these structures in the cell periphery. An increase in MT tyrosination and a decrease in MT acetylation, which demonstrated MT destabilization, were also found. Moreover, MC-LR-induced hyperphosphorylation of the neural microtubule-associated protein tau, which correlated with an increase in soluble tau and a decrease in cytoskeleton-associated tau. Besides, the phosphorylation of the actin-associated protein HSP27 was also increased in MC-LR-treated cells. Furthermore, MC-LR caused a concentration-dependent decrease in the activity of protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A), and a dramatic activation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). The dephosphorylated tau dissociated from PP2A, whereas the tau phosphorylation status paralleled the activation of p38 MAPK. Pretreatment with the p38 MAPK inhibitor SB203580 effectively abolished hyperphosphorylation of tau and HSP27, and blocked MC-LR-triggered cytoskeletal alterations. Taken together, MC-LR leads to the reorganization of cytoskeletal architectures in PC12 cells and hyperphosphorylation of tau and HSP27, which may be caused by direct PP2A inhibition and indirect p38 MAPK activation.
By screening mouse monoclonal antibody libraries for Kelch repeats, we serendipitously identified monoclonal antibodies to eukaryotic elongation factor 2 (eEF2). Interestingly, eEF2 was highly expressed in lung adenocarcinoma (LADC), but not in the neighboring non-tumor lung tissue. Normally, eEF2 is involved in the peptidyl-tRNA translocation during protein synthesis. Overexpression of eEF2 would implicate an association with disease progression of LADC. In the present study, we investigated the prognostic significance of eEF2 in patients with LADC. Expression of eEF2 was detected by immunoblotting, immunohistochemistry and confocal immunofluorescence microscopy. Our results show that patients with high eEF2 expression had a significantly higher incidence of early tumor recurrence (67.8%vs 18.2%, P = 0.016), and a significantly worse prognosis (P < 0.001). In an in vitro study, silencing of eEF2 expression increased mitochondrial elongation, cellular autophagy and cisplatin sensitivity. Moreover, eEF2 was sumoylated in LADC cells, and eEF2 sumoylation correlated with drug resistance. These results suggest that eEF2 is an anti-apoptotic marker in LADC. However, biological function and involvement of eEF2 in the disease progression of LADC require further studies.
Primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL) is a rare and highly malignant tumor with increasing incidence. Survival has improved with the use of nonsurgical treatment modalities, of which methotrexate (MTX)-based intrathecal chemotherapy has been an important option. Here, we describe devastating complications in three patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphomas. After intrathecal MTX therapy two patients died secondary to fulminant brain edema. A third patient developed severe dementia, gait disturbance and urinary incontinence due to leukencephalopathy. Since bulky disease was present in all three patients, CSF flow may have been impaired. This might have exposed adjacent tissue to prolonged toxic drug concentrations. Regarding the severe complications seen in these patients, it is useful to consider high-dose intravenous MTX treatment only in periventricular PCNSL.
Eighty-one adult patients with bronchial asthma who suffered asthmatic episodes in spite of treatment with 400 mg/day of BDP were placed on pranlukast therapy for 4 weeks. Group I, which showed a 5% or greater increase in PEFR, continued oral pranlukast medication for an additional two years. Those patients who did not show an increase of 5% or greater in PEFR after 4 weeks of pranlukast therapy were instructed to continue the medication for another year. Group II, which exhibited a 5% or greater increase in PEFR after a one-year period continued medication for one more year. Medication was suspended for Group III, which failed to show improvement in PEFR after one year, and the group was placed under observation for the following year. Group I improved significantly in PEFR and exhibited a reduction in the frequency of b2 inhalation, the number of night visits to a medical facility, the amount of steroids inhaled, and the quantity of oral steroids given at regular intervals; and the Group I peripheral eosinophil count, serum ECP level, and FEV1.0 ameliorated. After one year, Group II also showed significant improvement in PEFR and a reduction in both the peripheral eosinophil count and the serum ECP level. This group's PEFR continued to improve after two years. One year after medication was suspended, Group III showed a significant increase in the number of night visits to a medical facility and a rise in the serum ECP level. These findings indicated the efficacy of pranlukast.
Repeated dosing of mice with benzene led to a dose-related decrease in red cell production as measured by the incorporation of 59Fe into developing erythrocytes. Phenol, catechol, and hydroquinone were observed in the urine, largely conjugated with glucuronic acid and ethereal sulfate. During repeated dosing, toluene-soluble radioactivity derived from labeled benzene was found to accumulate in blood, liver fat, and, most significantly, bone marrow. Greater accumulation was observed when water-soluble metabolites of benzene were examined in these organs. Covalent binding of benzene metabolites was also observed in liver and marrow during repetitive treatment. Both covalently bound and soluble metabolites accumulated in bone marrow, liver, and kidney over a 24-h period after a single administration of benzene. The highest levels of covalent binding were seen in kidney and liver after 3 d of dosing at 880 mg/kg, two doses per day. Studies in vitro demonstrated the necessity for metabolic activation to produce covalent binding from benzene. These studies demonstrate that increasing benzene toxicity during repetitive treatment of mice is accompanied by increases in the levels of both water-soluble and covalently bound benzene metabolites.
Therapy with ribavirin for 6-12 months is associated with decreases in serum aminotransferases in some patients with chronic hepatitis C. We have assessed the practicality and safety of prolonged therapy with ribavirin. Six patients with chronic hepatitis C were given 1000-1200 mg of ribavirin daily for 24 months. Serum aminotransferases and hepatitis C virus (HCV) RNA levels were monitored during and after therapy. Liver biopsies were carried out before and at the end of treatment. With therapy, mean serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels fell from 161 U/L to 45 U/L at 12 months and to 39 U/L at 24 months. HCV RNA levels did not change. Liver histology improved in five and was unchanged in one patient. When therapy was stopped, aminotransferases rose to pretreatment levels. Side effects included mild fatigue and headaches. Two patients developed gallstones during therapy, perhaps caused by the chronic haemolysis that occurred in all patients. In conclusion, prolonged therapy with ribavirin can result in sustained improvements in serum aminotransferases and hepatic histology in a proportion of patients with chronic hepatitis C. Ribavirin therapy does not cause decreases in viraemia and, therefore, probably must be continued indefinitely to provide lasting benefit. The advantages of such therapy must be weighed against possible long-term side-effects.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the anticonvulsant activity and teratogenic potential of branched aliphatic acylureas represented by isovaleroylurea (IVU), pivaloylurea (PVU) and 3,3-dimethylbutanoylurea (DBU), as potential second-generation drugs to valproic acid (VPA).
The anticonvulsant activity of IVU, PVU, and DBU was determined in mice and rats utilizing the maximal electroshock seizure (MES) and the pentylenetetrazole (scMet) tests. The ability of DBU to block electrical-, or chemical-induced seizures was further examined in three acute seizure models: the psychomotor 6 Hz model, the bicuculline and picrotoxin models and one model of chronic epilepsy (i.e., the hippocampal kindled rat model). The induction of neural tube defects (NTDs) by IVU, PVU, and DBU was evaluated after i.p. administration at day 8.5 of gestation to a mouse strain highly susceptible to VPA-induced teratogenicity. The pharmacokinetics of DBU was studied following i.v. administration to rats.
DBU emerged as the most potent compound having an MES-ED(50)of 186 mg/kg (mice) and 64 mg/kg (rats) and an scMet-ED(50)of 66 mg/kg (mice) and 26 mg/kg (rats). DBU underwent further evaluation in the hippocampal kindled rat (ED(50)= 35 mg/kg), the psychomotor 6 Hz mouse model (ED(50)= 80 mg/kg at 32 mA and ED(50)= 133 mg/kg at 44 mA), the bicuculline- and picrotoxin-induced seizure mouse model (ED(50)= 205 mg/kg and 167 mg/kg, respectively). In contrast to VPA, DBU, IVU, and PVU did not induce a significant increase in NTDs as compared to control. DBU was eliminated by metabolism with a half-life of 4.5 h.
DBU's broad spectrum and potent anticonvulsant activity, along with its high safety margin and favorable pharmacokinetic profile, make it an attractive candidate to become a new, potent, and safe AED.
Recent evidence suggests that human breast cancer is sustained by a minor subpopulation of breast tumor-initiating cells (BTIC), which confer resistance to anticancer therapies and consequently must be eradicated to achieve durable breast cancer cure.
To identify signaling pathways that might be targeted to eliminate BTIC, while sparing their normal stem and progenitor cell counterparts, we performed global gene expression profiling of BTIC- and mammary epithelial stem/progenitor cell- enriched cultures derived from mouse mammary tumors and mammary glands, respectively. Such analyses suggested a role for the Wnt/Beta-catenin signaling pathway in maintaining the viability and or sustaining the self-renewal of BTICs in vitro. To determine whether the Wnt/Beta-catenin pathway played a role in BTIC processes we employed a chemical genomics approach. We found that pharmacological inhibitors of Wnt/β-catenin signaling inhibited sphere- and colony-formation by primary breast tumor cells and primary mammary epithelial cells, as well as by tumorsphere- and mammosphere-derived cells. Serial assays of self-renewal in vitro revealed that the Wnt/Beta-catenin signaling inhibitor PKF118-310 irreversibly affected BTIC, whereas it functioned reversibly to suspend the self-renewal of mammary epithelial stem/progenitor cells. Incubation of primary tumor cells in vitro with PKF118-310 eliminated their capacity to subsequently seed tumor growth after transplant into syngeneic mice. Administration of PKF118-310 to tumor-bearing mice halted tumor growth in vivo. Moreover, viable tumor cells harvested from PKF118-310 treated mice were unable to seed the growth of secondary tumors after transplant.
These studies demonstrate that inhibitors of Wnt/β-catenin signaling eradicated BTIC in vitro and in vivo and provide a compelling rationale for developing such antagonists for breast cancer therapy.
Bladder cancer is highly recurrent following specific transurethral resection and intravesical chemotherapy, which has prompted continuing efforts to develop novel therapeutic agents and early-stage diagnostic tools. Specific changes in protein expression can provide a diagnostic marker. In our present study, we investigated changes in protein expression during urothelial carcinogenesis. The carcinogen BBN was used to induce mouse bladder tumor formation. Mouse bladder mucosa proteins were collected and analyzed by 2D electrophoresis from 6 to 20 weeks after commencing continuous BBN treatment. By histological examination, the connective layer of the submucosa showed gradual thickening and the number of submucosal capillaries gradually increased after BBN treatment. At 12-weeks after the start of BBN treatment, the urothelia became moderately dysplastic and tumors arose after 20-weeks of treatment. These induced bladder lesions included carcinoma in situ and connective tissue invasive cancer. In protein 2D analysis, the sequentially downregulated proteins from 6 to 20 weeks included GSTM1, L-lactate dehydrogenase B chain, keratin 8, keratin 18 and major urinary proteins 2 and 11/8. In contrast, the sequentially upregulated proteins identified were GSTO1, keratin 15 and myosin light polypeptide 6. Western blotting confirmed that GSTM1 and NQO-1 were decreased, while GSTO1 and Sp1 were increased, after BBN treatment. In human bladder cancer cells, 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine increased the GSTM1 mRNA and protein expression. These data suggest that the downregulation of GSTM1 in the urothelia is a biomarker of bladder carcinogenesis and that this may be mediated by DNA CpG methylation.
Albuterol used with a spacer device which induced atrial fibrillation is described. Inhaled sympathomimetics have been extensively studied for the treatment of asthma and have generally been found to be safe from cardiac arrhythmias. A review of the literature is presented.
To evaluate the neurotoxicity of paclitaxel/cisplatin chemotherapy, we studied neurological and electrophysiological functions in 14 patients who had been treated with 1-7 courses of paclitaxel/cisplatin. The cumulative paclitaxel and cisplatin doses ranged from 175 to 1225 mg/m2 and 100-700 mg/m2, respectively. Neurological examinations as well as motor nerve conduction studies of the peroneal nerve were performed and summarised by means of a peripheral neuropathy score. Neurotoxicity with onset usually after the second treatment cycle occurred in 13 patients. 12 patients complained about sensory symptoms, 13 patients had impaired vibration sense and 8 patients developed additional muscle weakness, predominantly of the legs. Dysfunction of peroneal motor nerve conduction occurred in 13 patients. Reduction of amplitudes as well as slowing of conduction velocities were seen in 13 patients and prolonged distal latencies in 10 patients. The peripheral neuropathy score was elevated in 13 patients. Neurological symptoms, impairment of both vibration sense and tendon reflexes, and the peripheral neuropathy score increased with the cumulative doses of paclitaxel/cisplatin. Serial analysis among selected patients also revealed an increase in neurotoxicity with increasing cumulative drug doses. These data indicate the development of neurotoxicity in most patients treated with paclitaxel/cisplatin and also suggest that early signs of neurotoxicity can be detected by clinical examination with emphasis on symptoms as well as vibration sense and can be well documented by electrophysiological investigations.
The study was conducted to examine the effects of the angiotensin subtype 1 and 2 receptor antagonists (losartan and PD123319, respectively) on blood pressure (BP) and renal excretory function in chronic hyperinsulinemia-induced hypertension in rats. Hyperinsulinemia was achieved by insulin infusion (21.5 pmol/kg per minute) via osmotic minipump for 6 weeks. Losartan or PD 123319 was coinfused either at the beginning or after 4 weeks of insulin infusion. The results showed that insulin infusion significantly increased the plasma insulin concentration from 259.0+/-22.2 to 646.5+/-33.0 and 713.9+/-26.5 pmol/L (P<0.05) by the end of the fourth and sixth weeks, respectively, after insulin infusion. There were no significant changes in plasma glucose and triglyceride concentrations. Systolic BP increased from 139+/-3 to 156+/-1 and 157+/-2 mm Hg (P<0.05) at the corresponding time points. Combined losartan (3.5 microg/kg per minute) and insulin infusion prevented the rise in BP and improved insulin resistance. When hypertension had been established after 4 weeks of insulin infusion, superimposed infusion of losartan on insulin reversed the elevated BP to control levels within 1 week. In contrast, administration of PD123319 (0.5 and 10 microg/kg per minute) failed to alter insulin-induced hypertension. Combined PD123319 with losartan did not alter the losartan-induced hypotensive effect in insulin-infused rats. There were no significant differences in water intake, urine flow, body weight gain, and sodium gain before and after antagonist administration among groups. These results indicate that angiotensin type 1 receptors play a determinant role in the pathogenesis of insulin-induced hypertension in rats.
The bioactive phospholipid lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) promotes cell proliferation, survival, and migration by acting on cognate G protein-coupled receptors named LPA(1), LPA(2), and LPA(3). We profiled gene expression of LPA receptors in androgen-dependent and androgen-insensitive prostate cancer cells and found that LPA(1) gene is differentially expressed in androgen-insensitive and LPA-responsive but not androgen-dependent and LPA-resistant cells. In human prostate specimens, expression of LPA(1) gene was significantly higher in the cancer compared with the benign tissues. The androgen-dependent LNCaP cells do not express LPA(1) and do not proliferate in response to LPA stimulation, implying LPA(1) transduces cell growth signals. Accordingly, stable expression of LPA(1) in LNCaP cells rendered them responsive to LPA-induced cell proliferation and decreased their doubling time in serum. Implantation of LNCaP-LPA(1) cells resulted in increased rate of tumor growth in animals compared with those tumors that developed from the wild-type cells. Growth of LNCaP cells depends on androgen receptor activation, and we show that LPA(1) transduces Galphai-dependent signals to promote nuclear localization of androgen receptor and cell proliferation. In addition, treatment with bicalutamide inhibited LPA-induced cell cycle progression and proliferation of LNCaP-LPA(1) cells. These results suggest the possible utility of LPA(1) as a drug target to interfere with progression of prostate cancer.
Administration of hydrocortisone and relatively high doses of dexamethasone increase blood pressure in volume- and pressor-resistant hypotensive preterm infants. However, little is known about the temporal relationship of dexamethasone administration and the improvement in blood pressure and the weaning of pressors/inotropes. Furthermore, there are no sufficient data available on whether a smaller dose of dexamethasone would also be effective in treating refractory hypotension.
To study the cardiovascular responses to low-dose dexamethasone in very low birth weight neonates with volume- and pressor-resistant hypotension.
Retrospective database review. Twenty-four preterm neonates (gestational age 26 (23-34) weeks; birth weight 801 (457-1,180) g; postnatal age 2 (1-24) days, medians (ranges)) who remained hypotensive despite volume administration and combined dopamine and dobutamine treatment at >or=30 microg/kg/min received dexamethasone 0.1 mg/kg followed by 0.05 mg/kg intravenously every 12 h for 5 additional doses if still on pressors >or=8 microg/kg/min.
Two hours after the first dose of dexamethasone the mean blood pressure increased from 30 +/- 5 to 34 +/- 6 mm Hg (p < 0.001) and remained elevated at 4, 6, 12, and 24 h after treatment was started (p < 0.001). Six hours after the initial dose of dexamethasone the pressor/inotrope requirement decreased from 34 +/- 9 to 24 +/- 13 microg/kg/min (p = 0.001) and continued to decrease at 12 and 24 h (p < 0.001). Urine output also increased significantly during the first 6 h after dexamethasone (p < 0.001).
Low-dose dexamethasone rapidly increases blood pressure and decreases pressor requirements in very low birth weight neonates with volume- and pressor-resistant hypotension.
Risperidone (RIS), a new neuroleptic with 5-HT2- and dopamine D2 receptor-blocking properties, was compared with perphenazine (PER) in a double-blind, multicentre, parallel-group study in 107 chronic schizophrenics with acute exacerbation. RIS 5-15 mg or PER 16-48 mg daily was given for 8 weeks. Psychopathology was assessed with the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) and Clinical Global Impression. Seventy-eight patients completed the trial; there was an equal number of dropouts on both drugs. The mean daily dose at endpoint was 8.5 mg RIS and 28 mg PER. The reduction in total PANSS score to endpoint did not differ significantly, although there was a tendency in favour of RIS. The number of patients with predominantly negative symptoms who showed at least 20% reduction in total PANSS score was significantly larger in the RIS group. Furthermore, the number of patients showing at least 20% reduction in Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) score (BPRS being a subscale of PANSS) was significantly larger in the RIS group. The hostility cluster of BPRS improved more on RIS than on PER in the endpoint analysis. The overall prevalence of side effects was fairly similar in the two groups.
Acetaminophen (APAP) nephrotoxicity has been observed both in humans and research animals. Recent studies suggest a contributory role for glutathione (GSH)-derived conjugates of APAP in the development of nephrotoxicity. Inhibitors of either gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (gamma-GT) or the probenecid-sensitive organic anion transporter ameliorate APAP-induced nephrotoxicity but not hepatotoxicity in mice and inhibition of gamma-GT similarly protected rats from APAP nephrotoxicity. Protection against APAP nephrotoxicity by disruption of these GSH conjugate transport and metabolism pathways suggests that GSH conjugates are involved. APAP-induced renal injury may involve the acetaminophen-glutathione (APAP-GSH) conjugate or a metabolite derived from APAP-GSH. Acetaminophen-cysteine (APAP-CYS) is a likely candidate for involvement in APAP nephrotoxicity because it is both a product of the gamma-GT pathway and a probable substrate for the organic anion transporter. The present experiments demonstrated that APAP-CYS treatment alone depleted renal but not hepatic glutathione (GSH) in a dose-responsive manner. This depletion of renal GSH may predispose the kidney to APAP nephrotoxicity by diminishing GSH-mediated detoxification mechanisms. Indeed, pretreatment of male CD-1 mice with APAP-CYS before challenge with a threshold toxic dose of APAP resulted in significant enhancement of APAP-induced nephrotoxicity. This was evidenced by histopathology and plasma blood urea nitrogen (BUN) levels at 24 h after APAP challenge. APAP alone was minimally nephrotoxic and APAP-CYS alone produced no detectable injury. By contrast, APAP-CYS pretreatment did not alter the liver injury induced by APAP challenge. These data are consistent with there being a selective, contributory role for APAP-GSH-derived metabolites in APAP-induced renal injury that may involve renal-selective GSH depletion.
Once-daily trovafloxacin 200 mg was compared with high-dose amoxicillin, 1 g three times daily, given for 7 to 10 days. At end of treatment (day 10), the response was clinically successful (cure + improvement) in 93% of 152 clinically evaluable trovafloxacin patients and in 89% of 160 amoxicillin patients. At study end (day 35), respective rates were 91% and 81% (95% confidence interval: 1.6, 17.6; P=0.01). In evaluable patients with positive baseline radiographs, 93% of trovafloxacin and 88% of amoxicillin patients demonstrated radiological resolution at end of treatment. Streptococcus pneumoniae and Haemophilus influenzae eradication rates were comparable at end of treatment in both treatment groups, but at study end Streptococcus pneumoniae eradication rates were higher in trovafloxacin patients (100% vs 81%). At study end, all four trovafloxacin patients with baseline penicillin-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae were clinically cured with pathogen eradication, whereas two of five amoxicillin patients with baseline penicillin-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae were clinical failures with pathogen persistence. For patients in whom no pathogen was identified, trovafloxacin was significantly more effective at end of treatment (P=0.096) and study end (P=0.013). Treatment-related adverse events were comparable; the most common were headache, vomiting and dizziness in trovafloxacin patients, and diarrhoea. headache and abdominal pain in amoxicillin patients.
A number of studies have implicated adipocyte-derived factors in the development of insulin resistance. Intracellular redox status has been reported to play a significant role in the modulation of insulin action. This study was designed to investigate the potential of crocetin, a potent antioxidant, to protect adipocytes against the induction of insulin insensitivity and disordered expression of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and adiponectin in vitro.
We used palmitate to induce insulin resistance in freshly isolated rat adipocytes, and observed the effect of crocetin, N-acetylcysteine, diphenyleneiodonium, rotenone and oxypurinol. Insulin sensitivity was measured using 2-deoxy-D-[1-(3)H]-glucose uptake assay. Levels of glucose transporter 4, TNF-alpha and adiponectin were evaluated by immunoblot analysis, and levels of mRNA for TNF-alpha and adiponectin by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis. Intracellular production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) was determined spectrofluorometrically using 2',7'-dichlorofluorescin diacetate.
Palmitate induced a 45% decrease in insulin-stimulated glucose uptake in adipocytes. The mRNA and protein expression of TNF-alpha were enhanced by 64% and 59% respectively whereas the mRNA and protein expression of adiponectin were reduced by 43% and 36% respectively by palmitate treatment. These changes were accompanied by a 54% increase in intracellular ROS levels. Crocetin, N-acetylcysteine and diphenyleneiodonium were found to attenuate these abnormalities.
Crocetin blocked the impaired insulin-stimulated glucose uptake and disordered TNF-alpha and adiponectin expression induced by palmitate in rat adipocytes. Inactivation of NADPH oxidase may account for these observations.
The antibiotic rifampicin is widely used in the treatment of tuberculosis. Side effects of rifampicin include hemolytic anemia. Loss of circulating erythrocytes resembling hemolytic anemia could result from stimulation of eryptosis, the suicidal erythrocyte death characterized by cell shrinkage and cell membrane scrambling with phosphatidylserine (PS) exposure at the cell surface. Stimulators of eryptosis include increase of cytosolic Ca(2+) activity ([Ca(2+)](i)) and formation of ceramide. The present study explored, whether and, if so, how rifampicin triggers eryptosis. To this end, [Ca(2+)](i) was estimated from Fluo3 fluorescence, cell volume from forward scatter in flow cytometry, PS exposure from annexin binding, ceramide formation from binding of fluorescent antibodies and hemolysis from hemoglobin release. As a result, a 48 h exposure to rifampicin (≥ 24 μg/ml) significantly increased Fluo3 fluorescence, ceramide abundance and annexin binding, and significantly decreased forward scatter. Rifampicin triggered slight, but significant hemolysis. Removal of extracellular Ca(2+) significantly blunted, but did not fully abolish rifampicin induced annexin binding. In conclusion, exposure of human erythrocytes to rifampicin is followed by suicidal erythrocyte death or eryptosis, an effect at least partially due to increase of cytosolic Ca(2+) concentration and stimulation of ceramide formation.
Our objective was to develop parameters for objective ambulatory measurements of levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LID) in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Twenty-three PD patients with mild to severe LID were submitted to a standardized protocol of 1-minute recordings during rest, talking, stress, and four activities of daily life (ADL). Patients were simultaneously monitored with portable multi-channel accelerometry (four pairs of bi-axial sensors mounted onto the most affected arm, leg, and at the trunk) and recorded by video. LID severity was assessed with a modified Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (m-AIMS). The signals were analyzed, and every 1/8-second interval the amplitude was obtained of the dominant frequency within 1-4 Hz and 4-8 Hz frequency bands (Amp1-4 and Amp4-8). For both measures, convergent validity, reproducibility, and responsiveness were determined. In absence of voluntary movements, a significant relation was found between Amp1-4 and Amp4-8 and m-AIMS. Repeated measurements during rest showed a high reproducibility (intraclass correlation coefficient = 0.90 [Amp1-4] and 0.86 [Amp4-8]). The extent to which LID increased with talking and stress correlated significantly (p = 0.02) between the objective and clinical measures (intraclass correlation for differences = 0.67). During ADL, LID occurred in a similar frequency band as voluntary movements and only Amp1-4 and Amp4-8 of the trunk and leg sensor remained highly correlated with m-AIMS. Although objective measures of LID are reliable and responsive, they fail to distinguish LID from voluntary movements. These measures are of value only when obtained during rest (all sensor sites) or during ADL when derived from those body segments that are normally not involved in these ADL tasks (trunk and leg).
Epsilon-aminocaproic acid (EACA) is a potent anti-fibrinolytic agent that is used in the treatment of excessive bleeding resulting from a systemic fibrinolytic state. It can also be used to treat hematuria through its action on decreasing urinary fibrinolysis. A broad range of renal complications has been ascribed to EACA. Although they are rare, they may be life-threatening and should therefore be immediately recognized.
Few trials exist regarding the antiemetic efficacy of granisetron in bone marrow transplant (BMT) recipients conditioned with high-dose chemotherapy and total body irradiation (TBI). In this single-center, open-label, prospective, trial, the antiemetic efficacy and safety of granisetron plus dexamethasone were evaluated in 26 patients conditioned with cyclophosphamide-containing regimens (the majority receiving 60 mg/kg per day on 2 consecutive days), and TBI (12 Gy divided over 4 days). Daily intravenous doses of granisetron 1 mg plus dexamethasone 10 mg were given 30 min prior to chemotherapy or radiation, and continued for 24 h after the last conditioning treatment for a median of 6 days (range 3-9). Emetic control was defined by the number of emetic episodes occurring within a 24 h period, or the requirement for rescue medication for nausea or vomiting. A total of 25 patients completed 186 evaluable treatment days. Response (emetic control by treatment days) was complete in 50% of patients, major in 48%, minor in 2%, and there were no failures. Adverse effects were minor, with diarrhea (15%), headache (14%), and constipation (11%) reported most often. Based on these results, the antiemetic regimen of granisetron plus dexamethasone appears effective and well tolerated during BMT conditioning with high-dose cyclophosphamide and TBI.
Acetaminophen (APAP) nephrotoxicity has been observed both in humans and research animals. Our recent investigations have focused on the possible involvement of glutathione-derived APAP metabolites in APAP nephrotoxicity and have demonstrated that administration of acetaminophen-cysteine (APAP-CYS) potentiated APAP-induced renal injury with no effects on APAP-induced liver injury. Additionally, APAP-CYS treatment alone resulted in a dose-responsive renal GSH depletion. This APAP-CYS-induced renal GSH depletion could interfere with intrarenal detoxification of APAP or its toxic metabolite N-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine (NAPQI) and may be the mechanism responsible for the potentiation of APAP nephrotoxicity. Renal-specific GSH depletion has been demonstrated in mice and rats following administration of amino acid gamma-glutamyl acceptor substrates for gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (gamma-GT). The present study sought to determine if APAP-CYS-induced renal glutathione depletion is the result of disruption of the gamma-glutamyl cycle through interaction with gamma-GT. The results confirmed that APAP-CYS-induced renal GSH depletion was antagonized by the gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (gamma-GT) inhibitor acivicin. In vitro analysis demonstrated that APAP-CYS is a gamma-glutamyl acceptor for both murine and bovine renal gamma-GT. Analysis of urine from mice pretreated with acivicin and then treated with APAP, APAP-CYS, or acetaminophen-glutathione identified a gamma-glutamyl-cysteinyl-acetaminophen metabolite. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that APAP-CYS contributes to APAP nephrotoxicity by depletion of renal GSH stores through interaction with the gamma-glutamyl cycle.
