Drug-induced QT interval prolongation is now a major concern in safety pharmacology. Regulatory authorities such as the US FDA and the European Medicines Agency require in vitro testing of all drug candidates against the potential risk for QT interval prolongation prior to clinical trials. Common in vitro methods include organ models (Langendorff heart), conventional electrophysiology on cardiac myocytes, and heterologous expression systems of human ether-a-go-go-related gene (hERG) channels. A novel approach is to study electrophysiological properties of cultured cardiac myocytes by micro-electrode arrays (MEA). This technology utilises multi channel recording from an array of embedded substrate-integrated extracellular electrodes using cardiac tissue from the ventricles of embryonic chickens. The detected field potentials allow a partial reconstruction of the shape and time course of the underlying action potential. In particular, the duration of action potentials of ventricular myocytes is closely related to the QT interval on an ECG. This novel technique was used to study reference substances with a reported QT interval prolonging effect. These substances were E4031, amiodarone, quinidine and sotalol. These substances show a significant prolongation of the field potential. However, verapamil, a typical 'false positive' when using the hERG assay does not cause any field potential prolongation using the MEA assay. Whereas the heterologous hERG assay limits cardiac repolarisation to just one channel, the MEA assay reflects the full range of mechanisms involved in cardiac action potential regulation. In summary, screening compounds in cardiac myocytes with the MEA technology against QT interval prolongation can overcome the problem of a single cell assay to potentially report 'false positives'.
As hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common tumors worldwide, development of novel therapeutic approaches for HCC is urgently needed. Two different genes, LETM1 and CTMP, which target mitochondrial functions, were chosen and linked using 2A-peptide sequence. Successful self-cleavage of 2A-peptide induced synergistic antitumor effect in the liver of H-ras12V, the HCC model mice, by simultaneous activation of LETM1 (Leucine zipper/EF hand-containing transmembrane-1) and CTMP (carboxyl-terminal modulator protein). Overexpression of LETM1 and CTMP significantly reduced the incidence of tumorigenesis, which were confirmed by gross and microscopic observations. Morphological changes in mitochondria, such as swelling and loss of cristae, were significant, and the prolonged activation of defects in mitochondrial function led to mitochondria-mediated apoptosis. Furthermore, with CTMP as a direct binding partner of Akt1, and LETM1 as a binding partner of CTMP, LETM1-2A-CTMP downregulated the Akt1 pathway at both Ser473 and Thr308 sites of phosphorylation. Proliferation and angiogenesis, which are important in cancer prognosis, were reduced in tumor sites after introduction of LETM1-2A-CTMP. Taken together, the results indicate that introduction of the mitochondria-targeting genes, LETM1 and CTMP, and self-processing capacity of 2A-peptide sequence exerts an antitumor effect in liver of H-ras12V mice, suggesting its potential as a tool for gene therapy.
In contrast to an expected preventive analgesic effect, clinical observations suggest that intraoperatively applied opioids can induce postoperative hyperalgesia. We tested the development of post-infusion hyperalgesia in a newly developed experimental model of electrically induced pain and secondary mechanical hyperalgesia. In a double-blind, placebo controlled, cross-over study, 13 subjects received either saline placebo, remifentanil (0.05 or 0.1 microg/kg/min) or naloxone (0.01 mg/kg). Remifentanil dose-dependently reduced pain and mechanical hyperalgesia during the infusion, but upon withdrawal, pain and hyperalgesia increased significantly above control level (p<0.01 and p<0.05, respectively). Naloxone infusion similarly resulted in increased pain (anti-analgesia) (p<0.001) and mechanical hyperalgesia (p<0.01). Increased pain ratings following withdrawal of remifentanil significantly correlated to anti-analgesia evoked by the mu-opioid antagonist naloxone (p<0.01) and was of similar magnitude, suggesting inhibition of endogenous opioids as an underlying mechanism. In contrast, hyperalgesia after remifentanil was more pronounced than hyperalgesia after naloxone administration and did not correlate to the observed anti-analgesic effects, suggesting the involvement of additional receptors systems other than the endorphin system.
Apoptosis is a major mechanism of T cell elimination during ontogeny and tolerance induction as well as in autoimmunity. To assess the possible involvement of reactive oxygen and nitrogen intermediates (ROI and NO.) in T-cell apoptosis during autoimmune demyelination we investigated the effects of H2O2 and NO. in vitro on activated autoreactive CD4+ T cell lines capable of transferring experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) and experimental autoimmune neuritis (EAN). For detection and quantitation of apoptotic cells, DNA fragmentation was assessed by in situ tailing with fluorescein-ddUTP and subsequent flow cytometric analysis. H2O2 applied directly to the cell cultures for 6 to 18 hr at concentrations of 10 to 300 microM and ROI released by combination of hypoxanthine and xanthine oxidase (HX/XO) caused apoptosis in a dose-dependent manner in 13-33% of T cells of neuritogenic and encephalitogenic T cell lines. Apoptosis induction could be suppressed by the H2O2-neutralizing enzyme catalase. NO. released by the penicillamine derivative SNAP induced apoptosis to a similar extent as ROI. Maximum values were 38% in an encephalitogenic V beta 8.2-T cell receptor-bearing T cell line and 26% in a neuritogenic T cell line. T cell lines with specificity to ovalbumin revealed slightly lower susceptibility to apoptosis induction by all three kinds of trigger, which is, however, most probably not due to the different antigen specificity, but rather a result of fewer in vitro restimulation cycles of these cells. In neuritogenic cells high-dose (100 units/ml) exogenous interleukin-2 (IL-2) prevents H2O2-induced apoptosis. In conclusion, macrophage-derived reactive oxygen and nitrogen intermediates have the potency to limit inflammatory demyelination by elimination of autoreactive and bystander T cells via apoptotic cell death, and IL-2 is a rescue factor.
The taxanes, paclitaxel (Taxol) and docetaxal (Taxotere), are a new class of anti-microtubule agents which have shown cytotoxic activity in a number of solid tumours. Phase I and II trials confirm that docetaxal is highly active in the treatment of metastatic breast cancer. Reported toxicities of docetaxel include, dose limiting neutropenia, alopecia, skin reactions and fluid retention. Here we report the first case of rapid onset, diffuse scleroderma-like illness, which occurred in a 59-year-old female receiving treatment with docetaxel for locally invasive and advanced metastatic breast cancer.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the efficacy (in terms of induction of uterine bleeding) and safety (in terms of absence of endometrial hyperplasia) of 17alpha-hydroxyprogesterone caproate (17alpha-HPC) in a therapeutic regimen for hormonal replacement after menopause. Fifty postmenopausal patients received hormone replacement therapy (HRT) for 24 weeks. The treatment regimen consisted of standard estrogen replacement therapy at commonly prescribed doses for the prevention of climacteric symptoms and 341 mg of 17alpha-HPC every 30 days. Enrolled women were told to expect withdrawal bleeding 7-10 days after the administration of 17alpha-HPC. Forty-eight patients completed the trial. In 91.7% of cases, patients experienced the expected pattern, i.e., strict withdrawal bleeding exclusive of any other form of bleeding. Breakthrough bleeding and/or other forms of abnormal bleeding affected only four women. At the 6th month none of the endometrial samplings motivated by endometrial thickness >10 mm and evidence of heterogeneous echogenicity (two cases) was positive for carcinoma. No biopsies had to be performed at the end of the 12th month of treatment. No serious adverse effect where recorded during the study period. In conclusion, our data show the efficacy and safety of 17alpha-HPC in HRT.
An interaction between fusidic acid and HMG coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins), resulting in rhabdomyolysis, has been described. Pain and mild weakness are common presenting symptoms.
We report four patients with Type 2 diabetes prescribed long-term statin treatment who, following treatment with fusidic acid, presented atypically with painless, severe flaccid paralysis suggestive of Guillain-Barré syndrome. This, together with nerve conduction studies consistent with Guillain-Barré syndrome, resulted in the delayed recognition of rhabdomyolysis in these cases.
The addition of fusidic acid can precipitate rhabdomyolysis in patients with diabetes already taking a statin. This can present with rapidly progressive weakness resembling Guillain-Barré syndrome. We recommend that creatine kinase is checked in patients with diabetes on statin therapy who present with profound weakness and routinely in those commenced on prolonged courses of fusidic acid.
We report a case of tachycardia due to reentry within the His-Purkinje system (HPS) occurring after introduction of flecainide. The patient presented with a mild mitral regurgitation and normal left ventricular function. He had incomplete left bundle branch block with left-axis deviation. At the electrophysiology study, a prolonged HV interval was observed at baseline, and the tachycardia could be reproduced after ajmaline infusion. Six months after interruption of flecainide, the patient remains free of arrhythmia recurrence. The authors emphasize that proarrhythmic effects of flecainide may include reentry within the HPS in patients with underlying HPS disease.
Pyraclostrobin is an agricultural pesticide product used to kill fungi (e.g., blights, mildews, molds, and rusts). Hazards to humans from pyraclostrobin exposure include eye injury and skin irritation. In July 2007, the Iowa Department of Public Health (IDPH) received reports of five events involving pyraclostrobin that sickened 33 persons, including 27 migrant workers who were exposed in a single incident during aerial application (i.e., crop dusting). This report describes those five events and provides recommendations for preventing additional illnesses associated with exposure to pyraclostrobin.
To assess whether the synthetic prostaglandin misoprostol is renal protective in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients who are beginning cyclosporin A (CSA) therapy.
In this randomized, placebo-controlled, multicenter trial, 50 patients with active RA were randomized to receive either misoprostol (800 micrograms/day) or placebo for 16 weeks. After 2 weeks of pretreatment with misoprostol or placebo, all patients concomitantly received CSA at an initial and maximum dosage of 5 mg/kg/day for 12 weeks.
A significant increase in the serum creatinine level was observed in both treatment groups, with no difference noted between groups. There was a high withdrawal rate in both groups, primarily due to adverse events.
A renal-protective effect was not demonstrated for misoprostol compared with placebo in RA patients who are beginning CSA therapy.
Although increased serum histamine levels and H1R expression in the plaque are seen in atherosclerosis, it is not known whether H1R activation is a causative factor in the development of the disease, or is a host defense response to atherogenic signals. In order to elucidate how pharmacological inhibition of histamine receptor 1 (H1R) signaling affects atherogenesis, we administered either cetirizine (1 and 4 mg/kg. b.w) or fexofenadine (10 and 40 mg/kg. b.w) to ApoE-/- mice maintained on a high fat diet for three months. Mice ingesting a low dose of cetirizine or fexofenadine had significantly higher plaque coverage in the aorta and cross-sectional lesion area at the aortic root. Surprisingly, the higher doses of cetirizine or fexofenadine did not enhance atherosclerotic lesion coverage over the controls. The low dose of fexofenadine, but not cetirizine, increased serum LDL cholesterol. Interestingly, the expression of iNOS and eNOS mRNA was increased in aortas of mice on high doses of cetirizine or fexofenadine. This may be a compensatory nitric oxide (NO)-mediated vasodilatory mechanism that accounts for the lack of increase in the progression of atherosclerosis. Although the administration of cetirizine did not alter blood pressure between the groups, there was a positive correlation between blood pressure and lesion/media ratio at the aortic root in mice receiving the low dose of cetirizine. However, this association was not observed in mice treated with the high dose of cetirizine or either doses of fexofenadine. The macrophages or T lymphocytes densities were not altered by low doses of H1-antihistamines, whereas, high doses decreased the number of macrophages but not T lymphocytes. The number of mast cells was decreased only in mice treated with low dose of fexofenadine. These results demonstrate that chronic ingestion of low therapeutic doses of cetirizine or fexofenadine enhance progression of atherosclerosis.
We report 5 patients, who developed myasthenia, four of them after treatment on D-penicillamine, one after treatment on chloroquine. 3 patients suffered from rheumatoid arthritis, one from a psoriatic arthritis and one from cirrhosis of the liver. Three patients developed an ocular myasthenia, one patient an oculopharyngeal and one patient has had generalized myasthenic syndrome.
Four patients showed an improvement of clinical status within days up to 18 months following discontinuation of the therapy, whereas one patient deteriorated. The quickest improvement was observed in the patient with chloroquine induced myasthenia. Four patients had raised acetylcholine-receptor antibody titers. The patient with chloroquine induced myasthenia had had a normal acetylcholin-receptor antibody titer. The human leucocyte antigen type was compared with the results of literature.
To what extent human leucocyte antigen type HLA DR 4 has a correlation with the development of myasthenia following treatment on chloroquine can not yet be answered with respect to the very small number of cases at the moment.
Three cases of isoniazid-induced toxic optic neuropathy are reported. These severe forms of the disease lead in all cases to bilateral blindness despite drug withdrawal. The epidemiological, clinical and therapeutic aspects of the disease are discussed. Further emphasis is placed on the importance of systematic screening of patients at risk using regular ophthalmological examinations before and after treatment.
To elucidate the basic mechanism of theophylline-associated seizures (TAS), the clinical symptoms, electroencephalogram (EEG) and neuroradiological imaging of eight pediatric patients were all retrospectively evaluated.
Patients whose seizures represented their first episode were selected, while patients with cerebrospinal fluid abnormalities including pleocytosis and protein elevation, present illness of head trauma, epilepsy, febrile convulsion or any psychomotor retardation were excluded although they were given theophylline.
Eight patients, 3.5 +/- 1.7 years of age, thus fulfilled the definition of TAS in the past 5 years. Based on their seizure patterns, EEG findings, brain single-photon emission computed tomography and head magnetic resonance imaging, a total of seven of eight patients had either localized or unilateral dominant lesions. They all had fever, > or =38 degrees C, and six of eight patients had a family history of febrile convulsions and/or idiopathic epilepsy. Thereafter none of them had convulsions after the cessation of theophylline administration. Through the TAS event, a 6-year-old female patient was found to have a right deep lateral cerebral venous angioma.
In infants with idiopathic low seizure threshold and fever, theophylline administration might possibly trigger a seizure. Moreover, based on these patients' clinical findings, some kind of cerebral vascular involvements is speculated to be related with TAS.
A case of nephrotoxicity possibly caused by tobramycin inhalation solution is presented.
A 62-year-old Caucasian woman was admitted for treatment of decreased urine output and sepsis secondary to Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Her past medical history was significant for multiple diseases, including chronic renal insufficiency (baseline serum creatinine concentration [SCr] 2 mg/dL). One month postadmission, the patient was diagnosed with health care-associated pneumonia. The patient was initiated on piperacillin-tazobactam and tobramycin 2 mg/kg i.v. She was changed to imipenem-cilastatin with continuation of i.v. tobramycin. A month after discontinuation of her antibiotic regimen, the patient was diagnosed with P. aeruginosa pneumonia. The patient received imipenem-cilastatin, vancomycin, and inhaled tobramycin 300 mg twice daily. At that time, her SCr was 2 mg/dL. Inhaled tobramycin was continued for four weeks, and the patient's SCr steadily rose to a peak of 4.5 mg/dL. During week 1 of treatment, multidrug-resistant P. aeruginosa and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus were diagnosed. The patient continued to receive i.v. imipenem-cilastatin, vancomycin, and inhaled tobramycin with an SCr of 1.9 mg/dL. However, at the end of week 2, the patient's SCr began to slowly rise (2.3 mg/dL). At week 3, imipenem-cilastatin was discontinued; inhaled tobramycin was continued. The patient's SCr continued to rise (3.2 mg/dL). At week 4, her SCr rose to 4.5 mg/dL, resulting in initiation of hemodialysis and discontinuation of inhaled tobramycin. The patient's SCr never returned to baseline, and renal function was never regained.
Acute renal failure requiring dialysis occurred in a high-risk patient receiving an extended course of treatment with inhaled tobramycin.
Pulmonary toxicity, including fibrosis, is a serious adverse effect associated with the antidysrhythmic drug amiodarone (AM). We tested the potential usefulness of pirfenidone against AM-induced pulmonary toxicity in the hamster model. Intratracheal AM administration resulted in pulmonary fibrosis 21 days posttreatment, as evidenced by an increased hydroxyproline content and histological damage. Dietary pirfenidone administration (0.5% w/w in chow), for 3 days prior to and continuously after AM, prevented fibrosis and suppressed elevation of pulmonary transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 mRNA content at 7 and 21 days post-AM. Protection against AM-induced lung damage was not observed when supplementation with pirfenidone was delayed until 7 days following AM administration, suggesting that alteration of early events in AM lung toxicity is necessary for the protective effect of pirfenidone. Both AM and bleomycin, another pulmonary fibrogen, caused inflammation 24 h after intratracheal dosing, measured as increased lactate dehydrogenase activity, protein content, and cellular alterations in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, with the response to AM markedly greater than that to bleomycin. Administration of AM, but not bleomycin, also caused whole lung mitochondrial dysfunction, alveolar macrophage death, and an influx of eosinophils into the lung, of which pirfenidone was able to decrease only the latter. We conclude that: (1) AM induces alveolar macrophage death and severe, acute pulmonary inflammation with associated eosinophilia following intratracheal administration; (2) mitochondrial dysfunction may play an early role in AM pulmonary injury; and (3) pirfenidone decreases AM-induced pulmonary fibrosis in the hamster, probably through suppression of TGF-beta1 gene expression.
The effects of nicardipine, a new dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, on left ventricular function and energetics were studied in 13 patients. Nicardipine was administered as a 2 mg bolus (i.v.) followed by an infusion titrated to maintain a 10-20 mm Hg decrease in systolic pressure. Nicardipine increased heart rate 19% (P less than 0.001) while left ventricular end-diastolic pressure was not significantly changed and stroke volume (ml) increased 13% (P less than 0.01). Peak values for the first and second time derivatives of left ventricular pressure were increased by 26% (P less than 0.01) and 50% (P less than 0.02) respectively. Peak aortic blood flow, peak aortic blood acceleration, and the peak rate of change of ejection power were increased 86% (P less than 0.001), 123% (P less than 0.01), and 113% (P less than 0.001), respectively. Stroke work was not changed during nicardipine infusion. External power increased by 40% (P less than 0.01); however, the ratio of oscillatory to total power was not significantly different. Although the product of heart rate and systolic aortic pressure was not significantly altered with nicardipine, myocardial oxygen consumption increased 18% (P less than 0.02) with a disproportionate increase in coronary blood flow of 41% (P less than 0.001) and decrease in coronary resistance of 39% (P less than 0.001). The time constant for left ventricular isovolumic relaxation decreased 22% (P less than 0.001) during nicardipine infusion while the minimum value of dP/dt was unchanged. Thus, when administered intravenously in man, nicardipine is a potent coronary and systemic vasodilator producing reflex tachycardia, increased indices of myocardial contractile state, and improved isovolumic relaxation with an associated increase in myocardial oxygen consumption.
Acetaminophen overdose causes acute liver injury or even death in both humans and experimental animals. We investigated the effect of 17β-estradiol against acetaminophen-induced acute liver injury and mortality in mice. Male mice were given acetaminophen (p-acetamidophenol; 300 mg/kg; orally) to induce acute liver injury. Acetaminophen significantly increased the levels of aspartate transaminase, alanine transaminase, myeloperoxidase, lipid peroxidation, and glutathione reductase, but it decreased superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione. In addition, acetaminophen-induced mortality began 4h post-treatment, and all mice died within 9h. 17β-Estradiol (200 μg/kg; i.p.) protected against acetaminophen-induced oxidative hepatic damage by inhibiting neutrophil infiltration and stimulating the antioxidant defense system. However, 17β-estradiol did not affect acetaminophen-induced glutathione depletion or increased glutathione reductase activity. We conclude that 17β-estradiol specifically attenuates acute hepatic damage and decreases mortality in acetaminophen-overdosed male mice.
The molecular basis of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) functions as a potential therapeutic target for breast cancer because EMT may endow breast tumor-initiating cells with stem-like characteristics and enable the dissemination of breast cancer cells. We have recently verified the antitumor activity of 3,5,4'-trimethoxystilbene (MR-3), a naturally methoxylated derivative of resveratrol, in colorectal cancer xenografts via an induction of apoptosis. The effect of MR-3 on EMT and the invasiveness of human MCF-7 breast adenocarcinoma cell line were also explored. We found that MR-3 significantly increased epithelial marker E-cadherin expression and triggered a cobblestone-like morphology of MCF-7 cells, while reciprocally decreasing the expression of mesenchymal markers, such as snail, slug, and vimentin. In parallel with EMT reversal, MR-3 downregulated the invasion and migration of MCF-7 cells. Exploring the action mechanism of MR-3 on the suppression of EMT and invasion indicates that MR-3 markedly reduced the expression and nuclear translocation of β-catenin, accompanied with the downregulation of β-catenin target genes and the increment of membrane-bound β-catenin. These results suggest the involvement of Wnt/β-catenin signaling in the MR-3-induced EMT reversion of MCF-7 cells. Notably, MR-3 restored glycogen synthase kinase-3β activity by inhibiting the phosphorylation of Akt, the event required for β-catenin destruction via a proteasome-mediated system. Overall, these findings indicate that the anti-invasive activity of MR-3 on MCF-7 cells may result from the suppression of EMT via down-regulating phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/AKT signaling, and consequently, β-catenin nuclear translocation. These occurrences ultimately lead to the blockage of EMT and the invasion of breast cancer cells.
The efficacy and safety of amlodipine (2.5 mg, 5 mg, or 10 mg) once daily was compared with atenolol (50 mg to 100 mg) once daily in patients with mild-to-moderate essential hypertension in a randomized, double-blind, parallel, placebo-controlled study. One hundred and twenty-five patients were randomly allocated at the end of a 4-week run-in placebo period to 8 weeks' double-blind treatment with amlodipine (n = 41), atenolol (n = 43), or placebo (n = 41). The mean changes from baseline in blood pressure 24 h postdose for amlodipine (mean daily dose 8.8 mg) were -12.8/-10.1 mm Hg for supine and -11.5/-9.8 mm Hg for standing blood pressure (P < .001). For atenolol (mean daily dose 83.7 mg) the changes were -11.3/-11.7 mm Hg for supine and -13.3/-12.3 mm Hg for standing blood pressure (P < .001). There were no statistically significant differences between treatments. The responder rates for amlodipine, atenolol, and placebo were 61.1%, 64.9%, and 11.1%, respectively. Determinations taken over the 24-h period at the final visit revealed that amlodipine and atenolol maintained the group mean supine blood pressure at or below 140/90 mm Hg throughout the period of observation; the corresponding time-effect curve for the placebo group was clearly in the hypertensive range. Heart rate was significantly lowered by atenolol only. Both amlodipine and atenolol were well-tolerated. Only one patient was withdrawn because of the development of peripheral edema, arthralgia, and fatigue after treatment with amlodipine. This study demonstrates that once-daily administration of amlodipine or atenolol to mild-to-moderate hypertensive patients was well-tolerated and provided adequate blood pressure control throughout the 24-h dosing interval.
Chrysotile (CH), the most common form of asbestos, is rendered less toxic by heating it at 1000°C and converting it to forsterite (FO-1000). However, further safety tests are needed to evaluate human health risk of these materials. It has been reported that serum concentrations of megakaryocyte potentiating factor N-ERC/mesothelin become elevated in patients with mesotheliomas caused by asbestos exposure. In this study, a single 2mg dose of CH or FO-1000 was intratracheally administered to rats. Within 180days after the administrations, serum N-ERC/mesothelin concentrations, levels of 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) in lung tissues and pathological changes in respiratory organs were determined. In the CH group, a significant increase in serum N-ERC/mesothelin concentrations was observed immediately after intratracheal administration, and the elevation lasted for 30days. In lung tissues, positive staining for 8-OHdG in bronchioles, alveolar epithelium, inflammatory cells, and granulomas was evidence of a marked DNA oxidative damage. Furthermore, measurements of 8-OHdG in lung tissues based on the HPLC-ECD method suggested that serum N-ERC/mesothelin concentrations tended to increase when there are significant DNA damages in lung tissues. In contrast, in the FO-1000 group, a marked rise in serum N-ERC/mesothelin concentrations occurred only in the early phase (1-7days) after intratracheal administration. Similarly, FO-1000 induced elevation of 8-OHdG in lung tissues was transient and modest compared with those of the CH-treated animals. In both the CH and FO-1000 groups, we observed significant correlations between serum N-ERC/mesothelin concentrations and lung 8-OHdG concentrations (r=0.559, p=0.001 for the CH group; r=0.516, p=0.01 for the FO-1000 group). In summary, we demonstrated the possibility of using serum N-ERC/mesothelin concentrations as a useful biomarker for early phase exposure to either CH or FO-1000.
Disturbance of the microcirculation and generation of reactive oxygen species are crucial in producing acute gastric mucosal lesions (AGML). To understand the protective mechanism against mucosal injury and oxidative stress in the stomach, we investigated sequential expression and localization of a product of lipid peroxidation and a chemical mediator of the oxidative response array, 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE), transcriptional factor, NF-E2-related factor (Nrf2), and the inducible heme oxygenase (HO-1) in the injured stomach. AGML was produced by intragastric administration of 0.6 N HCl in male rats. Expression and localization of HNE, Nrf2, and HO-1 were investigated by Western blotting, immunohistochemistry, real-time RT-PCR, and in situ hybridization histochemistry. Mucosal lesions and expression of HNE and HO-1 were assessed by prior treatment with the PGI2 analog beraprast or after sensory denervation by pretreatment with capsaicin. Mucosal lesions were assessed by prior treatment with a HO-1 inhibitor, zinc protoporphyrin (ZnPP). After AGML, increased generation of HNE was observed in the injured mucosa and the surrounding submucosa, followed by nuclear translocation of Nrf2 and upregulation of HO-1 in the macrophages located in the margin of the injured mucosa and in the submucosa. Pretreatment with beraprost attenuated AGML and downregulated the expression of HNE and HO-1, while sensory denervation aggravated AGML and upregulated the expression of HNE and HO-1. Pretreatment with ZnPP also aggravated AGML. The sequential HNE-Nrf2-HO-1 pathway in the gastric mucosal cells and the macrophages is involved in an adaptive mechanism against oxidative stress after AGML.
Pituitary prolactinoma is one of the estrogen-related tumors, some anti-estrogen compounds have suppressive effects on prolactinoma. Previous studies have suggested that resveratrol, a phytoestrogen, displays anti-estrogen and anti-tumor characteristics. Therefore, We determined whether resveratrol could inhibit the cell proliferation and decrease prolactin level in prolactinoma cell line, and identify the signaling pathways that mediate the effects of resveratrol.
Prolactinoma cell line, GH3 cells were treated with resveratrol. Changes in proliferation, cell cycle, and apoptosis were assessed. The level of prolactin was assayed by Western blot or EIA. Expression of total Rb (retinoblastoma protein), phosphorylated Rb (pRb) and cyclin D3 were measured by Western blot. The changes of estrogen receptors and their roles in the effects of resveratrol were also determined.
We report that resveratrol had a dose-dependent inhibitory effect on GH3 cell proliferation. Inhibitory effects of resveratrol persisted, even on removal of resveratrol. The growth-inhibitory effect of resveratrol was accompanied by decreased expression of cyclin D3 and pRb. In addition, resveratrol induced G0/G1 cell cycle block and apoptosis. Furthermore, resveratrol suppressed intracellular levels and release of prolactin. Finally, we show that two types of estrogen receptor were involved in the different effects of resveratrol.
Taken together, we demonstrate that resveratrol could inhibit prolactinoma cell proliferation, induce cell cycle block and apoptosis, and decrease prolactin production and release, and estrogen receptors mediate its antitumor effects. And thus, these results lead us to propose developing resveratrol as a novel therapeutic agent for treatment of prolactinoma.
One important complication of diabetes is damage to the peripheral nervous system. However, in spite of the number of studies on human and experimental diabetic neuropathy, the current therapeutic arsenal is meagre. Consequently, the search for substances to protect the nervous system from the degenerative effects of diabetes has high priority in biomedical research. Neuroactive steroids might be interesting since they have been recently identified as promising neuroprotective agents in several models of neurodegeneration. We have assessed whether chronic treatment with progesterone (P), dihydroprogesterone (DHP) or tetrahydroprogesterone (THP) had neuroprotective effects against streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic neuropathy at the neurophysiological, functional, biochemical and neuropathological levels. Using gas chromatography coupled to mass-spectrometry, we found that three months of diabetes markedly lowered P plasma levels in male rats, and chronic treatment with P restored them, with protective effects on peripheral nerves. In the model of STZ-induced of diabetic neuropathy, chronic treatment for 1 month with P, or with its derivatives, DHP and THP, counteracted the impairment of nerve conduction velocity (NCV) and thermal threshold, restored skin innervation density, and improved Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity and mRNA levels of myelin proteins, such as glycoprotein zero and peripheral myelin protein 22, suggesting that these neuroactive steroids, might be useful protective agents in diabetic neuropathy. Interestingly, different receptors seem to be involved in these effects. Thus, while the expression of myelin proteins and Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity are only stimulated by P and DHP (i.e. two neuroactive steroids interacting with P receptor, PR), NCV, thermal nociceptive threshold and intra-epidermal nerve fiber (IENF) density are also affected by THP, which interacts with GABA-A receptor. Because, a therapeutic approach with specific synthetic receptor ligands could avoid the typical side effects of steroids, future experiments will be devoted to evaluating the role of PR and GABA-A receptor in these protective effects.
The possible role of pulmonary C fibers in the hypoxia-induced concomitant increases in end-expiratory lung volume (EELV) and in the activity of the diaphragm at the end of expiration (DE) were evaluated by measuring the effects of hypoxia (10% O2) on ventilation, EELV, and DE in eight chloralose-urethan anesthetized rats. Recordings were made before and after blocking vagal C fibers and after bilateral vagotomy. C-fiber conduction was blocked by applying capsaicin perineurally to the cervical vagi. The efficiency of C-fiber blockade was tested with intravenous capsaicin and its selectivity by the Hering-Breuer reflex. Perineural capsaicin abolished the reflex apnea induced by intravenous capsaicin and transiently reduced Hering-Breuer reflex. Perineural capsaicin affected neither ventilation, DE, and EELV in air nor the hypoxia-induced increases in these parameters. Vagotomy caused the typical changes of breathing pattern in air, but the ventilatory response to hypoxia was unchanged. Vagotomy performed during hypoxia resulted in large decreases in DE and EELV. Hypoxia increased DE and EELV in vagotomized rats but less than in intact rats. We conclude that the hypoxia-induced increases in EELV and diaphragmatic activity are probably not mediated by vagal C fibers and that vagal afferents are involved but not fully responsible for this phenomenon.
The present study aimed to investigate the dose response chemopreventive potential of allyl isothiocyanate (AITC) against 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA) induced mammary carcinogenesis in female Sprague-Dawley rats. Mammary tumor was induced by a single dose of DMBA (25 mg/rat) injected subcutaneously near mammary gland. We observed reduced body weight and increased in total number of tumors, tumor incidence and tumor volume in DMBA-induced rats. We also observed decreased antioxidant status (SOD, CAT, GPX and GSH) and increased lipid peroxidation (TBARS and LOOH) in plasma and mammary tissues. Increased levels of CYP450, Cyt-b5 and decreased levels of phase II (GST and GR) biotransformation enzymes noticed in liver and mammary tissues of DMBA-induced rats. Further, increased levels of lipid profile (TC, TG, PL and FFA) and lipoprotein (LDL and VLDL) were noticed. Whereas, decreased level of HDL in plasma and decreased levels of PL and FFA in mammary tissue. Oral administration of AITC different doses (10, 20 and 40 mg/kg bw) inhibited the tumor incidence and restored levels of biochemical markers. Biochemical findings are supported by histopathological studies. These results suggested that AITC at a dose of 20 mg/kg bw significantly exert chemopreventive potential against DMBA-induced mammary carcinogenesis.
A preterm baby, whose mother received chemotherapy for acute leukaemia during pregnancy, required intensive care because of profound anaemia and neutropenia. Haemopoietic progenitor cell studies showed fetal marrow suppression. Those caring for such mothers and babies should know the possible serious effects chemotherapy for malignancies can have on a developing fetus. Long term follow up of the baby is imperative.
In addition to demonstrating evidences of increased sympathetic nervous system activity and marked left ventricular hypertrophy in salt-sensitive hypertensives, our group has also reported increased weight gain with salt overload in these patients. The increased weight gain suggests volume expansion, a situation already shown to increase plasma levels of a Na, K-ATPase inhibitor. Therefore, in the present study, digoxin-like factor (DLF) serum levels, spontaneous salt ingestion, nifedipine hypotensive effect, and plasma renin activity were evaluated in essential hypertensive subjects. Thirteen essential hypertensive outpatients were studied sequentially on an ad lib diet, a low salt diet (LSD = 30 mEq Na/day), and a high salt diet (HSD = LSD + 171 mmol/L NaCl/day), 1 week each. On the seventh day of LSD and HSD, DLF levels, mean blood pressure (MBP) response to nifedipine (10 mg sublingual), and plasma renin activity were measured. The MBP percent change from the seventh day of LSD to the seventh day of HSD (salt sensitivity) ranged from -13.7 to 20.9%. A positive correlation (r = 0.64, P < .01) was observed between salt sensitivity and 24-h urinary sodium excretion with an ad lib diet. The DLF serum levels correlated with the salt sensitivity both on LSD (r = 0.50, P < .05) and on HSD (r = 0.53, P < .05). Salt sensitivity was positively correlated with the difference of response to nifedipine between HSD and LSD (r = 0.78, P < .001). Plasma renin activity correlated inversely with DLF on LSD (r = -0.51, P < .05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
