KCC2, potassium chloride cotransporter 2, is expressed exclusively in the CNS (on inhibitory neurons) and plays a major role in maintaining appropriately low intracellular chloride levels that ensure inhibitory actions of GABA(A) and glycine receptors. As such, it plays a pivotal role in inhibitory mechanisms that control neuronal excitation in the CNS. KCC2 downregulation has been implicated in various excitatory disorders, such as epilepsy and neuropathic pain. Positive modulators of KCC2 expression or activity may thus provide effective therapy for these disorders. However, the identification of such agents is hindered by the lack of a high-throughput screening method. Here the authors report the development of a fluorescence-based thallium (Tl(+)) transport assay using a Fluorometric Imaging Plate Reader (FLIPR), in which KCC2 activity is assessed by measuring the initial rate of KCC2-mediated Tl(+) transport/influx. The authors demonstrate Tl(+)/Cl(-) cotransport by KCC2, which exhibits a high apparent affinity for Tl(+) and dependency on the presence of the Cl(-) ion. Pharmacological studies revealed anticipated effects and potencies of known KCC-positive (NEM, staurosporine) and KCC-negative (DIOA, furosemide) modulators. The authors demonstrate that the assay is robust and reproducible and can be employed in high-throughput screening for positive modulators of KCC2 as potential therapeutic agents.
Activity of the dipeptidyl hydrolase angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) has been observed to be altered by treatment with adriamycin (ADR). We used an animal model of ADR nephrotoxicity to study the effects on ACE in serum, urine and tissues on days 5, 10, 15, 20, 25 and 30 after ADR administration. Both glomerular and tubular injury occurred as evidenced by heavy proteinuria, albuminuria and increased urine N-acetyl glucosaminidase (NAG) excretion. Serum ACE was significantly elevated on days 20, 25 and 30. Of great interest was the excretion of ACE in urine of treated rats which ran parallel with the total protein excretion above the barely detectable levels found in controls. ACE activity increased in kidney, adrenal gland and liver on days 15, 20, 25 and 30. Heart and brain ACE levels increased on days 25 and 30. Increased ACE activity in aorta and lungs occurred on days 20, 25 and 30. ACE activity decreased in kidney, aorta, heart and brain on days 5 and 10. These observations strongly suggest a contribution of various tissues to elevate the serum ACE level. Urinary ACE may be of potential use as an index for renal glomerular and tubular damage.
To investigate the effect of melatonin treatment on sleep, behavior, cognition, and quality of life in children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and chronic sleep onset insomnia.
A total of 105 medication-free children, ages 6 to 12 years, with rigorously diagnosed ADHD and chronic sleep onset insomnia participated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial using 3 or 6 mg melatonin (depending on body weight), or placebo for 4 weeks. Primary outcome parameters were actigraphy-derived sleep onset, total time asleep, and salivary dim light melatonin onset.
Sleep onset advanced by 26.9 +/- 47.8 minutes with melatonin and delayed by 10.5 +/- 37.4 minutes with placebo (p < .0001). There was an advance in dim light melatonin onset of 44.4 +/- 67.9 minutes in melatonin and a delay of 12.8 +/- 60.0 minutes in placebo (p < .0001). Total time asleep increased with melatonin (19.8 +/- 61.9 minutes) as compared to placebo (-13.6 +/- 50.6 minutes; p = .01). There was no significant effect on behavior, cognition, and quality of life, and significant adverse events did not occur.
Melatonin advanced circadian rhythms of sleep-wake and endogenous melatonin and enhanced total time asleep in children with ADHD and chronic sleep onset insomnia; however, no effect was found on problem behavior, cognitive performance, or quality of life.
Mechanical allodynia, or hypersensitivity to tactile stimuli, is a frequent clinical symptom of neuropathy. Large interindividual differences have been observed in neuropathic pain, both in susceptibility to its development and in its severity. Identification of genetic factors relevant to this variability would be of obvious utility. Although many animal models of neuropathic pain following peripheral nerve injury have been developed, most involve intricate surgeries and are thus poorly suited for large-scale linkage mapping investigations in the mouse. Recently, a schedule of intraperitoneal injections of the chemotherapeutic agent, paclitaxel (Taxol(R)), has been shown to produce a long-lasting, bilateral neuropathy in the rat, featuring hypersensitivity to mechanical, thermal and cold stimuli. We present here a survey of the responses of 10 inbred mouse strains to paclitaxel injections. Virtually all strains developed statistically significant mechanical allodynia, with one strain, DBA/2J, exhibiting especially robust changes. Strain sensitivities to paclitaxel-induced mechanical allodynia were similar to those obtained previously using a surgical model of neuropathic pain, supporting our contention that genetic sensitivity to mechanical allodynia is independent of the precise mode of induction. Using sensitive DBA/2 mice and a resistant strain, C57BL/6J, for comparison, we further characterized the paclitaxel model in mice by examining cold allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia. Both strains displayed equivalent cold allodynia but neither strain developed thermal hyperalgesia. The present data confirm a genetic component in mechanical allodynia using this model, while dissociating mechanical hypersensitivity from other pain modalities.
Transplanted lines of seven F-344 (Fischer) rat malignant gliomas induced transplacentally with ethylnitrosourea (ENU) were surveyed by in vivo immunoprotection assays for the presence of tumour rejection antigens. These gliomas were representative of commonplace histological types of human primary brain tumours and were analyzed in early transplantation passages. The classical tumour ligation method of immunizing animals was attempted with five glioma lines, but was found unusable in four of these because of a high incidence of local tumour recurrences and distant metastases. In most experiments the animals were immunized by repeated inoculations of heavily-irradiated tumour cells. Two gliomas, a glioblastoma multiforms and a mixed astrocytoma-ependymoma, demonstrated weak but statistically significant tumour rejection responses. Immunization with three other tumours, a mixed oligodendroglioma-astrocytoma and two glioblastomas multiforme, led to enhanced outgrowth of the challenge cell inocula. Neither a rejection nor an enhancement response was observed in assays of the remaining two neoplasms, a glioblastoma multiforme and a mixed astrocytoma-oligodendroglioma. Immunization with a 3-methylcholanthrene-induced urinary bladder carcinoma line, used as a control in assays of six gliomas, had no effect on the outgrowth of transplanted glioma cells. These results suggest that ENU-induced malignant rat gliomas do not uniformly elicit strong tumour-rejection responses in vivo.
Selection of appropriate pharmacotherapy for psychotic patients who exhibit dangerousness is an important issue. Divalproex is a fast-acting agent which appears to be safe and effective in such circumstances. The objective of the following inpatient study was to investigate divalproex as a pharmaceutical adjunct in treating agitated and/or violent, psychotic schizophrenic subjects.
For the purpose of comparison, 147 hospitalized patients were separated into violent (n = 60) and non-violent (n = 87) groups. In addition to antipsychotic drugs given to all subjects, divalproex was preferentially prescribed for the more dangerous patients (n = 40). The clinical status of demographics and parameters related to dangerousness in all participants was assessed to document differences during these admissions and for rehospitalization over one year.
Divalproex was well tolerated; however, one individual developed a transient granulocytopenia. Its use in agitated and/or violent psychotic persons appears to have included a calmer, less dangerous hospital course, like that observed among their less disruptive counterparts.
Divalproex seemed to have been helpful in this study at facilitating a more routine hospital course for agitated psychotic patients, similar to that of less overtly disturbed individuals. No significant adverse events were observed. The validity of this study is limited by its retrospective, uncontrolled nature.
Renal papillary necrosis (RPN) is a relatively common toxicity observed in preclinical drug safety testing. It is also observed in a variety of human diseases. RPN is difficult to diagnose without expensive scanning methods or histopathology. A noninvasive biomarker that could be detected at early stages of kidney damage would be of great value both to preclinical drug safety testing and in the clinic. An antibody raised to an unknown epitope of an antigen in rat kidney papilla was found to be specific for collecting duct cells in the kidney; this was termed renal papillary antigen 1 (RPA-1). In this study, the authors show that RPA-1 is an early biomarker of RPN in two different rat models of toxicity: 2-bromoethanamine (BEA) and N-phenylanthranilic acid (NPAA). RPA-1 can be detected in urine at early stages of toxicity and correlates well with the histopathology observed. We also characterized the biochemical properties of RPA-1 and found that the antigen is a high molecular weight membrane bound glycoprotein, with the epitope likely to be carried on an N-linked carbohydrate structure. This study demonstrates that RPA-1 is an excellent marker of RPN that can be used to detect this toxicity in preclinical safety testing.
TCDD is one of the most toxic man-made compounds and an extremely potent teratogen in mice. Many of its toxic symptoms resemble those seen during vitamin A deficiency. Vitamin A and its derivatives, such as alltrans-retinoic acid (RA), are also teratogenic in mice, as well as many other species. Both TCDD and RA produce cleft palate in susceptible strains of mice. However, while TCDD produces hydronephrosis, RA does not, and TCDD does not produce limb bud defects while RA does. To determine whether TCDD and RA would enhance or antagonize the teratogenic effects of the other compound, C57BL/6N dams were treated po on Gestation Day (gd) 10 or 12 with 10 ml corn oil/kg containing TCDD (0-18 micrograms/kg), RA (0-200 mg/kg), or combinations of the two chemicals. Dams were killed on gd 18 and toxicity and teratogenicity assessed. Coadministration of TCDD and RA had no effect on maternal or fetal toxicity beyond what would be expected by either compound alone. Cleft palate was induced by RA at lower doses on gd 10 than on gd 12, but by TCDD at lower doses on gd 12 than on gd 10. Sensitivity to TCDD-induced hydronephrosis was similar on both gd 10 and 12. The limb bud defects were only observed when RA was administered on gd 10, not when given on gd 12. No other soft tissue or skeletal malformations were related to administration of TCDD or RA. No effect of TCDD was observed on the incidence or severity of limb bud defects induced by RA, nor did RA influence the incidence or severity of hydronephrosis induced by TCDD. However, the incidence of cleft palate was dramatically enhanced by coadministration of the xenobiotic and vitamin. On both gd 10 and 12, the dose-response curves for cleft palate induction were parallel, suggesting some similarities in mechanism between the two compounds. However, combination treatment resulted in a synergistic response that varied with the stage of development and was tissue specific.
Prenatal exposure to chemicals is well known to induce developmental abnormalities in the central nervous system of children. Developmental neurotoxicity (DNT) tests are important to identify neurotoxic agents and prevent neurodevelopmental disorders. We have investigated DNT, focusing on the fetal brain shortly after chemical exposure. To demonstrate a usefulness of a study focusing on the fetal brain in DNT tests, we assessed the fetal brain in a rat valproate-induced autism model. Rats were treated with sodium valproate (VPA, 800 mg/kg) orally on gestational day (GD) 9 or 11 (VPA9 or VPA11), and the fetal brains were examined on GD16 using immunohistochemistry for serotonin (5-HT), tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), and TuJ1 (neuron specific class III beta-tubulin). Hypoplasia of the cortical plate was induced in both VPA9 and VPA11 groups. Abnormal migration of TH-positive and 5-HT neurons, possibly due to the appearance of an abnormally running nerve tract in the pons, was observed only in the VPA11 group. In addition, when we compared the incidence of these abnormalities between pregnant rats mated in our own animal facility (in-house group), and rats purchased pregnant (supplier group), the supplier group was much more sensitive, especially to the pons abnormality. Shipping stress may affect the reproducibility of VPA-induced DNT. The present results demonstrate that examination of the GD16 fetal brain was useful for detecting and characterizing abnormal development of the brain after VPA exposure. Further discussion was made with reference to the findings in children with autism.
Local injections of corticosteroids can, in very rare cases, be complicated by Tachon syndrome-intense lumbar and/or dorsal and/or thoracic pain a few minutes after the injection, with rapid regression of the pain. Passing the drug into a vein through a nick made during the procedure could explain the pathophysiology of this disorder. We report two good cases illustrating the typical symptoms of this distressful syndrome. Diagnosis of Tachon syndrome is made by elimination of the usual medical and surgical causes, and physicians performing local injections should be aware of this phenomenon. The patient needs to be reassured of the temporal nature of the syndrome.
A spongy change in the spinal cord white matter was observed in four-week-old rats treated with aniline. Although this change was found to be a result of the myelin sheath splitting at the ultrastructural level, the mechanism is unknown. This study was conducted to identify the mechanism of the spongy change in aniline-treated rats. The spongy change in the spinal cord white matter was first detected on day 5 in the histopathologic examination. The incidence and severity of the lesions, especially in the lateral and ventral funiculi of the thoracic spinal cord white matter, increased prominently from day 8 to day 10. In all rats, immunohistochemical staining by anti-2', 3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase (CNPase) occurred along the cytoplasmic boundaries of the normal oligodendroglia. However, mild to moderate anti-CNPase staining extended to the swollen cytoplasm of the oligodendroglia in the aniline-treated rats from day 2 to day 4. In the electron microscopic examination, free ribosomes and rough endoplasmic reticula in the cytoplasm of the oligodendroglia increased on days 3 and 4. These changes were considered to be related to CNPase expression. However, CNPase expression decreased, whereas the spongy changes were detected from day 5. The reduction in CNPase expression may contribute to the changes in the myelin morphology observed in aniline intoxication.
Protein kinase C interacting protein/histidine triad nucleotide binding protein 1 (PKCI/HINT1) is a member of the histidine triad protein family. Although this protein is widely expressed in the mammalian brain including mesocorticolimbic and mesostriatal regions, its physiological function in CNS remains unknown. Recent microarray studies reported decreased mRNA expression of PKCI/HINT1 in the frontal cortex of individuals with schizophrenia, suggesting the possible involvement of this protein in the pathophysiology of the disease. In view of the documented link between dopamine (DA) transmission and schizophrenia, the present study used behavioral and neurochemical approaches to examine the influence of constitutive PKCI/HINT1 deletion upon: (i) basal and amphetamine (AMPH)-evoked locomotor activity; (ii) DA dynamics in the dorsal striatum, and (iii) postsynaptic DA receptor function. PKCI/HINT1(-/-) (KO) mice displayed lower spontaneous locomotion relative to wild-type (WT) controls. Acute AMPH administration significantly increased locomotor activity in WT mice; nonetheless, the effect was enhanced in KO mice. Quantitative microdialysis studies revealed no alteration in basal DA dynamics in the striatum or nucleus accumbens of KO mice. The ability of acute AMPH to increase DA levels was unaltered indicating that function in presynaptic DA neurotransmission in these regions do not underlie the behavioral phenotype of KO mice. In contrast to WT mice, systemic administration of the direct-acting DA receptor agonist apomorphine (10 mg/kg) significantly increased locomotor activity in KO mice suggesting that postsynaptic DA function is altered in these animals. These results demonstrate an important role of PKCI/HINT1 in modulating the behavioral response to AMPH. Furthermore, they indicate that the absence of this protein may be associated with dysregulation of postsynaptic DA transmission.
Although NSAIDs (nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs) appear to be effective in the prevention and treatment of prostate cancer, very little information exists on the comparative effects of common nonprescription NSAIDs. In the present investigation, we evaluated the effects of widely used nonprescription NSAIDs on human prostate cancer cells in vitro.
Using in vitro models of androgen-sensitive and androgen-insensitive human prostate cancer cells, we evaluated the effects of acetaminophen, aspirin, naproxen, and ibuprofen on cell survival, cell cycle and the induction of apoptosis. We also compared the effects of these drugs with that of the selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor, NS-398.
Ibuprofen was significantly more effective against human prostate cancer cells in vitro than the other tested nonprescription NSAIDs. MTT analysis indicated that clinically relevant concentrations of ibuprofen significantly reduced the survival of LNCaP human prostate tumor cells. TUNEL analysis demonstrated that this was due in part to a significant number of LNCaP cells undergoing apoptosis. Ibuprofen also induced the same amount of apoptosis of an androgen-independent human prostate cancer cell line (DU-145), but had little effect on normal mouse fibroblast (3T3) cells. Cell cycle analysis indicated that ibuprofen caused LNCaP cells to shift from the S and G(2)/M phases to the G(0)/G(1) phases of the cell cycle. Another propionic acid NSAID, naproxen, had an effect similar to but overall less than that of ibuprofen. Suprapharmacological concentrations of aspirin and acetaminophen did not induce levels of apoptosis in LNCaP cells similar to those induced by clinically relevant concentrations of ibuprofen. The selective COX-2 inhibitor NS-398 mirrored the effectiveness of ibuprofen against LNCaP cells in vitro. However, when the pharmacokinetics of selective COX-2 inhibitors and other NSAIDs reported to be effective against prostate cancer were taken into consideration, ibuprofen appeared to be one of the most effective NSAIDs at clinically relevant concentrations.
These observations support the use of ibuprofen in future in vivo studies and in clinical trials designed to test the effectiveness of NSAIDs against human prostate cancer.
Kniest dysplasia is an autosomal-dominant chondrodysplastic condition characterized by disproportionate dwarfism, short trunk, small pelvis, kyphoscoliosis, short limbs, prominent joints, premature osteoarthritis, and craniofacial manifestations. The craniofacial abnormalities include tracheomalacia, midface hypoplasia, cleft palate, early onset myopia, retinal detachment, prominent eyes, and sensorineural hearing loss. Radiologic features include dumbbell-shaped femora, platyspondylia with anterior wedging of vertebral bodies, coronal clefts of thoracolumbar vertebral bodies, low broad ilia, and short tubular bones with broad metaphyses and deformed large epiphyses. This form of chondrodysplasia is associated with mutations in type II collagen splicing sequences. Mutations have been identified in the COL2A1 (type II collagen) gene between exons 12 and 24. Type II collagen is the predominant structural protein in cartilage, and mutations in this collagen account for the Kniest dysplasia phenotype. Histopathologic and ultrastructural features of epiphyseal plate cartilage have been described, but tracheal cartilage in an affected neonate has not been examined. The authors report the histopathologic and ultrastructural findings of anterior tracheal cartilage from a 35-day-old female with suspected chondrodysplasia who had tracheomalacia with airway obstruction. The tracheal cartilage was moderately cellular, but lacked cystic and myxoid changes in its matrix. The chondrocytes had abundant cytoplasmic PAS-positive inclusions. Some of these inclusions were diastase-resistant and were also highlighted on Alcian blue staining. Ultrastructural examination revealed chondrocytes with greatly dilated rough endoplasmic reticulum containing granular proteinaceous material. There were also frequent aggregates of typical glycogen. The defect in the COL2A1 gene is secondary to mutations, especially at splice junctions, and this markedly disrupts triple helix formation. The mutated type II procollagen results in intracellular retention within the chondrocytes, as abundant granular proteinaceous material within the dilated RER. A relationship is known to exist between the proportion of mutated to normal type II collagen in the matrix and the severity of the phenotype. With low levels of normal type II collagen, the phenotypic manifestations become more severe, such as in achondrogenesis type II. Both the quantity and quality of type II collagen modulates the phenotypic expression of type II collagenopathies.
1. Murine left atrium lacks inotropic beta(2)-adrenoceptor function. We investigated whether beta(2)-adrenoceptors are involved in the cardiostimulant effects of (-)-adrenaline on spontaneously beating right atria and paced right ventricular myocardium of C57BL6 mice. We also studied a negative inotropic effect of (-)-adrenaline. 2. Sinoatrial tachycardia, evoked by (-)-adrenaline was resistant to blockade by beta(2)-selective ICI 118,551 (50 nM) but antagonized by beta(1)-selective CGP 20712A (300 nM). This pattern was unaffected by pretreatment with pertussis toxin (PTX, 600 microg kg(-1) i.p. 24 h) which reversed carbachol-evoked bradycardia to tachycardia. 3. Increases of ventricular force by (-)-adrenaline and (-)-noradrenaline were not blocked by ICI 118,551 but antagonized by CGP 20712A. 4. Under blockade of beta-adrenoceptors, (-)-adrenaline and (-)-noradrenaline depressed ventricular force (-logIC(50)M=7.7 and 6.9). The cardiodepressant effects of (-)-adrenaline were antagonized by phentolamine (1 microM) and prazosin (1 microM) but not by (-)-bupranolol (1 microM). Prazosin potentiated the positive inotropic effects of (-)-adrenaline (in the absence of beta-blockers) from -logEC(50)M=6.2 - 6.8. 5. PTX-treatment reduced carbachol-evoked depression of ventricular force in the presence of high catecholamine concentrations. Inhibition of ventricular function of G(i) protein was verified by 82% reduction of in vitro ADP-ribosylation. PTX-treatment tended to increase the positive inotropic potency of (-)-adrenaline under all conditions investigated, including the presence of ICI 118,551. 6. (-)-Adrenaline causes murine cardiostimulation through beta(1)-adrenoceptors but not through beta(2)-adrenoceptors. The negative inotropic effects of (-)-adrenaline are mediated through ventricular alpha(1)-adrenoceptors but not through beta(3)-adrenoceptors. Both G(i) protein and alpha(1)-adrenoceptors restrain (-)-adrenaline-evoked increases in right ventricular force mediated through beta(1)-adrenoceptors.
Report of a case of erythema multiforme-like eruption due to the use of rubber gloves. After several complementary studies, including epicutaneous and skin prick tests, we concluded that the eruption was secondary to sensitization to carbamates and thiuram. The main differential diagnosis in this case was allergic contact dermatitis to latex in natural rubber gloves. This entity is less frequent than might be expected, because it is usually due to intermediate chemical compounds used in rubber manufacturing, such as vulcanization accelerators; among of these latter compounds are thiurams and carbamates. Erythema multiforme-like eruption is a rare manifestation of contact dermatitis. Several cases have been reported, most of which have been due to contact with plants, metals or topical non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Its mechanism is still unclear, but it seems to be a type IV hypersensitivity reaction.
Thiabendazole is a relatively safe and effective agent with a wide range of activity against nematodes infesting the gastrointestinal tract. A 55-yr-old man developed prolonged jaundice and sicca complex after a course of thiabendazole therapy. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography demonstrated normal biliary tree and pancreatic ducts. Liver biopsy was consistent with a drug-induced intrahepatic cholestatic reaction. The patient recovered completely from his liver injury, but the sicca complex persisted 1 yr after the drug was given. The literature on thiabendazole-induced cholestasis and its association with sicca complex is reviewed.
To evaluate the influence of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs; aspirin and indomethacin) on the renal and antihypertensive effects of enalapril and nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system (GITS) in patients with essential hypertension.
In a crossover study, 18 patients on an unrestricted-salt diet were randomly assigned to receive either enalapril (20-40 mg/day) or nifedipine-GITS (30-60 mg/day) for 4-8 weeks, followed by aspirin (100 mg/day for 2 weeks) and then indomethacin (75 mg/day for 1 week). Blood pressure was measured by 24h ambulatory monitoring.
Enalapril and nifedipine-GITS significantly reduced blood pressure compared with placebo. Aspirin did not alter the antihypertensive effect of either drug. Indomethacin attenuated (by 45%) the antihypertensive effect of enalapril throughout the 24h period of evaluation, but did not interfere with the effect of nifedipine. Furthermore, indomethacin significantly reduced the fractional excretion of sodium and plasma levels of prostaglandins in a similar way when added to either the enalapril or the nifedipine regimen.
Vasodilatory prostaglandins are probably involved in the antihypertensive effects of enalapril but not of nifedipine, and this interaction seems to be independent of any indomethacin-induced decrease in renal sodium excretion. Nifedipine may be an appropriate drug to treat hypertensive patients requiring concomitant therapy with NSAID.
Previous gene expression profiles revealed the T-lymphocyte maturation-associated protein (MAL) gene as being frequently downregulated in head and neck cancer. To define the relationship between the MAL gene and the metastatic process, we evaluated the expression status of the gene in matched primary and metastatic tumors of head and neck cancer by semiquantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Furthermore, we aimed to identify potential genetic and epigenetic mechanisms associated with downregulation of MAL, including loss of heterozygosity (LOH), mutation, and hypermethylation. Thirty-five cell lines of University of Turko squamous cell carcinoma (UT-SCC) series derived from head and neck cancer, including nine pairs from matched primary and metastatic tumors, and 30 pairs of matched primary and metastatic tumor samples were analyzed. Twenty out of 35 (57%) cell lines showed downregulation of MAL expression, whereas no expression was found in 10 cell lines (29%). Considering matched primary and metastatic tumor-derived cell-line pairs, four pairs showed decreased expression only in metastasis-derived cells compared with their primary counterparts. Expression analysis of 21 tissue samples demonstrated decreased or no expression of MAL mRNA in 43% of metastatic tumors compared with matched primary tumors. Relating to mechanisms of downregulation, LOH was observed in 30% of primary tumors and 38% of their metastatic counterparts by a MAL-specific microsatellite marker. Furthermore, we found restoration of MAL mRNA after treatment with demethylating agent (5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine) in 9 (45%) out of 20 cell lines. No mutation was found in UT-SCC cell lines. In conclusion, our findings indicate selective downregulation of MAL expression in metastatic cells, suggesting the MAL gene as a new metastasis-suppressor candidate for head and neck cancer. LOH and hypermethylation appeared to be important mechanisms for inactivation of MAL function.
Ulcerative colitis is one of the principal forms of inflammatory bowel disease with complex manifestations. Although previous studies have indicated that there is a genetic contribution to the pathogenesis of ulcerative colitis, the genes influencing susceptibility to the disease have not been fully determined. To identify genetic factors conferring risk of ulcerative colitis, here we conducted a two-stage genome-wide association study and subsequent replication study using 1,384 Japanese individuals with ulcerative colitis and 3,057 control subjects. In addition to the expected strong association with the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) region, we identified three new susceptibility loci: the immunoglobulin receptor gene FCGR2A (rs1801274, P = 1.56 x 10(-12)), a locus on chromosome 13q12 (rs17085007, P = 6.64 x 10(-8)) and the glycoprotein gene SLC26A3 (rs2108225, P = 9.50 x 10(-8)). rs1801274 is a nonsynonymous SNP of FCGR2A that is reported to have a critical effect on receptor binding affinity for IgG and to be associated with other autoimmune diseases. Our findings provide insight into the molecular pathogenesis of ulcerative colitis.
The acoustic startle response (ASR), prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the ASR and the effects of haloperidol on the ASR and PPI were examined in C57BL/6J (B6) and DBA/2 (D2) inbred mouse strains and their F1 and F2 progeny. The startle stimulus was a 60-ms, 110-dB, 10-kHz tone; the prepulse stimuli were 20-ms, white noise bursts at 56, 68 and 80 dB against a 50-dB background presented 100-ms before the startle pulse. The B6 strain showed modest PPI (25-40%); in contrast, the D2 strain showed on average no PPI and numerous individuals showed prepulse augmentation (PPA). The F2 progeny showed an intermediate PPI; however, the extreme values ranged from 200% PPA to essentially 100% PPI. Haloperidol in dose-dependent fashion, increased PPI in both the B6 and D2 strains; the threshold dose was in the range of 0.1-0.2 mg/kg. Raclopride (0.3 mg/kg), clozapine (2 mg/kg) and risperidone (0.4 mg/kg) also increased PPI in both strains. The effects of haloperidol (0.4 mg/kg) on PPI in 140 F2 progeny were examined. For all prepulse intensities, there were highly significant (r > 0.80) and negative correlations between baseline PPI and the haloperidol-induced change in PPI. Thus, those animals that showed the greatest PPA showed the greatest haloperidol-induced increase in PPI. There was, however, significant variance in the haloperidol response; plots of the regression residuals showed the most and least responsive animals differed by almost 100% in effect on PPI. The F2 progeny were subsequently phenotyped for haloperidol-induced catalepsy. There was no association between the variation in effects on catalepsy and PPI. However, it was observed that those individuals with the poorest baseline PPI were catalepsy non-responsive.
We investigated a possible role of the mismatch-repair gene MLH3 in hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer by scanning for mutations in 39 HNPCC families and in 288 patients suspected of having HNPCC. We identified ten different germline MLH3 variants, one frameshift and nine missense mutations, in 12 patients suspected of HNPCC. Three of the 12 also carried a mutation in MSH6.
This is a case report of an association between morphine administration and occurrence of hydronephrosis with acute renal failure. This premature female infant born at 27 weeks of gestation had moderate hydronephrosis with acute renal impairment while receiving morphine infusion for pain management after chest-tube insertion. All these findings were reversed after stopping morphine and urinary catheterization. Follow-up renal ultrasound and voiding cystourethrogram showed resolution of hydronephrosis with no evidence of vesicoureteral reflux. Morphine is associated with reversible hydronephrosis and renal impairment in premature infants.
We performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS) in 1,713 individuals of European ancestry with Parkinson's disease (PD) and 3,978 controls. After replication in 3,361 cases and 4,573 controls, we observed two strong association signals, one in the gene encoding alpha-synuclein (SNCA; rs2736990, OR = 1.23, P = 2.24 x 10(-16)) and another at the MAPT locus (rs393152, OR = 0.77, P = 1.95 x 10(-16)). We exchanged data with colleagues performing a GWAS in Japanese PD cases. Association to PD at SNCA was replicated in the Japanese GWAS, confirming this as a major risk locus across populations. We replicated the effect of a new locus detected in the Japanese cohort (PARK16, rs823128, OR = 0.66, P = 7.29 x 10(-8)) and provide supporting evidence that common variation around LRRK2 modulates risk for PD (rs1491923, OR = 1.14, P = 1.55 x 10(-5)). These data demonstrate an unequivocal role for common genetic variants in the etiology of typical PD and suggest population-specific genetic heterogeneity in this disease.
To identify susceptibility variants for Parkinson's disease (PD), we performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS) and two replication studies in a total of 2,011 cases and 18,381 controls from Japan. We identified a new susceptibility locus on 1q32 (P = 1.52 x 10(-12)) and designated this as PARK16, and we also identified BST1 on 4p15 as a second new risk locus (P = 3.94 x 10(-9)). We also detected strong associations at SNCA on 4q22 (P = 7.35 x 10(-17)) and LRRK2 on 12q12 (P = 2.72 x 10(-8)), both of which are implicated in autosomal dominant forms of parkinsonism. By comparing results of a GWAS performed on individuals of European ancestry, we identified PARK16, SNCA and LRRK2 as shared risk loci for PD and BST1 and MAPT as loci showing population differences. Our results identify two new PD susceptibility loci, show involvement of autosomal dominant parkinsonism loci in typical PD and suggest that population differences contribute to genetic heterogeneity in PD.
During human fulminant hepatic failure (FHF) circulating levels of most hemostatic proteins fall dramatically. Concurrently, factor VIII (fVIII) procoagulant activity rises despite destruction of the hepatocytes considered responsible for fVIII synthesis. This observation suggests a role for cells other than hepatocytes in fVIII biosynthesis during FHF. We have attempted to identify nonhepatocytic sites of fVIII biosynthesis by inducing FHF in mice using acetaminophen overdose, a common cause of human FHF. Acetaminophen-treated mice consistently displayed signs characteristic of FHF, including elevated plasma aminotransferase activity. However, acetaminophen-treated mice demonstrated markedly reduced fVIII activity, contrary to the observation in human FHF. von Willebrand factor antigen levels were only mildly reduced, suggesting that the decrease in fVIII is not secondary to loss of von Willebrand factor. These results imply that there are fundamental differences in the regulation of plasma fVIII levels between humans and mice.
Cocaine use can be associated with a wide spectrum of rheumatic manifestations. It poses a diagnostic challenge as the patients usually withhold the information of cocaine use, and no serological tests are available to establish this diagnosis. We report a patient with vasculopathic syndrome secondary to cocaine use. Despite initial denial of drug abuse, skin biopsy suggested the diagnosis, which was subsequently confirmed by urine drug testing. Differentiating cocaine-associated pseudovasculitis from true vasculitis is necessary, as conventional treatment is usually ineffective without complete abstinence from cocaine use and may be associated with significant morbidity as well as mortality.
The regulation of cardiac protein synthesis, in particular messenger-RNA (mRNA) and polyribosome metabolism, has been investigated in normal rat heart muscle and in the adriamycin-cardiomyopathy by using newly developed methods for the isolation, characterization and in-vitro translation of cardiac polyribosomes and mRNA. The obtained data allow the following conclusions: 1. Normal heart muscle has a high content of polyribosomes (865 micrograms/g) and of mRNA (20-60 micrograms/g), and thus a high rate of protein synthesis. 2. The level of cardiac polyribosomes and mRNA is strictly age-dependent and much higher in young animals (2-3 x). This corresponds to a higher cardiac protein synthesis rate in young animals with a growing heart muscle, and shows that the protein-synthetic reserves of heart muscle decrease sharply with age. 3. Withdrawal of food for 1-3 days results in a pronounced decrease (-50% to -70%) of cardiac polyribosomes and mRNA, demonstrating that the cardiac protein synthesis reacts very sensitively to conditions of starving. 4. The cardiac polyribosomes and mRNA are unevenly distributed in the myocyte. The bulk of these substances is present in the cardiac microsomes, and much less is found in nuclei, myofibrils, mitochondria and in the post-microsomal fraction (=cell-sap) of the cardiac muscle. This shows that the major intracellular site of cardiac protein synthesis is the microsomal fraction of the myocyte. 5. A pool of untranslated mRNA was demonstrated to be present in the cell-sap of the myocyte. This mRNA is to some extent translatable in-vitro and appears to represent mRNA sub-pools with two functions: a) mRNA which is partially broken down or in the process of being broken down, and b) intact mRNA which could have a "reserve-function", e.g., by being utilized to increase cardiac protein synthesis under certain conditions. 6. A method of quantitating small amounts of cardiac mRNA (25-50 ng) has been developed which makes it possible to estimate the mRNA content of cardiac biopsies. 7. These methods were utilized to study the relevance of changes in RNA- and protein synthesis in the development of the adriamycin-cardiomyopathy. It appears that severe decreases in cardiac mRNA and polyribosome levels are a key factor in the pathogenesis of the adriamycin-cardiomyopathy. These decreases are probably caused by the direct binding of adriamycin to cardiac DNA and lead themselves to a persisting decrease in cardiac protein synthesis which in view of the short half-lives of the cardiac contractile proteins (5-12 days) causes a gradual loss of cardiac structure and function.
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patients are at high risk for developing folate deficiency and colon cancer. Since it is difficult to study the subtle global and gene-specific epigenetic mechanisms involved in folate-mediated tumor initiation and promotion, we have generated genetically modified mouse models by targeting the reduced folate carrier (RFC1) and folate-binding protein (Folbp1) genes. The transgenic mice were fed semi-purified diets for 8 weeks containing either normal (2 mg) or deficient (0.1 mg folate/kg diet) levels of folate. Compound heterozygous mice (Folbp1(+/-); RFC1(+/-)) fed an adequate folate diet exhibited a reduction in plasma folate concentrations compared to heterozygous (Folbp1(+/-)) and littermate wild-type mice (P<.05). In contrast, no differences were observed in colonic mucosa. Consumption of a low folate diet significantly reduced (three- to fourfold) plasma and tissue folate levels in all animal models, although plasma homocysteine levels were not altered. In order to elucidate the relationship between folate status and inflammation-associated colon cancer, animals were injected with azoxymethane followed by dextran sodium sulphate treatment in the drinking water. Mice were fed a normal folate diet and were terminated 5 weeks after carcinogen injection. The number of high multiplicity aberrant crypt foci per centimeter of colon was significantly elevated (P<.05) in compound Folbp1(+/-); RFC1(+/-) (3.5+/-0.4) mice as compared to Folbp1(+/-) (1.9+/-0.3) and wild-type control mice (1.1+/-0.1). These data demonstrate that the ablation of two receptor/carrier-mediated pathways for folate transport increases the risk for developing inflammation-associated colon cancer.
