It is well established that the vanilloid receptor, VR1, is an important peripheral mediator of nociception. VR1 receptors are also located in several brain regions, yet it is uncertain whether these supraspinal VR1 receptors have any influence on the nociceptive system. To investigate a possible nociceptive role for supraspinal VR1 receptors, capsaicin (10 nmol in 0.4 microl) was microinjected into either the dorsal (dPAG) or ventral (vPAG) regions of the periaqueductal gray. Capsaicin-related effects on tail flick latency (immersion in 52 degrees C water) and on neuronal activity (on-, off-, and neutral cells) in the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) were measured in lightly anesthetized rats. Administration of capsaicin into the dPAG but not the vPAG caused an initial hyperalgesic response followed later by analgesia (125 +/- 20.96 min postinjection). The tail flick-related burst in on-cell activity was triggered earlier in the hyperalgesic phase and was delayed or absent during the analgesic phase. Spontaneous activity of on-cells increased at the onset of the hyperalgesic phase and decreased before and during the analgesic phase. The tail flick-related pause in off-cell activity as well as spontaneous firing for these cells was unchanged in the hyperalgesic phase. During the analgesic phase, off-cells no longer paused during noxious stimulation and had increased levels of spontaneous activity. Neutral cell firing was unaffected in either phase. Pretreatment with the VR1 receptor antagonist, capsazepine (10 nmol in 0.4 microl), into the dPAG blocked the capsaicin-induced hyperalgesia as well as the corresponding changes in on- and off-cell activity. VR1 receptor immunostaining was observed in the dPAG of untreated rats. Microinjection of capsaicin likely sensitized and then desensitized dPAG neurons affecting nocifensive reflexes and RVM neuronal activity. These results suggest that supraspinal VR1 receptors in the dPAG contribute to descending modulation of nociception.
We present the clinical case of a patient who was admitted to the intensive care ward with severe central nervous system symptoms and cardiovascular collapse within a week of starting sulphasalazine; in the absence of any other diagnosis, these symptoms were felt to be due to a previously unreported adverse effect of sulphasalazine.
The effect of two alpha-adrenergic receptor antagonists widely employed in the therapy of benign prostatic hyperplasia, tamsulosin [(-)-(R)-5-[2-[[2-(0-ethoxyphenoxy) ethyl]amino]propyl]-2-methoxybenzenesulfonamide] and alfuzosin [(+/-)-N-[3-[(4-amino-6,7-dimethoxy-2-quinazolinyl) methylamino]propyl] tetrahydro-2-furancarboxamide], was investigated in the rat vas deferens. Because several clinical studies have shown that tamsulosin causes ejaculatory disorders, this study also evaluated the possible mechanisms implicated in these disorders by comparing the effect of tamsulosin with that of alfuzosin. Tamsulosin competitively antagonized the contractions induced by noradrenaline in vitro in the epididymal portion of the vas deferens with a potency pA(2) value of 9.2 +/- 0.8. In the prostatic portion, tamsulosin increased the amplitude of intermittent spikes induced by exogenous noradrenaline (100-1000 microM). In both portions of the vas deferens, alfuzosin behaved as an alpha-adrenergic antagonist blocking the contractions induced by exogenous noradrenaline without altering spikes. The administration of tamsulosin (3 microg/kg i.v.) significantly reduced the contractions evoked by electrical pulses in the epididymal portion, whereas it increased those produced in the prostatic portion. Intravenous tamsulosin antagonized the contraction produced by exogenous noradrenaline, whereas alfuzosin administration (10 microg/kg i.v.) did not change the electrically induced contractions in both portions of the rat vas deferens and did not antagonize the contractions produced by exogenous noradrenaline. The fact that tamsulosin unusually enhances noradrenaline-induced intermittent spike contractions and nerve stimulation-induced twitches in the prostatic portions might be linked to its greater propensity to cause sexual dysfunctions.
This descriptive study aimed to evaluate the antiemetic protection of metoclopramide plus dexamethasone in a sample of 33 Chinese breast cancer patients who were receiving doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide. The antiemetic protection effect was not satisfactory. The results showed that the worst nausea and vomiting was experienced on the third day, with 87.9% of patients reporting nausea and 63.6% experiencing vomiting on that day. In almost one-third of the sample antiemetic medication failed to protect against either acute vomiting or delayed vomiting (i.e. patients continued to experience more than five emetic episodes). Complete protection from acute vomiting was seen in 36.4% of patients, whereas complete protection from delayed vomiting was seen in only one-third of the patients. There was an association between acute nausea/vomiting and delayed nausea/vomiting. Different types of antiemetics need to be offered to Chinese patients receiving chemotherapy (i.e. 5-HT3 receptor antagonists or a combination of antiemetics), but more research should be directed to this area.
The purpose of the present study was to clarify the changes in psychophysiological functions after anesthesia with midazolam (intravenous (i.v.) benzodiazepine anesthetic) and to examine the ability of flumazenil (benzodiazepine antagonist) to prevent the adverse effects of anesthesia with midazolam. Clinical dose of midazolam (0.1 mg/kg i.v.) was administered to seven healthy volunteers and either flumazenil (0.3 mg i.v.) or saline was injected at the end of the anesthesia. After anesthesia with midazolam, subjective sleepiness and euphoria increased significantly, but these changes were not observed when flumazenil was administered. In addition, sleep latency was prolonged and sleep efficiency decreased significantly after midazolam anesthesia with and without flumazenil. Slow wave sleep decreased significantly only by co-administration of flumazenil.
To evaluate a regimen including high-dose mitoxantrone in previously untreated adults with AML, 45 patients aged 21-59 (median 41) were given cytarabine, 3 g/m2 days 1-5, mitoxantrone, 80 mg/m2 day 2 and etoposide, 150 mg/m2 days 1,3,5. Post-remission therapy consisted of 5 cycles combining the same agents at reduced doses. Complete remission was seen in 36 patients. The observed 3-year survival is 28%. Cytogenetic pattern and CD34 expression correlated with response and survival. Significant toxicity included myelosuppression, mucositis, diarrhea and hyperbilirubinemia. Ventricular ejection fraction was generally reduced, with clinical cardiac dysfunction in only 2 patients. This high-dose mitoxantrone combination can be administered to young adults with AML with tolerable toxicity and results comparable to those of other dose-intensive regimens.
Glutathione S-transferase P1 (GSTP1) is one of the xenobiotic-metabolizing and antioxidant enzymes, identified in the peripheral lungs. Recently, the authors reported the association between GSTP1 gene polymorphism and susceptibility to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and protective effect of GSTP1 against cigarette smoke in human lung fibroblasts in vitro. In this study, the authors investigated that depletion of GSTP1 by itself could induce cell death, including apoptosis, in human lung fibroblast-derived HFL-1 cells. The level of apoptosis and necrosis was increased significantly with GSTP1 antisense vector transfection. It was also observed that the transfection efficiency and the expression level of the vector were weaker in the transfectant of the antisense vector than in those of the sense and control vectors, which is also thought to indicate that inhibition of GSTP1 expression by the antisense vector alone affects cellular viability. However, there was no difference among these transfectants neither on glutathione (GSH) level nor on c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase (JNK) activation. Therefore, the authors report here that underexpression of GSTP1 appeared to induce apoptosis on lung fibroblasts, which suggests that GSTP1 may have protective effects against apoptosis in the airway cells, though the mechanism of this apoptotic pathway is still to be elucidated.
In six healthy subjects with a history of caffeine-induced wakefulness caffeine kinetics were compared to with those in six subjects not affected by caffeine. The data indicated that the former have a longer plasma t 1/2 (mean 7.4 and 4.2 hr) and slower plasma clearance (mean 1.2 and 1.7 ml . min-1 . kg-1) of caffeine. Plasma caffeine concentration at midnight, 8 hr after afternoon coffee, is higher in those with caffeine-attributed insomnia. Those reporting "coffee wakefulness" also tend to drink less coffee. We conclude that the rate of caffeine metabolism is a determinant of individual variation in the effect of drinking coffee on sleep.
Following preliminary reports of small studies that suggested a clinically important enhanced benefit from combination therapy with interferon-alpha (IFN) and ribavirin over IFN monotherapy in chronic hepatitis C, a meta-analysis of data from these studies was performed to estimate the efficacy and tolerability of combination therapy in chronic hepatitis C. Records were obtained from 59 patients who had received combination therapy with IFN 3 MU three times weekly and ribavirin 1000-1200 mg daily for six months and were followed for six months after stopping combination therapy. Outcome measures included the percentage of patients showing ALT normalization and HCV-RNA negativity six months after therapy (sustained response) and the percentage of patients stopping therapy because of side effects. Sustained response was observed in 21% of IFN nonresponders and in 60% of patients who had relapsed after IFN. For naive patients, the estimated sustained response rate was 52%; the observed response rate was 46%. No serious adverse effects were noted; less than 10% of patients discontinued study medication. This meta-analysis of IFN-ribavirin combination therapy for chronic hepatitis C suggests that combination therapy results in a two- to threefold greater efficacy than IFN monotherapy, whereas side effects are similar to IFN monotherapy, with the exception of ribavirin-induced anemia. Interferon-ribavirin combination therapy might become the next step in antiviral therapy for chronic hepatitis C.
Starting from the hypothesis that drugs which specifically activate the hippocampal cholinergic nerve activity may ameliorate memory impairments, we carried out a series of evaluations for a novel cognitive enhancer using enhancement of penile erection as a sign of cholinergic activation, and found FR64822. The compound facilitated penile erection in naive rats, and it ameliorated scopolamine-induced amnesia of rats in passive avoidance tasks with bell-shaped dose-response curves, while it dose-dependently reduced body weight gain in Zucker fatty rats. Pretreatment with sulpiride (32 mg/kg, p.o.) hardly affected the former two activities, but significantly reduced the anorectic activity in Zucker rats. Further evaluation of FR64822 derivatives characterized a second compound, FR121196, which induces penile erection and memory enhancement, but not body weight reduction. Memory enhancing and erection stimulating activities of FR121196 were abolished in rats treated with either cysteamine (200 mg/kg, s.c.), a somatostatin depletor, or lesioning of the serotonergic raphe nuclei. Thus, classic whole animal studies based on a hypothesis proved to be efficient for reaching our objective, the discovery of a new drug. They also gave us insight into the common somatostatinergic and serotonergic mechanisms underlying penile erection and memory improvement.
Pulse ischemia-dependent submaximal increase in adenosine levels in plasma and in the interstitium is believed to mediate the phenomenon of ischemic preconditioning of the heart, by the interaction with the specific A1 and A3 receptors on myocytes. The aim of the study was to evaluate the effects of chronic oral treatment with dipyridamole (75 mg twice a day for 5 days) in coronary artery disease (CAD) patients with positive echocardiographic stress test with high-dose dipyridamole (DET). We evaluated positivity to DET, adenosine plasma levels in 12 patients treated with dipyridamole in comparison to eight patients treated with placebo. After oral administration of dipyridamole we observed a significant reduction in the number of patients positive to DET (5/12; P=0.02), a pulse increase in adenosine plasma levels (from 220+/-55 to 450+/-70 nmol/l), without any significant haemodynamic effects. Our results suggest that dipyridamole, administered orally at a low dose, but sufficient to increase adenosine plasma level, was able to prevent myocardial ischemia induced by high-dose dipyridamole echo-stress test in CAD patients.
Toxicity of arsenic was investigated in the gill of Lamellidens marginalis by exposing the animals to sublethal concentrations of sodium arsenite for a maximum period of 30 days in controlled laboratory conditions. Arsenite exposure inhibited the activities of acid phosphatase (ACP), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase (GOT), glutamate pyruvate transaminase (GPT) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) in a dose and time dependent manner. Depletion in cytotoxic molecule like nitric oxide (NO) and suppression of phenoloxidase (PO) activity suggests an immune compromise in the animal. Inhibition in the activities of glutathione-s-transferase (GST) and catalase (CAT) in the species indicate impairment of its vital detoxification process and elevated oxidative stress respectively. Histopathology of the gill indicates arsenite induced damage of the organ leading to its possible dysfunction. The toxic exposure ravaged the structure and impaired the functions of the gill of the animal which might restrict its proper gaseous exchange, filter feeding and elicitation of immune responses against pathogens.
A 36-year-old man with depression, Cushingoid features and hypogonadism was found to have simultaneous pituitary-dependent Cushing's disease and marked elevation of serum prolactin (PRL). CT-scan revealed a macroadenoma with suprasellar extension. Transphenoidal surgery cured the patient's Cushing's disease, but failed to correct his hyperprolactinemia, which was controlled by subsequent bromocriptine therapy. Immunostaining of the pituitary tumor was positive for PRL as well as for ACTH, and ACTH-related peptides beta-lipotropin and beta-endorphin in two distinct tumor cell lines. This pituitary tumor is one of the few mixed PRL- and ACTH-secreting tumors documented by immunostaining. It is the second reported in a macroadenoma, in which PRL-secreting tumoral cells are much more abundant than ACTH-secreting cells.
Seizures in renal transplant recipients may be due to a variety of causes. Although intravenous pulse methylprednisolone used to treat acute rejection episodes has been reported to be associated with acute central nervous system (CNS) manifestations in adult renal transplant patients, this complication has not previously been described in pediatric patients. We report a 12 year old renal transplant recipient who developed transient blindness and focal seizures 72 hours following intravenous pulse methylprednisolone. Serum creatinine and urea nitrogen were 1.5 and 31 mg/dl respectively; serum electrolytes, calcium, magnesium, phosphate, and glucose were normal. Although usually due to other etiologies, seizures in the pediatric transplant recipient may be secondary to acute CNS toxicity resulting from intravenous glucocorticoid infusion.
We tested the hypotheses that niacin is effective for the separate treatments of abnormalities of LDL particle size, HDL2 percentage and Lp(a) without potential negative effects on glycated haemoglobin.
The atherogenic lipid profile lipids, such as triglycerides, small, dense LDL cholesterol (LDLc) particle mass, LDL particle size, total HDLc and HDL2 percentage as well as Lp(a), were measured in 42 diabetic patients with abnormalities of LDL particle size, HDL2 percentage and/or Lp(a) levels before and after niacin treatment. LDL particle size and HDL2 were measured using polyacrylamide gradient gel electrophoreses and Lp(a) was measured by enzyme-linked immunoabsorbance assay (ELISA).
After niacin treatment, LDL peak particle diameter increased from 252 +/- 7 A to 263 +/- 7 (p < 0.0001), small, dense LDLc particle mass decreased from 27 +/- 11 mg/dL to 15 +/- 4 (p < 0.0001), total HDLc increased from 39 +/- 7 mg/dL to 51 +/- 11 (p < 0.0001), HDL2 as the percentage of total HDLc mass increased from 29 +/- 8% to 45 +/- 10 (p < 0.0001) and Lp(a) decreased from 43 +/- 17 mg/dL to 25 +/- 10 (p < 0.0001). Mean haemoglobin A1c level was improved during treatment from 7.6 +/- 1.8% to 6.5 +/- 1.0 (p < 0.0001) using increased oral agent and insulin treatment doses in more than 90% of the patients. A total of 21% of the patients were unable to tolerate niacin owing to reversible side-effects, and 14% were unable to adhere to the niacin dosing regimen of three times daily.
These data indicate that in diabetic patients, niacin (i) is effective for treating diabetic dyslipidaemias associated with both the atherogenic lipid profile and Lp(a); (ii) must be used with modern and aggressive oral hypoglycaemic agents or insulin treatment; and (iii) is an important drug to treat diabetes dyslipidaemias because of its broad spectrum of effectiveness.
Beginning with the description of clofibrate in 1962, derivatives of fibric acid (fibrates) have been used clinically to treat dyslipidaemias. Subsequently, gemfibrozil, fenofibrate, bezafibrate, ciprofibrate and long-acting forms of gemfibrozil, fenofibrate and bezafibrate have been developed. Clinically, this class of drugs appears to be most useful in lipoprotein disorders characterised by elevations of very low density lipoprotein and plasma triglycerides, which are often accompanied by reductions in high density lipoprotein (HDL) levels. The principal effects are a reduction in triglyceride and increase in HDL levels, with increases in the activity of hepatic lipase and lipoprotein lipase. There is some reduction of low density lipoprotein (LDL), lipoprotein (a), fibrinogen and uric acid. As a class, these drugs are generally well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract (immediate-acting fenofibrate being the exception) and display a high degree of binding to albumin. Fibrates are metabolised by the hepatic cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4. All members of this class are primarily excreted via the kidneys and display some increase in plasma half-life in individuals with severe renal impairment. The long-acting forms of gemfibrozil and bezafibrate have pharmacokinetic properties similar to those of their immediate-acting parent compounds. The long-acting form of fenofibrate, produced by the process of micronisation, has increased oral bioavailability with less variability in absorption compared with the immediate-acting form of fenofibrate. Drug interactions are seen with other drugs that share a high degree of binding to albumin or are metabolised by CYP3A4. Clinically the most important and most commonly reported drug interactions are with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (lovastatin, simvastatin, pravastatin and fluvastatin), warfarin, cyclosporin and oral hypoglycaemic agents [including metformin, tolbutamide and glibenclamide (glyburide)]. The main potential for drug interactions is with drugs or compounds that are metabolised by or affect CYP3A4, including imidazoles, grapefruit juice, erythromycin, mibefradil and others.
Cyanamide has been used for decades for medical intentions in the treatment of alcoholism and for agricultural purposes as a plant growth regulator and bud-breaking agent. Its therapeutic effect is mediated by reversible inhibition of aldehyde dehydrogenase and it was reported to be metabolized in vivo mainly via coenzyme A dependent N-acetylation by N-acetyltransferases. Although described to be a substrate for N-acetyltransferases (NATs), cyanamide has a different molecular structure to arylamines and hydrazines, the preferred substrates for N-acetyltransferases. Therefore, a more detailed investigation of its interrelations with N-acetyltransferases was performed. We analyzed the impact of cyanamide on NAT1 activities of human monocytes (monocytic THP-1 cells) using the classical substrate p-aminobenzoic acid. We found that a 24h treatment with physiologically relevant concentrations of cyanamide decreased the NAT1 activity significantly. Based on this observation we performed additional experiments using recombinant human NAT1 and NAT2 to achieve further insights. In detail a significant dose- and time-dependent inhibition of NAT1 activity was observed for 100 and 1000μM cyanamide using recombinant human NAT1*4. However, cyanamide did not inhibit recombinant NAT2*4. Experiments testing cyanamide as substrate did not provide evidence that cyanamide is metabolized via coenzyme A dependent N-acetylation in vitro by human NAT1 or NAT2, THP-1 or human liver cytosol. Therefore we can conclude that the observed enzyme inhibition (around 50% and 25% after treatment with 0.5 and 0.25mM CA, respectively) is not based on substrate-dependent down-regulation of NAT1. Further mechanistic and kinetic studies indicated that cyanamide reacts with the active site cysteine residue of NAT1, leading to its rapid inhibition (significant inhibition after 30min and 2h for 1000 and 100μM CA, respectively). Addition of the reduction agent dithiothreitol (DTT) did not modify the effect, indicating that oxidative processes that can be reversed by 5mM DTT are not likely involved in the inhibition. Taken together our results show that cyanamide is able to inhibit NAT1 most likely via interaction with the active site cysteine residue. Thereby cyanamide might modulate NAT1 dependent detoxification and activation of arylamines.
In an acute kidney transplant rejection rat model, we demonstrated that manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) activity was significantly reduced and MnSOD was nitrated by peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)), resulting in tissue injury. We examined whether tissue injury was reduced after external supplementation of recombinant human MnSOD in a rat renal ischemia-reperfusion injury model.
Male Brown-Norway rats underwent dissection of the right kidney. The animals were divided into 3 groups. The controls had the left renal blood vessels clamped for 90 minutes to induce ischemia, followed by reperfusion for 16 hours. In the intraperitoneal administration group, MnSOD was administered 30 minutes before ischemia and immediately before reperfusion. In the sham group, neither ischemia nor reperfusion was performed. After reperfusion, blood was collected, the left kidney was dissected and renal function and tissue injury were evaluated.
Serum creatinine and K(+), blood urea nitrogen, and aspartate aminotransferase activity decreased significantly, whereas serum Na(+) and renal function improved in the MnSOD group compared with the control and sham groups. On hematoxylin and eosin staining, the histological score indicated that acute tubular necrosis was significantly reduced by MnSOD administration. Periodic acid-Schiff staining was absent in the nonadministration group, whereas it persisted in the MnSOD group. In the proximal renal tubules a large proportion of anti-nitrotyrosine staining was present before but absent after MnSOD administration.
MnSOD administration improved renal function and reduced tissue injury. It may also reduce tissue injury in acute kidney transplant rejection and other tissue injuries caused by similar molecular mechanisms.
Etomidate is a new non-barbiturate intravenous (i.v.) anaesthetic induction agent. This paper attempts to evaluate its overall safety based on studies on its effects on the cardiovascular and respiratory systems, intraocular pressure changes, apgar scores of newborns, plasma potassium changes and times to full recovery of consciousness. During etomidate anaesthesia there was good cardiorespiratory stability, reduced intraocular pressure, high apgar scores of babies delivered by caesarian section, and rapid recovery of consciousness. Unlike thiopentone, etomidate failed to attenuate suxamethonium-induced hyperkalaemia. The two major disadvantages of etomidate are the pain during i.v. injection and the development of myoclonic muscle movements during induction of anaesthesia. It is concluded that etomidate is quite safe from the above-stated points of view and rates very high when compared with other i.v. anaesthetic agents. However, it rates low with regards to the smoothness and pleasantness of induction of anaesthesia.
Twelve cases of Reye's syndrome are presented with different degrees of encephalopathy, hyperammonemia and hypoglycemia; associated to acetyl salicylic acid (ASA) ingestion. The aim of the present retrospective study was to describe our experience in selected patients with Reye's syndrome associated to the ASA ingestion and to underline the influence of hyperammonemia on Reye's encephalopathy. All the cases presented moderate hyperbilirubinemia, elevated alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase with an average of 302+/-205 UI/L and 285+/-149 UI/L respectively. Arterial blood ammonia averaged 172.4+/-71.3 micromol/L and glycaemia averaged 35.2+/-17.0 mg/dl. A high mortality was found in our series (41.7%). Considering that encephalopathy is the leading syndrome in these cases, the influence of ammonia on brain tissue was described. Glutamate is an excitotoxic neurotransmitter, capable to produce neuron and astrocyte damage and apoptosis. The presence of ASA could cause the onset of the mitochondrial permeability transition and the mitochondrial swelling in the astrocyte, leading to hyperammonemia. In Reye's syndrome, hyperammonemia and perhaps the increase of glutamate are the leading factors in the mechanism of brain damage and encephalopathy. Aspirin must be carefully administrated and controlled by professionals. Furthermore, parents must be informed about the risks in the use of this drug in children.
To assess pharmacokinetics, efficacy, and tolerability of oral levetiracetam administered as an adjunct to phenobarbital treatment in cats with poorly controlled suspected idiopathic epilepsy. DESIGN-Open-label, noncomparative clinical trial.
12 cats suspected to have idiopathic epilepsy that was poorly controlled with phenobarbital or that had unacceptable adverse effects when treated with phenobarbital.
Cats were treated with levetiracetam (20 mg/kg [9.1 mg/lb], PO, q 8 h). After a minimum of 1 week of treatment, serum levetiracetam concentrations were measured before and 2, 4, and 6 hours after drug administration, and maximum and minimum serum concentrations and elimination half-life were calculated. Seizure frequencies before and after initiation of levetiracetam treatment were compared, and adverse effects were recorded.
Median maximum serum levetiracetam concentration was 25.5 microg/mL, median minimum serum levetiracetam concentration was 8.3 microg/mL, and median elimination half-life was 2.9 hours. Median seizure frequency prior to treatment with levetiracetam (2.1 seizures/mo) was significantly higher than median seizure frequency after initiation of levetiracetam treatment (0.42 seizures/mo), and 7 of 10 cats were classified as having responded to levetiracetam treatment (ie, reduction in seizure frequency of >or=50%). Two cats had transient lethargy and inappetence.
Results suggested that levetiracetam is well tolerated in cats and may be useful as an adjunct to phenobarbital treatment in cats with idiopathic epilepsy.
The metabolism of the cardioselective beta-blocker metoprolol is under genetic control of the debrisoquine/sparteine type. The two metabolic phenotypes, extensive (EM) and poor metabolizers (PM), show different stereoselective metabolism, resulting in apparently higher beta-1 adrenoceptor antagonistic potency of racemic metoprolol in EMs. We investigated if the latter also applies to the beta-2 adrenoceptor antagonism by metoprolol. The drug effect studied was the antagonism by metoprolol of terbutaline-induced hypokalemia. By using pharmacokinetic pharmacodynamic modeling the pharmacodynamics of racemic metoprolol and the active S-isomer, were quantitated in EMs and PMs in terms of IC50 values, representing metoprolol plasma concentrations resulting in half-maximum receptor occupancy. Six EMs received 0.5 mg of terbutaline s.c. on two different occasions: 1) 1 hr after administration of a placebo and 2) 1 hr after 150 mg of metoprolol p.o. Five PMs were studied according to the same protocol, except for a higher terbutaline dose (0.75 mg) on day 2. Blood samples for the analysis of plasma potassium, terbutaline, metoprolol (racemic, R- and S-isomer), and alpha-hydroxymetoprolol concentrations were taken at regular time intervals, during 8 hr after metoprolol. In PMs, metoprolol increased the terbutaline area under the plasma concentration vs. time curve (+67%). Higher metoprolol/alpha-hydroxymetoprolol ratios in PMs were predictive for higher R-/S-isomer ratios of unchanged drug. There was a difference in metoprolol potency with higher racemic metoprolol IC50 values in PMs (72 +/- 7 ng.ml-1) than EMs (42 +/- 8 ng.ml-1, P less than .001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In the present study we describe the molecular analysis of c-Ha-ras gene mutations in 47 papillomas and 17 carcinomas developed in two lines of mice, carcinogenesis-susceptible (Car-S) and carcinogenesis-resistant (Car-R), selectively bred for extreme susceptibility or resistance to chemical skin carcinogenesis initiated and promoted with different doses of 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA) and 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA). This study also presents the analysis of c-Ha-ras gene mutations in 22 papillomas and 22 carcinomas in Car-S mice initiated with DMBA and promoted with benzoyl peroxide (BzPo) and in seven papillomas and one carcinoma from a group of uniniated Car-S mice that received only BzPo treatment. The data showed that a A(182)-->T transversion in the c-Ha-ras gene was present in 100% and 81% of the skin tumors developed in Car-S and Car-R mice, respectively, after DMBA initiation and TPA promotion, suggesting that differences in genetic susceptibility can influence the frequency of c-Ha-ras mutations in the skin tumors produced. The same A(182)-->T mutation with an incidence of 68% was found in papillomas from DMBA-initiated and BzPo-promoted Car-S mice. The difference in the mutation frequency between DMBA/BzPo and DMBA/TPA papillomas suggested that the promotion step contributes to the final mutation pattern. The tumor induction experiment with BzPo alone showed that this compound can induce tumor development in 26% of Car-S mice, and the molecular analysis of the tumors showed a broad mutation spectrum, including mutations in codons 12, 13, and 61 of the c-Ha-ras gene. Mol. Carcinog. 30:111-118, 2001.
The therapy for skin diseases with topical glucocorticoids is limited by their local and systemic side effects. A glucocorticoid with an improved benefit-to-risk ratio is desirable.
A new topical corticoid, methylprednisolone aceponate (MPA) 0.1% ointment, was compared with the same formulation of mometasone furoate.
The two ointments were compared with respect to suppression of UVB light-induced erythema (n = 20) and with respect to atrophogenicity and appearance of telangiectasia (n = 20) in two double-blind trials with intraindividual comparisons in healthy volunteers. In a third trial, serum cortisol levels were measured in volunteers receiving extensive (60% of body surface) cutaneous application of MPA (n = 10) or mometasone furoate (n = 11).
MPA and mometasone furoate were equally effective in suppressing UVB light-induced erythema. Atrophogenicity, as well as the incidence and severity of telangiectasia, were significantly more pronounced with mometasone furoate than with MPA. Both ointments decreased serum cortisol levels and did not differ significantly in this respect. However, the incidence of serum cortisol level suppression was higher in the mometasone furoate group than in the MPA group.
MPA ointment has equal antiinflammatory activity and similar cortisol suppression but significantly fewer local side effects than mometasone furoate.
Nephrotoxicity and ototoxicity represent the most hazardous side effects of the clincial use of neomycin sulfate. Despite therapeutic restriction of the latter compound to topical, irrigant, and bowel sterilization use, serious toxicity is still encountered. A 69-year-old patient was recently treated by us for acute renal failure and total deafness induced as a result of intermittent seven-day lavage of a surgical cavity with neomycin. Peritoneal dialysis reduced the serum concentration of the antibiotic and promoted complete recovery of renal function. The patient, however, remained deaf. This case serves as a reminder that neomycin can be absorbed systemically following its use as an irrigant solution. In such cases, it may produce an unsuspected form of "high output" renal failure and concomitant hearing loss. The renal failure is usually reveesible, but the hearing loss is frequently permanent.
The aim of this study was to explore non-invasive imaging methods to detect post-injury structural axonal plasticity. Brain injury was launched by status epilepticus induced by intraperitoneal injection of either kainic acid or pilocarpine. Several months later, ex vivo diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging (DTI) showed increased FA in the dentate gyrus of both kainic acid (p<0.01) and pilocarpine animals (p<0.01). Importantly, FA changes correlated (p<0.01) with histologically verified axonal plasticity of myelinated and non-myelinated neuronal fibers. The changes observed in DTI parameters ex vivo in the septal dentate gyrus were also seen by in vivo DTI. As DTI is completely a non-invasive imaging method, these results may pave the way for non-invasive in vivo imaging of axonal plasticity after brain insults.
Neuropsychiatric side effects of long-term recombinant interferon-alpha therapy consist of a large spectrum of symptoms. In the literature, cranial neuropathy, especially Bell's palsy, and movement disorders, have been reported much less often than other neurotoxic effects. We report a case of Bell's palsy in a patient with chronic hepatitis C during peginterferon-alpha and ribavirin therapy. The patient subsequently developed clinically inapparent facial nerve involvement on the contralateral side and showed an increase in choreic movements related to Huntington's disease during treatment.
The present study investigated the effect of mitomycin C (MMC) on cell viability, apoptosis, and transforming growth factor beta-induced protein (TGFBIp) expression in cultured normal corneal fibroblasts and heterozygote or homozygote granular corneal dystrophy type II (GCD II) corneal fibroblasts.
Keratocytes were obtained from normal cornea or from heterozygote or homozygote GCD II patients after lamellar or penetrating keratoplasty. To measure cell viability, corneal fibroblasts were incubated with 0.02% MMC for 3 h, 6 h, and 24 h or with 0%, 0.01%, 0.02%, and 0.04% MMC for 24 h and then tested using lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and 3-[4,5-demethylthiazol-2,5-diphenyl-2H-tetrazolium bromide] (MTT) assays. To measure apoptosis, cells were analyzed by FACS analysis and annexin V staining. Bcl-xL, Bax, and TGFBI mRNA expression was measured using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assays. Cellular and media levels of TGFBIp protein were measured by immunoblotting.
MTT and LDH assays showed that MMC reduced cell viability in all three cell types in a dose-dependent and time-dependent manner (p<0.05). FACS analysis and annexin V staining showed that MMC caused apoptosis with GCD II homozygote cells being most affected. RT-PCR analysis showed that MMC decreased Bcl-xL mRNA expression and increased Bax mRNA expression in all cell types. RT-PCR and immunoblotting analysis showed that MMC reduced TGFBI mRNA levels and cellular and media TGFBIp protein levels in all cell types.
MMC induced apoptosis, and the effects of MMC were greatest in GCD II homozygote cells. MMC also reduced the production of TGFBIp in all three types of corneal fibroblasts. These findings may explain the additional therapeutic effect of MMC in GCD II patients.
