Interferon and ribavirin combination therapy for chronic hepatitis C produces hemolytic anemia. This study was conducted to identify the factors contributing to ribavirin-induced anemia.
Eighty-eight patients with chronic hepatitis C who received interferon-alpha-2b at a dose of 6 MU administered intramuscularly for 24 weeks in combination with ribavirin administered orally at a dose of 600 mg or 800 mg participated in the study. A hemoglobin concentration of <10 g/dL was defined as ribavirin-induced anemia.
Ribavirin-induced anemia occurred in 18 (20.5%) patients during treatment. A 2 g/dL decrease in hemoglobin concentrations in patients with anemia was observed at week 2 after the start of treatment. The hemoglobin concentration in patients with > or =2 g/dL decrease at week 2 was observed to be significantly lower even after week 2 than in patients with <2 g/dL decrease (P < 0.01). A significant relationship was observed between the rate of reduction of hemoglobin concentrations at week 2 and the severity of anemia (P < 0.01). Such factors as sex (female), age (> or =60 years old), and the ribavirin dose by body weight (12 mg/kg or more) were significant by univariate analysis.
Careful administration is necessary in patients > or =60 years old, in female patients, and in patients receiving a ribavirin dose of 12 mg/kg or more. Patients who experience a fall in hemoglobin concentrations of 2 g/dL or more at week 2 after the start of treatment should be monitored with particular care.
We report three sickle cell patients with recent cocaine abuse who presented with typical symptoms of vaso-occlusion rapidly progressing to major organ dysfunction. Our experience suggests cocaine abuse is a risk factor for major complications of a sickle cell painful episode. Enhanced clinical and laboratory surveillance for organ dysfunction is indicated if a history of cocaine abuse is elicited. Evidence of organ failure should lead to consideration of early aggressive interventions such as transfusion therapy.
Malathion exerts cholinergic effects at high doses. However, a consequence of low dose (non-cholinergic) exposure causes immunotoxicity and oxidative stress. Hence, this study was designed to find out (i) the cytotoxic and apoptotic effects of cholinergic and non-cholinergic doses of malathion using cultured peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and (ii) the role of GSH and HSP27 and (iii) protective effects of N-acetylcysteine (GSH inducer) and curcumin (HSP27 inducer). In low doses, malathion caused mild depletion of GSH, threefold increase in HSP27 level and a range bound cytotoxicity and apoptosis of PBMC. In contrast, cholinergic dose exposures caused severe GSH depletion and exhibited dose dependent cytotoxicity and necrosis without any significant effect on HSP27 levels. Curcumin increased the levels of HSP27 in PBMC only in presence of low doses and not at high doses of malathion. Both NAC and curcumin were able to prevent malathion-mediated apoptosis of PBMC effectively at non-cholinergic doses and at this concentration of malathion, HSP27 induction keeps apoptosis and GSH depletion under control. Also NAC and curcumin may act as potential therapeutic agents to prevent malathion-induced immunotoxicity.
We mapped a new X-linked recessive atrophic macular degeneration locus to Xp21.1-p11.4 and show allelic involvement of the gene RPGR, which normally causes severe peripheral retinal degeneration leading to global blindness. Ten affected males whom we examined had primarily macular atrophy causing progressive loss of visual acuity with minimal peripheral visual impairment. One additional male showed extensive macular degeneration plus peripheral loss of retinal pigment epithelium and choriocapillaries. Full-field electroretinograms (ERGs) showed normal cone and rod responses in some affected males despite advanced macular degeneration, emphasizing the dissociation of atrophic macular degeneration from generalized cone degenerations, including X-linked cone dystrophy (COD1). The RPGR gene nonsense mutation G-->T at open reading frame (ORF)15+1164 cosegregated with the disease and may create a donor splice site. Identification of an RPGR mutation in atrophic maculardegeneration expands the phenotypic range associated with this gene and provides a new tool for the dissection of the relationship between clinically different retinal pathologies.
A 34-year-old man was referred to our hospital for small lung nodules. An imaging study including a computed tomographic scan and magnetic resonance imaging showed bilateral lung tumors and huge mass arising from the lower pole of the right kidney as well. The patient underwent right radical nephrectomy in May 2002. Pathological examination revealed that the tumor was pheochromocytoma, which developed from extra-adrenal tissue. In 6 cycles of CVD systemic chemotherapy (Cyclophosphamide 750 mg/m2, Vincristine 1.4 mg/m2, Dacarbazine 600 mg/m2), the lung tumors were decreasing in size, and were removed by a surgical procedure in January 2003. Pathological examination revealed that the lung tumors were pheochromocytomas metastasized from the primary tumor. He is alive without evidence of disease 5 months after the lung operation.
Niacin is widely available over the counter (OTC). We sought to determine the safety of 500 mg immediate release niacin, when healthy individuals use them as directed.
51 female and 17 male healthy volunteers (mean age 27 years SD 4.4) participated in a randomized placebo-controlled blinded trial of a single dose of an OTC, immediate-release niacin 500 mg (n = 33), or a single dose of placebo (n = 35) on an empty stomach. The outcomes measured were self-reported incidence of flushing and other adverse effects.
33 volunteers on niacin (100%) and 1 volunteer on placebo (3%) flushed (relative risk 35, 95% confidence interval (CI) 6.8-194.7). Mean time to flushing on niacin was 18.2 min (95% CI: 12.7-23.6); mean duration of flushing was 75.4 min (95% CI: 62.5-88.2). Other adverse effects occurred commonly in the niacin group: chills (51.5% vs. 0%, P <.0001), generalized pruritus (75% vs. 0%, P = <.001), gastrointestinal upset (30% vs. 3%, P =.005), and cutaneous tingling (30% vs. 0%, P = <.001). Six participants did not tolerate the adverse effects of niacin and 3 required medical attention.
Clinicians counseling patients about niacin should alert patients not only about flushing but also about gastrointestinal symptoms, the most severe in this study. They should not trust that patients would receive information about these side effects or their prevention (with aspirin) from the OTC packet insert.
The effects of prednisolone and anti-macrophage serum (AMS) on the development of cardiac and articular lesions were compared in experimentally infected mice with group A hemolytic streptococci. The predonine-treated mice had a higher mortality rate and greater abscess formation than in the AMS-treated mice. The predonine-treated group had a higher incidence of cardiac lesions due to chronic pericarditis and chronic myocarditis, and the former was particularly frequent. Pathologic findings seen in the AMS-treated mice were those of acute pancarditis. The AMS-treated animals also had lesions of subacute or chronic arthritis, whereas articular lesions encountered in the Predonine-administered group were frequently those of chronic periarthritis and, in no instance, synovitis. These data indicated that treatment with AMS is more effective than that with prednisolone to experimentally induced rheumatic fever in laboratory animals.
To report a case of atazanavir-associated choledocholithiasis in an HIV-infected individual.
A 47-year-old treatment-naïve HIV-positive African female presented to the emergency department with a 3-day history of right epigastric pain. Six weeks prior to this episode, she began antiretroviral therapy with a regimen consisting of atazanavir 400 mg and abacavir/lamivudine 600/300 mg once daily. Alanine aminotransferase (766 U/L), aspartate aminotransferase (876 U/L), gamma-glutamyltransferase (588 U/L), alkaline phosphatase (348 U/L), and total bilirubin (3.9 mg/dL) levels were elevated. Abdominal ultrasound revealed obstructive choledocholithiasis as well as intra- and extrahepatic biliary dilatation. She underwent a laparoscopic cholecystectomy, which revealed approximately 50 small calculi present in the gallbladder. Since previous ultrasounds had also shown gallstones, an analysis of the extracted calculi was performed to determine the possible association with atazanavir use; low amounts of atazanavir were detected.
Atazanavir is an inhibitor of the bilirubin-conjugating enzyme UGT1A1 and has been frequently linked to the occurrence of hyperbilirubinemia without complications. This individual experienced hyperbilirubinemia that peaked at hospital presentation after she developed choledocholithiasis and secondary acute hepatitis. Analysis of the extracted gallstones revealed that smaller stones contained a higher content of atazanavir than larger stones, which suggests that atazanavir precipitation may play a role in cholelithiasis, although the mechanism remains unknown. The low yield of atazanavir may be explained by the short, 6-week duration of drug exposure as well as the lack of assay for metabolites. The Naranjo probability scale implicated choledocholithiasis as a possible atazanavir-associated adverse event. This report provides the first published evidence that even short-term use of atazanavir may lead to hyperbilirubinemia with choledocholithiasis and secondary acute hepatitis in HIV-infected adults.
Atazanavir should be considered a possible contributor in the development of cholelithiasis or choledocholithiasis, and people with HIV should receive adequate counseling in the recognition of symptoms associated with gallstones. The exact incidence and mechanism still need to be elucidated.
Propranolol has been shown to reduce the extent of necrosis that develops after temporary coronary occlusion in dogs. To determine whether this protective action was related to beta adrenergic blockade or to direct effects, necrosis was quantitated in the posterior papillary muscle 2 to 4 days after 40 minute periods of coronary occlusion in anesthetized open chest dogs. Groups of dogs either were untreated or were pretreated with doses of d,l-propranolol, 0.005 to 5 mg/kg body weight, or doses of d-propranolol 2.5 or 5 mg/kg. Necrosis was greatly reduced in dogs treated with 5 mg/kg of d, l-propranolol. This protective effect was significant but quantitatively less with 0.5 and 0.05 mg/kg of d, l-propranolol. A dose of 0.005 mg/kg d, l-propranolol and d-propranolol failed to alter myocardial necrosis significantly. The dose-related reduction of necrosis with d, l-propranolol correlated with a similar dose relation for beta adrenergic blockade and suggested that a protective effect was related to beta blockade. The reduction of necrosis with 0.05 and 0.5 mg/kg of d, l-propranolol (a level at which direct "membrane stabilizing" effects are insignificant) suggested that direct effects were not essential for protection. The negative results with d-propranolol further support our conclusion that propranolol reduces myocardial ischemic injury through beta adrenergic blockade rather than through direct myocardial actions.
This report is part of a biomarker study conducted in an Italian population with exposure to environmental benzene ranging from 1.43 to 31.41 μg/m³ (values from personal sampling). DNA damage induced by benzene is the crucial mechanism of its genotoxicity, which leads to chronic benzene poisoning, haematotoxicity and leukaemia. Therefore, genetic variation in DNA-repair genes may modulate susceptibility to benzene-induced DNA damage. In light of this, the effects of polymorphisms in DNA-repair genes (APEX1, hOGG1, NBS1, XPD, XRCC1, and XRCC3) on micronucleus (MN) formation as a biomarker of early biological effects were evaluated. A significantly higher median MN frequency was recorded in traffic wardens than in controls. However, none of the analysed polymorphisms was significantly associated with the median MN frequency. A gene-gender interaction was observed for the APEX1 genotype. The APEX1 variant genotype was associated with significantly lower median MN frequency in men, not in women. Statistical analysis did not reveal any association between the score of the protective alleles - hypothetically pushing the pathway towards optimal DNA-damage repair - and MN. Even though there are some limitations in the study, our results indicate that the general population may be exposed to benzene concentrations higher than the threshold level for air-quality standards in the European Union of 10 μg/m³. Furthermore, urban traffic wardens are exposed to significantly higher levels of benzene than individuals spending most of the time indoors. This higher exposure may contribute to DNA damage, suggesting that benzene might be implicated both as an environmental and occupational risk factor in leukaemia and other haematological diseases. In conclusion, this study suggest the need for (i) regular monitoring of traffic wardens for possible exposure to benzene, as a precautionary step to reduce the associated health risks, and (ii) more comprehensive studies in order to better elucidate the involvement of APEX1 genotypes in benzene genotoxicity.
A case of tongue necrosis in a patient with temporal arteritis who was taking ergotamine is described, and the role of ergotamine tartrate in provoking the tongue necrosis is considered. The literature on this unusual complication is critically reviewed, and the value of a carotid angiography in assessing the tongue ischaemia is exemplified.
Iron loaded persons are at increased risk for infection, neoplasia, arthropathy, cardiomyopathy and an array of endocrine and neurodegenerative diseases. This report summarizes evidence of increased risk of iron loading for osteoporosis. Iron suppresses bone remodeling apparently by decreasing osteoblast formation and new bone synthesis. Low molecular mass iron chelators as well as a natural protein iron chelator, lactoferrin, may be useful in prevention of osteoporosis.
In the present survey, 276 horses bred on 16 farms located in central and southern Italy were investigated for the presence of drug resistant cyathostomes by a Fecal Egg Count Reduction Test (FECRT). Sixteen to 20 animals were selected on each farm and randomly assigned to one of four equally sized treatment groups. Groups were treated with fenbendazole, pyrantel pamoate, ivermectin or moxidectin. Resistance to fenbendazole was declared on six farms (37.5%) and suspected in two farms (12.5%), with FECR values ranging from 41% to 88.3%. Resistance to pyrantel was found in two farms (12.5%) and was suspected in one case (6.2%), with FECR values ranging from 43% to 85.4%. Macrocyclic lactones remained effective on all farms. Only cyathostome third stage larvae (L3) were found in fecal cultures after treatment. This paper reports the first wide survey conducted in Italy for anthelmintic resistance in equine cyathostomes. The results indicate that multiple drug resistant equine cyathostomes are present in the central and southern regions of Italy. These data call for a geographically and numerically broader investigation of horse farms in all regions and for the development and implementation -among veterinarians, owners and managers of a plan to reduce the expansion of these anthelmintic resistant populations and control these important parasites.
Two cases of rupture of the urinary bladder following cystoscopic clot evacuation are presented. Both patients had hemorrhagic cystitis (HC) secondary to cyclophosphamide therapy. The bladder injuries were not immediately recognized. Computed tomography (CT) demonstrated the bladder rupture in both patients.
Carcinogenesis studies of 4,4'-methylenedianiline dihydrochloride (98.6% pure) were conducted by administering this chemical in the drinking water of F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice. Groups of 50 rats and 50 mice of each sex received drinking water containing 150 or 300 ppm 4,4'-methylenedianiline dihydrochloride (dosage expressed as the free base) for 103 wk. Groups of 50 rats and 50 mice of each sex, given drinking water adjusted with 0.1 N HCl to the pH (3.7) of the 300-ppm formulation, served as controls. Survival was comparable among groups except for male mice receiving the 300-ppm dose of 4,4'-methylenedianiline dihydrochloride; survival in that group was lower than that in controls. Mean body weight was reduced in 300-ppm-dose female rats and 300-ppm-dose male and female mice compared to controls. Water consumption was reduced in a dose-related manner in both sexes of rats. No compound-related clinical effects were observed. Under the conditions of these studies, there was clear evidence of carcinogenicity for F344/N rats and for B6C3F1 mice in that 4,4'-methylenedianiline dihydrochloride caused increased incidences of (1) follicular-cell carcinomas of the thyroid gland (controls, 0/49; low dose, 0/47; high dose, 7/48, 15%; p less than or equal to 0.012) and neoplastic nodules of the liver (controls, 1/50, 2%; low dose, 12/50, 24%; high dose, 25/50, 50%; p less than or equal to 0.001) in male rats, (2) follicular-cell adenomas (controls, 0/47; low dose, 2/47, 4%; high dose, 17/48, 35%; p less than or equal to 0.001) and C-cell adenomas (controls, 0/47; low dose, 3/47, 6%; high dose, 6/48, 13% p less than or equal to 0.029) of the thyroid gland in female rats, (3) follicular-cell adenomas of the thyroid gland (controls, 0/47; low dose, 3/49, 6%; high dose, 16/49, 33%; p less than or equal to 0.001), carcinomas of the liver (controls, 10/49, 20%; low dose, 33/50, 66%; high dose, 29/50, 58%; p less than or equal to 0.001), and pheochromocytomas of the adrenal gland in male mice (controls, 2/48, 4%; low dose, 12/49, 24%; high dose, 14/49, 29%; p less than or equal to 0.001), and (4) follicular-cell adenomas of the thyroid gland (controls, 0/50; low dose, 1/47, 2%; high dose, 13/50, 26%; p less than or equal to 0.001), carcinomas (controls, 1/50, 2%; low dose, 6/50, 12%; high dose, 11/50, 22%; p less than or equal to 0.002) and adenomas (controls, 3/50, 6%; low dose, 9/50, 18%; high dose, 12/50, 24%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Thirty-seven patients with intractable bladder hemorrhage were treated with intravesical epsilon aminocaproic acid (EACA). Radiation cystitis and cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis were the two most common causes of intractable bladder hemorrhage. Thirty-four patients responded to treatment. No side effects were noted. Intravesical EACA appears to be a safe and effective method to control intractable bladder hemorrhage.
Dracorhodin perchlorate, an anthocyanin red pigment, induces human premyelocytic leukemia HL-60 cell death through apoptotic pathway. Caspase -1, -3, -8, -9, and -10 inhibitors partially reversed the cell death induced by dracorhodin perchlorate. Caspase-3 and -8 were activated followed to the degradation of caspase-3 substrates, inhibitor of caspase-activated DNase (ICAD) and poly-(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP). Dracorhodin perchlorate up-regulated the expression ratio of mitochondrial proteins, Bax/Bcl-XL. The cell death was accompanied with phosphorylation of ERK, JNK and p38 MAPK and partially reduced by MEK inhibitor (PD98059), JNK MAPK inhibitor (SP600125) and p38 MAPK inhibitor (SB 203580). Taken together, dracorhodin perchlorate-induced apoptosis in HL-60 cells via up-regulation of Bax, activation of caspases and ERK/p38/JNK MAPKs.
A phase II trial was conducted with mitoxantrone (12 mg/m2, day 1), vinorelbine (30 mg/m2, day 1), and carboplatin (250 mg/m2, day 2) every 21 days. Fifty eligible women who had not received prior chemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer (MBC) entered the study. Objective responses were observed in 28 patients (56%; 95% confidence interval: 42.4-69.74%), with 4 complete (8%) and 24 partial responses (48%). Stable disease was observed in 12 patients (24%) and disease progression in 10 (20%). Responses were documented in all involved sites. The median duration of response was 6 months and the median time to tumor progression 8 months. The median survival was 26 months and the estimated 2-year survival was 52%. Grade 3/4 neutropenia was observed in 29 patients (58%) with four neutropenic episodes. Grade 3/4 anemia and thrombocytopenia was observed in 7 (14%) and 11 (22%) patients, respectively. Other toxicities included grade 2/3 nausea and vomiting in 26 patients (52%) and grade 1/2 alopecia in 38 (76%). Grade 1/2 neurosensory toxicity occurred in four patients (8%). In conclusion, this three-drug regimen is effective and well tolerated for the treatment of MBC.
Patients with cirrhosis and ascites are especially sensitive to the adverse renal effects of indomethacin-induced inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis. The aim of this study was to determine whether indomethacin affects renal function in patients with well-compensated cirrhosis.
Clearance techniques were used to assess renal hemodynamics and sodium and water homeostasis.
The oral administration of 50 mg of indomethacin to well-compensated patients with alcoholic cirrhosis was followed by a significant decrease in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and effective renal plasma flow because of a preferential increase in afferent arteriolar tone. Indomethacin was both antidiuretic and antinatriuretic due principally to decreased free water clearance and increased proximal tubular reabsorption of sodium. The acute changes in renal function were not sustained. Patients with a high basal GFR were particularly sensitive to the adverse renal effects of indomethacin.
This study indicates that in patients with well-compensated cirrhosis renal prostaglandins are functionally active and may contribute to the pathogenesis of glomerular hyperfiltration. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs should be used with caution in all patients with cirrhosis.
Most recent studies discussing tachycardias with alternating QRS polarity have referred to those known as torsade de pointes. This report, in contrast, deals with bidirectional tachycardia and the effects of lignocaine on 10 patients with this arrhythmia. Three of the patients also had digitalis-induced atrial tachycardia with block. In one patient, a single bolus of lignocaine was followed (five minutes later) by ventricular fibrillation, but the other nine patients received two boluses of 75 mg followed by a drip infusion of 3 mg/min. The drug terminated the episodes of atrial tachycardia with block and bidirectional tachycardia in all patients thus treated. Whereas the abolition of the bidirectional tachycardia was permanent in the seven patients with digitalis intoxication, it recurred after stopping the drip infusion in the two patients without digitalis toxicity. It is concluded that lignocaine can be useful in the treatment of digitalis-induced bidirectional tachycardia and atrial tachycardia with block. From this study no conclusions can be drawn, however, as to whether lignocaine is superior to other class I or class IV agents.
To determine the effect of long-term lithium therapy on glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and maximum renal concentrating capacity (Umax) in the elderly, to identify possible risk factors, to determine the clinical impact of a reduced Umax in this population and in case of polyuria to establish a diagnosis.
This is a cross-sectional study with 48 outpatients of 65 years or over (mean 74.8 years), who were treated with lithium for more than 6 months (mean 9.2 years). The GFR was determined with the Cockcroft-Gault formula (GFR-CG) and the Umax was measured in a urine sample collected between 3 and 5 h after the patients received 40 microg desmopressin (DDAVP) intranasally.
No relation was found between duration of lithium treatment and GFR-CG, but there was a significant negative relation between duration of lithium treatment and Umax (B -0.73; CI: -1.249/-0.212); 73% of the patients had a moderate to severe concentrating defect. No other risk factors than duration of lithium therapy were identified. A reduced Umax caused polyuria (>2500 mL/24 h) in 33% but did not cause significant more thirst, incontinence or disturbed sleep.
In this geriatric population a negative relation was found between duration of lithium treatment and Umax. But a reduced Umax did not result in significant more clinical symptoms. In case of polyuria other mechanisms beside nephrogenic diabetes insipidus were found to play a role in this age group.
Organotypic tissue cultures, composed of structurally and functionally coupled explants of mouse spinal cord, dorsal root ganglia, and striated muscle, have been used to create a model of the distal (dying-back) axonopathy found in animals and humans with aliphatic hexacarbon neuropathy. Mature explants were treated with 50-650 micrograms/ml of the following hexacarbons dissolved in nutrient fluid: n-hexane, 2-hexanol, 2,5-hexanediol, methyl n-butyl ketone, 5-hydroxy-2-hexanone, 2,5-hexanedione (all neurotoxic), or 2,4-hexanedione (a non-neurotoxic diketone). High concentrations (400-650 micrograms/ml) induced pancytotoxic damage and necrosis of tissue within days, while the lower doses (50-100 micrograms/ml) induced no pathological changes over a period of several weeks. Continuous exposure of explants to 245-325 micrograms/ml (2.8 mM) of the neurotoxic hexacarbons caused specific pathological changes to develop in distal nerve fibers after three to six weeks. Initial changes seen in distal, nonterminal regions of myelinated fibers included: nodal elongation, axonal swellings on proximal-side paranodes, and paranodal myelin retraction. Prolonged treatment was associated with Wallerian-like degeneration of distal nerve fibers. Denuded paranodal swellings in more proximal regions of affected myelinated fibers adopted a more-normal size and underwent remyelination; this occurred during and after the course of treatment. Remyelination by lateral extension from adjacent Schwann cells was documented in living and fixed tissue. The observations confirm the spatial-temporal evolution of hexacarbon distal axonopathy previously suggested from comparable studies in vivo.
The development of a penicillin-induced haemolytic anaemia was studied in a patient with microangiopathy following an average daily dose of five million units of penicillin G (total dose 46 million units). It has been proposed that the combination of the benzylpenicilloyl hapten with exposed or altered erythrocyte antigens, induces an autoimmune response. In this particular case, it is suggested that erythrocyte membrane damage has predisposed to immune drug-mediated red cell damage.
To review the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, efficacy, and safety of the prodrug lisdexamfetamine for the treatment of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in children and adults and describe its potential place in therapy.
Primary literature published between January 1, 1990, and August 1, 2008, was selected from PubMed using the search key words lisdexamfetamine, Vyvanse, and NRP104. References of selected publications were also reviewed. Posters and abstracts of research presented at national meetings were reviewed when available. The product labeling for Vyvanse was also used.
Preference was given to published, randomized, and controlled research describing the pharmacokinetics, efficacy, and safety of lisdexamfetamine. Noncontrolled studies, postmarketing reports, and poster presentations were considered secondly. All published studies were included.
Lisdexamfetamine is a prodrug of dextroamphetamine covalently bound to l-lysine, which is activated during first-pass metabolism. The unique pharmacokinetic profile owing to lisdexamfetamine's prodrug design and rate-limited enzymatic biotransformation allows for once-daily dosing with a duration of activity of approximately 12 hours. Lisdexamfetamine has been proven to reduce the symptoms of ADHD both in children aged 6-12 years and adults aged 18-55 years, decreasing ADHD rating scale scores by approximately 27 and 19 points, respectively. Adverse effects with an incidence greater than 10% during preclinical trials included appetite suppression, insomnia, and headache. Lisdexamfetamine's unique pharmacokinetic properties may provide additional safety with regard to reducing abuse potential. As with other central nervous system (CNS) stimulants, concerns regarding sudden cardiac death and adverse effects on growth also apply to lisdexamfetamine.
Lisdexamfetamine provides another amphetamine-based CNS stimulant option for treatment of children and adults with ADHD. However, its use may be limited by a lack of significant differentiation when compared with currently used stimulants and a lack of evidence to support its use in adolescents.
The authors describe a 68-year-old female who developed a rapidly progressing leukoencephalopathy involving the cerebrum and brain stem. The disease appeared during low-dose oral methotrexate (MTX) therapy for rheumatoid arthritis. An extensive clinical investigation discounted other possible causes of white matter lesions. Autopsy identified an uninterrupted severe demyelinating, partially liquefactive necrosis-like lesion in the white matter accompanied by astrogliosis and occasional swollen axons therein. The lesion was generally symmetrical, and distributed throughout the whole cerebral white matter except for the bilateral temporal lobes and the rostral part of the frontal lobes. The internal capsules and cerebral peduncles were spongy, and the central and lateral parts of the pons, especially the transverse cerebellopontine tracts, were affected similarly. It was of note that the lesion was accompanied by neither vascular diseases nor lymphocyte infiltration. Thus, the pathological findings were similar to those of a severe form of central and extrapontine myelinolysis, and clearly different from ordinary MTX leukoencephalopathy reported in patients receiving intrathecal or intravenous MTX therapy, known as "disseminated necrotizing leukoencephalopathy". Another possibility is that synergistic effects of several white-matter-damaging disorders may have contributed to the hitherto unknown lesion. To our knowledge, this is the first autopsy record that describes an oral MTX-associated neurological disorder.
