Consecutive patients with serious infections were randomized between gentamicin 4 mg/kg once daily i.v. or netilmicin 5.5 mg/kg once daily i.v. (with dosage reduction in case of renal dysfunction). Exclusion criteria were neutropenia or severe renal failure. Median first serum trough and peak concentrations were 0.4/9.5 mg/L and 0.4/12.2 mg/L, for gentamicin and netilmicin respectively. A good clinical response was observed in 50/54 (92.6%) evaluable patients treated with gentamicin and in 48/52 (92.3%) netilmicin-treated patients. Nephrotoxicity (a rise of serum creatinine > or = 45 mumol/L) developed in 5/72 (6.9%) gentamicin patients treated > or = 48 hours and in 10/69 (14.5%) netilmicin patients (difference 7.5%, 95% CI -3.9% to +16.2%). High-tone audiometry was performed when possible; no significant differences were found between the regimens with regard to hearing loss or prodromal signs of ototoxicity. We conclude that with once-daily dosing no benefit of netilmicin over gentamicin regarding nephro- or ototoxicity could be demonstrated.
Previous experiments indicated that 1-bromopropane (1-BP), an alternative to chloroflurocarbons, is neurotoxic and inhibits spermiation in the testis. Here we investigated the reversibility of the toxic effects of 1-BP in rats. Male Wistar rats were divided into three equal groups of 24 each and exposed by inhalation to 0, 400 or 1000 ppm of 1-BP for 6 weeks (8 hrs/day, 7 days/week). Eight rats from each group were sacrificed at the end of 6 weeks exposure, and at 4 and 14 weeks after the end of exposure, to assess the recovery processes. We studied sperm count, motility, morphology and testicular histopathology, as well as blood pressure, skin temperature and hindlimb muscle strength. At the end of 6 weeks of exposure to 1000 ppm (0 week recovery), testicular weight, epididymal weight, sperm count and motility were low, morphologically abnormal sperm were increased and spermatogenic cells showed diffuse degeneration. These changes did not show full recovery at 14 weeks recovery, with the exception of the prostate and seminal vesicular weights, which recovered back to control values. At 400 ppm, increased retained spermatids at 0 week recovery returned to normal at 4 weeks recovery. Exposure to 1000 ppm produced sustained reduction of hindlimb muscle strength at 14 weeks recovery, whereas normalization of the skin temperature and blood pressure was noted after transient changes. Our study showed that the effect of 1-BP on spermatogenesis is dose-dependent; low exposure inhibited spermiation and hormone-dependent organ weight reduction and these changes were transient, while a higher dose of 1000 ppm 1-BP caused persistent depletion of spermatogenic cells.
The incidence of vancomycin-associated nephrotoxicity was determined in a younger (age < 60 y) versus elderly (age > or = 60 y) hospitalized adult population to identify associated drug- and nondrug-related risk factors. Nephrotoxicity was defined as an acute increase in serum creatinine of > or = 44.2 mumol/L if baseline serum creatinine was < or = 221 mumol/L or an increase in serum creatinine of > or = 88.4 mumol/L if baseline serum creatinine > 221 mumol/L. A total of 289 patients, 141 younger (mean age, +/- S.D. 37.9 +/- 12.4 y) and 148 elderly (73.6 +/- 8.5 years), was retrospectively reviewed. Nephrotoxicity occurred in 7.8% younger vs 18.9% elderly patients (P = 0.003). Using multivariate logistic regression models for the pooled patient population, concurrent loop diuretic use was significantly associated with vancomycin-associated nephrotoxicity (relative risk (R.R.) = 5.06); for the younger population, only concurrent amphotericin B use was significantly associated with vancomycin-associated nephrotoxicity (R.R. = 6.65); and for the elderly population, only concurrent loop diuretic use was significantly associated with vancomycin-associated nephrotoxicity (R.R. = 9.70). These data suggest that elderly patients are at significantly greater risk of vancomycin-associated nephrotoxicity than are younger patients. However, because age was not a significant risk factor for nephrotoxicity in comparing the pooled vancomycin-associated nephrotoxicity group compared to the non-nephrotoxicity group, the differences observed between age groups probably reflect differences in risk factor prevalence.
Abnormal electroencephalographic seizure-like activity and myoclonic movements have been recognized during enflurane anesthesia. This is most commonly seen in the presence of respiratory alkalosis and high concentrations of enflurane. Immediate and delayed postoperative generalized tonic-clonic convulsions have also been reported after enflurane anesthesia. Experimental studies have shown that auditory stimuli could facilitate seizure activity during deep enflurane anesthesia. Here we report a case of intraoperative generalized tonic-clonic convulsion during low concentrations of enflurane without evidence of hyperventilation and the presence of auditory stimulation.
A patient who developed valproate-associated hepatotoxicity had significantly lower serum levels of total protein, albumin and selenium than the controls. This study shows that with the beginning of the hepatic coma metallothionein (MT) appeared in the serum mainly in the form of Zn-thionein, which altered the Zn distribution pattern of the serum in a characteristic manner. HPLC-ICP3 was successfully applied to the simultaneous speciation of elements and characterization of MT by the use of one gel permeation column.
The relative value of increasing ifosfamide dose in combination chemotherapy for patients with soft tissue sarcoma (STS) is unclear. The purpose of this study was to compare the efficacy and toxicity of doxorubicin with high-dose (HD) ifosfamide or standard-dose (SD) ifosfamide in patients with STS.
Chemotherapy-naive patients with STS were randomly assigned to receive doxorubicin 60 mg/m(2) and either SD ifosfamide (1.5 g/m(2)/d, days 1 through 4) or HD ifosfamide (3.0 g/m(2), days 1 through 4) every 21 days. Patients were stratified by the presence or absence of metastatic disease. End points were overall survival (OS), 1-year disease-free survival (DFS), and toxicity.
The study group consisted of 79 patients (52 patients with localized disease and 27 patients with metastases). Both groups were well-balanced with respect to known prognostic factors. There was no significant difference in 1-year DFS comparing SD ifosfamide with HD ifosfamide (55% v 52%; P = .81). For SD ifosfamide, 2- and 3-year OS were 73% and 52% versus 57% and 49% for HD ifosfamide (P = .34). The incidence of grade 3/4 neutropenia, anemia, and thrombocytopenia were 49%, 23%, and 10%, respectively, on the SD ifosfamide arm, compared with 88%, 58%, and 63%, respectively, on the HD ifosfamide arm. There were five early deaths, all on the HD ifosfamide arm.
When combined with doxorubicin, HD ifosfamide did not improve 1-year DFS and OS. Toxicity was clearly greater with the HD ifosfamide arm, and lack of outcome differences might be explained by toxicities with HD ifosfamide. These results suggest that HD ifosfamide combination regimens should not be used as first-line therapy for patients with STS.
The anti-inflammatory activity of the IL-1 receptor antagonist, IL-1ra, was evaluated in the acetic acid (HOAc)-induced model of colitis in rats. Animals treated with 10 mg/kg IL-1ra or vehicle were evaluated for general health, acute phase response, and colonic in flammation 24 hours after the initiation of inflammation. A significant decrease in the accumulation of neutrophils in the colonic mucosa as measured by myeloperoxidase activity was seen in animals with HOAc induced colitis that were treated intraperitoneally with IL-1ra when compared to animals with colitis that had been treated with vehicle. IL-1ra also reduced colonic necrosis measured grossly, although there was no effect on the histology IL-1ra had a modest effect on the HOAc-induced acute phase response, as indicated by changes in the serum iron, albumin and transferrin, but the results were not statistically significant. The number of circulating erythrocytes and neutrophils was significantly increased in animals with HOAc-induced colitis and treated with IL-1ra, suggesting that IL-1ra under these experimental conditions inhibited the migration of neutrophils to the injured colon and also the overall intestinal necrosis in the colon as assessed by gross pathology. IL-1ra may be useful as an intestinal anti-inflammatory agent.
Inhibition of nuclear factor kappaB with the antioxidant pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC) reduced tubulointerstitial injury in Adriamycin nephropathy (AN), whereas N-acetylcysteine (NAC) was ineffective. Here we hypothesize that PDTC reduces the renal cortical expression of nuclear factor kappaB dependent cytokines in AN.
Male Wistar rats received a single intravenous injection of doxorubicin hydrochloride (7.5 mg/kg). NAC (150 mg/kg twice daily i.p.), PDTC (50 mg/kg twice daily i.p.), or vehicle were commenced on day 14 and continued until day 30.
On day 30, mRNAs of selected cytokines were increased in AN (TNF-alpha 3.4-fold, MCP-1 5.1-fold, IL-10 2.7-fold, TGF-beta1 3.5-fold, all p < 0.05) as determined by RT-PCR. PDTC reduced IL-10 and TGF-beta1 mRNAs (p < 0.05), whereas the upregulation of MCP-1 and TNF-alpha mRNAs was not affected. In contrast, NAC increased TNF-alpha and IL-10 mRNAs (p < 0.05). Nuclear protein levels of activator protein-1 were increased in AN (4.4-fold, p < 0.01) and not significantly altered by PDTC (3.0-fold, p = 0.13) or NAC (5. 2-fold, p = 0.18).
The protective effects of PDTC in AN are not associated with a local reduction in TNF-alpha and MCP-1 gene expression. The latter may be due to continued transactivation by activator protein-1. These data also suggest that IL-10 and TGF-beta1 mRNA expressions are PDTC dependent and have a role in mediating tubulointerstitial injury.
A 76-year-old woman with acute myocardial infarction underwent percutaneous coronary angioplasty followed by treatment with an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, lisinopril. Her renal function deteriorated after the administration of lisinopril, so it was changed to another ACE inhibitor, temocapril. Renography suggested a complication of severe right renal artery stenosis, and renal angiography revealed bilateral renal artery stenoses. Her renal hemodynamics were assessed by (99m)Tc-Mercaptoacetyltriglycine ((99m)Tc-MAG(3))-renography before and after withdrawal of temocapril. The authors concluded the patient had essential hypertension complicated by atherosclerotic renovascular disease. In the treatment of elderly patients with heart disease, hypertension, or both, with ACE inhibitor, the possibility of coexisting renal artery stenosis should be considered. Renography is recommended as a reliable tool for detecting renal artery stenosis.
The use of lipid-lowering statins has been associated with raised serum muscle enzymes and, occasionally, with rhabdomyolysis, especially in patients with pre-existing metabolic myopathies. The A3243G mutation is one of the most common mutations associated with mitochondrial disorders. A teenager harboring the A3243G mutation had the unusual association of hereditary glomerulopathy and recurrent episodes of raised creatine kinase levels with the use of lipid-lowering agents. Muscle biopsy showed both normal respiratory chain enzyme activities and normal coenzyme Q(10) levels, although decreased muscle coenzyme Q(10) concentration had been postulated to have a pathogenic role in statin-related myopathies. The close temporal relationship of statin administration and raised creatine kinase levels in this patient suggests caution in the use of statins in children and teenagers with mitochondrial myopathies.
The impairment of slow axonal transport of cytoskeletal proteins was studied in the sciatic nerves of streptozocin-diabetic rats. [35S]Methionine was unilaterally injected into the fourth lumbar ganglion and spinal cord, to label the sensory and motor axons, respectively, and then the polymerized elements of the cytoskeleton and the corresponding soluble proteins were analyzed separately. In addition, the pellet/supernatant ratio for tubulin and actin was also assessed. Our results indicate that the velocity of slow component a (SCa) of axonal transport, particularly that of neurofilaments, was strongly reduced (by 60%) in sensory axons. At the same time, a decreased pellet/supernatant ratio of tubulin, possibly owing to a depolymerization of stable microtubules, was also observed. The transport of slow component b (SCb) of axonal transport was also impaired, but the extent of this impairment could not be precisely evaluated. In contrast, motor axons showed little or no impairment of both SCa and SCb at the time studied, a result suggesting a delayed development of the neuropathy in motor axons.
Recent research suggests that uric acid may be nephrotoxic at lower levels than previously recognized and that it may be one mechanism for lead-related nephrotoxicity. Therefore, in understanding mechanisms for lead-related nephrotoxicity, it would be of value to determine whether genetic polymorphisms that are associated with renal outcomes in lead workers and/or modify associations between lead dose and renal function are also associated with uric acid and/or modify associations between lead dose and uric acid. We analyzed data on three such genetic polymorphisms: delta-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase (ALAD), endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), and the vitamin D receptor (VDR). Mean (+/- SD) tibia, blood, and dimercaptosuccinic acid-chelatable lead levels were 37.2 +/- 40.4 microg/g bone mineral, 32.0+/- 15.0 g/dL, and 0.77+/- 0.86 microg/mg creatinine, respectively, in 798 current and former lead workers. Participants with the eNOSAsp allele had lower mean serum uric acid compared with those with the Glu/Glu genotype. Among older workers (age > or = median of 40.6 years), ALAD genotype modified associations between lead dose and uric acid levels. Higher lead dose was significantly associated with higher uric acid in workers with the ALAD1-1 genotype; associations were in the opposite direction in participants with the variant ALAD1-2 genotype. In contrast, higher tibia lead was associated with higher uric acid in those with the variant VDRB allele; however, modification was dependent on participants with the bb genotype and high tibia lead levels. We conclude that genetic polymorphisms may modify uric acid mediation of lead-related adverse renal effects.
Antiarrhythmic drug treatment for atrial fibrillation can cause atrial flutter-like arrhythmias. The aim of this study was to clarify the effect of catheter ablation of the tricuspid annulus-vena cava inferior isthmus on amiodarone-induced atrial flutter and to determine the incidence of atrial fibrillation after catheter ablation of amiodarone-induced atrial flutter in comparison to regular typical flutter.
Among 92 consecutive patients with typical atrial flutter who underwent isthmus ablation 28 patients had atrial flutter without a history of previous atrial fibrillation (group I), 10 patients had atrial flutter following the initiation of amiodarone therapy for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (group II) and 54 patients had atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation (group III). Atrial cycle length during atrial flutter in amiodarone-treated patients (group II) (277+/-24 ms) was significantly longer as compared to the cycle length of atrial flutter in group I (247+/-33 ms) and group III patients (235+/-28 ms). The rate of successful transient entrainment and overdrive stimulation to sinus rhythm was not different between patients with (60%) or without amiodarone therapy (group I: 71%, group III: 53%). Successful isthmus ablation with bidirectional conduction block eliminating right atrial flutter was achieved in 90% of amiodarone-treated patients and 93% of patients without amiodarone therapy. In the amiodarone-treated patient group atrial conduction times during pacing in sinus rhythm were significantly prolonged by 20-30% before and after ablation in all regions of the reentrant circuit. During a mean follow-up of 8+/-3 months post-ablation, atrial fibrillation recurred in two of 10 patients on continued amiodarone therapy after successful isthmus ablation. Thus, successful catheter ablation of atrial flutter due to amiodarone therapy was associated with a markedly lower recurrence rate of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (20%) as compared to patients with atrial flutter plus preexisting paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (76%) and was similar to the outcome of patients with successful atrial flutter ablation without preexisting atrial fibrillation (25%).
These data suggest that isthmus ablation with bidirectional block and continuation of amiodarone therapy is an effective therapy for the treatment of atrial flutter due to amiodarone therapy for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
Apraclonidine eye drop is an alpha adrenergic agonist derived topical clonidine, used for the treatment of intraocular pressure elevation. We report what is to our knowledge the first case of systemic toxicity of apraclonidine resulted from repeated local administration. Clinical manifestation of toxicity was similar to oral clonidine overdose. Toxicities of ocular drugs should always be considered when a patient presents with new systemic problems.
Arsenic is a well-known human skin carcinogen but the underlying mechanisms of carcinogenesis are unclear. Transcription factor Nrf2-mediated antioxidant response represents a critical cellular defense mechanism, and emerging data suggest that constitutive activation of Nrf2 contributes to malignant phenotype. In the present study when an immortalized, nontumorigenic human keratinocyte cell line (HaCaT) was continuously exposed to an environmentally relevant level of inorganic arsenite (100 nM) for 28 weeks, malignant transformation occurred as evidenced by the formation of highly aggressive squamous cell carcinoma after inoculation into nude mice. To investigate the mechanisms involved, a broad array of biomarkers for transformation were assessed in these arsenic-transformed cells (termed As-TM). In addition to increased secretion of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), a set of markers for squamous differentiation and skin keratinization, including keratin-1, keratin-10, involucrin, and loricrin, were significantly elevated in As-TM cells. Furthermore, As-TM cells showed increased intracellular glutathione and elevated expression of Nrf2 and its target genes, as well as generalized apoptotic resistance. In contrast to increased basal Nrf2 activity in As-TM cells, a diminished Nrf2-mediated antioxidant response induced by acute exposure to high doses of arsenite or tert-butyl hydroxyquinone occurred. The findings that multiple biomarkers for malignant transformation observed in As-TM cells, including MMP-9 and cytokeratins, are potentially regulated by Nrf2 suggest that constitutive Nrf2 activation may be involved in arsenic carcinogenesis of skin. The weakened Nrf2 activation in response to oxidative stressors observed in As-TM cells, coupled with acquired apoptotic resistance, would potentially have increased the likelihood of transmittable oxidative DNA damage and fixation of mutational/DNA damage events.
Activation and skin-selective homing of T cells and effector functions in the skin represent sequential events in the pathogenesis of atopic dermatitis and allergic contact dermatitis.
T cell-mediated keratinocyte apoptosis plays a key pathogenetic role in the formation of eczematous dermatitis. IFN-gamma released from activated T cells upregulates Fas on ke-ratinocytes, which renders them susceptible to apoptosis. The lethal hit is given to keratinocytes by means of Fas ligand expressed on the T-cell surface or released to the inflammatory microenvironment. We sought to investigate whether drugs used for the treatment of eczematous disorders interfere with this pathogenic pathway.
T cell-mediated, Fas-induced keratinocyte apoptosis in a keratinocyte-T cell coculture system serves as an in vitro model of eczematous dermatitis. We tested, in this model, whether immunomodulatory agents (dexamethasone, cyclosporine A, rapamycine, tacrolimus/FK506, intravenous immunoglobulin [IVIG], and theophylline) are able to inhibit apoptosis of keratinocytes. Additionally, skin biopsy specimens from patients with untreated and successfully treated eczematous dermatitis were evaluated for keratinocyte apoptosis.
Dexamethasone, cyclosporine A, FK506, rapamycine, and IVIG are inhibitors of keratinocyte apoptosis induced by activated T cells. This effect is mediated by 2 major mechanisms directed on T cells or keratinocytes. T-cell activation was mainly inhibited by dexamethasone, FK506, cyclosporine A, and rapamycine. Interestingly, high-dose dexamethasone and IVIG directly inhibited Fas-mediated keratinocyte apoptosis. In vivo keratinocyte apoptosis was significantly reduced after successful topical treatment of eczematous lesions.
These results demonstrate mechanisms of action of current treatment approaches and provide a future for more focused therapeutic applications.
Ketotifen produced seizures in a 5-year-old boy with secondary generalized epilepsy (SGE) and allergic rhinitis. To confirm that the seizures were due to histamine H1 receptors blockade, d-chlorpheniramine was administered with monitoring electroencephalography (EEG). Administration of d-chlorpheniramine significantly increased the number of epileptic discharges in the patient, compared with those before administration. Plasma noradrenaline and dopamine levels were not affected by treatment with d-chlorpheniramine. These findings indicate that histamine H1 receptors blockade produced convulsions and increased epileptic discharges on EEG. Recently, several experimental reports have shown that histamine has an inhibitory role on convulsions through histamine H1 receptors. Experimental findings and present results show that histamine H1 antagonists have proconvulsant effects, especially in the developmental period. Thus, it is recommended that centrally-acting histamine H1 antagonists should be avoided in epileptic patients, especially in children of pre-school age.
Inhibition of aldosterone synthase, the key enzyme in aldosterone formation, could be an alternative strategy for mineralocorticoid-receptor antagonists in congestive heart failure (CHF), but its effect in CHF is unknown.
We compared, in rats with CHF, the effects of a 7 day and a 12 week treatment with the aldosterone synthase inhibitor FAD286 (4 mg kg(-1) day(-1)) with those induced by spironolactone (80 mg kg(-1) day(-1)). FAD286/spironolactone increased cardiac output without modifying arterial pressure. Long-term FAD286 and spironolactone reduced left ventricular (LV) end-diastolic pressure, LV relaxation constant, and LV dilatation, and these effects were more marked with FAD286, whereas both drugs reduced LV hypertrophy and collagen accumulation to the same extent. Long-term FAD286/spironolactone prevented CHF-related enhancement in LV ACE and reduction in LV ACE-2, but only FAD286 prevented the reduction in LV AT(2) receptors. FAD286, but not long-term spironolactone, reduced the CHF-related enhancements in LV reactive oxygen species, reduced-oxidized glutathione ratio, and aortic nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase activity. FAD286 normalized the CHF-induced impairment of endothelium-dependent vasodilatation.
In experimental CHF, FAD286 and spironolactone improve LV haemodynamics, remodelling, and function, but only FAD286 persistently normalizes LV 'redox status'. These results suggest that aldosterone synthase inhibition is a potential therapeutic strategy for the treatment of CHF.
We report a case of a 43 year old man who was diagnosed with Brugada syndrome after propafenone administration for chemical cardioversion of new onset atrial fibrillation. Brugada syndrome has been described in the medical literature and is thought to be responsible for the majority of sudden cardiac deaths in patients without ischaemic heart disease. This syndrome has not yet been extensively discussed in the emergency medicine literature despite its importance. Emergency physicians should consider Brugada syndrome in patients who present to the emergency department with right bundle branch block and ST segment elevation in the right precordial leads, which is the classic electrocardiographic pattern of this syndrome.
Bipolar disorder, characterized by extreme manic and depressive moods, is a prevalent debilitating disease of unknown etiology. Because mood stabilizers, antipsychotics, antidepressants, and mood-regulating neuromodulators increase the inhibitory serine-phosphorylation of glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK3), we hypothesized that deficient GSK3 serine-phosphorylation may increase vulnerability to mood-related behavioral disturbances. This was tested by measuring behavioral characteristics of GSK3 alpha/beta(21A/21A/9A/9A) knockin mice with serine-to-alanine mutations to block inhibitory serine-phosphorylation of GSK3. GSK3 knockin mice displayed increased susceptibility to amphetamine-induced hyperactivity and to stress-induced depressive-like behaviors. Furthermore, serine-phosphorylation of GSK3 was reduced during both mood-related behavioral responses in wild-type mouse brain and in blood cells from patients with bipolar disorder. Therefore, proper control of GSK3 by serine-phosphorylation, which is targeted by agents therapeutic for bipolar disorder, is an important mechanism that regulates mood stabilization, and mice with disabled GSK3 serine-phosphorylation may provide a valuable model to study bipolar disorder.
Zidovudine (AZT) can induce a mitochondrial disorder associated with mitochondrial (mt) DNA depletion affecting skeletal muscle, heart, and liver. Zidovudine myopathy is characterized by ragged-red fibers and partial cytochrome c oxidase (COX) deficiency. We evaluated at a single fiber level the expression of COX II (mtDNA-encoded) and COX IV (nuclear DNA-encoded) subunits in 12 HIV-infected patients with zidovudine myopathy. We also evaluated COX activity on longitudinal muscle sections in one patient. In all patients, evaluation of the expression of COX II and COX IV subunits showed focal deficiency. All fibers negative for COX II or COX IV were negative by COX histochemistry; 32-92% (median 61%) of COX-negative fibers were negative for COX II antigens, and 7-58% (median 28%) were negative for COX IV antigens. One hundred and thirty-nine of 317 COX-negative fibers 139 (43.8%) were selectively negative for COX II; 28 of 317 (8.8%) COX-negative fibers were selectively negative for COX IV. A study of longitudinal distribution of COX activity demonstrated that COX deficiency was segmental with blurred borders, as previously observed in patients with myoclonus epilepsy with ragged-red fibers. We conclude that proteins encoded by mtDNA are predominantly, but not exclusively, involved in zidovudine myopathy. Our results confirm the value of single muscle fiber evaluation in the assessment of mitochondrial abnormalities related to zidovudine.
Minor hypersensitivity reactions to allopurinol presenting as skin rash occur in approximately 2% of patients. A more severe, albeit rare, hypersensitivity reaction with fever, eosinophilia, dermatitis, renal failure, vasculitis and hepatic dysfunction carries a mortality of up to 20%. The incidence of this severe reaction can probably be reduced by adjusting the dose of allopurinol in patients with impaired renal function. Azathioprine and mercaptopurine are metabolised by xanthine oxidase, the enzyme that is inhibited by allopurinol. Concomitant administration can result in life-threatening neutropenia unless the dose of allopurinol is reduced by approximately 75%. The uricosuric agent benzbromarone has recently been withdrawn from the market because of several cases of fulminant hepatic failure with subsequent death of the patient or liver transplantation.
Dieldrin, an organochlorine pesticide, has been shown to be hepatocarcinogenic in mice but not rats. Phenobarbital, in contrast, induces hepatic tumors in both mice and rats. Previous studies have shown that acute dietary exposure of rats or mice to either dieldrin or phenobarbital produces several liver changes, including centrilobular hypertrophy, induction of hepatic cytochrome P450, and increased liver weight. The present study examined the subchronic effect of dieldrin (0.1, 1.0, 3.0, 10.0 mg dieldrin/kg diet) and phenobarbital (10, 50, 100, 500 mg phenobarbital/kg diet) on the induction of hepatic DNA synthesis and hepatocyte lethality in male B6C3F1 mice and male F344 rats. Eight-week-old animals were treated as above and evaluated for hepatic DNA synthesis after 7, 14, 21, 28, and 90 days of continual treatment to dieldrin or phenobarbital. Maximal induction of hepatic DNA synthesis in mice was seen at the 14-, 21-, and 28-day sampling times. In rats, no significant increase in hepatic DNA synthesis or hepatocyte lethality was observed at any dose of dieldrin investigated. Phenobarbital produced a significant increase in hepatic DNA synthesis in both rat and mouse liver following 7 days of treatment. The induction of DNA synthesis in rat liver was transient, with the labeling index returning to control levels by 14 days of treatment. In contrast, mice treated with phenobarbital showed a significant increase in hepatic DNA synthesis throughout the treatment. In both mice and rats, dieldrin and phenobarbital induced hepatic DNA synthesis selectively in the centrilobular region of the hepatic lobule. The lack of an increase in serum enzymes indicative of hepatic damage and the absence of liver histopathology in mice or rats fed dieldrin or phenobarbital indicate that the induction of DNA synthesis was not mediated by a cytolethal, compensatory hyperplastic response, suggesting a mitogenic mechanism. Therefore, the species-specific induction of hepatic DNA synthesis by either dieldrin or phenobarbital correlated with the previously observed species-specific induction of hepatic cancer by these two compounds.
