To explore the effects of ligustrazine on proteinuria, urinary TxB2 (metabolism of thromboxane A2, TxA2) and 6-keto-PGF1alpha (metabolism of prostacyclines I2, PG I2), glomerular inducible nitric oxide(NO) synthase (iNOS) mRNA, urinary NO3-/NO2- (decomposing products of NO) and pathological changes in rats with passive Heymann nephritis (PHN).
A rat PHN model was induced by intravenous injection of rabbit anti-rat renal tubular antigen (Tub-Ag) antiserum, and ligustrazine was given intraperitoneally into PHN rats every 2 days for 1-5 weeks. Then, proteinuria, urinary TxB2 and 6-keto-PGF1alpha, glomerular iNOS mRNA, and urinary NO3-/NO2- were measured by sulfosalicylic acid, radioimmunoassay (RIA), Northern blot and nitric acid reductase methods, respectively. Moreover, the damage to the renal tissue of the rats was observed under light and electron microscopy and immunofluorescence (IF).
The urinary TxB2 in PHN rats was significantly higher than that in control rats, but the PHN rats treated with ligustrazine had significantly less proteinuria, urinary TxB2 and tissue lesions, and more urinary 6-keto-PGF(1alpha), glomerular iNOS mRNA and urinary NO2-/NO3- than the PHN rats without the administration of ligustrazine.
These data indicate that ligustrazine has inhibitory roles on the glomerular injury of PHN rats, which may associate with modulating the balance of TxA2-PGI2 and elevating synthesis of NO to a certain extent.
We examined whether dietary fish oil can prevent acute ethanol (alcohol)-induced fatty liver.
Mice were fed safflower oil, fish oil, or safflower oil plus a PPAR alpha activator on the day prior to ethanol administration. Oil red O staining, serum analysis, and RT-PCR were used to analyze ethanol-induced fatty liver.
In mice fed safflower oil, ethanol increased liver TG 3-fold, with activation of SREBP-1c and ChREBP, which promote de novo lipogenesis, and increases in expression of mRNAs for PPAR gamma and DGATs mRNAs, which promote TG synthesis. When mice were fed fish oil, ethanol-induced fatty liver was reduced by 73%. Fish oil decreased SREBP-1c activity and increased PPAR alpha activity. However, levels of DGAT1, DGAT2, ChREBP, LPK, and PPAR gamma mRNAs were increased in response to ethanol in mice fed fish oil. Prior administration of Wy14643, PPAR alpha activator, did not inhibit ethanol-induced fatty liver, suggesting that PPAR alpha played little role in prevention of ethanol-induced fatty liver by fish oil.
A single dose of ethanol increases the liver TG level via several mechanisms; however, prior ingestion of fish oil effectively prevents ethanol-induced fatty liver, at least in part, by decreasing basal SREBP-1c activity, especially a marked reduction in SCD1.
Alverine citrate has been used in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome for many years.
To compare the efficacy and safety of a new formulation of alverine citrate, a 120-mg capsule, with placebo given three times daily for 12 weeks.
One hundred and seven patients with irritable bowel syndrome were entered into this three-centre, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel group trial. The primary end-point was relief of abdominal pain indicated by improvement in the scores for severity and frequency. Secondary efficacy variables included scores for other clinical symptoms and for overall well-being.
The severity and frequency of abdominal pain improved in 66% and 68% of patients treated with alverine citrate vs. 58% and 69% of the placebo group, but these differences were not significant. The mean percentage reduction in the scores for abdominal pain from baseline to the final assessment, although greater in the alverine citrate group (43.7%) compared with the placebo group (33.3%), was not statistically significant.
Alverine citrate is no better than placebo at relieving the symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome. Future trials should be designed to take into account the high and persistent placebo response seen in this condition.
To evaluate the frequency and risk factors of acute psychosis in a large cohort of patients with systemic lupus erythematosous (SLE). To identify clinical and laboratory variables useful in differentiating acute psychosis as a primary manifestation of central nervous system (CNS) from corticosteroid induced psychosis. Five hundred and thirty seven consecutive patients with SLE were studied, with follow-up ranging from 4 to 8.8 years. A standardized medical history, neurological, rheumatologic, and psychiatric examinations and serologic testing were performed in all patients. The type and frequency of risk factors associated with acute psychosis as a primary manifestation of CNS system and corticosteroid induced psychosis was determined using multivariate regression with automatic backward stepwise selection. We identified acute psychosis in 89 of 520 (17.1%) SLE patients. Psychosis primary to CNS involvement was diagnosed in 59 of these patients, corticosteroid induced psychosis in 28 and primary psychotic disorder not related to SLE or medication in two patients. Psychosis secondary to SLE at disease onset occurred in 19 patients and was associated with disease activity (p = 0.001; OR = 2.4; CI = 1.5-6.2). Psychosis during follow-up of SLE was observed in 40 patients and associated with positive antiphospholipid antibodies (p = 0.004; OR = 3.2; CI = 1.9-4.5) and less frequently with renal (p = 0.002; OR = 1.9; CI = 0.0-0.6) and cutaneous (p = 0.04; OR = 1.1; CI = 0.0-0.8) involvement. We identified 28 patients with 38 episodes of psychosis associated with corticosteroid therapy. All the patients had severe active disease and ten of these patients had hypoalbuminemia when psychosis developed. At the time of psychotic event, all the patients were taking prednisone in doses varying from 0.75 to 1 mg/kg day(-1). Psychosis resolved after tapering prednisone down in all patients. Acute psychosis related to SLE was observed in 11.3% of our cohort. Recurrence of primary psychosis was associated with other CNS manifestations related to SLE.
Ampicillin or amoxicillin at 625-800 mg/kg/day, in combination with a beta-lactamase inhibitor, each is as effective as vancomycin in animal models of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis. Studies were done to determine whether the addition of rifampin would permit lowering the dose of ampicillin into the range recommended for use in humans without loss of efficacy. The efficacy of ampicillin/sulbactam (300/150 or 150/75 mg/kg/day intramuscularly, in three divided doses) in combination with rifampin (5 mg/kg intramuscularly, three times daily) was compared with that of vancomycin (25 mg/kg intravenously, twice daily, or 30 mg/kg intramuscularly, three times daily) in the rabbit model of methicillin-resistant S. aureus aortic valve endocarditis. Neither ampicillin/sulbactam nor rifampin alone was effective. The ampicillin/sulbactam/rifampin regimen was as effective as vancomycin. This regimen may be an alternative to vancomycin in treatment of methicillin-resistant S. aureus infections.
Chemically induced birth defects are an important public health and human problem. Here we use Xenopus and zebrafish as models to investigate the mechanism of action of a well-known teratogen, valproic acid (VPA). VPA is a drug used in treatment of epilepsy and bipolar disorder but causes spina bifida if taken during pregnancy. VPA has several biochemical activities, including inhibition of histone deacetylases (HDACs). To investigate the mechanism of action of VPA, we compared its effects in Xenopus and zebrafish embryos with those of known HDAC inhibitors and noninhibitory VPA analogs. We found that VPA and other HDAC inhibitors cause very similar and characteristic developmental defects whereas VPA analogs with poor inhibitory activity in vivo have little teratogenic effect. Unbiased microarray analysis revealed that the effects of VPA and trichostatin A (TSA), a structurally unrelated HDAC inhibitor, are strikingly concordant. The concordance is apparent both by en masse correlation of fold-changes and by detailed similarity of dose-response profiles of individual genes. Together, the results demonstrate that the teratogenic effects of VPA are very likely mediated specifically by inhibition of HDACs.
In this work we aimed to observe (1) the changes in adrenomedullin (AM) and its receptor system - calcitonin receptor-like receptor (CRLR) and receptor activity modifying proteins (RAMPs) - in myocardial ischemic injury and (2) the response of injuried myocardia to AM and the phosphorylation of Akt to illustrate the protective mechanism of AM in ischemic myocardia. Male SD rats were subcutaneously injected with isoproterenol (ISO) to induce myocardial ischemia. The mRNA levels of AM, CRLR, RAMP1, RAMP2 and RAMP3 were determined by RT-PCR. Protein levels of Akt, phosphor-Akt, CRLR, RAMP1, RAMP2 and RAMP3 were assayed by Western blot. Results showed that, compared with that of the controls, ISO-treated rats showed lower cardiac function and myocardial injury. The mRNA relative amount of AM, CRLR, RAMP1, RAMP2 and RAMP3 in the myocardia of ISO-treated rats was increased. The elevated mRNA levels of CRLR, RAMP1, RAMP2 and RAMP3 were positively correlated with AM content in injured myocardia. The protein levels of CRLR, RAMP1, RAMP2 and RAMP3 in injured myocardia were increased compared with that of control myocardia. AM-stimulated cAMP generation in myocardia was elevated in the ISO group, and was antagonized by AM(22-52) and CGRP(8-37). Western blot analyses revealed that AM significantly enhanced Akt phosphorylation in injured myocardia, which was blocked by pretreatment with AM(22-52) or CGRP(8-37). Ischemia-injured myocardia hyper-expressed AM and its receptors - CRLR, RAMP1, RAMP2 and RAMP3 - and the response of ischemic myocardia to AM was potentiated, and the level of Akt phosphorylation was also increased, which suggests that changes in cardiac AM/AM receptor might play an important role in the pathogenesis of myocardial ischemic injury.
Brevetoxins (PbTx) are potent lipid soluble polyether neurotoxins produced by the marine dinoflagellate Karenia brevis, an organism linked to periodic red tide blooms. Brevetoxins exert their toxicity by interacting with neurotoxin receptor site five associated with domain IV of the alpha subunit of the voltage gated sodium channel. Brevetoxin binding to tissues that contain voltage gated sodium channels on excitable cells results in membrane depolarization, repetitive firing, and increase in sodium currents. Brevetoxins have been linked to deaths in marine mammals, which are exposed through ingestion of organisms harboring high brevetoxin concentrations and through the inhalation of aerosolized brevetoxins. Humans are also at risk, primarily through respiratory exposure which can result in a severe inflammatory response. The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of four brevetoxins on Jurkat E6-1 cell proliferation, to assess their variability in potency, genotoxicity, and to determine if brevetoxin causes cell death, specifically through an apoptotic or necrotic mechanism. PbTx 2, 3, 6, and 9 were tested at concentrations of 10(-4)-10(-12) M to determine the IC(50) values and effect on cell proliferation. The IC(50) concentration was then used in the single cell gel electrophoresis assay to determine genotoxicity. The ability to induce apoptosis was then assessed with the Vybrant apoptosis assay, caspase activation assays and PARP cleavage. Results from the cellular proliferation assays demonstrated that high doses of PbTxs inhibit the ability of Jurkat cells to proliferate while lower doses caused an increase in proliferation and that PbTx2 is the most cytotoxic brevetoxin followed by brevetoxins 6, 3, and 9. Brevetoxins 2, 3, and 6 all caused significant DNA damage. A 4 h exposure to brevetoxins 2, 3, 6, and 9 at values close to the IC(50) values resulted in apoptosis positive staining in Jurkat E6-1 cells. High doses of brevetoxins 2 and 6 resulted in activation of caspases 3/7 and 8 and cleavage of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP). The conclusions are that brevetoxins affect cell proliferation in a dose-dependent fashion, are genotoxic, and cause cell death through an apoptotic mechanism.
The effects of palytoxin on young male ICR mice were compared with the combined effects of palytoxin and ouabain or those of several cations as well as the effects of potassium. The target organs of palytoxin were the heart, kidney, pancreas, small intestine and liver. Pathomorphological changes of the heart induced by palytoxin were similar those of a lethal dose of KC1. However, the KC1-treated animals did not show any changes in the kidney. Mice given ouabain at doses up to 5 mg/kg also showed similar injuries in proximal as well as distal convoluted urinary tubules, while the heart of mice given ouabain at the same doses showed no discernible morphological changes. Ouabain 5 mg/kg did not influence the severity of injuries both in the heart and kidney induced by palytoxin at 4 micrograms/kg. Therefore, it may be assumed that palytoxin poisoning is a symptom-complex of hyperkalemia and causes a profound inhibition of Na+, K(+)-ATPase.
The role of daily dietary intake of potassium and magnesium in the maintenance of potassium balance was studied in 104 digitalized outpatients with chronic cardiac insufficiency receiving 50 mg hydrochlorothiazide twice daily for 6 weeks. The food consumption data were collected once a week by the 24-hour recall method during the 1st, 2nd and 3rd weeks of the investigation. Serum potassium and magnesium values were followed throughout the study, and total body potassium was measured at the end. During the hydrochlorothiazide treatment, potassium and magnesium levels decreased significantly (p less than 0.001). 46% of the patients became hypokalemic (serum potassium less than or equal to 3.5 mmol/l), hypokalemia being more common (64%) in the patients with a concomitant decrease (-0.063 +/- 0.08 mmol/l) in serum magnesium values. Mean intake of potassium and magnesium was 3.4 g and 299 mg in females and 4.2 g and 380 mg in males, respectively. There was no significant difference in the daily intake of potassium and magnesium between the patients becoming hypokalemic and those remaining normokalemic.
The newborn infants of 56 mothers who used cocaine were prospectively studied in to determine the effects of cocaine. There were no differences with respect to maternal preeclampsia or cesarean section rate. Meconium-stained amniotic fluid was increased (10 of 56 cases [17.8%]) compared with the control group (3 of 56 cases [5.3%]) (X2 = 4.2, P less than .05). Fetal distress recorded with fetal monitoring and Apgar scores at 1 and 5 minutes were similar. The weight, length, and head circumference growth curves of the infants born to cocaine-using mothers were shifted below the 25th percentile. Microcephaly was present in 12 of 56 (21.4%) infants whose mothers used cocaine during pregnancy (X2 = 5.96, P less than .01), and 15 of 56 (26.7%) had intrauterine growth retardation (X2 = 9.53, P less than .01) compared with the control infants (2 of 5 [3.5%] and 3 of 56 [5.3%], respectively). There was no increase in teratogenicity. Neither narcotic withdrawal symptoms nor illness could distinguish the infants born of cocaine-using mothers from the control infants. In conclusion, cocaine use during pregnancy results in newborn infants with growth retardation and microcephaly.
Tetracycline is an antibiotic that absorbs ultraviolet light at 355 nm and preferentially binds to atherosclerotic plaque both in vitro and in vivo. Tetracycline-treated human cadaveric aorta was compared with untreated aorta using several techniques: absorptive spectrophotometry, which demonstrated a distinct absorptive peak at 355 nm in tetracycline-treated plaque that was absent in treated normal vessel; ultraviolet microscopy, which showed that treated atheroma acquired the characteristic fluorescence of tetracycline under ultraviolet light; and tissue uptake of radiolabeled tetracycline, which showed 4-fold greater uptake by atheroma than by normal vessel. In addition, intravenous tetracycline administered to patients undergoing vascular surgery demonstrated characteristic fluorescence in surgically excised diseased arteries. Because of tetracycline's unique properties, we exposed tetracycline-treated and untreated aorta to ultraviolet laser radiation at a wavelength of 355 nm. We found enhanced ablation of tetracycline-treated atheroma compared with untreated atheroma. The plaque ablation caused by ultraviolet laser radiation was twice as extensive in tetracycline-treated vs nontreated plaque (2.2 +/- 0.25 mm vs 1.3 +/- 0.55 mm, p less than 0.017). This study demonstrates the potential of tetracycline plaque enhancement for the selective destruction of atheroma by ultraviolet laser radiation.
Halofuginone is a drug that has been shown to have an antifibrotic property in vitro and in vivo. Whereas halofuginone shows promise as a therapeutic agent for a variety of diseases including scleroderma, liver cirrhosis, cystic fibrosis, and certain types of cancer, the mechanism of action remains unknown. Using the tight skin mouse (TSK) model for scleroderma, we evaluated the ability of halofuginone to inhibit spontaneous development of dermal fibrosis. We found that administration of a low dose of halofuginone both in adult and newborn animals for 60 d prevented the development of cutaneous hyperplasia (dermal fibrosis). In vitro halofuginone was found to reduce the amount of collagen synthesized by fibroblasts. This effect was due to a reduction in the promoter activity of the type-I collagen genes as treatment of fibroblast cultures with 10(-8) M halofuginone reduced the level of alpha2(I) collagen message detectible by northern blot and greatly reduced the activity of a reporter construct under control of the -3200 to +54 bp alpha2(I) collagen promoter. In addition, analysis of transforming growth factor beta signaling pathways in fibroblasts revealed that halofuginone inhibited transforming-growth-factor-beta-induced upregulation of collagen protein and activity of the alpha2(I) collagen promoter. Further we found that halofuginone blocked the phosphorylation and subsequent activation of Smad3 after transforming growth factor beta stimulation. Apparently the inhibitory property was specific to Smad3 as there was no inhibitory effect on the activation of Smad2 after stimulation with transforming growth factor beta. Our results demonstrate that halofuginone is a specific inhibitor of type-I collagen synthesis and may elicit its effect via interference with the transforming growth factor beta signaling pathway.
Bis(2-chloro-1-methylethyl) ether is a beta-haloether that has been used extensively in paint and varnish removers, spotting agents, and cleaning solutions. BCMEE has also been used as an intermediate in the manufacture of dyes, resins, and pharmaceuticals and has been added to soap solutions to aid in textile cleaning. Bis (2-chloro-1- methylethyl) ether has been a by-product in the manufacture of propylene oxide and propylene glycol. It is the active ingredient of a nematocide developed and used on field crops in Japan. A NTP Carcinogenesis bioassay of bis (2-chloro- 1-methylethyl) ether (~70%), containing ~30% 2-chloro-1- methylethyl (2-chloropropyl) ether, was conducted by administering 100 or 200 mg/kg bis (2-chloro- 1-methylethyl) ether in corn oil by gavage 5 times per week for 103 weeks to groups of 50 B6C3F1 mice of each sex. Fifty mice of each sex received corn oil alone and served as vehicle controls. Survival and mean body weights of dosed and control mice of each sex were comparable. The incidence of alveolar/bronchiolar adenomas occurred in a positive dose-related trend for male mice (P<0.05: control 5/50, 10%; low-dose 13/50, 26%; high-dose 11/50, 22%) and for female mice (P<0.02: 1/50, 2%; 4/50, 8%; 8/50, 16%). The number of female mice in the high-dose group with adenomas was significantly (P<0.03) greater than that in controls. The combined incidences in dosed males and in high-dose females were significantly higher (P</=0.04 for males and P</=0.01 for females) than those in the controls (males: 6/50, 12%; 15/50, 30%; 13/50, 26%; females: 1/50, 2%; 4/50, 8%; 10/50, 20%). The incidence of hepatocellular carcinomas (5/50, 10%; 13/50, 26%; 17/50, 34%) and the combined incidence of hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas (13/50, 26%, 23/50, 46%, 27/50, 54%) in male mice were statistically significant by the trend tests (P<0.01) and the incidences in the high-dose group were significantly higher than those in the controls (P<0.01). Metastases to the lung occurred in 1/50 control, 4/50 low-dose, 3/50 high-dose male mice. Fatty metamorphosis was found in increased incidence in the livers of dosed male mice (control 2/50; 16/50 low-dose; 15/50 high-dose). Squamous cell papillomas were found in the stomach or forestomach in two high-dose females, one low-dose male, and one high-dose male. A squamous cell carcinoma was found in the forestomach of a third high-dose female. These tumors were probably related to administration of the test compound, since they are rarely observed in vehicle control and untreated control B6C3F1 mice. Under the conditions of this bioassay, bis (2-chloro-1-methylethyl) ether, containing 2-chloro-1-methylethyl (2-chloropropyl) ether, was carcinogenic for B6C3F1 mice, causing increased incidences of alveolar/bronchiolar adenomas in male and females and hepatocellular carcinomas in males. In addition, the occurrence of a low incidence of squamous cell papillomas or carcinomas in the stomach or forestomach of females (a rare tumor in B6C3F1 mice) was probably associated with the administration of bis(2-chloro-1-methylethyl)ether. Levels of Evidence of Carcinogenicity: Male Mice: Positive Female Mice: Positive Synonyms for bis(2-chloro-1-methylethyl) ether: BCMEE; bis(2-chloroisopropyl) ether; BCPE
We aimed to examine the effect of an alkaloid extract of the roots of Rubus alceifolius Poir on liver damage and cytochrome enzymes, and underlying mechanism. Hepatotoxicity was induced in rats by treatment with carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)). Rats were then treated with the hepatoprotective drug bifendate, or with low, medium, and high doses of an alkaloid extract from the roots of R alceifolius Poir. Both bifendate and alkaloid treatment decreased the increase in liver enzymes and cell damage caused by CCl(4). Carbon tetrachloride treatment alone caused a decrease in total cytochrome P450 content, an increase in CYP2E1 and CYP3A1 messenger RNA (mRNA) levels, and an increase in CYP2E1 and a decrease in CYP3A1 enzymatic activity. Alkaloid treatment brought these concentrations and activities back toward normal. In summary, these results suggest that alkaloids from R alceifolius Poir may act to protect the liver through decreasing CYP2E1 enzymatic activity through decreasing its mRNA.
In this double-blind, multicenter study, bupropion XL, a norepinephrine-dopamine reuptake inhibitor, and venlafaxine XR, a serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, were compared with regard to sexual functioning, efficacy, and tolerability. A total of 348 sexually active adult outpatients with depression were randomized to receive bupropion XL (titrated to a target dose of 300-450 mg/d) or venlafaxine XR (titrated to a target dose of 150-225 mg/d) for 12 weeks. Total scores on the primary dependent variable, the Changes in Sexual Functioning Questionnaire (self-report), increased for subjects receiving bupropion XL and decreased for those treated with venlafaxine XR; the mean change scores differed significantly between groups from week 2 onward. Among subjects with normal pretreatment sexual functioning, Changes in Sexual Functioning Questionnaire total scores remained essentially unchanged for the bupropion XL group but were decreased significantly for the venlafaxine XR group; mean change scores also differed between groups from week 2 onward. Although the therapies resulted in similar change on the 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale, remission rates were significantly higher among those treated with bupropion XL (46%) versus venlafaxine XR (33%) (odds ratio, 1.93; 95% confidence interval, 1.07-3.46). Aside from adverse effects of venlafaxine XR on sexual function, both treatments were reasonably well tolerated. In conclusion, in this patient population (ie, relatively young, sexually active outpatients), bupropion XL was at least as effective as venlafaxine XR and had a significantly more favorable sexual side effect profile.
Glucocorticoid therapy in children with nephrotic syndrome can lead to many adverse effects including behavioural problems. The present study was undertaken to assess the changes in individual behaviour among different sub-groups of patients with idiopathic nephrotic syndrome (INS) and also to find out the relationship, if any, between different behavioural problems with cumulative dose of steroid therapy.
This was a prospective hospital-based study. We assessed behavioural patterns in 131 children and adolescents with steroid-responsive INS aged 1.5-15 years. Fifty healthy children matched for age and gender were included to serve as controls. The Achenbach Child Behaviour Checklist was used to assess individual behaviour. Patients were sub-grouped according to age (1.5-5 and 6-15 years) and disease status (first attack before and after 12-week prednisolone, infrequent relapser, frequent relapser/steroid-dependent).
All groups had significantly elevated mean behavioural abnormality scores for dimensions assessed in both age groups, except rule-breaking behaviour. Besides sleep problems, frequent relapsers/steroid-dependent patients exhibited maximum scores in comparison to first attack and infrequent relapsers in the 1.5- to 5-year age group. Total and individual behavioural scores showed close associations with cumulative prednisolone dose in both groups.
It is evident that nephrotic syndrome patients should be given due consideration in clinical practice for behavioural abnormalities especially after steroid therapy.
Recurrent hepatitis B virus infection after liver transplantation performed for chronic hepatitis B with cirrhosis is influenced by a number of factors, including coinfection with the hepatitis D virus, the level of HBV replication, and administration of hepatitis B immune globulin. Another potentially important factor in modulating HBV infection after liver transplantation is the degree of immunosuppression post-transplant. We reviewed an institutional experience with liver transplantation for chronic hepatitis B and analyzed the impact of using lower doses of corticosteroids on HBV reinfection, expression of recurrent HBV disease and patient survival.
Of 17 patients undergoing liver transplantation for chronic hepatitis B, 16 patients received variable doses of hepatitis B immune globulin for up to 6 months.
Fifteen of the 16 patients remained HBsAg-negative during hepatitis B immune globulin therapy, but ultimately 13 of the 17 patients had HBV reinfection, including 3 of 4 patients with hepatitis D virus coinfection. Long-term survival (82%) of the 17 chronic hepatitis B patients was not different from the survival (75%) of 195 patients transplanted for other indications. Three of 13 patients who were reinfected died from chronic hepatitis B with liver failure. Reinfection did not appear to be related to the pretransplant degree of viral replication. Compared to an age- and sex-matched control group, patients undergoing liver transplantation for chronic hepatitis B received less cumulative intravenous methylprednisolone and oral prednisone, but did not experience a higher rate of graft rejection.
We postulate that use of lower doses of corticosteroids after liver transplantation for chronic hepatitis B is safe and not associated with a higher incidence of graft rejection. Moreover, low-dose maintenance prednisone therapy may modify the course of post-transplant HBV reinfection by leading to less viral replication, milder HBV-related liver disease and better patient survival.
This study was carried out to investigate mammary tumorigenesis in growth hormone (GH) deficient spontaneous dwarf rats (SDR). At 50-60 days of age, the rats were divided into five groups. Group 1 received bovine (b) GH (prolonged release formulation) administered at a dose of 40-50 mg/kg body wt. in 50 microl weekly injections; group 2 received recombinant human insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) at a dose of 1 mg/kg body wt./day administered via osmotic pumps; animals in group 3 were fitted with subcutaneous silastic capsule containing 30 microg 17 beta-estradiol (E2) plus 30 mg progesterone (P4), replaced every 2 months; group 4 received both bGH and E2 plus P4 treatments at the same doses as above, and control animals (group 5) received sham treatments (vegetable oil injection, silastic capsules containing cellulose). After 1 week of treatment, all animals were injected intraperitoneally with the carcinogen N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU) at a dose of 50 mg/kg body wt. Other groups of animals, receiving identical hormonal treatment to those exposed to MNU, were treated for 10 days only and then sacrificed for assessment of circulating concentrations of hormones and mammary gland characteristics at the time of carcinogen exposure. The hormonal treatments of the animals exposed to the MNU were continued for an additional 20 weeks and mammary tumor development monitored by weekly palpation and tumors collected as necessary. The rats were weighed weekly. At the end of the treatment period, all animals were sacrificed and remaining tumors were collected. Rats in all groups continued to gain weight throughout the experimental period, but the largest weight gain was see in animals receiving GH either alone or with E2 and P4. Animals treated with IGF-I also gained weight compared to controls, but this weight gain was less than that seen in GH-treated rats. GH treatment alone increased mammary tumor incidence from 4.8% in controls to 100%. Average tumor load and latency in the GH-treated rats were 7.0 +/- 0.8 tumors/tumor-bearing rat (mean +/- SEM) and 57.3 +/- 2.7 days (mean +/- SEM), respectively. As in intact Sprague-Dawley rats, approximately 90% of the tumors that developed in the GH-treated rats were ovarian dependent for growth. IGF-I treatment also increased mammary tumor development to 62.5%. Average tumor load and latency in the IGF-I-treated rats were 1.6 +/- 0.4 tumors/tumor-bearing rat (mean +/- SEM) and 96.2 +/- 14.5 days (mean +/- SEM), respectively. However E2 + P4 treatments did not significantly alter tumorigenesis and, surprisingly, simultaneous treatment with E2 + P4 and GH obliterated the GH-stimulated increase in tumor development. Prolactin (PRL) did not appear to influence mammary tumorigenesis in the SDRs, as untreated SDRs had significantly elevated serum concentration of PRL as compared with normal Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats, whereas GH-treated SDRs had PRL levels similar to that of normal SD rats. No obvious structural characteristics were associated with high or low susceptibility to mammary tumorigenesis, as assessed by mammary gland whole mounts from the different animal groups sacrificed at the time of carcinogen administration. Enhanced expression of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2), and activation (phosphorylation) of ERK1/2 were associated with an increase in mammary tumorigenesis. Similarly, the expression of the estrogen receptor-alpha (ER alpha) was significantly elevated in animal groups with the highest susceptibility to tumorigenesis, whereas the levels of cyclin D1 expression were not related to mammary tumorigenesis.
The potential of nitroglycerin for improving global and regional ventricular function after acute myocardial infarction and predicting serial change in ventricular function at the time of hospital discharge was investigated. Equilibrium multiple gated blood pool scintigrams were performed at rest before and after sublingual administration of nitroglycerin in 18 patients an average of 36 hours after infarction and again at discharge. Global right and left ventricular function and regional left ventricular function of infarct and noninfarct zones were determined scintigraphically. In the early study nitroglycerin increased both mean (+/- standard deviation) left ventricular ejection fraction (0.51 +/- 0.15 to 0.55 +/- 0.15 ; p less than 0.02) and mean right ventricular ejection fraction (0.42 +/- 0.14 to 0.47 +/- 0.13; p less than 0.05). Left ventricular ejection fraction significantly increased in 5 of the 18 patients. It increased late in five of the six patient who exhibited an increase early after nitroglycerin but in only 2 of the 12 patients who did not exhibit an early increase (p less than 0.06). Regional ejection fraction in the infarct zone increased late in 7 of the 12 patients who exhibited an early increase after nitroglycerin and in none of the 6 who did not exhibit an early increase (p less than 0.05). Both right and left ventricular global ejection fraction and regional ejection fraction showed little late responsiveness to nitroglycerin. Early after infarction, sublingual nitroglycerin improved left, right and regional ejection fraction at the infarct site in some patients. These nitroglycerin-induced changes predicted those patients whose global ventricular function and regional left ventricular function at the infarct site improved late.
A 74-year-old man with depressive symptoms was admitted to a psychiatric hospital due to insomnia, loss of appetite, exhaustion, and agitation. Medical treatment was initiated at a daily dose of 20 mg paroxetine and 1.2 mg alprazolam. On the 10th day of paroxetine and alprazolam treatment, the patient exhibited marked psychomotor retardation, disorientation, and severe muscle rigidity with tremors. The patient had a fever (38.2 degrees C), fluctuating blood pressure (between 165/90 and 130/70 mg mm Hg), and severe extrapyramidal symptoms. Laboratory tests showed an elevation of creatine phosphokinase (2218 IU/L), aspartate aminotransferase (134 IU/L), alanine aminotransferase (78 IU/L), and BUN (27.9 mg/ml) levels. The patient received bromocriptine and diazepam to treat his symptoms. 7 days later, the fever disappeared and the patient's serum CPK levels were normalized (175 IU/L). This patient presented with symptoms of neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS), thus demonstrating that NMS-like symptoms can occur after combined paroxetine and alprazolam treatment. The adverse drug reaction score obtained by the Naranjo algorithm was 6 in our case, indicating a probable relationship between the patient's NMS-like adverse symptoms and the combined treatment used in this case. The involvement of physiologic and environmental aspects specific to this patient was suspected. Several risk factors for NMS should be noted in elderly depressive patients whose symptoms often include dehydration, agitation, malnutrition, and exhaustion. Careful therapeutic intervention is necessary in cases involving elderly patients who suffer from depression.
1. Two unstable high molecular weight toxins have been isolated from tentacles of Chironex fleckeri by exclusion chromatography. Both are cardiotoxic; the lower molecular weight fraction is also a potent haemolysin.2. Both toxins reduce the rate, amplitude of contraction and coronary flow in the isolated, perfused guinea-pig heart. Relative to the mouse lethal dose the haemolytic fraction is less potent in this preparation than the purely cardiotoxic fraction.3. Both toxins cause a rise in arterial pressure in anaesthetized rats and rabbits by a direct action on the vascular musculature. This is followed by hypotension, bradycardia and cardiac irregularity. An increase in respiratory rate is followed by apnoea of variable duration, which is associated with a rise in arterial pressure. Animals frequently show arterial pressure oscillations with periods of apnoea interspersed with hyperpnoea.4. The carotid occlusion reflex is depressed during hypotensive periods after both toxins, although (-)-noradrenaline can still elicit a marked pressor response. Bilateral cervical vagotomy has but little effect on the response to either toxin, save to prevent hyperpnoea, but radical denervation of sinoaortic afferents reduces the arterial pressure fall after the initial hypertensive response, suggesting that this fall is due to a combination of baroreceptor stimulation and a fall in cardiac output. Blood pressure oscillations are still seen, possibly due to central stimulation by hypercapnia.5. Interference with the efferent arm of the vasomotor reflex arc with hexamethonium, bretylium or phenoxybenzamine either abolishes or markedly reduces the blood pressure oscillations without affecting the initial hypertensive response.6. The cardiovascular effects of the two toxins are thought to be due to direct vasoconstriction, cardiotoxicity, baroreceptor stimulation and possibly depression of the vasomotor centre. The resultant disordering of the feed-back system regulating vasomotor tone leads to the characteristic arterial pressure oscillations.
Pesticide exposure during brain development could represent an important risk factor for the onset of neurodegenerative diseases. Previous studies investigated the effect of permethrin (PERM) administered at 34 mg/kg, a dose close to the no observable adverse effect level (NOAEL) from post natal day (PND) 6 to PND 21 in rats. Despite the PERM dose did not elicited overt signs of toxicity (i.e. normal body weight gain curve), it was able to induce striatal neurodegeneration (dopamine and Nurr1 reduction, and lipid peroxidation increase). The present study was designed to characterize the cognitive deficits in the current animal model. When during late adulthood PERM treated rats were tested for spatial working memory performances in a T-maze-rewarded alternation task they took longer to choose for the correct arm in comparison to age matched controls. No differences between groups were found in anxiety-like state, locomotor activity, feeding behavior and spatial orientation task. Our findings showing a selective effect of PERM treatment on the T-maze task point to an involvement of frontal cortico-striatal circuitry rather than to a role for the hippocampus. The predominant disturbances concern the dopamine (DA) depletion in the striatum and, the serotonin (5-HT) and noradrenaline (NE) unbalance together with a hypometabolic state in the medial prefrontal cortex area. In the hippocampus, an increase of NE and a decrease of DA were observed in PERM treated rats as compared to controls. The concentration of the most representative marker for pyrethroid exposure (3-phenoxybenzoic acid) measured in the urine of rodents 12 h after the last treatment was 41.50 μg/L and it was completely eliminated after 96 h.
