Hepatic rupture with subcapsular hematoma and hemoperitoneum is shown by CT in a patient with peliosis hepatis. Peliosis hepatis is pathologically characterized by blood-filled cystic spaces in the liver associated with the administration of anabolic androgenic steroids or oral contraceptive agents, particularly those with large components of estrogen. We report a fatal case in a patient receiving diethylstilbestrol for 3 years. In patients receiving these medications, peliosis hepatis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of low attenuation areas in the liver by CT. These patients are subject to increased risk of spontaneous hepatic rupture.
A 44-year-old woman accidentally ingested phenelzine along with venlafaxine. Thirty minutes after the ingestion the woman began to feel nauseous and anxious. Approximately 45 minutes later a friend noted that the woman had lower extremity shaking and increasingly rapid respirations. The friend brought the woman to the emergency department and she was subsequently diagnosed with serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome is usually precipitated by combinations of serotonin-potentiating agents and can lead to devastating outcomes. When using combinations of drugs that elevate serotonin levels in the central nervous system, the possibility of serotonin syndrome should be considered.
Mean motor conduction velocity of posterior tibial nerves was significantly reduced in epileptic patients treated with diphenylhydantoin formore than 10 years or in patients with serum diphenylhydantoin level above 20 mug/ml. Subnormal serum folate was not responsible for this reduction and clinical peripheral neuropathy was infrequent.
The expression of metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha was studied in the rat hippocampus after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus by Western blot and immunocytochemistry at both light and electron microscopic levels. At 1 day after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus, there was marked decrease in metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha immunoreactivity at the border between stratum oriens and alveus in CA1 and CA3, and in the hilus of dentate gyrus. Between 3 and 31 days after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus, metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha-immunoreactive dendrites and cell bodies in the border between stratum oriens and alveus gradually reappeared. Upregulation of metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha, however, was observed in the stratum oriens of CA1 at day 1, but returned to baseline by day 7. By electron microscopy, the metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha-immunoreactive product was demonstrated only in the post-synaptic elements in the border between the stratum oriens and alveus of CA1 and the hilus of the dentate gyrus in both control and experimental rats. At 1 day after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus, metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha-immunoreactive degenerating neurons were identified in the border between stratum oriens and alveus of CA1 and the hilus of the dentate gyrus. At 7 and 31 days, many degenerating axons were also found. Present results suggest that excitoneurotoxicity mediated through post-synaptic metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha may be involved in degeneration and death of interneurons in the hilus of dentate gyrus, and the border between stratum oriens and alveus of CA1 in the early stage after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are ubiquitous environmental contaminants, which are known carcinogens and teratogens. However, the toxicity of PAHs during skeletal development and the mechanism involved are not completely clear. In the present study, rockfish (Sebastiscus marmoratus) embryos were exposed to pyrene (Pyr) for 7 days at 0.5, 5 and 50 nM which resulted in craniofacial skeleton deformities. Pyr exposure for 6 days reduced the expression of PCNA, Col2a1 and Sox9 in the craniofacial skeleton revealed using in situ hybridization. These results suggest that Pyr exposure impairs skeleton development via disrupting the proliferation of the chondrocytes. At the same time, Pyr exposure reduced the expression of lox1 and inhibited the activity of lysyl oxidase, which is the key enzyme controlling the collagen cross-linking, and which might therefore have been one of the reasons for the deformative Meckel's cartilage (lower jaw).
Disruption of the function of the mouse jerky gene by transgene insertion causes generalized recurrent seizures reminiscent of human idiopathic generalized epilepsy (IGE). A human homologue, JRK/JH8, has been cloned, which maps to 8q24, a chromosomal region associated with several forms of IGE. JRK/JH8 is, therefore, a candidate locus for at least some forms of IGE. We report corrected cDNA sequences and extended open reading frames for the mouse jerky and human JRK/JH8 genes, which add 48 amino acids to the N-terminus of the Jerky protein and which extends the region of homology with the N-terminal DNA-binding domain of the centromere-binding protein, CENP-B. Systematic sequencing of the coding region of the extended JRK/JH8 gene identified single nucleotide polymorphisms that define three haplotypes, which were used for association studies in patients with idiopathic generalized epilepsy. We report one subject with childhood absence epilepsy (CAE) that evolved to juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) that has a unique de novo mutation that results in a non-conservative amino acid change at a potential protein glycosylation site. Familial analysis supports a causal role for this mutation in the disease.
Prazosin has been reported to reduce the hypotensive and/or bradycardic effect of clonidine in various animal models. Investigations in humans have given conflicting conclusions about the effectiveness of the combination of clonidine and prazosin. In patients with essential hypertension prazosin significantly reduced the hypotensive effect of intravenous clonidine, but it failed to affect the clonidine-induced bradycardia. This finding means that the combination of prazosin and clonidine is inappropriate in antihypertensive therapy.
The antiaging efficacy of retinol (ROL) has been explored mainly clinically in photoprotected skin sites and for high doses of ROL (0.4-1.6%). The objective of the study was to demonstrate the antiaging action of a low and tolerable dose of ROL (0.1%) ex vivo by measuring the expression of cellular retinoic-acid-binding protein II (CRABP2) and heparin-binding epidermal growth factor (HBEGF) by a histological evaluation of the epidermis and in vivo by assessing major aging signs and performing three-dimensional profilometry and digital imaging during a 9-month double-blind placebo-controlled study involving 48 volunteers. Finally, epidermal cell proliferation was evaluated using tryptophan fluorescence spectroscopy. Our results demonstrate that 0.1% ROL induced CRABP2 and HBEGF gene expression and increased keratinocyte proliferation and epidermal thickness. In human volunteers, topical application of a ROL-containing product improved all major aging signs assessed in our study (wrinkles under the eyes, fine lines and tone evenness). Moreover, tryptophan fluorescence increased in the active-agent-treated group and not in the placebo-treated group, indicating that cell proliferation was accelerated in vivo. These data demonstrate that a product containing a low dose (0.1%) of ROL promotes keratinocyte proliferation ex vivo and in vivo, induces epidermal thickening ex vivo and alleviates skin aging signs, without any significant adverse reaction.
The present study was undertaken to examine the effects of doxorubicin on left ventricular function and cellular energy state in intact isolated hearts, and, to test whether inhibition of mitochondrial membrane potential dissipation would prevent doxorubicin-induced mitochondrial and myocardial dysfunction. Myocardial contractile performance and mitochondrial respiration were evaluated by left ventricular tension and its first derivatives and cardiac fiber respirometry, respectively. NADH levels, mitochondrial membrane potential and glucose uptake were monitored non-invasively via epicardial imaging of the left ventricular wall of Langendorff-perfused rat hearts. Heart performance was reduced in a time-dependent manner in isolated rat hearts perfused with Krebs-Henseleit solution containing 1 microM doxorubicin. Compared with controls, doxorubicin induced acute myocardial dysfunction (dF/dt(max) of 105+/-8 mN/s in control hearts vs. 49+/-7 mN/s in doxorubicin-treated hearts; p<0.05). In cardiac fibers prepared from perfused hearts, doxorubicin induced depression of mitochondrial respiration (respiratory control ratio of 4.0+/-0.2 in control hearts vs. 2.2+/-0.2 in doxorubicin-treated hearts; p<0.05) and cytochrome c oxidase kinetic activity (24+/-1 microM cytochrome c/min/mg in control hearts vs. 14+/-3 microM cytochrome c/min/mg in doxorubicin-treated hearts; p<0.05). Acute cardiotoxicity induced by doxorubicin was accompanied by NADH redox state, mitochondrial membrane potential, and glucose uptake reduction. Inhibition of mitochondrial permeability transition pore opening by cyclosporine A largely prevented mitochondrial membrane potential dissipation, cardiac energy state and dysfunction. These results suggest that in intact hearts an impairment of mitochondrial metabolism is involved in the development of doxorubicin cardiotoxicity.
Cadmium is a heavy metal that has multiple toxic effects on human health and has been classified as a human carcinogen. E-cadherin is a major target of cadmium; however, the roles of E-cadherin and cadmium and the mechanisms of tumor progression remain to be defined. Here, we demonstrate that cadmium increases E-cadherin processing via a gamma-secretase in the T47D breast cancer cell lines. This presenilin 1 (PS1)/gamma-secretase-dependent cleavage of E-cadherin was accompanied by changes in reactive oxygen species or calcium. E-cadherin cleavage was blocked by a PS1 dominant-negative mutant, gamma-secretase inhibitors [N-[N-(3,5-Difluorophenacetyl-L-alanyl)]-S-phenylglycine t-butyl ester (DAPT) and L-685,486], antioxidants (N-acetylcysteine and Mn(III)tetrakis(1-methyl-4-pyridyl)porphyrin pentachloride), or a calcium chelating drug 1,2-bis(o-Aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid tetra(acetoxymethyl) ester. Immunofluorescence analysis confirmed the disappearance of E-cadherin staining at the cell surface. Those inhibitors attenuated cadmium-induced cytotoxicity. Additionally, cadmium treatment increased cell motility and invasion ability, which was abated by DAPT. Interestingly, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression induced by cadmium was also inhibited by DAPT. The cadmium-induced cell motility and invasion ability were inhibited by a COX-2 inhibitor, NS398. Our data indicate a novel molecular mechanism that links cytotoxicity of cadmium and disrupted E-cadherin processing to adherens junctions; cadmium induces COX-2 expression via gamma-secretase, which increases cell motility and invasion ability. Understanding the downstream signaling cascades of cadmium that promote tumor progression might be a key to the development of novel therapeutic strategies.
Lafutidine, a newly developed histamine H(2)-receptor antagonist, inhibits daytime (i.e., postprandial) as well as nighttime gastric acid secretion in clinical studies. It also has gastroprotective activity that particularly affects mucosal blood flow in rats. This study focused on the efficacy of lafutidine on plasma concentrations of gastrointestinal peptides in humans. Six healthy male volunteers aged 23-32 years without Helicobacter pylori infection were orally administered either 10 mg lafutidine, 20 mg famotidine, or water only (control) 30 min after a standard meal (650 kcal). Plasma concentrations of lafutidine and famotidine were highest from 90 to 150 min after administration. Intragastric pH was elevated after both lafutidine and famotidine compared with the control. Plasma concentrations of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and somatostatin were significantly increased after lafutidine at 60 and 90 min. We concluded that lafutidine increases plasma concentrations of CGRP and somatostatin in humans, which may result in inhibition of postprandial acid secretion and gastroprotective activity.
The authors describe a woman with chronic schizophrenia who experienced delirium, grand mal seizure, and photosensitivity after the addition of propranolol to her neuroleptic regimen. The pharmacokinetic synergism of this combination may be hazardous for some patients.
In day-old chicks trained on the one-trial taste-avoidance task, activation of NMDA receptors by glutamate is particularly important in the initial stages of memory consolidation. In addition, acetylcholine receptor activation has been shown to be a necessary component of memory formation for this task because injection of scopolamine produces amnesia. Memantine, a non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, improves memory formation under certain impairing circumstances, despite inhibiting the activation of NMDA receptors. The present experiments tested the hypothesis that memantine can ameliorate scopolamine-induced amnesia in day-old chicks (Gallus gallus domesticus) trained on the one-trial taste-avoidance task. Three experiments assessed the effects of scopolamine, memantine, and glutamate in this task. The results of Experiment 1 demonstrated that 50.0mM scopolamine produces significant amnesia. In Experiment 2, 1.0mM memantine reversed the scopolamine-induced amnesia, while other doses were ineffective. In Experiment 3, injection of 50.0mM glutamate in combination with scopolamine reversed the memantine amelioration. These results indicate a relationship between glutamate and acetylcholine in memory formation in the day-old chick.
Cisapride, a cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) substrate, is widely prescribed for the treatment of gastrointestinal motility disorders. Prolongation of QT interval, torsades de pointes, and sudden cardiac death have been reported after concomitant administration with erythromycin or azole antifungal agents, but not with other CYP3A4 inhibitors. A possible drug interaction occurred in a 45-year-old woman who was taking cisapride for gastroesophageal reflux disorder and diltiazem, an agent that has inhibitory effect on CYP3A4, for hypertension. The patient was in near syncope and had QT-interval prolongation. After discontinuing cisapride, the QT interval returned to normal and symptoms did not recur. We suggest that caution be taken when cisapride is prescribed with any potent inhibitor of CYP3A4, including diltiazem.
Seventy patients with advanced Hodgkin's disease, 54 with new disease, and 16 in first relapse after initial radiotherapy, have been treated with a seven-drug, 8-month program: MOPP (nitrogen mustard, vincristine, procarbazine, prednisone)/ABV (Adriamycin [Adria Laboratories of Canada, Mississauga, Ontario], bleomycin, vinblastine) hybrid. A single involved field of radiotherapy was given to selected partial responders after 6 months of chemotherapy. Forty-six of the 52 (88%) evaluable new-disease patients and 14 of the 16 (87%) evaluable patients with relapsing disease reached a complete response. The actuarial overall survival at 49 months for the patients with new disease was 90% (median follow-up from diagnosis was 27 months). For the patients with relapsing disease, the actuarial survival at 54 months was 79% (median follow-up from diagnosis was 27 months). The actuarial relapse-free survival at 41 months for complete responders was 93% for patients with new disease (median follow-up after treatment was 20 months) and 80% for those with relapsing disease (median follow-up after treatment was 27 months). Toxicity was moderate, with two treatment-related deaths and eight episodes of serious infection. These results compare favorably with the best results reported in the literature. Furthermore, they were achieved with a moderate level of toxicity, high drug delivery rates, and a relatively short duration of treatment. The efficacy and toxicity data of the MOPP/ABV hybrid program will now be evaluated in a prospectively randomized multicenter study.
Oxidative stress is one of the major players in the pathogenesis of maneb (MB) and paraquat (PQ)-induced disorders. N-acetyl cysteine (NAC), a glutathione (GSH) precursor and silymarin (SIL), a naturally occurring antioxidant, encounter oxidative stress-mediated cellular damage. The present study was aimed to investigate the effects of NAC and SIL against MB and/or PQ-induced hepatotoxicity in rats. The levels of hepatotoxicity markers - alanine aminotransaminase (ALT), aspartate aminotransaminase (AST) and total bilirubin, histological changes, oxidative stress indices, phase I and phase II xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes - cytochrome P450 (CYP) and glutathione S-transferase (GST) and pro-inflammatory molecules - inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and interleukin-1β (IL-1β) were measured in animals treated with MB and/or PQ in the presence or absence of NAC and SIL. MB and/or PQ augmented ALT, AST, total bilirubin, lipid peroxidation and nitrite contents and catalytic activities of superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase however, the GSH content was attenuated. NAC and SIL restored the above-mentioned alterations towards basal levels but the restorations were more pronounced in SIL treated groups. Similarly, MB and/or PQ-mediated histopathological symptoms and changes in the catalytic activities/expressions of CYP1A2, CYP2E1, iNOS, TNF-α, and IL-1β were alleviated by NAC and SIL. Conversely, MB and/or PQ-induced GSTA4-4 expression/activity was further increased by NAC/SIL and glutathione reductase activity was also increased. The results obtained thus suggest that NAC and SIL protect MB and/or PQ-induced hepatotoxicity by reducing oxidative stress, inflammation and by modulating xenobitic metabolizing machinery and SIL seems to be more effective.
In a double-blind controlled study of ursodeoxycholic acid (400 and 800 mg/day) and chenodeoxycholic acid (375 and 750 mg/day), in comparison with placebo, ursodeoxycholic acid was significantly more effective than chenodeoxycholic acid in dissolving gallstones after 12 mo of treatment. Although there continued to be better dissolution during ursodeoxycholic acid treatment (dissolution complete in 30% and partial in another 30% of the patients) than during chenodeoxycholic acid treatment (dissolution complete in 7% and partial in 40%) at 24 mo, this difference between the treatment groups was no longer statistically significant. The incidence of floating stones was significantly higher in the patients who dissolved their stones than in those who did not (p less than 0.001). The three failures of dissolution of floating stones during bile acid treatment were associated with chenodeoxycholic acid therapy--two of them with the 750-mg and the third with the 375-mg doses. Gallstone dissolution with ursodeoxycholic acid occurred in spite of a rise in biliary cholesterol saturation, which was consistent with a nonmicellar mechanism of cholelitholysis. Furthermore, more than threefold serum elevations of L-alanine aminotransferase were observed only during chenodeoxycholic acid therapy. They occurred in 2 patients treated with 375 and 750 mg/day, respectively. The enzyme levels normalized after discontinuation of chenodeoxycholic acid and have remained normal for 13 and 8 mo, respectively, after the institution of treatment with 800 mg/day of ursodeoxycholic acid. There was no correlation between the liver tests and biliary levels of lithocholic acid. Of all the symptoms studied, only constipation showed changes that approached statistical significance (p = 0.0681). There was a significant improvement of constipation in the combined chenodeoxycholic acid groups when they were compared with the combined ursodeoxycholic acid groups. The total bile acid pool expanded significantly in both the chenodeoxycholic acid and in the 800-mg ursodeoxycholic acid treatment groups. The marked increases of biliary ursodeoxycholic acid and chenodeoxycholic acid, respectively, indicated compliance with the treatment in all but 1 bile acid-treated patient. Neither serum triglycerides nor serum cholesterol showed significant changes in any of the treatment groups. The study shows that ursodeoxycholic acid dissolves gallstones faster and with fewer side effects than chenodeoxycholic acid. The results of the study are also consistent with the view that ursodeoxycholic acid is cholelitholytic at a lower dose than is chenodeoxycholic acid.
Increased deposition of the extracellular matrix components, particularly collagen, is a central phenomenon in liver fibrosis. Stellate cells, the central mediators in the pathogenesis of fibrosis are activated by free radicals, and synthesize collagen. Melatonin is a potent physiological scavenger of hydroxyl radicals. Melatonin has also been shown to be involved in the inhibitory regulation of collagen content in tissues. At present, no effective treatment of liver fibrosis is available for clinical use. We aimed to test the effects of melatonin on dimethylnitrosamine (DMN)-induced liver damage in rats. Wistar albino rats were injected with DMN intraperitoneally. Following a single dose of 40 mg/kg DMN, either saline (DMN) or 100 mg/kg daily melatonin was administered for 14 days. In other rats, physiologic saline or melatonin were injected for 14 days, following a single injection of saline as control. Hepatic fibrotic changes were evaluated biochemically by measuring tissue hydroxyproline levels and histopathogical examination. Malondialdehyde (MDA), an end product of lipid peroxidation, and glutathione (GSH) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) levels were evaluated in blood and tissue homogenates. DMN caused hepatic fibrotic changes, whereas melatonin suppressed these changes in five of 14 rats (P < 0.05). DMN administration resulted in increased hydroxyproline and MDA levels, and decreased GSH and SOD levels, whereas melatonin reversed these effects. When melatonin was administered alone, no significant changes in biochemical parameters were noted. In conclusion, the present study suggests that melatonin functions as a potent fibrosuppressant and antioxidant, and may be a therapeutic choice.
Previous studies of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia reported high response rates to fludarabine combined with cyclophosphamide. We aimed to establish whether this treatment combination provided greater survival benefit than did chlorambucil or fludarabine.
777 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia requiring treatment were randomly assigned to fludarabine (n=194) or fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide (196) for six courses, or chlorambucil (387) for 12 courses. The primary endpoint was overall survival, with secondary endpoints of response rates, progression-free survival, toxic effects, and quality of life. Analysis was by intention to treat. This study is registered as an International Standard Randomised Controlled Trial, number NCT 58585610.
There was no significant difference in overall survival between patients given fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide, fludarabine, or chlorambucil. Complete and overall response rates were better with fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide than with fludarabine (complete response rate 38%vs 15%, respectively; overall response rate 94%vs 80%, respectively; p<0.0001 for both comparisons), which were in turn better than with chlorambucil (complete response rate 7%, overall response rate 72%; p=0.006 and 0.04, respectively). Progression-free survival at 5 years was significantly better with fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide (36%) than with fludarabine (10%) or chlorambucil (10%; p<0.00005). Fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide was the best combination for all ages, including patients older than 70 years, and in prognostic groups defined by immunoglobulin heavy chain gene (V(H)) mutation status and cytogenetics, which were tested in 533 and 579 cases, respectively. Patients had more neutropenia and days in hospital with fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide, or fludarabine, than with chlorambucil. There was less haemolytic anaemia with fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide (5%) than with fludarabine (11%) or chlorambucil (12%). Quality of life was better for responders, but preliminary analyses showed no significant difference between treatments. A meta-analysis of these data and those of two published phase III trials showed a consistent benefit for the fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide regimen in terms of progression-free survival.
Fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide should now become the standard treatment for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and the basis for new protocols that incorporate monoclonal antibodies.
In an effort to develop a paclitaxel plus cisplatin combination chemotherapy regimen which can be easily employed in the outpatient setting, 38 patients (median age, 59; range, 39-72) with gynecological malignancies (20 ovarian; 6 primary peritoneal; 12 endometrial) seen at the Cleveland Clinic Foundation from June 1993 to May 1995 were administered 170 cycles of paclitaxel (135 or 175 mg/m2) over 3 hr followed by cisplatin (starting dose 75 mg/ m2). Of the 33 patients with elevated CA-125 levels prior to the initiation of chemotherapy, all experienced > 50% decreases in this antigen level, while 23/33 (70%) had > 90% reductions. In general, nonneurologic side effects were mild in severity and easily manageable. Unfortunately, 71% of the patients developed neurologic toxicity, with one-fifth of the treated population experiencing severe neurotoxic side effects (grade 3-4). We conclude that paclitaxel administered over 3 hr at a dose of 135 or 175 mg/m2, followed by cisplatin (75 mg/m2), is a highly active regimen in gynecologic malignancies. Unfortunately, in our experience, the incidence and severity of neurotoxicity with this regimen is considerably greater than that reported with paclitaxel administered over 24 hr in combination with cisplatin. As a result of the observed toxicity profile, this drug delivery schedule for cisplatin and paclitaxel cannot be recommended for general clinical use.
Risperidone is an atypical antipsychotic that has been investigated as a treatment for several severe psychiatric disorders in children and adults. A low dose of risperidone was added to other medications to treat two adolescent boys with obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) and a childhood history of separation anxiety disorder, and one prepubertal boy with a history of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and escalating behavior suggestive of mania. Each patient developed severe separation anxiety that resolved when risperidone was discontinued. The response was similar to that described in Tourette's disorder patients treated with haloperidol and pimozide. Two of the patients were treated subsequently with olazapine without a recurrence of separation anxiety. We discuss the diagnostic issues concerning separation anxiety induced by antipsychotic medications, and suggest that the atypical antipsychotics may differ in their tendency to elicit separation anxiety.
Pharmacological prolonged erections or priapism due to anesthesia were treated in 36 patients with intracorporeal injections of phenylephrine. Detumescence was obtained rapidly in every case and no marked side effect was reported. Considering the possible toxicity of other adrenergic agents, phenylephrine is strongly recommended in the treatment of priapism.
An 82-year-old man developed severe, acute, predominantly motor polyneuropathy, signs of autonomic involvement, and skin changes following aminolevulinic acid (ALA) administration. The compound was used as a prodrug for photodynamic therapy of Barrett's esophagitis. Changes were observed in various parameters of the heme pathway. The case reported represents a rare response to ALA treatment, resembling an acute attack of hepatic porphyria with neurological features.
The aim of the study was to evaluate the efficacy of olanzapine (5 and 20 mg/day) over a 6-month period in chronic schizophrenic patients experiencing predominantly negative symptoms.
Two hundred and forty-four patients participated in a 6-month multicenter double-blind trial of placebo (n = 34), olanzapine 5 mg/day (n = 70), olanzapine 20 mg/day (n = 70), or amisulpride 150 mg/day (n = 70). Primary measure was the scale for the assessment of negative symptoms.
Olanzapine 5 mg/day showed significantly greater improvement than placebo in negative symptoms and in the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale total score. Baseline positive symptoms were low at baseline and changed minimally. The neurological tolerance of olanzapine, amisulpride and placebo were comparable.
Olanzapine 5 mg/day was effective in treating negative symptoms in a group of schizophrenic with predominantly negative symptoms during the stabilization phase. Improvement in positive symptoms or extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) was unlikely to explain this result while improvement in depression may have partially contributed.
