To study whether desensitization occurs after long-term administration of the 1-adrenoceptor partial agonist xamoterol and, if so, whether this can be influenced by ketotifen.
In a double-blind, randomized design 10 young, healthy males received ketotifen (2 x 1 mg day(-1) p.o.) or placebo for 3 weeks with xamoterol (2 x 200 mg day(-1) p.o.) administered concomitantly during the last 2 weeks. 'l1-adrenoceptor mediated responses were assessed as exercise-induced tachycardia and isoprenaline-induced shortening of heart rate corrected electromechanical systole (QS2c); isoprenaline-induced tachycardia was measured as a mixed beta1-/beta2-adrenoceptor-mediated effect.
The first dose of xamoterol significantly increased resting heart rate and systolic blood pressure and significantly shortened QS2c. The last dose of xamoterol after 2 weeks of treatment still produced the same responses. Ketotifen did not influence these effects of xamoterol on resting haemodynamics. The first dose of xamoterol caused a rightward shift of the exercise- and isoprenaline-induced tachycardia (mean dose ratios+/-s.e.mean: 1.20+/-0.05 and 2.46+/-0.23) and the isoprenaline-evoked shortening of QS2c (dose ratio 3.59+/-0.68). This rightward shift was even more pronounced after 2 weeks xamoterol treatment. This additional rightward shift after 2 weeks of xamoterol was not affected by ketotifen (mean difference (95% CI) of log transformed dose ratios between placebo and ketotifen: exercise tachycardia 0.001 (-0.03; 0.04); isoprenaline tachycardia 0.03 (-0.15; 0.21); isoprenaline induced shortening of QS2c 0.13 (-0.22; 0.48)).
In humans xamoterol is a partial beta1-adrenoceptor agonist with positive chrono- and inotropic effects at rest and antagonistic properties under conditions of beta-adrenoceptor stimulation. These effects were well maintained after chronic dosing with no signs of beta1-adrenoceptor desensitization. Ketotifen does not change the beta-adrenoceptor mediated responses of xamoterol after chronic dosing.
To compare the prolactogenic effects of risperidone, clozapine, and typical antipsychotic agents in an outpatient community-based psychiatric population.
Prolactin and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) concentrations were measured in 68 outpatients with schizophrenia who were receiving antipsychotic medications and were recruited from a community mental health clinic.
The percentage of women with increased prolactin concentrations was significantly greater in the risperidone group (100%, 12 of 12 patients) than in the clozapine group (25%, 1 of 4) (P = 0.0071) but not in comparison with the typical antipsychotic agent group (83%, 5 of 6) (P = 0.333). The percentage of men with increased prolactin concentrations was significantly greater in the risperidone group (94%, 17 of 18) than in the clozapine group (18%, 3 of 17) (P<0.0001) and in comparison with the typical antipsychotic agent group (27%, 3 of 11) (P = 0.0003). The mean prolactin concentration (all ng/mL +/- standard deviation) was also significantly higher in patients taking risperidone (women, 125.0 +/- 56.6; men, 37.3 +/- 23.9) than clozapine (women, 22.0 +/- 25.9; men, 13.3 +/- 22.4) (female patients, P = 0.0004; male patients, P<0.0001) or typical antipsychotic agents (women, 69.0 +/- 59.8; men, 13. 3 +/- 9.1) (female patients, P = 0.036; male patients, P = 0.0003). In the risperidone group, gender affected prolactin level, with women having higher concentrations than men, but the duration of therapy did not. In this group, prolactin was inversely dependent on age. No difference was noted in TSH concentrations between medication groups.
Risperidone is a potent inducer of hyperprolactinemia in outpatients with schizophrenia in a community population. The higher and more frequently increased prolactin concentrations caused by risperidone could adversely affect patient health and compliance.
The purposes of this study were to evaluate efficacy and toxicity of the combination of carboplatin, gemcitabine, and capecitabine in patients with carcinoma of unknown primary site (CUP).
Patients with CUP received carboplatin AUC 5 mg/mL a minute intravenously Day 1, gemcitabine 1000 mg/m(2) intravenously Days 1 and 8, and capecitabine 1600 mg/m(2) orally in divided doses, Days 1-14 of a 21-day cycle for up to 8 cycles. The primary endpoint of the study was objective response rate by intent-to-treat analysis.
Thirty-three patients were treated (median age, 58 years; men:women ratio, 19:14). Most patients had a baseline performance status of 1. The objective response rate was 39.4% (95% CI, 22.9%-57.9%) in all patients, 36.4% in 22 patients with well to moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma, and 40.0% in 20 patients with liver metastases. Median progression-free survival time was 6.2 months (95% CI, 5.4%-8.0%), and median survival time was 7.6 months (95% CI, 6.3-14.1). One and 2-year survival rates were 35.6% and 14.2%, respectively. The most frequent grade > or =3 adverse events were neutropenia (67%), thrombocytopenia (48%), and anemia (33%).
The combination of carboplatin, gemcitabine, and capecitabine is active in CUP, especially in patients with liver metastases. This regimen may be a potential therapy for CUP patients with good performance status, particularly those with a suspected origin below the diaphragm.
Gefitinib, an orally active inhibitor of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase, combined with chemotherapy, has shown efficacy as second-line treatment for advanced colorectal cancer (CRC). Gefitinib combined with FOLFOX6 (oxaliplatin plus folinic acid and 5-fluorouracil) was tested as a first-line therapy.
Patients with metastatic EGFR-positive CRC received gefitinib at a dose of 250 mg/day combined with simplified FOLFOX6. Gefitinib was continued as maintenance treatment in nonprogressing patients. Responses were assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria and adverse events were assessed with the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI-CTC) scale.
A total of 56 patients were recruited. There were 26 men and 30 women, with a median age of 57.5 years. The Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status was as follows: 0 in 39 patients, 1 in 12 patients, and 2 in 5 patients. Thirty-nine patients (69.6%) had stage IV disease at diagnosis, 92.9% had liver involvement, and 46.4% had > or =2 metastatic sites. All patients were evaluated for safety, and 53 were evaluated for response: 40 patients (71.4%; 95% confidence interval [95% CI], 57.8%-82.6%) had complete or partial responses, and 11 patients (19.6%) had stable disease. Median time to progression was 7 months (range, 2.1-33.0 months; 95% CI, 6.2-9.0 months). Radical surgery or thermoablation of metastatic sites was performed in 14 patients (25%). NCI-CTC grade 3-4 events occurred in 36 patients (64.3%): diarrhea in 9 patients (16.1%), and hematologic toxicity in 13 patients (23.2%). Four patients (7.1%) were withdrawn for drug-related adverse events.
The regimen has shown promising efficacy with manageable toxicity as a first-line treatment for patients with advanced CRC.
The anticonvulsant effect of either phenobarbital or dilantin was potentiated by exogenous glycine in DBA/2 audiogenic seizure mice and in 3-mercaptopropionic acid-induced seizures. In seizures caused by pentylenetetrazol, glycine potentiated the anticonvulsant effect of phenobarbital only slightly; in combination with dilantin, which was ineffective by itself, it did not have an effect. Valproic acid, in large doses, prevented 3-mercaptopropionic acid-induced seizures; glycine did not potentiate its effect. Glycine thus potentiates anticonvulsant effects, but only of some drugs and only in some of the seizure models. This suggests that the mechanism of the anticonvulsant effect of glycine is similar to that of some of the anticonvulsant drugs such as dilantin and different from others, and that this mechanism is not effective in all seizure models.
Long-term amphetamine and methamphetamine dependence has been linked to cerebral blood perfusion, metabolic, and white matter abnormalities. Several studies have linked methamphetamine abuse to cortical grey matter reduction, though with divergent findings. Few publications investigate unmethylated amphetamine's potential effects on cortical grey matter. This work investigated if amphetamine dependent patients showed reduced cortical grey matter thickness. Subjects were 40 amphetamine dependent subjects and 40 healthy controls. While all subjects were recruited to be free of alcohol dependence, structured clinical interviews revealed significant patterns of alcohol use in the patients. Structural magnetic resonance brain images were obtained from the subjects using a 1.5 Tesla GE Signa machine. Brain cortical thickness was measured with submillimeter precision at multiple finely spaced cortical locations using semi-automated post-processing (FreeSurfer). Contrast analysis of a general linear model was used to test for differences between the two groups at each cortical location. In addition to contrasting patients with controls, a number of analyses sought to identify possible confounding effects from alcohol.
No significant cortical thickness differences were observed between the full patient group and controls, nor between non-drinking patients and controls. Patients with a history of co-morbid heavy alcohol use (n = 29) showed reductions in the superior-frontal right hemisphere and pre-central left hemisphere when compared to healthy controls (n = 40).
Amphetamine usage was associated with reduced cortical thickness only in patients co-morbid for heavy alcohol use. Since cortical thickness is but one measure of brain structure and does not capture brain function, further studies of brain structure and function in amphetamine dependence are warranted.
To assess the incidence, cofactors, and excess risk of development of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, including non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, attributable to tamoxifen in women.
Prospective, randomised, double blind, placebo controlled trial.
5408 healthy women who had had hysterectomies, recruited into the Italian tamoxifen chemoprevention trial from 58 centres in Italy.
Women were randomly assigned to receive tamoxifen (20 mg daily) or placebo for five years.
Development of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in all women with normal baseline liver function who showed at least two elevations of alanine aminotransferase (> or = 1.5 times upper limit of normal) over a six month period.
During follow up, 64 women met the predefined criteria: 12 tested positive for hepatitis C virus, and the remaining 52 were suspected of having developed non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (34 tamoxifen, 18 placebo)--hazard ratio = 2.0 (95% confidence interval 1.1 to 3.5; P = 0.04). In all 52 women ultrasonography confirmed the presence of fatty liver. Other factors associated with the development of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease included overweight (2.4, 1.2 to 4.8), obesity (3.6, 1.7 to 7.6), hypercholesterolaemia (3.4, 1.4 to 7.8), and arterial hypertension (2.0, 1.0 to 3.8). Twenty women had liver biopsies: 15 were diagnosed as having mild to moderate steatohepatitis (12 tamoxifen, 3 placebo), and five had fatty liver alone (1 tamoxifen, 4 placebo). No clinical, biochemical, ultrasonic, or histological signs suggestive of progression to cirrhosis were observed after a median follow up of 8.7 years.
Tamoxifen was associated with higher risk of development of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis only in overweight and obese women with features of metabolic syndrome, but the disease, in both the tamoxifen and the placebo group, after 10 years of follow up seems to be indolent.
Photodynamic therapy with topical 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA), followed by irradiation with red light (ALA-PDT), is used for non-melanoma skin cancer and other dermatological diseases. Pain during and after light exposure is a well-known adverse advent that may be a limiting factor for treatment, particularly, in viral warts.
To assess the pain induced by ALA-PDT, we asked 45 patients enrolled in a randomized, placebo-controlled trial with six consecutive ALA- and placebo-PDT treatments for recalcitrant foot and hand warts to fill in questionnaires about pain immediately and 24 h after each treatment.
Immediately and 24 h after each of the six treatments, pain intensity was significantly higher in warts treated with ALA-PDT than in warts treated with placebo-PDT (P<0.028). Severe or unbearable pain was reported from a median of 17% (6-31%) of the ALA -treated warts and from a median of 2% (0-15%) from the placebo-treated warts immediately after the treatments. With increasing treatments, no significant change in pain intensity was observed and no significant relation was found between the pain intensity and the relative change in wart area. The pain was primarily characterized as burning and shooting. The pain lasted about 30 h (range: 1-96 h).
We conclude that pain induced by ALA-PDT is of such intensity in about one-fifth of the warts that pain relief is indicated.
Pellagra is a potentially fatal, nutritional disease with cutaneous, gastrointestinal, and neuropsychiatric manifestations. Because of the diversity of pellagra's signs and symptoms, diagnosis is difficult without an appropriate index of suspicion. A case of pellagra in a 14-year-old girl with anorexia nervosa is presented. Signs and symptoms of pellagra were resolved after niacin therapy and dietary treatment.
Uterine leiomyomas are the most common uterine tumors in women. Estrogen receptor-alpha (ER-alpha) is more highly expressed in uterine leiomyomas than in normal myometrium, suggesting a link between uterine leiomyomas and ER-alpha expression. DNA methylation is an epigenetic mechanism of gene regulation and plays important roles in normal embryonic development and in disease progression including cancers. Here, we investigated the DNA methylation status of the ER-alpha promoter region (-1188 to +229 bp) in myometrium and leiomyoma. By sodium bisulfite sequencing, 49 CpG sites in the proximal promoter region of ER-alpha gene were shown to be unmethylated in both leiomyoma and normal myometrium. At seven CpG sites in the distal promoter region of the ER-alpha gene, there was a variation in DNA methylation status in myometrium and leiomyoma. Further analysis of the DNA methylation status by bisulfite restriction mapping among 11 paired samples of myometrium and leiomyoma indicated that CpG sites in the distal region of ER-alpha promoter are hypomethylated in leiomyomas of nine patients. In those patients, ER-alpha mRNA levels tended to be higher in the leiomyoma than in the myometrium. In conclusion, there was an aberrant DNA methylation status in the promoter region of ER-alpha gene in uterine leiomyoma, which may be associated with high ER-alpha mRNA expression.
Continuous exposure to various environmental carcinogens and genetic polymorphisms of xenobiotic-metabolizing enzymes (XME) are associated with many types of human cancers, including esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). Huaian, China, is one of the endemic regions of ESCC, but fewer studies have been done in characterizing the risk factors of ESCC in this area. The aims of this study is to evaluate the etiological roles of demographic parameters, environmental and food-borne carcinogens exposure, and XME polymorphisms in formation of ESCC, and to investigate possible gene-gene and gene-environment interactions associated with ESCC in Huaian, China.
A population based case-control study was conducted in 107 ESCC newly diagnosed cases and 107 residency- age-, and sex-matched controls in 5 townships of Huaian. In addition to regular epidemiological and food frequency questionnaire analyses, genetic polymorphisms of phase I enzymes CYP1A1, CYP1B1, CYP2A6, and CYP2E1, and phase II enzymes GSTM1, GSTT1, GSTP1, and microsomal epoxide hydrolase (EPHX) were assessed from genomic DNA using PCR based techniques.
Consuming acrid food, fatty meat, moldy food, salted and pickled vegetables, eating fast, introverted personality, passive smoking, a family history of cancer, esophageal lesion, and infection with Helicobacter pylori were significant risk factors for ESCC (P < 0.05). Regular clean up of food storage utensils, green tea consumption, and alcohol abstinence were protective factors for ESCC (P < 0.01). The frequency of the GSTT1 null genotype was higher in cases (59.4%) compared to controls (47.2%) with an odds ratio (OR) of 1.68 and 95% confidence interval (CI) from 0.96 to 2.97 (P = 0.07), especially in males (OR = 2.78; 95% CI = 1.22-6.25; P = 0.01). No associations were found between polymorphisms of CYP1A1, CYP1B1, CYP2A6, CYP2E1, GSTM1, GSTP1, and EPHX and ESCC (P > 0.05).
Our results demonstrated that dietary and environmental exposures, some demographic parameters and genetic polymorphism of GSTT1 may play important roles in the development of ESCC in Huaian area, China.
We studied the effects of naftidrofuryl oxalate on scopolamine- and basal forebrain (BF) lesion-induced amnesia using passive avoidance and multiple T-maze tasks, in comparison with Ca-hopantenate and physostigmine in rats. In the passive avoidance task, one-week treatment with naftidrofuryl oxalate (12.5 and 25 mg/kg, IP) ameliorated BF lesion-induced amnesia. The multiple T-maze task was done with two training sessions per day for five continuous days. We measured the number of errors made from start box to goal box. Naftidrofuryl oxalate (12.5 mg/kg, IP, b.i.d.) and physostigmine (0.1 mg/kg, IP, b.i.d.) attenuated scopolamine- and BF lesion-induced amnesia. However, treatment with naftidrofuryl oxalate for one week failed to inhibit the decrease of the choline acetyltransferase induced by the BF lesion. Ca-hopantenate did not show attenuation of amnesia induced by the scopolamine or BF lesion. These results suggest that naftidrofuryl oxalate enhances the storage of spatial information, and that the nootropic effects of naftidrofuryl oxalate may be produced by an indirect activation of the cholinergic system through serotonergic neuronal systems.
To analyze the expression of excision repair cross-complementation group 1 (ERCC1) protein in predicting the clinical outcome of nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC).
The histologic specimens of 258 patients with Stage III to IVB nonkeratinizing NPC who were treated with radiotherapy alone (Group I) or concurrent-adjuvant chemoradiotherapy (Group II) were retrieved. Immunostaining on ERCC1 protein was performed. The relationship of ERCC1 expression and clinical outcomes was analyzed.
The median ERCC1 score (proportion score of positively stained cells times intensity) was 200 (range, 0-300), and ERCC1 expression was defined as high if the score was above the median. In Group I high-score tumor had a statistically lower locoregional failure-free rate (LRFFR) compared with low-score tumor (p < 0.05) but not distant failure-free rate (DFFR) and overall survival (OS). In Group II no statistically differences were noted in LRFFR, DFFR and OS with regard to the ERCC1 expression. Resistance to cisplatin-containing chemotherapy in high-ERCC1 score tumor was not observed in Group II. Interestingly, low-score tumor in Group I achieved similar local and distant control compared with Group II. Multivariate analysis showed that ERCC1 score was an independent prognostic factor in LRFFR (p < 0.05) and approached statistical significance in failure-free survival (p = 0.08) and OS (p = 0.07). Tumor with high ERCC1 score had a 2-fold (95% confidence interval, 1.02-3.85) increased risk of locoregional failure. This may imply an association of ERCC1 expression with the repair of radiation damage.
High ERCC1 expression predicts poor locoregional control in NPC. Chemotherapy response is not affected by ERCC1 expression. Further validation is required.
Ambient exposure from residential proximity to applications of agricultural pesticides may contribute to the risk of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Using residential histories collected from the families of 213 ALL cases and 268 matched controls enrolled in the Northern California Childhood Leukemia Study, the authors assessed residential proximity within a half-mile (804.5m) of pesticide applications by linking address histories with reports of agricultural pesticide use. Proximity was ascertained during different time windows of exposure, including the first year of life and the child's lifetime through the date of diagnosis for cases or reference for controls. Agricultural pesticides were categorized a priori into groups based on similarities in toxicological effects, physicochemical properties, and target pests or uses. The effects of moderate and high exposure for each group of pesticides were estimated using conditional logistic regression. Elevated ALL risk was associated with lifetime moderate exposure, but not high exposure, to certain physicochemical categories of pesticides, including organophosphates, chlorinated phenols, and triazines, and with pesticides classified as insecticides or fumigants. A similar pattern was also observed for several toxicological groups of pesticides. These findings suggest future directions for the identification of specific pesticides that may play a role in the etiology of childhood leukemia.
Olive (Olea europaea) leaves are used as anti-rheumatic, anti-inflammatory, antinociceptive, antipyretic, vasodilatory, hypotensive, antidiuretic and hypoglycemic agents in traditional medicine. Recently, it has been shown that olive leaf extract (OLE) has calcium channel blocker property; however, its influences on nociceptive threshold and morphine effects have not yet been clarified.
All experiments were carried out on male Wistar rats. The tail-flick, hot-plate and formalin tests were used to assess the effect of OLE on nociceptive threshold. To determine the effect of OLE on analgesic and hyperalgesic effects of morphine, OLE (6, 12 and 25 mg/kg i.p.) that had no significant nociceptive effect, was injected concomitant with morphine (5 mg/kg and 1 μg/kg i.p., respectively). The tail-flick test was used to assess the effect of OLE on anti- and pro-nociceptive effects of morphine.
The data showed that OLE (50-200 mg/kg i.p.) could produce dose-dependent analgesic effect on tail-flick and hot-plate tests. Administration of 200 mg/kg OLE (i.p.) caused significant decrease in pain responses in the first and the second phases of formalin test. In addition, OLE could potentiate the antinociceptive effect of 5 mg/kg morphine and block low-dose morphine-induced hyperalgesia.
Our results indicate that olive leaf extract has analgesic property in several models of pain and useful influence on morphine analgesia in rats. Therefore, it can be used for the treatment and/or management of painful conditions.
We report a case of ergotism due to the interaction of erythromycin with a small dose of ergotamine tartrate (2 mg). Besides severe peripheral vasospasm with dysaesthesiae there was transient renal ischaemia. Recovery occurred after several weeks without sodium nitroprusside therapy. Cases previously reported in the literature are reviewed.
MAMLD1 is known to be a causative gene for hypospadias. Although previous studies have indicated that MAMLD1 mutations result in hypospadias primarily because of compromised testosterone production around the critical period for fetal sex development, the underlying mechanism(s) remains to be clarified. Furthermore, although functional studies have indicated a transactivation function of MAMLD1 for the non-canonical Notch target Hes3, its relevance to testosterone production remains unknown. To examine these matters, we performed Mamld1 knockdown experiments.
Mamld1 knockdown was performed with two siRNAs, using mouse Leydig tumor cells (MLTCs). Mamld1 knockdown did not influence the concentrations of pregnenolone and progesterone but significantly reduced those of 17-OH pregnenolone, 17-OH progesterone, dehydroepiandrosterone, androstenedione, and testosterone in the culture media. Furthermore, Mamld1 knockdown significantly decreased Cyp17a1 expression, but did not affect expressions of other genes involved in testosterone biosynthesis as well as in insulin-like 3 production. Hes3 expression was not significantly altered. In addition, while 47 genes were significantly up-regulated (fold change >2.0×) and 38 genes were significantly down-regulated (fold change <0.5×), none of them was known to be involved in testosterone production. Cell proliferation analysis revealed no evidence for compromised proliferation of siRNA-transfected MLTCs.
The results, in conjunction with the previous data, imply that Mamld1 enhances Cyp17a1 expression primarily in Leydig cells and permit to produce a sufficient amount of testosterone for male sex development, independently of the Hes3-related non-canonical Notch signaling.
Arsenic, in the form of As(2)O(3), has gained therapeutic importance because it has been shown to be very effective clinically in the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). Via numerous pathways arsenic induces cellular alterations such as induction of apoptosis, inhibition of cellular proliferation, stimulation of differentiation, and inhibition of angiogenesis. Responses vary depending on cell type, dose and the form of arsenic. GSTO1, a member of the glutathione S-transferase superfamily omega, has recently been shown to be identical to the rate-limiting enzyme, monomethyl arsenous (MMA(V)) reductase which catalyzes methylarsonate (MMA(V)) to methylarsenous acid (MMA(III)) during arsenic biotransformation. In this study, we investigated whether arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) induces apoptosis in both chemosensitive and chemoresistant cell lines that varied in their expression of p28 (gsto1), the mouse homolog of GSTO1.
The cytotoxicity of arsenic in the gsto1- and bcl-2-expressing chemoresistant and radioresistant LY-ar mouse lymphoma cell line, was compared with that of the LY-ar's parental cell line, LY-as. LY-as cells are radiosensitive, apoptotically permissive, and do not express gsto1 or bcl-2. Cell survival, glutathione (GSH) levels, mitochondrial membrane potential, and stress-activated kinase status after arsenic treatment were examined in these cell lines.
As(2)O(3) induced an equivalent dose- and time-dependent increase in apoptosis in these cell lines. Cellular survival, as measured after a 24-h exposure, was also the same in each cell line. Reduced GSH was modulated in a similar time- and dose-dependent manner. Apoptosis was preceded by loss of mitochondrial membrane potential that triggered caspase-mediated pathways associated with apoptosis. With a prolonged exposure of As(2)O(3), both cell lines showed decreased activation of ERK family members, ERK1, ERK2 and ERK5. As(2)O(3) enhanced the death signals in LY-ar cells through a decrease in GSH, loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, and abatement of survival signals. This effect is similar to that seen when LY-ar cells are treated with thiol-depleting agents or by the removal of methionine and cysteine (GSH precursor) from the growth medium. This response is also completely contrary to that seen for radiation, actinomycin D, VP-16 and other agents, where LY-ar cells do not succumb to apoptosis.
The overexpression of gsto1 in normally chemoresistant and radioresistant LY-ar cells renders them vulnerable to the cytotoxic effects of As(2)O(3), despite the 30-fold overexpression of the survival factor bcl-2. Gsto1 and its human homolog, GSTO1, may serve as a marker for arsenic sensitivity, particularly in cells that are resistant to other chemotherapeutic agents.
The effects of fluoxetine on automated measures of electrooculographic (EOG) and electromyographic (EMG) activity were evaluated in 41 patients with nonpsychotic, major depressive disorder. Sleep EEG evaluations were conducted at baseline, while patients were symptomatic and unmedicated, and following four to five weeks of treatment with fluoxetine (20 mg). The number of eye movements (> 75 microV) and the amplitude of EOG and EMG activity increased significantly on treatment in REM, stages 1, 2, and slow-wave sleep. All patients showed EOG and EMG abnormalities in at least one stage of sleep. Thirty-four percent of patients showed increased EOG and EMG activity on treatment in every sleep stage. It is suggested that fluoxetine-induced oculomotor abnormalities are likely to be the result of increased availability of serotonin and secondary dopaminergic effects.
Amiodarone is an antiarrhythmic agent very often used in clinical practice in spite of its large array of adverse effects. We report one patient case with acute hepatitis following intravenous amiodarone treatment and its possible etiology. Our conclusion is the importance of a strict control of parameters in the hepatic functions in patients who require amiodarone therapy.
Disorders of taste and smell are underrecognized and often misdiagnosed. Two cases are described in which patients mistakenly thought to suffer from depression actually had unnoticed drug-induced dysosmia and dysgeusia. Also reviewed are psychiatric, neurologic, and medical disorders and drugs that cause abnormalities of taste and smell, and some behavioral aspects of food aversions. Three groups, all of whom may superficially appear depressed, must be distinguished from each other: 1) patients with dysosmia or dysgeusia, 2) patients with primary neuropsychiatric illness with olfactory or gustatory hallucinations, and 3) patients with conditioned taste aversions.
Sister chromatid exchanges (SCEs) and chromosomal aberrations induced by curcumin (a natural dye) and tartrazine (a synthetic dye) were studied on bone marrow cells of mice and rats following acute and chronic exposure via the diet. Except for two low concentrations in the curcumin and one low concentration in the tartrazine treated series a significant increase in SCEs was observed in all the concentrations of the two dyes tested. Except for two high concentrations during the 9 months treatment no significant increase in chromosomal aberrations was observed in the curcumin treated series, whereas tartrazine showed a significant increase in chromosomal aberrations in some of the higher concentrations in all the series tested. The results indicate that tartrazine is more clastogenic than curcumin.
A 31-year-old man with chronic myelogenous leukemia in a chronic phase complicated with reversible ischemic cerebrovascular disease is described. Before therapy, the WBC count was 530.0 x 10(9)/l. Four days after initiation of busulfan, he rapidly developed disturbance of consciousness and right hemiplegia. Computerized tomography demonstrated the presence of multiple low density areas in the cerebrum. The symptoms were, however, completely relieved in accordance with the decrease in the WBC counts in 8 days. Repeated CT studies showed no abnormal findings after one month. The intracranial change was considered to be one of the manifestations of hyperleukocytic syndrome.
This observational study was designed to examine the pattern of sumatriptan use in patients with cluster headache using more than the recommended daily dose of subcutaneously injected (s.c.) sumatriptan. Thirteen patients suffering from episodic cluster headache were asked to record the characteristics of their attacks and drug intake for 1 year. All reported a high daily frequency of attacks (more than 3 per day) and the related overuse of s.c. sumatriptan. The results show that the overall incidence of adverse events among patients receiving sumatriptan injections for the treatment of cluster headache is low. The extended administration of this drug in episodic cluster headache did not result in tolerance problems or tachyphylaxis. Only 4 patients experienced minor adverse events and recovered more slowly than the others. They suffered from migraine without aura and cluster headache, and showed a family history of migraine. Even though they must be viewed with caution, due to the observational nature of the study and the low number of patients included, these results suggest that the profile of sumatriptan may differ in cluster headache compared with migraine.
