Necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) is a devastating disease of premature infants characterized by severe intestinal necrosis and for which breast milk represents the most effective protective strategy. Previous studies have revealed a critical role for the lipopolysaccharide receptor toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) in NEC development through its induction of mucosal injury, yet the reasons for which intestinal ischemia in NEC occurs in the first place remain unknown. We hypothesize that TLR4 signaling within the endothelium plays an essential role in NEC development by regulating perfusion to the small intestine via the vasodilatory molecule endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS). Using a unique mouse system in which we selectively deleted TLR4 from the endothelium, we now show that endothelial TLR4 activation is required for NEC development and that endothelial TLR4 activation impairs intestinal perfusion without effects on other organs and reduces eNOS expression via activation of myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88. NEC severity was significantly increased in eNOS(-/-) mice and decreased upon administration of the phosphodiesterase inhibitor sildenafil, which augments eNOS function. Strikingly, compared with formula, human and mouse breast milk were enriched in sodium nitrate--a precursor for enteral generation of nitrite and nitric oxide--and repletion of formula with sodium nitrate/nitrite restored intestinal perfusion, reversed the deleterious effects of endothelial TLR4 signaling, and reduced NEC severity. These data identify that endothelial TLR4 critically regulates intestinal perfusion leading to NEC and reveal that the protective properties of breast milk involve enhanced intestinal microcirculatory integrity via augmentation of nitrate-nitrite-NO signaling.
This randomized multicenter phase III trial evaluated the role of maintenance therapy with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD) after induction chemotherapy in patients with metastatic breast cancer (MBC). Patients without disease progression following first-line induction chemotherapy consisting of three cycles of doxorubicin (75 mg/m(2)) followed by three cycles of docetaxel (100 mg/m(2)) both every 21 days, were randomized to PLD (40 mg/m(2)) every 28 days for six cycles or to observation. Time to progression (TTP) was the primary endpoint. 288 patients were enrolled and received induction first-line chemotherapy. One hundred and fifty-five achieved response or stable disease and were randomized to maintenance PLD (n = 78) or observation (n = 77). With a median follow-up of 20 months from randomization (range 1-56), disease progression occurred in 94% of patients. PLD significantly improved TTP by 3.3 months (8.4 vs. 5.1 months; hazard ratio [HR] = 0.54, 95% CI: 0.39 to 0.76, P = 0.0002) compared with observation. Overall survival was not significantly prolonged with PLD (24.8 vs. 22.0 months, respectively; HR = 0.86, 95% CI: 0.58-1.27, P = 0.44). PLD-induced toxicity was mild and manageable with up to 5% of patients experiencing grade 3/4 non-hematologic events (fatigue, mucositis, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia). Grade 3/4 neutropenia occurred in 12% of patients; two patients developed febrile neutropenia. This phase III trial demonstrated that maintenance chemotherapy with PLD is well tolerated and offers improved TTP in patients with MBC following first-line chemotherapy.
This report deals with the effect of substance P (SP) and capsaicin on blood pressure and heart rate after administration into different sites of the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) of urethane-anesthetized rats. Microinjection of SP at 6 different coordinates throughout the NTS showed 3 sites where SP administration evoked changes in blood pressure and heart rate. The most sensitive sites where application of SP into the NTS evoked dose-dependent hypotension and bradycardia were at the level of the posterior tip of the area postrema (zero level) and at the level of the obex. Capsaicin evoked dose-dependent hypotension and bradycardia at the same sites. These results further support the possibility that SP may be a neurotransmitter or neuromodulator of baroreceptor afferents in the NTS.
Long-term daily aspirin is of benefit in the years after ischemic stroke, and 2 large randomized trials (the Chinese Acute Stroke Trial [CAST] and the International Stroke Trial [IST]), with 20 000 patients in each, have shown that starting daily aspirin promptly in patients with suspected acute ischemic stroke also reduces the immediate risk of further stroke or death in hospital and the overall risk of death or dependency. However, some uncertainty remains about the effects of early aspirin in particular categories of patient with acute stroke.
To assess the balance of benefits and risks of aspirin in particular categories of patient with acute stroke (eg, the elderly, those without a CT scan, or those with atrial fibrillation), a prospectively planned meta-analysis is presented of the data from 40 000 individual patients from both trials on events that occurred in the hospital during the scheduled treatment period (4 weeks in CAST, 2 weeks in IST), with 10 characteristics used to define 28 subgroups. This represents 99% of the worldwide evidence from randomized trials.
There was a highly significant reduction of 7 per 1000 (SD 1) in recurrent ischemic stroke (320 [1.6%] aspirin versus 457 [2. 3%] control, 2P<0.000001) and a less clearly significant reduction of 4 (SD 2) per 1000 in death without further stroke (5.0% versus 5. 4%, 2P=0.05). Against these benefits, there was an increase of 2 (SD 1) per 1000 in hemorrhagic stroke or hemorrhagic transformation of the original infarct (1.0% versus 0.8%, 2P=0.07) and no apparent effect on further stroke of unknown cause (0.9% versus 0.9%). In total, therefore, there was a net decrease of 9 (SD 3) per 1000 in the overall risk of further stroke or death in hospital (8.2% versus 9.1%, 2P=0.001). For the reduction of one third in recurrent ischemic stroke, subgroup-specific analyses found no significant heterogeneity of the proportional benefit of aspirin (chi(2)(18)=20. 9, NS), even though the overall treatment effect (chi(2)(1)=24.8, 2P<0.000001) was sufficiently large for such subgroup analyses to be statistically informative. The absolute risk among control patients was similar in all 28 subgroups, so the absolute reduction of approximately 7 per 1000 in recurrent ischemic stroke does not differ substantially with respect to age, sex, level of consciousness, atrial fibrillation, CT findings, blood pressure, stroke subtype, or concomitant heparin use. There was no good evidence that the apparent decrease of approximately 4 per 1000 in death without further stroke was reversed in any subgroup or that in any subgroup the increase in hemorrhagic stroke was much larger than the overall average of approximately 2 per 1000. Finally, there was no significant heterogeneity between the reductions in the composite outcome of any further stroke or death (chi(2)(18)=16.5, NS). Among the 9000 patients (22%) randomized without a prior CT scan, aspirin appeared to be of net benefit with no unusual excess of hemorrhagic stroke; moreover, even among the 800 (2%) who had inadvertently been randomized after a hemorrhagic stroke, there was no evidence of net hazard (further stroke or death, 63 aspirin versus 67 control).
Early aspirin is of benefit for a wide range of patients, and its prompt use should be routinely considered for all patients with suspected acute ischemic stroke, mainly to reduce the risk of early recurrence.
We investigated whether the occurrence of veno-occlusive disease of the liver (VOD) may be associated with individual variations in the pharmacokinetics of high-dose cyclophosphamide. Patients received single or multiple courses of cyclophosphamide (1000 or 1500 mg m-2 day-1), thiotepa (80 or 120 mg m-2 day-1) and carboplatin (265-400 mg m-2 day-1) (CTC) for 4 consecutive days. The area under the plasma concentration-time curves (AUCs) were calculated for cyclophosphamide and its activated metabolites 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide and phosphoramide mustard based on multiple blood samples. Possible relationships between the AUCs and the occurrence of VOD were studied. A total of 59 patients (115 courses) were included. Four patients experienced VOD after a second CTC course. The first-course AUC of 4-hydroxycyclophosphamide (P=0.003) but not of phosphoramide mustard (P=0.101) appeared to be predictive of the occurrence of VOD after multiple courses. High exposures to bioactivated cyclophosphamide may lead to increased organ toxicity.
Numerous reports have linked atypical antipsychotics, especially clozapine and olanzapine, to the development of cardiovascular risk factors. In this retrospective chart review study, we investigated the blood pressure changes in Korean schizophrenic inpatients treated with clozapine or olanzapine.
We reviewed the medical record of schizophrenic patients treated with clozapine or olanzapine for 8 weeks. A total of 167 patients were included in the study; 70 patients in clozapine group and 97 patients in olanzapine group. Systolic and diastolic blood pressures prior to medication and at post-treatment (8-week) were assessed, and changes in blood pressure were analyzed. The prevalence of hypertension at the time of study period was assessed and compared between the two groups.
There was a significant difference in hypertension prevalence in comparisons between the clozapine and olanzapine group. The systolic and diastolic blood pressures in the clozapine group were significantly increased after treatment, but systolic and diastolic blood pressures in olanzapine group did not change significantly.
Our findings suggest that clozapine treatment may be associated with increased blood pressure and higher prevalence of hypertension, which may have a significant impact on medical morbidity and mortality.
The success of chemotherapeutic intervention is limited because the necessary high local drug doses cannot be achieved without systemic toxicity. Application of suicide genes (SGs) and direct conversion of prodrugs (PDs) to toxic metabolites in situ by SGs may enhance the efficacy of chemotherapy. To evaluate this strategy in two murine breast cancer models, TS/A and GR, we injected cellulose sulfate capsules harboring cat kidney cells expressing the SGs cytosine deaminase and cytochrome P450 2B1 (CYP2B1) intratumorally. The PDs 5-fluorocytosine and ifosfamide were administered in 3-day intervals. The effect of in situ chemotherapy with each PD alone and the combination was analyzed over a period of 100 days. The results reveal that for TS/A tumors, the antitumoral effect mediated by CYP2B1 is more efficient than that of cytosine deaminase, whereas for GR tumors, both systems worked equally well. Furthermore, we find additive toxicity using both SG/PD systems for both TS/A and GR tumors.
5-Fluorouracil (5FU) cardiotoxicity is thought to be an infrequent toxic effect, usually related to coronary vasospasm. Among 198 patients (pts) receiving 5FU as a continuous infusion (CI) over 96 or 120 h, at a daily dose of 1,000 mg/m2, 13 new cases of 5FU--cardiotoxicity are reported. In all cases but 1, cardiovascular symptoms occurred at the first 5FU-CI course, with mean time of onset of 3 d. Chest pain was the prominent inaugural symptom with angor pectoris (6 pts) and pericarditis (3 pts). Five pts developed cardiogenic shock, which was irreversible in 3 cases. The severity of such an evolution requires prompt 5FU discontinuation, if symptoms occur, and careful hemodynamic supervision during 5FU therapy. One patient experienced typical myocardial infarction, another one epicardo myocardiopathic process with adiastolia. Disorders of repolarisation on electrocardiographic tracing were the prominent abnormalities, associated with a significant increase of QT segment in 3 cases. Re-introduction of 5FU-CI resulted in chest pain recurrence in 2 out of 4 pts, despite calcium antagonist "prevention". In our retrospective study, the incidence of 5FU-CI cardiotoxicity is 6.5%, which is consistent with recent reports (10%). Whether 5FU-induced cardiotoxicity mechanism is related to vasospastic or direct effect remains unclear. However, our series suggests a 5FU-induced post ischaemic myocardial dysfunction as described in the "stunned myocardium" syndrome.
The study examined the effects of galangin (GA) on oxidative stress, inflammatory cytokine levels and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) activation in fructose-fed rat liver. Adult male albino Wistar rats were divided into 4 groups. Groups 1 and 4 received the control diet containing starch as the source of carbohydrate while groups 2 and 3 were fed a diet containing fructose. Groups 3 and 4 additionally received GA (100μg/kg, p.o) from the 15th day. At the end of 60 days, the levels of plasma glucose, insulin and triglycerides, insulin sensitivity indices and oxidative stress markers in the liver were determined. Cytokines of interest were assayed by ELISA and RT-PCR and NF-κB p65 nuclear translocation by Western blot and RT-PCR. Compared to control diet-fed animals, fructose-fed animals developed hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia, hypertriglyceridemia and insulin resistance (IR) (all p<0.01). GA prevented the rise in plasma glucose, insulin and triglycerides and improved insulin sensitivity. Tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) levels in plasma and the mRNA and protein levels of TNF-α and transforming growth factor-β1(TGF-β(1)) in liver were significantly higher in fructose-fed rats than control rats. However, treatment with GA downregulated the expression of these cytokines. Translocation of NF-κB into the nucleus was also increased in fructose diet-fed animals, which was prevented by GA. These results suggest that GA prevents oxidative damage and has a downregulatory effect on the inflammatory pathway in liver of fructose-fed rats.
The aim of the present study was to determine effects of methamphetamine (MA) exposure and cross-fostering on thermal nociceptive thresholds in different estrous phases in adult female rats. Rat mothers were exposed daily to injection of MA (5 mg/kg) or saline for 9 weeks: prior to impregnation, throughout gestation and lactation periods. Dams without any injections were used as an absolute control. On postnatal day 1, pups were cross-fostered so that each mother raised four pups of her own and eight pups from the mothers with the other two treatments. Offspring females were tested in adulthood (85-90 days) for thermal nociception as latency [s] of withdrawal reaction of forelimbs, hind limbs, and tail. Our results showed that prenatal MA exposure did not affect the nociception in adulthood, while postnatal MA exposure (i.e., MA administration to lactating mothers) had pro-nociceptive effects. The effect of postnatal MA exposure was apparent in both, fore- and hind limbs, while the latency to tail withdrawal reaction was the same among the groups. In addition, the pro-nociceptive effect of postnatal MA exposure did not depend on estrous cycle. This study indicates that postnatal but not prenatal exposure to MA affects nociception in adult female rats. However, it is still not clear whether the pro-nociceptive effect of postnatal MA exposure is linked to direct action of MA on neuronal organization, or to indirect action of MA mediated by impaired maternal care.
Over 100 mutations in the gene encoding human copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1) cause an inherited form of the fatal neurodegenerative disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Two pathogenic SOD1 mutations, His46Arg (H46R) and His48Gln (H48Q), affect residues that act as copper ligands in the wild type enzyme. Transgenic mice expressing a human SOD1 variant containing both mutations develop paralytic disease akin to ALS. Here we show that H46R/H48Q SOD1 possesses multiple characteristics that distinguish it from the wild type. These properties include the following: (1) an ablated copper-binding site, (2) a substantially weakened affinity for zinc, (3) a binding site for a calcium ion, (4) the ability to form stable heterocomplexes with the copper chaperone for SOD1 (CCS), and (5) compromised CCS-mediated oxidation of the intrasubunit disulfide bond in vivo. The results presented here, together with data on pathogenic SOD1 proteins coming from cell culture and transgenic mice, suggest that incomplete posttranslational modification of nascent SOD1 polypeptides via CCS may be a characteristic shared by familial ALS SOD1 mutants, leading to a population of destabilized, off-pathway folding intermediates that are toxic to motor neurons.
We investigated whether administration of full-dose ABVD (Adriamycin, bleomycin, vinblastine, dacarbazine) chemotherapy without growth factors, and irrespective of the granulocyte count, caused treatment delays or increased the number of infective episodes, in patients with Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL).
Thirty-eight patients with confirmed predominantly early-stage HL were treated with ABVD outside clinical trial protocols over a 5-year period on an outpatient basis.
Ninety-five per cent of patients completed their scheduled ABVD regimen without adverse effects despite the development of neutropenia. Anaemia and thrombocytopenia did not present problems. Febrile neutropenia complicated 0.57% of combination chemotherapy injections. No growth factors were used and no dose modifications were carried out apart from the omission of bleomycin in one patient for the last two cycles of treatment due to the development of lung toxicity. All patients are currently disease-free, although three (7.8%) required salvage high-dose therapy (one relapsed and two with refractory disease).
ABVD administration irrespective of granulocyte counts allowed the treatment to be given at full dose without delays or significant number of infective episodes. There was no need for growth factor support, minimising treatment costs. The use of full-dose ABVD irrespective of granulocyte count should be evaluated in future protocols for HL.
DNA-damaging agents such as cisplatin arrest cell cycle progression at either the G1, S, or G2 phase, although the G1 arrest is seen only in cells expressing the wild-type p53 tumor suppressor protein. Caffeine has been shown to abrogate the S and G2 arrest in p53-defective cells and to enhance cytotoxicity, but at concentrations too toxic to administer to humans. We have reported that 7-hydroxystaurosporine (UCN-01) also overcomes S and G2 phase arrest and enhances the cytotoxicity of cisplatin. We show here that UCN-01 at non-cytotoxic concentrations abrogated S and G2 arrest induced by cisplatin in two p53-defective human breast cancer cell lines. UCN-01 pushed the cells through S phase and mitosis, with subsequent apoptosis. Inhibition of mitosis with nocodazole reduced the apoptosis induced by UCN-01 plus cisplatin. Seven staurosporine analogs were compared for their ability to abrogate cell cycle arrest. Staurosporine was as effective as UCN-01 at abrogating S and G2 arrest, but the concentrations required were cytotoxic. K252a abrogated S phase arrest but failed to abrogate G2 arrest because alone it induced G2 arrest. Hence, K252a did not enhance cisplatin-induced cytotoxicity because it failed to push the cells through a lethal mitosis. None of the other analogs influenced cell cycle progression at the concentrations tested. Accordingly, UCN-01 was the only analog that overcame cell cycle arrest and enhanced the cytotoxicity of cisplatin while exhibiting no cytotoxicity of its own. Hence, UCN-01 remains the most promising candidate for testing clinically in combination with cisplatin.
To understand the retinal changes in Alzheimer disease (AD) patients, pathological and immunocytochemical studies were performed on retinal cells in the chloroquine-treated rats at 0, 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, and 24 weeks after the initial injection, using anti-amyloid precursor protein (APP), -amyloid beta protein (A beta), -apolipoprotein E (apoE), -ubiquitin, and -cathepsin D antibodies. Pathological alterations consistent with chloroquine retinopathy were recognized in the ganglion cells of the ganglion cell layer (GCL) and the inner plexiform layer (IPL) 4 weeks after initial chloroquine injection. Rat retinal changes appear to have a direct relationship to the duration of chloroquine administration. Intense immunoreactivities for anti-APP, A beta, apoE (an associated protein), and ubiquitin co-localized in the swollen ganglion cells and Muller cells by 20-24 weeks together with the lysosomal enzyme cathepsin D. The present data indicate that the endosomal/lysosomal pathway plays an important role in the processing of APP in rat retina. This experimental model is considered to be a suitable neural model to understand retinal pathology and the processing of APP in terms of the pathogenesis of AD, whereas chloroquine-induced myopathy is a useful extra neuronal model.
We reviewed 130 admissions of organophosphate poisoning and analyzed the causes of death. Fenitrothion, malathion, dichlorvos, trichlorfon and fenitrothion/malathion were the most frequent chemicals involved. Mortality was 25% (32/130); delay in discovery and transport (18 cases), insufficient respiratory management (8 cases), and severe underlying or co-existing diseases (6 cases) were noted in the lethalities. Insufficient respiratory management consisted of delay in endotracheal intubation (5 cases) and failure in weaning (3 cases). About 3/4 of the severely serum cholinesterase-depressed cases needed ventilators. This suggests that better respiratory management would improve the outcome of organophosphate poisonings. Close observation of the clinical symptoms is essential, and detection of changes in serum cholinesterase may be helpful.
Diquat toxicity causes iron-mediated oxidative stress; however, it remains unclear how diquat affects iron metabolism. Here, we examined the effect of diquat-induced oxidative stress on iron metabolism in male Fischer-344 rats, with particular focus on gene expression. Hepatic nonheme iron content was unchanged until 20 h after diquat treatment. Hepatic free iron levels increased markedly in the early stages following treatment and remained elevated for at least 6 h, resulting in severe hepatotoxicity, until returning to control levels at 20 h. The level of hepatic ferritin, especially the H-subunit, increased 20 h after diquat treatment due to elevated hepatic ferritin-H mRNA expression. These results indicate that early elevated levels of free iron in the liver of diquat-treated rats cause hepatotoxicity, and that this free iron is subsequently sequestered by ferritin synthesized under conditions of oxidative stress, thus limiting the pro-oxidant challenge of iron. The plasma iron concentration decreased at 6 and 20 h after diquat treatment, whereas the level of plasma interleukin-6 increased markedly at 3 h and remained high until 20 h. In the liver of diquat-treated rats, expression of hepcidin mRNA was markedly upregulated at 3 and 6 h, whereas ferroportin mRNA expression was downregulated slightly at 20 h. Transferrin receptor 1 mRNA expression was significantly upregulated at 3, 6, and 20 h. These results indicate that inhibition of iron release from iron-storage tissues, through stimulation of the interleukin-6-hepcidin-ferroportin axis, and enhanced iron uptake into hepatocytes, mediated by transferrin receptor 1, cause hypoferremia.
Pediatric ischemic stroke is a poorly understood, yet clinically important, problem. The sole approved treatment for acute stroke is tissue-type plasminogen activator. However, tissue plasminogen activator vasoactivity aggravates hypoxia/ischemia-induced impairment of cerebrovasodilation in response to hypercapnia and hypotension in newborn pigs. Mitogen-activated protein kinase (a family of 3 kinases, extracellular signal-related kinase, p38, and c-Jun-N-terminal kinase) is upregulated after hypoxia/ischemia. Coupling of tissue plasminogen activator to red blood cells prevented hypoxia/ischemia-induced impairment of dilation and suppressed extracellular signal-related kinase mitogen-activated protein kinase activation. This study investigated the differential roles of mitogen-activated protein kinase isoforms in the effects of red blood cells-tissue plasminogen activator on cerebrovasodilation in a translationally relevant injury model, photothrombosis.
Prospective, randomized animal study.
: University laboratory.
Newborn (1- to 5-day-old) pigs.
Cerebral blood flow and pial artery diameter were determined before and after photothrombotic injury (laser 532 nm and erythrosine B) was produced in piglets equipped with a closed cranial window. Cerebral blood flow extracellular signal-related kinase, p38, and c-Jun-N-terminal kinase mitogen-activated protein kinase were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
Tissue plasminogen activator and red blood cells-tissue plasminogen activator alleviated reduction of cerebral blood flow after photothrombotic injury. Cerebrovasodilation was blunted by photothrombotic injury, reversed to vasoconstriction by tissue plasminogen activator, but dilation was maintained by red blood cells-tissue plasminogen activator. Cerebral blood flow c-Jun-N-terminal kinase and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase but not extracellular signal-related kinase mitogen-activated protein kinase was elevated by photothrombotic injury, an effect potentiated by tissue plasminogen activator. Red blood cells-tissue plasminogen activator blocked c-Jun-N-terminal kinase but potentiated p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase upregulation after photothrombotic injury. A c-Jun-N-terminal kinase mitogen-activated protein kinase antagonist prevented, a p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase antagonist potentiated, whereas an extracellular signal-related kinase mitogen-activated protein kinase antagonist had no effect on dilator impairment after photothrombotic injury.
These data indicate that in addition to restoring perfusion, red blood cells-tissue plasminogen activator prevents impairment of cerebrovasodilation after photothrombotic injury through blockade of c-Jun-N-terminal kinase and potentiation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase. These data suggest tissue plasminogen activator coupling to red blood cells offers a novel approach to increase the benefit/risk ratio of thrombolytic therapy to treat central nervous system ischemic disorders.
This study examined the effects of clofibrate therapy on basal plasma substrate and hormone concentrations in ketosis-prone insulin-dependent diabetic man. A double-blind crossover design was utilized during a 3-mo period in which clofibrate treatment (1 g b.i.d.) was compared to that of a lactose placebo (1 g b.i.d.). Our results demonstrate that clofibrate treatment resulted in a significant reduction in the concentration of plasma glucose, ketone bodies, free fatty acids, triglyceride, and cholesterol in diabetic man. These beneficial effects were observed without demonstrable changes in circulating concentrations of insulin and glucagon. These observations suggest that in ketosis-prone diabetic man, clofibrate therapy may provide an adjunct to exogenous insulin administration.
Sensitization to cocaine refers to the behavioral model of cocaine addiction where the motor stimulant effect of cocaine is augmented for months after discontinuing a regimen of repeated cocaine injections. There has been speculation that the neuroadaptations mediating this sensitization phenomenon may, in part, underlie the behavioral changes produced by chronic cocaine abuse, including paranoia, craving and relapse. Criteria are proposed that may assist in determining which neuroadaptations are most relevant in this regard. Using these criteria, a model is presented that endeavors to incorporate neuroadaptations issuing directly from the pharmacological effects of cocaine and those arising from learned associations the organism makes with the cocaine injection procedure and pharmacological actions. It is proposed that the pharmacological neuroadaptations predominate in the manifestation of cocaine-induced paranoia, while the changes derived from learning may provide more critical underpinnings for cocaine craving and relapse.
In order to study whether noradrenergic drugs improve age-related cognitive dysfunctions the present experiments investigated whether atipamezole, a selective and specific alpha-2 antagonist, improves spatial learning impairment due to cholinergic blockade (scopolamine 0.8 mg/kg) or aging in rats. Previously, it has been shown that atipamezole dose-dependently (0.03-3.0 mg/kg) increases the turnover of noradrenaline in rat brain. According to the present results, atipamezole (0.1, 0.3, 0.6 mg/kg) did not affect spatial learning/memory when assessed in a free swim trial of the water maze task in control rats. Furthermore, atipamezole (0.1, 0.6 mg/kg) did not improve learning deficit in scopolamine treated young rats. Higher doses (greater than or equal to 1.0 mg/kg) of atipamezole could not be tested, because they induce floating behaviour in rats. In aged rats, which were screened to be impaired in the initial acquisition of the water maze task, 0.3 mg/kg atipamezole impaired further learning of this task. Because previous studies suggest that age-related learning impairment in the water maze may be, at least partly, due to a cholinergic deficit, the present results suggest that atipamezole which increases the release of noradrenaline in brain does not alleviate this learning deficit.
Ganglioplegia was produced by intravenous infusion of pentolinium tartrate 5 mg to control reflex hypertension in 29 patients with chronic spinal cord injuries undergoing 32 elective surgical procedures. The patient group with lesions above the first thoracic segment (T1) demonstrated significant but moderate intraoperative elevation of both systolic and diastolic pressure whether pentolinium was given prior to or during surgical stimulation. Patients with lesions below T1 had no significant pressure elevations with either mode of therapy. Pentolinium ganglioplegia can safely maintain blood pressure within reasonable limits in these patients; some increase in dosage may be required in patients with lesions above T1.
The pharmacokinetics of oral contraceptive (OC) components, ethinyl estradiol (EE) and norethindrone (NET), were evaluated after coadministration with etoricoxib in 3 double-blind, randomized, 2-period crossover studies of healthy women. There were 16, 39, and 24 participants enrolled in studies 1 (part I, part II), and 2, respectively. Each participant received triphasic OC (EE 35 microg/NET 0.5 mgx7 days, 0.75 mgx7 days, 1.0 mgx7 days) throughout each 28-day period. OC was coadministered with 21 days of etoricoxib daily followed by placebo for 7 days; the alternate period followed the reverse regimen (placebo to etoricoxib). Study 1 (part I) examined concurrent (morning) administration of OC/etoricoxib 120 mg, study 1 (part II) examined staggered (morning/night) administration of OC/etoricoxib 120 mg, and study 2 examined concurrent (morning) administration of OC/etoricoxib 60 mg. Coadministration of OC and etoricoxib 120 mg once daily was associated with a approximately 50% to 60% increase in EE concentrations, whereas etoricoxib 60 mg once daily was associated with a approximately 37% increase in EE concentrations. Coadministration of OC and etoricoxib was generally well tolerated. A clinically important change in NET AUC0-24 h was not observed. Adverse events included dyspepsia, diarrhea, headache, nausea, fatigue, loss of appetite, and taste disturbance.
Meperidine-associated central nervous system (CNS) excitatory toxicities are believed to be caused by accumulation of the active metabolite normeperidine. Normeperidine is eliminated by the kidneys and accumulates in patients with renal insufficiency, sickle cell disease, and cancer. In patients with cirrhosis, the metabolism of meperidine is decreased, leading to accumulation of the parent drug and possible CNS depressive effects similar to hepatic encephalopathy. Although the elimination of normeperidine is decreased as well in these patients, the ratio of normeperidine to meperidine is generally low, and the narcotic effects of meperidine usually predominate. This is the first reported case of CNS excitatory toxicities in a patient with alcoholic hepatitis and cirrhosis, and normal renal function. Administration of multiple doses of meperidine in patients with hepatic disease should be discouraged.
Although diethyl phthalate (DEP) is one of the most frequently used phthalates in solvents and fixatives for numerous industrial products, almost no research has been done on its biochemical toxicity in aquatic animals. Olive flounder (Paralichthys olivaceus), an important culture fish in far eastern Asian countries, were treated with intraperitoneal DEP at 0, 100, 300 or 900 mg/kg for three consecutive days and biochemical effects were assessed in the liver, kidney and serum 24 h after the final dosing. Measured parameters were mostly restricted to oxidative status and toxicity of the organs. In the hepatic tissue, there were significant increases in lipid peroxide (LPO) at 100mg/kg and above. Other hepatic parameters, which were examined, changed only after 900 mg/kg: reduced glutathione content (GSH), glutathione reductase activity (GR), glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activity increased; catalase (CAT) activity decreased. DEP also induced elevation in LPO levels at above 100 mg/kg in renal tissues; however, there was only a decrease in GR and glutathione S-transferase (GST) activities with DEP 900 mg/kg in contrast to the liver. Enzyme activities of aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) in hepatic tissues decreased in a dose-dependent manner in response to DEP at above 300 mg/kg. DEP at 300-900 mg/kg, although not uniform among parameters, caused increases in serum alkaline phosphatase (ALP), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), AST, ALT activities and osmolality value, suggesting that DEP at these doses induced hepatic cell damage. The results indicate that 100-900 mg/kg DEP induced oxidative stress and the fish seemed to activate compensatory anti-oxidant systems to cope with the imposed substance on the liver. Such compensatory activation was not evident in the kidney. Overall, DEP was only weakly toxic to olive flounder in terms of oxidative and hepatic damage.
