Probenecid has been suggested as a prophylactic treatment of penicillin-induced hypokalemia, the proposed mechanism being that penicillin will be prevented from acting as a nonreabsorbable anion binding potassium and resulting in increased urinary losses. A rapidly occurring hypokalemia, unresponsive to intravenous replacement of potassium, can be explained by redistribution rather than urinary wastage. We report a case where probenecid was administered for ticarcillin-induced hypokalemia without any significant benefits.
We have shown that intracerebroventricular administration of the corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) receptor antagonist D-Phe CRF(12-41), blocks footshock-induced reinstatement of drug seeking in cocaine-trained rats. We now report that D-Phe acts in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), and not in the amygdala, to block footshock-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking. In addition, CRF injections in the BNST, and not in the amygdala, are sufficient to reinstate cocaine seeking. Rats were trained to self-administer cocaine intravenously on a fixed ratio (FR-1) schedule of reinforcement. After 5 drug-free days, animals were returned to the self-administration chambers and given daily extinction and reinstatement test sessions. To test the effects of D-Phe CRF(12-41) on stress-induced reinstatement, rats were pretreated with vehicle or D-Phe in either the BNST (10 or 50 ng per side) or amygdala (50 or 500 ng per side) before being exposed to 15 min of intermittent footshock stress. To test whether injections of CRF itself could induce reinstatement, rats were given vehicle or CRF in either the BNST (100 or 300 ng per side) or amygdala (300 ng per side) 15 min before the session. Injections of D-Phe into the BNST completely blocked footshock-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking; injections of CRF itself in this structure induced reinstatement. Injections of these compounds into the amygdala were without effect. These findings suggest that activation of CRF receptors in the BNST, but not in the amygdala, is critical for footshock-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking.
Oxidative damage associated with lead in the brain has been proposed as a possible mechanism of lead toxicity. Of the many antioxidant enzymes, phospholipid hydroperoxidase glutathione peroxidase (PHGPx) is known to protect cells from lipid peroxide-mediated damage by catalyzing lipid peroxide reduction. In this study, the effects of lead on the activity and expression of PHGPx mRNA were investigated in the brains of rats exposed to lead for 8 weeks. Male Sprague-Dawley rats (3 week old, n = 40) were randomly divided into four groups of 10 and treated with four different concentrations of lead in drinking water: a low dose (0.1% lead acetate), a medium dose (0.3% lead acetate), and a high dose (1.0% lead acetate), and a control group (0% lead acetate). We compared the four groups in terms of body and brain weight, lead concentrations in the brain and blood, and the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), gluthatione peroxidase (GPx), and PHGPx mRNA in the brain. Phospholipid hydroperoxidase glutathione peroxidase was found to have a dominant role in lead exposure. We also performed in situ hybridization of PHGPx mRNA in the brain to identity PHGPx mRNA active sites. We found that the level of PHGPx mRNA in brain increased in the medium- and low-dose groups, but decreased in the high-dose group versus the non-lead-treated control group. These results suggest that lead exposure increases the expression of PHGPx mRNA in the low- and medium-dose groups without inducing structural changes, and that the reduced expression of PHGPx mRNA in the high-dose group was associated with structural damage. An In situ hybridization study showed that PHGPx mRNA in the brain is expressed mainly in the white matter of the cerebral hemisphere and in the Purkinje cells of the cerebellar hemispheres; these sites are known to be the vulnerable to lead toxicity.
Tacrolimus has been used as an immunosuppressive agent in the transplantation of all solid organs. Tacrolimus-induced hypertrophic cardiomyopathy has been reported to be an unusual but serious complication. To elucidate the effects of tacrolimus on myocardial hypertrophy, we studied the relationship between the blood levels of tacrolimus and cardiac wall thickening. Our findings demonstrated that tacrolimus-induced myocardial hypertrophy correlated with tacrolimus blood levels, and that myocardial hypertrophy induced by tacrolimus was reversible. However, no patients developed clinically significant symptoms related to myocardial hypertrophy.
Calcium blockers (CB) are routinely used. This could lead to possible interference with anaesthetic drugs. CB prevent calcium from entering the cell by inhibiting the slow voltage-dependent calcium channels. They act mostly on heart and smooth muscle. Of all the possible indications, the three that are confirmed are coronary heart disease, arterial hypertension and supraventricular rhythm disturbances. Most of the work published and the cases reported concerns interactions between CB and halogenated anaesthetic agents; the latter's actions on the heart depend on cellular calcium exchange. Also, the cardiovascular effects of these anaesthetics are similar to that of CB. Experimentally, halothane and enflurane have direct cardiac inhibitory effects similar to verapamil and diltiazem, whereas isoflurane's properties seem closer to the dihydropyridines (nifedipine and nicardipine). Giving verapamil or diltiazem increases the number of sino-atrial and atrio-ventricular blocks when using a halogenated agent. Clinically, interpreting the effects of CB during anaesthetic induction is difficult because of the pathology (coronary heart disease, cardiac failure), the other drugs (beta-blockers and nitrates) and the type of anaesthesia (emergency or elective). Interactions can give rise to anything from a severe cardiovascular collapse, requiring catecholamines, to a mild fall in blood pressure which responds well to plasma expansion, or even no effect on blood pressure. Rebound is seen on stopping CB in patients with coronary heart disease or arterial hypertension; stopping them before surgery does not therefore seem justified. However, extreme care must be taken when using halogenated agents for patients under treatment with CB and/or beta-blockers. A wary anaesthetist will be able to adapt the technique to the patient. It has been suggested that CB could be used to treat preoperatively myocardial ischaemia (diltiazem), hypertensive crises (nifedipine, nicardipine) and ventricular rhythm disturbances (verapamil); this must be done with caution, the patient being closely monitored (haemodynamic and electrocardiographic monitoring). Postoperatively, intranasal nifedipine, continuous intravenous nicardipine or diltiazem have been used to treat increases in arterial blood pressure during recovery and to adapt the cardiovascular system to the increased metabolic needs. Here again, close patient monitoring is essential. In any case, treatment with CB which has been stopped should be started up again as soon as possible.
We describe a case of nevirapine-induced Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS) and fulminant hepatic failure (FHF) requiring liver transplantation. Five weeks prior to admission, a 57-year-old female with HIV infection had been switched to a nevirapine-based regimen of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) with a CD4 cell count of 695/mm(3). Examination of the explanted native liver at initial transplantation revealed massive hepatic necrosis consistent with drug-induced liver injury. Primary graft nonfunction complicated the early postoperative course and liver retransplantation was required. On follow-up 2 years later, she remains in good health with an undetectable viral load on an efavirenz-based regimen of HAART. To our knowledge, this is the first report of successful liver transplantation following SJS and FHF.
The proto-oncogene tyrosine kinase c-ROS is an orphan receptor whose normal expression pattern is tightly spatio-temporally restricted during development. In glioma, c-ROS mRNA expression is frequently ectopically up-regulated. In this study, we determined by immunohistochemical means that c-ROS receptor protein is present in 25% of low-grade and 30% of malignant glioma tumor samples from tissue microarrays. We then explored the molecular basis for the up-regulation of c-ROS expression in these tumors. We identified and characterized the c-ROS gene promoter region and report that the ectopic expression of c-ROS in tumors is tied to hypomethylation of a CpG island in the c-ROS promoter. Bisulfite sequencing analysis in glioma tumor samples revealed that demethylation of the CpG island (-384 to -132 bp) correlated with c-ROS expression. Moreover, c-ROS expression could be activated by treatment of c-ROS-negative cells with the demethylating agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine. These results establish a strong link between c-ROS promoter demethylation and gain of c-ROS expression and function in glioma. Our data suggest that epigenetic activation of c-ROS represents an important oncogenic mechanism for glioma initiation and progression and suggest that cautionary measures in the clinical use of 5-aza-dC for the treatment of glioma be taken into consideration. [Cancer Res 2009;69(6):2180-4].
Cisplatin has minimal antitumor activity when used as second- or third-line treatment of metastatic breast carcinoma. Older reports suggest an objective response rate of 8% when 60-120 mg/m2 of cisplatin is administered every 3-4 weeks. Although a dose-response effect has been observed with cisplatin, the dose-limiting toxicities associated with cisplatin (e.g., nephrotoxicity, ototoxicity, and neurotoxicity) have limited its use as a treatment for breast carcinoma. WR-2721 or amifostine initially was developed to protect military personnel in the event of nuclear war. Amifostine subsequently was shown to protect normal tissues from the toxic effects of alkylating agents and cisplatin without decreasing the antitumor effect of the chemotherapy. Early trials of cisplatin and amifostine also suggested that the incidence and severity of cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity, ototoxicity, and neuropathy were reduced.
A Phase II study of the combination of cisplatin plus amifostine was conducted in patients with progressive metastatic breast carcinoma who had received one, but not more than one, chemotherapy regimen for metastatic disease. Patients received amifostine, 910 mg/m2 intravenously over 15 minutes. After completion of the amifostine infusion, cisplatin 120 mg/m2 was administered over 30 minutes. Intravenous hydration and mannitol was administered before and after cisplatin. Treatment was administered every 3 weeks until disease progression.
Forty-four patients were enrolled in the study of which 7 (16%) were ineligible. A median of 2 cycles of therapy was administered to the 37 eligible patients. Six partial responses were observed for an overall response rate of 16%. Most patients (57%) stopped treatment because of disease progression. Neurologic toxicity was reported in 52% of patients. Seven different life-threatening toxicities were observed in patients while receiving treatment.
The combination of cisplatin and amifostine in this study resulted in an overall response rate of 16%. Neither a tumor-protective effect nor reduced toxicity to normal tissues was observed with the addition of amifostine to cisplatin in this trial.
A 69-year-old man developed confusion and disorientation, following intravenous administration of acyclovir for herpes zoster at the right C5 area. His consciousness was disturbed four days after the beginning of acyclovir therapy (daily dose: 500 mg, every 12 h), and the symptoms resolved two days after cessation of acyclovir. Neuroradiological examination revealed no intracranial abnormality, and the routine CSF examination was within the normal range of values except for a mild elevation of IgG (7.4 mg/dl). An electroencephalogram showed diffuse slow activities without paroxysmal waves on admission, but the findings of electroencephalograms were gradually normalized in parallel with the recovery of consciousness. Fever, signs of meningeal irritation, involuntary movement or renal dysfunction were not observed during the course of illness. Although the serum concentration of acyclovir was not elevated, we considered the adverse effects of acyclovir had resulted in his consciousness disturbance. Acyclovir is greatly useful for herpes simplex and varicella-zoster virus infections, and its complications are extremely rare. However, several reports described various neuropsychiatric side effects in patients receiving acyclovir. Most of such cases had an association with severe renal failure or malignant tumor; actually, an intense malignancy surveillance over our case revealed thyrogenic papillary adenocarcinoma without metastasis. The excretion of acyclovir is mainly through the kidney, so that the neurotoxicity of acyclovir in cases with renal insufficiency stems from its excessive accumulation in the body. In malignancy complicated patients, on the other hand, some authors surmised about the influences from the co-use of other neurotoxic drugs or radiation therapy, but reasons for such conditions remain obscure. The neuropsychiatric manifestation caused by acyclovir is an entity distinguishable from viral encephalitis, and a careful surveillance for malignancy is required in such cases.
A 66-year-old Japanese woman with severe scleroderma developed anemia and thrombocytopenia due to D-penicillamine (D-Pen) treatment, although the leukopenia was not markedly severe. Cessation of D-Pen and the start of corticosteroid therapy were followed by recovery from bicytopenia. We examined the in vitro inhibition of the clonogenic capacity of bone marrow hematopoietic progenitor cells of this patient by D-Pen, and found strong inhibition in burst-forming unit-erythroid and colony-forming unit-megakaryocyte assays, but not in colony-forming unit-granulocyte/macrophage assays. These findings suggest that bicytopenia in this patient was caused by D-Pen and may be due to different sensitivities in the hematopoietic lineage.
P2X3 and P2X2/3 receptors are highly localized on peripheral and central processes of sensory afferent nerves, and activation of these channels contributes to the pronociceptive effects of ATP. A-317491 is a novel non-nucleotide antagonist of P2X3 and P2X2/3 receptor activation. A-317491 potently blocked recombinant human and rat P2X3 and P2X2/3 receptor-mediated calcium flux (Ki = 22-92 nM) and was highly selective (IC50 >10 microM) over other P2 receptors and other neurotransmitter receptors, ion channels, and enzymes. A-317491 also blocked native P2X3 and P2X2/3 receptors in rat dorsal root ganglion neurons. Blockade of P2X3 containing channels was stereospecific because the R-enantiomer (A-317344) of A-317491 was significantly less active at P2X3 and P2X2/3 receptors. A-317491 dose-dependently (ED50 = 30 micromolkg s.c.) reduced complete Freund's adjuvant-induced thermal hyperalgesia in the rat. A-317491 was most potent (ED50 = 10-15 micromolkg s.c.) in attenuating both thermal hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia after chronic nerve constriction injury. The R-enantiomer, A-317344, was inactive in these chronic pain models. Although active in chronic pain models, A-317491 was ineffective (ED50 >100 micromolkg s.c.) in reducing nociception in animal models of acute pain, postoperative pain, and visceral pain. The present data indicate that a potent and selective antagonist of P2X3 and P2X2/3 receptors effectively reduces both nerve injury and chronic inflammatory nociception, but P2X3 and P2X2/3 receptor activation may not be a major mediator of acute, acute inflammatory, or visceral pain.
Prevention of opiate tolerance is a critical issue in pain management. The present study was designed to characterize the pharmacological properties of sensory neuron-specific receptors (SNSR; also known as Mas-related gene receptors, or Mrg) for their modulation in the development of morphine tolerance and to investigate the underlying mechanism(s). Daily coadministration of the SNSR agonist BAM8-22 at a dose of 0.01 or 0.001, but not 1.0, nmol with morphine (intrathecally, or i.t., 20 microg/day) for 6 days significantly decreased the development of morphine tolerance. Coadministration of BAM8-22 (i.t., 1.0 nmol) on days 1, 3, and 5 completely blocked tolerance to morphine-induced analgesia. Intermittent coadministration of the structurally dissimilar SNSR agonist (Tyr(6))-2-MSH-6-12 (MSH; 5 nmol) also produced similar modulation. Chronic administration of morphine (20 microg, i.t.) increased expression of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in superficial layers of the spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia. All these increases were abolished when BAM8-22 or MSH was intermittently coadministered. Furthermore, intermittent administration of BAM8-22 inhibited morphine-induced increase in protein kinase C gamma (PKC gamma) in both membrane and cytosol of spinal dorsal horn neurons. These results suggest that moderate activation of SNSR modulated morphine tolerance by inhibition of the PKC signaling pathway, leading to abolishment of enhancement of nNOS and CGRP. As SNSR are uniquely located ina subset of small-sized neurons in dorsal root and trigeminal ganglia, intermittent combination of SNSR agonist could be a promising adjunct for sustained use of opiates without central nervous system side effects.
Two experiments were done to examine the effect of quinine (Q) on methamphetamine (MA)-induced anorexia in rats. They were fasted throughout (water allowed ad libitum) except for a period of 6 hr (10:00-16:00) every day when powder food was offered. In the first experiment, the drug-admixed food (DAF) method was used for testing the effect of MA in combination with Q and MA alone on food consumption and the growth curve. However, the possibility exists that MA plus Q-admixed food increases the aversive reaction. Considering this possibility, we used the injection method in the second experiment. Rats received Q orally by a stomach tube and MA by subcutaneous injection. The injection was made 30 min before the presentation of food. In the DAF method, food consumption and weight of the MA and MA plus Q groups were inhibited. The inhibitions of the MA plus Q group were more potent than that of the MA group. In the injection method, the inhibitions of food consumption and growth curve in the MA plus Q group were significantly different from that of the MA group and were dose-dependent on MA. Tolerance to MA, as index of MA- induced anorexia, developed rapidly in the injection method, while tolerance to MA in the DAF method did not develop during the experiment. These results indicate that Q can markedly potentiate MA- induced anorexia.
The muscle-relaxing 5-HT(2) receptor antagonist cyclobenzaprine is structurally closely related to amitriptyline. It is widely used to treat patients presenting with back pain and fibromyalgia. Very rarely cyclobenzaprine toxicity can result in extrapyramidal symptoms, but occurrence of torticollis has not been reported so far. We report on a patient presenting with torticollis and myoclonic movements after treatment with cyclobenzaprine, who was successfully treated with intravenous biperiden. This case might be additional evidence for the necessity of appropriate dosage in case of liver impairment. Secondly there are possibly consequences as regards the therapy of motor side effects.
Hydrochloride beta-(N,N-diethylamino)ethylamide of fusaric acid (DAEA) exerted an antiarrhythmic activity in adrenaline-induced arrhythmia in rats. DAEA single pretreatment in doses of 1-5 mg/kg prevented the disorders of rhythm and conductivity in most animals. A pronounced antiarrhythmic effect was manifest at doses of 2 and 4 mg/kg of DAEA. The comparison of efficacy of DAEA, obzidan and atenolol showed that atenolol exhibited only a low antiarrhythmic activity, DAEA prevented the development of arrhythmia in 50% of animals in a dose of 1.7 mg/kg (1/42 of LD50) and obzidan--1 mg/kg (1/40 of LD50), respectively. The antiarrhythmic effect of DAEA was not followed by marked suppression of cardiac conductivity.
The status of Papio papio as a model of clinical epilepsy has been reviewed. The anticonvulsant effects of single doses of various classic and experimental agents have been compared against seizures induced in the P. papio by intermittent light stimulation. Long-acting but not short-acting barbiturates have been shown fully to control seizures with minor sedative effects. Diphenylhydantoin (in chronic doses only) and trimethadione are often effective but not consistently so. Diazepam and clonazepam block seizures at very low doses both acutely and chronically. However, an initial dose well above threshold seems essential if anticonvulsant effects are to be maintained under chronic administration of these compounds. Carbamazepine and SC 13504 (1-benzhydryl-4(6 methyl-2-pyridylmethyleneimino)piperazine), as well as two nonstimulant analogues of amphetamine, were shown to be promising anticonvulsants in this model. A biphasic action of tetrahydrocannabinol, anticonvulsant at a few micrograms per kilogram but not at higher doses, was also demonstrated. Finally, the anticonvulsant action of intraventricular epinephrine and norepinephrine was reported.
The nuclear factor-E2-related factor 2 (NRF2) serves as a master regulator in cellular defense against oxidative stress and chemical detoxification. However, persistent activation of NRF2 resulting from mutations in NRF2 and/or downregulation of or mutations in its suppressor, Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 (KEAP1), is associated with tumorigenicity and chemoresistance of non-small-cell lung carcinomas (NSCLCs). Thus, inhibiting the NRF2-mediated adaptive antioxidant response is widely considered a promising strategy to prevent tumor growth and reverse chemoresistance in NSCLCs. Unexpectedly, stable knockdown of KEAP1 by lentiviral shRNA sensitized three independent NSCLC cell lines (A549, HTB-178, and HTB-182) to multiple chemotherapeutic agents, including arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)), etoposide, and doxorubicin, despite moderately increased NRF2 levels. In lung adenocarcinoma epithelial A549 cells, silencing of KEAP1 augmented the expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ) and genes associated with cell differentiation, including E-cadherin and gelsolin. In addition, KEAP1-knockdown A549 cells displayed attenuated expression of the proto-oncogene cyclin D1 and markers for cancer stem cells (CSCs) and reduced nonadherent sphere formation. Moreover, deficiency of KEAP1 led to elevated induction of PPARγ in response to As(2)O(3). Pretreatment of A549 cells with PPARγ agonists activated PPARγ and augmented the cytotoxicity of As(2)O(3). A mathematical model was formulated to advance a hypothesis that differential regulation of PPARγ and detoxification enzymes by KEAP1 and NRF2 may underpin the observed landscape changes in chemosensitivity. Collectively, suppression of KEAP1 expression in human NSCLC cells resulted in sensitization to chemotherapeutic agents, which may be attributed to activation of PPARγ and subsequent alterations in cell differentiation and CSC abundance.
Respiratory depression, the most serious side-effect of opioid treatment, is well documented for morphine, the most commonly used opioid in neonatal care. Less is known about methadone, a clinically relevant opioid analgesic, especially during neonatal development. This study was undertaken to determine the neonatal respiratory effects of methadone. We hypothesize that methadone is equipotent to morphine, compared to our previous morphine results in the same animal model, but has a much longer duration of action, due to its longer elimination half-life. Neonatal guinea pigs (3-14 days old) randomly received a single subcutaneous dose of methadone or saline. Using a non-invasive plethysmographic method, we measured ventilatory and metabolic parameters before injection and at intervals for 32 hr after injection while pups breathed "room air" or 5% CO(2) gas mixtures. Methadone-induced depression of ventilation was most evident during 5% CO(2) challenge. The onset of drug effects was within 15 min for all ages and doses, but the duration of action decreased with age. While the depth of methadone-induced respiratory depression did not depend on pup age, the control of breathing was different in 3-day-old pups, where inspiratory time increased fourfold; twice that of older pups. We conclude that methadone induces a naloxone reversible respiratory depression in guinea pig neonates and, in the very young, causes an abnormal breathing pattern due to changes in respiratory timing. Methadone is more potent than morphine with respect to neonatal respiratory depression, but surprisingly, the duration of methadone action was not longer than morphine.
Ankle oedema is not an uncommon side effect of treatment with nifedipine. To evaluate the possible effect of nifedipine on the microcirculation of the skin, 18 patients with systemic hypertension who were known to develop ankle oedema after nifedipine and 19 patients with systemic hypertension who did not develop ankle oedema after nifedipine were studied. Following four weeks of nifedipine therapy (10 mg, three times daily), the microcirculation on the dorsum of the foot was measured using laser-Doppler flowmetry. Estimation of the microcapillary flow was made both after supine resting and on standing upright. The venoarteriolar reflex was expressed as the standing flow in percentage of the resting flow. There was no significant difference between the two groups of patients in the resting flow, supine flow, or the venoarteriolar reflex before nifedipine therapy (P greater than 0.4). Before nifedipine, the blood blow in the skin of both groups of patients was reduced from the supine level upon standing, thus indicating a normal response to dependency. After nifedipine administration, no significant difference was observed between the two groups of patients in the resting flow (P greater than 0.5). The flow on standing, however, was 96.2% of that measured during resting supine in patients who developed ankle oedema and 79.8% of the resting flow in the patients who did not develop ankle oedema, suggesting a weaker venoarteriolar reflex in patients who developed ankle oedema following administration of nifedipine (P less than 0.0001). Thus, the microcapillary flow did not decrease upon standing in patients who developed ankle oedema following nifedipine therapy, indicating an abnormal venoarteriolar reflex. This may explain why ankle oedema develops in such patients following nifedipine.
Biliary sclerosis remains the dose-limiting toxicity in a subset of patients receiving hepatic arterial (HA) floxuridine (FUDR) for the treatment of hepatic malignancy. To investigate the etiology of FUDR-associated sclerosing cholangitis, portal vein catheters were placed in mixed-breed hounds (N = 4) and connected to an implanted infusion pump system. Floxuridine 0.3 mg/kg/day was infused for 49 to 77 days each, as a continuous infusion. Cholangiograms were performed before and after infusion, and weekly liver function tests were obtained. The results were compared to dogs (N = 6) that received HA FUDR 0.3 mg/kg/d x 30 days, and dogs (N = 5) that received HA saline for 100 days. Elevation in the serum glutamic pyruvic transaminase and alkaline phosphatase, indistinguishable from the HA group, was seen in all four dogs with portal vein infusion. Maximum bilirubin levels ranged from 0.6 to 3.0 (mean 1.7), compared to a range of 6.4 to 28 (mean 13.4) for the HA dogs. Cholangiograms demonstrated hepatic volume loss consistent with hepatocellular injury, but no biliary sclerosis. These data suggest that sclerosing cholangitis resulting from intra-arterial infusion of FUDR is unlikely to be due to metabolites of the drug excreted in the bile, but due to direct toxicity to the biliary tree.
Twenty-five 5-month-old male Fischer-344 rats were randomly divided into 5 groups: Group I, no anesthesia; Group II, 1.4 precent sevoflurane for 2 hours; Group III, 0.1 percent phenobarbital, ad lib, in drinking water for 7 days; followed by 1.4 percent sevoflurane for 2 hours; Group IV, 0.25 percent methoxyflurane, 1 hour; Group V, phenobarbital in water as in Group III, followed by methoxyflurane as in group IV. Pre- and postanesthetic serum and urinary osmolality, Na+, K+, urea nitrogen (BUN), inorganic fluoride (F-) levels, and 24-hour urine volume were measured. Kidney tissue was obtained for examination by light and electron microscopy. Sevoflurane was metabolized to F- to a lesser extent than was methoxyflurane; treatment with phenobarbital-sevoflurane doubled urinary F- excretion, resulting in a value similar to that seen after methoxyflurane alone. There was no functional or morphologic evidence of renal abnormalities in either group of rats anesthetized with sevoflurane. Methoxyflurane dosage was sufficiently low that renal abnormalities did not occur except in rats treated also with phenobarbital; these animals developed polyuria and the morphologic lesion typically associated with F--induced nephrotoxicity.
Two patients are described who developed sensory neuropathy after the ingestion of 30.6 and 114 g metronidazole respectively. The drug, widely used in gastroenterological and gynaecological practice, has not hitherto been considered neurotoxic. The implications are stressed in relation to the differential diagnosis of patients with gastroenterological disorders who develop peripheral neuropathy.
This survival study was designed to address whether beta-1-blockade utilizing metoprolol CR/XL (controlled release/extended release) once daily added to standard therapy reduces mortality and morbidity in patients with decreased ejection fraction and symptoms of heart failure. Enrolled in a double-blind randomized study were 3991 patients with chronic heart failure in NYHA functional class II-IV and ejection fraction < or = 0.40 stabilized on optimal standard therapy. Randomization was preceded by a 2-week single blind placebo run-in period. The study medication was uptitrated during 8 weeks starting with 12.5 mg (NYHA functional class III-IV) or 25 mg once daily (NYHA functional class II). The target dose was 200 mg once daily. The primary endpoints were all-cause mortality and combined all-cause mortality and hospitalization (time to first event) and other objectives were cause-specific data on hospitalization, NYHA functional class and quality of life. Mean follow-up time was 1 year. All-cause mortality was reduced in the metoprolol CR/XL group compared with the placebo group, 145 versus 217 deaths, 7.2% per patient year of follow-up versus 11.0% with a relative risk of 0.66 (95% CI 0.53-0.81, nominal p = 0.00009, p adjusted for interim analysis = 0.0062). This effect was consistent across all predefined subgroups. Sudden deaths were fewer in the metoprolol group (79 versus 132 deaths), RR 0.59 (p = 0.0002). Also deaths from worsening heart failure were fewer in the metoprolol group (30 versus 58 deaths), RR 0.51 (p = 0.0023). The combined endpoint total mortality or all-cause hospitalizations was also reduced by metoprolol (641 versus 767 events), RR 0.81 (p = 0.00012). Total mortality or hospitalizations due to worsening heart failure was also reduced (311 versus 439 events), RR 0.69 (p < 0.00001). The number of hospitalizations due to worsening heart failure (317 versus 451, p < 0.00001) and days in hospital due to worsening heart failure (3401 versus 5303 days, p < 0.00001) were also reduced by metoprolol. There was also an improvement in NYHA functional class, assessed by the physicians as well as the McMaster Overall Treatment Evaluation questionnaire (OTE), assessed by the patients (p = 0.028 and p = 0.089, respectively). Permanent early discontinuation was 13.9% in the metoprolol group and 15.3% in the placebo group (RR = 0.90). In conclusion, in patients with symptomatic heart failure metoprolol CR/XL once daily improved survival by 34%, sudden death by 41%, and deaths from worsening of heart failure by 49%. In addition to improvement of survival there was also a reduced need of hospitalizations for worsening heart failure and an improved NYHA functional class and of quality of life assessed in a substudy. Metoprolol was well tolerated with no difference in early discontinuation rate from placebo treatment.
Ketamine, pancuronium, and alphaprodine were used as the primary anesthetic agents in 71 infants requiring cardiovascular operations during a recent 1-year period. This group of patients was compared with a similar group anesthetized 3 years before with d-tubocurarine, halothane, and/or N20-O2. Stability of the circulatory system was well maintained with ketamine-pancuronium-narcotic (KPN) during the induction period. However, once surgical dissection of the heart and great vessels began, hypotension/bradycardia, ventricular fibrillation, and 48-hour mortality were similar for the two groups. Therefore, using these criteria for analysis, the KPN technic, in spite of claims for its minimal adverse effect on the cardiovascular system, did not prove superior to the halothane-N2O-O2-curare technic.
To evaluate the neuroprotective effects of adenoassociated virus delivery of XIAP in N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU)-induced retinal degeneration in Sprague-Dawley rats.
Sprague-Dawley rats were injected subretinally with recombinant adenoassociated virus (rAAV) encoding either XIAP or green fluorescent protein (GFP; injection control). Six weeks after injection, the animals received an intraperitoneal injection of MNU, a DNA methylating agent, at a dose of 60 mg/kg. Electroretinograms (ERGs) were recorded at 0, 24, 48 and 72 hours and 1 week after MNU. The rats were killed after the ERG was performed and were perfused with 4% paraformaldehyde. Eyes were then enucleated and embedded for cryosectioning. Eye sections were analyzed by TUNEL and histologic techniques. Real-time PCR and Western analysis were performed to confirm the overexpression of XIAP in injected eyes.
Real-time PCR and Western analysis confirmed the overexpression of XIAP in virus-injected eyes in comparison to uninjected control eyes. At 24 hours after MNU injection, fewer cells had undergone apoptosis in the XIAP-treated eyes in comparison with GFP-injected or uninjected eyes. Hematoxylin and eosin staining revealed that the uninjected and GFP-injected photoreceptors were destroyed by 72 hours after injection of MNU, whereas the AAV-XIAP-injected eyes showed structural protection of the photoreceptors at all time points throughout the 1-week sampling period. ERGs showed functional protection up to 1 week after MNU injection in the AAV-XIAP-injected eye, whereas no response was observed in the control eye.
The results suggest that XIAP is protective against this potent chemotoxic agent and holds promise as a therapeutic agent in gene therapy approaches to treating retinitis pigmentosa.
Two suicidal cases associated with ingestion of diphenhydramine (DPH) were reported. Case 1 is a typical DPH overdose case of a young man with the blood DPH concentration of 12.2 microg/ mL. Case 2 is a double suicide of a man and a woman. They ingested DPH and fell asleep in a vehicle which had a cooking clay charcoal stove. Their blood DPH concentrations were 0.4 and 0.7 microg/mL, which were high enough to make them sleep. Their cause of death, however, was carbon monoxide poisoning with blood CO-Hb concentration of 14 and 19%. DPH is a low toxic agent and is available as an OTC drug in Japan. Similar fatal cases can be expected to happen in Japan.
