2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency or short/branched chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (SBCADD) is caused by a defect in the degradation pathway of the amino acid L-isoleucine.
We report a four-year-old mentally retarded Somali boy with autism and a history of seizures, who was found to excrete increased amounts of 2-methylbutyryl glycine in the urine. The SBCAD gene was examined with sequence analysis. His development was assessed with psychometric testing before and after a trial with low protein diet.
We found homozygosity for A > G changing the +3 position of intron 3 (c.303+3A > G) in the SBCAD gene. Psychometric testing showed moderate mental retardation and behavioral scores within the autistic spectrum. No beneficial effect was detected after 5 months with a low protein diet.
This mutation was also found in two previously reported cases with SBCADD, both originating from Somalia and Eritrea, indicating that it is relatively prevalent in this population. Autism has not previously been described with mutations in this gene, thus expanding the clinical spectrum of SBCADD.
Miyoshi myopathy (MM) is an autosomal recessive distal muscular dystrophy characterized by mutations of the dysferlin gene. Although several pairs of homozygous/heterozygous mutations have been reported, few effective treatments of MM are available. We had observed the decreased serum creatine kinase (CK) before and after administration of dantrolene in the elder brother and the increased serum CK before and after discontinuance of the drug on suspicion of drug-induced hepatopathy in the younger sister. We report a novel pair of heterozygous mutations in the 3'-splicing site of exon 26 and the translation site of exon 28 of the dysferlin gene in two siblings, and effective treatment of their MM with dantrolene.
Phenolic compounds are widely distributed in the natural environment, typically existing as a mixture at the nanomole or micromole per liter level. Among the phenolic compounds, 4-nonylphenol, 4-t-octylphenol, bisphenol A and 2,4-dichlorophenol attract the most concern due to their abundance and risks in the natural environment. The former three are known as endocrine disruptors causing feminization in various organisms, whereas the latter requires further clarification for its estrogenic effect. This study aims to evaluate the combination effects of these chemicals with estrogen receptor binding as an endpoint. An ELISA based receptor binding assay was employed to avoid radioactive pollution in the traditional assay. The results showed that all these chemicals could bind with estrogen receptor with a relative binding affinity of bisphenol A>4-t-octylphenol>4-nonylphenol>2,4-dichlorophenol. The four chemicals were further mixed in two ways, at an equipotent ratio and at an equal environmental level ratio, and their combination effects on receptor binding were evaluated with both the toxicity units method and concentration addition model. The resulting effects of both mixtures showed an antagonistic mode, which was assumed to be a general mode of action with estrogen receptor binding assay due to competitive ligand binding on receptors.
Thirty-three patients were randomly assigned to two groups to study the analgesic potency, duration of action and side effects of epidural and intramuscular morphine after hip surgery. Two milligrams of preservative-free morphine chloride in 10 ml of normal saline in the epidural space was compared to 10 mg of intramuscularly administered morphine. There was a more rapid onset of action after intramuscular morphine. However, the quality of pain relief was substantially higher and the duration of action markedly longer after epidural morphine. The total dose required in the epidural group was 3.6 mg and in the intramuscular group 41 mg during the 15-h observation period. The side effects of epidural morphine were few and mild, the most embarrassing being urinary retention (20%). Nausea and/or vomiting was less common after epidural morphine (20% versus 55%). Pruritus or respiratory depression which have been reported previously were not encountered. However, it is recommended that preservative-free solution are used to avoid itching and that the patients are monitored, as respiratory depression may occur long after administration of epidural opiate.
Autosomal dominant early-onset Alzheimer disease is a heterogeneous condition that has been associated with mutations in 3 different genes: the amyloid precursor protein (APP), presenilin 1 (PSEN1), and presenilin 2 (PSEN2) genes. Most cases are due to mutations in the PSEN1 gene, whereas mutations in the APP and PSEN2 genes are rare.
To describe a novel mutation in the PSEN2 gene associated with early-onset autosomal dominant Alzheimer disease.
The proband was a 49-year-old individual who displayed progressive dementia beginning at age 45 years. One of the parents and one of the grandparents had developed dementia at ages 64 years and 60 years, respectively, and 1 sibling had mild cognitive impairment. Some family members also had Tourette syndrome. Mutation analysis of the APP, PSEN1, PSEN2, and tau (TAU) genes was performed. Apolipoprotein E (APOE) was also genotyped.
We found a missense mutation at codon 430 of the PSEN2 gene that predicts a threonine-to-methionine substitution. This mutation was detected in the affected individuals and in 1 cognitively healthy sibling. The mutation was absent in 260 control chromosomes. The normal amino acid was conserved in the human and mouse PSEN1 and mouse PSEN2 homologues. No influence of the APOE genotype was observed.
We have found a novel mutation in the PSEN2 gene in a family with early-onset Alzheimer disease. The variation in the age at onset confirms that PSEN2 mutations are associated with variable clinical expression.
Zolmitriptan (Zomig, formerly 311C90) is a selective 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)1B/1D-receptor agonist with central and peripheral activity for the acute treatment of migraine. This randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover study investigated the effects of fluoxetine administration on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of zolmitriptan. Twenty volunteers were given single doses of fluoxetine 20 mg or an identical placebo daily for 28 days prior to receiving a single 10 mg oral dose of zolmitriptan. Sixteen volunteers completed the two treatment phases. The pharmacokinetic parameters of zolmitriptan and its metabolites were not significantly affected by fluoxetine pretreatment. The pharmacodynamic effects of zolmitriptan were also unaffected by fluoxetine pretreatment. There were small, clinically insignificant increases in blood pressure following zolmitriptan which were unaltered by fluoxetine. Zolmitriptan was well tolerated when given alone or concomitantly with fluoxetine. These results indicate that there is no contraindication to the use of zolmitriptan in patients treated concurrently with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and that no adjustment of the zolmitriptan dose is required in these circumstances.
Cocaine is known to enhance nucleus accumbens dopamine (NAcc DA), to serve as a positive reinforcer and to produce negative effects, such as anxiety. The influence of diazepam on cocaine intake, cocaine-stimulated behavioral activity and NAcc DA was investigated using self-administration and experimenter-administered intravenous (i.v.) cocaine. In Experiment 1, rats were pretreated with diazepam (0.25 mg/kg) or saline (0.1 ml) 30 min prior to 20 daily 1-hour cocaine (0.75 mg/kg/injection) self-administration sessions. Cocaine intake increased for all animals across sessions, but was highest in diazepam-pretreated animals. Diazepam rats also self-administered their first cocaine injection of each session faster than controls. Experiment 2 utilized in vivo microdialysis to assess NAcc DA levels before and after experimenter-administered i.v. cocaine injections (0.75 mg/kg/injection x 2; 10-min interval) in diazepam- and saline-pretreated rats. Group differences were not revealed across basal and cocaine-stimulated NAcc DA assessments, indicating that diazepam did not decrease NAcc DA during cocaine self-administration. Findings that diazepam enhances cocaine self-administration and decreases cocaine response latency support the notion that cocaine-induced anxiety limits voluntary cocaine intake. It is further suggested that individual variations in cocaine-induced aversive effects may determine whether cocaine use is avoided or repeated.
Veralipride is a benzamide derivative effective in the treatment of menopausal syndrome. Despite its antidopaminergic action, extrapyramidal side effects seem to be very uncommon. We observed a patient with bipolar psychosis, who developed segmental dystonia after taking the drug. The disorder slowly receded in 14 months, but reappeared during neuroleptic therapy a few months later. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case of veralipride-induced tardive dystonia, and the affective disorder might have predisposed our patient to the development of this tardive side effect.
In this study we assessed the relative toxicity and potency of the chlorinated naphthalenes 1,2,3,4,6,7-hexachloronaphthalene (PCN 66) and 1,2,3,5,6,7-hexachloronaphthalene (PCN 67) relative to that of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD). Chemicals were administered in corn oil:acetone (99:1) by gavage to female Harlan Sprague-Dawley rats at dosages of 0 (vehicle), 500, 1500, 5000, 50,000 and 500,000 ng/kg (PCN 66 and PCN 67) and 1, 3, 10, 100, and 300 ng/kg (TCDD) for 2 weeks. Histopathologic changes were observed in the thymus, liver and lung of TCDD treated animals and in the liver and thymus of PCN treated animals. Significant increases in CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 associated enzyme activity were observed in all animals exposed to TCDD, PCN 66 and PCN 67. Dose response modeling of CYP1A1, CYP1A2 and thymic atrophy gave ranges of estimated relative potencies, as compared to TCDD, of 0.0015-0.0072, for PCN 66 and 0.00029-0.00067 for PCN 67. Given that PCN 66 and PCN 67 exposure resulted in biochemical and histopathologic changes similar to that seen with TCDD, this suggests that they should be included in the WHO toxic equivalency factor (TEF) scheme, although the estimated relative potencies indicate that these hexachlorinated naphthalenes should not contribute greatly to the overall human body burden of dioxin-like activity.
Withdrawal from morphine leads to the appearance of extreme anxiety accompanied of several physical disturbances, most of them linked to the activation of brainstem regions such as the locus coeruleus, ventral tegmental area, hypothalamic nuclei and periaqueductal grey (PAG). As anxiety remains one of the main components of morphine withdrawal the present study aimed to evaluating the influence of the dorsal aspects of the PAG on the production of this state, since this structure is well-known to be involved in defensive behaviour elicited by anxiety-evoking stimuli. Different groups of animals were submitted to 10 days of i.p. morphine injections, challenged 2 h after with an i.p. injection of naloxone (0.1 mg/kg), and submitted to the plus-maze, open-field and light-dark transition tests. The effects of morphine withdrawal on anxiety-induced Fos immunolabelling were evaluated in four animals that passed by the light-dark transition test randomly chosen for Fos-protein analysis. Besides the PAG, Fos neural expression was conducted in other brain regions involved in the expression of anxiety-related behaviours. Our results showed that morphine withdrawn rats presented enhanced anxiety accompanied of few somatic symptoms. Increased Fos immunolabelling was noted in brain regions well-known to modulate these states as the prelimbic cortex, nucleus accumbens, amygdala and paraventricular hypothalamus. Increased Fos labelling was also observed in the ventral and dorsal aspects of the PAG, a region involved in anxiety-related processes suggesting that this region could be a common neural substrate enlisted during anxiety evoked by dangerous stimuli as well as those elicited by opiate withdrawal.
Silymarin (SMN) is used as an antioxidant complex to attenuate the pro-oxidant effects of toxic agents. This study was designed to investigate the impact of a long-term administration of SMN on proinflammatory mediators, oxidative stress biomarkers and on the levels of interleukin-1β (IL-1β) transcript in the hippocampus. A total of 40 adult male Wistar rats were assigned into control and test groups. Animals in the test group were subdivided into four subgroups according to the following treatment profile: carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4), 0.5 ml/kg), SMN 25, SMN 50 and SMN 100 (mg/kg). The animals received the compounds by gastric gavage. Following the 8-week treatment period, animals in the CCl(4) group showed body weight loss, while the test groups except SMN 100 revealed a significant (p < 0.05) positive body weight gain. The levels of nitric oxide (NO) and malondialdehyde (MDA) as pro-oxidant and lipid peroxidation index, respectively, increased in CCl(4)- and SMN 100-treated groups, while SMN at lower dose levels did not alter the NO and MDA content. The concentration of total thiol molecules increased in the SMN 50 group and showed a remarkable decrease in CCl(4) and SMN 100 groups. Animals treated with CCl(4) or SMN 100 showed an upregulation of IL-1β, while animals in SMN 25 and SMN 50 groups showed a slight downregulation of expression of IL-1β at the messenger RNA level. These findings suggest that SMN at higher dosage level might exert pro-oxidant effect as an increase in the level of MDA and proinflammatory mediators such as NO, and upregulation of IL-1β in the hippocampus were shown.
This investigation was aimed to study the effects of individual and concomitant exposures of the two nitrile compounds, the industrially important acrylonitrile (ACN; 5, 15, 45 mg/kg/day) and the positive control iminodipropionitrile (IDPN; 100 mg/kg/day) in rats. The six treatment groups were 1 (control), 2 (ACN 5), 3 (ACN 15), 4 (ACN 45), 5 (IDPN), and 6 (IDPN + ACN 15). Both the drugs were started on the same day and continued for 9 days (IDPN was given daily 30 min before ACN but stopped a day earlier). The animals were daily observed for neurobehavioral abnormalities including dyskinetic head movements, circling, tail hanging, air righting reflex, and contact inhibition of righting reflex. There was no dyskinetic behavioral abnormality in the animals treated with any of the three doses of ACN whereas all the rats in IDPN alone treated group developed clear symptoms of excitation, circling, and chorea syndrome (ECC syndrome) on day 9. Concomitant treatment of rats with ACN significantly attenuated the severity of IDPN-induced behavioral deficits. Administration of ACN significantly depleted glutathione (GSH) in striatum, hippocampus and cerebral cortex; IDPN significantly reduced the GSH only in striatum. The anterior striatum showed intense tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) expression in IDPN alone treated rat as compared to control and ACN alone treated rat. Cotreatment with ACN reduced the intensity of TH immunostaining in IDPN-treated rats. Administration of IDPN alone caused massive loss of vestibular sensory hair cells in the crista ampullaris whereas the sensory epithelium appeared intact in ACN alone treated groups. The animals receiving the combination of ACN and IDPN showed comparatively less degeneration of sensory hair cells than IDPN alone group. These findings suggest that ACN and IDPN produce different behavioral effects that are exerted through entirely different mechanisms; the nervous and vestibular systems appear to be the major target sites of these toxins, respectively.
The human ether-a-go-go-related gene (hERG) encodes the rapidly activating, delayed rectifier potassium channel (IKr) important for cardiac repolarization. Dysfunction of the hERG channel can cause Long QT Syndrome (LQTS). A wide variety of structurally diverse therapeutic compounds reduce the hERG current by acute direct inhibition of the hERG current or/and selective disruption of hERG protein expression. Arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)), which is used to treat acute promyelocytic leukemia, can cause LQTS type 2 (LQT2) by reducing the hERG current through the diversion of hERG trafficking to the cytoplasmic membrane. This cardiotoxicity limits its clinical applications. Our aim was to develop cardioprotective agents to decrease As(2)O(3)-induced cardiotoxicity. We reported that superfusion of hERG-expressing HEK293 (hERG-HEK) cells with matrine (1, 10 μM) increased the hERG current by promoting hERG channel activation. Long-term treatment with 1 μM matrine or oxymatrine increased expression of the hERG protein and rescued the hERG surface expression disrupted by As(2)O(3). In addition, Matrine and oxymatrine significantly shortened action potential duration prolonged by As(2)O(3) in guinea pig ventricular myocytes. These results were ascribed to the up-regulation of hERG at both mRNA and protein levels via an increase in the expression of transcription factor Sp1, an established transactivator of the hERG gene. Therefore, matrine and oxymatrine may have the potential to cure LQT2 as a potassium channel activator by promoting hERG channel activation and increasing hERG channel expression.
This study examines the contribution of central corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) to pain behavior. CRF is the principal modulator of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, in addition to acting on many other areas of the central nervous system. We compared nociceptive thresholds (heat and mechanical) and pain behavior in response to a sustained stimulus (formalin test) between Fischer and Lewis rats that have different HPA axis activity. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of CRF produced dose-dependent antinociception at a lower dose in Lewis (40 ng, paw pinch 71+/-0 g) compared to Fischer rats (200 ng, 112+/-3 g). The antinociceptive effect of CRF was mostly preserved in adrenalectomized Fischer rats. The i.c.v. administration of the CRF receptor antagonist, astressin, had a hyperalgesic effect, suggesting that CRF is tonically active. Lewis rats required higher doses of astressin (5 ng, paw pinch 51+/-1 g) to show nociceptive effects compared to Fischer rats (1 ng, 79+/-1 g). Only Lewis rats vocalized during mechanical stimulus, and this behavior was prevented by diazepam or morphine but was worsened by CRF, despite its antinociceptive property. In the formalin test, CRF and astressin had the largest effect on the interphase suggesting that they act on the endogenous pain inhibitory system. CRF also increased anxiety/fear-like behaviors in the forced swim and predator odor tests. Our results establish that central CRF is a key modulator of pain behavior and indicates that CRF effects on nociception are largely independent of its mood modulating effect as well as its control of the HPA axis.
Neurochemical and histological studies suggest that methylamphetamine (MA) administered continuously or in high doses is toxic to dopaminergic and serotonergic nerve terminals. Degeneration of the dopaminergic or serotonergic cell bodies themselves has not been reported, however. In the present study, administration of a single 100 mg/kg dose of MA was toxic to a subpopulation of neurons in the somatosensory cortex, an area of the brain which does not contain catecholaminergic or serotonergic cell bodies. This dose of MA also produced a long-lasting depletion of serotonin (5-HT) but not norepinephrine in the somatosensory cortex. Dopamine levels in the somatosensory cortices of control animals were virtually undetectable and therefore were not studied further. Administration of alpha-methyltyrosine (alpha-MT), a catecholamine synthesis inhibitor, prior to the injection of MA blocked both the depletion of 5-HT and the degeneration of cortical perikarya produced by MA alone. Since the MA-induced depletion of 5-HT and the MA-induced degeneration of cortical perikarya are correlated, we suggest that the serotonergic system may be involved in the toxic effects of MA on the cortical neurons.
During a prospective study conducted at the rehabilitation Center of the physically handicapped persons and at the mother-child Hospital in Bamako, the authors report 50 cases of neuromuscular complications of the quinine intramuscular injection in the child. The scan revealed muscular calcifications in 37 cases (740%), abscesses, in 7 cases (14%) and muscular inflammations in 6 cases (12%). Xray of the affected limb was not systematic: it has been performed in four children in the case of a subjacent bone involment. It showed calcifications in two cases. If muscular abscess is easily diagnosed by clinical exam it is not the case for calcifications. The scan allows to set up a precise mapping of the muscular lesions, to determine their type and size. It also helps the clinicians in their therapeutic attitude. Medical treatment associated with rehabilitation has been carried out in 40 patients (80%) and surgery in 10 patients (20%).
The effects of two newly synthesized barbiturates--HB-7 (2-hydroxylamino-5-ethyl-5-sec. pentylbarbituric acid) and HB-2 (2-hydroxylamino-5-ethyl-5-propylbarbituric acid--on models of apomorphine stereotypy and haloperidol catalepsy were investigated in experiments on male rats and mice. The test drugs used were phenobarbital (PB)--in stereotypy and catalepsy, and diphenylhydantoin (DPH)--in catalepsy. HB-7 changes the stereotypy considerably: it developed faster and disappeared faster than in the control group. Phenobarbital had a weaker effect on the intensity and duration of the stereotypy. Catalepsy was induced with haloperidol in doses of 1 and 2 mg/kg. HB-7 and HB-2 weakened haloperidol catalepsy, compared with PB and DPH. The faster occurrence of apomorphine stereotypy and the weakening of the haloperidol-induced catalepsy under the effect of the two hydroxyl-amine derivatives of barbituric acid suggest an effect on the cerebral dopaminergic transmission. This effect may be mediated through the effect of HB-7 on DA-ergic transmission or through the GABA-ergic transmission in the brain structures responsible for these behavioural reactions.
Several cases have been reported in which symptoms suggestive of transient radicular irritation occurred after the use of lidocaine (lignocaine) for spinal anaesthesia. We report three patients in whom we observed similar symptoms after uneventful spinal anaesthesia using isobaric 2% mepivacaine.
Bisphenol A (BPA) is an estrogenic environmental toxin widely used for the production of plastics. Frequent human exposure to this chemical has been proposed to be a potential public health risk. The objective of this study was to assess the effects of BPA on germ cell cyst breakdown and primordial follicle formation. Pregnant mice were treated with BPA at doses of 0, 0.02, 0.04, 0.08 mg/kg body weight/day from 12.5 day postcoitum. BPA was delivered orally to pregnant female mice. A dose-response relationship was observed with increased BPA exposure level associated with more oocytes in germ cell cyst and less primordial follicle at postnatal day 3 (P < 0.01). Progression to meiosis prophase I of oocytes was delayed in the 0.08 mg/kg bw/day treated group (P < 0.01). Decreased mRNA expression of specific meiotic genes including Stra8, Dmc1, Rec8 and Scp3 were observed. In conclusion, BPA exposure can affect the formation of primordial follicle by inhibiting meiotic progression of oocytes.
Male painters are commonly exposed to ethylene glycol monoethyl ether (EGE), a well known reproductive toxic agent causing testicular atrophy, in the form of solvent mixture containing toluene (TOL) and xylene (XYL). This study was carried out to determine the effect of exposing male rats to solvent mixture containing TOL and XYL on the EGE (200 mg/kg) on testicular atrophy and production of toxic metabolite, ethoxyacetic acid (EAA) from EGE. Compared to the extent of testes atrophy observed upon EGE administration alone, the combined administration of EGE (200 mg/kg) with TOL (250 mg/kg) and XYL (500 mg/kg) for 4 weeks has reduced the extent of testes atrophy by 25%. The combined administration delayed the time for appearance of the highest plasma concentration (t(max)) of EAA from 3 to 6 h and also decreased the highest concentration (Cmax) as well as the total amount of plasma EAA (AUC(0-18 h)) by 45 and 29%, respectively. This explained the diminished testicular atrophy in male rats observed when EGE was administered in a solvent mixture containing TOL and XYL. This study suggested that testicular toxicity observed in male painters caused by EGE may be decreased when they are exposed to EGE in the form of solvent mixture containing TOL and XYL.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) reduce dopaminergic neuron degeneration in animal models of Parkinson disease (PD). However, no epidemiological data have been available on NSAID use and the risk of PD.
To investigate prospectively whether the use of nonaspirin NSAIDs or aspirin is associated with decreased PD risk.
Prospective cohorts of 44 057 men and 98 845 women free of PD, stroke, or cancer (Health Professionals Follow-up Study, 1986-2000, and Nurses' Health Study, 1980-1998). Main Outcome Measure Newly diagnosed PD.
We documented 415 incident PD cases (236 men and 179 women). Participants who reported regular use of nonaspirin NSAIDs at the beginning of the study had a lower risk of PD than nonregular users during the follow-up; the pooled multivariate relative risk was 0.55 (95% confidence interval, 0.32-0.96, P =.04). Compared with nonusers, a nonsignificantly lower risk of PD was also observed among men and women who took 2 or more tablets of aspirin per day (relative risk, 0.56; 95% confidence interval, 0.26-1.21).
These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that use of NSAIDs may delay or prevent the onset of PD.
The present study was performed to investigate the effects of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) compared with those of sex steroid hormones on the mammary tumor induced by local injection of 7,12-dimethylbenz(a) anthracene (DMBA) in hyperprolactinemic female rats. Under sustained hyperprolactinemia induced by pimozide (PMZ) from day 21, DMBA was injected locally into the mammary glandular tissues on day 73. Rats were divided into 5 groups as follows; steroid free (DP group), 17 beta-estradiol (DP + E2 group), testosterone (DP + T group), progesterone (DP + Prog group), or dehydroepiandrosterone (DP + DHA group). The growth pattern and histological classification of the tumor in these 5 groups and rats treated only with DMBA (D group) were examined. All of the tumors grew to a size of 10 mm in diameter and after retaining the size for a certain duration, increased the size rapidly again (onset of rapid tumor growth). The period from the day of DMBA administration to that of onset of the rapid tumor growth in DP group was shorter than in D group, and the period in DP + DHA was longer than DP group and longest in steroid-treated groups. The incidence of adenocarcinoma was 2 tumors/16 animals in D group, 9/11 in DP group, 5/11 in DP + Prog group, 2/7 in DP + E2 group, 2/8 in DP + T group, and 0/10 in DP + DHA group. The incidence of adenocarcinoma in each steroid group except in DP + Prog group was lower than in DP group. These results suggest that prolactin (PRL) increases the incidence of adenocarcinoma in the DMBA-induced mammary tumor model, and DHEA especially decreases the incidence of adenocarcinoma.
To study the mechanism of action of Yishen Qudu capsule (YSQDC) in experimental rat model of chronic renal failure (CRF).
Membranous nephropathy model was induced by cationized bovine serum albumin intravenous administration in rats for 7 weeks and developed to CRF. The model was then treated with YSQDC of large or small dose by gastrogavage for 5 weeks. Oxidated starch was used in the control group.
YSQDC could reduce proteinuria, serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, total cholesterol, triglyceride and serum circulating immune complex (P < 0.01 or P < 0.05), it also reduced the kidney coefficient, glomerular cells and tubular protein cast significantly (all P < 0.01). The strength of immune fluorescence weakened remarkably (P < 0.01). The pathological lesions improved significantly after treatment under light and electron-microscopic examination.
YSQDC could improve renal function significantly and inhibit the progression of CRF.
