A novel paired-like homeobox gene, designated as Qrx, was identified by a yeast one-hybrid screen using the bovine Rhodopsin promoter Ret-1 DNA regulatory element as bait. Qrx is preferentially expressed in both the outer and inner nuclear layers of the retina. Its homeodomain is nearly identical to that of Rx/Rax, a transcription factor that is essential for eye development, but it shares only limited homology elsewhere. Although Qrx and Rx/Rax show similar DNA binding properties in vitro, the two proteins demonstrate distinct target selectivity and functional behavior in promoter activity assays. QRX synergistically increases the transactivating function of the photoreceptor transcription factors Crx and NRL and it physically interacts with CRX. Qrx is present in the bovine and human genomes, but appears to be absent from the mouse genome. Nonetheless, a 5.8 kb upstream region of human QRX is capable of directing expression in presumptive photoreceptor precursor cells in transgenic mice. These results indicate that Qrx may be involved in modulating photoreceptor gene expression. In addition, the finding of rare heterozygous QRX sequence changes in three individuals with retinal degeneration raises the possibility that QRX may be involved in disease pathogenesis.
The Mnt gene encodes a Mad-family bHLH transcription factor located on human 17p13.3. Mnt is one of 20 genes deleted in a heterozygous fashion in Miller-Dieker syndrome (MDS), a contiguous gene syndrome that consists of severe neuronal migration defects and craniofacial dysmorphic features. Mnt can inhibit Myc-dependent cell transformation and is hypothesized to counterbalance the effects of c-Myc on growth and proliferation in vivo by competing with Myc for binding to Max and by repressing target genes activated by Myc : Max heterodimers. Unlike the related Mad family members, Mnt is expressed ubiquitously and Mnt/Max heterodimers are found in proliferating cells that contain Myc/Max heterodimers, suggesting a unique role for Mnt during proliferation. To examine the role of Mnt in vivo, we produced mice with null (Mnt(KO)) and loxP-flanked conditional knock-out (Mnt(CKO)) alleles of Mnt. Virtually all Mnt(KO/KO) mutants in a mixed (129S6 x NIH Black Swiss) or inbred (129S6) genetic background died perinatally. Mnt-deficient embryos exhibited small size throughout development and showed reduced levels of c-Myc and N-Myc. In addition, 37% of the mixed background mutants displayed cleft palate as well as retardation of skull development, a phenotype not observed in the inbred mutants. These results demonstrate an important role for Mnt in embryonic development and survival, and suggest that Mnt may play a role in the craniofacial defects displayed by MDS patients.
Phenylpropanolamine produces dose-related, life-threatening cardiovascular, and central nervous toxicity from alpha-adrenergic overstimulation. Although some recommend the alpha-adrenergic antagonist, phentolamine, as treatment for such toxicity, its therapeutic efficacy has not been previously studied. We sought to determine if pretreatment with phentolamine could reduce acute myocardial injury and mortality in rats administered an overdose of phenylpropanolamine.
In the mortality arm of the study, 28 unanesthetized, male Wistar rats (14 animals per group) were randomized to receive an intraperitoneal injection of phentolamine (3 mg/kg) or an equal volume of normal saline diluent (control group). Twenty-five minutes later, all rats received an intraperitoneal injection of phenylpropanolamine (150 mg/kg). Mortality was compared at 24 hours. In the myocardial injury arm of the study, 20 unanesthetized rats (10 per group) were randomized to receive an intraperitoneal injection of phentolamine (3 mg/kg) or normal saline (control group). Twenty-five minutes later, all rats received an intraperitoneal injection of phenylpropanolamine (75 mg/kg). Seventy-two hours after phenylpropanolamine administration, all surviving animals were sacrificed and transverse sections of their hearts were graded histologically for injury by a blinded cardiac pathologist.
Twelve rats died within 6 hours of phenylpropanolamine administration. Mortality was significantly lower in the phentolamine-pretreated rats (2/14; 14%) as compared to the control group (10/14; 71%; p = 0.006). The degree of myocardial injury was significantly lower in the phentolamine-pretreated rats (0) as compared to the control group (1.4 +/- 1.6; p = 0.012).
In this rat model, phentolamine pretreatment prevented acute myocardial injury and significantly reduced lethality from an intraperitoneal phenylpropanolamine overdose.
The effects of garlic (Allium sativum L., Liliaceae) dialysate were studied on arrhythmias induced in anaesthetized dogs and on isolated left rat atria. Garlic dialysate suppressed premature ventricular contractions (PVC) and ventricular tachycardia (VT) in ouabain-intoxicated dogs as well as the ectopic rhythms induced by isoprenaline (10(-6) M) and aconitine (10(-8) M) on electrically driven left rat atria. The effective refractory period (ERP) and the sinus node recovery time (SNRT) of isolated rat atria were prolonged in a dose-dependent manner by the administration of this extract. Garlic dialysate decreased the positive inotropic and chronotropic effects of isoprenaline in a concentration-dependent manner. These last effects were increased by propranolol. The results suggest that garlic dialysate has a significant antiarrhythmic effect in both ventricular and supraventricular arrhythmias.
We report the case of a T3 prostate cancer in a 70-year-old white man. Hormone therapy represents a prominent branch in the treatment of locally advanced and metastatic prostate cancer. Gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonists have been proven to have a double effect on androgen metabolism: an initially stimulating, followed by an inhibitory, effect on the pituitary gland. This phenomenon may be noxious in the case of gonadotroph adenoma, with subsequent symptoms of intracranial hypertension. Gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonists (abarelix), by avoiding the flare-up reaction, might be used in such instances.
Restriction fragment length polymorphisms (rflps) have been identified for the nicotinic ACh receptor subunit genes alpha 5 and alpha 7 between two mouse strains (C3H/2ibg and DBA/2ibg) that differ in sensitivity to the convulsant effects of nicotine. In the study reported here, F2 animals derived from these two parental stains were tested for their sensitivity to the convulsant effects of nicotine as measured by seizure frequency and overall sensitivity score. Subsequently, the animals were genotyped for the alpha 5 and alpha 7 rflps. In addition, levels of alpha-bungarotoxin (alpha-BTX) binding were measured in four brain regions (colliculi, hippocampus, hypothalamus and striatum) to determine whether there is a correlation among alpha-BTX binding levels, sensitivity to nicotine and nicotinic ACh receptor subunit genotype. A significant relationship was observed between alpha 5 and alpha 7 genotype and sensitivity to nicotine. In addition, the alpha 7 rflp significantly correlated with levels of alpha-BTX binding in hippocampus, colliculi and striatum. The alpha 5 rflp did not correlate with alpha-BTX binding levels in any brain region. Levels of alpha-BTX binding did not correlate with nicotine-induced seizure sensitivity or overall nicotine sensitivity score in any of the four brain regions examined.
Inhibition of type IV phosphodiesterase activity is beneficial in various inflammation mediated by its function to suppress the production of inflammatory cytokines in inflammatory cells. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs(NSAIDs) such as indomethacin are well known to develop gastric mucosal lesion. As pathogenesis of indomethacin induced gastric mucosal lesion, activation of neutrophils and inflammatory cytokine production play critical roles. However, the effect of phosphodiesterase inhibitors on development of gastric mucosal lesion has not been reported. In the present study, we examined the effect of specific type IV phosphodiesterase inhibitor(rolipram) on NSAIDs-induced gastric mucosal lesion. Also, we examined the effect of rolipram on tissue prostaglandin E2 production.
To report a syncopal episode associated with fluoxetine in a young, relatively healthy man.
Single case report.
585-bed private hospital.
A 30-year-old man with hypertension, esophageal ulcers, and syncope of recent onset.
Fluoxetine was started six weeks prior to the syncopal episode in this patient, and is the medication most temporally associated with the event. Because the patient had a normal neurologic examination and electroencephalogram, but an abnormal electrocardiogram on admission and one month after discharge, the syncopal episode was most likely caused by cardiovascular effects of fluoxetine.
Fluoxetine has been reported to cause cardiac conduction abnormalities in otherwise normal individuals. Bradycardia secondary to a direct effect of fluoxetine, or to a drug interaction among fluoxetine, ranitidine, and enalapril is the most likely explanation for this patient's syncopal episode.
The effects of isoflurane (1 MAC) and enflurane (1 MAC) on cerebral blood flow and cerebral oxygen consumption were studied in 20 male patients without intracranial disease undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery (mean age 57 and 59 years respectively). The aim of the study was to investigate whether both agents diminish autoregulation of cerebral blood flow and CO2 reactivity of cerebral blood vessels. Patients were randomly assigned to one of two groups (10 patients each) receiving either isoflurane 1.15 vol.% or enflurane 1.68 vol.% endexpiratory. Measurements were performed and blood samples were taken in the awake state (I); 15 min after achievement of steady-state conditions with 1.68 vol.% enflurane or 1.5 vol.% isoflurane without blood pressure support (II); during norepinephrine-induced hypertension at a cerebral perfusion pressure of 110 mmHg (III); and during controlled hyperventilation at a PaCO2 of 27 mmHg and normotension (IV). Cerebral blood flow was measured by the argon wash-in technique. Isoflurane and enflurane produced a significant drop in cardiac index and cerebral perfusion pressure and reduced cerebral blood flow significantly by 35% and 39% respectively. Cerebral oxygen consumption was also significantly decreased by 49% (isoflurane) and 50% (enflurane). Induced hypertension with norepinephrine increased cerebral blood flow significantly by 32% (isoflurane) and 26% (enflurane), while hypocapnia reduced cerebral blood flow significantly by 26% (isoflurane) and 29% (enflurane).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To assess ADHD symptoms after switching from Methylphenidate Immediate-release (MPH-IR) to Methylphenidate Spheroidal Oral Drug Absorption System (MPH-SODAS) in clinically stable patients with ADHD and to identify predictors of dissatisfaction with MPH-SODAS.
This is an 8-week open clinical trial. Patients were assigned to MPH-SODAS according to their pre-study dose of MPH-IR. Assessments at baseline were conducted using the Swanson, Nolan, and Pelham-IV Questionnaire (SNAP-IV), and the Barkley's Side Effect Rating Scale (SERS). Potentials predictors of treatment response were evaluated.
From 62 patients, 47 completed the protocol. There was no significant change in the total score at the SNAP-IV (F (1,51.26) = 0.01; P = 0.91) and its subscales scores during the trial. Although no significant effect on the SERS total score (F (1,111.49) = 0.75; P = 0.39) was found, one adult patient with a previous cardiovascular condition presented a hemorrhagic cerebral vascular accident resulting in her obit. Overall, 46 (74.2%) patients reported to be satisfied. No factor assessed predicted dissatisfaction in univariated analyses.
Results suggested that switching from MPH-IR to MPH-SODAS did not affect stabilization of ADHD symptoms in the majority of patients. MPH prescription in patients with previous cardiovascular conditions must be extremely careful. Further studies with long-acting MPH including larger samples and patients not responsive to MPH-IR are needed especially in countries outside the US.
S-1 is a novel oral fluoropyrimidine that combines tegafur with CDHP and oxonic acid. To decrease the incidence of late onset, severe diarrhea observed in a previous study, a phase I study was conducted to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of S-1 utilizing a 14-day schedule, repeated every 21 days, in patients with chemotherapy-refractory upper gastrointestinal malignancies.
S-1 was administered orally, twice-daily, at an initial dose level of 30 mg/m2/dose; doses were escalated by 5 mg/m2 at each level. A minimum of three patients were enrolled at each dose level. S-1 toxicity, antitumor activity, and pharmacokinetics were assessed. The MTD was based on the dose limiting toxicity (DLT) during the first treatment cycle.
At 30 mg/m2 no DLT was observed in the first three evaluable patients. Two of the first three patients at the 35 mg/m2 dose level developed DLTs (grade 3 rash and dehydration). An additional nine patients were subsequently treated at 30 mg/m2 without DLT and this dose was established as the MTD. Common toxicities at 30 mg/m2 included diarrhea, nausea, skin rash, anorexia, and fatigue. No grade 4 toxicities were observed. One partial response was seen in a patient with gemcitabine-refractory pancreatic adenocarcinoma and ten patients with pancreatic, gastric, or gallbladder carcinomas achieved stable disease as their best response to therapy. The AUC(0-8) of 5-FU at the 30 and 35 mg/m2 dose levels were 875 +/- 212 and 894 +/- 151 h ng/ml, respectively.
In a 14-day dosing schedule, the MTD of S-1 was 30 mg/m2 and preliminary evidence of antitumor activity was seen in a North American population with refractory upper gastrointestinal malignancies.
We report the case of a two and a half year-old girl who developed fulminant hepatic failure following 5 days of regular oral ingestion of paracetamol, approximately 90 mg x kg-1 x day-1. She presented with the typical findings of hepatomegaly, encephalopathy, high ammonia levels, high transaminases, hypoglycaemia and lactic acidosis. After stabilization, she was transferred to a specialist paediatric liver failure unit and fortunately she made a full recovery with intensive medical management.
Based on its success as a transplant immunosuppressor, there is intense interest in using rapamycin in the treatment of progressive glomerulopathies involving native kidneys. However, we call attention to the potential toxicity associated with the use of rapamycin in this setting.
We conducted a study to examine the efficacy and safety of rapamycin in patients with progressive chronic renal failure. Eleven patients with either focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, immunoglobulin A nephropathy, membranous nephropathy or membrano-proliferative glomerulonephritis and progressive renal failure (defined as an increase in >25% of baseline serum creatinine over the last year or loss of glomerular filtration rate > or =5 ml/min/year as determined by the Cockcroft-Gault formula), proteinuria > or =1.0 g/24 h and with a creatinine clearance of > or 20 ml/min/1.73 m(2) were entered into a 12 month study. Patients were treated with rapamycin, starting at 5 mg/day, orally, aiming for target blood levels of 7-10 ng/dl. All patients were on treatment with an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and/or an angiotensin receptor blocker, aiming to control blood pressure < or =145/90 mmHg.
Six patients developed acute renal failure, defined as an increase in serum creatinine > or =0.5 mg/dl (baseline: 3.2+/-0.9 mg/dl; peak: 5.6+/-1.6 mg/dl; P<0.01, paired t-test). In four patients, discontinuation of the drug resulted in improvement of renal function close to baseline levels. One patient required haemodialysis and had no subsequent recovery of renal function. In another patient, renal function recovered after discontinuation of the drug and then rapamycin was resumed at a lower dose when creatinine returned to baseline. This resulted in a second acute increase in serum creatinine that failed to return to baseline when the medication was discontinued. Four other patients had the following adverse events: skin rash, severe hypertriglyceridaemia, diarrhoea and hyperkalaemia. In none of the subjects were rapamycin levels >15 ng/dl.
Rapamycin can cause nephrotoxicity in some patients with chronic glomerulopathies. Whether the toxicity is solely related to rapamycin, due to the combination of proteinuria and rapamycin, or other unknown factor use is presently undetermined.
To assess the safety and efficacy of ABT-089, a novel α(4)β(2) neuronal nicotinic receptor partial agonist, vs. placebo in children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
Two multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group studies of children 6 through 12 years of age were conducted. Study 1 (n = 274) assessed six treatment groups over 8 weeks: 4 once-daily (QD) ABT-089 doses (0.085-0.700 mg/kg), QD atomoxetine, and placebo. Study 2 (n = 119) assessed three treatment groups over 6 weeks: 2 QD ABT-089 doses (0.7 mg/kg, 1.4 mg/kg) and placebo. The primary efficacy variable was the investigator-administered Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Rating Scale-IV: Home Version (ADHD-RS-IV [HV]) Total Score. Safety was assessed by adverse event (AE) monitoring, laboratory tests, vital signs, physical examinations, and electrocardiogram measures.
There was no statistically significant difference between ABT-089 and placebo in mean change from baseline to final evaluation of ADHD-RS-IV (HV) Total Score or other outcome measures at any dose in either study. In Study 1, atomoxetine showed statistically significant improvement for the primary and most secondary endpoints. ABT-089 was generally safe and well tolerated, with no statistically significant difference between any ABT-089 dose and placebo in the overall incidence of any specific AE, and no clinically significant changes in other safety measures.
ABT-089 did not show efficacy on the primary efficacy variable, the ADHD-RS-IV (HV) Total Score, or other measures of ADHD symptomatology in children with ADHD, and had a safety profile similar to placebo. These results contrast with published reports of efficacy of nicotinic modulators in adults with ADHD.
The objective of the current study was to examine the risk factors for progression in severity of anthracycline-induced cardiac dysfunction, thereby providing information that is useful in refining cancer treatment regimes and guiding follow-up.
Serial echocardiograms were performed on 101 acute lymphoblastic leukemia survivors and 83 Wilms tumor survivors after a mean interval of 6.2 years and 6.7 years since last anthracycline dose, respectively, at first study, and after 10.3 years and 11.1 years, respectively, at second study. The paired data were contrasted with data from 100 normal subjects, and potential correlations with follow-up interval, cumulative dose, cancer diagnosis, gender, age at diagnosis, and growth were explored using univariate and multiple regression techniques.
The most important predictor of worsening cardiac performance was total anthracycline dose. As a group, patients receiving < 240 mg/m(2) showed no deterioration of left ventricular end systolic stress at > 10 years from the end of treatment.
Survivors who have received low-dose anthracycline require cardiac surveillance infrequently. In good prognosis tumors, cumulative anthracycline dose should be maintained at < 250 mg/m(2).
In the present study, we investigated the effects of risperidone treatment for 4 weeks on plasma levels of 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in 89 schizophrenic patients. We also compared the plasma levels of BDNF and MHPG between the schizophrenic group and 103 sex-and age-matched normal controls. In addition, we investigated the effects of two SNPs of the noradrenaline transporter (NAT) gene on plasma levels of MHPG, BDNF, and clinical improvement. The mean dose of risperidone was 3.8+/-1.4 mg/day. We demonstrated that treatment with risperidone increased plasma MHPG levels, and this increase was associated with an improvement of the negative symptoms of schizophrenia. In contrast, plasma BDNF did not change after 4 weeks of risperidone treatment, and the two SNPs in NAT did not influence the response to risperidone treatment or plasma MHPG and BDNF levels. These results suggest that the enhancement of noradrenergic neurons by risperidone, which occurs independently of the two SNPs of NAT, plays a role in the clinical efficacy of the drug.
Methamphetamine (METH) is a powerful psychostimulant that produces dopaminergic neurotoxicity manifested by a decrease in the levels of dopamine, tyrosine hydroxylase activity and dopamine transporter (DAT) binding sites in the nigrostriatal system. We have recently reported that blockade of the neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) isoform by 7-nitroindazole provides protection against METH-induced neurotoxicity in Swiss Webster mice. The present study was undertaken to investigate the effect of a neurotoxic dose of METH on mutant mice lacking the nNOS gene [nNOS(-/-)] and wild-type controls. In addition, we sought to investigate the behavioral outcome of exposure to a neurotoxic dose of METH. Homozygote nNOS(-/-), heterozygote nNOS(+/-) and wild-type animals were administered either saline or METH (5 mg/kg x 3). Dopamine, DOPAC and HVA levels, as well as DAT binding site levels, were determined in striatal tissue derived 72 h after the last METH injection. This regimen of METH given to nNOS(-/-) mice affected neither the tissue content of dopamine and its metabolites nor the number of DAT binding sites. Although a moderate reduction in the levels of dopamine (35%) and DAT binding sites (32%) occurred in striatum of heterozygote nNOS(+/-) mice, a more profound depletion of the dopaminergic markers (up to 68%) was observed in the wild-type animals. METH-induced hyperthermia was observed in all animal strains examined except the nNOS(-/-) mice. Investigation of the animals' spontaneous locomotor activity before and after administration of the neurotoxic dose of METH (5 mg/kg x 3) revealed no differences. A low dose of METH (1.0 mg/kg) administered to naive animals (nNOS(-/-) and wild-type) resulted in a similar intensity of locomotor stimulation. However, 68 to 72 h after exposure to the high-dose METH regimen, a marked sensitized responses to a challenge METH injection was observed in the wild-type mice but not in the nNOS(-/-) mice. Taken together, these results indicate that nNOS(-/-) mice are protected against METH-induced dopaminergic neurotoxicity and locomotor sensitization. It also appears that a partial deficit of dopaminergic transmission in wild-type animals does not prevent the development of sensitization to METH, whereas a deficit in nNOS may attenuate this process.
Conflicting data exist about the expression of L1 cell adhesion molecule (L1-CAM) in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC). To determine the clinical usefulness of L1-CAM as a therapeutic or prognostic marker molecule in renal cancer patients, we analyzed its expression on a cohort of 282 renal cell carcinoma (RCC) patients. L1-CAM expression was found in 49.5% of 282 renal cancer tissues. Importantly, L1-CAM expression in patients with ccRCC was associated with significantly shorter patient survival time. We further present evidence that L1-CAM was involved in the resistance against therapeutic reagents like rapamycin, sunitinib and cisplatin. The downregulation of L1-CAM expression decreased renal cancer cell proliferation and reduced the expression of cyclin D1. In addition, we found out that Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) deficiency was accompanied by a downregulation of the transcription factor PAX8 and L1-CAM. In normal renal tissue, PAX8 and L1-CAM were co-expressed in collecting duct cells. Importantly, the downregulation of PAX8 by small interfering RNA increased the expression of L1-CAM and concomitantly induced the migration of renal cancer cells. Furthermore, we observed in 65.3% of 282 RCC patients a downregulation of PAX8 expression. With chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis, we additionally demonstrate that PAX8 can bind to the promoter of L1-CAM and we further observed that the downregulation of PAX8 was accompanied by increased L1-CAM expression in a high fraction of ccRCC patients. In summary, we show that VHL and PAX8 are involved in the regulation of L1-CAM in renal cancer and L1-CAM represents an important therapeutic and prognostic marker protein for the treatment of ccRCC.
Curcumin has been used to treat cancer, diabetes and other pathologies. However, little is known regarding its role in altering post-translational modifications of histone H3. A recent report suggests that acute hyperglycaemia induces a global down-regulation of gene expression in human tissues and epigenetic regulation of gene expression could be a novel mechanism underlying the pathological processes of hyperglycaemia. The present study was undertaken to examine changes in histone modification by curcumin treatment which prevents development of type I diabetic nephropathy.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats were rendered diabetic using a single dose of streptozotocin (55 mg kg(-1), i.p.). Diabetic nephropathy was assessed by measurements of blood urea nitrogen, albumin and creatinine levels. Post-translational modifications of histone H3, heat shock protein-27 (HSP-27) and mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase p38 expression were examined by western blotting.
Treatment of diabetic rats with curcumin significantly decreased blood urea nitrogen and creatinine and increased albumin; variables associated with the development of diabetic nephropathy. There were also increased levels of HSP-27 and MAP kinase (p38) in diabetic kidney. However, curcumin treatment prevented this increase in HSP-27 and p38 expression. Moreover, at nuclear level curcumin prevented the decrease in dephosphorylation and increases acetylation of histone H3.
Our results suggested that protection against development of diabetic nephropathy by curcumin treatment involved changes in post-translational modifications of histone H3, expression of HSP-27 and MAP kinase p38 in diabetic kidney.
Profound hypotension from rapid vancomycin administration resulted in cardiac arrest. Successful resuscitation was performed with inotropic support.
Fifteen patients receiving propranolol preoperatively and undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting had serum propranolol levels determined preoperatively and at several times early postoperatively. In addition, the patients' hemodynamic parameters and postoperative sodium nitroprusside dose requirements were monitored. All patients had significant multivessel disease and normal left ventricular function. Preoperative serum propranolol levels ranged from 16 to 243 ng/ml, with a mean level of 92 +/- 17 ng/ml; propranolol measured at the end of bypass ranged from 0 to 92 ng/ml, with a mean level of 23 +/- 7 ng/ml. Fourteen patients (93%) had hypertension postoperatively and required intravenous sodium nitroprusside to maintain mean blood pressure at or below 90 mm Hg. According to linear regression analysis, the severity of the postoperative hypertension or, specifically, the nitroprusside dose requirements, correlated significantly with the patients' serum propranolol levels postoperatively (correlation coefficient, R = 0.76, with p less than 0.001). The one normotensive patient had no detectable serum propranolol at any time postoperatively. No correlation was noted between the patient's preoperative serum propranolol levels and the need for nitroprusside therapy postoperatively. These results demonstrate that there is a significant relationship between residual propranolol and the development of hypertension postoperatively.
The effects of ethylene glycol monoethyl ether (EGEE) on the antioxidant systems of the testes and epididymal spermatozoa were investigated in rats at dose levels of 0, 100, 200 and 400 mg kg(-1) body weight (bw) administered orally by gavage for 14 consecutive days. The bw gain of the EGEE-treated rats decreased significantly at 200 and 400 mg kg(- 1) bw compared with the control group. There were no significant changes in the weights of the testes, epididymis, seminal vesicles and prostate glands of the EGEE-treated rats. In the testes, while EGEE treatment resulted in significant decrease in glutathione (GSH) level, superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) activities, it markedly increased the malondialdehyde (MDA) level, glutathione-S-transferase (GST) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activities at 200 and 400 mg kg(-1) dose levels but vitamin C content remained unaffected in all the groups. In the spermatozoa, administration of EGEE caused significant decrease in the activities of CAT, GST and LDH as well as in the levels of vitamin C and GSH but significantly increased the MDA level and SOD activity compared with the control rats. Histopathological examination showed severe degeneration of the testes, such as generalized erosion and necrosis of the germinal epithelium of the testes, but mildly affected the epididymis at 400 mg kg(-1) dose only. Data on spermatozoa analysis of EGEE-treated rats revealed significant decrease in the epididymal spermatozoa number, testicular spermatozoa number, daily spermatozoa production and spermatozoa motility but significantly increased the total spermatozoa abnormalities without affecting the spermatozoa live-dead ratio at all dose levels when compared with the control group. Results of haematological examination showed that white blood cells (WBC), platelets neutrophils and mean corpuscular haemoglobin concentration (MCHC) were significantly lower whereas lymphocytes were increased in 200 and 400 mg/kg EGEE-exposed rats than in the controls. EGEE at 100 mg/kg bw produced minor effect on haematological parameters but adversely affected testes and spermatozoa. In summary, short term administration of EGEE is hematotoxic and gonadotoxic and its effects on male reproduction could be due to the induction of oxidative stress in testes and spermatozoa.
The Southwest Oncology Group (SWOG) began testing doxorubicin-containing combination chemotherapy in 1972 using the cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone (CHOP) regimen. Subsequent studies, including 350 patients followed for up to 13.3 years, demonstrated that CHOP was curative in 32% of advanced stage, diffuse large cell lymphomas. More recently, promising results from several institutions suggest that new combinations including methotrexate, bleomycin, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, dexamethasone (m-BACOD), prednisone, methotrexate, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, etoposide, cytarabine, bleomycin, vincristine, methotrexate (ProMACE-CytaBOM), and methotrexate, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, prednisone, bleomycin (MACOP-B) may be superior to CHOP as gauged by complete response (CR) rates. Consequently, the SWOG developed a strategy to compare these regimens directly with CHOP. In 1984 the SWOG began testing these regimens in sequential group-wide phase II trials to confirm therapeutic activity, establish feasibility with regard to toxicity in a cooperative group setting, and gain experience using the complex schedules and dose-modification schemes. Those phase II studies have been completed, and preliminary results indicate that these regimens are active (CR rates, 53% to 65%) and feasible to administer in a cooperative group setting (fatal toxicity, 2% to 6%). We conclude that these three drug regimens can be administered safely in a cooperative group setting, and the CR rates support the current SWOG comparative trial using CHOP as the standard treatment arm.
Hepatocellular cancer accounts for almost half a million cancer deaths a year, with an escalating incidence in the Western world. Alcohol has long been recognized as a major risk factor for cancer of the liver and of other organs including oropharynx, larynx, esophagus, and possibly the breast and colon. There is compelling epidemiologic data confirming the increased risk of cancer associated with alcohol consumption, which is supported by animal experiments. Cancer of the liver associated with alcohol usually occurs in the setting of cirrhosis. Alcohol may act as a cocarcinogen, and has strong synergistic effects with other carcinogens including hepatitis B and C, aflatoxin, vinyl chloride, obesity, and diabetes mellitus. Acetaldehyde, the main metabolite of alcohol, causes hepatocellular injury, and is an important factor in causing increased oxidant stress, which damages DNA. Alcohol affects nutrition and vitamin metabolism, causing abnormalities of DNA methylation. Abnormalities of DNA methylation, a key pathway of epigenetic gene control, lead to cancer. Other nutritional and metabolic effects, for example on vitamin A metabolism, also play a key role in hepatocarcinogenesis. Alcohol enhances the effects of environmental carcinogens directly and by contributing to nutritional deficiency and impairing immunological tumor surveillance. This review summarizes the epidemiologic evidence for the role of alcohol in hepatocellular cancer, and discusses the mechanisms involved in the promotion of cancer.
In 1981, the authors developed an original strategy combining 3 cycles of doxorubicin (adriamycin), bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (ABVD) or ABVD-like chemotherapy and extended high-dose radiation for treating patients with clinical stages IIIB and IV Hodgkin lymphoma (HL). In the current study, the authors analyzed the 20-year results of this treatment as applied to 213 patients according to 2 successive trials.
All patients who responded to chemotherapy received extended high-dose radiation. The rates of complete remission (CR), freedom from disease progression (FFP), HL-specific survival (HLSS), second tumors and cardiac events, freedom from treatment-associated mortality (FFTM), overall survival (OS), and event-free survival were calculated.
In December 2006, the median follow-up of the surviving patients exceeded 13 years; 102 patients (48%) achieved a CR after chemotherapy and 178 patients (84%) did so after radiotherapy. The rates of FFP (61%, quasi-stable after 6 years) and HLSS (81.6%, stable after 12 years) were found to be significantly higher in patients who achieved a CR after chemotherapy. The incidence of hematologic malignancies was 10.9% (with 10 of 12 events occurring within the first 7 years). The rates of solid tumors (32.4%), cardiac events (33.4%), and FFTM (65.6%) did not reach any plateau by 20 years and were found to be significantly associated with patient age. The 20-year OS rate was 48%.
This combined modality treatment gave long-term results similar to those obtained using 6 to 8 cycles of ABVD. Response to the initial brief chemotherapy administration was found to be predictive of the FFP and HLSS rates. The low rate of FFTM was the result of extended high-dose radiation. The results of the current study should help to design future trials for treating patients with advanced stages of HL.
