Coronary heart disease (CHD) increases with smoking and this factor interacts with hypercholesterolemia and hypertension in raising the incidence of this condition in a greater than linear fashion. This can be explained by the adverse effect of smoking on plasma fibrogen, platelet turnover and lipid profile. It may also be accounted for, however, by the acute bradycardia, increase in blood pressure and generalized vasoconstriction accompanying smoking, due to a nicotine-dependent activation of the sympathetic nervous system. These effects (which in heavy smokers can raise blood pressure permanently) are only partly offset by beta-blockers and can only be abolished by opposing the cardiac and vascular sympathetic influences by alpha and beta-blockade combined.
Increased formation of advanced glycation/lipoxidation endproducts (AGEs/ALEs) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of various diabetic complications. Several compounds have been developed as inhibitors of AGE/ALE formation. We examined the effects of two new AGE/ALE inhibitors, LR-9 and LR-74, on the development of early renal disease and lipid metabolism in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats.
Diabetic Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with either of the LR compounds for 32 weeks. Progression of renal disease was evaluated by measurements of urinary albumin and plasma creatinine concentrations. AGE/ALE and nitrotyrosine levels in kidneys were determined by immunohistochemistry. AGE-induced chemical modification of the tail tendon collagen and levels of Nepsilon-(carboxymethyl) and (carboxyethyl)- lysines (CML and CEL) in skin collagen were measured. Plasma lipids and their lipid hydroperoxide concentrations were also determined. In vitro, both compounds were tested for inhibiting lipid peroxidation reactions.
Treatment of either LR compounds significantly inhibited the increase in albuminuria, creatinaemia, hyperlipidaemia and lipid peroxidation in diabetic rats without any effect on hyperglycaemia. Both compounds also reduced CML-AGE and nitrotyrosine accumulation in kidney glomeruli and tubules, AGE-linked fluorescence and cross-linking of tail collagen, and levels of CML and CEL in skin collagen. In vitro, LR compounds inhibited the oxidation of human low-density lipoprotein (LDL).
Both compounds can inhibit the progression of renal disease and also prevent dyslipidaemia in type-1 diabetic animals. These compounds may have an additional beneficial effect as an antioxidant against lipid peroxidation, and thus may provide alternative therapeutic options for the treatment of various diabetic macrovascular complications.
The incidence of thromboembolic complications was compared retrospectively in 90 cadaveric kidney allograft recipients treated with cyclosporin and low-dose steroids and the same number of cadaveric kidney allograft recipients treated with azathioprine, antilymphocyte globulin, and high-dose steroids. In the cyclosporin group, 17 thromboembolic complications occurred in 13 patients: 10 pulmonary emboli, 1 renal vein thrombosis, 3 deep vein thromboses, and 3 haemorrhoidal thromboses. In the azathioprine group, the only thromboembolic complication was 1 episode of superficial thrombophlebitis. Haemostatic tests in cyclosporin-treated and azathioprine-treated patients and normal subjects (10 in each group) showed increased concentrations of factor VIII C, fibrinogen, antithrombin III, and protein C in the cyclosporin-treated patients. Adenosine-5'-diphosphate-induced platelet aggregation was also significantly enhanced in the cyclosporin group. The effect of cyclosporin on haemostasis may predispose to thromboembolic complications.
The ameliorating effect of vitamin C (injected intraperitoneally) was evaluated against changes in sperm count and sperm head morphology in mice fed either 3, 6 or 1000 mg/kg body wt/day endosulfan, phosphamidon or mancozeb, respectively. The animals received aqueous preparations of the pesticides and/or vitamin C once daily for 35 consecutive days. All three pesticides, irrespective of their chemical nature, significantly decreased the sperm count, as well as increased the frequency of sperm with aberrant head morphology. Out of the three doses of vitamin C used the middle and higher ones (20 and 40 mg/kg body wt/day, respectively) afforded comparatively more significant amelioration. The lower dose (10 mg/kg body wt/day) of this vitamin (quantitatively equivalent to the human therapeutic dose according to body weight) was least efficacious in both the tests. However, amelioration was never up to the control level in any case. Vitamin C doses, when administered alone, did not produce any adverse effect on sperm count and sperm head morphology.
Seven adult male and eight adult female rats were treated with lithium for 16 weeks. The kidneys were fixed by vascular perfusion with glutaraldehyde and investigated by morphometric methods. Plasma lithium was in the therapeutic range. All treated animals showed a significant increase in interstitial volume as a result of focal interstitial fibrosis (from 6.6% to 9.8% in males and from 5.2% to 8.4% in females) and a significant reduction in proximal tubular length in male rats (from 292 to 181 m/kidney). Two rats had elevated plasma urea at the end of the experiment. A few animals that were treated for 8 months showed even more significant structural changes. The findings in the present study demonstrate that lithium treatment also in the adult rat leads to focal interstitial fibrosis in the renal cortex.
Monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) have different modes of action and toxicity profile compared to chemotherapeutics, which makes it interesting to combine these drugs. Addition of cytokines to MAb therapy may also augment immune effector functions utilized by MAb. In an effort to improve the therapeutic effect of a MAb-based regimen in colorectal carcinoma (CRC) patients, the effects of a combination of alpha-interferon (alpha-IFN), 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) and mouse MAb17-1A was evaluated in 27 patients with metastatic disease. alpha-IFN was given s.c. once daily for 5 consecutive days and at days 4 and 5, 5-FU was administered as a daily i.v. bolus injection. After 2 days rest, GM-CSF was given s.c. once daily, days 8-14 and on day 10, MAb17-1A was given i.v. The treatment cycle was repeated every 4th week. One patient achieved a partial remission and 13 patients showed a minor response or stable disease >3 months, inducing an overall response rate of 54%. Responding patients survived significantly longer than non-responding patients (p=0.021). Median overall survival time for all patients was 75 weeks and progression-free survival time 15 weeks. Adverse events related to alpha-IFN, GM-CSF and 5-FU were as expected. The frequency of patients with an immediate-type allergic reaction (ITAR) against MAb17-1A at the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th treatment cycles was 11%, 52%, 62% and 64% respectively. The planned MAb17-1A dose had to be reduced by repeated infusions. No patient received full dose of MAb17-1A from the 3rd cycle and onward. Compared to historical control patients treated with MAb17-1A alone, the present combination regimen seemed to improve the response rate (54% vs 15%) as well as progression-free survival (15 vs 7 weeks; p<0.05).
The aim of the present study was to determine whether bile acid feeding to rats can reverse ethinyl estradiol-induced cholestasis. Animals received ethinyl estradiol (2 mg/kg/day) for 6 days or were coinfused with estrogen plus various bile acids (60 mg/kg/day). Cholestasis could be significantly prevented by tauroursodeoxycholic acid, was partly corrected by ursodeoxycholic acid, and was unchanged by chenodeoxycholic acid. Total bile salt secretion was increased in every group. The secretion of the major primary bile acids (cholic acid and beta-muricholic acid) was restored to a large extent in rats supplemented with tauroursodeoxycholate but not in chenodeoxycholate-fed rats. In the former group, the canalicular transport of taurocholate and the bile salt pool size were identical with those of control rats. The hydrophilic-hydrophobic balance of the administered bile salt species appears to be an essential factor in the restoration of bile secretion, the more hydrophilic bile salt having the more hepatoprotective effect.
Paclitaxel is a recent antineoplastic agent that belongs to the taxane family. Its activity has been demonstrated in advanced and refractory ovarian, breast, lung, and head and neck cancer. Adverse cutaneous reactions to paclitaxel have been reported, namely bullous fixed drug eruption, onycholysis, acral erythema, erythema multiforme, and pustular eruption. We report the first case of scleroderma-like changes after paclitaxel administration. A 63-year-old patient presented with an edematous and infiltrated erythema of the head, neck, axillae, and left hand 10 days after administration of paclitaxel and paraplatin for primitive peritoneal cancer. Cutaneous lesions improved after a change from paclitaxel to cyclophosphamide. Cutaneous lesions recurred 3 months later, after reintroduction of paclitaxel, and progressively evolved to cutaneous sclerosis. Skin biopsy showed a dermal fibrosis. Biologic tests revealed no autoimmunity. Scleroderma-like lesions of this patient were reminiscent of previously reported cases that occurred after administration of docetaxel, which also belongs to the taxan family. Thus, scleroderma-like syndromes seem to represent a unique cutaneous adverse event caused by taxanes.
To assess the effects of a calcium sensitizer, pimobendan, in patients with mild to moderate chronic heart failure.
Pimobendan was administered at a dose of 2.5 mg/day for 12 months to 34 patients with chronic heart failure (New York Heart Association functional class IIm to III) after treatment with diuretics and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. The etiologies of heart failure were dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM), old myocardial infarction (OMI) and other heart disease (Others). The effects of pimobendan were assessed by echocardiography, blood pool scintigraphy, Holter monitoring, (123)I-meta-iodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) imaging and (123)I-beta-methyl-p-iodophenyl-pentadecanoic acid (BMIPP) imaging.
Pimobendan produced improvement of symptoms in the majority of patients. Improvement was more common in the DCM group than in the OMI group. Left ventricular internal diameter measured by echocardiography was significantly decreased. Left ventricular ejection fraction was significantly increased in the DCM and Others groups. The heart to mediastinum ratio on MIBG imaging was significantly increased in the DCM and Others groups, and the heart to mediastinum ratio on BMIPP imaging was significantly increased in the DCM group.
Pimobendan is effective in patients with chronic heart failure but is less effective in patients with OMI than in patients with DCM or other heart diseases.
Neuropathic pain accompanies peripheral nerve injury following a variety of insults including metabolic disorders, traumatic injury, and exposure to neurotoxins such as vincristine and taxol. Vincristine, a microtubule depolymerizing drug, produces a peripheral neuropathy in humans that is accompanied by painful paresthesias and dysesthesias (Sandler et al., [1969] Neurology 19:367-374; Holland et al. [1973] Cancer Res. 33:1258-1264). The recent development of an animal model of vincristine-induced neuropathy provides an opportunity to investigate mechanisms underlying this form of neuropathic pain. Systemic vincristine (100 microg/kg) produces hyperalgesia to mechanical stimuli during the second week of administration, which persists for more than a week (Aley et al. [1996] Neuroscience 73:259-265). To test the hypothesis that changes in microtubule structure in nociceptive sensory neurons accompany vincristine-induced hyperalgesia, we analyzed unmyelinated axons in saphenous nerves of vincristine-treated rats. This study constitutes the first quantitative ultrastructural analysis of the cytoskeleton of unmyelinated axons in peripheral nerve during neuropathic hyperalgesia. There was no evidence of unmyelinated fiber loss or a decrease in the number of microtubules per axons. There was, however, a significant decrease in microtubule density in unmyelinated axons from vincristine-treated rats. This decrease in microtubule density was due to a significant increase in the cross-sectional area of unmyelinated axons, suggesting swelling of axons. In addition, vincristine-treated axons had significantly fewer microtubules cut in cross-section and significantly more tangentially oriented microtubules per axon compared to controls. These results suggest that vincristine causes disorganization of the axonal microtubule cytoskeleton, as well as an increase in the caliber of unmyelinated sensory axons.
A gas chromatographic method with fl ame ionization detection (GC/FID) was developed for the determination of cocaine and its metabolites in blood and urine samples from cocaine users in Northwestern Spain. After a solid-phase extraction with Bond Elut Certify cartridges and a derivatization with bis-trimethylsilyltrifluoroacetamide-trimethylchlorosilane (1%), calibration curves were constructed over 0.4-4 micro g ml(-1) for urine and 0.1-2 micro g ml(-1) for blood, using proadifen as the reference compound. The average extraction recoveries were 75% for urine and 78% for blood. The limits of detection and quantitation were 0.071 and 0.24 micro g ml(-1), respectively. Coefficients of variation were <10% and accuracy was within +/-12%. The average blood concentrations of cocaine, benzoylecgonine and ecgonine methyl ester in 42 living patients were 0.22, 1.43 and 0.16 micro g ml(-1), respectively. Urine samples were collected from individuals in the criminal justice system (70 cases), from drug abusers admitted to emergency rooms (36 cases) and from patients under detoxification treatment (36 cases). The second group exhibited the highest average concentrations (e.g. 0.97 micro g ml(-1) for cocaine, 5.23 micro g ml(-1) for benzoylecgonine and 0.39 micro g ml(-1) for ecgonine methyl ester). Sixty- five fatal intoxications due to cocaine alone or in combination with other drugs were studied, and average blood levels were found to be higher in the deaths related to cocaine alone (e.g. 0.40 micro g ml(-1) for cocaine, 2.38 micro g ml(-1) for benzoylecgonine and 0.38 micro g ml(-1) for ecgonine methyl ester).
Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) are widely used flame retardant compounds that are persistent and bioaccumulative and therefore have become ubiquitous environment contaminants. Animal studies suggest that prenatal PBDE exposure may result in adverse neurodevelopmental effects.
In a longitudinal cohort initiated after 11 September 2001, including 329 mothers who delivered in one of three hospitals in lower Manhattan, New York, we examined prenatal PBDE exposure and neurodevelopment when their children were 12-48 and 72 months of age.
We analyzed 210 cord blood specimens for selected PBDE congeners and assessed neurodevelopmental effects in the children at 12-48 and 72 months of age; 118, 117, 114, 104, and 96 children with available cord PBDE measurements were assessed at 12, 24, 36, 48, and 72 months, respectively. We used multivariate regression analyses to evaluate the associations between concentrations of individual PBDE congeners and neurodevelopmental indices.
Median cord blood concentrations of PBDE congeners 47, 99, and 100 were 11.2, 3.2, and 1.4 ng/g lipid, respectively. After adjustment for potential confounders, children with higher concentrations of BDEs 47, 99, or 100 scored lower on tests of mental and physical development at 12-48 and 72 months. Associations were significant for 12-month Psychomotor Development Index (BDE-47), 24-month Mental Development Index (MDI) (BDE-47, 99, and 100), 36-month MDI (BDE-100), 48-month full-scale and verbal IQ (BDE-47, 99, and 100) and performance IQ (BDE-100), and 72-month performance IQ (BDE-100).
This epidemiologic study demonstrates neurodevelopmental effects in relation to cord blood PBDE concentrations. Confirmation is needed in other longitudinal studies.
Insulin-resistant states are commonly associated with chronic inflammation and hepatic overproduction of apolipoprotein B100 (apoB100), leading to hypertriglyceridemia and a metabolic dyslipidemic profile. Molecular mechanisms linking hepatic inflammatory cascades and the pathways of apoB100-lipoprotein production are, however, unknown. In the present study, we employed a diet-induced, insulin-resistant hamster model, as well as cell culture studies, to investigate the potential link between activation of hepatic inflammatory nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) signaling cascade and the synthesis and secretion of apoB100-containing lipoproteins. Using an established insulin-resistant animal model, the fructose-fed hamster, we found that feeding fructose (previously shown to induce hepatic inflammation) for as little as 4 days reduced hepatic IkappaB (inhibitor of NF-kappaB) level, indicating activation of the inflammatory NF-kappaB cascade. Importantly, IKK (IkappaB kinase) inhibition was found to suppress apoB100 overproduction in fructose-fed hamster hepatocytes. As IKK, the upstream activator of NF-kappaB has been shown to inhibit insulin signaling, and insulin is a major regulator of apoB100, we modulated IKK activity in primary hamster hepatocytes and HepG2 cells and assessed the effects on hepatic apoB100 biosynthesis. Inhibition of the IKK-NF-kappaB pathway by BMS345541 and activation of the pathway by adenoviral-mediated IKK overexpression decreased and increased newly synthesized apoB100 levels, respectively. Pulse-chase and metabolic labeling experiments revealed that IKK activation regulates apoB100 levels at the levels of apoB100 biosynthesis and protein stability. Inhibition of the IKK-NF-kappaB pathway significantly enhanced proteasomal degradation of hepatic apoB100, while direct IKK activation led to reduced degradation and increased apoB100 mRNA translation. Together, our results reveal important links between modulation of the inflammatory IKK-NF-kappaB signaling cascade and hepatic synthesis and secretion of apoB100-containing lipoproteins. Hepatic inflammation may be an important underlying factor in hepatic apoB100 overproduction observed in insulin resistance.
Apoptosis serves as a protective mechanism by eliminating damaged cells through programmed cell death. After apoptotic cells pass critical checkpoints, including mitochondrial fragmentation, executioner caspase activation, and DNA damage, it is assumed that cell death inevitably follows. However, this assumption has not been tested directly. Here we report an unexpected reversal of late-stage apoptosis in primary liver and heart cells, macrophages, NIH 3T3 fibroblasts, cervical cancer HeLa cells, and brain cells. After exposure to an inducer of apoptosis, cells exhibited multiple morphological and biochemical hallmarks of late-stage apoptosis, including mitochondrial fragmentation, caspase-3 activation, and DNA damage. Surprisingly, the vast majority of dying cells arrested the apoptotic process and recovered when the inducer was washed away. Of importance, some cells acquired permanent genetic changes and underwent oncogenic transformation at a higher frequency than controls. Global gene expression analysis identified a molecular signature of the reversal process. We propose that reversal of apoptosis is an unanticipated mechanism to rescue cells from crisis and propose to name this mechanism "anastasis" (Greek for "rising to life"). Whereas carcinogenesis represents a harmful side effect, potential benefits of anastasis could include preservation of cells that are difficult to replace and stress-induced genetic diversity.
New agents with increased activity and/or reduced toxicity are needed for the treatment of advanced breast cancer. The anthracene derivatives mitoxantrone and bisantrene had significant activity and acceptable toxicity in phase II trials. In an ongoing phase III trial we have now randomized 150 patients with advanced breast cancer to either doxorubicin (60 mg/m2), mitoxantrone (14 mg/m2) or bisantrene (260 mg/m2) i.v. q 3 weeks with re-randomization for cross-over at the time of progression to determine the relative efficacy and toxicity of these three agents. To be eligible, patients must have had only one previous chemotherapy regimen. ER positive patients must have failed endocrine therapy. Patients with CHF or severe cardiac disease were ineligible. In this preliminary evaluation, 117 patients are evaluable for response and 110 for toxicity. Median age for all patients is 58 years (range 26-78). The majority (86%) are postmenopausal. Fifty-nine percent percent of the patients have visceral dominant disease. Estrogen receptor is positive in 37%, negative in 39% and unknown in 24% of patients. Median performance status (SWOG) is 1, range 0-2. Objective responses have been observed on each arm (doxorubicin 9/35, mitoxantrone 6/38, bisantrene 6/44). Thirty-two patients are evaluable for cross-over response (doxorubicin 2/13, mitoxantrone 1/11, bisantrene 0/8). The predominant toxicity is leukopenia with a nadir WBC count less than 2000 in 45% of all courses administered. Leukopenia is similar with the three drugs. Significant nausea, vomiting and alopecia are common with doxorubicin and uncommon with the other agents. Congestive heart failure has been observed in one patient (doxorubicin). Definitive conclusions regarding the efficacy and toxicity of these agents await the completion of this trial.
Vinorelbine is a synthetic vinca alkaloid used for the treatment of Hodgkin's disease and metastatic breast, non-small-cell lung, and ovarian cancers. Vinorelbine-associated tumor pain can be so severe that patients are unable to complete therapy. We present a series of three patients who were premedicated with ketorolac in an attempt to control infusion-related pain. Two of our patients responded well and were able to complete their courses of vinorelbine therapy. The third had persistently severe pain, and therapy was terminated because of pain and lack of response to vinorelbine treatment. These three cases support the hypothesis that surgery or radiation therapy before the use of vinorelbine may increase the likelihood of experiencing associated tumor pain. Premedication with ketorolac and morphine before vinorelbine infusion is proposed as a reasonable prophylactic treatment for associated tumor pain.
Carcinogenesis studies of benzyl acetate (a fragrance and flavoring agent) were conducted in F344 rats and B6C3F1 mice. The chemical was given in corn oil by gavage once daily, 5 days/week for 103 weeks, to groups of 50 animals of each sex and species. For rats the doses were 0, 250, and 500 mg/kg body weight and for mice the doses were 0, 500, and 1000 mg/kg. Mean body weights of control and dosed rats and mice were not affected adversely by benzyl acetate. The survival of control and low dose female mice was lower than that of the high dose group. A genital tract infection may have contributed to the reduced survival. No other significant difference in survival was observed for dosed rats or mice. Benzyl acetate was absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract of rats and mice, with approximately 90% of the administered dose recovered as various metabolites in the urine within 24 h. The primary metabolite was hippuric acid, with minor amounts of a mercapturic acid, and one or more unidentified metabolites. This capacity for absorption, metabolism, and disposition was unaffected by the amount or number of doses administered. Under the conditions of these studies, benzyl acetate administration was associated with an increased incidence of acinar cell adenoma of the exocrine pancreas in male F344/N rats. No evidence of carcinogenicity was found for female F344/N rats. For male and female B6C3F1 mice there was evidence of carcinogenicity, in that benzyl acetate caused an increased incidence of hepatocellular neoplasms (particularly adenomas) and squamous cell neoplasms of the forestomach.
Tamoxifen has been the most important therapeutic agent for the treatment of estrogen receptor (ER)-positive breast cancer for the past three decades. Tamoxifen is extensively metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes, and recent in vivo studies have shown that women with genetically impaired cytochrome P450 2D6 have reduced production of endoxifen and a higher risk of breast cancer recurrence. Despite these observations, the contribution of endoxifen to the overall drug effectiveness of tamoxifen remains uncertain. Here, we provide novel evidence that endoxifen is a potent antiestrogen that functions in part by targeting ERalpha for degradation by the proteasome in breast cancer cells. Additionally, we show that endoxifen blocks ERalpha transcriptional activity and inhibits estrogen-induced breast cancer cell proliferation even in the presence of tamoxifen, N-desmethyl-tamoxifen, and 4-hydroxytamoxifen. All of the effects of endoxifen are concentration dependent and do not occur at concentrations observed in human CYP2D6 poor metabolizers. These results support the theory that endoxifen is the primary metabolite responsible for the overall effectiveness of tamoxifen in the treatment of ER-positive breast cancer.
***micro***-, delta- and kappa-opioid receptors are widely expressed in the central nervous system where they mediate the strong analgesic and mood-altering actions of opioids, and modulate numerous endogenous functions. To investigate the contribution of the kappa-opioid receptor (KOR) to opioid function in vivo, we have generated KOR-deficient mice by gene targeting. We show that absence of KOR does not modify expression of the other components of the opioid system, and behavioural tests indicate that spontaneous activity is not altered in mutant mice. The analysis of responses to various nociceptive stimuli suggests that the KOR gene product is implicated in the perception of visceral chemical pain. We further demonstrate that KOR is critical to mediate the hypolocomotor, analgesic and aversive actions of the prototypic kappa-agonist U-50, 488H. Finally, our results indicate that this receptor does not contribute to morphine analgesia and reward, but participates in the expression of morphine abstinence. Together, our data demonstrate that the KOR-encoded receptor plays a modulatory role in specific aspects of opioid function.
PEGylation of IFN-alpha has been used successfully to improve the pharmacokinetic properties and efficacy of the drug. To prepare a PEGylated form of human interferon-beta-1a (IFN-beta-1a) suitable for testing in vivo, we have synthesized 20 kDa mPEG-O-2-methylpropionaldehyde and used it to modify the N-terminal alpha-amino group of the cytokine. The PEGylated protein retained approximately 50% of the activity of the unmodified protein and had significantly improved pharmacokinetic properties following intravenous administration in rats. The clearance and volume of distribution at steady state were reduced approximately 30-fold and approximately 4-fold, respectively, resulting in a significant increase in systemic exposure as determined by the area under the curve. The elimination half-life of the PEGylated protein was approximately 13-fold greater than for the unmodified protein. The unmodified and PEGylated proteins were tested for their ability to inhibit the formation of radially oriented blood vessels entering the periphery of human SK-MEL-1 melanoma tumors in athymic nude homozygous (nu/nu) mice. In a single dose comparison study, administration of 1 x 10(6) units of unmodified IFN-beta-1a resulted in a 29% reduction in vessel number, while 1 x 10(6) units of PEGylated IFN-beta-1a resulted in a 58% reduction. Both treatments resulted in statistically significant reductions in mean vessel number as compared to the vehicle (control)-treated mice, with the PEGylated IFN-beta-1a-treated mice showing a statistically significantly greater reduction in mean vessel number as compared to the unmodified IFN-beta-1a-treated mice. In a multiple versus single dose comparison study, daily administration of 1 x 10(6) units of unmodified IFN-beta-1a for 9 days resulted in a 51% reduction in vessel number, while a single dose of 1 x 10(6) units of the PEGylated protein resulted in a 66% reduction. Both treatments resulted in statistically significant reductions in mean vessel number as compared to the vehicle-treated mice, with the PEGylated IFN-beta-1a-treated mice showing a statistically significantly greater reduction in mean vessel number as compared to the unmodified IFN-beta-1a-treated mice. Therefore, the improved pharmacokinetic properties of the modified protein translated into improved efficacy. Since unmodified IFN-beta is used for the treatment of multiple sclerosis and hepatitis C virus infection, a PEGylated form of the protein such as 20 kDa mPEG-O-2-methylpropionaldehyde-modified IFN-beta-1a may serve as a useful adjunct for the treatment of these diseases. In addition, the antiangiogenic effects of PEGylated IFN-beta-1a may be harnessed for the treatment of certain cancers, either as a sole agent or in combination with other antitumor drugs.
Many antidepressants are known to cause adverse sexual effects. Bupropion is an antidepressant with fewer reported adverse sexual effects. Studies of sexual side effects are often confounded by psychiatric and medical conditions affecting sexual function. In this study, the effects of bupropion on subjective and objective sexual functioning were measured in healthy men. Thirteen men without psychiatric or medical illness completed a 2-week, placebo-controlled, double-blind, crossover trial of bupropion sustained-release 300 mg/day. Subjects had a 1-week washout period between trials. Sexual function was measured using a validated, self-administered questionnaire and the RigiScan, an instrument measuring nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity. No differences were found in self-reported sexual function, number of erections, total erection time, or penile rigidity in subjects taking bupropion compared with those taking placebo or baseline. These findings support that bupropion does not have subjective adverse sexual side effects and does not affect nocturnal erections in healthy men.
We have previously found that aged rats show decreased proximal acidification without changes in NHE3 or V-H(+) ATPase expression in brush border membrane vesicles. However, we did not identify any mechanism underlying these observations. The aim of the present work was to evaluate some of the regulatory systems of proximal acidification that could be affected by aging. We measured plasma concentrations of parathyroid hormone (PTH) and the amount of cAMP in the renal cortex of young and old Wistar rats. PTH plasma concentration was increased in old rats, whereas, although it showed a tendency to increase, the cAMP content in the renal cortex of old rats was not significantly different compared with the cortex of young rats. We measured the abundance of NHE8 isoforms of the Na(+)/H(+) exchanger in brush border membrane vesicles from proximal convoluted tubules (PCT) of young and old rats by western blot analysis. We performed RT-PCR experiments in renal cortex homogenates from both experimental groups to evaluate mRNA expression of NHE3, NHE8 and H(+)ATPase. In senile rats, we detected a decreased abundance (at both gene expression and protein level) of the NHE8 isoform. These results could explain previous observations in which proximal tubule acidification appears affected in aged rats through a decrease in the activity of ethylisopropyl amiloride (EIPA)- and Bafilomycin-sensitive components, without changes in the NHE3 and V-H(+)ATPase abundance in the apical membrane of the PCT.
Oseltamivir phosphate (OP; Tamiflu) is a prodrug of the anti-influenza neuraminidase inhibitor oseltamivir carboxylate (OC) and has been developed for the treatment and prevention of both A and B strains of influenza. The recent increase in OP resistance in influenza A virus (H1N1; commonly called "swine flu") has raised questions about the widespread use of Tamiflu in seasonal epidemics and the potential ecotoxicologic risk associated with its use in the event of a pandemic.
The objectives of this study were to develop an analytical method for quantitative determination of OC in sewage treatment plant (STP) effluent and receiving river water, and to investigate the occurrence of OC in STP effluent and river water in Japan during a seasonal flu outbreak.
We developed an analytical method based on solid-phase extraction followed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Using this method, we analyzed samples from three sampling campaigns conducted during the 2008-2009 flu season in Kyoto City, Japan.
The highest concentration of OC detected in STP discharge was 293.3 ng/L from a conventional activated-sludge-based STP; however, we detected only 37.9 ng/L from an advanced STP with ozonation as a tertiary treatment. In the receiving river water samples, we detected 6.6-190.2 ng/L OC, during the peak of the flu season.
OC is present in STP effluent and river water only during the flu season. Ozonation as tertiary treatment in STP will substantially reduce the OC load in STP effluent during an influenza epidemic or pandemic.
Dialysis patients have higher cardiovascular events rate than patients with normal renal function. Hyperhomocysteinemia, a risk factor for cardiovascular disease, is frequently detected in dialysis patients. Vitamin B supplementation lowers hyperhomocysteinemia, but it is unknown whether it reduces cardiovascular events rate. We planned a long-term study to analyze the effects of homocysteine-lowering vitamin B therapy on cardiovascular disease in hemodialysis patients.
We performed a single center open prospective trial. Patients, just on folate therapy at enrolment, were left out from randomization and maintained folate therapy according to study's protocol (group A). Patients, untreated with folic acid at recruitment, were randomly assigned to other 2 groups: patients submitted to folate supplementation according to study's protocol (group B), and untreated ones (group C). We instructed patients to take 5 mg oral daily folic acid or 5 mg every other day whether serum folate levels were up the normal high limit. We measured homocysteine, folate and vitamin B12 plasma levels at baseline and every 4 months. We chose the appearance of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events as end-points.
We analyzed data of 114 patients for a median follow-up time of 871 days. Stepwise regression analysis demonstrated that baseline homocysteine levels were related to folate (coefficient: -1.02; F: 64.5), creatinine (coefficient: 0.98; F: 11.3), and C reactive protein (coefficient: -0.64; F: 4.3). Patients ended the study for the following reasons: cardiovascular morbidity (n = 44), death (n = 25), renal transplant (n = 9), moved away (n = 4). Cardiovascular events occurred in 58 of 114 patients (51%), in 26 of 63 (41%) treated patients (both group A and group B) and in 32 of 51 (63%; chi2 = 6.0; p = 0.05) untreated patients (group C). Kaplan-Meier survival analysis showed that cardiovascular events were less frequent in treated patients with low homocysteine levels (chi2 24.1; p < 0.0001). Cox regression analysis showed that cardiovascular events were explained by homocysteine, dialysis vintage, past cardiovascular accidents, and age. We noticed not only lower homocysteine levels, but also higher protein catabolic rate values in events-free patients as compared with patients with nonfatal cardiovascular events. After having divided patients into 4 subgroups according to high and low, split at median, Hcy and protein catabolic rate values, we observed in Kaplan-Meier survival curves for cardiovascular events by these subgroups that patients with low Hcy and high protein catabolic rate values showed a significant lower hazard rate than patients with high Hcy and low protein catabolic rate levels (chi2 = 21.7; p < 0.0001).
This trial shows for the first time that homocysteine-lowering folate therapy decreases cardiovascular events in dialysis patients. It is necessary to perform large prospective studies to confirm our results.
The association between rofecoxib use and ischemic stroke has not been shown in clinical trials. These trials were limited by short-term follow-up and non-placebo controls. Extended follow-up data from the APPROVe trial has shed some light on the incidence of ischemic stroke after rofecoxib use.
Review of published and unpublished data from APPROVe. We searched the Food and Drug Administration and Merck websites to obtain unpublished data. Statistical analyses were performed by the APPROVe investigators and are reported as relative risks (RR) with their 95% confidence intervals (CI).
APPROVe evaluated the effect of rofecoxib 25 mg/d versus matching placebo on recurrent colon polyps in 2,586 patients with a history of colorectal adenomas. Although the published data from APPROVe showed a nonsignificant relative risk of ischemic stroke (RR 1.99, 95% CI 0.74 to 5.39, p = 0.174), extended follow-up data from Merck's website recently revealed a significant three-fold increase in ischemic stroke in patients randomized to rofecoxib (RR 2.91, 95% CI 1.15 to 7.39, p = 0.024). Notably, seven out of eighteen ischemic strokes occurred after rofecoxib use had been discontinued.
Based on extended follow-up data, APPROVe is the first trial to report an increase in ischemic stroke risk with rofecoxib compared to placebo. The finding of ischemic strokes after rofecoxib use had been discontinued should be further studied to determine whether patients previously exposed to rofecoxib remain at an increased risk.
