2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) has both agonist and antagonist effects on estrogen-mediated activities and estrogen receptor (ER) levels in epithelial tissues following exposure. We previously demonstrated that TCDD alters bone marrow lymphocyte stem cells, including prothymocytes, as measured by functional assays and alterations in the lymphocyte stem cell-specific markers terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT) and recombinase activating gene-1 (RAG-1). We have also shown that 17 beta-estradiol valerate (E2V) affects lymphocyte stem cells by reducing TdT and RAG-1 mRNA. It has been suggested that the effect of TCDD on these lymphocyte stem cells may be mediated directly or indirectly through estrogenic action and/or the ER. Studies were designed to evaluate whether endogenous estrogens or the ER mediate TCDD-elicited bone marrow alterations and thymic atrophy. Ovariectomy did not alter the sensitivity of mice to TCDD-induced thymic atrophy or to a reduction in TdT biosynthesis in bone marrow cells compared with either intact or sham-operated mice. The pure estrogen antagonist ICI 164,384 blocked E2V-induced uterine hypertrophy, thymic atrophy and reductions in lymphocyte stem cell markers. However, the antiestrogen failed to protect against TCDD-elicited thymic atrophy or bone marrow alterations in intact animals. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that the effects of TCDD on the thymus and/or bone marrow are mediated by mechanisms independent of estrogens or the ER.
It has been hypothesized that the developmental toxicity of certain compounds is, in part, due to maternal toxicity resulting in alterations in zinc (Zn) metabolism that affects the developing conceptus. In the present work the effects of developmentally toxic doses of 2-ethylhexanoic acid (EHXA), 2-ethylhexanol (EHXO), and valproic acid (VPA) on Zn metabolism were investigated in the pregnant rat. In experiment 1, dams were intubated with EHXA (3.13, 6.25, 9.38 or 12.5 mmol/kg), EHXO (6.25, 9.38 or 12.5 mmol/kg), VPA (1.56, 3.13, 6.25 or 9.38 mmol/kg), or corn oil (control; 1.0 ml/kg) at 14:00 h on gestation day (GD) 11.5, intubated with 32 microCi 65Zn at 22:00 h, and then killed at 08:00 h on GD 12.5. At the higher dose levels of EHXA and EHXO, and at all dosages of VPA, the percentage of 65Zn retained in maternal liver was higher, while that in the embryos was lower, than in controls. Chemical-associated changes in 65Zn distribution were associated with increased maternal liver metallothionein (MT) concentrations. In experiment 2, dams were fed diets containing 1, 25 or 97 microg Zn/g from GD 0-16 and intubated with 3.5 mmol EHXA or 1.0 ml corn oil/kg/d from GD 8-15. Dams were killed on GD 16 or 19. High incidences of encephalocele and tail defects were noted in the GD 16 fetuses of EHXA-treated dams fed either the low or adequate Zn diet, the highest incidences being in the low Zn group. On GD 19 the incidence of tail defects tended to be higher in the EHXA groups than in oil-treated controls, the highest incidence occurring in the low Zn EHXA group. Encephalocele was only observed in the low Zn EHXA-treated group. Fetal weight and crown-rump lengths were decreased by EHXA treatment and low dietary Zn. The incidence of rib anomalies was higher in the EHXA-exposed groups than in their respective oil controls. In experiment 3, GD 10.5 embryos collected from control dams were cultured for 48 h in serum from control or EHXA-treated male rats fed 4.5 or 25.0 microg Zn/g diets. Embryos cultured in either EHXA or low Zn sera exhibited delayed development; the addition of Zn to these sera eliminated their developmental toxicity. These results support the hypothesis that certain chemicals which induce maternal toxicity act, in part, to influence embryonic Zn metabolism and trigger abnormal development. Importantly, the teratogenic effects of these chemicals can be modulated by dietary Zn intake.
Simazine is a triazine herbicide that is being widely applied worldwide and commonly detected in surface and groundwater. Despite its popular use in controlling weeds and algae, very limited information is available regarding its toxicity. In the present study, pregnant mice were orally exposed to low doses (0, 5, 50, or 500 µg/kg body weight per day) of simazine during gestation and lactation, during which no overt maternal toxic response was detected, and their offspring was assessed. Simazine-exposed male offspring showed decreased body, testicular, and epididymis weight, increased testicular apoptosis, and decreased sperm concentrations. Differentially-expressed genes in the testes of male offspring exposed to simazine were identified by DNA microarray, revealing 775 upregulated and 791 downregulated genes; among these, the relaxin-family peptide receptor 1 (Rxfp1), which is the receptor for relaxin hormone, was significantly downregulated. In addition, the expression of target genes in the relaxin pathway, including nitric oxide synthase 2 (Nos2) and Nos3, was significantly decreased in simazine-exposed F1 testes. Moreover, simazine inhibited NO release, and knockdown of Rxfp1 blocked the inhibitory action of simazine on NO production in testicular Leydig cells. Therefore, the present study provides a better understanding of the toxicities associated with the widely used herbicide simazine at environmentally relevant doses by demonstrating that maternal exposure interferes with the pleotropic relaxin-NO signaling pathway, impairing normal development and reproductive activity of male offspring.
Chronically catheterized dogs were studied awake and during anesthesia with high and low concentrations of halothane to assess the relationship between cardiac function and metabolism. Low concentrations of halothane (0.79 per cent endtidal) increased heart rate and decreased left ventricular stroke volume, stroke work, and dP/dt without producing other hemodynamic changes. However, similar heart rate increases produced by atrial pacing in awake animals increased aortic pressure and cardiac output and decreased left atrial pressure. Consequently, the halothane-induced tachycardia partially compensated for the negative inotropic effect of the halothane. High concentrations of halothane (1.74 per cent endtidal) further increased heart rate and elevated left atrial pressures. Cardiac output, stroke volume, stroke work, aortic pressure, LV dP/dt, myocardial blood flow and oxygen consumption were markedly decreased. Myocardial glucose extraction was also decreased. Myocardial oxygen extraction was unchanged, and lactate extraction rose with both concentrations of halothane. Consequently, the dose-dependent negative inotropic effect of halothane resulted in a decrease in cardiac oxygen demand which was equal to or greater than the decrease in oxygen delivery. Whether the same relationship would be seen in the ischemic heart is yet to be demonstrated.
Minocycline is broadly protective in neurologic disease models featuring cell death and is being evaluated in clinical trials. We previously demonstrated that minocycline-mediated protection against caspase-dependent cell death related to its ability to prevent mitochondrial cytochrome c release. These results do not explain whether or how minocycline protects against caspase-independent cell death. Furthermore, there is no information on whether Smac/Diablo or apoptosis-inducing factor might play a role in chronic neurodegeneration. In a striatal cell model of Huntington's disease and in R6/2 mice, we demonstrate the association of cell death/disease progression with the recruitment of mitochondrial caspase-independent (apoptosis-inducing factor) and caspase-dependent (Smac/Diablo and cytochrome c) triggers. We show that minocycline is a drug that directly inhibits both caspase-independent and -dependent mitochondrial cell death pathways. Furthermore, this report demonstrates recruitment of Smac/Diablo and apoptosis-inducing factor in chronic neurodegeneration. Our results further delineate the mechanism by which minocycline mediates its remarkably broad neuroprotective effects.
Pemetrexed (PEM), a multitargeted antifolate with manageable toxicity, is active against non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer; however, most patients eventually acquire resistance to PEM. To elucidate the resistant mechanism, we established PEM-resistant lung adenocarcinoma cell lines. Two parental cell lines, PC-9 and A549, were treated with step-wise increasing concentrations of PEM. Growth inhibition was determined by the 3-[4,5-dimethyl-thizol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay. Expression of the genes encoding thymidylate synthase (TS), dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR), and glycinamide ribonucleotide formyltransferase (GARFT) was analyzed by quantitative real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. The four PC-9 sublines were more resistant than the PC-9 cell line to PEM (2.2-, 2.9-, 8.4-, and 14.3-fold, respectively). The four A549 sublines also showed more resistance to PEM (7.8-, 9.6-, 42.3-, and 42.4-fold, respectively) than the parent cell line. All resistant sublines showed cross-resistance to cisplatin, but not to docetaxel, vinorelbine, 5-fluorouracil, or the active metabolite of irinotecan, SN-38. All PEM-resistant sublines expressed more TS than the parental cells, by polymerase chain reaction and Western blotting. DHFR was significantly increased in the four PEM-resistant A549 sublines. GARFT did not correlate with resistance to PEM. In summary, PEM-resistant cells remained sensitive to docetaxel, vinorelbine, 5-fluorouracil, and irinotecan. TS expression appeared to be associated with resistance to PEM.
Dementia is associated with progressive cognitive impairment and behavioral and psychological symptoms. Sleep-wake cycle disturbances are common in patients with dementia. This study evaluated the efficacy and safety of risperidone in the treatment of the behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) and associated sleep-wake cycle disturbances.
In this open-label, 12-week, observational, prospective study, the effects of risperidone were assessed using the Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI) total and subscale scores. Sleep-wake cycle disturbances were rated by patients/caregivers using a newly developed sleep behavior questionnaire that included assessment of sleep duration, quality, awakenings, and effects on daily activities. Tolerability assessments included the Udvalg for Kliniske Undersogelser (UKU) subscale for extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) and the recording of adverse events.
A total of 338 patients entered the study, with 321 patients completing. Following 12 weeks of risperidone treatment (mean dose 1.49 mg/day at end-point), the mean NPI score was reduced to 10.6 from a baseline score of 28.7. Compared with baseline, patients/caregivers reported significant improvements following 12 weeks of risperidone in total sleep hours at night (5.5 vs. 7.1 hours), hours awake in bed at night (2.3 vs. 1.2 hours), insomnia (40.1% vs. 8.4%), and other sleep-related variables. Six patients reported a total of 10 adverse events, including somnolence (n = 3) and sialorrhea (n = 2). Scores on the UKU subscale of EPS improved significantly (mean 4.0 at baseline vs. 1.7 at week 12).
Risperidone is effective and well tolerated in the treatment of BPSD and associated sleep disturbances.
The goal of this study was to determine whether an Angiotensin II receptor antagonist, candesartan, prevents myocardial fibrosis more effectively than enalapril in animals with a non-ACE pathway during the progression of congestive heart failure (CHF).
Dogs were randomly assigned to one of four groups: (1) rapid ventricular pacing (240 bpm); (2) concomitant candesartan cilexetil (1.5 mg/kg/d) and rapid pacing; (3) concomitant enalapril (1.9 mg/kg/d) and rapid pacing; (4) sham-operated control. The expression of collagen type I & III mRNA and the collagen volume fraction, which were significantly increased in the pacing-only group, were suppressed by both treatments; it was lower in the candesartan than the enalapril group. Although there were no differences in the LV stiffness coefficient (beta) among all pacing groups, the absolute changes in beta from the control values were smaller in the candesartan group, but not the enalapril group, compared with the rapid-pacing-only group.
The present study demonstrates that in animals with a non-ACE pathway, candesartan suppressed myocardial fibrosis during the progression of CHF in comparison with enalapril. Furthermore, candesartan prevented an increase in LV stiffness. These findings imply potential clinical applications for candesartan in the management of CHF to prevent myocardial fibrosis. Further prospective evaluation and clinical study will be necessary before deciding on the net benefits of candesartan in comparison to enalapril.
Decabromodiphenyl ether (decaBDE) is a brominated flame retardant used in many commercial products such as televisions, computers, and textiles. Recent reports indicate that decaBDE adversely affects male reproductive organs in mice, but the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unknown. We hypothesized that decaBDE affects mouse testes by altering the expression and phosphorylation level of cortactin (CTTN), an F-actin-binding protein that is similar to flutamide, and we performed western blot analyses on testicular samples from mice subcutaneously injected with decaBDE (0.025, 0.25, and 2.5 mg/kg body weight/day) on postnatal days 1 to 5. Mice treated with low-dose decaBDE (0.025 mg/kg) showed reduced testicular weight, sperm count, elongated spermatid and Sertoli cell numbers, as well as induced Tyr phosphorylation of CTTN and reduced the expression level of p60 Src tyrosine kinase (SRC). Further, 0.25 and 2.5 mg/kg decaBDE-exposed groups produced an decrease the expression level of CTTN. High-dose decaBDE (2.5 mg/kg) showed increased abnormal germ cells, as well as induced Ser phosphorylation of CTTN and activated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK1/2); however, high-dose decaBDE did not affect testicular weight and sperm count. These findings suggest that postnatal exposure to low-dose decaBDE inhibits mouse testicular development by increasing Tyr phosphorylation of CTTN, although different mechanisms may be involved depending on the dose of decaBDE.
Dihydroergotoxine (DHET) perfused in the dog (100 microgram/kg) presenting a cerebral per-hypocapno-anemic syndrome reduces cerebral hyperemia, increases cerebral venous PO2, despite the rise in CMRO2 and favors glucose oxidation by the brain. DHET (20 mg/kg p.o.) is able to drop mean, diastolic and systolic arterial blood pressures in renal-hypertensive rats having a cerebral edema induced by triethyltin intoxication without affecting cerebral water and sodium levels which are increased in the controls. DHET (50 microgram/kg i.v.) can also improve EEG changes produced by a traumatic edema but does not exert (200 microgram/kg i.v.) any effect on EEG changes produced in the rabbit by lithium chloride intoxication.
We have evaluated levels of 6 cytokines in sera of 35 patients of kala azar (KA), 29 post kala azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL), and 18 healthy controls using cytometric bead array technology. Results indicated significantly high levels of interferon gamma (IFN-gamma), interleukin (IL)-10, and IL-6 during active KA, while tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), IL-2, and IL-4 were minimal. Serum level of cytokines in PKDL was comparable to the controls while TNF-alpha was significantly elevated compared to KA or control. At post-treatment stage, KA patients showed a significant decrement in the levels of IFN-gamma, IL-10, and IL-6; however, IL-6 remained significantly elevated above control levels. Further, comparison of cytokine levels in children and adults revealed elevated level of IL-10 in pediatric cases. SAG unresponsive cases showed significantly elevated levels of IFN-gamma in comparison with the responsive cases. The results depict that type1 response is not depressed during active KA and suggest the possibility that unresponsiveness to type1 stimuli may prevail.
The aim of this study was to identify a phenolic prodrug compound that is minimally metabolized by rat liver microsomes, but yet could form quinone reactive intermediates in melanoma cells as a result of its bioactivation by tyrosinase. In current work, we investigated 24 phenolic compounds for their metabolism by tyrosinase, rat liver microsomes and their toxicity towards murine B16-F0 and human SK-MEL-28 melanoma cells. A linear correlation was found between toxicities of phenolic analogs towards SK-MEL-28 and B16-F0 melanoma cells, suggesting similar mechanisms of toxicity in both cell lines. 4-HEB was identified as the lead compound. 4-HEB (IC(50) 48h, 75muM) showed selective toxicity towards five melanocytic melanoma cell lines SK-MEL-28, SK-MEL-5, MeWo, B16-F0 and B16-F10, which express functional tyrosinase, compared to four non-melanoma cells lines SW-620, Saos-2, PC3 and BJ cells and two amelanotic SK-MEL-24, C32 cells, which do not express functional tyrosinase. 4-HEB caused significant intracellular GSH depletion, ROS formation, and showed significantly less toxicity to tyrosinase specific shRNA transfected SK-MEL-28 cells. Our findings suggest that presence of a phenolic group in 4-HEB is critical for its selective toxicity towards melanoma cells.
Metoclopramide (MCP) is a dopamine receptor antagonist and serotonin receptor agonist widely used as an antiemetic and gastric prokinetic drug. In addition, MCP is a reversible inhibitor of cholinesterases from the human central nervous system and blood, and may have a red blood cell (RBC) acetylcholinesterase (AChE) protective effect against inhibition by organophosphates. The purpose of the study was to quantify 'in vitro', by means of the IC50 shift, the extent of MCP conferred protection, by using paraoxon (POX) and mipafox (MPFX) as inhibitors. Paraoxon is a widely used non-neuropathic organophospate responsible for a large number of accidental or suicidal exposures. Mipafox is a neuropathic organophospate. Red blood cell AChE activities in human plasma were measured photometrically in the presence of different POX, MPFX and MCP concentrations and the IC50 was calculated. Determinations were repeated in the presence of increasing MCP concentrations. It appears that the IC50 shift induced by the presence of MCP increases with the MCP concentration in a linear manner. The protective effect of MCP on cholinesterases could be of practical relevance in the treatment of POX and MPFX poisoning. We conclude that in vivo testing of MCP as an organophosphate protective agent is warranted.
The distributions of a gap junctional protein, connexin 32 (cx 32), and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) were examined immunohistochemically in glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P)-negative foci, induced in rat liver by initiation with diethylnitrosamine (DEN, 200 mg/kg) followed by promotion with clofibrate (1% in diet) in an in vivo medium-term assay system for hepatocarcinogenesis. The results were compared to those in GST-P-positive foci induced by DEN alone. The treatment with clofibrate caused the appearance of GST-P-negative foci, increased in size as compared to GST-P-positive foci in the same liver or induced by the DEN alone. The proportion of PCNA-positive hepatocytes in GST-P-negative foci was significantly higher than in the surrounding parenchyma, indicating increased cell proliferation. The numbers of cx 32-positive spots per hepatocyte in GST-P-negative foci were clearly decreased, reaching 65.4% at week 20 and 51.8% at week 30 of values for surrounding normal hepatocytes. In GST-P-positive foci induced by DEN, only a slight decrease (80%) was observed at week 8. These findings show that a positive association between the sustained inhibition of gap junctional intercellular communication and increased cell proliferation of GST-P-negative foci in Fischer-344 male rats induced with DEN and promoted with clofibrate.
The homozygous mutant fatty Zucker rat (fa/fa) is the prominent model for the research of obesity, one of the most well-known risk factor of postmenopausal mammary cancer. But the usage as a mammary gland carcinogenesis model is considered to be restricted due to the hypoplasia of mammary gland. In the present study, to find the validity of heterozygous mutant (+/fa) lean Zucker rats as a new leptin-related mammary carcinogenesis model, we examined whether the number of terminal end buds of mammary gland, the serum biochemistry, leptin concentration in serum and adipose tissue are changed in 7-week-old female +/+, +/fa and fa/fa rats, and whether these changes and leptin, TNF-α and VEGF mRNA expression in adipose tissue of +/+ and +/fa rats are influenced by 10% corn oil diet for 5 weeks. We confirmed that mild hyperleptinemia was more pronounced in 7-week-old +/fa as compared with wild type (+/+) and hypoplasia of mammary glands characterized by fewer numbers of terminal end buds in fa/fa was not observed in +/fa. With 10% corn oil diet, leptin mRNA expression in adipose tissue showed increasing tendency both in +/fa and +/+. Comparing with +/+, adipose tissue in +/fa treated with 10% corn oil diet was found to be significantly increased in the concentration of leptin protein and tended to be elevated expression of TNF-α mRNA. These results suggest that +/fa with 10% corn oil diet may be a useful model for investigation of the participation of leptin and TNF-α in mammary gland carcinogenesis.
We report a 38-year-old man who experienced prolonged toxicity lasting over 16 hours from the time of ingestion of 1/4 ounce of crack cocaine. His illness included status epilepticus, wide and narrow complex bradyarrhythmias, ventricular arrhythmias, and delayed hyperthermia. His bradyarrhythmias were refractory to medicinal intervention and responsive to application of an external pacemaker. The patient recovered to his baseline state over the ensuing 48 hours.
Cyclophosphamide, an alkylating agent used in the chemotherapeutic treatment of neoplasias, is metabolized into active substances capable of damaging the urothelium when in contact with some enzymes. Amongst several alternative proposals for the treatment and prevention of hemorrhagic cystitis induced by cyclophosphamide the use of a mucolytic agent, N-acetylcysteine is found. An experimental study performed in rats proved the efficacy of the drug in the prevention of hemorrhagic cystitis. Bladder protection was achieved in 33% of the animals with preventive treatment with N-acetylcysteine instead of 60% in the group which did not receive the drug.
Chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection remains a major health problem worldwide. The main clinical limitation of a current antiviral drug for HBV, lamivudine, is the emergence of drug-resistant viral strains upon prolonged therapy. A group of 5-, 6-, or 5,6-substituted acyclic pyrimidine nucleosides with a 1-[(2-hydroxyethoxy)methyl] moiety were synthesized and evaluated for antiviral activities. The target compounds were prepared by the reaction of silylated uracils possessing a variety of substituents at the C-5 or C-6 positions or both with 1,3-dioxolane in the presence of potassium iodide and chlorotrimethylsilane by a convenient and single-step synthesis. Among the compounds tested, 5-chloro and 5-bromo analogues possessing an acyclic glycosyl moiety were the most effective and selective antiviral agents in the in vitro assays against wild-type duck HBV (EC50=0.4-2.2 and 3.7-18.5 microM, respectively) and human HBV-containing 2.2.15 cells (EC50=4.5-45.4 and 18.5-37.7 microM, respectively). These compounds were also found to retain sensitivity against lamivudine-resistant HBV containing a single mutation (M204I) and double mutations (L180M/M204V). The compounds investigated did not show cytotoxicity to host HepG2 and Vero cells, up to the highest concentration tested. The results presented here confirm and accentuate the potential of acyclic pyrimidine nucleosides as anti-HBV agents and extend our previous observations. We herein report the capability of acyclic pyrimidine nucleosides to inhibit the replication of both wild-type and drug-resistant mutant HBV.
In this communication, we investigate the preventive effect of a flavonoid antioxidant, silymarin, on free radical-generating skin tumor promoting agent benzoyl peroxide (BPO)-induced tumor promotion, oxidative stress and inflammatory responses in SENCAR mouse skin. Topical application of silymarin at a dose of 6 mg prior to BPO resulted in a highly significant protection against BPO-induced tumor promotion in 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene-initiated SENCAR mouse skin. The preventive effect of silymarin was evident in terms of a 70% reduction (P < 0.001) in tumor incidence, a 67% reduction (P < 0.001) in tumor multiplicity and a 44% decrease (P < 0.001) in tumor volume/tumor. In oxidative stress studies, topical application of BPO resulted in 75, 87 and 61% depletion in superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase and glutathione peroxidase (GPX) activities in mouse epidermis, respectively. These decreases in antioxidant enzyme activities were significantly (P < 0.005-0.001) reversed by pre-application of silymarin in a dose-dependent manner. The observed effects of silymarin were 18-66, 32-72 and 20-67% protection against BPO-induced depletion of SOD, catalase and GPX activity in mouse epidermis, respectively. Silymarin pre-treatment also resulted in a dose-dependent inhibition (35-87%, P < 0.05-0. 001) of BPO-induced lipid peroxidation in mouse epidermis. In inflammatory response studies, silymarin showed a strong inhibition of BPO-induced skin edema (62-85% inhibition, P < 0.001), myeloperoxidase activity (42-100% inhibition, P < 0.001) and interleukin-1alpha protein level in epidermis (36-81% inhibition, P < 0.001). These results, together with our other recent studies, suggest that silymarin could be useful in preventing a wide range of carcinogen and tumor promoter-induced cancers.
To establish if the benefit of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor therapy in retarding progressive diabetic renal injury is due to a specific intrarenal effect of the systemic hypotensive effect, we studied the effect of long-term ramipril treatment on blood pressure, glomerular filtration rate, and urinary protein excretion in streptozotocin-diabetic spontaneously hypertensive rats. The hypotensive effect of ramipril was prevented by a high salt diet, which did not alter the degree of renal angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition. Three weeks after uninephrectomy and induction of diabetes, rats were allocated to three groups. Groups 1 and 2 were given 1% NaCl, whereas group 3 was given water as drinking solution. One week later, groups 2 and 3 received 0.4 mg/kg/day ramipril in their drinking solution, which was continued over a 2-month period. Ramipril produced a blood pressure fall only in water-drinking rats (group 3) despite a similar reduction in plasma and renal angiotensin converting enzyme activity in groups 2 and 3. Salt-loaded rats had a progressive increase in urinary protein excretion over the duration of study. Ramipril treatment prevented an increase in protein excretion only in animals given water and with a reduced systolic blood pressure. Glomerular filtration rate was similar in all three groups. Ramipril treatment improved animal survival independently of a reduction in blood pressure or an effect on proteinuria. Although it is possible that angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors have specific intrarenal effects reducing progression of diabetic proteinuria, concomitant control of systemic blood pressure appears to be necessary to demonstrate a benefit.
Certain tumor cells, such as squamous carcinoma cells, express an increased number of epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptors. The goal of this study was the targeted delivery of the photocytotoxic compound Sn(IV)chlorine e6 monoethylenediamine++ (SnCe6(ED)) to tumors that overexpress the EGF receptor. Therefore EGF was conjugated to SnCe6(ED) through a carrier, such as dextran (Dex) and human serum albumin (HSA), followed by the evaluation of the photocytotoxicity on the EGF receptor overexpressing MDA-MB-468 cell line. The photobiologic activity of these conjugates was then compared to a conjugate of the photosensitizer to HSA or dextran, or to the photosensitizer alone. In contrast to EGF-HSA-SnCe6(ED), the affinity of EGF for its receptor was substantially impaired upon conjugation in EGF-Dex-SnCe6(ED). In correlation with these results, EGF-HSA-SnCe6(ED) displayed a high cytotoxicity (IC50, 63 nM) on MDA-MB-468 cells at a light dose of 27 kJ/m2, whereas EGF-Dex-SnCe6(ED) showed very limited photocytotoxicity. In the presence of a competing EGF concentration (10 microM), EGF-HSA-SnCe6(ED) was not cytotoxic anymore. The high photocytoxicity of EGF-HSA-SnCe6(ED) was shown to be a result of a high intracellular concentration in MDA-MB-468 cells, which could be lowered dramatically by incubating the conjugate with a competing EGF concentration. In contrast, EGF-Dex-SnCe6(ED) displayed very poor accumulation in MDA-MB-468 cells, in agreement with its low EGF receptor affinity and photocytoxicity. Besides, it could be demonstrated that EGF-HSA-SnCe6(ED) produced intracellularly ROS (reactive oxygen species) upon light irradiation, more than EGF-Dex-SnCe6(ED) did. It was concluded that, in contrast to EGF-Dex-SnCe6(ED) the photodynamic activity of the EGF-HSA conjugate of SnCe6(ED) on MDA-MB-468 breast adenocarcinoma cells is EGF-specific and more potent than free SnCe6(ED).
Losartan (DuP 753, MK-954) is the prototype of a new class of orally active, non-peptide angiotensin II receptor antagonists able to inhibit the renin-angiotensin system specifically and selectively without the agonistic effects of the peptide receptor antagonists, e.g. saralasin, or the bradykinin-potentiating effects of the angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors.
The preclinical pharmacology of angiotensin II receptor blockade is exemplified by the experience with losartan. Over 1200 abstracts and papers have been published from studies in which losartan has been used to explore the role of angiotensin II in a wide range of normal and pathological states. Losartan has also proved useful in further defining the heterogeneity of angiotensin II receptors. According to current nomenclature, losartan represents the prototype antagonist of the angiotensin II type 1 (AT1) receptor family (AT1a and AT1b) and does not possess significant affinity for the so-called AT2 receptor. Virtually all of the known actions of angiotensin II, e.g. those defined by angiotensin II itself, saralasin, ACE inhibitors or renin inhibitors, are blocked by losartan, emphasizing the major role of AT1 receptors in mediating the responses of angiotensin II. Although the AT2 receptor has now been cloned, the function of this receptor remains poorly understood.
Preclinical studies with losartan have suggested that this agent produces inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system comparable to that of ACE (and renin) inhibitors, without the bradykinin-potentiating effects. In several models of experimental and genetic hypertension losartan has proved to be an orally effective antihypertensive agent with a long duration of action and similar efficacy to that of ACE and renin inhibitors. In animal models of renal disease losartan significantly decreases proteinuria, provides protection against diabetic glomerulopathy and increases survival in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats. A growing number of experimental studies have also shown that losartan inhibits neointimal proliferation and markedly reduces or prevents cardiovascular hypertrophy/remodeling and cardiac failure mediated by activation of the renin-angiotensin system. Non-peptide AT1 receptor antagonists have added another dimension to the arsenal of drugs manipulating the renin-angiotensin system. These agents do not have the experimental limitations of the peptide antagonists and ACE inhibitors.
Losartan, the first potent and specific AT1 receptor antagonist, is orally active with a long duration of action and therefore has potential for treatment of chronic diseases, such as hypertension and heart failure.
Mice were injected with adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and the glomerular lesion that was induced was studied by light and immunofluorescence microscopy. By light microscopy, kidneys from ACTH-treated mice showed typical ACTH-induced glomerular lesions. Immunofluorescence of kidneys from ACTH-treated mice revealed intense staining for IgG and IgM in the extraglomerular mesangium (EGM), in Bowman's space, and in the ascending thick limb of Henle near the macula densa. Staining for immunoglobulins was unchanged after treatment with acid buffer. Immunoreactivity for complement (C3) was confined largely to the EGM and Bowman's space. Staining for albumin was almost exclusively in Bowman's space or the peripheral glomerular tuft in discrete aggregates. The above patterns of IgG, IgM, C3 and albumin were seen in control mice, although much less frequently. The results show that in mice, treatment with ACTH results in the increased accumulation of plasma proteins in the juxtaglomerular apparatus (JGA). This effect may reflect a role for the JGA in the normal clearing of plasma proteins from the glomerulus and/or directly from the blood.
The authors investigated the effects on spatial behavior of coadministrations of a benzodiazepine, chlordiazepoxide (CDP), with a noncompetitive N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist (NMDAR), dizocilpine (DZP), and a muscarinic cholinergic receptor antagonist, scopolamine (SCP). Rats solved the Morris swim task in 2 settings; 1 in which a hidden escape platform was always in the same location (performance) and a 2nd in which the platform had been moved to a different location (acquisition) for repeated daily sessions. CDP (3.0 mg/kg) administered alone did not disrupt escape latencies or swim path accuracies. SCP and DZP each impaired acquisition and performance in a dose-dependent manner. CDP coadministered with 0.3 mg/kg SCP impaired escape only in the acquisition setting and when coadministered with 1.0 mg/kg SCP selectively exacerbated the escape impairment in the acquisition setting. CDP ameliorated deleterious effects of DZP in both settings.
Previous reports have suggested that nitric oxide (NO) may be released by cholinergic stimuli in the rat bladder in cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis, affecting bladder function. In the current study, we evaluated the effects of cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis on muscarinic whole bladder contractile responses in vivo, and further, if NO might be released from the mucosa by cholinergic stimuli.
Male rats were pre-treated either with cyclophosphamide (100 mg kg(-1); to induce cystitis) or saline (serving as controls). 60 h later, rats were anaesthetized and bladder pressure monitored.
The muscarinic receptor agonist methacholine (MeCh; 0.5-5 microg kg(-1) i.v.) induced similar contractions (i.e. bladder pressure increases) in inflamed bladders as in controls, which were attenuated dose-dependently by the muscarinic M1/M3/M5 antagonist 4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methylpiperidine (4-DAMP; 0.1-1000 microg kg(-1) i.v.). In inflamed bladders, the cholinergic bladder contractions were enhanced after removing the mucosa, while cholinergic contractions were similar in intact and urothelium-denuded inflamed bladders in the presence of the NO synthase inhibitor N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME; 30 mg kg(-1) i.v.). L-NAME attenuated the antagonistic effect of 4-DAMP on MeCh-induced contractions in intact inflamed bladders. However L-NAME did not affect the antagonism by 4-DAMP of MeCh-induced contractions of urothelium-denuded bladders, under control conditions or with cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis.
In cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis, the cholinergic function of the bladder is altered. In the inflamed bladder, NO seems to be released via cholinergic stimuli through mucosal muscarinic M3/M5 receptors, presumably on urothelial cells, affecting bladder function.
CD134 (OX40) is involved in T cell costimulation and T cell-dependent antibody production. We show strongly increased T cell expression of CD134 in a model of T helper 2-mediated systemic autoimmunity, induced by HgCl2. Regulation of CD134 expression on CD4+ T cells was further studied in vitro, identifying CD134 as an early marker of T cell activation. CD134 expression could be induced by interleukin-4, but not by interferon-gamma or tumor necrosis factor-alpha. Effects of interleukin-4 and of phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate on CD134 expression could be blocked by the protein kinase inhibitor staurosporin. Combination of these stimuli with ionomycin resulted in a strongly synergistic increase of CD134 expression, which was blocked by the calcineurin-inhibitor cyclosporin A. The results demonstrate the involvement of two synergistically acting pathways in induction of CD134 expression. Furthermore, they suggest a role for interleukin-4 in induction of CD134 expression in vivo.
Adriamycin (ADR), selectively toxic to glomerular epithelial cells, was administered (5 mg/kg BW, i.v.) to MWF/Ztm rats to study its early effects on glomerular barrier function with respect to albumin and high molecular weight (HMW) proteins. After 7 days of ADR incubation (glomerular filtration rate remains unchanged), protein excretion was significantly increased in treated rats. The proteinuria was due to a nonselective glomerular lesions resulting in an increase in both, but not a changed ratio of HMW proteins to albumin. However, this ADR-induced proteinuria seen in the final urine was not confirmed by free-flow micropuncture studies of superficial glomeruli. The albumin and HMW protein concentrations in samples taken from Bowman's capsular space of ADR-treated rats did not significantly differ from control samples. These data suggest that cortical nephrons are less sensitive to ADR than juxtamedullary nephrons.
