This paper reviews some of the data that we have collected over the last years in an animal model in which, to study the role of renal nerves in hypertension, increased efferent sympathetic activity was simulated by a 5-day intrarenal infusion of norepinephrine (NE; 4-36 ug/kg.hr) in rats. This resulted in an exaggerated hypertensive reaction as compared to intravenous infusions of the same amounts. Hypertension was characterized by increased total peripheral resistance and decreased cardiac output. From plasma volume and renal function studies, no evidence for volume-dependent hypertension could be obtained. The most striking difference between intrarenally and intravenously infused rats was a greater increase in plasma NE levels in the former group. This pointed towards a possible activation of afferent renal nerves by intrarenally applied NE. However, neither total nor selective afferent renal denervation prevented hypertension by intrarenal NE. This suggests either that afferent renal nerves do not play a role or, alternatively, blood pressure is controlled differently in intact and denervated rats.
Orlistat is locally acting inhibitor of gastrointestinal lipases which has been developed for the treatment of obesity. The present study was designed with the intent to formulate orlistat in a different way compared to the current practice and investigate its inhibition of gastrointestinal lipases. Orlistat is considered as a technologically problematic and unmanageable substance because of waxy nature, low melting point and low chemical stability. The manuscript presents the critical issues regarding engineering of its nanosuspension with controlled particle size by melt emulsification and high pressure homogenization. In order to formulate dry product, lactose was dissolved in nanosuspension as filler and spray drying has been performed for obtaining the final powder product. Laser diffraction, scanning electron microscopy and atomic force microscopy have been used for orlistat nanosuspension characterization, dissolution studies and lipase inhibition studies were performed to characterize the in vitro efficacy of formulated orlistat. The advantage of selected technological procedures is nanosized orlistat with elevated in vitro dissolution rate in comparison to raw drug, physical mixture and marketed product. Furthermore, nanosuspension demonstrated significantly higher in vitro lipase inhibition in comparison to references. To conclude, the results show new technological solution and remarkable increase of pharmacological effect which could potentially lead to decreasing the dose and consequently dose dependent side effects.
The Atlantic Wood Industries Superfund site on the Elizabeth River (ER) in Portsmouth, Virginia, is contaminated with polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) derived from creosote. Embryos and larvae of ER killifish (Fundulus heteroclitus) are refractory to the induction of enzymes regulated by the aryl hydrocarbon receptor including cytochrome P4501A (CYP1A) and are resistant to PAH-induced lethality and teratogenicity. However, adult ER killifish show a greater prevalence of hepatic and pancreatic tumors compared with those from reference sites.
We used controlled laboratory studies to determine if ER killifish are more or less sensitive to PAH-induced chronic hepatic toxicity than killifish from an uncontaminated site.
Larvae from the ER and a reference site on King's Creek (KC) were subjected to two 24-hr aqueous exposures of benzo[a]pyrene (BaP; 0-400 µg/L). At various time points, larvae were analyzed for CYP1A activity, BaP concentrations, nuclear and mitochondrial DNA damage, and liver pathology.
CYP1A activity was induced by BaP in KC but not ER larvae, and KC larvae demonstrated a greater reduction in whole-body concentrations of BaP over time. Mitochondrial and nuclear DNA lesion frequency increased significantly in BaP-exposed KC larvae, but not in ER larvae. Nine months postexposure, KC juveniles exhibited significantly more hepatic foci of cellular alteration and only KC juveniles developed hepatocellular carcinomas.
In addition to acquiring the heritable resistance to the acute teratogenic effects of PAHs, ER fish appear to have concomitantly developed resistance to chronic effects, including cancer.
Methadone-maintained volunteers experienced moderately severe opiate withdrawal symptoms within 3 or 4 days of beginning phenytoin in therapeutic doses. The area under the methadone plasma concentration-time curve decreased while the ratio of the pyrrolidine-to-metabolite excretion in urine to this area increased significantly. This suggests that phenytoin accelerates methadone metabolism. Methadone dosing adjustments should be anticipated when phenytoin is initiated or discontinued in methadone-maintained patients.
The occurrence of metabolic acidosis, rhabdomyolysis, hyperkalemia, and sudden cardiac death after long-term, high-dose propofol infusion has been referred to as propofol infusion syndrome (PRIS).
The purpose of this study was to explore the ECG abnormalities observed in a patient with PRIS in order to identify possible pathophysiologic mechanisms of the syndrome.
ECG changes in the index case were characterized by down-sloping ST-segment elevation in precordial leads V1 to V3 (Brugada-like ECG pattern). We subsequently assessed the relationship between this ECG pattern and the propofol infusion rate, the development of arrhythmias, and the occurrence of sudden death in a previously described cohort of 67 head-injured patients, seven of whom had been identified as having PRIS.
Six of the PRIS patients developed the ECG pattern of ST-segment elevation in leads V1 to V3 and died within hours of irrecoverable electrical storm. This ECG pattern was the first aberration recorded hours before the death of these patients. ECGs that were available for 30 of 60 unaffected patients exhibited a normal pattern. None of the 60 patients developed ventricular arrhythmias.
Our findings indicate that development of an acquired Brugada-like ECG pattern in severely head-injured patients is a sign of cardiac electrical instability that predicts imminent cardiac death. Future studies will determine whether such an ECG pattern also predicts imminent cardiac arrhythmia in other patient populations.
The prolonged administration of epsilon-aminocaproic acid (EACA) resulted in the development of severe proximal myopathy associated with high plasma creatine kinase values, rhabdomyolysis, myoglobinuria, and mild hyperbilirubinaemia. Withdrawal of the drug led to spontaneous resolution of the clinical and biochemical syndrome. Structural and enzyme studies of a biopsy specimen of the involved skeletal muscle supported the presence of subclinical myopathy. The mechanism whereby EACA produces its toxicity in muscle may in part be due to inhibition of cathepsin D, but the possibility that other proteases are involved has not been excluded. The fact that this clinical syndrome is rare despite the widespread use of EACA may be because it only occurs in subjects with a subclinical skeletal muscle disorder which is unmasked by the drug.
Cardiotoxicity is a limiting factor in the treatment of cancer with adriamycin. We administered adriamycin by a method which minimizes the risk of peritonitis in an adriamycin-induced cardiomyopathy rat model. Sixty male Wistar rats were given 1 mg/kg of adriamycin intraperitoneally 15 times over a 3-week period (total dose, 15 mg/kg) to induce the cardiomyopathy model. Fifteen control rats received 10 ml/kg body wt. saline 15 times over 3 weeks. The animals were observed for 12 weeks and assessed for mortality, and cardiac volume and function was analyzed by echocardiography at 4, 8, and 12 weeks. In rats treated with adriamycin, the cumulative mortality was 35.8% while in the controls, none of the rats died. Left ventricular diameter of the systole (LVDs) was significantly increased at 4 weeks (4.5 vs. 3.3 mm; P<0.001). Left ventricular diameter of the diastole (LVDd) was significantly increased at 12 weeks (7.9 vs. 7.0 mm; P<0.01) and the % fractional shortening (FS) was significantly decreased at 8 weeks (33.4% vs. 50.0%; P<0.01) in the adriamycin-treated rats. This administration method appears to be useful for investigating the cardiac effect of adriamycin while avoiding the influence of peritonitis typically caused by an intraperitoneal injection of higher single doses of adriamycin.
A common feature of all epileptic syndromes is the repetitive occurrence of pathological patterns of synchronous neuronal activity, usually combined with increased neuronal discharge rates. Inhibitory interneurons of the hippocampal formation control both neuronal synchronization as well as the global level of activity and are therefore of crucial importance for epilepsy. Recent evidence suggests that changes in synaptic inhibition during temporal lobe epilepsy are rather specific, resulting from selective death or alteration of interneurons in specific hippocampal layers. Hence, epilepsy-induced changes have to be analysed separately for different types of interneurons. Here, we focused on GABAergic neurons located at the border between stratum radiatum and stratum lacunosum-moleculare of hippocampal area CA1 (SRL interneurons), which are included in feedforward inhibitory circuits. In chronically epileptic rats at 6-8 months after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus, frequencies of spontaneous and miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents were reduced, yielding an almost three-fold increase in excitation-inhibition ratio. Consistently, action potential frequency of SRL interneurons was about two-fold enhanced. Morphological alterations of the interneurons indicate that these functional changes were accompanied by remodelling of the local network, probably resulting in a loss of functional inhibitory synapses without conceivable cell death. Our data indicate a strong increase in activity of interneurons in dendritic layers of the chronically epileptic CA1 region. This alteration may enhance feedforward inhibition and rhythmogenesis and--together with specific changes in other interneurons--contribute to seizure susceptibility and pathological synchronization.
We describe two cases of severe bradyarrhythmias (one complete AV dissociation; one sinus bradycardia) observed after the intravenous injection of dipyridamole.
The development of gallstones is a well recognized complication of therapy with the long-acting somatostatin analogue, octreotide in patients with acromegaly. A group of nine acromegalic patients was treated with octreotide at doses of 300-600 micrograms daily for 8 months and the changes in fasting and post-prandial cholecystokinin release, and gall bladder motor function (determined by a radiosotopic technique) were assessed at regular intervals. In addition the development of any gallstones was determined by serial ultrasonography. Fasting cholecystokinin levels showed no significant change over 6 months, whereas the post-prandial levels demonstrated a significant decrease (p less than 0.01) during therapy, yet remained significantly higher than fasting levels. Twenty-four hours after commencing therapy gall bladder ejection fraction was decreased by 57 +/- 23 per cent and gall bladder ejection rate decreased by 63 +/- 19 per cent compared to the pretreatment values, whereas after 6 months' therapy a marked reduction in gall bladder ejection fraction (greater than 35 per cent) and gall bladder ejection rate (greater than 40 per cent) persisted in only four of nine patients. Three of these four patients with persistently impaired gall bladder motor function were subsequently shown to have developed either gallstones or biliary sludge during the course of therapy. We conclude that treatment with octreotide is associated with an impaired post-prandial release of cholecystokinin in all acromegalic patients, but gallstones only develop in those patients who, in addition, have evidence of a persistently impaired gall bladder motor response to cholecystokinin.
After rapid discontinuation of clozapine treatment rebound psychosis have been reported. Preexposure of D (2) receptors to clozapine may alter their affinity to endogenous dopamine. Clozapine withdrawal may also lead dysfunctional NMDA-receptors to cause dopamine release in the striatum.
We report a case of a schizophrenic patient treated with clozapine 200 mg and aripiprazole 15 mg per day. After rapid clozapine discontinuation we added quetiapine up to 700 mg daily.
No rebound psychosis occurred. Even ten weeks after switching to quetiapine the patient's condition remained stable in the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale.
The combination of aripiprazole and quetiapine seemed to control supersensitivity effects at the D (2) receptor after clozapin withdrawal in this case.
To determine whether caffeine ingestion was temporally correlated with tics in 2 healthy children.
Two first-degree cousins were observed over a period of approximately 3 years, and the presence and absence of tics was recorded and correlated with consumption of or abstinence from caffeinated foods or beverages.
Appearance and disappearance of tics were closely and clearly temporally correlated with ingestion and elimination of caffeine in the cousins' diets.
Our observations suggest that caffeine may precipitate tics in susceptible children.
This study was undertaken to investigate the effect of exogenous sulfhydryl compound administration on the toxicity of doxorubicin in mice. Pretreatment of CDF1 mice with a pharmacologic dose (2,000 mg/kg) of n-acetyl-l-cysteine 1 h before doxorubicin (20 mg/kg, i.p.) decreased lethality from 100% (n = 44) to 37.7% (n = 53), P less than 0.001. Variation in the timing and dose of n-acetylcysteine significantly diminished its protective activity. Pretreatment with n-acetylcysteine also significantly reduced long-term mortality in animals receiving multiple doses of doxorubicin; 10 wk after the third of three doxorubicin doses (5 mg/kg, i.p.) administered at 2-wk intervals, survival in the n-acetylcysteine pretreated group was 51.4% (n = 35) compared with 16.7% (n = 30) for animals receiving saline before doxorubicin, P less than 0.01. In this experiment, n-acetylcysteine pretreatment also diminished doxorubicin-related losses in total body weight and heart wet weight by 55.2% (P less than 0.05), and 60.9% (P less than 0.02), respectively, compared with animals pretreated with saline. N-acetylcysteine pretreatment also ablated electron microscopic evidence of doxorubicin cardiomyopathy without alleviating morphological features of its toxic effects on the liver or small intestinal mucosa. The cardioprotective action of n-acetylcysteine may be partially explained by the 429 +/- 60% increase in cardiac nonprotein sulfhydryl content (P less than 0.01) that was measured one hour after n-acetylcysteine administration; nonprotein sulfhydryl concentration in the liver at the same time was insignificantly different from control levels. Treatment with n-acetylcysteine also increased the nonprotein sulfhydryl content of P388 leukemia cells nearly threefold; however, it did not after the chemotherapeutic activity of doxorubicin against this murine tumor. Whereas n-acetylcysteine blocked doxorubicin cardiac toxicity, it did not affect the uptake or metabolism of doxorubicin in the heart or liver. These results suggest that the concentration of free sulfhydryl groups in the heart may play a role in the development of doxorubicin cardiac toxicity and that augmenting cardiac nonprotein sulfhydryl group content with n-acetylcysteine may provide a means to enhance the chemotherapeutic index of doxorubicin.
We report a patient with recurrent cardioembolism and hemorrhagic infarcts, who developed a fatal intracerebral hemorrhage 3 days after intravenous anticoagulation. At autopsy, cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) was found. Because CAA and anticoagulation may add up to trigger cerebral hemorrhage, the possibility of underlying CAA should be raised before anticoagulating elderly patients with stroke.
A 12-year-old boy with Hodgkin's disease developed left peroneal nerve palsy during combination therapy with chemotherapy and low-dose irradiation. The palsy occurred twice; around 1-2 weeks after the second administration of vincristine in the second and third COPP (cyclophosphamide, vincristine, prednisolone, and procarbazine) regimens. Without any treatment, the peroneal neuropathy completely resolved clinically three months and electromyographically six months after the onset. He used to play television games for more than 6 hours a day with the legs crossed while sitting on the bedside. Compared to adult patients, little is known about the relationship between peroneal neuropathy and systemic malignant diseases in pediatric patients. This case shows for the first time that habitual leg crossing during potentially neurotoxic chemotherapy could induce peroneal mononeuropathy in a pediatric cancer patient.
The paper reports plasma levels of levodopa (LD), its main metabolites [dopamine, dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, homovanillic acid, 3-O-methyldopa (3-O-MD)] and carbidopa in 14 parkinsonian patients first treated with Sinemet and thereafter with Sinemet-CR4. A good relationship was observed between LD plasma levels and pharmacological effects. While the LD area under the curve increased after Sinemet-CR4, the same was not observed with metabolites, except with 3-O-MD. The experiments in volunteer subjects confirmed the increase in 3-O-MD in plasma after Sinemet-CR4. Higher levels were observed also in the CSF with a reduction of LD concentrations. This seems to corroborate the hypothesis of an interference with LD passage through the blood-brain barrier in humans.
Diazepam has well-known amnestic properties. These effects, however, are selective for certain psychobiologically distinct memory functions. In this study, incremental doses of diazepam administered to 10 normal volunteers selectively impaired anterograde episodic memory and attention while totally sparing access to information in long-term memory (semantic or knowledge memory). This pattern of disruption mimics that seen in patients with organic amnesias and is in sharp contrast to the pattern seen in patients with dementia. These findings provide a framework for defining specific psychobiological determinants of cognitive failure.
Interleukin-21 (IL-21) is a pleiotropic cytokine whose function is only now being unraveled. Abundant evidence indicates that activated CD4 T cells are the primary, if not the only, source of IL-21. While it is clear that IL-21 is actively transcribed by naïve activated T cells, recent studies have shown that IL-21 potentially promotes a developmental shift of naïve T cells toward the Th2 phenotype. BXSB-Yaa mice develop an autoimmune syndrome similar to systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), affecting males earlier than females on account of the presence of the Yaa (Y-linked autoimmune acceleration) locus. Previous results indicate the elevation of IL-21 expression by BXSB-Yaa mice at an age when the early characteristics of autoimmune processes first become evident. We set out to determine whether IL-21 was necessary for disease progression in BXSB-Yaa mice. Mice were treated for 24 weeks with soluble IL-21R-Fc in order to therapeutically neutralize the IL-21 present. The results overall suggest a biphasic effect of IL-21, negatively influencing survival early on and positively influencing survival at later stages. We propose that IL-21 exerts a pleiotropic effect in which it promotes the protective effects of CD8+ suppressor cells in the early disease phase and then promotes the humoral components of SLE in the later disease stages. This experiment provides preliminary evidence for a role of IL-21 in modulating the severity of SLE in BXSB-Yaa mice.
Sixty-one patients with epithelial ovarian cancer were treated with intensive high-dose, short-course chemotherapy that consisted of cisplatin (120 mg/m2) and doxorubicin (70 mg/m2) every 3 weeks for four cycles. Patients in complete clinical remission were offered second-look laparotomy (SLL). Patients with minimal or no residual disease at SLL were randomized to either cyclophosphamide (1000 mg/m2 every 21 days for six cycles) or whole-abdominal radiation therapy. All patients completed therapy with a median leukocyte nadir 1.3/microliter and platelet nadir of 90/microliters. Forty-five patients (74%) had a complete clinical response. Results of twenty-two of 36 second-look procedures (64%) showed no evidence of disease (NED). After SLL, 19 patients received six courses of cyclophosphamide and 16 patients received whole-abdominal radiation. Nine patient who refused SLL and one patient with negative SLL findings refused additional treatment. The median survival time for all patients was 51.3 months. High-dose intensive chemotherapy regimens have high response rates, but survival needs to be compared with traditional low-dose regimens. Although high-dose cisplatin and doxorubicin were myelosuppressive, the resulting complications were manageable. There was no significant difference between the mean survival times of patients receiving Cytoxan, abdominal radiation, or no treatment as second-line therapy.
Both opioid peptides such as beta-endorphin and met-enkephalin and nonopioid peptides such as vasopressin and oxytocin increase pain thresholds in rodents. Antisera raised against each of these peptides have been developed for use in immunocytochemical and radioimmunoassay procedures. The present study assessed whether central administration of antisera raised against beta-endorphin (ABE), met-enkephalin (AME), arginine, vasopressin (AAVP) or oxytocin (AOT) altered tail-flick latencies elicited by three different levels of radiant heat, jump thresholds, core body temperatures and locomotor activity. ABE induced a transient hyperalgesia on the tail-flick test at thermal levels at which beta-endorphin administration would elicit an analgesic effect. While met-enkephalin increases tail-flick latencies elicited by high thermal levels, AME failed to alter latencies at this level, but rather induced a short-acting hyperalgesia at a low thermal level. While vasopressin increased tail-flick latencies at high thermal levels, AAVP produced reciprocal decreases. Yet AAVP inexplicably induced analgesic effects at moderate and low thermal levels. Finally, while oxytocin increased latencies at high thermal levels, AOT failed to alter latencies. Rather, it decreased latencies at the moderate thermal level and increased latencies at the low thermal level. Neither jump thresholds nor core body temperatures were affected by any antiserum pretreatment. While activity levels were unaffected by either ABE, AME or AAVP pretreatment, AOT decreased activity in a fashion complementry to oxytocin-induced hyperactivity and seizures. There data are discussed in terms of tonic versus phasic influences of these peptides upon pain perception.
Carmustine (BCNU), a nitrosourea derivative, is an antineoplastic agent used recently for the treatment of human solid tumors and lymphomas in high doses with autologous bone marrow transplantation. Cardiac toxicity related to BCNU has not been described well. Three patients are reported without a history of angina pectoris who had clinical and electrocardiographic evidence of myocardial ischemia during and immediately after BCNU infusion. The incidence, cause, and mechanism of such a side effect are unknown but should be considered in patients receiving high-dose carmustine infusions.
Three children with neurological symptoms precipitated by loperamide are presented, one of them with irreversible sequelae. The use of this drug in infancy is discouraged in view of these secondary effects.
Inherited disorders of vitamin B12 (cobalamin) have provided important clues to how this vitamin, which is essential for hematological and neurological function, is transported and metabolized. We describe a new disease that results in failure to release vitamin B12 from lysosomes, which mimics the cblF defect caused by LMBRD1 mutations. Using microcell-mediated chromosome transfer and exome sequencing, we identified causal mutations in ABCD4, a gene that codes for an ABC transporter, which was previously thought to have peroxisomal localization and function. Our results show that ABCD4 colocalizes with the lysosomal proteins LAMP1 and LMBD1, the latter of which is deficient in the cblF defect. Furthermore, we show that mutations altering the putative ATPase domain of ABCD4 affect its function, suggesting that the ATPase activity of ABCD4 may be involved in intracellular processing of vitamin B12.
Primary angle closure glaucoma (PACG) is a major cause of blindness worldwide. We conducted a genome-wide association study including 1,854 PACG cases and 9,608 controls across 5 sample collections in Asia. Replication experiments were conducted in 1,917 PACG cases and 8,943 controls collected from a further 6 sample collections. We report significant associations at three new loci: rs11024102 in PLEKHA7 (per-allele odds ratio (OR)=1.22; P=5.33×10(-12)), rs3753841 in COL11A1 (per-allele OR=1.20; P=9.22×10(-10)) and rs1015213 located between PCMTD1 and ST18 on chromosome 8q (per-allele OR=1.50; P=3.29×10(-9)). Our findings, accumulated across these independent worldwide collections, suggest possible mechanisms explaining the pathogenesis of PACG.
To determine whether the severity of valvulopathy was associated with the dosage of fenfluramine taken by fenfluramine-phentermine users with valvulopathy.
Out of 105 suspected valvulopathy case reports received by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) among fenfluramine-phentermine users, 74 patients meeting FDA case definition for valvulopathy were included in this study. Patients with severe valvulopathy were classified as those either undergoing valve replacement surgery or having severe aortic or mitral regurgitation; all other patients were considered to have less severe valvulopathy.
The proportion with severe valvulopathy increased from 20-66% with increasing fenfluramine dosage from </=40 mg/d to >/=60 mg/d. Compared with patients taking<40 mg/d fenfluramine, patients taking >/=60 mg/d had an adjusted odds ratio of 9.2 (95% confidence interval=2.1-40.8) for severe valvulopathy.
Compared to patients with less severe valvulopathy, those with severe valvulopathy were substantially more likely to have taken >/=60 mg/d fenfluramine.
The effect of the somatostatin analogue SMS 201-995 (octreotide; OCT) on the course of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) in the relatively resistant Albino Oxford (AO) strain of rats was studied.
Animals were actively immunized with bovine brain homogenate in complete Freund's adjuvant. OCT was given subcutaneously in the hind legs on days 7, 8 and 9 after immunization, at a dose of 3 x 5 microg/kg/day. Rats in control groups were treated with saline or were left untreated. EAE was scored clinically and immunophenotypically, estimating by flow cytometry the changes in the popliteal lymph nodes (PLN) and spleen and monitoring immunohistologically the brain sections of rats recovered from disease.
In control AO rats, EAE was induced in only 2 of 22 rats (9%). In OCT-treated rats, however, EAE developed in 11 of 20 rats (55%), in comparison with 3 of 17 saline-treated animals (17%) (p <0.05). In PLN of OCT-treated rats during the clinical course of EAE, a decreased proportion of OX8+ cells was seen, followed by increases in OX39+ and W3/25+ cells on days 17 and 26. In spleen, OCT decreased the proportion of OX1+, OX39+ and OX8+ cells (on days 12 and/or 17), and increased the proportion of OX39+ cells on days 26 and 31. In the brain sections of saline-treated rats recovered from EAE, numerous Mac-1+, Mac-3+ and OX8+ cells were found. These cells were, however, absent in OCT-treated rats; instead, several W3/25+ cells were noticed.
These data imply that OCT increases the susceptibility of AO rats to EAE, interfering with specific and/or nonspecific defense mechanisms operating in both the initial and recovery phase of EAE.
