Pseudoxanthoma elasticum (PXE), a multisystem disorder characterized by ectopic mineralization of soft connective tissues, is caused by mutations in the ABCC6 gene. The pathomechanistic details of the mineralization process are largely unknown, but oxidative stress has been suggested to play a role. In this study, we tested Abcc6(-/-) mice, which serve as a model of PXE, for markers of the oxidative stress in the liver and serum. The total antioxidant capacity as well as markers of protein oxidation and lipid peroxidation suggested the presence of chronic oxidative stress. Feeding these mice for 5 months with a diet supplemented with antioxidants (vitamins C and E, selenium, and N-acetylcysteine) countered the oxidative stress but did not modify the ectopic mineralization process. These results suggest that the Abcc6(-/-) mice suffer from chronic oxidative stress but this does not contribute to connective tissue mineralization, the hallmark of PXE.
In lithium-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI), alterations in renal medullary osmolyte concentrations have been assumed but never investigated. Amiloride can modify lithium-induced NDI, but the impact of amiloride in lithium-induced NDI on renal medullary osmolytes, aquaporins, and urea transporters is unknown and is the basis of this study. Rats fed lithium (60 mmol/kg dry food) over 4 wk developed NDI. Urine osmolality fell to 287 +/- 19 mosmol/kgH(2)O (controls 1,211 +/- 90 mosmol/kgH(2)O). Organic osmolytes in the renal medulla showed significant decreases compared with controls [inositol 221 +/- 35 to 85 +/- 10 mmol/kg protein; sorbitol 35 +/- 9 to 3 +/- 1 mmol/kg protein; glycerophosphorylcholine (GPC) 352 +/- 80 to 91 +/- 20 mmol/kg protein; and glycine betaine 69 +/- 11 to 38 +/- 38 mmol/kg protein]. Medullary urea content fell from 2,868 +/- 624 to 480 +/- 117 mmol/kg protein. Concurrent administration of amiloride (0.2 mmol/l) in the drinking water restored urine osmolality (1,132 +/- 154 mosmol/kgH(2)O), and reduced urine volume. Medullary osmolyte content were restored to control values (inositol, 232 +/- 12; sorbitol 32 +/- 6; GPC, 244 +/- 26; glycine betaine, 84 +/- 5 mmol/kg protein). Medullary urea rose to 2,122 +/- 305 mmol/kg protein. Reduced AQP2, AQP3, and urea transporter (UT-A1) expression was significantly reversed following amiloride therapy. Data presented here provide further understanding of how amiloride may substantially restore the lithium-induced impaired renal concentrating mechanism.
This post hoc analysis from the Coronary Drug Project (CDP) evaluated the effects of niacin monotherapy on clinical outcomes in patients with and without the metabolic syndrome (MS). The CDP was a randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial of lipid-modifying agents in men with previous myocardial infarction (MI). Of the 5 drug regimens, only niacin significantly decreased definite recurrent nonfatal MI at 6 years and total mortality at a 15-year follow-up. Patients treated with niacin (n = 1,119) and placebo (n = 2,787) were grouped according to the presence or absence of the MS at baseline. The MS was defined on the basis of meeting > or =3 of 5 criteria from the current National Cholesterol Education Program guidelines in a small subgroup of patients with high-density lipoprotein cholesterol determinations at baseline and on the basis of > or =3 of 4 criteria in the total population, excluding the high-density lipoprotein cholesterol criterion. Niacin decreased the occurrence of 6-year MI and 15-year total mortality similarly among patients with or without the MS. For example, in the total population, 15-year total mortality rates were 60% and 64% (hazard ratio 0.86) in patients with the MS treated with niacin and placebo, respectively, and 50% and 57% (hazard ratio 0.86) in those without the MS (Z for interaction = 0.06, indicating homogeneity of the treatment effect across groups). In conclusion, these results support the use of niacin in postinfarction patients with and without the MS.
The purpose of this study was to assess the effects of low-dose ursolic acid (UA) on glycemic regulation and immune responses in streptozotocin-nicotinamide (STZ/NA)-induced diabetic mice. Diabetic mice were supplemented with two different doses of UA (0.01 and 0.05%, w/w) or metformin (0.5%, w/w) for 4 weeks. Compared with the untreated diabetic group, UA and metformin significantly improved blood glucose, glycosylated hemoglobin, glucose tolerance, insulin tolerance and plasma leptin levels as well as aminotransferase activity. The plasma and pancreatic insulin concentrations were significantly higher in both UA groups than in the untreated diabetic group. Supplementation with metformin increased the pancreatic insulin level without a change in the plasma insulin level. The relative thymus weights were lower in the untreated diabetic group compared to the non-diabetic group; however, the UA or metformin group had significantly improved thymus weights. Mice receiving UA or metformin supplementation had increased CD4(+)CD8(+) subpopulations in the thymus compared to the untreated diabetic mice. Concanavalin A-stimulated splenic T-lymphocyte proliferation and single-positive (CD4(+) and CD8(+)) subpopulations were significantly higher in the UA-supplemented diabetic groups than in the untreated diabetic group, but lipopolysaccharide-stimulated B-lymphocyte proliferation and the CD19(+) subpopulation were not significantly different among the groups. In the STZ/NA-induced diabetic mice, metformin increased the splenic T-lymphocyte CD4(+) and CD8(+) cell numbers without any change in T-lymphocyte proliferation. Both doses of UA lowered splenic IL-6 levels, whereas metformin increased IFN-γ, IL-6 and TNF-α levels compared to the untreated diabetic mice. These results suggest that low-dose UA may be used as a hypoglycemic agent and immune modulator in non-obese type 2 diabetic mice.
Seroepidemiological studies implicate a correlation between Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) reactivation and the development of nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). Moreover, N-nitroso compounds are known chemical carcinogens in preserved foodstuffs and cigarettes and have been implicated as risk factors contributing to the development of NPC. Here, NPC cell lines latently infected with EBV, NA and HA, and the corresponding EBV-negative NPC cell lines, NPC-TW01 and HONE-1, were used as the model system in this study. We demonstrate that the reactivation of EBV increases with increasing concentrations of N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG). MNNG at a single non-toxic concentration (0.1μg/ml) did not induce discernible reactivation of EBV, but repeated treatment with this concentration of MNNG significantly induced viral reactivation. Furthermore, low dose MNNG (0.1μg/ml) had a synergistic effect with 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-1,3-acetate (TPA)/sodium butyrate (SB) (10ng/ml and 0.75mM, respectively) on EBV reactivation. Through promoter activity assay, MNNG was found to enhance the transcriptional activity of Rta on Rta and Zta promoters. Using siZta to block EBV reactivation, the concomitant induction of genome instability was diminished indicating that reactivation is critical for enhancing genome instability. Co-treatment with TPA/SB and MNNG markedly increased the levels of γH2AX and ROS formation in NPC cells, which may be responsible for the increase of genome instability. Our findings offer a possible mechanism by which N-nitroso compounds induce reactivation of EBV and contribute to malignant progression by enhancing genome instability in NPC cells.
The ability of Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells to convert dinitropyrenes (DNPs) to mutagenic species has been investigated by examining the effects of 1,6-DNP and 1,8-DNP on three distinct end-points in this cell line. At concentrations ranging from 0.05 to 5 micrograms/ml both analogues induced increases in the frequency of 6-thioguanine-resistant mutants in CHO cells when exposure was limited to 3 h. This treatment time was also sufficient to permit the induction of sister-chromatid exchange and chromosome aberrations in CHO cells. The results obtained suggest that CHO cells, unlike mouse lymphoma L5178Y cells, possess an endogenous metabolic activity which is capable of bringing about the conversion of DNPs to their mutagenic form without a requirement for prolonged exposure periods and as such may be a more suitable cell line for the study of this class of compounds.
To assess the efficacy of the phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitor, DA-8159, in selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI)-induced rat erectile dysfunction model by measuring intracavernous pressure (ICP).
Erectile dysfunction was induced by oral administration of either paroxetine or fluoxetine in rats. The changes in ICP and mean arterial pressure (MAP) were simultaneously recorded throughout electrostimulation of the cavernous nerve with 2 or 10 Hz after intravenous injection of DA-8159 (1 mg/kg). Statistical analysis was performed on the ICP/MAP ratio and the area under the curve of the ICP/MAP ratio.
Although the reduction in the ICP responses after acute paroxetine or fluoxetine administration was statistically significant, the electrical stimulation of the cavernous nerve induced a statistically significant, frequency-dependent increase in the ICP/MAP ratio after DA-8159 administration. The differences in the ICP/MAP ratio and corresponding area under the curve values from the SSRI-treated group were statistically significant.
The results of the present study have demonstrated that DA-8159 reverses the decrease in ICP induced by SSRI treatment, suggesting that DA-8159 may be a potential therapeutic agent for the treatment of erectile dysfunction associated with the use of SSRIs.
Post-hoc analysis by the pharmaceutical company Eli Lilly of 5 randomised clinical trials concerning the efficacy ofolanzapine in patients with dementia, has shown that patients taking olanzapine have a risk of experiencing a cerebrovascular accident which is 3 times higher than patients taking placebo. This increased risk has also been found in patients with dementia who take risperidone. Details concerning this relationship cannot be obtained from the sparse information supplied by the producers of risperidone and olanzapine. The pathophysiological mechanisms by which atypical antipsychotics may lead to cerebrovascular accidents are not well understood. Atypical antipsychotics are often prescribed for conditions in which evidence of the efficacy of this group of medications is lacking. This association between antipsychotics and cerebrovascular accidents emphasises the need for a stricter and evidence-based prescription policy for antipsychotics. In cases of adverse drug reaction, more openness on the part of pharmaceutical companies is desirable.
Although the high comorbidity of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and substance use disorders has been firmly established, no laboratory-based studies have been conducted to examine relationships between the two disorders. Using cue reactivity methodology, this study examined the impact of personalized trauma-image cues and in vivo drug cues on drug-related responding (e.g. craving) in individuals with PTSD and either crack cocaine (CD) or alcohol dependence (AD). CD and AD groups displayed reactivity to both trauma and drug cues when compared to neutral cues, including increased craving. However, the AD group was more reactive than the CD group to both classes of cues. The CD participants were more reactive to trauma-image cues if drug-related material was included in the image while the AD participants were reactive to the trauma cues regardless of drug-related content. It is hypothesized that PTSD-related negative emotion may play a relatively more important role in the maintenance of AD when compared to CD. Evidence that substance dependent individuals with PTSD report increased substance craving in response to trauma memories is offered as a potential contributing factor in the poorer substance abuse treatment outcomes previously documented in this comorbid population.
Gain-of-function mutations in the genes encoding the ATP-sensitive potassium (K(ATP)) channel subunits Kir6.2 (KCNJ11) and SUR1 (ABCC8) are a common cause of neonatal diabetes mellitus. Here we investigate the molecular mechanism by which two heterozygous mutations in the second nucleotide-binding domain (NBD2) of SUR1 (R1380L and R1380C) separately cause neonatal diabetes. SUR1 is a channel regulator that modulates the gating of the pore formed by Kir6.2. K(ATP) channel activity is inhibited by ATP binding to Kir6.2 but is stimulated by MgADP binding, or by MgATP binding and hydrolysis, at the NBDs of SUR1. Functional analysis of purified NBD2 showed that each mutation enhances MgATP hydrolysis by purified isolated fusion proteins of maltose-binding protein and NBD2. Inhibition of ATP hydrolysis by MgADP was unaffected by mutation of R1380, but inhibition by beryllium fluoride (which traps the ATPase cycle in the prehydrolytic state) was reduced. MgADP-dependent activation of K(ATP) channel activity was unaffected. These data suggest that the R1380L and R1380C mutations enhance the off-rate of P(i), thereby enhancing the hydrolytic rate. Molecular modeling studies supported this idea. Because mutant channels were inhibited less strongly by MgATP, this would increase K(ATP) currents in pancreatic beta cells, thus reducing insulin secretion and producing diabetes.
This report describes a 64-year-old patient who had electrocardiographic evidence of acute cardiac injury but no ensuing myocardial infarction as a complication of systemic anaphylaxis from intravenous cefoxitin. Coronary angiography subsequently demonstrated essentially normal findings except for anomalous origin of the right coronary artery from the left sinus of Valsalva. There is believed to be only one previous report of coronary angiography in a patient who had a myocardial infarction complicating an anaphylactoid reaction to radiographic dye; in that patient, angiography showed coronary atherosclerosis. The possible role of coronary vasospasm in cardiac injury complicating anaphylaxis is discussed.
Oxidative stress is involved in the pathogenesis of cocaine-induced cardiomyopathy. In the present study, we aimed to determine the enzymatic sources of reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, namely NADPH oxidase and xanthine oxidoreductase (XOR) in male Wistar rats treated for 7 days with cocaine (2x7.5 mg/kg/day, ip) or cocaine with a NADPH oxidase inhibitor (apocynin, 50 mg/kg/day, po) or a XOR inhibitor (allopurinol, 50 mg/kg/day, po). Cocaine-induced cardiac dysfunction is associated with an increase in NADPH oxidase and XOR activities (59% and 29%, respectively) and a decrease in catalase activity. Apocynin or allopurinol treatment prevents the cocaine-induced cardiac alteration by restoration of cardiac output, stroke volume and fractional shortening. This is associated with a reduction of the myocardial production of superoxide anions and an enhancement of catalase activity. Surprisingly, apocynin treatment prevents XOR up-regulation supporting the hypothesis that NADPH oxidase-derived ROS play a role in modulating ROS production by XOR. These data suggest that NADPH and xanthine oxidase act synergically to form myocardial ROS and clearly demonstrate that their inhibition may be critical in preventing the initiation and progression of cocaine-induced LV dysfunction.
We studied gene expression for transforming growth factor (TGF)-alpha, epidermal growth factor (EGF), heparin binding (HB) EGF, and the EGF receptor following acute renal failure induced by mercuric chloride administration to gain insight into potential mechanisms of renal repair. Twenty four hours after HgCl2, 2 mg/kg, creatinine increased from 0.3+/-0.01 mg/dl in controls to 2.2+/-0.26 mg/dl in injured rats (n = 5, p < 0.01). Similar changes were observed after 3 days. Messenger RNA expression for EGF was decreased at 24 hours in HgCl2 treated rats and remained depressed for at least 3 days. On the other hand steady state mRNA for TGF-alpha increased nearly 2 fold at day 3 in HgCl2 treated rats 4 mg/kg. Heparin binding EGF was increased early, by day one in injured kidneys and gene expression for the EGF receptor was increased as well. Immunohistochemistry documented an increase in expression of TGF-alpha in injured kidneys at distal nephron sites. These studies suggest that TGF-alpha along with HB EGF may be important ligands for the EGF receptor during repair from renal injury.
To investigate the functional changes in rabbit penile corpus cavernosum (CC) secondary to experimental hyperestrogenism and attempt to identify sites of immunoexpression for estrogen receptor subtypes alpha and beta (ER-alpha and ER-beta) in the CC. Although the role of testosterone in sexual function has been extensively studied in clinical settings and experimental animal models, the effect of hormonal modulation/imbalance arising from estrogenic excess has not been characterized.
Eighteen New Zealand white male rabbits (2.5-3.0 kg) were divided into control and two treatment groups. The two treatment groups were given orally 0.1 mg of estradiol valerate (estradiol group) or phytoestrogen, daidzein (phytoestrogen group) daily for 12 weeks. Blood and tissue samples were collected for hormone levels and in vitro pharmacologic studies. CC samples from untreated rabbits (n = 4) were cryosectioned and incubated with appropriate mouse monoclonal antibody for identification of ER-alpha and ER-beta.
Through immunohistochemistry, color signals for nuclear ER-alpha and ER-beta receptors were localized within the CC. Chronic treatment with estradiol and phytoestrogen significantly reduced the systemic total testosterone levels. In organ bath experiments, relaxant responses to acetylcholine, nitroglycerin, and nitrergic transmission were significantly attenuated compared with the control response. With regard to the contractile effect, both types of estrogen treatments significantly potentiated norepinephrine-induced antierectile contraction of the CC.
These results indicate that estradiol treatment and chronic exposure of phytoestrogen may cause receptor-mediated pathophysiologic changes in erectile function, leading to erectile dysfunction.
Hydroxyprogesterone caproate was administered to pregnant rats at a dose level of 10 and 25 mg/kg body weight on 1st, 7th and 14th gestational day and the male pups (F1 generation) were allowed to grow for 90 days. The effect of gestational exposure to hydroxyprogesterone caproate on fertility was assessed by breeding F1 male rats with control female rats besides analyzing sperm quality and quantity in F1 male rats. The number of implantation sites and viable fetuses was significantly reduced in females mated with F1 males that were exposed to hydroxyprogesterone caproate during embryonic development. The decrease in sperm function was associated with a decrease in sperm motility, sperm viability and sperm count in F1 rats. The study clearly indicates that in utero exposure to hydroxyprogesterone caproate affects fertility in male rats.
C57BL/6 (B6) is the most widely used inbred mouse strain, but its use in epilepsy research is compromised by low sensitivity to various convulsants, including pilocarpine. We recently identified a subline of B6NCrl mice in a barrier (#8) of a German vendor (Charles River) that was much more sensitive to status epilepticus (SE) induction than B6NCrl mice from four other barriers of the same vendor and other B6 substrains. Breeding experiments indicated that the observed differences have a genetic basis, thus offering a unique opportunity to identify the genes and pathways involved and contributing to a better understanding of the underlying molecular mechanisms of seizure susceptibility. Since the pilocarpine-sensitive B6 subline (B6NCrl#8) is not further available from the breeder, we decided to generate a new highly pilocarpine-sensitive B6NCrl subline by crossing female B6NCrl#8 mice with male F1 hybrids. Further sister-brother mating of the resulting F2 generation generated a highly susceptible F3 generation. Similar to B6NCrl#8 mice, mice from the F3 generation were significantly more susceptible to SE induction than any other B6 substrain, including B6J (JAX) mice, which were particularly insensitive to seizure induction. In contrast to the marked inter-subline differences in susceptibility to induction of SE, B6 sublines did not differ in the long-term consequences of SE, i.e., development of spontaneous seizures and neurodegeneration in the hippocampus, although hippocampal damage was much less severe than previously reported for other mouse strains. We have started to search for genetic loci underlying the high seizure susceptibility of B6NCrl#8 and filial generations obtained by cross-breeding with this B6 subline. Further characterization of the genetic variations underlying high susceptibility to convulsants such as pilocarpine will facilitate our understanding of the pathomechanisms involved in the evolution of single seizures to a self-sustained SE and provide new opportunities for interventions.
A male clinically affected by the OEIS complex was studied. His mother, aged 30 years, has an affective disorder and ingested 30 mg of Diazepam daily, from 3 months previous to the gestation and during the entire pregnancy. At birth, a closure during the entire pregnancy. At birth, a closure defect of the anterior abdominal wall, exstrophy of hemibladders, exposure of intestinal epithelium, abnormal pelvis, imperforate anus, and bifid penis were noted. Birth weight was 3600 g and other measurements were not recorded. Colostomy was performed in the postnatal period followed by partial closure of the abdominal wall defect, and iliac osteotomies. At six years, 6 months of age, physical examination showed somatometric measurements around the third percentile (height 109 cm, weight 17 kg, cephalic circumference 48.5 cm). Clinically he presented mild mental retardation, functional colostomy, incomplete closure of the vesical exstrophy, imperforate anus, bifid penis and scrotum, descended testes, diastasis of pubis, lumbosacral scoliosis and shortening of the left leg (clinical photograph of the external features is not included as we were not able to obtain authorization to do so). Radiological studies (Figure 1) revealed wide separation of the ischiopubic bones; lumbosacral region with rotoscoliosis, platyspondyly and dysraphism; left coxa valga, and right coxa vara. The abdominal ultrasonographic studies showed unilateral renal agenesis (left). Chromosomal analysis (GTG bands) in peripheral blood lymphocyte cultures demonstrated a normal 46,XY constitution. Exposure to other substances, particularly alcohol, were excluded with the study of the mother's medical history and through information obtained from relatives.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A prospective, randomized, double-blind study was done to determine whether alkalization of prostaglandin E1 decreases pain associated with intracavernous injection.
Ten subjects with a history of pain following at least 70% of injections of prostaglandin E1 received 2 injections of prostaglandin E1, 1 with and 1 without sodium bicarbonate. Patients reported the duration and intensity of pain following each injection.
Comparing injections of prostaglandin E1 with and without bicarbonate, there were no significant differences in number of subjects reporting pain, or duration and intensity of pain.
Addition of sodium bicarbonate does not alleviate penile pain associated with injection of prostaglandin E1.
As a marker of brain cell injury, adenylate kinase (AK) was measured in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in 10 patients given anaesthesia with isoflurane-induced hypotension for corrective surgery of dentofacial deformities. Nine out of 10 patients displayed a marked increase in CSF-AK postoperatively compared with preoperative values. The postoperative mean value displayed a 400% increase compared to the corresponding preoperative value. This difference was statistically significant (P = 0.001). The rise in CSF-AK was most probably the result of an enhanced efflux of AK into CSF subsequent to a presumed hypoxic injury to brain cells.
We evaluated the effect of immunomodulatory treatment with levamisole in HBeAg positive or anti-HBe positive patients with chronic HBV infection and ongoing viral replication. The majority of patients had an expected poor response to IFN-alpha.
Twenty-five viremic patients (15 males and 10 females) with chronic HBV infection were treated with Levamisole for 12 months or until negative serum HBV DNA occurred for at least 3 months. Viral replication and aminotransferase activity were controlled at the end of 3, 6, 9 and 12 months during the treatment.
A decrease of serum HBV DNA was noted when serum HBV DNA levels before and after treatment with levamisole were compared, by t-test for dependent samples (p < 0.05). There was a significant reduction of ALT activity, too. HBV DNA fell below the detection limit of our assay at the end of 3, 6, 9 and 12 months in 7, 7, 8 and 10 of the patients, respectively. In 3 of 16 initially HBeAg positive patients, seroconversion to anti-HBe antibody occurred. At the end of 12 months 10 patients were with negative serum HBV DNA and normal ALT activity. Two of them lost HBsAg during the treatment. Ten patients were without any effect from the therapy. The potential responder initially is anti-HBe positive, with low serum HBV DNA < 500 pg/ml and low ALT activity (< 3 times the upper limit of normal).
Immunomodulation with levamisole may benefit some patients with chronic ongoing viral replication including patients with expected poor response to IFN-alpha. This treatment could be used as an alternative therapeutic schedule in patients contraindicated for IFN-alpha, and also because it lowers treatment costs.
Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder of unclear etiology. The consistent finding of platelet hyperserotonemia in a proportion of patients and its heritability within affected families suggest that genes involved in the serotonin system play a role in this disorder. The role in autism etiology of seven candidate genes in the serotonin metabolic and neurotransmission pathways and mapping to autism linkage regions (SLC6A4, HTR1A, HTR1D, HTR2A, HTR5A, TPH1 and ITGB3) was analyzed in a sample of 186 nuclear families. The impact of interactions among these genes in autism was assessed using the multifactor-dimensionality reduction (MDR) method in 186 patients and 181 controls. We further evaluated whether the effect of specific gene variants or gene interactions associated with autism etiology might be mediated by their influence on serotonin levels, using the quantitative transmission disequilibrium test (QTDT) and the restricted partition method (RPM), in a sample of 109 autistic children. We report a significant main effect of the HTR5A gene in autism (P = 0.0088), and a significant three-locus model comprising a synergistic interaction between the ITGB3 and SLC6A4 genes with an additive effect of HTR5A (P < 0.0010). In addition to the previously reported contribution of SLC6A4, we found significant associations of ITGB3 haplotypes with serotonin level distribution (P = 0.0163). The most significant models contributing to serotonin distribution were found for interactions between TPH1 rs4537731 and SLC6A4 haplotypes (P = 0.002) and between HTR1D rs6300 and SLC6A4 haplotypes (P = 0.013). In addition to the significant independent effects, evidence for interaction between SLC6A4 and ITGB3 markers was also found. The overall results implicate SLC6A4 and ITGB3 gene interactions in autism etiology and in serotonin level determination, providing evidence for a common underlying genetic mechanism and a molecular explanation for the association of platelet hyperserotonemia with autism.
Rodents are usually used to assess the ability of antipsychotic drugs to antagonize hyperlocomotion induced by dopamine agonists, such as the psychostimulant d-amphetamine. However, the substantial differences between rodents and humans may hinder extrapolation of experimental results to humans. For this reason, we speculated that Göttingen miniature pigs, which show strong physiological and genetic homology with humans, might be a better model for investigating the effects of antipsychotics. To investigate this, we determined whether d-amphetamine induced hyperlocomotion in miniature pigs and whether this effect was reversible by antipsychotics.
d-amphetamine was tested in the dose range of 0.2 to 2.0 mg kg(-1) for its ability to induce hyperactivity in the open field, and the effects of two antipsychotics, haloperidol and risperidone, on amphetamine-induced hyperactivity were examined.
d-amphetamine increased open-field activity at 0.2, 0.4, and 0.7 mg kg(-1) s.c. but not at higher doses. The stimulation of open-field activity induced by 0.4 mg kg(-1) s.c. d-amphetamine was antagonized by haloperidol and risperidone (0.01 and 0.04 mg kg(-1) s.c.).
d-amphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion in miniature pigs may be a useful model for studying the effect of putative antipsychotics.
To assess the late cardioprotective effect of dexrazoxane associated with doxorubicin during treatment of osteosarcoma by means of low-dose dobutamine stress echocardiography (LDDSE) in non-relapsed asymptomatic children and teenagers.
The study population included 58 patients with osteosarcoma divided in three groups, with equivalent age range, gender proportion and body surface area. Group I (21 patients, 14 males, 15 +/- 4 years) was analyzed before chemotherapy and considered the control group; Group II (19 patients, 11 males, 19.7 +/- 4 years) was treated with 348.4 +/- 18 mg/m2 of doxorubicin only and Group III (18 patients, 14 male, 16.8 +/- 5 years) treated with 396.5 +/- 55 mg/m2 of doxorubicin with dexrazoxane in the ratio 10:1. The patients were submitted to LDDSE (maximal dose 5 microg/kg/min). No major side effects were observed. Heart rate, blood pressure, left ventricular diameters, end systolic wall stress (ESWS), and other diastolic and systolic function indexes were assessed at rest conditions and during LDDSE and compared between the three groups.
Group III received a doxorubicin dose significantly greater than Group II (P = 0.001). During LDDSE there were no significant changes in the diastolic function indexes in any of the groups, but there was a significant increase of systolic indexes and a decrease of ESWS in Group III compared to group II. There was no significant difference of any systolic functional parameters between Group I and III. Considering the ejection fraction (EF) at rest or at LDDSE, 13 patients (69.4%) in Group II and 5 patients (27.7%) in Group III were considered to have systolic dysfunction. (P = 0.02).
Myocardial response to LDDSE in patients treated with doxorubicin and dexrazoxane was similar to patients without chemotherapy and better than those treated with doxorubicin only, suggesting less cardiotoxicity.
Calcium and cholesterol play major roles in the formation of atherosclerosis. Whether severe atherosclerosis induced by co-administration of a mixture containing vitamin D2 (vit D2) and cholesterol can result in gastric hemorrhagic damage is unknown. Gastric oxidative stress and hemorrhagic ulceration in rats with atherosclerosis induced by co-administration of vit D2 and cholesterol and the protective effect of lysozyme chloride on this ulcer model were investigated.
Male Wistar rats were challenged intragastrically once daily for 9 days with 1.0 ml/kg of corn oil containing vit D2 and cholesterol to induce atherosclerosis. Control rats received the same volume of corn oil only. After 24-h fasting followed by gastric surgery, the rat stomachs were irrigated for 3 h with simulated rat gastric juice or normal saline. Various gastric mucosal ulcerogenic factors (acid back-diffusion, lipid peroxides, histamine concentration, and hemorrhagic ulcers) and defensive substances (mucosal glutathione and mucus secretion) were determined.
Augmentation of serum calcium concentration, total cholesterol, and low-density lipoprotein was observed in atherosclerotic rats. Greater mucosal ulcerogenic parameters and lower defensive substances were achieved in these rats. High correlation between decreased mucosal glutathione and ulceration as well as between increased mucosal lipid peroxide levels and ulceration was also found in the atherosclerotic rats. Daily intragastric lysozyme chloride dose-dependently protected gastric mucosal hemorrhagic damage in the atherosclerotic rats.
Atherosclerosis induced by co-administration of vit D2 and cholesterol could produce gastric oxidative stress and hemorrhagic ulcer that was ameliorated by lysozyme chloride in rats.
Adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) is a very rare malignant tumor with poor prognosis. To gain insight into the pathogenic significance of ACC, we studied clinicopathological features and gene expression profile in ACC. We analyzed five ACC cases (two men and three women) with the median age of 45-year-old who underwent adrenalectomy at our institute. Endocrine studies revealed that two cases had subclinical Cushing's syndrome (SCS) and one with concomitant estrogen-secreting tumor, while the rest of three cases had non-functioning tumors. Analysis of urinary steroids profile by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry showed increased metabolites of corticosteroid precursors, such as 17-OH pregnenolone, 17-OH progesterone, dehydroepiandorosterone (DHEA), and 11-deoxycortisol in all five cases. The pathological diagnosis of ACC was based on Weiss's criteria with its score ≥ 3. The mean size of the resected tumors was 87 mm and Ki67/MIB1 labeling index, a proliferative marker, was 3-27%. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed a disorganized expression of several steroidogenic enzymes, such as 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, 17α-hydroxylase, and DHEA-sulfotransferase. Among several genes determined by RT-PCR, insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-II mRNA was consistently and abundantly expressed in all 5 tumor tissues. Postoperatively, two cases with SCS developed local recurrence and liver metastasis. The present study suggests that the disorganized expression of steroidogenic enzymes and the overexpression of IGF-II by the tumor are hallmarks of ACC, which could be used as biochemical and molecular markers for ACC.
The ability of the dopamine receptor antagonists haloperidol, raclopride and remoxipride to prevent the B-HT 920-induced decrease in striatal and limbic L-DOPA accumulation in gamma-butyrolactone (GBL)- and NSD 1015-treated rats (termed 'GBL-reversal') was used to define the effects of these compounds on "presynaptic" dopamine receptors. The doses of the dopamine antagonists producing antagonism of GBL-reversal were in each case roughly similar to the doses required to increase dopamine turnover in striatal and limbic areas. The potencies of haloperidol, raclopride and remoxipride in the GBL model were compared with their potencies in behavioural models for postsynaptic dopamine receptors. Haloperidol produced antagonism of GBL-reversal over a similar dose range to that required for antagonism of apomorphine-induced hyperactivity and stereotypy syndromes. Raclopride was effective in the order of potency: antagonism of apomorphine-induced hyperactivity greater than antagonism of GBL-reversal greater than antagonism of apomorphine-induced stereotypy. For remoxipride, the dose-response curve for antagonism of GBL-reversal was superimposable over that for antagonism of apomorphine-induced stereotypies, with an ED50 value about 12 times higher than that for antagonism of apomorphine-induced hyperactivity. Thus, the relative potencies of dopamine receptor antagonists at "pre-" and postsynaptic dopamine receptors vary considerably from compound to compound.
Cinacalcet is a calcimimtic agent used to treat secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients with end-stage renal disease on dialysis or hypercalcemia related to parathyroid carcinoma. This report describes recurring circulatory collapse in a patient treated with cinacalcet for unrelated refractory primary hyperparathyroidism.
A white man, aged 54 years and weighing 68 kg, was admitted to the hospital with lethargy, dyspnea, and twitching in the extremities. He was diagnosed previously with primary hyperparathyroidism and nonischemic dilated cardiomyopathy. Surgical parathyroidectomy had been unsuccessful. His serum calcium concentration was 3.15 micromol/L and was refractory to bisphosphonate therapy. Therapy with cinacalcet 30 mg/d was reinitiated, resulting in a reduction in serum calcium concentration and greatly increased heart failure requiring inotropic drug therapy and hemofiltration. After 13 days of treatment, cinacalcet was withdrawn, and the patient's condition unproved. On reintroduction of cinacalcet 30 mg/d, the patient decompensated and required emergency circulatory support. Decompensation resolved 5 days after discontinuation of cinacalcet.
Based on a score of 7 on the Naranjo adverse drug reaction probability scale, cinacalcet was the probable cause of cardiogenic shock in this patient. Calcium-channel antagonist poisoning is associated with hypotension and bradycardia, whereas the calcium sensitizer levosimendan has been reported to improve low-output heart failure, suggesting that calcium may have inotropic properties.
It appears that cardiac function in this patient had adapted to hypercalcemia and became destabilized after introduction of cinacalcet. Caution should be exercised when considering treatment with cinacalcet in patients with heart failure.
As is widely accepted, the crucial event of the progress of Alzheimer's disease is the formation of extracellular neurotoxic amyloid plaques, consisting mainly of 40 or 42 amino acid residues, in the brain. Zinc and copper metal ions are involved in this process, since they enhance the amyloid beta aggregation and are incorporated into plaques. In this paper we have analyzed theoretically the energetics implied in the formation of some complexes of both cations, adopting a number of models that take into account various coordination environments. The aim was to determine which among the coordination patterns examined is the favoured one in order to give better insight in the controversy concerning the metal binding site of amyloid beta peptide.
The development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) requires persistent hepatitis B virus (HBV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. The other origins are extremely rare. A 63-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital for work-up of hepatic mass. She took cyclophosphamide for Wegener granulomatosis for 21 years. Serum HBV and HCV markers were negative. A diagnosis of HCC was made by the imaging findings, and an extended left lobectomy of the liver was performed. Histologically, the tumor was diagnosed as moderately differentiated HCC. We thus considered the HCC in this case as a complication of the long-term cyclophosphamide by the absence of known causes of HCC.
