The convulsant effect of different doses of picrotoxin was investigated in pentylenetetrazol-kindled and saline-treated mice. The percentage of convulsions was greater in the kindled mice, compared to controls.
A case of lithium intoxication in the newborn is presented. Besides displaying extreme hypotonia and a goitre, the infant developed symptoms of congenital heart disease immediately after birth. Cardiac catheterization and angiocardiography revealed an elevated pulmonary vascular resistance and indicated that the cardiopulmonary symptoms were caused by persistent fetal circulation. Previously, four authors have independently reported cardiopulmonary symptoms in association with lithium intoxication without finding cardiac or pulmonary disease. The similarity between the present and the four earlier reported cases in regard to the symptoms and the course of illness, raises the question of the connection between lithium intoxication and persistent fetal circulation being more than coincidental. In view of recent investigations it is speculated that lithium intoxication in utero may result in the pulmonary vascular changes responsible for the persistence of fetal circulation.
Central nervous system (CNS) involvement in early (Rai Stage 0 and Stage 1) chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is rare, with only five cases reported. We present the sixth reported case, a 77-year-old male with a 4 year history of Stage 0 CLL who presented with sudden onset of diplopia and headache. Workup revealed a leukemic involvement of his CNS and he responded well to treatment with intrathecal (IT) methotrexate. After his third IT treatment, he developed a change in his mental status, consistent with a chemotherapy induced encephalopathy, which was effectively treated with IT hydrocortisone. In addition to the case presentation, we review the previously reported cases in an effort to determine any characteristics common among the Stage 0/1 CLL patients with reported CNS involvement.
Emerging evidence suggests the insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor (IGF-1R) to be an important mediator of tumor-cell survival and resistance to cytotoxic therapy in multiple myeloma (MM). Recently, members of the cyclolignan family have been shown to selectively inhibit the receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) activity of the IGF-1R beta-chain. The effects of the cyclolignan picropodophyllin (PPP) were studied in vitro using a panel of 13 MM cell lines and freshly purified tumor cells from 10 patients with MM. PPP clearly inhibited growth in all MM cell lines and primary MM samples cultured in the presence or absence of bone marrow stromal cells. PPP induced a profound accumulation of cells in the G(2)/M-phase and an increased apoptosis. Importantly, IGF-1, IGF-2, insulin, or IL-6 did not reduce the inhibitory effects of PPP. As demonstrated by in vitro kinase assays, PPP down-regulated the IGF-1 RTK activity without inhibiting the insulin RTK activity. This conferred decreased phosphorylation of Erk1/2 and reduced cyclin dependent kinase (CDK1) activity. In addition, the expression of mcl-1 and survivin was reduced. Taken together, we suggest that interfering with the IGF-1 RTK by using the cyclolignan PPP offers a novel and selective therapeutic strategy for MM.
Two new non-sedating antihistamines, astemizole (10 mg per day) and terfenadine (120 mg per day), were compared in a double-blind randomized study in 42 adult patients suffering from chronic urticaria. The trial lasted 4 weeks. Patients were evaluated at 2 and 4 weeks and kept a daily diary of their symptoms. There was a statistically significant decrease in pruritus, erythema and urticaria papules in both groups throughout the study. Changes in papule size, number and frequency were greater in the astemizole group though not significantly different to the terfenadine group. The effect of astemizole increased with time whereas that of terfenadine decreased after about 3 weeks of treatment. Astemizole was globally considered to be the most effective drug by both investigator and patients, with excellent/good results in 77% of the patients compared with 55% to 60% in the terfenadine group. Both drugs were reported to be more effective and faster acting than other antihistamines taken previously. Side-effects were infrequent and minor in both groups.
Polymedication is frequent in geriatric everyday practice and often leads to unwanted drug-drug interactions. Physicians must be aware of the potential interaction-induced with intoxications or therapeutic ineffectiveness. The clinical case presented here illustrates the importance of entertaining the possibility of such an interaction every time that the expected therapeutical effect of a substance is not reached. Our patient had refractory arterial hypertension despite taking five different antihypertensive drugs in hospital, while on carbamazepine for a facial neuralgia. This substance induces the cytochrome P450, which catalyse the metabolism of most of the antihypertensives used. After the discontinuation of carbamazepine and on tritherapy, the blood pressure profile has significantly improved.
To assess the contribution of antipsychotic medication in Japanese patients suffering acute massive pulmonary thromboembolism, records of patients with idiopathic pulmonary thromboembolism associated with antipsychotic medication who were seen in a Japanese Emergency Center from January 1996 to December 2000 were reviewed. Age, gender, physical status, clinical presentation, antiphospholipid antibody, outcome, psychiatric profile, and antipsychotic medication use were examined. Seven patients had acute pulmonary thromboembolism associated with antipsychotic drug use, representing 44% of all patients with idiopathic pulmonary thromboembolism. The 7 patients developed symptoms in the early morning. More women than men were affected. In 5 cases, chlorpromazine and other phenothiazines had been prescribed, whereas in 2 cases, risperidone, a mixed serotonin 5HT(2A) and dopamine D(2) receptor antagonist, had been taken for 40 days and 6 days, respectively. In 4 cases, including the patients taking risperidone, antiphospholipid antibodies were not present. Although statistically significant conclusions can not be drawn from this study, the data suggest that patients receiving risperidone, as well as conventional phenothiazines, are at risk for acute pulmonary thromboembolism, even if otherwise healthy. Strong affinity for the 5HT(2A) receptor of the novel antipsychotic may increase coagulability and the risk of thromboembolism.
Amiodarone has long been the anti-arrhythmic drug of choice for the treatment of atrial fibrillation. We use a clinical case report to illustrate the difficulty of treating this arrhythmia, which is frequent in older adults, by explaining the physiopathology of one of its side effects: hyperthyroidism. TSH should be measured in patients with recurrent atrial fibrillation under treatment in order to exclude an amiodarone-induced thyroid dysfunction. In the geriatric population, the control of ventricular rate is often preferred over a conversion in sinus rhythm because the anti-arrhythmic drugs used for conversion have serious side effects.
We have previously shown that angiotensin II type 2 receptor (AT(2)R) stimulation causes endothelium-dependent vasodilation that does not desensitize after chronic angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1R) blockade, suggesting a role for AT2R in antihypertensive treatment.
We recorded mean arterial pressure (MAP) and investigated AT2R by Western blot analysis, immunohistochemistry, and function in isolated mesenteric resistance arteries (205 microm in diameter) from Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) receiving the following for 4 weeks in drinking water: placebo, AT1R blockade (candesartan; 2 mg/kg per day), ACE inhibitor (perindopril; 3 mg/kg per day), nonselective vasodilator (hydralazine; 16 or 24 mg/kg per day), or candesartan plus hydralazine (16 mg/kg per day). In precontracted isolated arteries, AT2R stimulation (angiotensin II in the presence of candesartan) caused vasodilation in WKY rats (MAP=118 mm Hg) and vasoconstriction in SHR (MAP=183 mm Hg). In SHR treated with candesartan (MAP=146 mm Hg) or hydralazine (16 mg/kg per day; MAP=145 mm Hg), AT2R-induced contraction was reduced by 50%. In SHR treated with perindopril (MAP=125 mm Hg), AT2R stimulation induced vasodilation. In SHR treated with hydralazine (24 mg/kg per day; MAP=105 mm Hg) and in SHR treated with hydralazine (16 mg/kg per day) plus candesartan (MAP=102 mm Hg), an AT2R-mediated vasodilation was restored. Immunochemistry and Western blot analysis showed that AT2R expression, lower in SHR than in WKY rats, was restored to normal levels by treatments reducing arterial pressure in SHR.
Our results suggest that in resistance arteries of SHR, (1) AT2R is downregulated by hypertension, and (2) specific and nonspecific antihypertensive treatments restore AT(2)R expression and vasodilator functions.
A case of severe visual loss following a single dose of vincristine is described. The primary pathology was a spinal cord astrocytoma, grade II, with no intracranial extension. Visual loss after a single small dose of vincristine has never been reported. While peripheral neuropathy and cranial nerve involvement is common, optic neuropathy is extremely rare. The literature of vincristine optic nerve toxicity is reviewed. Although differential diagnostic alternatives can be considered in all described cases it is very likely that vincristine does cause severe visual loss in a small number of patients.
CYP2A6 metabolizes various nitrosamines, such as those in the diet and in tobacco smoke, which have been implicated as risk factors for colorectal tumors. To determine whether changes in expression levels could contribute to their progression, we carried out immunohistochemistry for CYP2A6 in human colon tumors. Colon specimens (n = 53) were diagnosed as adenoma (n = 16), adenocarcinoma (n = 30) or carcinoma in or with adenoma (n = 7). Colon tumor cells showed cytoplasmic granular immunoreactivity for CYP2A6. Adenocarcinomas and adjacent mucosa showed similar highly elevated degrees of CYP2A6 expression, whereas carcinomas in or with adenoma and adenomas showed lesser increases. To further determine whether CYP2A6 mRNA was expressed at the same level as the CYP2A6 protein, we carried out in situ hybridization of CYP2A6 in two cases of adenocarcinoma. In situ hybridization for CYP2A6 revealed mRNA expression in adenocarcinoma cells. The data indicate that CYP2A6 may have important roles in human colorectal tumorigenesis and progression, so that it could be a candidate therapeutic and chemopreventive target for colorectal cancers.
Lineage-survival oncogenes are activated by somatic DNA alterations in cancers arising from the cell lineages in which these genes play a role in normal development. Here we show that a peak of genomic amplification on chromosome 3q26.33 found in squamous cell carcinomas (SCCs) of the lung and esophagus contains the transcription factor gene SOX2, which is mutated in hereditary human esophageal malformations, is necessary for normal esophageal squamous development, promotes differentiation and proliferation of basal tracheal cells and cooperates in induction of pluripotent stem cells. SOX2 expression is required for proliferation and anchorage-independent growth of lung and esophageal cell lines, as shown by RNA interference experiments. Furthermore, ectopic expression of SOX2 here cooperated with FOXE1 or FGFR2 to transform immortalized tracheobronchial epithelial cells. SOX2-driven tumors show expression of markers of both squamous differentiation and pluripotency. These characteristics identify SOX2 as a lineage-survival oncogene in lung and esophageal SCC.
1 The effects of the beta 2-adrenoceptor stimulant, salbutamol, on cardiac metabolism have been studied in conscious mongrel dogs. The potential effects of anaesthesia on the study of cardiac metabolism have been avoided by prior implantation of arterial (A) and coronary sinus (CS) catheters for blood sampling and a central venous catheter for infusion. Extraction of substrates for myocardial energy metabolism (CA-CS) was assessed 3 to 24 days post-operatively. A 100 micrograms bolus of salbutamol was given followed by an infusion of 3 micrograms/min for 1 h. 2 Although heart rate increased significantly from 106 to 165 beats/min, fractional extraction of oxygen tended to fall from 84% to 77%. Thus an increase in coronary blood flow rather than in oxygen extraction must have maintained an oxygen supply commensurate with the salbutamol-induced tachycardia. 3 Neither CA-CS glucose nor fractional glucose extraction altered significantly during salbutamol infusion despite increases in arterial concentration (CA) of glucose and arterial insulin immunoreactivity and a decrease in CA of free fatty acids (FFA). This suggests that an insulin-antagonistic action accompanies the infusion of salbutamol. 4 The fractional extraction of lactate increased during salbutamol infusion. In part, this may have been a reflection of a decreased myocardial extraction of FFA with salbutamol in this model.
The possibility that selection of an initiating agent could have a significant impact on the ability to detect subsequent promoting activity of peroxisome proliferators was examined. Initiation was achieved by established methods using 2-acetyl-aminofluorene (2-AAF: 0.02% in diet for 8 weeks) or diethylnitrosamine (DEN; 150 mg/kg body wt by single i.p. injection) in male F344 rats. Following initiation, the peroxisome proliferators WY-14,643 or clofibrate were each fed (0.1% of diet) for up to 37 weeks. Both WY-14,643 and clofibrate lacked promoting activity, as measured by increases in the volume density of homogeneous basophilic foci and incidence or multiplicity of hepatocellular neoplasia following 2-AAF initiation compared to non-initiated controls. These negative results sharply contrasted with the observed promoting activity of dietary WY-14,643 and clofibrate following DEN initiation. Peroxisome proliferation, measured as induction of acyl-CoA oxidase activity, was consistently observed in peroxisome proliferator-fed rats despite prior initiation with 2-AAF or DEN. These results suggest that detection of promoting activity for peroxisome proliferators depends on selection of the initiating agent.
Methylglyoxal (MGO), a cytotoxic metabolite, is produced from glycolysis. Elevated levels of MGO are observed in a number of diabetic complications, including retinopathy, nephropathy and cardiomyopathy. Loss of retinal pericyte, a hallmark of early diabetic retinal changes, leads to the development of formation of microaneurysms, retinal hemorrhages and neovasculization. Herein, we evaluated the cytotoxic role of MGO in retinal pericytes and further investigated the signaling pathway leading to cell death. Rat primary retinal pericytes were exposed to 400muM MGO for 6h. Retinal vessels were prepared from intravitreally MGO-injected rat eyes. We demonstrated apoptosis, nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) activation and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) induction in cultured pericytes treated with MGO and MGO-injected retinal vessels. In MGO-treated pericytes, TUNEL-positive nuclei were markedly increased, and NF-kappaB was translocalized into the nuclei of pericytes, which paralleled the expression of iNOS. The treatment of pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (an NF-kappaB inhibitor) or l-N6-(1-iminoethyl)-lysine (an iNOS inhibitor) prevented apoptosis of MGO-treated pericytes. In addition, in intravitreally MGO-injected rat eyes, TUNEL and caspase-3-positive pericytes were significantly increased, and activated NF-kappaB and iNOS were highly expressed. These results suggest that the increased expression of NF-kappaB and iNOS caused by MGO is involved in rat retinal pericyte apoptosis.
Epidemiological evidence indicates that prenatal nutritional deprivation may increase the risk of schizophrenia. The goal of these studies was to use an animal model to examine the effects of prenatal protein deprivation on behaviors and receptor binding with relevance to schizophrenia. We report that prenatally protein deprived (PD) female rats showed an increased stereotypic response to apomorphine and an increased locomotor response to amphetamine in adulthood. These differences were not observed during puberty. No changes in haloperidol-induced catalepsy or MK-801-induced locomotion were seen following PD. In addition, PD female rats showed increased (3)H-MK-801 binding in the striatum and hippocampus, but not in the cortex. PD female rats also showed increased (3)H-haloperidol binding and decreased dopamine transporter binding in striatum. No statistically significant changes in behavior or receptor binding were found in PD males with the exception of increased (3)H-MK-801 binding in cortex. This animal model may be useful to explore the mechanisms by which prenatal nutritional deficiency enhances risk for schizophrenia in humans and may also have implications for developmental processes leading to differential sensitivity to drugs of abuse.
1. Mice were given sodium valproate (0.71%) in the drinking fluid for 21 days. The antinociceptive activity, locomotor activity and body temperature changes were recorded at 7, 14 and 21 days. The possible carryover antinociceptive effects were also determined after valproate withdrawal for up to 3 days after 7-, 14- and 21-day treatment. 2. The antinociceptive activity was present only on days 7, 14 and 21 and, on withdrawal of the drug, the antinociceptive activity disappeared. 3. Thus, with this regimen of valproate administration, there was no persistent antinociceptive activity (carryover effect). There were essentially no effects of valproate on the locomotor activity and body temperature of mice. The antinociceptive effects were due to the presence of the drug and disappeared on valproate's withdrawal.
Exposure to toxic alkylating mustard agents causes both acute and long-term effects to the lungs as indicated by increased number of inflammatory cells in airways, lung edema and lung tissue fibrosis. We have previously demonstrated that treatment with the corticosteroid dexamethasone 1 h after lung exposure to the nitrogen mustard analog melphalan protects mice from acute and sub-acute inflammatory responses, as well as from lung tissue fibrosis.
In order to address the importance of early anti-inflammatory treatment, we investigated the therapeutic effect of dexamethasone administered 1, 2 or 6 h following exposure to melphalan.
C57BL/6 mice were exposed to melphalan and treated with dexamethasone 1, 2 or 6 h after exposure. Twenty hours or 14 days post exposure mice were subjected to analysis of respiratory mechanics where the effects of incremental doses of methacholine on central and peripheral lung components were measured. We also determined the amount of inflammatory cells in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and measured the amount of collagen content in the lungs.
Melphalan exposure increased airway hyperresponsiveness in both central and peripheral airways and induced an airway inflammation dominated by infiltration of macrophages and neutrophils. Dexamethasone given 1 h after exposure to melphalan provided better protection against airway inflammation than administration 2 or 6 h after exposure. Collagen deposition 14 days after exposure was decreased due to dexamethasone treatment.
Early treatment with dexamethasone is important in order to reduce the airway hyperresponsiveness and inflammation caused by toxic alkylating mustards such as melphalan.
Bupivacaine-induced myotoxicity is associated with mitochondrial bioenergetic alterations. The impact of the duration of bupivacaine treatment on mitochondrial energy production remains undetermined. Here, we assessed, in vivo, the alteration of mitochondrial metabolism following different durations of bupivacaine exposure (40, 56, or 112 hr) that correspond to 5, 7, or 14 repeated injections of 0.25% bupivacaine, respectively.
Rats were divided randomly into seven different groups: one control group (no catheter); three groups with normal saline injections (1 mL x kg(-1)) every eight hours via a femoral nerve catheter for 40, 56, and 112 hr, respectively; and three groups with 0.25% bupivacaine injections (1 mL x kg(-1)) every eight hours via a femoral nerve catheter for 40, 56, and 112 hr. Psoas and gracilis muscle samples located within the bupivacaine infusion-diffusion space were investigated. To estimate mitochondrial respiratory capacity, the protein content of the mitochondrial respiratory chain apparatus was evaluated by measuring citrate synthase activity. To measure mitochondrial respiratory function, adenosine diphosphate-stimulated oxygen consumption was measured by polarography in saponin-skinned muscle fibres using glutamate-malate or succinate as energy substrates.
In psoas and gracilis muscles, saline solution had no effect on the two mitochondrial parameters. Bupivacaine induced a significant decrease in the citrate synthase activity in psoas (r(2) = 0.74; P < 0.001) and gracilis muscle (r(2) = 0.52; P < 0.001), and there was a significant decrease in the adenosine diphosphate-stimulated oxygen consumption using glutamate or succinate as substrates in both muscles (P < 0.001).
The severity of bupivacaine-induced myotoxicity is closely linked to the duration of bupivacaine exposure in the muscle fibres located close to the catheter tip.
Optic neuropathy has been reported to occur during antiarrhythmic therapy with amiodarone. Whether or not there is a causal relationship has been discussed controversely.
Three patients presented with a visual impairment three to seven months after starting amiodarone therapy. In all three patients both optic discs were swollen and showed hemorrhages on the margin. After discontinuing amiodarone, the vision improved and the swelling of the optic discs resolved.
The bilateral occurrence at the same time, the close time correlation with the amiodarone application and the improvement after discontinuing amiodarone suggest that our three patients suffered from a toxic effect of amiodarone rather than an incidental other disease, as for instance ischemic optic neuropathy.
Two halogenated anesthetics, enflurane and isoflurane, have been associated with an allergic-type hepatic injury both alone and following previous exposure to halothane. Halothane hepatitis appears to involve an aberrant immune response. An antibody response to a protein-bound biotransformation product (trifluoroacetyl adduct) has been detected on halothane hepatitis patients. This study was performed to determine cross-reactivity between enflurane and isoflurane with the hypersensitivity induced by halothane. The subcellular and lobular production of hepatic neoantigens recognized by halothane-induced antibodies following enflurane and isoflurane, and the biochemical nature of these neoantigens was investigated in two animal models. Enflurane administration resulted in neoantigens detected in both the microsomal and cytosolic fraction of liver homogenates and in the centrilobular region of the liver. In the same liver, biochemical analysis detected fluorinated liver adducts that were up to 20-fold greater in guinea pigs than in rats. This supports and extends previous evidence for a mechanism by which enflurane and/or isoflurane could produce a hypersensitivity condition similar to that of halothane hepatitis either alone or subsequent to halothane administration. The guinea pig would appear to be a useful model for further investigations of the immunological response to these antigens.
Pesticides may contribute to respiratory symptoms among farmers. Using the Agricultural Health Study, a large cohort of certified pesticide applicators in Iowa and North Carolina, we explored the association between wheeze and pesticide use in the past year. Self-administered questionnaires contained items on 40 currently used pesticides and pesticide application practices. A total of 20,468 applicators, ranging in age from 16 to 88 years, provided complete information; 19% reported wheezing in the past year. Logistic regression models controlling for age, state, smoking, and history of asthma or atopy were used to evaluate associations between individual pesticides and wheeze. Among pesticides suspected to contribute to wheeze, paraquat, three organophosphates (parathion, malathion, and chlorpyrifos), and one thiocarbamate (S-ethyl-dipropylthiocarbamate [EPTC] ) had elevated odds ratios (OR). Parathion had the highest OR (1.5, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.0, 2.2). Chlorpyrifos, EPTC, paraquat, and parathion demonstrated significant dose-response trends. The herbicides, atrazine and alachlor, but not 2,4-D, were associated with wheeze. Atrazine had a significant dose-response trend with participants applying atrazine more than 20 days/year having an OR of 1.5 (95% CI 1.2,1.9). Inclusion of crops and animals into these models did not significantly alter the observed OR. These associations, though small, suggest an independent role for specific pesticides in respiratory symptoms of farmers.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis syndrome (HITTS) is a potentially life-threatening side effect of heparin therapy, triggered by an immune response, and has been reported to be related not only to the therapeutic use of heparin but also to heparin-coated catheters. A 45-year-old woman with intrapelvic malignancy developed an acute pulmonary thromboembolism (PE) after hysterectomy despite prophylactic heparin use. Subsequent large doses of heparin for treatment of the PE exacerbated the thrombocytopenia and, moreover, a large thrombus formed around the heparin-coated central venous catheter. Anti-heparin-platelet factor 4 complex antibody and heparin-induced platelet aggregation assay were positive, so the diagnosis was HITTS, and heparin was replaced by argatroban after carrying out thrombectomy. This therapy was successful, and the patient made favorable progress.
