The present study addressed the role of dopamine D1 receptors in pilocarpine-induced motor seizures in rats. Bilateral pretreatment of the hippocampus with the D1 agonist SKF 38393 (0.1-5 micrograms) did not alter the animals' sensitivity to a threshold (200 mg/kg i.p.) or fully convulsant dose (600 mg/kg i.p.) of pilocarpine, as compared to hippocampal saline-treated controls. Similarly, direct injection of pilocarpine (200 micrograms per side) into both hippocampi elicited low level seizure activity that was not modified by SKF 38393, either coadministered (2 micrograms per side) or injected systemically (30 mg/kg i.p.). On the other hand, intrahippocampal microinjections of the D1 antagonist, SCH 23390 (2 micrograms per side), whilst unable to prevent epileptogenesis to 600 mg/kg pilocarpine, delayed the onset of seizures and reduced their severity. These results suggest that hippocampal dopamine lowers the seizure threshold by activating D1 receptors, an effect which is only disclosed by D1 receptor blockade and is not surmountable by additional D1 stimulation.
We previously reported that acute exposure to intermittent hypoxia results in delayed cardioprotection against ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury and that the hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1α, a transcriptional factor stabilized by hypoxia, as well as inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) play a key role in this form of preconditioning. As cobalt chloride (CoCl(2)) is known to promote HIF-1α stabilization by inhibiting prolyl hydroxylase activity, we hypothesized that CoCl(2) could mimic the cardioprotective effects of hypoxia. Two groups of rats were administered 30 mg/kg twice of CoCl(2) or sterile water. Twenty-four hours later, hearts were perfused in Langendorff mode and subjected to an I/R protocol. Infarct size and functional recovery were studied. The role of iNOS was assessed by measuring myocardial iNOS content and by observing the effects of the iNOS inhibitor aminoguanidine (Ag, 100 μm, prior to ischemia). The role of HIF-1α was investigated by preventing its stabilization using cadmium chloride (CdCl(2), 1 mg/kg), administered 1 h before cobalt treatment. Treatment by CoCl(2) significantly reduced myocardial infarction by 33% and increased coronary flow (CF) at reperfusion by 27% compared with control rats, and this was accompanied by a threefold increase in myocardial iNOS content. CdCl(2) pretreatment and Ag perfusion abolished the beneficial effects on both infarct size and CF. Thus, the hypoxia-sensitive transcription factor HIF-1α and iNOS appear to play a pivotal role in the delayed pharmacological myocardial preconditioning induced by cobalt, thus mimicking the effects of hypoxic preconditioning. These results underscore the importance of prolyl hydroxylases as potential therapeutic targets for cardioprotection.
Eight bulls and steers (research animals) and 18 bulls (surgical patients) were anesthetized with guaifenesin and thiopental or thiamylal and for 90 minutes with halothane. Arterial blood pressure and heart rate were recorded in all animals. Cardiac output, plasma glucose and lactate concentrations, PCV, plasma proteins and plasma thromboxane B2 values were determined before (control) and every 15 minutes during anesthesia in the research animals. Plasma catecholamine concentrations were measured in 3 of the research animals and 3 of the surgical patients. Arterial pressure, heart rate, and plasma thromboxane B2 and catecholamine concentrations were also measured immediately after the trachea was intubated. All animals, except one, were hypertensive during anesthesia. Heart rate during anesthesia was significantly increased, compared with control measurements, and cardiac output was decreased. Plasma glucose and lactate values significantly increased when the animals were restrained on their sides. Plasma glucose concentrations remained increased during anesthesia, but lactate decreased. Packed cell volume and plasma proteins were unchanged by the induction of anesthesia. Plasma norepinephrine concentration was unchanged during anesthesia, and epinephrine concentration was decreased. Endotracheal intubation caused a transient significant increase in arterial pressure, heart rate, and thromboxane B2 and a nonsignificant increase in norepinephrine.
To investigate the effect of pain relief after infusion of ropivacaine at port sites at the end of surgery.
From October 2006 to September 2007, 72 patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC) were randomized into two groups of 36 patients. One group received ropivacaine infusion at the port sites at the end of LC and the other received normal saline. A visual analog scale was used to assess postoperative pain when the patient awakened in the operating room, 6 and 24 h after surgery, and before discharge. The amount of analgesics use was also recorded. The demographics, laboratory data, hospital stay, and perioperative complications were compared between the two groups.
There was no difference between the two groups preoperatively in terms of demographic and laboratory data. After surgery, similar operation time, blood loss, and no postoperative morbidity and mortality were observed in the two groups. However, a significantly lower pain score was observed in the patients undergoing LC with local anesthesia infusion at 1 h after LC and at discharge. Regarding analgesic use, the amount of meperidine used 1 h after LC and the total used during admission were lower in patients undergoing LC with local anesthesia infusion. This group also had a shorter hospital stay.
Local anesthesia with ropivacaine at the port site in LC patients significantly decreased postoperative pain immediately. This explains the lower meperidine use and earlier discharge for these patients.
Epileptic seizures associated with intrathecal baclofen (ITB) application have been observed in patients with traumatic brain injury. A higher incidence of seizures has also been reported in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) receiving ITB. To our knowledge, no case of a first epileptic seizure has been reported in the context of ITB bolus testing in MS. We report a 41-year-old female patient with primary progressive MS receiving olanzapine and oxcarbazepine for psychotic disorder. Five years prior she began to develop severe spastic quadriparesis, rendering her a candidate for ITB treatment. After ITB test bolus application, however, she experienced a first epileptic seizure. Our observation indicates that ITB may trigger seizures in patients with MS. The observed seizure occurred during ITB bolus testing despite antiepileptic co-medication, which concurs with previous reports suggesting that rapid changes in the dose of ITB may carry a higher risk of seizure induction.
Tetracyclines and isotretinoin are widely used treatments for patients with acne. Although generally safe, the use of these agents has been associated with pseudotumor cerebri and combination therapy with these agents may increase the risk for pseudotumor cerebri. A 14-year-old boy presented with headaches and bilateral visual loss secondary to papilledema. He had been treated with tetracycline and isotretinoin for acne for three weeks prior to presentation and was subsequently diagnosed as having pseudotumor cerebri. He required long-term medical therapy and eventually underwent bilateral optic nerve sheath decompression. The literature regarding pseudotumor cerebri in association with tetracyclines and isotretinoin treatment for acne is reviewed. Dermatologists should be aware of the risk of pseudotumor cerebri in patients receiving tetracycline or isotretinoin treatment for acne and should be particularly cautious about using both agents simultaneously.
Oral cancer is the fourth-most common cause of death in males and overall the sixth-most common cause of cancer death in Taiwan. Surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy combined with other therapies are the most common treatments for oral cavity cancer. Although cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil and docetaxel are commonly used clinically, there is no drug specific for oral cavity cancer. Here, we demonstrated that derivatives of 3a-aza-cyclopenta[a]indene, a class of newly synthesized alkylating agents, may be drugs more specific for oral cancer based on its potent in vitro cytotoxicity to oral cancer cells and on in vivo xenografts. Among them, BO-1090, bis(hydroxymethyl)-3a-aza-cyclopenta[a]indene derivative, targeted DNA for its cytotoxic effects as shown by inhibition of DNA synthesis (bromodeoxyuridine-based DNA synthesis assay), induction of DNA crosslinking (alkaline gel shift assay), and induction of DNA single-stranded breaks (Comet assay) and double-stranded breaks (γ-H2AX focus formation). Following DNA damage, BO-1090 induced G1/S-phase arrest and apoptosis in oral cancer cell lines. The therapeutic potential of BO-1090 was tested in mice that received a xenograft of oral cavity cancer cell lines (SAS or Cal 27 cells). Intravenous injection of BO-1090 significantly suppressed tumor growth in comparison to control mice. BO-1090 also significantly reduced the tumor burden in orthotopic mouse models using SAS cells. There was no significant adverse effect of BO-1090 treatment with this dosage based on whole blood count, biochemical enzyme profiles in plasma and histopathology of various organs in mouse. Taken together, our current results demonstrate that B0-1090 may have potential as a treatment for oral cavity cancer.
Homozygotes for the splotch (Sp) mutation in the mouse have spina bifida, whereas the heterozygotes have a white belly spot but otherwise appear normal. Spina bifida can be induced by maternal treatment with retinoic acid. Female SWV strain mice were treated intraperitoneally with retinoic acid suspended in peanut oil 8 days/12 hours after they had been mated to either Sp/+ or +/+ males. Probit analysis of the dose-response data suggests that the presence of the Sp gene causes an increased susceptibility of the embryo to the spina bifida-causing effects of retinoic acid. To study the nature of this increase litters were obtained on gestation day 9 from untreated SWV females mated as above. The mean length of the posterior neuropore (the length of the posterior neural tube that has not yet closed) was determined for each somite number between 14 and 26 and was found to be significantly greater in embryos from the Sp/+ cross. This delay of closure of the neural tube in Sp/+ cross embryos could explain the observed increase in their susceptibility to retinoic acid.
Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) is used globally as the drug of first choice for the treatment of primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC). The mechanism by which UDCA exerts its effect has been clarified mainly by in vitro studies. However, no other studies have so far been successful in defining the expression profiles of relevant cytokines in experimental PBC models.
In this study, we established an immune-mediated cholangitis mouse model by immunizing mice with an intraperitoneal injection of carbonic anhydrase (CA)-II every other week, for a total of three injections. After the administration of UDCA, the animals were examined for the hepatic histopathology and liver enzyme levels in the serum, as well as the cytokine mRNA contents in the liver.
After the administration of UDCA, peribiliary cell invasion decreased, but the change of hepatic enzyme was not observed. The quantities of interleukin (IL)-2 mRNA in the liver were all elevated in the CA-II group as compared with the control group in a semiquantitative assay. The quantities of IL-2 mRNA were significantly decreased in the CA-II+UDCA group compared with the CA-II group. UDCA suppressed the production of IL-2 and had the tendency to suppress the production of IL-4, and the suppression of IL-2 was predominant, compared to the suppression of IL-4, but UDCA did not significantly effect the expression of interferon (IFN)-gamma mRNA, IL-6 mRNA, IL-10 mRNA.
UDCA predominantly suppressed IL-2 mRNA compared to IL-4 mRNA in the liver of the cholangitis model. The results partially clarified the mechanism by which UDCA exerts its effect on PBC.
E7080 is an inhibitor of multiple tyrosine kinases, several of which have pro-angiogenic properties, including receptors for VEGF, FGF, SCF and PDGF. We undertook our study to evaluate the preclinical activity of E7080 in human sarcomas. The antitumour activity of orally administered E7080 was tested in ten human tumour xenografts representing different sarcoma histotypes. Concomitant changes in microvessel density were assayed by immunohistochemistry to CD31. Immunohistochemistry was also used to assess the expression of kinases that E7080 is known to inhibit. The MTS assay was applied to determine effects on tumour cell viability in vitro. At the Q1D5 × 2 schedule, E7080 (30 mg/kg) was active (T/C<40%) in 7/10 xenografts. The effects were accompanied by marked decrease in microvessel densities. Given at the Q1D5 × 4 schedule, E7080 (30, 10, 3 mg/kg) showed antitumour activity in a dose dependent manner in two different xenografts. E7080 growth inhibition did not correlate with the expression of VEGFR1-3, PDGFRA, PDGFRB, FGFR1 or KIT on tumour cells but was significantly correlated with expression of VEGFR2 on tumour microvessels. In vitro E7080 did not show potent effects on tumour cell viability in four different sarcoma cell lines, with IC50 values ≥ 10 μM. In conclusion, E7080 showed broad in vivo antitumour activity in sarcoma, mainly attributable to angiogenesis inhibition. E7080 was also active in xenografts resistant to one or more clinically relevant reference drugs given at MTD (doxorubicin, cisplatin or ifosfamide). The present results encourage further investigation of a potential role of E7080 in sarcoma therapy in the clinic.
This paper reports a case of fatal perhexiline maleate liver injury. A 62-year-old man had received perhexiline maleate for 18 months before death. Hepatic failure developed after a routine surgical procedure. The clinical course and histological findings are presented.
The pathogenesis of aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid, ASA)-intolerant urticaria (AIU) is still poorly understood but it has recently been suggested that it is associated with the overproduction of leukotriene (LT). This is supported by evidence that cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitor is given safely to patients with AIU. The present study was designed to investigate the role of genetic polymorphism of LT related genes in the pathogenesis of AIU via a case-control study. We screened single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in genes encoding enzymes involved in leukotriene synthesis in the Korean population with AIU (n = 101), ASA-intolerant asthma (AIA, n = 95) and normal healthy controls (n = 123). Genotype was determined by primer extension reactions using the SNapShot ddNTP primer extension kit. Among 8 SNPs of four LT related genes, the polymorphism of ALOX5 at positions of -1708 G > A showed significant difference in genotype frequency between AIU and AIA (p = 0.01). Furthermore, there were significant differences observed in the frequencies of two ALOX5 haplotypes between the AIU group and AIA group (p < 0.05). However, there were no differences in allele, genotype, or haplotype frequencies of ALOX5 between the AIU group and the normal control group. These results suggested that ALOX5 has a differing contribution in two major clinical pathogenesis related to ASA-sensitivity.
The total GSH depletion observed in the substantia nigra (SN) appears to be responsible for subsequent oxidative stress (OS), mitochondrial dysfunction, and dopaminergic cell loss in patients with Parkinson's disease. A strategy to prevent the OS of dopaminergic cells in the SN may be the use of chemopreventive agents as inducers of endogenous GSH, antioxidant and phase 2 enzymes. In this study, we demonstrated that treatment of the dopaminergic-like neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cell line with sulforaphane (SF), a cruciferous vegetables inducer, resulted in significant increases of total GSH level, NAD(P)H : quinone oxidoreductase-1, GSH-transferase and -reductase, but not GSH-peroxidase, catalase and superoxide dismutase activities. Further, the elevation of GSH levels, GSH-transferase and NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase-1 activities was correlated to an increase of the resistance of SH-SY5Y cells to toxicity induced by H(2)O(2) or 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). The pre-treatment of SH-SY5Y cells with SF was also shown to prevent various apoptotic events (mitochondrial depolarization, caspase 9 and 3 activation and DNA fragmentation) and necrosis elicited by 6-OHDA. Further, the impairment of antioxidant capacity and reactive oxygen species formation at intracellular level after exposure to 6-OHDA was effectively counteracted by pre-treatment with SF. Last, both the cytoprotective and antioxidant effects of SF were abolished by the addition of buthionine sulfoximine supporting the main role of GSH in the neuroprotective effects displayed by SF. These findings show that SF may play a role in preventing Parkinson's disease.
Endogenous adenosine might cause or perpetuate bradyasystole. Our aim was to determine whether aminophylline, an adenosine antagonist, increases the rate of return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC) after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest.
In a double-blind trial, we randomly assigned 971 patients older than 16 years with asystole or pulseless electrical activity at fewer than 60 beats per minute, and who were unresponsive to initial treatment with epinephrine and atropine, to receive intravenous aminophylline (250 mg, and an additional 250 mg if necessary) (n=486) or placebo (n=485). The patients were enrolled between January, 2001 and September, 2003, from 1886 people who had had cardiac arrests. Standard resuscitation measures were used for at least 10 mins after the study drug was administered. Analysis was by intention-to-treat. This trial is registered with the ClinicalTrials.gov registry with the number NCT00312273.
Baseline characteristics and survival predictors were similar in both groups. The median time from the arrival of the advanced life-support paramedic team to study drug administration was 13 min. The proportion of patients who had an ROSC was 24.5% in the aminophylline group and 23.7% in the placebo group (difference 0.8%; 95% CI -4.6% to 6.2%; p=0.778). The proportion of patients with non-sinus tachyarrhythmias after study drug administration was 34.6% in the aminophylline group and 26.2% in the placebo group (p=0.004). Survival to hospital admission and survival to hospital discharge were not significantly different between the groups. A multivariate logistic regression analysis showed no evidence of a significant subgroup or interactive effect from aminophylline.
Although aminophylline increases non-sinus tachyarrhythmias, we noted no evidence that it significantly increases the proportion of patients who achieve ROSC after bradyasystolic cardiac arrest.
c-Met, the tyrosine kinase receptor for hepatocyte growth factor, is overexpressed in a variety of tumors in which it plays a central role in malignant transformation. Although c-Met has also been determined to be a critical signaling molecule in normal stem cell function, the potential role of c-Met as a single marker for cancer stem cells (CSCs) has not been previously examined. In our study, we reported that human head neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) cells expressing c-Met were capable of self-renewal and of generating tumors that recapitulate the heterogeneity of the parental tumors, and isolation of HNSCC cells using a second marker CD44 could further enhance upon the in-vivo tumorigenicity. We also reported that c-Met(+) HNSCC cells could readily make spherical colonies in nonadherent culture conditions, in contrast, c-Met(-) population did not; these spherical colonies could be passaged multiple times without loss of colony-forming capability. Furthermore, we showed that c-Met(+) HNSCC cells have increased expression of self-renewal pathways are spared by cisplatin treatment and are responsible for mediating metastasis. These results indicated that c-Met could serve as a novel marker for CSCs at least in HNSCC, and the highly chemoresistant and metastatic capabilities of c-Met(+) HNSCC population make them an important cell type to better define and understand their function.
Recently, two genome-wide association studies identified a significant association between the prostate stem cell antigen (PSCA) rs2294008 (C>T) polymorphism and risk of diffuse-type of gastric cancer in Asians and bladder cancer in Caucasians, respectively. PSCA has been reported highly expressed in bladder cancer and been considered as a useful marker for diagnosis and progression of bladder cancer. To determine whether rs2294008 polymorphism is associated with risk of bladder cancer in Chinese populations, we conducted a hospital-based case-control study of 581 cases and 580 controls. Sixteen normal bladder tissues adjacent to tumors were used to evaluate the functionality of this polymorphism. We genotyped the rs2294008 polymorphism and assessed its association with risk of bladder cancer and messenger RNA (mRNA) expression in normal bladder tissues. A significant increased risk of bladder cancer was found for rs2294008 CT/TT genotypes (adjusted odds ratio, 1.38; 95% confidence interval, 1.09-1.75) compared with the CC genotype. Furthermore, analysis of PSCA mRNA expression identified a clear correlation of rs2294008 with expression levels of PSCA mRNA. These results indicated that the rs2294008 polymorphism of PSCA gene may play a role in bladder cancer carcinogenesis and it could be served as a biomarker for genetic susceptibility to bladder cancer in Chinese populations.
We report the first case of hepatocellular injury occurring in a patient treated for metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumour (GIST) with imatinib mesylate, with two positive rechallenges including one with 2.5% of the current therapeutic dosage. The patient could be treated later with sunitinib without liver toxicity. Grade 3-4 liver toxicity could occur in one out of 40 treated patients with imatinib for GIST, and fatalities have been reported. Regular monitoring of liver function tests is essential in patients treated with imatinib.
Rats receiving daily oral administrations of lindane were kindled using daily amygdaloid stimulation. In naive rats lindane exposure increased the probability of evoking an afterdischarge and increased the probability that a convulsive response would be associated with the afterdischarge. During kindling lindane increased the rate of acquisition of the fully kindled state. Lindane exposed rats required fewer stimulations, fewer afterdischarges and fewer seconds of afterdischarge to kindle. The final kindled state, however, was not modified by lindane exposure. The effects of lindane on kindling were directly proportional to exposure. A log-linear regression of the data estimated the minimal effective exposure level to be about 0.5 mg/kg/day lindane. Brain concentrations at this exposure were about 0.5 microgram/g, while blood levels were near 0.1 microgram/ml. The kindled seizure model appears to be a useful tool for estimating exposures at which certain neurotoxic responses emerge.
Whilst the oral contraceptive pill (OC) has been implicated on a number of occasions as a cause of sensorineural hearing loss, there are no published reports linking hormone replacement therapy (HRT) to otological symptoms. A case of sensorineural loss with tinnitus following commencement of HRT is described, followed by a discussion outlining the fundamental differences between the OC and HRT, thus explaining why a vascular aetiology is unlikely. It is hypothesized that otological symptoms in such cases may be due to the effect of oestrogens on electrolyte balance disturbing inner ear function and also a direct effect on the auditory pathways mediated in part by alterations in neurotransmitter receptor concentrations.
Dexamethasone is now frequently used in the treatment of bronchopulmonary dysplasia. We report on two premature babies receiving dexamethasone who developed symptomatic myocardial hypertrophy and left ventricular outflow tract obstruction, as documented by M-mode echocardiography and Doppler studies. A normal heart was recorded on echocardiography before and after dexamethasone treatment. The patients had no known risk factors associated with the development of obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
The obesity epidemic currently plaguing the United States has spurred the development of a vast number of drugs to assist in the battle against obesity and its associated complications. The need to loose weight often causes patients to loose sight of or even ignore the serious side effects of some of the most widely used weight-loss medications. Here we present the case of ventricular tachycardia/fibrillation arrest in an otherwise healthy 48-year-old woman who was taking no medications other than phentermine, a common appetite suppressant that functions as a central nervous system stimulant through activation of the noradrenergic pathway of the sympathetic nervous system.
Acute morphine administration produces analgesia and reward, but prolonged use may lead to analgesic tolerance in patients chronically treated for pain and to compulsive intake in opioid addicts. Moreover, long-term exposure may induce physical dependence, manifested as somatic withdrawal symptoms in the absence of the drug. We set up three behavioral paradigms to model these adaptations in mice, using distinct regimens of repeated morphine injections to induce either analgesic tolerance, locomotor sensitization or physical dependence. Interestingly, mice tolerant to analgesia were not sensitized to hyperlocomotion, whereas sensitized mice displayed some analgesic tolerance. We then examined candidate molecular modifications that could underlie the development of each behavioral adaptation. First, analgesic tolerance was not accompanied by mu opioid receptor desensitization in the periaqueductal gray. Second, cdk5 and p35 protein levels were unchanged in caudate-putamen, nucleus accumbens and prefrontal cortex of mice displaying locomotor sensitization. Finally, naloxone-precipitated morphine withdrawal did not enhance basal or forskolin-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity in nucleus accumbens, prefrontal cortex, amygdala, bed nucleus of stria terminalis or periaqueductal gray. Therefore, the expression of behavioral adaptations to chronic morphine treatment was not associated with the regulation of micro opioid receptor, cdk5 or adenylate cyclase activity in relevant brain areas. Although we cannot exclude that these modifications were not detected under our experimental conditions, another hypothesis is that alternative molecular mechanisms, yet to be discovered, underlie analgesic tolerance, locomotor sensitization and physical dependence induced by chronic morphine administration.
Barrett's esophagus (BE) is a premalignant condition, where normal squamous epithelium is replaced by intestinal epithelium. BE is associated with an increased risk of developing esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC). However, the BE cell of origin is not clear. We hypothesize that BE tissue originates from esophageal squamous cells, which can differentiate to columnar cells as a result of repeated exposure to gastric acid and bile acids, two components of refluxate implicated in BE pathology. To test this hypothesis, we repeatedly exposed squamous esophageal HET1A cells to 0.2 mM bile acid (BA) cocktail at pH 5.5 and developed an HET1AR-resistant cell line. These cells are able to survive and proliferate after repeated 2-h treatments with BA at pH 5.5. HET1AR cells are resistant to acidification and express markers of columnar differentiation, villin, CDX2, and cytokeratin 8/18. HET1AR cells have increased amounts of reactive oxygen species, concomitant with a decreased level and activity of manganese superoxide dismutase compared with parental cells. Furthermore, HET1AR cells express proteins and activate signaling pathways associated with inflammation, cell survival, and tumorigenesis that are thought to contribute to BE and EAC development. These include STAT3, NF-κB, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), cyclooxygenase-2, interleukin-6, phosphorylated mammalian target of rapamycin (p-mTOR), and Mcl-1. The expression of prosurvival and inflammatory proteins and resistance to cell death could be partially modified by inhibition of STAT3 signaling. In summary, our study shows that long-term exposure of squamous cells to BA at acidic pH causes the cells to display the same characteristics and markers as BE.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the frequency of steroid-induced intraocular pressure (IOP) elevation and/or glaucoma in patients with keratoconus (KCN) compared with patients with Fuchs endothelial dystrophy after penetrating keratoplasty (PK).
A retrospective review of the medical records of patients with KCN or Fuchs dystrophy, who underwent PK and were examined on the Cornea Service, Wills Eye Institute, was performed. IOP measurements were recorded preoperatively; postoperative first month and maximal IOP measurements between 1 and 3 months, 4 and 6 months, 7 and 12 months, 1 and 2 years, 2 and 3 years, and 3 and 4 years were noted. Steroid-induced IOP elevation and/or glaucoma were grouped into 5 different categories; an increase in IOP of at least 5 or 10 mm Hg over the preoperative baseline and also IOP > or =22, 30, and 40 mm Hg. Addition of glaucoma medications and/or characteristic glaucomatous optic disc and visual field changes were also assessed.
A total of 100 patients with KCN and 58 patients with Fuchs dystrophy were included in this study. The overall frequency of steroid-induced IOP elevation after PK was 73% in the KCN group and 60.3% in the Fuchs dystrophy group. The frequency of IOP elevation of at least 5 or 10 mm Hg over the preoperative baseline were 72% and 24% in KCN group and 56.9% and 20.7% in the Fuchs dystrophy group, respectively. The frequency of IOP elevation > or =22 or > or =30 mm Hg was 22% and 6% in the KCN group and 29.3% and 1.7% in the Fuchs dystrophy group, respectively. There was one patient in the KCN group who had IOP >40 mm Hg. There was no difference between the groups in terms of frequency of IOP elevation (P > 0.05 for all). Glaucomatous visual field defect was detected in 4 patients in the KCN group and only one patient in the Fuchs dystrophy group. Despite the maximum medical therapy, 2 patients in the KCN group underwent glaucoma surgery and none in the Fuchs dystrophy group.
Steroid-induced IOP elevation or glaucoma after PK is not unusual in eyes with KCN or Fuchs dystrophy. Careful and ongoing observation of IOP throughout the prolonged follow-up period is recommended for these individuals with prompt attention to IOP treatment as indicated.
A 69-year-old man had new sustained ventricular tachycardia caused by flecainide which promptly responded to intravenous lidocaine therapy. Discontinuation of the lidocaine infusion resulted in the reappearance of ventricular tachycardia which again immediately terminated after lidocaine was given. In this case, lidocaine effectively reversed the proarrhythmic effects of flecainide.
