Nitric oxide-releasing aspirin (NO-ASA) is emerging as a potentially important chemopreventive agent against colon cancer. We examined in HT-29 human colon adenocarcinoma cells the effect of NO-ASA on the inducible form of nitric oxide synthase (NOS2), an enzyme implicated in colon carcinogenesis. NO-ASA inhibited in a time- and concentration-dependent manner the expression of NOS2 up to 70% compared to control (IC50 for this effect = 46 microM). NO-ASA also decreased the corresponding steady-state mRNA levels and this reduction preceded the reduction of protein levels by at least 6 h. NO-ASA also reduced the enzymatic activity of NOS2, as determined by a direct enzyme assay (maximal reduction = 80%) and by determining the accumulation of NO in the culture medium (IC50 for this effect = 36 microM). These effects of NO-ASA on NOS2 were paralleled by inhibition in cell growth (IC50 = 8.5 microM). These findings indicate that NO-ASA profoundly inhibits both the expression and enzymatic activity of NOS2 and suggest that these effects may represent an important mechanism for the colon cancer chemopreventive effect of NO-ASA.
The effects of diazepam (DZ, 4 mg/kg), alprazolam (ALP, 1.25 mg/kg) and adinazolam (ADIN, 6 mg/kg), as well as their interaction with the benzodiazepine receptor antagonist flumazenil (Ro15-1788), were studied on the early acquisition of two-way active (shuttlebox) avoidance in male Sprague-Dawley rats. The three benzodiazepines increased shuttlebox avoidance acquisition, and their effects were prevented (antagonized) by flumazenil (10 mg/kg). The present results indicate that central benzodiazepine (BZ) receptors are involved in the anxiolytic effects of diazepam and triazolobenzodiazepines on the early acquisition of two-way active avoidance.
Chronic vascular rejection (CR) is the commonest cause of renal transplant loss, with few clues to etiology, but proteinuria is a common feature. In diseased native kidneys, proteinuria and progression to failure are linked. We proposed a pathogenic role for this excess protein at a tubular level in kidney diseases of dissimilar origin. We demonstrated in both nephrotic patients with normal function and in those with failing kidneys increased renal tubular catabolism and turnover rates of a peptide marker, Aprotinin (Apr), linked to increased ammonia excretion and tubular injury. These potentially injurious processes were suppressed by reducing proteinuria with Lisinopril. Do similar mechanisms of renal injury and such a linkage also occur in proteinuric transplanted patients with CR, and if so, is Lisinopril then of beneficial value? We now examine these aspects in 11 patients with moderate/severe renal impairment (51CrEDTA clearance 26.2+/-3.3 mL/min/1.73 m2), proteinuria (6.1+/-1.5 g/24 h) and biopsy proven CR. Lisinopril (10-40 mg) was given daily for 2 months in 7 patients. Four others were given oral sodium bicarbonate (Na HCO3) for 2 months before adding Lisinopril. Renal tubular catabolism of intravenous 99mTc-Apr (Apr* 0.5 mg, 80MBq), was measured before and after Lisinopril by gamma-ray renal imaging and urinary radioactivity of the free radiolabel over 26 h. Fractional degradation was calculated from these data. Total 24 h urinary N-acetyl-beta-glucoaminidase (NAG) and ammonia excretion in fresh timed urine collections were also measured every two weeks from two months before treatment. After Lisinopril proteinuria fell significantly (from 7.8+/-2.2 to 3.4+/-1.9 g/24 h, p<0.05). This was associated with a reduction in metabolism of Apr* over 26 h (from 0.5+/-0.05 to 0.3+/-0.005% dose/h, p < 0.02), and in fractional degradation (from 0.04+/-0.009 to 0.02+/-0.005/h, p<0.01). Urinary ammonia fell, but surprisingly not significantly and this was explained by the increased clinical acidosis after Lisinopril, (plasma bicarbonate fell from 19.1+/-0.7 to 17.4+/-0.8 mmol/L, p < 0.01), an original observation. Total urinary NAG did fall significantly from a median of 2108 (range 1044-3816) to 1008 (76-2147) micromol/L, p < 0.05. There was no significant change in blood pressure or in measurements of glomerular hemodynamics. In the 4 patients who were given Na HCO3 before adding Lisinopril, both acidosis (and hyperkalemia) were reversed and neither recurred after adding Lisinopril. These observations in proteinuric transplanted patients after Lisinopril treatment have not been previously described.
Idarubicin is an effective drug in acute leukemia but its use in non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHLs) is not yet well established. We evaluated its efficacy in patients with diffuse large cell lymphoma (DLCL) by means of a randomized trial comparing two 12-week regimens (VACOP-B and VICOP-B) which differed only in the anthracycline drug used (doxorubicin vs idarubicin).
From January 1992 to December 1994, 104 patients aged less than 65 years with de novo advanced stage DLCL were enrolled. Fifty-two patients were treated with VACOP-B (doxorubicin 50 mg/sqm) and 52 with VICOP-B (idarubicin initially 8 mg/sqm and thereafter 10 mg/sqm).
Clinical characteristics of the two groups were not significantly different. One HBsAg+ patient died of hepatic necrosis in the VICOP-B arm, and severe (WHO grade > 2) toxicities occurred in 7 patients treated with VACOP-B and in 5 treated with VICOP-B; the only significant difference was for mucositis (p = 0.02). Complete remission (CR) was obtained in 79% of patients receiving VACOP-B and in 56% (idarubicin 8 mg/sqm) and 75% (idarubicin 10 mg/sqm) of those in the VICOP-B group (p = n.s.). Prognostic factors that negatively affected CR were advanced stage in VACOP, bone marrow infiltration in both schedules. At a median follow-up of two years, overall survival (67% VACOP and 61% VICOP) and disease-free survival (65% and 67%, respectively) were not significantly different.
Idarubicin is slightly less toxic than doxorubicin; at a dose of 10 mg/sqm the former is easily tolerated and shows the same efficacy as doxorubicin in the treatment of DLCL.
Mutations in the human adenomatous polyposis (APC) gene are causative for familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP), a rare condition in which numerous colonic polyps arise during puberty and, if left untreated, lead to colon cancer. The APC gene is a tumor suppressor that has been termed the "gatekeeper gene" for colon cancer. In addition to the 100% mutation rate in FAP patients, the APC gene is mutated in >80% of sporadic colon and intestinal cancers. The Apc gene in mice has been mutated either by chemical carcinogenesis, resulting in the Min mouse Apcdelta850, or by heterologous recombination, resulting in the Apcdelta716 or Apedelta1368 mice (M. Oshima et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 92: 4482-4486, 1995). Although homozygote Apc-/- mice are embryonically lethal, the heterozygotes are viable but develop numerous intestinal polyps with loss of Apc heterozygosity within the polyps (M. Oshima et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 92: 4482-4486, 1995). The proinflammatory, prooncogenic protein cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 has been shown to be markedly induced in the Apcdelta716 polyps at an early stage of polyp development (M. Oshima et al., Cell, 87: 803-809, 1996). We demonstrate here that treatment with the specific COX-2 inhibitor rofecoxib results in a dose-dependent reduction in the number and size of intestinal and colonic polyps in the Apcdelta716 mouse. The plasma concentration of rofecoxib that resulted in a 55% inhibition of polyp number and an 80% inhibition of polyps > 1 mm in size is comparable with the human clinical steady-state concentration of 25 mg rofecoxib (Vioxx) taken once daily (A. Porras et al., Clin. Pharm. Ther., 67: 137, 2000). Polyps from both untreated and rofecoxib- or sulindac-treated Apcdelta716 mice expressed COX-1 and -2, whereas normal epithelium from all mice expressed COX-1 but minimal amounts of COX-2. Polyps from either rofecoxib- or sulindac-treated mice had lower rates of DNA replication, expressed less proangiogenic vascular endothelial-derived growth factor and more membrane-bound beta-catenin, but showed unchanged nuclear localization of this transcription factor. This study showing the inhibition of polyposis in the Apcdelta716 mouse suggests that the specific COX-2 inhibitor rofecoxib (Vioxx) has potential as a chemopreventive agent in human intestinal and colon cancer.
Twelve patients with South American mococutaneous leishmaniasis who attended the Hospital Amazonico in Peru between February and September 1974 were treated with amphotericin B. The lesions responded rapidly to treatment. A relatively low total dose of amphotericin B induced healing of active lesions. No serious adverse effects of treatment were encountered.
Extracellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP) may regulate hepatocyte and cholangiocyte functions, and under some conditions it may have deleterious effects on bile secretion and cause cholestasis. The canalicular membrane enzyme Ca2+/Mg2+-ecto-ATPase (ecto-ATPase) hydrolyzes ATP/adenosine diphosphate (ATP/ADP) and regulates hepatic extracellular ATP concentration. Changes in liver ecto-ATPase in estrogen-induced cholestasis were examined in male rats receiving 17alpha-ethinylestradiol (E groups) for 1, 3, or 5 days (5 mg/kg/day, sc) and compared with changes in rats subjected to obstructive cholestasis (O groups) for 1, 3, or 8 days. Activity of ecto-ATPase, protein mass in canalicular membranes and bile (estimated by Western blotting), steady state mRNA levels (by Northern blotting), and cellular and acinar distributions of the enzyme (histochemistry and immunocytochemistry) were assessed in these groups. Activity of ecto-ATPase, protein mass in isolated canalicular membranes, and enzyme mRNA levels were significantly increased in E group rats as compared with controls. In contrast, these parameters were markedly decreased in O group rats, and the enzyme protein was undetectable in bile. The ecto-ATPase histochemical reaction was markedly increased in the canalicular membrane of E group rats, extending from acinar zone 2 to zone 1, whereas it decreased in the O group. The ecto-ATPase immunocytochemical reaction was present in the canalicular membrane and pericanalicular vesicles in control and E group hepatocytes, but it decreased in obstructive cholestasis and was localized only to the canalicular membrane. Thus, significant changes in liver ecto-ATPase were apparent in 17alpha-ethinylestradiol-induced cholestasis that were opposite to those observed in obstructive cholestasis. Assuming that the alterations observed in obstructive cholestasis are the result of the cholestatic phenomenon, we conclude that changes in ecto-ATPase in 17alpha-ethinylestradiol-treated rats might be either primary events or part of an adaptive response in 17alpha-ethinylestradiol-induced cholestasis.
During the last 5 years we identified 7 patients with a history of episodic acute abdominal pain and subobstruction due to intestinal angioedema secondary to the use of Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. These cases were all diagnosed in one gastroenterology department. This is thereby the largest single centre case series of ACE inhibitor-induced angioedema that has been published until now. Our findings suggest that this syndrome is far more frequent than international literature would let us believe. We also describe one of the first male cases diagnosed with this entity for which there is a significant female predominance. In the presence of an appropriate history and suggestive findings on CT scan, this diagnosis can relatively easily be made if one is sufficiently intent on it. An appropriate diagnosis can save these patients a lot of unnecessary diagnostic procedures and discomfort.
LipoKinetix (Syntrax, Cape Girardeau, Missouri) is a dietary supplement marketed for weight loss.
To describe a possible causal association between LipoKinetix and hepatotoxicity.
Case series.
Outpatient clinic, tertiary care hospital, and U.S. Food and Drug Administration databases.
Routine medical and supportive care.
Clinical and laboratory evaluation.
All patients developed acute hepatotoxicity within 3 months of starting LipoKinetix. At presentation, symptoms and results of laboratory tests were characteristic of acute hepatitis. All patients recovered spontaneously after LipoKinetix use was discontinued. Three of the seven patients, including one who developed fulminant hepatic failure complicated by cerebral edema, were taking LipoKinetix alone at the time of presentation. Of the four patients who were taking multiple supplements, two resumed taking supplements other than LipoKinetix without incident.
The use of LipoKinetix may be associated with hepatotoxicity. Despite extensive evaluations, no other cause for hepatotoxicity could be identified in the seven patients studied.
Wilson's disease is a rare genetic disorder involving the liver and brain, with onset frequently in adolescence. Psychiatric symptoms are often the first manifestation of the disease and can obscure the diagnosis. Chelation therapy can reverse the fatal outcome of untreated patients, so early detection is critically important. This paper describes an adolescent with Wilson's disease who, after initiation of penicillamine therapy, developed florid psychosis that improved as copper levels were decreased and that did not require use of neuroleptic medication.
Early-onset torsion dystonia is an autosomal dominant movement disorder associated with the DYT1 gene (TOR1A) defect which results in a deletion of a glutamic acid residue in the protein torsinA. The pathophysiology of dystonia is poorly understood. Well characterized animal models can help to give insights into the underlying mechanisms and thereby to develop new therapeutics. In the present study, we further characterized transgenic DYT1 mice, which were initially described to exhibit "dystonia-like" postures. In the present study, several behavioural tests in untreated animals did not show strong differences between transgenic and control mice, but nearly all transgenic mice showed "dystonia-like" postures. However, these movements, also observed in control mice, have to be regarded as a clasping reflex. Since dystonia is thought to be related to dopaminergic dysfunctions, pharmacological investigations have been performed to clarify if dopaminergic substances alter motor behaviour in transgenic mice. Chronic treatment with L-DOPA (combined with carbidopa) enhanced the hindlimb claspings only in transgenic mice, while acute applications of drugs, which exert more selective effects on the dopaminergic system, caused similar reactions in transgenic mice and control mice. Therefore, these data do not provide clear evidence for dysfunctions of the dopaminergic system in this mouse model.
A 52-year-old woman developed severe hyponatremia following treatment for hypertension with chlorthalidone. Rapid correction of hyponatremia resulted in coma, quadriplegia and hypopnea compatible with central pontine myelinolysis. She recovered with residual facial hypomimia, bradykinesia, cogwheel rigidity and coarse resting tremor, responding to dopaminergic treatment. Her symptoms and signs, which are quite similar to idiopathic Parkinson's disease, are still responsive to treatment 7 years after onset.
Clonidine (Catapres, Catapresan), guanfacine (Estulic), and methyldopa (Aldomet) are the prototypes of centrally acting antihypertensive drugs. Clonidine and guanfacine are lipophilic drugs that readily penetrate into the brain, where they stimulate alpha-adrenergic receptors in the pontomedullary region. The stimulation of these central alpha-adrenergic receptors has been shown to activate an inhibiting neuron, which causes a reduction of peripheral sympathetic tone and a subsequent fall in arterial blood pressure and heart rate. Both a centrally initiated reduction of vagus reflex activity and the activation of presynaptic alpha 2-adrenergic blocking agents in the heart may contribute to the bradycardia. Studies indicate that methyldopa also penetrates into the brain, where it is converted into alpha-methylnorepinephrine. This amine may stimulate the same central alpha-adrenergic receptors as those activated by clonidine, which will result in a hypotensive effect. Possibly, alpha-methyldopamine might also play a role. Accordingly, the modes of action of clonidine and alpha-methyldopa probably are very similar at a basic level. The central adrenergic receptors probably are located postsynaptically. Their receptor demand corresponds more closely to that of the alpha 2-subtype. Central alpha 1-adrenergic receptors might possibly play a part in the modulation of vagally induced baroreflex bradycardia. A discussion on the pharmacological basis of the side effects of the centrally acting antihypertensives has been limited to those adverse reactions that are somehow related to alpha-adrenergic receptors. Sedation, a common side effect, appears to be mediated by central alpha 2-adrenergic receptors, at least in animal models.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Intravenous infusion of LY141865 (20 micrograms/kg) lowered systemic vascular resistance in anesthetized dogs resulting in a fall in mean arterial blood pressure. These effects require an intact nervous system and involve dopamine receptors as they were abolished by hexamethonium or sulpiride pretreatment. LY141865 does not appear to interact with adrenergic receptors because it did not increase diastolic blood pressure or cardiac rate of normal or hexamethonium-treated dogs, and yohimbine pretreatment did not antagonize its systemic vasodilator and hypotensive actions. Hemodynamic analysis demonstrated that infusion of LY141865 (20 and 100 micrograms/kg i.v.) resulted in persistent arterial hypotension due solely to reduced systemic vascular resistance; aortic blood flow index was maintained. LY141865 produced slight bradycardia and sustained increments in stroke volume index at the highest tested dose. Left ventricular filling pressure was unchanged by LY141865. Regional blood flows to heart, stomach, colon, small intestine, kidneys and marrow-laden bone were not changed during hemodynamic alterations produced by LY141865, although evidence of arteriovenous shunting of blood was observed in skin and skeletal muscle. Comparable systemic vasodilation and arterial hypotension induced by infusion of nitroglycerin reduced gastric and colonic blood flows, but did not produce detectable shunting. The composite data are interpreted to be a reflection of the ability of LY141865 to interact with DA2 dopamine receptors and thereby inhibit neurogenic release of norepinephrine. The present results and known oral efficacy of LY141865 lend further support for the development and use of dopamine receptor agonists for the treatment of cardiovascular disease.
It has been demonstrated in experiments on male rats that liver injury induced by paracetamol is accompanied by inhibition of bile secretion and of the synthesis and secretion of bile acids, bilirubin elimination and cholesterol excretion with bile, by reduction in the cholate/cholesterol ratio. Activation of alanine-, aspartate aminotransferase and alkaline phosphatase of blood serum attests to a change in liver function. When administered in a toxic dose paracetamol induces lipid peroxidation of hepatocyte cell membranes. The correlation was established between lipid peroxidation, transaminases and alkaline phosphatase activity in blood serum and bile formation.
Eighty-two patients presenting for major abdominal surgery were divided into five groups, and received intravenous ketamine, muscle relaxation and controlled ventilation with oxygen-enriched air. For maintenance of anaesthesia patients were given a single intravenous dose of either droperidol 5 mg, diazepam 5 mg, promethazine 25 mg, flunitrazepam 0.5 mg or lorazepam 2 mg, followed by incremental doses of ketamine. Flunitrazepam and lorazepam were the adjuvants associated with the lowest incidence of dreaming and emergence phenomena; postanaesthetic sequelae occurred most frequently with both ketamine/diazepam and ketamine/droperidol anaesthesia. However, the differences between the five groups failed to reach statistical significance.
To evaluate the effect of different migraine prophylaxis medications on subject responsiveness to almotriptan.
There is evidence supporting an increase of responsiveness of symptomatic medications for migraine attacks by some prophylactic treatments although this has not been probed.
A total of 345 patients (230 women, mean age 37.3) with episodic or chronic migraine were classified according to the prophylaxis they were taking in the following groups: (1) no prophylactic medication; (2) propranolol; (3) topiramate; (4) flunarizine. Decrease in Analogical Visual Scale and pain-free at 2 hours after almotriptan intake was assessed at 2 months. Side effects and discontinuation or treatment were also assessed.
Headache severity was reduced 4.2 in control group, 5.3 in propranolol group, 4.1 in topiramate group, and 4.0 in flunarizine group, whereas pain-free status was achieved in 37.3%, 48.7%, 36.1%, and 38.1% respectively. These two parameters were statistically significative between propranolol and control groups. Side effects were similar in all groups.
Our results displayed a higher efficacy of almotriptan in propranolol group and we hypothesized it may be due to a common mechanism of action at serotoninergic receptors.
To improve the therapeutic index of brucine, the novel stealth liposomes (SLS-n), composed of naturally unsaturated and hydrogenated soy phosphatidylcholines, with significant difference of phase transition temperature, were developed to encapsulate brucine.
Brucine-loaded stealth liposomes with different lipid compositions were prepared and characterized for their entrapment efficiency (EE), particle size, zeta potential and in vitro drug release profile. Tissue distribution after intravenous administration of different brucine formulations was further compared in tumor-bearing mice.
Compared with the conventional stealth liposomes composed of SPC (SLS-s) or HSPC (SLS-h), EE and zeta potential of SLS-n were increased slightly, and the size was decreased slightly. The results of drug release showed that SLS-n were more stable than SLS-s. After intravenous administration, tumor AUC in SLS-s, SLS-n and SLS-h treated animals were 1.33, 1.72 and 2.59-fold higher than in mice treated with the same dose of free brucine, respectively. Compared with brucine solution, administration of SLS-s and SLS-n could significantly decrease brucine concentration in brain, but administration of SLS-h resulting in significantly increased (2.75-fold) concentration in 10 min.
Since brucine has severe central nervous system toxicity, our study indicated that SLS-n could considerably improve the therapeutic index of brucine.
The purpose of the study was to assess the mechanism responsible for increased stroke risk in patients with atrial septal aneurysm (SA) and patent foramen ovale (PFO), and to determine the efficacy of medical therapy for preventing stroke recurrence or death.
Atrial septal aneurysm and PFO are associated with stroke. However, the mechanism for this association is undefined, and the efficacy of medical therapy has not been investigated in a randomized fashion.
The Patent foramen ovale In Cryptogenic Stroke Study (PICSS) evaluated transesophageal echocardiography findings in patients enrolled in the Warfarin-Aspirin Recurrent Stroke Study, a randomized double-blind trial to evaluate the efficacy of warfarin compared with aspirin.
Large PFO and prominent eustachian valve (EV) or right atrial (RA) filamentous strands were found more frequently in patients with SA compared with those without SA (37.7% vs. 10.9%, p < 0.001 and 59.4% vs. 43.1%, p = 0.02). Patients with SA and PFO had no significant difference in time to recurrent stroke or death compared with those having neither (hazard ratio [HR] 1.08, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.49 to 2.38, p = 0.84; two-year event rates 15.9% vs. 14.5%). Patients with SA, PFO, and RA anatomy predisposing to paradoxical embolization also had no difference compared with those without these findings (HR 1.22, 95% CI 0.43 to 3.47, p = 0.71; two-year event rates 18.2% vs. 14.2%). There was no significant difference in time to recurrent stroke or death between the patients treated with warfarin or aspirin (HR 1.00, 95% CI 0.22 to 4.47, p = 1.0; two-year event rates 16.0% vs. 15.8%).
Atrial septal aneurysm is associated with the presence of large PFO and prominent EV or RA filamentous strands. On medical therapy, patients with SA and PFO did not experience increased risk of adverse events, and there was no difference between treatment results for warfarin and for aspirin.
The calcium channel antagonists are generally safe in therapeutic dosage, but severe side effects with elevated intake are increasingly described. Typical features include confusion, lethargy, hypotension, sinus node depression, and cardiac conduction defects. Even if patients are stable on presentation, this does not preclude the possible late development of adverse events from the long-acting formulations of calcium channel blockers. A case of toxic overdose with 1440 mg of slow-release diltiazem is presented; this patient was stable on presentation, but rapidly became hemodynamically unstable, requiring treatment with intravenous calcium, temporary pacemaker, inotropic support and mechanical ventilation with a successful outcome. A concise review of the therapeutic considerations is provided.
Cri du chat syndrome (CdCS) results from loss of the distal portion of chromosome 5p, where the telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) gene is localized (5p15.33). hTERT is the rate-limiting component for telomerase activity that is essential for telomere-length maintenance and sustained cell proliferation. Here, we show that a concomitant deletion of the hTERT allele occurs in all 10 patients with CdCS whom we examined. Induction of hTERT mRNA in proliferating lymphocytes derived from five of seven patients was lower than that in unaffected control individuals (P<.05). The patient lymphocytes exhibited shorter telomeres than age-matched unaffected individuals (P<.0001). A reduction in replicative life span and a high rate of chromosome fusions were observed in cultured patient fibroblasts. Reconstitution of telomerase activity by ectopic expression of hTERT extended the telomere length, increased the population doublings, and prevented the end-to-end fusion of chromosomes. We conclude that hTERT is limiting and haploinsufficient for telomere maintenance in humans in vivo. Accordingly, the hTERT deletion may be one genetic element contributing to the phenotypic changes in CdCS.
Deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt hypertensive rats exhibit a very severe degree of cardiovascular hypertrophy, which may in part be mediated by overexpression of the endothelin-1 gene.
To examine the effects of the angiotensin I converting enzyme inhibitor cilazapril and of the calcium channel antagonist mibefradil, both of which may affect potential mechanisms responsible for hypertrophy of cardiovascular structures, and that of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), which may exert a paradoxical inhibitory effect on cardiovascular growth, on the severe cardiovascular hypertrophy of DOCA-salt hypertensive rats and on arterial expression of the endothelin-1 gene.
Small-artery structure was examined on a wire myograph and endothelin-1 messenger RNA (mRNA) was quantified by Northern blot analysis.
Cilazapril did not affect blood pressure, cardiovascular structure or the increased abundance of endothelin mRNA of DOCA-salt hypertensive rats. Mibefradil treatment resulted in lower blood pressure, reduced cardiac hypertrophy, near-normal structure of conduit and small arteries and lower endothelin-1 mRNA abundance. L-NAME treatment resulted in higher blood pressure and increased severity of conduit artery hypertrophy, but reduced cardiac and small artery hypertrophy, and enhanced aortic endothelin-1 mRNA.
These results suggest that the renin-angiotensin system does not play a role in cardiovascular hypertrophy in DOCA-salt hypertensive rats, which is not unexpected since plasma renin is suppressed in these rats. Calcium channel blockade may interfere with mechanisms underlying vascular hypertrophy in this model via blockade of calcium entry or by reducing vascular endothelin-1 gene expression when the blood pressure is lowered. L-NAME has been shown to exert a growth-inhibitory effect on small arteries and on the heart despite increasing blood pressure, probably independently from its ability to inhibit nitric oxide synthase, the latter of which is presumably involved in the blood pressure rise induced.
To investigate in young salt-loaded stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR-SP) the effects of a long-term administration of the angiotensin II AT1 receptor antagonist losartan [1 mg/kg (L1) and 10 mg/kg (L10) per day, from 5 to 20 weeks of age] on the structural and functional characteristics of the middle cerebral artery.
Morphological measurements and isometric tension recordings (myograph, contractile responses to potassium chloride and serotonin, relaxant responses to bradykinin and sodium nitroprusside) were performed on isolated vessels from randomly selected control and losartan-treated SHR-SP and age-matched Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats killed at ages 6-7, 10-11 and 16-17 weeks.
Whereas all control SHR-SP had died within 18 weeks of being born, losartan at both doses afforded full protection against stroke and mortality. Losartan limited malignant hypertension development dose-dependently. Age-related increases in cerebral arterial wall thickness and wall:lumen ratio were not affected (L1) or limited slightly (L10) by losartan. In control SHR-SP, contractile responses of cerebral arteries to agonists decreased with ageing and stroke occurrence and were significantly smaller than those of age-matched WKY rat arteries. Losartan limited the cerebrovascular contractility impairment dose-dependently in SHR-SP but did not affect the WKY rat cerebral artery contractility. In addition, losartan limited the age-related alteration of the endothelium-dependent relaxation of cerebral arteries observed in control SHR-SP dose-dependently.
In SHR-SP, losartan prevented stroke and improved the cerebral artery's smooth muscle and endothelial cell functions, which are altered during ageing and impaired even more dramatically by stroke occurrence.
Sulfur mustard (SM) is a potent chemical vesicant warfare agent that remains a significant military and civilian threat. Inhalation of SM gas causes airway inflammation and injury. In recent years, there has been increasing evidence of the effectiveness of macrolide antibiotics in treating chronic airway inflammatory diseases. In this study, the anti-cytotoxic and anti-inflammatory effects of a representative macrolide antibiotic, roxithromycin, were tested in vitro using SM-exposed normal human small airway epithelial (SAE) cells and bronchial/tracheal epithelial (BTE) cells. Cell viability, expression of proinflammatory cytokines including interleukin (IL)-1beta, IL-6, IL-8 and tumor necrosis factor (TNF), and expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) were examined, since these proinflammatory cytokines/mediators are import indicators of tissue inflammatory responses. We suggest that the influence of roxithromycin on SM-induced inflammatory reaction could play an important therapeutic role in the cytotoxicity exerted by this toxicant.
MTS assay and Calcein AM/ethidium homodimer (EthD-1) fluorescence staining showed that roxithromycin decreased SM cytotoxicity in both SAE and BTE cells. Also, roxithromycin inhibited the SM-stimulated overproduction of the proinflammatory cytokines IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-8 and TNF at both the protein level and the mRNA level, as measured by either enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) or real-time RT-PCR. In addition, roxithromycin inhibited the SM-induced overexpression of iNOS, as revealed by immunocytochemical analysis using quantum dots as the fluorophore.
The present study demonstrates that roxithromycin has inhibitory effects on the cytotoxicity and inflammation provoked by SM in human respiratory epithelial cells. The decreased cytotoxicity in roxithromycin-treated cells likely depends on the ability of the macrolide to down-regulate the production of proinflammatory cytokines and/or mediators. The results obtained in this study suggest that macrolide antibiotics may serve as potential vesicant respiratory therapeutics through mechanisms independent of their antibacterial activity.
Trans-resveratrol, a polyphenol present in red wines and various human foods, is an antioxidant also with reported chemopreventive properties. However, whether resveratrol may exert different effects in malignant cells with a common anatomical origin yet displaying different invasive characteristics is not known. Since invasiveness and metastasis are considered to be the most insidious and life-threatening aspects for all cancers, we compared the ability of resveratrol to control growth and cell cycle transition in the highly invasive MDA-MB-435 with the minimally invasive MCF-7 breast carcinoma cells. The data revealed that resveratrol exerted a greater inhibitory effect on the MDA-MB-435 cells. A diminution of percentage of cells in G1 phase and a corresponding accumulation of cells in S phase of the cell cycle was observed. We also studied the effect of resveratrol on a panel of MDA-MB-435 cells transfected with nm23-H1 and nm23-H2 genes, which have been suggested to play a role in controlling metastasis in breast cancer cells. These cells are designated as Vbeta, 1beta, 1Tbeta, 2beta, and 2Tbeta, respectively. The control Vbeta consists of MDA-MB-435 cells transfected with bacterial beta-glucuronidase. Cells labeled 1beta and 1Tbeta correspond to those carrying beta-glucuronidase and overexpressed wild-type (His118) or mutant (Tyr118, catalytically inactive) nm23-H1 genes. The 2beta and 2Tbeta refer to cells transfected with wild-type and mutant nm23-H2 genes. The responses of these cells to resveratrol were assessed by measuring proliferation, cell cycle phase distribution, and changes in expression of several genes. These studies have shown that resveratrol (25 microM, 3 days) reduced growth of all cell types by 60-80%. Overexpression of both wild-type and catalytically inactive nm23-H1 (1beta, 1Tbeta) but not nm23-H2 (2beta, 2Tbeta) reduced the proportion of cells in G1 phase, compared to the Vbeta control cells. Little changes in expression of PCNA, Rb, p53, and bcl-2 were observed in the five cell types treated with resveratrol, compared to untreated cells. Noted exceptions included reduced expression of Rb protein and increased expression of p53 in 2beta and 2Tbeta cells, and increased expression of bcl-2 in 2beta cells, treated with resveratrol. In contrast, resveratrol upregulated expression of cathepsin D by 50-100% in all cell lines except 1beta. These results suggest that the intrinsic metastatic potential of cancer cells may affect their responses to chemopreventive agents such as resveratrol.
