1. The influence of pharmaceutical formulation on the plasma drug concentration-time curve and the psychomotor responses to 400 mg carbamazepine has been assessed in 12 healthy male volunteers; three formulations and placebo were compared in a randomised, blind, crossover study. 2. The plasma concentration of carbamazepine rose to a maximum of 3-7 mg l-1 by 2-3 h after administration of the liquid suspension. Conventional and controlled release tablet formulations gave lower peaks at about 8 and 32 h, respectively. From 32 h onwards the plasma concentrations from the three formulations were indistinguishable. 3. Significant impairment of psychomotor function was observed after the liquid suspension only; subjective sedation was significant at 1 and 2 h and the critical flicker fusion frequency threshold was lowered at 1-8 h. Digit-symbol substitution, choice reaction time and body sway gave less conclusive evidence of impairment. 4. The results do not support the hypothesis that a psychomotor effect from carbamazepine is a threshold phenomenon with a critical plasma drug concentration at about 8 mg l-1. 5. A second hypothesis that rate of rise of plasma carbamazepine concentration has an important influence on psychomotor effect fits the observations. This interpretation is tentative since the use of a fixed dose of carbamazepine meant that differences due to rate of rise of drug concentration were confounded with differences due to peak height.
A phase II study of the efficacy and safety of FK506, a new potent immunosuppressant, has been conducted in 49 patients with GVHD after allogeneic BMT. Eighteen patients with acute GVHD and 31 with chronic GVHD entered the study. FK506 was administered at an initial dose of 0.05 mg/kg i.v. or 0.15 mg/kg orally twice a day to those whose GVHD had become uncontrollable with cyclosporin and/or other immunosuppressants. The response to FK506 was evaluated in 13 patients with acute and 26 with chronic GVHD. A marked response was observed in 5 and a good response in 2 of 13 patients with acute GVHD. For those with chronic GVHD, the response was marked in 2 patients, good in 10 and poor in 8. The most common adverse effects were renal toxicity (53.1%), followed by nausea and vomiting (30.6%) and a feeding of warmth (18.4%). There was a correlation between renal toxicity and whole blood levels of FK506. The dose should be adjusted to keep a trough level between 15 and 25 ng/ml. FK506 is promising in the treatment of both acute and chronic GVHD, even if it is intractable with other immunosuppressants, and may be most effective if administered early in the course of GVHD.
Angiotensin II (Ang-II) displays inflammatory activity and is implicated in several cardiovascular disorders. This study evaluates the effect of cis- and trans (t)-resveratrol (RESV) in two in vivo models of vascular inflammation and identifies the cardioprotective mechanisms that underlie them. In vivo, Ang-II-induced arteriolar leukocyte adhesion was inhibited by 71% by t-RESV (2.1 mg/kg, i.v.), but was not affected by cis-RESV. Because estrogens influence the rennin-angiotensin system, chronic treatment with t-RESV (15 mg/kg/day, orally) inhibited ovariectomy-induced arteriolar leukocyte adhesion by 81%, partly through a reduction of cell adhesion molecule (CAM) expression and circulating levels of cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant, MCP-1, and MIP-1alpha. In an in vitro flow chamber system, t-RESV (1-10 microM) undermined the adhesion of human leukocytes under physiological flow to Ang-II-activated human endothelial cells. These effects were accompanied by reductions in monocyte and endothelial CAM expression, chemokine release, phosphorylation of p38 MAPK, and phosphorylation of the p65 subunit of NF-kappaB. Interestingly, t-RESV increased the expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma in human endothelial and mononuclear cells. These results demonstrate for the first time that the in vivo anti-inflammatory activity of RESV is produced by its t-RESV, which possibly interferes with signaling pathways that cause the upregulation of CAMs and chemokine release. Upregulation of proliferator-activated receptor-gamma also appears to be involved in the cardioprotective effects of t-RESV. In this way, chronic administration of t-RESV may reduce the systemic inflammatory response associated with the activation of the rennin-angiotensin system, thereby decreasing the risk of further cardiovascular disease.
The cardioprotective potential of Inula racemosa root hydroalcoholic extract against isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction was investigated in rats. The rats treated with isoproterenol (85 mg/kg, s.c.) exhibited myocardial infarction, as evidenced by significant (P < 0.05) decrease in mean arterial pressure, heart rate, contractility, relaxation along with increased left ventricular end diastolic pressure, as well as decreased endogenous myocardial enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidants. Isoproterenol also significantly (P < 0.05) induced lipid peroxidation and increased leakage of myocyte injury marker enzymes. Pretreatment with I. racemosa extract (50, 100 or 200 mg/kg per day, p.o.) for 21 consecutive days, followed by isoproterenol injections on days 19th and 20th significantly (P < 0.05) improved cardiac function by increasing the heart rate, mean arterial pressure, contractility and relaxation along with decreasing left ventricular end diastolic pressure. Pretreatment with I. racemosa also significantly (P < 0.05) restored the reduced form of glutathione and endogenous antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase from the heart, which were depleted after isoproterenol administration. In addition to restoration of antioxidants, I. racemosa significantly (P < 0.05) inhibited lipid peroxidation and prevented the leakage of myocytes specific marker enzymes creatine phosphokinase-MB and lactate dehydrogenase from the heart. Thus, it is concluded that I. racemosa protects heart from isoproterenol-induced myocardial injury by reducing oxidative stress and modulating hemodynamic and ventricular functions of the heart. Present study findings demonstrate the cardioprotective effect of I. racemosa and support the pharmacological relevance of its use and cardioprotection mechanism in ischemic heart disease as well as substantiate its traditional claim.
A patient with an inferior vena cava thrombosis in nephrotic syndrome was treated with heparin, AT-III concentrates and urokinase. After a few days on treatment he showed a complete resolution of the thrombosis. We suggest that this therapeutic combination may be a good approach to the treatment of thrombosis in nephrotic syndrome.
ACTH has been used extensively for treatment of massive infantile spasms (MIS) and other intractable seizures. The mechanisms by which ACTH exerts anticonvulsant effects are unknown. ACTH is a neuropeptide with both endocrine and neuromodulatory properties; its efficacy against MIS could derive from intrinsic anticonvulsant properties or from hormonal effects, either directly or through glucocorticoids. We tested ACTH activity against exogenous corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH)-induced seizures in the infant rat model. CRH was administered into the cerebral ventricles of 85 infant rats aged 5-13 days. ACTH was used either 20-60 min before CRH administration or "chronically" (pretreatment with four doses of ACTH every 6 h, before CRH administration). In a separate group of rat pups, we measured plasma corticosterone to ascertain ACTH availability. Administration of CRH, an age-specific endogenous convulsant, resulted in a prolonged series of seizures after 2- to 55-min latency. There was no difference in latency between controls (9.5 +/- 1.2 min) and ACTH-treated rats (12.4 +/- 2.8 min for combined acute and chronic groups). CRH-induced seizure duration (88.2 +/- 9 vs. 74.7 +/- 9.4 min) and severity of seizures was also unchanged by ACTH treatment. ACTH reached the circulation and caused significant increase in plasma glucocorticoids. ACTH does not block the convulsant action of exogenous CRH in infant rats. An alternative mechanism for the anticonvulsant effect of ACTH may be suppression of synthesis and secretion of an endogenous convulsant, i.e., CRH.
Thirty-two series of treatment with cephalothin and gentamicin for 5-10 days have been administered to 26 patients. An increase in serum creatinine occurred in 6 series. Important factors for the renal damage were elevated pretreatment serum creatinine, elevated serum gentamicin and probably a high serum cephalothin. In 2 patients the nephrotoxicity was fully reversible; the others died before a dicisive improvement in renal function could be expected. In 11 out of 28 treatment series there was a transient drop in serum potassium. Since the combination of cephalothin and gentamicin as the primary treatment of life-threatening infection has often proved effective, and since short-lasting treatment seems to entail only a minute risk of nephrotoxicity in patients with normal pretreatment serum creatinine, we still prefer this treatment in such cases.
Restless leg syndrome (RLS) is a common disorder associated with significant distress. We report three cases of drug induced RLS caused by olanzapine. In each case, RLS commenced after initiation of treatment with olanzapine and resolved after ceasing olanzapine. All three patients were subsequently treated with other atypical antipsychotics, risperidone, quetiapine or aripiprazole, without re-emergence of RLS. RLS is associated with central dopaminergic dysfunction. Dopamine agonists and L-dopa reduce the symptoms of RLS, and some agents that block the dopaminergic system aggravate RLS. Greater awareness of potential causes of RLS, and its differentiation from akathisia and illness related agitation might help in reducing the distress associated with it and improving patient compliance.
The authors studied a 72-year-old man with polymyalgia rheumatica who, after taking 100 mg of prednisone for 3 months, developed a psychosis followed by dementia. It was initially considered that the dementia was a separate neurodegenerative condition, probably of Alzheimer type, but when steroids were discontinued, he rapidly returned to his previous level of functioning. Reviewing the literature regarding the effects of steroids on cerebral function, the authors found that such cases of "reversible dementia" are not uncommon, although rarely given the emphasis they deserve. The authors believe, given the extensive use of steroids in medical practice, that physicians should be more aware of this important cause of reversible dementia.
To report a case of potentially lethal hyperkalemia related to succinylcholine administration.
Case report.
A 13-bed pediatric intensive care unit in a tertiary level, university-based children's hospital.
A 16-yr-old boy treated in the intensive care unit due to Klebsiella pneumoniae sepsis, which developed after chemotherapy for nonlymphoblastic leukemia.
After admission to the intensive care unit, the patient required intubation (uneventful under ketamine and succinylcholine) and mechanical ventilation. On the 15th day of therapy, when his respiratory variables improved significantly, he was extubated. His cardiac rhythm, respiratory rate, arterial blood pressure, and hemoglobin oxygen saturation were continuously monitored. Several hours later, however, he required reintubation due to respiratory insufficiency. For intubation, precurarization with pancuronium, ketamine, propofol, and succinylcholine was used.
Before and immediately after reintubation, serum potassium levels were measured. Two minutes after intubation, premature ventricular contractions, ventricular fibrillation, bradycardia, and finally cardiac arrest were recognized. An increase of serum potassium from 3.19 to 8.64 mmol/L was observed in arterial blood. The patient was immediately resuscitated with chest compressions, intravenous adrenaline, atropine, lidocaine, and sodium bicarbonate. Potassium values normalized within 30 mins. Further treatment in the intensive care unit was uneventful, and the patient was weaned from mechanical ventilation and discharged to a hematology clinic. At present his mental and physical state is satisfactory.
Succinylcholine may cause dangerous arrhythmias in septic and immobilized children. The alternative nondepolarizing agents should be used in such cases.
Tobacco-related diseases such as lung cancer cause over 4.2 million deaths annually, with approximately 400,000 deaths per year occurring in the US. Genotoxic effects of tobacco components have been described, but effects on signaling pathways in normal cells have not been described. Here, we show activation of the serine/threonine kinase Akt in nonimmortalized human airway epithelial cells in vitro by two components of cigarette smoke, nicotine and the tobacco-specific carcinogen 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK). Activation of Akt by nicotine or NNK occurred within minutes at concentrations achievable by smokers and depended upon alpha(3)-/alpha(4)-containing or alpha(7)-containing nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, respectively. Activated Akt increased phosphorylation of downstream substrates such as GSK-3, p70(S6K), 4EBP-1, and FKHR. Treatment with nicotine or NNK attenuated apoptosis caused by etoposide, ultraviolet irradiation, or hydrogen peroxide and partially induced a transformed phenotype manifest as loss of contact inhibition and loss of dependence on exogenous growth factors or adherence to ECM. In vivo, active Akt was detected in airway epithelial cells and lung tumors from NNK-treated A/J mice, and in human lung cancers derived from smokers. Redundant Akt activation by nicotine and NNK could contribute to tobacco-related carcinogenesis by regulating two processes critical for tumorigenesis, cell growth and apoptosis.
Metallothionein (MT) may provide protection against doxorubicin-induced heart damage. To test this hypothesis, a heart-specific promoter was used to drive the expression of human MT-IIa gene in transgenic mice. Four healthy transgenic mouse lines were produced. Cardiac MT was constitutively overexpressed from 10- to 130-fold higher than normal. The MT concentration was not altered in liver, kidneys, lungs, or skeletal muscles. Other antioxidant components including glutathione, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, catalase, and superoxide dismutase were not altered in the MT-overexpressing heart. Mice (7-wk-old) from transgenic lines expressing MT activity 10- or 130-fold higher than normal and from nontransgenic controls were treated intraperitoneally with doxorubicin at a single dose of 20 mg/kg, and were killed on the 4th day after treatment. As compared to normal controls, transgenic mice exhibited a significant resistance to in vivo doxorubicin-induced cardiac morphological changes, and the increase in serum creatine phosphokinase activity. Atria isolated from transgenic mice and treated with doxorubicin in tissue bath was also more resistant to functional damage induced by this drug. The results provide direct evidence for the role of MT in cardioprotection against doxorubicin toxicity.
It has been suggested that adenylate cyclase inhibition may be important in the development of both nephrogenic diabetes insipidus and hypothyroidism during lithium treatment. We measured serum thyroxine and urine-concentrating ability (Umax) in response to desmopressin (DDAVP) in 85 patients receiving lithium. Hypothyroidism developed in eight patients while they were taking lithium. Impaired Umax was found in both euthyroid and hypothyroid patients while some hypothyroid patients concentrated their urine well. It is concluded that the dominant mechanisms by which lithium exerts these two effects are different.
Recent work has underscored the role of serotonergic neurotransmission in chronic neural adaptations to cocaine dependence. The authors tested for evidence of serotonergic dysfunction during acute abstinence from cocaine, a period of high risk for relapse in cocaine dependence.
Binding availability of dopamine transporters and serotonin transporters was measured in 15 cocaine-dependent subjects during acute abstinence and in 37 healthy comparison subjects by using [(123)I]beta-CIT and single photon emission computed tomography.
Significant increases in diencephalic and brainstem serotonin transporter binding (16.7% and 31.6%, respectively) were observed in cocaine-dependent subjects. Brainstem serotonin transporter binding was significantly inversely correlated with age across diagnostic groups.
These findings provide further evidence of serotonergic dysfunction during acute abstinence from chronic cocaine use. Age-related decline in brainstem serotonin transporter binding may underlie the poor response to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor antidepressants seen in some elderly depressed patients.
To identify genetic variants associated with birth weight, we meta-analyzed six genome-wide association (GWA) studies (n = 10,623 Europeans from pregnancy/birth cohorts) and followed up two lead signals in 13 replication studies (n = 27,591). rs900400 near LEKR1 and CCNL1 (P = 2 x 10(-35)) and rs9883204 in ADCY5 (P = 7 x 10(-15)) were robustly associated with birth weight. Correlated SNPs in ADCY5 were recently implicated in regulation of glucose levels and susceptibility to type 2 diabetes, providing evidence that the well-described association between lower birth weight and subsequent type 2 diabetes has a genetic component, distinct from the proposed role of programming by maternal nutrition. Using data from both SNPs, we found that the 9% of Europeans carrying four birth weight-lowering alleles were, on average, 113 g (95% CI 89-137 g) lighter at birth than the 24% with zero or one alleles (P(trend) = 7 x 10(-30)). The impact on birth weight is similar to that of a mother smoking 4-5 cigarettes per day in the third trimester of pregnancy.
Tested were two drug combinations for the treatment of a total of 111 cows affected postpartum with acute endometritis. The cows showed equal values in terms of age, annual milk yield, tending and feeding. The animals were treated via the uterus, three times at the interval of 48 hours. Used were antibiotics in combination with other therapeutic means. The first combination used included: furaccillin 1g, furazolidon 0,5 g, kanamicyn 1 g, penicillin 1 g, citric acid 5 g, and trivitaminol 80 cu. cm. Its use contributed to a 76.3 per cent conception rate within the limits of an 80-day service period, and a 56.2 per cent conception rate at first insemination. The second combination consisted of tetracycline 0.5 g, norsulfasol 5 g, pepsin 3 g, citric acid 5 g, and trivitaminol 80 cu. cm. In this case the conception rate obtained was 47.4 per cent and 28.9 per cent, respectively. The cows treated with the first combination had a shorter service period (15.9 days shorter), and the insemination index was 0.3 lower as compared with the cows treated with the second combination.
On oral administration, Ginkgo biloba phytosomes significantly reduced pentobarbitone-induced sleeping time, produced an alteration in the general behaviour pattern, increased spontaneous motility and inhibited the chlorpromazine-induced blockade of conditioned and unconditioned responses in rodents. They exhibited both antiamnestic and antidepressant activities in the scopolamine-induced amnesia test and behavioural despair test, respectively. However, the phytosomes failed to show anticonvulsant activity. The observations suggest that the G. biloba phytosomes possess moderate antiamnestic/nootropic activity.
Cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors relieve pain from inflammatory conditions by decreasing the gastrointestinal side effects from traditional nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Basic research provided plausible mechanisms and some observational epidemiological studies, case-control and cohort, indicated that patients prescribed with cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs had increased risks for myocardial infarction and stroke. Because patients prescribed with cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors were systematically different, uncontrolled and uncontrollable confounding by indication was as large as the observed risks. Thus, epidemiological studies or their meta-analyses could not discern whether, and if so, how much, the risks were real. A comprehensive meta-analysis of randomized trials indicated that cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors increased the risk of vascular events by 42%, almost exclusively myocardial infarction, as did high-dose regimens of ibuprofen and diclofenac, but not naproxen. Individual clinical judgments and policy decisions should include cardiovascular disease and noncardiovascular disease risks including gastrointestinal side effects and clinical benefits including improved quality of life from less pain and disability.
To analyze the effect of a type II collagen mutation on craniofacial development in transgenic Del1 mice.
Samples from homozygous (+/+) and heterozygous (+/-) transgenic Del1 mice harboring mutations in the type II collagen gene as well as non-transgenic (-/-) littermates were collected at days 12.5, 14.5, 16.5 and 18.5 of gestation. The cartilaginous and bony elements of the craniofacial skeleton were analyzed after staining with alcian blue, alizarin red S and von Kossa. The expression patterns of type II, IX and X collagens and aggrecan were analyzed by immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization.
Several abnormalities were observed in the craniofacial skeleton of transgenic Del1 mice. These include an overall retardation of chondrogenesis and osteogenesis in Del1 +/+ mice, and to a lesser extent also in Del1+/- mice. Characteristic findings in Del1 +/+ mice included a reduced anterioposterior length, a smaller size of the mandible, a palatal cleft and a downward bending snout. We also detected retarded ossification of calvarial bones in Del1 +/+ and +/- mice when compared with Del1 -/- mice. A surprising finding was the presence of both type II and X collagens and their mRNAs in the periosteum of the cranial base.
The present study confirms the important role of type II collagen mutation in craniofacial development and growth. In addition to affecting endochondral ossification, the type II collagen mutation also disturbs intramembranous ossification in the developing craniofacial skeleton.
The present study aimed to elucidate the effectiveness of clozapine treatment in reducing the disabling period of chronically ill schizophrenic patients by investigating their rehospitalization status. Of 232 schizophrenic patients with a history of clozapine use who were recruited from the clinic at Seoul National University Hospital, 117 were selected who had been followed up for more than 1 year with respect to rehospitalization. To obtain information about the period before the clozapine change, a chart review of these 117 patients was conducted. The number and length of hospitalizations of the patients significantly decreased after clozapine treatment compared to the same period before clozapine treatment. The hospital days per year of the patients were also decreased significantly after clozapine introduction. By analysing 38 patients who were followed up for more than 5 years, it was suggested that the decrease in the number and length of hospitalizations was substantially sustained for up to 5 years after clozapine treatment. This study showed that the number and length of hospitalizations are significantly decreased by long-term clozapine treatment and that this effect can positively affect the social outcome of schizophrenic patients.
The objective of the present study was to retrospectively examine whether the addition of minoxidil to patients who were already treated with maximum doses of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers but who had not achieved target blood pressures, has any detrimental effect on proteinuria or renal function or whether its effect on blood pressure prove salutary. The clinical records of the patients seen at the Hypertension, Nephrology, Dialysis and Transplantation Clinic from June 1982 through May 2005 were reviewed to identify 54 patients (78% men, 82% African-American) who had taken minoxidil (with and without angiotensin inhibition and blockade) and who had documented 24-hour urines for creatinine clearance and quantification of proteinuria before the initiation of minoxidil and after the blood pressure had stabilized on its final dose. The study was done at the Hypertension, Nephrology, Dialysis and Transplantation Clinic, the regional referral center for renal problems in eastern Alabama, USA. Minoxidil, whether alone or in combination with maximum doses of ACEIs and ARBs, was very successful in reduction of mean arterial pressure, but there was a tendency towards an increase in proteinuria. When minoxidil was given alone, patients demonstrated a trend towards reduction of proteinuria associated with blood pressure reduction; however, when minoxidil was added after the maximal doses of ACEIs and ARBs had been reached there was a significant increase in proteinuria (p = 0.017) on paired comparison in the same patients whose proteinuria had already demonstrated a significant decrease (p = 0.02) on the ACEI and ARB alone despite further significant reduction of blood pressure with the minoxidil (p = 0.003). Renal function deterioration to end stage renal disease correlated with increase in proteinuria (p = 0.03). We conclude that minoxidil was very effective in lowering systemic blood pressure but when given to patients already on maximum doses of ACEI and ARBs, there was an increase in proteinuria which could be interpreted as a detrimental effect having in mind that the blood pressure was significantly lowered.
A case history is reported or renal failure during and after treatment with carboplatin for 3 days, total dose 750 mg/m2, in a conditioning regimen prior to autologous bone marrow transplantation. Pretreatment renal function was compromised after nephrectomy and chemotherapy with cisplatin. A decrease in glomerular filtration rate concurred with a decrease in excretion of platinum in the urine and an increase in urinary beta 2 microglobulin. Treatment with high-dose carboplatin in patients with impaired renal function and previous treatment with cisplatin may lead to further loss of renal function.
The maintained antipsychotic efficacy of risperidone long-acting injectable (RLAI) was investigated in patients with schizophrenia or other psychoses who were transitioned directly from their previous antipsychotic medication. Patients symptomatically stable, but considered to require a treatment change, received 25 mg of RLAI (increased to 37.5 or 50 mg, if necessary) every 2 weeks for 6 months. Assessments included Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), Clinical Global Impression-Severity (CGI-S), Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF), SF-36 Health-Related Quality of Life Questionnaire and Extrapyramidal Symptoms Rating Scale (ESRS). Of 1876 patients enrolled, 74% completed the 6-month study. The most frequent reasons for treatment change were non-compliance (38%), insufficient efficacy (33%) and side-effects (26%). There was a significant reduction from baseline to endpoint in mean total PANSS score and in the scores on all PANSS subscales and symptom factors (P<0.001). CGI-S improved significantly, as did mean GAF score, all factors on the SF-36 and patient satisfaction with treatment. Scores on ESRS showed significant, sustained improvements throughout the study period. Direct initiation of RLAI was effective and well tolerated. RLAI provides an advancement in the treatment options available for a wide range of patients requiring long-term antipsychotic therapy.
The mu opioid receptor, MOR, displays spontaneous agonist-independent (basal) G protein coupling in vitro. To determine whether basal MOR signaling contributes to narcotic dependence, antagonists were tested for intrinsic effects on basal MOR signaling in vitro and in vivo, before and after morphine pretreatment. Intrinsic effects of MOR ligands were tested by measuring GTPgammaS binding to cell membranes and cAMP levels in intact cells. beta-CNA, C-CAM, BNTX, and nalmefene were identified as inverse agonists (suppressing basal MOR signaling). Naloxone and naltrexone were neutral antagonists (not affecting basal signaling) in untreated cells, whereas inverse agonistic effects became apparent only after morphine pretreatment. In contrast, 6alpha- and 6beta-naltrexol and -naloxol, and 6beta-naltrexamine were neutral antagonists regardless of morphine pretreatment. In an acute and chronic mouse model of morphine-induced dependence, 6beta-naltrexol caused significantly reduced withdrawal jumping compared to naloxone and naltrexone, at doses effective in blocking morphine antinociception. This supports the hypothesis that naloxone-induced withdrawal symptoms result at least in part from suppression of basal signaling activity of MOR in morphine-dependent animals. Neutral antagonists have promise in treatment of narcotic addiction.
The oral fluoropyrimidine S-1, which consists of a mixture of a 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) prodrug (tegafur), a dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase inhibitor [5-chloro-2,4-dihydroxypyrimidine (CDHP)], and an inhibitor of orotate phosphoribosyltransferase [potassium oxonate (oxonic acid)], was developed to increase the feasibility and therapeutic index of 5-FU administered orally. The principal objective of this study was to assess the feasibility of administering S-1 on a once-daily-for-28-day schedule every 5 weeks, determine the maximum tolerated dose, characterize the pharmacokinetics of S-1, and seek evidence of anticancer activity.
Patients with advanced solid malignancies were treated with escalating doses of S-1 on a once-daily oral schedule for 28 days every 5 weeks. The maximum tolerated dose was defined as the highest dose in which fewer than two of the first six new patients experienced dose-limiting toxicity. The pharmacokinetic profiles of the tegafur, CDHP, and oxonic acid constituents were characterized.
Twenty patients were treated with 72 courses of S-1 at three dose levels ranging from 50 to 70 mg/m(2)/day. Diarrhea, which was often associated with abdominal discomfort and cramping, was the principal dose-limiting toxicity of S-1 on this protracted schedule. Nausea, vomiting, mucositis, fatigue, and cutaneous effects were also observed but were rarely severe. Myelosuppression was modest and uncommon. A partial response and a 49% reduction in tumor size were observed in patients with fluoropyrimidine- and irinotecan-resistant colorectal carcinoma. The pharmacokinetic data suggested potent inhibition of 5-FU clearance by CHDP, with resultant 5-FU exposure at least 10-fold higher than that reported from equitoxic doses of tegafur modulated by uracil in the oral fluoropyrimidine UFT.
The recommended dose for Phase II studies of S-1 administered once daily for 28 consecutive days every 5 weeks is 50 mg/m(2)/day. The pharmacokinetic data indicate substantial modulation of 5-FU clearance by CDHP. Based on these pharmacokinetic data, the predictable toxicity profile of S-1, and the low incidence of severe adverse effects at the recommended Phase II dose, evaluations of S-1 on this schedule are warranted in malignancies that are sensitive to the fluoropyrimidines.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), including benzo[a]pyrene (BaP), are ubiquitous environmental pollutants found in tobacco smoke, air pollution, and grilled foods. Reactive metabolites and reactive oxygen species generated during PAH metabolism are detoxified by reactions involving glutathione (GSH). Early life exposures to tobacco smoke and air pollution have been linked to increased risk of obesity and metabolic syndrome. We investigated the independent and interactive effects of prenatal exposure to BaP and GSH deficiency due to deletion of the modifier subunit of glutamate cysteine ligase (Gclm), the rate-limiting enzyme in GSH synthesis, on adiposity and hepatic steatosis in adult female F1 offspring. We mated Gclm(+/-) dams with Gclm(+/-) males and treated the pregnant dams with 0, 2, or 10 mg/kg/day BaP in sesame oil by oral gavage daily from gestational day 7 through 16. We analyzed metabolic endpoints in female Gclm(-/-) and Gclm(+/+) littermate F1 offspring. Prenatal BaP exposure significantly increased visceral adipose tissue weight, weight gain between 3 weeks and 7.5 months of age, hepatic lipid content measured by oil red O staining, and hepatic fatty acid beta-oxidation gene expression in Gclm(+/+), but not in Gclm(-/-), female offspring. Hepatic expression of lipid biosynthesis and antioxidant genes were decreased and increased, respectively, in Gclm(-/-) mice. Our results suggest that reported effects of pre- and peri-natal air pollution and tobacco smoke exposure on obesity may be mediated in part by PAHs. GSH deficiency is protective against the metabolic effects of prenatal BaP exposure.
Diazepam in a dose of 0.05 mg/kg was studied to determine its effect on a subsequently administered dose of 1 mg/kg of succinylcholine. This dose of diazepam prior to succinylcholine (1) significantly diminished the incidence of postoperative muscle pain; (2) decreased the usual increase in serum potassium; (3) did not prevent the rise in creatine phosphokinase; (4) reduced the incidence of muscle fasciculation; and (5) did not affect the magnitude or duration of the succinylcholine neuromuscular block. It was concluded that diazepam had several advantages over d-tubocurarine in the prevention of succinylcholine-induced muscle pain.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are persistent environmental pollutants and known to act as xenoestrogens. PCBs and diethyl phthalate (DEP) are ubiquitous environmental pollutants because both are used as plasticizers and in various other industrial applications. Therefore, a study was undertaken to evaluate the interactive toxicity of DEP and PCBs in young female Wistar rats. Healthy young female albino rats of Wistar strain weighing 100g (7-8 weeks old) were randomly assigned to five groups of six each. Group I female rats were fed on normal diet and water ad libitum. Group II female rats were maintained on normal diet mixed with corn oil at 16.5mg/kg diet/day and 0.94mg/kg body weight/day as oil control. Groups III and IV female rats were given Clophen A60 and DEP dissolved in corn oil mixed with the diet at 50mg/(kgdietday), which is approximately equal to 2.85mg/(kgbodyweightday), individually to each group. Group V female rats received a mixture of DEP and Clophen A60, each dissolved in corn oil mixed with the diet at 50mg/(kgdietday), which is approximately equal to 2.85mg/(kgbodyweightday). Treatment was carried out for 150 days and after the completion of treatment, serum and liver enzymes and other biochemical parameters in the serum and liver were assessed. Liver weight to body weight ratio showed significant increase in Clophen A60 and Clophen A60+DEP treated rats. In the three treated groups, there was significant decrease in liver glutathione (GSH) and glutathione reductase (GR). Alanine amino transferase (ALT) was significantly increased in the liver of the three treated groups and in the serum of Clophen A60 and DEP alone treated groups and significant decrease only in the serum of Clophen A60+DEP treated rats. Significant increase in liver and serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and acid phosphatase (ACP) activity was observed in the three treated groups. Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity was significantly increased only in the serum of the Clophen A60 and Clophen A60+DEP treated rats, whereas significant decrease in the serum and liver of DEP alone treated rats was observed. Aspartate aminotransferase (AST) activity and cholesterol levels were highly significant in the liver and serum of DEP treated rats. In addition, cholesterol level was significantly increased in the liver and serum of Clophen A60 treated rats and only in the liver of Clophen A60+DEP treated rats. Succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) activity was significantly increased in the liver of Clophen A60 and Clophen A60+DEP treated rats and highly significant increase in the serum of Clophen A60+DEP treated rats. There was significant increase in triglyceride levels in the liver and serum of Clophen A60 and Clophen A60+DEP treated rats, whereas significant increase in triglyceride levels in the serum of DEP alone treated rats was observed. Glycogen levels were significantly increased in the liver of Clophen A60+DEP treated rats, whereas serum glucose levels showed significant decrease, but in Clophen A60 alone treated rats showed significant increase in liver glycogen and serum glucose, whereas DEP alone treated rats showed significant increase in only serum glucose levels. Lipid peroxidation was increased in the liver of DEP treated rats, which was highly significant, compared to significant increase in Clophen A60 and Clophen A60+DEP treated rats. Histology of liver showed severe vacuolation, loss of hepatic architecture and granular deposits in the hepatocytes of DEP and Clophen A60+DEP treated rats, whereas in Clophen A60 alone treated rats, hepatocytes showed hyper pigmentation mild loss of hepatic architecture in centrilobular and periportal area.
HTLV-I associated adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATL) carries a dismal prognosis due to chemo-resistance and immuno-compromised micro-environment. The combination of zidovudine and interferon-alpha (IFN) significantly improved survival in ATL. Promising results were reported by adding arsenic trioxide to zidovudine and IFN.
Here we assessed Th1/Th2/T(reg) cytokine gene expression profiles in 16 ATL patients before and 30 days after treatment with arsenic/IFN/zidovudine, in comparison with HTLV-I healthy carriers and sero-negative blood donors. ATL patients at diagnosis displayed a T(reg)/Th2 cytokine profile with significantly elevated transcript levels of Foxp3, interleukin-10 (IL-10), and IL-4 and had a reduced Th1 profile evidenced by decreased transcript levels of interferon-γ (IFN-γ) and IL-2. Most patients (15/16) responded, with CD4⁺CD25⁺ cells significantly decreasing after therapy, paralleled by decreases in Foxp3 transcript. Importantly, arsenic/IFN/zidovudine therapy sharply diminished IL-10 transcript and serum levels concomittant with decrease in IL-4 and increases in IFN-γ and IL-2 mRNA, whether or not values were adjusted to the percentage of CD4⁺CD25⁺ cells. Finally, IL-10 transcript level negatively correlated with clinical response at Day 30.
The observed shift from a T(reg)/Th2 phenotype before treatment toward a Th1 phenotype after treatment with arsenic/IFN/zidovudine may play an important role in restoring an immuno-competent micro-environment, which enhances the eradication of ATL cells and the prevention of opportunistic infections.
