Improvement of microcytic anemia after deferoxamine treatment is described in eight long-term dialysis patients with high serum aluminum concentration and other clinical signs of aluminum toxicity. Hematocrit increase of 3 to 19 vol% was associated with correction of microcytosis, significant reduction in abnormal levels of free erythrocyte protoporphyrins, and amelioration of the bone-related symptoms and neurologic signs of aluminum intoxication. Increase in hematocrit, reversal of microcytosis, and reduction in protoporphyrin levels all correlated with the aluminum burden as indicated by the pretreatment serum aluminum levels and by the peak serum aluminum levels during mobilization with deferoxamine. Furthermore, deferoxamine resulted in marked improvement in anemia despite significant reduction in serum ferritin levels. This reversal of microcytosis with deferoxamine provides objective evidence verifying the toxicity of aluminum, and suggests that microcytosis may be an easily detected marker for both clinical diagnosis as well as response to treatment in some cases of aluminum intoxication.
Entecavir (ETV) exhibits potent antiviral activity in patients chronically infected with wild-type or lamivudine (3TC)-resistant (3TC(r)) hepatitis B virus (HBV). Among the patients treated in phase II ETV clinical trials, two patients for whom previous therapies had failed exhibited virologic breakthrough while on ETV. Isolates from these patients (arbitrarily designated patients A and B) were analyzed genotypically for emergent substitutions in HBV reverse transcriptase (RT) and phenotypically for reduced susceptibility in cultures and in HBV polymerase assays. After 54 weeks of 3TC therapy, patient A (AI463901-A) received 0.5 mg of ETV for 52 weeks followed by a combination of ETV and 100 mg of 3TC for 89 weeks. Viral rebound occurred at 133 weeks after ETV was started. The 3TC(r) RT substitutions rtV173L, rtL180M, and rtM204V were present at study entry, and the additional substitutions rtI169T and rtM250V emerged during ETV-3TC combination treatment. Reduced ETV susceptibility in vitro required the rtM250V substitution in addition to the 3TC(r) substitutions. For liver transplant patient B (AI463015-B), previous famciclovir, ganciclovir, foscarnet, and 3TC therapies had failed, and RT changes rtS78S/T, rtV173L, rtL180M, rtT184S, and rtM204V were present at study entry. Viral rebound occurred after 76 weeks of therapy with ETV at 1.0 mg, with the emergence of rtT184G, rtI169T, and rtS202I substitutions within the preexisting 3TC(r) background. Reduced susceptibility in vitro was highest when both the rtT184G and the rtS202I changes were combined with the 3TC(r) substitutions. In summary, infrequent ETV resistance can emerge during prolonged therapy, with selection of additional RT substitutions within a 3TC(r) HBV background, leading to reduced ETV susceptibility and treatment failure.
Essential oil from Citrus aurantium and the monoterpene limonene are widely used flavoring agents that are found in some common food items. This specie is also used medicinally throughout the world to treat gastritis and gastric disorders. Therefore, biological assays were performed in vivo on essential oil of C. aurantium (OEC) and its majority compound limonene (LIM) to evaluate their effect on gastric mucosa. The OEC (250 mg/kg, p.o.) and LIM (245 mg/kg, p.o.) provided effective (99%) gastroprotection against lesions induced by absolute ethanol and NSAID (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug) in rats. OEC and LIM do not interfere with gastric H(+) secretion, serum gastrin or glutathione (GSH) level in gastric mucosa. But the gastroprotective action of OEC and LIM occurs due to an increase in the gastric mucus production induced by conserving the basal PGE(2) levels after challenge by agents harmful to the gastric mucosa. Given that LIM and OEC are excellent flavoring agents and also present gastroprotective actions, they can be regarded as a promising target for the development of a new drug for the prevention of gastric damage.
Malabsorption of fat-soluble vitamins is a major complication of chronic cholestatic liver disease. The most accurate way to assess vitamin A status in children who have cholestasis is unknown. The goal of this study was to assess the accuracy of noninvasive tests to detect vitamin A deficiency. Children with chronic cholestatic liver disease (n = 23) and noncholestatic liver disease (n = 10) were studied. Ten cholestatic patients were identified as vitamin A-deficient based on the relative dose response (RDR). Compared with the RDR, the sensitivity and specificity to detect vitamin A deficiency for each test was, respectively: serum retinol, 90% and 78%; retinol-binding protein (RBP), 40% and 91%; retinol/RBP molar ratio, 60% and 74%; conjunctival impression cytology, 44% and 48%; slit-lamp examination, 20% and 66%; tear film break-up time, 40% and 69%; and Schirmer's test, 20% and 78%. We developed a modified oral RDR via oral coadministration of d-alpha tocopheryl polyethylene glycol-1000 succinate and retinyl palmitate. This test had a sensitivity of 80% and a specificity of 100% to detect vitamin A deficiency. In conclusion, vitamin A deficiency is relatively common in children who have chronic cholestatic liver disease. Our data suggest that serum retinol level as an initial screen followed by confirmation with a modified oral RDR test is the most effective means of identifying vitamin A deficiency in these subjects.
Overexpression of Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) reduces ischemic injury in some stroke models but exacerbates injury in a neonatal stroke model and in other settings. The current study used a SOD1 transgenic (SOD1-Tg) murine cortical culture system, derived from the same mouse strain previously used for the stroke models, to identify conditions that determine whether SOD1 overexpression in neurons is protective or detrimental. The nitric oxide (NO) donors S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine, spermine-NONOate, and diethylamine-NONOate produced less death in SOD1-Tg neurons than in wild-type neurons (p < 0.01). Also, NO produced markedly less 3-nitrotyosine in SOD1-Tg cells. In contrast, the superoxide generator menadione produced significantly greater death and nearly twice as much 2'7'-dichlorofluorescein fluorescence in SOD1-Tg neurons than in wild-type neurons, suggesting increased peroxide formation in the SOD1-Tg cells. No significant difference was observed in the vulnerability of the two cell types to H2O2, the product of the SOD reaction. Overexpression of SOD1 also had no effect on neuronal vulnerability to glutamate, N-methyl-D-aspartate, or kainate. These observations suggest that SOD1 overexpression can reduce neuronal death under conditions where peroxynitrite formation is a significant factor, but may exacerbate neuronal death under conditions of rapid intracellular superoxide formation or impaired H2O2 disposal.
Mad honey poisoning caused by grayanotoxin (GTX) is associated with autonomic nervous system symptoms, such as excessive perspiration, hypersalivation, vomiting, and bradycardia. Neurons in the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH) play an important role in body homeostasis and in the activity of the autonomic nervous system. Among the 18 isoforms of GTX found in mad honey, GTX I-IV are a unique class of toxic diterpenoids; GTX III is the principal toxic isomer. In the present study, we determined the effects of GTX III on synaptic transmission in VMH neurons. Both spontaneous and evoked GABA-ergic and glutamate-ergic postsynaptic currents were measured using patch clamp recordings in single VMH neurons which had been mechanically dissociated. GTX III increased the frequency of spontaneous GABA-ergic and glutamate-ergic postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs and sEPSCs, respectively) in a dose-dependent manner without affecting their amplitude, demonstrating that GTX III enhances transmitter release from both inhibitory and excitatory nerve terminals synapsing onto VMH neurons. GTX III significantly enhanced the amplitude and the success rate (Rsuc) of both evoked inhibitory and excitatory postsynaptic currents (eIPSCs and eEPSCs, respectively), suggesting that GTX III increases the probability of transmitter release from these terminals, and also the amount of transmitter released from a single nerve terminal. The action of GTX III on sIPSC frequency was absent in a Na(+)-free solution and in the presence of tetrodotoxin (TTX; 300 nM) or cadmium (Cd(2+); 100 microM). The present study indicates that GTX increases Ca(2+) influx through voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels secondary to activation of voltage-dependent Na(+) channels in inhibitory and excitatory nerve terminals synapsing on VMH neurons, and the subsequent increased release of GABA and glutamate from these terminals may be responsible for the autonomic symptoms of GTX intoxication.
NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1; DT-diaphorase; DTD) is a cytosolic two-electron reductase, and compounds of the quinone family such as mitomycin C are efficiently bioactivated by this enzyme. The observation that DT-diaphorase is highly expressed in many cancerous tissues compared to normal tissues has provided us with a potentially selective target that can be exploited in the design of novel anticancer agents. Because of the relative lack of information about the cell-specific expression of DT-diaphorase, the purpose of this study was to map the distribution of this enzyme in normal human tissues. Fifteen tissue samples from normal human kidney were analyzed for expression of DT-diaphorase by immunohistochemistry (two-step indirect method). We found a specific high expression of DT-diaphorase in glomerular visceral epithelial cells (podocytes). These results suggest that a high expression of DT-diaphorase in podocytes could play a major role in the pathogenesis of renal toxicity and mitomycin C-induced hemolytic uremic syndrome, in which injury to the glomerular filtration mechanism is the primary damage, leading to a cascade of deleterious events including microangiopathic hemolytic anemia and thrombocytopenia. This observation has potential therapeutic implications because the DT-diaphorase metabolic pathway is influenced by many agents, including drugs, diet, and environmental cell factors such as pH and oxygen tension.
The renal tubular Fanconi syndrome developed in five patients with Wilms tumor after treatment with ifosfamide, a derivative of cyclophosphamide. Glomerular filtration rates were severely decreased. Renal function was investigated because of the development of rickets. All patients had undergone reduction of renal mass by nephrectomy. None had preexisting renal tubular injury. The syndrome developed at cumulative doses of ifosfamide of 39 to 99 gm/m2. Low serum bicarbonate and phosphate concentrations with glucosuria, aminoaciduria, and hypochloremic metabolic acidosis were the manifestations of the Fanconi syndrome. Bicarbonate and phosphate replacement resulted in bone healing, but recovery of tubular and glomerular function did not occur. Monitoring of these laboratory values during ifosfamide therapy could allow earlier replacement therapy to prevent severe bone disease.
The overall hypothesis that cell death after intracerebral hemorrhage is mediated in part by apoptotic mechanisms was tested. Intracerebral hemorrhage was induced in rats using stereotactic infusions of 0.5 U of collagenase (1-microL volume) into the striatum. After 24 hours, large numbers of TUNEL-positive stained cells with morphologies suggestive of apoptosis were present in the center and periphery of the hemorrhage. Double staining with Nissl and immunocytochemical labeling with antibodies against neuronal nuclei and glial fibrillary acidic protein suggested that these TUNEL-positive cells were mostly neurons and astrocytes. Electrophoresis of hemorrhagic brain extracts showed evidence of DNA laddering into approximately 200-bp fragments. Western blots showed cleavage of the cytosolic caspase substrate gelsolin. The density of TUNEL-positive cells at 24 and 48 hours after hemorrhage was significantly reduced by treatment with the broad-spectrum caspase inhibitor zVADfmk. It was unlikely that apoptotic changes were due to neurotoxicity of injected collagenase because TUNEL-positive cells and DNA laddering were also obtained in an alternative model of hemorrhage where autologous blood was infused into the striatum. Furthermore, equivalent doses of collagenase did not induce cell death in primary neuronal cultures. These results provide initial evidence that apoptotic mechanisms may mediate some of the injury in brain after intracerebral hemorrhage.
To test the hypothesis that the angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) genotype is associated with chronic beryllium disease (CBD) and disease severity, we studied 50 cases of CBD and compared their ACE genotype to that of two different control groups, consisting of: (1) 50 participants from a beryllium machining facility; and (2) 50 participants from a non-beryllium-associated workplace. We found no statistically significant difference in the frequency of the I or D allele or of the DD genotype among cases of CBD and either control group. The odds ratio (OR) for the CBD DD genotype as compared with the non-DD genotype was 1.58 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.68 to 3.66, p = 0.12) for the beryllium-exposed control group, and 1.09 (95% CI: 0.48 to 2.46, p = 0.56) for the non-beryllium-exposed controls. We found an association between serum ACE activity and the ACE genotype, with DD cases having the highest median serum ACE activity (p = 0.005). We evaluated the beryllium lymphocyte proliferation test (BeLPT), bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) cell components, chest radiography, pulmonary function test results, and exercise physiology in our CBD cases. No statistically significant associations with these disease markers were found for the CBD cases with the DD genotype. Although the difference was not statistically significant, the DD cases had a shorter median duration of exposure to beryllium before diagnosis of CBD, and tended to have a weaker response in their blood and BAL BeLPT than did the non-DD cases. These findings may indicate that the ACE genotype is important in the immune response to beryllium and in progression to beryllium disease.
The pathophysiology of painful temporomandibular disorders is not fully understood, but evidence suggests that muscle pain modulates motor function in characteristic ways. This study tested the hypothesis that activation of nociceptive muscle afferent fibers would be linked to an increased excitability of the human jaw-stretch reflex and whether this process would be sensitive to length and velocity of the stretch. Capsaicin (10 micro g) was injected into the masseter muscle to induce pain in 11 healthy volunteers. Short-latency reflex responses were evoked in the masseter and temporalis muscles by a stretch device with different velocities and displacements before, during, and after the pain. The normalized reflex amplitude increased with an increase in velocity at a given displacement, but remained constant with different displacements at a given velocity. The normalized reflex amplitude was significantly higher during pain, but only at faster stretches in the painful muscle. Increased sensitivity of the fusimotor system during acute muscle pain could be one likely mechanism to explain the findings.
The usefulness of adriamycin (ADR), a potent antitumor antibiotic, is limited by the development of life-threatening cardiomyopathy and congestive heart failure. Subcellular changes leading to heart failure are suggested to be mediated by a drug-induced increase in free radicals and lipid peroxidation. In an earlier study, concurrent treatment with probucol (PROB), a lipid-lowering drug with strong antioxidant properties, was shown to offer only partial protection against ADR cardiomyopathy. The present study had two aims: to determine whether this protective effect can be improved further by extended treatment with PROB, and to determine whether PROB affects the antitumor properties of ADR.
ADR (cumulative dose, 15 mg/kg body wt) was administered in rats in six equal injections (IP) over a period of 2 weeks. Three weeks after the end treatment, cardiomyopathy and congestive heart failure were characterized by ascites, congested liver, depressed cardiac function, elevated left ventricular end-diastolic pressure, and myocardial cell damage. Myocardial glutathione peroxidase (GSHPx) activity was decreased and lipid peroxidation was increased. Administration of PROB (cumulative dose, 120 mg/kg body wt) in 12 equal injections (IP), before and concurrent with ADR, completely prevented these cardiomyopathic changes, normalized left ventricular function, lowered mortality, and eliminated ascites. Treatment with PROB was also accompanied by an increase in myocardial GSHPx and superoxide dismutase activities with a concomitant decrease in lipid peroxidation. Tumor regression in syngeneic DBA/2 mice inoculated with L5178Y-F9 lymphoma cells in the ADR+PROB group was significant and comparable to the ADR group.
These data show for the first time that PROB can provide complete protection against ADR cardiomyopathy without interfering with antitumor properties of the drug. This protective effect of PROB may be related to the maintenance of the antioxidant status of the heart.
We have previously identified the retinoid X receptor-alpha (RXRalpha) as an insulin-like growth factor binding protein-3 (IGFBP-3) nuclear binding partner, which is required for IGFBP-3-induced apoptosis. In the current study, we investigated the biological interactions of the RXR ligand, VTP194204 and rhIGFBP-3, in vitro and in vivo. In vitro, IGFBP-3 and VTP194204 individually induced apoptosis, and suppressed cell growth in prostate cancer cell lines in an additive manner. In vivo, LAPC-4 xenograft-bearing severe combined immunodeficiency mice treated daily with saline, IGFBP-3, and/or VTP194204 for 3 weeks showed no effect of individual treatments with IGFBP-3 or VTP194204 on tumor growth. However, the combination of IGFBP-3 and VTP194204 treatments inhibited tumor growth by 50% and induced a significant reduction in serum prostate-specific antigen levels. In terminal nucleotidyl transferase-mediated nick end labeling immunohistochemistry of LAPC-4 xenografts, there was modest induction of apoptosis with either IGFBP-3 or VTP194204 individual treatment, but combination therapy resulted in massive cell death, indicating that IGFBP-3 and VTP194204 have a synergistic effect in preventing tumor growth by apoptosis induction. In summary, this is an initial description of the successful therapeutic use of IGFBP-3 as a cancer therapy in vivo, and shows that combination treatment of IGFBP-3 and RXR ligand has a synergistic effect on apoptosis induction leading to substantial inhibition of prostate cancer xenograft growth. Taken together, these observations suggest that combination therapy with IGFBP-3 and RXR ligands may have therapeutic potential for prostate cancer treatment.
The shortening of infusion time from 3 to 1 hour decreases the systemic exposure (area under the curve, AUC) of total and unbound paclitaxel but increases the AUC of its vehicle Cremophor EL, whereas the time above total paclitaxel concentrations of 0.05 micromol/L (T >0.05) remains almost constant. As both Cremophor EL and paclitaxel are neurotoxic, we evaluated their pharmacodynamic effects on the development of peripheral neuropathy as the most important nonhematologic toxicity.
Patients with advanced cancer of different origin were randomized to receive a maximum of 12 weekly-given 1- or 3-hour infusions of 100 mg/m2 paclitaxel (Taxol). Twenty-four patients were assessable for both pharmacokinetics and peripheral neuropathy development evaluated by a clinical scoring system including sensory symptoms, strength, tendon reflexes, and vibratory sense.
Patients with peripheral neuropathy development (n=14) received more weeks of therapy (P=0.056) and showed significantly higher T(>0.05) (P=0.022) and overall systemic drug exposures (weeks of therapy x AUC) for total paclitaxel (P=0.002) and unbound paclitaxel (P=0.003) than those without peripheral neuropathy. In Kaplan-Meier analyses, T(>0.05) > or = 10.6 hours (P=0.023), AUC of total paclitaxel > or = 4.7 microg/mL x hour (P = 0.047), and AUC of unbound paclitaxel > or = 0.375 microg/mL x hour (P = 0.095) were identified as being potential factors for peripheral neuropathy development. In a Cox regression analysis, only T(>0.05) > or = 10.6 hours remained as an independent risk factor (relative risk, 18.43; P = 0.036) after adjusting for prior vincamycin (relative risk, 11.28; P = 0.038).
From the results obtained in this study, it is concluded that exposure to paclitaxel but not Cremophor EL is associated with peripheral neuropathy development.
We have demonstrated that medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA), when administered in high doses, induces mammary carcinomas in virgin female BALB/c mice. Since one of the possible explanations for this effect was its progestagenic effects, we decided to investigate whether progesterone (Pg) alone could also induce mammary adenocarcinomas in our model and if MPA at doses lower than those used to establish the model was also carcinogenic. A total of 136 mice were subdivided into 3 groups: Group 1, 44 mice were implanted s.c. with 40 mg Pg silastic pellets at the beginning of the experiment, and 6 months later with a 20 mg Pg pellet; Group 2, 45 mice were similarly treated with MPA pellets; Group 3, 47 mice were inoculated s.c. with 40 mg MPA every three months. At the end of 20 months, 9 animals had developed mammary tumors in Group 1, 18 in Group 2 and 34 in Group 3 (actuarial incidence = 28%, 58%, and 98%, respectively); tumor latency was similar in all groups: 46.2 +/- 13.1, 51.3 +/- 9.9, and 50.1 +/- 2.1 weeks, respectively. Seven (Group 1), 14 (Group 2), and 25 (Group 3) tumors were transplanted into syngeneic mice to determine progestin dependence. All tumors, except one from Group 1, were histologically characterized. In Group 1 (Pg 60 mg), 4 tumors (67%) were infiltrating lobular carcinomas and 2 were ductal carcinomas (33%). In Group 2 (MPA 60 mg), 2 tumors (14%) were lobular and 12 were ductal adenocarcinomas (86%) (Group 1 vs Group 2: p < 0.05), whereas in Group 3 (MPA 160 mg), 8 were lobular carcinomas (32%) and 17 were ductal carcinomas (68%). In syngeneic passages all lobular tumors behaved as progestin independent (PI) and ductal tumors as progestin dependent (PD). All ductal tumors, except one, expressed estrogen receptors (ER) and progesterone receptors (PR), whereas receptor expression was variable in lobular carcinomas. It can be concluded that Pg induces mostly lobular, PI mammary tumors in BALB/c female mice. The fact that most MPA-induced tumors are ductal and PD suggests that the two hormones use different carcinogenic pathways.
Clinical studies have demonstrated that oxaliplatin, a novel platinum derivative, is a potent chemotherapeutic agent, especially when combined with other reagents. The aim of the present study was to explore the mechanism of such action.
Using colon cancer cell lines, we examined changes in cell cycle, apoptosis and mitotic catastrophe induced by oxaliplatin and/or paclitaxel.
Oxaliplatin at its IC(50) induced apoptosis and cell cycle arrest at G(2)-M phase. Western blot analyses indicated that oxaliplatin decreased mitosis-commencing protein cdc2 and anti-apoptotic proteins, phospho-Bcl(2) and Bcl-xl in the three colon cancer cells tested. Since cdc2 stabilizes survivin, a putative IAP (inhibitor of apoptosis) family member, through phosphorylation of Thr34, we examined the level of survivin and found a marked decrease due to oxaliplatin. This finding is of particular interest because survivin is a promising molecular target against various human cancers and a key molecule involved in both apoptosis and mitotic catastrophe. When used in combination with paclitaxel (taxol), a putative apoptosis-inducing reagent, the isobologram indicated that the taxol-oxaliplatin sequence or taxol plus oxaliplatin had synergic or additive effects, while the oxaliplatin-taxol sequence resulted in a prominent antagonism. The taxol-oxaliplatin sequence caused marked growth inhibition of DLD1 and SW480 cells, possibly due to upregulation of apoptotic and non-apoptotic pathways, respectively. Morphological surveys indicated that the non-apoptotic process could be mitotic catastrophe.
Our results suggest that oxaliplatin that potently inhibited survivin may exert outstanding cytotoxic effects when combined with certain chemoreagents through enhancement of apoptosis and mitotic catastrophe.
Testosterone supplementation has been shown to increase muscle mass and strength in healthy older men. The safety and efficacy of testosterone treatment in older men who have limitations in mobility have not been studied.
Community-dwelling men, 65 years of age or older, with limitations in mobility and a total serum testosterone level of 100 to 350 ng per deciliter (3.5 to 12.1 nmol per liter) or a free serum testosterone level of less than 50 pg per milliliter (173 pmol per liter) were randomly assigned to receive placebo gel or testosterone gel, to be applied daily for 6 months. Adverse events were categorized with the use of the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities classification. The data and safety monitoring board recommended that the trial be discontinued early because there was a significantly higher rate of adverse cardiovascular events in the testosterone group than in the placebo group.
A total of 209 men (mean age, 74 years) were enrolled at the time the trial was terminated. At baseline, there was a high prevalence of hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, and obesity among the participants. During the course of the study, the testosterone group had higher rates of cardiac, respiratory, and dermatologic events than did the placebo group. A total of 23 subjects in the testosterone group, as compared with 5 in the placebo group, had cardiovascular-related adverse events. The relative risk of a cardiovascular-related adverse event remained constant throughout the 6-month treatment period. As compared with the placebo group, the testosterone group had significantly greater improvements in leg-press and chest-press strength and in stair climbing while carrying a load.
In this population of older men with limitations in mobility and a high prevalence of chronic disease, the application of a testosterone gel was associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular adverse events. The small size of the trial and the unique population prevent broader inferences from being made about the safety of testosterone therapy. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00240981.)
Excessive intake of sugars significantly elevates systolic blood pressure (SBP) in susceptible rats. Although the exact pathological mechanisms behind sugar-induced hypertension are uncertain and may be multiple, disturbances in the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) manifested by elevated circulating levels of angiotensin-2 may be involved. We attempted to confirm that the RAS was significantly involved in sugar-induced BP elevations and examined whether the ability of niacin-bound chromium (NBC) to ameliorate sugar-induced SBP elevations was due, at least in part, through effects on the RAS. Initially, 40 mature Sprague-Dawley rats (SD), male and female, were involved in the study comparing two methods to estimate rat blood pressure indirectly. Then 13 were selected to examine the effects of NBC on the RAS. All rats eventually ingested a diet heavy in sucrose (30%w/w). In addition to blood pressure readings, the following procedures were implemented: insulin and losartan challenges, evaluation of serum ACE activity, measurement of serum angiotensin-2 levels, blood chemistries, and LNAME challenge. While dietary sucrose raised SBP significantly in control, adding NBC to the treatment group lowered it back toward baseline. The treatment group was more sensitive to exogenous insulin challenge and showed decreased activity of the RAS estimated by less lowering of SBP after losartan challenge, decreased serum ACE (angiotensin-converting enzyme) activity, and lower levels of circulating angiotensin-2. The former two parameters showed statistical significance; and the latter, a trend toward statistical significance. A separate group receiving captopril served as a positive control and showed decreased ACE activity and circulating levels of angiotensin-2 compared to the control group. Our data suggest that the RAS plays a significant role in sugar-induced hypertension and that NBC lowers SBP, at least in part, via actions on the RAS. Other findings suggest that the NO system is important in sucrose-induced BP elevations as well.
Pax2 is a transcription factor with important functions during kidney development . Ectopic expression of Pax2 in podocytes has been reported in various glomerular diseases , but the functional relevance remains unknown. We developed an inducible mouse model that allows activation of Pax2 specifically in podocytes. Persistent expression of Pax2 did not interfere with the initial differentiation of podocytes, but mice ectopically expressing PAX2 developed end-stage renal failure soon after birth. Similarly, activation of PAX2 in healthy adult animals resulted in renal disease within 3 weeks after podocyte-specific induction of a deleter Cre. PAX2 activation caused repression of the podocyte key regulator molecule Wt1 and consequently a dramatic reduction of nephrin expression. Recruitment of the groucho-related protein TLE4 may be involved in converting Pax2 into a transcriptional repressor of Wt1. Finally, treatment of mice with an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor normalized renal function and induced upregulation of the important structural molecule nephrin via a Wt1-independent pathway. Our data demonstrate the functional significance of PAX2 reexpression in mature podocytes for the development of glomerular diseases and suggest that reactivation of PAX genes in terminally differentiated cells leads to a more dedifferentiated phenotype.
The aim of this study was to evaluate retrospectively the response rate, progression-free survival and median duration of response to dacarbazine as second/third-line chemotherapy for refractory soft tissue sarcomas. We studied 40 valuable patients with refractory soft tissue sarcomas and confirmed progressive disease (median age 54 years; range 24-73) treated between May 1997 and October 2005: 30 (75%) with metastases, and 23 (57.5%) with grade 3 disease. Dacarbazine was given as second-line chemotherapy to 29 patients (72.5%) every 21 days using three different schedules: dacarbazine 800 mg/m2 on day 1 (26 patients); dacarbazine 400 mg/m2 on days 1 and 2 (five patients); and dacarbazine 300 mg/m2 on days 1, 2 and 3 (nine patients). There were no complete responses, three (7.5%) partial responses and five (12.5%) cases of stable disease, for an overall disease control rate of 20%. Median progression-free survival was 2 months and median response duration 9 months. The 3- and 6-month progression-free rates were, respectively, 25% (SE 6.85%) and 20% (SE 6.32%). There were no cases of grade 3-4 hematological and non-hematological toxicity. In conclusion, our results suggest that second/third-line therapy with dacarbazine leads to satisfactory disease control in refractory soft tissue sarcomas; its activity seems to be comparable with other treatments, such as high dose ifosfamide or ecteinascidin-743, but it has a better toxicity profile.
To report the occurrence of acute myocardial infarction (MI) associated with the intake of oral sildenafil (Viagra) in a nitrate-free patient without previous history of coronary artery disease.
A 50-year-old manual laborer was admitted to the hospital with acute inferoposterior wall MI occurring approximately 30 min after taking oral sildenafil 50 mg. This occurred before any attempted sexual activity. Subsequent angiography showed a 70% stenotic lesion in the midsegment of the dominant circumflex artery. The Naranjo scale indicated that sildenafil was a probable cause of MI.
This report shows a rare sildenafil-associated MI in a nitrate-free patient without a previous history of coronary artery disease.
Vitamin D is a steroid hormone best known for its activity in regulating calcium and bone metabolism. Epidemiological evidence suggests that vitamin D may play a role in inhibiting the development of colon and prostate cancer. Vitamin D receptors are expressed in many types of malignant cells; in vitro and in vivo vitamin D and vitamin D analogues are active in suppressing the development and inhibiting the growth of numerous human and animal tumors. The major toxicity of the active form of vitamin D, 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol (calcitriol), is the induction of hypercalcemia. There are no data indicating the maximum tolerated dose of calcitriol administered every other day (QOD) s.c. We hypothesized that this route and schedule would permit administration of higher doses of calcitriol, which might have anticancer activity. We conducted a Phase I trial of calcitriol given s.c. QOD in patients with advanced solid tumors. Thirty-six patients were entered at doses ranging from 2 to 10 microg QOD; dose-limiting toxicity (hypercalcemia) occurred in three of three patients entered at the 10-microg QOD dose. Hypercalciuria occurred at all dose levels examined. No other toxicity was seen. Assessment of serum calcitriol concentrations by a RIA revealed a decrease in concentration-time curves on day 7 compared to day 1 of therapy. A dose-dependent increase in peak serum level and estimated area under the concentration-time curve was seen. The maximum serum levels occurred at the 10-microg QOD dose: 288 +/- 74 and 321 +/- 36 pg/ml at days 1 and 7, respectively. The normal range of calcitriol serum concentration, determined using this assay, is 16-56 pg/ml. Serum calcitriol levels were maintained at near peak concentrations for at least 8 h following s.c. injection. This study indicates that substantial doses of calcitriol can be administered via this route with tolerable toxicity. Studies to explore approaches to ameliorate the hypercalcemia induced by calcitriol and to explore alternative schedules and interactions with other agents are warranted.
We report the cases of two patients who, after prolonged amiodarone therapy developed hyperthyroidism and immune haemolytic anaemia. Antibodies were of the IgG type and non-specific at elution. A search for other causes of haemolytic anaemia with positive Coombs' test gave negative results. Antiamiodarone antibodies have recently been discovered; they reflect an immunological disturbance due to this drug and might be responsible for some of the undersirable effects of amiodarone. In our patients, hyperthyroidism and haemolytic anaemia were induced by a dual mechanism: accumulation of amiodarone and induction of an effect of this drug on the immune system.
Loss of noradrenergic (NE) neurones in the locus ceruleus and compensatory changes in NE activity have been described in Alzheimer's disease (AD), but have never been linked to treatment. The hypothesis of this study was that central NE responsivity would predict aggression response to treatment with a NE medication, pindolol. Fifteen institutionalized AD subjects [Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), mean 3.3 +/- 4.6] with significant behavioural disturbances (Neuropsychiatric Inventory Score, mean 30.6 +/- 14.6) were studied. Growth hormone (GH) response to clonidine challenge (5 microg/kg) was used as a measure of central NE responsivity. Subjects were then randomized to 7 weeks of treatment with pindolol, maximum dose 20 mg b.i.d., or an identical placebo capsule in a cross-over design. The primary outcome measure was change on the retrospective Overt Aggression Scale (r-OAS). Five of 11 completers (45%) had decreased total r-OAS scores. There was significant improvement noted on the r-OAS verbal aggression subscale (paired t = -2.5, p = 0.03) compared to placebo, but not r-OAS total. Higher baseline aggression, higher MMSE and lower GH response predicted improvement in aggression, accounting for 82% of the variance (r = 0.91, F = 10.5, p = 0.006). Changes in NE responsivity, as reflected by a blunted GH response to clonidine challenge and more severe aggression, were associated with better response to the NE agent pindolol. Individual patient characteristics, including underlying neurotransmitter changes, may be useful for predicting response to therapy.
The influence of the administration of trimetazidine on the myocardial toxicity induced by doxorubicin was studied on an in vivo model in the rat. Trimetazidine was chosen due to its ability to act as a scavenger of oxygen-derived free radicals, which have been implicated in both early and delayed cardiotoxic manifestations after doxorubicin treatment. In the present study, doxorubicin was administered as 4 weekly i.v. injections of 3 mg/kg. The cardiotoxic effects were evaluated by measuring predictive ECG parameters (QT and ST intervals) as well as the contractile performance of atria isolated from treated animals. Heart preparations were also examined by light microscopy. Trimetazidine, 2.5 mg/kg/day i.p. for 3 days before doxorubicin administration plus 2.5 mg/kg/day p.o. for 10 weeks, was unable to prevent the development of doxorubicin-induced long-term cardiotoxicity. However, a significant improvement of the early cardiotoxic signs was observed in trimetazidine-treated rats, as reported in previous investigations. The present findings suggest that different target structures may be involved in the early and delayed free radical-mediated effects of doxorubicin.
Cyclovirobuxine D (CVB-D) has been widely used for treatment of cardiac insufficiency and arrhythmias in China. The antiarrhythmic and proarrhythmic potential of this drug might be concerned with prolongation of action potential duration and QT interval. Human-ether-a-go-go-related gene (HERG) has an important role in the repolarization of the cardiac action potential. This study investigated for the first time the effect of CVB-D on HERG channels stably expressed in HEK293 cells using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. CVB-D inhibited HERG current (IHERG) in a concentration-dependent manner with an IC50 of 19.7 μM. IHERG blockade required channel activation and was time-dependent, suggesting an open channel block. Moreover, IHERG inhibition by CVB-D was relieved by depolarization to a highly positive membrane potential (+80 mV) that favored HERG channel inactivation. These findings suggested that CVB-D inhibit HERG channels in the open states. CVB-D had no effect on HERG current kinetics. Thus, we conclude that CVB-D inhibits HERG encoded potassium channels and this action might be a molecular mechanism for the previously reported APD prolongation and QT interval prolongation with this drug.
The influence of dietary sodium restriction and angiotensin II blockade on hypertension induced by a 25-day period of administration of the inhibitor of nitric oxide synthesis NG-nitro-L-arginine-methyl ester (10 mg/kg twice daily by gavage) was assessed in Wistar rats fed a normal or low sodium diet. In addition, the angiotensin II receptor blocker losartan (30 mg/kg once daily by gavage) was administered before and during NG-nitro-L-arginine-methyl ester in rats fed the normal sodium diet. At the end of the studies, conscious systolic arterial pressure increased similarly in NG-nitro-L-arginine-methyl ester-treated groups maintained on normal or low sodium intake. Moreover, a 25% reduction in cardiac output due to a decrease in stroke volume was observed in both groups. A slight but significant cardiac hypertrophic response was observed in hypertensive rats irrespective of sodium intake. At the completion of studies, plasma renin activity was similar to corresponding controls in the hypertensive groups on normal or low sodium intake. Losartan totally prevented the development of hypertension as well as the decrease in stroke volume and cardiac hypertrophy associated with NG-nitro-L-arginine-methyl ester treatment in rats on normal sodium intake. In conclusion, hypertension resulting from long-term blockade of nitric oxide synthesis was not affected by dietary sodium restriction. A crucial role for the renin-angiotensin system was demonstrated in this new model of hypertension.
Rat liver tumors initiated with N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN) followed by promotion with phenobarbital (PB) were examined for expression of transforming growth factor-beta (TGF beta) type I, II and III receptors. RNase protection and TGF beta 1 affinity labeling assays were used to determine TGF beta receptor steady-state mRNA and protein levels, respectively. We have demonstrated that all three TGF beta receptors are expressed in both normal and malignant hepatic tissues. Long-term PB administration did not alter TGF beta receptor mRNA or protein levels in normal liver. However, type I, II and III TGF beta receptor mRNA and protein levels were decreased by approximately 50% in the DEN-initiated/PB-promoted liver tumors as compared to the receptor levels in normal liver tissue surrounding the tumors. In contrast, TGF beta receptor mRNA and protein levels were unchanged in liver tumors initiated with DEN but not PB-promoted. These data demonstrate that PB promotes the formation of a tumor phenotype that is characterized by a significantly reduced number of TGF beta type I, II and III receptors. This suggests that the down-regulation of TGF beta receptors in PB-promoted hepatic tumors may provide a selective growth advantage to the tumor cells by reducing the ability of TGF beta to inhibit their growth.
