Enhanced production of collagen is central to fibrotic disorders such as hepatic cirrhosis and pulmonary fibrosis. We describe a sensitive, quantitative, and high-throughput technique for measuring hepatic collagen synthesis in vivo through metabolic labeling with heavy water ((2)H(2)O). Rats and mice received (2)H(2)O in drinking water for up to 35 days. Deuterium incorporation into collagen-bound amino acids (AA) alanine and hydroxyproline (OHP) was measured by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. A threefold stimulation of collagen fractional synthesis was observed under the maximum dosage of carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4); 1.67 ml/kg). Deuterium enrichment was systematically 20% higher in AA from monomeric collagen relative to dimeric collagen, consistent with slower turnover of the latter. Administration of 1% griseofulvin to mice resulted in a significant, threefold increase in liver collagen synthesis, observable within 12 days and consistent with predicted interstrain differences (C57/Bl6J > BALB/c). Deuterium enrichments of OHP from total liver proteins correlated well with alanine or OHP from isolated collagen. Fibrogenesis subsided after withdrawal of CCl(4) exposure and was reduced to various degrees by coadministration of interferon-gamma, rosiglitazone, atorvastatin, or enalapril. Changes in isotopically measured collagen synthesis correlated with, but were more sensitive and reproducible than, standard histological staining (trichrome) for fibrosis. In summary, liver collagen synthesis can be measured sensitively and with high precision over a short time period, without radioactivity, thereby providing a relatively high-throughput in vivo strategy for rapidly measuring profibrotic activities of suspected hepatotoxicants and antifibrotic activities of drug candidates.
Oxidative stress has been implicated in the pathogenesis of diabetic nephropathy. Although glucose itself can initiate oxidative stress, deficiency of essential trace elements such as selenium (Se) may exacerbate this oxidative stress in diabetic rats. The mechanism by which Se deficiency causes oxidative stress and renal injury is not completely understood. This study tested the hypothesis that Se deficiency induces renal oxidative stress and renal injury via transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1).
Fifty-four male Wistar rats were used. Diabetes was induced in 27 rats by streptozotocin, and the other 27 rats received buffer only. Ten weeks after induction of diabetes, both normal and diabetic rats were killed, their kidneys removed, and glomeruli were isolated. Glomeruli from normal and diabetic rats were incubated in the presence of TGF-beta1 alone or its neutralizing antibody. Antioxidant enzyme (Cu-Zn) superoxide dismutase (Cu-Zn SOD), catalase, and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) activities; total glutathione; and lipid peroxidation were determined. For Se studies, 15 normal and 15 diabetic rats were divided into groups of five each and fed either a regular, Se-deficient, or Se-supplemented diet one week after induction of diabetes. Ten weeks after feeding these diets, rats were killed and glomeruli were isolated. Oxidative stress was examined by determining the mRNA expressions for antioxidant enzymes and also for TGF-beta1. Plasma glucose and albuminuria were determined. Histology of the kidney and interlobular artery was evaluated by light microscopy.
In vitro studies showed that TGF-beta1 significantly reduced glomerular catalase and GSH-Px activities as well as total glutathione levels with an increase in lipid peroxidation in both normal and diabetic rats. Antibody to TGF-beta abrogated these changes. There was no effect of TGF-beta1 on Cu-Zn SOD. Like TGF-beta1, a Se-deficient diet caused a significant decrease in glomerular mRNA expression for Cu-Zn SOD, catalase, and GSH-Px, but a significant increase in TGF-beta1 mRNA expression. Also, a Se-deficient diet caused an increase in albuminuria, glomerular sclerosis, and plasma glucose levels in both normal and diabetic rats. The deficient diet caused a decrease in the lumen size of the interlobular artery. Se supplementation to diabetic rats up-regulated mRNA expression for antioxidant enzymes, and significantly reduced but did not normalize that of TGF-beta1. Glomerular sclerosis was normalized and the interlobular artery lumen size was greatly enlarged in diabetic rats by Se supplementation. Also, the tubulointerstitium was preserved by Se supplementation in diabetic rats.
The data show that TGF-beta1 is a pro-oxidant and Se deficiency increases oxidative stress via this growth factor. In addition, Se deficiency may simulate hyperglycemic conditions. Se supplementation to diabetic rats prevents not only oxidative stress but renal structural injury, as well.
Methamphetamine (METH) is a widely abused drug. However, little is known about the effects of chronic METH consumption on HPA axis function and psychiatric symptomatology in adolescent METH users. The current study evaluated psychiatric symptoms and changes in the stress response of adolescent METH users. Forty-one adolescent METH users and 75 comparison subjects in the same age range (ages 12-23 years) were recruited. Each subject completed the Symptom Checklist-90R (SCL-90) and was evaluated using the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale. In addition, the subjects completed the Trier Social Stress Test (TSST) and had salivary cortisol levels measured 30 min before, immediately after, and 60 min after the TSST. Adolescent METH users showed greater severity of symptoms across all measures of the SCL-90. Younger female METH users had the most symptoms. Furthermore, the METH users exhibited significantly enhanced cortisol levels immediately following the TSST (+31%, p = 0.03). Adolescent METH use is associated with greater psychiatric symptoms and enhanced cortisol secretion following a social stressor, particularly in younger female METH users. The psychiatric symptoms may reflect altered prefrontal cortical function resulting from chronic stress/drug use and the resulting glucocorticoid exposure. The results further suggest that treatment approaches should focus on stress-coping strategies to decrease the probability of relapse.
Male Wistar rats were used to verify the hypothesis that serotonin (5-HT)(2A) or 5-HT(2C) receptors may control the locomotor effects evoked by nicotine (0.4 mg/kg). The 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonist (M100,907), the 5-HT(2A) receptor agonist (DOI), the 5-HT(2C) receptor antagonist (SB 242,084), and the 5-HT(2C) receptor agonists (Ro 60-0175 and WAY 163,909) were used. M100,907 (0.5-2mg/kg) did not alter, while DOI (1 mg/kg) enhanced the nicotine-induced hyperlocomotion. The effect of DOI was antagonized by M100,907 (1 mg/kg). SB 242,084 (0.25-1 mg/kg) augmented, while Ro 60-0175 (1 and 3 mg/kg) and WAY 163,909 (1.5 mg/kg) decreased the overall effect of acute nicotine; effects of Ro 60-0175 and WAY 163,909 were attenuated by SB 242,084 (0.125 mg/kg). In another set of experiments, M100,907 (2 mg/kg) on Day 10 attenuated, while DOI (0.1-1 mg/kg) enhanced the nicotine-evoked conditioned hyperlocomotion in rats repeatedly (Days 1-5) treated with nicotine in experimental chambers. SB 242,084 (0.125 or 1 mg/kg) did not change, while Ro 60-0175 (1 mg/kg) or WAY 163,909 (1.5 mg/kg) decreased the expression of nicotine-induced conditioned hyperactivity. Only DOI (0.3 and 1 mg/kg) and SB 242,084 (1 mg/kg) enhanced the basal locomotion. The present data indicate that 5-HT(2A) receptors are significant for the expression of nicotine-evoked conditioned hyperactivity. Conversely, 5-HT(2C) receptors play a pivotal role in the acute effects of nicotine. Pharmacological stimulation of 5-HT(2A) receptors enhances the conditioned hyperlocomotion, while activation of 5-HT(2C) receptors decreases both the response to acute nicotine and conditioned hyperactivity.
Extrapyramidal symptoms (EPSs) (dystonic reaction, rigidity, and akathisia) occur as a result of D2 receptor blockade. Selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) have been reported to induce extrapyramidal signs and symptoms but tricyclic antidepressants have been rarely reported. Among the side effects attributed to valproic acid administration, the production of EPS is very rare, particularly in children. In this paper we present a case (10-year-old girl) under multiple pharmacologic treatment who developed EPSs (oculogyric crisis) shortly after the adjunct of imipramine to a combination of methylphenidate and valproic acid. Oculogyric crisis occurred on the third day of this combination treatment and these symptoms included ocular pain and sustained upward gaze. Benztropine 2 mg i.m. resulted in rapid relief of oculogyric crisis symptoms.
The present study was undertaken to evaluate the influence of respiratory condition [free breathing (FB) vs. controlled ventilation (CV)] and of anesthetic [pentobarbital (PA) vs. chloralose (CA)] on nicotine-induced vasomotor responses in the renal cortex and splanchnic beds. Nicotine (36 micrograms . kg-1 . min-1 iv) was infused in four groups of dogs: group I, PA and CV; group II, PA and FB; group III, CA and CV; group IV, CA and FB. Regional vascular conductances (VC) were calculated from regional blood flows measured with 15-microns radioactive microspheres. In group I, VC fell in renal cortex (-22%) and pancreas (-52%), increased in liver (hepatic arterial bed +130%), and did not change significantly in duodenum and spleen. In group III, VC fell to a greater extent in renal cortex, pancreas, duodenum, and spleen than in group I; VC in hepatic arterial bed did not change. In FB dogs (groups II and IV), nicotine caused marked hyperventilation, but decreases in VC in renal cortex, pancreas, and duodenum were similar to those in CV dogs. Results indicate that during intravenous infusion of nicotine 1) hyperventilation does not attenuate or reverse vasoconstriction in renal cortex, pancreas, or duodenum under either PA or CA, although it does in spleen under CA; 2) vasodilator mechanisms predominate over vasoconstrictor mechanisms in the hepatic arterial bed; and 3) vasoconstrictor responses in renal cortex, pancreas, duodenum, spleen, and liver are more pronounced under CA than under PA.
The smoking of crystal methamphetamine, or "ice," is a growing drug abuse problem in the United States. The toxic effects of methamphetamine smoking have not been well described. We describe two patients with cardiovascular toxic effects associated with the smoking of crystal methamphetamine. In our first patient, the use of smokeable methamphetamine was associated with the subsequent development of pulmonary edema and a dilated cardiomyopathy. In our second patient, the smoking of crystal methamphetamine likely produced diffuse vasospasm that resulted in acute myocardial infarction, cardiogenic shock, and death. The recognition of potentially lethal cardiac complications associated with the smoking of crystal methamphetamine is of extreme significance and should be emphasized to potential abusers of this drug.
1. The effects on blood pressure, heart rate and plasma renin activity of a new hydralazine congener, endralazine, were evaluated in anaesthetized rats. Dose-response relationships for endralazine, hydralazine and diazoxide, administered intravenously, were compared, and the interactions of endralazine with the ganglionic blocking agent, pentolinium, or with adrenaline, noradrenaline and angiotensin II were examined. 2. In the dose range 0.05 to 1.0 mg/kg, endralazine produced prompt dose-related reductions in systolic and diastolic blood pressure, with relatively little effect on heart rate. The drug had a pronounced dose-related renin stimulating effect. 3. Endralazine retained approximately 80% of its hypotensive activity after pretreatment with pentolinium, and caused no significant attenuation of pressor responses to adrenaline, noradrenaline or angiotensin II. 4. Endralazine was an effective hypotensive agent, with a prompt onset of action, a prolonged and stable effect, and a potency at least twice that of hydralazine and 20 to 25 times that of diazoxide. The data are consistent with a predominantly direct vasodilator mode of action.
Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is a neurodegenerative condition that results in loss of mesopontine cholinergic neurons and sympathetic deinnervation. Although acetylcholinesterase inhibitors have been shown to improve cognitive and behavioral deficits in DLB, these patients may be more susceptible to bradyarrhythmic side effects from this class of drugs due to the autonomic insufficiency associated with the disease. We present a patient who experienced a dose-dependent, symptomatic sinus bradyarrhythmia with donepezil doses at and greater than 5 mg. Owing to underlying autonomic dysfunction, patients with DLB may be at increased risk of bradyarrhythmia resulting from treatment with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors.
Steady-state mRNA levels and immunoreactive protein for manganese-containing superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) were assayed in rat lungs after subchronic inhalation of the fibrogenic silicon dioxide, cristobalite, or preparations of titanium dioxide (TiO2) of different inflammatory and fibrogenic potential. Total and differential cell counts recoverable by bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) were also measured to ascertain whether induction of certain antioxidant enzymes (AOE) correlated with inflammatory responses. Inhalation of cristobalite and ultra-fine TiO2, a particle causing pulmonary inflammation and fibrosis, caused dramatic increases in MnSOD mRNA levels in rat lung which correlated with increases in MnSOD immunoreactive protein. Increases in gene expression of other AOE [catalase, glutathione peroxidase (GPX), copper-zinc containing superoxide dismutase (CuZnSOD)] were less striking and did not correlate precisely with inflammatory potential of minerals. Inflammatory changes in BAL correlated directly with steady-state MnSOD mRNA levels in lung. Inhalation of TiO2-F, a noninflammatory, nonfibrogenic mineral, failed to induce MnSOD or mRNAs for other AOE. Our data suggest that particles causing inflammation and pulmonary fibrosis increase expression of AOE in lung, most notably MnSOD. Thus, elevations of MnSOD mRNA levels in lung or BAL may be predictive of lung disease.
An aryloxy tetramethylcyclobutane was identified as a novel template for androgen receptor (AR) antagonists via cell-based high-throughput screening. Follow-up to the initial "hit" established 5 as a viable lead. Further optimization to achieve full AR antagonism led to the discovery of 26 and 30, both of which demonstrated excellent in vivo tumor growth inhibition upon oral administration in a castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) animal model.
Recent gene targeting studies have revealed unexpected roles for endothelins in the development of neural crest-derived tissues. Endothelin converting enzyme-1 (ECE-1) catalyzes the proteolytic activation of big endothelin-1 to endothelin-1(ET-1) in vitro. However, the importance of ECE-1 cleavage in the multiple endothelin pathways in vivo is unknown. Here we generated a targeted null mutation in the mouse ECE-1 gene. ECE-1-/- term embryos exhibited craniofacial and cardiac abnormalities virtually identical to the defects seen in ET-1 and endothelin A receptor (ETA)-deficient embryos. Epidermal melanocytes as well as enteric neurons of the distal gut were also absent in ECE-1-/- embryos, reproducing the developmental phenotype seen in ET-3-/- and endothelin B receptor (ETB)-/- mice. Surprisingly, large amounts of mature ET-1 peptide are found in ECE-1-/- embryos, indicating that non-ECE-1 protease(s) can activate ET-1 at certain sites. However, these enzymes cannot produce sufficient mature endothelin at the locations crucial for normal embryonic development. These findings reveal that ECE-1 is a bona fide activating protease for both big ET-1 and big ET-3 in vivo, and that the cell-cell communication pathways represented by the ET-1/ECE-1/ETA axis and the ET-3/ECE-1/ETB axis are each involved in the development of distinct subsets of neural crest cell lineages. Mutations in ECE-1 may cause developmental defects in humans, such as Hirschsprung disease, velocardiofacial syndrome and related neurocristopathies.
Tamoxifen is generally considered a safe drug for Indian women with breast cancer. Indian women seem to tolerate tamoxifen therapy better than western women, but there are no data regarding safety and local adverse effect profiles in typical Indian populations.
A total of 3,000 case records of patients who had received tamoxifen daily for any period of time, between January 1988 and December 2007, were identified for study. Hot flashes were reported by 800 (26%), mild vaginal dryness by 450 (15%) and vaginal discharge by 300 (10%), with vaginal bleeding experienced by 40 (1.3%) patients. A total of 1,100 (36.6%) asymptomatic patients had a thickened endometrium(defined as >8mm in thickness) on ultrasonography. Endometrial curettage was performed in all of these. None of the patients developed endometrial carcinoma. Fatty infiltration of liver was found in 1,440 (48%) patients with a mean time interval for development of 7 months (range 6-30 months).
Fatty infiltration of liver is found in almost half of the Eastern Indian women who receive tamoxifen. Increased endometrial thickness, which remains asymptomatic, was documented in more than one third of patients on ultrasound examination. Tamoxifen seems to have a negligible potential for causation of uterine malignancies in eastern Indian women. Rates of hysterectomies in Indian patients on tamoxifen are substantially lower than those of western patients on tamoxifen.
The authors report the case of an active 32 year old man who developed right leg DVT. Before heparinisation, he was discovered to have a low antithrombin III level (biological activity (B) 60%, immunological level (I) 50) and a further inquiry showed the same abnormality in 4 members of the family, leading to a diagnosis of a congenital deficit: a 35 year old sister with a bilateral post-DVT changes had antithrombin III levels of 70% (B) and 45% (I); two nephews, sons of the affected sister: the one aged 5 years was asymptomatic despite antithrombin III levels of 50% (I) and 70% (B); the other had experience DVT at the age of 2 and, on oral anti-vitamin K drugs, had antithrombin III levels of 55% (I) and 67% (B) at the age of 15 years; the patient's brother died at the age of 29 of cerebral vein thrombosis after pulmonary embolism. The recurrence of local signs of DVT after 12 day's heparin therapy with AT III levels (B) of 40%, led to a change in management with infusion of purified AT III concentrate at a dose of 40 U per kg (2 500 U per hour). This induced a rise in AT III activity to over 100% and enabled early introduction of anti-vitamin K therapy. The patient remains asymptomatic after 6 months follow-up. This case illustrates the value of determining AT III activity in all patients who developed DVT without obvious reason.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A 20 year old patient who has been hospitalized for depressive schizoidia is treated by nomifensine (75 mg/d) plus pimozide (4 mg/d). Four days later, he shows a typical neuroleptic malignant syndrome (Syndrome malin de Delay et Deniker). The biological explorations show that inflammatory blood tests are increased, hepatic tests are disturbed and the pituitary tests suggest a hypothalamic disturbance of the balance between NE and DA (reduced STH, FHS and LH) with a relative NE predominance, but also an increase of DA (increased HVA in CSF. A pathogenic interaction between nomifensine, an antidepressant inhibiting the reuptake of NE and DA, and pimozide, a neuroleptic blocking dopaminergic postsynaptical receptors is to be considered.
A 59-year-old white male presented with a triamterene renal stone and pyelonephritis, requiring percutaneous lithotomy. A combination of hydrochlorothiazide and triamterene had been previously prescribed despite no history of hypokalemia. The indications for potassium replacement therapy and risks of triamterene nephrolithiasis are reviewed.
Ephedrine and guaifenesin are herbal supplements that have experienced increased use over the past decade. Ephedrine has been used as a stimulant and weight-loss product, guaifenesin as an expectorant and cough suppressant; both are found in combination in many antitussives and expectorants. This paper reviews the reported cases of ephedrine- and guaifenesin-induced nephrolithiasis, as well as the diagnostic techniques and treatments that have been successfully used for these stones.
A systematic review of the literature pertaining to nephrolithiasis and the compounds ephedrine and guaifenesin was conducted.
Ephedrine and guaifenesin use results in over 35% of urinary stones that are related to pharmaceutical metabolites, and collectively are present in 0.1% of all urinary stones. These calculi are radiolucent, requiring the use of computerized tomography (CT scan) for diagnosis. Alkalinization therapy offers an alternative to surgical intervention and may have a role in prevention of recurrence.
Ephedrine and guaifenesin have been shown to cause nephrolithiasis in cases of abuse when taken individually or in combination. It is important for the clinician to be aware of the potential for these compounds to cause nephrolithiasis.
Aspirin is a unique nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug; at high doses (aspirin(high), 1g), it is anti-inflammatory stemming from the inhibition of cyclooxygenase and proinflammatory signaling pathways including NF-kappaB, but is cardioprotective at lower doses (aspirin(low), 75 mg). The latter arises from the inhibition of thromboxane (Tx) B(2), a prothrombotic eicosanoid also implicated in polymorphonuclear leukocyte trafficking. As a result, aspirin(low) is widely used as a primary and secondary preventative against vascular disease. Despite this and its ability to synthesize proresolution 15-epi-lipoxin A(4) it is not known whether aspirin(low) is anti-inflammatory in humans. To address this, we generated skin blisters by topically applying cantharidin on the forearm of healthy male volunteers, causing an acute inflammatory response including dermal edema formation and leukocyte trafficking. Although not affecting blister fluid volume, aspirin(low) (75 mg, oral, once daily/10 days) reduced polymorphonuclear leukocyte and macrophage accumulation independent of NF-kappaB-regulated gene expression and inhibition of conventional prostanoids. However, aspirin(low) triggered 15-epi-lipoxin A(4) synthesis and up-regulated its receptor (FPRL1, ALX). From complimentary in vitro experiments, we propose that 15-epi-lipoxin A(4) exerts its protective effects by triggering antiadhesive NO, thereby dampening leukocyte/endothelial cell interaction and subsequent extravascular leukocyte migration. Since similar findings were obtained from murine zymosan-induced peritonitis, we suggest that aspirin(low) possesses the ability to inhibit mammalian innate immune-mediated responses. This highlights 15-epi-lipoxin A(4) as a novel anti-inflammatory working through a defined receptor and suggests that mimicking its mode of action represents a new approach to treating inflammation-driven diseases.
The prognosis for transplant-free survivors of paracetamol-induced acute liver failure remains unknown.
To examine whether paracetamol-induced acute liver failure increases long-term mortality.
We followed up all transplant-free survivors of paracetamol-induced acute liver injury, hospitalized in a Danish national referral centre during 1984-2004. We compared age-specific mortality rates from 1 year post-discharge through 2008 between those in whom the liver injury led to an acute liver failure and those in whom it did not.
We included 641 patients. On average, age-specific mortality rates were slightly higher for the 101 patients whose paracetamol-induced liver injury had caused an acute liver failure (adjusted mortality rate ratio = 1.70, 95% CI 1.02-2.85), but the association was age-dependent, and no survivors of acute liver failure died of liver disease, whereas suicides were frequent in both groups. These observations speak against long-term effects of acute liver failure. More likely, the elevated mortality rate ratio resulted from incomplete adjustment for the greater prevalence of substance abuse among survivors of acute liver failure.
Paracetamol-induced acute liver failure did not affect long-term mortality. Clinical follow-up may be justified by the cause of the liver failure, but not by the liver failure itself.
Lidocaine has been reported to be more neurotoxic than other local anesthetics. Alternatives to lidocaine with lower toxicity and shorter duration of action are desirable. Therefore, we compared the histologic and functional changes induced by intrathecal injection of prilocaine, mepivacaine, procaine, and bupivacaine in rats.
Rats (n = 184) randomly received via an intrathecal catheter 0.12 microL/g body weight of 2%, 10%, 16%, or 20% prilocaine, mepivacaine, or procaine; 0%, 0.5%, 2.5%, 4%, or 5% bupivacaine in distilled water; or distilled water or 15% glucose solution alone as a control. We evaluated neurofunction by analyzing walking behavior and sensory threshold and examined the L3 spinal cord, posterior and anterior roots, and cauda equina by light and electron microscopy.
The recovery time to normal ambulation after intrathecal injection was significantly faster with procaine than with the other 3 drugs at all concentrations. There were no significant differences in the sensory threshold among the 4 anesthetics. Histologic damage was observed only in rats treated with greater than 16% prilocaine or mepivacaine or with greater than 4% bupivacaine. Histologic damage occurred at the posterior root and posterior white matter and was characterized by axonal degeneration. Rats treated with procaine, even at 20%, showed no histologic abnormalities.
In this animal model, the neurotoxicity of intrathecal procaine was the mildest, and the recovery time to ambulation with procaine was the fastest among the 4 tested anesthetics.
We compared thoracic morphine epidural analgesia (TEA) and I.V. analgesia (IVA) with morphine, in respect to the time to extubation, the quality of postoperative analgesia, side effects, complications, postoperative hospital length of stay in patients having thoracotomy lung resection.
We prospectively studied 563 consecutive patients, undergoing thoracotomy (lobectomy, bilobectomy or pneumonectomy), randomized in two groups: TEA 286 patients and IVA 277 patients. In the epidural group, before the induction of anesthesia, continuous infusion of 15 mg of morphine in 250 mL of normal saline at 5 mL/h was started. In the IVA group a continuous infusion of 30 mg of morphine associated with 180 mg ketorolac in 250 mL of normal saline at 5 mL/h was started before the induction of anesthesia. The pain degree was evaluated on an analogic scale by Keele modified at 1 (end of anesthesia) 6, 12, 24, and 48 postoperative hours, at rest and after movements. Data obtained were analysed by means of the analysis of variance for repeated measures.
The time from the end of surgery to tracheal extubation was similar in both groups. Significantly lower numeric verbal pain scores at rest and after movements were found in the epidural group (p<0.001). Postop complications, nausea and vomiting were higher in the IVA group (p<0.05). Postoperative mean hospital length of stay was 9+/-4 days in TEA and 11+/-4 in the IVA group (p<0.05).
In our study the epidural root was superior in terms of analgesia, side effects, length of stay and postoperative complications after thoracotomy.
Trichloroethylene (TCE)-induced severe generalized dermatitis (SGD) is considered to be a contact allergic disease and is dependent on a cell-mediated immune response. Little is known about its pathogenesis. Several lines of evidence suggest that tumour necrosis factor (TNF) and interleukin 4 (IL-4) are involved in the immunological and inflammatory reactions. To investigate the relation between polymorphisms of TNF and the IL-4 gene and the risk of TCE-induced SGD, a case-control study was conducted consisting of 111 patients diagnosed with SGD and 152 TCE-exposed workers without SGD. Polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism was used to detect the polymorphisms of TNF-alpha (G-238A, G-308A), TNF-beta (intron 1) and IL-4 (C-590T). Logistic regression was applied to calculate the odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals. The results reveal that the frequency of TNF alpha-308 wild allele in cases was significantly higher than that in control subjects (p=0.049). Individuals with a heterozygous genotype of TNF alpha-308 were associated with the decreased risk of TCE-induced SGD relative to the homozygous genotype (OR=0.398, 95% CI=0.164-0.967). No significant differences in the allele and genotype frequencies could be demonstrated at any other polymorphic loci among both groups. The finding of a possible contribution of a TNF-alpha genetic polymorphism is a primary result because the pathogenesis of TCE-induced SGD is complex and likely to involve the interaction of a number of genes. A further study should be conducted to illustrate the influence of a link between certain relevant alleles in the assessment of genetic susceptibility
The authors report the first prospective randomized comparison of the medial canthus single-injection peribulbar anesthesia (also called caruncular anesthesia) with the classic double-injection peribulbar technique.
One hundred patients scheduled for cataract surgery were randomly assigned to either a single medial canthus injection or a double peribulbar injection of mepivacaine 2%. The amount of anesthetic agent injected was clinically adapted to each patient. Akinesia, volume injected, pain, reinjections, and complications were assessed after the procedure.
The medial canthus single-injection peribulbar anesthesia was significantly less painful and required less anesthetic agent than the double-injection peribulbar anesthesia. Akinesia score and the reinjection rate were similar in the 2 groups, whereas chemosis was significantly more frequent in the double-injection group.
Medial canthus single-injection peribulbar anesthesia appears to be an effective alternative to the usual double-injection peribulbar anesthesia.
The aim of this prospective study was to assess the medium term results of radio-frequency ablation of intranodal tachycardias by transoesophageal stimulation and recordings. Transoesophageal stimulation was performed on average 9 months after ablation. The anterograde Wenckebach point, the presence of dual nodal conduction and inducibility of nodal tachycardias were determined under basal conditions and after isoproterenol. The follow-up period after ablation was 16.1 +/- 10.2 months. At the time of the oesophageal investigation 25 patients were asymptomatic and 5 had a recurrence of palpitations. The investigation was carried out without complications in all patients and lasted 34.8 +/- 14 minutes. The anterograde Wenckebach point was 340 +/- 78.2 ms and was unchanged compared with the value recorded by endocavitary left atrial stimulation before ablation (332 +/- 63.2 ms). Dual nodal conduction was observed in 19 patients. Nodal tachycardia was inducible in only 2 of the 5 patients with palpitations. Of the asymptomatic patients, 3 had inducible nodal tachycardias after isoproterenol. The authors conclude that oesophageal electrophysiological studies are a simple means of assessing the medium-term results of radiofrequency ablation of intranodal tachycardias. In those patients with a recurrence of symptoms but without documented arrhythmias, failure of radiofrequency ablation may be identified. In addition, the possibility of inducing nodal tachycardias in asymptomatic patients may be detected.
