This article reports on recent advances on metastatic breast cancer. Detection, prognostic factors, predictors of response to therapy and therapy, with particular regard to targeted therapies, were examined.
Unlike current guidelines that yet do not routinely recommend intensive clinical-instrumental post-operative follow-up of breast cancer patients, relatively large data collected in the last decades have shown that an intensive post-operative follow-up with 'dynamic evaluation' of a suitable tumour marker panel precedes a few months as average the clinical and/or instrumental sign of a pending relapse in most relapsed patients and largely limits the use of the common instrumental examinations.
Disease-free interval (DFI)<or=24 months, adjuvant chemotherapy, liver and distant soft tissue involvement or DFI>24 months and disease confined to bony skeleton are prognostic factors more often correlated with relatively poor or prolonged survival, respectively. Estrogen receptor (ER) expression in primary tumour and at the relapse correlates strongly with response to salvage hormone therapy and data from large trials showed that 38-59% of ER and/or PR+ post-menopausal patients had clinical benefit from first line tamoxifen or aromatase inhibitors. An inverse correlation of ER with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) has been found. The co-expression of HER-2/neu and/or elevated serum HER-2/neu protein level were associated with a low rate and shorter duration of response of ER+ patients to first line hormone therapy. Accordingly, ER-EGFR- compared with ER-EGFR+ tumours are usually more responsive to endocrine therapy. High class III beta-tubulin expression or fall in insulin-like growth factor binding protein-3 (IGFBP-3) from baseline levels have been found to significantly predict resistance to chemotherapeutic agents.
Liposomes as carrier of doxorubicin (Caelix, Evacet, Myocet) is one approach to decrease the anthracycline-related cardiac toxicity. Weekly paclitaxel or docetaxel and oral formulation of vinorelbine and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) (capecitabine) provide new effective and well tolerated options that reach greater dose intensity and cumulative dose than with the conventional schedules. As to the so called 'tailored' or targeted therapies, the more potent and highly selective third generation of aromatase inhibitors (letrozole, anastrozole, exemestane) targeting ER+ tumours by estrogen deprivation, challenge tamoxifen as current standard first line therapy in postmenopausals. One pilot study showed that stimulation of cellular immunity by the addition of beta-interferon-interleukin-2 sequence in patients on clinical benefit on first line tamoxifen significantly prolonged median overall survival (OS) and duration of response compared to that observed in similar patients only treated with tamoxifen. Trastuzumab, a humanised monoclonal antibody to extracellular domain of HER-2, plus conventional chemotherapy has become a standard of care for women with overexpressing HER-2 tumours. Bevacizumab is a recombinant humanised monoclonal antibody to vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) that in refractory metastatic breast cancer doubled the response rate of capecitabine although it did not affect survival. Finally, the so called 'oligometastatic' and a few stage IV diseases are conditions amenable to be rendered with no evidence of disease (NED) after local surgery and/or radiation. In both, as well as in complete responders to chemotherapy, minimal residual disease (m.r.d.) likely continues to be present. Recent data suggest that 'biological' therapy (immunomodulators and/or retinoids with or without hormone therapy), might be suitable to be successfully tested in these patients as maintenance treatment given soon after local intervention or chemotherapy.
Nephrin, podocin, CD2AP, and alpha-actinin-4 are important podocyte proteins that help maintain the integrity of the slit diaphragm and prevent proteinuria. Studies have shown that angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, glucocorticoids, and all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) have antiproteinuric effects. However, it is still unclear whether these drugs, with different pharmacological mechanisms, lead to a reduction in proteinuria by changing the expression and distribution of these important podocyte proteins. In this study, changes in the expression and distribution of nephrin, podocin, CD2AP, and alpha-actinin-4 were dynamically detected in Adriamycin-induced nephrotic (ADR) rats treated with three different drugs: lisinopril, prednisone, and ATRA. Nephropathy was induced by an intravenous injection of Adriamycin. After Adriamycin injection, rats received lisinopril, prednisone, and ATRA treatment, respectively. Renal tissues were collected at Days 3, 7, 14, and 28. The distribution and the expression of messenger RNA and protein of nephrin, podocin, CD2AP, and alpha-actinin-4 were detected by indirect immunofluorescence, real-time polymerase chain reaction, and Western blotting, respectively. With the intervention of lisinopril, prednisone, and ATRA, changes in the expression of nephrin, podocin, and CD2AP were diverse, which was different from that detected in ADR rats. After lisinopril and prednisone intervention, podocin exhibited prominent earlier changes compared with those of nephrin and CD2AP, whereas CD2AP showed more prominent changes after ATRA intervention. There was no change in the expression of alpha-actinin-4 molecule. In summary, we conclude that the antiproteinuric effects of lisinopril, prednisone, and ATRA were achieved by changes in the expression and distribution of the important podocyte molecules nephrin, podocin, CD2AP, and alpha-actinin-4. The pattern in the change of podocyte molecules after lisinopril and prednisone intervention was similar, but the pattern in the change of podocyte molecules after ATRA intervention was different from that of lisinopril or prednisone intervention.
The performance of 43 long-term users (average = 5 years) of benzodiazepine (BZ) medications was examined on a battery of behavioral tasks, cognitive tests, and subjective mood rating scales. The performance of the chronic BZ users did not differ significantly from age- and sex-matched anxious subjects, except that critical flicker fusion (CFF) thresholds were lower and subjective ratings of tranquilization were higher in the BZ users. Twenty-two subjects were reexamined in order to determine the acute effects of BZ medications in long-term users. The acute administration of BZ medications significantly increased CFF thresholds, improved digit-symbol substitution test performance, impaired the delayed recall of verbal material, increased subjective ratings of tranquilization, and reduced physical sedation. Motor performance tests were not impaired and subjective feelings of sedation were not increased after the acute administration of BZs by chronic users. During withdrawal from long-term BZ use (17 subjects), CFF thresholds were elevated, subjective ratings of physical sedation and anxiety were increased, but performance on other psychomotor and cognitive tests was not altered. The results suggest that tolerance develops selectively to different behavioral and subjective effects of BZ medications with their continued use. Tolerance failed to develop to the antianxiety effects, the reduction of CFF threshold, and to the impairment of short-term memory caused by BZs. However, chronic users of BZ medications failed to demonstrate psychomotor-impairing or sedating effects to BZ medications. The results have implications for evaluating the safety of the long-term use of BZ medications.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors gamma (PPARgamma) are nuclear receptors with essential roles as transcriptional regulators of glucose and lipid homeostasis. PPARgamma are also potent anti-inflammatory receptors, a property that contributes to the neuroprotective effects of PPARgamma agonists in experimental stroke. The mechanism of these beneficial actions, however, is not fully elucidated. Therefore, we have explored further the actions of the PPARgamma agonist rosiglitazone in experimental stroke induced by permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) in rodents. Rosiglitazone induced brain 5-lipoxygenase (5-LO) expression in ischemic rat brain, concomitantly with neuroprotection. Rosiglitazone also increased cerebral lipoxin A(4) (LXA(4)) levels and inhibited MCAO-induced production of leukotriene B4 (LTB(4)). Furthermore, pharmacological inhibition and/or genetic deletion of 5-LO inhibited rosiglitazone-induced neuroprotection and downregulation of inflammatory gene expression, LXA(4) synthesis and PPARgamma transcriptional activity in rodents. Finally, LXA(4) caused neuroprotection, which was partly inhibited by the PPARgamma antagonist T0070907, and increased PPARgamma transcriptional activity in isolated nuclei, showing for the first time that LXA(4) has PPARgamma agonistic actions. Altogether, our data illustrate that some effects of rosiglitazone are attributable to de novo synthesis of 5-LO, able to induce a switch from the synthesis of proinflammatory LTB(4) to the synthesis of the proresolving LXA(4). Our study suggests novel lines of study such as the interest of lipoxin-like anti-inflammatory drugs or the use of these molecules as prognostic and/or diagnostic markers for pathologies in which inflammation is involved, such as stroke.
This study was undertaken to determine the effects of two H2-receptor antagonists, cimetidine and ranitidine, on halothane metabolism and hepatotoxicity in the hypoxic Fisher 344 rat model for halothane hepatitis. In this model, liver injury is caused by toxic intermediates formed during metabolism of halothane by a reductive pathway. Administration of cimetidine (120 mg/kg ip) 20 min prior to anesthesia led to inhibition of the reductive pathway, as assessed by measurement of the exhaled metabolites, 2-chloro-1,1,1-trifluoroethane and 2-chloro-1,1-difluoroethylene, during anesthesia, and urinary fluoride excretion in the 22-hr postanesthesia period. Oxidative metabolism of halothane, assessed by serum bromide concentrations 22 hr postanesthesia, was unaffected. Cimetidine administration provided partial protection against the hepatotoxic effect of halothane, as indicated by serum alanine aminotransferase activities 22 hr postanesthesia. When ranitidine HCl (120 mg/kg ip) was administered prior to anesthesia, reductive metabolism of halothane was unaffected, but the oxidative pathway was slightly inhibited. Ranitidine did not provide protection against halothane-induced liver injury. These results provide additional evidence that halothane hepatotoxicity in the hypoxic rat model is due to toxic intermediates formed during the reductive metabolism of halothane.
EB1089 is a novel vitamin D analogue which has been tested for its effects on breast cancer cell growth in vitro, using the established human breast cancer cell line MCF-7, and in vivo on the growth of established rat mammary tumours. Both EB1089 and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25-(OH)2D3) inhibited MCF-7 cell proliferation with the synthetic analogue being at least an order of magnitude more potent than the native hormone. In vivo anti-tumour effects were investigated using the N-methyl-nitrosourea-induced rat mammary tumour model. Oral treatment with EB1089 was tested at three doses. With the lower dose, significant inhibition of tumour growth was seen in the absence of a rise in serum calcium. The same dose of 1,25-(OH)2D3 had no effect on tumour growth but caused hypercalcaemia. With the higher dose of EB1089, striking tumour regression was seen although serum calcium rose. This report demonstrates that EB1089 possess enhanced anti-tumour activity coupled with reduced calcaemic effects relative to 1,25-(OH)2D3 and thus may have therapeutic potential as an anti-tumour agent.
Phytanic acid is a branched-chain, saturated fatty acid present in high concentrations in dairy products and ruminant fat. Some other dietary fats contain lower levels of phytol, which is readily converted to phytanic acid after absorption. Phytanic acid is a peroxisome proliferator binding the nuclear transcription factor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha) to induce expression of genes encoding enzymes of fatty acid oxidation in peroxisomes and mitochondria. Administration of dietary phytol (0.5% or 1%) to normal mice for twelve to eighteen days caused consistent PPARalpha-mediated responses, such as lower body weights, higher liver weights, peroxisome proliferation, increased catalase expression, and hepatocellular hypertrophy and hyperplasia. Female mice fed 0.5% phytol and male and female mice fed 1% phytol exhibited midzonal hepatocellular necrosis, periportal hepatocellular fatty vacuolation, and corresponding increases in liver levels of the phytol metabolites phytanic acid and pristanic acid. Hepatic expression of sterol carrier protein-x (SCP-x) was five- to twelve-fold lower in female mice than in male mice. These results suggest that phytol may cause selective midzonal hepatocellular necrosis in mice, an uncommon pattern of hepatotoxic injury, and that the greater susceptibility of female mice may reflect a lower capacity to oxidize phytanic acid because of their intrinsically lower hepatic expression of SCP-x.
