Lung cancer is the most common cause of cancer death worldwide, with over one million cases annually. To identify genetic factors that modify disease risk, we conducted a genome-wide association study by analysing 317,139 single-nucleotide polymorphisms in 1,989 lung cancer cases and 2,625 controls from six central European countries. We identified a locus in chromosome region 15q25 that was strongly associated with lung cancer (P = 9 x 10(-10)). This locus was replicated in five separate lung cancer studies comprising an additional 2,513 lung cancer cases and 4,752 controls (P = 5 x 10(-20) overall), and it was found to account for 14% (attributable risk) of lung cancer cases. Statistically similar risks were observed irrespective of smoking status or propensity to smoke tobacco. The association region contains several genes, including three that encode nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunits (CHRNA5, CHRNA3 and CHRNB4). Such subunits are expressed in neurons and other tissues, in particular alveolar epithelial cells, pulmonary neuroendocrine cells and lung cancer cell lines, and they bind to N'-nitrosonornicotine and potential lung carcinogens. A non-synonymous variant of CHRNA5 that induces an amino acid substitution (D398N) at a highly conserved site in the second intracellular loop of the protein is among the markers with the strongest disease associations. Our results provide compelling evidence of a locus at 15q25 predisposing to lung cancer, and reinforce interest in nicotinic acetylcholine receptors as potential disease candidates and chemopreventative targets.
Fourteen evaluable patients with gynecologic adenocarcinoma (7 ovarian, 4 endometrial, 2 peritoneal and one breast cancer) were treated with ifosfamide (1 g/m2 X 5 days), adriamycin (50 mg/m2) and cisplatin (50 mg/m2) combined chemotherapy (IAP). All the patients had measurable disease, and three were refractory cases who had received prior chemotherapy including two CAP (cyclophosphamide, adriamycin and cisplatin). To avoid hemorrhagic cystitis induced by ifosfamide, uroprotective mesna (400 mg/body X 3) was used following ifosfamide infusion. The 5-day schedule of IAP treatment brought a 100% response rate in these patients. Complete responses were observed in 3 patients and lasted 6, 10 and 12 months. Partial responses were achieved in 11 patients including two with CAP refractory ovarian cancer, although the remission in previously treated patients was of short duration. Hematologic side effects of the IAP regimen were severe, showing grade 4 leucopenia in 85.7% of the patients, and it required maximal anti-infection treatments. Mesna resulted in microhematuria in only one patient. Despite high age of the patients (mean age: 60.1 years) in this study, CNS (central nervous system) toxicities associated with ifosfamide and mesna treatment were minimal. The results suggested that the IAP combination therapy was effective and acceptable in the control of gynecological adenocarcinomas.
Laropiprant (LRPT), a prostaglandin D(2) receptor-1 antagonist shown to reduce niacin-induced flushing symptoms, has been combined with niacin for treatment of dyslipidemia. This study evaluated the effects of LRPT (50 mg and 600 mg, respectively) on the QT interval with Fridericia's correction (QTcF). QTcF measurements were made over a 24-hour period following administration of single-dose moxifloxacin 400 mg, LRPT 50 mg, LRPT 600 mg, or placebo. The primary hypothesis was supported if the 90% confidence intervals (CIs) for the least squares (LS) mean differences between placebo and LRPT in change from baseline in QTcF interval were <10 milliseconds at every time point. The upper limits of the 90% CIs for LS mean differences from placebo in changes from baseline in QTcF intervals for LRPT 50 mg and 600 mg were <5 milliseconds at every time point. The lower limits of the 90% CIs for placebo-adjusted LS mean changes from baseline in QTcF intervals for moxifloxacin exceeded 0 milliseconds at every time point, demonstrating the sensitivity of this assay to detect increases in the QTcF interval. In conclusion, single doses of LRPT 50 mg and 600 mg do not prolong the QTcF interval relative to placebo and are generally well tolerated.
To evaluate the immunomodulatory potential of ciprofloxacin in mice with experimental antiphospholipid syndrome (APS).
Ciprofloxacin or ceftazidime (control antibiotic) was given to mice with experimentally induced APS. The titers of autoantibodies, levels of cytokines, and number of cytokine-producing cells were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Myeloid progenitor cells were determined by granulocyte-macrophage colony-forming unit, and interleukin-3 (IL-3) messenger RNA (mRNA) was tested by Northern analysis.
A decrease in the incidence of pregnancy loss and an improvement in the clinical manifestations of APS were noted in the mice treated with ciprofloxacin, compared with the mice given ceftazidime. The effect of ciprofloxacin was found to be associated with increased serum levels of IL-3 and with increased IL-3 mRNA transcription in the splenocytes. Expression of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) was documented by elevated titers in the sera and elevated numbers of colony-forming cells in the bone marrow.
Ciprofloxacin prevents the manifestations of experimental APS. This effect may be associated with increased IL-3 levels and GM-CSF expression.
To investigate the prophylactic and acute effects of autogenic training (AT) during a nitroglycerin-induced migraine attack.
Thirty female migraineurs (without aura) and 11 controls participated in the study. Of these, 11 migraineurs and 5 controls practiced AT regularly for at least 6 months prior to and during the sublingual nitroglycerin test. Headache intensity and characteristics were recorded with a standardized method. During the nitroglycerin challenge, blood was collected for plasma cortisol determination and blood pressure and pulse rate were recorded.
As a long-term preventive treatment, AT significantly decreased the mean headache frequency and intensity (P = .001) compared to the pretreatment period in the migraineurs who regularly practiced AT (n = 11). During the nitroglycerin challenge, AT successfully attenuated the nitroglycerin-induced acute decrease in blood pressure and pulse rate (P = .013; n = 16 AT subjects vs n = 25 non-AT subjects). However, it was not effective in preventing immediate headache (P = .71), did not decrease the frequency of acute migraine attacks (P = .79), and could not alleviate acute migraine pain (P = .78; n = 16 AT subjects vs n = 25 non-AT subjects). Plasma cortisol concentration significantly increased (P = .003) during the acute migraine attack (n = 22), and migraine intensity correlated with plasma cortisol elevations (P < .001; n = 41) and showed a tendency of negative correlation with morning plasma cortisol concentration (P = .08; n = 41). However, AT did not alter plasma cortisol responses (P = .99; n = 16 AT subjects vs n = 25 non-AT subjects).
(1) The long-term AT therapy proved to be a significantly effective preventive intervention in migraine sufferers. We hypothesized that this long-term effect of AT is based on modulation of the pain anticipation system, which is strongly correlated with function of the anterior cingulate cortex. (2) We demonstrated that AT could not alter the nitroglycerin-induced acute migraine attacks, which are directly related to the dysfunctional brainstem activation according to previous studies. (3) Our results suggested that there are multiple, complex relationships between cortisol responses and migraine pain, which are possibly mediated by the brain serotonergic system. (4) In addition, our results provide further evidence that nitroglycerin-induced vasodilatation is not directly connected to either immediate headache or delayed migraine attack.
From 1990 to 1996, a total of 386 adult patients with early/intermediate Hodgkin disease (HD) were randomly assigned to receive 3 cycles of adriamycin, bleomycin, vinblastine, dacarbazine (an alkylating agent), and methylprednisolone (ABVDm, arm A) or epirubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, methotrexate, and methylprednisolone (EBVMm, arm E), a combination without alkylating agent. Responding patients received extended field radiation therapy (RT). Postchemotherapy complete remission and 10-year freedom from progression rates were higher in arm A (79.5% and 91.4%) than in arm E (70.4%, P =.04, and 80%, P <.002). HD mortality (HDM), treatment-related mortality (TRM), and overall survival (OS) were similar in both arms (A, 2.1%, 7.5%, and 90.4%; B, 3.9%, 5.5%, and 90.3%). However TRM and OS rates were lower in patients aged 40 years or older (P <.005), reflecting the increasing incidence of background fatal events with increasing age. Finally, event-free survival (EFS) was higher in arm A (84.6%) than in arm E (74.9%, P <.02). In patients aged younger than 40 years in arm A (74%), 10-year EFS and OS rates were 88.9% and 95.4% with HDM and TRM rates as low as 0.7% and 3%. Three courses of ABVDm plus RT are the best available option for treating early or intermediate HD.
Puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) nephropathy in rats has been induced by the intraperitoneal injections of PAN. One group of animals which received PAN has been treated simultaneously with captopril (angiotensine converting enzyme-ACE-inhibitor) with the aim to test whether continuing treatment with captopril along with PAN injections would be able to modulate the toxic effects of PAN. The third group of rats was given only captopril. Morphological changes in the kidney were evaluated by scanning electron microscopy that showed the loss of podocyte foot processes in the kidney of PAN treated animals but also in the kidney of captopril treated ones as well as in the animals treated with both drugs simultaneously. Reduced glutathione content, catalase, superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), xanthine oxidase activities as well as lipid peroxides were investigated in rat blood and kidney. Captopril given alone produced a significant decrease of plasma lipid peroxides, but it did not show any significant effect on investigated antioxidative factor levels neither in blood nor in the kidney. PAN given alone produced a significant depletion of plasma lipid peroxides, kidney catalase and erythrocyte GSH-Px activity as well as a significant increase of plasma catalase and erythrocyte SOD activity. Treatment of animals with both drugs simultaneously resulted in a significant increase of erythrocyte SOD activity and a significant decrease of plasma lipid peroxides, erythrocyte GSH-Px and kidney SOD activities. Kidney xanthine oxidase activity showed a significant increase in both PAN and PAN plus captopril treated animals in comparison with the values of captopril treated rats. These data suggest that PAN changes the antioxidative factor pattern in rat blood and kidney. Contrary to our expectations that captopril may protect the toxic effects of PAN it only to a certain extent modifies these effects showing protective effect only on tissue catalase activity.
Sodium-depletion in rats reproduces functional and morphological tacrolimus nephrotoxicity observed in man. Potent diuretics induce sodium-depletion. Our objective was to determine the effect of a loop diuretic furosemide on tacrolimus-mediated functional and pathological impairment of the kidney in rats. Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into four groups; group 1, rats received vehicle (saline) only; group 2, rats were treated with tacrolimus (1 mg/kg body weight) and furosemide (5 mg/kg body weight); group 3, rats were treated with tacrolimus alone; and group 4, rats were treated with furosemide (5 mg/kg body weight) alone. On day 28, tail blood pressure was measured and the rats were placed in metabolic cages for urine collection. After 24 hr the rats were sacrificed. Tacrolimus alone tended to cause growth retardation, hypotension, hypomagnesemia and a rise in blood urea nitrogen. Furosemide co-administration enhanced the effects of tacrolimus on hypotension, hypomagnesemia and a rise in blood urea nitrogen. The renal histology characterized by cytoplasmic vacuolization of the proximal tubules was not different between the rats treated with both tacrolimus and furosemide and the rats treated with tacrolimus alone. A strong immunostaining for FKBP-12, a tacrolimus-binding protein, was observed in the medulla of the kidneys of rats treated with tacrolimus either with or without furosemide. These results indicate that furosemide further augments tacrolimus induced impairment in kidney function, and that furosemide should be used with discretion in patients on tacrolimus therapy.
Sulfamethoxazole (SMX) induces immunoallergic reactions that are thought to be a result of intracellular protein haptenation by its nitroso metabolite (SMX-NO mass, 267 amu). SMX-NO reacts with protein thiols in vitro, but the conjugates have not been defined chemically. The reactions of SMX-NO with glutathione (GSH), a synthetic peptide (DS3), and two model proteins, human GSH S-transferase pi (GSTP) and serum albumin (HSA), were investigated by mass spectrometry. SMX-NO formed a semimercaptal (N-hydroxysulfenamide) conjugate with GSH that rearranged rapidly (1-5 min) to a sulfinamide. Reaction of SMX-NO with DS3 also yielded a sulfinamide adduct (mass increment, 267 amu) on the cysteine residue. GSTP was exclusively modified at the reactive Cys47 by SMX-NO and exhibited mass increments of 267, 283, and 299 amu, indicative of sulfinamide, N-hydroxysulfinamide, and N-hydroxysulfonamide adducts, respectively. HSA was modified at Cys34, forming only the N-hydroxysulfinamide adduct. HSA modification by SMX-NO under these conditions was confirmed with ELISA and immunoblotting with an antisulfonamide antibody. It is proposed that cysteine-linked N-hydroxysulfinamide and N-hydroxysulfonamide adducts of SMX are formed via the reaction of SMX-NO with cysteinyl sulfoxy acids. Evidence for a multistep assembly of model sulfonamide epitopes on GSH and polypeptides via hydrolyzable intermediates is also presented. In summary, novel, complex, and metastable haptenic structures have been identified on proteins exposed in vitro to the nitroso metabolite of SMX.
Dauricine is one type of the bisbenzyltetrahydroisoquinoline alkaloid derivative with antiarrhythmic effects. Severe liver toxicity was observed in experimental animals treated with analogues of dauricine, which may be caused by covalent binding of reactive metabolite(s) to critical macromolecules in tissues. The study described herein aimed at characterizing pathways of dauricine bioactivation and the CYP enzyme involved. In incubations of dauricine with NADPH- and GSH-supplemented human liver microsomes, four GSH conjugates with [M + H]+ ions at m/z 930, 916, 916, and 902, respectively, were detected by liquid chromatography-ion trap mass spectrometry. The structures of the four metabolites were determined to be GSH conjugates of dauricine, 2-N-demethyl dauricine, 2'-N-demethyl dauricine, and N-demethyl-O-demethyl dauricine. GSH conjugation took place with a strong preference at C-17, suggesting that the phenol moiety of dauricine and its metabolites underwent oxidation to quinone methide intermediates. The formation of the GSH conjugates was found to require the presence of NADPH. To identify the CYP isoforms that are responsible for bioactivation, dauricine was also incubated with recombinant human CYP450 enzymes. The formation of GSH was only observed with the incubation of CYP3A4. In addition, the level of these GSH conjugates in human microsomes was reduced upon the addition of a CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole. The same GSH conjugates were also observed in rat bile following a single oral dose of 40 mg/kg dauricine. These studies suggest that the CYP3A4 mediated quinone methide formation was associated with dauricine bioactivation.
To determine the effect of cyclosporine and rapamycin administration on renal function after ischemia/reperfusion injury (I/R). Cyclosporine A has known nephrotoxic effects. Thus, cyclosporine therapy subsequent to I/R injury may further exacerbate graft dysfunction. Rapamycin is a newer agent that suppresses the immune system by a different mechanism.
Male Wistar rats (250 g) were anesthetized, and the suprarenal aorta was clamped for 40 minutes. The right kidney was removed. After recovery, the rats were divided into four groups: group 1, controls, no ischemia and no treatment (n = 10); group 2, ischemia with no treatment (n = 8); group 3, ischemia plus rapamycin (0.17 mg/kg/day gavage, n = 8); and group 4, ischemia plus cyclosporine A (30 mg/kg/day intraperitoneally, n = 9). The glomerular filtration rate was measured 5 to 7 days after I/R injury using urinary iohexol clearance. Data are expressed as the mean +/- SEM, and intergroup comparisons were made using one-way analysis of variance.
The mean GFR value for the controls (no ischemia, no treatment) was 1.23 +/- 0.08 mL/min; for group 2 (ischemia, no treatment), it was 1.05 +/- 0.10 mL/min; for group 3 (ischemia plus rapamycin) 1.06 +/- 0.14 mL/min; and for group 4 (ischemia plus cyclosporine A) 0.44 +/- 0.06 mL/min (P <0.05 versus the other three groups). The mean arterial pressure was significantly lower in the ischemic rats treated with cyclosporine A (P <0.05 versus the other three groups).
After I/R injury, rapamycin may preserve renal function compared with cyclosporine treatment, because it does not have a direct vasoconstrictor effect on the renal microcirculation.
The National Comprehensive Cancer Network guidelines recommend radiotherapy as a standard treatment for patients with a high risk of recurrence in gastric cancer. Because radiation is harmful to the surrounding organs, a radiation sensitizer might therefore be useful to decrease the side effects of patients with advanced gastric carcinoma. The aim of the current study was to clarify the effect of a DNA methyltransferase inhibitor, 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (CdR), on radiation sensitivity in gastric cancer cells. Five gastric cancer cell lines, OCUM-2M, OCUM-12, KATO-III, MKN-45, and MKN-74, were used. The effects of 5-aza-CdR with irradiation on the growth activity, cell-cycle distribution, apoptosis, and apoptosis-associated gene expression were examined. 5-aza-CdR sensitized three of five gastric cancer cell lines to radiation. A combination of irradiation and 5-aza-CdR significantly (P<0.05) decreased the growth activity compared with irradiation alone in OCUM-2M, OCUM-12, and MKN-45 cells, but not in KATO-III and MKN-74 cells. The percentage of cells in G2-M phase and the apoptotic rate with irradiation in combination with 5-aza-CdR were increased in OCUM-2M, OCUM-12, and MKN-45 cells compared with irradiation alone, but not in KATO-III and MKN-74 cells. 5-aza-CdR increased the expression of p53, RASSF1, and death-associated protein kinases (DAPK) genes compared with the control or irradiation alone. These findings suggest that 5-aza-CdR might therefore be useful as a radiation sensitizer to treat some types of gastric carcinoma. The arrest at G2-M phase and increased apoptotic rate might be partly mediated by enhanced expression of the p53, RASSF1, or DAPK gene families by 5-aza-CdR.
In this study rats were fitted with a concentric dialysis probe in one striatum and extracellular concentrations of dopamine and HVA measured by reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography. Injections of saline or the D1 agonist SKF 38393 (30 mg/kg) did not affect the releases of these compounds. On the other hand, the D2 agonist LY 171555 (0.5 mg/kg) inhibited the release of both dopamine and HVA, whilst amphetamine (1 mg/kg) increased the output of dopamine but not HVA. Treatment with 200 mg/kg pilocarpine caused minimal signs of epileptic activity and did not affect striatal dopamine neurotransmission. Concomitant administration of SKF 38393 (30 mg/kg) to this dose of pilocarpine greatly facilitated the incidence and severity of motor seizures, which were accompanied by an irregular pattern of dopamine release and a significant rise in HVA overflow. Similar results were obtained with rats made to convulse with 400 mg/mg pilocarpine, and to a lesser extent if these animals were first pretreated with a protective dose of LY 171555 (0.5 mg/kg). It is concluded that dopamine neurotransmission in the striatum is disrupted in rats undergoing a pilocarpine-induced motor seizure, and that the extent of this disruption increases as the seizure becomes more severe. An irregular release of dopamine could signify a loss of sensorimotor control by the striatum, which might conceivably contribute to the intractability of the seizure. An increase in the dialysate concentrations of metabolite and not dopamine, is consistent with a heightened glutamate-stimulated release of dopamine from a discrete striatal pool, caused by the seizure spreading through the cortex and activating the cortico-striatal system.
The incidence of drug-induced stone disease is 0.44%. A 57-year-old woman with ulcerative colitis presented with obstructive nephropathy and pyelonephritis. She underwent cystoscopy, bilateral retrograde pyelography, and bilateral ureteral stent placement. A 6-cm bladder calculus and two 3-mm right distal ureteral calculi were discovered. Later, cystolithotomy was performed. The stone analysis demonstrated sulfapyridine, a sulfasalazine metabolite. Patients with inflammatory bowel disease can develop urolithiasis owing to acidic urine and low-volume urine production. Patients receiving aminosalicylates are at an increased risk of urolithiasis and may benefit from oral hydration and urinary alkalization.
Cocaine use has increased rapidly over the past few years. This has led to an increase in the number and variety of cocaine-related conditions for which medical attention is sought. Among these have been several cases of intracranial hemorrhage. Four cases reported in the literature and 6 from our own institution are presented here. They represent different diagnoses including hemorrhage from aneurysms and arteriovenous malformations, hemorrhage into a tumor, and spontaneous hemorrhage with no underlying lesion with and without preexisting hypertension. Analysis of these cases suggests that the hypertension induced by cocaine secondary to sympathetic stimulation may be the common factor. Cocaine may also cause arterial spasm. Although the pathophysiology has not been entirely resolved, the clinical significance of this association is clear. Intracranial hemorrhage should be considered in the differential diagnosis whenever a patient presents with an acute alteration in neurologic examination associated with cocaine use.
Infants of epileptic women treated with valproic acid (VPA) during pregnancy have a higher risk of developing spina bifida than those of the general population. VPA induces exencephaly in experimental animal embryos. But the pathogenetic mechanism remains rather elusive. Antiepileptic drugs (AED) in general accentuate pregnancy-imposed fall in maternal folate levels. Periconceptional folic acid supplementation is reported to protect embryos from developing neural tube defects (NTD). Conflicting results have been reported by experimental studies that attempted to alleviate VPA-induced NTD by folic acid. Our objectives were to determine the critical developmental stages and an effective dose of folic acid for the prevention of VPA-induced exencephaly in mouse fetuses. A single teratogenic dose of 400 mg/kg of VPA was administered to TO mice on gestation day (GD) 7 or 8. It was followed by (1) a single dose of 12 mg/kg of FA (folinic acid) or (2) 3 doses of FA 4 mg/kg each. In experiment (3), FA (4 mg/kg) was administered thrice daily starting on GD 5 and continued through GD 10. These animals received VPA on GD 7 or 8. VPA and B12 concentrations were determined by radioimmunoassay. The single heavy dose of FA had no rescue effect on NTD. Three divided doses of FA on GD 7 and continuous dosing of FA from GD 5 through GD 10 substantially reduced the VPA-induced exencephaly in the fetuses. In the later experiments, the neural folds elevated faster than the non-supplemented group. VPA considerably reduced maternal plasma folate and B12 concentrations. The heavy dose of FA only moderately improved vitamin levels. Three divided doses of FA elevated the vitamin levels slightly better but it was the prolonged dosing of FA that was associated with sustained elevation of plasma levels higher than the control levels and acceleration of neural tube closure thus accounting for the pronounced protection against VPA-induced NTD development. These data suggest that plasma levels of FA and B12 have to be kept substantially elevated and maintained high throughout organogenesis period to protect embryos against VPA-induced NTD in this mouse model.
evaluation of a self-injection program with a mixture of papaverine, phentolamine and prostaglandin E1 (PGE1).
a self-injection program for erectile dysfunction was started by 48 patients, using a 1-ml mixture of 4.5 mg papaverine, 0.2 mg phentolamine and 1.5 micrograms PGE1. Patients completed a questionnaire at 6 weeks and at 3 months and were followed at the Outpatients Department for an average of 1 year.
of these patients 25 had previous experience with 20 micrograms PGE1 for intracavernous use and 22 patients had previously used 30 mg papaverine with 1 mg phentolamine. None of these 3 self-injection drugs is obviously superior in its ability to induce erections. Priapism occurred twice on a total of 1,290 injections. After 1-year follow-up, 4 patients had developed problems with fibrosis of the corpora, 2 of whom had encountered this problem also in a previous self-injection program.
this triple mixture has the disadvantage of causing fibrosis and priapism in susceptible patients.
Recent studies showed that Fas ligand (FasL) induced apoptosis in tumor cells and suppressed the immune response in several types of tumors. However, the toxicity of FasL limited further administration. This study delivered FasL in prostate cancer cells using an improved prostate-restricted replicative adenovirus (PRRA), thereby improving the antitumor effect while decreasing systemic toxicity.
We designed a FasL-armed PRRA, called AdIU3, by placing adenoviral E1a and E4 genes, FasL cDNA, and E1b gene under the control of two individual PSES enhancers. Tissue-specific viral replication and FasL expression were analyzed, and the tumor killing effect of AdIU3 was investigated both in vitro and in vivo using androgen-independent CWR22rv s.c. models via local administration and bone models via systemic administration. The safety of systemic administration of AdIU3 was evaluated. AdCMVFasL, in which FasL was controlled by a universal cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter, was used as a control.
AdIU3 enhanced FasL expression in prostate-specific antigen (PSA)/prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA)-positive cells but not in PSA/PMSA-negative cells. It induced apoptosis and killed PSA/PMSA-positive prostate cancer cells but spared normal human fibroblasts, hepatocytes, and negative cells. The increase in killing activity was confirmed to result in part from a bystander killing effect. Furthermore, AdIU3 was more effective than a plain PRRA in inhibiting the growth of androgen-independent prostate cancer xenografts and bone tumor formation. Importantly, systemic administration of AdIU3 resulted in undetectable toxicity, whereas the same doses of AdCMVFasL killed all mice due to multiviscera failure in 16 h.
AdIU3 decreased the toxicity of FasL by controlling its expression with PSES, with greatly enhanced prostate cancer antitumor efficacy. The results suggested that toxic antitumor factors can be delivered safely by a PRRA.
Based on the use of Scutellaria baicalensis for the treatment of stroke in traditional Oriental medicine, the current study was carried out to evaluate neuroprotective effects of S. baicalensis after transient global ischemia using rat 4-vessel occlusion model. Methanol extracts from the dried roots of S. baicalensis (0.1-10 mg/kg) administered intra-peritoneally significantly protected CA1 neurons against 10 min transient forebrain ischemia as demonstrated by measuring the density of neuronal cells stained with Cresyl violet. Methanol extract of S. baicalensis inhibited microglial tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and nitric oxide production, and protected PC12 cells from hydrogen peroxide-induced toxicity in vitro.
Drug-induced mental disturbances are frequent in bone marrow transplantation (BMT) patients who require numerous kinds of drugs. Although steroid-induced mental disorder is common in BMT settings, its treatment has not been fully investigated. We encountered a patient with acute myeloid leukemia who developed depressive disorder induced by steroid given for graft-versus-host disease treatment. Lithium carbonate was effective for the treatment of depressive disorder without causing side effects such as renal dysfunction. This study demonstrates the effectiveness of lithium carbonate for the treatment of depressive disorder induced by steroids in BMT settings.
To evaluate long-term effects of methylphenidate (MPH) treatment in ADHD children on the development of nicotine use disorders (SUD-N).
Multisite retrospective non-randomised longitudinal study with 215 ADHD children (diagnosis at 9.2 years of age; reassessment for SUD-N at 21.9 years of age) strictly parallel allocated to MPH treated (n = 106) and drug naive (n = 109) children.
There was no difference between the groups with respect to frequency (84% MPH; 89% non-MPH; chi(2) = 1.6; p = 0.21) and age of onset for first cigarette smoking (log rank 1.68; p = 0.19). Continuous smoking was reached by 51% (MPH) and 61% (non-MPH) of the patients. Survival analyses revealed a small and nominally significant delay in age of onset for continuous smoking in the MPH-group (log rank = 3.85; p = 0.049). Nicotine dependency was reached by 20% (MPH) and 27% (non-MPH). Age of onset does not differ between groups (log rank = 2.24; p = 0.13).
Limited evidence due to the non-randomised nature of the study is given that MPH does not induce SUD-N. The data suggests there may be a beneficial effect of MPH on delay of onset for continuous nicotine consumption in ADHD patients.
Behavioral and neuropathological responses to increasing doses of morphine hydrochloride (10-75 micrograms) administered into the rat amygdala were studied. Unilateral microinjections of morphine in doses of 40 and 75 micrograms produced a sequence of behavioral alterations including staring spells, gustatory automatisms, wet dog shakes, motor limbic seizures and limbic status epilepticus. Lower doses of morphine (10 and 20 micrograms) showed different threshold for these behavioral phenomena but a similar time course of development. Histological examination of frontal forebrain sections revealed widespread, apparently seizure-mediated pattern of brain damage. Neuropathological alterations were observed in the olfactory cortex, thalamus, neocortex, hippocampal formation and amygdaloid complex. Pretreatment of animals with diazepam (10 mg/kg i.p.) prevented the development of sustained limbic seizures and brain damage caused by morphine, while pretreatment with naloxone hydrochloride (2-20 mg/kg i.p.) failed to affect morphine-induced convulsant activity and brain damage. These results may suggest that morphine elaborates sustained limbic seizures and widespread brain damage by mechanism underlying the antagonism of inhibitory amino acid neurotransmission and opioid receptors do not seem to be involved.
5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) is the backbone of the chemotherapy regimens approved for treatment of colorectal cancer. Incidence of cardiotoxicity associated with 5-FU ranges between 1.5% to 18%; 48% as anginal symptoms and 2% as cardiogenic shock. Cardiotoxicity is unpredictable and no alternatives have been defined so far. A 35-year-old man treated for stage III A rectal cancer developed chest pain typical of angina on treatment with capecetabine initially and 5-FU infusion afterwards. Scheduled dosing of 5-FU was changed from infusion to a bolus type. He was asymptomatic with no electrocardiographic (ECG) changes on 24-h Holter monitoring after changing the mode of administration to bolus 5-FU. Here, we report the first case in the English literature where a change in the mode of 5-FU administration to bolus is an alternative to infusion 5-FU-induced cardiotoxicity. In conclusion, Bolus 5-FU can be used in patients developing cardio-toxicity due to 5-FU infusion.
Ospemifene is a novel selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) that is initially being developed for the treatment of vaginal atrophy in postmenopausal women. However, it also shows promise in the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis. As a part of a phase II trial, we compared the effects of ospemifene and raloxifene on bone turnover in postmenopausal women. The study was conducted as a randomized, double-blind study in which 118 healthy postmenopausal women received 30 (n = 29), 60 (n = 30), or 90 mg (n = 30) ospemifene or 60 mg (n = 29) raloxifene for 3 months. Bone resorption was assessed by measuring the urinary outputs of N- and C-terminal cross-linking telopeptides of type I collagen (NTX and CTX, respectively). Bone formation was assessed by measuring bone-specific alkaline phosphatase (bone ALP), osteocalcin (OC), procollagen type I N propeptide (PINP), and procollagen type I C propeptide (PICP) in serum. All markers were studied before and at 3 months and 2-4 weeks after cessation of the medication. Urine NTX outputs decreased in all study groups, and the only statistically significant difference in NTX was observed between raloxifene and 30 mg ospemifene, which was reduced more in the raloxifene group. The output of CTX decreased most clearly in 60- and 90-mg ospemifene groups, but no significant differences between study groups emerged. A significant difference was found between the 90-mg ospemifene group and raloxifene in PINP in favor of ospemifene. No other differences in bone formation markers emerged between ospemifene and raloxifene. The study confirms the bone-restoring activity of ospemifene, which is comparable to that of raloxifene.
Posterior encephalopathy is characterised by headache, impairment of consciousness, seizures and progressive visual loss. MRI shows bilateral, predominantly posterior, cortical and subcortical lesions with a distribution. Our aim was to analyse the MRI lesion pattern and angiographic findings because the pathophysiology of posterior encephalopathy is incompletely understood. We report three patients with clinical and imaging findings consistent with posterior encephalopathy who underwent serial MRI including diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) and construction of apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) maps, and four-vessel digital subtraction angiography (DSA). DWI revealed symmetrical subcortical and cortical parieto-occipital high signal. High and also low ADCs indicated probable vasogenic and cytotoxic oedema. On follow-up there was focal cortical laminar necrosis, while the white-matter lesions resolved almost completely, except in the arterial border zones. DSA revealed diffuse arterial narrowing, slightly more marked in the posterior circulation. These findings suggest that posterior encephalopathy may in some cases be due to diffuse, severe vasospasm affecting especially in the parieto-occipital grey matter, with its higher vulnerability to ischemia. Cerebral vasospasm due to digitoxin intoxication, resulting in posterior encephalopathy, has not yet been described previously.
