An emerging body of evidence suggests that ambient levels of air pollution during pregnancy are associated with fetal growth.
We examined relationships between birth weight and temporal variation in ambient levels of carbon monoxide, nitrogen dioxide (NO₂), sulfur dioxide (SO₂), ozone, particulate matter ≤ 10 μm in diameter (PM₁₀), ≤ 2.5 μm (PM(2.5)), 2.5 to 10 µm (PM(2.5-10)), and PM(2.5) chemical component measurements for 406,627 full-term births occurring between 1994 and 2004 in five central counties of metropolitan Atlanta.
We assessed relationships between birth weight and pollutant concentrations during each infant's first month of gestation and third trimester, as well as in each month of pregnancy using distributed lag models. We also conducted capture-area analyses limited to mothers residing within 4 miles (6.4 km) of each air quality monitoring station.
In the five-county analysis, ambient levels of NO₂, SO₂, PM(2.5) elemental carbon, and PM(2.5) water-soluble metals during the third trimester were significantly associated with small reductions in birth weight (-4 to -16 g per interquartile range increase in pollutant concentrations). Third-trimester estimates were generally higher in Hispanic and non-Hispanic black infants relative to non-Hispanic white infants. Distributed lag models were also suggestive of associations between air pollutant concentrations in late pregnancy and reduced birth weight. The capture-area analyses provided little support for the associations observed in the five-county analysis.
Results provide some support for an effect of ambient air pollution in late pregnancy on birth weight in full-term infants.
Gerodermia osteodysplastica is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by wrinkly skin and osteoporosis. Here we demonstrate that gerodermia osteodysplastica is caused by loss-of-function mutations in SCYL1BP1, which is highly expressed in skin and osteoblasts. The protein localizes to the Golgi apparatus and interacts with Rab6, identifying SCYL1BP1 as a golgin. These results associate abnormalities of the secretory pathway with age-related changes in connective tissues.
The main methods of treatment of endometrial carcinoma are hysterectomy and bilateral oophorectomy with lymphadenectomy. However, another option for hormonal treatment of endometrial carcinoma, the use of progesterone in young patients to preserve childbearing capacity, has been reported, and a high remission rate has been described in well-selected stage I, grade 1 endometrial cancer. Although it is intriguing that hormonal therapy alone can treat endometrial carcinoma without surgery or cytotoxic chemotherapy, the molecular basis for the effects of progesterone on endometrial carcinoma is not clearly known. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of naturally occurring small, noncoding RNA molecules that control cellular function and are known to function as both tumor suppressors and oncogenes. Thus, in the present study, changes in the miRNA profile of endometrial carcinoma cells on progesterone treatment were studied.
To elucidate the mechanism of hormonal treatment in endometrial carcinoma cells, we studied the changes in miRNA expression in endometrial carcinoma cells on treatment with progesterone using the Hec1A endometrial carcinoma cell line as a model system. Hec1A cells were treated with medroxyprogesterone acetate, and total RNA was extracted. The changes in the miRNA profile after progesterone treatment were determined using a microarray containing 868 miRNAs.
Of 868 miRNAs, the expression levels of miR-625*, -21, -142-5p, and 146b-5p were increased by more than 400%, whereas the expression levels of miR-633, -29c, -29*, and -193b were decreased by 50%. To validate the array results, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reactions were performed.
MiRNA expression was modulated by progesterone treatment in endometrial carcinoma cells, implying a possible critical role of miRNAs in regulating posttranscriptional gene expression on progesterone treatment. Further studies are required to clarify the mechanism involved in the hormonal treatment of endometrial carcinoma.
Intensive lipid-lowering therapy with statins reduces levels of low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol (C) and improves plaque volume and composition in patients with cardiovascular disease. Furthermore, rosuvastatin ameliorated carotid stenosis in the ASTEROID study, and altered the composition of plaques in a predominantly Caucasian study population in the ORION study. However, it is not known whether statin therapy achieves similar quantitative improvement in carotid artery plaque in other ethnic groups.
Fifty patients with hypercholesterolemia (LDL-C >or=120 mg/dl) and a maximum carotid intima-media thickness >or=1.8 mm will be enrolled and treated with rosuvastatin at a dose of 5 mg/day for 96 weeks. The primary endpoints will be the percent change of carotid plaque volume and the change in plaque composition after 96 weeks of treatment, as evaluated by magnetic resonance imaging.
The CHALLENGER study will provide a noninvasive assessment of the changes in carotid plaque volume and composition achieved by reduction of LDL levels in Japanese patients with carotid stenosis on long-term rosuvastatin therapy.
The aim of the study was to investigate safety and efficacy of intradetrusor injection of 100 units of botulinum toxin type A in 26 patients with refractory overactive bladder. The diagnostic scheme consisted of 72 h diary, laboratory tests, ultrasound investigation with measurement of residual urine, urodynamic investigation and neurological examination. The patients were divided into 3 groups: 14 patients with idiopathic detrusor overactivity (DO), 9 with neurogenic DO, and 6 with overactive bladder without DO. 100 units of botulinum toxin type A mixed with 20 ml of normal saline were injected into the detrusor sparing the trigone. Clinical and urodynamic evaluations were performed before the injection and 1, 3 and 6 months after it. The patients with idiopathic DO and overactive bladder without DO showed improvement of such clinical symptoms as frequency, urgency, nocturia and urgent incontinence which lasted for at least 6 months. Patients with neurogenic DO had improvement of the clinical symptoms only for one month after treatment. We had no patients who exhibited acute urinary retention or residual urine. Thus, 100 units of botulinum toxin type A injected into the detrusor is an effective, safe and well tolerated treatment for patients with idiopathic DO and overactive bladder without DO in whom an anticholinergic medication has failed.
Ehlers-Danlos type IX syndrome, also called occipital horn syndrome (OHS), is a milder and rare form of Menkes disease where the patient reaches adulthood. As an X-linked disease, it typically occurs in male subjects, while female subjects are usually healthy carriers. OHS is mainly characterized by connective tissue disorders and slightly subnormal intelligence or signs of autonomic dysfunction are the only apparent neurological abnormalities, in connection with molecular defects in copper metabolism. Our purpose is to report on radiological skeletal findings that may be incidental or investigated when OHS is suspected and to underline the possible involvement and expression in the female. Moreover, the impact of skeletal findings is also highlighted in the prevention of serious complications of the disease.
Oral administration of green tea or caffeine to SKH-1 mice during UVB irradiation for several months inhibited the formation of skin cancer. Similar effects were observed when green tea or caffeine was given to tumor-free UVB-initiated mice with a high risk of developing skin tumors in the absence of further UVB irradiation (high risk mice). Mechanistic studies indicated that topical application of caffeine stimulated UVB-induced apoptosis as well as apoptosis in UVB-induced focal hyperplasia and tumors in tumor-bearing mice. Oral or topical administration of caffeine enhanced the removal of patches of epidermal cells with a mutant form of p53 protein that appeared early during the course of UVB-induced carcinogenesis, and oral administration of caffeine altered the profile of p53 mutations in the patches. In additional studies, topical application of caffeine was shown to have a sunscreen effect, and topical application of caffeine sodium benzoate was more active than caffeine as a sunscreen and for stimulating UVB-induced apoptosis. Caffeine sodium benzoate was also highly active in inhibiting carcinogenesis in UVB-pretreated high risk mice. Our studies indicate that caffeine and caffeine sodium benzoate may be useful as novel inhibitors of sunlight-induced skin cancer.
A 49-year-old man with severe hypertension and chronic schizophrenia developed marked hypotension with postural syncope following therapy with the combination of chlorpromazine and captopril. Previously, the patient's blood pressure (BP) had been poorly controlled on a regimen of chlorpromazine and hydrochlorothiazide, nadolol, and prazosin. The supine and standing BP and 24-hour ambulatory BP were subsequently studied while the patient was maintained on chlorpromazine and captopril, chlorpromazine alone, and on no therapy. Chlorpromazine alone caused a moderate reduction in supine and standing BP with a reversal of the circadian BP profile. The combination of chlorpromazine and small doses of captopril (12.5 mg/d) induced a reduction in supine BP of 84/32 mm Hg compared with chlorpromazine alone and exaggerated the postural hypotension. Hormonal investigation demonstrated low baseline renin activity that increased during therapy with captopril and a physiologic catecholamine response to change in posture. These data demonstrate that there is a synergism between captopril and chlorpromazine that may result in marked, symptomatic hypotension that is probably unrelated to the baseline level of plasma renin activity or catecholamines.
Two patients with acute, rapidly progressive generalized vasculitis initially had symptoms of asthma. Progressive increase in severity of asthma was followed by systemic disease, including pulmonary infiltrative disease, mononeuritis multiplex, and abdominal pain. Examination of the tissues demonstrated vasculitis with eosinophilia, and clinically both cases appeared in a near terminal state. High-dose prednisone did not induce a remission. In particular, the lesions of mononeuritis multiplex progressed after initiation of high-dose prednisone. The addition of azathioprine to the regimen was followed by a gradual and then complete remission of clinical and laboratory abnormalities, except for some residual nerve damage and asthma of varying severity in the two patients. These two patients, whose cases are classified as the allergic granulomatosis variant of polyarteritis nodosa, have had a remission of seven and almost two years, respectively, after combined prednisone-azathioprine therapy.
To elucidate the mechanism by which aminoguanidine (AG) protects against cyclophosphamide (CP)-induced hemorrhagic cystitis.
Hemorrhagic cystitis was induced in the rats by administration of a single injection of CP at a dose of 150 mg/kg body weight intraperitoneally. For the AG pretreatment studies, the rats were injected intraperitoneally with AG at a dose of 200 mg/kg body weight 1 hour before administration of CP. The control rats received AG or saline alone. All the rats were killed 16 hours after the administration of CP or saline.
Pretreatment with AG ameliorated CP-induced bladder damage. Pretreatment with AG prevented CP-induced elevation in nitrate levels, nitration of protein tyrosine, poly (adenosine diphosphate ribose) polymerase (PARP) activation, and restored the activity of superoxide dismutase, the peroxynitrite-sensitive enzyme. The results of the present study have confirmed that AG is effective in preventing CP-induced cystitis and have also demonstrated that the protective effect is from its ability to inhibit nitric oxide-induced protein nitration and poly (adenosine diphosphate ribose) polymerase activation.
AG can prevent CP-induced urotoxicity and lead to better tolerance of the drug. Thus, a more efficient and comfortable therapy can be achieved for patients in need of CP treatment. AG appears to be a promising drug for the prevention of the urotoxicity of CP.
The causes of term pre labor rupture of membranes (term PROM) remain poorly defined. The authors conducted a record-based prevalence study to explore a possible relation between disinfection by-products in drinking water and term PROM in an Australian community with spatially variable trihalomethane and nitrate levels. A multilevel statistical model was used to examine the relation between factors operating at the levels of the individual, district, and water distribution zone and the prevalence of PROM at term among 16,229 women in Perth, Western Australia (2002-2004). Adjusted odds ratios for term PROM increased with increasing tertiles of nitrate exposure (moderate exposure: odds ratio = 1.23, 95% confidence interval: 1.03, 1.52; high exposure: odds ratio = 1.47, 95% confidence interval: 1.20, 1.79), but there was no significant relation with exposure to trihalomethanes. This study raises the possibility that water contaminants may promote the development of PROM at term.
Three dogs receiving cyclophosphamide IV as part of a combination chemotherapeutic regimen developed macrohematuria, stranguria, and pollakiuria within 24 hours of administration of the first dose of this drug. An 11-year-old spayed mixed-breed dog with an oral squamous cell carcinoma was administered 250 mg of cyclophosphamide/m2 of body surface, whereas a 4-year-old castrated male Gordon Setter was treated with 100 mg of cyclophosphamide/m2 and a 6-year-old male German Shepherd Dog with a cutaneous hemangiosarcoma was administered 140 mg of cyclophosphamide/m2. Aerobic bacterial culture, antimicrobial susceptibility testing, and urinalysis were performed on urine obtained by cystocentesis from all 3 dogs after hematuria was observed. Sterile hemorrhagic cystitis was diagnosed on the basis of large numbers of RBC in the urine, lack of pathogens on bacterial culturing of urine, and clinical signs. Although cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis in dogs has been reported in the literature numerous times, acute episodes developing within 24 hours of administration of the first dose have not been reported in this species with the use of therapeutic doses. Therefore, appropriate precautionary steps should be taken, even when the drug is being administered intermittently.
TNP-470 (O-(chloroacetylcarbamoyl)fumagillol) is a potent inhibitor of angiogenesis that was reported to enhance synergistically the antitumor effects of cytotoxic agents. We evaluated the effectiveness of combined treatment with TNP-470 and gemcitabine in vitro and in vivo using highly metastatic human bladder cancer KoTCC-1 cells.
The in vitro growth inhibitory and apoptotic effects of gemcitabine and/or TNP-470 on KoTCC-1 cells were assessed using the MTT (3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide) assay and TUNEL staining, respectively. We then evaluated the combined effect of gemcitabine and TNP-470 therapy after subcutaneous and orthotopic injection of KoTCC-1 cells into athymic nude mice. Established tumors were analyzed by TUNEL staining and immunohistochemical staining of CD31 to quantify microvessel density.
In vitro TNP-470 enhanced the cytotoxic effect of gemcitabine on KoTCC-1 cells, decreasing its IC50 by more than 50%. This combined treatment significantly induced apoptosis compared with treatment with either agent alone. In vivo combined treatment with TNP-470 and gemcitabine significantly decreased tumor growth after subcutaneous and orthotopic injection into athymic nude mice and significantly decreased the incidence of lymph node metastasis after arthotopic injection compared with either agent alone. Immunohistochemical analysis of the subcutaneous tumor after each treatment demonstrated that gemcitabine administration significantly induced apoptotic cell death. In contrast, a significant decrease in microvessel density was observed after TNP-470 treatment.
These findings demonstrate that TNP-470 and gemcitabine act synergistically to inhibit tumor growth and metastasis by enhancing apoptosis and suppressing angiogenesis.
To evaluate serum TIMP-1 level and the correlation between TIMP-1 expression and liver fibrosis in immune-induced and CCL4-induced liver fibrosis models in rats.
Immune-induced and CCL4-induced liver fibrosis models were established by dexamethasone (0.01 mg) and CCL4 respectively. Serum TIMP-1 level was detected with ELISA, while histopathological grade of liver biopsy was evaluated. Spearman rank-correlation test was used to analyse the difference of the correlation between the TIMP-1 expression and hepatic fibrosis in the two fibrosis models. Furthermore, in situ hybridization was used to determine the expression difference of TIMP-1 mRNA in the two models.
Positive correlation existed between serum TIMP-1 level of immune induced group and the histopathological stages of fibrosis liver of corresponding rats (Spearman rank-correlation test, r(s) = 0.812, P < 0.05), and the positive in situ hybridization signal of TIMP-1 mRNA was strong. In CCL4-induced liver fibrosis model, the correlation between the serum TIMP-1 level and the severity of hepatic fibrosis was not statistically significant(Spearman rank-correlation test, r(s) = 0.229, P > 0.05). And compared with immune-induced model, the positive in situ hybridization signal of TIMP-1 mRNA was weaker, while the expression variation was higher in hepatic fibrosis of the same severity.
The correlations between TIMP-1 expression and liver fibrosis in two rat liver fibrosis models are different. In immune-induced model, serum TIMP-1 level could reflect the severity of liver fibrosis, while in CCL4-induced model, the correlation between the serum TIMP-1 level and the severity of hepatic fibrosis was not statistically significant.
The author reports his results of parenteral piracetam treatment in 193 patients admitted to the Psychiatric Department of Semmelweis Hospital with alcohol withdrawal delirium. Alcohol withdrawal delirium is a complex metabolic disorder, the disturbance of the highest cerebral integrative functions, which is caused by the impairment of cerebral oxidative metabolism. Piracetam is effective on most neurotransmitter systems, without a specific receptor agonism or antagonism, increases the effectivity of different biogenic amine systems, has also an effect on membrane permeability, increases the concentration of NMDA (methyl-D-aspartate) receptors in the impaired brain and improves cognitive functions. In the patients suffered from alcohol dependence piracetam produces positive morphologic changes, by decreasing lipofuscin accumulation. In early stage it prevents the development of delirium. Despite of the great number (approximately 150) of medication that were tried in the treatment of delirium, the ideal one still has not been found. Among the accessible therapeutic possibilities the author searched for methods which make the treatment more effective. The administration of parental piracetam, therefore was brought into his therapeutical protocol. Parenteral piracetam--similarly to literature data--proved to be effective in the treatment of alcohol withdrawal delirium. Considering the present--insufficient--hospital financing, it is remarkable that though the costs of the new therapy are higher than the traditional meprobamat therapy, through less side effect it is more economical (overall costs lower) and by decreasing the time of delirium it is more humane to the patients.
Lactic acidosis is a serious clinical situation associated with a high case fatality rate. Lactic acidosis is particularly found in conditions with an insufficient supply of oxigen in the tissue. Other causes for lactic acidosis can be hepatic or renal insufficiency. For the therapy of overweight patients with type 2 diabetes metformin is the first choice if diet and physical training have been ineffective. Metformin, however, has the potential to increase serumlactate. Therefore its ability to cause lactic acidosis is controversely discussed. We present a 64-year-old female patient with metformin-associated lactic acidosis. She had several pre-existing risk factors to develop a lactic acidosis. On her referral to the hospital she suffered from acute renal failure which is considered to be a contraindication for the use of metformin.
The chronic cardiotoxicity of doxorubicin as a free drug or entrapped in positive and negative liposomes was morphologically evaluated in mice treated seven times i.v. at a dose of 4 mg/kg. Liposomes were composed of phosphatidylcholine, cholesterol, and stearylamine (positive charge) or phosphatidylserine (negative charge). Administration of free doxorubicin caused a pattern of cardiac damage characterized by loss of myofiber elements, mitochondrial damage, nuclear abnormalities, swollen and distended sarcoplasmic reticulum leading to vacuolization, and increasing myeloid body accumulation. Cardiac tissues of mice treated with doxorubicin entrapped in negatively charged liposomes demonstrated pronounced loss of filaments, enlarged mitochondria, disruptive loss of crests, and expanded nuclear membrane. However, electron microscopic examination of the cardiac muscles of mice treated with positive liposomes demonstrated a significant protection from drug-induced toxicity, with only minor loss of parallel fibrillar arrangement and myofilaments in limited focal areas. The majority of the tissue demonstrated normal vasculature and intercalation of myocytes as compared to control groups. The mean qualitative and quantitative scores of toxic lesions for free doxorubicin and entrapped in negative liposomes are 2.7 and 2.23, respectively. However, the mean score for the group of mice treated with positive liposomes is only 1.12, showing a better than 2-fold scoring protection of both the extent and severity of cardiac lesions.
The intraperitoneal injection of 1 g of bovine serum albumin daily for 5 days was shown by electron-microscope morphometry to cause swelling of the glomerular epithelial cells and very severe loss of foot processes. However, these changes were found in only 70 per cent. of glomeruli and the other 30 per cent. remained normal. After 7 days' recovery following five daily injections of 1 g of bovine serum albumin, the swelling of the glomerular epithelial cells had subsided and the foot process reappeared. These changes were accompanied by severe proteinuria which resolved only slowly when the injections were stopped. After daily injections of 0-8 g of egg albumin for 5 days there was no swelling of the glomerular epithelial cells and only very slight loss of foot processes detectable only by morphometry. There was a less severe proteinuria than after injections of bovine serum albumin and it resolved more rapidly when injections were stopped. It is suggested that these differences arise from the fact that bovine serum albumin is reabsorbed by the glomerular epithelial cell but egg albumin is not. Two of four rats allowed to recover for 7 days after five daily injections of 1 g of bovine serum albumin had unusual glomerular lesions.
Spider venom toxins have raised interest in prospecting new drugs and pesticides. Nevertheless, few studies are conducted with tarantula toxins, especially with species found in Brazil. This study aims to characterize chemically and biologically the first toxin isolated from Acanthoscurria paulensis venom. Ap1a consists of 48 amino acid residues and has a molecular mass of 5457.79 Da. The cloned gene encodes a putative sequence of 23 amino acid residues for the signal peptide and 27 for the pro-peptide. The sequence of the mature peptide is 60-84% identical with those of toxins of the HWTX-II family. Different from the structural pattern proposed for these toxins, the disulfide pairing of Ap1a is of the ICK type motif, which is also shared by the U1-TRTX-Bs1a toxin. Ap1a induced a dose-dependent and reversible paralytic effect in Spodoptera frugiperda caterpillars, with an ED50 of 13.0 ± 4.2 μg/g 8 h after injections. In the Drosophila melanogaster Giant Fiber circuit, Ap1a (1.14-22.82 μg/g) reduces both the amplitude and frequency of responses from GF-TTM and GF-DLM pathways, suggesting an action at the neuromuscular junction, which is mediated by glutamatergic receptors. It is also lethal to mice (1.67 μg/g, intracranial route), inducing effects similar to those reported with intracerebroventricular administration of NMDA. Ap1a (1 μM) does not alter the response induced by acetylcholine on the rhabdomyosarcoma cell preparation and shows no significant effects on hNav1.2, hNav1.4, hNav1.5, and hNav1.6 channels. Because of its unique sequence and cysteine assignment to the HWTX-II family, Ap1a is a significant contribution to the structure-function study of this family of toxins.
We have used zebrafish and 3,3',4,4',5-pentachlorobiphenyl (PCB126) to investigate the developmental toxicity of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) that exert their effects through the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR). We found that cardiac and neural crest (NC)-derived jaw and branchial cartilages are specifically targeted early in development. The suite of malformations, which ultimately leads to circulatory failure, includes a severely dysmorphic heart with a reduced bulbus arteriosus and abnormal atrioventricular and outflow valve formation. Early NC migration and patterning of the jaw and branchial cartilages was normal. However, the jaw and branchial cartilages failed to grow to normal size. In the heart, the ventricular myocardium showed a reduction in cell number and size. The heart and jaw/branchial phenotype could be rescued by pifithrin-alpha, a blocker of p53. However, the function of pifithrin-alpha in this model may act as a competitive inhibitor of PCB at the AHR and is likely independent of p53. Morpholinos against p53 did not rescue the phenotype, nor were zebrafish with a mutant p53-null allele resistant to PCB126 toxicity. Morpholino knockdown of cardiac troponin T, which blocks the onset of cardiac function, prevented the PCB126-induced cardiac dysmorphogenesis but not the jaw/branchial phenotype. The cardiovascular characteristics appear to be similar to hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS) and introduce the potential of zebrafish as a model to study this environmentally induced cardiovascular malformation. HLHS is a severe congenital cardiovascular malformation that has previously been linked to industrial releases of dioxins and PCBs.
Androgen activity has been implicated in a range of traits and behaviours that have well-documented sex differences. However, the results of the studies on the relationship between testosterone and these traits and behaviours are inconsistent. This study has analyzed i) whether CAG repeat length, a presumed modulator of androgen receptor sensitivity, is associated with sex-dimorphic traits and behaviours (aggressive and non-aggressive risk-taking (ART and NART), dominance, depressive symptoms and self-esteem), and ii) whether CAG repeat length interacts with free testosterone (FT) with respect to these traits and behaviours.
Data obtained from a group of adolescent boys (n=301; mean age: 14.4 years) were analyzed using multivariate general linear modelling (SPSS, Chicago, IL, USA 15.0).
We found no direct correlation between CAG repeat length and dependent variables. We found significant interactions between CAG repeat length and testosterone, indicating that FT was more positively related to ART and NART with a shorter repeat length, and that an inverse association of FT with depressive symptoms and a positive association with self-esteem were stronger in boys with a longer CAG repeat length.
Our findings indicate the importance of studying FT and CAG repeat length simultaneously with respect to sex-dimorphic traits, taking into account the possible interactions between the two.
alpha I/74 hereditary elliptocytosis (HE) is a subgroup of HE in which patients exhibit an impaired self-association of spectrin dimers and an abnormal proteolytic cleavage of the alpha I domain of spectrin. We studied a family in which the proband presented with a severe neonatal hemolytic anemia with poikilocytosis. Biochemical analysis of erythrocytes from the proband and his family members allowed us to ascertain a diagnosis of homozygosity for alpha I/74 HE in the proband and heterozygosity in his parents and several of their offspring. Results of polymorphism linkage analysis suggested that the defect in this family was located in beta rather than alpha spectrin. We analyzed the 3' end of the beta-spectrin gene of the proband and detected a mutation that changes a codon for alanine to one for proline. Allele-specific oligomer hybridization on slot blots of DNA from other family members confirmed the presence of the mutation only in members heterozygous for the disorder. This is the first example of a point mutation in the beta-spectrin chain that is associated with defective spectrin dimer self-association and an abnormal proteolytic cleavage of the alpha chain. Based on this finding, we propose a model for the mechanism of interaction between the alpha- and beta-spectrin chains.
To test the ability of a 5HT2a/c (trazodone) antagonist, to improve depression and motor function in Parkinson' disease (PD).
Twenty PD patients with and without depression were randomly assigned to receive trazodone (group 1) or not (group 2). They were evaluated through UPDRS and Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D).
For the UPDRS the mean score of group 2 was 33.1 +/- 19.7 and 37.1 +/- 18.0 at the end. For the group 1, the corresponding scores were 31.4 +/- 11.3 and 25.9 +/- 13.7. The variations in the Mann-Whitney test were 0.734 at the initial moment and 0.208 at the final moment. The variation in the comparison of the initial moment with the final moment was 0.005 providing statistical significance. For the HAM-D, the mean score went up 4 points in group 2, contrary to a 5.5 points decrease in group 1.
Data analysis shows that this agent significantly improves depression, but the motor function improved only in the depressed patients. Because of the known anti-dopaminergic property of the 5-HT2c receptors, a possible approach for depression in PD could be the use of 5-HT2c antagonists, similarly to the use of atypical neuroleptics in case of psychotic symptoms.
The objective of this study was to test the hypothesis that hepatomegaly in burned children can be attenuated or reversed by blocking lipolysis and reducing free fatty acids delivered to the liver.
Accelerated lipolysis in severely burned children has been shown to play an important role in the accumulation of hepatic TGs. Severely burned children who survive 10 days or more after injury commonly have enlarged livers often twice or more normal size for their sex, age, and weight.
Ninety-eight children, 2 to 18 years of age, with burns covering more than 40% of their body surface and who received either propranolol (beta-adrenergic blockade) or placebo were studied. Liver weights were measured by ultrasonic scanning. Body composition changes were identified by dual-image x-ray absorptiometry and validated by whole-body potassium-40 scintillation counting. Discarded abdominal cutaneous adipose tissue was collected before and after propranolol or placebo for microarray analysis.
In 80% of severely burned children studied not receiving propranolol, liver sizes increased by 100% or more while 86% of burned children receiving propranolol showed a decrease or no change in liver size over the same period of time after injury. Gene expression patterns of adipose tissue after propranolol treatment showed that all of the identified genes related to lipid metabolism were down-regulated.
Data reported here support the hypothesis that beta-adrenergic blockade can reduce delivery of fatty acids to the liver and hepatic congestion commonly found in severely burned children by inhibiting lipolysis and reducing hepatic blood flow.
The purpose of this study was to identify the effect of early cessation of 17-alpha-hydroxyprogesterone caproate (17P) on the incidence of spontaneous recurrent preterm delivery (PTD).
Retrospective analysis of data from women who were enrolled for outpatient 17P administration between January 2004 and May 2006 included women with previous PTD and current singleton pregnancy who were beginning weekly 17P injections (250 mg intramuscularly) at 16-20.9 weeks. The study group was comprised of patients who were electively terminating 17P at <32.0 weeks and who delivered >10 days from the last injection. The control group consisted of patients who received weekly 17P injections until PTD or 36.9 weeks of gestation. The primary study outcome was the rate of recurrent spontaneous PTD.
Study group patients were significantly more likely to have spontaneous recurrent PTD at <37 weeks of gestation (48.1% vs 33.3%; P = .011), at <35 weeks of gestation (30.9% vs 14.0%; P < .001), and at <32 weeks of gestation (16.0% vs 7.0%; P = .020).
Early cessation of 17P treatment is associated with an increased risk for spontaneous recurrent PTD.
A 45-year-old Japanese man with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (AF) developed acute anteroseptal myocardial infarction (MI). He had used 1% topical minoxidil (RiUP) once a day for 4 months before the onset of MI for treatment of baldness. Coronary angiography demonstrated severe stenosis at the proximal portion of the left anterior descending coronary artery with a tilling defect. Electrocardiographic monitoring revealed paroxysmal AF and sinus bradycardia with sinus arrests, suggestive of sick sinus syndrome. Topical minoxidil is now widely used for the treatment of male pattern baldness. Although it may be difficult to relate topical use of minoxidil to myocardial ischemia, a greater awareness of its toxicity will be necessary, and patients with cardiovascular disorders should be excluded from the therapy.
