Bisphenol A (BPA) is used on a large scale in the manufacture of polycarbonate plastics. BPA has been shown to bind weakly to both estrogen receptor (ER)alpha and ERbeta, and to transactivate reporter genes in vitro. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether exposure of rats to BPA during pre- and postnatal development affects estrogen-mediated end points related to pubertal development and reproductive functions. BPA was administered to pregnant Crl:CD BR Sprague-Dawley rats by gavage at 0, 3.2, 32, or 320 mg/kg/day from gestation day (GD) 11 through postnatal day (PND) 20. Diethylstilbestrol (DES) at 15 microg/kg/day was used as a reference chemical with known estrogenic effects. Female pubertal development was not affected by indirect BPA exposure of the offspring at any of the dose levels. Treatment with this chemical also did not produce detectable effects on the volume of the sexually dimorphic nucleus of the preoptic area (SDN-POA), estrous cyclicity, sexual behavior, or male reproductive organ weights of F(1) offspring. However, DES at 15 microg/kg/day increased the volume of the SDN-POA of female offspring and affected their normal estrous cyclicity following puberty. In this study, pre- and postnatal exposure of rats to BPA at 3.2, 32, or 320 mg/kg/day from GD 11 through PND 20 did not have any apparent adverse effects on female rat pubertal development and reproductive functions.
Animals recovered from acute renal failure are resistant to subsequent insult. We investigated whether rats recovered from mild proximal tubule (PT) injury without renal dysfunction (subclinical renal damage) acquire the same resistance. Rats 14 days after recovering from subclinical renal damage, which was induced by 0.2 mg/kg of uranyl acetate (UA) (sub-toxic dose), were rechallenged with 4 mg/kg of UA (nephrotoxic dose). Fate of PT cells and renal function were examined in response to nephrotoxic dose of UA. All divided cells after sub-toxic dose of UA insult were labeled with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) for 14 days then the number of PT cells with or without BrdU-labeling was counted following nephrotoxic dose of UA insult. Rats recovered from subclinical renal damage gained resistance to nephrotoxic dose of UA with reduced renal dysfunction, less severity of peak damage (necrotic and TUNEL+ apoptotic cells) and accelerated PT cell proliferation, but with earlier peak of PT damage. The decrease in number of PT cells in the early phase of rechallenge injury with nephrotoxic UA was more in rats pretreated with sub-toxic dose of UA than vehicle pretreated rats. The exaggerated loss of PT cells was mainly caused by the exaggerated loss of BrdU+ divided cells. In contrast, accelerated cell proliferation in rats recovered from sub-toxic dose of UA was observed mainly in BrdU- non-divided cells. The findings suggest that rats recovered from subclinical renal damage showed partial acquired resistance to nephrotoxic insult. Accelerated recovery with increased proliferative activity of non-divided PT cells after subclinical renal damage may mainly contribute to acquired resistance.
It has been recently shown that acute acetaminophen toxicity results in endoplasmic reticulum redox stress and an increase in cells with apoptotic phenotype in liver. Since activation of effector caspases was absent, the relevance of caspase-independent mechanisms in acetaminophen-induced programmed cell death was investigated. BGP-15, a drug with known protective actions in conditions involving redox imbalance, has been co-administered with a single sublethal dose of acetaminophen. Proapoptotic events and outcome of the injury were investigated. ER redox alterations and early ER-stress-related signaling events induced by acetaminophen, such as ER glutathione depletion, phosphorylation of eIF2alpha and JNK and induction of the transcription factor GADD153, were not counteracted by co-treatment with BGP-15. However, BGP-15 prevented AIF mitochondria-to-nucleus translocation and mitochondrial depolarization. BGP-15 co-treatment attenuated the rate of acetaminophen-induced cell death as assessed by apoptotic index and enzyme serum release. These results reaffirm that acute acetaminophen toxicity involves oxidative stress-induced caspase-independent cell death. In addition, pharmacological inhibition of AIF translocation may effectively protect against or at least delay acetaminophen-induced programmed cell death.
The present study was aimed to investigate whether α-tocopherol could protect the chromium (Cr) VI-induced oxidative stress in female reproductive system of rats and to explore the underlying mechanisms of the same. A total of 24 Wistar adult female rats were equally divided into four groups. Group 1 served as control, while groups 2 and 3 were administered K2Cr2O7 (10 mg/kg b.wt. s.c. single dose). In addition to Cr, group 3 also received α-tocopherol @ 125 mg/kg daily by oral gavage for 14 days. Group 4 was maintained as α-tocopherol control (dose as above). Body weights were recorded at the beginning and at the end of experiment. Further, the rats were observed for occurrence of estrus cycle. At the end of 14 days, blood samples were drawn for sero-biochemical analysis. Subsequently, all the rats were sacrificed to collect uterus along with ovaries for assay of tissue peroxidation, anti-oxidant and functional markers, and histopathology. Administration of chromium (Cr) VI to rats revealed a significant (P < 0.05) accumulation of cholesterol and a prolonged diestrus phase leading to impaired fertility in rats. Administration of chromium (Cr) VI significantly (P < 0.05) reduced the antioxidant markers such as superoxide dismutase (SOD) and reduced glutathione (GSH), along with significant (P < 0.05) increase in peroxidation markers such as malondialdehyde and protein carbonyls in ovaries. The functional marker in serum such as total protein was decreased, whereas other functional markers viz alanine transaminase (ALT), blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and creatinine were increased. Prominent pathological changes were observed in the uterus and ovaries of Cr-treated group. Co-treatment with α-tocopherol significantly (P < 0.05) reversed the (Cr) VI induced changes.
Epidemiological evidence indicated that residents, especially cigarette smokers, in arseniasis areas had significantly higher lung cancer risk than those living in non-arseniasis areas. Thus an interaction between arsenite and cigarette smoking in lung carcinogenesis was suspected. In the present study, we investigated the interactions of a tobacco-specific carcinogen 4- (methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (nicotine-derived nitrosamine ketone, NNK) and arsenite on lung cell transformation. BEAS-2B, an immortalized human lung epithelial cell line, was selected to test the centrosomal abnormalities and colony formation by NNK and arsenite. We found that NNK, alone, could enhance BEAS-2B cell growth at 1-5 microM. Under NNK exposure, arsenite was able to increase centrosomal abnormality as compared with NNK or arsenite treatment alone. NNK treatment could also reduce arsenite-induced G2/M cell cycle arrest and apoptosis, these cellular effects were found to be correlated with p53 dysfunction. Increased anchorage-independent growth (colony formation) of BEAS-2B cells cotreated with NNK and arsenite was also observed in soft agar. Our present investigation demonstrated that NNK could provide a p53 compromised status. Arsenite would act specifically on this p53 compromised status to induce centrosomal abnormality and colony formation. These findings provided strong evidence on the carcinogenic promotional role of arsenite under tobacco-specific carcinogen co-exposure.
Chickens given 15 to 45 ppm dietary corticosterone 1 day prior to and 5 days following subcutaneous administration of 1 mg/kg 0,0-diisopropyl phosphorofluoridate (DFP) were not protected from either clinical delayed neuropathy, depression of neurotoxic esterase activity or advanced degenerative peripheral nerve myelinated fiber damage.
We report a case of borderline tuberculoid leprosy complicated by a median nerve abscess, acute renal failure secondary to rifampicin-induced haemolysis and duodenal ulceration secondary to steroid use. Rifampicin induced hameolysis is a rare and probably under-reported complication of leprosy multi-drug therapy. It should be considered when patients complain of flu-like symptoms after taking their monthly rifampicin.
Two cases of torsades de pointes associated with cisapride are presented, both in association with concomitant drug therapy that inhibits cisapride biotransformation. In one case, plasma cisapride was elevated days after the event, strongly supporting a role for accumulation of the drug in causing the arrhythmia. It is emphasized that these adverse drug reactions are not idiosyncratic, but rather are predictable based on an understanding of the underlying mechanisms.
Although lisinopril and enalapril are equipotent angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors lisinopril has been reported to produce greater inhibition of plasma ACE 24 hours after single doses. This study compared the antihypertensive effects of once daily 10mg doses of the drugs using a randomised, double-blind, two period cross-over design with ambulatory blood pressure monitoring. Lisinopril lowered mean 24 hour systolic blood pressure significantly more than enalapril after 4 weeks of treatment (14/7 +/- 2/1mmHg & 9/6 +/- 2/1mmHg, respectively, adjusted SBP difference 4.8mmHg, P < 0.01). This difference was confined to the second 12 hours of the daily dosage interval (adjusted SBP difference 13-24 hours after dosing 9.9mmHg, P < 0.001). The diastolic pressure showed a similar trend but this was not statistically significant. The side effects of each agent were minor. We conclude that chronic, once daily therapy with 10mg of lisinopril reduces systolic blood pressure more effectively than an equal dose of enalapril due to its greater effect in the latter half of the 24 hour dosage interval.
Prenatal exposure to nicotine may lead to hyperactivity. To evaluate possible involvement of central nicotinic receptors in this condition, pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were implanted with osmotic minipumps to receive nicotine (6 mg/kg/day) or saline throughout gestation. A total of 222 pups (118 males and 104 females) from 24 dams were measured for locomotor activity. Male and female hyperactive and nonhyperactive offspring from each treatment group were selected and analyzed for nicotinic receptor concentrations in various brain regions. Hyperactive male offspring that were prenatally exposed to nicotine exhibited a significant increase in the cortical receptor densities without a change in binding affinity. Hyperactive offspring of saline-treated dams did not show an increase in cortical nicotinic receptors. These results suggest that hyperactive male offspring of nicotine-exposed dams are also susceptible to neurochemical effects of intrauterine nicotine exposure.
Although the transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4) has been implicated in the process of osmomechanical transduction, it appears to make little contribution to the normal somatosensory detection of mechanical stimuli. However, evidence suggests that it may play an important role in mechanical hyperalgesia. In the present study, we examined the common requirement for TRPV4 in mechanical hyperalgesia associated with diverse pain models and investigated whether the very close association observed between TRPV4 and mechanical hyperalgesia, regardless of etiology, reflects a close functional connection of TRPV4 with other molecules implicated in mechanical transduction. In models of painful peripheral neuropathy associated with vincristine chemotherapy, alcoholism, diabetes, and human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome therapy, mechanical hyperalgesia was markedly reduced by spinal intrathecal administration of oligodeoxynucleotides antisense to TRPV4. Similarly, mechanical hyperalgesia induced by paclitaxel, vincristine, or diabetes was strongly reduced in TRPV4 knock-out mice. We also show that alpha2beta1 integrin and Src tyrosine kinase, which have been implicated in mechanical transduction, are important for the development of mechanical hyperalgesia, and that their contribution requires TRPV4. Furthermore, we establish a direct interaction between TRPV4, alpha2 integrin, and the Src tyrosine kinase Lyn in sensory neurons. We suggest that TRPV4 plays a role in mechanotransduction, as a component of a molecular complex that functions only in the setting of inflammation or nerve injury.
Although the cannabinoid agonists R-(+)-(2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-[(4-morpholinyl)methyl]pyrol[1,2,3-de]-1,4-benzoxazin-6-yl)-(1-naphthalenyl) methanone mesylate [WIN 55,212-2 (WIN)] and (R,S)-3-(2-iodo-5-nitrobenzoyl)-1-(1-methyl-2-piperidinylmethyl)-1H-indole (AM1241) exert peripheral antihyperalgesia in inflammatory pain models, the mechanism for cannabinoid-induced inhibition of nociceptive sensory neurons has not been fully studied. Because TRPV1 and TRPA1 channels play important roles in controlling hyperalgesia in inflammatory pain models, we investigated their modulation by WIN and AM1241. The applications of WIN (>5 microM) and AM1241 (>30 microM) inhibit responses of sensory neurons to capsaicin and mustard oil. To determine potential mechanisms for the inhibition, we evaluated cannabinoid effects on nociceptors. WIN and AM1241 excite sensory neurons in a concentration-dependent manner via a nonselective Ca2+-permeable channel. The expression of TRP channels in CHO cells demonstrates that both WIN and AM1241 activate TRPA1 and, by doing so, attenuate capsaicin and mustard oil responses. Using TRPA1-specific small interfering RNA or TRPA1-deficient mice, we show that the TRPA1 channel is a sole target through which WIN and mustard oil activate sensory neurons. In contrast, AM1241 activation of sensory neurons is mediated by TRPA1 and an unknown channel. The knockdown of TRPA1 activity in neurons completely eliminates the desensitizing effects of WIN and AM1241 on capsaicin-activated currents. Furthermore, the WIN- or AM1241-induced inhibition of capsaicin-evoked nocifensive behavior via peripheral actions is reversed in TRPA1 null-mutant mice. Together, this study demonstrates that certain cannabinoids exert their peripheral antinocifensive actions via activation of the TRPA1 channel on sensory neurons.
Khat is a plant whose young shoots and leaves are habitually used in Eastern Africa and the Arabian Peninsula as a drug of recreation. Although it is used without any control in these regions, it contains two controlled substances, cathinone (schedule I) which is present in fresh khat and cathine (schedule VI) which is a degradation product of cathinone abundant in old khat.
To determine the effect of khat on locomotor behaviour and seizures in rats.
Experimental study.
University of Nairobi.
Adult male rats in groups of six were given fresh khat, old khat, methylphenidate and saline at varying doses and observed over three hours.
Fresh khat at low doses and old khat at high doses stimulated locomotor activity. High doses of fresh and old khat induced stereotype behaviour and seizures.
The results show that khat stimulates locomotor and stereotypic behavioural activity and can induce seizures; results similar to those observed with amphetamine analogs.
Metallothionein (MT) is a low-molecular-weight, sulfhydryl-rich, metal-binding protein that can protect against the toxicity of cadmium, mercury, and copper. However, the role of MT in arsenic (As)-induced toxicity is less certain. To better define the ability of MT to modify As toxicity, MT-I/II knockout (MT-null) mice and the corresponding wild-type mice (WT) were exposed to arsenite [As(III)] or arsenate [As(V)] either through the drinking water for 48 weeks, or through repeated sc injections (5 days/week) for 15 weeks. Chronic As exposure increased tissue MT concentrations (2-5-fold) in the WT but not in MT-null mice. Arsenic by both routes produced damage to the liver (fatty infiltration, inflammation, and focal necrosis) and kidney (tubular cell vacuolization, inflammatory cell infiltration, and interstitial fibrosis) in both MT-null and WT mice. However, in MT-null mice, the pathological lesions were more frequent and severe when compared to WT mice. This was confirmed biochemically, in that, at the higher oral doses of As, blood urea nitrogen (BUN) levels were increased more in MT-null mice (60%) than in WT mice (30%). Chronic As exposures produced 2-10 fold elevation of serum interleukin-1beta, interleukin-6, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha levels, with greater increases seen by repeated injections than by oral exposure, and again, MT-null mice had higher serum cytokines than WT mice after As exposure. Repeated As injections also decreased hepatic glutathione (GSH) by 35%, but GSH-peroxidase and GSH-reductase were minimally affected. MT-null mice were more sensitive than WT mice to the effect of GSH depletion by As(V). Hepatic caspase-3 activity was increased (2-3-fold) in both WT and MT-null mice, indicative of apoptotic cell death. In summary, chronic inorganic As exposure produced injuries to multiple organs, and MT-null mice are generally more susceptible than WT mice to As-induced toxicity regardless of route of exposure, suggesting that MT could be a cellular factor in protecting against chronic As toxicity.
Mean arterial pressure (MAP) decreased by 10, 20, 40, and 50% of its baseline value in six anesthetized baboons with the administration of increasing concentrations of isoflurane. Mean arterial pressure, right atrial pressure, pulmonary artery pressures, and cardiac output were measured at each decrement in arterial pressure, and after the withdrawal of the isoflurane. At the same times, cerebral blood flow, the cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen, and the cerebral metabolic rate for glucose were determined. Cerebrovascular reactivity was assessed before, during, and after the administration of isoflurane, and morphologic evidence of ischemic cell change was sought at the end of the investigation. Isoflurane produced dose-related decreases in systemic vascular resistance and MAP; heart rate, cardiac output, and stroke volume did not change significantly. Although cerebral metabolism was depressed in a dose-related manner, the response of the cerebral blood flow (CBF) was biphasic. At low isoflurane concentrations, CBF decreased significantly and then increased to reach baseline values at the highest concentration. Cerebrovascular reactivity was intact at baseline and at the 20% decrement in MAP; it was impaired at the 50% decrease in MAP and when studied 100 min after the withdrawal of isoflurane. There was no morphologic evidence of ischemic cell damage in any animal.
We report a mouse model of multiple osteochondromas (MO), an autosomal dominant disease in humans, also known as multiple hereditary exostoses (MHE or HME) and characterized by the formation of cartilage-capped osseous growths projecting from the metaphyses of endochondral bones. The pathogenesis of these osteochondromas has remained unclear. Mice heterozygous for Ext1 or Ext2, modeling the human genotypes that cause MO, occasionally develop solitary osteochondroma-like structures on ribs [Lin et al. (2000) Dev Biol 224(2):299-311; Stickens et al. (2005) Development 132(22):5055-5068]. Rather than model the germ-line genotype, we modeled the chimeric tissue genotype of somatic loss of heterozygosity (LOH), by conditionally inactivating Ext1 via head-to-head loxP sites and temporally controlled Cre-recombinase in chondrocytes. These mice faithfully recapitulate the human phenotype of multiple metaphyseal osteochondromas. We also confirm homozygous disruption of Ext1 in osteochondroma chondrocytes and their origin in proliferating physeal chondrocytes. These results explain prior modeling failures with the necessity for somatic LOH in a developmentally regulated cell type.
Acetaminophen intoxication results in hepatotoxicity associated with increased serum concentrations of hepatocellular leakage enzymes such as aspartate aminotransferase, lactate dehydrogenase, and alanine aminotransferase, centrilobular degeneration and necrosis, and activation of Kupffer cells. Recombinant human Interleukin-11 (rhIL-11) downregulates the production of proinflammatory mediators from activated macrophages and has direct effects on hepatocyte gene expression. Based on these biological activities of rhIL-11, the effect of pretreatment with rhIL-11 in a murine model of acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity was examined. Administration of 500 microg/kg acetaminophen to B6C3F1 mice resulted in progressive hepatotoxicity as demonstrated by elevated serum concentrations of hepatocellular leakage enzymes and TNFalpha and histopathology. Pretreatment with 250 or 500 microg/kg of subcutaneously administered rhIL-11 2 hours before acetaminophen administration reduced serum concentrations of hepatocellular leakage enzymes and TNFalpha by 40-50%. This was associated with a statistically significant decrease in mean severity score for centrilobular hemorrhage and necrosis from grade 3 to grade 2 for rhIL-11-treated animals compared to vehicle. These results indicate that treatment with rhIL-11 has a protective effect in a model of acetaminophen-induced liver damage.
Necrosis of the penis glans is commonly described after circumcision or strangulation. We report the case of a patient, opioid abuser, who presented an isolated glans necrosis after an injection of buprenorphin. The buprenorphin (Subutex) is a sublingual partial mu-opioid agonist used for the treatment of heroin dependance. Its intravenous or subcutaneous abuse is associated with local infection. The patient require a surgical intervention. After the failure of a mucosal graft, a soft skin graft was done.
To characterize genetic alterations occurring in renal tumorigenesis, EHEN-induced renal cell tumors were examined using restriction landmark genomic scanning (RLGS) analysis, an electrophoretic separation technique that detects gene amplifications and deletions. Comparison of DNAs from tumor against those from corresponding nontumorous kidney and/or EHEN-treated kidney without development of renal tumors yielded specific alterations in terms of both amplified and reduced DNA spots. Two amplified spots were detected only in renal cell tumors and an additional four spots were frequent in EHEN-treated kidneys. One reduced spot was common to all tumor samples, and another was frequently detected in the tumors analyzed but not in EHEN-treated kidneys. A subset of the altered spots thus appeared to be specific for EHEN-induced renal tumorigenesis.
Calcium antagonists are potent dilators of resistance vessels but do not dilate capacitance vessels. CD832 is a novel dihydropyridine calcium antagonist which has a nitrate moiety in its chemical structure. The authors examined the effects of CD832 on venous capacitance in anesthetized rats. Venous capacitance was assessed by measuring mean circulatory filling pressure (MCFP) at three levels of blood volume. Nitroglycerin decreased and phenylephrine increased MCFP. CD832 did not alter MCFP. After treatment with hexamethonium to prevent reflex venoconstriction, CD832 significantly decreased MCFP but nicardipine (another dihydropyridine calcium antagonist) did not. The magnitude of hypotension caused by CD832 and nicardipine was comparable. The results suggest that CD832 is a unique calcium antagonist which has a venodilator effect.
We report the case of factitiously induced aplastic anemia by the ingestion of busulfan, a bifunctional alkylating chemotherapeutic agent used in the treatment of chronic myelogenous leukemia. The medical consequences and financial costs of this illness are reported. The reader will gain an understanding of the relevant clues to the diagnosis of a factitious hematologic illness, the psychodynamic issues present in this case and the legal, ethical and countertransferential issues raised by the case.
A single case review including medical and billing records, patient and staff interviews and literature review.
The covert ingestion of busulfan by this patient resulted in life-threatening bone marrow suppression, bilateral aseptic hip necrosis, transfusion-dependent thrombocytopenia and a chronic pain syndrome. Her treatment was complicated by noncompliance with prescribed treatments and polymicrobial sepsis possibly secondary to the self-injection of feces into her central line. To date, the total cost of care for the treatment of this patient's medical complications secondary to her ingestion of busulfan exceeds $1,100,000.00.
This case underscores the importance of the early recognition by the primary care physician of the possibility of a factitious etiology of hematologic abnormalities such as aplastic anemia due to the ingestion of bone marrow ablative medications. The index of suspicion is increased when the patient is a young health care provider, usually female, with atypical pancytopenia and an unusual disease course and response to treatment.
Preweanling, postadolescent, and post-middle-aged CBA/J mice received injections of kanamycin sulfate for two weeks, followed by electrocochleographic (isoelectric auditory nerve-evoked potential thresholds from 2,000 to 64,000 Hz) and histocochleographic (hair cell counts from cochlea whole-mount preparations) analysis. The preweanling mice had structural and functional losses from all portions of the cochlea, while the postadolescent mice had no structural and minimal functional loss. The oldest mice had basal inner and outer hair cell loss and elevated high frequency thresholds. This is an experimental validation of the clinical observation that infants are most susceptible to aminoglycosidic ototoxicity. It also support the suspicion that older persons are also susceptible to ototoxicity and provides the first animal model for experimentally investigating these age-dependent effects.
Sixty-four new cases of childhood epilepsy were randomly assigned to either carbamazepine, phenytoin or sodium valproate, and were assessed with behavioural measures before medication and after one and six months of treatment. Those treated with carbamazepine and sodium valproate had minor behavioural difficulties after a month of treatment, but these did not persist. Mothers of the epileptic children had unusually high levels of anxiety and depression two months, on average, after epilepsy was diagnosed.
Diazinon is an organophosphate pesticide that is still heavily used in agriculture, home gardening, and indoor pest control in Japan. The present study investigated the effect of neonatal exposure to diazinon on hippocampus-dependent novel object recognition test performance and the expression of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor and its signal transduction pathway-related genes in the hippocampi of young adult and adult mice. Male offspring of C3H/HeN mice were subcutaneously treated with 0, 0.5, or 5 mg/kg of diazinon for 4 consecutive days beginning on postnatal day (PND) 8. Beginning on PND 46 or PND 81, a novel object recognition test was performed on 4 consecutive days. The hippocampi were collected on PND 50 or PND 85 after the completion of the novel object recognition test, and the expression levels of neurotrophins and the NMDA receptor and its signal transduction pathway-related genes were examined using real-time RT-PCR. Diazinon-injected mice exhibited a poor ability to discriminate between novel and familiar objects during both the PND 49 and the PND 84 tests. The NMDA receptor subunits NR1 and NR2B and the related protein kinase calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase (CaMK)-IV and the transcription factor cyclic AMP responsive element binding protein (CREB)-1 mRNA levels were reduced in the PND 50 mice. However, no significant changes in the expressions of the NMDA subunits and their signal transduction molecules were observed in the hippocampi of the PND 85 mice. The expression level of nerve growth factor mRNA was significantly reduced in the PND 50 or 85 mice. These results indicate that neonatal diazinon exposure impaired the hippocampus-dependent novel object recognition ability, accompanied by a modulation in the expressions of the NMDA receptor and neurotrophin in young adult and adult mice.
