We report a case of acute oculogyric crisis due to prochlorperazine administration in a young black woman with a concomitant viral infection. Neuroleptic medications are the most common cause of drug-induced acute dystonic reactions such as oculogyric crisis. Prochlorperazine is an antiemetic agent with a phenothiazine-type chemical structure and is known to cause dystonic reactions. Drug-induced acute dystonic reactions are most common in young adults and in men. Viral infections may also predispose patients to these adverse reactions. Caution is warranted when this drug is used in patients who have other risk factors for an acute dystonic reaction.
Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is a treatment-refractory subtype of human cancer arising from stratified epithelium of the skin, lung, esophagus, oropharynx, and other tissues. A unifying feature of SCC is high-level expression of the p53-related protein p63 (TP63) in 80% of cases. The major protein isoform of p63 expressed in SCC is ΔNp63α, an N-terminally truncated form which functions as a key SCC cell survival factor by mechanisms that are unclear. In this study, we show that ΔNp63α associates with histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) and HDAC2 to form an active transcriptional repressor complex that can be targeted to therapeutic advantage. Repression of proapoptotic Bcl-2 family member genes including p53 upregulated modulator of apoptosis (PUMA) by p63/HDAC is required for survival of SCC cells. Cisplatin chemotherapy, a mainstay of SCC treatment, promotes dissociation of p63 and HDAC from the PUMA promoter, leading to increased histone acetylation, PUMA activation, and apoptosis. These effects are recapitulated upon targeting the p63/HDAC complex selectively with class I/II HDAC inhibitors using both in vitro and in vivo models. Sensitivity to HDAC inhibition is directly correlated with p63 expression and is abrogated in tumor cells that overexpress endogenous Bcl-2. Together, our results elucidate a mechanism of p63-mediated transcriptional repression and they identify the ΔNp63α/HDAC complex as an essential tumor maintenance factor in SCC. In addition, our findings offer a rationale to apply HDAC inhibitors for SCC treatment.
To examine whether cilostazol, a selective phosphodiesterase type III inhibitor, protects rat articular chondrocytes against nitric oxide (NO)-induced apoptosis and prevents cartilage destruction in mono-iodoacetate-induced osteoarthritis (OA) in a rat model in which inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) is expressed.
The NO donor sodium nitroprusside was administered to rat articular chondrocytes that had been pretreated with cilostazol. Induction of apoptosis was evaluated by DNA electrophoresis and pulsed-field gel electrophoresis. The expression level and the subcellular location of apoptosis-associated factors were examined by Western blot analysis and confocal microscopy, respectively. Protein kinase CK2 (PKCK2) activity was also assayed. To examine whether orally administered cilostazol prevents cartilage destruction in vivo, cartilage samples obtained from rats with experimentally induced OA were subjected to hematoxylin and eosin, Safranin O, and TUNEL staining and immunohistochemical analysis of iNOS expression.
Cilostazol prevented NO-induced reduction in viability, in a dose-dependent manner. It also prevented the up-regulation of phosphorylated p53 and p38, the down-regulation of heme oxygenase 1, the subcellular translocation of apoptosis-inducing factor and cytochrome c, and the activation of caspases 3, 7, and 8 induced by NO treatment, indicating that cilostazol prevented NO-induced cell death by blocking apoptosis. In addition, cilostazol prevented NO-induced translocation of cleaved Bid onto mitochondria, and caused phosphorylated Bid to accumulate in the nucleus and cytosol. Cilostazol prevented the down-regulation of PKCK2 and the reduction in PKCK2 activity induced by NO, indicating that its apoptosis-preventing activity was mediated via PKCK2. It also prevented chondrocyte apoptosis and cartilage destruction in a rat model of experimentally induced OA.
Our findings indicate that cilostazol prevents NO-induced apoptosis of chondrocytes via PKCK2 in vitro and prevents cartilage destruction in a rat model of OA.
Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) is a lipid mediator with multiple biological actions. We have reported that LPA stimulates hepatic stellate cell proliferation and inhibits DNA synthesis in hepatocytes, suggesting that LPA might play some role in the liver. We have found that plasma LPA level and serum autotaxin (ATX) activity were increased in patients with chronic hepatitis C. However, the clinical significance of LPA and its synthetic enzyme, autotaxin (ATX), is still unclear. To determine whether the increase of plasma LPA level and serum ATX activity might be found generally in liver injury, we examined the possible modulation of them in the blood in rats with various liver injuries. Plasma LPA level and serum ATX activity were increased in carbon tetrachloride-induced liver fibrosis correlatively with fibrosis grade, in dimethylnitrosamine-induced acute liver injury correlatively with serum alanine aminotransferase level or in 70% hepatectomy as early as 3 h after the operation. Plasma LPA level was correlated with serum ATX activity in rats with chronic and acute liver injury. ATX mRNA in the liver was not altered in carbon tetrachloride-induced liver fibrosis. Plasma LPA level and serum ATX activity are increased in various liver injuries in relation to their severity. Whether increased ATX and LPA in the blood in liver injury is simply a result or also a cause of the injury should be further clarified.
Fibrates are regarded as drugs of choice in hypertriglyceridemia (HTG). Downregulation of apolipoprotein (apo) C-III gene expression and upregulation of lipoprotein lipase (LPL) gene expression have been suggested to explain the hypolipidemic action of fibrates. This study was designed to study the effects of bezafibrate therapy on very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) susceptibility to lipolysis, VLDL binding to the low density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor and postheparin LPL activities in patients with HTG. VLDL lipolysis was studied with heparan sulfate proteoglycan-bound LPL. Binding affinity of VLDL to the LDL receptor was determined in J774 cells with 125I-labeled control LDL. Eighteen HTG patients were randomized to receive, in a double-blind placebo-controlled cross-over fashion, 400 mg bezafibrate once daily for 6 weeks. In response to bezafibrate therapy, plasma triglyceride and apoC-III levels decreased by 69 and 42%, respectively. HTG VLDL was lipolyzed less efficiently compared to control VLDL, and lipolysis did not improve by bezafibrate therapy. VLDL binding affinity to the LDL receptor was comparable between the control group and HTG group, and did not change upon bezafibrate therapy. However, the post-heparin LPL activity in the HTG patients increased from 153 to 192 U/l (P = 0.025). A strong inverse relation was observed between the change in LPL activities and the change in triglyceride levels (r = -0.62, P = 0.006). In conclusion, the hypolipidemic action of bezafibrate therapy in HTG may be attributed to increased LPL activity, whereas VLDL susceptibility to lipolysis and LDL receptor binding are not affected.
Intraluminal ureteral hematoma is a rare disease and only a few cases have been previously described. We report a case of intraluminal ureteral hematoma induced by anticoagulant therapy. A 65-year old man having the oral anticoagulant therapy for prevention of secondary thrombolism following atrial fibrillation was referred to us for gross hematuria. Ultrasound sonography (US) revealed right renal mild wide pelvis. Computed tomography (CT) showed the right ureteral submucosal hematoma. This ureteral hematoma penetrated the ureteral mucosa and caused macrohematuria. The patient had been anticoagulated on Warfarin with Bucolome for 18 days, so the prothrombin times (PT) was found to be excessively prolonged beyond the normal therapeutic range. The oral anticoagulation was stopped and intravenous Vitamin K2 was given, so PT was normalized. Though estimate hemorrhage quantity reached 1,200 ml, we had no blood transfusion. The hematoma was completely diminished 4 months later, no reccurence has been occurred. Bucolome has especially pharmacokinetic positive interaction to Warfarin, so we must check PT-INR frequently.
Myocardial ischemia is an important problem in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Stunning is an important mechanism in progressive dysfunction of the ischemic myocardium. In this report, the authors found prolonged myocardial stunning in a child with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy that was induced by dipyridamole stress on quantitative gated SPECT.
A 6-year-old boy with septal hypertrophy underwent rest and dipyridamole stress gated myocardial SPECT. Software was used to quantify automatically segmental perfusion and function at rest and after stress.
Perfusion imaging showed a reversible perfusion decrease in the hypertrophic septum. Cine-gated imaging of the septum showed dyskinesia and a severe abnormality of systolic thickening during the poststress period, whereas it showed nearly complete recovery at rest. Quantified regional perfusion and function indices also showed this perfusion decrease and myocardial dysfunction after dipyridamole stress.
In a child with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, myocardial stunning was induced by dipyridamole stress, in accordance with decreased perfusion reserve.
To investigate therapeutic effects of oral gabapentin therapy on superior oblique myokymia.
Observational case series with measurement of visual acuity and eye movements before, during, and after therapy.
Two adult patients with superior oblique myokymia, refractory to other therapies, were treated with gabapentin orally after informed consent was obtained. Eye movements were measured using the magnetic search coil technique.
Superior oblique myokymia completely resolved after starting gabapentin.
Gabapentin may be an effective treatment for superior oblique myokymia; a double-blind study seems justified.
Single-agent docetaxel (Taxotere) has been shown to be highly active in metastatic breast cancer, with an overall response rate of 47%, median time to progression of 4 months, and survival of 10 months when administered as second-line therapy. These data compare favorably with those reported for doxorubicin (Adriamycin), which has been considered the most active single agent in this setting. This nonblinded, multicenter, randomized phase III study compared the median time to progression, response rate, quality of life, toxicity, and survival after treatment with docetaxel or doxorubicin in patients with metastatic breast cancer in whom previous alkylating chemotherapy failed. Patients were randomized to receive an intravenous infusion of either docetaxel, 100 mg/m2, for 1 hour once every 3 weeks or doxorubicin, 75 mg/m2, for 15 to 20 minutes once every 3 weeks. This preliminary analysis presents data on 200 of 326 patients recruited. It was performed after the completion of patient accrual. The median time to progression was greater in the docetaxel group than in the doxorubicin group (29 vs 21 weeks, respectively; P = not significant). Overall response rates were higher with docetaxel (47% vs 27%), and fewer patients in the docetaxel group had progressive disease as their best overall response (10% vs 22%). Both regimens caused the same incidence and severity of neutropenia, yet patients treated with doxorubicin had a higher incidence of infection and febrile neutropenia. In addition, doxorubicin produced a higher incidence of grade 3 to 4 thrombocytopenia. Cardiac toxicity led to discontinuation in 7 patients and death in 2 patients in the doxorubicin group; fluid retention led to discontinuation in 1 patient in the docetaxel group. Based on this preliminary analysis, docetaxel was more active and safer than doxorubicin in patients with metastatic breast cancer in whom previous alkylating chemotherapy failed.
Mercurials may induce immune manifestations in susceptible individuals. Mercuric chloride (HgCl2) induced autoimmunity in the Brown Norway (BN) strain but an immuno-suppression in the Lewis strain with, however, autoreactive anti-class II T cells present in both strains. In the present study we looked at modifications of cytokine production by PCR and cytofluorometric analyses in normal BN and Lewis rat splenocytes, cultured with or without HgCl2. Unfractionated BN rat splenocytes and purified T cells exposed to HgCl2 expressed high levels of IL-4 mRNA. Increase in class II and CD23 molecule expression on B cells was partly inhibited by anti-IL-4 mAb showing that IL-4 was produced. By contrast, no overexpression of IL-4 mRNA could be seen in Lewis rats. Although an increase in class II molecule expression was observed suggesting that other T helper cell 2 cytokines were produced, there was also a concomitant decrease in CD23 molecule expression that was abrogated after addition of an anti-IFN-gamma mAb to the culture. IFN-gamma mRNA production was induced in unfractionated spleen cells and T cells from both strains after HgCl2 exposure. Altogether these findings demonstrate that HgCl2 has very early direct effects on cytokine production and that these effects differ depending on the strain. The early effect on IL-4 production observed on BN rat spleen cells and T cells may explain that the autoreactive anti-class II T cells that are found in HgCl2-injected BN rats have a Th2 phenotype.
Gentamicin (GM) is one of the most important of the aminoglycoside antibiotics used widely for the treatment of serious and life-threatening infections and whose clinical use is limited by its nephrotoxicity. As the pathogenesis of GM-induced renal dysfunction and injury involves reactive oxygen species, the polyphenolic constituents of soybean with antioxidant property may protect against GM-induced renal toxicity. We therefore tested this hypothesis using phenolic extract of soybean (PESB) on GM-induced nephrotoxicity rat model. Administration of GM (80 mg/kg, s.c.) for 12 days to rats induced marked renal failure, characterized by a significantly increased plasma creatinine, urea and Na(+) ions levels, with K(+) depletion. This was also associated with decreases in the activity of the renal antioxidant enzymes [superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione-S-transferase (GST)] measured and depletion of both blood and renal reduced glutathione (GSH) levels. The activities of membrane-bound glucose-6-phosphatase (G6Pase) and 5(1)-nucleotidase (5(1)-NTD) enzymes as well as gamma-glutamyltransferase (gamma-GT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) (enzymes that are located in the proximal tubule) were decreased. Renal histology examination further confirmed the damage to the kidney as it reveals severe necrosis of the proximal renal tubules with deposition of colloid casts. These alterations were ameliorated in rats pretreated with PESB. The decrease in the activities of SOD, CAT, GST as well as GSH depletion observed in GM-treated rats was prevented in the rats pretreated with PESB. The activities of gamma-GT, AST and G6Pase were also increased in the kidney. These protective effects were dose dependent except for G6Pase activity and GSH levels that were preserved only at 500 mg/kg dose of PESB, and 5'-NTD activity that was dose dependently decreased. Furthermore, the extent of tubular damage induced by GM was reduced in rats that also received PESB. The lower dose (500 mg/kg) of the extract, however, appeared to provide better histological protection. These results suggest that the PESB has protective effects on GM-mediated nephropathy and this may be related to the action of the antioxidant polyphenolic content of the soybean.
This study examined cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) cell lines and cutaneous lesions for the presence of Bcl-2 gene family members and found that the two apoptosis-inhibiting members Bcl-xL and Mcl-1 and the two apoptosis-supporting members Bad and Bax were expressed. However, Bad was at least partially inactivated by phosphorylation. In skin lesions, the translocation of Bad from the nucleus to the cytoplasm may reflect the Bad inactivation by phosphorylation identified in vivo. Bax is also ineffective, as the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug sulindac, whose cytotoxic effect is mediated by Bax, could not induce apoptosis in CTCL cell lines. The expression of Bcl-2, Bcl-xL, and Mcl-1 may therefore be sufficient to guarantee the survival of malignant CTCL cells. The Bcl-x, Mcl-1, Bad, and Bax proteins were also expressed in all CTCL skin lesions tested. In two patients from whom two biopsies from two different time points of the disease were available, a significant increase in Mcl-1 expression was found in the later-stage skin lesion. Overexpression of Mcl-1 and synthesis of non-functional Bax may be responsible for the resistance of CTCL cells to the anti-cancer drugs chlorambucil and sulindac.
To report hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine retinopathy and consider screening for drug toxicity.
Retrospective observational case series.
Review of clinical records, visual fields, fundus photographs, and fluorescein angiography of six patients from a retina referral practice.
All cases arose because of failure by physicians to avoid dosing above published safe levels. Five cases developed despite accepted ophthalmologic patterns of screening for toxicity. All cases developed parafoveal retinal pigment epithelial atrophic changes and paracentral scotomas to threshold visual field testing.
New cases of hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine toxicity continue to develop in a screening environment. Increased ophthalmologic attention to dosing, awareness of location and nature of early visual field defects, and traditional attention to presence or absence of maculopathy can reduce the incidence of this avoidable condition.
Elevated expression of cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 has been demonstrated in several human cancers. Whether COX-2 is up-regulated in areca quid (AQ) related oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is unknown and the potential of AQ ingredients to induce COX-2 expression has not been studied.
COX-2 expression was analyzed by immunohistochemistry and RT-PCR in oral tissues. The COX-2 mRNA and protein induction potential of AQ ingredients were analyzed by real-time RT-PCR and Western blotting in normal human oral keratinocyte (NHOK).
COX-2 protein expression was significantly higher (P < 0.01) in OSCC (n = 27) as compared to their adjacent non-cancerous matched tissue (NCMT). COX-2 protein was nearly undetectable in control normal oral mucosa. The level of COX-2 mRNA was markedly elevated in 63% (12/19) of OSCC compared to NCMT. Hydroxychavicol induced COX-2 mRNA and protein expression in NHOK.
COX-2 protein as well as mRNA expression were significantly enhanced in OSCC as compared to NCMT. Hydroxychavicol, a unique ingredient in AQ, induced COX-2 expression in NHOK, which highlighted early involvement of COX-2 in AQ-associated oral oncogenesis.
Fish consumption has been shown to be inversely associated with CHD, which may be due to n-3 fatty acids. The n-3 fatty acids, EPA and DHA, are naturally found only in marine sources. Dietary intakes of methylmercury from certain fish have been hypothesized to increase the risk of CHD.
To investigate the relationship between 30 d fish frequency consumption (assessed by FFQ), total blood Hg concentrations and risk markers of CHD in women aged 16-49 years participating in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 1999-2002.
Multiple linear regression analyses were used to test (i) the relationships between 30 d fish frequency consumption and five CHD risk markers, i.e. HDL cholesterol (HDL-C), LDL cholesterol, total cholesterol, TAG and C-reactive protein (CRP); and (ii) if total blood Hg attenuated any associations between fish consumption and CHD risk markers in non-pregnant, non-diabetic females aged 16-49 years.
Total 30 d fish frequency consumption was negatively associated with CRP (b = -0.10, 95 % CI -0.19, -0.02, P = 0.015) and positively associated with HDL-C (b = 1.40, 95 % CI 0.31, 2.50, P = 0.014). Adjustment for other risk factors did not significantly attenuate the associations. Despite the collinearity between fish and Hg, there is a protective association between fish intake and CHD risk factors.
The levels of DHA + EPA and other nutrients in fish may be adequate to offset the hypothesized risks of heart disease related to ingesting Hg from fish.
Astrocytes play an essential role in the central nervous system (CNS) homeostasis. They providing metabolic support and protecting against oxidative stress and glutamatergic excitotoxicity. Glutamate uptake, an electrogenic function, is driven by cation gradients and the Na⁺-K⁺-Cl⁻ co-transporter (NKCC1) carries these ions into and out of the cell. Elevated concentrations of ammonia in the brain lead to cerebral dysfunction. Ammonia toxicity can be mediated by an excitotoxic mechanism, oxidative stress and ion discharged. Astrocytes also convert excess ammonia and glutamate into glutamine, via glutamine synthetase (GS). Lipoic acid (LA) is a modulator of the cellular redox status potentially beneficial in neurodegenerative diseases. In this study, we investigated the effect of LA on glial parameters, in C6 cells exposed to ammonia. Ammonia increased S100B secretion and decreased glutamate uptake, GS activity and glutathione (GSH) content. LA was able to prevent these effects. LA exerts its protective effect on glutamate uptake and S100B secretion via mechanisms dependent of NKCC1 and PKC. These findings show that LA is able to modulate glial function impairments by ammonia in vitro, indicating a potential therapeutic agent to improve glutamatergic metabolism and oxidative stress against hyperammonemia.
An animal model of leukotriene B4- (LTB4) induced neutropenia has been developed to evaluate LTB4 receptor antagonists in vivo. LTB4, a potent chemotactic inflammatory mediator, when administered intravenously, induces a profound, rapid, and transient redistribution of blood neutrophils from the circulating pool to the marginated pool. This phenomenon is applied in the neutropenia model whereby circulating blood neutrophil counts prior to and after intravenous infusion of LTB4 are compared. Kinetics of LTB4-induced neutrophil responses are determined through the use of a Technicon H*1 automated blood cell analyzer. LTB4 receptor antagonists are identified by inhibition of LTB4-induced neutropenia. Standard antiinflammatory compounds including BW-755C, Abbott A-64077 (zileuton), dexamethasone-21-acetate, indomethacin, and naproxen did not affect LTB4-induced neutropenia. A potent LTB4 receptor antagonist, designated "RPR," inhibited LTB4-induced neutropenia following oral administration in a dose-dependent fashion.
Two new cyanogenic glycosides, linustatin and neolinustatin, were isolated from linseed oil meal. Each of the compounds was fed to rats in a corn-based diet at levels of 0.1 and 0.2%. At the 0.2% level, both substances gave significant protection against growth depression caused by 9 ppm selenium as sodium selenite. Both compounds also promoted a significant increase in liver and kidney weight over the selenium control animals. Linustatin and neolinustatin are closely related in structure to linamarin and lotaustralin and were found to be present in linseed oil meal at levels of 0.17 and 0.19%, respectively. Linamarin fed at the level of 0.2% also gave significant protection against growth depression and liver damage. A related cyanogenic glycoside, amygdalin, appeared to give a small but nonsignificant protective response. The isolation of the two new glycosides provides a probable explanation for the protective activity of linseed oil meal against selenium toxicity.
To evaluate the effect of the calcium channel blocker amlodipine on endothelial function in normotensive patients with coronary disease taking concomitant atorvastatin therapy.
Atorvastatin was titrated (10-80 mg/day) to maintain LDL-C<2.5 mmol/L and patients were randomized to receive amlodipine (5-10mg/day, n=64) or placebo (n=70) for 12 months. Brachial artery flow-mediated vasodilation (FMD) was assessed using vascular ultrasound. Inflammatory markers were also measured. At 12 months there was a significant decrease in mean low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) (4.4-2.1 mmol/L, P<0.0001), high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) (3.8-2.3mg/L, P<0.0001) and soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (sVCAM-1) (710-665 ng/mL, P<0.0001) for all patients, compared with baseline. Amlodipine was associated with a mean blood pressure reduction of 8/3 mm Hg (P<0.0001) whereas patients on placebo had no significant change. In the atorvastatin-placebo group, mean FMD increased (7.3-9.5%, P<0.05) with no change in nitroglycerin-mediated dilation. No further benefit on FMD or inflammatory markers was observed with the addition of amlodipine.
Intensive reduction of LDL-C with atorvastatin improves endothelium-dependent vasodilation and reduces markers of inflammation in patients with coronary disease. Amlodipine was not associated with a significant additional benefit on these variables.
Adenosine is an inhibitor of neuronal activity in the brain. The local release of adenosine from grafted cells was evaluated as an ex vivo gene therapy approach to suppress synchronous discharges and epileptic seizures. Fibroblasts were engineered to release adenosine by inactivating the adenosine-metabolizing enzymes adenosine kinase and adenosine deaminase. After encapsulation into semipermeable polymers, the cells were grafted into the brain ventricles of electrically kindled rats, a model of partial epilepsy. Grafted rats provided a nearly complete protection from behavioral seizures and a near-complete suppression of afterdischarges in electroencephalogram recordings, whereas the full tonic-clonic convulsions in control rats remained unaltered. Thus, the local release of adenosine resulting in adenosine concentrations <25 nM at the site of action is sufficient to suppress seizure activity and, therefore, provides a potential therapeutic principle for the treatment of drug-resistant partial epilepsies.
Nicotine, one of the thousands of chemicals in cigarette smoke has a highly debated effect on cell proliferation and tissue healing. Recent studies documented its pro-angiogenesis effects by stimulating endothelial cell alpha7-non-neronal nicotinic acetyl choline receptors (alpha7 N-nACHR). It is well known that individuals who smoke or have diabetes experience impaired wound healing although for different reasons. This review evaluates several current studies relating to nicotine's ability to mediate cellular activation, migration and angiogenesis in attempts to correlate these data with nicotine's ability to repair wounds in ischaemic tissue. While its beneficial effects are still under investigation, important findings regarding nicotine's acceleration of atherosclerosis, tumor angiogenesis, cell proliferation e and resistance to apoptosis put its systemic use into question. Based on the good and bad sides of nicotine, it is recommended to restrict its utility to local applications.
A total of sixty patients were trated with bromperidol first in open conditions (20 patients), then on a double blind basis (40 patients) with haloperidol as the reference substance. The open study lasted for four weeks; the drug was administrated in the form of 1 mg tablets. The daily dose (initial dose: 1 mg; mean dose at the end of the trial: 4.47 mg) was always administered in one single dose. Nineteen patients finished the trial, and in 18 cases the therapeutic result was considered very good to good. These results were confirmed by statistical analysis. Nine patients exhibited mild to moderate extrapyramidal concomitant symptoms; no other side effects were observed. The results of detailed laboratory tests and evaluations of various quantitative and qualitative tolerability parameters were not indicative of toxic effects. In the double blind study with haloperidol, both substances were found to be highly effective in the treatment of psychotic syndromes belonging predominantly to the schizophrenia group. Certain clues, including the onset of action, seem to be indicative of the superiority of bromperidol. No differences were observed with respect to side effects and general tolerability.
This case report presents the clinical history of a patient with elevated lipoprotein(a) and small size isoform, associated with mixed hyperlipaemia, which was probably familial combined hyperlipaemia. After premature myocardial infarction, the subject was treated with fibrates. Niacin was started after recurrence. One year ago, after another episode of acute coronary syndrome, rosuvastatin was added to niacin. The atherogenicity of this lipid disorder, along with the different options for therapy is discussed.
Perfluoroalkyl acids (PFAAs), specifically perfluorinated sulfonates and carboxylates, are synthetic substances known for their chemical stability, resistance to degradation, and potential to biomagnify in food chains. The toxicological and biological effects of PFAAs in avian species are not well characterized, although there is some evidence to suggest that they can impact neurodevelopment and hatching success. Our laboratory recently reported significant effects of perfluorohexane sulfonate (PFHxS) and perfluorohexanoate (PFHxA) on messenger RNA (mRNA) levels of thyroid hormone (TH)-responsive genes in chicken embryonic neuronal cells. In this study, we determined in ovo effects of PFHxS and PFHxA exposure (maximum dose = 38,000 and 9700 ng/g egg, respectively) on embryonic death, developmental endpoints, tissue accumulation, mRNA expression in liver and cerebral cortex, and plasma TH levels. Pipping success was reduced to 63% at the highest dose of PFHxS; no effects were observed for PFHxA. PFHxS exposure (38,000 ng/g) decreased tarsus length and embryo mass. PFHxS and PFHxA accumulated in the three tissue compartments analyzed as follows: yolk sac > liver > cerebral cortex. Type II and type III 5'-deiodinases (D2 and D3) and cytochrome P450 3A37 mRNA levels were induced in liver tissue of chicken embryos exposed to PFHxS, whereas D2, neurogranin (RC3), and octamer motif binding factor 1 mRNA levels were upregulated in cerebral cortex. Plasma TH levels were reduced in a concentration-dependent manner following PFHxS exposure; PFHxA had no effect. This in ovo study successfully validated previous in vitro results concerning the modulation of TH-responsive genes and identified adverse effects associated with TH homeostasis in response to PFHxS treatment.
Two randomised, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled clinical trials were conducted to assess the efficacy of sumatriptan tablets, 50mg and 100mg, for treatment during the mild-pain phase of a menstrually associated migraine among patients who typically experienced moderate to severe migraine preceded by an identifiable phase of mild pain. Subjects (n = 403 in Study 1 and n = 349 in Study 2) treated one menstrually associated migraine on an outpatient basis. The results demonstrate that sumatriptan tablets, 50 mg or 100 mg, were significantly more effective than placebo at conferring pain-free response 1 h and 2 h post-dose; migraine-free response (i.e. no pain and no associated symptoms) 2 h post-dose; returning patients to normal functioning 2 h post-dose; and conferring sustained freedom from pain from 2 through 24 h post-dose. Although the studies were not designed or statistically powered to show differences between the sumatriptan doses, a trend for slightly higher efficacy was observed for the 100-mg dose compared with the 50-mg dose on many measures. Both doses of sumatriptan were well-tolerated. The only adverse events reported in more than 2% of subjects in a treatment group were nausea, paresthesia, dizziness and malaise/fatigue, all of which were reported at incidences comparable to or slightly higher than those with placebo. Considered in the context of other findings, these data suggest that--with menstrually associated migraine as with non-menstrual migraine--optimal therapeutic benefit of sumatriptan tablets may be realised when they are administered during the mild-pain phase of an attack rather than delaying treatment until headache is moderate or severe.
