The development of animal bladder tumor models as a research tool for different modes of therapy has been widely evaluated. Recently these tumors have either spontaneously grown or have been propagated in inbred strains. Bladder tumors have also been chemically produced by N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl] formamide (FANFT) when orally administered over a long period of time. It has been further reported that these tumors have been inhibited by various chemotherapy regimens. The availability of an experimental bladder tumor model offers an opportunity to evaluate the effectiveness of a prescribed treatment. In our studies FANFT was noted to produce only from 33 to 40% bladder tumors in several experiments in an inbred strain of rats conducted over several years. Reproducible transplantability of these tumors was not demonstrable in the same inbred strain. In addition, treatment with mitomycin C an an effective chemotherapeutic agent was not detectable in part, since comparably the percentage of control bladder tumor growth was low. These findings of a three-year study should be carefully considered when evaluating recommendations for clinical adjuvant chemotherapy based on results obtained with FANFT.
The cysteinyl leukotrienes (LTC4, LTD4, and LTE4) have been shown to mediate airway obstruction evoked by several factors which trigger asthmatic reactions--for example, allergen and exercise. Accordingly, drugs which block the action or formation of these leukotrienes are being evaluated as a new treatment of asthma. Elevated production of leukotrienes has been reported in asthmatic subjects who are intolerant to aspirin and related nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. In this study the influence of the specific leukotriene receptor antagonist MK-0679 was tested on basal airway function in asthmatic patients with documented aspirin intolerance.
The eight subjects in the study had a mean baseline FEV1 of 78% predicted (range 58-99%) and six required treatment with inhaled glucocorticosteroids (400-1200 micrograms budesonide/beclomethasone daily). On two separate days the subjects received either 825 mg MK-0679 or placebo, orally in a double blind, randomised, crossover design.
The leukotriene antagonist MK-0679 caused bronchodilation which lasted for at least nine hours. The average peak improvement in FEV1 was 18% above the predrug baseline, but the bronchodilator response varied between 34% and 5% and was found to correlate strongly with the severity of asthma and aspirin sensitivity.
The findings indicate that ongoing leukotriene production may be one cause of persistent airway obstruction in aspirin sensitive asthmatic subjects and that they may benefit from treatment with a leukotriene receptor antagonist.
Three patients developed renal failure a few days after onset of sulfinpyrazone administration. In two the renal dysfunction was reversible, while the third died of a second myocardial infarction. The clinical picture of renal failure was uncharacteristic. It is recommended that renal function be tested two to four days after starting sulfinpyrazone, and to discontinue the drug immediately if there is a rise in blood urea nitrogen and creatinine. Since in two of the patients the creatinine values were elevated before sulfinpyrazone had been administered, it is clear that even minor pointers to impaired renal function should be considered as contraindications to the use of sulfinpyrazone.
(1) The combination of perindopril 4 mg + indapamide 1.25 mg is approved for second-line treatment of hypertension after failure of perindopril alone. (2) The other combination, of a low dose of an angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitor (2 mg of perindopril) and a diuretic (0.625 mg of indapamide), is being promoted as first-line treatment of hypertension. (3) The clinical files for both preparations are limited to the strict minimum. (4) A dose-finding study showed that the perindopril 4 mg + indapamide 1.25 mg dose combination offered the best risk-benefit ratio by comparison with combinations containing the same perindopril dose but other indapamide doses. (5) A double-blind trial suggests that the antihypertensive activity of the perindopril 4 mg + indapamide 1.25 mg combination is equivalent to that of the captopril 50 mg + hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg and enalapril 20 mg + hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg combinations. The safety profile was the same for the three combinations. (6) The 2-mg perindopril combination has not been compared with perindopril monotherapy at the usual dose of 4 mg, or with indapamide monotherapy at a mean dose of 2.5 mg. (7) The two combinations are costlier than their competitors.
Prenatal exposure to nitrofen is known to cause multiple malformations in mice. The reported malformations include lung hypoplasia, diaphragmatic hernia, cardiovascular defects, skeletal malformations, cleft palate, and renal abnormalities. The authors present detailed findings of craniofacial defects after prenatal exposure to nitrofen, and propose that together with the previously reported malformations, nitrofen exposure induces a Fryns phenotype in mice. Fryns syndrome is a rare human genetic syndrome that is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by lung hypoplasia, diaphragmatic hernia, craniofacial malformations, skeletal malformations, cardiovascular malformations, and genitourinary malformations. Timed-pregnant Swiss Webster mice were gavage-fed 25 mg of nitrofen on day 8 of gestation. Control animals received olive oil. Osteogenesis and chondrogenesis were studied in fetuses recovered on day 17 after Alcian blue-Alizarin red staining. Approximately 26% of the nitrofen-exposed embryos had severe craniofacial defects, and there was generalized delay in chondrogenesis and osteogenesis throughout the skeleton. No such defects were noted in the control group. The authors propose that prenatal exposure to nitrofen induces a Fryns phenotype in mice, and thus speculate that nitrofen may target similar molecular mechanisms to those that lead to Fryns syndrome.
(1) Angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) can cause or aggravate anaemia in patients with chronic renal failure (especially those on dialysis) and in renal graft recipients. (2) In these settings, ACE inhibitor therapy can increase epoetin consumption. (3) Similar reports have been made with losartan, an angiotensin II receptor antagonist. (4) The risk-benefit ratio of ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor antagonists in patients with chronic renal failure should be regularly reassessed.
The objective of the study was to assess the efficacy and tolerability of sodium valproate (VPA) on chronic daily headache (CDH) in a prospective, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial. Seventy patients were included in the study. Twenty-nine had chronic migraine (CM) and 41 had chronic tension-type headache (CTTH). VPA and placebo were applied for 3 months to 40 and 30 patients, respectively. Visual analog scale (VAS) and pain frequency (PF) were used for evaluation. VPA decreased the maximum pain VAS levels (MaxVAS) and PF at the end of the study (P = 0.028 and P = 0.000, respectively), but did not change general pain VAS (GnVAS) levels (P = 0.198). In CM patients, the decreases in MaxVAS, GnVAS and PF parameters were more in VPA treated patients (P = 0.006, P = 0.03, and P = 0.000, respectively). VPA treatment caused more reduction in PF than placebo in the CTTH subgroup (P = 0.000). VPA is effective in the prophylactic treatment of CDH by reducing MaxVAS levels and PF. It was more effective in CM than in CTTH.
Acute caffeine exposure has proconvulsant effects and worsens epileptic and ischemic neuronal damage. Surprisingly, prolonged caffeine exposure decreases the susceptibility to seizures and the extent of ischemic damage. We explored whether the exposure to a low long-term dose of caffeine could protect the brain from neuronal damage and epileptogenesis in the lithium-pilocarpine model of temporal lobe epilepsy.
Rats received either plain tap water or water containing caffeine (0.3 g/L) for 15 days before the induction of status epilepticus (SE) by lithium-pilocarpine and for 7 days after SE. The extent of neuronal damage was assessed in the hippocampus and piriform and entorhinal cortices in brain sections stained with thionine and obtained from animals killed 7 days after SE. The latency to spontaneous recurrent seizures was controlled by video monitoring.
Caffeine treatment induced a marked, almost total neuroprotection in CA1 and a very limited protection in the hilus of the dentate gyrus, whereas damage in layers III-IV of the piriform cortex was slightly worsened by the treatment. All rats, whether they received caffeine or plain tap water, became epileptic after the same latency (17-19 days).
Thus these data extend the neuroprotective effects of low long-term caffeine exposure to epileptic damage and confirm that the sole protection of the Ammon's horn has no influence on the genesis of spontaneous recurrent seizures in this model.
Haemorrhagic cystitis was induced in dogs by the administration of cyclophosphamide. The bleeding was stopped by intravesical instillation of Formalin. Vascular absorption of formaldehyde was determined by measurement of serum levels. Progressively increasing amounts in apparent relationship to the concentration of Formalin instilled into the bladder were found in all dogs. Higher serum levels were noted in animals with haemorrhagic cystitis induced by cyclophosphamide than in dogs with normal bladders. This study reinforces our clinical impression that formaldehyde is absorbed continuously through the wall of the urinary bladder in dogs and absorption is related to the concentration gradient. These kinetics should be kept in mind when treating patients with intravescial Formalin in order to prevent the systemic effect of the vascular absorption.
A 65-year-old woman with angina pectoris presented with syncope after sublingual ingestion of isosorbide dinitrate (5 mg). Her response to a postural challenge test, without medication, was normal. In a postural challenge test after administration of isosorbide dinitrate (5 mg), blood pressure decreased from 120/67 to 65/35 mmHg, followed by syncope with a sudden decrease in pulse rate from 85 to 60 beats/min. No evidence of myocardial infarction was detected. Elderly patients for whom nitrate has been prescribed should be warned of the occurrence of hypotension, leading to unconsciousness.
The anticonvulsant activity of felbamate against sound-induced seizures was studied in the DBA/2 mouse model. Felbamate (10-300 mg/kg, i.p.) produced dose-dependent effects with ED50 values for the suppression of tonic, clonic and wild running phases of 23.1, 48.8 and 114.6 mg/kg, respectively. Felbamate also protected DBA/2 mice from N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-induced seizures with ED50 values of 12.1 and 29 mg/kg for tonus and clonus, respectively. Pretreatment with glycine, an agonist to the glycine/NMDA receptors, shifted the dose-response effect of felbamate to the right (ED50 = 56.8 against tonus and 94.8 mg/kg versus clonus). Similarly, D-serine, an agonist at the glycine site, shifted the ED50 of felbamate against the tonic component of audiogenic seizures from 23.1 to 78.1, and that against clonus from 48.8 to 90.3 mg/kg. Felbamate was also potent to prevent seizures induced by administration of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA), an AMPA/kainate receptor agonist (ED50 = 11.8 and 20.9 mg/kg, against tonus and clonus, respectively). The data indicate that felbamate is an effective anticonvulsant drug in the genetic model of seizure-prone DBA/2 mice. Our findings suggest that the anticonvulsant properties of felbamate depend upon its interaction with neurotransmission mediated by both the glycine/NMDA and the AMPA/kainate receptor complex.
(1) The risk of cardiac valve disease linked to appetite suppressants has now been confirmed by several studies. It seems to increase with the duration of treatment. (2) The outcome after treatment cessation is poorly known. (3) Patients exposed to these drugs should continue to be monitored.
Folic acid was administered intravenously during constant EEG monitoring to eight epileptic subjects who had received diphenylhydantoin therapy for more than 1 year. Six of the subjects displayed low folate levels by Lactobacillus casei assay in plasma and/or whole blood. Six patients received 75 mg of folate intravenously over a 30-min period without clinical effect of EEG change. One patient exhibited an increase in spike discharges on the EEG in comparison to the baseline pattern, but no clinical change or seizure while receiveing 150 mg of folate in a 30-min period. One patient displayed a 2-sec burst of spike and slow wave activity on the EEG after receiveing 7.2 mg of folate in a 3-min period. A tonic-clonic seizure occured after the infusion of 14.4 mg of folate, and again after infusion of 19.2 mg of folate. There appear to be wide variation in the ability of drug-treated epileptic subjects to tolerate infusions of folic acid. These variations help explain conflicting reports in the literature concerning the effect of folic acid administration on seizure control. Megadoses of folic acid should be employed with great caution in all subjects, but particularly among epileptics. Information is lacking as to whether folate might induce seizures in certain ostensibly normal individuals. It is postulated that folic acid exerts a direct effect among sensitive subjects on existing pathways concerned with the metabolism of folate, histidine, or other important brain metabolites. The mechanism of the anticonvulsant action of diphenylhdantoin remains unknown, but there is considerable evidence to suggest that it interferes with the deamination of histidine.
To evaluate the separate effects of sedation and paralysis on chest wall and respiratory system mechanics of mechanically ventilated, critically ill patients.
ICU of the University "La Sapienza" Hospital, Rome.
13 critically ill patients were enrolled in this study. All were affected by disease involving both lungs and chest wall mechanics (ARDS in 4 patients, closed chest trauma without flail chest in 4 patients, cardiogenic pulmonary oedema with fluidic overload in 5 patients).
Respiratory system and chest wall mechanics were evaluated during constant flow controlled mechanical ventilation in basal conditions (i.e. with the patients under apnoic sedation) and after paralysis with pancuronium bromide. In details, we simultaneously recorded airflow, tracheal pressure, esophageal pressure and tidal volume; with the end-inspiratory and end-expiratory airway occlusion technique we could evaluate respiratory system and chest wall elastance and resistances. Lung mechanics was evaluated by subtracting chest wall from respiratory system data. All data obtained in basal conditions (with the patients sedated with thiopental or propofol) and after muscle paralysis were compared using the Student's t test for paired data. The administration of pancuronium bromide to sedated patients induced a complete muscle paralysis without producing significant modification both to the viscoelastic and to the resistive parameters of chest wall and respiratory system.
This study demonstrates the lack of additive effects of muscle paralysis in mechanically ventilated, sedated patients. Also in view of the possible side effects of muscle paralysis, our results question the usefulness of generalized administration of neuromuscular blocking drugs in mechanically ventilated patients.
We compared the effectiveness of atropine, glycopyrrolate, and a transesophageal atrial pacing (TAP) stethoscope for treating intraoperative bradycardia in 64 unpremedicated patients receiving a standardized sufentanil/N2O/vecuronium anesthetic. Patients were allocated randomly to receive either atropine, 5 micrograms/kg (Group 1), glycopyrrolate, 2.5 micrograms/kg (Group 2), or transesophageal atrial pacing (Group 3) after the onset of bradycardia, defined as a heart rate of < or = 50 beats/min (or < or = 60 beats/min with concurrent hypotension). Bradycardia occurred in 15 patients of each treatment group. The time required for the heart rate to increase to > or = 70 beats/min was 270 (range 30-490), 270 (70-465), and 12 (2-30) s in Groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively. Although all patients in Group 3 responded to pacing at 150% of the threshold current, 10 patients in Group 1 and 8 patients in Group 2 required a second dose of anticholinergic medication before a heart rate response was observed. One patient in Group 2 required three doses, and another who did not respond even after four doses was treated with the TAP device. Bradycardia subsequently recurred in five patients in Group 1 and four patients in Group 2. Temporary recurrence of bradycardia occurred in seven patients in Group 3 due to outward migration of the pacing stethoscope. However, heart rates were more consistently maintained in paced patients. There were no significant differences in postoperative side effects between the three groups, or when compared with patients who did not receive treatment for bradycardia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Nrf2, a member of the "cap 'n collar" group of transcription factors, is important for protecting cells against oxidative damage. We investigated its role in the detoxification of acetaminophen [N-acetyl-p-aminophenol (APAP)]-induced hepatotoxicity. When Nrf2 knockout (Nrf2(-/-)) and wild-type mice were given APAP by i.p. injection, the Nrf2(-/-) mice were highly susceptible to APAP treatment. With doses of APAP that were tolerated by wild-type mice, the Nrf2(-/-) mice died of liver failure. When hepatic glutathione was depleted after a dose of 400 mg/kg of APAP, the wild-type mice were able to compensate and regain the normal glutathione level. In contrast, the glutathione level in the Nrf2(-/-) mice was not compensated and remained low. This was because of the decrease in the gene expression of gcs(H) and gcs(L) as well as gss in the livers of the Nrf2(-/-) mice. In addition, the expression of ugt1a6 and gstpi that detoxify APAP by conjugation was also decreased. This increased susceptibility of the Nrf2(-/-) mice to APAP, because of an impaired capacity to replenish their glutathione stores, compounded with a decreased detoxification capability, highlights the importance of Nrf2 in the regulation of glutathione synthesis and cellular detoxification processes.
The authors determined whether increasing alpha 1-adrenergic blockade resulted in progressively less arrhythmic activity in the canine halothane-epinephrine arrhythmia model. Dogs (n = 7) were anesthetized with halothane (1.5%) in oxygen. Stepwise increases in steady-state plasma levels of either of two alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonists (droperidol, doxazosin) were produced by applying Wagnerian principles to the known pharmacokinetic parameters of these drugs. At each steady state plasma level of these antagonists, the extent of the alpha 1-adrenergic blockade produced was assessed by defining a phenylephrine (PE) dose pressor response curve. The degree of alpha 1-blockade produced was quantitated as the dose of PE that caused a 25-mmHg increase in mean arterial pressure (ED25) as derived by polynomial regression analysis. By analysis of variance (ANOVA) the ED25 increased significantly for each targeted steady state plasma level of either droperidol (P less than 0.001) or doxazosin (P less than 0.001). For an assessment of the antiarrhythmic activity of these alpha 1-antagonists, the arrhythmogenic dose of epinephrine (ADE) was determined at each of the states of alpha 1-adrenergic blockade previously defined. By ANOVA there was a significant increase in the ADE over the range of alpha blockade produced for either droperidol (P less than 0.001) or doxazosin (P less than 0.001). A close correlation (r2) existed between the ED25 and the ADE for the target steady state levels that were achieved for either droperidol (0.99) or doxazosin (0.74).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
ASC/Icg (Antidepressant Sensitive Catalepsy) mouse strain selected for high predisposition to pinch-induced catalepsy is characterized by depressive-like behavior and impaired immune response. Chronic treatment with SSRI fluoxetine attenuated catalepsy manifestation and normalized a decreased number of rosette-forming cells (RFC) in spleen in ASC mice. Chronic fluoxetine administration had no effect on catalepsy and RFC number in mice of parental cataleptic CBA/Lac strain. Fluoxetine failed to alter 5-HT1A receptor functional activity in mice of both strains and diminished 5-HT2A receptor functional activity in CBA but not in ASC mice. No effect on cortical 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A receptor mRNA levels and on 5-HT1A receptor, tph2 (tryptophan hydroxylase-2) and SERT (serotonin transporter) mesencephalic gene expression was observed in ASC mice. Other possible serotonergic mechanisms of fluoxetine effect on catalepsy and immune response in mice with depressive-like state are discussed.
Epinephrine-induced hypokalemia is a beta 2-adrenoceptor-mediated effect known to occur in patients after acute myocardial infarction. Cetamolol and atenolol are beta-adrenoceptor antagonists that possess cardioselectivity. They were studied for their ability to inhibit epinephrine- and isoproterenol-induced hypokalemia in anesthetized dogs at equipotent beta 1-adrenoceptor blocking doses. Cetamolol was able to block epinephrine-induced hypokalemia completely, in a dose-related manner, and to block isoproterenol-induced hypokalemia partially. On the other hand, atenolol could produce only partial blockade of epinephrine-induced hypokalemia in a dose-related manner and had essentially no effect on isoproterenol-induced hypokalemia. These results showed that cetamolol was less cardioselective than atenolol and suggest cetamolol would be more beneficial than atenolol in preventing epinephrine-induced hypokalemia in patients who have an acute myocardial infarction.
Two cases of pentazocine-induced neuromuscular syndrome in addicted patients are reported. Histochemical and quantitative histographic analyses of muscle biopsies performed in areas distant from site of injection, disclosed type 2 atrophy. A generalized myotoxic effect of pentazocine is suggested.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis, also known as heparin-associated thrombocytopenia and thrombosis, was diagnosed in a 73-year-old man who had sustained a pelvic fracture, which was complicated by a left, deep-vein thrombosis. Heparin was administered and thrombocytopenia and arterial thrombosis of his left foot developed, which required amputation of three lateral toes. Four years later, the patient experienced a heart attack, and subsequently postinfarction angina developed, which was refractory to treatment with aspirin, nitrates, and beta-blockers. He was referred to a large, 750-bed teaching hospital for cardiac catheterization and possible coronary artery bypass grafting. An alternative treatment was needed for rapid anticoagulation. Ancrod, snake venom from the Malayan pit viper, was used to lower plasma fibrinogen levels, which allowed successful cardiac catheterization and coronary artery bypass grafting. We present a case study of the successful treatment of this patient with use of ancrod, and the nursing management for patients with heparin-induced or heparin-associated thrombocytopenia and thrombosis receiving this drug.
This trial of the German High-Grade Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma Study Group compares the use of high-dose therapy (HDT) as part of primary treatment with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (CHOP) plus etoposide followed by involved-field (IF) radiotherapy in a randomized, multicenter, phase III study.
Three hundred twelve patients with "aggressive" non-Hodgkin's lymphoma aged <or= 60 years with elevated serum lactate dehydrogenase levels were included from 1990 to 1997. Patients with at least a minor response after two cycles of CHOEP (CHOP + etoposide 3 x 100 mg/m(2)) were to receive three further cycles of CHOEP followed by IF radiotherapy (arm A) or one further cycle of CHOEP followed by autologous stem-cell transplantation and IF radiotherapy (arm B).
Among 158 patients randomized to arm B, 103 (65%) received HDT. The complete remission rate at the end of treatment was 62.9% in arm A and 69.9% in arm B. With a median observation time of 45.5 months, overall survival for all 312 patients was 63% after 3 years (63% for arm A, 62% for arm B; P =.68). Event-free survival was 49% for arm A versus 59% for arm B (P =.22). Relapse in arm B was associated with a significantly worse survival rate than relapse in arm A (P <.05). Relapse after HDT occurred early (median interval, 3 months). Six patients developed secondary neoplasia, three in arm A and three in arm B.
Results of the randomized trial comparing CHOP-like chemotherapy with early HDT do not support the use of HDT with carmustine, etoposide, cytarabine, and melphalan following shortened standard chemotherapy.
Individuals with Type 2 diabetes are at increased risk of stroke. Plasma homocysteine (tHcy) is an independent risk factor for cardiovascular (CV) disease. The methylene-tetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene polymorphism (thermolabile variant C(677)T) is associated with CV risk, partly as a result of increased Hcy, especially in homozygous subjects.
To relate the occurrence of the MTHFR polymorphism with stroke prevalence by examining allelic frequency and genotype distribution in 165 subjects with Type 2 diabetes studied for the presence of thermolabile C(677)T MTHFR mutation.
Mean age was 67.7 years, and tHcy 18.2 micromol/l. T allele frequency was 38.5%. MTHFR genotypes were: normal (CC) 40%; heterozygous (CT) 43%; homozygous (TT) 17%. Serum levels of folic acid and B12 vitamin were within normal limits. Stroke prevalence was 14%. Sixty-four per cent of stroke-free subjects had the normal C allele vs. 46% in stroke subjects. The frequencies of genotypes (CC-CT-TT) were (%): 44-41-15 in stroke-free vs. 17-57-26 in stroke patients. Coronary (CAD) and peripheral artery disease (PAD) were common in all groups, with no differences according to genotypes. Stroke prevalence was markedly higher in genotypes CT and TT (18 and 21%) compared with CC (6%). Mean tHcy levels were higher in TT subjects.
The allelic frequency of C(677)T MTHFR mutation in Type 2 diabetes subjects with stroke is markedly different from that of subjects without stroke. Genotypic characteristics suggest that C(677)T MTHFR mutation confers a higher risk for stroke to both homozygous and heterozygous T allele carriers that cannot be ascribed solely to raised tHcy and/or lower folate status in CT subjects, nor to phenotypic expression of conventional risk factors for stroke. The impact of the MTHFR polymorphism on stroke may result from T allele-linked deleterious effects, or C allele-linked protection. Confirmatory studies are warranted, as this cohort was not randomly selected, and a type 1 error cannot be ruled out.
Fetal tachycardia complicated by ventricular dysfunction and hydrops fetalis carries a significant risk of morbidity and mortality. Transplacental digoxin is effective therapy in a small percentage, but there is no consensus with regard to antiarrhythmic treatment if digoxin fails. This study evaluates the safety, efficacy, and outcome of amiodarone therapy for digoxin-refractory fetal tachycardia with heart failure.
Fetuses with incessant tachycardia and either hydrops fetalis (n=24) or ventricular dysfunction (n=2) for whom digoxin monotherapy and secondary antiarrhythmic agents (n=13) were not effective were treated transplacentally with a loading dose of oral amiodarone for 2 to 7 days, followed by daily maintenance therapy for <1 to 15 weeks. Digoxin therapy was continued throughout gestation. Newborns were studied by transesophageal pacing or ECG monitoring to determine the mechanism of tachycardia. Three fetuses were delivered urgently in tachycardia during amiodarone loading, and 3 required additional antiarrhythmic agents for sustained cardioversion. Amiodarone or amiodarone combinations converted 14 of 15 (93%) with reentrant supraventricular tachycardia, 2 of 2 with ventricular or junctional ectopic tachycardia, and 3 of 9 (33%) with atrial flutter. Amiodarone-related adverse effects were transient in 5 infants and 8 mothers. Mean gestational age at delivery was 37 weeks, with 100% survival.
Orally administered amiodarone is safe and effective treatment for drug-refractory fetal tachycardia, specifically reentrant supraventricular tachycardia, junctional ectopic, or ventricular tachycardia, even when accompanied by hydrops fetalis or ventricular dysfunction.
To compare the additional antihypertensive effects of an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), a dihydropyridine calcium antagonist and a diuretic in patients whose hypertension is not controlled by full-dose angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) monotherapy.
Individuals with an ambulatory blood pressure (ABP) that was not controlled by valsartan 160 mg once daily were allocated randomly to two groups: those in group A (n = 35) were assigned randomly to treatment with benazepril 20 mg once daily or chlorthalidone 12.5 mg once daily, whereas patients in group B (n = 29) were assigned randomly to benazepril 20 mg once daily or amlodipine 5 mg once daily. All individuals continued to receive background valsartan 160 mg once daily. After 5 weeks, patients crossed over to the alternative valsartan-based combination treatment of each group for a second 5-week period. Twenty-four-hour ABP monitoring was performed before the random allocation to groups and at the end of each randomized combination pharmacotherapy period.
Sixty-four individuals completed the study: 32 men and 32 women (mean +/- SD age 48.2 +/- 7.9 years, average 24-h ABP on valsartan monotherapy 143.4 +/- 12.6/87.7 +/- 7.8 mmHg). Significant additional antihypertensive effects on the average 24-h ABP were obtained with benazepril (8.6 +/- 8.8/6.3 +/- 6.7 mmHg), amlodipine (15.2 +/- 12.9/9.9 +/- 6.8 mmHg) and chlorthalidone (13.5 +/- 11.6/9.5 +/- 7.7 mmHg) (P < 0.001 for all additional antihypertensive effects). The additional effects of amlodipine and chlorthalidone added to valsartan were approximately 6/3.5 mmHg (P < 0.05) greater than that of benazepril.
In patients in whom hypertension was not controlled by full-dose ARB monotherapy, a diuretic, a calcium antagonist or an ACE inhibitor provided significant additional antihypertensive effect. The antihypertensive effects of the ARB-diuretic and the ARB-calcium antagonist combinations were superior to that of the ARB-ACE inhibitor combination.
L-DOPA-psychosis is a frequent side effect of the combined treatment of Parkinson's disease with L-DOPA and peripherally active decarboxylase inhibitors. Regional human post-mortem brain studies showed a significant increase of noradrenaline and serotonin particularly in extrastriatal areas, whereas the lenticular nuclei were not involved. The significance of extrastriatal neurotransmitter dysfunctions for psychiatric disorders is discussed.
We present an elderly patient with mantle cell leukemia who was successfully treated with low-dose cyclophosphamide (CY). A 76-year-old female was diagnosed as mantle cell leukemia based on abnormal lymphocytosis and splenomegaly without lymphadenopathy. She was orally treated with 50 mg of CY daily and had continuous remission over 4 years. Rearrangements of BCL1 and immunoglobulin heavy chain genes in the peripheral blood lymphocytes were detected at diagnosis, but not 1 or 4 years later. Further studies are required to confirm the role of low-dose CY therapy for patients with mantle cell leukemia and lymphoma.
