DNA interstrand crosslink repair requires several classes of proteins, including structure-specific endonucleases and Fanconi anemia proteins. SLX4, which coordinates three separate endonucleases, was recently recognized as an important regulator of DNA repair. Here we report the first human individuals found to have biallelic mutations in SLX4. These individuals, who were previously diagnosed as having Fanconi anemia, add SLX4 as an essential component to the FA-BRCA genome maintenance pathway.
The cardiovascular effects of repeated dosing with delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) were examined in chronically catheterized, conscious rhesus monkeys. THC (0.5 mg/kg) was administered i.v. every 6 hr for 3 weeks. Following the first THC bolus, a tachycardia (peak change, 34 beats/min) and hypotension (peak change, -21 mm Hg systolic blood pressure) sometimes preceded by a transient blood pressure increase were observed. Tolerance developed to the tachycardia and systolic blood pressure increase but not to the blood pressure decrease. Hourly measurement of systolic blood pressure and heart rate during the intervals between injections revealed heart rate decreases to which tolerance developed and blood pressure decreases which were sustained throughout the course of TCH dosing. Urinary catecholamine excretion increased during the 1st week of dosing and subsequently returned toward base-line levels. Control of basal heart rate and reflex heart rate changes was examined using autonomic agonists and antagonists. Heart rate decreases after beta adrenergic blockage (sotalol HCl) were attenuated, whereas heart rate increases after cholinergic blockade (atropine methylnitrate increases after cholinergic blockade (atropine methylnitrate) were augmented. Baroreceptor gain, measured as the ratio of heart rate change to systolic blood pressure change in response to phenylephrine, increased. The response of basal heart rate to antagonists and the augmented reflex bradycardia suggest that THC alters autonomic control of the cardiovascular system resulting in parasympathetic dominance. Divergent patterns of development of tolerance to heart rate and blood pressure effects suggest that THC affects heart rate and blood pressure through different mechanisms.
Large radiosensitization of C3H/He mouse mammary tumors was obtained with the combination of a non-protein sulfhydryl (NPSH) depletor, diethyl maleate (DEM), and misonidazole (MISO), compared with MISO alone over a range of MISO dose. The difference in enhancement ratios (ER's) for these two treatments was especially prominent at small MISO doses. ER's of 2.06 and 1.44 were obtained, respectively, by combined treatment with DEM (760 mg/kg) and MISO (100 mg/kg) or treatment with MISO alone. Radiosensitization of tumors by DEM alone was observed for doses over 600 mg/kg. When DEM was combined with MISO (100 mg/kg), ER's of the combination were larger than that of MISO alone, for doses over 400 mg/kg of DEM. Similarly, in case of DEM plus MISO (300 mg/kg), the ER's became larger than MISO alone, for doses over 200 mg/kg of DEM. The NPSH content in untreated tumors was 1.08 mmole/kg on the average and no changes in NPSH content was observed after MISO treatment. DEM treatment markedly reduced the NPSH content of tumors as a function of DEM dose and this decrease in NPSH was not significantly affected by MISO treatment. Tumor NPSH was reduced to 24% or less of control by administration of 760 mg/kg of DEM with or without MISO. These results are consistent with competition theory of NPSH and electron affinic radiosensitizers.
The evolutionarily conserved SLX4 protein, a key regulator of nucleases, is critical for DNA damage response. SLX4 nuclease complexes mediate repair during replication and can also resolve Holliday junctions formed during homologous recombination. Here we describe the phenotype of the Btbd12 knockout mouse, the mouse ortholog of SLX4, which recapitulates many key features of the human genetic illness Fanconi anemia. Btbd12-deficient animals are born at sub-Mendelian ratios, have greatly reduced fertility, are developmentally compromised and are prone to blood cytopenias. Btbd12(-/-) cells prematurely senesce, spontaneously accumulate damaged chromosomes and are particularly sensitive to DNA crosslinking agents. Genetic complementation reveals a crucial requirement for Btbd12 (also known as Slx4) to interact with the structure-specific endonuclease Xpf-Ercc1 to promote crosslink repair. The Btbd12 knockout mouse therefore establishes a disease model for Fanconi anemia and genetically links a regulator of nuclease incision complexes to the Fanconi anemia DNA crosslink repair pathway.
Conscious dogs made hypertensive by wrapping both kidneys with cellophane were treated daily with a single dose of captopril (31 mg/kg p.o.), an inhibitor of the angiotensin converting enzyme, or with placebo (lactose, 31 mg/kg p.o.) for a period of 13 weeks. Blood pressures were recorded indirectly from a forepaw by using a Roche ultrasonic pressure transducer (Arteriosonde). Treatment with captopril resulted in decreases in blood pressure (25-30 mm Hg) that were maximal at 3 to 6 hr with no associated changes in heart rate. The captopril-induced hypotensive effect was maintained throughout the 13-week treatment period, and after the termination of captopril dosing, pressure rose slowly over the next 72 hr to a level not significantly different from placebo-treated dogs. Plasma renin activity (PRA) in the hypertensive dogs at the time treatment was initiated was not different from the same animals when they were normotensive. In captopril-treated animals, PRA increased 3- to 4-fold after each dose of the drug was given, reaching a maximum at 3 to 6 hr, a time corresponding to the maximal blood pressure decrease. PRA gradually declined but did not reach control levels before the next dose of captopril was administered. In animals treated with placebo, PRA remained at levels not significantly different from normotensive dogs during the entire treatment period. After termination of captopril administration, PRA slowly returned to pretreatment levels; the return of PRA paralleled the recovery of blood pressure. The results indicate that captopril is effective in reducing blood pressure for an extended period of time in a hypertensive model in which the level of activity of the renin angiotensin system is not elevated.
Hereditary angioedema (HAE) due to C1-inhibitor deficiency is a rare autosomal dominant disease that manifests as sudden unpredictable attacks of subcutaneous or submucosal edema affecting the skin, intestine, and upper airway. Ecallantide is a plasma kallikrein inhibitor indicated for treatment of HAE attacks in patients aged 16 years and older. This analysis examines safety and efficacy of ecallantide for treatment of HAE attacks in patients <18 years of age.
Data for patients aged 9 to 17 years treated subcutaneously with 30 mg ecallantide or placebo were pooled from 4 clinical studies (2 double-blind, placebo-controlled and 2 open-label). Efficacy end points included 2 HAE-specific patient-reported outcome measures: mean symptom complex severity (MSCS) score and treatment outcome score (TOS). Times to initial improvement, sustained improvement, and complete or near-complete symptom resolution were calculated. Treatment-emergent adverse events were examined.
Overall, 29 pediatric patients were included; 25 of them received ecallantide for 62 total HAE attacks, and 10 received placebo for 10 total attacks. Ecallantide-treated attacks revealed clinically relevant reduction in symptom severity at 4 hours postdosing based on mean change in MSCS score (-1.4 ± 0.9 ecallantide versus -0.9 ± 0.6 placebo) and TOS (73.9 ± 35.50 ecallantide versus 45.0 ± 43.78 placebo). Patients treated with ecallantide showed rapid improvement in symptoms (median time to complete or near-complete symptom resolution: 181 minutes). No serious adverse events related to treatment were observed.
Ecallantide appears effective for HAE attacks in adolescents, with rapid symptom improvement. No unexpected safety issues were identified.
Compound LY175326 is one of a series of novel cardiovascular agents with both inotropic and vasodilator activities. In cat papillary muscles, LY175326 increased contractility in a concentration-dependent manner; these actions were not blocked by prazosin, propranolol or cimetidine. Inotropic responses were observed in unpaced, perfused guinea-pig hearts and these effects were associated with modest increases in heart rate and coronary flow. An i.v. dose of 0.1 mg/kg of LY175326 caused 54 and 95% increases in contractility in either the anesthetized cat or dog, respectively; corresponding heart rates were increased by less than 10%. Oral administration of 0.5 mg/kg to dogs was associated with an inotropic response that was maximal between 60 and 90 min and lasted in excess of 3 hr. These effects were not accompanied by increases in heart rate, gross behavioral changes or emesis. The pharmacology of LY175326 was evaluated in a propranolol-induced heart failure model using anesthetized beagle dogs. A bolus injection of 0.15 mg/kg of LY175326 followed by an infusion of 0.4 mg/kg/hr reversed the hemodynamic symptoms of heart failure by increasing left ventricular dP/dt60, cardiac output and stroke volume and reducing left atrial filling pressure and vascular resistance; heart rate was unchanged and calculated myocardial oxygen consumption was reduced. This balance of inotropic:vasodilator activities may provide a means of improving cardiac function while maintaining the myocardial oxygen supply:demand.
Report about 55 patients suffering from severe unilateral Menières disease, seen over a period of 3-10 years. They were treated with intratympanic administration of Streptomycinesulfate or- better -Gentamycinesulfate. The medication was given using a plastic tube inserted behind the annulus by transmeatal approach. 0.1 ml Gentamycinesulfate (earlier Streptomycinesulfate were instillated every 5 hours until the first signs of inner-ear-reaction (nystagmus or vertigo) appeared. -In 90% of the cases vertiginous attacks ceased after therapy. Hearing was preserved in 76%, tinnitus and periaural pressure were influenced markedly.
Opinions vary on the best treatment options for recurrent high-grade glioma. Some argue that bevacizumab should become standard of care for patients with recurrent glioblastoma, especially in light of recent FDA approval for this indication. However, this opinion is not uniformly accepted. Age, performance status, histology, tumor size and location, O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) methylation status for glioblastoma, 1p/19q status for oligodendroglial tumors, and the number and types of prior therapies are important considerations. In addition, recurrent disease must be distinguished from "pseudoprogression" due to treatment effects. Enrollment in a clinical trial is the optimal choice for most patients with recurrent high-grade glioma after failure of radiation therapy and temozolomide. For patients who are ineligible or do not have access to clinical trials, then either bevacizumab monotherapy or bevacizumab in combination with a second agent such as irinotecan is recommended. Involved-field external beam radiation should be considered for patients with anaplastic gliomas who have not received radiation. For patients with anaplastic astrocytoma who progress after radiotherapy, temozolomide may be used. For patients with anaplastic oligodendroglioma who progress after radiotherapy, PCV chemotherapy and temozolomide are options. Oligodendroglial tumors with 1p/19q deletions are more likely to respond to treatment. In the past, carmustine was commonly used to treat recurrent high-grade glioma, but the utility of carmustine in the modern era is unknown because most studies were performed prior to the widespread use of temozolomide. High-precision re-irradiation such as stereotactic radiosurgery is another option in high-grade glioma, especially for patients with poor bone marrow reserve or inability to tolerate chemotherapy, but there is a paucity of studies with adequate controls. Surgery may be useful as adjuvant treatment for patients with symptoms due to mass effect or for patients requiring definitive histopathology, but it generally should be combined with another treatment modality. Emerging therapies, including dose-intense temozolomide regimens, targeted molecular inhibitors, other antiangiogenic therapies, viral gene therapies, immunotherapies, and convection-enhanced delivery of targeted immunotoxins, are still under investigation.
Sodium channel blockers are approved for intravenous administration in the treatment of neuropathic pain states. Preclinical studies have suggested antihyperalgesic effects on the peripheral as well as the central nervous system. The objective of this study was to determine mechanisms of action of low-dose lidocaine in experimental induced, secondary hyperalgesia. In a first experimental trial, participants (n=12) received lidocaine systemically (a bolus injection of 2 mg/kg in 10 min followed by an intravenous infusion of 2 mg kg(-1)h(-1) for another 50 min). In a second trial, a modified intravenous regional anesthesia (IVRA) was administered to exclude possible central analgesic effects. In one arm, patients received an infusion of 40 ml lidocaine, 0.05%; in the other arm 40 ml NaCl, 0.9%, served as a control. In both trials capsaicin, 20 microgram, was injected intradermally and time course of capsaicin-induced pain, allodynia and hyperalgesia as well as axon reflex flare was determined. The capsaicin-induced pain was slightly reduced after systemic and regional application of the anesthetic. The area of pin-prick hyperalgesia was significantly reduced by systemic lidocaine, whereas the inhibition of hyperalgesia was absent during regional administration of lidocaine. In contrast, capsaicin-induced flare was significantly decreased after both treatments. We conclude that systemic lidocaine reduces pin-prick hyperalgesia by a central mode of action, which could involve blockade of terminal branches of nociceptors. A possible role for tetrodotoxin resistant sodium channels in the antihyperalgesic effect of low-dose lidocaine is discussed.
Two mothers with heart valve prosthesis were treated with warfarin during pregnancy. In the first case a caesarean section was done one week after replacement of warfarin with heparin. The baby died of cerebral and pulmonary hemorrhage. The second mother had a male infant by caesarean section. The baby showed warfarin-induced embryopathy with nasal hypoplasia and stippled epiphyses (chondrodysplasia punctata). Nasal hypoplasia with or without stippled epiphyses has now been reported in 11 infants born to mothers treated with warfarin during the first trimester, and a causal association is probable. In view of the risks to both mother and fetus in women with prosthetic cardiac valves it is recommended that therapeutic abortion be advised as the first alternative.
The authors report a patient with clinical and morphologic evidence of acute cerebellar toxicity after receiving high-dose cytosine arabinoside (ARA-C) (3000 mg/m2/12 hours) for refractory AML. Damage of Purkinje cells and dentate nucleus was demonstrated. Reversible cerebellar toxicity has previously been noted in patients on an identical regimen. Signs of cerebellar dysfunction mandate immediate cessation of high-dose ARA-C therapy.
HER2 over-expression and/or amplification are present in 9-38% of gastric or gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) cancers and are correlated to poor outcome. We conducted a multicentre phase II trial to evaluate trastuzumab in combination with cisplatin in patients with untreated HER2-positive advanced gastric or GEJ cancer.
Chemo-naïve patients with measurable, non-resectable, advanced or metastatic gastric or GEJ adenocarcinoma, with HER2 over-expression and/or amplification (IHC 3+, or IHC 2+ and FISH+), age ≥18 years, ECOG ≤2, left ventricle ejection fraction ≥50% and adequate organ function were eligible. Treatment consisted of trastuzumab (8 mg/kg on cycle 1 day 1 as loading; 6 mg/kg in subsequent cycles) and cisplatin (75 mg/m(2)), both intravenously on day 1, every 21 days.
Twenty-two out of 228 patients (10%) were HER2- positive and were included in this phase II trial. The median age was 66 years and ECOG 0/1 was 41%/59%. The median number of cycles was 4 (range 1-41). The confirmed ORR was 32% and disease control was achieved in 64% of patients. Median time to progression was 5.1 months. Grade 3 adverse events included asthenia (27%), neutropenia (18%), anorexia (14%), diarrhoea (9%) and abdominal pain (9%). There were no grade 4 toxicities or treatment-related deaths. Higher baseline HER extracellular domain (ECD) levels were associated with better outcome in terms of response and survival.
Trastuzumab in combination with cisplatin is an active regimen and has a favourable toxicity profile in advanced HER2-positive gastric or gastroesophageal cancers.
I have described five elderly patients who had a syndrome characterized by reversible delirium, automatic movement, and anterograde amnesia after ingesting triazolam as a hypnotic. These cases raise concern about the use of short-acting, rapidly eliminated benzodiazepine hypnotics in the elderly.
Previous studies have shown that both selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are effective in the treatment of panic disorders (PD). In this study, the SSRI fluvoxamine (Fluv) was compared with the MAO-A-I brofaromine (Brof). Thirty patients with the diagnosis of PD with or without agoraphobia were treated with either Fluv or Brof (150 mg daily) in a double-blind design. After 12 weeks of treatment, 93% of the Brof group and 87% of the Fluv group considered themselves much or very much improved. Taking a reduction in the Hamilton Rating Scale for Anxiety score of 50% or more, 33% of the Fluv patients and 47% of the Brof patients were responders to treatment. After an increase in anxiety in the 1st week, which was more severe in Fluv-treated patients than for Brof, a clinically relevant decrease in anxiety symptoms and reduction in panic attacks and avoidance behavior was observed. There was no significant difference between the treatment groups. The most prominent side effects were middle-sleep disturbance (Brof), tiredness (Fluv), and nausea after taking the medication (Brof and Fluv). During a double-blind follow-up period of another 12 weeks, a further improvement was found in both treatment groups without significant differences between the two groups. The selective and reversible MAO-A-I brofaromine and the SSRI fluvoxamine are equally effective in the treatment of PD. Both compounds lead to a reduction in the number of panic attacks and a subsequent reduction in agoraphobic avoidance.
Microinjection of morphine hydrochloride into the substantia nigra pars reticulata, bilaterally, converts non-convulsant dose of pilocarpine hydrochloride, 100 mg/kg, into a convulsant one. The ED50 of morphine for the generation of seizures after pilocarpine, 100 mg/kg, is 3.8 nmol (2.5-5.8). Electrographic and behavioral monitoring both show a pattern of convulsant activity similar to those produced by pilocarpine in doses exceeding 350 mg/kg. Morphological analysis of frontal forebrain sections reveals epilepsy-related damage to the hippocampus, thalamus, olfactory cortex, substantia nigra, neocortex and amygdala. The proconvulsant action of morphine in the substantia nigra is reversed by co-administration of naloxone hydrochloride. The results show that the threshold for limbic seizures may be modulated by opiates in the substantia nigra.
Early adverse effects of a drug may be a manifestation of individual differences in drug metabolism or of different pathologic processes. These differences may influence therapeutic responsiveness. Using data from Ciba-Geigy's multicenter 10-week clinical trial, we studied the relationship between early side effects and subsequent therapeutic response to clomipramine (CMI) in obsessive-compulsive disorder. We used tabular analyses and multiple regression to evaluate associations between early complaints and change in score on the Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale. We also evaluated whether early complaints were drug related (i.e., true side effects). It appeared that dry mouth, constipation, dizziness, insomnia, male impotence, nervousness, palpitation, and tremor reported during the first 4 weeks were predictive of good response to CMI. Myoclonus and tinnitus appeared weakly associated with treatment success. Most of these complaints were reported more by the CMI group than the placebo group, and more during CMI treatment than before. The more common complaints may reflect an individual's ability to metabolize CMI appropriately so that adequate therapeutic blood levels are attained. The less common complaints may reflect a sensitivity to CMI's serotonergic actions.
The use of benzodiazepine medication is associated with a variety of acute and well-recognized withdrawal syndromes including anxiety, agitation, insomnia, and confusion. Catatonia has not previously been described. We report five patients who became catatonic after withdrawal of benzodiazepines. All five were older individuals (53-88 years) who had acutely become immobile, mute, and rigid with refusal or inability to eat or drink. Each of the five showed pronounced and rapid improvement after administration of low-dose lorazepam, which has previously been reported to be effective in the treatment of catatonia. Careful review of the records showed that each of the patients had been taking benzodiazepine medication for anywhere from 6 months to 15 years and that it had been rapidly tapered or abruptly discontinued 2 to 7 days before the onset of catatonia. These cases illustrate that severe and potentially life-threatening catatonia can develop in the wake of benzodiazepine withdrawal. Older individuals may be particularly vulnerable to this side effect.
The effects of histamine antagonists on naloxone-precipitated withdrawal symptoms were studied in morphine-dependent mice. Chlorpheniramine (0.5-10 mg/kg), a H1-blocker, given 1P 30 min before naloxone challenge produced a dose-dependent potentiation of withdrawal body weight loss, burrowing, and hypothermia, but did not influence either jumping or wet-dog shakes. On the other hand, cimetidine (10-100 mg/kg), a H2-blocker, produced dose-dependent potentiation of withdrawal hypothermia and jumping. Cimetidine was without effect on wet-dog shakes, burrowing, and body weight loss. The effect of chlorpheniramine was investigated in mice injected with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) intracerebrally to examine whether histamine-mediated effects are some-how linked to noradrenergic pathways. Intracerebral injection of 6-OHDA in 5-day-old mice pups resulted in hyperlocomotion by the end of 30 days before initiation of morphine dependence. Mice pretreated with 6-OHDA developed a higher degree of naloxone-induced withdrawal jumping than nontreated mice. 6-OHDA (50 micrograms) lesions completely blocked the potentiating effect of chlorpheniramine on burrowing, hypothermia, and even reversed the effect on body weight loss. These findings suggest that both histamine H1- and H2-receptors may be involved in the expression of precipitated withdrawal in morphine-dependent mice and histamine receptors function as modulators of noradrenergic neurotransmission.
Methamphetamine (MA) abuse is associated with neurocognitive impairment. We investigated whether important aspects of social-cognitive function are similarly disrupted.
A total of 12 adults with a history of MA dependence (average duration of use, 3.9 years), currently engaged in rehabilitation and abstinent for an average period of 6 months, and 12 MA naive participants completed measures of facial affect recognition, theory of mind, executive function and memory.
MA users were impaired on the measures of facial affect recognition and theory of mind (ds = 1.75 and 2.32, respectively), with the magnitude of these deficits comparable or larger to those observed on the cognitive measures.
Social-cognitive difficulties are associated with MA use and have potentially important implications for rehabilitative practice.
Sulpiride (20 mg/kg/ip for 21 days) induced in female rats a significant body weight increase and hyperphagia. After drug withdrawal a significant hypophagia was observed. It is hypothesised that this hypophagia might be a spontaneous manifestation of D2 dopamine receptors supersensitivity, either in the perifornical region of the lateral hypothalamus or in the pituitary.
Cyclophosphamide treatment has been associated with bladder cancer in a number of case reports but no causal relationship has been proved since nearly all of these patients were treated with the drug for malignant disease. We describe a patient who received cyclophosphamide after cadaveric renal transplantation to prevent rejection. Transitional cell carcinoma developed in the native bladder and in the donor transplanted ureter (20-year-old donor) 13 years later despite no identifiable risk factors. This case strengthens the argument that cyclophosphamide has a carcinogenic potential on the urinary tract epithelium.
A 55-year-old woman with advanced rheumatoid arthritis developed rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis with epithelial crescents and pulmonary hemorrhage following treatment with D-penicillamine. D-penicillamine was then withdrawn and a pulse therapy with methylprednisolone halted the progression of kidney and lung damage. We review the other cases previously reported and discuss pathogenesis and treatment of this rare condition.
The teleost swim bladder is assumed a homolog of the tetrapod lung. Both swim bladder and lung are developmental targets of persistent aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR(2)) agonists; in zebrafish (Danio rerio) the swim bladder fails to inflate with exposure to 3,3',4,4',5-pentachlorobiphenyl (PCB126). The mechanism for this effect is unknown, but studies have suggested roles of cytochrome P450 1 (CYP1) and cyclooxygenase 2 (Cox-2) in some Ahr-mediated developmental effects in zebrafish. We determined relationships between swim bladder inflation and CYP1 and Cox-2 mRNA expression in PCB126-exposed zebrafish embryos. We also examined effects on β-catenin dependent transcription, histological effects, and Ahr2 dependence of the effect of PCB126 on swim bladder using morpholinos targeting ahr2. One-day-old embryos were exposed to waterborne PCB126 or carrier (DMSO) for 24h and then held in clean water until day 4, a normal time for swim bladder inflation. The effects of PCB126 were concentration-dependent with EC(50) values of 1.4 to 2.0 nM for induction of the CYP1s, 3.7 and 5.1 nM (or higher) for cox-2a and cox-2b induction, and 2.5 nM for inhibition of swim bladder inflation. Histological defects included a compaction of the developing bladder. Ahr2-morpholino treatment rescued the effect of PCB126 (5 nM) on swim bladder inflation and blocked induction of CYP1A, cox-2a, and cox-2b. With 2nM PCB126 approximately 30% of eleutheroembryos(3) failed to inflate the swim bladder, but there was no difference in CYP1 or cox-2 mRNA expression between those embryos and embryos showing inflated swim bladder. Our results indicate that PCB126 blocks swim bladder inflation via an Ahr2-mediated mechanism. This mechanism seems independent of CYP1 or cox-2 mRNA induction but may involve abnormal development of swim bladder cells.
It is known that the concentration of nerve growth factor (NGF) is increased in inflamed tissue, a phenomenon thought to induce long-lasting sensitization of afferent neurons. Although the effects of NGF may be of pathophysiological relevance, there is little known about the effects of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs on the inflammation-induced increase in NGF. In the present study, therefore, we used the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs indomethacin and sodium salicylate in carrageenan-induced rat paw inflammation, in order to compare their anti-inflammatory action (determined as inhibition of edema) with their effects on the concentration of NGF in inflamed tissue. Carrageenan-induced inflammation increased the concentration of NGF in the paw 2-fold compared to non-inflamed controls. Indomethacin (0.66-2 mg/kg) and sodium salicylate (100-300 mg/kg) inhibited carrageenan-induced paw edema and indomethacin also inhibited the ex-vivo release of immunoreactive prostaglandin E2 from inflamed paw skin. However, at these doses, neither anti-inflammatory agent reduced the elevated levels of NGF. In contrast, a supramaximal dose of indomethacin (6 mg/kg) partially inhibited, and dexamethasone completely prevented the carrageenan-induced increase in NGF. These results suggest that the anti-inflammatory potency of drugs as determined in the carrageenan edema model is not necessarily predictive for their ability to inhibit the NGF response. It seems possible, therefore, that even if anti-inflammatory treatment prevents the appearance of visible signs of inflammation, there may be still long-lasting effects of NGF on the phenotype of primary afferent neurons.
Gated radionuclide ventriculograms were performed to evaluate cardiac function in 53 patients who received doxorubicin treatment for various malignancies (mean dose: 449 +/- 128 mg/m2 BSA). In fourteen patients (Group I) function was evaluated before and after treatment; there was a significant decrease of resting left ventricular ejection fraction after therapy (p less than 0.001). Twenty-two patients (Group II) had serial studies during treatment which also showed a significant fall of resting left ventricular ejection fraction (p less than 0.001). Eighteen patients in Groups I and II had supine exercise studies. A normal exercise response was maintained in the majority of patients. Exercise testing added little to the diagnostic performance when compared to serial resting studies. We found regional wall motion abnormalities (mild apical hypokinesis) at rest by visual inspection in 33 of 36 Group I and Group II patients who had received doxorubicin. In the baseline or initial study, only 4 of these patients demonstrated WMA. In 18 Group I and II patients who were exercised, 3 had wall motion abnormalities during the initial study. All of these patients demonstrated wall motion abnormalities at rest after the second study, however only 7 of 18 demonstrated abnormalities during the exercise study. The results indicate that resting left ventricular ejection fraction declines after doxorubicin treatment. Exercise radionuclide angiography may not increase diagnostic accuracy for the detection of doxorubicin related cardiotoxicity. Regional wall motion abnormalities occur with a relatively high incidence following doxorubicin therapy, more readily detectable at rest. However, the exercise study can distinguish doxorubicin related wall motion abnormalities from those due to coronary artery disease.
A skin ulcer of the lateral malleous developed in a 61-year-old man receiving hydroxyurea for essential thrombocythemia. In the past, skin ulcers have been reported in patients with chronic myeloproliferative diseases, including essential thrombocythemia, who had been treated with hydroxyurea. In the current case, vasculitis or thrombi in vessels of the biopsied specimen of the lower leg were not observed, and the patient required skin-graft operation. Accordingly, we concluded that the skin ulcer might be due to the administration of hydroxyurea. Thus, the dose of hydroxyurea was decreased.
