We investigated the kinetic parameters of serotonin (5-HT) uptake into platelets in a group of 26 drug-naïve patients suffering from major depression before and after 3-7 weeks of treatment with citalopram. The degree of depression was rated using the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS). The 5-HT uptake characteristics in untreated depressive patients were not significantly different from those of normal subjects. The apparent Michaelis constant (K(M)) was significantly increased, the apparent maximal velocity (V(max)) was not different from baseline, and the uptake efficiency (V(max)/K(M)) was significantly decreased after citalopram treatment. A significantly positive correlation between K(M) and V(max) was found in all groups. There was a significantly lower V(max) and V(max)/K(M) in the female compared with the male depressed patients before citalopram treatment; a hypothesis was supported that lowered 5-HT uptake may reflect a gender-linked vulnerability to a serotonin-related depression. A significant negative correlation between 5-HT uptake efficiency and the initial HDRS score suggests that platelet 5-HT uptake can be used as a marker of effective depressive disorder pharmacotherapy. The initial severity of depression was significantly negatively correlated with V(max), which supported a hypothesis that the initial severity of depressive disorder could be related to the lower V(max).
Hematoporphyrin derivative photodynamic therapy has very important clinical applicability in the diagnosis and treatment of transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder, but many aspects of the photodynamic process are yet to be elucidated. This paper investigates the role of dihematoporphyrin ether (DHE) concentration, the duration of light exposure, and the initial size of the tumors in the treatment of a transplantable murine transitional cell tumor system. The best results were noted in tumors less than six mm. in diameter when treated with 15 mg./kg. DHE and exposed to 100 to 180 minutes of visible light. Animals with small initial tumor size combined with higher DHE concentration and longer light exposure time were most likely to show tumor response.
Patients with previously untreated category T3 to T4 Mo or Ml prostatic cancer were allocated randomly to receive 250 mg. cyproterone acetate per day, a loading dose of 500 mg. medroxyprogesterone acetate intramuscularly 3 times weekly for 8 weeks followed by 100 mg. orally twice daily, or 1 mg. diethylstilbestrol 3 times daily in a phase III trial (protocol 30761) performed by the genitourinary tract cooperative group of the European Organization for Research on the Treatment of Cancer. Of 236 patients entered 210 were eligible: 75 received cyproterone acetate, 71 medroxyprogesterone acetate and 64 diethylstilbestrol. Local and distant tumor response, time to progression, survival and toxicity were assessed. Patients treated with medroxyprogesterone acetate had a less favorable course with a shorter duration of survival and time to progression than those treated with the other 2 drugs. There was no significant difference between diethylstilbestrol and cyproterone acetate. Cardiovascular side effects were reported more often in patients treated with diethylstilbestrol than in those treated with cyproterone acetate but severe and lethal cardiovascular toxicity was relatively low in all groups. Other side effects were negligible. Further studies are required to establish the influence of effective hormonal treatment upon survival.
The occurrence of intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR) is higher in infants born to mothers exposed to cadmium (Cd2+) through environmental sources such as smoking and industrial work. A contributing factor of IUGR is improper placentation. The human placenta is established through the function of a specialized group of cells known as extravillous trophoblast (EVT). Paramount among the abilities of these cells is the capacity to migrate and invade into the endometrial wall of the uterus in order to anchor the placenta and access the maternal blood supply. EVT cell migration is regulated by interactions of a number of autocrine and paracrine factors with their respective receptors on the trophoblast. In order to investigate potential involvement of environmental exposure relevant concentrations of Cd2+ exposure on placental function, we measured the effects of 0.5-1 μmol/L CdCl2 on cellular migration in an immortalized human trophoblast cell line, HTR-8/SVneo. We found that these concentrations of CdCl2 kept the cells viable until at least 48 h and didn't affect basal migratory capacity but eliminated cell migration induced by IGF-II, or PGE2 or uPA-ATF. In addition, the presence of CdCl2 resulted in filamentous actin disorganization of the trophoblast cells. However, pre-incubations of the cells with zinc-chloride (ZnCl2), or caspase inhibitor (CI-1) resulted in reversal of ligand-dependent cellular migration and actin disorganization. These findings suggest that low concentrations of Cd2+, though do not affect trophoblast cell survival can interfere with ligand-induced trophoblast cell migration by affecting actin cytoskeletal organization possibly through activation of caspase(s).
This paper describes an experimental model of autoimmune hemolytic anemia induced with multiple injections of levodopa. The serum antibodies were detected by indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and autoantibodies bound to syngeneic erythrocytes were detected by direct ELISA. A strain of mice injected with levodopa, at doses which are approximately equivalent to those used in human therapy, developed early and late cycles of IgM and IgG anti-mouse red blood cell (MRBC) autoantibody responses. These responses were followed by binding of IgM and IgG autoantibodies to the syngeneic erythrocytes and by two phases of anemia. Different strains of mice exhibited different sensitivities to Levodopa treatment, suggesting that genetic factors affect the anti-MRBC autoantibody response to levodopa. Indirect ELISA revealed that mice subjected to both X-irradiation (250 rad) and levodopa treatment had higher levels of IgG anti-MRBC autoantibodies than mice subjected to levodopa treatment alone, suggesting that a radiosensitive suppressor mechanism controls the autoantibody response. The autoantibodies induced with levodopa exhibited an unrestricted specificity and retained significant activity after absorption of MRBC. Serum autoantibodies were also detected by indirect ELISA in the sera of normal mice. This "natural" autoimmunity was mouse strain dependent and was possibly further influenced by environmental factors. The various implications of this model of autoimmune hemolytic anemia are discussed.
The metabolism of GABA and other amino acids was studied in the substantia nigra, the hippocampus and the parietal cortex of rats following microinjections of GAMMA-vinyl-GABA during status epilepticus induced by lithium and pilocarpine. GABA metabolism showed striking regional variations. In controls, both GABA concentration and rate of GABA synthesis were highest in the substantia nigra and lowest in cortex, as expected. In substantia nigra, status epilepticus resulted in a 2 1/2 fold decline in the rate of GABA synthesis and in a 307% increase in the turnover time of the GABA pool. In hippocampus, the rate of GABA synthesis was not altered significantly, but the turnover time of the GABA pool was 284% of controls, and the size of that pool increased to 208% of controls. By contrast, in cortex, where seizure activity is limited in this model, the rate of GABA synthesis increased to 230% of controls while pool size and turnover time did not change. Aspartate concentration decreased in all three brain regions. These data suggest that the observed reduction of the rate of GABA synthesis in substantia nigra could play a key role in seizure spread in this model of status epilepticus.
The relationship between prenatal cocaine use and preschooler's physical and cognitive development and behavioral characteristics was examined, controlling for other influences on child development. On average, children were 38.5 months old, women were 29.4 years old, had 12.3 years of education, and 47% were African American. During the first trimester, 18% of the women were frequent cocaine users (> or = 1 line/day). First trimester cocaine exposure predicted decreased head circumference at 3 years and lower scores on the short-term memory subscale of the Stanford-Binet Intelligence Scale (SBIS) [74]. There was no significant relationship between prenatal cocaine use and the other SBIS scales. First trimester cocaine use also predicted more total, internalizing, and externalizing behavior problems on the Child Behavior Checklist [3] and higher scores on the fussy/difficult scale of the Infant Characteristics Questionnaire [6]. Children who were exposed to cocaine throughout pregnancy had more behavior problems and were more fussy compared to children of women who never used cocaine prenatally. A repeated measures analysis showed that children of first trimester cocaine users became more fussy over time. These detrimental effects on growth and behavior are consistent with other reports in the literature and with the hypothesis that prenatal cocaine exposure affects development through changes in neurotransmitter systems.
The ability of Lys49 and Asp49 phospholipases A(2) (PLA(2)), from Bothrops asper snake venom, to cause hyperalgesia was investigated in rats, using the paw pressure test. Intraplantar injection of both toxins (5-20 micro g/paw) caused hyperalgesia, which peaked 1h after injections. Incubation of both proteins with heparin, prior to their injection, partially reduced this response. Chemical modification of Asp49 PLA(2) with p-bromophenacyl bromide (p-BPB), which abrogates its PLA(2) activity, also abolished hyperalgesia. Intraplantar injection of a synthetic peptide corresponding to the C-terminal sequence 115-129 of Lys49 PLA(2), caused hyperalgesia of similar time course, but varying magnitude, than that induced by the native protein. In contrast, a homologous peptide derived from the Asp49 PLA(2) did not show any nociceptive effect. Hyperalgesia induced by both PLA(2)s was blocked by the histamine and serotonin receptor antagonists promethazine and methysergide, respectively, by the bradykinin B(2) receptor antagonist HOE 140 and by antibodies to tumor necrosis factor alfa (TNFalpha) and interleukin 1 (IL-1). Pretreatment with guanethidine, atenolol, prazosin and yohimbine, inhibitors of sympathomimetic amines, or with indomethacin, inhibitor of the cyclo-oxygenase pathway, reduced Lys49 PLA(2)-induced hyperalgesia without interfering with the nociceptive activity of Asp49 PLA(2). The hyperalgesic response to both myotoxins was not modified by pretreatment with celecoxib, an inhibitor of the cyclo-oxygenase type II, by zileuton, an inhibitor of the lipoxygenase pathway or by N(g)-methyl-L-arginine (LNMMA), an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase. These results suggest that Asp49 and Lys49 PLA(2)s are important hyperalgesic components of B. asper venom, and that Lys49 and Asp49 PLA(2)s exert their algogenic actions through different molecular mechanisms.
Substance P and its receptor (NK1) are thought to play an important role in pain and hyperalgesia. Here we have further examined this role by comparing the behavioural responses to intradermal capsaicin of mutant mice with a disruption of the NK1 receptor (NK1 KO) and wild-type (WT) mice. We have also evaluated the contribution of peripheral NK1 receptors to capsaicin-evoked behaviour by selective blockade of peripheral NK1 receptors in WT mice using a non-brain penetrant NK1 receptor antagonist. Injection of 6 microg capsaicin into the heel evoked paw licking with the same latency in WT and KO mice, but a significantly longer duration in WT mice. A higher dose (30 microg) evoked a similar duration of licking in both groups. There were no differences in mechanical sensitivity tested with von Frey hairs between WT and KO mice before capsaicin. Both capsaicin doses resulted in pronounced increases in responses to von Frey hairs (hyperalgesia) and novel responses to cotton wisps (allodynia) applied to the digits of the injected paw in WT mice, but no significant changes from baseline in KO mice. Selective blockade of peripheral NK1 receptors in WT mice resulted in a complete inhibition of capsaicin-evoked plasma extravasation, but the mechanical hyperalgesia induced by 30 microg capsaicin intraplantar was still significantly greater than that seen in KO mice. We conclude that the response to intradermal capsaicin is still present but abbreviated in mice lacking NK1 receptors, such that secondary hyperalgesia is not observed even after a high dose. Further, the lack of secondary hyperalgesia in NK1 KO mice is largely due to the loss of central rather than peripheral NK1 receptors. The phenotype of the NK1 KO mice is consistent with a loss of function of mechanically-insensitive nociceptors, and thus we propose that substance P may be expressed by this group of primary sensory neurones and required for their function.
The frequency of side effects of a nonionic contrast agent (iohexol) was studied in 463 consecutive patients who underwent venography for clinically suspected deep-vein thrombosis (DVT) and compared with the frequency of adverse reactions of another series in which patients received either the same contrast material or a high-osmolar ionic compound. Minor side effects, including local pain and discomfort, nausea and vomiting, dizziness, skin reactions, superficial phlebitis, and edema, occurred in 83 patients (17.9%; 95% confidence interval [CI], 15%-22%). The only serious adverse reaction (bronchospasm) was seen in two patients (0.4%; 95% CI, 0.1%-1.4%). Postvenographic thrombosis confirmed by means of repeat venography occurred in one of 41 consecutive patients with a previous normal venogram (incidence, 2%; 95% CI, 0%-13%). The frequency of side effects appears to be significantly less than when conventional high-osmolar contrast agents are used. Use of iohexol for venography is associated with minor side effects in approximately one-fifth of patients, and serious adverse reactions necessitating therapy are rare.
Doxorubicin-induced nephropathy leads to epithelial sodium channel (ENaC)-dependent volume retention and renal fibrosis. The aldosterone-sensitive serum- and glucocorticoid-inducible kinase SGK1 has been shown to participate in the stimulation of ENaC and to mediate renal fibrosis following mineralocorticoid and salt excess. The present study was performed to elucidate the role of SGK1 in the volume retention and fibrosis during nephrotic syndrome. To this end, doxorubicin (15 mug/g body wt) was injected intravenously into gene-targeted mice lacking SGK1 (sgk1(-/-)) and their wild-type littermates (sgk1(+/+)). Doxorubicin treatment resulted in heavy proteinuria (>100 mg protein/mg crea) in 15/44 of sgk1(+/+) and 15/44 of sgk1(-/-) mice leading to severe nephrotic syndrome with ascites, lipidemia, and hypoalbuminemia in both genotypes. Plasma aldosterone levels increased in nephrotic mice of both genotypes and was followed by increased SGK1 protein expression in sgk1(+/+) mice. Urinary sodium excretion reached signficantly lower values in sgk1(+/+) mice (15 +/- 5 mumol/mg crea) than in sgk1(-/-) mice (35 +/- 5 mumol/mg crea) and was associated with a significantly higher body weight gain in sgk1(+/+) compared with sgk1(-/-) mice (+6.6 +/- 0.7 vs. +4.1 +/- 0.8 g). During the course of nephrotic syndrome, serum urea concentrations increased significantly faster in sgk1(-/-) mice than in sgk1(+/+) mice leading to uremia and a reduced median survival in sgk1(-/-) mice (29 vs. 40 days in sgk1(+/+) mice). In conclusion, gene-targeted mice lacking SGK1 showed blunted volume retention, yet were not protected against renal fibrosis during experimental nephrotic syndrome.
Pymetrozine inhibits feeding in aphids immediately after application without producing visible neurotoxic effects, as previously reported. In the present work, Locusta migratoria, though not a plant-sucking insect, was found to respond to pymetrozine by displaying unique symptoms, which were lifting and stretching of the hindlegs, in addition to inhibition of feeding. In locust, pymetrozine enhanced spontaneous spike discharge of the metathoracic and suboesophageal ganglia in situ at nanomolar concentrations. Similarly, pymetrozine increased the spontaneous rhythmic contractions of the isolated foregut with maximal effects also in the nanomolar range. The actions of pymetrozine were counteracted by biogenic amine receptor antagonists and mimicked by serotonin, not by dopamine and octopamine. Moreover, pymetrozine and serotonin strongly potentiated the effects of each other. Pymetrozine was inactive at all neurotransmitter receptors present on isolated locust neuronal somata, and at all other examined neuronal sites. In Myzus persicae, electrical penetration graph experiments revealed that serotonin, like pymetrozine, inhibited stylet penetration, and strongly enhanced the action of pymetrozine, comparable to the locust. Amine receptor antagonists were not specifically active in the aphid. We conclude from the present results that pymetrozine acts via a novel mechanism that is linked to the signalling pathway of serotonin.
The unusual occurrence of microcytic anemia with hypochromia, high iron blood levels and excess of sideroblasts in the bone marrow, observed during the treatment of tuberculosis with isoniazid and rifampicine is reported. Three particularities were noted. First, in our experience, the occurrence of this type of anemia has never been noted previously as a result of these two drugs. Secondly, the improvement of the blood abnormalities was obtained by the combined use of vitamin B6 and vitamin C. Thirdly, the anemia was associated with neuropathy, characterized by areflexia and dysesthesia, which improved with vitamin B6 therapy (but not with vitamin C). Some mechanisms are discussed as being possibly the origin of this kind of anemia, particularly a lack of vitamin B6 resulting from a massive urinary loss of pyridoxal induced by isoniazid as well as both a tissue depletion and an overconsumption of this vitamin. The anemia may be the consequence of a deficiency of hemoglobin synthesis involving probably the first step of the biosynthesis of heme.
To evaluate the systemic hemodynamics and electrophysiology effect of intravenous and oral sotalol and its tolerance of long-term oral therapy in patients with life-threatening ventricular tachyarrhythmias.
Twenty-three patients, 17 with sustained ventricular tachycardias (VTs), 6 with ventricular fibrillation (VF) were studied. 16 patients were postmyocardial infarction, 4 were right ventricular dysplasia and 3 were dilated cardiomyopathy.
Sotalol prevented the induction of arrhythmias in 34.3% with bolus intravenous injection (1 mg/kg body weight) and 60.8% with oral (160 mg twice daily for 10 to 14 days). Both intravenous and oral sotalol led to bradycardia, decreased in cardiac index, increased in left ventricular filling pressure as well as in systemic vascular resistance. The stroke volume increased significantly after sotalol intravenous, but not changed at peak action after oral sotalol. During a follow-up of 3 to 6 months, oral sotalol prevented the recurrent of arrhythmias in 12 of 16 patients who were response to electrophysiology testing. Congestive heart failure associated with a marked bradycardia developed in one patient. This patient was managed with a reduction in the dosage and with a regimen of digoxin and furosemide.
Sotalol provided effective prophylaxis against life- threatening Ventricular tachyarrhythmias. It exerted significant negative hemodynamics effects but with quite good clinical tolerance, even in patients with compromised heart function.
To explore the possible mechanism of benazepril in diminishing the progression of the renal diseases.
Experimental glomerulosclerosis in rats was induced by adriamycin. The treated group was given benazepril (4 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1)). Intrarenal angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) activity and angiotensin II (AngII) concentration were measured with colorimetry and radioimmunoassay respectively. Immunohistochemistry staining was employed for transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF beta1) and extracellular matrix (ECM) examination. To observe the expression of TGFbeta1 mRNA in the kidney, in situ hybridization was performed.
In the rats treated with benazeapril, ACE activity and Ang II concentration in renal tissue were significantly inhibited. In the meantime, expression of TGFbeta1 mRNA and TGFbeta1 protein were down-regulated, accompanied by decreasing accumulation of ECM (compared with the untreated rats, P < 0.01).
Benazepril plays an important role in down-regulating the expression of TGFbeta1 and decreasing the accumulation of ECM by blocking intrarenal renin-angiotensin system.
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is the most common form of human lymphoma. Although a number of structural alterations have been associated with the pathogenesis of this malignancy, the full spectrum of genetic lesions that are present in the DLBCL genome, and therefore the identity of dysregulated cellular pathways, remains unknown. By combining next-generation sequencing and copy number analysis, we show that the DLBCL coding genome contains, on average, more than 30 clonally represented gene alterations per case. This analysis also revealed mutations in genes not previously implicated in DLBCL pathogenesis, including those regulating chromatin methylation (MLL2; 24% of samples) and immune recognition by T cells. These results provide initial data on the complexity of the DLBCL coding genome and identify novel dysregulated pathways underlying its pathogenesis.
To investigate if 50% nitrous oxide reduces the pain during injection of propofol mixed with lidocaine in children.
Healthy children undergoing iv induction of general anesthesia for elective surgery were recruited into this prospective, randomized, double-blind study. None of the patients received any premedication except for eutectic mixture of local anesthetics cream. Before induction of anesthesia with propofol 1% mixed with lidocaine 0.05% (propofol dose 3 mg x kg(-1)), the treatment group received 50% N(2)O in O(2) and the control group received 100% oxygen. Pain due to propofol administration was rated with a four-point behavioural scale: none, mild, moderate or severe.
There were 28 subjects in the control group and 26 subjects in the treatment group. Demographic data were similar in both groups. The incidence of pain at induction was 4% after N(2)O and 36% in the control group, P < 0.01. No patients had severe pain. Most patients had mild pain. Three of the ten patients with pain in the control group had moderate pain. The number needed to treat was 3:1.
Nitrous oxide reduces pain during induction with propofol mixed with lidocaine in healthy children.
The effects of Ro 15-4513 in preventing cocaine and combined cocaine-ethanol toxicities were examined in mice. Ro 15-4513 is a partial inverse agonist of benzodiazepine receptors, which has been implicated in ethanol lethality and cocaine-induced seizures. Ro 15-4513 (5 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg, or 15 mg/kg) was administered intraperitoneally 10 min before the administration of saline and cocaine (75 mg/kg) in the cocaine groups, or before ethanol (3 g/kg) and cocaine (75 mg/kg) in the cocaine-ethanol groups. In both cocaine and cocaine-ethanol groups, two distinct groups of dead animals meeting the same criteria, the IL (immediate lethal) and DL (delayed lethal) groups, could be differentiated, depending on their survival times, observed disorders, and drug levels at the time of death. Differences in the seizure scores further subdivided the two groups. Ro 15-4513 protected mainly against the immediate lethality in the cocaine groups and mainly against the delayed lethality in the cocaine-ethanol groups. The dose of Ro 15-4513 providing the maximal protection against the lethal effects of these drugs was 10 mg/kg in the cocaine groups, and 5 mg/kg in the cocaine-ethanol groups. The sum of the lethalities was still higher with the maximal effective dose of Ro 15-4513 in the cocaine-ethanol groups than in the cocaine groups. In the cocaine-ethanol groups, 5 mg/kg of Ro 15-4513 attenuated both brain and liver cocaethylene levels. Cocaine-induced seizures were also attenuated by any dose of Ro 15-4513 used in the cocaine groups. Although some discrepancies were observed in the protective properties, some validity for the use of Ro 15-4513, a drug with more than one mode of protective action, was demonstrated in this study.
The identification of oncogenic genomic alterations is expected to facilitate the development of new molecularly targeted therapies for cancer. EML4 (echinoderm microtubule-associated protein-like 4)-ALK (anaplastic lymphoma kinase) was recently identified as a transforming fusion gene in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). A small-molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor of ALK, crizotinib, shows pronounced clinical activity in the treatment of patients with NSCLC positive for EML4-ALK, and it has rapidly entered into daily clinical practice. This review focuses on the biology and clinical features of, as well as diagnostic testing for, EML4-ALK-positive NSCLC. Current data on the efficacy and toxicity of crizotinib are also examined, and future directions for the treatment of NSCLC positive for ALK rearrangement are addressed.
Changes in rat liver oxidative stress-related parameters, morphological alterations, as well as circulating and tissue levels of lindane were studied 1-7 days after the administration of a single dose of 60 mg of lindane/kg. One day after lindane treatment, a significant enhancement in the oxidative stress status of the liver was observed, characterized by an increase in thiobarbituric acid reactants production and in the microsomal generation of superoxide radical (O.-2) coupled to cytochrome P450 induction, and a decrement in the activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase. Consequently, the O.-2 production/SOD activity ratio was enhanced two-fold. In this condition, light microscopy studies revealed the incidence of liver lesions in periportal areas, together with significant changes at the mitochondrial level observed by electron microscopy, which coincide with the maximal levels of lindane in the liver, adipose tissue, plasma and whole blood. Changes in oxidative stress-related parameters observed after 1 day of lindane treatment regressed to normal from the third day and thereafter, together with the decrement in circulating and tissue levels of the insecticide. It is concluded that morphological and oxidative stress-related changes induced in the liver by acute lindane intoxication are readily reversible, depend on the hepatic content of the insecticide, and seem to be conditioned by the changes in O.-2 generation.
We investigated the usefulness of serum cardiac Troponin T (cTnT) to detect doxorubicin related cardiotoxicity as a non-invasive and reliable method.
Twenty-four patients who received doxorubicin for their solid tumors at cumulative doses of 400 mg/m(2) or higher, between June 1982 and August 2000, were included in this study. None of them had clinical signs or symptoms of cardiotoxicity. The age range was 3-31 years (median 14), and male to female ratio was 14/10. The systolic and diastolic cardiac functions were evaluated by two-dimensional, M-mode, and Doppler echocardiography. Serum cTnT levels were measured by a third generation immunoassay method and the lowest detectable level was 0.010 ng/ml.
The cumulative doxorubicin doses were at the range of 400 and 840 mg/m(2) (median 480). The time past from the last doxorubicin dose was 1-168 months (median 12). All of the patients had normal chest X-rays, electrocardiograms, and nine patients (37.5%) had abnormal systolic or diastolic cardiac function parameters. The median cumulative doxorubicin doses of the patients with normal and abnormal echocardiographic parameters were 480 and 440 mg/m(2), respectively. Serum cTnT values of 21 patients were below the detection limit (< 0.010 ng/ml). There was no statistical difference between serum cTnT levels of the patients with normal and abnormal echocardiographic findings (P = 0.376).
No correlation was found between serum cTnT values, cumulative doxorubicin doses, and systolic or diastolic cardiac functions. We can conclude that echocardiographic follow-up is more reliable than serum cTnT levels for detecting subclinical cardiac toxicity.
Tuberculosis, which is caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis, remains one of the leading causes of mortality worldwide. The C-type lectin DC-SIGN is known to be the major M. tuberculosis receptor on human dendritic cells. We reasoned that if DC-SIGN interacts with M. tuberculosis, as well as with other pathogens, variation in this gene might have a broad range of influence in the pathogenesis of a number of infectious diseases, including tuberculosis.
We tested whether polymorphisms in CD209, the gene encoding DC-SIGN, are associated with susceptibility to tuberculosis through sequencing and genotyping analyses in a South African cohort. After exclusion of significant population stratification in our cohort, we observed an association between two CD209 promoter variants (-871G and -336A) and decreased risk of developing tuberculosis. By looking at the geographical distribution of these variants, we observed that their allelic combination is mainly confined to Eurasian populations.
Our observations suggest that the two -871G and -336A variants confer protection against tuberculosis. In addition, the geographic distribution of these two alleles, together with their phylogenetic status, suggest that they may have increased in frequency in non-African populations as a result of host genetic adaptation to a longer history of exposure to tuberculosis. Further characterization of the biological consequences of DC-SIGN variation in tuberculosis will be crucial to better appreciate the role of this lectin in interactions between the host immune system and the tubercle bacillus as well as other pathogens.
Children treated for Hodgkin disease are at risk for gonadal damage. Since most children were treated with radiotherapy (RT) in combination with chemotherapy, the presumed detrimental effect of MOPP (mustine, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone) (in contrast to schemes with less or without alkylating agents) could not be discerned completely from the effects of RT.
Children with Hodgkins disease treated without RT were included in sequential protocols containing six courses of MOPP (n = 24), six courses of ABVD (doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine) (n = 17), or three courses of MOPP/ABVD (n = 35). Of these 76 patients, 48, who had completed treatment and had reached puberty, were investigated for gonadal damage.
Of the male patients, 81% of MOPP treated patients had increased follicular stimulating hormone (FSH) values, in 23% luteinizing hormone (LH) values were abnormal. In ABVD treated patients, no elevated levels of FSH or LH were noted. In 30% of patients treated with MOPP/ABVD, FSH values were abnormal, but no abnormal LH values were found. Median testicular volume per group decreased in relation to a higher number of MOPP courses. Sperm analysis revealed azoospermia in nearly all MOPP treated patients. In ABVD and MOPP/ABVD treated patients both oligospermia and azoospermia were noted. The number of sperm samples were too less to make any sound conclusions. Menarche occurred in all females, however in some at a relatively later age. One female patient treated with MOPP/ABVD had a normal pregnancy.
Limitation of MOPP therapy to three courses, in children treated without any RT, results in less gonadal damage as compared with six MOPP courses. From our data, MOPP damages Sertoli cells and may also damage Leydig cells as suggested by the higher LH values in conjunction with normal testosterone levels.
Arachidonic acid metabolites, some of which may activate thromboxane A(2) receptors (TPr) and contribute to the development of diabetes complications, including nephropathy, are elevated in diabetes. This study determined the effect of blocking TPr with S18886 or inhibiting cyclooxygenase with aspirin on oxidative stress and the early stages of nephropathy in streptozotocin-induced diabetic apolipoprotein E(-/-) mice. Diabetic mice were treated with S18886 (5 mg . kg(-1) . day(-1)) or aspirin (30 mg . kg(-1) . day(-1)) for 6 weeks. Neither S18886 nor aspirin affected hyperglycemia or hypercholesterolemia. There was intense immunohistochemical staining for nitrotyrosine in diabetic mouse kidney. In addition, a decrease in manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) activity was associated with an increase in MnSOD tyrosine-34 nitration. Tyrosine nitration was significantly reduced by S18886 but not by aspirin. Staining for the NADPH oxidase subunit p47(phox), inducible nitric oxide synthase, and 12-lipoxygenase was increased in diabetic mouse kidney, as were urine levels of 12-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid and 8-iso-prostaglandin F(2alpha). S18886 attenuated all of these markers of oxidant stress and inflammation. Furthermore, S18886 significantly attenuated microalbuminuria in diabetic mice and ameliorated histological evidence of diabetic nephropathy, including transforming growth factor-beta and extracellular matrix expression. Thus, in contrast to inhibiting cyclooxygenase, blockade of TPr may have therapeutic potential in diabetic nephropathy, in part by attenuating oxidative stress.
We previously proposed that the production of hyperglycemia-induced mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (mtROS) is a key event in the development of diabetes complications. The association between the pathogenesis of diabetes and its complications and mitochondrial biogenesis has been recently reported. Because metformin has been reported to exert a possible additional benefit in preventing diabetes complications, we investigated the effect of metformin and 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide ribonucleoside (AICAR) on mtROS production and mitochondrial biogenesis in cultured human umbilical vein endothelial cells. Treatment with metformin and AICAR inhibited hyperglycemia-induced intracellular and mtROS production, stimulated AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activity, and increased the expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated response-gamma coactivator-1alpha (PGC-1alpha) and manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) mRNAs. The dominant negative form of AMPKalpha1 diminished the effects of metformin and AICAR on these events, and an overexpression of PGC-1alpha completely blocked the hyperglycemia-induced mtROS production. In addition, metformin and AICAR increased the mRNA expression of nuclear respiratory factor-1 and mitochondrial DNA transcription factor A (mtTFA) and stimulated the mitochondrial proliferation. Dominant negative-AMPK also reduced the effects of metformin and AICAR on these observations. These results suggest that metformin normalizes hyperglycemia-induced mtROS production by induction of MnSOD and promotion of mitochondrial biogenesis through the activation of AMPK-PGC-1alpha pathway.
Recent attention has been drawn to the diagnostic potential of tests based on shed colonic tumor markers. Adnab-9 monoclonal antibody raised against neoplastic, potentially premalignant colonic adenomas recognizes a marker in colonic effluent or tissue which correlates with the presence of tumors or risk of colorectal cancer. The origin of this antigen and optimal collection of colonic effluent were investigated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and Western blotting. Mean Adnab-9 binding in effluent samples from colorectal cancer patients even after resection is high as compared with that in normal subjects (P < 0.05). Effluent samples are best collected in the morning hours. Antigen proteolysis may be significant depending on the site and timing of effluent collection, but breakdown products are reactive. Tissue and effluent Adnab-9 binding at any one anatomic site of collection appear to correlate (r = 0.88, P = 0.01). The Adnab-9 antigen is constitutively expressed at low levels throughout the distal bowel and localized to the deepest regions of the mucosal crypts. Other than meconium, no significant levels of binding are found in other body fluids. This antigen is specific for the gastrointestinal tract, its binding in conveniently collected effluent samples correlates with tissue content, and the antigen is constitutively expressed in the crypts of the distal small bowel and colonic mucosa.
