The effect of theophylline (5, 15, or 30 mg/kg sc) on the catalepsy induced by haloperidol in the rat was studied. Theophylline was shown to induce a dose-dependent inhibition of this catalepsy. These data support the hypothesis that the methylxanthines are dopamine agonists and suggest that coffee, tea, and cola drinks should be avoided by patients undergoing neuroleptic treatment.
Therapeutic drugs are well-recognized as a cause of the nephrotic syndrome in humans. However, documentation of the renal histopathologic features is lacking or incomplete in many cases. Even when accurate histopathologic information is available, there is little evidence to support a specific pathogenetic mechanism of renal injury in the vast majority of cases. We describe a patient with diabetes who had hepatitis and dermatitis in association with the use of chlorpropamide. In addition to these well-described toxic reactions to this drug, the nephrotic syndrome developed. Renal biopsy revealed the presence of a proliferative glomerulonephritis that was shown to be of an immune complex nature on immunofluorescence and electronmicroscopic study. Serial serum complement levels and circulating immune complex levels were consistent with an immunologically mediated reaction. Repeated renal biopsy documented resolution of the renal changes. Thus, in this patient, a drug-induced nephrotic syndrome was associated with a proliferative glomerulonephritis, probably due to the formation of immune complexes.
These studies were designed to assess the pharmacodynamic interaction between formoterol and beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) in controlling the bronchoconstriction and inflammatory response induced by various challenges in guinea-pigs and rats. In anaesthetised guinea-pigs, superfusion of the formoterol/BDP combination into the tracheal lumen had significantly more effect than the single components in antagonising the bronchoconstricting and inflammatory responses to acetylcholine or ovalbumin in a standard model of airway hyper-responsiveness. After ovalbumin challenge, the combination completely protected animals from death at doses lower than those effective when given separately. The combination, at doses ineffective individually, even counteracted the development of lung oedema induced by sephadex in the rat. Finally, in tracheal strips from ovalbumin-sensitised guinea-pigs pre-treatment with BDP (30 mg kg(-1) i.m.) completely reversed the rightward shift of the formoterol dose-response curve due to beta(2)-receptor desensitisation. In conclusion, these results indicate that formoterol and BDP together induce a favourable pharmacodynamic interaction which can be considered more than additive, at least in these experimental settings.
A 43-year-old woman with advanced pulmonary blastoma was admitted for worsening back pain. Her drug regimen included hydromorphone and benazepril. On admission, hydromorphone patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) was started for acute pain control and dexamethasone for possible cord compression. Baseline laboratory tests were unremarkable, but magnetic resonance imaging revealed T3 and L3 lesions. Irradiation was started with improvement in her pain. In anticipation of discharge, a fentanyl transdermal patch was given, and PCA was tapered. Two days later, the patient became progressively confused and fell. Neurologic examination and computed brain tomography were normal. Her serum sodium was 119 mEq/L (normal 136-144 mEq/L) and was confirmed on repeat testing, urine sodium was 194 mEq/L, and urine and serum osmolalities were 554 mOsm/kg (normal 300-900 mOsm/kg) and 245 mOsm/kg (normal 280-300 mOsm/kg), respectively, consistent with the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). Fluids were restricted, hydromorphone PCA was started again, and fentanyl was discontinued. After 36 hours, her serum sodium increased to 136 mEq/L. Because we were unsure whether the fentanyl or her cancer was causative and were unable to find any published reports of fentanyl-associated SIADH, we readministered the fentanyl patch 2 days later. Within 48 hours, serum sodium dropped to 123 mEq/L. Fentanyl was discontinued, fluids were restricted, and 3% saline was started. Her serum sodium increased to 132 mEq/L in 48 hours. The patient was prescribed oral hydromorphone and benazepril and was discharged. The repeated temporal relationship between the administration of fentanyl and the onset of SIADH strongly implicates fentanyl as the causative agent in this case. To our knowledge, this is the first report of fentanyl-associated SIADH.
Drug-induced leukoencephalopathy is a devastating adverse event that can cause significant morbidity and mortality. Risk factors include advanced age, administration of certain chemotherapies, presence of an Ommaya device, central nervous system malignancy, and most important, exposure to cranial radiation. A 73-year-old woman developed leukoencephalopathy 2 months after her last dose of intraventricular methotrexate. Although leukoencephalopathy is a severe adverse effect of the agent, her case is different because it occurred without prior exposure to cranial radiation.
Nicotine, the addictive component of cigarettes, promotes lung cancer proliferation via the α7-nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (α7-nAChR) subtype. The present manuscript explores the effect of nicotine exposure on α7-nAChR levels in squamous cell carcinoma of the lung (SCC-L) in vitro and in vivo. Nicotine (at concentrations present in the plasma of average smokers) increased α7-nAChR levels in human SCC-L cell lines. Nicotine-induced up-regulation of α7-nAChR was confirmed in vivo by chicken chorioallantoic membrane models. We also observed that the levels of α7-nAChR in human SCC-L tumors (isolated from patients who are active smokers) correlated with their smoking history. Nicotine increased the levels of α7-nAChR mRNA and α7-nAChR transcription in human SCC-L cell lines and SCC-L tumors. Nicotine-induced up-regulation of α7-nAChR required GATA4 and GATA6. ChIP assays showed that nicotine induced the binding of GATA4 or GATA6 to Sp1 on the α7-nAChR promoter, thereby inducing its transcription and increasing its levels in human SCC-L. Our data are clinically relevant because SCC-L patients smoked for decades before being diagnosed with cancer. It may be envisaged that continuous exposure to nicotine (in such SCC-L patients) causes up-regulation of α7-nAChRs, which facilitates tumor growth and progression. Our results will also be relevant to many SCC-L patients exposed to nicotine via second-hand smoke, electronic cigarettes, and patches or gums to quit smoking.
The objectives of this study were to determine the dose limiting toxicity (DLT) and other major toxicities, the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and the human pharmacokinetics of N1N11 diethylnorspermine (DENSPM), a new polyamine analog which in experimental systems inhibits the biosynthesis of intracellular polyamines and promotes their degradation by inducing the enzyme spermine/spermidine N-acetyl transferase. These objectives were incompletely achieved because of the occurrence of an unusual syndrome of acute central nervous system toxicity which forms the basis of the present report. Fifteen patients with advanced solid tumors were entered into a phase I study of DENSPM given by a 1 h i.v. infusion every 12 h for 5 days (10 doses). The starting dose was 25 mg/m2/day (12.5 mg/m2/dose) with escalation by a modified Fibonacci search. Doses of 25 and 50 mg/m2/day were tolerated with only minor side effects of facial flushing, nausea, headache and dizziness (all grade I). At doses of 83 and 125 mg/m2/day, a symptom complex of headache, nausea and vomiting, unilateral weakness, dysphagia, dysarthria, numbness, paresthesias, and ataxia, was seen in 3 patients, one after 2 courses of 83 and 2 after 1 course of 125 mg/m2/day. This syndrome occurred after drug administration was complete and the patients had returned home. Lesser CNS toxicity was seen in 2 other patients at lower daily doses. Preliminary pharmacokinetics of DESPM measured in plasma by HPLC in 8 patients showed linearity with dose and a rapid plasma decay with a t1/2 of 0.12 h. We conclude that great caution is warranted in administering DENSPM on this schedule at doses of > or = 83 mg/m2/day.
Despite major advances, multiple myeloma (MM) remains an incurable malignancy. Recently we have found that disease stabilization was achieved in 64% of patients with advanced MM treated with the farnesyltransferase inhibitor R115777 (Zarnestra) in a phase 2 clinical trial. In order to enhance R115777 antitumor activity in MM, we examined the combination of this novel agent with other anticancer drugs in MM cell lines. In this study, R115777 was found to synergize with paclitaxel and docetaxel, but not with other chemotherapy agents, including doxorubicin, 5-fluorouracil, cisplastin, melphalan, mitoxantrone, and dexamethasone. R115777 synergized with paclitaxel to inhibit MM cell proliferation and to induce apoptosis. Synergism in the induction of apoptosis was accompanied by increase in cytochrome c release and caspase-3 activation. Furthermore, flow cytometry analysis also showed that paclitaxel and R115777 synergized to induce G(2)/M cell-cycle arrest. Importantly, synergism was observed in taxane- and R115777-resistant MM cells. In the human severe combined immunodeficient (SCID-hu) bone model of myeloma growth, the ability of paclitaxel to inhibit tumor growth in vivo was enhanced by R115777. Combination of paclitaxel or docetaxel with R115777 in the treatment of MM cells from patients with multiple myeloma was more beneficial than treatment with single agents. Our results provide the basis for combination therapy clinical trials with paclitaxel or docetaxel with R115777 in MM patients.
Hepatocellular carcinoma remains a highly chemoresistant neoplasm. In this study of the topoisomerase I inhibitor topotecan a response rate of 13.9% (95% confidence interval 4.7%-29.5%) was obtained utilizing a five consecutive day bolus infusion schedule. There were no complete responses and the median survival was only eight months. Furthermore, treatment with topotecan produced significant toxicity with two-thirds of patients experiencing life-threatening (grade 4) neutropenia. When used in this dose and schedule, topotecan does not appear to be effective for patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma.
Interferons (IFN) alpha/beta and gamma induce the formation of two transcriptional activators: gamma-activating factor (GAF) and interferon-stimulated gamma factor 3 (ISGF3). We report a natural heterozygous germline STAT1 mutation associated with susceptibility to mycobacterial but not viral disease. This mutation causes a loss of GAF and ISGF3 activation but is dominant for one cellular phenotype and recessive for the other. It impairs the nuclear accumulation of GAF but not of ISGF3 in heterozygous cells stimulated by IFNs. Thus, the antimycobacterial, but not the antiviral, effects of human IFNs are principally mediated by GAF.
KRP-297 and MCC-555, which are being developed in Japan as thiazolidinediones, uniquely bind and activate peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors(PPAR). KRP-297, unlike other thiazolidinediones, effects on not only PPAR gamma but also PPAR alpha. Furthermore, this compound acts directly on basal glucose uptake in the rat skeletal muscle. KRP-297 decreased plasma glucose and insulin levels, and also blood triglyceride and free fatty acid in diabetic animal models. MCC-555 has significant antidiabetic properties yet its binding affinity for PPAR gamma is less than 1/10 that of BRL 49653. Thus, it is regarded now as a PPAR gamma modulator rather than agonist, depending on cell type. At present, clinical phase II studies of both drugs are under way.
In investigations on the action of DKB (3' 4'-dideoxykanamycin B), and aminoglycoside type drug, on the inner ears of mice and guinea pigs by means of scanning and transmission electron microscopy, it was evident that the action of DKB against the inner ear is similar to that of kanamycin. When the same type of investigation was performed using the diuretics furosemide and ethacrynic acid, changes were observed in the stria vascularis. When DKB and ethacrynic acid, which show no long lasting defects when given independently, were administered concurrently in the same doses, a very high level of degeneration was found in the organs of Corti of guinea pigs. From the above results, it is evident that when two or more types of ototoxic drugs are administered concurrently, they have a potentiating action on the ear and care should be taken clinically concerning this point.
Blood pressure and ECG changes were monitored in depressed outpatients treated for 6 weeks with amitriptyline, 150 mg/day, or phenelzine, 60 mg/day, as part of an ongoing double-blind study. Phenelzine produced significant decreases in blood pressure and a significant increase in orthostatic fall in pressure. Amitriptyline produced little overall change in blood pressure. The degree of MAO inhibition in phenelzine-treated patients was significantly correlated with blood pressure. Tricyclic plasma concentrations were also related to some blood pressure measures. Reported dizziness/faintness did not correlate with blood pressure changes in either group. Amitriptyline significantly increased heart rate, while phenelzine produced slowing. Amitriptyline was associated with significant prolongation of QRS and QTc but not PR intervals. Phenelzine produced significant shortening of the QTc interval.
Amiodarone, one of the most effective anti-arrhythmic drugs, is also known for its ability to accumulate lipid-pharmakon complexes in the lysosomes of different tissues. In the eye the lysosomal storage leads to typical side-effects. Whorl-like epithelial, reversible corneal inclusions occur in about 70 to 100 % of the patients on amiodarone therapy. Tiny lens opacities without visual impairment have been reported in 50 % of patients who had been treated with amiodarone. At present the most severe complication of amiodarone is optic neuropathy with an incidence of 1.3 to 1.8 %. The optic neuropathy, as the rule, is only reversible approximately in (1/2) of the patients after discontinuing the drug. The fundoscopic picture of amiodarone neuropathy is similar to classic AION. Retinal involvement has also been reported; however, a relationship with amiodarone has not been proven yet.
A 67 year old Caucasian lady received pre-travel immunizations against tetanus, diphtheria, typhoid fever, hepatitis A, and mefloquine chemoprophylaxis. Left sided hearing loss consequent upon tympanic rupture was present since childhood; she was otherwise in good health and without history of recent upper respiratory tract infection. After 1 dose of mefloquine right sided tinnitus and hearing loss developed; audiometry revealed mixed left sided loss and right sided sensorineural loss (-90db at 1kHz; -70dB at 4kHz). Prednisone, aspirin and omeprazole were prescribed; mefloquine chemoprophylaxis was discontinued. On day 9 of her hearing loss the tinnitus suddenly disappeared, and right sided hearing improved. Audiometry on day 93 revealed normal right sided hearing (-10dB at 1kHz; -10dB at 4kHz). Causality remains undetermined, but it may be prudent to avoid mefloquine chemoprophylaxis in individuals with known hearing impairment.
Bannayan-Riley-Ruvalcaba syndrome (BRRS) is characterised by macrocephaly, intestinal hamartomatous polyps, lipomas, pigmented maculae of the glans penis, developmental delay and mental retardation. The syndrome follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. In 1997 reports on two BRRS patients with a deletion at 10q23.2-q24.1 were published. In the same year, the first two families with BRRS and a mutation of the PTEN gene were reported. Mutations in the PTEN gene have also been demonstrated in patients with Cowden syndrome (CS), which shows partial clinical overlap with BRRS, and in families with cases both of BRRS and CS. PTEN mutation positive BRRS and CS are likely to be different phenotypic presentations of the same syndrome. If BRRS and CS are one single condition, the question arises whether patients with BRRS should be screened for malignant tumours, since patients with Cowden syndrome have an increased risk of breast, endometrial, thyroid and renal cancer. We present two isolated cases and one family and confirm that BRRS and CS are allelic. Furthermore, we review the PTEN mutation positive BRRS cases, to further delineate the phenotype and to compare the cases with a genomic deletion with the cases with a point mutation. We recommend offering BRRS cases with a mutation in PTEN the same surveillance protocol for (malignant) tumours as is currently recommended for CS. In addition, we propose a yearly haemoglobin test from early infancy for the early detection of intestinal hamartomas, which are likely to give severe complications, especially in BRRS cases.
We studied sequential dose-dense doxorubicin, paclitaxel, and 5-fluorouracil (A-T-F) before high dose chemotherapy (HDC) with autologous peripheral blood stem cell support (PBSCT). Our aims were to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of 5-FU in the dose-dense regimen and to determine the impact of dose-dense chemotherapy on HDC/PBSCT.
Patients with Stage IIIB or Stage II or IIIA breast cancer with > or = 4 involved ipsilateral lymph nodes were treated with nine cycles of chemotherapy at 14-day intervals. The regimen was doxorubicin at 80 mg/m2 x 3, followed by paclitaxel at 140 mg/m2 over 96 h x 3, then 5-FU at doses of 1285, 1470, or 1655 mg/m2 by continuous intravenous infusion over 72 h x 3. Patients then underwent a G-CSF-stimulated peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) apheresis prior to receiving HDC with autologous PBSCT.
We identified 1285 mg/m2 as the MTD of 5-FU in this regimen. 5-FU-related DLTs included hand-foot syndrome, mucositis, and facial edema with somnolence. Unexpectedly, 3/19 treated patients developed congestive heart failure that prevented planned HDC. Compared to standard dose doxorubicin-containing adjuvant therapy, the dose-dense regimen also decreased CD34+ PBSC yields by about 40% (p = 0.049), requiring that 50% of patients have a supplemental bone marrow harvest. There was no difference in time to neutrophil, platelet, and red blood cell recovery after HDC.
This regimen resulted in an unacceptably high rate of cardiac toxicity and is not recommended for further testing. It may be feasible to use a different schedule of 5-FU-containing dose-dense chemotherapy, particularly for the induction therapy of high-risk primary breast cancer prior to novel targeted therapies.
This was an exploratory study to examine the use of atypical antipsychotics in an attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) clinic.
A total of 194 patients was examined to compare those receiving atypical or second-generation antipsychotics (atypicals) from those who were not. A sample of 27 children on atypicals received laboratory investigation for indicators of possible metabolic effects.
In all, 19.1% of the patients in the clinic were receiving atypicals with a mean duration of 313 days; 36 of 37 patients on atypicals had received risperidone, with a mean dose of 0.62 mg. Children receiving atypicals were statistically more likely to have a severe co-morbid disorder, a lower Children's Global Assessment Scale score, a greater total score on the teacher Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire, and greater difficulty with parent-rated symptoms of being touchy, worried, rages, and explosive outbursts. There were no differences found in measures of functioning, adaptive skills, quality of life, or ADHD symptoms. In the subset of children studied for potential metabolic effects, 68.0% had a waist circumference > or =90(th) percentile that was independent of weight gain, 18.5% had impaired fasting glucose, 12.5% had elevated blood pressure, 11.1% had elevated triglycerides, and 16.7% met full criteria for metabolic syndrome.
Clinical implementation of the efficacy studies of risperidone for disruptive behavior disorders has led to a significant change in practice. Almost 1 in 5 patients are now receiving atypical neuroleptics, typically to treat severe co-morbid disorders and symptoms other than ADHD per se. Despite these children receiving low doses, concomitant stimulants, and low body mass index z-scores, a significant proportion of children demonstrated either one or more components or the full criteria for metabolic syndrome.
Clonidine is an alpha-adrenergic agent that is used in the treatment of hypertension. Bradycardia has been described as a common effect of clonidine poisoning, but has rarely been described as a side effect at commonly prescribed dosages. Bradyarrhythmias, as a side effect, may have several manifestations and may be symptomatic or asymptomatic. This report proposes mechanisms for clonidine-induced bradycardia, describes persons at risk for this effect, and outlines treatments and preventive measures.
We investigated the effects of novel aldose reductase inhibitors, M16209 (1-(3-bromobenzo[b]furan-2-ylsulfonyl)hydantoin) and M16287 (1-(3-chlorobenzo[b]furan-2-ylsulfonyl)hydantoin), on neuropathy in streptozotocin-induced (STZ) diabetic rats. Both compounds (3-100 mg/kg per day, p.o.) dose dependently improved the decreased motor nerve conduction velocity in the sciatic nerve during a 14-day treatment period. These compounds also partially ameliorated the diabetes-induced histological changes in the sciatic nerve. A distinct increase in sorbitol content and a slight decrease in myo-inositol content was observed in the sciatic nerve of STZ diabetic rats, and the sorbitol accumulation was dose dependently suppressed by treatment with M16209 and M16287. Treatment started at an earlier period was more effective in the suppression of sorbitol accumulation. There was a significant correlation between motor nerve conduction velocity and nerve sorbitol content, whereas there was none between motor nerve conduction velocity and myo-inositol content. The present study indicates that M16209 and M16287 are potent aldose reductase inhibitors expected to be useful for the treatment of diabetic complications.
Osteoporosis (OP) is a major public health problem, mainly characterized by low bone mineral density (BMD). Circulating monocytes (CMCs) may serve as progenitors of osteoclasts and produce a wide variety of factors important to bone metabolism. However, the specific action mechanism of CMCs in the pathogenesis of OP is far from clear. We performed a comparative protein expression profiling study of CMCs in Chinese premenopausal females with extremely discordant BMD, identified a total of 38 differentially expressed proteins, and confirmed with Western blotting five proteins: ras suppressor protein1 (RSU1), gelsolin (GSN), manganese-containing superoxide dismutase (SOD2), glutathione peroxidase 1(GPX1), and prolyl 4-hydroxylase beta subunit (P4HB). These proteins might affect CMCs' trans-endothelium, differentiation, and/or downstream osteoclast functions, thus contribute to differential osteoclastogenesis and finally lead to BMD variation. The findings promote our understanding of the role of CMCs in BMD determination, and provide an insight into the pathogenesis of human OP.
