A 61-year-old man with presumed Pick's disease was successfully treated with fluoxetine for pathological affect. Severe intermittent, rhythmically repetitive trains of myoclonus developed suddenly the following year. A dystonic-like component involving the shoulder region and a decrescendo frequency pattern were observed. Myoclonus involved the face, palate, shoulder, neck, upper chest and back, diaphragm, hips, and upper extremities, especially on the right side. Movements were not influenced by postural adjustments, startle, or other stimuli. Movements proved insensitive to benztropine but abated with discontinuation of fluoxetine. Rechallenge with fluoxetine or trazodone evoked the movements, whereas clonazepam and chloral hydrate abolished the movements. The pattern of myoclonus is unlike previous reported cases and may relate to activation of serotonin 5HT1A receptors (possibly supersensitive in Pick's disease) or to hypodopaminergia. Although fluoxetine may be useful as adjunct therapy in dementing disorders, caution may be warranted in its use in Pick's disease.
We have previously reported that 24-h intra-arterial combination chemotherapy (IACC) prolongs the survival of patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (aHCC). However, it has also been reported that 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) exacerbates liver damage in patients with liver cirrhosis (LC). The aim of this study was to clarify the hepatotoxicity of IACC in LC patients with aHCC.
Twenty-one adult Japanese patients (20 men and 1 woman) with aHCC and LC underwent IACC between 2004 and 2007 at our hospital. These patients showed multiple partial responses or stable disease, except for five patients who showed no response and three patients with tumors more than 30 mm in diameter. All patients had inoperable disease on the basis of computed tomography (CT) findings. IACC (leucovorin at 12 mg/h, cisplatin at 10 mg/h, and 5-FU at 250 mg/22 h) was delivered via the proper hepatic artery every 5 days for 4 weeks.
Twelve patients were in Child-Pugh class A (group A), and nine were in class B (group B). The Child-Pugh score was significantly increased after chemotherapy compared with before chemotherapy in both groups. Serum albumin was significantly decreased after chemotherapy, and the number of patients with ascites also increased after chemotherapy. Serum type IV collagen and N-terminal propeptide of type III procollagen were significantly increased after chemotherapy, although there was no significant change in serum aminotransferases.
IACC might cause hepatotoxicity that induces fibrosis without releasing aminotransferases.
Atenolol, a beta 1-selective beta-adrenergic receptor-blocking agent, is frequently used for the treatment of hypertension and angina pectoris. We report our experience with a patient who developed cholestatic hepatitis related to the initiation of therapy with atenolol with prompt resolution of symptoms and biochemical abnormalities upon discontinuation of this medication. A review of the literature failed to demonstrate any prior report of atenolol-associated hepatic injury. Although rare, because of the common use of atenolol, clinicians should be aware of this potential adverse effect.
Cocaine use is known to have multisystemic effects. Recently, acute renal failure as a result of rhabdomyolysis has been described as a complication of cocaine use. During pregnancy, cocaine is associated with abruptio placentae. A patient presenting with both complications is described.
A 25-year-old multiparous woman at 34 weeks' gestation developed abruptio placentae approximately 18 hours after using cocaine alkaloid. Six hours later, a cesarean delivery was performed after she presented with vaginal bleeding and fetal bradycardia. Oliguria was present from admission and persisted despite aggressive fluid hydration, dopamine infusion, and intravenous administration of furosemide. Serum creatinine phosphokinase and urine myoglobin were both elevated at 558 IU/L and 432 ng/mL. Hemodialysis was required for presumed cortical necrosis.
Rhabdomyolysis, as indicated by elevated creatinine phosphokinase and the presence of myoglobin in the urine, suggests that nephrotoxicity from myoglobinuria may contribute to acute renal failure in cases of cocaine mediated abruptio placentae.
Addition of cholestatic doses of chlorpromazine-HC1 to the perfusate of isolated rat livers produces widespread changes in hepatocyte membrane structure. These findings include a marked increase in intrasinusoidal cytoplasmic bullae, appearance of intracellular vacuoles within hepatocytes at both sinusoidal and biliary poles, dilation of bile canaliculi and evagination of canalicular diverticuli, and the formation of myeloid bodies within hepatocytes. These findings obtained in the bile acid depleted perfused liver may result from physiochemical interactions between chlorpromazine or its metabolites and lipid-protein components of cell membranes, consistent with chlorpromazine's properties as a cationic detergent. They occur independently of the vasoconstrictive effects of chlorpromazine and suggest that chlorpromazine may produce cholestasis by altering hepatocyte membrane function.
Lithium (Li) was administered to rats during maternal pregnancy and/or 8 weeks post-natally, to study the effects on renal function and structure in the developing kidney. Plasma Li was 0.5-1.0 mmol/l 3 and 8 weeks post-natally. Functionally, post-natal Li leads to growth retardation, polyuria with lowering of renal concentration ability, and uremia associated with as much as 80% lowering of the normal glomerular filtration rate (GFR). Pre-natal Li alone did not affect the concentrating ability but caused a 20% increase in GFR when evaluated 8 weeks post-natally. Post-natal Li caused very severe structural changes, consisting of up to 3 mm cortical cysts (= dilated distal convoluted tubules), extensive interstitial fibrosis with cell infiltration, and atrophy of the cortical collecting ducts. Morphometric measurements showed a significant reduction in the volume of the proximal tubular cells. Pre-natal Li caused only slight structural changes, and animals treated both pre- and post-natally were less affected than animals treated post-natally only. The structural changes caused by post-natal Li were unrelated to changes in the concentrating ability but showed a significant correlation with the lowering of the GFR. It is concluded that the post-natally developing rat kidney is particularly sensitive to the nephrotoxic effects of Li, which in low concentrations causes impairment of renal function, leading to uremia. Pre-natal Li exposure by maternal lithium treatment had little effect on renal function and structure when evaluated post-natally.
The author describes the case of a 14-year-old boy who developed Gilles de la Tourette's disorder during pemoline therapy. Unlike other reported cases, the boy's tics did not remit after the pemoline was discontinued.
The developing fetus is uniquely sensitive to perturbation with estrogenic chemicals. The carcinogenic effect of prenatal exposure to diethylstilbestrol (DES) is the classic example. Because phytoestrogen use in nutritional and pharmaceutical applications for infants and children is increasing, we investigated the carcinogenic potential of genistein, a naturally occurring plant estrogen in soy, in an experimental animal model previously reported to result in a high incidence of uterine adenocarcinoma after neonatal DES exposure. Outbred female CD-1 mice were treated on days 1-5 with equivalent estrogenic doses of DES (0.001 mg/kg/day) or genistein (50 mg/kg/day). At 18 months, the incidence of uterine adenocarcinoma was 35% for genistein and 31% for DES. These data suggest that genistein is carcinogenic if exposure occurs during critical periods of differentiation. Thus, the use of soy-based infant formulas in the absence of medical necessity and the marketing of soy products designed to appeal to children should be closely examined.
The role of an interleukin (IL)-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra) on the development of airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR) and airway inflammation following acute O(3) exposure in mice was investigated. Exposure of C57/BL6 mice to O(3) at a concentration of 2.0 ppm or filtered air for 3 h resulted in increases in airway responsiveness to inhaled methacholine (MCh) 8 and 16 h after the exposure, and an increase in neutrophils in the bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid. IL-1beta expression, assessed by gene microarray, was increased 2-fold 4 h after O(3) exposure, and returned to baseline levels by 24 h. Levels of IL-1beta in lung homogenates were also increased 8 h after O(3) exposure. Administration of (human) IL-1Ra before and after O(3) exposure prevented development of AHR and decreased BAL fluid neutrophilia. Increases in chemokine levels in lung homogenates, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, MIP-2, and keratinocyte chemoattractant following O(3) exposure were prevented by IL-1Ra. Inhalation of dexamethasone, an inhibitor of IL-1 production, blocked the development of AHR, BAL fluid neutrophilia, and decreased levels of IL-1 following O(3) exposure. In summary, acute exposure to O(3) induces AHR, neutrophilic inflammation, epithelial damage, and IL-1. An IL-1Ra effectively prevents the development of altered airway function, inflammation, and structural damage.
Pompe disease is caused by a deficiency of acid alpha-glucosidase (GAA) that results in glycogen accumulation, primarily in muscle. Newborn screening (NBS) for Pompe disease has been initiated in Taiwan and is reportedly successful. However, the comparatively high frequency of pseudodeficiency allele makes NBS for Pompe disease complicated in Taiwan. To investigate the feasibility of NBS for Pompe disease in Japan, we obtained dried blood spots (DBSs) from 496 healthy Japanese controls, 29 Japanese patients with Pompe disease, and five obligate carriers, and assayed GAA activity under the following conditions: (1) total GAA measured at pH 3.8, (2) GAA measured at pH 3.8 in the presence of acarbose, and (3) neutral glucosidase activity (NAG) measured at pH 7.0 without acarbose. The % inhibition and NAG/GAA ratio were calculated. For screening, samples with GAA<8% of the normal mean, % inhibition>60%, and NAG/GAA ratio>30 were considered to be positive. Two false positive cases (0.3%) were found, one was a healthy homozygote of pseudodeficiency allele (c.1726G>A). The low false-positive rate suggests that NBS for Pompe disease is feasible in Japan.
Report on 6,200 control examinations of patients treated with Ethambutol. Subjective troubles of vision do not influence continuation of therapy. In 8 patients (0,5%) symptoms of neuritis nervioptici accompanied with visus deterioration required to stop therapy (case reports on these 8 patients). Ophthalmologic control examinations are recommended before beginning therapy, during continuous therapy in hospital every eight week, and in case of ambulatory intermitting therapy every third to fourth month.
Cardiotoxicity represents the major side-effect limiting the clinical use of anthracyclines, especially doxorubicin, in cancer chemotherapy. The use of non-toxic prodrugs, or of liposome-encapsulated drugs, allows a better targeting of the tumours and may, therefore, improve the tolerance to the treatment. Using the model of isolated perfused rat heart, we have evaluated the cardiotoxicity of a novel prodrug of doxorubicin, HMR-1826, which consists of the association of doxorubicin to glucuronic acid. We have compared the cardiac effects (developed pressure, contractility and relaxation of the left ventricle) induced by HMR-1826 to those induced by doxorubicin and Doxil, a liposomal form of doxorubicin. HMR-1826 was administered intravenously every other day for 11 days at doses of 50-200 mg kg(-1) per injection while doxorubicin was administered according to the same protocol at doses of 1-3 mg kg(-1) per injection. Doxorubicin strongly decreased the cardiac functional parameters at the doses of 2.5 and 3 mg kg(-1) per injection. Doxil (3 mg kg(-1) and HMR-1826 (50-150 mg kg(-1)) were largely devoid of cardiotoxicity. HMR-1826 only induced significant alterations of the cardiac function at the highest dose used (200 mg kg(-1) per injection). These alterations were much lower than those of doxorubicin at 2.5 mg kg(-1) per injection, despite similar general toxicity symptoms (weight loss, nose bleeding and diarrhoea) at these respective doses. Thus, HMR-1826 appeared about 100-fold less cardiotoxic than doxorubicin.
Tumor initiation has been attributed to haploinsufficiency at a single locus for a large number of cancers. Patched1 (Ptc1) was one of the first such loci, and Ptc1 haploinsufficiency has been asserted to lead to medulloblastoma and rhabdomyosarcoma in mice.
To study the role of Ptc1 in cerebellar tumor development and to create a preclinical therapeutic platform, we have generated a conditional Ptc1 haploinsufficiency model of medulloblastoma by inactivating Ptc1 in Pax7-expressing cells of the cerebellum.
These mice developed exclusively medulloblastoma. We show that despite the presence of transcription of Ptc1, Ptc1 protein is nearly undetectable or absent in tumors. Our results suggest that Ptc1 loss of function is complete, but achieved at the protein level rather than by the classic genetic two-hit mechanism or a strict half-dosage genetic haploinsufficiency mechanism. Furthermore, we found that bortezomib, a 26S proteasome inhibitor, had a significant anti-tumor activity in vitro and in vivo, which was accompanied by restoration of Ptc1 protein and downregulation of the hedgehog signaling pathway. The same effect was seen for both human and mouse medulloblastoma tumor cell growth.
These results suggest that proteasome inhibition is a potential new therapeutic approach in medulloblastoma.
Statins are cholesterol-lowering agents due to the inhibition of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase. Recent studies have shown statins possess pleiotropic effects, which appear to be independent from its cholesterol-lowering action. In this study, we investigated whether atorvastatin would have protective effects against hippocampal cell death promoted by quinolinic acid (QA)-induced seizures in mice. Mice were pretreated with Atorvastatin (1 or 10 mg/kg) or vehicle (saline, 0.9%), orally, once a day for 7 days before the intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) QA infusion (36.8 nmol/site). Atorvastatin treatment with 1 mg/kg/day did not significantly prevent QA-induced seizures (13.34%). However, administration of atorvastatin 10 mg/kg/day prevented the clonic and/or tonic seizures induced by QA in 29.41% of the mice. Additionally, administration of atorvastatin 10 mg/kg/day significantly prevented QA-induced cell death in the hippocampus. Atorvastatin treatment promoted an increased Akt phosphorylation, which was sustained after QA infusion in both convulsed and non-convulsed mice. Moreover, atorvastatin pretreatment prevented the reduction in glutamate uptake into hippocampal slices induced by QA i.c.v. infusion. These results show that atorvastatin attenuated QA-induced hippocampal cellular death involving the Akt pathway and glutamate transport modulation. Therefore, atorvastatin treatment might be a useful strategy in the prevention of brain injury caused by the exacerbation of glutamatergic toxicity in neurological diseases such as epilepsy.
A case of allergic vasculitis of the skin following long-term treatment with hydrochlorothiazide is described. The etiopathogenic role of hydrochlorothiazide is strongly suggested by clinical evidence. The positive mast cell degranulation test to hydrochlorothiazide suggests the possible role of immunological in vitro tests in the diagnosis of drug eruption.
Two dogs that had been given phenytoin for control of seizures for approximately 1 year developed signs of phenytoin toxicosis (postural ataxia an d a hypermetric gait) when chloramphenicol was added to the therapeutic regimen. The signs of toxicosis disappeared within 24 hours after cessation of chloramphenicol treatment. Oral treatment of laboratory dogs with chloramphenicol (50 mg/kg, TID for 3 days) prior to intravenous injection of phenytoin increased the half-life of phenytoin from 3 hours to 15 hours. Dogs infused with phenytoin during pentobarbital anesthesia had little or no change in serum phenytoin concentration during a 2-hour postinfusion observation period, which was unexpected for the intravenous route of administration.
The most common cytogenetic abnormality encountered in primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNET)/medulloblastoma is loss of heterozygosity in the region of the short arm of chromosome 17. There is some evidence that supratentorial PNET has different cytogenetic markers than infratentorial PNET/medulloblastoma. Particularly, loss of 17p is more frequent in the latter than in the former. We describe a young girl diagnosed with supratentorial PNET (SPNET). Analysis of the tumor suppressor gene p53 in the tumorous tissue revealed a rare transversion mutational event of CAT to AAT in position 179 of exon 5. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case of such a transversion at codon 179 in the p53 gene in SPNET.
A 12-year-old girl was admitted with nausea, headache and vision disturbances. MRI of the brain showed a large space- occupying lesion in the right frontal lobe. Histological examination of the macroscopic resection of the tumor revealed PNET of the brain. Polymerase chain reaction-single strand conformation polymorphism analysis of all p53 exons was performed, and a unique variant of a transversion at codon 179 of exon 5 was revealed. Therapy was started according to the Children's Cancer group protocol (CCG-99702) designated for treatment of high-risk central nervous system embryonal tumors. She received an initial course of chemotherapy, consisting of cyclophosphamide and vincristine for mobilizing and harvesting peripheral blood stem cells (PBSCs). Then she was given craniospinal irradiation (3,600 cGy) with a boost to the tumor bed (1,980 cGy) and three consecutive courses of high-dose chemotherapy with carboplatin, vincristine and thiotepa/cyclophosphamide, with PBSCs support after each course.
The patient is in complete remission 17 months after diagnosis, based on the results of physical examination and imaging studies.
The mutation results in an alteration of the amino acid HIS to ASN. The amino acids surrounding position 175 play an important role in stabilizing the p53/DNA complex. There are only 12 known mutations of the reported type, and the finding of such a rare mutational event in a low-incidence p53 mutation tumor, such as SPNET, might add additional insight into the p53-SPNET relationship in tumorigenesis. Although not widely accepted, it is possible that different mutations of the p53 gene in patients with brain tumors may imply a different ultimate prognosis. In our case, we cannot exclude the fact that transversion of CAT to AAT in position 179 of exon 5 may explain prolonged survival of a patient with good response to therapy.
High levels of unconjugated bilirubin (UCB) in newborn children is associated with a reduction in hepatic UDP glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 1A1 activity that can lead to CNS toxicity, brain damage, and even death. Little is known regarding those events that lead to UCB accumulation in brain tissue, and therefore, we sought to duplicate this condition in mice. The human UGT1 locus, encoding all 9-UGT1A genes including UGT1A1, was expressed in Ugt1(-/-) mice. Because the most common clinical condition associated with jaundice in adults is Gilbert's syndrome, which is characterized by an allelic polymorphism in the UGT1A1 promoter, hyperbilirubinemia was monitored in humanized UGT1 mice that expressed either the Gilbert's UGT1A1*28 allele [Tg(UGT1(A1*28))Ugt1(-/-) mice] or the normal UGT1A1*1 allele [Tg(UGT1(A1*1))Ugt1(-/-) mice]. Adult Tg(UGT1(A1*28))Ugt1(-/-) mice expressed elevated levels of total bilirubin (TB) compared with Tg(UGT1(A1*1))Ugt1(-/-) mice, confirming that the promoter polymorphism associated with the UGT1A1*28 allele contributes to hyperbilirubinemia in mice. However, TB accumulated to near toxic levels during neonatal development, a finding that is independent of the Gilbert's UGT1A1*28 promoter polymorphism. Whereas serum TB levels eventually returned to adult levels, TB clearance in neonatal mice was not associated with hepatic UGT1A1 expression. In approximately 10% of the humanized UGT1 mice, peak TB levels culminated in seizures followed by death. UCB deposition in brain tissue and the ensuing seizures were associated with developmental milestones and can be prevented by enhancing regulation of the UGT1A1 gene in neonatal mice.
The International Verapamil/Trandolapril Study (INVEST) demonstrated comparable efficacy between verapamil SR and atenolol antihypertensive treatment strategies for clinical outcomes and blood pressure (BP) control in hypertensive patients with coronary artery disease (N = 22,576). Effects of these antihypertension strategies on mood-related issues are not well understood.
The objectives of this study were 1) to compare depressive symptoms by strategy and 2) to identify predictors of depressive symptoms in INVEST patients after 1 year of follow up.
Depressive symptoms were assessed in a subset (N = 2317) of consecutively randomized U.S. patients enrolled between April 1, 1999, and October 31, 1999. Patients were mailed surveys after randomization and after 1 year of treatment.
Patients were assigned to either a verapamil SR or atenolol strategy to achieve Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure BP goals. Trandolapril and/or hydrochlorothiazide were recommended as add-on agents.
Depressive symptoms were measured by the Center for Epidemiologic Studies-Depression (CES-D) scale.
CES-D scores improved 1.45 points (p < .001) after 1 year in patients assigned to the verapamil SR strategy, whereas a nonsignificant improvement was observed in patients assigned to the atenolol strategy (0.27 points, p = .44). Predictors of higher depressive symptoms were higher baseline CES-D score (p < .001), history of depression diagnosis (p = .03), history of stroke (p < .001), and assignment to the atenolol strategy (p < .001).
A verapamil SR strategy is a viable alternative to beta-blocker therapy for hypertensive patients with coronary artery disease, especially those at risk of depression.
Alpha 2u-globulin mediated hyaline droplet nephropathy (HDN) is a male rat specific lesion induced when a compound or metabolite binds to alpha 2u-globulin. The objective of this study was to investigate if the newer and more sensitive renal biomarkers would be altered with HDN as well as be able to distinguish between HDN and oxidative stress-induced kidney injury. Rats were dosed orally for 7 days to determine (1) if HDN (induced by 2-propanol or D-limonene) altered the newer renal biomarkers and not BUN or creatinine, (2) if renal biomarkers could distinguish between HDN and oxidative stress-induced kidney injury (induced by potassium bromate), (3) sensitivity of HDN-induced renal biomarker changes relative to D-limonene dose, and (4) reversibility of HDN and renal biomarkers, using vehicle or 300 mg/kg/day D-limonene with 7 days of dosing and necropsies scheduled over the period of Days 8-85. HDN-induced renal biomarker changes in male rats were potentially compound specific: (1) 2-propanol induced mild HDN without increased renal biomarkers, (2) potassium bromate induced moderate HDN with increased clusterin, and (3) D-limonene induced marked HDN with increased αGST, μGST and albumin. Administration of potassium bromate did not result in oxidative stress-induced kidney injury, based on histopathology and renal biomarkers creatinine and BUN. The compound D-limonene induced a dose dependent increase in HDN severity and renal biomarker changes without altering BUN, creatinine or NAG: (1) minimal induction of HDN and no altered biomarkers at 10 mg/kg/day, (2) mild induction of HDN with increased αGST and μGST at 50 mg/kg/day and (3) marked induction of HDN with increased αGST, μGST and albumin at 300 mg/kg/day. HDN induced by D-limonene was reversible, but with a variable renal biomarker pattern over time: Day 8 there was increased αGST, μGST and albumin; on Day 15 increased clusterin, albumin and Kim-1. In summary, HDN altered the newer and more sensitive renal biomarkers in a time and possibly compound dependent manner.
Direct thrombin inhibitors may offer advantages over indirect thrombin inhibitors in the management of patients with acute coronary syndromes (ACS). Two direct thrombin inhibitors, hirudin and bivalirudin, have been investigated in Phase II and Phase III clinical trials. Based on the results of a meta-analysis of study data from 25,000 patients, hirudin appears to be more effective than unfractionated heparin (UFH) in the treatment of patients with ACS, but it is associated with an increased rate of major bleeding. A meta-analysis of a smaller patient population has suggested that bivalirudin, too, may be more efficacious than UFH and may also be safer.
Protein restriction ameliorates proteinuria in acute adriamycin (ADR) nephrosis and decreases the renal levels of xanthine oxidase (XO), a putative mediator of ADR nephrotoxicity. Hypothetically, the effect of protein restriction on renal XO levels may be due to variations in plasma and tissue proteic amino acids (AA). To elucidate this point, the levels of AA in plasma and in renal homogenates were determined in rats with ADR nephrosis and fed diets with different protein contents: (a) high (35%) casein; (b) standard (21%) casein; (c) low (9%) casein; (d) low casein plus a synthetic mixture of Val, Leu and Ile. The protein content of the diet determined certain marked variations in plasma AA: high levels of Val, Leu and Ile were found in rats fed on a high protein diet, while the same AA were low, in rats on low protein regimen. Supplementation of the low protein diet with a synthetic mixture of branched-chain AA (Val, Leu and Ile) normalized the plasma levels of these AA. In spite of these changes, tissue AA were similar in all groups, regardless of the protein contents of the diets. Furthermore, the levels of renal XO and proteinuria were unrelated to variations in plasma AA, since both parameters were low in protein-restricted and protein-restricted AA-supplemented rats while high in rats fed a high or normoproteic diet. These data demonstrate that low protein diets induce marked alterations in plasma AA composition which are similar in may respects to those found in protein malnutrition.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We aimed to determine the usefulness of intrathecal pethidine as the sole anaesthetic for transurethral resection of prostate (TURP) while comparing the incidence of hypotension with intrathecal bupivacaine. A double-binded randomized prospective trial was conducted involving 40 patients for TURP. The patients were divided equally into two groups; group A received 2 ml 0.5% bupivacaine intrathecally and group B received 40 mg pethidine intrathecally. Changes in blood pressure and heart rate were measured over the first 30 minutes. The highest sensory block and the time to reach it were documented. The degree of motor blockade was also recorded. There was no significant difference in the incidence of hypotension. The pethidine group had significantly greater reduction in heart rate, a lower degree of motor block, shorter period before requests for postoperative analgesia but a higher incidence of sedation, nausea and vomiting. Intrathecal pethidine did not offer any advantage over intrathecal bupivacaine for TURP.
The prognosis of breast cancer varies considerably among individuals, and inherited genetic factors may help explain this variability. Of particular interest are genes involved in defense against reactive oxygen species (ROS) because ROS are thought to cause DNA damage and contribute to the pathogenesis of cancer.
We examined associations between 54 polymorphisms that tag the known common variants (minor allele frequency > 0.05) in 10 genes involved in oxidative damage repair (CAT, SOD1, SOD2, GPX1, GPX4, GSR, TXN, TXN2, TXNRD1, and TXNRD2) and survival in 4,470 women with breast cancer.
Two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in GPX4 (rs713041 and rs757229) were associated with all-cause mortality even after adjusting for multiple hypothesis testing (adjusted P = .0041 and P = .0035). These SNPs are correlated with each other (r2 = 0.61). GPX4 rs713041 is located near the selenocysteine insertion sequence element in the GPX4 3' untranslated region, and the rare allele of this SNP is associated with an increased risk of death, with a hazard ratio of 1.27 per rare allele carried (95% CI, 1.13 to 11.43). This effect was not attenuated after adjusting for tumor stage, grade, or estrogen receptor status. We found that the common allele is preferentially expressed in normal lymphocytes, normal breast, and breast tumors compared with the rare allele, but there were no differences in total levels of GPX4 mRNA across genotypes.
These data provide strong support for the hypothesis that common variation in GPX4 is associated with prognosis after a diagnosis of breast cancer.
