In order to develop a sensitive audiometric protocol for identifying ototoxicity in children, a retrospective study of 16 children treated with cisplatin and/or carboplatin was performed. Audiometric testing was done by means of pure-tone threshold audiometry (PTA), high-frequency audiometry (HFA), and distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs). Cisplatin caused a sensorineural high-frequency hearing loss in the study group compared to the controls (p < 0.01). Sixty-six percent of the cisplatin patients had a grade 2 or 3 ototoxicity. However, ototoxicity was not found in the patients treated with carboplatin. An excellent correlation was found between DPOAE levels and results obtained by audiometry (r = 0.82). Patients exposed to cisplatin are at significant risk for the development of drug-induced sensorineural hearing loss. Because of the several advantages of DPOAEs (noninvasive, objective, rapid, easy to use, sensitive) this method should be added in the audiological follow-up in infants and toddlers.
We present the case of a 30-year-old man with disulfiram-induced hepatitis complicated by fatal liver failure. The disease followed a protracted course with an interval of 25 days between the onset of jaundice and the onset of encephalopathy. In this patient, the severity of the liver disease might have been due to reingestion of disulfiram shortly after the onset of jaundice.
A case of carbimazole-induced cholestatic hepatitis is presented. A woman received carbimazole for hyperthyroidism for 3 months. Five months later, she had prompt recurrence of cholestasis parameters after rechallenge (2 days of treatment). Histologic examination showed predominantly centrilobular cholestasis. Only 5 other cases have been published in the literature. An idiosyncratic mechanism seems likely.
A patient with acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) who was treated with high-dose cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C) 3 g/m2 twice daily, developed reversible acute aseptic meningitis and signs of cerebellar dysfunction after a total dose of 24 g Ara-C. To our knowledge this is the first case report of meningitis complicating intravenous high-dose Ara-C therapy.
Thalidomide has been reported to be an effective agent for treatment of chronic graft-versus-host disease (CGVHD). To determine the efficacy of this agent in patients with refractory CGVHD a total of 80 patients who failed to respond to prednisone (PSE) or PSE and cyclosporine (CSA) were treated with thalidomide. Sixteen patients (20%) had a sustained response, 9 with a complete remission and 7 with a partial response. Twenty-nine patients (36%) had thalidomide discontinued because of side effects, which included sedation, constipation, neuritis, skin rash, and neutropenia. Side effects were reversible with drug discontinuation except for mild residual neuritis in one case. Rashes and neutropenia have not previously been reported as thalidomide side effects when used for CGVHD treatment. We conclude thalidomide is immunosuppressive and active in the treatment of CGVHD. A high incidence of reversible side effects limited dose intensity and reduced the number of patients who could benefit from treatment.
Acute encephalopathy following treatment with ifosfamide and mesna was observed in 5 (4 women and 1 men) of 28 patients (17.8%), with advanced sarcoma, lymphoma or ovarian carcinoma. This appeared within 2 to 7 days following the first dose of ifosfamide treatment, and included mental status changes, urinary incontinence, weakness, seizure activity, altered consciousness and psychiatric manifestations. Three cases were fatal, while two patients recovered completely. Brain CT and morphometric studies were normal in all the patients. Associated findings were myelosuppression, renal failure and electrolyte alterations.
No causal treatment of ataxias is available at the moment, and so symptomatic and disease-modifying therapies are regarded as a reliable possibility for this complex group of movement disorders. In order to explore possible pharmacological strategies aimed at interfering with ataxia development or progression, we used HCN1-/- mice. Mice carrying the deletion of the gene encoding for the voltage-dependent K-channel (HCN1-/-) have a normal basic motor function, but impaired learning of the motor skills that enable mice to balance on the rotating rod. In this study we showed that the motor coordination impairment observed in HCN1-/- mice is paralleled by a decline of GABA content in the cerebellum. Treatment with the GABA mimetic gabapentin at prenatal age prevents full development of the ataxia symptom. This result could have implications for possible therapeutic strategies aimed at more effective coupling with ataxia in several neurological diseases in which this symptom develops and is prominent over time. In view of its long-lasting effect, it could be also considered as a disease-modifying drug.
The chemokine receptor CXCR4 is expressed in many different cancers. In malignant brain tumors, CXCR4 signaling has been implicated in tumor growth, survival, and migration, and pharmacologic inhibition of CXCR4 results in decreased tumor growth in preclinical models. To understand how CXCR4 inhibitors may be incorporated into clinical therapy, we examined determinants of responsiveness to CXCR4 inhibition. Because optimal use of CXCR4 inhibition will likely be a part of multimodality therapy, we also investigated the efficacy of CXCR4 inhibition combined with conventional cytotoxic chemotherapy.
CXCR4 protein levels and responsiveness to the CXCR4 inhibitor AMD3100 were determined in a panel of glioblastoma multiforme cell lines. The effects of AMD3100, alone or in combination with 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU), on cell growth were determined for several of these cell lines in vitro. We used an orthotopic model of glioblastoma multiforme to evaluate the antitumor efficacy of AMD3100 combined with BCNU in vivo.
The level of CXCR4 protein expression in glioblastoma multiforme cells predicts the dose at which there is a response to AMD3100; cells that express higher levels of CXCR4 protein require higher doses for equivalent response. In all cell lines tested, treatment of glioblastoma multiforme cells with BCNU followed by AMD3100 results in synergistic antitumor efficacy in vitro. This synergy can also be seen in an orthotopic glioblastoma multiforme model. Treatment with subtherapeutic doses of BCNU in combination with AMD3100 results in tumor regression in vivo, and this reflects both increased apoptosis and decreased proliferation following combination therapy.
These studies support testing CXCR4 inhibitors in patients with glioblastoma multiforme and establish that inhibition of CXCR4 synergizes with conventional cytotoxic therapies in a clinically relevant combinatorial strategy.
We studied the effect of therapeutic doses of theophylline on electrically-induced convulsions in developing mice. A theophylline dose as small as 3 mg/kg increased seizure susceptibility of 21-day-old mice, but not of 42-day-old mice. These findings were consistent with clinical reports that theophylline at the therapeutic blood concentrations occasionally induced convulsions in children. The age-dependent proconvulsant effect of theophylline was well inhibited by phenobarbital (PB), dose-dependently, but not by other well-established antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). PB may be a good choice of AED in patients with bronchial asthma and seizure disorders, if PB is indicative for their seizure types. The proconvulsant effect of theophylline in 21-day-old mice was counteracted by not only an adenosine A1 agonist, but also an NMDA antagonist and a histamine H3 antagonist. Several studies have established that the proconvulsant effect of theophylline intoxication is mainly due to the blockade of adenosine A1 receptors. The present findings suggested that the proconvulsant properties of therapeutic doses of theophylline in developing period were different from those of theophylline intoxication. Combination of therapeutic doses of theophylline and centrally-acting histamine H1 antagonists showed proconvulsant effects even in 42-day-old mice, suggesting that peripherally acting histamine H1 antagonists, such as astemizole, evastine and epinastine, were much safer than centrally acting histamine H1 antagonists for patients with both allergy and seizure history.
Malignant melanoma is a common and frequently lethal disease. Current therapeutic interventions have little effect on survival, emphasizing the need for a better understanding of the genetic, epigenetic, and phenotypic changes in melanoma formation and progression. We identified 17 genes that were not previously known to be silenced by methylation in melanoma using a microarray-based screen following treatment of melanoma cell lines with the DNA methylation inhibitor 5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine. Eight of these genes have not been previously shown to undergo DNA methylation in any form of cancer. Three of the genes, QPCT, CYP1B1, and LXN, are densely methylated in >95% of uncultured melanoma tumor samples. Reexpression of either of two of the silenced genes, HOXB13 and SYK, resulted in reduced colony formation in vitro and diminished tumor formation in vivo, indicating that these genes function as tumor suppressors in melanoma.
One hundred and fifty-one patients intolerant to zidovudine (AZT) received didanosine (ddI) to a maximum dose of 12.5 mg/kg/day. Patient response was assessed using changes in CD4+ lymphocyte subset count, HIV p24 antigen, weight, and quality of life. Seventy patients developed major opportunistic infections whilst on therapy; this was the first AIDS diagnosis in 17. Only minor changes in CD4+ lymphocyte subset count were observed in AIDS patients, although a more significant rise occurred in those with earlier stages of disease. Of those positive for p24 antigen at the commencement of the study 67% showed a positive response, and this was most likely in those with CD4+ lymphocyte subset counts above 100 mm3. A positive weight response was seen in 16% of patients. Most patients showed improvement in individual parameters and global score of quality of life. Adverse reactions possibly attributable to didanosine were common. The most common side-effect was diarrhoea, which resulted in cessation of therapy in 19 individuals. Peripheral neuropathy occurred in 12 patients and pancreatitis in six. Thirteen patients developed a raised serum amylase without abdominal pain. Seven patients developed glucose tolerance curves characteristic of diabetes but these were mild, did not require treatment and returned to normal on ceasing didanosine.
Phenazopyridine (PAP) causes a hemolytic anemia in normal individuals who receive an overdose or in patients with decreased renal function given therapeutic doses. There are no reports of PAP-induced hemolysis in individuals with unstable hemoglobins. Therapeutic doses of PAP administered to a subject with Hb Zürich (His E7 (63) beta leads to Arg) caused a severe hemolytic anemia with many large Heinz bodies appearing in the red cells. Incubation of whole blood from three asymptomatic Hb Zürich subjects with PAP at a molar ratio of PAP/Hb of 1.3/1 produced a moderate to marked increase in methemoglobin (MHb) and Heinz body formation accompanied by a slight to moderate decrease in levels of reduced glutathione. The rates of MHb formation were proportional to the concentration of PAP. In two of the subjects the rates of formation of Heinz bodies and MHb were substantially higher than in the third subject. Red cells from five normal adults were not affected. In Hb Zürich red cells the affinity of the abnormal beta chain for carbon monoxide is much greater than that of the normal alpha and beta chains. The two subjects with higher rates of MHb and Heinz body formation were nonsmokers with in vivo carboxyhemoglobin (HbCO) levels of 4-6%. The third subject with low rates of MHb and Heinz body formation was a smoker with in vivo HbCO levels of 15-18%. Increasing levels of HbCO from 8.2% to 14.3% by the in vitro addition of CO caused a marked reduction in the rate of Heinz body formation and a moderate decrease in MHb formation. Rates of MHb formation similar to those observed in normal red cells occurred at HbCO percentages of 89.2 and 99.2. Red cells containing Hb Zürich are extremely sensitive to oxidative injury by PAP, either in vivo or in vitro. The degree of oxidative injury diminishes as the level of HbCO increases, a phenomenon that is enhanced by preferential binding of CO to the abnormal beta subunit of Hb Zürich.
Thimerosal (THIM), an organomercury preservative added to many child vaccines is a suspected factor in pathogenesis of neurodevelopmental disorders. We examined the pharmacokinetics of Hg in the brain, liver and kidneys after i.m. THIM injection in suckling rats and we tested THIM effect on nociception. THIM solutions were injected to Wistar and Lewis rats in a vaccination-like mode on PN days 7, 9, 11 and 15 in four equal doses. For Wistar rats these were: 12, 48, 240, 720, 1440, 2160, 3000 microg Hg/kg and for Lewis: 54, 216, 540 and 1080 microg Hg/kg. Pharmacokinetic analysis revealed that Hg from THIM injections accumulates in the rat brain in significant amounts and remains there longer than 30 days after the injection. At the 6th week of age animals were examined for pain sensitivity using the hot plate test. THIM treated rats of both strains and sexes manifested statistically significantly elevated pain threshold (latency for paw licking, jumping) on a hot plate (56 degrees C). Wistar rats were more sensitive to this effect than Lewis rats. Protracted THIM-induced hypoalgesia was reversed by naloxone (5 mg/kg, i.p.) injected before the hot plate test, indicative of involvement of endogenous opioids. This was confirmed by augmented catalepsy after morphine (2.5 mg/kg, s.c.) injection. Acute THIM injection to 6-week-old rats also produced hypoalgesia, but this effect was transient and was gone within 14 days. Present findings show that THIM administration to suckling or adult rats impairs sensitivity to pain, apparently due to activation the endogenous opioid system.
1. No species differences between Schistosoma haematobium and Schistosoma mansoni were detected when the I50 of metrifonate for the acetylcholinesterases (AChE) and the cholinesterases (ChE) of these two trematodes were determined in isolated enzyme preparations or following exposure of the intact worms to this drug in vitro.2. S. haematobium appeared to be more affected by AChE inhibition because, after administration of metrifonate to hamsters, a hepatic shift of the parasites was observed with a dose of metrifonate (150 mg (0.6 mmol) per kg) which produced no shift of S. mansoni, although AChE inhibition was comparable in both species.3. Administration of a possible metabolite of metrifonate, dichlorvos, to hamsters resulted in a greater inhibition of AChE and ChE activities of S. haematobium than those of S. mansoni. Furthermore, when schistosomes were incubated with dichlorvos, inhibition of AChE activity of female S. haematobium was significantly greater (P<0.005) than that of both sexes of S. mansoni and of male S. haematobium.4. The discrepancy between the lack of a significant chemotherapeutic effect of metrifonate in hamsters infected with S. haematobium and the clinical results obtained with this organophosphorus compound in human schistosomiasis haematobium is discussed, and the need to conduct similar studies in primates is pointed out.
To explore the regularity of multi-meridians controlling a same viscus (MMCSV).
The rabbit gastric ulcer model was established by ethanol intragastric instillation. Fifty-six rabbits were randomly divided into normal group, model group (MG), model plus acupuncture at Foot Yangming Meridian group (YMG), model plus acupuncture at Foot Taiyin Meridian group (TYG), model plus acupuncture at Foot Shaoyang Meridian group (SYG), model plus acupuncture at Foot Jueyin Meridian group (JYG), model plus acupuncture at Foot Taiyang Meridian group (TYMG), with eight rabbits in each group. Gastric mucosal nitric oxide (NO) and nitric oxide synthase (NOS) were assayed by the nitric acid reductase method, and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and epidermal growth factor (EGF) were measured by radioimmunoassay. The comprehensive effects were analyzed by weighing method.
Compared to MG, SYG, JYG and TYMG, the rabbits gastric mucosal injury index (GMII) reduced very significantly in YMG (P<0.01). Compared to MG, the GMII also reduced significantly in TYG (P<0.05). NO, NOS, PGE2 and EGF increased very significantly in YMG (P<0.01). The EGF in YMG also increased significantly than that in TYG compared to those in MG, SYG, JYG and TYMG (P<0.05). The PGE2 and EGF also increased very significantly in TYG than those in MG, JYG and TYMG (P<0.01). While compared to SYG, the NOS increased significantly in TYG (P<0.05). NOS was the highest in YMG (P<0.01), and was higher in TYG than in MG (P<0.01).
MMCSV is common. The Foot Yangming Meridian is most closely related to the stomach, followed by Foot Taiyin Meridian, Foot Shaoyang Meridian and Foot Jueyin Meridian. Foot Taiyang Meridian has no correlation with the stomach.
Genetic variation in the regulatory region of the human serotonin transporter gene (SLC6A4) has been shown to affect brain functionality and personality. However, large heterogeneity in its biological effects is observed, which is at least partially due to genetic modifiers. To gain insight into serotonin transporter (SERT)-specific genetic modifiers, we studied an intercross between the Wistar SERT-/- rat and the behaviorally and genetically divergent Brown Norway rat, and performed a QTL analysis.
In a cohort of >150 intercross SERT-/- and control (SERT+/+) rats we characterized 12 traits that were previously associated with SERT deficiency, including activity, exploratory pattern, cocaine-induced locomotor activity, and abdominal and subcutaneous fat. Using 325 genetic markers, 10 SERT-/--specific quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for parameters related to activity and exploratory pattern (Chr.1,9,11,14), and cocaine-induced anxiety and locomotor activity (Chr.5,8) were identified. No significant QTLs were found for fat parameters. Using in silico approaches we explored potential causal genes within modifier QTL regions and found interesting candidates, amongst others, the 5-HT1D receptor (Chr. 5), dopamine D2 receptor (Chr. 8), cannabinoid receptor 2 (Chr. 5), and genes involved in fetal development and plasticity (across chromosomes).
We anticipate that the SERT-/--specific QTLs may lead to the identification of new modulators of serotonergic signaling, which may be targets for pharmacogenetic and therapeutic approaches.
Grapefruit-seed extract (GSE) containing flavonoids, possesses antibacterial and antioxidative properties but whether it influences the gastric defense mechanism and gastroprotection against ethanol- and stress-induced gastric lesions remains unknown.
We compared the effects of GSE on gastric mucosal lesions induced in rats by topical application of 100% ethanol or 3.5 h of water immersion and restraint stress (WRS) with or without (A) inhibition of cyclooxygenase (COX)-1 activity by indomethacin and rofecoxib, the selective COX-2 inhibitor, (B) suppression of NO-synthase with L-NNA (20 mg/kg ip), and (C) inactivation by capsaicin (125 mg/kg sc) of sensory nerves with or without intragastric (ig) pretreatment with GSE applied 30 min prior to ethanol or WRS. One hour after ethanol and 3.5 h after the end of WRS, the number and area of gastric lesions were measured by planimetry, the gastric blood flow (GBF) was assessed by H2-gas clearance technique and plasma gastrin levels and the gastric mucosal generation of PGE2, superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity and malonyldialdehyde (MDA) concentration, as an index of lipid peroxidation were determined.
Ethanol and WRS caused gastric lesions accompanied by the significant fall in the GBF and SOD activity and the rise in the mucosal MDA content. Pretreatment with GSE (8-64 mg/kg i g) dose-dependently attenuated gastric lesions induced by 100% ethanol and WRS; the dose reducing these lesions by 50% (ID50) was 25 and 36 mg/kg, respectively, and this protective effect was similar to that obtained with methyl PGE2 analog (5 microg/kg i g). GSE significantly raised the GBF, mucosal generation of PGE2, SOD activity and plasma gastrin levels while attenuating MDA content. Inhibition of PGE2 generation with indomethacin or rofecoxib and suppression of NO synthase by L-NNA or capsaicin denervation reversed the GSE-induced protection and the accompanying hyperemia. Co-treatment of exogenous calcitonine gene-related peptide (CGRP) with GSE restored the protection and accompanying hyperemic effects of GSE in rats with capsaicin denervation.
GSE exerts a potent gastroprotective activity against ethanol and WRS-induced gastric lesions via an increase in endogenous PG generation, suppression of lipid peroxidation and hyperemia possibly mediated by NO and CGRP released from sensory nerves.
The Down syndrome critical region 1 (DSCR1) gene is located in syntenic regions of human chromosome 21 and mouse chromosome 16 and encodes a regulatory protein in the calcineurin/NFAT pathway. DSCR1 expression in the embryonic brain, craniofacial structures, and heart is consistent with a role in contributing to Down syndrome developmental anomalies. In the trisomy 16 (Ts16) murine model of Down syndrome, expression of DSCR1 isoforms is elevated and NFAT transcriptional activity is decreased in the developing heart and brain. The individual contribution of DSCR1 to Down syndrome-related anomalies was examined by specific restoration of DSCR1 to disomic levels in Ts16 embryos. However, genetic restoration of DSCR1 did not rescue major morphological abnormalities in cardiac or craniofacial development. These data demonstrate that trisomy of DSCR1 alone does not significantly contribute to developmental defects in Ts16 mice and underscore the complexity of developmental anomalies associated with Down syndrome.
Intrathecal methotrexate (MTX) has been associated with severe neurotoxicity. Because carrier-associated removal of MTX from the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) into blood remains undefined, we determined the expression and function of MTX transporters in rat choroid plexus (CP). MTX neurotoxicity usually manifests as seizures requiring therapy with antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) such as phenobarbital (PB). Because we have demonstrated that PB reduces activity of MTX influx carrier reduced folate carrier (Rfc1) in liver, we investigated the influence of the AEDs PB, carbamazepine (CBZ), or gabapentin on Rfc1-mediated MTX transport in CP. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and Western blot analysis showed similar expression of the MTX influx carrier Rfc1 and organic anion transporter 3 or efflux transporter multidrug resistance-associated protein 1 (Mrp1) and breast cancer resistance protein (Bcrp) in rat CP tissue and choroidal epithelial Z310 cells. Confocal microscopy revealed subcellular localization of Rfc1 and Bcrp at the apical and of Mrp1 at the basolateral CP membrane. Uptake, efflux, and inhibition studies indicated MTX transport activity of Rfc1, Mrp1, and Bcrp. PB and CBZ but not gabapentin significantly inhibited Rfc1-mediated uptake of MTX in CP cells. Studies on the regulatory mechanism showed that PB significantly inhibited Rfc1 translation but did not alter carrier gene expression. Altogether, removal of intrathecal MTX across the blood-CSF barrier may be achieved through Rfc1-mediated uptake from the CSF followed by MTX extrusion into blood, particularly via Mrp1. Antiepileptic treatment with PB or CBZ causes post-transcriptional down-regulation of Rfc1 activity in CP. This mechanism may result in enhanced MTX toxicity in patients with cancer who are receiving intrathecal MTX chemotherapy by reduced CSF clearance of the drug.
The cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor celecoxib is an approved drug in the clinic for colon cancer chemoprevention and has been tested for its chemopreventive and therapeutic efficacy in various clinical trials. Celecoxib induces apoptosis in a variety of human cancer cells including lung cancer cells. Our previous work has shown that celecoxib induces death receptor 5 expression, resulting in induction of apoptosis and enhancement of tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL)-induced apoptosis in human lung cancer cells. In the current study, we further show that celecoxib down-regulated the expression of cellular FLICE-inhibitory protein (c-FLIP), a major negative regulator of the death receptor-mediated extrinsic apoptotic pathway, through a ubiquitin/proteasome-dependent mechanism independent of COX-2 in human lung cancer cells. Overexpression of c-FLIP, particularly FLIP(L), inhibited not only celecoxib-induced apoptosis but also apoptosis induced by the combination of celecoxib and TRAIL. These results thus indicate that c-FLIP down-regulation also contributes to celecoxib-induced apoptosis and enhancement of TRAIL-induced apoptosis, which complements our previous finding that the extrinsic apoptotic pathway plays a critical role in celecoxib-induced apoptosis in human lung cancer cells. Collectively, we conclude that celecoxib induces apoptosis in human lung cancer cells through activation of the extrinsic apoptotic pathway, primarily by induction of death receptor 5 and down-regulation of c-FLIP.
Glutamatergic mechanisms have been implicated in the control of fluid ingestion. In the present study, we investigated whether non-N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) glutamatergic receptors in the lateral parabrachial nucleus (LPBN) are involved in the control of water and sodium intake. Male Sprague-Dawley rats had cannulas implanted bilaterally into the LPBN. They were acutely depleted of water and sodium by injections of the diuretic furosemide (Furo; 10 mg/kg, bw) and given a low dose of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, captopril (Cap; 5 mg/kg, bw). Bilateral LPBN injections of the non-NMDA receptor antagonist DNQX (2 and 5 nmol/0.2 microl) increased the ingestion of 0.3 M NaCl and water of Furo/Cap treated rats. The increased ingestion produced by DNQX was abolished by pretreating the LPBN with alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA), a non-NMDA receptor agonist. AMPA injected alone into the LPBN reduced water and 0.3 M NaCl intake. Injections of DNQX (5 nmol/0.2 microl) into the LPBN also produced ingestion of 0.3 M NaCl after sc injections of the beta-adrenoceptor agonist, isoproterenol, a hypotensive drug that typically produces only water intake. Food intake, arterial blood pressure and heart rate were not altered by DNQX LPBN injections. We conclude that agonists acting on non-NMDA receptors in the LPBN exert an inhibitory influence on sodium intake during acute fluid depletion with hypotension and after isoproterenol treatment. A possible interaction of serotonin with glutamate within the LPBN is discussed.
A case is reported of neuroleptic-induced catatonia that developed after treatment with loxapine succinate, a drug not previously reported to cause catatonia. The syndrome, characterized by marked parkinsonism, episodes of posturing, social withdrawal, and urinary incontinence, persisted during haloperidol treatment and remitted when the drug was discontinued. This syndrome appears to represent severe neuroleptic-induced parkinsonism.
A seventy-eight-year-old woman presented with complete heart block and refractory hypotension two days after a therapeutic dose of sustained-release verapamil with concomitant use of metoprolol. The patient continued to remain hypotensive with complete heart block, even with multiple uses of intravenous atropine as well as high doses of pressor agents such as dopamine and dobutamine. However, shortly after the use of intravenous calcium chloride, the refractory hypotension and complete heart block resolved.
To explore dietary mineral nutrients (calcium, magnesium, zinc, ferric, chromium) and vitamins (vitamin A, B1, B2, C, D, E) on the effect of metabolic disorder of Wistar rat fed with high fat diet.
Fifty obesity-prone male rats were randomly divided into 5 groups: A group were fed with basic diet, B group were fed with high fat diet and normal minerals and vitamins, C group were fed with high fat diet with lower minerals and vitamins, D group were fed with high fat diet with higher minerals and vitamins, E group were fed with high fat diet with only higher calcium. After 8 weeks, blood glucose, serum insulin and leptin, serum triglycerides, cholesterol and high-density lipoprotein were measured respectively.
The body weight and fat content in B group were significantly higher than those of other groups. The body weight in D, E group decreased significantly compared with B group, both of which are similar with A group. In the case of blood glucose, serum insulin, leptin,triglycerides, cholesterol and high-density lipoprotein, they all have the tendency of decreasing in D group compared with E group.
In addition to reducing body weight and fat content, dietary mineral nutrients and vitamins can also ameliorate the blood glucose and improve hyperinsulinemia and hyperleptinemia, modify the metabolic disordor of rat fed with high fat diet.
