The aim of the prospective randomized study was to compare the reduction in cyclical breast pain after treatment with oral bromocriptine for 30 days (42 cases) and Geritamine for 40 days (44 cases). The overall response rate to first group was 78.5% and 64.0% to second group. Nine patients treated with bromocriptine and 15 cases with Geritamine have refractory cyclical mastalgia (not influence). The relapse rate after stopping bromocriptine was 30.3% and was 44.8%, with a mean follow-up of 5 months. The investigators indicate that these agents will be used for a twice per year.
Myeloma bone disease is characterized by osteolytic destruction associated with suppressed osteoblastic activity. Using data from the APEX (Richardson et al., N Engl J Med 2005;352:2487-2498) study, we have assessed the relationship of changes in alkaline phosphatase (ALP) levels during bortezomib therapy with response and time to progression on this therapy. The percentage of ALP increments in responders (complete and partial response) and nonresponders was analyzed at different thresholds and time points. For all bortezomib-treated patients enrolled in the trial (N = 333), at least a 25% increase in ALP from the baseline at 6 week was the most powerful predictor of treatment response (P < 0.0001) and time to progression (206 vs. 169 days) relative to patients with less than a 25% increase in ALP (P = 0.01). Markers of osteoblastic activation may predict quality and duration of response in multiple myeloma. In addition, our data suggest that bone anabolism could inhibit myeloma growth.
Articaine is an amide local anesthetic introduced clinically in Germany in 1976 and subsequently throughout Europe, Canada and, in 2000, the United States.
The authors report on three identical single-dose, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, active-controlled multicenter studies that were conducted to compare the safety and efficacy of articaine (4 percent with epinephrine 1:100,000) with that of lidocaine (2 percent with epinephrine 1:100,000).
A total of 1,325 subjects participated in these studies, 882 of whom received articaine 4 percent with epinephrine 1:100,000 and 443 of whom received lidocaine 2 percent with epinephrine 1:100,000. The overall incidence of adverse events in the combined studies was 22 percent for the articaine group and 20 percent for the lidocaine group. The most frequently reported adverse events in the articaine group, excluding postprocedural dental pain, were headache (4 percent), facial edema, infection, gingivitis and paresthesia (1 percent each). The incidence of these events was similar to that reported for subjects who received lidocaine. The adverse events most frequently reported as related to articaine use were paresthesia (0.9 percent), hypesthesia (0.7 percent), headache (0.55 percent), infection (0.45 percent), and rash and pain (0.3 percent each).
Articaine is a well-tolerated, safe and effective local anesthetic for use in clinical dentistry.
The use of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, known as "ecstasy"), a synthetic amphetamine and "club drug," has been associated with acute, transient urinary retention. We report a case of neurogenic bladder and chronic urinary retention associated with MDMA abuse.
A 21-year-old male presented to the emergency department (ED) because he had abdominal pain and difficulty urinating. He had experienced difficulty in initiating urination over the past 1.5 months, with periods of 24 to 36 hours between voids and large volumes of urine. The patient had a chronic pattern of MDMA use, taking 4 tablets/day for 3 months. Two weeks before coming to the ED, he had been admitted to an inpatient drug rehabilitation center. During the time since that admission, the patient had visited EDs repeatedly for insertion and removal of Foley catheters to relieve the urinary retention until he could be admitted to a urologic service. Cystometrogram was abnormal, finding no sensation of bladder fullness after instillation of 350 mL of saline and inability to generate a voluntary voiding pressure. Cystoscopy revealed no outlet obstruction. The findings were consistent with neurogenic bladder. The patient was given prescriptions for bethanecol and phenazopyridine, and told to continue a 10-day course of sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim for urinary tract infection. He was discharged with a Foley catheter in place. Symptoms of urinary retention persisted at 1-year follow-up, despite self-catheterization and complete cessation of MDMA use.
Chronic MDMA use may lead to neurogenic bladder and chronic urinary retention.
Intravital microscopy and FITC-labeled erythrocytes were used to investigate villous perfusion in the rat small intestine in a model of inflammatory bowel disease. Inflammation was induced with s.c. application of Indomethacin. It has previously been demonstrated that systemic Indomethacin leads to an increase in villous blood flow in the small intestine of the rat. In order to determine whether mast cell activation may contribute to the increase in villous perfusion, Ketotifen was used to inhibit mast cell degranulation. We found that Ketotifen significantly reduced villous perfusion in the inflamed intestine, but had no effect in the control group. We conclude that mast cell activation is one of the mechanisms leading to hyperemia in the mucosa of the small intestine in this animal model. Further studies are required to determine whether mast cell stabilizers may be beneficial in the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease in man.
There is need in the pharmaceutical and chemical industries for high-throughput human cell-based assays for identifying hazardous chemicals, thereby reducing the overall reliance on animal studies for predicting the risk of toxic responses in humans. Despite instances of human-specific teratogens such as thalidomide, the use of human cell-teratogenicity assays has just started to be explored. Herein, a human pluripotent stem cell test (hPST) for identifying teratogens is described, benchmarking the in vitro findings to traditional preclinical toxicology teratogenicity studies and when available to teratogenic outcomes in humans. The hPST method employs a 3-day monolayer directed differentiation of human embryonic stem cells. The teratogenic risk of a compound is gauged by measuring the reduction in nuclear translocation of the transcription factor SOX17 in mesendodermal cells. Decreased nuclear SOX17 in the hPST model was strongly correlated with in vivo teratogenicity. Specifically, 71 drug-like compounds with known in vivo effects, including thalidomide, were examined in the hPST. A threshold of 5 μM demonstrated 94% accuracy (97% sensitivity and 92% specificity). Furthermore, 15 environmental toxicants with physicochemical properties distinct from small molecule pharmaceutical agents were examined and a similarly strong concordance with teratogenicity outcomes from in vivo studies was observed. Finally, to assess the suitability of the hPST for high-throughput screens, a small library of 300 kinase inhibitors was tested, demonstrating the hPST platform's utility for interrogating teratogenic mechanisms and drug safety prediction. Thus, the hPST assay is a robust predictor of teratogenicity and appears to be an improvement over existing in vitro models.
To evaluate the efficacy of gene therapy using a gene gun or direct injection for the transfer of human preproenkephalin (PPE) plasmid cDNA using a capsaicin-induced bladder pain model in rats. Opioid peptides play an essential role in the modulation of micturition reflex and control of inflammatory pain. PPE is one such precursor molecule.
Human PPE cDNA was cloned into a modified pCMV plasmid and delivered into the bladder wall of adult female rats by direct injection or gene gun. At 4 and 7 days after gene therapy, continuous cystometrograms were performed under urethane anesthesia by filling the bladder (0.08 mL/min) with saline, followed by 15 muM capsaicin. Immunohistochemical staining was used to detect enkephalins in the bladder after PPE cDNA transfer.
The intercontraction interval was decreased after intravesical instillation of capsaicin (65.0% and 63.1% decrease) in the control group or direct PPE gene injection group, respectively. However, the gene gun-treated group showed a significantly reduced response to capsaicin instillation at day 4 and day 7 (intercontraction interval 16.2% and 42.8% decrease, respectively). This analgesic effect was reversed by intravenous naloxone, an opioid antagonist (5 mg/kg). Increased enkephalin immunoreactivity in the bladder was observed in the gene gun-treated group at day 4, which was reduced at day 7.
The PPE gene can be effectively transferred and suppress the nociceptive response in the bladder using the gene gun method. These results support potential clinical application of PPE gene gun delivery system for the treatment of bladder pain and other types of visceral pain.
The ultrarapid metabolizer phenotype of the cytochrome P4502D6 (CYP2D6) enzyme has been considered a relevant cause of nonresponse to antidepressant drug therapy. Prescribing high doses of antidepressants to such patients leads to high concentrations of potentially toxic metabolites and an increased risk for adverse reactions. Normalization of the metabolic status of ultrarapid metabolizers by inhibition of CYP2D6 activity could offer a clinically acceptable method to successfully treat such patients with antidepressants.
Five ultrarapid metabolizers with a CYP2D6 gene duplication or triplication were treated with 25 mg nortriptyline twice a day for 3 consecutive weeks, alone during the first week and concomitantly with the CYP2D6 inhibitor paroxetine 10 mg or 20 mg twice a day, respectively, during the second and third weeks. After the third week, nortriptyline was discontinued and the subjects were treated with paroxetine 20 mg twice a day during the fourth study week. At the end of each study week, the steady-state pharmacokinetic parameters of nortriptyline or paroxetine were determined within the dose interval. In addition, the CYP2D6 phenotype was determined by debrisoquin (INN, debrisoquine) test at baseline and at the end of each study phase. Treatment-related adverse events were recorded during drug administration and for 1 week thereafter.
All 5 subjects had very low (subtherapeutic) nortriptyline concentrations after 7 days' treatment with nortriptyline only. Addition of paroxetine 10 mg twice a day to the nortriptyline regimen resulted in a change in all individuals to the "normal" extensive debrisoquine metabolizer phenotype, and therapeutic plasma nortriptyline concentrations were achieved in 4 of 5 subjects after a 3 times mean increase in nortriptyline trough concentration (P =.0011). Doubling the paroxetine dose caused a 15 times mean increase in paroxetine trough concentration (P <.001), indicating strong inhibition by paroxetine of its own metabolism. The high paroxetine concentrations in 2 subjects caused them to have the poor debrisoquine metabolizer phenotype and resulted in a further increase in plasma nortriptyline trough concentration (P =.0099). A strong correlation (rank correlation coefficient [r(s)] = 0.89; P <.0001) was observed between paroxetine and nortriptyline trough concentrations. Paroxetine also significantly decreased the fluctuation of nortriptyline concentrations within the dose interval. One subject discontinued the study after the second study week because of adverse effects; otherwise, the study drugs were well tolerated.
Paroxetine, with a daily dosage from 20 to 40 mg, is an effective tool in normalizing the metabolic status of CYP2D6 ultrarapid metabolizers.
Substance dependent individuals (SDIs) are frequently, but not invariably, impaired on tasks of executive functions. In this study, we examine patterns of executive performance among subjects with different self-reported "drug of choice" (defined as substance used>80% of the time prior to abstinence). Subjects were 33 abstinent SDIs receiving inpatient treatment and 19 non-SDI normal controls (NC) well-matched on age, sex, ethnicity, and VIQ, who were assessed using the Iowa Gambling Task (GT) and a delayed non-match to sample task (DNM): measures of decision making and working memory, respectively. Seventeen SDIs identified alcohol (AL group) and 16 SDIs identified methamphetamine (METH group) as their drug of choice. Overall, the METH group performed more poorly than the NC and AL groups on both tasks, with the largest differences observed in working memory. The AL group was not significantly impaired overall compared to NCs on either task, but showed subtle abnormalities of GT performance similar to the METH group. These preliminary findings suggest that self-reported drug of choice on admission to treatment may be associated with different patterns of executive performance during early recovery.
Previous studies have shown that cholinergic blockade in normal subjects induces impairment of vigilance as well as memory deficits. In the present investigation we have examined the validity of this pharmacological model of dementia by administering a battery of cognitive tasks to patients with mild and moderate senile dementia of the Alzheimer type and to age-matched controls. In contrast to volunteers receiving scopolamine all the mildly demented patients, and half of those moderately affected, performed normally on tests of vigilance whilst exhibiting the expected memory deficits. These data suggest that the mechanism of memory loss in Alzheimer's disease may differ from that found in scopolamine-induced amnesia.
To describe a case of a ceftriaxone-induced hemolytic anemia and hepatitis leading to multiple organ failure and death in an adolescent with hemoglobin SC disease and to review the previous cases of this rare and potentially fatal disorder in children.
Case report and literature review.
Intensive care unit.
Adolescent with hemoglobin SC.
Emergency treatment.
After 4 days of ceftriaxone therapy, the adolescent experienced an acute hemolytic reaction (hemoglobin decreased to 5 g/dL with hemoglobinuria) and severe hepatitis (all enzymes increasing dramatically including aminoaspartate transferase >20,000 IU/L). Renal failure and ultimately multiple organ failure ensued, and the patient died on hospital day 19. Direct antiglobulin tests on red cells obtained from the patient on hospital day 2 showed microscopic agglutination with polyspecific and anticomplement (C3) antiglobulin reagents. Plasma samples showed macroscopic agglutination reactions when incubated in the presence of ceftriaxone, many days after cessation of ceftriaxone, indicating the continued presence of ceftriaxone-dependent antibodies.
Drug reactions leading to hemolysis are relatively uncommon, and a total of ten cases of ceftriaxone-induced hemolytic anemia have been reported in children. The present case describes an adolescent who ultimately died on hospital day 19 from multiple organ failure, although the presentation of this case seems atypical in several respects. Children with clinical syndromes that place them at risk for hemolysis and children who frequently require broad spectrum antibiotics present unique diagnostic challenges, and the possibility that hemolytic syndromes may be due to ceftriaxone must be considered.
In a search for alternative and preventive therapies for prostate cancer, attention was focused on the ways in which curcumin (Turmeric), used in food and medicine in India for centuries, could interfere with the growth factor signaling pathways in both androgen-dependent and androgen-independent prostate cancer cells, as exemplified by the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGF-R) signaling.
The androgen-sensitive LNCaP and androgen-insensitive PC-3 cell lines were grown in 5 to 50 microM curcumin and analyzed for EGF-R protein by Western blotting and for EGF-R tyrosine kinase activity.
Curcumin was a potent inhibitor of EGF-R signaling, and it accomplished this effect by three different means (1) down regulating the EGF-R protein; (2) inhibiting the intrinsic EGF-R tyrosine kinase activity; and (3) inhibiting the ligand-induced activation of the EGF-R.
These results, taken together with our previous results that curcumin can induce apoptosis in both androgen-dependent and androgen-independent prostate cancer cells, support our view that curcumin may be a novel modality by which one can interfere with the signal transduction pathways of the prostate cancer cell and prevent it from progressing to its hormone-refractory state.
Catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) polymorphisms modulate pain and opioid analgesia in human beings. It is not clear how the effects of COMT are mediated and only few relevant animal studies have been performed. Here, we used old male Comt gene knock-out mice as an animal model to study the effects of COMT deficiency on nociception that was assessed by the hot plate and tail flick tests. Stress-induced analgesia was achieved by forced swim. Morphine antinociception was measured after 10 mg/kg of morphine subcutaneously. Morphine tolerance was produced with subcutaneous morphine pellets and withdrawal provoked with subcutaneous naloxone. In the hot plate test, morphine-induced antinociception was significantly greater in the COMT knock-out mice, compared to the wild-type mice. This may be due to increased availability of opioid receptors as suggested by previous human studies. In the tail flick test, opioid-mediated stress-induced analgesia was absent and morphine-induced analgesia was decreased in COMT knock-out mice. In the hot plate test, stress-induced analgesia developed to all mice regardless of the COMT genotype. There were no differences between the genotypes in the baseline nociceptive thresholds, morphine tolerance and withdrawal. Our findings show, for the first time, the importance of COMT activity in stress- and morphine-induced analgesia in mice. COMT activity seems to take part in the modulation of nociception not only in the brain, as suggested earlier, but also at the spinal/peripheral level.
Sigma-2 receptors are over-expressed in proliferating cancer cells, making an attractive target for the targeted treatment of pancreatic cancer. In this study, we investigated the role of the novel sigma-2 receptor ligand SW43 to induce apoptosis and augment standard chemotherapy.
The binding affinity for sigma-2 ligands is high in pancreas cancer, and they induce apoptosis with a rank order of SV119 < SW43 < SRM in vitro. Combining these compounds with gemcitabine further increased apoptosis and decreased viability. Our in vivo model showed that sigma-2 ligand treatment decreased tumor volume to the same extent as gemcitabine. However, SW43 combination treatment with gemcitabine was superior to the other compounds and resulted in stabilization of tumor volume during treatment, with minimal toxicities.
This study shows that the sigma-2 ligand SW43 has the greatest capacity to augment gemcitabine in a pre-clinical model of pancreas cancer and has provided us with the rationale to move this compound forward with clinical investigations for patients with pancreatic cancer.
Nucleotide sequence analysis of PCR fragments of TSH receptor cDNA synthesized from thyroid RNA of a patient with autoimmune hyperthyroidism, revealed two different sequences in the first position of codon 36. In one of the sequences, there was a C for G substitution leading to the D36----H substitution in the predicted peptide. Both variants were also found in genomic DNA of thyroid tissue. However, only the germ line sequence was found in other tissues representing all three different germ layers. The novel sequence is therefore likely to represent a somatic mutation in the thyroid tissue, of possible relevance for the pathogenesis of the patient's thyroid disorder.
To identify clinical criteria predictive of underlying coronary artery disease in patients with cocaine-associated myocardial infarction.
Using a retrospective cross-sectional study design at 29 acute care hospitals, we identified 70 patients with cocaine-associated myocardial infarction who had a determination of the presence or absence of coronary artery disease. Clinical characteristics of patients with coronary artery disease (> 50% stenosis on cardiac catheterization or reversible ischemia on stress test) were compared with patients without coronary artery disease (< 50% stenosis on cardiac catheterization).
Compared with patients without coronary artery disease (n = 21), patients with coronary artery disease (n = 49) were older (42 versus 31 years; P < 0.001), had more traditional cardiac risk factors (2.3 versus 1.5; P < 0.001), more frequent history of hypertension (odds ratio [OR], 5.3; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.4 to 20.4); more frequent family history of myocardial infarction (OR, 4.4; 95% CI, 1.3 to 15.1), more bradydysrhythmias (OR, 8.0; 95% CI, 1.0 to 65.5), and more likely to have an inferior infarct location (P = 0.04).
Age, number of cardiac risk factors, location of myocardial infarction, and bradydysrhythmias predict underlying coronary artery disease in patients with cocaine-associated myocardial infarction. If validated, this knowledge may be used to develop a medically appropriate, cost-effective evaluation strategy for patients following cocaine-associated myocardial infarction.
A growing body of evidence suggests the involvement of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in both antipsychotic action and schizophrenia pathogenesis. The present study tested the hypothesis that the BDNF-gene Val66Met polymorphism is associated with schizophrenia and clozapine's therapeutic response. To identify any genetic predisposition to schizophrenia, we studied the BDNF-gene Val66Met polymorphism in 93 schizophrenic patients and 198 normal controls. Statistical analysis was used to test the association between this polymorphism and clozapine response the schizophrenic group. A trend (P=0.055) was demonstrated between genetic predisposition and Val66Met genotypes in 93 schizophrenic patients, especially for those with good response to clozapine (P=0.023). No significant difference in clozapine therapeutic response was demonstrated comparing the three Val66Met-genotype subgroups. Our finding suggests that this BDNF-gene Val66Met polymorphism may be related to schizophrenia pathogenesis in patients responsive to clozapine treatment.
Dopamine D1 and D2 receptors as well as the GABA/benzodiazepine receptor complex in the striatum and the globus pallidus (internal: GPi and external: GPe) were studied by autoradiography using [3H]SCH 23390, [3H]spiperone, and [3H]flunitrazepam ([3H]FNZ) respectively, in five groups of cynomolgus monkeys. These included (i) untreated 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-monkeys; (ii) MPTP monkeys treated chronically with levodopa injections; (iii) MPTP monkeys treated chronically with injections of the novel D2 agonist U91356A; (iv) MPTP monkeys treated chronically with U91356A delivered through an osmotic mini-pump; and (5) naive controls. Animals treated in a pulsatile mode with U91356A or levodopa injections showed progressive sensitization to their respective drug and developed choreic dyskinesia. In contrast, animals treated in a continuous mode with U91356A showed behavioral tolerance but did not develop dyskinesia. A trend for a down-regulation of putaminal D2 receptors was observed following D2 agonist stimulation with U913356A. Striatal [3H]FNZ binding was significantly decreased only in animals treated in a continuous mode with U91356A. The dopamine receptor decrease in the striatum could be implicated with the development of tolerance but cannot explain the appearance of dyskinesia. Denervation by MPTP was associated with a decrease of the GPe/GPi [3H]FNZ binding ratio which reflects an imbalance of striatal output pathways; this ratio was not reversed by any of the treatments although changes were observed in the GPe and GPi. Indeed, pulsatile U91356A treatment restored the decreased [3H]FNZ binding in the GPe near control values and levodopa showed a similar tendency. A significant increase of [3H]FNZ binding in the GPi only of dyskinetic monkeys, namely those treated with pulsatile U91356A or levodopa was seen compared to untreated MPTP or naive controls. This GABAA receptor up-regulation might lead to a supersensitive state of the GPi to gabaergic input which may be involved in the mechanism underlying the development of dopaminomimetic-induced dyskinesia.
A retrospective review of cases consulted by the San Francisco Bay Area Regional Poison Control Center during a 2-year period was performed to determine the causes and consequences of seizures associated with poisoning and drug intoxication. Of 233 charts coded as involving seizures, 191 occurred in humans and were available for analysis. The leading causes of seizures reported to the Poison Control Center were cyclic antidepressants (55 cases, 29%); cocaine and other stimulants (55 cases, 29%); diphenhydramine and other antihistamines (14 cases, 7%); theophylline (10 cases, 5%); and isoniazid (10 cases, 5%). Stimulants and diphenhydramine were more likely than other drugs to produce brief, self-limited seizures. In contrast, poisoning by cyclic antidepressants, cardiodepressant antiarrhythmic agents, or theophylline was more likely to be associated with death. Seizures in elderly patients were more likely to result in complications and death. The frequency of seizure-related cases by substance type was also compared with the results of an earlier survey performed in 1981, and found a striking increase in the proportion of seizures caused by cocaine and (23% in 1988 to 1989 compared with 4% in 1981). Poison Control Center data can provide valuable information about the causes and consequences of drug-related medical complications, as well as highlight changing trends in drug-related injury.
To highlight a case of torsade de pointes ventricular arrhythmia induced by the concomitant use of cisapride and clarithromycin.
A 77-year-old white woman was admitted to the hospital with a diagnosis of pneumonia and exacerbation of congestive heart failure. In addition to her usual medications, which included cisapride, the patient was prescribed trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole and clarithromycin for pneumonia. Within 48 hours, the patient had documented episodes of symptomatic torsade de pointes arrhythmia, which eventually responded to therapy. Both cisapride and clarithromycin were discontinued, and the patient did not have any recurring episodes during a 32-month follow-up.
Cisapride has been implicated in causing adverse cardiac events, including torsade de pointes arrhythmia. In most cases, the patients had preexisting risk factors for torsade de pointes and/or were receiving other medications known to inhibit the hepatic CYP3A4 enzyme system and the metabolism of cisapride. There is evidence that clarithromycin, a relatively new macrolide antibiotic, also inhibits the isoenzyme CYP3A4. The resulting accumulation of cisapride caused by concomitant clarithromycin therapy was believed to have been the cause of the torsade de pointes arrhythmia in this patient.
Concomitant use of cisapride and clarithromycin may cause torsade de pointes arrhythmia.
Vemurafenib is a first-in-class, small molecule B-Raf kinase inhibitor for the treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma carrying the BRAFV600E mutation, commercially available since 2011. A general phototoxic potential was identified early during development; however, based on results of an animal study in hairless rats, it was concluded that there would exist no relevant risk for humans. Surprisingly, signs of clinical photosensitivity were reported in many patients during clinical development. Therefore, it became a fundamental question to understand this discrepancy. An established mouse model (oral UV-Local Lymph Node Assay, UV-LLNA) for the assessment of in vivo photosafety was used to investigate the impact of formulations, dose levels, duration of treatment, and timing of irradiation. Moreover, a basic pharmacokinetic profile was established within the same mouse strain. We were able to demonstrate dose- and time-dependent phototoxicity of vemurafenib using commercially available tablets (stabilized amorphous material). The lowest phototoxic dose was 350 mg/kg administrated for 3 consecutive days followed by exposure to UV-visible irradiation at a UVA-normalized dose of 10 J/cm². In comparison, pure vemurafenib, which easily forms crystalline variants and is known to have poor bioavailability, was tested at 350 mg/kg, and no signs of phototoxicity could be seen. The most apparent difference between the early study in hairless rats and this study in mice was the spectral range of the irradiation light source (350-400 nm vs 320-700 nm). Because vemurafenib does not absorb sufficiently light above 350 nm, this difference can easily explain the negative earlier study result in hairless rats.
The contribution of environmental pollutants to liver fibrosis is an important and poorly explored issue. In vitro studies suggest that the environmental pollutant 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and other aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) ligands induce several genes that are known to be upregulated during liver fibrosis. Our aim was to determine whether exposure to such pollutants can lead to liver fibrosis and to characterize the mechanisms of action. Mice were treated for 2, 14, or 42 days, once a week with 25 µg/kg of TCDD. Gene and protein expression, in vitro and in vivo, as well as liver histology were investigated for each treatment. Treatment of mice with TCDD for 2 weeks modified the hepatic expression of markers of fibrosis such as collagen 1A1 and α-smooth muscle actin. This is not observed in AhR knockout mice. Following 6 weeks of treatment, histological features of murine hepatic fibrosis became apparent. In parallel, the levels of inflammatory cytokines (interleukin-1 beta, tumor necrosis factor α) and of markers of activated fibroblasts(fibroblast-specific protein 1) were found to be upregulated. Interestingly, we also found increased expression of genes of the TGF-β pathway and a concomitant decrease of miR-200a levels. Because the transcription factors of the Snail family were shown to be involved in liver fibrosis, we studied their regulation by TCDD. Two members of the Snail family were increased, whereas their negative targets, the epithelial marker E-cadherin and Claudin 1, were decreased. Further, the expression of mesenchymal markers was increased. Finally, we confirmed that Snai2 is a direct transcriptional target of TCDD in the human hepatocarcinoma cell line, HepG2. The AhR ligand, TCDD, induces hepatic fibrosis by directly regulating profibrotic pathways.
Prophylactic effects of sulfinpyrazone (100 mg/Kg), aspirin (5 mg/Kg, 50 mg/Kg), and propranolol (2 mg/Kg, 10 mg/Kg) on myocardial necrosis and hypertrophy induced by isoproterenol were examined. Drugs were administered to rats daily by gavage for a period of 2 weeks and after that isoproterenol (40 mg/Kg) was injected subcutaneously. The control group received gavage of water and isoproterenol injection. The "no infarct" group received gavage of water and saline injection. Premedication of sulfinpyrazone and propranolol significantly preserved myocardial CK activity and decreased cardiac hypertrophy compared with control group (24 hours after isoproterenol injection) while aspirin did not have such effects. Myocardial cyclic AMP concentration significantly increased 30 min after isoproterenol injection in control and all the premedicated rats compared with the "no infarct" rats. The increment of cyclic AMP was not suppressed by sulfinpyrazone and propranolol during this period. Plasma levels of prostaglandins were significantly suppressed by the administration of sulfinpyrazone and 50 mg/Kg of aspirin, and were not suppressed by 5 mg/Kg of aspirin. It was concluded that premedication of sulfinpyrazone and propranolol reduce cardiac necrosis and hypertrophy induced by isoproterenol, but aspirin did not have such cardioprotective effects.
To evaluate the improvement of Kangshuai Yizhi Formula I ( I, KYF I) on: the learning and memory dysfunction in mice, and on the mechanism of the hippocampal cholinergic system and the nervous system of monoamine which are closely related to learning and memory function.
Mice: in the low-, middle-, and high-dose KYF I groups were given low-, middle-, and high-dose KYF, respectively, by gastrogavage for 35 successive days. Animals in the control group and the model group were treated with distilled water. The acute learning and memory dysfunction model was established by injection of scopolamine from day 31, and Morris water maze was used to assess the behavior performance of scopolamine-induced model mice for five days. The activities of acetylcholinesterase (AChE), choline acetyl transferase (ChaT) and the content of monoamine neurotransmitters in hippocampus were measured. The activity of monoamine oxidase (MAO) in hippocampus and serum was also detected.
(1) Compared with the control group, the: mean escape latency was shortened, and the frequency across the platform and the staying time at the platform area on the 5th day were decreased in the model group by Morris water maze test. The activities of AChE and MAO were increased, and the ChaT activity and monoamine neurotransmitter content were decreased as well. (2) The escape latency for 4 days in the low-, middle-, and high-dose KYF I groups was significantly shortened than that in the model group, with the shortest latency in the high-dose KYF I group (P<0.05, P<0.01). The frequency across the platform was significantly increased and the staying time at the platform was significantly prolonged in the middle- and high-dose KYF I groups (P<0.05, P<0.01). (3) As compared with the model group, the activity of ChaT and the content of monoamine neurotransmitters in the hippocampus were significantly increased, and the activities of AchE and MAO were significantly decreased in the hippocampus in the high-dose KYF I group (P<0.01).
High-dose KYF I can significantly improve the learning and memory dysfunction: induced by scopolamine in mice. Its mechanism may be related to improving the central cholinergic system and regulating the hippocampal monoamine neurotransmitters.
The NCI-Black-Reiter (NBR) rat is the only strain of male rat known not to synthesize the hepatic form of the low molecular weight protein, alpha 2u-globulin. In previous studies, NBR rats were shown not to develop renal disease when exposed to decalin, a compound known to induce alpha 2u-globulin nephropathy in other rat strains. The objective of this study was to show that the presence of alpha 2u-globulin (alpha 2u) is essential for the development of this syndrome in rats exposed to 2,2,4-trimethylpentane (TMP), 1,4-dichlorobenzene (DCB), isophorone (IP), PS-6 unleaded gasoline (UG), and d-limonene (d-L). The induction of alpha 2u-nephropathy in F344 male rats with lindane was used as a positive control and this response was contrasted to male NBR and female F344 rats treated with lindane. Five to seven 11-week-old male NBR rats were exposed to TMP (500 mg/kg/day), DCB (500 mg/kg/day), IP (1000 mg/kg/day), UG (500 mg/kg/day), d-L (1650 mg/kg/day), or lindane (10 mg/kg/day) and five 11-week-old male and female F344 rats were exposed to lindane (10 mg/kg/day) by oral gavage on 4 consecutive days. NBR male and F344 male and female rats gavaged with corn oil were incorporated in the study as vehicle controls. The presence of hyaline droplets was assessed in perfusion-fixed kidneys by staining paraffin sections with Mallory-Heidenhein stain and in GMA sections with Lee's methylene basic blue fuchsin stain. Paraffin sections were also analyzed immunohistochemically for the presence of alpha 2u. Under exposure conditions that clearly induce alpha 2u-nephropathy in male F344 rats, no lesions, hyaline droplets, or alpha 2u were detectable in treated or control male NBR and female F344 rats. It is thus concluded that the presence of alpha 2u is causal to the development of renal disease in rats exposed to TMP, DCB, IP, UG, d-L, and lindane.
Amiodarone is an effective antiarrhythmic drug, but it has serious side effects and conducted trials did not support its prophylactic use in survivors of acute myocardial infarction. It is possible that the prophylactic use of the drug has not been tested effectively. To optimize therapy outcome, markers of drug efficacy might be developed to identify patients who, although at arrhythmic risk, would not benefit from amiodarone treatment. We investigated descriptors of QT/RR relationship for their potential value in predicting inefficient amiodarone treatment.
The study used 866 Holter recordings (462 amiodarone, 404 placebo) obtained 1 month after randomization in the European Myocardial Infarct Amiodarone Trial (EMIAT). A commercial Holter system was used to measure RR and QT intervals. Subject-specific descriptors of QT/RR relationship were calculated. Comparison was performed in amiodarone- and placebo-treated patients, distinguishing patients who did and did not suffer from arrhythmic death. QT/RR relationship and individually corrected QTc interval differed significantly, not only between amiodarone- and placebo-treated postmyocardial infarction patients but also between patients with and without arrhythmic death on amiodarone (QTc with vs without arrhythmic death 426.30 +/- 33.93 ms vs 444.23 +/- 36.65 ms, P = 6.5 x 10(-3)). In a multivariate analysis, reduced optimum regression residuum (14.33 +/- 7.08 vs 20.11 +/- 9.39, P = 4.4 x 10(-3)) and flatter slope (0.44 +/- 0.19 vs 0.55 +/- 0.24, P = 4.0 x 10(-2)) of the QT/RR relationship independently predicted arrhythmic death during follow-up.
Chronic amiodarone treatment markedly affects the QT/RR relationship. The lack of treatment-related QT/RR changes predicts arrhythmic death. Descriptors of complexity of QT/RR relation seem to be potent markers of treatment efficiency.
Bezafibrate is a latest generation fibrate derivative that substantially reduces total plasma cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations and increases high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. The Bezafibrate Coronary Atherosclerosis Intervention Trial (BECAIT) was a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial over 5 years to assess the angiographic benefits of bezafibrate retard (400 mg. day (-1) in young, male, post-myocardial infarction (post-MI) patients. The trial demonstrated that without lowering serum low density lipoprotein cholesterol, progression of coronary atherosclerosis was prevented and the coronary event rate reduced. In subgroup analyse, bezafibrate decreased the rate of progression of coronary atherosclerosis and coronary event rate in young post-MI patients, primarily by slowing the progression of mild-to-moderate lesions. Additional studies are underway to explore further the benefits of this fibrate in coronary heart disease. The Bezafibrate Infarction Prevention study is the first trial to investigate the effects of raising HDL cholesterol and lowering triglycerides in patients with established coronary disease. The Lower Extremity Arterial Disease Event Reduction study is assessing the benefit of lowering fibrinogen in the prevention of major ischaemic heart disease and stroke in patients with peripheral vascular disease.
