Keloid is a dermal fibroproliferative growth that results from dysfunction of the wound healing processes. Through a multistage genome-wide association study using 824 individuals with keloid (cases) and 3,205 unaffected controls in the Japanese population, we identified significant associations of keloid with four SNP loci in three chromosomal regions: 1q41, 3q22.3-23 and 15q21.3. The most significant association with keloid was observed at rs873549 (combined P = 5.89 x 10(-23), odds ratio (OR) = 1.77) on chromosome 1. Associations on chromosome 3 were observed at two separate linkage disequilibrium (LD) blocks: rs1511412 in the LD block including FOXL2 with P = 2.31 x 10(-13) (OR = 1.87) and rs940187 in another LD block with P = 1.80 x 10(-13) (OR = 1.98). Association of rs8032158 located in NEDD4 on chromosome 15 yielded P = 5.96 x 10(-13) (OR = 1.51). Our findings provide new insights into the pathophysiology of keloid formation.
We demonstrate the successful application of exome sequencing to discover a gene for an autosomal dominant disorder, Kabuki syndrome (OMIM%147920). We subjected the exomes of ten unrelated probands to massively parallel sequencing. After filtering against existing SNP databases, there was no compelling candidate gene containing previously unknown variants in all affected individuals. Less stringent filtering criteria allowed for the presence of modest genetic heterogeneity or missing data but also identified multiple candidate genes. However, genotypic and phenotypic stratification highlighted MLL2, which encodes a Trithorax-group histone methyltransferase: seven probands had newly identified nonsense or frameshift mutations in this gene. Follow-up Sanger sequencing detected MLL2 mutations in two of the three remaining individuals with Kabuki syndrome (cases) and in 26 of 43 additional cases. In families where parental DNA was available, the mutation was confirmed to be de novo (n = 12) or transmitted (n = 2) in concordance with phenotype. Our results strongly suggest that mutations in MLL2 are a major cause of Kabuki syndrome.
Vindesine, a newer vinca alkaloid derivative, underwent a phase I clinical evaluation in 68 humans with advanced, refractory malignancies. Patients received single total doses ranging from 2 to 12.5 mg, repeated every 1-2 weeks. Dose-limiting myelosuppressive, gastrointestinal, and neurologic toxic effects were observed at higher doses. They consisted predominantly of neutropenia, constipation leading, on occasion, to paralytic ileus, and peripheral neuropathy. Total doses of 7.5-10 mg (equivalent to 4-5 mg/m2), repeated every 2 weeks, well-tolerated. There were two partial remissions in patients with acute leukemia and prior vincristine therapy, two minor responses in patients with renal cell carcinoma, one minor response in a patient with squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus, and one minor response in a patient with squamous cell carcinoma of the lung. Vindesine is well-tolerated by man, although it shares some of the toxic manifestations of vinblastine and vincristine. Its efficacy in some patients who were no longer responsive to vincristine therapy suggests a lack of clinical cross-resistance between these compounds.
Bronchodilation and side effects of 28 days treatment with either a full therapeutic dose of theophylline slow-release preparation 500 mg twice daily (400-600 mg), a slow-release terbutaline preparation 10 mg twice daily or combinations of the 2 drugs in full or half doses were evaluated in 31 asthmatic outpatients in a double-blind, randomized crossover design. The combination of half doses of the 2 drugs produced slightly better bronchodilation than high-dose, single drug regimen and similar bronchodilation as a high-dose combination. Side effects during half dose combination were less than when theophylline alone or high dose combination treatment were administered. High-dose combination treatment produced slightly more ventricular ectopic beats and supra ventricular ectopic beats, and 3 patients developed cardiac arrhythmias. A combination of half the normally used doses of oral slow-release formulations of terbutaline and theophylline seems superior to a high-dose combination.
Cartilage destruction is a crucial process in arthritis and is characterized by the degradation of cartilage proteins, proteoglycans, and type II collagen (CII), which are embedded within the extracellular matrix. While proteoglycan loss can be reversed, the degradation of CII is irreversible and has been correlated with an over-expression and over-activation of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). Among the various MMPs, the collagenase MMP-13 possesses the greatest catalytic activity for CII degradation. Here we show that the pomegranate-derived polyphenols, punicalagin (PA) and ellagic acid (EA), inhibit MMP-13-mediated degradation of CII in vitro. Surface plasmon resonance studies and molecular docking simulations suggested multiple binding interactions of PA and EA with CII. The effects of PA on bovine cartilage degradation (stimulated with IL-1β) were investigated by assaying proteoglycan and CII release into cartilage culture media. PA inhibited the degradation of both proteins in a concentration-dependent manner. Finally, the anti-inflammatory effects of PA (daily IP delivery at 10 and 50mg/kg for 14days) were tested in an adjuvant-induced arthritis rat model. Disease development was assessed by daily measurements of body weight and paw volume (using the water displacement method). PA had no effect on disease development at the lower dose but inhibited paw volume (P<0.05) at the higher dose.
To investigate the protective effect of α-lipoic acid (a-LA) on the hepatocarcinogenic process promoted by thioacetamide (TAA), we used a two-stage liver carcinogenesis model in N-diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-initiated and TAA-promoted rats. We examined the modifying effect of co-administered a-LA on the liver tissue environment surrounding preneoplastic hepatocellular lesions, with particular focus on hepatic macrophages and the mechanism behind the decrease in apoptosis of cells surrounding preneoplastic hepatocellular lesions during the early stages of hepatocellular tumor promotion. TAA increased the number and area of glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P)(+) liver cell foci and the numbers of proliferating and apoptotic cells in the liver. Co-administration with a-LA suppressed these effects. TAA also increased the numbers of ED2(+), cyclooxygenase-2(+), and heme oxygenase-1(+) hepatic macrophages as well as the number of CD3(+) lymphocytes. These effects were also suppressed by a-LA. Transcript levels of some inflammation-related genes were upregulated by TAA and downregulated by a-LA in real-time RT-PCR analysis. Outside the GST-P(+) foci, a-LA reduced the numbers of apoptotic cells, active caspase-8(+) cells and death receptor (DR)-5(+) cells. These results suggest that hepatic macrophages producing proinflammatory factors may be activated in TAA-induced tumor promotion. a-LA may suppress tumor-promoting activity by suppressing the activation of these macrophages and the subsequent inflammatory responses. Furthermore, a-LA may suppress tumor-promoting activity by suppressing the DR5-mediated extrinsic pathway of apoptosis and the subsequent regeneration of liver cells outside GST-P(+) foci.
A phase I study was conducted with dacarbazine (DTIC) protected from light and administered iv as a single dose every 3 weeks. Eighteen patients received 47 courses of DTIC, with doses ranging from 850 to 1980 mg/m2. Hypotension was the dose-limiting toxic effect and it may be secondary to the citric acid present in the pharmaceutic preparation of DTIC. Sporadic myelosuppression was seen at doses greater than 1380 mg/m2. Other side effects noted were nausea and vomiting, acute diarrhea, headache, a "flu-like" syndrome, and a hypersensitivity reaction to sunlight. No antitumor activity was found. The results of this study indicate that this may be a qualitatively different way of giving DTIC, and that the side effects of this drug may be intermingled with those of citric acid in this particular schedule. If the conventional pharmaceutic preparation of this drug is not modified, further studies with high-dose DTIC protected from light should be discouraged.
In vivo and in vitro assays were performed with S91 murine melanoma cells aiming to investigate the effects of testosterone and photoperiod on tumor growth and melanogenesis (tyrosinase activity). In vivo assays were performed by inducing melanoma tumors in castrated mice receiving increasing concentrations of testosterone and submitted to varying photoperiod regimens. The results demonstrated that the increase of melanin content was higher in animals submitted to the longest days, thus demonstrating the importance of photoperiod length in melanin synthesis. Increase in tumor growth and protein content was observed in testosterone-treated animals submitted to 12L:12D; in testosterone-treated animals submitted to 4L:20D and 20L:4D tumor growth was significantly smaller. In S91 cultured cells, testosterone increased cell proliferation and reduced tyrosinase activity in a dose-dependent manner. Radioactive binding assays demonstrated that the hormone was acting through low affinity testosterone receptors, since the presence of aromatase inhibitor did not affect the binding assay in a statistically significant way, and all the in vitro experiments were performed in the presence of the inhibitor. Our in vivo data added to the in vitro results corroborate the hypothesis that S91 melanoma cells directly respond to testosterone and that this effect is modulated by light.
A single oral dose of dantrolene (100--150 mg) given at least 2 hr pre-operatively has been found to reduce significantly the strength of muscular fasciculations, the hyperkalaemia and the incidence of muscle pains following suxamethonium (from 56 to 4%) in a series of forty-eight patients compared with controls. The biceps EMG of the fasciculations was unchanged by dantrolene; the incidence of troublesome side effects was low (9%) and there did not appear to be any alteration in the duration of action of suxamethonium.
Biochemical and biological studies have been carried out with 2-desamino-2-methylaminopterin (dmAMT), which inhibits tumor cell growth in culture but is only a weak inhibitor of dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR). Since it was possible that the species responsible for growth inhibition are polyglutamylated metabolites, the di-, tri-, and tetraglutamates of dmAMT were synthesized and tested as inhibitors of purified recombinant human DHFR, murine L1210 leukemia thymidylate synthase (TS), chicken liver glycinamide ribonucleotide formyltransferase (GARFT), and murine L1210 leukemia aminoimidazolecarboxamide ribonucleotide formyltransferase (AICARFT). The compounds with three and four gamma-glutamyl residues were found to bind two orders of magnitude better than dmAMT itself to DHFR, TS, and AICARFT, with 50% inhibitory concentration values in the 200 to 300 nM range against all three enzymes. In contrast, at a concentration of 10 microM, dmAMT polyglutamates had no appreciable effect on GARFT activity. These findings support the hypothesis that dmAMT requires intracellular polyglutamylation for activity and indicate that replacement of the 2-amino group by 2-methyl is as acceptable a structural modification in antifolates targeted against DHFR as it is in antifolates targeted against TS. In growth assays against methotrexate (MTX)-sensitive H35 rat hepatoma cells and MTX-resistant H35 sublines with a transport defect, dmAMT was highly cross-resistant with MTX, but not with the TS inhibitors N10-propargyl-5,8-dideazafolic acid and N-(5-[N-(3,4-dihydro-2-methyl-4-ox-oquinazolin-6-yl)-N- methylamino]thenoyl)-L-glutamic acid, implicating DHFR rather than TS as the principal target for dmAMT polyglutamates in intact cells. On the other hand, an H35 subline resistant to 2'-deoxy-5-fluorouridine by virtue of increased TS activity was highly cross-resistant to N10-propargyl-5,8-dideazafolic acid and not cross-resistant to MTX, but showed partial cross-resistance to dmAMT. Both thymidine and hypoxanthine were required to protect H35 cells treated with concentrations of dmAMT and MTX that inhibited growth by greater than 90% relative to unprotected controls. In contrast, N10-propargyl-5,8-dideazafolic acid and N-(5-[N-(3,4-dihydro-2-methyl-4-oxoquinazolin-6-yl)-N-methylamino] thenoyl)- L-glutamic acid required only thymidine for protection. Like MTX, therefore, dmAMT appears to inhibit purine as well as pyrimidine de novo synthesis, and its effect on cell growth probably reflects the ability of dmAMT polyglutamates to not only block dihydrofolate reduction but also interfere with other steps of folate metabolism, either directly or indirectly via alteration of reduced folate pools.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Since 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) has reproductive and developmental toxicity as an estrogen antagonist, we investigated the effects of TCDD on osteogenesis in rat skeleton and the human female-responsive osteoblastic osteosarcoma cell line SaOS-2. Rat fetuses were exposed to 5, 10, or 15 microg/kg TCDD on gestation day (GD) 10. TCDD dose-dependently induced single or multiple rat fetal skeletal development malformations in vivo. In vitro, 10 nM TCDD significantly inhibited cell proliferation in the presence of 1 microM 17-beta-estradiol (E2) in SaOS-2 cells. Insulin-like growth factor binding protein 6 (IGFBP-6), as a crucial regulator in IGF system, plays an important role in osteogenesis and bone function. TCDD (15 microg/kg) induced a dramatic 3-fold increase in IGFBP-6 mRNA expression in rat fetal calvaria on GD 21. On the other hand, the concurrent treatment of 10 nM TCDD and 1 muM E2 resulted in a significant increase in IGFBP-6 mRNA and protein after 24 h in SaOS-2 cells, but TCDD and (or) E2 had no effect on the mRNA level of cytosolic aromatic hydrocarbon receptor. The functional estrogen-responsive element (ERE) [5'-CCT TCA CCT G-3'] (-9 to +1) in the IGFBP-6 promoter region was identified in this study for the first time as the ER genomic binding site. Collectively, these results suggest that TCDD can alter the expression of IGFBP-6 gene and exerts growth-inhibitory effects on osteogenesis. In addition, TCDD exhibits an anti-estrogenic effect through its interference with the binding of activated estrogen-liganded ER to the functional ERE in IGFBP-6 gene promoter.
The interval between indomethacin administration and clinical response may be clinically relevant in the assessment of chronic paroxysmal hemicrania and hemicrania continua and other unilateral headache disorders with which they can be confounded. Eight patients with chronic paroxysmal hemicrania (6 women and 2 men) and 12 patients with hemicrania continua (8 women and 4 men) were entered into the study. The patients were given 50 mg of indomethacin intramuscularly (i.m.) on day 1 and some of them 100 mg IM on day 2 in an open fashion. The usual attack pattern was reestablished prior to the second test. The mean interval between attacks before the two injections (51 +/- 18 minutes) in chronic paroxysmal hemicrania was significantly shorter than the mean after each of the two indomethacin injections (50 mg = 493 +/- 251 minutes; 100 mg = 668 +/- 211 minutes; P < 0.001; Mann-Whitney test). In every patient, there was a clear refractory period after indomethacin. Since the first "expected" attack after indomethacin administration did not occur, it can, with reasonable certainty, be assumed that the protective phase was initiated already prior to the time of the next "anticipated" attack. The mean attack duration was 22 minutes (last three attacks prior to test). The mean interval between the onset of two consecutive pretest attacks was 73 minutes. Since the interval between attacks was rather stable, one is, therefore, probably allowed to assume that the absolute protective effect of indomethacin on average had begun somewhere between 22 (mean attack duration) and 73 minutes after indomethacin injection. Similarly, in hemicrania continua, the time between 50-mg indomethacin injection and complete pain relief was 73 +/- 66 minutes. The pain-free period after indomethacin injection was around 13 hours (i.e., 13 +/- 8 hours after 50 mg and 13 +/- 10 hours after 100 mg). The use of a test dosage of 50 mg of indomethacin IM ('indotest') gives a clear-cut answer and may be a useful tool in the diagnostic arsenal in every unilateral headache for a proper clinical assessment. A diagnosis of chronic paroxysmal hemicrania or hemicrania continua is a serious matter because it may imply life-long treatment with a potentially noxious drug. It is, therefore, of the utmost importance that an 'indotest' is carried out in a standard fashion. In the future, the rules set forth in the present context should be followed, at least in scientific studies. Pain pressure thresholds at cranial and extracranial levels were not significantly modified after indomethacin injection in any of the headaches.
The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that some cases of drug-induced arrhythmias depend on genetic predisposition. Excessive prolongation of the QT interval and life-threatening arrhythmias (torsades de pointes or ventricular fibrillation) may occur in response to a variety of cardiac and noncardiac drugs, with detrimental effects on patient safety and the investments made by the pharmaceutical industry. Moss and Schwartz hypothesized that some drug-induced arrhythmias might represent cases of "forme fruste" of the congenital long QT syndrome (LQTS). The availability of molecular screening techniques for LQTS genes allowed us to test this hypothesis. An elderly female patient with documented cardiac arrest related to cisapride, a prokynetic drug that blocks I(Kr), and transiently prolonged QT interval underwent mutational analysis of the known LQTS-related genes performed by single-strand conformational polymorphism and DNA sequencing. Double-electrode voltage clamp in Xenopus oocytes as the expression system was used to study the in vitro cellular phenotype caused by the genetic defect in coexpression with the wild-type (WT) gene. Molecular analysis revealed a heterozygous mutation leading to substitution of a highly conserved amino acid in the pore region of KvLQT1. This mutation was present not only in the patient with ventricular fibrillation but also in her two adult asymptomatic sons who have a normal QT interval. In vitro expression of the mutated KvLQT1 protein showed a severe loss of current with a dominant negative effect on the WT-KvLQT1 channel. Our findings demonstrate that some cases of drug-induced QT prolongation may depend on a genetic substrate. Molecular screening may allow identification among family members of gene carriers potentially at risk if treated with I(Kr) blockers. Evolving technology may lead to rapid screening for mutations of candidate genes that cause drug-induced life-threatening arrhythmias and allow early identification of individuals at risk.
The authors demonstrated that isradipine reduces the blood pressure assessed at rest in patients with mild to medium severe hypertension. The antihypertensive action was enhanced by administration of beta-blockers. In a loading test the pressor response to strain was reduced in particular as regards diastolic pressure; from this in may be concluded indirectly that a vasodilatating effect is involved. The authors recorded a rise of plasma renin activity which may be associated with previous vasodilatation. Parameters of lipid metabolism were influenced by isradipine. The indifference of isradipine as regards the effect on functions indicated by biochemical screening was again confirmed in the present investigation. The undesirable effects typical for calcium antagonists were manifested in a very small percentage of the investigated subjects and in a small number of repeated examinations. The reason for discontinuation of treatment in one patient was an effects which does not threaten the patient (flush). Isradipine is an effective antihypertensive drug with very good tolerance.
The X-linked transcriptional repressor methyl CpG binding protein 2 (MeCP2), known for its role in the neurodevelopmental disorder Rett syndrome, is emerging as an important regulator of neuroplasticity in postmitotic neurons. Cocaine addiction is commonly viewed as a disorder of neuroplasticity, but the potential involvement of MeCP2 has not been explored. Here we identify a key role for MeCP2 in the dorsal striatum in the escalating cocaine intake seen in rats with extended access to the drug, a process that mimics the increasingly uncontrolled cocaine use seen in addicted humans. MeCP2 regulates cocaine intake through homeostatic interactions with microRNA-212 (miR-212) to control the effects of cocaine on striatal brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels. These data suggest that homeostatic interactions between MeCP2 and miR-212 in dorsal striatum may be important in regulating vulnerability to cocaine addiction.
This study was aimed to evaluate the protective effect of flunarizine on cisplatin-induced acute renal failure. Administration of cisplatin (6 mg/kg, i.p. on day 6) significantly increased serum blood urea nitrogen and creatinine, urinary N-acetyl β-D-glucosaminidase, tissue thiobarbituric acid reactive substances and total calcium whereas, decreased body weight, fractional excretion of sodium, creatinine clearance tissue-reduced glutathione, mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase, and ATP levels were observed in acute renal failure rats. Moreover, cisplatin produced histopathological changes in the renal tissue. Furthermore, flunarizine (100, 200, and 300 μM/kg, p.o., for six consecutive days) was administered to evaluate its therapeutic potential in acute renal failure, and the results were compared with cyclosporin A (50 μM/kg, p.o., for six consecutive days) as a reference drug. Flunarizine resulted in the attenuation of cisplatin-induced renal dysfunction, oxidative stress marker, mitochondrial damage, and histopathological changes in rats. Medium and higher doses of flunarizine produced significant renal protective effect which was comparable to cyclosporin A. The results of this study clearly revealed that flunarizine protected the kidney against the nephrotoxic effect of cisplatin via mitochondrial permeability transition pore inactivation potential.
The prophylactic effects of the antiprostaglandin agent mefenamic acid on migraine attacks were compared with propranolol or placebo in a double-blind crossover study of 29 patients. In the 17 patients who completed the trial the frequency of attacks and their total duration were significantly reduced during mefenamic acid therapy or propranolol therapy as compared to placebo. There were no significant effects of mefenamic acid or propranolol on average duration or severity of migraine attacks. The study suggests that mefenamic acid and propranolol are equally effective for migraine prophylaxis.
The possibility of detecting mild coronary stenoses with positron computed tomography and nitrogen (N-13) ammonia administered during pharmacologic coronary vasodilation was previously demonstrated in chronically instrumented dogs. The feasibility of using this technique in human beings and its sensitivity in determining the degree and extent of coronary artery disease were examined in 13 young normal healthy volunteers and 32 patients with angiographically documented coronary artery disease. N-13 ammonia was administered intravenously and its distribution in the left ventricular myocardium recorded at rest and during dipyridamole-induced coronary hyperemia. In the 13 volunteers, N-13 activity was homogeneous at rest and during hyperemia, whereas 31 of the 32 patients had regional defects on the hyperemic images not present during rest. All six patients with double, all 10 with triple and 15 of 16 patients with single vessel disease (97 percent) were correctly identified with the technique. Two vessel involvement was correctly identified in five of the six patients with double vessel disease and three vessel disease in six of 10 patients. Of all 58 coronary stenoses, 52 (90 percent) were correctly identified. In a subgroup of 11 patients, the technique was compared with exercise thallium-201 planar images, which were abnormal in 10 (91 percent) whereas N-13 images were abnormal in all 11. Of the 19 stenosed coronary arteries in this subgroup, 11 (58 percent) were correctly identified with thallium-201 and 17 (89 percent) with tomography (p less than 0.01). It is concluded that cross-sectional imaging of the myocardial distribution of N-13 ammonia administered during pharmacologic coronary vasodilation is a highly sensitive and accurate means for noninvasive detection of coronary stenoses in human beings and for estimating the extent of coronary artery disease.
Previously, we had found that inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system in the early lifespan of spontaneously hypertensive rat could prevent the development of hypertension in this animal model. In the present study we evaluated the responses of blood pressure and renal function to intracerebroventricular administration of angiotensin II in long-term captopril-treated spontaneously hypertensive rats. Spontaneously hypertensive rats had been mated and their pups were treated with captopril through drinking water after birth. Age-matched Wistar-Kyoto and spontaneously hypertensive rats drinking tap water were used as control groups. At 4 months of age, the basal mean arterial blood pressure of captopril-treated hypertensive rats was the lowest among those of controlled hypertensive and normotensive rats (98+/-5 vs. 160+/-4 and 126+/-4 mmHg, respectively). Intravenous administration of angiotensin II caused similar increments of blood pressure in all rat groups. However, intracerebroventricular administration of angiotensin II to captopril-treated hypertensive rats induced a significantly less increase of arterial blood pressure in comparison with other groups. The sensitivity of baroreflex in captopril-treated hypertensive rats was also the lowest among all rat groups. The basal urine flow, sodium and potassium excretion rates, and osmolar clearance of captopril-treated hypertensive rats were significantly higher than those of controlled hypertensive rats. Intracerebroventricular infusion of angiotensin II caused significant increases in urine flow, electrolytes excretion, osmolar clearance, and free water reabsorption rate of both normotensive and controlled hypertensive rats. However, the same angiotensin II treatment did not change any of the renal excretion indices in captopril-treated hypertensive rats. Our results suggest that lifetime captopril treatment can decrease the activity of the renin-angiotensin system in the brain of hypertensive animals, which caused increases in basal urine flow and excretion of electrolytes and enhanced the sensitivity of baroreflex. It is likely that changes in the renal and baroreflex functions underlie the prevention of hypertension elicited by long-term captopril treatment.
In a double-blind study comprising 31 patients with essential hypertension not satisfactorily controlled on hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg o.m., a fixed-ratio combination of metoprolol 100 mg and hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg, given as 2 tablets o.m. has been compared with hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg o.m. monotherapy. With the combination regimen a significant reduction of blood pressure was achieved while doubling of the thiazide dose did not adequately control the blood pressure. In 7 patients in the thiazide-group the therapy was changed to the combination during a follow-up period and their blood pressure was normalised. During the follow-up period, 22 patients were thus treated with the fixed combination; 50% of them were controlled on one tablet o.m. The tolerability was good in both groups and no changes were observed regarding laboratory variables except for an increase in serum uric acid in the thiazide-group. The study indicates that a fixed-ratio combination of hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg and metoprolol 100 mg in a dose of one or two tablets once daily is a well tolerated and more effective therapy than hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg once daily monotherapy.
In 6- and 10-week-old obesity-prone (fa/fa) Zucker diabetic fatty (ZDF) rats, effects of prevention and intervention therapies, respectively, were compared between PPARalpha/gamma agonist, ragaglitazar (RAGA) and separate PPARgamma and alpha agonists, pioglitazone (PIO) and bezafibrate (BF). In a separate study, lean (+/+) ZDF rats fed highly palatable chow to induce dietary obesity and insulin resistance were treated similarly. To test insulin-secretory capacity, all animals underwent a hyperglycaemic clamp. Insulin sensitivity was improved equally by RAGA and PIO in fa/fa rats subjected to both prevention and intervention treatments (e.g., prevention HOMA-IR: -71 and -72%, respectively), as was hyperglycaemia (both -68%). BF had no effect on either parameter in any study. Plasma lipids were markedly reduced (by 48-77%) by RAGA in all studies, equivalent to PIO, but to a greater extent than BF. RAGA improved beta-cell function (HOMA-beta) more than three-fold with prevention and intervention therapies, whereas PIO showed improvement only in intervention therapy. Consistent with improved insulin sensitivity, glucose infusion rate during the clamp was 60% higher in RAGA-treated animals subjected to prevention therapy, but there was little additional insulin-secretory response, suggesting that insulin secretion was already maximal.Thus, RAGA and PIO equally improve metabolic profile in ZDF rats, particularly when administered early in the course of diabetes. They also improve beta-cell function, although this is better demonstrated through indices incorporating fasting insulin and glucose concentrations than through the hyperglycaemic clamp technique in this model.
Mice deprived of social interactions for different periods of time (56, 69, 79, 89 or 97 days) were studied. Social isolation increased both general activity observed in an open-field and amphetamine-induced hyperactivity; CNS responsiveness to pentylenetetrazol-induced convulsions, however, decreased. The differences in general activity were detected after 69 and 79 days of social deprivation; the hyperactivity induced by amphetamine was greater after 79 days of isolation and the pentylenetetrazol CD50's were higher after 56, 69 and 79 days of solitude. These data, obtained with mice, show first that isolation time is an important variable to display drug effects and secondly that long-term deprivation of social stimuli does not increase CNS susceptibility to all stimulant drugs. A combination of a higher release of catecholamines onto previously supersensitive receptors was considered to be involved with the differences observed.
New derivatives of 4-phenyl-2-propionamidotetralin (4-P-PDOT) were prepared and tested on cloned MT1 and MT2 receptors, with the purpose of merging previously reported pharmacophores for nonselective agonists and for MT2-selective antagonists. A 8-methoxy group increases binding affinity of both (±)-cis- and (±)-trans-4-P-PDOT, and it can be bioisosterically replaced by a bromine. Conformational analysis of 8-methoxy-4-P-PDOT by molecular dynamics, supported by NMR data, revealed an energetically favored conformation for the (2S,4S)-cis isomer and a less favorable conformation for the (2R,4S)-trans one, fulfilling the requirements of a pharmacophore model for nonselective melatonin receptor agonists. A new superposition model, including features characteristic of MT2-selective antagonists, suggests that MT1/MT2 agonists and MT2 antagonists can share the same arrangement for their pharmacophoric elements. The model correctly predicted the eutomers of (±)-cis- and (±)-trans-4-P-PDOT. The model was validated by preparing three dihydronaphthalene derivatives, either able or not able to reproduce the putative active conformation of 4-P-PDOT.
Epilepsy is a serious neurological disorder in human beings and the long-term pathological events remain largely obscure. We are interested in elucidating long-term brain injury that may occur in the temporal lobe epilepsy, and time-course of neuronal death was examined in a mouse pilocarpine model of chronic epilepsy by Fluoro-Jade C (FJC) dye that can specifically stain the degenerative neurons in the central nervous system. The FJC stain combined with immunohistochemistry to neuronal nuclear specific protein revealed that pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) resulted in massive degenerative death of neuronal cells in brains with their dense distribution in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. The FJC-positive degenerating neurons, most of them also expressed apoptosis signaling molecules such as caspase-9 and activated caspase-3, occurred at 4h, increased into peak levels at 12h-3d, and then gradually went down at 7d-14d after onset of SE. More interestingly, a large percentage (about 88%) of FJC-positive degenerative neurons were GABAergic as indicated with their immunoreactivity to glutamic acid decarboxylase-67, implying that inhibitory function of GABAergic neural system might by seriously damaged in brains subject to SE attack in this mouse pilocarpine model. Taken together with previous studies, time-course of degenerative neurons in the mouse pilocarpine model by Fluoro-Jade C staining further benefits understanding of long-term brain pathological changes and recurrent seizure mechanism, and may also result in finding the most suitable time-window in therapeutic manipulation of the chronic epilepsy in human beings.
Increasing the activity of defective cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) protein is a potential treatment for cystic fibrosis.
We conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to evaluate ivacaftor (VX-770), a CFTR potentiator, in subjects 12 years of age or older with cystic fibrosis and at least one G551D-CFTR mutation. Subjects were randomly assigned to receive 150 mg of ivacaftor every 12 hours (84 subjects, of whom 83 received at least one dose) or placebo (83, of whom 78 received at least one dose) for 48 weeks. The primary end point was the estimated mean change from baseline through week 24 in the percent of predicted forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV(1)).
The change from baseline through week 24 in the percent of predicted FEV(1) was greater by 10.6 percentage points in the ivacaftor group than in the placebo group (P<0.001). Effects on pulmonary function were noted by 2 weeks, and a significant treatment effect was maintained through week 48. Subjects receiving ivacaftor were 55% less likely to have a pulmonary exacerbation than were patients receiving placebo, through week 48 (P<0.001). In addition, through week 48, subjects in the ivacaftor group scored 8.6 points higher than did subjects in the placebo group on the respiratory-symptoms domain of the Cystic Fibrosis Questionnaire-revised instrument (a 100-point scale, with higher numbers indicating a lower effect of symptoms on the patient's quality of life) (P<0.001). By 48 weeks, patients treated with ivacaftor had gained, on average, 2.7 kg more weight than had patients receiving placebo (P<0.001). The change from baseline through week 48 in the concentration of sweat chloride, a measure of CFTR activity, with ivacaftor as compared with placebo was -48.1 mmol per liter (P<0.001). The incidence of adverse events was similar with ivacaftor and placebo, with a lower proportion of serious adverse events with ivacaftor than with placebo (24% vs. 42%).
Ivacaftor was associated with improvements in lung function at 2 weeks that were sustained through 48 weeks. Substantial improvements were also observed in the risk of pulmonary exacerbations, patient-reported respiratory symptoms, weight, and concentration of sweat chloride. (Funded by Vertex Pharmaceuticals and others; VX08-770-102 ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00909532.).
In this study, we investigated the efficiency of short-term treatment with gemfibrozil in the reversal of diabetes-induced changes on carbohydrate and lipid metabolism, and antioxidant status of aorta. Diabetes was induced by a single injection of streptozotocin (45 mg/kg, i.p.). After 12 weeks of induction of diabetes, the control and diabetic rats were orally gavaged daily with a dosing vehicle alone or with 100 mg/kg of gemfibrozil for 2 weeks. At 14 weeks, there was a significant increase in blood glucose, plasma cholesterol and triglyceride levels of untreated-diabetic animals. Diabetes was associated with a significant increase in thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) in both plasma and aortic homogenates, indicating increased lipid peroxidation. Diabetes caused an increase in vascular antioxidant enzyme activity, catalase, indicating existence of excess hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). However, superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GSHPx) activities in aortas did not significantly change in untreated-diabetic rats. In diabetic plus gemfibrozil group both plasma lipids and lipid peroxides showed a significant recovery. Gemfibrozil treatment had no effect on blood glucose, plasma insulin and vessel antioxidant enzyme activity of diabetic animals. Our findings suggest that the beneficial effect of short-term gemfibrozil treatment in reducing lipid peroxidation in diabetic animals does not depend on a change of glucose metabolism and antioxidant status of aorta, but this may be attributed to its decreasing effect on circulating lipids. The ability of short-term gemfibrozil treatment to recovery of metabolism and peroxidation of lipids may be an effective strategy to minimize increased oxidative stress in diabetic plasma and vasculature.
Patients in the ICU after long-term administration of an opioid/hypnotic often develop delirium. To assess the nature of this phenomenon, patients in a surgical ICU following ventilatory support and sedation with an opioid/hypnotic/sedative were studied.
Following sufentanil/midazolam (group 1; n =14) or sufentanil/propofol (group 2; n =15) sedation, patients were evaluated for changes in mean arterial blood pressure and heart rate, the activity of the central nervous system (sensory evoked potentials, spectral edge frequency of EEG), and the endogenous opioids plasma concentrations (beta-endorphin, met-enkephalin). Data obtained were correlated with the individual intensities of withdrawal symptoms 6-, 12-, and 24 h following sedation.
Following a mean duration of ventilation of 7.7 days (+/-3.6 SD) in groups 1 and 3.5 (+/-1.7 SD) in group 2, withdrawal intensities peaked within the 6th hour after cessation. Plasma beta-endorphin and met-enkephalin levels were low during sedation, and only the sufentanil/midazolam group demonstrated a postinhibitory overshoot. Withdrawal symptom intensities demonstrated an inverse correlation with beta-endorphin and met-enkephalin levels, a direct linear correlation with amplitude height of the evoked potential, and blood pressure and heart rate changes. Withdrawal intensities did not correlate with EEG power spectral edge frequency.
The endorphinergic system is suppressed when a potent exogenous opioid like sufentanil is given over a long period of time. Following sedation, abstinence symptoms seem to be related to postinhibitory increased endorphin synthesis. This is mostly seen in the combination of sufentanil/midazolam. In addition, an increase in the amplitude of the sensory-evoked potential suggests a postinhibitory excitatory state within the nociceptive system.
