We studied the efficacy and tolerability of metoprolol, administered alone or in combination therapy, in 703 hypertensive patients. We observed a significant decrease in both systolic and diastolic blood pressure in patients treated with metoprolol alone or with metoprolol and a diuretic. Of these, 60% to 85% achieved a diastolic blood pressure of 12 kPa (90 mmHg) or lower during the 12-week trial. The maximum effect occurred after approximately three weeks. In the majority of patients, 100 mg twice a day controlled mild to moderate hypertension. Side effects (mainly gastrointestinal disturbances and dizziness) occurred in 15% of patients receiving metoprolol alone and led to treatment withdrawal in 6.7%. For the total patients population, these frequencies were 13.5% and 6.7% respectively, and decreased with time. Asthmatics and diabetics tolerated metoprolol extremely well, indicating the clinical importance of metoprolol's cardioselectivity.
365 individuals exposed to hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH) during its manufacture were studied and compared with 146 controls. These 502 cases were divided into five groups on the basis of serum total HCH levels. Exposure was mainly through skin. Results indicate that neurological symptoms reported were due to recent exposure to HCH and were related to the intensity of exposure. ECG abnormalities were seen in exposed cases. A significant positive correlation to liver related enzymes gamma GT, LAP and Alp. P was observed. beta-globulins significantly increased along with an increase in total HCH. Changes in IgM levels were similar as observed in IgA. Remarkably high concentration of HCH residues were found in the serum samples of all exposed workers. beta-HCH contributed more than 80% of the total HCH built up. Presence of circulating immune complexes was also detected in representative samples. Further, repeated biological monitoring was advised to be carried out among such workers exposed to HCH, to evaluate signs of severe health impairment in them.
S-phase kinase protein 2 (SKP2), an F-box protein, targets cell-cycle regulators including cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27Kip1 through ubiquitin-mediated degradation. SKP2 is frequently overexpressed in variety of cancers. We investigated the function of SKP2 and its ubiquitin-proteasome pathway in a large series (156) of epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) patient samples, using a panel of cell lines, and nude mouse model. Using immunohistochemistry, we detected SKP2 in 13.2% tumor samples and found that it was inversely associated with p27Kip1. EOC subset with high level of SKP2 and low level of p27Kip1 showed a strong association with proliferative marker Ki167 (P<0.0014). Treatment of EOC cell lines with bortezomib or expression of siRNA of SKP2 causes downregulation of SKP2 and accumulation of p27Kip1. In addition, co-treatment of EOC with bortezomib and cisplatin causes more pronounced effect on cell proliferation, apoptosis and downregulation of SKP2 leading to accumulation of p27kip1. Bortezomib treatment of EOC cells causes apoptosis by involving mitochondrial pathway, activation of caspases and downregulation of XIAP, and survivin. Finally, treatment of EOC cell line xenografts with bortezomib resulted in growth inhibition of tumors in nude mice through downregulation of SKP2 and accumulation of p27Kip1. Altogether, our results suggest that SKP2 and ubiquitin-proteasome pathway may be a potential target for therapeutic intervention for treatment of EOC.
Pentazocine (Talwin) originally was believed to be a safe, nonaddictive analgesic, but further experience has shown that severe mental and emotional disturbance, as well as addiction, may occur. This survey documents the experience in the Texas Medical Center and elsewhere. The accumulated data show the following: (1) Depressive states are reported most frequently, while toxic psychoses, hallucinogenic reactions with panic, and paranoid states on withdrawal of the drug are less frequent. (2) Of the 197 cases of addiction reported to date, only six were related to oral use of the drug. The abstinence syndrome is mild, consisting usually of restlessness, nausea, cramps, and insomnia. (3) Convulsions have been reported on four occasions. Euphoria and psychotomimetic effects may relate to rapid release of noradrenaline and dopamine. Oral use of the drug is advised to avoid euphoriant effects and addiction, and physicians should alert patients to report unusual visual phenomena. Tranquilizers are of value in cases of severe reactions.
The development of a rash in response to trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) administration is a frequent adverse reaction in people with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). In contrast, there are no published reports in the English language literature describing TMP-SMX induced delirium in an AIDS patient. This report describes the development of frank delirium in a person with AIDS receiving TMP-SMX. The episode resolved completely within 72 h of withdrawal of the drug.
Thirty patients with advanced measurable colorectal cancer were randomized to receive either methotrexate (MTX) 200 mg/m2 or 40 mg/m2, followed in four hours by 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) 600 mg/m2. Patients receiving the higher dose MTX were given leucovorin rescue 24 hours later. Eight of 13 patients treated with 200 mg/m2 MTX + 5-FU developed severe hematologic toxicity, leading to two toxic deaths. In addition, 9/13 developed mild azotemia, and three patients had severe gastrointestinal toxicity. No patients with prior chemotherapy responded to either regimen. Among those without prior chemotherapy, there were two of six and three of eight partial responses, respectively, in the 200 mg/m2 and 40 mg/m2 MTX regimens. Sequential 200 mg/m2 MTX followed by 5-FU after four hours has unacceptable toxicity. Sequential treatment with standard dose MTX + 5-FU is tolerable and merits further study.
To review the risk of pergolide associated cardiac valvulopathy in patients with Parkinson's disease.
MEDLINE, Embase, and the Cochrane Library. Reference lists were reviewed and librarians were consulted to identify additional trials.
All studies and case reports in the English literature on pergolide and cardiac valvulopathy.
Demographics of patients, study duration, dose and duration of pergolide use, echocardiogram results, length of follow-up, and clinical outcome.
Twenty-two published articles were identified. There were no randomized controlled trials. Follow-up time varied between a few months and four years. Three case reports and four studies (three case control and one observational) assessed 246 patients. Evidence for valvulopathy was found in all studies. Variable methods were used to assess the degree of valvular regurgitation making comparisons between studies difficult. Little clinical correlation is available for echocardiogram results. Variable improvement was shown in the few patients in whom the drug was stopped. There is insufficient data to determine whether dose and duration or other comorbities have an effect on the risk of developing cardiac valvulopathy.
Pergolide therapy is associated with an increased risk of developing cardiac valvulopathy but the true incidence and importance of this remains unknown. Further prospective studies are needed with standardized assessments of echocardiograms.
Ambient particles have been consistently associated with adverse health effects, yielding mainly high cardiorespiratory morbidity and mortality. Diesel engines represent a major source of particles in the urban scenario. We aimed to modify the composition of diesel particles, by means of different extraction procedures, to relate changes in chemical profile to corresponding indicators of respiratory toxicity. Male BALB/c mice were nasally instilled with saline, or with diesel particles, treated or not, and assigned to five groups: saline (SHAM), intact diesel particles (DEP), and diesel particles previously treated with methanol (METH), hexane (HEX), or nitric acid (NA). Elemental composition and organic compounds were analyzed. Twenty-four hours after nasal instillation, respiratory parameters were measured and lung tissue was collected for histological analysis. Static elastance was significantly increased in groups DEP and MET in relation to the other groups. HEX and NA were different from DEP but not significantly different from SHAM and METH groups. The difference between dynamic and static elastance was increased in DEP, METH, and NA treatments; HEX was not statistically different from SHAM. DEP and METH groups presented significantly increased upper airways resistance, while DEP, METH, and NA showed higher peripheral airways resistance values. All groups had a higher total resistance than SHAM. DEP, METH, and NA showed significant increased infiltration of polymorphonuclear cells. In conclusion, diesel particles treated with hexane (HEX) resulted in a respiratory-system profile very similar to that in SHAM group, indicating that hexane treatment attenuates pulmonary inflammation elicited by diesel particles.
Carmustine [1 ,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosurea (BCNU)] is an antitumour agent, however, its usefulness has been limited by a side effect; which involves pericholangitis and intrahepatic cholestasis. The primary effects of cholestasis is well known; bile flow retention, intracellular Ca++ accumulation and acidosis although it may lead to hepatotoxicity by dose-dependent manner. Recent studies provide evidence that lipoperoxidation (LPO) and alterations in the antioxidant system may significantly contribute to BCNU induced hepatotoxicity. Trimetazidine, (1-[2,3,4-Trimethoxy-benzyl] piperazine HCl; TMZ) introduced as an antianginal compound, is found to exhibit various cytoprotective features by preserving cellular ATP levels, limiting intracellular acidosis and inorganic phosphate as well as Na+ and Ca++ accumulation in ischemic cardiac injury. No study was undertaken to investigate the cytoprotective role of TMZ in cholestatic injury till today; therefore we initiated this study to investigate if its cytoprotective features also exhibit in the liver and to characterize further the cholestatic response to BCNU administration. Male rats were randomly seperated to control (CONT) (n = 15), BCNU administered (BCNU) (n = 16) and BCNU+TMZ administered (BCNU+TMZ) (n = 12) groups. The control rats received a single dosage of 2 ml/kg of corn oil (i.p.) while the BCNU group received a single dosage of BCNU (20 mg/kg, i.p.) in corn oil. In the BCNU + TMZ group 2,5 mg/kg/day (i.p.) of TMZ was administered for three days. This group also received BCNU (20 mg/kg, i.p.) in corn oil, 12 hours after the initial dose of TMZ. The cholestatic effect of BCNU was monitored by stasis markers such as ALP, GGT and total bilirubin levels. Hepatic TBARS analysis was determined with the modified method of OKHAWA et al. based on the reaction of lipid peroxides with thiobarbituric acid. Oxidized (GSSG) and reduced (GSH) glutathione levels were measured by the modified enzymatic recycling method of TEARE et al. Statistical tests were performed using Kruskal Wallis one-way Anova test and posthoc analysis by Newman-Keuls test. The BCNU group and the BCNU + TMZ group showed significant increases (p = 0.029) in hepatic TBARS levels compared to the CONT group; however the difference between the BCNU and BCNU + TMZ groups in regard to TBARS was not significant. BCNU and BCNU + TMZ groups manifested a significant decrease (p = 0.0005) in GSH levels as compared to controls. GSH/GSSG ratios in the BCNU and BCNU + TMZ group also manifested a significant decrease (p = 0.0013) as compared to the CONT group. TMZ administration caused a significant increase in total GSH levels (p = 0.0026) in BCNU + TMZ group when compared to the BCNU group. Our results support the hypothesis that BCNU induced cholestasis partly involves LPO revealed by the distinct increase in the content of TBARS in the liver after BCNU administration. BCNU is a potent inhibitor of GSSG reductase altering the preservation of the thiol redox balance in the system. As a result, supranormal concentrations of intracellular GSSG would accumulate in the hepatocyte and the extrusion of this oxidized compound would require active transport leading to ATP hydrolysis. This would deplete the energy stores of the cell which would accelerate further the possible prooxidant status. Although administration of TMZ did not provoke any significant alterations in LPO, it preserved the total GSH levels of the cell probably by improving the energy status of the cell by protection of ATP-producing processes at the mitochondrial level and provision of the necessary substrates for GSH synthesis. This protective role in the antioxidant system normalizes the altered GSH levels by BCNU and hence proposes TMZ to be a promising agent in the cholestatic injury.
The study conducts statistical and spatial analyses to investigate amounts and types of permitted surface water pollution discharges in relation to population mortality rates for cancer and non-cancer causes nationwide and by urban-rural setting. Data from the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) Discharge Monitoring Report (DMR) were used to measure the location, type, and quantity of a selected set of 38 discharge chemicals for 10,395 facilities across the contiguous US. Exposures were refined by weighting amounts of chemical discharges by their estimated toxicity to human health, and by estimating the discharges that occur not only in a local county, but area-weighted discharges occurring upstream in the same watershed. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) mortality files were used to measure age-adjusted population mortality rates for cancer, kidney disease, and total non-cancer causes. Analysis included multiple linear regressions to adjust for population health risk covariates. Spatial analyses were conducted by applying geographically weighted regression to examine the geographic relationships between releases and mortality.
Greater non-carcinogenic chemical discharge quantities were associated with significantly higher non-cancer mortality rates, regardless of toxicity weighting or upstream discharge weighting. Cancer mortality was higher in association with carcinogenic discharges only after applying toxicity weights. Kidney disease mortality was related to higher non-carcinogenic discharges only when both applying toxicity weights and including upstream discharges. Effects for kidney mortality and total non-cancer mortality were stronger in rural areas than urban areas. Spatial results show correlations between non-carcinogenic discharges and cancer mortality for much of the contiguous United States, suggesting that chemicals not currently recognized as carcinogens may contribute to cancer mortality risk. The geographically weighted regression results suggest spatial variability in effects, and also indicate that some rural communities may be impacted by upstream urban discharges.
There is evidence that permitted surface water chemical discharges are related to population mortality. Toxicity weights and upstream discharges are important for understanding some mortality effects. Chemicals not currently recognized as carcinogens may nevertheless play a role in contributing to cancer mortality risk. Spatial models allow for the examination of geographic variability not captured through the regression models.
The incidence and risk factors for adefovir-resistant HBV have not been clearly defined.
To characterize the virologic response to adefovir, to determine the rate of adefovir resistance and to explore factors associated with initial virologic response (IVR) and adefovir resistance.
All hepatitis B patients who received adefovir for > or =6 months at our center were prospectively monitored for virologic response and adefovir resistance.
Forty three patients were included; mean treatment duration was 18 months (range 6-45). Thirty four (79%) patients had prior lamivudine. IVR was observed in 44% patients and associated with higher pretreatment ALT (P = 0.05) and the absence of HBeAg (P = 0.02). Six (14%) patients were found to have adefovir-resistant mutations. The cumulative probability of genotypic resistance to adefovir at month 24 was 22%. Patients with adefovir resistance were more likely to have been switched from lamivudine to adefovir monotherapy (P = 0.01), to be older (P = 0.04), and to be infected with HBV genotype D (P = 0.02).
Roughly 50% of patients failed to achieve IVR on adefovir. The cumulative probability of adefovir resistance at 2 years was 22%. Our data suggest that combination of lamivudine and adefovir may prevent emergence of adefovir resistance in patients with lamivudine-resistant HBV.
Current pesticide exposure levels can induce a state of sensitization in exposed workers and only in exceptional situations cause severe intoxication. Three cases are reported--one suffering from urticaria/angio-edema, one from asthma and the other from oculo-rhinitis. Only one subject was atopical. The substances to which sensitization was found were Cynoxamil, Mancozeb, Thiophanate, Seccatutto for the first case, Paraquat for the second and Dodine for the third subject. The results suggest the need to extend allergological tests also to pesticides when workers, or subjects in any case exposed, show clinical signs with suspected immunological pathogenesis. Furthermore, in order to reduce the number of new cases of pesticide allergy, a more severe control also of subjects exposed to low doses is proposed.
Chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) is one of the most distressing side effects of moderately or highly emetogenic chemotherapy. Diphenhydramine, lorazepam, and dexamethasone have been used individually to treat CINV. The objective of this study was to evaluate the safety and potential efficacy of those drugs administered via a patient controlled pump (BAD pump) to control CINV.
A retrospective chart review was conducted of all pediatric oncology patients who received the BAD pump. Emetic episodes, doses of rescue medications to treat breakthrough nausea or vomiting, and occurrence of adverse events were recorded. Complete response (CR) was defined as no emesis or rescue medications, partial response (PR) as emesis but no rescue medications, and failure (F) as rescue medications required.
Thirty patients received a total of 141 courses. Adverse events occurred in 4.2% of the courses; confusion (n = 2), depressed mood (n = 1), dysphoria (n = 1), agitation (n = 1), and restlessness (n = 1). All side effects resolved after decreasing the infusion rate, and the pump was not discontinued in any patients. Eighteen patients failed conventional prophylaxis and received BAD pump for identical subsequent chemotherapy cycles; they spent more days in CR with BAD pump than without it, 21 versus 45 days (P = .003) respectively. Patients receiving BAD pump had significantly shorter hospital stay with BAD pump than those not receiving it, 68 days versus 76 (P = .046).
BAD pump is well tolerated in pediatric patients receiving chemotherapy and may be more effective than conventional prophylaxis in controlling CINV in some patients.
The trichothecene deoxynivalenol (DON), a foodborne mycotoxin found in grain-based foods, has been associated with human and animal food poisoning. Although induction of anorexia has been described as a hallmark of DON-induced toxicity in many animal species, the mechanistic basis for this adverse effect is not fully understood. The purpose of this research was to determine the role of two proinflammatory cytokines, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and interleukin-1β (IL-1β) in DON-induced anorexia. In a nocturnal mouse food consumption model, DON-induced anorectic response occurred at 1 hr and lasted up to 6 hr. Similar anorectic effects were observed following acute administration of exogenous TNF-α and IL-1β. Oral exposure to DON at 5 mg/kg bw stimulated splenic and hepatic mRNA and plasma protein elevations of TNF-α and IL-1β that corresponded to anorexia induction. Pretreatment with the TNF-α receptor (TNFR) antagonist R-7050 dose-dependently attenuated both TNF-α- and DON-induced anorexia. While, the type 1 IL-1 receptor (IL-1R1) antagonist IL-1RA dose-dependently attenuated both IL-1β- and DON-induced anorexia. Taken together, the results suggest that both TNF-α and IL-1β play contributory role in anorexia induction following oral exposure to DON.
Studies in rodents selectively bred to differ in alcohol sensitivity have suggested that nicotine and ethanol sensitivities may cosegregate during selective breeding. This suggests that ethanol and nicotine sensitivities may in part be genetically correlated.
Male and female high alcohol sensitivity (HAS), control alcohol sensitivity, and low alcohol sensitivity (LAS) rats were tested for nicotine-induced alterations in locomotor activity, body temperature, and seizure activity. Plasma and brain levels of nicotine and its primary metabolite, cotinine, were measured in these animals, as was the binding of [3H]cytisine, [3H]epibatidine, and [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin in eight brain regions.
Both replicate HAS lines were more sensitive to nicotine-induced locomotor activity depression than the replicate LAS lines. No consistent HAS/LAS differences were seen on other measures of nicotine sensitivity; however, females were more susceptible to nicotine-induced seizures than males. No HAS/LAS differences in nicotine or cotinine levels were seen, nor were differences seen in the binding of nicotinic ligands. Females had higher levels of plasma cotinine and brain nicotine than males but had lower brain cotinine levels than males.
Sensitivity to a specific action of nicotine cosegregates during selective breeding for differential sensitivity to a specific action of ethanol. The differential sensitivity of the HAS/LAS rats is due to differences in central nervous system sensitivity and not to pharmacokinetic differences. The differential central nervous system sensitivity cannot be explained by differences in the numbers of nicotinic receptors labeled in ligand-binding experiments. The apparent genetic correlation between ethanol and nicotine sensitivities suggests that common genes modulate, in part, the actions of both ethanol and nicotine and may explain the frequent coabuse of these agents.
A single case of IgA nephropathy with a concomitant tubulointerstitial nephritis, developing during a long-term phenytoin therapy is reported. The prolonged phenytoin therapy did neither prevent the transitional increases of serum IgA level nor ward off deterioration of the histological alterations. This case suggests that acute tubulointerstitial nephritis may have played a role in the mesangial trapping of IgA immunocomplexes.
Immunodeficiency, centromeric instability and facial dysmorphism (ICF syndrome) is a rare autosomal recessive disease characterised by facial dysmorphism, immunoglobulin deficiency and branching of chromosomes 1, 9 and 16 after PHA stimulation of lymphocytes. Hypomethylation of DNA of a small fraction of the genome is an unusual feature of ICF patients which is explained by mutations in the DNA methyltransferase gene DNMT3B in some, but not all, ICF patients.
To obtain a comprehensive description of the clinical features of this syndrome as well as genotype-phenotype correlations in ICF patients.
Data on ICF patients were obtained by literature search and additional information by means of questionnaires to corresponding authors.
45 patients all with proven centromeric instability were included in this study. Facial dysmorphism was found to be a common characteristic (n = 41/42), especially epicanthic folds, hypertelorism, flat nasal bridge and low set ears. Hypo- or agammaglobulinaemia was demonstrated in nearly all patients (n = 39/44). Opportunistic infections were seen in several patients, pointing to a T cell dysfunction. Haematological malignancy was documented in two patients. Life expectancy of ICF patients is poor, especially those with severe infections in infancy or chronic gastrointestinal problems and failure to thrive. Early diagnosis of ICF is important since early introduction of immunoglobulin supplementation can improve the course of the disease. Allogeneic stem cell transplantation should be considered as a therapeutic option in patients with severe infections or failure to thrive. Only 19 of 34 patients showed mutations in DNMT3B, suggesting genetic heterogeneity. No genotype-phenotype correlation was found between patients with and without DNMT3B mutations.
A 29-yr-old white woman was hospitalized with bloody diarrhea secondary to ulcerative colitis. Within 24 h of receiving intravenous steroids, loperamide, and mesalamine, she developed symptomatic hypotension, severe sinus bradycardia, sinus pauses, and junctional escape beats. The hypotension and sinus bradycardia resolved after discontinuing mesalamine. She had a family history of conduction tissue disease but her exercise ECG and Holter studies were normal. She was rehospitalized 6 wk later with an exacerbation of ulcerative colitis and, within 8 h of receiving mesalamine, developed hypotension and severe sinus bradycardia, which resolved after stopping mesalamine. Thus mesalamine should be used with caution, especially in patients predisposed to cardiac conduction tissue disease.
Addiction to cocaine results from changes in brain function arising from a combination of pharmacology, environmental circumstances, as well as genetic vulnerability. One change is a reduction in Homer protein in the nucleus accumbens. In this report we summarize the behavioral and neurochemical effects of Homer2 gene deletion in mice and compare this with the effects of chronic cocaine treatment in rats. It was shown that Homer2 KO mice demonstrate enhanced locomotor stimulant and conditioned place preference responses to cocaine. Homer2 deletion also caused mice to show reduced basal extracellular glutamate in the nucleus accumbens and a sensitized increase in extracellular glutamate in response to a cocaine injection. In contrast to glutamate, Homer2 KO mice showed a normal increase in extracellular dopamine following a cocaine challenge injection. The parallel between the effect of Homer2 gene deletion and chronic cocaine administration on behavioral and glutamatergic neurochemical responses to cocaine supports involvement of Homer proteins and glutamate transmission in the sensitization of behavior produced by repeated cocaine.
The cylindromatosis gene (CYLD) was identified as a tumor suppressor gene, which is mutated in familial cylindromatosis (Brooke-Spiegler syndrome), an autosomal-dominant predisposition to multiple tumors of the skin appendages. CYLD is a deubiquitinating enzyme acting as a negative regulator of the nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) signaling pathway by removing lysine-63-linked polyubiquitin chains from NF-κB activating proteins. In order to investigate the role of CYLD in apoptotic signaling in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells, we first studied the expression levels of CYLD in HCC tissues. CYLD expression was lower in HCC both at protein and mRNA levels compared to the surrounding non-malignant tissue. In order to further study the role of CYLD in the apoptotic sensitivity of HCC cells, CYLD was specifically down-regulated in HCC cell lines via RNA interference. The specific down-regulation of CYLD resulted in increased resistance towards treatment with doxorubicin, 5-fluorouracil and cisplatin. In addition, the down-regulation of CYLD in HCC cells decreased the sensitivity towards tumor necrosis factor-α-induced apoptosis. The CYLD knockdown also led to the degradation of the NF-κB inhibitor, IκB-α, resulting in enhanced NF-κB activity in HCC cells. Finally, we found that CYLD expression was triggered by the multikinase inhibitor, sorafenib, by the inhibition of Raf-1, as well as by the blockage of the pro-survival kinases, MEK (U0126) and the epidermal growth factor receptor (AG1478). In summary, we show that CYLD is down-regulated in human HCC and is involved in the apoptotic resistance of HCC cells. Our data identify the reconstitution of CYLD expression as an attractive approach for overcoming resistance to treatment in HCC.
This observational study evaluated a modified immunoprophylactic regimen (hepatitis B immune globulin [HBIG]) and a dose of thimerosal-free monovalent hepatitis B (HB) vaccine shortly after birth followed by doses of thimerosal-free bivalent Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib)-HB vaccine at 2 and 4 months of age, and a booster at 12 months of age) in infants at high risk of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection (mothers HBeAg+).
Children >or=6 months of age vaccinated in routine clinical practice were tested twice (>or=6 months apart) for HBV antigens surface antigen (HBsAg) and "e" antigen, and for antibody to HBsAg. Partial nucleotide sequence analysis was performed on HBV DNA isolated from infants identified with a breakthrough chronic HBV infection. A fully sequential statistical design was used to maximize patient safety and study efficiency.
Four of 60 children developed chronic HBV infection despite vaccination, but at no point did the cumulative number of cases reach the boundary of statistical significance. Overall, the analysis adjusted for sequential testing yielded an estimated breakthrough rate of 6.7% (90% CI: 2.3%-14.6%). In a subset of uninfected children tested for antibody to HBsAg 1 to 4 months after the second dose of Hib-HB vaccine, 90% (9/10) had >or=10 milli-International Units per milliliter (mIU/mL). The third dose of Hib-HB vaccine induced a secondary increase in the level of antibody; 94.7% (18/19) of a second group developed >or=100 mIU/mL, with a geometric mean concentration of 771 mIU/mL (95% CI: 351.4-1692.1 mIU/mL).
The tested regimen is comparably effective to historical experience with a standard one employing HBIG plus monovalent thimerosal-containing HB vaccine given at 0, 1, and 6 months of age.
Bone sialoprotein (BSP) and osteopontin (OPN) are important factors in the metastasis of breast cancer, which were examined as targets for antineoplastic therapy by siRNA. In addition, the effect of gene silencing on their transcription factor Runx2 and their interaction partners integrin β(3) and matrix metalloproteinase 2 was studied. The effect of siRNAs directed against these genes was assessed by monitoring expression levels followed by functional assays in cell culture as well as skeletal metastases caused by human MDA-MB-231(luc) breast cancer cells in nude rats. Upon silencing of the targets, cell migration was profoundly impaired (p < 0.001 for BSP-siRNA), but the impact on proliferation was low. Systemic administration by osmotic mini-pumps of BSP-siRNA but not OPN-siRNA decreased osteolytic lesions (p = 0.067). Extraosseous tumour growth was not affected. As an alternative approach, non-viral, polymeric based formulations of siRNAs in nanoparticles (NP) were developed. Locoregional administration of the two siRNAs targeting OPN and BSP encapsulated in these biodegradable NP reduced skeletal lesions even more efficiently (p = 0.03). Compared to systemic administration, this treatment caused not only a more pronounced anti-osteolytic effect at a 25-fold lower total siRNA dose, but also had a slight reducing effect on tumour incidence (p = 0.095). In conclusion, the siRNA treatment had a small effect on cellular proliferation but a significant efficacy against migration of and osteolysis induced by MDA-MB-231 cells. Our data underline that siRNA mediated knockdown is a powerful tool for identifying targets for pharmacological intervention. In addition, encapsulation of siRNA into biodegradable NP is a strategy, which promises well for using siRNA.
Mutations in the transcription factor encoding TFAP2A gene underlie branchio-oculo-facial syndrome (BOFS), a rare dominant disorder characterized by distinctive craniofacial, ocular, ectodermal and renal anomalies. To elucidate the range of ocular phenotypes caused by mutations in TFAP2A, we took three approaches. First, we screened a cohort of 37 highly selected individuals with severe ocular anomalies plus variable defects associated with BOFS for mutations or deletions in TFAP2A. We identified one individual with a de novo TFAP2A four amino acid deletion, a second individual with two non-synonymous variations in an alternative splice isoform TFAP2A2, and a sibling-pair with a paternally inherited whole gene deletion with variable phenotypic expression. Second, we determined that TFAP2A is expressed in the lens, neural retina, nasal process, and epithelial lining of the oral cavity and palatal shelves of human and mouse embryos--sites consistent with the phenotype observed in patients with BOFS. Third, we used zebrafish to examine how partial abrogation of the fish ortholog of TFAP2A affects the penetrance and expressivity of ocular phenotypes due to mutations in genes encoding bmp4 or tcf7l1a. In both cases, we observed synthetic, enhanced ocular phenotypes including coloboma and anophthalmia when tfap2a is knocked down in embryos with bmp4 or tcf7l1a mutations. These results reveal that mutations in TFAP2A are associated with a wide range of eye phenotypes and that hypomorphic tfap2a mutations can increase the risk of developmental defects arising from mutations at other loci.
