The leukotriene receptor antagonist zafirlukast (Accolate; Zeneca Pharmaceuticals; Wilmington, Del) recently was approved for use as maintenance therapy for persistent asthma. This new product has been well received due to convenient dosing and relatively few side effects. Based on initial success with this product, it is likely that similar compounds will be available for use in the near future. In this report, a case is described of a 47-year-old white man with moderate persistent asthma in whom Churg-Strauss syndrome developed while he was receiving zafirlukast therapy. Acute respiratory insufficiency, arthralgia, and prominent rash developed which required hospitalization. The patient's symptoms rapidly reversed following discontinuation of zafirlukast therapy and administration of systemic corticosteroids. Although the incidence of Churg-Strauss syndrome associated with zafirlukast therapy is rare, this case report illustrates steps that may be taken to diagnose quickly and treat this life-threatening condition should it occur.
Early-life exposures to hormonally active compounds and other factors may affect later response to estrogen or progesterone and hence may influence development of uterine leiomyomata (fibroids).
We evaluated associations of in utero and early-life exposures, including soy formula, with self-report of physician-diagnosed fibroids by 35 years of age.
Our study included 19,972 non-Hispanic white women who were 35-59 years of age when they enrolled in the Sister Study in 20032007. We estimated risk ratios (RRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) using log-binomial regression models for fibroid associations with adjustment for participant's age and education, maternal age at participant's birth, birth order, and childhood family income.
Greater risk of early fibroid diagnosis was associated with soy formula during infancy (RR = 1.25; 95% CI, 0.971.61), maternal prepregnancy diabetes (RR = 2.05; 95% CI, 1.163.63), low childhood socioeconomic status (RR = 1.28; 95% CI, 1.011.63), and gestational age at birth (RR = 1.64; 95% CI, 1.272.13, for being born at least 1 month early). In utero diethylstilbestrol (DES) exposure was also associated with early fibroid diagnosis (RR = 1.42; 95% CI, 1.131.80), but this association was driven by women reporting probable rather than definite exposure.
There are plausible biological pathways by which these early-life factors could promote fibroid pathogenesis. This is the first epidemiologic study to evaluate such exposures, with the exception of in utero DES, in relation to fibroid risk, and replication of findings in other populations is needed.
The aim of this study was to determine the activity and toxicity of a vinorelbine and ifosfamide combination in platinum-resistant advanced ovarian cancer.
Patients were treated with ifosfamide (2 g/m(2)/day) infused over 1 h x 3 days (with mesna uroprotection) and vinorelbine (30 mg/m(2)) on days 1 and 8. Treatment was repeated on a 21-day schedule. In order to avoid unacceptable toxicity in this subset of patients where the chemotherapy is mainly palliative, the Bryant and Day two-stage phase II trial design incorporating toxicity considerations was chosen. A cutoff point for the response rate (10%) and for severe toxicity (25%) was established for the first 14 patients.
Between February 1997 and December 1998, 11 paclitaxel and platinum-resistant patients and 1 potentially platinum-sensitive patient were treated. Five patients (41%) experienced grade 3-4 central nervous toxicity requiring hospital admission. In accordance with the Bryant and Day design, the study was stopped early because greater than 25% of the first 14 patients developed grade 3-4 neurotoxicity. A retrospective review of clinical characteristics of these patients showed at least one well-known risk factor associated with ifosfamide central toxicity. Hematological toxicity was common, mainly grade 4 neutropenia, which was observed in all but 1 patient, usually of short duration, and there were 4 episodes of neutropenic fever. Ten patients were evaluated for response. Two complete responses and 1 partial response according to CA-125 criteria were observed.
This combination may be active in platinum-resistant ovarian cancer but the high toxicity encountered, principally neurotoxicity in those with large central pelvic masses, means that further studies with this schedule may not be warranted.
It is widely accepted that the most abundant polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in weathered crude oils is cardiotoxic. Although PAHs toxic endpoints show strong correlation with the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR), a ligand activated transcription factor, and is thought to be a potent inducer of cytochrome P4501A, the action mechanism of PAHs on vertebrate cardiovascular development and disease is unclear. Herein, we address the cardiac developmental effects of exposure to the weak AhR agonist pyrene on the early life-stages of zebrafish. Embryos were exposed to 0, 0.05, 0.5, 5, and 50 nmol/L pyrene up to 72h post-fertilization (hpf). Pyrene-treated embryos showed dose-dependent heart abnormalities, such as pericardial edema and cardiac looping defects. Changes in AhR1a, AhR1b, AhR2, and Cyp1A expression were assessed by real-time RT-PCR. The results showed that low-level pyrene failed to alter these genes expression. However, the homeodomain transcription factor Nkx2.5, which plays an essential role in the development of the cardiovascular system, was down-regulated in a dose-dependent manner by pyrene exposure. The bone morphogenetic protein 2b (Bmp2b), which has been identified as the upstream gene of Nkx2.5, also was inhibited in a dose-dependent manner after treatment with pyrene. Taken together, these data indicated that embryonic exposure of zebrafish to low-level environmental pyrene disrupt normal cardiac development and alter expression of defective cardiac differentiation related genes.
To clarify the possible mechanism of the antinociceptive effect of mexiletine, the effects of the agent on formalin- and algogenic mediator-induced nociceptive responses were examined as compared to lidocaine. Subcutaneous (s.c.) injection of 0.5% formalin into the hindpaw caused an acute nociceptive response that lasted about 5 min (first phase). This response then disappeared completely for about 5 min and then recurred lasting about 20 min (second phase). Intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of mexiletine (10 and 30 mg/kg) significantly and dose-dependently reduced the durations of the first and second phases of formalin-induced nociceptive response. On the other hand, although i.p. administration of lidocaine (10 and 30 mg/kg) had no significant effect on the first phase of formalin-induced nociceptive response, the duration of the second phase response was significantly and dose-dependently reduced. Pretreatment with mexiletine resulted in a significant and dose-dependent inhibition of the nociceptive response produced by intrathecal (i.t.) injection of substance P (0.1 nM), somatostatin (1.0 nM), bradykinin (1 microgram/mouse) and prostaglandin (PG) F2 alpha (1 microgram/mouse). Although lidocaine had no significant effect on the substance P- or somatostatin-induced nociceptive response, bradykinin- and PGF2 alpha-induced nociceptive responses were inhibited. These results suggest that the antinociceptive effect of mexiletine involves the inhibition of substance P-, somatostatin-, bradykinin- and PGF2 alpha-mediated nociceptive transmission in the spinal cord. Furthermore, it is possible that the weaker antinociceptive effect of lidocaine as compared with that of mexiletine may be due to the lack of its inhibitory effect on substance P- and somatostatin-mediated nociceptive transmission in the spinal cord.
Previous studies have reported little correlation between the relative toxicity of particle types when comparing lung toxicity rankings following in vivo instillation versus in vitro cell culture exposures. This study was designed to assess the capacity of in vitro screening studies to predict in vivo pulmonary toxicity of several fine or nanoscale particle types in rats. In the in vivo component of the study, rats were exposed by intratracheal instillation to 1 or 5 mg/kg of the following particle types: (1) carbonyl iron (CI), (2) crystalline silica (CS) (Min-U-Sil 5, alpha-quartz), (3) precipitated amorphous silica (AS), (4) nano-sized zinc oxide (NZO), or (5) fine-sized zinc oxide (FZO). Depending on particle type and solution state, these particles range in size from 90 to 500 nm in size. Following exposures, the lungs of exposed rats were lavaged and inflammation (neutrophil recruitment) and cytotoxicity end points (bronchoalveolar lavage [BAL] fluid lactate dehydrogenase [LDH] values) were measured at 24 h, 1 week, 1 and 3 months postexposure. For the in vitro component of the study, three different culture conditions were utilized. Cultures of (1) rat L2 lung epithelial cells, (2) primary alveolar macrophages (AMs) (collected via BAL from unexposed rats), as well as (3) AM-L2 lung epithelial cell cocultures were incubated with the particle types listed above, and the culture fluids were evaluated for cytotoxicity end points (LDH, 1-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-3,5-diphenylformazan [MTT]) as well as inflammatory cytokines (macrophage inflammatory 2 protein [MIP-2], tumor necrosis factor alpha [TNF-alpha], and interleukin-6 [IL-6]) at one (i.e., cytokines) or several (cytotoxicity) time periods. Results of in vivo pulmonary toxicity studies demonstrated that instilled CI particles produced little toxicity. CS particles produced sustained inflammation and cytotoxicity. AS particles produced reversible and transient inflammatory responses. NZO or FZO particles produced potent but reversible inflammation which was resolved by 1 month postinstillation exposure. Results of in vitro pulmonary cytotoxicity studies demonstrated a variety of responses to the different particle types, primarily at high doses. With respect to the LDH results, L2 cells were the most sensitive and exposures to nano- or fine-sized ZnO for 4 or 24 h were more cytotoxic than exposures to CS or AS particles. Macrophages essentially were resistant and epithelial macrophage cocultures generally reflected the epithelial results at 4 and 24 h incubation, but not at 48 h incubation. MTT results were also interesting but, except for nano- and fine-sized ZnO, did not correlate well with LDH results. Results of in vitro pulmonary inflammation studies demonstrated that L2 cells did not produce MIP-2 cytokines, but CS- or AS-exposed AMs and, to a lesser degree, cocultures secreted these chemotactic factors into the culture media. Measurements of TNF-alpha in the culture media by particle-exposed cells demonstrated little activity. In addition, IL-6 secretion was measured in CS, AS, and nano-sized ZnO-exposed cocultures. When considering the range of toxicity end points to five different particle types, the comparisons of in vivo and in vitro measurements demonstrated little correlation, particularly when considering many of the variables assessed in this study-such as cell types to be utilized, culture conditions and time course of exposure, as well as measured end points. It seems clear that in vitro cellular systems will need to be further developed, standardized, and validated (relative to in vivo effects) in order to provide useful screening data on the relative toxicity of inhaled particle types.
Fetal growth restriction (intrauterine growth restriction, IUGR) is a leading cause of perinatal mortality. However, the causes of aberrant development of the placenta and, thus, of the fetus, are not currently known. Insulin-like growth factor II (IGF-II) has been shown to be an important regulator of fetoplacental growth. This growth factor must undergo posttranslational processing, and, thus, we hypothesized that aberrant processing of pro-IGF-II to IGF-II may be a cause of IUGR. Here, we have found that the proprotein convertase PC4 is expressed in the human placenta and that it cleaves pro-IGF-II to generate the intermediate processed form, IGF-II (1-102) and, subsequently, mature IGF-II (1-67), which are accounted for by the removal of terminal basic residues by carboxypeptidases. This processing confers the ability of IGF-II to activate invasive trophoblast cells through AKT phosphorylation, whereas inhibition of PC4 by a PC4-specific inhibitor blocks pro-IGF-II processing and reduces trophoblast cell migration, which can be partly restored by addition of mature IGF-II. Consistent with the hypothesis that IGF-II processing is implicated in IUGR, sera of patients carrying IUGR fetuses displayed elevated levels of pro-IGF-II. Thus, abnormal processing of IGF-II by PC4 may represent a previously uncharacterized mechanism involved in the pathophysiology of fetoplacental growth restriction, and elevated pro-IGF-II may be a useful clinical marker for risk of IUGR.
Exonic and intronic mutations in Tau cause neurodegenerative syndromes characterized by frontotemporal dementia and filamentous tau protein deposits. We describe a K369I missense mutation in exon 12 of Tau in a patient with a pathology typical of sporadic Pick's disease. The proband presented with severe personality changes, followed by loss of cognitive function. Detailed postmortem examination of the brain showed atrophy, which was most pronounced in the temporal lobes; and numerous tau-immunoreactive Pick bodies and Pick cells in the neocortex and the hippocampal formation, as well as in subcortical brain regions. Their appearance and staining characteristics were indistinguishable from those of sporadic Pick's disease. However, immunoblot analysis of sarkosyl-insoluble tau showed three major bands of 60, 64, and 68 kDa, consistent with the presence of 3- and 4-repeat tau isoforms, as in Alzheimer's disease. Isolated tau filaments were irregularly twisted ribbons, with a small number of Alzheimer-type paired helical filaments. In the presence of heparin, tau proteins with the K369I mutation formed short, slender filaments. Biochemically, recombinant tau proteins with the K369I mutation showed reduced ability to promote microtubule assembly, suggesting that this may be the primary effect of the mutation by providing a pool of aberrant tau for filament assembly. Taken together, results indicate that the K369I mutation in Tau can cause a dementing disease with a neuropathology like that of Pick's disease.
Nineteen patients with senile brain disease (including 2 with parkinsonian symptoms) were treated with amantadine in an oral dosage of 200--300 mg daily. Seven showed definite clinical benefits such as increased alertness and decreased agitation, and 2 others showed slight benefits. However, in only one instance was the benefit maintained without complications. Toxic effects such as overactivity, anxiety and visual hallucinations were observed in 8 patients. Withdrawal effects (e.g., lethargy and staggering) occurred when amantadine was discontinued. The electroencephalograms (EEGs) of all 19 patients showed a frequency increase, chiefly of occipital alpha activity, and sometimes a return to normal, irrespective of clinical changes. Toxic side effects were associated with particularly prominent EEG acceleration. In 10 of the 19 patients, the clinical changes were further validated by by additional psychologic assessments. Although the value of amantadine is limited when given in this way to patients with senile brain disease, it seems important to observe its effects in drug combinations aimed at correction of neurotransmitter imbalances.
Metals are ubiquitous soil, air, and water pollutants. A mixture of arsenic cadmium and lead, in particular, has commonly been found in the vicinity of smelter areas. The mixture of As-Cd-Pb has been shown to be carcinogenic, and transforming potential and oxidative stress have been proposed as principal mechanisms involved in this process. The aim of this work was to explore the role of the antioxidant barrier in the establishment of cell transformation upon chronic exposure to a metal mixture containing 2 μM NaAsO(2), 2 μM. CdCl(2), and 5 μM Pb(C(2)H(3)O(2))(2)∙3H(2)O in WRL-68 cells-a non-transformed human hepatic cell line.
In this study, we used a WRL-68 cell model of human embryonic hepatic origin treated with antioxidant inhibitors (L-Buthionine-sulfoxamine and aminotriazole) to test the role of the antioxidant barrier in the establishment of cell transformation upon chronic exposure to a metal mixture of As-Cd-Pb (2 μM NaAsO(2), 2 μM CdCl(2) and 5 μM Pb(C(2)H(3)O(2))(2)∙3H(2)O). We evaluated oxidative damage markers, including reactive oxygen species, lipid peroxidation, and genotoxicity, as well as antioxidant response markers, including glutathione concentration, catalase activity, and superoxide dismutase activity, which promote morphological transformation, which can be quantified by foci formation.
As expected, we found an increase in the intracellular concentration of the metals after treatment with the metal mixture. In addition, treatment with the metal mixture in addition to inhibitors resulted in a large increase in the intracellular concentration of cadmium and lead. Our results describe the generation of reactive oxygen species, cytotoxicity, genotoxicity, and oxidative damage to macromolecules that occurred exclusively in cells that were morphologically transformed upon exposure to a metal mixture and antioxidant barrier inhibition.
Our results show the importance of the antioxidant barrier role in the protection of cellular integrity and the transformation potential of this metal mixture via free radicals.
To evaluate efficacy and feasibility of chemo-radiotherapy in patients with non-metastatic anal squamous-cell-cancer.
TNM staged anal squamous-cell cancer patients were treated with pelvic radiotherapy concomitant to continuous infusion fluorouracil plus cisplatin for at least 2 cycles. In T3-T4 or any T - N+ tumours or in "slow-responder" cases, 1-2 chemotherapy courses were subsequently administered. Tumour assessment was performed at baseline and 6-8 weeks after radiotherapy to evaluate response.
29 patients were enrolled: 4 males, 25 females; median age 57 years; baseline T1/T2/T3/T4 2/12/7/8; N involvement 17. Median dose pelvic radiotherapy was 59.4 Gy (range: 54-74). In 5 patients 2 chemotherapy courses, in 12 patients three and in 12 patients four courses were performed. At first evaluation, 27 CR (93.1%; 95% CI: 78% - 98%) and 2 SD were observed. Main grade (G) 3 toxic events were neutropenia (8%), diarrhoea (8%) and dermatitis (62%). Most frequent late events G3-G4 occurred in 14 patients: proctitis (5), dermatitis (4), bladder dysfunctions (2), sexual dysfunctions (9), lower extremity venous thromboses (2), dysuria (1), stenosis (1) and tenesmus (1). Five patients reported G1 leucopoenia. The rate of colostomy was 14%. After a median follow up of 42 months (range: 4-81), 20 patients are still alive without relapse and 3 died due to PD. The estimated 7-year DFS was 83.4% (C.I.: 68.3%-98.5%) and the estimated 7-year OS was 85.7% (C.I.: 70% - 100%). The 1-year and the estimated 7-year colostomy-free survivals were 85.9% (C.I.: 73.1% - 98.7%).
Concurrent cisplatin plus fluorouracil and radiotherapy is associated with favourable local control rates and acute toxicity. Future investigations will be directed towards research into molecular biomarkers related to disease progression and resistance to chemo-radiotherapy and to the evaluation of new cytotoxic agents or targeted drugs, such as anti-epidermal growth factor receptor, concomitant to RT and to determining the role of intensity-modulated radiotherapy.
A 63-year-old man suffered a central retinal vein occlusion 2 months after he began taking leuprolide acetate for prostate cancer. Despite control for possible systemic hypertension (126/90 mm Hg) and mild hypercholesterolemia (total cholesterol level =246 mg/dL [range: 16 to 200 mg/dL], high-density lipoprotein level =67 mg/dL [range: 40 to 59 mg/dL], and low-density lipoprotein level =144 mg/dL [range: 0 to 130 mg/dL]), progression of the venous occlusive disease occurred. Leuprolide acetate, which is associated with thromboembolic events and diffuse intravascular coagulation, may be implicated in central retinal vein occlusion.
Tamoxifen (TAM) is used in the treatment of breast cancer and is being given to healthy women to inhibit breast cancer. The present study examines the effects of TAM in female rats exposed for up to one year. Starting at 6 weeks of age, groups of 55-57 female Sprague-Dawley rats were given TAM by gavage daily at 2.8, 11.3 or 45.2 mg/kd body weight/day, for up to 1 year with two recovery segments, 4 weeks of recovery after 6 months of exposure, and 3 months of recovery after 12 months of exposure. Complete necropsies and histopathology were performed. Drug-related mortality was highest in the high TAM group. In the two high dose groups, hepatoproliferative lesions were present in time- and dose-related incidence, severity and multiplicity. In the high dose rats, at 6 months, hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas were observed in 71 and 29% of rats respectively. With 1 month of recovery, at 7 months the adenomas and carcinomas were increased to 75%. At 12 months the adenomas were present in 50% and carcinomas in 75% of high dose rats. In the mid dose group, liver lesions were not found until 12 months; at this time 50% had adenomas and 10%, carcinomas. After a 3 month recovery period, 45% exhibited adenomas and 45%, carcinomas. Thus, TAM at 45.2 mg/kg/day elicited hepatocellular neoplasia sometime between 3 and 6 months of administration. At 11.3 mg/kg the neoplastic process was evident at 12 months. At 2.8 mg/kg, no hepatoproliferative changes were found. The strong hepatocarcinogenic effect of TAM in rats raises issues bearing on the prophylactic chronic administration to healthy women.
A 25-year-old woman was hospitalized repeatedly during a 5-year period due to abdominal pain, change in stool pattern, high CRP and leucocytosis. Ultrasound and small bowel examination showed oedema of terminal ileum, and morbus Crohn was initially suspected. A later ileocolonoscopy with biopsy and a pill cam capsule endoscopy were normal. In all cases the condition normalized spontaneously. A thorough interview revealed a recreational use of cocaine, and diary recordings confirmed the association between her abdominal pain and cocaine use. Ischaemic enteritis has previously been described in cocaine users.
Megaloblastic anaemia is prevalent in our society and patients are diagnosed late.
Case Report of a patient with megaloblastic anaemia and discussion of relevant literature.
A 50 year old Nigerian trader with recurrent chronic anaemia and repeated blood transfusions (Eight units in 10 days) was finally diagnosed to have megaloblastic anaemia. He was commenced on intramuscular, Ample A and Ample B (folic acid 0.7mg, vitamin B12 (Cyanocobalamin) 2500g, niacin 12mg and vitamin C 150mg) on alternate days (6 doses) then weekly as maintenance until haematocrit returned to normal. Response was dramatic; haemoglobin was 6.4g/dl before, 7.9g/dl after the second dose and 11.5g/dl after the 6th dose of the drug. The corrected retic was 2.0% before, 4.6% 72hrs after and 8.4% after the 6th dose. The MCV decreased from 105fl before to 79fl after the 6th dose of the drug. His packed cell volume has remained above 35% after completing the 6th dose and during maintenance therapy.
The combination of Cyanocobalamin, folic acid, niacin, and vitamin C, in Amples A and B is complementary. Treatment with Amples A and B is effective and affordable in the management of megaloblastic anaemia.
Overingestion of isoniazid can cause confusion, slurred speech, seizures, coma, and death. Most cases of a central nervous system toxic reaction due to isoniazid use result from sudden intentional or accidental overdose. We describe a patient taking 1200 mg of isoniazid daily for 6 weeks who presented to the hospital with confusion and lethargy that progressed to coma. Within 30 minutes of receiving 1 g of intravenous pyridoxine hydrochloride, the patient was fully alert and lucid. The diagnosis of a toxic reaction to isoniazid was delayed by the possibility of concurrent active neurosyphilis and the failure to initially consider isoniazid poisoning in a patient without a history of sudden isoniazid overdose.
Metabolic syndrome (MS) identifies individuals at risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Little is known about MS and its consequences following initiation of antiretroviral therapy (ART).
HIV-infected adults (881) initiating ART were evaluated for prevalence and incidence of MS and subsequent diagnosis of CVD and T2DM over a 3-year period. MS was defined by criteria of the National Cholesterol Education Program Expert Panel on Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Cholesterol in Adults (Third Report; ATP-III) or of the International Diabetes Federation (IDF).
The prevalence of baseline MS was 8.5% and 7.8% (ATP-III and IDF, respectively). During follow-up, 234 (12/100 patient-years) (ATP-III) and 178 (8/100 patient-years) (IDF) progressed to MS. MS at baseline had a borderline association with increased risk of CVD [ATP-III: hazard ratio (HR), 2.56; 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.86-7.60; P = 0.095; IDF: HR, 2.89; 95% CI, 0.98-8.63; P = 0.058] and was significantly associated with an increased risk of T2DM (ATP-III: HR, 4.34; 95% CI, 1.83-10.25; P = 0.001; IDF: HR, 3.33; 95% CI, 1.35-8.17; P = 0.009). Incident MS was significantly associated with an increased risk of both CVD (ATP-III: HR, 2.73; 95% CI, 1.07-6.96; P = 0.036; IDF: HR, 3.05; 95% CI, 1.20-7.75; P = 0.019) and T2DM (ATP-III: HR, 4.89; 95% CI, 2.22-10.78; P < 0.0001; IDF: HR, 4.84; 95% CI, 2.20-10.64; P < 0.0001).
Substantial progression to MS occurs within 3 years following initiation of ART. Since baseline and incident MS identifies individuals at risk for subsequent CVD and T2DM, it warrants evaluation in patients commencing ART.
This study compares etomidate with midazolam for prehospital rapid-sequence intubation (RSI).
The authors conducted a retrospective review of consecutive intubations at a university-based air medical program from January 1995 to December 2000. Exclusion criteria were patients not undergoing RSI, age <15 years, and incomplete chart data. Outcome measures included intubation success, incidence of hypotension, and percentage of change in heart rate (HR) and systolic blood pressure (SBP).
The intubation success rate was 110 out of 112 (98%) with etomidate, and 96 out of 97 (99%) with midazolam. Mean ages, patient gender distributions, and initial SBPs and HRs did not differ between the two groups. The mean dose of etomidate was 24 mg, the mean percentage of change in HR was -1% (95% confidence interval [CI], -6 to 4), and the mean percentage of change in SBP was 2% (95% CI, -3 to 7). The mean dose of midazolam was 3.5 mg, the mean percentage of change in HR was 1% (95% CI, -5 to 7), and the mean percentage change in SBP was 3% (95% CI, -3 to 9). The number of hypotensive episodes with etomidate (7 out of 74) compared with midazolam (3 out of 56) did not differ significantly (Fisher's exact test, p=0.51).
Intubation success rate was very high with both etomidate (98%) and midazolam (99%). There was no statistically significant mean percentage of change in SBP or HR with either agent. The authors found a low incidence of hypotension with both agents, although the mean dose of midazolam used was considerably less than typically recommended for induction.
The platelet-derived growth factor alpha-receptor (PDGFRalpha) plays a vital role in the development of vertebrate embryos, since mice lacking PDGFRalpha die in mid-gestation. PDGFRalpha is expressed in several types of migratory progenitor cells in the embryo including cranial neural crest cells, lung smooth muscle progenitors and oligodendrocyte progenitors. To study PDGFRalpha gene regulation and function during development, we generated transgenic mice by pronuclear injection of a 380 kb yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) containing the human PDGFRalpha gene. The YAC transgene was expressed in neural crest cells, rescued the profound craniofacial abnormalities and spina bifida observed in PDGFRalpha knockout mice and prolonged survival until birth. The ultimate cause of death was respiratory failure due to a defect in lung growth, stemming from failure of the transgene to be expressed correctly in lung smooth muscle progenitors. However, the YAC transgene was expressed faithfully in oligodendrocyte progenitors, which was not previously observed with plasmid-based transgenes containing only upstream PDGFRalpha control sequences. Our data illustrate the complexity of PDGFRalpha genetic control, provide clues to the location of critical regulatory elements and reveal a requirement for PDGF signalling in prenatal lung growth, which is distinct from the known requirement in postnatal alveogenesis. In addition, we found that the YAC transgene did not prolong survival of Patch mutant mice, indicating that genetic defects outside the PDGFRalpha locus contribute to the early embryonic lethality of Patch mice.
A double-blind randomized intervention study has previously shown that a significant relationship exists between the consumption of various mixes of seven target additives by children and the onset of hyperactive behaviour. The present study set out to ascertain the pattern of intake of two mixes (A and B) of these seven target additives in Irish children and teenagers using the Irish national food consumption databases for children (n = 594) and teenagers (n = 441) and the National Food Ingredient Database. The majority of additive-containing foods consumed by both the children and teenagers contained one of the target additives. No food consumed by either the children or teenagers contained all seven of the target food additives. For each additive intake, estimates for every individual were made assuming that the additive was present at the maximum legal permitted level in those foods identified as containing it. For both groups, mean intakes of the food additives among consumers only were far below the doses used in the previous study on hyperactivity. Intakes at the 97.5th percentile of all food colours fell below the doses used in Mix B, while intakes for four of the six food colours were also below the doses used in Mix A. However, in the case of the preservative sodium benzoate, it exceeded the previously used dose in both children and teenagers. No child or teenager achieved the overall intakes used in the study linking food additives with hyperactivity.
Hyperprolactinemia can be a complication of conventional neurolepics as well as risperidone. We report the third case of attenuation of risperidone-induced hyperprolactinemia by aripiprazole.
We report a case of acute liver injury probably due to fenofibrate. A 50-year-old female without a history of liver disease developed cholestatic hepatitis during her second week of fenofibrate treatment. Laboratory tests on admission showed serum bilirubin 534.0 mcmol/L (conjugated 444.0), alkaline phosphatase (AP) 8.76, gamma-glutamyl traspeptidase (GGT) 20.92, alanine aminotransferase (ALT) 2.6, aspartate aminotransferase (AST) 3.64 mckat/L. Fenofibrate withdrawal and ursodeoxycholic acid (750 mg daily) administration was rapidly followed by a favourable outcome.
We compared the effects of bisoprolol on transient myocardial ischemia with those of nifedipine in patients with chronic stable angina.
Both beta-adrenergic blocking agents and calcium antagonists reduce transient ischemic episodes, but comparisons of these agents have been made in only a few larger studies.
The Total Ischemic Burden Bisoprolol Study (TIBBS) was a randomized double-blind controlled study with two parallel groups; 330 patients from 30 centers in seven European countries with stable angina pectoris, a positive exercise test and more than two transient ischemic episodes during 48 h of Holter monitoring (central evaluation) were included. Of these patients 161 were randomized to receive bisoprolol and 169 to receive nifedipine slow release. There were two treatment phases of 4 weeks each, with 48-h Holter monitoring after each phase. During phase 1, patients received either 10 mg of bisoprolol daily or 2 x 20 mg of nifedipine slow release. During phase 2, they received either 20 mg of bisoprolol daily or 2 x 40 mg of nifedipine slow release.
In phase 1 of the trial, 4 weeks of bisoprolol therapy (10 mg daily) reduced the mean [+/- SD] number of transient ischemic episodes from 8.1 +/- 0.6 to 3.2 +/- 0.4/48 h. Nifedipine (2 x 20 mg) reduced transient ischemic episodes from 8.3 +/- 0.5 to 5.9 +/- 0.4/48 h. Total duration of ischemia was reduced from 99.3 +/- 10.1 to 31.9 +/- 5.5 min/48 h with bisoprolol and from 101 +/- 9.1 to 72.6 +/- 8.1 min/48 h with nifedipine. Reductions were statistically significant for both drugs; the difference between bisoprolol and nifedipine was also significant (p < 0.0001). Bisoprolol reduced the heart rate at onset of episodes by 13.7 +/- 1.4 beats/min from a baseline value of 99.5 +/- 1.2 beats/min (p < 0.001). Heart rate was unchanged with nifedipine. Bisoprolol had significantly higher responder rates than nifedipine. Doubling of the dose in phase 2 of the trial had small additive effects. Only bisoprolol showed a marked circadian effect by reducing the morning peak of transient ischemic episodes (by 68% at peak time, 8:00 to 8:59 AM).
Both bisoprolol and nifedipine reduced the number and duration of transient ischemic episodes in patients with chronic stable angina. Bisoprolol was significantly more effective than nifedipine in both doses tested and reduced the morning peak of ischemic activity.
The present study is undertaken to evaluate the protective effect of vitamin E (α-tocopherol) and selenium (Se) against malathion (MTN)-induced oxidative stress and hepatic injuries in experimental rats. Male rats were randomly divided into eight groups comprised of 10 rats each. The 1(st) group served as a negative control (C(N)), whereas the 2(nd) was supplemented with a combination of α-tocopherol (100 mg kg(-1) body weight, b.w.)/Se (0.1 mg kg(-1) bw). The 3(rd), 4(th) and 5(th) groups were respectively administered with increasing doses of MTN equivalent to (1/50 )LD(50) (M(1/50)), (1/25) LD(50) (M(1/25)) and (1/10) LD(50) (M(1/10)), respectively. The 6(th), 7(th) and 8(th) groups were administered the same doses of MTN as in the 3(rd), 4(th) and 5(th) groups with a concomitant supplementation with α-tocopherol/Se. Subchronic exposure of rats to MTN for 45 days resulted in statistical dose-dependent decrease in acetylcholinestrase (AChE) activity, increase in oxidative stress marker lipid peroxidation (LPO) and reduction in reduced glutathione (GSH) level. Moreover, the levels of glutathione persoxidase (GPx), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) were significantly decline in response to MTN exposure in a dose-dependent fashion. Furthermore, histopathological studies of liver in the rats which received MTN exhibited, moderate to severe degenerative and necrotic changes in the hepatocytes. Notably, the administration of α-tocopherol/Se protected the liver of rats exposed to MTN as evidenced by the appearance of normal histological structures, significant attenuation of the decline in all antioxidant enzymes tested (i.e. GPx, SOD and CAT), significant recovery in the GSH level and statistical reduction in LPO, as compared to the experimental rat. The effect of α-tocopherol/Se supplementation on transcriptional activity of three key stress and apoptosis-related genes (i.e., Tp53, CASP3 and CASP9), in response to MTN exposure in rats, was investigated. Results revealed a significant concentration-dependent up-regulation in the level of expression for the three genes examined, in response to MTN exposure, compared with the control. Interestingly, the supplementation of MTN-treated rats with α-tocopherol/Se modulates the observed significant dose-dependent up-regulation in the level of expression for three selected genes, indicative of an interfering role in the signaling transduction process of MTN-mediated poisoning. Taken together, these data suggest that the administration of α-tocopherol/Se may partially protect against MTN-induced hepatic oxidative stress and injuries.
In men with prostate cancer, gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonists increase fat mass, decrease insulin sensitivity, and increase triglycerides, features that are shared with metabolic syndrome. To the authors' knowledge, however, less is known regarding the effects of GnRH agonists on other attributes of the metabolic syndrome.
In an open-label prospective study, 26 men with recurrent or locally advanced prostate cancer were treated with leuprolide for 12 months. Outcomes included changes in blood pressure, body composition, lipids, adipocytokines, and C-reactive protein.
The mean weight, body mass index, and waist circumference increased significantly from baseline to Month 12 (P < .001 for each comparison). Fat mass increased by 11.2% +/- 1.5% (P < .001) and the percentage lean body mass decreased by 3.6% +/- 0.5% (P < .001). The total abdominal fat area increased by 16.5% +/- 2.6% (P < .001), with the accumulation of subcutaneous fat accounting for 94% of the observed increase. The waist-to-hip ratio and blood pressure did not change significantly. Serum high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol concentrations increased significantly (P = .002). Serum adiponectin levels increased by 36.4 +/- 5.9% from baseline to Month 3 and remained significantly elevated through Month 12 (P < .001). Resistin and C-reactive protein levels did not change significantly.
The term metabolic syndrome does not appear to adequately describe the effects of GnRH agonists in men with prostate cancer. In contrast to the metabolic syndrome, GnRH agonists increase subcutaneous fat mass, HDL cholesterol, and adiponectin, and do not alter the waist-to-hip ratio, blood pressure, or C-reactive protein level.
The use of clonidine as an adjunct to epidural administration of local anesthetics in children has been reported to substantially improve the duration and quality of postoperative analgesia. The aims of the present study were to determine the pharmacokinetic profile and to investigate the interaction between postoperative sedation and analgesia after epidurally administered clonidine in children.
Plasma levels of clonidine (0-10 h postop) and assessment of postoperative analgesia and sedation (0-24 h postop) were performed at predetermined intervals following lumbar epidural administration of bupivacaine 2.0 mg/kg and clonidine 2 mg/kg in 8 children undergoing ureteral re-implantation surgery using general anesthesia (age range: 1-9 yr, weight range: 9-41 kg). Plasma levels of clonidine were analyzed by radioimmunoassay, and sedation and analgesia were assessed by previously described scoring systems.
The venous plasma pharmacokinetics of clonidine following epidural administration showed a considerable interindividual variation. Cmax and Tmax values of clonidine were found to be within the 0.45-0.77 ng/mL and 48-193 min range, respectively. The time to absorb 95% of the clonidine dose from the epidural space into plasma varied between 36 min and 7.6 h. In 6 of the 8 patients postoperative analgesia substantially outlasted the duration of sedation (> or = 2 h). Sedation could not be detected in any patients at plasma concentrations below 0.3 ng/mL.
The pharmacokinetic profile associated with epidural clonidine administration in children (1-9 y) was similar to that previously reported in adults. The postoperative analgesia seen after administration of epidural bupivacaine-clonidine during general anesthesia in children cannot only be explained by residual postoperative sedation.
