Endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) results in the formation of iatrogenic gastric ulcers and the optimal treatments for such ulcers are still unclear. We aimed to evaluate the efficacy of rebamipide in the management of EMR-induced ulcers by comparing it with an H(2) receptor antagonist. After EMR, patients were randomly assigned into either rebamipide or famotidine groups. All patients received a one-week lansoprazole 30 mg q.d. therapy followed by three-week famotidine (20 mg b.i.d.) or rebamipide (100 mg t.i.d.) therapy. Four weeks after the treatments, ulcer sizes, stages, bleeding rates, and ulcer-related symptoms were compared using endoscopy and a questionnaire. A total of 63 patients were enrolled in this study. Finally, 51 patients were analyzed, 26 in rebamipide and 25 in famotidine group. Baseline characteristics were not significantly different between the two groups. Four weeks after EMR, the two groups were comparable in terms of ulcer reduction ratio (P=0.297), and ulcer stage (P=1.000). Moreover, no difference was observed with regard to ulcer-related symptoms, drug compliance, adverse drug event rates, and bleeding rates. Our data suggest that rebamipide is not inferior to famotidine in healing iatrogenic gastric ulcers, and could be a therapeutic option in the treatment of such ulcers.
Thirty-nine patients with metastatic prostate cancer refractory to hormonal manipulation were treated with vinblastine by continuous infusion. The dose was 1.5 mg/m2 daily for 5 days. A 21% response rate was obtained. Eight patients, two with visceral metastasis, one with nodal disease, and five with osseous metastasis achieved objective response. The median duration of response was 28 weeks. Myelosuppression was the major side effect: the median leukocyte count nadir was 2.8 X 10(3)/ml and the median platelet count nadir was 184 X 10(3)/ml.
Six patients with epilepsy and severe psychosis were treated with the atypical antipsychotic clozapine. The use of clozapine might be complicated in epileptic patients because of an increased risk of seizures. However, none of the reported patients had an increase of their seizure frequency, in contrast, three patients had a substantial reduction of seizures. One patient had a reduction of non-epileptic seizures as well. In the second part of this paper, combinations of clozapine with newer and older anticonvulsants as well as their interactions and associated risks are discussed.
Diazepam is a long-acting benzodiazepine. Although diazepam is commonly associated with a variety of side effects, it is generally not believed to cause fugue-like states or retrograde amnesia. This report presents the case of an active duty patient who developed a brief fugue-like state with retrograde amnesia. This was associated with the short-term oral use of diazepam. There was no other apparent cause for his symptoms, which resolved within 24 hours after the diazepam was discontinued. This case suggests that short-term use of diazepam can lead to a brief fugue-like state with retrograde amnesia that has not been reported previously.
The purpose of this study was to compare the value of potassium-magnesium citrate (KMgCit) with potassium chloride in overcoming thiazide-induced hypokalemia.
Sixty normal subjects first took hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ; 50 mg/day). After three weeks of treatment (or earlier if hypokalemia developed), they were randomized to take KMgCit (42 mEq K, 21 mEq Mg, and 63 mEq citrate/day) or potassium chloride (42 mEq/day) for three weeks while continuing on HCTZ.
KMgCit significantly increased the serum potassium concentration from 3.42 +/- 0.30 mEq/L on HCTZ alone to about 3.8 mEq/L (P < 0.001). Potassium chloride produced a similar increase in serum potassium concentration from 3.45 +/- 0.44 mEq/L to about 3.8 mEq/L (P < 0. 001). KMgCit significantly increased the serum magnesium concentration by 0.11 to 0.12 mEq/L (P < 0.01), whereas potassium chloride produced a marginal decline or no significant change. KMgCit was less effective than potassium chloride in correcting HCTZ-induced hypochloridemia and hyperbicarbonatemia. KMgCit, but not potassium chloride, significantly increased urinary pH (by about 0.6 unit), citrate (by about 260 mg/day), and urinary magnesium.
KMgCit is equally effective as potassium chloride in correcting thiazide-induced hypokalemia. In addition, KMgCit, but not potassium chloride, produces a small but significant increase in serum magnesium concentration by delivering a magnesium load, and it confers alkalinizing and citraturic actions.
Rats with streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes exhibit alterations in cardiac function, ventricular remodeling, and changes in cell signaling, which includes protein kinase C (PKC) isoforms. Moderate consumption of ethanol has a beneficial effect on cardiovascular outcomes in the general population, an effect that has recently been found to extend to patients with diabetes mellitus. We studied the effect of low-dose ethanol consumption on cardiac function, geometry, and PKC isoforms in the rat with STZ-induced diabetes.
Four groups of rats were studied over 8 to 10 weeks: control, STZ-induced diabetes, 12% (v/v) ethanol consumption, and STZ-induced diabetes plus 4% (v/v) ethanol consumption. Invasive hemodynamic measurements were performed; myocardial tissue was obtained for analysis for total PKC and cytosolic and membrane protein content of PKC-alpha, PKC-delta, and PKC-epsilon, and two-dimensional and M-mode echocardiograms were obtained.
Compared with rats with diabetes alone, consumption of 4% ethanol prevented the decrease in left ventricular dP/dt seen with diabetes alone, as well as the increase in left ventricular internal dimension. Up-regulation of PKC-alpha, -delta, and -epsilon occurring in the diabetic animals was also prevented by ethanol consumption, whereas ethanol alone had no effect on PKC isoform pattern.
These data suggest that STZ-induced cardiac remodeling and dysfunction are associated with increases in PKC activity, particularly PKC-alpha, -delta, and -epsilon, and that consumption of ethanol can prevent these changes.
The link between concentrations of particulate matter (PM) and respiratory morbidity has been investigated in numerous studies.
The aim of this study was to analyze the role of different particle size fractions with respect to respiratory health in Beijing, China.
Data on particle size distributions from 3 nm to 1 µm; PM10 (PM ≤ 10 µm), nitrogen dioxide (NO(2)), and sulfur dioxide concentrations; and meteorologic variables were collected daily from March 2004 to December 2006. Concurrently, daily counts of emergency room visits (ERV) for respiratory diseases were obtained from the Peking University Third Hospital. We estimated pollutant effects in single- and two-pollutant generalized additive models, controlling for meteorologic and other time-varying covariates. Time-delayed associations were estimated using polynomial distributed lag, cumulative effects, and single lag models.
Associations of respiratory ERV with NO(2) concentrations and 100-1,000 nm particle number or surface area concentrations were of similar magnitude-that is, approximately 5% increase in respiratory ERV with an interquartile range increase in air pollution concentration. In general, particles < 50 nm were not positively associated with ERV, whereas particles 50-100 nm were adversely associated with respiratory ERV, both being fractions of ultrafine particles. Effect estimates from two-pollutant models were most consistent for NO(2).
Present levels of air pollution in Beijing were adversely associated with respiratory ERV. NO(2) concentrations seemed to be a better surrogate for evaluating overall respiratory health effects of ambient air pollution than PM(10) or particle number concentrations in Beijing.
Beta(2)-adrenoceptor agonists, especially terbutaline, are widely used to arrest preterm labor, but they also cross the placenta to stimulate fetal beta-adrenoceptors that control neural cell differentiation. We evaluated the effects of terbutaline administration in neonatal rats, a stage of neurodevelopment corresponding to human fetal development. Terbutaline administered on postnatal days PN2 to 5 elicited neurochemical changes indicative of neuronal injury and reactive gliosis: immediate increases in glial fibrillary acidic protein and subsequent induction of the 68-kDa neurofilament protein. Quantitative morphological evaluations carried out on PN30 indicated structural abnormalities in the cerebellum, hippocampus, and somatosensory cortex. In the cerebellum, PN2 to 5 terbutaline treatment reduced the number of Purkinje cells and elicited thinning of the granular and molecular layers. The hippocampal CA3 region also displayed thinning, along with marked gliosis, effects that were restricted to females. In the somatosensory cortex, terbutaline evoked a reduction in the proportion of pyramidal cells and an increase in smaller, nonpyramidal cells; again, females were affected more than males. Although abnormalities were obtained with later terbutaline treatment (PN11 to 14), in general the effects were smaller than those seen with PN2 to 5 exposure. Our results indicate that terbutaline is a neurotoxicant that elicits biochemical alterations and structural damage in the immature brain during a critical period. These effects point to a causal relationship between fetal terbutaline exposure and the higher incidence of cognitive and neuropsychiatric disorders reported for the offspring of women receiving terbutaline therapy for preterm labor.
We report a 75-year-old Japanese woman with probable dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). At the age of 64, she showed left hand resting tremor, and gradually developed bradykinesia, and rigidity. She was diagnosed as having parkinsonism and took medication. At the age of 70, she showed hallucination and dementia. As she had developing cognitive dysfunction and hallucination and parkinsonism, she was diagnosed to have probable DLB. At the age of 75, after administration of donepezil, she showed severe psychosis and worsened parkinsonism, and was admitted to hospital. On neurological examination, she showed severe rigidity and akinesia, and behavioral immobility like "waxy flexibility" or motiveless resistance to maintenance of rigid posture against attempts to be moved. The phenomena, she presented as motor abnormalities, were thought to be catatonia. In consideration of clinical course, her catatonia and worsened parkinsonism was thought to be induced by donepezil and she was stopped the administration of donepezil. After treatment with trihexiphenizil, she had improvement of motor abnormalities and worsened parkinsonism. It is important to recognize that donepezil may induce catatonia on the patients of parkinsonism with severe dementia.
Folates are essential for cell survival and are required for numerous biochemical processes. The human alpha isoform folate receptor (alphahFR) has a very high affinity for folic acid and is considered an essential component in the cellular accumulation of folates and folate analogues used in chemotherapy. The expression of alphahFR is not detected inmost normal tissues. In contrast, high levels of the expression of alphahFR have been reported in a variety of cancer cells. The significance of alphahFR overexpression in malignant tissues has not been elucidated, but it is possible that it promotes cell proliferation not only by mediating folate uptake but also by generating other regulatory signals. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate alphahFR as a potential target for the treatment of breast cancer. Initial studies were done in nasopharyngeal carcinoma (KB) cells, which express high levels of alphahFR. In KB cells, antisense oligodeoxyribonucleotides (ODN) complementary to the alphahFR gene sequences were found to reduce newly synthesized alphahFR protein up to 60%. To examine the effect of alphahFR antisense ODNs in a panel of cultured human breast cancer cell lines, we used a tumor cell-targeted, transferrin-liposome-mediated delivery system. The data show that alphahFR antisense ODNs induced a dose-dependent decrease in cell survival. Finally, we determined that alphahFR antisense ODNs sensitized MDA-MB-435 breast cancer cells by 5-fold to treatment with doxorubicin. The data support the application of alphahFR antisense ODNs as a potential anticancer agent in combination with doxorubicin.
To measure the expression of adiponectin, leptin, and their respective receptors in the human endometria of fertile women compared with women with unexplained recurrent implantation failure (IF) during the window of implantation.
Controlled, prospective, clinical study.
Teaching hospital and university research laboratory.
Thirty-one endometrial biopsies from women with IF and 19 fertile controls.
Human endometrial biopsies.
Gene and protein expression of endometrial biopsies.
Endometrial leptin expression was significantly lower in the IF group compared with fertile women. In contrast, leptin receptor (Ob-R) expression was higher in endometria of women with IF. Concerning the adiponectin system, adiponectin was expressed to the same extent in both groups. Conversely, the expression of its two receptors, AdipoR1 and AdipoR2, was reduced in endometria of women with IF compared with fertile women.
Although progesterone resistance seems to be a common state of the endometrium in some human reproductive disorders, such as endometriosis or polycystic ovary syndrome, modification in leptin endometrial expression seems to be specific to IF. These results strongly suggest that changes in Ob-R and AdipoR expression profiles [1] should be implicated in the development of uterine receptivity, and [2] may therefore be potential new targets for prediction of IF.
We evaluated the intensity of the withdrawal symptoms after the discontinuation of the morphine infusion in rats. Opiate addiction was induced by progressively increasing intraperitoneal morphine infusion rates. The control group (Group 1) received normal saline. The initial morphine rates were 1, 4, and 16 mg kg(-1) h for Groups 2, 3, and 4, respectively. Infusion rates were gradually increased by a factor of 1.4, 2, 2.8, and 4 on the second, third, fourth, and fifth days, respectively. The last rate was used for 48 h and then infusions were disconnected. Weight reduction, food consumption, and water intake were used for evaluation of withdrawal. All morphine groups showed a significant reduction of body weight during the 4 postdiscontinuation days and a decline in food and water intake on the first postdiscontinuation day. All changes were dependent on the morphine infusion concentration. No changes were observed in the control group. We suggest that the rat model used in this study may be utilized for quantification of spontaneous withdrawal.
Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) has been implicated in the process of hepatic inflammation, recruiting monocytes and lymphocytes during liver injury. MCP-1 also activates directly hepatic stellate cells, which play a major role in hepatic fibrosis. However, it remains unclear whether blockage of MCP-1 signaling could prevent hepatic fibrosis in vivo. We evaluated a strategy for anti-MCP-1 gene therapy against hepatic fibrosis by transfecting an amino-terminal deletion mutant, lacking the amino-terminal codons 2 to 8 of the human MCP-1 gene and designated 7ND, into skeletal muscle in a rat experimental model of dimethylnitrosamine (DMN)-induced fibrosis. Anti-MCP-1 gene therapy decreased significantly the occurrence of DMN-induced hepatic fibrosis, evaluated by computed image analysis and by measurement of hydroxyproline contents of the liver, accompanied by a reduction in the expressions of alpha-smooth muscle actin. This treatment also caused a significant decrease in hepatic tissue levels of interleukin (IL)-12 (Th1 cytokine) and an increase in those of IL-10 (Th2 cytokine), indicating a change in the Th1/Th2 cytokine balance in the liver. In conclusion, blockade of MCP-1 after intramuscular transfer of the 7ND gene suppressed hepatic fibrosis, and this strategy may be a useful and feasible gene therapy against hepatic fibrosis.
A prospective study was undertaken to evaluate the relative contribution of changes in sympathetic nervous system activity, as reflected by changes in dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH) activity, to the pathogenesis of oral contraceptive-induced hypertension. Precontraceptive and serial post contraceptive determinations of blood pressure, plasma renin activity (PRA), DBH activity, and changes in body weight were obtained in twelve control patients and forty-one oral contraceptive users. Forty-four percent of oral contraceptive users had increases in blood pressure but remained normotensive and 17% became frankly hypertensive. The precontraceptive and average post contraceptive levels of mean arterial pressure (MAP), PRA and DBH activity in each patient were compared using paired group analysis. Control patients (group I) exhibited no significant changes in these variables, while the patients with contraceptive-induced increases in MAP (groups III and IV) underwent significant, parallel increases in DBH activity. Finally, the linear regression of changes in MAP on the percent change in DBH activity was examined. The positive slopes in groups III and IV differed significantly from the negative slope of the controls (group I). The data have been interpreted to reflect an inappropriate oral contraceptive-induced stimulus to sympathetic nervous system activity, leading to increases in MAP in susceptible individuals.
A variety of observations have shown that carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) is associated with growth and metastasis of cancers, including correlation of CEA serum levels with poor clinical outcome, mediation of cell-cell adhesion by CEA, and involvement of CEA in the immune recognition of tumors and apoptotic pathways. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect that an anti-CEA monoclonal antibody (MAb) may have on the growth of medullary thyroid cancer (MTC), a CEA-expressing tumor, alone and in combination with chemotherapy. Antitumor effects were evaluated in a nude mouse-human MTC xenograft model. Using the TT MTC cell line grown s.c., we compared tumor growth in untreated mice with that of mice given the humanized anti-CEA MAb labetuzumab or an isotype-matched control MAb. The effects of time of administration post-tumor injection, MAb dose response, specificity of response, and combination with dacarbazine (DTIC) chemotherapy were studied. The humanized anti-CEA MAb, labetuzumab, has direct, specific, antitumor effects in this model, without conjugation to a cytotoxic agent. In addition, labetuzumab sensitizes these tumor cells to chemotherapy with an effective drug in this model, DTIC, without increased toxicity. Significant delays in tumor growth were caused by the MAb therapy or chemotherapy alone; however, the combination of these agents was significantly more effective than either agent given as a monotherapy or use of an irrelevant MAb in this model. The superiority of the combined modality treatment argues for the integration of CEA MAb therapy into chemotherapeutic regimens for MTC management and possibly other CEA-expressing neoplasms.
The incidence of extrapyramidal side effects (EPS) was evaluated in 98 patients treated with haloperidol. The incidence of parkinsonism was higher at higher doses of haloperidol and in younger patients. Prophylactic antiparkinsonian medication was effective in younger but not in older patients. However, these medications were more effective in both young and old patients when given after parkinsonism developed. Akathisia was controlled by the benzodiazepine lorazepam in 14 out of 16 patients, while prophylactic antiparkinsonians were ineffective. The present study points to patient characteristics that may be of significance in the development of EPS due to haloperidol.
Inflammation is an important pathophysiological event in drug-induced liver injury, which is subsequent to metabolic activation and covalent binding of the reactive metabolites to target proteins. Cytokines are recognized as pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators involved in the progression and regression of the toxicity. We thus hypothesized that disturbed balance of Th1/Th2 cytokines exacerbated the drug-induced hepatotoxicity. Acetaminophen-induced liver injury was investigated in two mouse strains, C57BL/6 and BALB/c, which develop predominantly Th1 and Th2 responses, respectively. More severe liver injury after intraperitoneal administration of acetaminophen was observed in C57BL/6 mice than in BALB/c mice. There was no strain difference in metabolism of acetaminophen into its reactive metabolite, N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone imine, which was assessed by early glutathione consumption. Liver mRNA expression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and IL-6 were measured as pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines, respectively. TNF-alpha was highly induced 24 h after administration of acetaminophen in C57BL/6 mice, whereas no change in BALB/c mice. On the other hand, liver IL-6 mRNA expression in BALB/c mice was higher than C57BL/6 mice 24 h after the administration. In addition, treatment of CD-1 mice, another susceptible strain, with an anti-inflammatory polyphenol, resveratrol, protected mice against the acetaminophen-induced liver injury, and the mice with attenuated toxicity revealed lower expression of TNF-alpha and higher expression of IL-6. It is therefore suggested that acetaminophen-induced liver injury is associated with Th1-dominant response in Th1/Th2 cytokine balance, and TNF-alpha may play a pathological role in the toxicity.
To investigate the mechanisms of tegaserod, a partial 5-HT4 agonist, in reducing visceral sensitivity by observing Fos, substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) expression in the lumbarsacral spinal cord induced by colonic inflammation in rats.
Twenty-four male rats with colonic inflammation induced by intraluminal instillation of trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS) were divided into 3 groups. Treatment group 1: intra-gastric administration of tegaserod, 2 mg/kg.d; Treatment group 2: intra-gastric administration of tegaserod, 1 mg/kg.d;
intra-gastric administration of saline, 2.0 mL/d. After 7 d of intra-gastric administration, lumbarsacral spinal cord was removed and processed for Fos, SP and CGRP immunohistochemistry.
In rats of the control group, the majority of Fos labeled neurons was localized in deeper laminae of the lumbarsacral spinal cord (L(5)-S(1)). SP and CGRP were primarily expressed in the superficial laminae of the spinal cord after TNBS injection. Intra-gastric administration of tegaserod (2 mg/kg.d) resulted in a significant decrease of Fos labeled neurons (22.0+/-7.7) and SP density (12.5+/-1.4) in the dorsal horn in the lumbarsacral spinal cord compared to those of the control group (62.2+/-18.9, 35.9+/-8.9, P<0.05). However, CGRP content in dorsal horn did not significantly reduce in rats of treatment group 1 (1.2+/-1.1) compared to that of the control group (2.8+/-2.4, P>0.05). Neither Fos expression nor SP or CGRP density in the dorsal horn significantly declined in rats of treatment group 2 compared to those of the control group (P>0.05).
Tegaserod can significantly reduce Fos labeled neurons in the lumbarsacral spinal cord induced by colonic inflammation. Tegaserod may reduce visceral sensitivity by inhibiting SP expression in the dorsal horn of spinal cord.
1. The effects of some anticonvulsant drugs against seizures induced by a combined treatment with aminophylline and quinolone in genetically epilepsy-prone rat have been investigated. 2. Animals were intraperitoneally pretreated with carbamazepine, diazepam, phenobarbital, CPPene and dizocilpine or saline and 15 min later administered orally with 51.86 mumol/kg b. wt of either cinoxacin or ciprofloxacin. 60 min after quinolones, rats received intraperitoneally aminophylline (100, 120, 140, 160 or 180 mg/kg b. wt). 3. Ciprofloxacin showed to be more effective than cinoxacin in potentiating the aminophylline convulsant effects. 4. Neither carbamazepine nor diazepam and phenobarbital, at the lowest dose used, elicited any effect in reducing the aminophylline-induced seizures in both cinoxacin- and ciprofloxacin-treated animals. Whereas, diazepam and phenobarbital when administered i.p. at 2.5 and 60 mg/kg b. wt respectively demonstrated protective properties. 5. CPPene and dizocilpine, two excitatory amino acid antagonists, were both very effective in antagonizing the seizures produced by concomitant treatment with cinoxacin or ciprofloxacin plus aminophylline. 6. The present results suggest an involvement of the excitatory amino acid receptors in mediating the seizures induced by the combined treatment with quinolones and aminophylline.
Plasma natriuretic peptides are increased in patients with cardiac dysfunction. N-terminal (NT-ANP) and B-type (BNP) natriuretic peptides were measured in disease-free breast cancer survivors, during long-term follow-up after epirubicin (360 mg/m2 or 450 mg/m2 cumulatively) and chest irradiation.
Plasma samples for natriuretic peptide measurement were repeated after extended follow-up in 54 patients, who had participated in 2 studies evaluating cardiotoxicity.
From a median follow-up of 2.7 to 6.5 years, median BNP was raised almost three-fold (p<0.001). Symptomatic heart failure was now present in 2 patients. Compared to the epirubicin 360 mg/m2 group, BNP was higher (p=0.006) in the 450 mg/m2 group, with a trend (p=0.054) for higher NT-ANP.
These findings suggest that anticancer therapy initiates an autonomically progressive process that may ultimately lead to symptomatic cardiac dysfunction, years after treatment. BNP measurement may be of value to identify patients requiring intensive cardiac follow-up.
Here, we have examined the effect of the novel antinociceptive agent CHF3381 on the development of nocifensive behaviour as well as secondary mechanical allodynia and hyperalgesia induced by intraplantar injection of capsaicin in rats. Vehicle, CHF3381 or gabapentin were orally administered 1 h before capsaicin injection. The duration of nocifensive behaviour was measured during the first 5 min after capsaicin injection. Secondary mechanical allodynia and hyperalgesia were measured at 5 and 15 min after capsaicin injection, respectively. CHF3381 produced a significant suppression of nocifensive behaviour and completely blocked the development of mechanical allodynia and hyperalgesia at 100 and 200 mg/kg. Gabapentin weakly inhibited the development of nocifensive behaviour and mechanical allodynia. On the contrary, gabapentin (100 mg/kg) completely prevented the development of mechanical hyperalgesia. In conclusion, CHF3381 had full efficacy for all the capsaicin-induced pain parameters tested, suggesting that CHF3381 may have a therapeutic utility in the management of pain states involving central sensitisation.
Heart failure (HF) is one of diabetic complications. This work was designed to investigate the possible modulatory effect of curcumin against streptozotocin-induced diabetes and consequently HF in rats. Rats were divided into control, vehicle-treated, curcumin-treated, diabetic-untreated, diabetic curcumin-treated, and diabetic glibenclamide-treated groups. Animal treatment was started 5 days after induction of diabetes and extended for 6 weeks. Diabetic rats showed significant increase in serum glucose, triglycerides, total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol, very low density lipoprotein-cholesterol, nitric oxide, lactate dehydrogenase, cardiac malondialdehyde, plasma levels of interleukin-6, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and also showed marked decrease in serum high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol, cardiac reduced glutathione, and cardiac antioxidant enzymes (catalase, superoxide dismutase, and glutathione-S-transferase). However, curcumin or glibenclamide treatment significantly mitigated such changes. In conclusion, curcumin has a beneficial therapeutic effect in diabetes-induced HF, an effect that might be attributable to its antioxidant and suppressive activity on cytokines.
The treatment of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection has been revolutionized in the past decade by the increased availability of effective antiviral agents. Telbivudine is an L-nucleoside that is structurally related to lamivudine and has recently been approved for use in patients with chronic HBV infection. Telbivudine is highly selective for HBV DNA and inhibits viral DNA synthesis with no effect on human DNA or other viruses. This article reviews the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, therapeutic efficacy and safety of telbivudine, and discusses its place in the current armamentarium against HBV.
Relevant publications were identified from searches of Medline and PubMed between 2000 and 2008, using the search terms "hepatitis B/HBV," "telbivudine/LdT," "beta-L-thymidine," "pharmacokinetics," "safety," "adverse events," and "resistance." The reference lists of retrieved articles were searched for relevant studies.
Phase 3 clinical studies demonstrate that telbivudine is superior to lamivudine over a 2-year period in hepatitis B e-antigen (HBeAg)-positive and HBeAg-negative patients. Telbivudine was associated with a statistically significantly greater reduction in HBV DNA, greater proportion of alanine aminotransferase normalization, and greater histological response than lamivudine. Furthermore, telbivudine use resulted in fewer cases of treatment failure and less virological resistance than lamivudine. However, after 2 years of therapy, telbivudine resistance was appreciable (25%) and considerably higher than that seen with other new antivirals such as tenofovir and entecavir. Overall, telbivudine was found to be safe, although grade 3 or 4 adverse events, including elevations in creatine kinase, were more commonly found in patients receiving telbivudine than lamivudine. Telbivudine is not active against lamivudine-resistant HBV.
Telbivudine is a new antiviral agent joining the armamentarium against HBV. It is superior to lamivudine in terms of therapeutic response and resistance profile. However, concerns about resistance with long-term use, along with inferior cost-effective analyses, have relegated telbivudine to a second-line agent in the management of chronic HBV infection.
The beneficial effect of the selective estrogen receptor (ER) modulator tamoxifen in the treatment and prevention of breast cancer is assumed to be through its ability to antagonize the stimulatory actions of estrogen, although tamoxifen can also have some estrogen-like agonist effects. Here, we report that, in addition to these mixed agonist/antagonist actions, tamoxifen can also selectively regulate a unique set of >60 genes, which are minimally regulated by estradiol (E2) or raloxifene in ERalpha-positive MCF-7 human breast cancer cells. This gene regulation by tamoxifen is mediated by ERalpha and reversed by E2 or ICI 182,780. Introduction of ERbeta into MCF-7 cells reverses tamoxifen action on approximately 75% of these genes. To examine whether these genes might serve as markers of tamoxifen sensitivity and/or the development of resistance, their expression level was examined in breast cancers of women who had received adjuvant therapy with tamoxifen. High expression of two of the tamoxifen-stimulated genes, YWHAZ/14-3-3z and LOC441453, was found to correlate significantly with disease recurrence following tamoxifen treatment in women with ER-positive cancers and hence seem to be markers of a poor prognosis. Our data indicate a new dimension in tamoxifen action, involving gene expression regulation that is tamoxifen preferential, and identify genes that might serve as markers of tumor responsiveness or resistance to tamoxifen therapy. This may have a potential effect on the choice of tamoxifen versus aromatase inhibitors as adjuvant endocrine therapy.
Anthracyclines are potent anticancer agents and their use is limited because of their cardiotoxicity which differs from one patient to another and is also dependent on other concurring risk factors. The radionuclide ventriculography is the non-invasive trasteale method used to detect early variations in the Left Ventricular Function (LVF) using Anthracyclines. The LVF in 13 pts, with acute non lymphoblastic leukaemia, was analyzed using a Nuclear Stethoscope before and after induction therapy with daunorubicin (DNR) at the total dosage of 135 mg/m2. The mean age of this group was 59 +/- 5 years; 4 of these were female and 9 were male. In all pts the Ejection Fraction (EF) for the systolic phase and the Peak Filling Rate (PFR) for the diastolic phase were evaluated. Results. Before therapy: 1) normal value of EF (74 +/- 4%) in all pts; 2) normal value of PFR in 10 pts and a slightly reduced value in 3 pts (PFR middle 3.30 +/- 0.74 EDV/sec). After therapy: 1) no significant changes in EF (72 +/- 4%); 2) significant reduction of PFR values in all pts (PFR middle 2.71 +/- 0.48 EDV/sec; p less than 0.05).
the results show an early involvement of the diastolic phase (reduction of PFR) in patients who underwent DNR induction therapy. This is also evident from the normal EF values.
Human gliomas, especially of low-grade type, have been shown to express high-affinity somatostatin receptor type 2 (J-C. Reubi et al., Am. J. Pathol, 134: 337-344, 1989). We enrolled seven low-grade and four anaplastic glioma patients in a pilot study using the diffusible peptidic vector 90Y-labeled DOTA0-D-Phe1-Tyr3-octreotide (DOTATOC) for receptor targeting. The radiopharmakon was locoregionally injected into a stereotactically inserted Port-a-cath. DOTATOC competes specifically with somatostatin binding to somatostatin receptor type 2 in the low nanomolar range as shown by a displacement curve of 125I-[Tyr3]-octreotide in tumor tissue sections. Diagnostic (111)In-labeled DOTATOC-scintigraphy following local injection displayed homogeneous to nodular intratumoral vector distribution. The cumulative activity of regionally injected peptide-bound 90Y amounted to 370-3300 MBq, which is equivalent to an effective dose range between 60 +/- 15 and 550 +/- 110 Gy. Activity was injected in one to four fractions according to tumor volumes; 1110 MBq of 90Y-labeled DOTATOC was the maximum activity per single injection. We obtained six disease stabilizations and shrinking of a cystic low-grade astrocytoma component. The only toxicity observed was secondary perifocal edema. The activity:dose ratio (MBq:Gy) represents a measure for the stability of peptide retention in receptor-positive tissue and might predict the clinical course. We conclude that SR-positive human gliomas, especially of low-grade type, can be successfully targeted by intratumoral injection of the metabolically stable small regulatory peptide DOTATOC.
Exposure of animals to hyperoxia causes lung injury, characterized by diffuse alveolar damage and exudation of plasma into the alveolar space. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) play an important role in the development of hyperoxic lung injury. Mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation is one of the major sources of ROS. N-acetylcysteine (NAC) is a precursor of glutathione (GSH), which functions as an antioxidant by reducing hydrogen peroxide to water and alcohols. NAC has been shown to diminish lung injury in a large variety of animal models.
We elucidated the mechanism underlying the protective effects of NAC in hyperoxia-induced lung injury.
Male BALB/c mice were exposed to 98% oxygen for 72 h. The mice inhaled NAC or saline twice a day from 72 h before oxygen exposure to the end of experiment.
Inhaled NAC increased the GSH level in lung homogenate. NAC also attenuated cellular infiltrations in both bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) and lung tissue. The total protein level in BALF and the level of 8-isoprostane, a marker of lipid peroxidation, in lung homogenate were decreased by inhalation of NAC. Inhaled NAC induced the overexpression of Mn superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) mRNA and protein, but did not alter the expressions of other antioxidant enzymes, including CuZnSOD, extracellular SOD, and glutathione peroxydase 1.
These findings suggest that the antioxidant properties of NAC in hyperoxic lung injury involve a decrease in mitochondrial ROS in association with the induction of MnSOD, in addition to its role as a precursor of GSH.
