Loganin is an iridoid glycoside found in the Flos lonicerae, Fruit cornus, and Strychonos nux vomica. We investigated the effect of loganin on learning and memory impairments induced by scopolamine (0.5mg/kg, i.p.), a muscarinic antagonist, using the Y-maze, passive avoidance, and the Morris water maze tests in mice. In the Y-maze test, loganin (40 mg/kg, p.o.) significantly improved the scopolamine-induced memory impairment. In addition, loganin (20 and 40 mg/kg, p.o.) significantly reversed scopolamine-induced impairments measured by the passive avoidance and the Morris water maze tests. A day after the last trial session of the Morris water maze test (probe trial session), loganin (20 and 40 mg/kg) dose-dependently increased the latency time in the target quadrant. Furthermore, loganin significantly inhibited acetylcholinesterase activity in the hippocampus and frontal cortex. Loganin may have anti-amnesic activity that may hold significant therapeutic value in alleviating certain memory impairments observed in Alzheimer's disease.
Feeding 4,4'-methylenebis(N,N-dimethyl)benzenamine [CAS: 101-61-1; 4,4'-methylenebis(N,N-dimethylaniline)] to inbred F344 rats increased the incidence of thyroid lesions (hyperplasia, adenomas, and carcinomas) in both sexes, especially in the female rats. 4,4'- Oxydianiline (CAS: 101-80-4) in the diet increased adenomas and carcinomas in the thyroid gland and neoplastic nodules and carcinomas in the liver of male and female F344 rats. In addition to increasing thyroid adenomas in females and hepatocellular adenomas or carcinomas in male and female B6C3F1 mice, 4,4'- oxydianiline increased adenomas of the harderian gland in male and female mice. 4,4'- Methylenedianiline (CAS: 101-77-9) in the drinking water increased neoplasms of the thyroid gland and liver in F344 rats and B6C3F1 mice.
The clinical pharmacokinetics and exposure-toxicity relationship were determined for EC145, a conjugate of folic acid and the Vinca alkaloid desacetylvinblastine hydrazide (DAVLBH), in cancer patients. EC145 plasma concentration and toxicity data were obtained from a first-in-man phase I study and analyzed by nonlinear mixed effect modeling with NONMEM. EC145 concentration-time profile after intravenous administration was well described by a 2-compartment model with a first-order elimination process from the central compartment. BSA was identified as a significant covariate on EC145 clearance, accounting for 14.6% of interindividual variation on EC145 clearance. Population estimates for the clearance, steady-state volume of distribution, distribution, and elimination half-lives were 56.1 L/h, 26.1 L, 6 minutes, and 26 minutes, respectively. Constipation and peripheral neuropathy were the most common and clinically relevant toxicities. The clearance and area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) were significant predictors for the incidence of EC145-induced constipation but not peripheral neuropathy. In conclusion, EC145 is rapidly distributed and eliminated in cancer patients. BSA is a statistically significant covariate on EC145 clearance, but its clinical relevance remains to be defined. EC145-induced constipation occurs at a higher frequency in the patients with lower EC145 clearance, where the drug exposure tends to be higher.
It has been suggested that genetic polymorphisms in certain glutathione-S-transferase (GST) genes reduce the effectiveness of detoxifying cytotoxins generated by chemotherapeutic agents, potentially resulting in enhanced clinical responses to chemotherapy.
The authors evaluated common polymorphisms in the GSTM1, GSTT1, and GSTP1 genes for associations with overall survival in 1034 patients with invasive breast carcinoma who were recruited into the Shanghai Breast Cancer Study between 1996 and 1998, treated with chemotherapy, and followed for a median of 5.3 years.
After adjusting for age, tumor stage, and the use of radiotherapy and tamoxifen, women who were homozygous for the variant GSTP1 105Val allele had a 60% reduction in mortality risk compared with women who were homozygous for the Ile allele (hazard ratio, 0.4; 95% confidence interval, 0.2-0.8). No association was found with respect to any of the GSTM1 or GSTT1 genotypes.
The results of the current study indicate a potential role for GSTP1 polymorphism in predicting the clinical outcomes of patients with breast carcinoma who are treated with chemotherapy.
Astemizole, one of the newer generation of nonsedating antihistamines, was evaluated in a double-blind study of forty-six patients who had chronic idiopathic urticaria with or without angioedema; most had severe disease. Nineteen of twenty-three patients who were on placebo discontinued treatment because of lack of response compared to only five of twenty-three astemizole-treated patients (p less than 0.0001). Fourteen of twenty-two astemizole-treated patients and two of twenty-two placebo-treated patients considered the results to be good or excellent (p less than 0.0001). Blinded assessment by the investigators yielded similar results (p less than 0.0001). Therapeutic response was the same in patients with and without angioedema in addition to urticaria and in those requiring corticosteroids. Duration of urticaria also did not influence the results. Increased appetite and weight gain were the main side effects reported more frequently in the astemizole-treated than in the placebo-treated group, and no significant toxicity was noted. Follow-up after terminating the drug study indicated a high frequency of remissions during the subsequent year.
Three patients are described who developed severe thrombocytopenia, microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, and acute renal failure after ingestion of quinine. In one patient, the same clinical findings recurred several months later after another exposure to quinine. Serum from one patient contained quinine-dependent IgG antibodies reactive with the platelet glycoprotein (GP) Ib/IX complex. In the second and third cases, serum contained IgG and IgM antibodies reactive with both the GP Ib/IX and IIb/IIIa complexes in the presence of quinine. Quinine appears to have induced both immune thrombocytopenia and the hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) in these individuals. Findings made in these cases may have implications for the pathogenesis of some forms of HUS.
Type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) is characterized by lack of insulin production as a consequence of massive beta cells destruction. The contributions of autophagy to loss of beta cell mass were not clearly elucidated. Rapamycin is a specific and potent inhibitor of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) and is used as the central immunosuppressant in T1DM patients especially for those who received islet transplantation. In the present study, effects of rapamycin on autophagy of T1DM were investigated in a mouse model treated with multiple low doses of streptozotocin. Rapamycin treatment led to hyperglycemia, weight loss, increased intake of food and drinking water, and islet inflammation in T1DM mice. Pathological changes including autophagy and apoptosis in pancreas, kidney, spleen and thymus, accompanied with an accumulation of LC3-II, Beclin1 and Caspase-3 protein were observed. The results indicate that rapamycin may exacerbate metabolism associated complications by activating autophagy and apoptosis in T1DM.
Previous studies have demonstrated robust BAK gene silencing via RNA interference (RNAi). To investigate whether BAK RNAi may serve as a co-therapeutic agent in neural cell death, we herein established a cell degeneration model using a human neuroblastoma cell line (SH-SY5Y) treated by aluminum (Al). Combining cell viability assays and expression analyses by QRT (quantitative real-time)-PCR and immunocytochemistry, we selected and validated the optimal small interfering RNA (siRNA) from three candidate siRNAs for the BAK gene. Our data identified siRNA1 as the most effective siRNA; the optimal concentration of the transfection agent was 10nM and the optimal incubation period was 24h. The transfection and knockdown efficiency was 93% and 58%, respectively, which closely correlated with the BAK protein expression. SH-SY5Y cells with BAK knockdown showed a clear resistance against cell death and Al-induced apoptosis. These results indicate that genetic inactivation of BAK could be an effective strategy in delaying the onset of apoptosis in Al-treated cells, and exemplify the therapeutic potential of RNAi-based methods for the treatment of neural cell degeneration.
There are several complications associated with heroin abuse, some of which are life-threatening. Methadone may aggravate this problem.
A clinical case description.
A 33-year-old man presented with rhabdomyolysis and cerebral ischemic stroke after intravenous heroin. He had used heroin since age 20, and had used 150 mg methadone daily for 6 months. He was found unconsciousness at home and was sent to our hospital. In the ER, his opiate level was 4497 ng/ml. In the ICU, we found rhabdomyolysis, acute renal failure and acute respiratory failure. After transfer to an internal ward, we noted aphasia and weakness of his left limbs. After MRI, we found cerebral ischemic infarction.
Those using methadone and heroin simultaneously may increase risk of rhabdomyolysis and ischemic stroke. Patients under methadone maintenance therapy should be warned regarding these serious adverse events. Hypotheses of heroin-related rhabdomyolysis and stroke in heroin abusers are discussed.
Previous reports have suggested that the imbalance of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMPs) activity may contribute to prosthetic loosening. However, the mechanisms controlling these enzymes in the periprosthetic environment is unknown. We examined the effect of Co2+ and Cr3+ ions on the expression of genes encoding MMP-1, one of the principal proteinases capable of degrading native fibrillar collagens in the extracellular matrix (ECM), its inhibitor TIMP-1, and TNF-alpha, a cytokine that plays a central role in the induction of implant osteolysis. Human U937 macrophages were incubated in suspension or on phosphorylcholine (PC)-polymer coated surfaces for 24h with Co2+ and Cr3+ ions. The level of mRNAs was determined by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Results show that both Co2+ and Cr3+ ions induce the expression of MMP-1, TIMP-1, and TNF-alpha mRNA in a dose-dependent manner in cell suspensions. Tyrosine kinase inhibitors have different effects on these stimulatory effects. Indeed, genistein has only partial inhibitory effect on MMP-1 and TIMP-1, with even less effect on TNF-alpha expression. In contrast, herbimycin A completely blocks MMP-1 and TNF-alpha while partially inhibiting TIMP-1. However, Co2+ and Cr3+ ions had no effect on the expression of MMP-1 and TIMP-1 in macrophages cultured on the PC-polymer, suggesting that the attachment of U937 macrophages to the PC-polymer surfaces may modify their gene expression. In fact, MMP-1 and TIMP-1 seems to be constitutively up-regulated in this condition. However, the effect of Co2+ and Cr3+ ions on macrophages cultured on PC-polymer coated surfaces is similar to what was observed in suspension. Together, these findings indicate that activation of MMP-1, TIMP-1, and TNF-alpha by Co2+ and Cr3+ ions is regulated by tyrosine kinases.
In studies primarily designed to evaluate the effectiveness of chitosan as a treatment for cyclophosphamide-induced hemorrhagic cystitis in the rat, renal papillary necrosis and pyelonephritis were observed. Cyclophosphamide alone produced relatively mild renal changes. The combination of cyclophosphamide and intravesical instillation of acetic acid induced renal papillary necrosis (38 to 83% incidence) along with pyelonephritis, hydroureter and hydronephrosis. Chitosan, instilled in place of acetic acid, partially inhibited the induction of renal papillary necrosis. It appears that the presence of vesico-ureteral reflux with or without associated hydroureter and hydronephrosis is a prerequisite for cyclophosphamide-induced renal damage.
The ALK kinase inhibitor crizotinib (PF-02341066) is clinically effective in patients with ALK-translocated cancers, but its efficacy will ultimately be limited by acquired drug resistance. Here we report the identification of a secondary mutation in ALK, F1174L, as one cause of crizotinib resistance in a patient with an inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor (IMT) harboring a RANBP2-ALK translocation who progressed while on crizotinib therapy. When present in cis with an ALK translocation, this mutation (also detected in neuroblastomas) causes an increase in ALK phosphorylation, cell growth, and downstream signaling. Furthermore, the F1174L mutation inhibits crizotinib-mediated downregulation of ALK signaling and blocks apoptosis in RANBP2-ALK Ba/F3 cells. A chemically distinct ALK inhibitor, TAE684, and the HSP90 inhibitor 17-AAG are both effective in models harboring the F1174L ALK mutation. Our findings highlight the importance of studying drug resistance mechanisms in order to develop effective clinical treatments for patients with ALK-translocated cancers.
Studies have suggested that angiotensin receptor blockers may exert a protective role towards doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity, but they have not been extensively investigated in this area. We therefore investigated whether the co-treatment of telmisartan, an angiotensin (Ang II) type-1 receptor blocker, might offer protection against daunorubicin cardiotoxic properties in rats.
Daunorubicin was administered at 3 mg/kg/day every other day for 12 days. Telmisartan was administered orally every day for 12 days.
Daunorubicin-treated rats showed cardiac toxicity, evidenced by worsening cardiac function, evaluated by haemodynamic status and echocardiography, elevation of malondialdehyde level and a decreased level of total glutathione peroxidase activity in the heart tissue. These changes were reversed by treatment with telmisartan. Furthermore, telmisartan also downregulated matrix metalloproteinase-2 expression, attenuated the increased protein expression of p22(phox), p47(phox), p67(phox), nuclear factor kappa B and Nox4 in heart tissue, and reduced oxidative-stress-induced DNA damage, which was evaluated by the expression of 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine. Moreover, telmisartan reduced the myocardial apoptosis induced by daunorubicin.
The present study indicates that telmisartan may improve cardiac function by inhibiting the action of Ang II via AT-1R, which reverses oxidative stress and myocardial apoptosis. This suggests a beneficial effect of telmisartan treatment in the prevention of daunorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity.
Inhibitors of factor Xa (FXa), a crucial serine protease in the coagulation cascade, have attracted a great deal of attention as a target for developing antithrombotic agents. We previously reported findings from our optimization study of a high-throughput screening (HTS) derived lead compound 1a that resulted in the discovery of potent amidine-containing FXa inhibitors represented by compound 2. We also conducted an alternative optimization study of 1a without incorporating a strong basic amidine group, which generally has an adverse effect on the pharmacokinetic profile after oral administration. Replacement of 4-methoxybenzene with a 1,4-benzodiazepine structure and introduction of a hydroxy group at the central benzene led to the discovery of the potent and orally effective factor Xa inhibitor 14i (darexaban, YM150). Subsequent extensive study revealed a unique aspect to the pharmacokinetic profile of this compound, wherein the hydroxy moiety of 14i is rapidly transformed into its glucuronide conjugate 16 (YM-222714) as an active metabolite after oral administration and it plays a major role in expression of potent anticoagulant activity in plasma. The distinctive, potent activity of inhibitor 14i after oral dosing was explained by this unique pharmacokinetic profile and its favorable membrane permeability. Compound 14i is currently undergoing clinical development for prevention and treatment of thromboembolic diseases.
The putative protective effects of resveratrol against oxidative injury in the heart, kidney and brain tissues of rats induced with the two-kidney, one-clip (2K1C) hypertension model were investigated.
Wistar albino rats were divided into sham-operated (n = 8) or 2K1C groups, in which rats received either resveratrol (10 mg/kg per day, i.p., n = 8), or saline (n = 8) starting at Week 3 after the surgery and continuing for the following 6 weeks. Indirect blood pressure recordings and echocardiographic images were made to evaluate cardiac function. At the end of Week 9 the animals were decapitated and plasma, heart, kidney and brain were taken for biochemical assays, while aortic rings were prepared for vascular reactivity studies.
2K1C hypertension resulted in increased blood pressure, aortic hypercontractility and reduced left ventricular function, leading to increased lipid peroxidation and myeloperoxidase activity, concomitant with significant reductions in tissue glutathione, superoxide dismutase, Na+/K+-ATPase and catalase activities in the cardiac, renal and brain tissues, indicating the presence of oxidative tissue damage in peripheral target organs. Elevated plasma levels of lactate dehydrogenase, creatine kinase, as well as reduced plasma levels of antioxidant capacity and nitric oxide further verified the severity of oxidative injury. A 6-week treatment with resveratrol reversed all the measured parameters, ameliorated hypertension-induced oxidative injury in the target organs and improved cardiovascular function.
Resveratrol improved cardiovascular function through the augmentation of endogenous antioxidants and the inhibition of lipid peroxidation by maintaining a balance in oxidant/antioxidant status, which also ameliorated hypertension-induced oxidative injury in the cardiac, renal and cerebral tissues.
Traditional remedies prepared from Ptychopetalum olacoides (PO) are used throughout the Amazon to alleviate age-related conditions. These formulas are mainly used by elders, and alleged effects may be related to the anticholinesterase properties identified in a standardized ethanol extract of this species [P. olacoides standardized ethanol extract (POEE)].
To further characterize the potential of this extract for developing drugs useful to treat cognitive deficits, the effects of POEE on scopolamine (scop)- and MK801-induced amnesias (acquisition, consolidation, and retrieval) in mice were investigated.
Scop (3.0 mg/kg, ip) significantly impaired memory (all three phases) in the step-down inhibitory avoidance protocol. As expected, MK801 (0.1 mg/kg, ip) was amnesic regarding acquisition and consolidation, but not retrieval. POEE (100 mg/kg, ip) reversed the scop-induced impairment in all three phases of long-term and short memories, whereas only the memory consolidation deficit was reversed with MK801-induced amnesia.
This study complements previously reported promnesic properties of this plant extract and suggests that POEE may be further developed for treating conditions associated with cognitive deficits, especially those linked with cholinergic malfunction.
In 25 patients with essential hypertension, the renal plasma flow RPF), glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and BP have been measured before and after one month's treatment with alprenolol. The patients were divided into two groups according to age. Group 1 consisted of 10 patients with mild hypertension under 35 years of age, group 2 of 15 patients over the age of 35 with moderate hypertension. A markedly greater lowering of BP was measured in group 1 than in group 2. There were no changes in RPF or GFR after alprenolol treatment and no differences in these parameters were observed between the two groups either before or after treatment. Group 1 displayed significantly lower renal vascular resistance (RVR) than group 2 both before and after treatment, and alprenolol treatment resulted in a slight reduction of RVR in group 1, but not in group 2. The difference between the two groups with respect to the antihypertensive effect of alprenolol and the RVR may possibly be due to the fact that the patients in group 2 had more pronounced structural vascular alterations than those in group 1.
Clinical findings for 38 community residents who complained of symptoms they attributed to exposure to air emissions from nearby fiber processing and polyurethane foam manufacturing facilities are reported. Common complaints included headache, mucosal irritation, shortness of breath, chest tightness, and wheezing. Airway hyperreactivity, measured by methacholine challenge, was observed in 8 individuals (22% of those tested), who also reported temporal relationships between exposure to visible emissions or odors and symptoms consistent with environmentally induced asthma. Six individuals (18.2%) had antibodies to at least 1 of the 3 common industrial diisocyanates. The number of individuals with antibodies to diisocyanates, coupled with the absence of other diisocyanate exposure, was highly suggestive of environmental exposure. The findings raised concern that some residents may have become sensitized to toluene diisocyanate.
The nephrotoxicity and auditory toxicity of high-dose (mean, 28.6 g) and prolonged (mean, 61.6 days) courses of gentamicin and tobramycin were monitored in 15 patients receiving 17 courses of treatment for pseudomonas endocarditis. Doses were adjusted in a manner that maintained peak levels of aminoglycoside in serum at 12-15 micrograms/ml and trough levels at less than 2 micrograms/ml. Drug-related renal dysfunction and auditory toxicity occurred in 63% and 44%, respectively, of gentamicin-treated patients and in 43% and 25%, respectively, of tobramycin-treated patients. Mean maximal rises (+/- SEM) in serum creatinine levels were 0.8 (+/- 0.4) mg/dl in the group given gentamicin and 1.6 (+/- 0.7) mg/dl in the group given tobramycin. Mean maximal decreases in pure-tone hearing threshold levels were greater in gentamicin-treated patients (58.3 dB) than in those given tobramycin (22.5 dB). Both forms of toxicity appeared earlier and at a smaller dose with gentamicin than with tobramycin.
Allyl chloride is known to produce a neuropathy in man after occupational exposure to its vapour. The present study describes the neuropathy which develops in mice given allyl chloride by mouth. Mice were dosed three times weekly with 300 or 500 mg/kg allyl chloride for periods from 2-17 weeks. Functional disability was observed in some animals. Apart from evidence of focal kidney damage in 70% of dosed mice, pathological changes were restricted to the nervous system. Nerve fibre degeneration was found in many peripheral nerves and in roots, tending to be more marked distally and to affect more motor than sensory nerves. Degenerated fibres were also found in dorsal, ventral and lateral columns of the spinal cord. Males were more severely affected than females. Increased numbers of filaments were on early axonal change, occurring multifocally and apparently preceding axonal degeneration. No neuronal death was observed, but occasional anterior horn and dorsal root ganglion cells showed some morphological changes. Vacuolated lesions mainly due to swelling of astrocytes and their processes were found in the ventral horn in cervical and lumbar regions of spinal cord. Animals appeared to become tolerant to allyl chloride after continuous dosing. This neuropathy appears to be a central-peripheral distal type of axonopathy.
The effects of exifone (ADLONE), hexahydro-2,3,4,3',4',5'-benzophenone, were tested in two models of memory in the mouse: habituation of exploratory activity and antagonism of amnesia induced by scopolamine in a passive avoidance task. In the first model, mice which had received exifone (128 and 256 mg/kg IP) 30 minutes before a 3 minute exposure to a staircase exploratory test showed a more marked decrease in exploratory activity in the same apparatus 24 hours later (habituation) than a control group indicating improved memory. Similar results were obtained with piracetam (512 mg/kg, IP). In the second model exifone (512 mg/kg PO), administered 60 minutes before both the learning and retention trials of a standard step-through passive avoidance, task partially antagonized the amnesia induced by 10 mg/kg scopolamine IP administered immediately after the learning trial. Similar results were obtained with piracetam (800 mg/kg PO). Taken together these results suggest that exifone facilitates memory function in simple rodent models in a manner consistent with its supposed therapeutic effects in man.
To report a case of valproic acid (VPA)-induced hepatotoxicity and to discuss the incidence rates, risk factors, possible etiologies, preventive measures, and treatment courses for this severe reaction.
Case reports, review articles, and relevant laboratory studies identified by MEDLINE.
Data were abstracted from pertinent published sources by one author and reviewed by the remaining authors.
The case of a 23-year-old woman with VPA-associated hepatic failure was successfully treated with orthotopic liver transplantation. Hepatic failure is a rare, often fatal, adverse effect of VPA. Most cases of VPA-associated hepatic failure have occurred within several months of initiation of therapy. Initial symptoms of presentation often include nausea and vomiting, lethargy, or loss of seizure control. Laboratory values to be monitored include serum concentrations of hepatic enzymes, and, in some patients, tests indicative of the liver's synthetic capabilities. The exact mechanism of VPA-associated hepatic failure has not been clearly established; however, it is postulated to involve the formation of toxic metabolites. Major risk factors include age less than two years and concomitant treatment with more than one anticonvulsant. Other significant risk factors include underlying metabolic or serious neurologic disorders.
Caution should be taken when initiating VPA therapy and clinicians should be familiar with the risk factors and clinical presentation of this reaction.
To determine the prevalence rates and associated characteristics of patients who have ocular surface, ocular adnexal, and lacrimal complications associated with the systemic use of the cancer chemotherapeutic agent 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU).
An exposure-based cohort study was designed. Adult patients who had completed at least 3 months of systemic 5-FU therapy within the past 5 years were eligible for enrollment. Study subjects had a detailed medical history taken with emphasis on preexisting conditions known to be associated with the development of ocular surface, ocular adnexal, and lacrimal complications. An ocular examination was then performed. A complete nasolacrimal system evaluation was performed if symptoms or findings were identified. The prevalence was then determined for each ocular symptom and each ocular finding identified that was not present pretreatment. An exploratory analysis was then performed to identify patient characteristics that might influence the likelihood of developing any of the above complications.
Fifty-two patients were enrolled in the study. The prevalence rates of the following ocular abnormalities were calculated: ocular irritation, 5.8%; blepharitis, 3.8%; conjunctivitis, 3.8%; keratitis, 3.8%; eyelid dermatitis, 5.8%; cicatricial ectropion, 1.9%; tearing, 26.9%; punctal-canalicular stenosis, 5.8%; and blurred vision, 11.5%. Blacks had tearing at a significantly higher rate when compared with whites (P = 0.022, 2-sided Fisher exact test). Three patients had permanent complications that will require surgery for correction. Of the 7 patients who had a single abnormality, 6 had tearing and one had eyelid dermatitis. All of the 8 patients who had multiple findings had tearing as one of their abnormalities.
Ninety-three percent of the patients who had an ocular abnormality had tearing as one of the complications. Patients who are receiving systemic 5-FU and begin to tear should have an ocular examination, looking for ocular surface, ocular adnexal, and lacrimal complications.
The toxic myopathy caused by statins (HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors) is well established. Recent reports add to these effects systemic immune diseases including systemic lupus erythematosus, vasculitis, polymyositis or dermatomyositis.
We report a case of dermatomyositis in a 69-year-old patient treated with pravastatin [Elisor]. She presented with typical features of dermatomyositis 2 years after she started a treatment with pravastatin. The treatment was discontinued and she slowly improved, with a transient dermocorticosteroid treatment. Eight other patients with dermatomyositis and chronic treatment with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors are reported in the literature. All of them presented with classical features of dermatomyositis. The discontinuation of the treatment was followed by spontaneous clinical and biological improvement in 3/9 patients. The other patients received high doses of corticosteroids and improved, except one patient who died of respiratory failure (pulmonary fibrosis) despite the adjunction of oral cyclophosphamide [Endoxan]. In these patients, dermatomyositis can be considered as a severe adverse reaction to HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors although a distinct casual link cannot be definitely established.
The increasing prescription of statins has led to the parallel increment of reported side-effects, where autoimmune diseases are now described. Among them, our case of dermatomyositis in a patient receiving pravastatin adds to the eight reported cases in the literature and highlights the potential role of statins as triggers of immune systemic diseases.
Hypothermia is often associated with compromised host defenses and infection. Deteriorations of immune functions related to hypothermia have been investigated, but the involvement of cytokines in host defense mechanisms and in infection remains unclear. We have previously shown that mild hypothermia modifies cytokine production by peripheral blood mononuclear cells. In this study, the effects of hypothermia on the monocytic production of several cytokines and nitric oxide (NO) were determined. Monocytes obtained from 10 healthy humans were cultured with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) under hypothermic (33 degrees C) or normothermic (37 degrees C) conditions for 48 hours. We performed flow cytometric analysis for simultaneous measurement of interleukin (IL)-8, IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-10, IL-12p70, and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha in culture supernatants. NO production was quantified as accumulation of nitrite in the medium by a colorimetric assay. Compared with normothermia, mild hypothermia raised the levels of IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-12p70, and TNF-alpha produced by monocytes stimulated with LPS. On calculating the ratios of these elevated cytokines to IL-10, however, only IL-12p70/IL-10 and TNF-alpha/IL-10 ratios were significantly elevated under hypothermic conditions. In contrast, hypothermia did not affect NO production. This study demonstrates that mild hypothermia affects the balance of cytokines produced by monocytes, leading to a pro-inflammatory state. Specifically, monocytic IL-12 and TNF-alpha appear to be involved in the immune alterations observed in mild hypothermia. However, the clinical significance of these phenomena remains to be clarified.
Acetaminophen (APAP) is normally metabolized in the liver and kidney by P450 enzymes. No toxicity is observed with therapeutic doses of APAP. However, after ingestion of large quantities of APAP (>2,000 mg/kg), highly reactive quinones, metabolites of APAP, are generated; these react with glutathione and sulfhydryl groups on critical proteins, resulting in cellular dysfunction and hepatic and renal toxicity. The P450 metabolizing enzymes differ somewhat in character between the liver and kidney. Factors that enhance renal toxicity include chronic liver disease, possibly gender, concurrent renal insults, and conditions that alter the activity of P450-metabolizing enzyme systems. Acute renal toxicity is characterized by cellular injury primarily confined to the proximal tubule and significant reductions in glomerular filtration rate. However, there is little evidence that chronic administration of APAP contributes to chronic renal disease and analgesic nephropathy. The only report on this subject suggests that combination therapy with aspirin is required for medullary damage in rats. No evidence exists for the development of chronic analgesic nephropathy with APAP alone. Epidemiologic studies in healthy individuals have failed to demonstrate a significant correlation between APAP use and chronic renal disease and classic analgesic nephropathy. Therefore, large doses of APAP can produce both renal and hepatic failure, but little evidence exists for production of classic analgesic nephropathy with the use of APAP alone.
