It is well-known that anesthesia and surgery may precipitate muscle weakness in the patients with myasthenia gravis and some patient were not recognized as myasthenia until such episodes. A 74-year-old woman with increased sensitivity to pancuronium who, in spite of the very high titer of anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies, showed no clinical manifestation of myasthenia gravis before operation. And computed tomographies revealed the presence of a thymoma in her anterior mediastinum. Although we have performed extended thymectomy, ptosis appeared 4 month after the operation. This patient might be called as "premyasthenic state" or "subclinical MG".
Hyperbaric oxygen (HBO2) causes CO2 retention in the brain that leads to the increase in cerebral blood flow (CBF) by poorly understood mechanisms. We have tested the hypothesis that NO is implicated in CBF-responses to hypercapnia under hyperoxic conditions. Alert rats were exposed to HBO2 at 5 ata and blood flow in the striatum measured by H2 clearance every 10 min. Acetazolamide, the inhibitor of carbonic anhydrase, was used to increase brain PCO2. CBF responses to acetazolamide administration (30 mg/kg, i.p.) were assessed in rats breathing air at 1 ata or oxygen at 5 ata with and without NOS inhibition (L-NAME, 30 mg/kg, i.p.). In rats breathing air, acetazolamide increased CBF by 34 +/- 7.4% over 30 min and by 28 +/- 12% over 3 hours while NOS inhibition with L-NAME attenuated acetazolamide-induced cerebral vasodilatation. HBO2 at 5 ata reduced CBF during the first 30 min hyperoxia, after that CBF increased by 55 +/- 19% above pre-exposure levels. In acetazolamide-treated animals, no HBO, induced vasoconstricton was observed and striatal blood flow increased by 53 +/- 18% within 10 min of hyperbaric exposure. After NOS inhibition, cerebral vasodilatation in response to acetazolamide during HBO2 exposure was significantly attenuated. The study demonstrates that NO is implicated in acetazolamide (CO2)-induced cerebral hyperemia under hyperbaric oxygen exposure.
Diethyxime, a non-quaternary cholinesterase reactivator was evaluated for its antidotal efficacy against organophosphorus intoxication in rats using the protection index, cholinesterase reactivation and neuromuscular function as the experimental protocol. Diethyxime along with atropine produced a marked antidotal effect against dimethyl dichlorovinyl phosphate (DDVP) poisoning on all the parameters studied. The action of diethyxime was mainly peripheral. The protective efficacy against diisopropyl fluorophosphate (DFP) poisoning was not observed with this reactivator.
Repeated intermittent exposure to psychostimulants was found to produce behavioral sensitization. The present study was designed to establish a mouse model and by which to investigate whether opioidergic system plays a role in methamphetamine-induced behavioral sensitization. Mice injected with 2.5 mg/kg of methamphetamine once a day for 7 consecutive days showed behavioral sensitization after challenge with 0.3125 mg/kg of the drug on day 11, whereas mice injected with a lower daily dose (1.25 mg/kg) did not. Mice received daily injections with either 1.25 or 2.5 mg/kg of methamphetamine showed behavioral sensitization after challenge with 1.25 mg/kg of the drug on days 11, 21, and 28. To investigate the role of opioidergic system in the induction and expression of behavioral sensitization, long-acting but non-selective opioid antagonist naltrexone was administrated prior to the daily injections of and challenge with methamphetamine, respectively. Our results show that the expressions of behavioral sensitization were attenuated by pretreatment with 10 or 20 mg/kg of naltrexone either during the induction period or before methamphetamine challenge when they were tested on days 11 and 21. These results indicate that repeated injection with methamphetamine dose-dependently induced behavioral sensitization in mice, and suggest the involvement of opioid receptors in the induction and expression of methamphetamine-induced behavioral sensitization.
Sirolimus (formerly rapamycin) is an immunosuppressive agent that interferes with T-cell activation. After 2 individuals with psoriasis developed a capillary leak syndrome following treatment with oral sirolimus lesional skin cells and activated peripheral blood cells were analyzed for induction of apoptosis.
A keratome skin specimen from 1 patient with sirolimus-induced capillary leak syndrome had a 2.3-fold increase in percentage of apoptotic cells (to 48%) compared with an unaffected sirolimus-treated patient with psoriasis (21%). Activated peripheral blood T cells from patients with psoriasis tended to exhibit greater spontaneous or dexamethasone-induced apoptosis than did normal T cells, particularly in the presence of sirolimus.
Severe adverse effects of sirolimus include fever, anemia, and capillary leak syndrome. These symptoms may be the result of drug-induced apoptosis of lesional leukocytes, especially activated T lymphocytes, and possibly release of inflammatory mediators. Because patients with severe psoriasis may develop capillary leak from various systemic therapies, clinical monitoring is advisable for patients with inflammatory diseases who are treated with immune modulators.
Human glutamate-cysteine ligase (GCL) is a rate-limiting enzyme for the synthesis of glutathione that plays a crucial role in antioxidant defense mechanisms in most mammalian cells, including vascular cells. Oxidants transcriptionally upregulate GCL genes for glutathione synthesis, providing a protective mechanism against oxidative stress-induced cellular dysfunction. This study examined the hypothesis that variation in the GCL genes may be associated with coronary artery disease in which oxidative stress plays a pathogenetic role.
We searched for the common variants in the 5'-flanking region of the GCL modifier subunit (GCLM) gene in patients with myocardial infarction (MI). We found a polymorphism (-588C/T) in which the T allele showed lower promoter activity (40% to 50% of C allele) in response to oxidants in the luciferase reporter gene assay. Allele frequencies were determined by polymerase chain reaction-based analysis of restriction fragment length polymorphism in 429 patients with MI and 428 control subjects (as defined by angiography) in Kumamoto Prefecture, Japan. The frequency of the T polymorphism was significantly higher in the MI group than in the control group (CT and TT genotypes: 31.5% in MI group versus 19.2% in control group; P<0.001). In multiple logistic regression analysis, the T polymorphism was a risk factor for MI independent of traditional coronary artery disease risk factors (odds ratio, 1.98; 95% confidence interval, 1.38 to 2.83; P<0.001).
These findings suggest that the -588T polymorphism of the GCLM gene may suppress GCLM gene induction in response to oxidants and that it is a genetic risk factor for MI.
Two single-blind placebo-controlled crossover studies on healthy volunteers were performed to compare typical adverse effects of the beta 2-adrenoceptor agonists salbutamol, terbutaline und tulobuterol in a daily period of eight h after acute oral administration of different doses. Assessments were repeated after six days of regular drug intake, to look for habituation phenomena. Finger tremor, integrated surface-EMG in relation to voluntary force, blood pressure and heart rate were measured. Tremor was recorded with a 3-dimensional accelerometer during three different states of hand extensor muscle activity: relaxed, lightly and maximally contracted. The tremor signal was submitted to power spectrum analysis (FFT). All drug effects depended on the dose and the type of drug used, 2 mg tulobuterol being about equivalent to 4 mg salbutamol and to 2.5 mg terbutaline. Cardiovascular adverse effects were weak and transient. The induction of resting tremor showed some habituation across subchronic medication, whereas cumulative and ceiling effects of the beta 2-agonists occurred in respect to tremor during both states of active muscle contraction. However, the beta 2-adrenergic effect during strong contraction consisted in a prominent reduction of tremor. This striking result did not seem to be related to a transient increase of force, relative to myoelectric activity, which was no longer seen after subchronic medication. In case of ceiling effects, the relative changes in tremor intensity decreased with continuous beta 2-sympathomimetic treatment. Therefore, tremor might become a tolerable though inevitable concomitant of bronchodilatory therapy. Its quantitative measurement seems to provide adequate means to assess dose- and time-efficacy as well as to estimate clinical benefit.
The duration and extent of antianginal effects of nisoldipine, a dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, were assessed in 178 patients with chronic stable angina pectoris. Using a placebo run-in, placebo-controlled, randomized, parallel study design, patients received placebo twice daily for 2 to 3 weeks and were then randomized to receive either placebo (n = 42), nisoldipine 10 mg once daily (n = 44), nisoldipine 10 mg twice daily (n = 47) or nisoldipine 20 mg once daily (n = 45) for 5 weeks. Frequency of angina and nitroglycerin consumption were assessed by weekly patient diaries. Exercise tolerance time was assessed at baseline and at weeks 1, 3 and 5 in the double-blind phase. Peak effects after 5 weeks of double-blind medication showed significant or nearly significant improvements with nisoldipine over placebo in time-to-termination of exercise, time to onset of angina, and time to onset of 1 mm ST-segment depression. There were no significant improvements in trough effects with nisoldipine. Also, placebo was not significantly different from nisoldipine in either the number of anginal attacks or nitroglycerin consumed. Although significantly more drug-related, adverse effects were observed with the nisoldipine regimen, 20 mg once daily, compared with placebo, nisoldipine appears to be an effective and well-tolerated antianginal drug. However, its duration of antianginal action, as measured by exercise stress testing, is relatively short. The drug needs to be examined using shorter dosing intervals and higher daily doses, or in a longer-acting sustained-release formulation.
Urinary bladder cancer (UBC) ranks ninth in worldwide cancer. In Egypt, the pattern of bladder cancer is unique in that both the transitional and squamous cell types prevail. Despite much research on the topic, it is still difficult to predict tumor progression, optimal therapy and clinical outcome. The reduced folate carrier (RFC/SLC19A1) is the major transport system for folates in mammalian cells and tissues. RFC is also the primary means of cellular uptake for antifolate cancer chemotherapeutic drugs, however, membrane transport of antifolates by RFC is considered as limiting to antitumor activity. The purpose of this study was to compare the mRNA expression level of RFC/SLC19A1 in urothelial and non-urothelial variants of bladder carcinomas. Quantification of RFC mRNA in the mucosa of 41 untreated bladder cancer patients was performed using RT-qPCR. RFC mRNA steady-state levels were ∼9-fold higher (N = 39; P<0.0001) in bladder tumor specimens relative to normal bladder mRNA. RFC upregulation was strongly correlated with tumor type (urothelial vs. non-urothelial; p<0.05) where median RFC mRNA expression was significantly (p<0.05) higher in the urothelial (∼14-fold) compared to the non-urothelial (∼4-fold) variant. This may account for the variation in response to antifolate-containing regimens used in the treatment of either type. RFC mRNA levels were not associated with tumor grade (I, II and III) or stage (muscle-invasive vs. non-muscle invasive) implying that RFC cannot be used for prognostic purposes in bladder carcinomas and its increased expression is an early event in human bladder tumors pathogenesis. Further, RFC can be considered as a potential marker for predicting response to antifolate chemotherapy in urothelial carcinomas.
In randomized clinical trials oral ergotamine was found superior to placebo but inferior to oral sumatriptan 100mg. In contrast rectal ergotamine was found to have higher efficacy (73% headache relief) than rectal sumatriptan (63% headache relief). Intranasal dihydroergotamine (DHE) was found superior to placebo but less effective than subcutaneous and intranasal sumatriptan. In general, the use of the more specific drugs, the triptans, causing less adverse events and being more effective, is preferable to the use of the ergotamine in the acute treatment of migraine. If ergotamine is to be used the rectal route is preferable. The rectal dose of ergotamine should be tailored to the individual patient. The intranasal dose of DHE , between 1 and 2 mg, should also be tailored to the individual patient. In order to avoid drug-induced headache ergotamine and DHE should not be used daily.
Since 1995, high incidences of deformed frogs have been documented in Kitakyushu, Japan. In this area, relatively high concentrations of DDT, trinitrotoluene (TNT), their metabolites (p,p'-dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene [DDE], p,p'-dichlorodiphenyldichloroethane [DDD], 2-amino-4,6-dinitrotoluene [2ADNT], and 4-amino-2,6-dinitrotoluene [4ADNT]), and benzo[a]pyrene [BaP]) have been identified from field samples. I used a standardized assay with Xenopus laevis embryos (frog embryo teratogenesis assay--Xenopus, FETAX) to examine the developmental toxicity of these compounds. Both DDE and BaP were considered nearly nontoxic in embryonic development because they induced low (< 10%) mortality and malformation incidence even at the highest concentrations tested (DDE, 393 microM; BaP, 13.2 microM). The DDD (96-h median lethal concentration [LC50] = 44.1 microM, 96-h median effective concentration [EC50] for malformation = 14.9 microM) was more lethal and teratogenic than its parent compound, DDT (96-h LC50 = 101 microM, 96-h EC50 = 41.5 microM). Predominant symptoms observed were axial malformations (DDT and DDD) and irregular gut coiling (DDT). However, DDT and DDD should not act as major lethal or teratogenic toxicants in the aquatic environment within a short-term exposure via water because their 96-h LC50 and 96-h EC50 values were extremely high, considering their low solubility in water. The TNT (96-h LC50 = 16.7 microM) was more lethal than 2ADNT (96-h LC50 = 166 microM) or 4ADNT (96-h LC50 = 115 microM). Although 4ADNT (96-h EC50 = 85.8 microM) induced various tadpole malformations, it was a weak teratogen compared with TNT (96-h EC50 = 9.78 microM) and 2ADNT (96-h EC50 = 16.9 microM). The most typical malformations observed were axial malformations, eye abnormalities (TNT), edema, and irregular gut coiling (2ADNT and 4ADNT). The 96-h LC50 and 96-h EC50 values of TNT, 2ADNT, and 4ADNT were lower than their saturated concentrations in water. Therefore, these nitroaromatic compounds may show lethal or teratogenic effects on aquatic animals if their habitats are severely contaminated with TNT.
Studies in vitro have suggested that nonionic low osmolar contrast agents produce an increase in thrombogenicity. To determine the incidence of thrombi related to the use of nonionic low osmolar contrast media during coronary angioplasty, a double-blind randomized study was performed in 100 patients. Medication before angioplasty included oral aspirin (250 mg/day) in all cases. At the beginning of the procedure, aspirin (250 mg) and heparin (10,000 U) were intravenously administered. During the procedure patients were randomly assigned to receive either an ionic low osmolar contrast agent ioxaglate (n = 50), or a nonionic low osmolar contrast media iohexol (n = 50). The presence of thrombus was evaluated on the angiogram and on the guidewire immediately after its retrieval from the patients. Clinical, angiographic and procedural variables were similar in the 2 randomized groups. Angiographic evidence of thrombus was observed in 1 patient (2%) assigned to ioxaglate and in 11 patients (22%) assigned to iohexol (p less than 0.005). One patient (2%) from the ioxaglate group and 6 patients (12%) from the iohexol group showed thrombotic residues on the guidewire (p = not significant). Three patients had acute myocardial infarction, 1 patient (2%) receiving ioxaglate and 2 patients (4%) iohexol (p = not significant). There were no deaths. Thus, compared with an ionic low osmolar contrast media ioxaglate, the nonionic low osmolar contrast agent iohexol increases the incidence of thrombus during coronary angioplasty.
Long term D-penicillamine therapy, especially when used to treat Wilson's disease has been shown to cause elastosis perforans serpiginosa, pseudoxanthoma elasticum perforans and other degenerative dermatoses. We report a 23-year-old male patient who presented with multiple firm papules, nodules over the neck, axillae, front of elbows for five years. He was a known case of Wilson's disease on long-term treatment with penicillamine for the past 12 years. The papulonodular lesions were non-tender and some were discrete while others were arranged in a circinate pattern. There was central scarring of the skin within the circinate lesions. In addition, there were several small yellowish papules on both sides of the neck which eventually became confluent to form plaques. Histopathology confirmed the diagnosis of elastosis perforans serpiginosa and pseudoxanthoma elasticum. He was treated with cryotherapy (using liquid nitrogen through cryojet) for former lesions. The lesions showed remarkable improvement after five sittings. Now the patient is under trientine hydrochloride (750 mg twice daily) for Wilson's disease.
Bacopa monnieri, Linn. (Brahmi, BM), traditionally used to improve mental health in Indian ayurvedic system of medicine is known to possess various neuropharmacolgical properties. In the recent past, Drosophila has been widely used as a model to study various neurodegenerative diseases. Environmental toxins like rotenone, a specific inhibitor of complex I is employed to increase oxidative stress mediated neuropathology and sporadic Parkinson's disease. In this study, we examined the neuroprotective properties of BM against rotenone induced oxidative damage and neurotoxicity. Flies (Oregon K strain, adult males) exposed to a standardized BM powder for 7 days in the diet exhibited significant diminution in the levels of endogenous oxidative markers viz., malondialdehyde, hydroperoxide and protein carbonyl content. Further, BM offered complete protection against rotenone (500 microM) induced oxidative stress and markedly inhibited dopamine depletion (head region, 33%; body region, 44%) in flies. Flies exposed to rotenone+BM exhibited a lower incidence of mortality (40-66% protection) and performed better in a negative geotaxis assay (45-65%) both suggesting the neuroprotective potential of BM. Interestingly, BM also conferred significant resistance (43-54% protection) in a paraquat oxidative stress bioassay. The neuroprotective effects of BM were highly comparable to those of a commercially available Brahmi preparation. Although the precise mechanism/s underlying the neuroprotective efficacy of BM are not clear, it is hypothesized that it is wholly or in part related to its ability to mitigate rotenone induced oxidative stress. Further, our approach confirms the utility of the Drosophila model in screening putative neuroprotective phytomedicines prior to their use in mammalian models.
The effect of prostacyclin on acetaminophen-induced liver injury has been investigated in the mouse. Two structurally unrelated thromboxane synthetase inhibitors, OKY 1581 and benzyl imidazole, were also examined in order to investigate the role of the prostacyclin-thromboxane balance in the development of hepatic lesions. Whereas prostacyclin or OKY 1581 given shortly after acetaminophen prevented mortality and reduced liver necrosis, as assessed by serum ALT activity and histology, benzyl imidazole was only effective if given prior to acetaminophen. Acetaminophen overdose resulted in an enhanced prostaglandin and thromboxane generation by liver homogenates. While OKY 1581 inhibited thromboxane production by the liver homogenates, prostacyclin synthesis was increased. Pretreatment with the cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin blocked both the increase in prostacyclin generation and the protective effect of OKY 1581. Benzyl imidazole inhibited the synthesis of thromboxane but did not enhance prostacyclin production. In addition, the protective effect of benzyl imidazole was unaltered by indomethacin pretreatment. Furthermore, whereas benzyl imidazole interfered with hepatic drug metabolism, as assessed by prolongation of the pentobarbitone sleeping time, prostacyclin and OKY 1581 were without activity. Prostacyclin treatment can prevent acetaminophen-induced liver necrosis in mice. Enhanced prostacyclin synthesis by the selective thromboxane synthetase inhibitor OKY 1581 also exerts a protective role in this model.
Complications of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection are among the most common indications for liver transplant in many parts of Asia. However, none of the current posttransplant hepatitis B prophylaxis strategies, namely, lamivudine, hepatitis B immunoglobulin monotherapy, or combination therapy, is ideal. Our aim was to evaluate the use of adefovir dipivoxil (ADV) as a rescue therapy for posttransplant HBV patients who developed lamivudine resistance.
Twenty-two consecutive patients with HBV-related liver disease, who underwent first liver transplants from 1995 to 2002, received HBV prophylaxis with indefinite lamivudine with substitution of ADV for patients who developed drug resistance and clinical deterioration, defined as persistent elevation of transaminases or histologic deterioration.
Sixteen patients (73%) were alive at their last follow-up and six (38%) had developed hepatitis B recurrence at a median of 46 (range 9 to 74) months posttransplant. Two with persistently normal transaminases and normal liver histology at 3 and 42 months postrecurrence have been continued on lamivudine. Four showed clinical deterioration and received ADV for a median of 24 months; all displayed normalization of transaminases and a 2 to 5 log drop in HBV DNA titers. Three had paired biopsies before and after substitution of ADV with two showing improvement and one stable appearance. The median serum creatinine value increased slightly from 126 to 138 micromol/L (P = 0.72).
ADV is an effective rescue therapy for patients with lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B post-liver transplant. Further studies are needed to ascertain the optimal posttransplant hepatitis B prophylaxis.
Toll-like receptors (TLRs), which are activated by invading microorganisms or endogenous molecules, evoke immune and inflammatory responses. TLR activation is closely linked to the development of many chronic inflammatory diseases including rheumatoid arthritis. Auranofin, an Au(I) compound, is a well-known and long-used anti-rheumatic drug. However, the mechanism as to how auranofin relieves the symptom of rheumatoid arthritis has not been fully clarified. Our results demonstrated that auranofin suppressed TLR4-mediated activation of transcription factors, NF-kappaB and IRF3, and expression of COX-2, a pro-inflammatory enzyme. This suppression was well correlated with the inhibitory effect of auranofin on the homodimerization of TLR4 induced by an agonist. Furthermore, auranofin inhibited NF-kappaB activation induced by MyD88-dependent downstream signaling components of TLR4, MyD88, IKKbeta, and p65. IRF3 activation induced by MyD88-independent signaling components, TRIF and TBK1, was also downregulated by auranofin. Our results first demonstrate that auranofin suppresses the multiple steps in TLR4 signaling, especially the homodimerization of TLR4. The results suggest that the suppression of TLR4 activity by auranofin may be the molecular mechanism through which auranofin exerts anti-rheumatic activity.
Ophthalmological complications with interferon therapy are rare, usually mild and reversible, and do not require the withdrawal of antiviral treatment. Anterior ischemic optic neuropathy is an uncommon complication of interferon treatment. From January 1998 to December 2007, three patients developed anterior ischemic optic neuropathy during antiviral treatment, with a favourable course after interferon was discontinued. Periodic Ophthalmological examinations, including visual acuity and fundus examinations should be performed before starting and during treatment, particularly in patients with vascular risk factors. Antiviral therapy should be stopped immediately if severe ophthalmologic complications occur.
To report a case of recurrent aseptic meningitis temporally associated with the use of ibuprofen.
A previously well 51-year-old white man presented with acute confusion and aphasia 7 days after taking a variety of nonprescription medications, including ibuprofen. Imaging of the brain was unremarkable, and lumbar puncture revealed lymphocytic pleocytosis with an elevated protein level. The symptoms improved shortly after admission, and no infectious cause was identified. Two weeks later, the patient was readmitted with similar symptoms beginning immediately after resumption of ibuprofen. His symptoms resolved promptly after ibuprofen was discontinued.
Drug-induced aseptic meningitis is an unusual complication of drug therapy. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), particularly ibuprofen, are among the most commonly implicated agents, but rechallenge with the suspected agent is uncommon. Use of an objective causality tool indicated a probable relationship between ibuprofen and development of aseptic meningitis in our patient.
Clinicians should consider NSAIDs as potential causes of aseptic meningitis, especially in patients with recurrent illness and no obvious infectious cause. A detailed drug history is invaluable in the assessment of such patients, with particular attention to nonprescription medications such as ibuprofen.
To investigate tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α expression and its relationship with serum bile acids in placental trophoblasts from patients with intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy (ICP).
Human placenta, including normal pregnancies (n = 10) and patients with ICP (n = 10), were collected at term and subject to TNF-α measurements. Bile acid-induced TNF-α expression and cell apoptosis were evaluated in cultured syncytiotrophoblasts in vitro.
ICP placental trophoblasts displayed apoptotic histological abnormalities. TNF-α levels in ICP tissue were significantly greater than those of controls as measured by quantitative polymerase chain reaction and western blot. Levels of placental TNF-α mRNA were positively correlated with serum bile acid concentration in ICP patients. In vitro, lithocholic acid (LCA) significantly enhanced TNF-α mRNA at both doses, by 2.07-fold at 15 μm and by 3.41-fold at 30 μm, whereas deoxycholic acid mildly increased TNF-α mRNA by 1.41-fold at 100 μm only. LCA treatment produced significantly higher percentage of caspase-3 positive cells than vehicle treatment, rescuable by the addition of a TNF-α inhibitor, indicative of apoptosis induced by LCA-TNF-α pathway.
This study shows that the increase of TNF-α expression in placental trophoblasts is strongly associated with ICP pathology and is inducible by LCA in vitro, suggesting its potential value in the clinical prevention, diagnosis and treatment of ICP.
Genetic predisposition is believed to be responsible for most clinically significant arrhythmias; however, suitable genetic animal models to study disease mechanisms and evaluate new treatment strategies are largely lacking.
In search of suitable arrhythmia models, we isolated the zebrafish mutation reggae (reg), which displays clinical features of the malignant human short-QT syndrome such as accelerated cardiac repolarization accompanied by cardiac fibrillation. By positional cloning, we identified the reg mutation that resides within the voltage sensor of the zebrafish ether-à-go-go-related gene (zERG) potassium channel. The mutation causes premature zERG channel activation and defective inactivation, which results in shortened action potential duration and accelerated cardiac repolarization. Genetic and pharmacological inhibition of zERG rescues recessive reg mutant embryos, which confirms the gain-of-function effect of the reg mutation on zERG channel function in vivo. Accordingly, QT intervals in ECGs from heterozygous and homozygous reg mutant adult zebrafish are considerably shorter than in wild-type zebrafish.
With its molecular and pathophysiological concordance to the human arrhythmia syndrome, zebrafish reg represents the first animal model for human short-QT syndrome.
To determine the dose-response efficacy of once-daily administration of placebo or a new long-acting calcium channel blocker amlodipine in patients with mild to moderate hypertension, a randomized, multicenter, placebo-controlled, double-blind trial was conducted. The study included 210 patients with diastolic hypertension (blood pressure 95 to 114 mm Hg) without major hematologic, renal, hepatic, cardiac, or endocrine abnormalities. After a 4-week single-blind placebo run-in period, patients were given placebo or amlodipine (1.25, 2.5, 5, or 10 mg) daily for 4 weeks. To assess the antihypertensive effect of amlodipine over a 24-hour period, blood pressure and pulse rate at weeks 0 and 4 were recorded for 12 hours after the dose and then again at 24 hours. At the end of the study patients treated with all doses of amlodipine greater than 1.25 mg daily had significantly reduced diastolic blood pressure in both supine and standing than 1.25 mg daily had significantly reduced diastolic blood pressure in both supine and standing positions. Amlodipine, 1.25 mg daily, was also associated with a decrease in standing diastolic blood pressure. Response to treatment was greater in all amlodipine-treated patients than in those receiving placebo. Pulse rate in both the supine and standing positions was not significantly affected by amlodipine. At doses of 2.5, 5.0, or 10.0 mg daily, amlodipine maintained blood pressure below values obtained with placebo throughout the 24-hour period. Treatment with amlodipine was well tolerated and the incidence of side effects was low.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The goal of this work was to determine whether the blockade of histamine H2 receptors is beneficial for the pathophysiology of chronic heart failure (CHF).
Because CHF is one of the major life-threatening diseases, we need to find a novel effective therapy. Intriguingly, our previous study, which predicts the involvement of histamine in CHF, suggests that we should test this hypothesis in patients with CHF.
We selected 159 patients who received famotidine among symptomatic CHF patients for the retrospective study. We blindly selected age- and gender-matched CHF patients receiving drugs for gastritis other than histamine H2 receptor blockers as a control group. For the prospective study, 50 symptomatic CHF patients were randomly divided into 2 groups. One group received famotidine of 30 mg/day for 6 months, and the other group received teprenone.
In the retrospective study, famotidine of 20 to 40 mg decreased both left ventricular end-diastolic and end-systolic lengths (LVDd and LVDs, respectively) and the plasma B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) levels (182 +/- 21 vs. 259 +/- 25 pg/ml, p < 0.05) with unaltered fractional shortening (FS). In a randomized, open-label study, compared with teprenone, famotidine of 30 mg prospectively decreased both New York Heart Association functional class (p < 0.05) and plasma BNP levels (183 +/- 26 pg/ml vs. 285 +/- 41 pg/ml, p < 0.05); this corresponded to decreasing both LVDd (57 +/- 2 mm vs. 64 +/- 2 mm, p < 0.05) and LVDs (47 +/- 2 mm vs. 55 +/- 2 mm, p < 0.05) with unaltered FS (15 +/- 1% vs. 17 +/- 1%). The frequency of readmission because of worsening of CHF was lower in the famotidine group (4% and 24%, p < 0.05). On the other hand, teprenone had no effects on CHF.
Famotidine improved both cardiac symptoms and ventricular remodeling associated with CHF. Histamine H2 receptor blockers may have therapeutic benefits for CHF.
The impact of acute volume overload hemodynamics on the DFT with concurrent moderate left ventricular systolic dysfunction is unknown. Ten mongrel dogs (17.2 kg), using a crossover study design, each had baseline (study 1) hemodynamic, echocardiographic, and DFT measurements. These measurements were repeated after left ventricular dysfunction was induced using a norepinephrine (5 micrograms/kg per min) infusion (study 2). Hemodynamic and DFT parameters were obtained simulating acute heart failure by volume overload with an 0.9% normal saline infusion to an associated mean pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of > 19 mmHg (study 3). Numerous significant echocardiographic and hemodynamic parameters were noted when the animals from studies 1 and 2, 2 and 3, and 1 and 3 were compared. A significant difference in the DFT was observed only when study animals 1 and 3 were compared (P < 0.02). None of the dogs were hypoxemic at the time of the acute heart failure DFT. The mechanism of this finding remains unknown. This data would suggest that acute volume overload with associated left ventricular dysfunction does adversely affect the DFT in a canine model.
After a controlled, double blind multicenter trial of D-penicillamine in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, 148 patients were followed for an additional year in an open label trial. Complications of longterm D-penicillamine included rash, gastrointestinal manifestations, proteinuria, bone marrow depression, myasthenia gravis, myositis, acute febrile reaction and pemphigus foliaceus. With the exception of one patient with myasthenia gravis, all adverse reactions resolved after withdrawal of D-penicillamine. While the complications of D-penicillamine therapy are usually dose related, these reactions can occur at any time and at any dose. Continued and frequent longterm monitoring of D-penicillamine therapy is required.
