Cigarette smoke-induced release of pro-inflammatory cytokines including interleukin-8 (IL-8) from inflammatory as well as structural cells in the airways, including airway smooth muscle (ASM) cells, may contribute to the development of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Despite the wide use of pharmacological treatment aimed at increasing intracellular levels of the endogenous suppressor cyclic AMP (cAMP), little is known about its exact mechanism of action. We report here that next to the β(2)-agonist fenoterol, direct and specific activation of either exchange protein directly activated by cAMP (Epac) or protein kinase A (PKA) reduced cigarette smoke extract (CSE)-induced IL-8 mRNA expression and protein release by human ASM cells. CSE-induced IκBα-degradation and p65 nuclear translocation, processes that were primarily reversed by Epac activation. Further, CSE increased extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) phosphorylation, which was selectively reduced by PKA activation. CSE decreased Epac1 expression, but did not affect Epac2 and PKA expression. Importantly, Epac1 expression was also reduced in lung tissue from COPD patients. In conclusion, Epac and PKA decrease CSE-induced IL-8 release by human ASM cells via inhibition of NF-κB and ERK, respectively, pointing at these cAMP effectors as potential targets for anti-inflammatory therapy in COPD. However, cigarette smoke exposure may reduce anti-inflammatory effects of cAMP elevating agents via down-regulation of Epac1.
To study the expressions of angiotensin II 1A receptor (AT1A) both at the mRNA level and the protein level and their modulation by an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, benazepril, in the renal tubulointerstitial injuries induced by unilateral ureteral obstruction (UUO) in rats.
Six SD rats (UUO-T) were administered benazepril in the drinking water (50mg/L). Additional 6 rats were used as untreated controls (UUO-C). Mean arterial Prossure (MAP) was measured at the 10th day after UUO, and then all animals were sacrificed. The expressions of AT1A were examined both at the mRNA level by in situ hybridization using a subtype-specific probe and at the protein level by an immunohistochemistry methods using AT1 receptor antibody in normal rat kidneys and the obstructed rat kidneys.
MAP was 14.2 +/- 0. 6kPa in the UUO-T and 16.6 +/- 0.7kPa in the UUO-C (P < 0.05). Benazepril slowed the tubulointerstitial fibrosis (TIF) and reduced the expression of AT1A in the renal tubular epithelial cells, the interstitial areas, and the walls of renal arteriole in the UUO-T group.
The increased expressions of AT1A were found in the acute renal tubulointerstitial pathogenesis induced by UUO. Benazepril may retard the progression of TIF and decrease the expression of AT1A in the obstructed kidneys. We conclude that the effects of Ang II on the obstructed kidneys may be due to its binding with AT1A.
Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome (SLOS) is an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder. SLOS is caused by the mutations in the gene for 3beta-hydroxysterol Delta(7) reductase (DHCR7; EC 1.3.1.21), which maps to chromosome 11q12-13. DHCR7 catalyses the final step in cholesterol biosynthesis-the reduction of 7-dehydrocholesterol to cholesterol. Clinical severity ranges from mild dysmorphism to severe congenital malformation and intrauterine lethality. Pregnant women are offered a biochemical screening test for Down syndrome in the second trimester, where the suspicion for SLOS could be registered, when the unconjugated estriol (uE3) level appears low. A group of 456 fetuses with a high risk for SLOS were examined by DNA analysis. We confirmed SLOS in 5 fetuses and 11 fetuses were carriers. One novel mutation (p.G30A) was detected. The most frequently found mutations, c.964-1G > C and p.W151X, are also the most severe ones. At least one of these mutations was detected in each fetus with SLOS. This suggests that the biochemical screening of pregnant women probably uncovers mainly more severely affected fetuses. We confirmed SLOS also in two patients whose prenatal screening was negative. Both of them had nonsense mutation on one allele. It stands to reason that some modifying factors may play a role in the reduction of the uE3 level in the mother's serum.
Hyperprolactinemia in man decreases libido and potency, but the few reports concerning its influence on spermatogenesis are contradictory. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of induced hyperprolactimemia on semen parameters. A total of 15 potentially fertile male volunteers, aged 28.2 +/- 4.3 years, were given 10 mg metoclopramide three times daily for 12 weeks. Serum and seminal plasma prolactin levels and semen parameters were determined before and 4, 8, and 12 weeks following initiation of metoclopramide administration. A fivefold increase of serum prolactin levels was observed, semen volume and abnormal sperm forms decreased, while spermatozoa velocity increased. On the contrary, no influence was noted on the number of spermatozoa per milliliter, the total number of spermatozoa, the percentage of motile spermatozoa, or the index of motility. Hyperprolactinemia seems to improve spermatozoal velocity and morphology, although direct effect of metoclopramide on these parameters cannot be excluded.
We describe eight patients in whom cocaine use was related to stroke and review 39 cases from the literature. Among these 47 patients the mean (+/- SD) age was 32.5 +/- 12.1 years; 76% (34/45) were men. Stroke followed cocaine use by inhalation, intranasal, intravenous, and intramuscular routes. Intracranial aneurysms or arteriovenous malformations were present in 17 of 32 patients studied angiographically or at autopsy; cerebral vasculitis was present in two patients. Cerebral infarction occurred in 10 patients (22%), intracerebral hemorrhage in 22 (49%), and subarachnoid hemorrhage in 13 (29%). These data indicate that (1) the apparent incidence of stroke related to cocaine use is increasing; (2) cocaine-associated stroke occurs primarily in young adults; (3) stroke may follow any route of cocaine administration; (4) stroke after cocaine use is frequently associated with intracranial aneurysms and arteriovenous malformations; and (5) in cocaine-associated stroke, the frequency of intracranial hemorrhage exceeds that of cerebral infarction.
We report a rare instance of chemical pericystitis in a 60-year-old man who had undergone transurethral resection of a bladder tumor and subsequent intravesical instillation of doxorubicin. The patient had a high fever lasting for 18 days, lower abdominal pain and mild hydronephrosis. Extravasation of doxorubicin through the resected and thinned region of the bladder wall seemed to be responsible for this complication. The lesion improved spontaneously without any sequela.
The mouse model of 2,4,6-Trinitrobenzene Sulfonic Acid (TNBS)-induced intestinal fibrosis allows for detailed study of the extracellular matrix changes that complicate Crohn's disease. Indomethacin induces intestinal fibrosis, while retinoic acid (RA) reduces liver fibrosis. Secreted protein acidic and rich in cysteine (SPARC), an extracellular matrix-modifying agent, may potentially link these opposing effects. Our aim was to determine the effects of indomethacin and RA and to evaluate their correlation to SPARC expression in the TNBS mouse model. CD-1 mice were randomised to TNBS enemas weekly for 2 or 8 weeks with or without indomethacin (0.2 mg/kg per day) or RA (100 microg/kg per day). At 2 weeks, indomethacin/TNBS enhanced and RA reduced inflammation, tissue destruction and fibrosis. The expression of SPARC was inversely related to fibrosis, but not to inflammation, in the TNBS-alone groups at 2 weeks; these differences were lost by 8 weeks. The results demonstrate that indomethacin increases TNBS-induced fibrosis in mice, while RA reduces it, and that SPARC may link these opposing effects.
To report a case of possible ganciclovir-induced psychiatric disturbances.
A patient with AIDS who had no known psychiatric history and mild renal dysfunction experienced exacerbation of cytomegalovirus retinitis and was treated with ganciclovir 5 mg/kg iv q12h. The patient complained of nightmares and developed visual hallucinations and severe agitation on day 15 of ganciclovir therapy. The problems resolved after haloperidol administration and ganciclovir withdrawal and reappeared when the same regimen was reinstituted. However, the patient was able to tolerate the maintenance dose of ganciclovir at 5 mg/kg/d along with haloperidol later without further episodes of visual hallucinations.
Case reports in the literature on ganciclovir-or its analog, acyclovir-, induced psychiatric disturbances were reviewed and compared. The potential relationship between ganciclovir accumulation in patients with renal insufficiency and the observed central nervous system problems in our patient was postulated.
It is likely that ganciclovir accumulation contributed to the acute psychotic episodes observed in our patient. Adjusting ganciclovir dosage based on the patient's renal function is probably the only approach required to prevent or reduce the incidence of these episodes.
The use of intrapericardial triamcinolone for acute pericarditis after electrophysiologic procedures in three patients is described.
Treatment for idiopathic pericarditis and viral pericarditis, which account for about 85% of cases, focuses on pain management and decreasing pericardial inflammation. This is oftentimes achieved with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Colchicine may be used in combination with NSAIDs, specifically in postmyocardial infarction pericarditis and recurrent pericarditis. Because oral corticosteroid use has been shown to be an independent risk factor in pericarditis recurrence, their use in patients with refractory pericarditis is reserved as a last-resort option. Intrapericardial triamcinolone is an uncommon treatment approach, although it is recommended in select situations of pericarditis according to guidelines developed by the European Society of Cardiology. In this retrospective case series, three patients with pericarditis, tamponade, or both as a complication of radiofrequency ablation or implantable cardioverter defibrillator implantation received triamcinolone. The drug was instilled intrapericardially, with doses ranging from 50 to 200 mg. In two patients, the need for pain medication and the perceived pain score decreased dramatically after triamcinolone administration. In the third patient, triamcinolone administration decreased the need for supportive therapy but was not deemed a complete clinical success. Additional study is necessary to better define the use of intrapericardial triamcinolone and determine long-term outcomes associated with this therapy. Other factors, including past medical history and renal function, also need to be taken into account when choosing the proper dosing regimen.
Intrapericardial administration of triamcinolone acetonide may be an effective treatment for patients with acute pericarditis after electrophysiologic procedures.
A single intravenous injection of adriamycin (ADR) results in marked proteinuria and glomerular morphological changes that are similar to minimal-change disease in humans. We examined the effect of superoxide dismutase (SOD) on ADR-induced proteinuria. ADR in a dose of 7.5 mg/kg body weight significantly increased urinary protein by day 14; proteinuria rapidly increased thereafter. Concurrent administration of SOD (50 mg/kg) over 30 min prior to and 30 min following ADR injection markedly reduced proteinuria. Twenty-one days after the treatment with SOD, the amount of urinary protein was 108.6 +/- 43.1 mg/24 h in the experimental animals, while it was 221.6 +/- 102.9 mg/24 h in the ADR control group (p less than 0.05). There were also less severe glomerular morphologic changes in the SOD group versus ADR controls. The protective effects of SOD provide indirect evidence that oxygen free radicals are important mediators of ADR-induced proteinuria.
The results of lamivudine therapy in 4 patients with chemotherapy-induced hepatitis B virus (HBV) reactivation are reported. Cancer chemotherapy-induced reactivation is a known complication in patients with chronic HBV infection or history of HBV infection with recovery. Reactivation of HBV infection has a broad spectrum of manifestations ranging from mild elevation of aminotransferase levels to fatal fulminant hepatitis. Lamivudine is a nucleoside analogue and a potent inhibitor of HBV reverse transcription. The 4 patients treated with lamivudine included 1 woman with breast cancer and 3 men with non-Hodgkin lymphoma, ranging from 41 to 63 years of age. All 4 patients were undergoing standard, multi-agent chemotherapy when they presented with HBV reactivation manifested by sudden onset of fatigue, jaundice, and HBV serology consistent with active HBV infection (detectable serum HBV DNA) in the absence of other known causes of acute hepatitis. Lamivudine therapy (100 mg/d in 3 patients and 150 mg/d in 1 patient) was initiated from 1 to 18 days following the diagnosis of HBV reactivation. All 4 patients showed rapid decrease in aminotransferase levels within 2 weeks after initiating lamivudine therapy. Unfortunately, hepatic synthetic function failed to improve in 2 patients, who both died. The remaining 2 patients had suppression of HBV DNA to undetectable levels after 1 and 4 months of treatment and had biochemical and clinical improvement. The 2 patients who died received lamivudine therapy for 8 days and for 3 weeks. There have been no randomized clinical trials to study the role of lamivudine for prophylaxis or treatment of HBV reactivation associated with chemotherapy. However, based on our limited experience, lamivudine may be efficacious in suppressing potentially fatal HBV reactivation secondary to chemotherapy in patients with chronic HBV infection or prior infection with recovery. Patients who undergo chemotherapy should be screened for the presence of markers of chronic hepatitis B infection or previous HBV infection. We recommend that patients with chronic HBV infection (positive HBV DNA and/or positive HBsAg) or history of HBV infection with recovery (positive hepatitis B core antibody with or without HBsAb) be considered for prophylactic lamivudine use to prevent chemotherapy-induced HBV reactivation.
Sufficient data exist indicating that testosterone (T) or metabolites of T, i.e., dihydrotestosterone (DHT) and estrogen (E), induce aggressive behavior. The effects of T have also been shown to be suppressed by concurrent administration of progesterone (P). It is unknown if the effects of P are exerted on T directly or upon the T metabolites. The objective of this experiment was to evaluate the inhibitory effects of P on aggression induced by T and T metabolites. Seven male mice were randomly allocated to one of the following treatment groups: castration (C), C + T, C + 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone (DHT), C + estrogen (E), C + DHT + E (DE), T + P, and DE + P. The males were then placed with androgenized females in three 10-min trials to determine the effects of each treatment on hormone induced aggression. The degree of aggressive behavior displayed was measured by number of trials where attacks occurred (N), mean latency to attack (L), frequency of attacks (AF), duration of attacks (D), and a composite index score (INDEX). All androgen treated groups showed significantly higher degrees of aggression compared to C and T + P animals. P inhibited aggression in T-treated males but did not inhibit aggression in the DE treated group. The data suggest that P inhibits the aggressive effects of T by acting on receptors of the metabolite-producing enzymes or by direct competitive binding for 5 alpha-reductase.
A prospective study was performed to evaluate the efficacy of chlorambucil in inducing long-term remission in children with steroid-dependent or cyclophosphamide-resistant primary nephrotic syndrome (NS). The 16 steroid-dependent children had a relapse rate of 5.3/patient per year (range 4-8) and a mean age of 8.4 years (range 2-13). The chlorambucil dosage was 0.2 mg/kg per day for a total of 8 weeks. Nine patients (56%) remained in complete remission for an average of 39.2 months (range 16-70). The interval to the first relapse in the remaining 7 ranged from 4 to 41 months and the relapse rate decreased significantly to 0.6 relapses/patient per year (P less than 0.05). Five children had steroid- and cyclophosphamide-resistant NS, 4 with focal segmental glomerulosclerosis and 1 with mesangiol proliferative glomerulonephritis. Chlorambucil was given in a dose of 0.2 mg/kg per day for 8-16 weeks. Complete remission was obtained in 4 patients; 2 patients relapsed. No serious long-term complications were observed in our patients.
Two of our patients experienced myotoxicity associated with colchicine administration. The first was a 54-year-old woman who was receiving dialysis and came to the emergency department with progressive generalized weakness and vomiting. She recently had taken colchicine for the treatment of gout. Physical examination revealed proximal muscle weakness and tenderness on palpation. Her creatine kinase (CK), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) levels were elevated at 7185, 563, and 541 U/L, respectively. Drug-induced myopathy was suspected and colchicine was discontinued. The patient was discharged after symptom resolution 1 week later. The second patient was an 83-year-old woman with chronic renal insufficiency who came to the hospital with anorexia, diarrhea, and inability to get out of bed due to progressive weakness. Her colchicine dosage recently had been increased for gout management. Physical examination revealed generalized muscle weakness and tenderness on palpation. Her CK, ALT, and AST levels were elevated at 1797, 147, and 172 U/L, respectively. Electromyographic results were consistent with colchicine myopathy. The patient was discharged with minimal residual muscle weakness 1 week after discontinuation of colchicine. A literature search identified 82 documented cases of colchicine-induced myotoxicity. Most patients had a history of proximal weakness and pain with elevated CK, ALT, and AST levels. Onset of symptoms generally occurred days to weeks after initial administration of colchicine at the usual dosage in patients with renal impairment or a change in underlying disease state in those receiving long-term therapy. Muscle toxicity was not necessarily accompanied by gastrointestinal symptoms. Concomitantly administered drugs often were cyclosporine or corticosteroids. Diagnosis may be confirmed by electromyography or muscle biopsy. Colchicine-induced myotoxicity is a rare adverse effect but is well described in the literature. Clinicians should recognize that renal impairment is the primary risk factor for development of colchicine-induced myotoxicity, and that dosage adjustment or alternative therapy may be required.
Atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) release is modulated by several haemodynamic factors, including ventricular and atrial wall stretch. Dipyridamole infusion, which is commonly used as a pharmacological stressor in patients with coronary artery disease, can acutely increase ventricular and atrial pressure via myocardial ischaemia. The aim of this study was to assess whether dipyridamole infusion (up to 0.84 mg kg-1 over 10') can affect ANF release in man. Nineteen patients (13 men, 6 women) with a history of chest pain were studied. Their drug regimen was interrupted and instead they were administered a dipyridamole infusion, combined with two-dimensional echocardiography and 12-lead ECG monitoring. Plasma ANF was measured by RIA while the patients rested, and after dipyridamole infusion. Eight patients had no evidence of myocardial ischaemia, as measured by electrocardiographic and/or echocardiographic criteria, during dipyridamole infusion: among them, ANF values were similar while they were at rest and at peak dipyridamole administration (23.9 +/- 9.5 vs 23.4 +/- 6.9 pg ml-1, P = ns). Eleven patients had dipyridamole-induced transient ischaemia (regional ventricular dyssynergy and/or ST segment depression): among them, ANF values rose significantly at peak dipyridamole administration (31.8 +/- 13.8 vs 65.5 +/- 36.4, P less than 0.01). We conclude that dipyridamole infusion does not increase ANF release in man in the absence of ischaemia. The induction of myocardial ischaemia acutely increases ANF release, probably through a rise in ventricular and atrial wall stress.
Previous investigations demonstrated that S-adenosyl-L-methionine suppresses the cholestatic effect of ethynylestradiol and reduces the irreversible binding of the estrogen to rat liver microsomes, probably favoring ethynylestradiol transformation into its methyl-derivatives. Since it is not known whether SAMe also prevents the changes of bile lipid composition induced by EE and how methylation interferes with estrogen metabolism and biliary excretion, female rats have been treated with ethynylestradiol (5 mg/kg body wt, orally for 3 days) or with ethynylestradiol plus S-adenosyl-L-methionine (25 mg/kg body wt, i.m., t.i.d.). After bile duct cannulation, 5 muCi of [6,7-3H]ethynylestradiol were injected i.v. and an 8-h bile collection was started. Bile flow in ethynylestradiol + S-adenosyl-L-methionine treated rats was similar to controls, but significantly higher than in ethynylestradiol-treated animals (1.44 +/- 0.11; 1.66 +/- 0.30; 0.97 +/- 0.17 microliter/min/g liver, respectively as mean +/- SE). Cholesterol molar percentage was significnatly higher in ethynylestradiol (3.46 +/- 0.25) than in ethynylestradiol + S-adenosyl-L-methionine treated (2.16 +/- 0.41) or control rats (1.90 +/- 0.30). Total radioactivity excretion was similar in all groups, ranging from 74% to 76% of the administered dose, but radiogaschromatography showed a significant increase of methylated ethynylestradiol metabolites in S-adenosyl-L-methionine treated rats. These data indicate that in ethynylestradiol treated rats S-adenosyl-L-methionine can: (a) reverse both cholestasis and related abnormalities of biliary lipids; (b) modify the pattern but not the total amount of biliary ethynylestradiol excretion.
Nonoliguric renal insufficiency is a well-known nephrotoxic consequence of aminoglycosides, although reversible tubular damage in the absence of any change in the renal function has been occasionally found. Reported herein are 2 representative cases of a reversible tubular damage due to prolonged aminoglycoside administration: a patient with a Fanconi-like syndrome of proximal tubular dysfunction and a patient with a syndrome of hypokalemic metabolic alkalosis associated with hypomagnesemia.
The purpose of this study was to describe our experience in the conservative management of large rectus sheath hematoma (RSH) in patients undergoing anticoagulation therapy.
This is a retrospective study of the medical histories of 12 cases of RSH (11 female, one male; mean age = 67.6 years). Seven patients were taking oral anticoagulants, three were taking intravenous unfractionated heparin, and two were taking subcutaneous low-molecular-weight heparin. Six patients had a history of coughing fits. Ultrasound examination and computed tomography (CT) was performed in all cases.
Clinically, the majority of patients presented acute abdominal pain, infraumbilical masses, and anemic syndrome. Ultrasonography demonstrated nine of the 12 cases of RSH, and CT showed the hematoma in all 12 cases. Type II (five cases) and type III (seven cases) indicate moderate and severe hematomas, respectively. Excessive anticoagulation was observed in eight cases, and coagulation within correct ranges was seen in the remaining four cases. In five patients the normalization of coagulation was achieved by administering vitamin K1 and fresh frozen plasma. All cases of type III hematoma required blood transfusion. Conservative treatment was effective in all cases.
RSH must be suspected in women of advanced age undergoing treatment with anticoagulants who present the clinical triad of acute abdominal pain, infraumbilical mass, and anemic syndrome. CT is the examination of choice for the diagnosis of RSH. Early diagnosis of RSH permits conservative management, even in the case of large hematomas with hemodynamic repercussions and avoids unnecessary surgical intervention.
Electrolyte abnormalities have become an increasingly important cause of arrhythmias owing to the widespread use of high-potency diuretics. Hypokalemia is one of the common complications of diuretic use. Although some studies of hypokalemia induced by furosemide as well as of potassium-deficient diets in the rat have been reported, the electrocardiographic (ECG) changes during hypokalemia in the rat are poorly understood. This study was designed to examine such changes. For this purpose, hypokalemia was induced by furosemide administration, and the diagnostic criteria for ECG manifestations of hypokalemia were determined. During hypokalemia, conduction in most parts of the heart was suppressed to an extent depending on plasma potassium concentration. Prolongation of the QT interval was also observed, which agrees with findings in humans and dogs. Furthermore, prolonged durations of the P wave and QRS complex were observed during hypokalemia in the rat. The extent of alteration of the PR interval induced by hypokalemia was less significant than that of P wave and QRS complex durations. These results suggest that the excitabilities of the myocardium in the atria and ventricles may be affected by extracellular potassium level rather than by the atrioventricular conduction system in the rat. Wave amplitude, except that of the P wave, was decreased by severe hypokalemia. These changes were not dependent on the plasma potassium concentration. Typical T wave changes observed with hypokalemia in humans and dogs did not occur in the rat. The ECG manifestations of acute hypokalemia in the rat did not include the typical T wave changes seen in species with ST-segment type ECGs; however, other ECG parameter changes occurring with hypokalemia were qualitatively similar to those in other species. These results may be useful for testing the toxicity of potassium-depleting drugs in the rat.
In a retrospective study, 1863 EEG recordings made during clozapine treatment of 283 patients with normal pretreatment EEG evaluations were analyzed. Furthermore, they were compared to the EEGs of the same patients without clozapine (i.e., during other neuroleptic medication). Moreover, the data of all patients who had seizures during treatment with clozapine were evaluated in case reports. Classical clinical EEG evaluation criteria for normal versus abnormal were used (including diffuse slowing and grouped alterations according to Jung 1953 and Kugler 1983). Of the 283 patients investigated, 61.5% (174) showed at least one abnormal EEG under clozapine according to these criteria. Evaluating all recorded EEGs of these patients in order to get some longitudinal information, we found a rate of 53.4% abnormal EEG recordings during clozapine treatment. Most of the EEG changes were evaluated as slight (22.5%) to moderate (10.1%) diffuse slowing and some as groups of nonparoxysmal waves (39.8%) or sharp waves (16.2%) rendering the EEGs abnormal according to the above criteria. Potential signs of increased bioelectrical cerebral reagibility such as paroxysmal activity (4.3%) or severe diffuse slowing (0.2%) were rare. A nearly linear correlation with the daily dose was found in the range up to 300 mg clozapine/day for both diffuse and grouped alterations. Possibly due to selection, adaptive mechanisms/habituation, and/or other unknown factors, the rate of alterations decreased slightly at doses above 300 mg and rose again sharply for doses over 600 mg/d. Three of the clozapine-treated patients, equivalent to 1.1%, developed seizures.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAID), such as indomethacin, reduce production of renal prostaglandins and markedly impair renal function in patients with cirrhosis and ascites. To determine if simultaneous administration of oral prostaglandin analogs minimizes the renal impairment, 10 patients received indomethacin and either misoprostol or placebo in a double-blind, crossover study. Indomethacin reduced urinary sodium from 23 +/- 9 to 8 +/- 4 microEq/min in 4 hours. Misoprostol with indomethacin tended to prevent the fall in urinary sodium (from 35 +/- 15 to 46 +/- 21 microEq/min at 4 hours), but sodium excretion fell to the same level in both groups by 8 hours (6 +/- 3 microEq/min). Indomethacin reduced creatinine clearance in 4 hours by 49%; misoprostol plus indomethacin reduced creatinine clearance by only 34%. Misoprostol tended to minimize or delay the nephrotoxic effects of indomethacin, suggesting that more potent prostaglandin analogs may prevent the renal impairment induced by NSAID.
Bezafibrate is a lipid-lowering drug, chemically related to clofibrate. At its recommended dosage of 200 mg 3 times daily, or alternatively 400 mg once daily as a sustained-release preparation, it produces substantial reductions in plasma triglyceride and cholesterol concentrations in patients with hypertriglyceridaemia and hypercholesterolaemia, respectively. Preliminary investigations indicate that a single daily dose of 400 mg in a sustained-release preparation is as effective as 200 mg 3 times daily. In patients with any type of hyperlipoproteinaemia bezafibrate also increases the plasma HDL-cholesterol concentration. These effects are equivalent in patients with primary hyperlipoproteinaemia or hyperlipoproteinaemia secondary to diabetes or renal disease, although dosage adjustment is important in the latter group. During long term therapy (2 to 4 years) the influence of bezafibrate on the lipid profile is sustained. The lipid-lowering effects of bezafibrate are at least equivalent to those of clofibrate, fenofibrate, colestipol, probucol or sustained release etofibrate. In addition, the increase in HDL-cholesterol tends to be at least as great as with all alternative treatments studied. Bezafibrate is rapidly eliminated, and thus does not accumulate during prolonged administration in patients with normal renal function. Experimental studies have shown bezafibrate to have a complex range of effects on lipoproteins and on the enzymes and receptors involved in lipid metabolism. However, its exact mechanism of lipid-lowering action is unclear. Bezafibrate enhances anticoagulation in hyperlipoproteinaemic patients requiring anticoagulant therapy, and preliminary investigations indicate that it reduces the plasma fibrinogen concentration, especially in patients with hyperfibrinogenaemia. These properties of bezafibrate could contribute to an antiatherogenic effect of the drug, but further investigation is required to establish the drug's potential as chronic therapy in patients with hyperfibrinogenaemic atherosclerosis. Adverse reactions to bezafibrate have largely been restricted to gastrointestinal disturbances, with some cutaneous reactions and central nervous system effects. The incidence of side effects has been no greater than with comparative lipid-lowering drugs. In patients with renal disease, a few cases of marked elevation of serum creatine phosphokinase and myoglobin, and associated muscle cramps, have been reported (diagnosed as rhabdomyolysis). Hepatic enzyme induction by bezafibrate in rats results in hepatomegaly, but there has been no case of significant hepatotoxicity in man.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The use of illicit drugs, specifically heroin and cocaine, complicates trauma patient management and consumes extensive hospital resources. This paper focuses on heroin- and cocaine-related injuries observed by physicians at Detroit Receiving Hospital, a large urban Level I trauma center. The pharmaceutical effects, mode of administration, and the manner in which these drugs affect diagnosis and treatment of injuries are documented and discussed. Specific drug-related complications associated with overdose, soft-tissue infections, bacterial endocarditis (therapy resistant), vascular thromboses, vascular aneurysms, vasoconstriction, stroke, cardiac arrhythmias, muscle ischemia, and solid-organ abscesses are also analyzed. Illicit drug use significantly complicates initial diagnosis and trauma management and is associated with severe adverse pathophysiologic effects. Currently, prevention efforts, such as interventions in trauma centers, should be considered as the most efficient and feasible way to prevent injury recidivism in this patient population. We also conclude that legislative change may be the answer in reducing or preventing the horrendous problems caused by illicit drugs.
We report four cases of rhabdomyolysis and severe, disabling myopathy associated with HMG CoA reductase-inhibitor therapy. Patient developed symptoms following the addition of roxithromycin to combination lipid-lowering therapy with simvastatin and gemfibrozil. Patients 2 and 3 became symptomatic after developing acute on chronic renal impairment while taking simvastatin. The muscle biopsy of patient 3 revealed a necrotizing myopathy and the presence of inclusion bodies. Patient 4 developed symptoms within 4 weeks of starting cerivastatin monotherapy. The four cases illustrate the importance of considering the potential for drug interactions and making appropriate dosage adjustments for renal insufficiency in patients receiving HMG CoA reductase therapy.
