The SCN8A gene on chromosome 12q13 encodes the voltage gated sodium channel Na(v)1.6, which is widely expressed in neurons of the CNS and PNS. Mutations in the mouse ortholog of SCN8A result in ataxia and other movement disorders.
We screened the 26 coding exons of SCN8A in 151 patients with inherited or sporadic ataxia.
A 2 bp deletion in exon 24 was identified in a 9 year old boy with mental retardation, pancerebellar atrophy, and ataxia. This mutation, Pro1719ArgfsX6, introduces a translation termination codon into the pore loop of domain 4, resulting in removal of the C-terminal cytoplasmic domain and predicted loss of channel function. Three additional heterozygotes in the family exhibit milder cognitive and behavioural deficits including attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). No additional occurrences of this mutation were observed in 625 unrelated DNA samples (1250 chromosomes).
The phenotypes of the heterozygous individuals suggest that mutations in SCN8A may result in motor and cognitive deficits of variable expressivity, but the study was limited by lack of segregation in the small pedigree and incomplete information about family members. Identification of additional families will be required to confirm the contribution of the SCN8A mutation to the clinical features in ataxia, cognition and behaviour disorders.
The aim of this experiment was to evaluate the potential beneficial effect of supplementation with different inulin-type fructan fractions against common features of the metabolic syndrome in a rat model of this syndrome (fructose-fed rat).
Forty Wistar rats were randomly divided into five groups and the animals received for 4 weeks either a semi-purified starch or fructose-based diet, or diets in which fructose was partially substituted with various fructans: 10 g/100 g of long-chain inulin or oligofructose, or an oligofructose-enriched inulin. After this period, blood pressure was measured and samples of blood and tissues were collected for selected biochemical analyses.
As compared to the starch-fed group, the fructose-fed rats presented: hypertriglyceridemia, hypertension, increased susceptibility to heart peroxidation and renal damages. Long-chain inulin and oligofructose-enriched inulin supplementation prevented fructose induced elevated blood pressure, susceptibility to heart peroxidation and renal damages. All inulin-type fructans containing diets prevented fructose induced hypertriglyceridemia.
These results suggest that supplementation with inulin-type fructans is efficient against fructose induced hypertension and that effects are most pronounced for long-chain inulin and oligofructose-enriched inulin. We hypothesize that the anti-hypertensive effect of inulin could be explained by the reduction of the high fructose induced oxidative stress.
Prominin1 (Prom1, also known as CD133 in human) has been widely used as a marker for cancer stem cells (CSCs), which self-renew and are tumorigenic, in malignant tumors including glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). However, there is other evidence showing that Prom1-negative cancer cells also form tumors in vivo. Thus it remains controversial whether Prom1 is a bona fide marker for CSCs. To verify if Prom1-expressing cells are essential for tumorigenesis, we established a mouse line, whose Prom1-expressing cells can be eliminated conditionally by a Cre-inducible DTA gene on the Prom1 locus together with a tamoxifen-inducible CreER(TM), and generated glioma-initiating cells (GICs-LD) by overexpressing both the SV40 Large T antigen and an oncogenic H-Ras(L61) in neural stem cells of the mouse line. We show here that the tamoxifen-treated GICs-LD (GICs-DTA) form tumor-spheres in culture and transplantable GBM in vivo. Thus, our studies demonstrate that Prom1-expressing cells are dispensable for gliomagenesis in this mouse model.
To prevent hemorrhagic cystitis, mesna is typically injected intravenously (i.v.) at the time of an ifosfamide dose and 4 and 8 h later. To simplify outpatient ifosfamide therapy, we gave the second and third mesna doses orally.
The mesna doses (400 or 600 mg/m2) were 40% (w/w) of each ifosfamide dose (1.0 or 1.5 g/m2), which was given daily for 5 days. We evaluated urinary mesna excretion and plasma concentrations in ten patients from the beginning of mesna infusion until the time of the second oral dose. The first oral dose was administered at hour 2 in the last six patients to allow time for absorption of mesna.
The rate and amount of mesna excretion was less variable over time and among patients after oral than after i.v. administration. No macrohematuria was observed in these ten patients nor in an additional 50 patients given oral mesna at hours 2 and 8 during at least two cycles of ifosfamide therapy.
These pharmacokinetic and clinical efficacy data support the use of a combined regimen of i.v. and oral mesna to simplify outpatient ifosfamide administration.
The prognostic importance of baseline urines for cocaine was examined in a randomized, placebo-controlled, twelve-week clinical trial in 165 opioid- and cocaine-dependent patients who were treated with desipramine (DMI) in combination with buprenorphine (BUP) or methadone (Meth). Patients with a cocaine-positive urine at baseline (CU+) had significantly fewer cocaine-free urines than those with a negative urine at baseline (CU-neg). The CU+ patients showed a treatment effect of DMI. This DMI effect was significant in patients maintained on BUP but not on Meth.
Dang-Gui-Ji-Hwang Yeum (DGJHY; an Oriental prescription), has been successfully used for the management of osteoporotic disorders in China, Japan and Korea. In this study, we have characterized the effect of DGJHY on osteoporosis-associated phenomena in ovariectomized (OVX) rats by measuring body weights and bone histomorphometries in sham, OVX and DGJHY-administered OVX rats. Light microscopic analyses showed a porous or an eroded appearance on the tibial trabecular bone surface in OVX rats, whereas those of the sham and DGJHY-administered OVX rats were composed of fine particles. The trabecular bone area and the trabecular thickness in OVX rats were significantly lower than those of sham rats. Moreover, these reductions in OVX rats were significantly reversed by the administration of DGJHY for 7 weeks, and osteoclast numbers were also significantly reduced. Although no differences were observed between OVX and DGJHY-administered OVX rats and the sham animals at the T3 level, we have found significant differences between these two groups at the T4 level. However, serum phosphorus, calcium, mechanical strength and the surface appearance of osteoblasts in the DGJHY-administered OVX rats were similar to those of OVX rats. These results suggest that DGJHY is effective at preventing bone loss in OVX rats.
1. Intra-arterial blood pressures and heart rates were recorded in conscious, unrestrained, Long Evans and Brattleboro rats receiving sequential, continuous administrations of selective alpha 1- (prazosin) and alpha 2- (idazoxan) adrenoceptor antagonists. The same protocols were also run in the presence of ICI 118551 (a selective antagonist of beta 2-adrenoceptors). 2. Prazosin and idazoxan caused large, but transient, hypotensions in Long Evans and Brattleboro rats. In the continued presence of both drugs there were marked, intermittent, depressor episodes and tachycardias in both strains of rat. 3. In the presence of low or high doses of ICI 118551 the hypotensive responses to prazosin and idazoxan were markedly reduced in both strains of rat and blood pressures showed little variability, although intermittent tachycardias still occurred. 4. In adrenal-demedullated Long Evans rats, the hypotensive responses to prazosin and idazoxan were attenuated and in the presence of both drugs, blood pressure was relatively steady, although intermittent tachycardias still occurred. 5. In the presence of prazosin and idazoxan, when a depressor episode was not occurring, administration of captopril caused hypotension in Long Evans and Brattleboro rats. In the latter, the reduction in blood pressure was sustained, whereas there was a recovery in blood pressure in Long Evans rats. This recovery was punctuated by depressor episodes, and was abolished by a V1-receptor antagonist (d(CH2)5DAVP). 6. Long Evans rats given two primed doses of the non-selective alpha-adrenoceptor antagonist, phentolamine, exhibited variation in blood pressure similar to that seen in the presence of prazosin and idazoxan. As in the latter case, blood pressure variability was inhibited by the beta 2-adrenoceptor antagonist, ICI 118551. 7. Administration of idazoxan into a lateral ventricle in Long Evans rats receiving phenoxybenzamine intravenously did not cause blood pressure instability. However, intravenous administration of idazoxan in the same animals produced intermittent depressor episodes and tachycardias similar to those seen in the presence of prazosin and idazoxan. 8. The simplest explanation of the results is that beta 2-adrenoceptor-mediated depressor mechanisms contribute to the hypotensive responses to alpha 1- and alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonism. Furthermore, in the presence of adequate peripheral alpha 1- and alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonism, blood pressure may be maintained by the renin-angiotensin system and vasopressin (although it is only when the former system has been antagonized that a clear-cut pressor action of vasopressin is apparent). Under these conditions, blood pressure maintenance is interrupted by intermittent depressor episodes that are largely due to adrenal medullary activation.
We tested the hypothesis that the solvent for etomidate was a factor in the incidence of pain and other side effects after injection, and that these were associated with histamine release. Nine of 10 volunteers who received etomidate in a propylene glycol formulation reported moderate to severe pain on injection; only one of 10 subjects who received a lipid emulsion formulation reported mild pain (P < 0.05). The incidence of venous sequelae in the injected vein over the next 8 days was 50% in the propylene glycol group and 0% in the lipid emulsion group (P < 0.05). In one volunteer in the propylene group, there was a 13-fold increase in histamine concentrations and in one subject a four-fold increase. In the lipid emulsion group, no volunteer had an increase in histamine concentrations > 1 ng ml-1. We conclude that etomidate formulated in propylene glycol may cause direct injury to vascular endothelium resulting in pain and venous sequelae, whereas etomidate in lipid emulsion does not. There was no relationship between pain or venous sequelae and histamine release.
To begin identifying genes controlling individual susceptibility to particulate matter, responses of inbred mouse strains exposed to nickel sulfate (NiSO4*) were compared with those of mice exposed to ozone (O3) or polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE). The A strain was sensitive to NiSO4-induced lung injury (quantified by survival time), the C3H/He (C3) strain and several other strains were intermediate in their responses, and the C57BL/6 (B6) strain was resistant. The strains showed a pattern of response similar to the patterns of response to O3 and PTFE. The phenotype of A x B6 offspring (B6AF1) resembled that of the resistant B6 parental strain, with strains exhibiting sensitivity in the order A > C3 > B6 = B6AF1. Pathology was comparable for the A and B6 mice, and exposure to NiSO4 at 15 microg/m3 produced 20% mortality in A mice. Strain sensitivity for the presence of protein or neutrophils in lavage fluid differed from strain sensitivity for survival time, suggesting that they are not causally linked but are controlled by an independent gene or genes. In the B6 strain, exposure to nickel oxide (NiO) by instillation (40 to 1000 nm) or inhalation (50 nm) produced no changes, whereas inhalation of NiSO4 (60 or 250 nm) increased lavage proteins and neutrophils. Complementary DNA (cDNA) microarray analysis with 8,734 sequence-verified clones revealed a temporal pattern of increased oxidative stress, extracellular matrix repair, cell proliferation, and hypoxia, followed by a decrease in surfactant-associated proteins (SPs). Certain expressed sequence tags (ESTs), clustered with known genes, suggest possible coregulation and novel roles in pulmonary injury. Finally, locus number estimation (Wright equation) and a genomewide analysis suggested 5 genes could explain the survival time and identified significant linkage for a quantitative trait locus (QTL) on chromosome 6, Aliq4 (acute lung injury QTL4). Haplotype analysis identified an allelic combination of 5 QTLs that could explain the difference in sensitivity to acute lung injury between parental strains. Positional candidate genes for Aliq4 include aquaporin-1 (Aqp1), SP-B, and transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha). Transgenic mice expressing TGF-alpha were rescued from NiSO4 injury (that is, they had diminished SP-B loss and increased survival time). These findings suggest that NiSO4-induced acute lung injury is a complex trait controlled by at least 5 genes (all possibly involved in cell proliferation and surfactant function). Future assessment of these susceptibility genes (including evaluations of human synteny and function) could provide valuable insights into individual susceptibility to the adverse effects of particulate matter.
Acne occurs from an overstimulation of the sebaceous glands by high levels of androgens or because sebaceous glands are hypersensitive to normal levels of testosterone. In women with moderate acne, norgestimate (NG) in association with ethinyl estradiol (EE) is acknowledged as an effective treatment; this is related to the effect of oral contraceptives on androgen production and transport. However, the antiandrogenic properties of NG itself have been poorly studied.
The present work was undertaken to find out whether NG and its derivative, 17-deacetylnorgestimate (dNG), present antiandrogen activity. First, we studied the effect of NG and dNG on the intracellular localization of green fluorescent protein (GFP)-labeled androgen receptor (AR). Then, we compared the AR activity of NG and dNG with that of cyproterone acetate (CPA), a gold-standard antiandrogenic compound, by investigating competitive binding, antagonist activity and transactivation level of AR.
NG and dNG decreased GFP-AR nuclear translocation, revealing their antiandrogenic property, as for CPA. In the whole cell competition assay performed in a human cell line stably expressing an AR-responsive luminescent reporter gene (PALM cells) with (3)H-labeled R1881 as tracer, NG and dNG were slightly stronger competitors than the antiandrogen CPA. Half-maximal inhibition (K(i)) of (3)H-labeled R1881 (10(-9) M) binding occurred at 4.2 +/- 0.5 x 10(-8) M of NG, 3.4 +/- 0.4 x 10(-8) M of dNG and 6.6 +/- 0.8 x 10(-8) M of CPA. Comparison of antagonist activities of NG, dNG and CPA on AR transactivation levels showed that NG, dNG and CPA inhibited androgen-induced luciferase activity in PALM cells. We observed slight and similar inhibition with 6 x 10(-8) M respectively of NG, dNG and CPA. For the three compounds, the best inhibitory effect was found at 3 x 10(-7) M: 24% for NG and dNG vs. 47% for CPA. The antiandrogenic activity of NG and dNG was found to be 50% that of CPA.
In a human androgen-dependent stable-transfected cell line, a useful tool for studying AR transcriptional activity and its subnuclear localization in the presence of androgens and antiandrogens, we demonstrated that NG and dNG have antiandrogenic properties that could partly explain the efficacy of NG in association with EE for the treatment of moderate acne in women.
An outbreak of tuberculosis occurred over a 3-year period in a medium-size community in British Columbia, Canada. The results of mycobacterial interspersed repetitive unit-variable-number tandem-repeat (MIRU-VNTR) genotyping suggested the outbreak was clonal. Traditional contact tracing did not identify a source. We used whole-genome sequencing and social-network analysis in an effort to describe the outbreak dynamics at a higher resolution.
We sequenced the complete genomes of 32 Mycobacterium tuberculosis outbreak isolates and 4 historical isolates (from the same region but sampled before the outbreak) with matching genotypes, using short-read sequencing. Epidemiologic and genomic data were overlaid on a social network constructed by means of interviews with patients to determine the origins and transmission dynamics of the outbreak.
Whole-genome data revealed two genetically distinct lineages of M. tuberculosis with identical MIRU-VNTR genotypes, suggesting two concomitant outbreaks. Integration of social-network and phylogenetic analyses revealed several transmission events, including those involving "superspreaders." Both lineages descended from a common ancestor and had been detected in the community before the outbreak, suggesting a social, rather than genetic, trigger. Further epidemiologic investigation revealed that the onset of the outbreak coincided with a recorded increase in crack cocaine use in the community.
Through integration of large-scale bacterial whole-genome sequencing and social-network analysis, we show that a socioenvironmental factor--most likely increased crack cocaine use--triggered the simultaneous expansion of two extant lineages of M. tuberculosis that was sustained by key members of a high-risk social network. Genotyping and contact tracing alone did not capture the true dynamics of the outbreak. (Funded by Genome British Columbia and others.).
Using 31p-NMR (the phosphorus nuclear magnetic resonance) spectroscopy, we measured intracellular free Mg levels in the erythrocytes of untreated (n = 7) and diltiazem-treated spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) (n = 8), and compared them with age-matched Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY) (n = 10). The intracellular free Mg levels were significantly (p less than 0.01) decreased in untreated SHR compared with those in control WKY. A successful antihypertensive treatment with diltiazem increased the intracellular free Mg levels compared with untreated SHR (p less than 0.05). Furthermore, an inverse correlation was observed between intracellular free Mg levels and blood pressure levels in all groups (r = -0.48, p less than 0.01, n = 25). These observations suggest that abnormalities of intracellular Mg metabolism may be, in part, related to the development or the maintenance of hypertension in SHR.
The actions of sodium 4-hydroxybutyrate, gamma-aminobutyric acid and meprobamate have been studied in unanaesthetized animals, in local anaesthetic tests, on isolated organ preparations, on convulsions induced by picrotoxin and strychnine, and on monosynaptic (patellar) and polysynaptic (plantar) reflexes of the spinal cord. Sodium 4-hydroxybutyrate induced a sleep-like state with three unusual features: the righting reflex was remarkably persistent, respiration was good throughout and recovery was abrupt. gamma-Aminobutyric acid was inactive and meprobamate caused flaccid paralysis with loss of the righting reflex. None of the agents affected the responses of the rat diaphragm either to direct stimulation of the muscle or to indirect stimulation through the phrenic nerve. Only meprobamate reduced the responses of theguinea-pig isolated ileum preparation, showed local anaesthetic action and had an anticonvulsant action. All three compounds were capable, after intravenous or topical application, of blocking plantar reflexes in doses which did not affect the patellar reflex. The spinal animal responded in the same way, to the same dose of sodium 4-hydroxybutyrate, as the decerebrate preparation. Topical application to the motor cortex had no effect on spinal reflexes. We conclude that sodium 4-hydroxybutyrate acts preferentially on the internuncial neurones in the spinal cord but differs from meprobamate in its other actions. The similarity between the actions of sodium 4-hydroxybutyrate and of gamma-aminobutyric acid provides furtherevidence in support of the hypothesis that sodium 4-hydroxybutyrate is involved in the gamma-aminobutyric acid metabolic pathways.
Recent evidence suggests an important role for NO in cholinergic models of epilepsy. Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase (NADPHd), a marker of NO containing neurons, was shown to intensely colocalize with GABA in double-labeling studies performed in the hippocampal formation (exception made for the pyramidal cell layer) (Valtschanoff et al., J Comp Neurol 1993:331:111-121). In this sense, it further characterizes an extremely important cell category due to the relevant involvement of inhibitory systems in the mechanisms of genesis and propagation of seizures. Here, we assessed the histochemistry for NADPHd in the hippocampal complex of chronic pilocarpine-epileptic animals. NADPHd-positive cells were lost in almost every hippocampal subfield in pilocarpine-treated rats. The central portion of the polymorphic layer of the dentate gyrus (hilus) presented one of the highest losses of NADPHd-positive cells (55-79%) in the hippocampus. A significant loss of NADPHd-positive cells was seen in strata oriens, pyramidale, and radiatum CA1, CA2, and CA3 subfields. NADPHd staining in the subicular pyramidal cell layer was not different from that observed in controls. A significant loss of NADPHd-stained cells was observed in entorhinal cortex layers II and III in the epileptic group. For entorhinal cortex layers V and VI, however, results varied from an almost complete tissue destruction to an overexpression of NADPHd-positive cells, as well as an increase in neuropil staining. In summary, loss of NADPHd staining was not uniform throughout the hippocampal formation. There has been a growing support for the notion that GABAergic neurons in the hippocampal formation are not equally sensitive to insults. Our results suggest that, as a marker for a subpopulation of GABAergic neurons, NADPHd helps in further refining the characterization of the different neuronal populations sensitive to epileptic activity.
Recent studies with intravenous infusion of the NMDA receptor antagonist ketamine showed robust and rapid antidepressant effects within hours after treatment. Ketamine is a racemic mixture consisting of two enantiomers, R- and S-ketamine. In contrast to ketamine, S-ketamine is reported to be less prone to psychomimetic side effects, such as derealisation and hallucinations. In this report we describe the effect of ketamine and S-ketamine infusion therapy, respectively, in two patients with treatment-resistant major depression. Severity of depression was rated using the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAMD) and the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI). While one patient did not respond to either treatment, in the other patient intravenous administration of ketamine as well as S-ketamine showed an antidepressant effect as assessed by a decrease in HAMD-21 and BDI at days 1 and 3 after infusion which faded until day 6. Both patients experienced psychomimetic side effects during ketamine infusion which were absent during treatment with S-ketamine. We conclude that S-ketamine might exert similar antidepressant effects as ketamine in drug-resistant depression but may be better tolerated by the patients.
Juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia is a lethal disease of children characterized by hypersensitivity of hematopoietic progenitors to granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor. Mutations in PTPN11, the gene encoding the protein tyrosine phosphatase Shp2, are common in juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia and induce hyperactivation of the phosphoinositide-3-kinase pathway. We found that genetic disruption of Pik3r1, the gene encoding the Class IA phosphoinositide-3-kinase regulatory subunits p85α, p55α and p50α, significantly reduced hyperproliferation and hyperphosphorylation of Akt in gain-of-function Shp2 E76K-expressing cells. Elevated protein levels of the phosphoinositide-3-kinase catalytic subunit, p110δ, in the Shp2 E76K-expressing Pik3r1-/- cells suggest that p110δ may be a crucial mediator of mutant Shp2-induced phosphoinositide-3-kinase hyperactivation. Consistently, treatment with the p110δ-specific inhibitor, IC87114, or the clinical grade pan-phosphoinositide-3-kinase inhibitor, GDC-0941, reduced granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor hypersensitivity. Treatment with the farnesyltransferase inhibitor, tipifarnib, showed that Shp2 E76K induces hyperactivation of phosphoinositide-3-kinase by both Ras-dependent and Ras-independent mechanisms. Collectively, these findings implicate Class IA phosphoinositide-3-kinase as a relevant molecular target in juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia.
Genetic defects in the Rab27a or Munc13-4 gene lead to immunodeficiencies in humans, characterized by frequent viral and bacterial infections. However, the role of Rab27a and Munc13-4 in the regulation of systemic inflammation initiated by Gram-negative bacterium-derived pathogenic molecules is currently unknown. Using a model of lipopolysaccharide-induced systemic inflammation, we show that Rab27a-deficient (Rab27a(ash/ash)) mice are resistant to lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced death, while Munc13-4-deficient (Munc13-4(jinx/jinx)) mice show only moderate protection. Rab27a(ash/ash) but not Munc13-4(jinx/jinx) mice showed significantly decreased tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) plasma levels after LPS administration. Neutrophil sequestration in lungs from Rab27a(ash/ash) and Munc13-4(jinx/jinx) LPS-treated mice was similar to that observed for wild-type mice. In contrast, Rab27a- but not Munc13-4-deficient mice showed decreased neutrophil infiltration in liver and failed to undergo LPS-induced neutropenia. Decreased liver infiltration in Rab27a(ash/ash) mice was accompanied by lower CD44 but normal CD11a and CD11b expression in neutrophils. Both Rab27a- and Munc13-4-deficient mice showed decreased azurophilic granule secretion in vivo, suggesting that impaired liver infiltration and improved survival in Rab27a(ash/ash) mice is not fully explained by deficient exocytosis of this granule subset. Altogether, our data indicate that Rab27a but not Munc13-4 plays an important role in neutrophil recruitment to liver and LPS-induced death during endotoxemia, thus highlighting a previously unrecognized role for Rab27a in LPS-mediated systemic inflammation.
Based on a single clinical trial, it has been suggested that the contrast agent iodixanol, which is isotonic to human plasma, may be less nephrotoxic than other nonionic contrast agents in renally impaired patients after intra-arterial injection. We compared the effects on renal function of iopamidol-370 injection (796 mOsm/kg) and iodixanol-320 (290 mOsm/kg) in patients with chronic kidney disease undergoing contrast-enhanced multidetector computed tomography (CE-MDCT) examinations using a multicenter, double-blind, randomized, parallel-group design.
A total of 166 patients with stable moderate-to-severe chronic kidney disease (screening and baseline serum creatinine, SCr, > or =1.5 mg/dL and/or creatinine clearance, CrCl, < or =60 mL/min) who were undergoing CE-MDCT of the liver or peripheral arteries were randomized to receive equi-iodine IV doses (40 gI) of either iopamidol-370 (370 mgI/mL) or iodixanol-320 (320 mgI/mL) at 4 mL/s. SCr and CrCl were obtained at screening, baseline, and at 48-72 +/- 6 hours after dose (mean, 57.4 hours). Contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) was defined as an absolute increase > or =0.5 mg/dL (44.2 micromol/L) and/or a relative increase in SCr > or =25% from baseline.
A total of 153 patients were included in the final analysis (13 patients excluded because of lack of follow-up, hemodialysis to remove contrast, average daily CrCl variation >1% at screening). The 2 study groups were comparable with regard to age, gender distribution, the presence of diabetes, concomitant medications, hydration, and contrast dose. Mean predose SCr was 1.6 +/- 0.4 mg/dL in both groups (P = 0.9). An absolute increase > or =0.5 mg/dL (44.2 micromol/L) in SCr was observed in none of the patients receiving iopamidol-370 and in 2.6% (2/76) of patients receiving iodixanol-320 (95% confidence interval -6.2, 1.0, P = 0.2). A relative increase > or =25% in SCr occurred in 4% (3/77) of patients receiving iopamidol-370 and in 4% (3/76) of the patients receiving iodixanol-320 (95% confidence interval -6.2, 6.1, P = 1.0).
The rate of CIN was similarly low in risk patients after intravenous administration of iopamidol-370 or iodixanol-320 for CE-MDCT.
To identify risk variants for multiple myeloma, we conducted a genome-wide association study of 1,675 individuals with multiple myeloma and 5,903 control subjects. We identified risk loci for multiple myeloma at 3p22.1 (rs1052501 in ULK4; odds ratio (OR) = 1.32; P = 7.47 × 10(-9)) and 7p15.3 (rs4487645, OR = 1.38; P = 3.33 × 10(-15)). In addition, we observed a promising association at 2p23.3 (rs6746082, OR = 1.29; P = 1.22 × 10(-7)). Our study identifies new genomic regions associated with multiple myeloma risk that may lead to new etiological insights.
Hypothalamic orexin (hypocretin) neurons project to the key structures of the limbic system and orexin receptors, both orexin receptor type 1 (OXR1) and type 2 (OXR2), are expressed in most limbic regions. Emerging evidence suggests that orexin is among important neurotransmitters that regulate addictive properties of drugs of abuse. In this study, we examined the effect of psychostimulant cocaine on orexin receptor protein abundance in the rat limbic system in vivo. Intermittent administration of cocaine (20 mg/kg, i.p., once daily for 5 days) caused a typical behavioral sensitization response to a challenge cocaine injection at a 14-day withdrawal period. Repeated cocaine administration at the same withdrawal time also increased OXR2 protein levels in the nucleus accumbens while repeated cocaine had no effect on OXR1 and orexin neuropeptide (both orexin-A and orexin-B) levels in this region. In contrast to the nucleus accumbens, OXR2 levels in the frontal cortex, the ventral tegmental area, the hippocampus, and the dorsal striatum (caudate putamen) were not altered by cocaine. Remarkably, the up-regulated OXR2 levels in the nucleus accumbens showed a long-lasting nature as it persisted up to 60 days after the discontinuation of repeated cocaine treatments. In contrast to chronic cocaine administration, an acute cocaine injection was insufficient to modify levels of any orexin receptor and peptide. Our data identify the up-regulation of OXR2 in the nucleus accumbens as an enduring molecular event that is correlated well with behavioral plasticity in response to chronic psychostimulant administration. This OXR2 up-regulation may reflect a key adaptation of limbic orexinergic transmission to chronic drug exposure and may thus be critical for the expression of motor plasticity.
The data concerning post-menopausal hormone replacement therapy (HRT) were recently completely modified. The aim of this review is to present the last studies about post-menopausal HRT and to describe new alternatives to this treatment.
In May 2002, the women's health initiative (WHI) trial of post-menopausal HRT was interrupted earlier than expected. The studied hormonal formulation in this arm of the WHI trial was the association of conjugated equine estrogens and medroxyprogesterone. The reason for termination was an increased risk of breast cancer and myocardial infarction in the hormone-therapy group. Later, reports confirmed that this type of HRT could not be used any more for the primary prevention of coronary heart disease even if the absolute risk remained low. There is an increased risk for venous thromboembolism with post-menopausal estroprogestative replacement. This risk does not seem to exist with transdermal estrogens. The other WHI findings concerned the lack of protection against dementia and cognitive decline. On the contrary, osteoporotic hip fractures and colorectal cancers were reduced in the treated group. In April 2004, the estrogen only arm of the same WHI study was also prematurely interrupted because of an increase in the incidence of stroke. The risk of breast cancer was on the contrary not increased after 6.8 years, raising the question of the eventual role of progestins.
The impact of the WHI trial on clinical practice was very important since then. The "Agence Francaise de sécurité sanitaire des produits de santé" (AFSSAPS) edited in May 2004 a public recommendation limiting indication for HRT to patients with severe climacteric symptoms. The treatment must now be prescribed for the shortest time and at the minimal dose. The patient has to be precisely informed about the risks with HRT and the practitioner has to re-evaluate his prescription annually. Hormonal or non-hormonal alternatives have also to be considered as phytoestrogens and tibolone for hot flashes, and raloxifene and diphosphonates for osteoporosis prevention. In any case, a healthy diet, exercise and smoking cessation should be encouraged.
Tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) is involved in non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug induced gastropathy. Nitric oxide (NO) is a mediator of gastrointestinal mucosal defence but, paradoxically, it also contributes to mucosal damage.
We optimised the C57BL/6 mouse model of indomethacin induced gastropathy to evaluate the role of TNF-alpha and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) generated NO in gastric damage and granulocyte infiltration using tumour necrosis factor receptor 1 (TNF-R1-/-) or iNOS (iNOS-/-) deficient mice.
Different doses of indomethacin (2.5, 5, 10, 20 mg/kg) were administered and animals were assessed 6, 12, or 24 hours later. Gastric damage was measured by the sum of all erosions in the gastric mucosa, and gastric granulocyte infiltration was determined by myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity. Other groups of wild-type mice received thalidomide, dexamethasone, fucoidin, L-NAME, or 1400W, and then indomethacin was administered. Additionally, indomethacin was administered to TNF-R1-/- or iNOS-/-. Gastric damage and MPO activity were evaluated 12 hours later.
Indomethacin induced dose and time dependent gastric damage and increase in MPO activity in wild-type mice, with the greatest effect at a dose of 10 mg/kg and after 12 hours. Treatment with thalidomide, dexamethasone, or fucoidin reduced gastric damage and MPO activity induced by indomethacin. After indomethacin administration, TNF-R1-/- had less gastric damage and MPO activity than controls. Genetic (knockout mice) or pharmacological (1400W and L-NAME) inhibition of iNOS activity reduced indomethacin induced gastric damage, despite no reduction in MPO activity.
TNF-alpha, acting via TNF-R1, is involved in indomethacin induced gastric damage and granulocyte infiltration. Furthermore, iNOS generated NO is involved in gastric damage induced by indomethacin.
