Arterial thromboembolism is a recognized complication of systemic heparin therapy. Characteristic of the entity is arterial occlusion by platelet-fibrin thrombi with distal ischemia occurring four to twenty days after the initiation of heparin therapy, preceded by profound thrombocytopenia with platelet counts in the range of 30,000 to 40,000 per cubic millimeter. The clinically apparent occlusion may be preceded by gastrointestinal and musculoskeletal symptoms that appear to be ischemic in origin, and might serve to warn the clinician of these complications. Previous reports of these phenomena as well as recent studies of the effect of heparin are reviewed. The common factor relating thromboembolism and thrombocytopenia is heparin-induced platelet aggregation. Appropriate treatment consists of discontinuation of heparin, and anticoagulation with sodium warfarin if necessary. Vascular procedures are performed as indicated.
A 63-year-old man underwent distal oesophagectomy and proximal gastrectomy. Postoperatively, controlled ventilation was necessary for 53 days because of anastomotic leakage. Multiple sedative regimens proved to be inadequate. By contrast, a fentanyl-midazolam combination with continuous supplementation of clonidine 0.014 micrograms kg-1 min-1 (1.44 mg 70 kg-1 24 h-1) was very effective in terms of sedation and pain relief. During combined fentanyl-midazolam and clonidine infusion, cardiovascular depression gradually developed over several days necessitating the institution of a dobutamine infusion (dose: 8-12 micrograms kg-1 min-1). Four attempts of abrupt clonidine withdrawal were followed by sympathetic overshoot reactions consisting of tachycardia, hypertension, agitation, and sweating. Discontinuation of clonidine was finally possible after a 12-day weaning period.
Friedreich's ataxia (FRDA), the most common recessive ataxia in Caucasians, is due to severely reduced levels of frataxin, a highly conserved protein, that result from a large GAA triplet repeat expansion within the first intron of the frataxin gene (FXN). Typical marks of heterochromatin are found near the expanded GAA repeat in FRDA patient cells and mouse models. Histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACIs) with a pimelic diphenylamide structure and HDAC3 specificity can decondense the chromatin structure at the FXN gene and restore frataxin levels in cells from FRDA patients and in a GAA repeat based FRDA mouse model, KIKI, providing an appealing approach for FRDA therapeutics.
In an effort to further improve the pharmacological profile of pimelic diphenylamide HDACIs as potential therapeutics for FRDA, we synthesized additional compounds with this basic structure and screened them for HDAC3 specificity. We characterized two of these compounds, 136 and 109, in FRDA patients' peripheral blood lymphocytes and in the KIKI mouse model. We tested their ability to upregulate frataxin at a range of concentrations in order to determine a minimal effective dose. We then determined in both systems the duration of effect of these drugs on frataxin mRNA and protein, and on total and local histone acetylation. The effects of these compounds exceeded the time of direct exposure in both systems.
Our results support the pre-clinical development of a therapeutic approach based on pimelic diphenylamide HDACIs for FRDA and provide information for the design of future human trials of these drugs, suggesting an intermittent administration of the drug.
Familial hypobetalipoproteinaemia is a rare autosomal dominant disorder in which levels of apo-B-containing plasma lipoproteins are approximately half-normal in heterozygotes and virtually absent in homozygotes. Here we describe mutations of the apo-B gene that cause two different truncated variants of apo-B in unrelated individuals with hypobetalipoproteinaemia. One variant, apo-B(His1795----Met-Trp-Leu-Val-Thr-Term) is predicted to be 1799 amino acids long and arises from deletion of a single nucleotide (G) from leucine codon 1794. This protein was found at low levels in very low density and low density lipoprotein fractions in the blood. The second, shorter variant, apo-B(Arg1306----Term), is caused by mutation of a CpG dinucleotide in arginine codon 1306 converting it to a stop codon and predicting a protein of 1305 residues. The product of this allele could not be detected in the circulation. The differences in size and behaviour of these two variants compared to apo-B100 or apo-B48 point to domains that may be important for the assembly, secretion or stability of apo-B-containing lipoproteins.
Exposure to hexavalent chromium Cr(VI) compounds is of concern in many Cr-related industries and their surrounding environments. K(2)Cr(2)O(7) is widely recognized as an animal and human carcinogen, mutagen, and teratogen. The present study investigated the bone maturity of suckling rats whose mothers were treated with K(2)Cr(2)O(7). Experiments were carried out on female Wistar rats given 700 ppm of K(2)Cr(2)O(7) in their drinking water from the 14th day of pregnancy until day 14 after delivery. Exposing dams to K(2)Cr(2)O(7) caused disorders in the bone of their progeny. As corollary to this, malondialdehyde levels increased, while glutathione, a non-protein thiol and vitamin C decreased. Alteration of the antioxidant system in the treated group was also confirmed by the significant decline of superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione peroxidase activities. Furthermore, K(2)Cr(2)O(7) induced changes in bone mineralization, especially calcium and phosphorus levels, which decreased. Whereas, in plasma and urine, they increased and decreased inversely. These results suggest that K(2)Cr(2)O(7) accelerated bone resorption activity. In fact, in treated pups, total tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase, which reflected bone resorption, was enhanced while total alkaline phosphatase, which reflected bone formation, was reduced. The impairment of bone function was corresponded histologically.
Phenobarbital (PB) is a potent tumor promoter in rodent liver. In this study we investigated whether PB selectively promotes a population of initiated cells with reduced levels of transforming growth factor-beta (TGF beta) receptors types I, II and III. Liver tumors were induced in male Fischer F344 rats by diethylnitrosamine (DEN). Following induction the animals were divided into PB-treated (DEN/PB) and untreated groups (DEN). After 3 months of treatment half of the PB-treated rats were removed from PB for the final month (DEN/PB/OFF). At 4 months, the livers from rats in the three treatment groups were removed, tumors excised and frozen with matched surrounding normal liver tissue. The mRNA levels for the TGF beta receptors types I-III were significantly decreased in tumor tissue from DEN/PB rats when compared with surrounding normal liver tissue or tumors from age-matched untreated controls. In tumors from DEN/PB/OFF rats the TGF beta receptor types I-III were also significantly reduced compared with controls and not different to tumors from DEN/PB rats. There was no difference in the mRNA levels for the TGF beta receptors in tumors from rats exposed to DEN alone, when compared with the surrounding normal tissue. These results demonstrate that PB selectively promotes initiated cells with reduced levels of TGF beta types I-III receptors and suggests a mechanistic role for TGF beta in PB-induced liver tumor promotion.
Numerous case reports have linked clozapine to the development of diabetes mellitus and hyperlipidemia in patients with schizophrenia. However, investigators have been unable to clearly demonstrate this association when compared with a control group receiving conventional antipsychotics.
Medical and pharmacy claims from the Iowa Medicaid program were used to compare incidence rates for diabetes, hyperlipidemia, and hypertension in 552 patients receiving clozapine and 2461 patients receiving conventional antipsychotics (eg, haloperidol, chlorpromazine hydrochloride), with the use of a retrospective cohort design. Logistic regression was used to compare incidence rates adjusting for age, sex, and duration of available follow-up.
No significant differences in overall incidence rates for diabetes, hyperlipidemia, or hypertension were observed in patients receiving clozapine vs conventional antipsychotics. However, among younger patients (aged 20-34 years), clozapine administration was associated with a significantly increased relative risk of diabetes (2.5 [95% confidence interval, 1.2-5.4]) and hyperlipidemia (2.4 [95% confidence interval, 1.1-5.2]), but not hypertension (0.9 [95% confidence interval, 0.4-2.0]).
These data suggest that clozapine may not be an independent cause of diabetes or hyperlipidemia, but instead acts as an effect modifier in susceptible populations by increasing weight or affecting insulin secretion and resistance. This finding requires confirmation in other settings and patient populations and with the other atypical antipsychotics (risperidone, olanzapine, and quetiapine fumarate). The potential long-term medical and economic implications of the early induction of diabetes and hyperlipidemia in patients with schizophrenia warrant further study.
Neurotoxicity is a well-recognized side effect of calcineurin inhibitors. Rapamycin is considered to be significantly less neurotoxic than calcineurin inhibitors (CNIs). The aim of this study was to retrospectively analyze a group of post-liver transplant patients who had been converted to rapamycin because of CNI-related neurotoxicity.
Orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) was performed in 56 consecutive patients between April 1, 2003, and August 15, 2004. Immunosuppression was administered with tacrolimus, mycophenolic acid, and corticosteroids.
Seven patients were converted to rapamycin due to new-onset neurotoxicity or exacerbation of previous neurological symptoms secondary to CNI. None of the patients had toxic levels tacrolimus (>15 ng/mL) at the time of symptoms, which persisted despite reduction of CNI dose. The indications for conversion were: (1) peripheral neuropathy; (2) seizure; (3) metabolic encephalopathy; and (4) central pontine myelinolysis. All patients showed improvement or resolution of their neurological symptoms after conversion to rapamycin. Two patients died, the first due to a hypoxic event and the second due to central pontine myelinolysis with limited improvement and a family decision to withdraw care. There were no complications directly attributed to rapamycin. Specifically, there were no thrombotic events, wound complications, or biliary leaks. Three patients had a rejection episode that was successfully treated with pulse corticosteroids and low-dose tacrolimus (levels < 5 ng/mL).
Rapamycin can be safely used in OLT recipients with severe neurological symptoms ascribed to or exacerbated by CNIs. Rapamycin monotherapy may be inadequate to control rejection early after transplantation. Rapamycin can be combined with low doses of CNI to prevent rejection.
Hypertension and ageing are associated with decreased arterial compliance, increased thickening of the arterial wall, hypertrophy of arterial smooth muscle cells and an increase in the collagen content of the arterial wall. Increased blood pressure has been implicated as a causative factor in such adaptive vascular alterations, however, other factors, including angiotensin II and epidermal growth factor also induce one or more of these adaptations. Long term use of the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor perindopril 1 mg/kg has been shown to reduce blood pressure in spontaneous and renovascular hypertensive rats. Associated with this antihypertensive effect, perindopril completely reversed aortic medial thickening, increased arterial compliance (by 42%) and decreased aortic smooth muscle cell nucleus density (by 13%), but had no significant effect on the elastin: collagen ratio of the arterial wall. In contrast, in spontaneously hypertensive animals, perindopril partially reversed aortic medial thickening and had no significant effect on arterial compliance, despite significantly increasing the arterial wall elastin: collagen ratio in this experimental group. The effect of ACE inhibition appears to directly reflect the role of angiotensin II in the pathogenesis of different hypertensive states.
Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) is a widely administered antibiotic that is well tolerated by most patients. Hypersensitivity reactions and gastrointestinal intolerance are the most common adverse events associated with it. Central nervous system adverse effects such as tremors are less common and occur primarily in patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome. A 29-year-old immunocompetent man developed a tremor while taking TMP-SMX. The tremor resolved within 2 days after the drug was discontinued.
Amphetamine-like appetite suppressants, particularly fenfluramines, have been implicated in the aetiology of primary pulmonary hypertension. At one specialist centre in France 20% of patients with primary pulmonary hypertension had been exposed to fenfluramine. The prevalence of primary pulmonary hypertension associated with fenfluramines and other appetite suppressants in the United Kingdom is unknown. This study was performed to measure prior exposure to appetite suppressants in patients with primary pulmonary hypertension.
Heart lung transplantation centres in England.
United Kingdom residents with proven primary pulmonary hypertension referred for consideration of heart lung transplantation.
Case surveillance study, obtaining data from the hospital and general practitioner's notes and directly from the patients or their relatives.
55 patients were identified. Drug histories were available from hospital records in all patients, from the general practitioner's notes in 51, and from the patients or relatives in 44. Of these, 3 female patients had been exposed to appetite suppressants (2 fenfluramine, 1 diethylpropion): 2 have since died. In each case exposure was brief and apparently predated the development of symptoms by several years.
Exposure of patients with severe primary pulmonary hypertension to fenfluramine and other appetite suppressants is uncommon in the United Kingdom unlike in France, where most of the cases associating primary pulmonary hypertension with fenfluramine use have originated. This may reflect more conservative prescribing of these agents in the United Kingdom.
Pergolide is a dopaminergic agonist used to treat Parkinson's disease but is associated with the development of retroperitoneal fibrosis (RPF). Newer nonergot agents (pramipexole, ropinirole) may not carry this same risk. A patient with a history of pergolide-induced RPF was treated successfully with ropinirole for 1 year without complications.
To explore the effects of pioglitazone on MKP-1 and TSP-1 expression in the early stages of diabetic retinopathy induced by streptozotocin (STZ) and the relevant mechanism in it.
Diabetic rats were induced by an intraperitoneal injection of STZ in SD rats. Thirty male SD rats were randomly divided into 3 groups: diabetes adding pioglitazone group (intragastric administration pioglitazone 20 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1)), diabetes adding BBS group and normal control group. The body weight and blood glucose were measured every two weeks. Eight weeks later, all rats were killed and the expression of TSP-1 and MKP-1 mRNA was quantified in retinal tissue by immunohistochemistry and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) respectively.
TSP-1 and MKP-1 concentrations were significantly increased in the diabetic rats' retinal tissue compared to the control rats. Diabetes groups adding pioglitazone caused the upregulation of TSP-1 and MKP-1 expression in the retina among the three groups.
Pioglitazone treatment can significantly attenuate the evolutionary in the early stages of experimental diabetic retinopathy. Further studies should address the possible involvement of TSP-1 and MKP-1 in the correlational pathophysiology between pioglitazone and diabetic retinopathy.
Androgen plays a central role in the normal and malignant development of prostate glands. Genetic polymorphisms of genes involved in androgen metabolism and signaling might be associated with the risk of prostate cancer.
One hundred and two patients with prostate cancer with a family history and 117 healthy age- and residence-matched male controls were enrolled. Genotypes of the CAG repeat length of androgen receptor (AR), CYP17, 5alpha-reductase type II (SRD5A2), UDG-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 2B15, PSA promoter genes were analyzed.
For single polymorphisms, the presence of Y alleles showed a significantly lower risk of prostate cancer in comparison with the D/D genotype in UGT2B15 (odds ratio [OR]=0.41, 95% confidence interval [CI]=1.40-4.28, p=0.0015), and the presence of A2 alleles showed a weak tendency to decrease prostate cancer risk in comparison with the A1/A1 genotype in CYP17 (OR=0.69, 95% CI=0.39-1.23, p=0.21). The stratification of cases according to clinical stage and pathological grade showed that the A2/A2 genotype was significantly associated with localized stage cancer in comparison with metastatic stage cancer (OR=5.18, 95% CI=1.49-17.95, p=0.007). The combination of UGT2B15 and CYP17 genotypes could identify higher risk subjects even in subjects with low-risk UGT2B15 genotypes, i.e., Y/Y+D/Y genotypes (OR=1.97, 95% CI=0.92-4.22, p=0.079).
Genetic polymorphisms of the genes involved in androgen metabolism and signaling were significantly associated with familial prostate cancer risk. Single nucleotide polymorphisms of low-penetrance genes could be targets to understand genetic susceptibility to familial prostate cancer.
Clozapine-associated induction of venous thromboembolism has potentially catastrophic consequences. We report a case of sudden death caused by bilateral main pulmonary trunk thrombosis in a 31-year-old man receiving clozapine therapy. The patient presented with general weakness and exertional dyspnea. Bilateral main pulmonary trunk thrombosis was clearly demonstrated by helical chest computed tomography.
Malformations of cortical development (MCD) result from abnormal neuronal positioning during corticogenesis. MCD are believed to be the morphological and perhaps physiological bases of several neurological diseases, spanning from mental retardation to autism and epilepsy. In view of the fact that during development, an appropriate blood supply is necessary to drive organogenesis in other organs, we hypothesized that vasculogenesis plays an important role in brain development and that E15 exposure in rats to the angiogenesis inhibitor thalidomide would cause postnatal MCD. Our results demonstrate that thalidomide inhibits angiogenesis in vitro at concentrations that result in significant morphological alterations in cortical and hippocampal regions of rats prenatally exposed to this vasculotoxin. Abnormal neuronal development was associated with vascular malformations and a leaky blood-brain barrier. Protein extravasation and uptake of fluorescent albumin by neurons, but not glia, was commonly associated with abnormal cortical development. Neuronal hyperexcitability was also a hallmark of these abnormal cortical regions. Our results suggest that prenatal vasculogenesis is required to support normal neuronal migration and maturation. Altering this process leads to failure of normal cerebrovascular development and may have a profound implication for CNS maturation.
Heart failure is a life-threatening complication of high-dose cyclophosphamide (CTX) chemotherapy, and the present study aimed at identifying the mechanism involved in mice.
CTX at 800 mg/kg resulted in heart failure, in which cytoplasmic thioredoxin reductase (TrxR1) activity and non-protein free thiol (NPFT) level were suppressed by 90 and 62%, respectively. The combination of 350 mg/kg CTX and the glutathione synthesis inhibitor buthionine sulfoximine (BSO) also evoked heart failure, in which TrxR1 activity and NPFT level were suppressed by 66 and 62%, respectively. NPFT depletion alone by BSO did not cause cardiac toxicity. CTX at 350 mg/kg alone also did not cause cardiac toxicity, even though it suppressed TrxR1 activity by 68%. Previous studies have shown that half inactivation of TrxR1 in tumour, bladder, and kidneys was associated with toxicological consequences. Cardiac TrxR1 is dispensable, but cardiac cytoplasmic thioredoxin (Trx1) is essential. The potential uncoupling between TrxR1 and Trx1 may explain why there is no cardiac toxicity following TrxR1 inhibition. However, TrxR1 inactivation may still play a role in CTX-evoked heart failure because inactivated TrxR1 gains cytotoxic function, which may engender noticeable toxicity when massive NPFT is deleted.
CTX-evoked heart failure involves pronounced co-suppression of TrxR1 activity and NPFT level.
Recent studies have confirmed that PPARalpha agonists have not brought the anticipated benefits to patients with type 2 diabetes and potentially fatal heart disease. We hypothesized that such agonists may have a cardio-suppressive effect in treating such disorders, therefore, we inoculated diabetic KKAy mice with encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCv) to induce a diabetic model with severe myocardial damage. WY14643, a potent PPARalpha agonist, was administered intraperitoneally either simultaneously (WY14643-late group) or 3 days before viral inoculation (WY14643-early group). WY14643-treated mice, especially those in the WY14643-early group, had higher mortality than those in the vehicle-treated group (vehicle) in the first 5 days after EMCv inoculation. However, the survival rate in the vehicle group decreased rapidly after day 4 and was the lowest of all 3 groups by day 9. The WY14643-treated mice showed reduced body weight and blood glucose, improved myocardial pathological changes, lower cardiac TNF-alpha expression, and significantly higher adiponectin expression, whereas the LW/LC ratio was lower and cardiac UCP3 mRNA expression higher in the WY14643 treatment groups than in the vehicle group on day 4. WY14643 therefore has cardioprotective and cardio-suppressive effects when used to treat EMCv-induced myocarditis in diabetic mice. The cardioprotective effect may be due to its anti-inflammatory properties and its ability to increase cardiac adiponectin expression, whereas the reduced cardiac efficiency may be due to its enhancement of cardiac UCP3 mRNA expression.
Intrathecal injection of a nitric oxide releasing compound, NOC-18, was used to define the role of nitric oxide (NO) in the spinal mechanism of neuropathic pain caused by unilateral chronic constriction injury to rat sciatic nerves. Paw withdrawal latency was used to evaluate nociception induced by thermal stimuli before surgery and afterwards at 1, 3, and 6 h, and on days 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, and 12 after the nerve ligature. In the sham-surgery control groups, intrathecal injection of 10 or 100 microg of NOC-18 did not produce any change in withdrawal latencies. In rats with unilateral nerve ligation, however, administration of 1 or 10 microg, but not 0.1 microg, of NOC-18 significantly shortened the time in which thermal hyperalgesia developed after nerve injury. Injection of 1 microg of NOC-18 decreased the onset time of thermal hyperalgesia from 2 days to 3 h and with 10 microg hyperalgesia developed within 1 h after the nerve injury. The effects of intrathecal injection of MK-801, a N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), a NO synthase inhibitor, methylene blue (MB), a soluble guanylate cyclase inhibitor, and hemoglobin (Hb), a NO scavenger, on the development of thermal hyperalgesia after the sciatic nerve ligature were examined in the presence and absence of 1 and 10 microg of NOC-18. Acceleration of the development of thermal hyperalgesia induced by 1 and 10 microg NOC-18 was completely inhibited by Hb, but was not affected by either MK-801, L-NAME or MB. These findings indicate that NO plays an important role in the rapid development of thermal hyperalgesia after the nerve injury, but that facilitation of nociceptive processing in the spinal cord may entail an alternate to the NO-cyclic guanosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cGMP) pathway.
The role of nitric oxide (NO) in heart failure (HF) is complex and remains controversial. We tested the hypothesis that the role of NO in isolated atria and cardiomyocytes is altered in isoproterenol-induced HF.
Rats received isoproterenol (ISO, 5 mg/kg/day, intraperitoneally) or vehicle for 1 week. Haemodynamic parameters were obtained by left ventricular catheterization. Effects of NOS inhibition on isolated atria and on electrically paced left ventricular myocytes were determined. Additionally, expressions of nitric oxide synthases and their allosteric modulators hsp90, caveolin-1, and caveolin-3 proteins in the left ventricles were measured. ISO increased left ventricular mass by 33% and decreased indices of left ventricular systolic and diastolic function dp/dtmin and dp/dtmax (both P<0.05). Isolated atria from HF rats had a lower spontaneous beating rate (P<0.05). NOS inhibition by L-NAME increased basal frequency and attenuated the positive chronotropic effect of beta-adrenergic stimulation in the HF group (P<0.05). Ventricular myocytes from failing hearts had impaired cell shortening. L-NAME decreased contractility of control, but not failing myocytes. Left ventricular expressions of eNOS, hsp90, iNOS, but not nNOS or caveolins, were increased.
Despite the increased capacity for NO synthesis in isoproterenol-induced HF, NO does not sustain contractility of failing myocytes. NO may contribute to the decreased basal heart rate and it may accelerate beta-adrenergic stimulation of chronotropy.
The purpose of this study was to characterize the subjective, psychomotor and physiological effects of morphine in healthy volunteers. Subjects (10 males and 2 females) without histories of opiate dependence were injected in an antecubetal vein with 0, 2.5, 5.0 or 10 mg/70 kg of morphine, by using a randomized, double-blind, cross-over design. Subjective effects, psychomotor performance and physiological measures were assessed immediately before the injection and for up to 5 hr afterward. Morphine increased the Pentobarbital-Chlorpromazine-Alcohol Group, Amphetamine, the Lysergic Acid Diethylamide and the Morphine-Benzedrine Group scores and decreased Benzedrine Group scores on the Addiction Research Center Inventory. Increased visual analog scale ratings of "stimulated," "high," "sedated," "coasting or spaced out" and "drunken" were also obtained. On an opiate adjective checklist, subjects reported increased ratings of "flushing," "dry mouth" and "tingling." Drug liking was not significantly altered by morphine, but there was substantial intersubject variability with this measure. Some aspects of psychomotor performance (reaction time, Digit Symbol Substitution Test and Maddox Wing) were impaired by morphine; however, eye-hand coordination was not. Miosis was induced by morphine. Most effects of morphine were dose-related, some effects peaked soon after morphine injection (e.g., increased stimulated and high ratings) and dissipated gradually, whereas other effects did not peak until later into the session (sedation or exophoria). Our results are fairly consistent with other studies examining morphine effects in healthy volunteers, and also indicate that the profile of morphine effects differ between healthy volunteers and those with a history of opiate dependence.
We have previously observed that Brown Norway (BN) rats display a relative resistance to experimental Chlamydia-induced arthritis. In the present study, we examine an environmental toxin, mercuric chloride (HgCl2), as a modulator of this innate resistance to arthritis.
To assess the effect of the heavy metal exposure, one group of rats received two subcutaneous injections of HgCl2 (1 mg/kg) 48 hours apart. Seven days later, the animals received the intra-articular injection of synoviocyte-packaged Chlamydia.
Histopathology revealed that BN rats receiving only Chlamydia had a minimal cellular infiltration in the joint, which was predominantly mononuclear in character. In contrast, mercury-exposed rats had a marked exacerbation of the histopathological severity of the arthritis, and the infiltration was predominantly neutrophilic. Mercury exposure was also associated with marked enhancement in IgE levels and an alteration in IgG2a/IgG1 ratio, reflecting a Th2 shift. The local cytokine profile in the joint was markedly altered after mercury exposure, with a suppression of tumour necrosis factor-alpha and interferon-gamma but an enhancement of vascular endothelial growth factor. This was associated with decreased host clearance capacity reflected in enhanced bacterial load in both the spleen and the joint and was accompanied by enhanced detection of microbial antigens in the synovial tissues by immunohistological staining.
Genetically defined cytokine production in the joint defines the severity of reactive arthritis by dictating the local clearance of the pathogen. This interplay can be altered dramatically by heavy metal exposure, which results in suppression of protective cytokines in the microenvironment of the joint.
Brominated benzenes appear in the environment and human tissues. Their detection in the environment may be as a result of their usage, e.g. hexabromobenzene (HBB), and as products of HBB degradation or metabolism. The aim of this study was to compare liver impairment in acute intoxication of mice with bromobenzene (BB), 1,2,4-tribromobenzene (1,2,4-triBB), 1,3,5-tribromobenzene (1,3,5-triBB), 1,2,4,5-tetrabromobenzene (1,2,4,5-tetraBB) and hexabromobenzene (HBB). The data for these compounds were compared with the data obtained for dibromobenzenes (1,2-dBB, 1,3-dBB, 1,4-dBB). Male Balbc mice were administered the investigated compounds in single, intraperitoneal doses equal to 20-90% of the approximate lethal dose (ALD). Acute toxicity of bromobenzenes decreases with the increase of the number of bromine atoms in the molecule. All examined compounds decreased the liver glutathione (GSH) level in a short time following administration. Later in the experiment, GSH either returned to control values or the concentration increased. Changes in alanine aminotransferase (ALT) activity in mice serum depended on the type of compound and the time of observation. BB, 1,2-dBB, 1,3-dBB and 1,2,4-triBB caused statistically significant increases (30- to 120-fold) in ALT activity. For the remaining compounds these changes were not significant being two- to threefold. Histopathological examination demonstrated that BB, 1,2-dBB, 1,3-dBB and 1,2,4-triBB resulted in coagulative or haemorrhagic necrosis in the liver central lobular zone. All investigated compounds resulted in the increase of gamma-glutamyltransferase activity in serum and malondialdehyde concentration in liver. Octanol water partition coefficient (expressed as log P) and molecular volume (log V) were calculated for all examined compounds. With the increase of lipophilicity and molecule size, the ability of the examined compounds to decrease the level of GSH in mice liver and increase ALT activity in the serum diminishes.
In previous studies we demonstrated that the presence of testosterone, rather than the absence of estrogen, plays a critical role in gender differences in kidney ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury. Although molecular chaperones such as heat shock proteins (HSPs) have been implicated as protective agents in the pathophysiology of I/R injury, their roles in gender differences in susceptibility to renal I/R injury remain to be defined. Here we demonstrate that orchiectomy increases the basal and post-ischemic expression of HSP-27 in kidney tubular epithelial cells, but not HSP-72, glucose-regulated protein (GRP)-78 or GRP-94 expression. Orchiectomy prevents the disruption of the actin cytoskeleton and renal functional disorders induced by I/R, when compared with intact male mice or orchiectomized mice treated with dihydrotestosterone, a non-aromatizable isoform of testosterone. Thus, the protection afforded by orchiectomy is associated with increased expression of HSP-27, a heat shock protein important for maintenance of actin cytoskeletal integrity. These findings indicate that testosterone inhibits the heat shock response and may provide a new paradigm for design of therapies for I/R injury.
Apolipoprotein D (ApoD) expression increases in several neurological disorders and in spinal cord injury. We provide a report of a physiological role for human ApoD (hApoD): Flies overexpressing hApoD are long-lived and protected against stress conditions associated with aging and neurodegeneration, including hyperoxia, dietary paraquat, and heat stress. We show that the fly ortholog, Glial Lazarillo, is strongly up-regulated in response to these extrinsic stresses and also can protect in vitro-cultured cells in situations modeling Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). In adult flies, hApoD overexpression reduces age-associated lipid peroxide accumulation, suggesting a proximal mechanism of action. Similar data obtained in the mouse [Ganfornina, M.D., et al., (2008) Apolipoprotein D is involved in the mechanisms regulating protection from oxidative stress. Aging Cell 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2008.00395.] as well as in plants (Charron et al., personal communication) suggest that ApoD and its orthologs play an evolutionarily conserved role in response to stress, possibly managing or preventing lipid peroxidation.
Thymoxamine, an alpha-adrenergic receptor blocking agent, was compared with pilocarpine in 11 patients for its effect on the depth of the anterior chamber. In the eyes treated with thymoxamine rapid and sustained miosis occurred without a significant change in the depth of the anterior chamber. On the other hand, the miosis induced by pilocarpine was accompanied by significant shallowing of the anterior chamber.
Cocaine use is associated with increased cardiovascular mortality and can promote acute coronary syndrome (ACS). Use of beta-blockers is controversial in patients who use cocaine, and the safety and efficacy of these medications in ACS in patients actively using cocaine is unknown. We enrolled 90 patients with ACS and positive urine drug screen for cocaine. Patients received standard ACS therapy plus either labetalol (n = 60) or diltiazem (n = 30). Blood pressure and heart rate were measured at baseline and 48 hours. Levels of serum CD40 ligand, interleukin (IL)-6, and choline at baseline and 48 hours were determined. There were no baseline differences in hemodynamics or serum levels of inflammatory markers between the labetalol and diltiazem groups. Both groups experienced a significant and equivalent decrease in BP and HR at 48 hours compared with baseline. At 48 hours of treatment, there were significant decreases of 17% in CD40 ligand (P < .005) and 16% in IL-6 (P < .005) but no change in choline in the diltiazem group. Furthermore, in the labetalol group, there were significant differences of 30% in CD40 ligand (P < .005 time and group comparison), 22% in IL-6 (P < .005 time and group comparison), and 18% in choline (P < .005 time and group comparison). There were no adverse events during hospitalization in any patients who received labetalol. In conclusion, labetalol appears to be safe in cocaine-associated ACS. Furthermore, labetalol provides a beneficial hemodynamic response and, in comparison to diltiazem, potentiates an anti-inflammatory vascular response in this setting.
