Renal and systemic prostanoid activity was assessed in various renal tubular disorders, using mass spectrometric determination of urinary excretion rates of primary prostaglandins (PGE2, PGF2 alpha, PGI2, and TXA2) and their systemically produced index metabolites. Only PGE2 levels (normal range: 2.0-16.4 ng/h per 1.73 m2) are elevated in Bartter syndrome (median: 43.4, range: 6.7-166.3), nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (46.2, 12.1-1290), Fanconi syndrome (96.6, 19.3-135.5), and in a complex tubular disorder in premature infants (40.7, 22.3-132.1), for which the term hyperprostaglandin E syndrome has been introduced. In this disorder with a Bartter-syndrome-like tubulopathy, the systemic features of the disease such as fever, diarrhoea and osteopenia with hypercalciuria were associated with increased systemic PGE2 activity. In most patients the urinary excretion rate of the systemic index metabolite of PGE2 (PGE-M) was markedly elevated (1028, 285-4709; normal range: 104-664 ng/h per 1.73 m2). Hypercalciuria per se was associated neither with increased renal nor with systemic PGE2 hyperactivity. Most problems in infants with hyperprostaglandin E syndrome could be controlled by long-term indomethacin treatment in contrast to the moderate and partial effect of this treatment in patients with Fanconi syndrome. Thus increased PGE2 synthesis plays a major role in the pathogenesis of hyperprostaglandin E syndrome, while in Fanconi syndrome PGE2 hyperactivity in the kidney is a secondary event and only aggravates the water and electrolyte wastage.
The structural effects of cocaine on neural systems mediating cognition and motivation are not well known. By comparing the thickness of neocortical and paralimbic brain regions between cocaine-dependent and matched control subjects, we found that four of 18 a priori regions involved with executive regulation of reward and attention were significantly thinner in addicts. Correlations were significant between thinner prefrontal cortex and reduced keypresses during judgment and decision making of relative preference in addicts, suggesting one basis for restricted behavioral repertoires in drug dependence. Reduced effortful attention performance in addicts also correlated with thinner paralimbic cortices. Some thickness differences in addicts were correlated with cocaine use independent of nicotine and alcohol, but addicts also showed diminished thickness heterogeneity and altered hemispheric thickness asymmetry. These observations suggest that brain structure abnormalities in addicts are related in part to drug use and in part to predisposition toward addiction.
Cigarette smoking is the leading cause of lung cancer and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, yet there is little mechanistic information available in the literature. To improve this, laboratory models for cigarette mainstream smoke (MS) inhalation-induced chronic disease development are needed. The current study investigated the effects of exposing male A/J mice to MS (6h/day, 5 days/week at 150 and 300 mg total particulate matter per cubic meter) for 2.5, 5, 10, and 18 months in selected combinations with postinhalation periods of 0, 4, 8, and 13 months. Histopathological examination of step-serial sections of the lungs revealed nodular hyperplasia of the alveolar epithelium and bronchioloalveolar adenoma and adenocarcinoma. At 18 months, lung tumors were found to be enhanced concentration dependently (up to threefold beyond sham exposure), irrespective of whether MS inhalation had been performed for the complete study duration or was interrupted after 5 or 10 months and followed by postinhalation periods. Morphometric analysis revealed an increase in the extent of emphysematous changes after 5 months of MS inhalation, which did not significantly change over the following 13 months of study duration, irrespective of whether MS exposure was continued or not. These changes were found to be accompanied by a complex pattern of transient and sustained pulmonary inflammatory changes that may contribute to the observed pathogeneses. Data from this study suggest that the A/J mouse model holds considerable promise as a relevant model for investigating smoking-related emphysema and adenocarcinoma development.
To report the clinical and histopathologic findings of a large sclerosing lipogranuloma of the orbit arising after a sub-Tenon's corticosteroid injection.
Interventional case report and review of the literature.
A complete ocular and systemic evaluation was performed on a 81-year-old patient, who developed a large orbital mass subsequent to a periocular corticosteroid injection producing proptosis, ptosis, and ocular motility impairment. The lesion was biopsied and submitted for histopathologic analysis.
Orbital, computed tomography, and histopathologic findings.
Histopathologic examination revealed lipogranulomatous inflammation. Specifically, this type of reaction was consistent with a diagnosis of sclerosing lipogranuloma.
It is extremely rare to find a large granulomatous orbital lesion arising subsequent to a periocular corticosteroid injection. Only one case has been reported in the English-language literature to date. It is important to include this type of lesion in the differential diagnosis of an orbital mass seen after the injection of periocular corticosteroids.
The treatment with CCl4 and progesterone subsequent the common biliary duct ligature induced, in the rat, after 4-5 weeks, a cirrhotic picture characterized by an early and strong biliary epithelium proliferation followed by a perilobular fibrosis with a concentric sclerosis as in true perilobular cirrhosis.
Several mechanisms have been proposed to explain the vascular toxicity of arsenic. Some of them are described in this work, such as stress-induced premature senescence (SIPS), dedifferentiation, and medial vascular calcification, and they all affect vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC). Rat aortic VSMC were treated with 1-100 µM of either sodium arsenate (As(V)), sodium arsenite (As(III)), monomethylarsonic acid, or dimethylarsinic acid. None of the treatments induced VSMC calcification in the presence of 1mM inorganic phosphate (Pi), but 1 µM As(III) did increase calcification when induced with 2.5mM Pi. A lactate dehydrogenase assay revealed that this increase was explained by a rise in cytotoxicity due to simultaneous incubation with 1 µM As(III) and 2.5mM Pi. This calcification increase was also observed in the aortas of a vascular calcification model: 5/6 nephrectomized rats fed with a high Pi diet and treated with vitamin D(3). Several known mechanisms that might explain arsenic toxicity in our experimental model were discarded: apoptosis, oxidative stress, and inflammasome activation. Nevertheless, both senescence-associated β-galactosidase activity and p21 expression were increased by As(III), which reveals the induction of SIPS. As(III) also caused dedifferentiation of VSMC, as shown by the reduced expression of the VSMC markers SM22α and calponin. Senescence and gene expression were also observed in the aortas of healthy rats treated with 50 ppm As(V) in drinking water for 1 month. In conclusion, both premature senescence in aortic VSMC with phenotypic dedifferentiation and the increase of Pi-induced calcification are novel mechanisms of arsenic vasculotoxicity.
Neuroblastoma is the most frequent extracranial solid malignancy of childhood with a high mortality in advanced tumour stages. The hallmark of neuroblastoma is its clinical and biological heterogeneity. The molecular mechanisms leading to favourable or unfavourable tumour behaviour are still speculative. However, amplification of the oncogene MYCN and expression of the neurotrophin receptor TrkB are known to contribute to a highly malignant phenotype. To define the mechanisms through which TrkB may mediate neuroblastoma progression, we stably expressed this receptor in the neuroblastoma cell lines SH-SY5Y and SK-N-AS. The transfectants, but not the controls, had an increased invasive potency both, in vitro and in vivo, as demonstrated by Matrigel-invasion and chorioallantoic membrane assays, respectively. The retinoic acid-induced TrkB expression in parental SH-SY5Y cells was also associated with enhanced cell invasiveness. The TrkB mediated invasiveness involved the upregulation of the hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) and its receptor c-Met, resulting in an autocrine loop. Inhibition of HGF activity by anti-HGF neutralizing antibodies or disabling the function of c-Met by small interfering RNA suppressed the TrkB-induced invasiveness. The enhanced TrkB expression was associated with a significant increase in the secretion of various matrix-degrading proteases. Immunostaining and real-time RT-PCR analysis of tumour specimens demonstrated coordinated expression of TrkB and HGF/c-Met in experimental and primary neuroblastomas. We conclude that TrkB expression in neuroblastoma cells results in an increase in their invasive capability via upregulated expression of HGF/c-Met and enhanced activity of proteolytic networks.
Mutations in the ATP13A2 gene (PARK9) cause autosomal recessive, juvenile-onset Kufor-Rakeb syndrome (KRS), a neurodegenerative disease characterized by parkinsonism. KRS mutations produce truncated forms of ATP13A2 with impaired protein stability resulting in a loss-of-function. Recently, homozygous and heterozygous missense mutations in ATP13A2 have been identified in subjects with early-onset parkinsonism. The mechanism(s) by which missense mutations potentially cause parkinsonism are not understood at present. Here, we demonstrate that homozygous F182L, G504R and G877R missense mutations commonly impair the protein stability of ATP13A2 leading to its enhanced degradation by the proteasome. ATP13A2 normally localizes to endosomal and lysosomal membranes in neurons and the F182L and G504R mutations disrupt this vesicular localization and promote the mislocalization of ATP13A2 to the endoplasmic reticulum. Heterozygous T12M, G533R and A746T mutations do not obviously alter protein stability or subcellular localization but instead impair the ATPase activity of microsomal ATP13A2 whereas homozygous missense mutations disrupt the microsomal localization of ATP13A2. The overexpression of ATP13A2 missense mutants in SH-SY5Y neural cells does not compromise cellular viability suggesting that these mutant proteins lack intrinsic toxicity. However, the overexpression of wild-type ATP13A2 may impair neuronal integrity as it causes a trend of reduced neurite outgrowth of primary cortical neurons, whereas the majority of disease-associated missense mutations lack this ability. Finally, ATP13A2 overexpression sensitizes cortical neurons to neurite shortening induced by exposure to cadmium or nickel ions, supporting a functional interaction between ATP13A2 and heavy metals in post-mitotic neurons, whereas missense mutations influence this sensitizing effect. Collectively, our study provides support for common loss-of-function effects of homozygous and heterozygous missense mutations in ATP13A2 associated with early-onset forms of parkinsonism.
A single or repeated administration of nicotine in mice produced hyperactivity and conditioned place preference (CPP). Postsynapticdopamine (DA) receptor supersensitivity was also developed in nicotine-induced CPP mice. The hyperactivity induced by nicotine was evidenced by measuring the enhanced ambulatory activity using a tilting-type ambulometer. CPP effects were evaluated assessing the increased time spent by the mice to nicotine and the inhibition of CPP by the decreased time spent by the mice in the nonpreferred compartment. Postsynaptic DA receptor supersensitivity was evidenced by the enhanced response in ambulatory activity to the apomorphine, a DA receptor agonist. Administration of ginseng total saponin (GTS) prior to and during the nicotine treatment in mice inhibited not only nicotine-induced hyperactivity and CPP but also postsynaptic DA receptor supersensitivity in nicotine-induced CPP mice. These results suggest that inhibition by GTS of the nicotine-induced hyperactivity and CPP may be closely related with the inhibition of dopaminergic activation induced by nicotine and that the development of nicotine-induced CPP may be associated with the enhanced DA receptor supersensitivity. From these results, it is presumed that GTS may be useful for the prevention and therapy of these adverse actions of nicotine.
We studied the capacity of various chemicals to promote urinary bladder cancer in male F344 rats after initiation by N-nitroso-n-butyl-(4-hydroxybutyl)amine (BBN). The rats were given initially 0.01% BBN in the drinking-water for 4 wk and then the test compound in the diet for 34 wk. Effects were judged by measuring the formation of preneoplastic lesions papillary or nodular hyperplasia (PN hyperplasia) of the urinary bladder. Administration of 5%, but not 0.5% (w/w) sodium saccharin in the diet significantly increased the incidence and extent of PN hyperplasia. This finding could be related to the induction of cancers in the rat urinary bladder by high levels of saccharin. Sodium ascorbate (5%). DL-tryptophan (5%) and allopurinol (0.02%) also significantly increased the extent of PN hyperplasia in the affected animals, but other test chemicals, such as acetazolamide (0.35%) and quercetin (5%) did not. The results with sodium saccharin and DL-tryptophan were consistent with previous findings and suggest that sodium ascorbate and allopurinol have promoting activities in urinary bladder carcinogenesis in rats. No correlation was found between the extent of crystalluria and promotion of preneoplastic lesions.
Protease inhibitor monotherapy is an attractive treatment option for HIV-infected subjects. Data assessing neuropsychiatric events with the use of protease inhibitor monotherapy are sparse.
Clinician- and patient-reported neuropsychiatric events were assessed over 48 weeks in HIV-infected subjects on stable antiretroviral therapy, with a plasma HIV RNA <50 copies/mL, randomised to commence on a one to one basis darunavir/ritonavir (800/100 mg once daily) alone (DRVrMono) or with nucleoside analogues (DRVrNRTI). Patient-reported events were assessed by the Functional Assessment of HIV Infection (FAHI) questionnaire and included an assessment of cognitive function.
Of 256 subjects enrolled, clinician-reported grade 1-4 adverse events of the nervous system (all cause) were seen in 16% of patients in each treatment arm. FAHI questionnaires were completed by 206 subjects at 48 weeks. No differences in cognitive functioning or other FAHI scores were observed between study treatment groups: Cognitive Functioning score [mean (SD)] 8.9 (2.4) and 9.0 (2.6) in DRVrMono arm and 8.8 (2.6) and 8.9 (2.8) in DRVrNRTI arm at baseline and week 48, respectively (P value for difference = .76).
In this exploratory analysis, no differences in the evolution of neuropsychiatric adverse events over 48 weeks are observed in HIV-infected subjects randomised to switch antiretroviral therapy to darunavir/ritonavir with or without nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors.
The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between human zinc finger 23 (ZNF23) expression and clinico-pathological characteristics in patients suffering from hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and to investigate ZNF23 expression in relation to cell apoptosis.
Thirty-seven HCC samples were collected and ZFP23 mRNA levels were determined by real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Correlation between ZNF23 expression and patients' clinical characteristics was analyzed. For determining the effect of ZNF23 on cell apoptosis, HepG2 cells were exposed to cisplatin at different concentrations and ZNF23 mRNA assayed.
Median relative mRNA levels of ZNF23 mRNA in HCC tissues and adjacent tissues were 8.84 (3.59-15.05) and 22.20 (13.85-42.90), respectively (U=259.5, p<0.01). Median mRNA levels of ZNF23 in patients with Edmondson stage I+II disease [12.80 (4.80-19.50)] were much higher than those of patients with stage III+IV disease [5.01 (2.88-11.68), U=99.00, p<0.05]. 3-(4,5-Dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay demonstrated that cisplatin significantly inhibited cell proliferation of HepG2 cells in a dose-dependent manner, which was positively correlated to cell apoptosis (F=27.89, p<0.01), and in response to increasing cisplatin concentrations, ZNF23 mRNA levels increased in the cells.
Cisplatin-induced apoptotic effect in HepG2 cells may be mediated via the up-regulation of ZNF23, which suggests that the ZNF23 gene could play an important role in the development of hepatocellular carcinoma.
Estradiol-17 beta-D-glucuronide induced an immediate, profound and reversible inhibition of bile flow after its i.v. administration in the rat. The degree of cholestasis was dose-dependent in the range of 8.5 to 21 mumol/kg i.v. A dose of 11 mumol/kg i.v. inhibited bile flow and bile acid secretory rate 65 to 70% within 15 to 30 min of its administration; bile flow and bile acid secretion had returned to near control values within 3 hr. Linear regression analysis of the relationship between bile flow and bile acid secretion indicated a substantial decrease in bile acid independent flow. In contrast, neither estradiol-17 beta, estradiol-3-glucuronide nor estradiol-3-sulfate-17 beta-D-glucuronide at an equimolar dose had any inhibitory effect on these parameters. After a dose of [3H]estradiol-17 beta-D-glucuronide, 79% of the administered radioactivity was excreted in the bile in 3 hr. Estradiol-3-sulfate-17 beta-D-glucuronide was tentatively identified as the predominant biliary metabolite with estradiol-17 beta-D-glucuronide also present in substantial amounts. These data indicate that estradiol-17 beta-D-glucuronide is toxicologically active and suggest the possibility that this estrogen metabolite may induce hepatic pathology in vivo.
1 The ability of the selective 5-HT3 receptor antagonist GR38032F to reduce raised mesolimbic dopaminergic activity was studied in behavioural experiments in the rat and marmoset. 2 GR38032F injected into the nucleus accumbens (0.01-1 ng) or peripherally (0.01-1 mg kg-1 i.p.) inhibited the locomotor hyperactivity caused by the acute intra-accumbens injection of amphetamine (10 micrograms) in the rat. Similar treatments with sulpiride and fluphenazine also inhibited the amphetamine-induced hyperactivity. 3 The peripheral administration of GR38032F (0.001-0.1 mg kg-1 i.p., b.d.) during a 13 day period of dopamine infusion (25 micrograms 24 h-1) into the nucleus accumbens of the rat reduced the dopamine-induced hyperactivity response to control (vehicle infused) levels. Locomotor activity remained at control levels after discontinuing the dopamine/GR38032F treatment regimen. 4 The hyperactivity caused by the infusion of dopamine into the rat nucleus accumbens was also inhibited by fluphenazine (0.01-0.05 mg kg-1 i.p., b.d.), but locomotor activity was suppressed to levels below control values and a rebound hyperactivity occurred after discontinuation of the dopamine/fluphenazine treatment regimen. 5 The discontinuation of a concomitant 13 day intra-accumbens infusion of dopamine with haloperidol, 0.01 mg kg-1 i.p.t.d.s., caused a rebound hyperactivity. This hyperactivity was suppressed by GR38032F (0.001-0.1 mg kg-1 i.p.). 6 The unilateral infusion of dopamine (25 micrograms 24 h-1, 13 days) into the left amygdala of rats having right hemispheric dominance (as measured in a turn preference test) caused locomotor hyperactivity. Intraperitoneal administration of GR38032F (0.1-100 micrograms kg-1) or fluphenazine (0.025-0.1 mg kg-1), and the intra-amygdaloid injection of GR38032F (0.1-100 ng) or fluphenazine (25-500 pg), either into the infused or non-infused side, inhibited the dopamine-induced locomotor hyperactivity. 7 Marmosets receiving bilaterial infusions of dopamine (25 micrograms 24 h-1 for 13 days) into the nucleus accumbens also exhibited increased locomotor activity, GR38032F (0.1-1.0 micrograms kg-1 t.d.s.), reduced the hyperactivity to control levels with no rebound hyperactivity following the discontinuation of the dopamine/GR38032F treatment regimen. Fluphenazine (0.01-2.5 mg kg-1 i.p., t.d.s.) also inhibited the hyperactivity, but locomotor activity was reduced to values below control levels and a rebound hyperactivity followed the discontinuation of the dopamine/fluphenazine treatment. 8. It is concluded that the 5-HT3 receptor antagonist GR38032F, and the neuroleptic agents fluphenazine, sulpiride and haloperidol, can reduce raised mesolimbic dopaminergic activity in the rat and marmoset. GR38032F is distinguished from the dopamine receptor antagonists by, firstly, its ability to return the hyperactivity response to control values, without excessive suppression of locomotion even on enhanced dosage regimes and, secondly, by the lack of rebound hyperactivity following abrupt discontinuation of its treatment.
The influence of sodium balance and furosemide administration on acute amphotericin B-induced nephrotoxicity has been investigated in the anesthetized dog. In sodium-depleted dogs, amphotericin B (1 mg/kg i.v.) reduced renal blood flow by 32% and glomerular filtration rate by 90% 40 min after the infusion and 32 and 65%, respectively, 140 min after infusion. Although filtration fraction was reduced, fractional sodium excretion increased 13-fold. Renal renin secretion rate decreased by 64%. Prior sodium loading abolished the acute response to amphotericin B. Pretreatment of sodium-depleted dogs with furosemide (5 mg/kg bolus followed by 260 micrograms/kg/min i.v.) attenuated the reduction in renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate produced by amphotericin B. The data indicate that acute reductions in renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate in response to amphotericin B infusion are not direct but related to sodium status. The changes do not seem to be mediated by the renin-angiotensin system and can be inhibited by sodium loading and attenuated by concurrent furosemide administration. These observations are consistent with the hypothesis that the acute response is mediated by tubulo-glomerular feedback.
We report the clinical, biochemical, and molecular characterization of a patient with a novel defect of cholesterol biosynthesis. This patient presented with a complex phenotype, including multiple congenital anomalies, mental retardation, and liver disease. In the patient's plasma and cells, we found increased levels of lathosterol. The biosynthesis of cholesterol in the patient's fibroblasts was defective, showing a block in the conversion of lathosterol into 7-dehydrocholesterol. The activity of 3beta-hydroxysteroid-Delta(5)-desaturase (SC5D), the enzyme involved in this reaction, was deficient in the patient's fibroblasts. Sequence analysis of the SC5D gene in the patient's DNA, showing the presence of two missense mutations (R29Q and G211D), confirmed that the patient is affected by a novel defect of cholesterol biosynthesis.
We report acute complete external ophthalmoplegia and severe myopathy in a patient treated with high doses of IV methylprednisolone and pancuronium. Awareness of this rare syndrome in a common clinical setting can lead to prompt recognition and avoid confusion with other causes of acute weakness and ophthalmoparesis.
Acrolein, a known toxin in tobacco smoke, might be involved in atherogenesis. This study examined the effect of acrolein on expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and prostaglandin (PG) production in endothelial cells.
Cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 induction by acrolein and signal pathways were measured using Western blots, Northern blots, immunofluorescence, ELISA, gene silencing, and promoter assay. Colocalization of COX2 and acrolein-adduct was determined by immunohistochemistry. Here we report that the levels of COX-2 mRNA and protein are increased in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) after acrolein exposure. COX-2 was found to colocalize with acrolein-lysine adducts in human atherosclerotic lesions. Inhibition of p38 MAPK activity abolished the induction of COX-2 protein and PGE2 accumulation by acrolein, while suppression of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and JNK activity had no effect on the induction of COX-2 expression in experiments using inhibitors and siRNA. Furthermore, rottlerin, an inhibitor of protein kinase Cdelta (PKCdelta), abrogated the upregulation of COX-2 at both protein and mRNA levels.
These results provide that acrolein may play a role in progression of atherosclerosis and new information on the signaling pathways involved in COX-2 upregulation in response to acrolein and provide evidence that PKCdelta and p38 MAPK are required for transcriptional activation of COX-2.
Case reports have suggested that minocycline, sulfasalazine, and penicillamine are associated with antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)-positive vasculitis. This study evaluated ANCA seroconversion due to these agents in serum samples prospectively collected in randomized, double-blind, controlled trials.
The sources of study sera were 3 clinical trials: 1) a 48-week trial of minocycline for early rheumatoid arthritis, with 64 patients receiving minocycline compared with 68 receiving placebo; 2) a 37-week trial of sulfasalazine for rheumatoid arthritis, with 51 receiving sulfasalazine compared with 38 receiving placebo; and 3) a 104-week trial of penicillamine for early systemic sclerosis, with 15 undergoing high-dose penicillamine treatment versus 12 receiving low-dose penicillamine. ANCA were measured in the baseline and study-end serum samples by indirect immunofluorescence (IIF) for perinuclear ANCA (pANCA) and cytoplasmic ANCA (cANCA) patterns, and by antigen-specific enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for antibodies to myeloperoxidase (anti-MPO) and proteinase 3 (anti-PR3). Laboratory personnel were blinded to the group identity of the samples. ANCA results were interpreted using an ANCA scoring system that combines the results of IIF and ELISA testing.
No patient in any of the active study drug groups demonstrated ANCA seroconversion according to the final interpretation of the combined IIF and ELISA results. Twelve of the 248 patients (5%) were positive for anti-MPO with pANCA at baseline. No subject was positive for anti-PR3 with cANCA. There were no findings suggestive of vasculitis in any of these patients.
From our study results, there was no suggestion of ANCA seroconversion induced by minocycline, sulfasalazine, or penicillamine. However, these findings do not rule out the possibility of rare, sporadic cases of either ANCA seroconversion or true drug-induced vasculitis with these drugs.
Various morphological parts of Persea americana Mill (Lauraceae) (avocado) are widely used in African traditional medicines for the treatment, management and/or control of a variety of human ailments, including childhood convulsions and epilepsy. This study examined the anticonvulsant effect of the plant's leaf aqueous extract (PAE, 50-800 mg/kg i.p.) against pentylenetetrazole (PTZ)-, picrotoxin (PCT)- and bicuculline (BCL)-induced seizures in mice. Phenobarbitone and diazepam were used as reference anticonvulsant drugs for comparison. Like the reference anticonvulsant agents used, Persea americana leaf aqueous extract (PAE, 100-800 mg/kg i.p.) significantly (p < 0.05-0.001) delayed the onset of, and antagonized, pentylenetetrazole (PTZ)-induced seizures. The plant's leaf extract (PAE, 100-800 mg/kg i.p.) also profoundly antagonized picrotoxin (PCT)-induced seizures, but only weakly antagonized bicuculline (BCL)-induced seizures. Although the data obtained in the present study do not provide conclusive evidence, it would appear that 'avocado' leaf aqueous extract (PAE) produces its anticonvulsant effect by enhancing GABAergic neurotransmission and/or action in the brain. The findings of this study indicate that Persea americana leaf aqueous extract possesses an anticonvulsant property, and thus lends pharmacological credence to the suggested ethnomedical uses of the plant in the management of childhood convulsions and epilepsy.
The retinoic acid induced 1 gene (RAI1) is the primary causative gene for Smith-Magenis syndrome (SMS). Chromosomal deletion encompassing RAI1 or mutation in RAI1 is responsible for the majority of SMS features. Mouse models with targeted disruption of Rai1 have recapitulated overt SMS phenotypes, including craniofacial abnormalities, obesity, and neurobehavioral anomalies. Penetrance and expressivity of most phenotypes in mice were incomplete due to the mixed genetic background in which they were created. While increased penetrance of craniofacial phenotypes was observed in relatively homogeneous backgrounds, the effect of Rai1 haploinsufficiency on breeding outcome and fitness has not been studied. We analyzed mating results of Rai1+/- mice in a pure C57BL/6J background (>or=N10 generations). A significant distortion (P<0.05) of Mendelian transmission ratio with skewing against Rai1+/- mice was observed. Consequently, a decreased number of Rai1+/- pups and no Rai1-/- pups were obtained from all the breeding pairs. The decreased yield of Rai1+/- pups precluded penetrance studies of other phenotypes in these mice. However, when Rai1+/- alleles were transferred to a slightly variable (approximately 1% 129/approximately 99% C57BL/6J) genetic background expected numbers of Rai1+/- pups were obtained. Our results indicate that selection against Rai1-haploinsufficient alleles is governed primarily by modifier genes. Our data show that genetic background or modifier genes also significantly contribute to the severity of the phenotypes in SMS mouse models, mirroring the phenotypic variation observed in humans with Smith-Magenis syndrome and support the need for investigation of modifier loci for both single gene and complex genetic syndromes.
Recent pre-clinical research has indicated that chronic treatment with methylphenidate (Ritalin) in young animals can result in lasting and potentially detrimental alterations in brain function that can persist into adulthood. Chronic methylphenidate-induced neuronal alterations may result in behavior and cognitive deficits that include increases in behavioral responses and impairment in recognition memory. This study compared the cognitive consequences following chronic treatment with two doses (5 and 10 mg/kg) of methylphenidate on recognition and spatial memory in adult male Long-Evans rats using an established oral dosing procedure. The animals were then tested in the Object Recognition test at 14 days post treatment and the Object Placement test at 21 days post treatment. The results indicate that repeated exposure to oral methylphenidate impaired the performance of rats in these tests. The current findings add to recent research demonstrating negative consequences in rats pre-treated with methylphenidate, and extend previous findings to include deficits in spatial recognition memory.
The development of murine contact hypersensitivity is influenced by hair follicle cycling. Here, we have examined hair cycle-associated fluctuations of murine contact photosensitivity (CPS) to tetrachlorosalicylanilide (TCSA) and its immunologic mechanism(s). When the CPS outcome was monitored in correlation with their spontaneous, synchronized hair cycling, mice aged 8 and 14 weeks, with most of their hair follicles in telogen, exhibited strong CPS responses, whereas 4-, 11-, and 16-week-old mice with a predominance of anagen follicles in a large area of their integument exhibited lower responses. This suggests that the development of CPS is inhibited in mice with anagen hair follicles. Antigen-specific, T-cell receptor V beta 7+ suppressor T cells, which are recognized to down-regulate the CPS response to TCSA, were not generated in sensitized anagen mice. Culture supernatants of epidermal cells derived from mice with anagen hair follicles contained factor(s) that suppress in vivo the development of CPS. It was found that levels of mRNA for tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha) were markedly decreased in epidermal cells from early anagen to telogen mice, whereas message for IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) was transcribed increasingly during this hair cycling. These findings suggest that altered keratinocyte production of these cytokines is involved in mediating the anagen-associated depression of CPS.
