This substudy tested a prospective hypothesis that European Myocardial Infarct Amiodarone Trial (EMIAT) patients with depressed heart rate variability (HRV) benefit from amiodarone treatment.
The EMIAT randomized 1,486 survivors of acute myocardial infarction (MI) aged < or =75 years with left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) < or =40% to amiodarone or placebo. Despite a reduction of arrhythmic mortality on amiodarone, all-cause mortality was not changed.
Heart rate variability was assessed from prerandomization 24-h Holter tapes in 1,216 patients (606 on amiodarone). Two definitions of depressed HRV were used: standard deviation of normal to normal intervals (SDNN) < or =50 ms and HRV index < or =20 units. The survival of patients with depressed HRV was compared in the placebo and amiodarone arms. A retrospective analysis investigated the prospective dichotomy limits. All tests were repeated in five subpopulations: patients with first MI, patients on beta-adrenergic blocking agents, patients with LVEF < or =30%, patients with Holter arrhythmia and patients with baseline heart rate > or =75 beats/min.
Centralized Holter processing produced artificially high SDNN but accurate HRV index values. Heart rate variability index was < or =20 U in 363 (29.9%) patients (183 on amiodarone) with all-cause mortality 22.8% on placebo and 17.5% on amiodarone (23.2% reduction, p = 0.24) and cardiac arrhythmic mortality 12.8% on placebo and 4.4% on amiodarone (66% reduction, p = 0.0054). Among patients with prospectively defined depressed HRV, the largest reduction of all-cause mortality was in patients with first MI (placebo 17.9%, amiodarone 10.3%, 42.5% reduction, p = 0.079) and in patients with heart rate < or =75 beats/min (placebo 29.0%, amiodarone 19.3%, 33.7% reduction, p = 0.075). Among patients with first MI and depressed HRV, amiodarone treatment was an independent predictor of survival in a multivariate Cox analysis. The retrospective analysis found a larger reduction of mortality on amiodarone in 313 (25.7%) patients with HRV index < or =19 U: 23.9% on placebo and 17.1% on amiodarone (28.4% reduction, p = 0.15). This was more expressed in patients with first MI: 49.4% mortality reduction on amiodarone (p = 0.046), on beta-blockers: 69.0% reduction (p = 0.047) and with heart rate > or =75 beats/min: 37.9% reduction (p = 0.054).
Measurement of HRV in a large set of centrally processed Holter recordings is feasible with robust methods of assessment. Patients with LVEF < or =40% and depressed HRV benefit from prophylactic antiarrhythmic treatment with amiodarone. However, this finding needs confirmation in an independent data set before clinical practice is changed.
In acute pain models, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists enhance the antinociceptive effects of morphine to a greater extent in males than females. The purpose of this investigation was to extend these findings to a persistent pain model which could be distinguished from acute pain models on the basis of the nociceptive fibers activated, neurochemical substrates, and duration of the nociceptive stimulus. To this end, persistent hyperalgesia was induced by administration of capsaicin in the tail of gonadally intact F344 rats, following which the tail was immersed in a mildly noxious thermal stimulus, and tail-withdrawal latencies measured. For comparison, tests were conducted in two acute pain models, the hotplate and warm water tail-withdrawal procedures. In males, the non-competitive NMDA antagonist dextromethorphan enhanced the antihyperalgesic effect of low to moderate doses of morphine in a dose-and time-dependent manner. Across the doses and pretreatment times examined, enhancement was not observed in females. Enhancement of morphine antinociception by dextromethorphan was seen in both males and females in the acute pain models, with the magnitude of this effect being greater in males. These findings demonstrate a sexually-dimorphic interaction between NMDA antagonists and morphine in a persistent pain model that can be distinguished from those observed in acute pain models.
Clozapine is an atypical neuroleptic agent given when schizophrenia is resistant to other neuroleptic drugs. Its use is restricted because of the risk of agranulocytosis, which appears in 1% of cases and therefore necessitates frequent WBC counts. We cite the only 2 surveys of the treatment of adolescents with clozapine and report our experience. We treated 7 boys and 6 girls between the ages of 14-17 years (mean 16.6) with clozapine after failure of all other neuroleptic agents tried. Our usual dose was 300 mg/day, for an average of 245 days. In only 2 patients was improvement only partial. In 1 treatment had to be stopped because of symptomatic orthostatic hypotension which appeared 36 hours after the drug was started. In our opinion, clozapine should be considered when severe schizophrenia in adolescents is refractory to other neuroleptic agents, provided the WBC count is monitored.
To determine the perinatal impacts of heroin and amphetamine on both mothers and infants.
This is a retrospective study on the influence of amphetamine and heroin on pregnant women and their newborn infants at King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital in Bangkok, Thailand, between January 1997 and December 2002. The medical and demographic data of both mothers and infants were evaluated. Comparison of the consistent drug effects of these 2 drugs on the mothers and infants were also performed
Two hundred and eleven women were identified There were 178 (84.4%) and 33 (15.6%) women addicted to amphetamine and heroin respectively. Sixty one (28.9%) of them were polydrug users. There were more polydrug users among heroin addicts than amphetamine addicts, (43.7% vs 27.2%, p < 0.05). Poor obstetric history were noted in both groups of women including lack of prenatal care (74.9%), a high incidence of previous abortion (22.3%), positive HIV serology test (11.1%), pre-eclampsia (5.2%), infection (3.3%) and antepartum hemorrhage (1.9%). Drug intoxication was found in 11 amphetamine addicted mothers, whereas 2 heroin addicts developed withdrawal symptoms during intrapartum and postpartum periods. All infants were singleton. There was one stillbirth and 2 neonatal deaths. There was no statistical difference in terms of sex ratio, mean birth weight, gestational age, length, head circumference and Apgar score between the groups of amphetamine and heroin exposed infants. The incidence of prematurity, low birth weight, IUGR and microcephaly were not statistically different between both groups of infants. The overall incidence was 31.7%, 31.7%, 9.5% and 8.6% respectively. Congenital anomalies were found in 5 (2.8%) amphetamine exposed infants. Thirty one out of 33 heroin exposed infants (93.9%) and 4 out of 178 amphetamine exposed infants (2.2%) developed drug withdrawal symptoms with the mean onset of 21.5 +/- 16.5 hours and 10.3 +/- 7.5 hours respectively, p > 0.05. All heroin withdrawal infants were successfully treated with Phenobarbital with the mean duration of treatment of 23.7 +/- 11.5 days. None of the amphetamine withdrawal infants needed specific treatment. They recovered spontaneously within 6.0 +/- 5.3 days. Eighteen infants were left in an orphanage or under the custody of their relatives.
Amphetamine or heroin use during pregnancy can cause many serious adverse effects on both mothers and infants. The findings in the present study are consistent with previous reports, although they seemed to be more common and severe. Increasing awareness and improving understanding of drug abuse in the medical, legal and social aspects are needed in order to reduce these impacts.
Acetylcholine (ACh) is involved in brain reward and learning functions and contributes to opiate- and psychostimulant-motivated behaviors. Tacrine is a centrally acting, reversible cholinesterase inhibitor that also inhibits monoamine oxidase (MAO) and blocks reuptake of dopamine (DA) and serotonin.
To determine the effects of pretreatment with tacrine on self-administration of cocaine and nondrug reinforcers.
Male Wistar rats were trained to self-administer cocaine under a fixed-ratio-5 (FR-5) schedule during 2-h multiple-component sessions in which 0.1, 0.2, and 0.4 mg/kg per injection of cocaine were each available for 40 min. Other animals self-administered 45 mg food pellets under FR-30 or 20% Ensure (liquid food) under FR-5 in amounts of 30, 60, or 120 microl. Vehicle or tacrine was administered as single intravenous doses 20 min before self-administration of cocaine, food pellets, or liquid food.
Although pretreatment with 0.032 mg/kg of tacrine increased self-administration of food pellets, pretreatment with higher doses of tacrine attenuated self-administration of cocaine, food pellets, or liquid food. Tacrine's ED50 value for attenuating self-administration of 0.1 mg/kg per injection of cocaine was more than sixfold lower than values for attenuating liquid food- or food pellet-reinforced behavior. However, ED50 values for attenuating self-administration of higher doses of cocaine were similar to those observed for 30 or 60 microl of liquid food.
Tacrine can selectively attenuate self-administration of low-dose cocaine, but its effects on higher doses of cocaine are similar to its ability to decrease self-administration of nondrug reinforcers.
Postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) is being recognized as a complication contributing to perioperative morbidity and mortality of the elderly. We hypothesized that the use of the shorter-acting volatile anaesthetic desflurane would be associated with less incidence of POCD when compared with sevoflurane.
Approved by the local ethical committee, 80 patients (aged 65-75 yr) were enrolled in this randomized, double-blinded study. Patients were allocated to either the desflurane (n=40) or the sevoflurane (n=40) group. The primary outcome was the cognitive Test for Attentional Performance with its subtests Alertness, Divided Attention, Visual Scanning, Working Memory, and Reaction Change. In addition, Paper-Pencil Tests [Well-being Test BF-S, Recall of Digit Span (DST), Digit-Symbol-Substitution Test, Trail Making Tests A and B, and Spielberg State-Trait Anxiety Inventory] were measured. After baseline assessment 12-24 h before operation, patients were followed up 6-8 and 66-72 h after operation. Among other outcome parameters, emergence times from anaesthesia and modified Aldrete scores were recorded.
There was no difference in the incidence of POCD. However, according to the Paper-Pencil Tests, significant improvements for the desflurane group could be detected (Well-being Test at 6-8 h, DST at 6-8 h, and Trail Making Test at 66-72 h). Emergence was significantly faster in the desflurane group for 'time to open eyes' and 'time to extubation'.
The total incidence of POCD showed no differences between the desflurane and the sevoflurane groups. However, the tests Well-being scale, DST, and Trail Making Test, emergence times, and patients' satisfaction were in favour of desflurane.
The aim of the study was to examine the influence of hyperprolactinemia, induced by haloperidol (HAL) on age related morphology and function changes of epithelial cells in rat prostate lateral lobe. The study was performed on sexually mature male rats. Serum concentrations of prolactin (PRL) and testosterone (T) were measured. Tissue sections were evaluated with light and electron microscopy. Immunohistochemical reactions for Anti-Proliferating Cell Nuclear Antigen (PCNA) were performed. In rats of the experimental group, the mean concentration of: PRL was more than twice higher, whereas T concentration was almost twice lower than that in the control group. Light microscopy visualized the following: hypertrophy and epithelium hyperplasia of the glandular ducts, associated with increased PCNA expression. Electron microscopy revealed changes in columnar epithelial cells, concerning organelles, engaged in protein synthesis and secretion.
To present our long-term experience regarding the use of chemotherapy plus low-dose involved-field radiotherapy (IFRT) for clinical Stage I-IIA Hodgkin's lymphoma.
We analyzed the data of 368 patients. Of these, 66 received mechlorethamine, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone (MOPP) and 302 received doxorubicin (or epirubicin), bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine [A(E)BVD]. Patients with complete remission or very good partial remission were scheduled for low-dose IFRT (< or =3200 cGy).
The 10-year failure-free survival (FFS) and overall survival (OS) rate was 85% and 86%, respectively. A(E)BVD-treated patients had superior 10-year FFS and OS rates compared with MOPP-treated patients (87% vs. 75%, p = 0.009; and 93% vs. 71%, p = 0.0004, respectively). Only 10 of 41 relapses had any infield (irradiated) component. Of the complete responders/very good partial responders treated with low-dose IFRT, those who received <2800 cGy had inferior FFS but similar OS as those who received 2800-3200 cGy. Adverse prognostic factors for FFS included age > or =45 years, leukocytosis > or =10 x 10(9)/L, and extranodal extension. Secondary acute leukemia developed after MOPP with or without salvage therapy (n = 6) or after ABVD plus salvage therapy (n = 2). None of the nine secondary solid tumors developed within the RT fields.
IFRT at a dose of 2800-3000 cGy is highly effective in clinical Stage I-IIA HL patients who achieved a complete response or very good partial response with A(E)BVD. The long-term toxicity with respect to secondary malignancies appears to be acceptable.
1. The effects of dopaminergic agonists and antagonists were investigated on withdrawal signs in lorazepam-dependent rats. Physical dependence was developed by giving lorazepam admixed with food in the following dose schedules: 10 x 4, 20 x 4, 40 x 4, 80 x 4 and 120 x 7 mg/kg, daily for x days. 2. The parameters observed during the periods of administration of lorazepam and after its withdrawal were spontaneous locomotor activity (SLA), reaction time to pain, foot shock aggression (FSA) and audiogenic seizures. 3. During the withdrawal period, rats were divided into groups of 10 rats each. One group did not receive any drug and served as the control withdrawal groups. Three other groups received, separately, one of the following dopamimetic drugs: (i) 200 mg/kg per day, i.m., L-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA; +50 mg/kg per day, i.m., carbidopa); (ii) 2 mg/kg per day, i.m., amphetamine; or (iii) 1 mg/kg per day, i.m., apomorphine. The remaining groups received one of the following dopamine antagonists: (i) 0.1 mg/kg per day, i.m., SCH 23390; (ii) 0.5 mg/kg per day, i.m., haloperidol; (iii) 0.5 mg/kg per day, i.m., centbutindol; and (iv) either 1 or 20 mg/kg per day, i.m., clozapine. 4. The withdrawal signs observed in the control group were hyperkinesia, hyperaggression and audiogenic seizures. 5. L-Dihydroxyphenylalanine (+ carbidopa), amphetamine and apomorphine potentiated hyperaggression and audiogenic seizures. The dopamine D2 receptor antagonists haloperidol, centbutindol and clozapine (at 20 mg/kg, i.m.) blocked all withdrawal signs. The D1 receptor antagonist SCH 23390 inhibited hyperkinesia and hyperaggression. The D4 receptor antagonist clozapine (at 1 mg/kg, i.m.) had no effect on any of the withdrawal signs. 6. It may be concluded that dopamine D2 receptors exert a dominant facilitatory influence, with partial contribution of D1 receptors, on the benzodiazepine withdrawal syndrome.
Neoplasms in the brain are uncommon in control Fischer 344 (F344) rats; they occur at a rate of less than 1% in 2-yr toxicity/carcinogenicity studies. Furthermore, only 10 of nearly 500 studies conducted by the National Toxicology Program (NTP) showed any evidence of chemically related neoplastic effects in the brain. Generally, the brain tumor responses were considered equivocal, because the characteristics of potential neurocarcinogenic agents (such as statistically significant increased incidences, decreased latency and/or survival, and demonstration of dose-response relationships) were not observed. A thorough examination, including comparisons with a well-established historical database, is often critical in evaluating rare brain tumors. Chemicals that gave equivocal evidence of brain tumor responses were generally associated with carcinogenicity at other sites, and many chemicals were mutagenic when incubated with metabolic activating enzymes. Other factors that were supportive of the theory that marginal increases in brain tumor incidence were related to chemical exposure were that (a) some of the tumors were malignant, (b) no brain neoplasms were observed in concurrent controls from some studies, and/or (c) brain tumors were also seen following exposure to structurally related chemicals. In 2-yr studies in F344 rats (studies conducted by the NTP), equivocal evidence of carcinogenicity was observed for the following 9 chemicals: isoprene, bromoethane, chloroethane, 3,3'-dimethylbenzidine dihydrochloride, 3,3'-dimethoxybenzidine dihydrochloride, furosemide, C.I. direct blue 15, diphenhydramine hydrochloride, and 1-H-benzotriazole. Glycidol was the only chemical evaluated by the NTP with which there was clear evidence of brain tumor induction in F344 rats. Clarification of the potential neurocarcinogenic risks of chemicals that produce equivocal evidence of a brain tumor response in conventional 2-yr rodent studies may be aided by the use of transgenic mouse models that exhibit genetic alterations that reflect those present in human brain tumors as well as by the use of in utero exposures.
The aim of this study was to assess the effects of cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 inhibition on rat experimental liver fibrogenesis.
We investigated the inhibitory effects of a selective COX-2 inhibitor, JTE-522, on liver fibrosis induced by a choline-deficient, l-amino acid-defined diet (CDAA). Inhibitory effect was also tested in a second model of thioacetamide (TAA)-induced liver fibrosis.
CDAA induced liver fibrosis and preneoplastic foci at 12 weeks and cirrhosis at 36 weeks. Hepatocellular carcinoma was noted in 13 of 15 rats (87%). JTE-522 significantly inhibited fibrosis and development of preneoplastic lesions in a dose-dependent manner and completely inhibited generation of cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma at both low and high doses (10 and 30 mg/kg body wt/day, respectively). JTE-522 administrated only from 12 weeks to 36 weeks also prevented cirrhosis and formation of hepatocellular carcinoma. JTE-522 itself did not cause local or systemic gross or histopathologic changes at 36 weeks. Mechanistic studies indicated that the CDAA model displayed up-regulation of several biomarkers, including COX-2, arachidonate metabolite (prostaglandin E(2)), serum aspartate aminotransferase, and c-myc expression. The model also showed an increased proportion of activated hepatic stellate cells, proliferating cell nuclear antigen index, and CD45-positive inflammatory cells in the liver. JTE-522 effectively diminished these changes. JTE-522 exhibited similar antifibrosis effects in the TAA model.
Our results suggest that COX-2 is involved in CDAA- and TAA-induced liver fibrosis. Our data also indicate that JTE-522 is a potent chemopreventive agent of rat liver fibrosis with low toxicity.
Aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR), a transcription factor of the bHLH/PAS family, is well characterized to regulate the biochemical and toxic effects of environmental chemicals. More recently, AhR activation has been shown to regulate the differentiation of Foxp3(+) Tregs as well as Th17 cells. However, the precise mechanisms are unclear. In the current study, we investigated the effect of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD), a potent AhR ligand, on epigenetic regulation leading to altered Treg/Th17 differentiation, and consequent suppression of colitis.
Dextran sodium sulphate (DSS) administration induced acute colitis in C57BL/6 mice, as shown by significant weight loss, shortening of colon, mucosal ulceration, and increased presence of CXCR3(+) T cells as well as inflammatory cytokines. Interestingly, a single dose of TCDD (25 µg/kg body weight) was able to attenuate all of the clinical and inflammatory markers of colitis. Analysis of T cells in the lamina propria (LP) and mesenteric lymph nodes (MLN), during colitis, revealed decreased presence of Tregs and increased induction of Th17 cells, which was reversed following TCDD treatment. Activation of T cells from AhR(+/+) but not AhR (-/-) mice, in the presence of TCDD, promoted increased differentiation of Tregs while inhibiting Th17 cells. Analysis of MLN or LP cells during colitis revealed increased methylation of CpG islands of Foxp3 and demethylation of IL-17 promoters, which was reversed following TCDD treatment.
These studies demonstrate for the first time that AhR activation promotes epigenetic regulation thereby influencing reciprocal differentiation of Tregs and Th17 cells, and amelioration of inflammation.
Hepatic adenomas are rare tumors; they have been associated with the use of anabolic steroids. Acromegaly increases the overall risk of neoplasms. We report the case of a female acromegalic patient in whom multiple hepatic adenomas appeared soon after danazol treatment for uterine fibromatosis. Treatment of acromegaly with octreotide, followed by successful selective pituitary adenomectomy, stabilized the number and the size of the liver tumors. We suggest that oversecretions of GH and IGF-I were strong promoting factors for liver tumorigenesis in this patient.
To determine the plasma pharmacokinetics and the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) of intravenous (IV) azidothymidine (AZT) administered 90 to 120 minutes after fluorouracil (5-FU) and leucovorin and to preliminarily evaluate the antitumor activity of this combination in metastatic colorectal cancer.
5-FU 500 mg/m2 IV bolus was administered once a week in the middle of a 2-hour infusion of leucovorin; AZT was given as a 90 to 120-minute IV infusion 60 minutes after 5-FU. Initial AZT dose was 0.5 g/m2, and it was escalated in successive cohorts of three patients by 0.5 to 2 g/m2.
Thirty-five chemotherapy-naive metastatic colorectal cancer patients were entered onto the study, and AZT doses ranged from 0.5 to 10 g/m2. The peak AZT plasma concentration increased from 21.9 to 995.6 micromol/L. The area under the concentration/time curve (AUC) also showed a progressive, but not linear increase from 40.34 to 3,108 h x micromol/L. The most relevant toxicity was diarrhea, which was severe in six patients (17%). Toxicities were not AZT-dose-related, except fpr hypotension, which occurred in patients treated at AZT doses > or = 7 g/m2 and became dose-limiting for AZT 10 g/m2. Among 34 assessable patients, 15 objective responses were observed (44%; 95% confidence interval 27 to 62), lasting a median of 44 weeks; five (15%) were complete.
AZT doses > or = 6 g/m2 administered IV over 90 to 120 minutes produce maximum plasma concentration and AUC similar to those previously reached in murine tumor models. Dose-limiting toxicity is hypotension, which occurs at AZT 10 g/m2. The recommended AZT dose for further studies is 8 g/m2. The combination of 5-FU plus leucovorin plus AZT is feasible with acceptable toxicities, and has promising activity in metastatic colorectal cancer.
Indinavir sulphate is a protease inhibitor that has been found to be extremely effective in increasing CD4+ cell counts and in decreasing HIV-RNA titers in patients with HIV and AIDS. However, patients receiving indinavir also have been noted to have a significant risk of developing urolithiasis. Indinavir has high urinary excretion with poor solubility in a physiologic pH solution. The typical symptoms of indinavir urolithiasis are similar to other forms of urolithiasis. Indinavir urolithiasis is unique in that computed tomography, which was once thought to be efficacious in identifying all urinary calculi, is not useful in imaging stones that are composed of pure indinavir. Indinavir urolithiasis generally responds to a conservative regimen of hydration, pain control, and temporary discontinuation of the medication. Only a minority of patients need surgical intervention.
Hyperlactatemia with unexplained absence of metabolic acidosis is observed in acute liver failure. In chronic liver disease offsetting metabolic acid-base disorders could be revealed by means of physical-chemical acid-base analysis. The purpose of this study was to determine whether the acidifying effect of lactate is neutralized by the alkalinizing effect of hypoalbuminemia in acute liver failure.
Serial arterial blood samples of 46 consecutive patients with non-paracetamol-induced acute liver failure were studied after admission to a medical ICU in a prospective investigation and compared to healthy controls. Acid-base state was assessed by quantitative physical-chemical analysis.
Lactate was increased and albumin was decreased in patients with acute liver failure compared to healthy controls resulting in normal net metabolic acid-base state. The alkalinizing effect of hypoalbuminemia was neutralized by the acidifying effect of elevated lactate. This observation was confirmed in serial analysis during 5 days after admission.
The acidifying effect of lactate is neutralized by the alkalinizing effect of hypoalbuminemia in non-paracetamol-induced acute liver failure. The absence of apparent metabolic acidosis in the presence of elevated lactate can be explained by means of the physical-chemical acid-base model.
We present three cases of "crack" cocaine-associated stroke, together with a review of cocaine-associated cerebrovascular complications. Unlike previously reported cases tentatively associating ischemic stroke with cocaine, our patients had no other potential causes for their strokes. Although the exact mechanism of cocaine-related stroke remains uncertain, both disordered neurogenic control of the cerebral circulation as well as systemic factors (ie, acute hypertension) may play a role.
A total of 139 cerebral angiograms were performed on patients assigned randomly to three groups. The contrast agents used for these groups included meglumine calcium metrizoate, meglumine diatrizoate and meglumine sodium diatrizoate. Pulse rate and blood pressure readings were taken preceding and following injections and pain and heat sensations were graded. There were no significant differences in incidence of nausea or in changes of blood pressure or pulse rate, or in severity of heat sensations. There was a lower incidence of severe injection pain with meglumine calcium metrizoate than with meglumine sodium diatrizoate.
The authors studied 389 Graves' hyperthyroid patients receiving either high propylthiouracil (PTU) or methimazole (MMI) daily doses or low doses to evaluate whether adverse effects were related to the thionamide drugs or its daily dose regimen. Group 1 patients (n = 286) received high PTU (728 +/- 216 mg/day, n = 92) or MMI (60 +/- 19 mg/day, n = 94) doses, and group 2 patients (n = 103) were treated with low PTU (255 +/- 85 mg/day, n = 39) or MMI (23 +/- 10 mg/day, n = 64) doses. Major adverse effects were observed in 11 (2.8%) patients. Of these, four (1.0%) had agranulocytosis, two (0.5%) were granulocytopenic and five (1.3%) had hepatotoxicity. Agranulocytosis occurred in two patients from each group, 0.7% and 1.9%, respectively from group 1 and group 2. There was no significant difference between the groups or the types of thionamide. There also was no correlation with the patients' age. All of the patients were hyperthyroid, and its onset occurred in the first to third month of treatment. Full recovery was achieved in all cases after drug withdrawal. Four of 5 patients with hepatotoxicity were treated with high PTU doses, and one patient received low MMI doses (p less than .05). All patients were euthyroid. Arthralgias, skin rash and gastric intolerance, the minor adverse effects of thionamides studied, were observed in 52 (13.4%) of the patients. Although no significant differences were found, most of the patients experiencing side effects were from group 1 an received MMI therapy. These adverse effects did not demand drug withdrawal.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effect of 1,25(OH)2 vitamin D3-induced hypercalcemia on the course of aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity in the rat was studied. Daily gentamicin, 100 mg/kg body weight, was administered subcutaneously concomitant with 1,25(OH)2 vitamin D3, 50 ng s.c. to male Sprague-Dawley rats. This group was compared to rats injected with gentamicin alone, 1,25(OH)2 vitamin D3 alone, and an ethanol vehicle as a control. Structural and functional parameters of acute renal failure were assessed following 4, 6 and 7 days of treatment. Severe morphologic evidence of tubular injury was documented on day 6 in the group injected with gentamicin and 1,25(OH)2 vitamin D3. Correlative functional and metabolic evidence of tubular cell deterioration occurred in this group on day 7 as represented by an elevated blood urea nitrogen (BUN), 198 +/- 14 mg/dl (p less than 0.001 compared to all other groups), a heightened mean renal cortical homogenate calcium, 1,028.3 +/- 304.8 nmol/mg protein (p less than 0.05 or better compared to all other groups), and significantly increased mean cortical mitochondrial calcium content, 796.3 +/- 116.5 nmol/mg protein (p less than 0.01 in relation to all other groups). Elevated total serum calcium to a level of 11.9 +/- 0.2 mg/dl (p less than 0.001 compared to control group) developed in the gentamicin/1,25(OH)2 vitamin D3 group on day 4, 2 days prior to pronounced structural damage, and continued to be elevated through day 7. No difference in serum phosphorus levels, however, developed between control and gentamicin-plus-vitamin-D-treated animals except on day 7 when severe renal failure developed in this group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Acute hypokalemia occurs during infusion of beta 2 agonists for tocolysis. This study examines the efficacy of supplemental potassium in treating this hypokalemia. Four groups of dogs were anesthetized and given lactated Ringer's solution (group I), potassium chloride (group II), ritodrine hydrochloride (group III), and ritodrine plus potassium (group IV). Arterial blood gases, pH, and serum and urinary electrolytes were measured. Results were analyzed by an analysis of variance. Serum potassium fell in groups I and III, rose in group II, and remained stable in group IV. Urinary potassium levels in groups that received ritodrine (III and IV) were not different from control levels. Potassium given with ritodrine will prevent hypokalemia. However, the risks of hyperkalemia exist if vigorous replacement is undertaken. There were no dysrhythmias and no adverse effects in any of the hypokalemic animals. Therefore, the routine administration of potassium is not advocated even in obstetric patients who undergo general anesthesia.
Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) is characterized by the t(11;14) and cyclin D1 overexpression. However, additional molecular events are most likely required for oncogenesis, possibly through cell cycle and apoptosis deregulation. We hypothesized that mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) is activated in MCL and contributes to tumor proliferation and survival. In MCL cell lines, pharmacological inhibition of the phosphoinositide 3-kinase/AKT pathway was associated with decreased phosphorylation (activation) of mTOR and its downstream targets phosphorylated (p)-4E-BP1, p-p70S6 kinase, and p-ribosomal protein S6, resulting in apoptosis and cell cycle arrest. These changes were associated with down-regulation of cyclin D1 and the anti-apoptotic proteins cFLIP, BCL-XL, and MCL-1. Furthermore, silencing of mTOR expression using mTOR-specific short interfering RNA decreased phosphorylation of mTOR signaling proteins and induced cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. Silencing of eukaryotic initiation factor (eIF4E), a downstream effector of mTOR, recapitulated these results. We also assessed mTOR signaling in MCL tumors using immunohistochemical methods and a tissue microarray: 10 of 30 (33%) expressed Ser473p-AKT, 13 of 21 (62%) Ser2448p-mTOR, 22 of 22 (100%) p-p70S6K, and 5 of 20 (25%) p-ribosomal protein S6. Total eIF4E binding protein 1 and eukaryotic initiation factor 4E were expressed in 13 of 14 (93%) and 16 of 29 (55%) MCL tumors, respectively. These findings suggest that the mTOR signaling pathway is activated and may contribute to cell cycle progression and tumor cell survival in MCL.
Left ventricular function in 21 patients treated by polychemotherapy including adriamycin (ADM) has been studied by repeated echocardiographic examination. The mean rate of circumferential, the ejection fraction, and the shortening fraction are the most significant data obtained by this investigation. They permit the detection of early damage of left ventricular performance which increases progressively, confirming the dose-dependent nature of the cardiomyopathy. Supervision of patients under ADM is necessary to recognize those who rapidly develop cardiomyopathy. In these cases, treatment interruption may be beneficial. In contrast, patients with little left ventricular damage can be treated by a total dosage of ADM superior to that actually recommended.
Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is associated with high neonatal mortality from lung hypoplasia and persistent pulmonary hypertension. Pulmonary neuroendocrine cells (PNEC) produce calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), a potent vasodilator. We previously reported altered distribution of CGRP-positive PNEC in full-term rats with CDH, that may lead to an imbalance in vasoactive mediators. In the present study we examined the expression of CGRP-positive PNEC during lung development in rats with CDH induced by 2,4-dichlorophenyl-p-nitrophenylether (Nitrofen). Cesarean sections were performed on Days 16, 18, 20, or 22, and the lungs were immunostained for CGRP and immunoreactive cells were quantitated through image analysis. On Day 16, CGRP-immunoreactive staining was negative; on Day 18, CGRP-immunoreactive cells were found in all controls (not exposed to Nitrofen), whereas in CDH pups, CGRP-positive cells were present in only four of six cases. On Day 20, CGRP immunoreactivity was similar in CDH pups, Nitrofen-exposed pups without CDH, and controls. On Day 22 (term), significantly more CGRP-positive cells (i.e., number of positive cells per surface area [mm2] or lung volume [mm3]) were found in ipsilateral lungs of CDH pups than in controls (P < 0.05). The difference was even more striking in contralateral lungs of CDH pups (P < 0.001), ruling out nonspecific effects of Nitrofen. In CDH lungs, the proportion of immunostained epithelium and the size of the neuroendocrine cell clusters (neuroepithelial bodies [NEB]) were not significantly different from those of controls. On Day 22, supraoptimal dilution immunocytochemistry yielded similar results in CDH pups and controls. We conclude that in CDH, CGRP expression in PNEC and NEB is delayed during early stages of lung development. Because CGRP also exhibits growth factor-like properties for endothelium and epithelial cells, the lack of this factor during a crucial developmental stage (canalicular period) may be causally related to lung hypoplasia.
1. Effects of bopindolol, a beta adrenoceptor antagonist with partial agonist activity, on the diastolic blood pressure and heart rate of pithed rats were compared with those of pindolol. 2. Both bopindolol and pindolol reduced the diastolic blood pressure (DBP) in pithed rats. Bopindolol (3.0 mg/kg) and pindolol (1.0 mg/kg) produced similar decreases in DBP of about 8 mmHg; thus pindolol had a 3-fold higher hypotensive potency when compared with bopindolol. 3. Both drugs also produced a dose-dependent decrease in heart rate. 4. Propranolol (5 mg/kg) had no antagonistic effect on the decrease in DBP produced by either bopindolol or pindolol. 5. These results suggest that both bopindolol and pindolol reduce DBP and heart rate in pithed rats through some mechanism independent of beta-adrenoceptors.
