Binding by 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) to the Ah receptor leads to transcriptional activation of several genes and a toxicity syndrome that includes tumor promotion, wasting, hormonal and immune system dysfunction, and death. Recent findings indicate that TCDD may also affect cardiac function. Here, we used the chick embryo, a TCDD-sensitive species, to further characterize the effects of TCDD on ventricular muscle contraction and on cardiac myocyte [Ca2+]i assessed with fura 2. The results show that TCDD causes an evolving sequence of contractile defects, independent of changes in diet, first impairing cAMP-modulated contraction (after 48 hr) and later (by seven days) decreasing responses to [Ca2+]o. Phenobarbital, even at high doses, failed to affect the inotropic response to isoproterenol, supporting the specificity of the ventricular contractile effects of TCDD. TCDD treatment also depressed inotropic responses to theophylline and forskolin, indicating that it has a post-beta-adrenergic receptor effect on cAMP action. In contrast to its depression of responses to beta-adrenergic stimuli and to [Ca2+]o, TCDD did not affect initial tensions of ventricular muscle stimulated at 1 Hz or the force-frequency response up to 1 Hz, indicating that TCDD-treated ventricles can respond normally at slow rates of stimulation. TCDD treatment depressed lusitropic (relaxation) responses to isoproterenol and to increasing [Ca2+]o indicating that it impairs the ability of the sarcoplasmic reticulum to sequester Ca2+. Fura 2-based measurements showed that [Ca2+]i was nearly doubled after TCDD treatment. The increase in [Ca2+]i is consistent with the decrease in the contractile response to [Ca2+]o, amelioration of the response to isoproterenol by subphysiologic concentrations of [Ca2+]o, and intermittent lack of response to electrical stimulation in high K+ observed in ventricles from TCDD-treated embryos. TCDD treatment also depressed the initial increase in [Ca2+]i by isoproterenol, consistent with the decreased contractile response to isoproterenol. The findings show that TCDD causes well defined, progressive impairment of avian ventricular responses to inotropic stimuli, providing new evidence that the heart is a target of TCDD action and that TCDD disturbs intracellular calcium processing.
To observe the effects of combined transdermal acupoint electric stimulation and isoflurane anesthesia on isoflurane-induced hypotension and tissue oxygen metabolism in patients undergoing craniotomy.
Forty-two patients with brain tumor of ASA physical status I or II and scheduled for elective surgery were randomly divided into two groups. The craniotomy was undergoing in Group A with isoflurane anesthesia, while in Group B, with combined transdermal acupoint electric stimulation (TAES) and isoflurane anesthesia. Isoflurane induced hypotension was performed in both groups by augmenting the concentration of isoflurane to lower the mean arterial pressure than before anesthesia for 30%-40% and maintain for 30-45 mins. The tissue oxygen metabolism, blood gas and arterial lactic acid level before, during and after hypotension were monitored by Swan-Ganz floating catheterization.
As compared with before hypotension, the pulmonary arterial and mixed with venous blood oxygen saturation lowered and oxygen supply lowered, and oxygen uptake increased significantly in both groups (P < 0.05), but the extent of changes in oxygen metabolic criteria in Group B were all lesser than those in Group A (P < 0.05).
Combined acupoint electric stimulation and general anesthesia could maintain the tissue oxygen supply and demand balance better in the isofluraneinduced hypotension process.
The sensorineural hearing loss in 150 patients with chronic otitis media who were treated in the Haifa Medical Center (Rothschild) during a ten year period was studied. There were 124 patients treated with a mixture containing neomycin, polymyxin B and dexamethasone and a control group of 26 patients with dexamethasone only. All patients were followed up for a period of 1-2 years. Patients with hearing loss due to factors such as previous ear surgery, family history, exposure to noise etc., have been excluded. The conclusions reached were that there is a relationship between the period of disease and the sensorineural hearing loss and that the local treatment with a mixture containing neomycin + polymyxin B appears to contribute to the worsening of the sensorineural hearing loss in patients with chronic otitis media. Our numbers are small and further studies must be done, but the fact that currently used ear drops may produce a sensorineural hearing loss should not be ignored.
To evaluate the associations between the use of aspirin and the incidences of cardiovascular diseases, cancers, and other chronic diseases.
Postal questionnaire survey to elicit details of aspirin use.
Californian retirement community.
All 22,781 residents of the community (white, affluent, and well educated) were sent a questionnaire that included questions on medical history and the use of drugs such as analgesics, laxatives, and vitamin supplements. In all 61% responded (13,987, 8881 women and 5106 men; median age 73). They formed the cohort that was followed up for 6 1/2 years using discharge summaries from three hospitals serving the area and death certificates from the health department. Only 13 respondents were lost to follow up but seemed not to have died.
Incidences of cardiovascular diseases, cancers, gastrointestinal bleeding, ulcers, and cataracts were compared in participants who did and did not take aspirin daily.
Age adjusted incidences were computed with an internal standard and five age groups. By 1 January 1988 there had been 25 incident cases of kidney cancer among all participants; 341 incident cases of stroke, 253 of acute myocardial infarction, 220 of ischaemic heart disease, and 317 of other heart disease were reported among respondents without a reported history of angina, myocardial infarction, or stroke. The incidence of kidney cancer was raised among those who took aspirin daily compared with those who did not take it, although the increase was significant only in men (relative risks = 6.3, 95% confidence interval 2.2 to 17, for men and 2.1, 0.53 to 8.5, for women). Those who took aspirin daily showed no increased risk of any other cancer, except colon cancer for both sexes combined (relative risk = 1.5, 1.1 to 2.2). The risk of acute myocardial infarction was reduced slightly among regular users of aspirin in men but not women. The risk of ischaemic heart disease was almost doubled in those who took aspirin daily compared with non-users (relative risks = 1.9, 1.1 to 3.1, for men and 1.7, 1.1 to 2.7, for women). Small, non-significant increased risks of stroke were observed in both sexes.
The daily use of aspirin increased the risk of kidney cancer and ischaemic heart disease.
Exposure of humans to inorganic arsenic can cause skin cancer. The acquisition of cancer stem cell-like properties is involved in the initiation of some cancers, and there are changes in let-7 levels in some tumors. The mechanisms of action, however, remain obscure. Here, we report that there are decreased levels of let-7a, let-7b, and let-7c in human keratinocyte HaCaT cells during malignant transformation induced by a low concentration (1.0μM) of arsenite. The process by which arsenite reduces the level of let-7c apparently involves methylation, for 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine, an inhibitor of methyltransferases, prevents arsenite-induced hypermethylation, decreases the level of let-7c, and thereby blocks arsenite-induced activation of the Ras/NF-κB signal pathway. Let-7c is an up-stream regulator of the Ras/NF-κB signal pathway and down-regulates activation of this pathway. In arsenite-transformed HaCaT cells, the acquisition of cancer stem cell-like properties is prevented by over-expression of let-7c, and over-expression of let-7c decreases the malignancy of transformed HaCaT cells. Thus, we conclude that epigenetic silencing of let-7c via Ras/NF-κB is involved in the acquisition of cancer stem cell-like properties and neoplastic transformation of HaCaT cells induced by arsenite, which contribute to the tumorigenesis of arsenite.
Treatment in sudden sensorineural hearing loss is a contentious issue, today, oral steroids are the most common choice and considered the best treatment option, but the use of intratympanic steroids has become an attractive alternative, especially in cases when systemic therapy fails, or to avoid the side effects of the systemic use of steroids.
To describe the results of intratympanic methylprednisolone in idiopathic sudden sensorineural hearing loss after failure of oral prednisolone.
In a prospective study fourteen patients with idiopathic sudden sensorineural hearing loss were treated with intratympanic methylprednisolone after failing in the treatment with systemic steroids. Pretreatment and post-treatment audiometric evaluations including pure tone average (PTA) and speech reception thresholds (SRT) were analyzed.
Ten from 14 patients treated with intra-tympanic methylprednisolone presented with hearing recovery > 20 dB in PTA or 20% in SRT.
Three intratympanic injections of methylprednisolone improved pure-tone average or speech discrimination scores for a subset of sudden hearing loss subjects that failed to benefit from oral steroids.
A typical clinical cis-diamminedichloroplatinum(II) (cisplatin) dosing regimen consists of repeated treatment cycles followed by a recovery period. While effective, this dosing structure results in a prolonged, often permanent, infertility in men. Spermatogonial stem cells (SSCs) are theoretically capable of repopulating the seminiferous tubules after exposure has ceased. We propose that an altered spermatogonial environment during recovery from the initial treatment cycle drives an increase in SSC mitotic cell activity, rendering the SSC pool increasingly susceptible to cisplatin-induced injury from subsequent cycles. To test this hypothesis, the undifferentiated spermatogonia population and niche of the adult mouse (C57/BL/6J) were examined during the recovery periods of a clinically-relevant cisplatin exposure paradigm. Histological examination revealed a disorganization of spermatogenesis correlating with the number of exposure cycles. Quantification of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated digoxigenin-dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) staining indicated an increase in apoptotic frequency following exposure. Immunohistochemical examination of Foxo1 and incorporated BrdU showed an increase in the undifferentiated spermatogonial population and mitotic activity in the recovery period in mice exposed to one cycle, but not two cycles of cisplatin. Immunohistochemical investigation of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) revealed an increase in production along the basal Sertoli cell membrane throughout the recovery period in all treatment groups. Taken together, these data establish that the impact of cisplatin exposure on the functional stem cell pool and niche correlates with: (1) the number of dosing cycles; (2) mitotic activity of early germ cells; and (3) alterations in the basal Sertoli cell GDNF expression levels after cisplatin-induced testicular injury.
Alterations in GABAergic mRNA expression play a key role for prefrontal dysfunction in schizophrenia and other neurodevelopmental disease. Here, we show that histone H3-lysine 4 methylation, a chromatin mark associated with the transcriptional process, progressively increased at GAD1 and other GABAergic gene promoters (GAD2, NPY, SST) in human prefrontal cortex (PFC) from prenatal to peripubertal ages and throughout adulthood. Alterations in schizophrenia included decreased GAD1 expression and H3K4-trimethylation, predominantly in females and in conjunction with a risk haplotype at the 5' end of GAD1. Heterozygosity for a truncated, lacZ knock-in allele of mixed-lineage leukemia 1 (Mll1), a histone methyltransferase expressed in GABAergic and other cortical neurons, resulted in decreased H3K4 methylation at GABAergic gene promoters. In contrast, Gad1 H3K4 (tri)methylation and Mll1 occupancy was increased in cerebral cortex of mice after treatment with the atypical antipsychotic, clozapine. These effects were not mimicked by haloperidol or genetic ablation of dopamine D2 and D3 receptors, suggesting that blockade of D2-like signaling is not sufficient for clozapine-induced histone methylation. Therefore, chromatin remodeling mechanisms at GABAergic gene promoters, including MLL1-mediated histone methylation, operate throughout an extended period of normal human PFC development and play a role in the neurobiology of schizophrenia.
We believe it is advisable to avoid narcotics, if possible, in patients with known or suspected gallbladder disease. Occasionally, however, this will not be possible, and narcotic induced spasm of the sphincter of Oddi may require treatment. Except for the stated contraindications of glucagon administration, it seems to be based upon this study and other available data that glucagon is just as effective as naloxone in reversing spasm of the sphincter of Oddi and may be associated with fewer undesirable effects, such as reversal of analgesia and adverse hemodynamic changes. Anticholingergic drugs in man have proved to be of minimal or no benefit in this regard.
Liver X receptors (LXRs)-mediated signals in acanthoic acid (AA) ameliorating liver fibrosis were examined in carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced mice and TGF-β stimulated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). AA was isolated from the root of Acanthopanax koreanum Nakai (Araliaceae). CCl4-treated mice were intraperitoneally injected with 10% CCl4 in olive oil (2 mL/kg for 8 weeks). In AA treated groups, mice were intragastrically administrated with AA (20 mg/kg or 50 mg/kg) 3 times per week for 8 weeks. Administration of AA reduced serum aminotransferase and tissue necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) levels evoked by CCl4, and the reverse of liver damage was further confirmed by histopathological staining. Administration of AA reduced the expression of fibrosis markers and regulated the ratio of MMP-13/TIMP-1, further reversed the development of liver fibrosis. TGF-β (5 ng/ml) was added to activate HSC-T6 cells for 2 h, and then treated with AA (1, 3, or 10 μmol/l) for 24 h before analysis. Cells were collected and proteins were extracted to detect the expressions of LXRs. AA could inhibit the expression of α-SMA stimulated by TGF-β and increase the expression of LXRβ. In vivo and in vitro experiments, AA could modulate liver fibrosis induced by CCl4-treatment via activation of LXRα and LXRβ, while inhibit HSCs activation only via activation of LXRβ. Acanthoic acid might ameliorate liver fibrosis induced by CCl4 via LXRs signals.
We have investigated the effects on systemic, pulmonary, hepatic, and renal hemodynamics, and on blood gases of vasopressin, 0.4 U/min I.V. first alone, then in combination with nitroprusside 1-5 micrograms/kg/min I.V., in 12 patients with liver cirrhosis and portal hypertension. Portal pressures were estimated by the gradient between occluded and free hepatic vein pressures, hepatic blood flow was measured by indocyanine green infusion, renal blood flow by an isotopic method, and cardiac output by thermodilution. Vasopressin alone reduced cardiac output (-23%) and O2 delivery to the tissues (-25%), increased mean arterial pressure (+20%) and filling pressures of the heart (+136%), reduced portal pressures (-36%) (from 19 +/- 1 to 12 +/- 1 mmHg, mean +/- SEM), hepatic blood flow (-35%) (1.33 +/- 0.2 to 0.87 +/- 0.1 l/min), and renal blood flow (-16%) (0.77 +/- 0.07 to 0.65 +/- 0.05 l/min). Adding nitroprusside restored cardiac output, preload and afterload, and renal blood flow to pretreatment values. Oxygen delivery remained depressed (-12%) because of a negative effect on pulmonary gas exchange (physiologic shunt increased from 16 +/- 2 to 28 +/- 4%). Portal pressures remained reduced by 31% and hepatic blood flow by 25%. These results suggest that small doses of I.V. nitroprusside minimize the deleterious hemodynamic effects of vasopressin while maintaining the therapeutic benefit of portal pressure reduction in cirrhotic patients.
At the beginning, the way intrathecal morphine was used for postoperative pain relief was quite unfortunate, because the doses derived from experience with morphine-tolerant cancer patients were considerably too high and respiratory depression occurred frequently. Subsequent dose-finding studies showed that the doses of morphine used initially could be reduced by a factor of ten without loss of the analgesic effect and with a marked reduction in side-effects. No respiratory depression has been reported when doses below 0.1 mg morphine are used. METHOD. In this prospective study the effect of 0.06 to 0.08 mg intrathecal morphine, mixed with the local anaesthetic for spinal anesthesia, was investigated in surgical patients aged 21 to 81 years, ASA grade I or II, scheduled for orthopaedic operations or herniorraphies. Thirty unpremedicated patients were enrolled in the study and were, after informed consent, randomly allocated to a control group without morphine or to a morphine group. The analgesic effect was assessed by the time interval between the administration of the spinal anaesthesia and the first demand for an analgesic medication. The mood state was evaluated with the adjective checklist of Janke and Debus 6 h after the spinal anaesthesia. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION. In the control group half of the patients asked for an analgesic medication within 275 min (median) after the spinal anaesthesia, and all patients within 420 min, whereas in the morphine group half of the patients asked for an analgesic within 1170 min (median). Seven patients had not required an analgesic at the termination of the observation period 20 h after the spinal anaesthesia. The mood status showed no difference between the two groups, in particular, no dizziness or drowsiness after morphine. There was no difference in the incidence of side-effects such as nausea or urinary retention between the two groups. Pruritus was not reported spontaneously but was found upon questioning in five patients. It was in no case disturbing. CONCLUSIONS. Morphine (0.06 to 0.08 mg) mixed with the local anaesthetic for spinal anaesthesia provided for an analgesia of more than 20 h duration in half of the patients. This technique is safe, simple, reliable and virtually free of side-effects. No particular supervision due to the administration of intrathecal morphine is necessary in this dose range if systemic opiates are avoided. If the analgesia is unsatisfactory, a non-opioid analgesic is recommended.
Anthracyclines can cause cumulative dose-related cardiotoxicity characterized by changes in Ca(2+) metabolism, including dysfunction of the sacroplasmic reticulum (SR) and decreased expression of Ca(2+)-handling proteins, such as the ryanodine receptor (RyR2). In this study, we examined the effect of dexrazoxane (ICRF-187), an iron chelator which prevents anthracycline cardiotoxicity, on RyR2 gene expression in rats treated chronically with daunorubicin. Daunorubicin (2.5 mg kg(-1) i.v. weekly for 6 weeks) produced cardiotoxicity as demonstrated by histopathologic changes. The ryanodine receptor/glyceraldehyde phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) mRNA ratio was decreased by 38+/-3% (P<0.02) compared to values in control rats. Dexrazoxane pre-treatment (50 mg kg(-1); 1 h prior to each daunorubicin injection) prevented the decrease in RyR2/GAPDH mRNA ratio and histopathologic lesions in daunorubicin-treated rats. This is the first report that a protective agent such as dexrazoxane can ameliorate the decreased expression of a specific gene involved in anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity.
Administration of glucocorticoids in pharmacological amounts results in muscle atrophy due, in part, to accelerated degradation of muscle proteins by the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. The ubiquitin ligase MAFbx is upregulated during muscle loss including that caused by glucocorticoids and has been implicated in accelerated muscle protein catabolism during such loss. Testosterone has been found to reverse glucocorticoid-induced muscle loss due to prolonged glucocorticoid administration. Here, we tested the possibility that testosterone would block muscle loss, upregulation of MAFbx, and protein catabolism when begun at the time of glucocorticoid administration. Coadministration of testosterone to male rats blocked dexamethasone-induced reduction in gastrocnemius muscle mass and upregulation of MAFbx mRNA levels. Administration of testosterone together with dexamethasone also prevented glucocorticoid-induced upregulation of MAFbx mRNA levels and protein catabolism in C2C12 myotube expressing the androgen receptor. Half-life of MAFbx was not altered by testosterone, dexamethasone or the combination. Testosterone blocked dexamethasone-induced increases in activity of the human MAFbx promotor. The findings indicate that administration testosterone prevents glucocorticoid-induced muscle atrophy and suggest that this results, in part at least, from reductions in muscle protein catabolism and expression of MAFbx.
We present the case of a 36-year-old man who presented with a clinically neuroleptic malignant-like syndrome involving disorientation, signs of autonomic dysfunction, rigidity and raised total creatine kinase level, but in the absence of any neuroleptic medication. He had, however, abruptly stopped taking his long-term baclofen in the days prior to presentation. He improved markedly after the reintroduction of baclofen, and we postulate that his clinical syndrome resulted from the sudden withdrawal of this drug. We concur with the concept that neuroleptic malignant syndrome represents a spectrum of disorders, and add it to the list of possible sequelae after abrupt withdrawal of baclofen.
Biliary secretion of bile acids and phospholipids, both of which are essential components of biliary micelles, are mediated by the bile salt export pump (BSEP/ABCB11) and multidrug resistance 3 P-glycoprotein (MDR3/ABCB4), respectively, and their genetic dysfunction leads to the acquisition of severe cholestatic diseases. In the present study, we found two patients with itraconazole (ITZ)-induced cholestatic liver injury with markedly high serum ITZ concentrations. To characterize the effect of ITZ on bile formation in vivo, biliary bile acids and phospholipids were analyzed in ITZ-treated rats, and it was revealed that biliary phospholipids, rather than bile acids, were drastically reduced in the presence of clinically relevant concentrations of ITZ. Moreover, by using MDR3-expressing LLC-PK1 cells, we found that MDR3-mediated efflux of [¹⁴C]phosphatidylcholine was significantly reduced by ITZ. In contrast, BSEP-mediated transport of [³H]taurocholate was not significantly affected by ITZ, which is consistent with our in vivo observations. In conclusion, this study suggests the involvement of the inhibition of MDR3-mediated biliary phospholipids secretion in ITZ-induced cholestasis. Our approach may be useful for analyzing mechanisms of drug-induced cholestasis and evaluating the cholestatic potential of clinically used drugs and drug candidates.
The introduction of low-osmolality contrast media has improved patient tolerance to angiographic procedures. However, nonionic contrast media may be associated with an increase in the risk of clot formation. The objective of this study was to test whether there is more clotting with nonionic agents than with ionic agents.
Ninety-eight patients undergoing transfemoral cerebral angiography were randomly assigned to receive ionic (ioxaglate) (n = 62) or nonionic (iopamidol or iohexol) (n = 36) contrast material. Incidence of clot formation was examined by observation of catheters.
Clot formation was found in 4.8% of patients in the ionic contrast material group and 22.2% of patients in the nonionic contrast material group (P < .05).
Nonionic contrast media resulted in a statistically significantly higher incidence of clot formation than ionic media during cerebral catheter angiography. These results suggest that ionic contrast media are preferable in patients with risk of thrombosis.
Penbutolol is a potent long-acting non-cardioselective beta-adrenergic blocker with partial agonist activity. A double-blind cross-over comparison of penbutolol given in a single daily dose and propranolol given twice daily in the treatment of ambulant patients with moderate hypertension is described. Fourteen patients completed the study and were treated with each drug for 12 weeks. Penbutolol in daily doses of 20-120 mg and propranolol in daily doses of 80-400 mg produced similar significant reductions in both supine and erect blood pressure. Penbutolol did not reduce heart rate to the same extent as propranolol, in equivalent doses. Penbutolol appears to produce adequate control of moderate hypertension when administered once a day, and this effect appears to be equivalent to divided doses of propranolol. No serious adverse effects were reported, although one patient receiving penbutolol experienced severe eye pains at a dose of 40 mg which resolved on crossing over to treatment with propranolol.
Mexiletine is a lidocaine analogue used in the treatment of symptomatic ventricular arrhythmias. However, in selected individuals with baseline diminished left ventricular function, it may possess clinically significant negative inotropic effects.
Altered foci resistant to iron accumulation were induced by N-2-fluorenylacetamide in livers made siderotic by feeding 8-hydroxyquinoline and ferrous gluconate to inbred F344 rats. Following cessation of carcinogen feeding, most foci reverted to iron accumulation and could no longer be detected by 24 weeks, but some persisted for this interval. Futhermore, in 2 groups, 33 and 50% of rats developed liver tumors by 24 weeks after removal of the carcinogen. The addition of phenobarbital to the diet after cessation of carcinogen feeding enhanced persistence of altered foci and increased the incidence of liver tumors to 78--89%.
A single dose of MPA (Depo-Provera; Upjohn Co., Kalamazoo, Michigan) was administered intramuscularly to 12 time-mated pregnant cynomolgus monkeys on day 27 (+/- 2) of gestation at 25 mg/kg or at 100 mg/kg. Maternal blood samples were collected immediately prior to MPA injection and then at regular intervals until cesarean section at term (day 152 +/- 3). Infants in both dose groups had external genital abnormalities. Female infants in the low-dose groups had partial or complete labial fusion, prominent median raphe, and clitoral hypertrophy; at high doses (100 mg/kg), the female infants had complete labial fusion and a distinct penile urethra. MPA had an opposite effect on external genitalia of male infants. The penis was short and the scrotal swelling was absent or less conspicuous, and two males had hypospadias. The adrenal glands were significantly smaller (P less than 0.05) in infants of both sexes treated with 100 mg/kg. One of the infants treated with 25 mg/kg of MPA had a muscular ventricular septal defect. Serum concentrations of MPA were determined by radioimmunoassay in eight pregnant monkeys. In the 25 mg/kg group the patterns of MPA profiles in the serum were similar in all four animals. An initial peak occurred at 24-48 hr postinjection (2.7-9.6 ng/ml), followed by a slight decrease at 3 days postinjection (gestational day 30), and then a steady increase to maximum levels of 10-14 ng/ml occurring between gestational days 37 and 50. Serum levels gradually declined to concentrations below 5 ng/ml by midgestation in three of four monkeys. By comparison, both the patterns and magnitude of MPA concentration showed great interanimal variation in the 100 mg/kg group. MPA was present in cord blood at measurable concentrations in infants at both dose groups; the levels ranged from 0.6 to 8.3 ng/ml, corresponding to 40-72% of the maternal concentrations. These results demonstrate that a single injection of MPA during early pregnancy causes selective embryotoxicity in both male and female fetuses. Presence of high levels of MPA in maternal sera during the critical period of genital development can cause specific genital defects; however, the exact mechanism by which MPA causes these paradoxical genital abnormalities is unknown.
The aloe ingredients responsible for physiological effects and the concentrations required to exert their biological activities are not fully understood. This study compares the anti-inflammatory effects of aloin and aloe-emodin with other polyphenols. Our results demonstrated that aloe-emodin dose-dependently inhibited inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) mRNA expression and nitric oxide (NO) production at 5-40 microM. In addition, the levels of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) mRNA and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) production were suppressed by 40 microM aloe-emodin. Aloin also suppressed the production of NO at 5-40 microM, although it did not suppress PGE2 production. The present results indicate that aloin and aloe-emodin possibly suppress the inflammatory responses by blocking iNOS and COX-2 mRNA expression. The anti-inflammatory effect of aloe-emodin was comparable to that of kaempferol and quercetin, indicating aloe-emodin as a possible key constituent responsible for the anti-inflammatory activity of aloe.
Inhaled nitric oxide therapy causes selective and sustained pulmonary vasodilation in patients with pulmonary hypertension; however, attempts to discontinue inhaled nitric oxide therapy may be complicated by abrupt life-threatening events. Dipyridamole, a cyclic guanosine monophosphate-specific phosphodiesterase inhibitor, blocks the hydrolysis of cyclic guanosine monophosphate in vascular smooth muscle cells.
We studied 23 consecutive children who were treated with inhaled nitric oxide because of clinically significant pulmonary hypertension after surgery for congenital heart disease. Inhaled nitric oxide therapy was withdrawn before and after dipyridamole treatment of children in whom sustained elevations of pulmonary artery pressure developed for over 30 minutes.
In 7 of 23 children, inhaled nitric oxide withdrawal caused a 40% increase in pulmonary artery pressure, a 17% decrease in systemic venous oxygen saturation, and a 46% increase in the ratio of mean pulmonary artery pressure to aortic pressure. Compared with children who had no significant increase in pulmonary artery pressure, children who experienced the development of prolonged pulmonary hypertension after inhaled nitric oxide therapy withdrawal had higher mean pulmonary artery pressure immediately before inhaled nitric oxide withdrawal (22 +/- 1 mm Hg versus 27 +/- 2 mm Hg; p = 0.04) and received inhaled nitric oxide for a longer duration (2 +/- 1 days versus 4 +/- 1 days; p = 0.01). Dipyridamole therapy attenuated the rise in pulmonary artery pressure and fall in systemic venous oxygen saturation in all six patients studied with rebound pulmonary hypertension after withdrawal of inhaled nitric oxide.
We conclude that dipyridamole therapy acutely attenuates the adverse hemodynamic effects of rapid withdrawal of inhaled nitric oxide therapy. Children with higher pulmonary artery pressure and who are treated with inhaled nitric oxide for a longer duration may be at increased risk for adverse hemodynamic effects of inhaled nitric oxide therapy withdrawal. We speculate that dipyridamole therapy may sustain elevations of smooth muscle cyclic guanosine monophosphate induced by inhaled nitric oxide and that phosphodiesterase activity contributes to acute pulmonary hypertension after inhaled nitric oxide withdrawal.
The hemodynamic and intrapulmonary shunt effects of intravenous labetalol and nitroprusside were compared during induced hypotension for major spinal surgery. A randomized, double-blind protocol was used in which 20 patients, ASA physical status I or II, received either nitroprusside infusion (n = 10) or labetalol bolus injections of 10 mg every 10 min (n = 10) until mean arterial blood pressure was reduced to 55-60 mm Hg. Pulmonary artery pressures were measured and mixed venous samples obtained via a pulmonary artery catheter. Nitroprusside increased heart rate significantly more than labetalol during the period of hypotension. When compared with prehypotension baseline values, nitroprusside increased heart rate significantly with a concomitant significant decrease in systemic vascular resistance. Cardiac output increased significantly 60 min after hypotension was achieved in patients treated with nitroprusside. Systemic vascular resistance decreased significantly below baseline levels in patients treated with labetalol but without changes in cardiac output, heart rate, or mean pulmonary artery pressure. There was a 122% increase in intrapulmonary shunt with nitroprusside administration, compared with an 11% increase with labetalol. Labetalol was effective for inducing hypotension and was not associated with an increase in heart rate, intrapulmonary shunt, or cardiac output as seen with nitroprusside.
Hypertension frequently occurs during the immediate postoperative period in children after repair of aortic coarctation but may also occur after repair of other congenital heart defects. Nitroprusside has often been used to control blood pressure in this setting. Because hypertension after coarctation repair is frequently associated with elevations in catecholamines, esmolol, a short-acting beta-blocking agent, may be an effective alternative. Therefore we undertook the first systematic investigation to determine the efficacy and disposition of esmolol in pediatric patients with acute hypertension after cardiac operations.
Twenty patients aged 1 month to 12 years (median 25.6 months) with acute hypertension after cardiac operations received esmolol in an opened-labeled trial. Esmolol was titrated to a blood pressure less than or equal to the 90th percentile for age.
Ten patients had coarctation repair and the remaining patients underwent repair of other congenital heart defects. On final esmolol dose (mean +/- standard deviation dosage 700 +/- 232 microg/kg/min) there was a significant percent decrease in heart rate and systolic and diastolic blood pressures from postoperative values. Esmolol dose was significantly associated with percent reduction in systolic blood pressure. Final esmolol dose and total body clearance were significantly higher in patients after coarctation repair. There were significant associations between esmolol dose and esmolol blood concentrations at steady state.
The dosage required to control hypertension in patients after repair of aortic coarctation was higher than patients who underwent repair of other congenital heart defects. Esmolol was effective in controlling blood pressure in 19 of 20 patients without adverse effects.
