Myocardial ischemia induces 5-lipoxygenase (LOX) translocation and leukotriene production in the heart. Leukotrienes increase inflammatory responses aggravating, thereby, ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury. This study aimed to investigate whether the selective 5-LOX inhibitor 11-keto-β-boswellic acid (11-keto BA), in three different dose levels, exert a protective effect on myocardial I/R injury in an in vivo rat heart model. Sixty male Wister rats were used in this study and divided into five equal groups (n=12): GP1, sham-operated receiving normal saline; Gp 2, rats were subjected to 45 min left anterior descending coronary artery ligation followed by 4 h reperfusion to serve as I/R group. Gps 3-5 received 11-keto BA in doses 250, 500, 1,000 mg/kg, respectively, via an oral gavage for 7 days then were exposed to I/R. I/R injury induced a significant elevation in myeloperoxidase activity and gene expression of intracellular adhesion molecules, cyclooxygenase-2, 5-lipooxygenasae, nuclear factor kappa-beta, tumor necrosis factor alpha, nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2, and hemeoxygenease-1 consequently with reduction in glutathione peroxidase in heart tissues. Furthermore, immunohistochemical examination of the heart tissues showed positive immuostaining for both 3-nitrotyrosine and caspase-3 with DNA-ladder formation in all diseased rats. 11-keto BA in three dose levels exerted dose dependent cardioprotective effect manifested by dose-dependent reduction in serum lactate dehydrogenase and infract size through mechanisms related to enhancement of antioxidant capacity and prevention of inflammatory cascades.
Free radical generating organic peroxides and hydroperoxides are known to promote tumors in mouse skin and iron has been shown to participate in free radical generating reactions. In the present study, we have used various peroxides and hydroperoxides as stage-I and -II tumor promoters and have studied the effect of iron-overload on the two stages of tumor promotion. Swiss albino mice were iron-overloaded by injecting iron-dextran (1.0 mg Fe/mouse per day for 15 days). Twenty-four hours after the last injection of iron-dextran, the animals were initiated with 40 microg 7,12 dimethylbenz[a]anthracene. One week following initiation stage-I tumor promotion was accomplished by applying 12-O-tetradecanoyl phorbol-13-acetate (TPA), benzoyl peroxide (BPO), cumene hydroperoxide (COOH) or H(2)O(2) to mice twice weekly for 2 weeks. Stage-II tumor promotion was accomplished by applying mezerein, BPO, COOH or H(2)O(2) to these mice twice weekly for 40 weeks. The appearance of the first papilloma and the number of tumors/mouse were recorded weekly. When compared to non-iron-overloaded mice, the iron-overloaded mice showed a higher tumor incidence and number of tumors/mouse. The order in which iron-overload was effective in increasing tumor promotion by stage-I tumor promoters was H(2)O(2)>COOH>BPO>TPA and the order in which iron-overload was effective in increasing tumor promotion by stage-II tumor promoters was COOH>mezerein>BPO. Induction in ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity, [(3)H]thymidine incorporation in cutaneous DNA and cutaneous lipid peroxidation were also higher in the iron-overloaded mice. TPA was the most effective in inducing epidermal ODC activity and [(3)H]thymidine incorporation followed by mezerein, COOH and BPO. In addition, the level of epidermal reduced glutathione and the activities of antioxidant enzymes were lower in iron-overloaded mice. Besides this, cutaneous iron levels were higher in iron-overloaded mice. Thus, we conclude from this study that iron-overload augments stage-I and stage-II of tumor promotion in murine skin.
The compound oxycodone injection, but not pure oxycodone, has been available since the 1920's in Japan. The compound, containing oxycodone and hydrocotarnine, can be subcutaneously administered. Hydrocotarnine is a non-narcotic opium alkaloid. Nowadays, along with the increase in the prescription frequency of oral oxycodone, the compound oxycodone injection is regarded as an important alternative in palliative care. However, few clinical reports about this drug have been documented in Japan. We have intensively introduced the compound for cancer pain control since 4 years ago and we report a study on the safety and efficacy of the continuous subcutaneous administration of the compound injection. Ninety-seven patients were naively administered the compound for cancer pain control and the mean administered period was 18. 0+/-15. 5 days. 61. 9% of all cases were switched from oral oxycodone. The efficacy in cancer pain control was evaluated for the first two weeks using a numeric rating scale (NRS: 0, no pain, and 10, imaginary worst ). They had statically shown pain control improvement from 6. 8+/-2. 8 on administration to 2. 4+/-2. 5 one week later, 1. 7+/-1. 9 two weeks later, and 2. 3 +/-2. 6 on the last observation day of the study (p<0. 001). One week later on administration, no significant adverse effects were found in the serology, conscious level, and subjective symptoms of nausea and vomiting. But adverse effects difficult to manage were experienced in 7. 2%, including delirium, constipation, nausea and vomiting, vertigo, and local skin toxicity on the injected site. All episodes were experienced within 16 days of compound administration, which had been followed by switching to fentanyl or subcutaneous morphine injection. The conversion ratio from compound oxycodone injection to oral oxycodone was 1. 43 without adjustment required(n=35). We speculate that the compound can be regarded as a pure oxycodone injection using continuous subcutaneous administration. While our clinical audit is a primitive one, we may conclude that the continuous subcutaneous administration of the compound oxycodone injection should be effective and safe in clinical use for cancer pain control.
Mutation detection in the tyrosine hydroxylase gene (TH) was performed in patients from two families. DNA sequencing revealed the presence of four novel missense mutations (exon 9 and 14 in family A, exon 8 and 9 in family B); the mutations were confirmed with restriction enzyme analysis, and did not occur in control alleles. Three mutations are in the catalytic domain of the enzyme and one may disturb tetramerization. At the moment, all patients are in the fourth decade of life. For more than 30 years they have been able to live a normal life with low-dose L-DOPA medication.
Eplerenone (Inspra) is an aldosterone receptor antagonist approved for the treatment of hypertension and heart failure after a myocardial infarction. In vitro receptor binding and transactivation studies showed eplerenone had high selectivity for the mineralocorticoid receptor over other steroid receptors (glucocorticoid, androgen, and progesterone). The most sensitive off-target effect of orally administered eplerenone preclinically was prostate atrophy in dogs. Dose-related prostate atrophy was observed at eplerenone dosages ≥15 mg/kg/day for 13 weeks or longer. The no observed adverse effect level (NOAEL) for the prostate effect in dogs was 5 mg/kg/day. The maximal effect was seen by 13 weeks and the atrophy was reversible even after 1 year of daily treatment. An additional study demonstrated dogs with eplerenone-induced prostate atrophy (confirmed by intrarectal ultrasound) had slightly decreased semen volume but no compound-related effects on libido, semen protein content, sperm motility, daily sperm production, or epididymal sperm transit time. Four possible mechanisms for prostate effect were investigated: (1) inhibition of testosterone synthesis and secretion; (2) inhibition of 5α-reductase, the enzyme within the prostate that converts testosterone into the more active growth factor dihydrotestosterone (DHT); (3) competitive antagonism of the androgen receptor; and (4) inhibition of 5α-reductase or competitive antagonism of the androgen receptor by aldosterone, which increased in dogs treated with eplerenone. Data from these studies supported blockade of androgen receptors at suprapharmacological concentrations of eplerenone. Another mineralocorticoid blocker, spironolactone, had greater antiandrogenic activity than eplerenone both in vivo and in vitro, and it has well known clinically significant antiandrogenic effects in humans, whereas eplerenone does not.
Few molecular determinants of sensitivity to cancer chemotherapy exist. In experimental systems, p53 regulates the sensitivity to antimicrotubule drugs through its effect on microtubule-associated protein 4 (MAP4). MAP4 is the major microtubule-associated protein in nonneuronal tissues and promotes microtubule polymerization. We reported that wild-type p53 induction by doxorubicin in C127 breast cancer cells repressed MAP4, decreased microtubule polymerization, and increased Vinca alkaloid sensitivity. The goals of this Phase I/pilot clinical trial were to determine: (a) the safety of delivering a DNA-damaging agent (doxorubicin) followed in sequence by treatment with an antimicrotubule drug (vinorelbine); and (b) the feasibility of detecting activation of p53 and repression of MAP4 in patients' tissues.
Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMNCs) and tumor were obtained from 16 women with locally advanced (stage IIIb) or metastatic (stage IV) breast cancer before doxorubicin treatment and immediately before treatment with vinorelbine 24 or 48 h later.
After doxorubicin treatment, p53 increased in 12 of 14 PBMNC and 4 of 10 tumor samples. Changes in MAP4 were variable; however, in samples in which p53 was induced, MAP4 decreased in 7 of 12 PBMNC and 3 of 4 breast cancer specimens. Immunohistochemistry confirmed lower MAP4 expression in tumor cells after doxorubicin treatment. Seven of 16 patients had a partial response, and treatment was well tolerated.
These data demonstrate the ability to detect the activation of p53 and the repression of MAP4 in normal and malignant tissues in patients treated with a DNA-damaging agent, and that an antimicrotubule drug can be administered safely at a time when cells may be more sensitive to treatment.
A 58-year-old woman was admitted at diagnosis of type 2 diabetes without keto-acidosis. Blood glucose was normalized initially with insulin. Whilst taking glibenclamide, she developed acute haemolysis. She was homozygous for glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency and had no other factors predisposing haemolysis. We reviewed the literature and discuss the relationship between glibenclamide and haemolytic crisis and between G6PD-deficiency and diabetes.
Resveratrol (3,5,4'-trihydroxystilbene), a polyphenol found in red wine, is known to activate sirtuin1 (SIRT1), a longevity gene. Previous studies have demonstrated that resveratrol extends the life span of diverse species through activation of SIRT1. It was also reported that inhibition of angiotensin II function by angiotensin II type I receptor (AT1R) antagonist prolonged rat life span. We, therefore, hypothesized that resveratrol may inhibit the renin-angiontein system and examined whether resveratrol affects AT1R expression in vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs).
Northern and Western blot analysis revealed that resveratrol significantly decreased the expression of AT1R at mRNA and protein levels in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Overexpression of SIRT1 reduced AT1R expression whereas nicotinamide, an inhibitor of SIRT1, increased AT1R expression and reversed the resveratrol-induced AT1R downregulation. AT1R gene promoter activity was decreased by resveratrol, but resveratrol did not affect the AT1R mRNA stability. Deletion analysis showed that the most proximal region of AT1R gene promoter containing Sp1 site is responsible for downregulation. Administration of resveratrol suppressed AT1R expression in the mouse aorta and blunted angiotensin II-induced hypertension.
Resveratrol suppressed AT1R expression through SIRT1 activation both in vivo and in vitro. The inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system may contribute, at least in part, to the resveratrol-induced longevity and antiatherogenic effect of resveratrol.
Dacarbazine is widely used in the treatment of melanoma. Transient abnormalities of liver function tests are well-recognised side effects of the drug, but acute liver failure due to vascular occlusion in patients receiving single-agent chemotherapy with dacarbazine has been noted only rarely. Two cases are reported in which hepatic vascular lesions developed during treatment with dacarbazine and were confirmed at necropsy. Hepatic vascular occlusion due to treatment with dacarbazine may be less rare than was previously thought. Greater caution may be needed when dacarbazine is prescribed, particularly as an adjuvant agent in stage I and II disease.
Indirect evidence suggests that reactive oxygen species (ROS) may mediate muscle fiber necrosis following muscle hyperactivity induced by the anticholinesterase diisopropylphosphorofluoridate (DFP). Pronounced muscle fasciculations and muscle fiber necrosis were seen when acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity was reduced to less than 30% of control. The spin trapping agent phenyl-N-tert-butylnitrone (PBN) was used in vivo to directly assess the formation of ROS during DFP (1.75 mg/kg, s.c.) induced muscle hyperactivity. Pretreatment with PBN (300 mg/kg, i.p.), the concentration necessary for in vivo spin trapping, prevented muscle hyperactivity as well as necrosis and attenuated the DFP induced AChE inhibition otherwise seen in DFP only treated rats. PBN had no effect when given after fasciculations were established. Muscle extracts from PBN and DFP treated rats subjected to electron spin resonance (ESR) spectroscopy tested negative for ROS. While the role of PBN as an antioxidant is well established, its prophylactic effect against excitotoxity induced by an AChE inhibitor are due to its protection of AChE, an unexpected non-antioxidant action.
Current guidelines for asthma treatment do not recommend daily maintenance therapy in patients with mild intermittent (step 1) asthma. However, because there is increasing evidence that airway inflammation is present even in this patient group, maintenance anti-inflammatory therapy may be considered. We investigated the clinical impact of regular treatment with the inhaled corticosteroid beclomethasone dipropionate and the leukotriene receptor antagonist pranlukast in the patients concerned. The study was a randomized, controlled, parallel-group, multicenter trial. Eighty-five symptomatic patients with newly diagnosed mild intermittent asthma having normal pulmonary function were assigned beclomethasone or pranlukast for 8 weeks. Then, these medications were stopped for the next 16 weeks. Main outcome measures were asthma symptoms, pulmonary function, and airway inflammation. Treatment with beclomethasone and pranlukast significantly increased forced expiratory volume in 1 second and peak expiratory flow from baseline and decreased asthma symptom scores and sputum eosinophil counts and eosinophil cationic protein contents. After discontinuation of the treatment, symptom scores remained unchanged, but pulmonary function and airway inflammation were aggravated and then returned to the baseline levels. Therefore, maintenance therapy with inhaled corticosteroid or leukotriene receptor antagonist can provide further improvements in asthma symptoms, pulmonary function, and airway inflammation, and discontinuation of the therapy causes worsening of asthma, indicating that stopping or interrupting anti-inflammatory therapy may not be advisable in patients with symptomatic mild intermittent asthma.
Most cancers are due to environmental, occupational or other non-genetic factors and are potentially preventable.
To provide an evidence-based assessment of the burden of occupational and environmental-related cancers in China in 2005.
The population attributable fraction (PAF) was calculated based on the assumption of no occupational agent exposure. Relative risk estimates for specific cancers of interest and prevalence of exposure were mainly derived from large-scale studies. Data on cancer incidence and mortality was obtained from the Third National Death Cause Survey and cancer registries in China.
We estimated that a total of 48,511 deaths of cancer were attributable to occupational agents in China in 2005, with 34,975 among men (3.1% of all cancer deaths) and 13,536 among women (2.1%). A total of 59,410 incident cases of cancer were attributable to occupational agents in China in 2005, with 42,724 among men (2.8% of all cancer incident cases) and 16,686 among women (1.6%). The highest PAF was observed for mesothelioma with asbestos, followed by leukaemia, bladder and lung cancers. Indoor radon was responsible for 0.2% of lung cancer-related deaths among men and women.
Occupational agents represent an important cause of cancer, but indoor radon plays a relatively limited role in cancer causes in China. Our report provides strong evidence of the need for policy makers to develop strategies to reduce the risk of occupational cancers.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist MK-801 was administered to rats in three doses (0.08, 0.16, 0.33 mg/kg) in order to examine its effects on catalepsy that was induced by haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg). The degree of catalepsy was assessed 30 and 60 min after application of drugs by placing the rat on a horizontal bar, on a podium and on a vertical grid. Animals having received saline and haloperidol showed a higher degree of catalepsy than animals having received MK-801 and haloperidol (except for the lowest dose of MK-801). These findings may suggest a therapeutic potential of MK-801 and possibly of other NMDA antagonists in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
To substantiate the notion that cocaine behavioral effects may be influenced by gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurotransmission male Wistar rats were injected with gabapentin (a cyclic GABA analogue), tiagabine (a GABA reuptake inhibitor), or vigabatrin (a GABA transaminase inhibitor) before acute or repeated treatment with cocaine evoking either locomotor hyperactivation or sensitization. Gabapentin (1-30 mg/kg), tiagabine (2.5-10 mg/kg) or vigabatrin (75-250 mg/kg) attenuated the cocaine (10 mg/kg)-induced hyperactivation and in the highest doses they also decreased basal locomotor activation. Vigabatrin (75-250 mg/kg) dose-dependently reduced the development of cocaine sensitization in rats treated repeatedly (days 1-5) with cocaine (10 mg/kg) and then challenged with cocaine (10 mg/kg) following 5-day withdrawal; the remaining drugs were ineffective. When injected acutely with a cocaine challenge dose, gabapentin (3-10 mg/kg) or vigabatrin (150 mg/kg), but not tiagabine, significantly attenuated the expression of cocaine sensitization. The present results show that enhanced GABA-ergic neurotransmission exerted inhibitory actions on acute responses to cocaine, however, only in a case of vigabatrin the inhibition seems to be unrelated to the inhibitory effect of the drugs on basal locomotor activity. The finding that vigabatrin protected against the development and the expression of cocaine sensitization further supports its therapeutic potential in the treatment of cocaine dependence.
A 39-year-old man had pain and swelling of the terminal phalanx of a finger. Radiograph was interpreted as osteomyelitis, and amputation through the mid-phalanx was performed. Histology revealed Ewing sarcoma. Lung metastases rapidly developed. Right lung irradiation and systemic chemotherapy, including doxorubicin, were instituted. He developed progressive severe right ventricular failure which was attributed to effects of large pulmonary metastases. Autopsy showed massive right ventricular metastases, the primary pathological cause of the heart failure, without evidence of doxorubicin cardiomyopathy.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha) regulates lipid metabolism upon activation by ligands. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha may play a role in the pathogenesis of fatty liver disease. The aim of this study was to assess the PPARalpha expression pattern and mitochondrial/peroxisomal enzyme activities in response to high fat diet (HFD) and clofibrate, a well known PPARalpha ligand.
Four groups of Wistar-Albino rats were included: (1) rats fed a control diet (CD) for 6 weeks, (2) rats fed CD (6 weeks) plus clofibrate (last 2 weeks), (3) rats fed HFD for 6 weeks, and (4) rats fed HFD (6 weeks) plus clofibrate (last 2 weeks). Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha expression was evaluated by immunohistochemistry. Fatty acid beta-oxidation (peroxisomal-acyl-CoA-oxidase and mitochondrial-acyl-CoA-dehydrogenase) and catalase enzyme activities, and malondialdehyde and glutathion levels were measured spectrophotometrically in liver tissues.
All animals were fed HFD but only 2/12 animals were fed HFD plus clofibrate-developed fatty liver. Both HFD and clofibrate induced PPARalpha expression, clofibrate induction being more prominent than HFD. Clofibrate plus HFD did not further increase PPARalpha expression. Activities of peroxisomal-acyl-CoA-oxidase and mitochondrial-acyl-CoA-dehydrogenase enzymes were not induced by HFD alone. Clofibrate increased the activity of these enzymes in both CD- and HFD-fed animals. However, an increase of acyl-CoA-oxidase activity was blunted in rats fed HFD. Catalase activity and malondialdehyde levels were increased but glutathion levels were unchanged in rats fed HFD plus clofibrate.
Clofibrate was a more potent inducer of PPARalpha expression than HFD in our rat fatty liver model. The finding of blunted peroxisomal enzyme response to clofibrate in fatty livers suggests that alterations in postreceptor events may exist and further contribute to liver steatosis. Clofibrate seems to stabilize glutathion content and this might contribute to the prevention of liver steatosis.
Alcohol increases reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation in hepatocyte mitochondria and by reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidases and myeloperoxidase (MPO) in Kupffer cells and liver-infiltrating neutrophils. Manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) converts superoxide anion into hydrogen peroxide, which, unless detoxified by glutathione peroxidase or catalase (CAT), can form the hydroxyl radical with iron. Our aim was to determine whether Ala16Val-superoxide dismutase 2 (SOD2), G-463A-MPO, or T-262C-CAT dimorphisms modulate the risks of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and death in alcoholic cirrhosis. Genotypes and the hepatic iron score were assessed in 190 prospectively followed patients with alcoholic cirrhosis. During follow-up (61.1 +/- 2.7 months), 51 patients developed HCC, and 71 died. The T-262C-CAT dimorphism did not modify hepatic iron, HCC, or death. The GG-MPO genotype did not modify iron but increased the risks of HCC and death. The hazard ratio (HR) was 4.7 (2.1-10.1) for HCC and 3.6 (1.9-6.7) for death. Carriage of one or two Ala-SOD2 allele(s) was associated with higher liver iron scores and higher risks of HCC and death. The 5-year incidence of HCC was 34.4% in patients with both the GG-MPO genotype and one or two Ala-SOD2 alleles, 5.1% in patients with only one of these two traits, and 0% in patients with none of these traits. Corresponding 5-year death rates were 37.6%, 11.6%, and 5%.
The combination of the GG-MPO genotype (leading to high MPO expression) and at least one Ala-SOD2 allele (associated with high liver iron score) markedly increased the risks of HCC occurrence and death in patients with alcoholic cirrhosis.
The study was designed to examine the impact of anemia on the antitumor efficacy of photodynamic therapy (PDT) in a murine colon-26 adenocarcinoma model syngeneic with BALB/c mice.
Acute hemolytic anemia was induced by a single i.p. injection of phenylhydrazine hydrochloride (150 mg/kg). Anemia induced by i.p. administration of carboplatin (100 mg/kg) was corrected by s.c. treatment with recombinant human erythropoietin (1000 units/kg/day). The effectiveness of PDT (10 mg/kg Photofrin, 150 J/cm2 laser dose) was evaluated by measurements of the footpad edema and tumor volume. All of the RBC-related parameters were measured from the tail vein.
Phenylhydrazine hydrochloride injection resulted in a blunted response of normal tissues to Photofrin-mediated PDT-induced edema formation. Similarly, the antitumor response in mice with hemolytic anemia was nearly completely abrogated. The antitumor effectiveness of PDT was also significantly diminished in a more realistic clinical situation when anemia was induced by administration of carboplatin. Importantly, administration of recombinant human erythropoietin completely restored the sensitivity of the tumor to PDT in carboplatin-treated mice.
These results indicate that anemia can negatively influence the therapeutic effectiveness of PDT. For optimal antitumor response anemia should be corrected before PDT procedure.
We examined the effects of beta-blockers on the associations between heart rate and number of premature ventricular beats (PVBs) and on heart rate variability and myocardial ischemia in patients with coronary heart disease. After 2 weeks of run-in placebo treatment, 18 patients with coronary artery disease were randomized to a 7-day treatment with either propranolol (40 mg) three times a day or placebo. During run-in and after 7 days of treatment, patients underwent 24-hour Holter monitoring and exercise tests. We analyzed the 24-hour Holter recordings with customized software that computes the correlation between heart rate and occurrence of PVBs. We also computed spectral measures of heart rate variability on the same recordings. Propranolol caused a significant decrease in the log-transformed total number of PVBs recorded over 24 hours and during the day. The number of PVBs was much lower during the night than during the day both after placebo and after propranolol. There were no differences between the two treatments. During the day, there was a positive correlation between heart rate and the number of PVBs in all 18 patients. The mean correlation coefficients between heart rate and number of PVBs increased significantly after propranolol treatment both during the 24-hour monitoring (p < 0.05) and during the day (p < 0.05). The night-recorded correlation coefficients between heart rate and number of PVBs were not significantly different in the placebo versus propranolol group. Propranolol significantly increased the total power during the day. Placebo caused a significant decrease in the low-frequency band (LF) and a significant increase in the high-frequency band (HF) during the night compared with the day. During the day, propranolol significantly reduced LF power and increased HF power, with respect to placebo. After propranolol treatment, the values of LF and HF power during the day were comparable to those recorded at night. The LF/HF ratio decreased significantly after propranolol treatment with respect to placebo in the day and became similar to that recorded during sleep. Propranolol significantly reduced heart rate and systolic blood pressure at rest and at peak exercise and reduced signs of myocardial ischemia. Propranolol administration reduces PVBs in patients with coronary artery disease and severe ventricular arrhythmias possibly through an improvement of cardiac autonomic regulation and through anti-ischemic effects, antiarrhythmic effects, or both.
The safety and efficacy of risperidone and olanzapine were compared in a double-blind trial that used doses widely accepted in clinical practice.
Subjects (N=377) who met DSM-IV criteria for schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder were randomly assigned to receive 2-6 mg/day of risperidone (mean modal dose=4.8 mg/day) or 5-20 mg/day of olanzapine (mean modal dose=12.4 mg/day) for 8 weeks.
The two study groups were similar at baseline except that the olanzapine group was slightly younger than the risperidone group. Seventy-five percent of the participants completed the trial, with no between-treatment differences in the proportion of dropouts. Similar proportions of the risperidone and olanzapine groups reported extrapyramidal symptoms (24% and 20%, respectively). Severity of extrapyramidal symptoms was low in both groups, with no between-group differences. Total Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale scores and scores on the five Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale factors were improved in both groups at week 8 (subjects who completed the study) and endpoint (all subjects, including dropouts). There were overall between-treatment differences in efficacy. Comparison of individual factors found no significant differences at endpoint; at week 8, however, improvements on Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale factors for positive symptoms and anxiety/depression were greater with risperidone than olanzapine. An increase in body weight of > or =7% was seen in 27% of olanzapine participants and 12% of risperidone participants.
Both treatments were well tolerated and efficacious. The frequency and severity of extrapyramidal symptoms were similar in the two treatment groups. Greater reductions in severity of positive and affective symptoms were seen with risperidone than with olanzapine treatment among study completers. There was no measure on which olanzapine was superior. Greater weight gain was associated with olanzapine than with risperidone treatment.
Cromolyn has been shown to inhibit histamine release from mast cells induced by various stimuli in vitro. However, the local effects of cromolyn on codeine-induced wheal and flare skin reactions are not well understood. Intradermal injection of codeine induced prominent whealing in almost all humans. We studied the effect of local cromolyn injection on codeine-induced skin reactions, histamine release, and ultramicroscopic changes in mast cells in 10 volunteers. The finding in this study showed that injection of a 2% cromolyn solution before or together with the codeine injection does not affect the subsequent skin reactions, histamine release and ultramicroscopic changes of mast cells.
Tremor caused by beta-adrenostimulating drugs is known to be mediated by beta-receptors in skeletal muscles. In this study it was shown that tremor caused by terbutaline could be blocked by propranolol, a drug with both beta1- and beta2-blocking properties, but not by metoprolol, a beta1-selective antagonist. It is concluded that tremor caused by sympathomimetics in man is mainly mediated by beta2-receptors.
Systemic opioids are commonly administered during labor, but their efficacy has been recently questioned. In addition, laboratory and clinical studies provide a strong rationale for combining mu- and kappa-opioid receptor agonists for analgesia. The authors therefore studied, using validated intensity and affective scales and definitions of effective pain relief, the efficacy of intravenous meperidine, butorphanol, and their combination for labor analgesia.
Healthy women with singleton term pregnancy requesting analgesia during active labor were studied. Women were randomly assigned to receive 50 mg meperidine, 1 mg butorphanol, or 25 mg meperidine plus 0.5 mg butorphanol (n = 15/group). Pain intensity was assessed using a 0-10 numerical rating scale, and affective magnitude was assessed using a ratiometric descriptive scale before drug administration and between the sixth and seventh uterine contractions after drug administration.
All three treatments reduced pain intensity equally. Butorphanol alone did not reduce pain affective magnitude, whereas the other treatments did. There was a significant correlation between reduction in pain intensity and affective magnitude in all groups, with greater reductions in affective magnitude than intensity. Overall, 29% of women exhibited clinically meaningful pain relief, with no difference among groups. Groups did not differ in incidence of opioid-induced adverse effects.
These doses of meperidine and butorphanol do reduce pain intensity and affective magnitude, although a minority of patients achieve meaningful pain relief as defined in multiple patient populations, including laboring women. Combination of these drugs did not improve their therapeutic benefit.
We recently reported that oxidative stress is involved in the pathogenesis of coronary spasm. We hypothesized that oxidative-stress-related genetic factors and certain polymorphisms in the paraoxonase gene (PON1) and platelet-activating factor acetylhydrolase (PAF-AH) might influence the pathogenesis of coronary spasm. We therefore examined the possible association between the PON1 Q192R or PAF-AH V279F polymorphisms and coronary spasm in 214 patients with coronary spasm and 212 control subjects. Genotypes were determined by polymerase chain reaction/restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis. The incidence of the PON1-192R allele was significantly higher in the coronary spasm group than in the control group (65% vs 53%; P=0.0005). The PAF-AH-279F allele was not associated with coronary spasm (15% vs. 16%; P=0.8781). Multiple logistic regression analysis with forward stepwise selection involving the PON1-192R allele and the environmental risk factors revealed that the most predictive independent risk factor for coronary spasm was the PON1-192R allele (significance=0.0016, OR=2.52), followed by cigarette smoking (significance=0.0007, OR=2.01). We also measured plasma levels of TBARS (thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances) as a marker of oxidative stress. TBARS levels were higher in R/R types than in Q/Q types (2.115+/-0.086 nmol/ml [ n=25] vs 1.676+/-0.102 nmol/ml [ n=11], P<0.01). Thus, there is a significant association between the PON1-192R allele and coronary spasm; the PON1-192R allele may play an important role in the genesis of coronary spasm, probably by attenuating the suppression of oxidative stress.
It has been proposed that most forms of hyperkalemic distal renal tubular acidosis (dRTA) result from a voltage-dependent acidification defect in the cortical collecting tubule (CCT) in which hydrogen and potassium secretion are decreased secondary to a reduced, transepithelial potential difference (PD) arising from impaired sodium reabsorption. The present in vivo study examines one model of hyperkalemic dRTA, induced by chronic amiloride administration, to examine the relationship between urinary excretion of hydrogen and potassium ions and CCT PD in the rat kidney. Chronic administration of amiloride produced a significant metabolic acidosis with a plasma bicarbonate of 21.3 mmol/liter compared to 25.9 mmol/liter in control rats. Plasma potassium was higher in experimental animals (4.9 mmol/liter vs. 3.3 mmol/liter in controls) and was associated with a significantly reduced fractional excretion of potassium of 11.2% versus 37.4% in controls. When animals were loaded with DOCA and infused with 4% sodium sulphate to maximize urine acidification, urine pH was significantly higher in the experimental group (6.35 vs. 5.55 in controls) while the mean PD in cortical collecting tubules was markedly lower at -21.1 mV versus -58.9 mV in controls. These results support a voltage dependent mechanism to explain the defect in hydrogen and potassium ion secretion induced by amiloride.
We report the case of a 41-year-old man infected with human immunodeficiency virus who had two episodes of aseptic meningitis that occurred 2 weeks apart; the first was associated with ingestion of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMZ) and the second was associated with ingestion of TMP alone. Onset of fever, headache, and flushing was abrupt, followed by somnolence, hearing loss, and aphasia. Analysis of the CSF showed pleocytosis and an elevated protein level. The findings resolved within 48 hours after withdrawal of the drug. We also review 18 previously reported cases of TMP-SMZ- or TMP-induced meningitis, 17 of which occurred in women. In all of these cases, a similar abrupt onset and resolution were noted. Six of the 18 patients had collagen-vascular diseases. All but two of these patients had multiple recurrent episodes of meningitis before the diagnosis was made. We conclude that the diagnosis of TMP-SMZ- or TMP-induced meningitis should be considered when a patient receiving these drugs has recurrent episodes of aseptic meningitis.
Growing demands on limited healthcare resources and budgets have led to an increased focus on the costs associated with the purchase of drugs. Consequently, approaches to treatment for various disease states are now dictated not only by issues such as best medical benefits, but also by the cost of the drug that is used. As such, drug-switching strategies have become increasingly common practice where, although the clinical benefits offered by the various medications for a specific condition may be similar, the cost differentials are notable. Application of this switch procedure has recently been assessed in the context of the management of acid-related gastrointestinal disorders and has demonstrated that switching patients to therapy with the proton pump inhibitor lansoprazole from H2-receptor antagonists or other proton pump inhibitors not only offers therapeutic advantages but also has important financial implications in general practice with regard to cost savings.
A total of 92 patients with previously untreated intermediate- or high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma attending the University Department of Medicine, Queen Mary Hospital, Hong Kong, were treated with the m-BACOD chemotherapy regimen (methotrexate, bleomycin, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine and dexamethasone). Additional involved-field radiotherapy was given to 32 (35%) patients. Myelosuppression was the major toxicity, and 5 (5%) treatment-related deaths occurred due to pneumonia, bleomycin sensitivity, doxorubicin cardiotoxicity and reactivation of hepatitis B infection. The overall complete response (CR) rate was 65/92 (71%) and the relapse rate was 22/65 (34%). The disease-free survival of the 65 CR patients at 2 years was 52% and the overall survival of all 92 patients at 3 years was 56%. The CR rate of stage I and II patients was significantly better than that of those with stage III and IV disease (87% vs 59%; P = 0.01), and the CR rate of stage III patients was superior to that of those with stage IV disease (86% vs 50%; P = 0.05). The overall survival of stage III and IV patients was significantly worse than that of subjects with stage I and II disease (31% vs 73%; P = 0.02). Multivariate analysis revealed that the independent prognostic variables significantly determining the CR rate and survival included the clinical stage and the serum lactate dehydrogenase level. From this study, the results of treatment with the m-BACOD regimen in patients with advance disease appeared to be similar to those obtained using the conventional CHOP regimen (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisone).
The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of thymosin alpha(1) (Talpha(1)) in rats having fructose-induced steatosis. Fructose leads to experimental steatosis in the liver by exerting its effect on some components of the oxidant/antioxidant system, and on several cytokines (interleukin-1beta, -2, and -6) in blood.
Twenty-four rats at random were divided into three groups (each group containing eight animals); the control group (C), which received a purified diet; the high-fructose-fed group (F); and the high-fructose-fed and Talpha(1) injected group (F + T). After the experimental period of 10 days, liver lipid peroxidation and antioxidant status, and blood IL-1beta, IL-2, and IL-6 levels were quantified.
In comparison with the C group, the F group had a higher nitric oxide (NO) level, xanthine oxidase (XO) activity, and lipid peroxidation, as indicated by concentrations of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), and lower superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) activities in the liver. In the F + T group, these markers were near the values of the control group. In addition, increased IL-1beta and IL-6 levels were kept at near to normal levels with treatment of Talpha(1), but not IL-2 levels. In the F group, the most consistent findings in the histologic sections of liver tissues were the macrovesicular and microvesicular steatosis. Talpha(1) treatment protected the majority of the liver cells, while minimal macrovesicular and microvesicular steatosis was observed in the remaining cells.
These results show that a high-fructose diet in rats leads to hepatic steatosis and a defect in the free radical defense system, and that treatment of Talpha(1) may improve these biochemical and morphologic changes in the fructose-fed rat livers.
