We report on the effect that pretreating patients with phenobarbital has on averting adverse events when primidone is introduced.
Thirty patients with intractable partial epilepsy were pretreated with phenobarbital before starting primidone. Therapy with primidone was started at a dosage of 500 mg/day, and the phenobarbital was stopped. The primidone dose was then increased by 125 to 250 mg every 3 weeks until adverse events or a seizure-free state was reached. All previous antiepileptic medications were tapered down to yield a primidone monotherapy regimen.
Twenty-six patients (87%) tolerated the introduction of primidone with minimal or no adverse events. Only one patient had to discontinue primidone during the initial 4 weeks because of severe dizziness. This was the only patient in whom primidone monotherapy could not be reached because of adverse events. Three other patients experienced dizziness severe enough to interfere with their activities. This symptom disappeared in two patients after the dose was lowered; in the other patient, primidone was stopped and phenobarbital was restarted for another 4 days. No symptoms recurred when primidone was reintroduced on the fifth day.
Pretreatment with phenobarbital can minimize the occurrence of intolerable adverse events associated with the introduction of primidone.
To evaluate the time course of changes in the gastric mucosal pH (pHi) and the gastric mucosal to arterial CO2 gap (CO2 gap) following paracetamol-induced acute liver failure and to relate these variables to the severity of illness.
Clinical prospective study.
A liver intensive care unit in a university teaching hospital.
Twenty-three patients with paracetamol-induced acute liver failure.
Gastric tonometer placement.
Daily assessment of pHi and CO2 gap, the systemic organ failure assessment (SOFA) score for up to 9 days post-paracetamol ingestion. Both pHi and CO2 gap were within the normal range on entry into the study. The CO2 gap showed increases from the normal range on days 5-7 post-ingestion (P<0.01) and increases from study entry on days 4, 7, and 8 post-ingestion (P< 0.01). The pHi showed decreases from the normal range on days 4, 6, 7 and 9 post-ingestion (P< 0.01) and decreases from study entry on days 4, 5, 7, and 9 post-ingestion (P<0.01). There was no correlation found between pHi, CO2 gap, and the SOFA score.
Paracetamol-induced acute liver failure is associated with increases in the CO2 gap and decreases in pHi between 4 to 9 days post-paracetamol ingestion. This may reflect changes in mesenteric blood flow related to hepatic regeneration. These changes may be in part responsible for some of the morbidity seen with this condition.
Recent observations have indicated that reproductive endocrine disorders are common among women taking valproate (VPA) for epilepsy, but it is not known whether respective abnormalities develop in men taking VPA for epilepsy. Carbamazepine (CBZ) may induce endocrine disorders in men with epilepsy, but the endocrine effects of oxcarbazepine (OXC) are not known.
Reproductive endocrine function was evaluated in 90 men taking VPA (n = 21), CBZ (n = 40), or OXC (n = 29) as monotherapy for epilepsy and in 25 healthy control men.
Twelve men (57%) taking VPA had increased serum androgen levels. The mean serum level of androstenedione was high in patients taking VPA. Serum levels of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate were low, and serum concentrations of sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) were high in men taking CBZ. The endocrine effects of OXC seemed to be dose-dependent, because serum hormone levels were normal in patients with low OXC doses (< 900 mg/day), but serum concentrations of testosterone, gonadotropins, and SHBG were high in patients with a daily OXC dose > or = 900 mg.
VPA increases serum androgen concentrations in men with epilepsy. The endocrine effects of CBZ and OXC were different, because CBZ appears to decrease the bioactivity of androgens, whereas OXC does not.
We presented a patient suffered from stroke related to thalidomide therapy. The patient was a 74-year-old man who had about two-year history of multiple myeloma and treated with 100 mg of oral thalidomide daily. He was diagnosed as having cryptogenic stroke attributable to patent foramen ovale, when he admitted to our hospital with sudden onset left-side hemiparesis. Antiplatelet and neuroprotective therapies were commenced along with the use of elastic stocking to prevent further embolic event. Then, warfarin was selected as secondary prevention to reduce the risk of paradoxical embolism during thalidomide therapy. Although the risk of deep vein thrombosis on thalidomide therapy has been well documented, only a few cases have been noted documenting the risk of stroke during thalidomide therapy. We need to be careful about the risk of deep vein thrombosis on thalidomide therapy, even as monotherapy, and consider using anticoagulant therapy while prescribing thalidomide.
2',3'-dideoxycytidine (ddC) is a synthetic pyrimidine nucleoside analogue approved for treatment of HIV-positive patients. Previous studies indicated that ddC has the potential to cause thymic lymphoma in C57BL/6 x C3H F1 (hereafter called B6C3F1) mice. In this study, we evaluated the carcinogenic potential of ddC in two different mouse models. B6C3F1 hybrid mice carry ecotropic endogenous proviral sequences that may be activated to cause lymphoma, whereas NIH Swiss mice lack proviral sequences that can be expressed. The mice were treated with ddC by gavage at 500 and 1000 mg/kg/day for up to 6 months (human dose, 2.25 mg/day) and evaluated for toxicity, plasma levels of ddC, and pathological changes. Lymphocyte cell markers from the thymic lymphomas were assessed by immunophenotyping. Expression of p53 protein was evaluated using immunohistochemical staining. Treatment-related thymic lymphomas were present in both mouse models with a higher incidence in NIH Swiss than in B6C3F1 mice. The lymphomas were more prevalent in females than in males of both mouse models. Most mice with thymic lymphoma died during the course of the study. In addition to the thymus, lymphoma was often present in lymph nodes, spleen, and other organs. Lymphomas arose more frequently in mice that lack endogenous ecotropic retroviral sequences and thus were not due to activation of endogenous provirus. During the third month of the study, a few NIH Swiss mice that died had granulosa cell tumors of the ovary. Treatment-related but reversible thymic atrophy was observed in both mouse models. There was a very high correlation between the internal dose of ddC and the incidence of thymic lymphoma in both mouse models. Most of the lymphocytes from control thymuses and ddC-induced lymphomas were positive for Thy-1.2 (pan-T), heat stable antigen, and CD4 and CD8 markers, with no marked differences in the lymphocyte markers of the tumors between sexes or dose groups. p53 protein was detected in only 20% (23/115) of the ddC-induced lymphomas with mostly minimal expression in scattered cells. Because ddC induced lymphomas in two different mouse models, the potential carcinogenic risk should be considered in long-term treatment of HIV-positive patients, especially children and adolescent patients treated with ddC.
The inferior colliculus (IC) is the initiation site in the neuronal network for the epileptic audiogenic seizure (AGS). The present study investigates the effects of alteration of IC cholinergic transmission on the elicitation of epileptic seizures. Unilateral microinjections of carbachol (3 and 6 micrograms/0.2 microliter) into the IC elicited intense locomotor activity, contraversive rotations and myoclonic seizures. This result indicates that the IC is the initiation site for the induction of myoclonic seizures and suggests that these myoclonic seizures may result from activation of m1 muscarinic receptors. Microinjections of the nicotinic-muscarinic antagonist, gallamine (2 and 6 micrograms/0.2 microliter), into the IC induced AGS susceptibility. However, microinjections of muscarinic antagonists, atropine (15 micrograms/0.2 microliter) and scopolamine (12 and 20 micrograms/0.2 microliter), or the nicotinic antagonist, hexamethonium (12 and 20 micrograms/0.2 microliter), into the IC have no effect. Gallamine-induced AGS susceptibility may result from a selective blockade of m2 muscarinic receptors.
Previously, it was found that the ancient Chinese remedy of Suanzaorentang could be a promising anxiolytic drug (Chen and Hsieh, 1985a, Chen and Hsieh, 1985b). To understand the mechanism of the action of Suanzaorentang, the effects of Suanzaorentang on behavior changes and central monoamines and their metabolites were studied in rats. It was found that Suanzaorentang significantly (1) prolonged the period from the onset of clonic to tonic convulsions induced by pentylenetetrazol or picrotoxin, (2) prolonged the sleep duration induced by hexobarbital, (3) reduced locomotor activity, (4) enhanced the hypomotility induced by alpha-MT, (5) reduced the locomotor stimulation produced by levodopa plus benserazide, and (6) reduced central HVA, VMA, and 5-HIAA, but had no significant effects on central DA, NA, and 5-HT. These facts implied that Suanzaorentang decreased the turnover rate of central monoamines and central catecholaminergic activity.
A patient who developed severe tardive dyskinesia after the termination of long-term phenothiazine therapy was successfully treated with deanol, a possible precursor of acetylcholine. Physiological measurements were obtained to quantify the clinical course. The authors discuss the practical and heuristic implications of these observations and suggest further consideration of therapy directed toward enhancement of cholinergic activity in the central nervous system.
The recommended rate of administration of valproic acid injection is 20 mg/min. Drug delivery at this rate may be inadequate for expeditious control of seizures. The safety of rapid infusion of valproic acid has not been established, and this study was designed to explore the effects of rapid infusion in patients with acute seizures.
Twenty patients with acute repetitive seizures received 20 mg/kg loading doses of valproic acid. Infusion rates ranged from 33.3 to 555 mg/min (median, 200 mg/min). Sixteen patients had received previous or concomitant antiepileptic drugs, with inadequate seizure control. Heart rate, blood pressure, and respiratory rate were measured before infusion and at frequent intervals for 1 hour after infusion. Patients were also observed for changes in level of alertness and signs of local irritation.
No patient exhibited a decline in level of consciousness or respiratory function. Two patients with significant contributing factors exhibited declines in blood pressure requiring vasopressors. No significant local irritation was reported. Although efficacy was not a measured end point, seizures were abolished in all patients.
Infusion of valproic acid at rates between 33 and 555 mg/min is well tolerated. No serious adverse effects attributable to the rapid infusion of valproic acid were encountered, although valproic acid, along with other factors, may have contributed to the hypotension in two patients. Intravenous valproic acid is an option for the control of acute seizures.
Administration of drinking water containing 0, 0.02%, 0.04% and 0.08% of caffeine to female rats throughout gestation and lactation affects several behavioral parameters in the offspring. Righting reflexes, swimming ability development, motor coordination and muscle tone were affected. The activity of these animals, as measured with an open-field test at weaning (i.e., at the end of the treatment), was reduced. The effects observed were dose-dependent. However, for righting reflexes the dose-dependency was direct (the highest dose producing maximal effects), whereas in all the other tests, the dose-dependency was inverse, the lowest dose producing maximal effects and the highest dose producing no effects. This might reflect the presence of subclasses of receptors having different affinities for adenosine, mediating opposite effects and antagonized by caffeine. On the other hand, perinatal caffeine effects are certainly not mediated by blockade of phosphodiesterases, since cAMP levels at the end of the treatment were dose-dependently reduced. This study shows therefore that administration of caffeine to rat dams is able to influence the neurobehavioral development of the offspring. Moreover, all the doses utilized and corresponding to 27, 58 and 108 mg/kg, were able to produce all or some of the mentioned effects, indicating that further testing with doses lower than 27 mg/kg is required to find a dose which does not affect the offspring.
Effects of L-carnitine on nephrotoxicity and oxidative stress induced by doxorubicin (DOX) in rats were investigated.
The rats were divided into four groups: group 1, control (0.9% NaCl); group 2, DOX injection (7.5 mg/kg, i.v.); group 3, DOX plus low dose (40 mg/kg) L-carnitine; and group 4, DOX plus high dose (200 mg/kg) L-carnitine. L-carnitine was administered 1 h before doxorubicin injection and daily thereafter for 15 days.
Rats in group 2 were associated with hypoalbuminaemia, hyperlipidaemia, high urinary excretion of protein and elevated plasma creatinine and urea nitrogen. The glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and effective renal plasma flow (ERPF) decreased with increased renal vascular resistance (RVR). Kidney catalase (CAT) activity was decreased. In group 3 and 4, plasma triglyceride and cholesterol declined. L-carnitine improved renal functions by elevated GFR and ERPF and decreased plasma creatinine and urea nitrogen. The kidney CAT activity were increased significantly compared with group 2. From histopathological results, group 2 rats were found to have glomerular capillary dilation and tubular dilation. The lesions were less in group 3 and 4 rats.
L-carnitine can protect renal impairment functionally, biochemically and histopathologically with a corresponding reduction of oxidative stress.
Using doses close to those used clinically, we have developed an animal model of vincristine-induced nociceptive sensory neuropathy after repeated intravenous injection in male Sprague-Dawley rats. In order to validate the model, three different doses (50, 100 and 150 microg/kg) of vincristine were injected every 2nd day until five injections had been given. The sensory behavioural assessment revealed mechanical hyperalgesia and allodynia associated with cold thermal hyperalgesia and allodynia. With regard to electrophysiological evaluation, we observed a decrease in the nerve conduction velocity in the highest dose group. Morphological studies revealed few degenerated fibers in the sciatic nerve and many degenerated myelinated axons in the fine nerve fibers of the subcutaneous paw tissue. Finally, to develop an animal model, we chose the 150 microg/kg dose because of the good general clinical status of the rats without motor function changes associated with severe sensation disorders like hyperalgesia and allodynia. This model of vincristine-induced painful neuropathy will be used to explore physiopathological mechanisms implied in the genesis of neuropathic pain and also to test new analgesic and neuroprotective drugs.
The role of dexamethasone to reduce delayed emesis following highly emetogenic chemotherapy is proven, but there is less evidence of benefit after mild-moderately emetogenic regimens. Here, we develop and evaluate a Dexamethasone Symptom Questionnaire (DSQ) to assess the side effects of dexamethasone in the week after patients receive moderately emetogenic chemotherapy. The DSQ was first optimised with the aid of a focus group. Sixty patients receiving oral dexamethasone for prophylaxis of delayed emesis after moderately emetogenic chemotherapy for cancer completed and then evaluated the DSQ. Patients reported that the DSQ was clearly worded and addressed items important to them. Patients receiving dexamethasone reported moderate-severe problems with insomnia (45%), indigestion/epigastric discomfort (27%), agitation (27%), increased appetite (19%), weight gain (16%) and acne (15%) in the week following chemotherapy. The side effects of dexamethasone may outweigh its benefits when used with moderately emetogenic chemotherapy. A randomised, double-blind crossover trial is underway to determine the effect of dexamethasone on nausea and vomiting, and the impact of side effects of dexamethasone and of nausea and vomiting on quality of life.
Imaging agents capable of providing cell compartment-specific information will facilitate studies of pathophysiological mechanisms, natural history of diseases, and therapeutic development. To demonstrate the effects of liver injury on the disposal of the organic anion mebrofenin, we performed animal studies.
Acute liver injury was induced in Fischer 344 rats with 0.25-1 ml/kg single doses of carbon tetrachloride followed by studies of animals over 4 weeks. The liver injury was analyzed by blood tests and histological grading. Additional rats were treated with lipopolysaccharide, interleukin-6 or tumor necrosis factor-alpha to activate inflammatory events. Hepatic clearance of Tc-mebrofenin was studied with dynamic imaging and fractional retention after 60 min of peak hepatic mebrofenin activity was determined.
In healthy rats, only 24+/-2% of peak mebrofenin activity was retained in the liver after 60 min. By contrast, 24 h after carbon tetrachloride, virtually all mebrofenin activity was retained in the liver (P<0.001). Three weeks were required for mebrofenin excretion to become normal after carbon tetrachloride administration. In this situation, we found that Kupffer cell activity was increased. In addition, the abnormality in mebrofenin excretion was reproduced by lipopolysaccharide, which activates Kupffer cells. Moreover, mebrofenin excretion was highly sensitive to interleukin-6 and/or tumor necrosis factor-alpha, which help mediate the Kupffer cell response.
Hepatobiliary excretion of mebrofenin was affected rapidly and over an extended period by inflammatory cytokines released after liver injury. The remarkable sensitivity of mebrofenin excretion to cytokines suggests that Tc-mebrofenin imaging will be helpful for assessing cytokine-mediated liver inflammation.
Studies of ACTH-induced hypertension in sheep have enabled the hypertensinogenic actions of steroid hormones to be separated from their classical glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid actions. In man ACTH produces systolic hypertension which can be reproduced by infusion of cortisol, but not deoxycorticosterone, at rates appropriate for conditions of ACTH stimulation. Whether steroids raise blood pressure in man by a hypertensinogenic action distinct from their glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid activities remains to be determined.
Bisphenol-A, a chemical used in the production of the plastic lining of food and beverage containers, can be found in significant levels in human fluids. Recently, bisphenol-A has been associated with low-grade albuminuria in adults as well as in children. Since glomerular epithelial cells (podocytes) are commonly affected in proteinuric conditions, herein we explored the effects of bisphenol-A on podocytes in vitro and in vivo. On cultured podocytes we first observed that bisphenol-A-at low or high concentrations-(10 nM and 100 nM, respectively) was able to induce hypertrophy, diminish viability, and promote apoptosis. We also found an increase in the protein expression of TGF-β1 and its receptor, the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27Kip1, as well as collagen-IV, while observing a diminished expression of the slit diaphragm proteins nephrin and podocin. Furthermore, mice intraperitoneally injected with bisphenol-A (50 mg/Kg for 5 weeks) displayed an increase in urinary albumin excretion and endogenous creatinine clearance. Renal histology showed mesangial expansion. At ultrastructural level, podocytes displayed an enlargement of both cytoplasm and foot processes as well as the presence of condensed chromatin, suggesting apoptosis. Furthermore, immunohistochemistry for WT-1 (specific podocyte marker) and the TUNEL technique showed podocytopenia as well as the presence of apoptosis, respectively. In conclusion, our data demonstrate that Bisphenol-A exposure promotes a podocytopathy with proteinuria, glomerular hyperfiltration and podocytopenia. Further studies are needed to clarify the potential role of bisphenol-A in the pathogenesis as well as in the progression of renal diseases.
Taurine, a sulfur amino acid, is present in abundant amounts in cells throughout the body. The kidney regulates taurine balance by modulating proximal tubule reabsorption in response to fluctuations in dietary intake of this nutrient. There is no information about the localization of taurine within the kidney in normal and diseased renal parenchyma. Therefore, using an antibody to a taurine-glutaraldehyde-BSA conjugate, we examined the distribution of taurine in renal tissue. Normal rats, those with streptozocin diabetes, puromycin aminonucleoside nephropathy, bilateral ureteral ligation, and 5/6 nephrectomy were studied. In normal animals, taurine was found primarily in medullary tubules, with minimal staining of proximal tubules and glomeruli. There was increased taurine staining of all structures, especially medullary tubules, in rats with streptozocin diabetes and puromycin aminonucleoside nephropathy. These changes were more pronounced in diabetic rats and were unrelated to renal medullary osmolality. The distribution of taurine within the kidney was unchanged in the models of acute and chronic renal failure. Alterations in the immunohistochemical localization of taurine correlated with the beneficial effect of this amino acid to preserve renal function in the rats with chronic diabetes and puromycin aminonucleoside nephropathy. These results suggest that taurine is preferentially localized in the medullary regions of the kidney, where it exerts a protective effect against renal injury in select disease states.
The efficacy of telavancin, a bactericidal lipoglycopeptide, was compared to that of vancomycin and linezolid against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) in a murine pneumonia model. Telavancin produced greater reductions in lung bacterial titer and mortality than did vancomycin and linezolid at human doses equivalent to those described by the area under the concentration-time curve. These results suggest the potential utility of telavancin for treatment of MRSA pneumonia.
To clarify the effect of prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) or trimethaphan (TMP) on the kidney during deliberate hypotension induced with epidural block plus inhalation anesthesia, we compared renal functions and renal tubular injury between the patient with PGE1-induced hypotension (n = 22) and those with TMP-induced hypotension (n = 18) undergoing spherical acetabular osteotomy. Hypotension was maintained at 75-80 mmHg of the systolic radial artery pressure for two hours. The urine volume, creatinine clearance, fractional sodium excretion and free water clearance were maintained within normal limits and they were not different between the two groups. The mean NAG index increased significantly to normal upper limits during hypotension in the PGE1 group but did not increase in the TMP group. However, there was no difference in the NAG index between the two groups. The changes in serum ADH level were not different between the two groups perioperatively. These results suggest that renal functions are not influenced by controlled hypotension induced with PGE1 or TMP during epidural plus general anesthesia.
In a comparative trial of treatment in southern Sudan, visceral leishmaniasis was diagnosed by the following symptoms: fever for > 1 month, splenomegaly, and antileishmanial direct agglutination test (DAT) titer of > or = 1:25,600. Patients (200) were randomized to receive sodium stibogluconate (Sbv) at 20 mg/kg/day for 30 days (groups S, n = 99) or Sbv at 20 mg/kg/day plus aminosidine at 15 mg/kg/day for 17 days (group AS, n = 101). Of 192 patients who had spleens or lymph nodes aspirated at entry, 134 (70%) were positive for parasites. During treatment, 7% in group S and 4% in group AS died. All 184 patients who completed treatment were clinically cured. At days 15-17, microscopy of aspirates showed that 57 (95%) of 60 in group AS were negative for parasites compared with 47 (81%) of 58 in group S (P = .018). At day 30, 57 (93.4%) of 61 group S aspirates were negative.
We previously reported that apoptosis is increased in smooth muscle cells cultured from the aorta of spontaneously hypertensive rats versus normotensive controls. As an initial in vivo exploration, we now examined smooth muscle cell apoptosis regulation during the regression of vascular hypertrophy in the thoracic aorta media of spontaneously hypertensive rats receiving the antihypertensive drug enalapril (30 mg.kg-1.d-1), losartan (30 mg.kg-1.d-1), nifedipine (35 mg.kg-1.d-1), hydralazine (40 mg.kg-1.d-1), propranolol (50 mg.kg-1.d-1), or hydrochlorothiazide (75 mg.kg-1.d-1) for 1 to 4 weeks starting at 10 to 11 weeks of age. Three criteria were used to evaluate smooth muscle cell apoptosis: (1) oligonucleosomal fragmentation of the extracted aortic DNA, (2) reduction in aortic DNA content, and (3) depletion of smooth muscle cells in the arterial media. Arterial DNA synthesis was evaluated by [3H]thymidine incorporation in vivo. After 4 weeks of treatment, systolic blood pressure was reduced significantly by > 42% with losartan, enalapril, and hydralazine, and by 23% with nifedipine, versus control values of 220 +/- 5 mm Hg. However these agents affected vascular growth and apoptosis differently. Losartan, enalapril, and nifedipine stimulated smooth muscle cell apoptosis threefold to fivefold before there was a significant reduction in DNA synthesis (> 25%), vascular mass (> 19%), or vascular DNA content (> 38%), and these treatments markedly reduced (by 38% to 50%) medial cell number as measured at 4 weeks by the three-dimensional disector method. Losartan and nifedipine stimulated smooth muscle cell apoptosis before reducing blood pressure. In contrast, hydralazine did not affect vascular mass, apoptosis, or DNA synthesis, although blood pressure was lowered. Propranolol or hydrochlorothiazide failed to affect hypertension or vascular growth. Thus, smooth muscle cell apoptosis represents a novel therapeutic target for the control of hypertensive vessel remodeling in response to therapeutic agents.
Interferon-alpha plus ribavirin therapy for chronic hepatitis C is associated with adverse effects that lead to therapy discontinuation in up to 27% of patients in randomized controlled trials.
To examine the causes and predictive factors for therapy discontinuation in patients treated in current clinical practice.
We retrospectively enrolled 441 consecutive patients, scheduled to receive interferon-alpha + ribavirin for chronic hepatitis C, in five centres. Patients had been treated with 3 or 6 MU interferon-alpha three times a week plus ribavirin, 800-1200 mg daily, for 6 or 12 months.
One hundred and eight [24.5%; confidence interval (CI), 20.5-28.8%] patients failed to finish combination therapy because of adverse events. The discontinuation rate was higher during the first 6 months of treatment; anaemia was an important cause (36.1% of discontinuations); unexplained lipothymia resulted in discontinuation in 11 patients. Female gender [hazard ratio (HR) = 1.85; CI, 1.17-2.92], an interferon-alpha dose > 15 MU/week (HR = 1.79; CI, 1.12-2.86) and no previous interferon-alpha treatment (HR = 1.63; CI, 1.04-2.57) were independent factors associated with discontinuation. The simultaneous presence of these factors identified patients at high risk for discontinuation [odds ratio (OR) = 10; CI, 3.98-25.13].
The study identified some predictive factors for adverse event-related discontinuation, which may improve the safety profile and effectiveness of interferon-alpha + ribavirin combination therapy in chronic hepatitis C.
We present a case of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) during pegylated interferon (peg-IFN)-alpha2b plus ribavirin treatment of chronic hepatitis C (CHC). A 67-year-old man, who had been under treatment for hypertension and diabetes mellitus, was admitted to our hospital for peg-IFN-alpha2b plus ribavirin treatment for CHC. His serum hepatitis C virus (HCV) RNA level became undetectable 1 week after the initiation of peg-IFN-alpha2b plus ribavirin treatment. He suffered from severe pain, flare, and edema in both of his lower legs 6 weeks after the initiation of peg-IFN-alpha2b plus ribavirin treatment. He was diagnosed as having DVT because of the presence of a thrombus in the right soleus vein by ultrasonography. Peg-IFN-alpha2b plus ribavirin treatment was discontinued because a causal relationship between DVT and peg-IFN-alpha2b plus ribavirin treatment was suspected. DVT was not observed and the symptoms in both of his legs were improved after the administration of warfarin potassium. Subsequently, DVT has not recurred, and he has remained HCV-RNA negative.
Nucleoside analog reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTI) have been used to treat HIV-infected patients for >10 years. Some severe adverse events have been attributed to mitochondrial dysfunction. Since 1991, cases of severe lactic acidosis have been reported in association with nucleoside therapy. Our objective was to report two cases of metabolic acidosis and hepatic steatosis in patients receiving stavudine (d4T) and to review the literature. A male and a female, 47 and 45 years of age, respectively, presented with abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and weakness after 9 and 6 months, respectively, of treatment with stavudine. At presentation, both patients had severe metabolic acidosis and liver failure. Ultrasonography showed hepatic steatosis (confirmed by biopsy in one case). All antiretroviral drugs were withdrawn and patients were treated with bicarbonate. Both patients developed fulminant liver dysfunction and multiple organ failure. We reviewed the literature and found 75 cases of lactic acidosis and hepatic steatosis associated with use of NRTI; 57 of these patients received d4T (76%). Of all cases reported in association with nucleoside therapy, 63% were females and mortality was 47%. General weakness, hepatic enzyme elevation, and liver steatosis are data that should alert physicians to this serious adverse event and to respond with prompt interruption of antiretroviral drugs and measurement of lactic acid in plasma. It is important to report serious adverse events in commercially released drugs to know prevalence in an exposed population. Physicians should be aware of risk and early signs of this serious adverse event.
Transient asystole is often noted during the course of permanent pacemaker implantation in patients with complete heart block. Since subcutaneous lidocaine is frequently used as the local anesthetic agent for permanent pacemaker implantation, the effect of this drug on ventricular escape intervals was studied. Ventricular escape intervals after transient cessation of pacing were studied in 9 patients with complete heart block before and 10, 30, and 45 minutes after subcutaneous lidocaine administration for permanent pacemaker implantation. The total lidocaine dose ranged from 170 to 400 mg (1.9 to 9.5 mg/kg of body weight). Therapeutic blood levels were achieved in 7 patients. The mean ventricular escape interval before lidocaine was 1.83 +/- 0.32 seconds, which increased to 2.58 +/- 1.35, 2.96 +/- 1.06, and 2.68 +/- 1.27 seconds at 10, 30, and 45 minutes after lidocaine (p less than 0.02). The mean maximal escape interval before lidocaine was 2.06 +/- 0.30 seconds, which increased to 3.80 +/- 1.44 seconds (p less than 0.01), a mean increase of 84%. The percent increase in maximal escape interval was related directly to the peak lidocaine level achieved. After lidocaine administration, 5 patients had asystole greater than 4 seconds and 1 required resumption of pacing. Thus, subcutaneous lidocaine contributes to the occurrence of asystole seen during permanent pacemaker implantation. It is advisable to limit the amount of lidocaine administered during permanent pacemaker implantation to the minimum necessary to achieve adequate local anesthesia. Strong consideration should be given to the use of a temporary pacemaker in patients with complete heart block during permanent pacemaker implantation even in the absence of previous asystole.
The effect of alterations of blood pressure and heart rate on segmental dyskinesis induced by coronary artery ligation and the influence of such manipulations on the magnitude of recovery of the syskinetic segment during subsequent coronary artery reperfusion were evaluated in 77 open-chest dogs. Wall motion was recorded by ultrasound reflected directly from the ischemic myocardial segment. Acute ischemia produced characteristic regional abnormalities in wall motion: aneurysmal bulging occurred during isometric contraction and wall velocity was markedly reduced during ventricular ejection. During 69 minutes of ischemia, a control group of dogs underwent no interventions and showed no further changes in wall motion. Tachycardia induced by atrial pacing during ischemia had no significant effect. Arterial hypertension during ischemia caused a marked reduction in wall velocity when methoxamine was used: 14 plus or minus 2 (SE) mm/sec (ischemia alone) to 6 plus or minus 1 mm/sec (ischemia + drug). In contrast, norepinephrine improved wall velocity: 11 plus or minus 2 mm/sec (ischemia alone) to 25 plus or minus 4 mm/sec (ischemia + drug). Hypertension caused by infusion of phenylephrine gave intermediate results, as did hypotension induced by either nitroprusside or hemorrhage during the ischemic period. After 60 minutes the drugs were stopped, the coronary ligation released, and the ischemic myocardium reperfused. The relative order of improvement of wall velocity with reperfusion was 11 plus or minus 2 mm/sec (ischemia alone) to 24 plus or minus 3 mm/sec (reperfusion) in the group that received norepinephrine, 12 plus or minus 3 mm/sec to 20 plus or minus 3 mm/sec in the control group with no intervention durin ischemia, 13 plus or minus 2 mm/sec to 20 plus or minus 1 mm/sec in the nitroprusside group, 9 plus or minus 2 mm/sec in the phenylephrine group, and 14 plus or minus 2 mm/sec to 12 plus or minus 1 mm/sec in the methoxamine group. The aneurysmal bulging during isometric contraction also was reduced to a greater degree by reperfusion in the group that received norepinephrine during the ischemic period than it was in the groups undergoing other interventions during ischemia. We conclude that drug-induced elevations in arterial blood pressure can have different effects on the syskinetic motion of acutely ischemic myocardium and on the degree of recovery following reperfusion depending on the particular agent used.
To use meta-analysis to study the risk of anaemiarelated to ribavirin therapy for chronic hepatitisC.
The MEDLINE database up to January 2001 was searched for randomized controlled trials of ribavirin (monotherapy or combined with interferon) for chronic hepatitis C. The outcomes evaluated were withdrawal from the study due to anaemia, ribavirin dosage reduction due to a decrease in haemoglobin and haemoglobin levels below 10 g/dL.
Based on 17 studies, the overall risk difference (ribavirin vs. no ribavirin) for anaemia was 0.09 [95% confidence interval (CI), 0.04-0.13]. Two Asian studies reported risk differences of 0.29 and 0.22, greater than the pooled risk difference of 0.07 (95% CI, 0.03-0.12) for 15 non-Asian studies. The risk associated with 1 g or more of ribavirin per day was higher (risk difference, 0.09; 95% CI, 0.04-0.14) than that for 0.8 g of ribavirin per day (risk difference, 0.01; 95% CI, - 0.04-0.06).
Chronic hepatitis C patients treated with 1 g or more of ribavirin per day were at a higher risk of developing anaemia. Reported risks were higher among Asian studies, which may be due to differences in study entrance criteria, dosage titration strategy or ethnic vulnerability.
Since the introduction of ophthalmic timolol solution in 1978 there have been numerous reports of systemic toxicity associated with its use. The majority of the systemic side effects reported are the same as those associated with oral timolol. Several cases of respiratory distress have been described generally in patients with underlying restrictive airway disease. Cardiovascular effects range from effects on resting pulse rate to the development of overt bradycardia and heart failure. Central nervous system effects reported include fatigue, confusion, depression, and hallucinations. A variety of other systemic effects have also been described. Caution should be used when ophthalmic timolol is administered to elderly patients or those patients with contraindications to systemic beta-blockers.
