The aim of the study was to learn whether the lethal and the motor incoordination (ataxia) side effect of ondansetron (Zophren) administration is dosing-time dependent. Ondansetron is a serotonin 5-HT3 receptor antagonist used primarily to control nausea and vomiting arising from cytotoxic chemo- and radiotherapy. A total of 210 male Swiss mice 10 to 12 weeks of age were synchronized for 3 weeks by 12 h light (rest span)/12 h dark (activity span). Different doses of ondansetron were injected intraperitoneally (i.p.) at fixed times during the day to determine both the sublethal (TD50) and lethal (LD50) doses, which were, respectively, 3.7 +/- 0.6 mg/kg and 4.6 +/- 0.5 mg/kg. In the chronotoxicologic study a single dose of ondansetron (3.5 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered to different and comparable groups of animals at four different circadian stages [1, 7, 13, and 19 h after light onset (HALO)]. The lethal toxicity was statistically significantly dosing time-dependent (chi2 = 21.51, p < 0.0001). Drug dosing at 1 HALO resulted in 100% survival rate whereas drug dosing at 19 HALO was only one-half that (52%). Similarly, lowest and highest ataxia occurred when ondansetron was injected at 1 and 19 HALO, respectively (chi2 = 22.24, p < 0.0001). Effects on rectal temperature were also dosing-time related (Cosinor analysis, p < 0.0001). The characteristics of the waveform describing the temporal patterns differed between the studied variables, e.g., lethal toxicity and survival rate showing two peaks and rectal temperature showing one peak in the 24 h time series waveform pattern. Cosinor analysis also revealed a statistically significant ultradian (tau = 8 h) rhythmic component in the considered variables. Differences in curve patterns in toxicity elicited by ondansetron on a per end point basis are hypothesized to represent the phase relations between the identified 24 h and 8 h periodicities.
Cocaine is an increasing cause of admission in the emergency room. The widespread abuse of this drug during the last decade in the USA is now widely emerging in Europe. Because of its various cardio-vascular complications, cocaine is one of the most death-related drugs known at this time. The following report describes the dramatic case of a young man polydrug addict presenting at our institution with life-threatening acute heart failure that developed shortly after his very first cocaine intake. Because of the lack of response to intensive medical treatment, we decided to perform a percutaneous extracorporeal circulation membranous oxygenation (ECMO) that allowed survival and rapid left ventricular function recovery. This report highlights cocaine as a rising trigger of acute heart failure in young people and is, to the best of our knowledge, the first report that illustrates ECMO as an effective hemodynamic support in the course of fulminant cocaine-induced cardiomyopathy.
Methylphenidate (MPH) is a psychostimulant that exerts its pharmacological effects via preferential blockade of the dopamine transporter (DAT) and the norepinephrine transporter (NET), resulting in increased monoamine levels in the synapse. Clinically, methylphenidate is prescribed for the symptomatic treatment of ADHD and narcolepsy; although lately, there has been an increased incidence of its use in individuals not meeting the criteria for these disorders. MPH has also been misused as a "cognitive enhancer" and as an alternative to other psychostimulants. Here, we investigate whether chronic or acute administration of MPH in mice at either 1 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg, affects cell number and gene expression in the basal ganglia.
Through the use of stereological counting methods, we observed a significant reduction (∼20%) in dopamine neuron numbers in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) following chronic administration of 10 mg/kg MPH. This dosage of MPH also induced a significant increase in the number of activated microglia in the SNpc. Additionally, exposure to either 1 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg MPH increased the sensitivity of SNpc dopaminergic neurons to the parkinsonian agent 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). Unbiased gene screening employing Affymetrix GeneChip® HT MG-430 PM revealed changes in 115 and 54 genes in the substantia nigra (SN) of mice exposed to 1 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg MPH doses, respectively. Decreases in the mRNA levels of gdnf, dat1, vmat2, and th in the substantia nigra (SN) were observed with both acute and chronic dosing of 10 mg/kg MPH. We also found an increase in mRNA levels of the pro-inflammatory genes il-6 and tnf-α in the striatum, although these were seen only at an acute dose of 10 mg/kg and not following chronic dosing.
Collectively, our results suggest that chronic MPH usage in mice at doses spanning the therapeutic range in humans, especially at prolonged higher doses, has long-term neurodegenerative consequences.
Helicobacter pylori eradication therapy alone cannot heal gastric ulcers in Japanese patients. Irsogladine has previously been shown to accelerate the healing of gastric ulcers after H. pylori eradication therapy. And we previously reported that histamine H(2) receptor antagonists inhibit gastric ulcer relapse after H. pylori eradication therapy. We therefore compared the efficacy of irsogladine with famotidine as appropriate treatments for ulcers after eradication therapy.
Gastric ulcer patients with H. pylori infection (n = 119) were randomized to treatment with irsogladine 4 mg/day (n = 60) or famotidine 40 mg/day (n = 59) following 1-week H. pylori eradication therapy. After treatment, assessments of gastric ulcer healing were performed.
The ulcer healing rates in patients receiving irsogladine and famotidine were 85.2% (46/54) and 79.6% (43/54), respectively, and were not significantly different (p = 0.4484). In the famotidine group, the healing rate was significantly lower in patients who drink alcohol than in those who do not (60.0% vs. 91.2%; p = 0.0119). However, in the irsogladine group the healing rate did not differ between patients who drink alcohol and those who do not. Furthermore, the healing rate in smokers was significantly higher in the irsogladine group (88.0%) than in the famotidine group (59.1%) (p = 0.0233).
Irsogladine and famotidine are both acceptable in treatment after H. pylori eradication therapy in gastric ulcer patients. Findings also suggest that irsogladine is more beneficial than famotidine in patients who drink alcohol and smoke.
Thirty two patients with malignant lymphoma - mainly Hodgkin's disease - were randomized for simultaneous treatment by high doses of metenolone during MOPP chemotherapy, to reduce its hematological toxicity. The results have shown surprisingly an increased hemato-toxicity in patients receiving androgens, with significantly more marked anemia and thrombocytopenia, reducing the total doses of anti-cancer drugs. This side effect could be explained by a cycling of the hematopoietic stem-cells and call to some caution when androgens are used during cancer chemotherapy.
Capecitabine is a new chemotherapeutic agent considered highly specific for sensitive tumour cells, which convert the drug to 5-fluorouracil. Capecitabine is administered on an ambulatory basis for the treatment of metastatic breast and colorectal cancer, and both general practitioners and specialists are likely to deal with patients treated with this drug. We describe the case of a 44-year-old woman, with no cardiovascular risk factors, who started therapy with capecitabine for relapsing of breast carcinoma. She subsequently developed effort angina. Standard electrocardiogram and echocardiography were normal, whereas ST-segment elevation and angina were induced during exercise stress test. Capecitabine was withdrawn and therapy with diltiazem and transdermal nitroglycerine was started. The patient became asymptomatic and repeated symptom-limited exercise stress test did not induce any ST-segment changes or angina, even after withdrawal of anti-ischaemic therapy, thus confirming the hypothesis of capecitabine-induced coronary artery spasm as the cause of patient's symptoms.
The constitutive androstane receptor (CAR) is essential for Cyp2b induction, liver hypertrophy, and hepatocarcinogenesis in response to phenobarbital (PB). Liver hypertrophy with Cyp2b induction is a major mode of action of hepatocarcinogenesis in rodents. However, it remains unclear whether CAR is involved in the response to many other nongenotoxic hepatocarcinogens besides PB. In this study, we investigated CAR involvement in liver hypertrophy and hepatocarcinogenesis of Cyp2b-inducing nongenotoxic hepatocarcinogens, piperonyl butoxide (PBO), and decabromodiphenyl ether (DBDE), using wild-type and CAR knockout (CARKO) male mice. PB was used as the positive control. In the wild-type mice, 4-week treatment with PBO, DBDE, or PB induced hepatocellular hypertrophy with increased Cyp2b10 messenger RNA and Cyp2b protein expression. In CARKO mice, only PBO showed liver hypertrophy with Cyp2b10 and Cyp3a11 induction. After 27-week treatment following diethylnitrosamine initiation, PBO and PB generated many eosinophilic altered foci/adenomas in wild-type mice; however, the lesions were far less frequent in CARKO mice. DBDE increased the multiplicity of basophilic altered foci/adenomas in wild-type and CARKO mice. Our findings indicate that murine CAR plays major roles in hepatocarcinogenesis but not in liver hypertrophy of PBO. DBDE may act via CAR-independent pathways during hepatocarcinogenesis.
Bisphenol-A (BPA) is one of the most widespread endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDC) used as the base compound in the manufacture of polycarbonate plastics. Although evidence points to consider exposure to BPA as a risk factor for insulin resistance, its actions on whole body metabolism and on insulin-sensitive tissues are still unclear. The aim of the present work was to study the effects of low doses of BPA in insulin-sensitive peripheral tissues and whole body metabolism in adult mice. Adult mice were treated with subcutaneous injection of 100 µg/kg BPA or vehicle for 8 days. Whole body energy homeostasis was assessed with in vivo indirect calorimetry. Insulin signaling assays were conducted by western blot analysis. Mice treated with BPA were insulin resistant and had increased glucose-stimulated insulin release. BPA-treated mice had decreased food intake, lower body temperature and locomotor activity compared to control. In skeletal muscle, insulin-stimulated tyrosine phosphorylation of the insulin receptor β subunit was impaired in BPA-treated mice. This impairment was associated with a reduced insulin-stimulated Akt phosphorylation in the Thr(308) residue. Both skeletal muscle and liver displayed an upregulation of IRS-1 protein by BPA. The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway was also impaired in the skeletal muscle from BPA-treated mice. In the liver, BPA effects were of lesser intensity with decreased insulin-stimulated tyrosine phosphorylation of the insulin receptor β subunit.In conclusion, short-term treatment with low doses of BPA slows down whole body energy metabolism and disrupts insulin signaling in peripheral tissues. Thus, our findings support the notion that BPA can be considered a risk factor for the development of type 2 diabetes.
We tested the hypothesis that in the rat duodenum and intestine the mesenteric hyperemia due to beta-adrenoceptor stimulation is mediated by capsaicin-sensitive afferent nerves. Superior mesenteric artery blood flow was measured by pulsed Doppler flowmetry in the anesthetized rat. Functional ablation of afferent nerves was accomplished by subcutaneous 125 mg/kg capsaicin pretreatment 10 to 14 days before blood flow studies. Blockade of capsaicin-sensitive cation-selective ion channels of the duodenal and intestinal mucosal afferent nerves was achieved by intraduodenal 0.1% ruthenium red given 15 min prior to the intraduodenal administration of 5 mg/kg isoproterenol. Functional ablation of the afferent nerves and blockade of the capsaicin-sensitive cation-selective ion channels alone or in combination resulted in a significant reduction of mesenteric hyperemia induced by intraduodenal isoproterenol. These data support the hypothesis that beta-adrenoceptor stimulation by intraduodenal isoproterenol induces mesenteric hyperemia in part through afferent nerves in the rat duodenal and intestinal mucosa. The results suggest for the first time a link between beta-adrenoceptor function and peripheral capsaicin-sensitive afferent nerve-mediated mechanism in the rat gut.
ZD6474 is a novel, orally available inhibitor of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptor-2 (KDR) tyrosine kinase, with additional activity against epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase. ZD6474 has been shown to inhibit angiogenesis and tumor growth in a range of tumor models. Gefitinib ("Iressa") is an selective EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) that blocks signal transduction pathways. We examined the antitumor activity of ZD6474 in the gefitinib-sensitive lung adenocarcinoma cell line, PC-9, and a gefitinib-resistant variant (PC-9/ZD). PC-9/ZD cells showed cross-resistance to ZD6474 in an in vitro dye formation assay. In addition, ZD6474 showed dose-dependent inhibition of EGFR phosphorylation in PC-9 cells, but inhibition was only partial in PC-9/ZD cells. ZD6474-mediated inhibition of tyrosine residue phosphorylation (Tyr992 and Tyr1045) on EGFR was greater in PC-9 cells than in PC-9/ZD cells. These findings suggest that the inhibition of EGFR phosphorylation by ZD6474 can contribute a significant, direct growth-inhibitory effect in tumor cell lines dependent on EGFR signaling for growth and/or survival. The effect of ZD6474 (12.5-50 mg/kg/day p.o. for 21 days) on the growth of PC-9 and PC-9/ZD tumor xenografts in athymic mice was also investigated. The greatest effect was seen in gefitinib-sensitive PC-9 tumors, where ZD6474 treatment (>12.5 mg/kg/day) resulted in tumor regression. Dose-dependent growth inhibition, but not tumor regression, was seen in ZD6474-treated PC-9/ZD tumors. These studies demonstrate that the additional EGFR TKI activity may contribute significantly to the antitumor efficacy of ZD6474, in particular in those tumors that are dependent on continued EGFR-signaling for proliferation or survival. In addition, these results provide a preclinical rationale for further investigation of ZD6474 as a potential treatment option for both EGFR-TKI-sensitive and EGFR-TKI-resistant tumors.
We report 3 patients where Medroxyprogesterone Acetate (MPA = Provera) and Megestrol Acetate (Megace) in doses used for therapy of breast cancer, caused clinical hypercortisolism and Cushing's syndrome. Studies of the toxicity of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate list the commonest adverse events at 500 mg/day as weight gain, water retention, increased blood pressure, tremor, moon face, sweating, muscle cramps, vaginal bleeding and increased appetite. Glucocorticoid-like effects are seen in up to 30% of patients treated for longer than 6 weeks with mostly large doses of the order of 1500 mg/day but Cushing's syndrome has been reported in patients taking 400 mg/day. Neither the glucocorticoid-like effects or Cushing's syndrome have been previously observed with Megestrol Acetate. In the elderly female population receiving progestogens for neoplastic disease the progestogen itself could be an appreciable cause of morbidity both by causing glucocorticoid-like effects and Cushing's syndrome but also by lack of awareness of the danger of sudden withdrawal of these compounds when the hypothalmic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is suppressed. The signs and symptoms could be easily overlooked unless appropriate testing for Cushing's syndrome is carried out. While the progestogen may have to be continued indefinitely a dose decrease may be feasible with reduction of morbidity.
Although antiestrogens have been effective in preventing estrogen receptor (ER)-positive breast cancer, chemopreventive agents are still needed to prevent ER-negative breast cancer. Tyrosine kinase inhibitors are promising agents for the treatment and prevention of human cancers. ZD1839 (gefitinib or Iressa) is an orally active epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor that blocks signal transduction pathways in epithelial cells. We examined whether ZD1839 blocks signal transduction and prevents the development of ER-negative breast cancer.
The ability of ZD1839 to block signal transduction in normal, immortalized, and malignant breast cells was assessed by western blotting with specific antibodies to detect phosphorylation of cytoplasmic signaling molecules. The effect of ZD1839 on growth of these breast cells was assessed with anchorage-dependent and anchorage-independent growth assays. Its effect on ER-negative mammary tumorigenesis was assessed in MMTV-erbB2 transgenic mice. All statistical tests were two-sided.
ZD1839 suppressed the phosphorylation of EGFR and mitogen-activated protein kinase in normal and malignant breast cells. ZD1839 treatment statistically significantly suppressed mammary tumorigenesis in MMTV-erbB2 transgenic mice; median time to tumor development was approximately 230 days in vehicle-treated mice and more than 310 days in mice treated with ZD1839 at 100 mg/kg (P<.001). ZD1839 reduced proliferation of normal breast cells by 20.3% (95% confidence interval [CI] = -13.7% to 44.2%) and of tumor cells by 42.0% (95% CI = 20.2% to 58.2%). ZD1839 also increased expression of the cell cycle regulator p27 in normal mammary tissue by 48.7% (95% CI = 27.0% to 74.2%) and in tumor tissue by 50.3% (95% CI = 35.8% to 66.7%).
This study appears to provide the preclinical rationale for the development of these EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors for the prevention of human breast cancer.
Bartter's syndrome is a renal tubular disorder characterized by hypokalemia, metabolic alkalosis, increased urinary excretion of potassium and prostaglandins, a relative vascular resistance to the pressor effects of exogenous angiotensin II, and hyperplasia of the juxtaglomerular apparatus. In most patients, the glomerular filtration rate is normal and chronic renal failure does not develop. We report here on a case of living-related kidney transplantation in Bartter's syndrome, in which a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug is suspected to be the cause of the end-stage renal disease.
We examined the effects of urine testing frequency on treatment outcome in a contingent methadone take-home program. Study patients who submitted<80% opiate and/or cocaine positive urines during a 5-week baseline received 60 mg methadone throughout the study, submitted urine samples on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, and were randomized into one of three take-home incentive conditions. Study patients could receive three take-home doses per week if one urine sample randomly selected each week (Weekly; n=16) or each month (Monthly; n=18) was negative for opiates and cocaine. Take-homes for Random Drawing control patients (n=19) were determined weekly independent of urine test results. Subjects in the Weekly group showed an immediate increase from baseline in percentage of drug-free urines; those in the Monthly group showed a gradual increase over the first 3 months; and those in Random Drawings showed a decline in percentage of drug-free urines over time. The percentage of patients with sustained (8 or more weeks) opiate and cocaine abstinence was 56.6, 38.9 and 10.5% for Weekly, Monthly and Random Drawing groups, respectively (P<0.002). These results confirm that methadone take-homes contingent on drug-free urines prevent a decline in treatment performance over time and suggest that abstinence can be sustained with urine testing conducted as infrequently as once a month.
The distribution of autoantibodies was studied in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) treated by D-penicillamine and who developed myasthenia gravis (MG). The anti-human acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibodies were specifically associated with clinical symptoms of MG without any difference in the pattern of specificities in idiopathic (id-MG) or in induced MG (DPen-MG). Conversely, anti-nuclear antibodies were elevated in DPen-MG sera compared to id-MG sera (P less than 0.001) but were also compared to patients with RA treated by D-penicillamine (or thiopronine) and who did not develop MG. Anti-denatured DNA antibodies were enhanced in sera from treated patients, whether they had presented or not a MG disease. Anti-histone antibodies were associated with RA. These observations suggest that the immunological imbalance in RA patients, can be increased by a drug treatment which may trigger the appearance of a second autoimmune disease such as MG, where anti-AChR antibodies are associated with anti-nuclear antibodies.
The effect of chronic oral exposure to arsenic on male mouse testicular and accessory sex organ weights, sperm parameters and testicular marker enzymes was studied. In addition, the distribution of arsenic in reproductive organs was measured using atomic absorption spectrophotometry. Sodium arsenite administered to mice (Mus musculus) via drinking water at a dose of 53.39 micromol/L (4 ppm As) for 365 days caused a decrease in the absolute and relative testicular weight. However, epididymal and accessory sex organ weight was similar to control. The activities of marker testicular enzymes such as sorbitol dehydrogenase, acid phosphatase and 17beta-hydroxy-steroid dehydrogenase (17beta-HSD) were significantly decreased, but those of lactate dehydrogenase and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (gamma-GT) were significantly increased. A decrease in sperm count and sperm motility, along with an increase in abnormal sperm, was observed in arsenite-exposed mice. A significant accumulation of arsenic in testes, epididymis, seminal vesicle and prostate gland was observed in treated animals. Thus long term exposure (365 days) at the dose level of 53.39 micromol/L sodium arsenite (4 ppm As), to which human beings are likely to be exposed via drinking water, may cause testicular and spermatotoxic effect.
Although former preterm birth infants are at risk for postoperative apnea after surgery, it is unclear whether the same is true of full-term birth infants. We evaluated the incidence of apnea in 60 full-term neonates and infants undergoing pyloromyotomy both before and after anesthesia. All subjects were randomized to a remifentanil- or halothane-based anesthetic. Apnea was defined by the presence of prolonged apnea (>15 s) or frequent brief apnea, as observed on the pneumocardiogram. Apnea occurred before surgery in 27% of subjects and after surgery in 16% of subjects, with no significant difference between subjects randomized to remifentanil or halothane anesthesia. This apnea was primarily central in origin, occurred throughout the recording epochs, and was associated with severe desaturation in some instances. Of the subjects with normal preoperative pneumocardiograms, new onset postoperative apnea occurred in 3 (23%) of 13 subjects who received halothane-based anesthetics versus 0 (0%) of 22 subjects who received remifentanil-based anesthetics (P = 0.04). Thus, postoperative apnea can follow anesthesia in otherwise healthy full-term infants after pyloromyotomy and is occasionally severe with desaturation. New-onset postoperative apnea was not seen with a remifentanil-based anesthetic.
Abnormal breathing patterns can follow anesthesia in infants after surgical repair of pyloric stenosis. Occasionally, these patterns can be associated with desaturation. New-onset postoperative apnea was not seen with a remifentanil-based anesthetic.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASDS) are frequently occurring disorders diagnosed by deficits in three core functional areas: social skills, communication, and behaviours and/or interests. Mental retardation frequently accompanies the most severe forms of ASDs, while overall ASDs are more commonly diagnosed in males. Most ASDs have a genetic origin and one gene recently implicated in the etiology of autism is the Deleted-In-Autism-1 (DIA1) gene.
Using a bioinformatics-based approach, we have identified a human gene closely related to DIA1, we term DIA1R (DIA1-Related). While DIA1 is autosomal (chromosome 3, position 3q24), DIA1R localizes to the X chromosome at position Xp11.3 and is known to escape X-inactivation. The gene products are of similar size, with DIA1 encoding 430, and DIA1R 433, residues. At the amino acid level, DIA1 and DIA1R are 62% similar overall (28% identical), and both encode signal peptides for targeting to the secretory pathway. Both genes are ubiquitously expressed, including in fetal and adult brain tissue.
Examination of published literature revealed point mutations in DIA1R are associated with X-linked mental retardation (XLMR) and DIA1R deletion is associated with syndromes with ASD-like traits and/or XLMR. Together, these results support a model where the DIA1 and DIA1R gene products regulate molecular traffic through the cellular secretory pathway or affect the function of secreted factors, and functional deficits cause disorders with ASD-like symptoms and/or mental retardation.
Recently, the FDA recommended a black-box warning describing the increased risk of cardiovascular events associated with the use of stimulant drugs (amphetamines; in the Netherlands: dexamphetamine, methylphenidate) in the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). The recommendation was based largely on the increased use of these drugs in children and adults in the USA, voluntary reporting of adverse events, and the pharmacological analogy with other sympathomimetic amines, such as ephedrine, pseudoephedrine and phenylpropanolamine, for which similarwarnings have been given previously. The Adverse Event Reporting System documented 25 cases of sudden death based on WHO criteria with the use of amphetamines and methylphenidate; most of the cases were children aged less than 18 years. Sudden death in children is most often caused by fatal arrhythmias due to congenital heart diseases, such as long QT syndrome and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. An increase in heart rate can potentially provoke life-threatening arrhythmias when the QT interval does not compensate for the increase. In adults, increased blood pressure and heart rate are well-documented risk factors for cardiovascular events. The use of methylphenidate is increasing in the Netherlands, indicating that greater caution is warranted when prescribing these drugs.
Cisplatin based combination chemotherapy remains the mainstay for treatment of advanced urothelial cancer. The combination of 5-fluorouracil and interferon has been found to be effective second line treatment of advanced urothelial cancer. Hence, we tested the combination of cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil and interferon as first line therapy in advanced urothelial cancer. Eligible patients had to have no prior chemotherapy or interferon. Treatment consisted of cisplatin 80 mg/m(2) on day one, followed by 5-fluorouracil 750 mg/m(2) as a daily infusion for 5 days and interferon alpha 2 B 5 MU/m(2) subcutaneously daily on day 1-5 of 5-fluorouracil infusion. Cycles repeated every 21 days. Eighteen patients, of which sixteen were males were enrolled. Median age was 60 years. All patients had transitional-cell carcinoma. The median number of cycles given was 4. Thirteen patients were evaluable for response. Two patients achieved CR and 3 PR for an overall response rate of 28% (95% confidence interval 7% to 49%). Median response duration was 8.3 months. Median survival was 5.5 months. Four patients died secondary to chemotherapy toxicities. Those were GI perforation in one, bronchopneumonia in one, acute renal failure in one and one patient died at home 3 weeks following the third cycle. The above regimen demonstrates excessive toxicity and moderate activity. It cannot be recommended in its present format. Novel anti-cancer agents need to explored.
Case report of a 31-year-old woman who presented with toxic myelopathy due to intrathecal administration of doxorubicin.
To describe the pathology and the rehabilitation of an uncommon complication of intrathecal drug administration during the oncologic treatment of acute lymphoma.
Spinal cord rehabilitation center, University Hospital.
Clinical and radiological observations during a rehabilitation program.
Evidence of neurological improvement and rehabilitation potential after severe myelopathy due to intrathecal injection of doxorubicin.
This is, to our knowledge, the first report of severe myelopathy following accidental intrathecal administration of doxorubicin. Despite early complete paraplegia, some neurological and functional recovery was observed.
In a randomized double-blind study, the clinical efficacy of methadone vs. methadone and guanfacine was assessed in terms of evolution of opioid withdrawal symptoms during inpatient detoxification. A total of 144 patients were included and randomly allocated to three different treatment groups: methadone alone, and two combined treatment schedules (methadone plus 3 or 4 mg of guanfacine). No differences were observed among the three groups with regard to retention rate throughout the study period. Both therapies, methadone and methadone plus guanfacine, determined a slight increase in withdrawal scores when methadone was discontinued. However, guanfacine was unable to effectively control methadone-associated withdrawal symptoms. These results indicate that guanfacine does not effectively reduce the opioid withdrawal symptoms.
