To evaluate the hemodynamic effects of intravenous milrinone in neonates with low cardiac output after cardiac surgery.
Prospective cohort study.
Pediatric cardiac intensive care unit.
Ten neonates with low cardiac output (cardiac index of < or = 3.0 L/min/m2) after corrective cardiac surgery were enrolled in the study. The neonates' ages ranged from 3 to 27 days (median 5) and their weights ranged from 2.0 to 4.8 kg (median 3.7). The diagnoses were: transposition of the great arteries (n = 6, including two with ventricular septal defect), tetralogy of Fallot (n = 2), truncus arteriosus (n = 1), and total anomalous pulmonary venous connection (n = 1).
Milrinone was intravenously administered in three stages: a) baseline stage, in which patients had a stable hemodynamic status, ventilation and gas exchange, hemostasis, and body temperature; b) loading stage, in which a 50 microgram/kg intravenous loading dose of milrinone was administered over 15 mins; and c) infusion stage, in which milrinone was continuously infused at 0.50 microgram/kg/min for 30 mins.
The mean heart rate increased after the loading stage (149 +/- 13 to 163 +/- 12 beats/min, p < .01) but slowed during the infusion stage (154 +/- 11 beats/min, p < .01 vs. loading stage). Both right and left atrial pressures were lowered in all ten neonates. Compared with baseline, mean arterial pressure decreased after the loading stage (66 +/- 12 to 57 +/- 10 mm Hg, p < .01) but did not decrease further at the infusion stage (59 +/- 12 mm Hg); changes in mean pulmonary arterial pressure were comparable. Cardiac index increased from a baseline mean of 2.1 +/- 0.5 to 3.0 +/- 0.8 L/min/m2 (p < .01) with the loading stage, and was maintained at 3.1 +/- 0.6 L/min/m2 during the infusion stage. Systemic vascular resistance index decreased below baseline values with loading, from 2136 +/- 432 to 1336 +/- 400 dyne.sec/cm5.m2 (p < .01), and pulmonary vascular resistance index also decreased with loading dose of milrinone, from 488 +/- 160 to 360 +/- 120 dyne.sec/cm5.m2 (p < .01). There was no change in the rate pressure index, an indirect measurement of myocardial oxygen consumption, throughout the study.
Administration of milrinone in neonates with low cardiac output after cardiac surgery lowers filling pressures, systemic and pulmonary arterial pressures, and systemic and pulmonary vascular resistances, while improving cardiac index. Milrinone increases heart rate without altering myocardial oxygen consumption. While milrinone appears to be effective and safe during short-term use, the relative distribution of inotropic and vasodilatory properties of milrinone remains to be elucidated.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal dominant disorder in which there is progressive neurodegeneration producing motor, cognitive and psychiatric symptoms. HD is caused by a trinucleotide (CAG) repeat mutation, encoding an expanded polyglutamine tract in the huntingtin protein. At least eight other neurodegenerative diseases are caused by CAG/glutamine repeat expansions in different genes. Recent evidence suggests that environmental factors can modify the onset and progression of Huntington's disease and possibly other neurodegenerative disorders. This review outlines possible molecular and cellular mechanisms mediating the polyglutamine-induced toxic 'gain of function' and associated gene-environment interactions in HD. Key aspects of pathogenesis shared with other neurodegenerative diseases may include abnormal protein-protein interactions, selective disruption of gene expression and 'pathological plasticity' of synapses in specific brain regions. Recent discoveries regarding molecular mechanisms of pathogenesis are guiding the development of new therapeutic approaches. Knowledge of gene-environment interactions, for example, could lead to development of 'enviromimetics' which mimic the beneficial effects of specific environmental stimuli. The effects of environmental enrichment on brain and behaviour will also be discussed, together with the general implications for neuroscience research involving animal models.
The authors report significant worsening of a pre-existing neuropathy in six patients who received "non-toxic" dosages of known neurotoxic agents. Before treatment, baseline total neuropathy score (TNS) averaged 9.5 (range 0 to 19). After chemotherapy (Taxol [125 to 175 mg/m(2) x 4]; vincristine [2 to 5 mg]; cisplatin [40 mg/m(2) x 8]; and thalidomide [60 g]), the TNS averaged 22 (range 13 to 29). The authors conclude that functionally disabling toxic neuropathy can occur in patients with pre-existing neuropathy at standard doses.
Development of kinase-targeted therapies for central nervous system (CNS) diseases is a great challenge. Glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3) offers a great potential for severe CNS unmet diseases, being one of the inhibitors on clinical trials for different tauopathies. Following our hypothesis based on the enhanced reactivity of residue Cys199 in the binding site of GSK-3, we examine here the suitability of phenylhalomethylketones as irreversible inhibitors. Our data confirm that the halomethylketone unit is essential for the inhibitory activity. Moreover, addition of the halomethylketone moiety to reversible inhibitors turned them into irreversible inhibitors with IC(50) values in the nanomolar range. Overall, the results point out that these compounds might be useful pharmacological tools to explore physiological and pathological processes related to signaling pathways regulated by GSK-3 opening new avenues for the discovery of novel GSK-3 inhibitors.
Previous studies of phenytoin neuropathy in selected groups of chronic epileptic patients on polytherapy have indicated a widely varying incidence of clinical or electrophysiological abnormalities. In 51 previously untreated epileptic patients followed prospectively on phenytoin or carbamazepine monotherapy, assisted by blood level monitoring, for 1-5 years we found no clinical evidence of neuropathy. Eighteen per cent of the phenytoin group and none of the carbamazepine group had mild electrophysiological changes (abnormalities of sensory action potentials or sensory conduction). In the former group the occurrence of the electrophysiological abnormalities was possibly related to previous exposure to high phenytoin or low folate levels or both. In 10 chronic epileptic patients we demonstrated reversible slowing of sensory nerve conduction during phenytoin intoxication. In six selected epileptic patients on chronic barbiturate monotherapy we found clinical evidence of neuropathy in two and electrophysiological abnormalities in five, including reversible slowing of sensory conduction during intoxication in one. This suggests that barbiturate drugs may, like phenytoin, also contribute to anticonvulsant neuropathy. Careful monitoring of single drug therapy with avoidance of acute toxicity may reduce the risk of chronic anticonvulsant neuropathy.
We performed a genome-wide association study with 706 individuals with leprosy and 5,581 control individuals and replicated the top 24 SNPs in three independent replication samples, including a total of 3,301 individuals with leprosy and 5,299 control individuals from China. Two loci not previously associated with the disease were identified with genome-wide significance: rs2275606 (combined P = 3.94 × 10(-14), OR = 1.30) on 6q24.3 and rs3762318 (combined P = 3.27 × 10(-11), OR = 0.69) on 1p31.3. These associations implicate IL23R and RAB32 as new susceptibility genes for leprosy. Furthermore, we identified evidence of interaction between the NOD2 and RIPK2 loci, which is consistent with the biological association of the proteins encoded by these genes (NOD2-RIPK2 complex) in activating the NF-κB pathway as a part of the host defense response to infection. Our findings have expanded the biological functions of IL23R by uncovering its involvement in infectious disease susceptibility and suggest a potential involvement of autophagocytosis in leprosy pathogenesis. The IL23R association supports previous observations of the marked overlap of susceptibility genes for leprosy and Crohn's disease, implying common pathogenesis mechanisms.
The bronchodilator effects of a single dose of ipratropium bromide aerosol (36 micrograms) and short-acting theophylline tablets (dose titrated to produce serum levels of 10-20 micrograms/mL) were compared in a double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study in 21 patients with stable, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Mean peak forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) increases over baseline and the proportion of patients attaining at least a 15% increase in the FEV1 (responders) were 31% and 90%, respectively, for ipratropium and 17% and 50%, respectively, for theophylline. The average FEV1 increases during the 6-hour observation period were 18% for ipratropium and 8% for theophylline. The mean duration of action was 3.8 hours with ipratropium and 2.4 hours with theophylline. While side effects were rare, those experienced after theophylline use did involve the cardiovascular and gastrointestinal systems. These results show that ipratropium is a more potent bronchodilator than oral theophylline in patients with chronic airflow obstruction.
Seventy-two subjects who had severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and a history of heavy smoking completed a study to compare the effect of single doses of ipratropium bromide (0.036 mg), albuterol (0.18 mg), and placebo on the forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1), forced vital capacity (FVC), heart rate, and blood pressure during a period of 6 hours. During initial testing for reversibility, 40 subjects did not demonstrate a 15% increase in FEV1 from baseline after metaproterenol. Ipratropium produced a significantly greater response than albuterol in FEV1 at 3, 4, and 5 hours and in FVC at 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 hours. For the entire 6-hour period, ipratropium produced a 25% greater response than albuterol in FEV1 and a 50% greater response in FVC. The difference between the two drugs was even greater between 3 and 6 hours. There were no significant differences between the three treatments as regards adverse reactions, heart rate, and blood pressure measurements. In patients who have chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, ipratropium bromide has apparent benefits over beta 2 agonist therapy, including a longer duration of action. Ipratropium may also be effective when beta 2 agonists are not effective.
Bupivacaine is widely used as a local anesthetic. Central nervous system (CNS) and cardiovascular toxicity are well known side effects. However, there has been no report of bupivacaine-induced myocardial injury. We present a case of bupivacaine cardiac toxicity mimicking an acute non-ST segment elevation myocardial infarction, which was eventually diagnosed as bupivacaine-induced cardiac toxicity without CNS toxicity. As soon as a healthy young woman at a private clinic was given a spinal anesthesia of 6mg bupivacaine for hemorrhoidectomy, she developed arrhythmia and hypotension. She was transferred to our emergency room. There was an accelerated idioventricular rhythm with ST segment depression on electrocardiogram, coarse breathing sounds with rales on whole lung field and a butterfly sign on the chest radiograph. 2D transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) revealed reduced left ventricle systolic ejection fraction (approximately 27%). There was regional wall motion abnormality of the left ventricle on 2D TTE and the cardiac marker was increased. We diagnosed the patient as having acute non-ST segment elevation myocardial infarction but her impaired cardiac function improved gradually. On the seventh day from admission, there was a complete spontaneous recovery of cardiac function, and coronary angiography revealed a normal coronary artery. Therefore, we firmly believe that bupivacaine directly injures the cardiac cell.
Midfacial necrosis due to the abuse of inhaled cocaine is a new entity that is included in the differential diagnosis of the midline destructive diseases such as Wegener's granulomatosis, polymorphic reticulosis, nasal lymphoma, infections and the idiopathic midline destructive disease. We report the case of a forty-year-old male who presented necrosis of the nasosinusal tract and optic neuropathy as complications due to the abuse of inhaled cocaine for more than twenty years and a discussion about the differential diagnosis.
Two common variants in the gene encoding complement factor H (CFH), the Y402H substitution (rs1061170, c.1204C>T)(1-4) and the intronic rs1410996 SNP(5,6), explain 17% of age-related macular degeneration (AMD) liability. However, proof for the involvement of CFH, as opposed to a neighboring transcript, and knowledge of the potential mechanism of susceptibility alleles are lacking. Assuming that rare functional variants might provide mechanistic insights, we used genotype data and high-throughput sequencing to discover a rare, high-risk CFH haplotype with a c.3628C>T mutation that resulted in an R1210C substitution. This allele has been implicated previously in atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome, and it abrogates C-terminal ligand binding(7,8). Genotyping R1210C in 2,423 AMD cases and 1,122 controls demonstrated high penetrance (present in 40 cases versus 1 control, P = 7.0 × 10(-6)) and an association with a 6-year-earlier onset of disease (P = 2.3 × 10(-6)). This result suggests that loss-of-function alleles at CFH are likely to drive AMD risk. This finding represents one of the first instances in which a common complex disease variant has led to the discovery of a rare penetrant mutation.
Patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) (with or without thrombosis) require alternative anticoagulation because of their extreme risk of new thromboembolic complications. The first effective agent for this purpose may be danaparoid, a less-sulfated low molecular weight heparinoid. Recently, direct thrombin inhibitors have been used.
Five HIT patients, who developed new thromboembolic complications while receiving danaparoid, were analyzed to consider possible reasons for treatment failure and to promulgate strategies that improve efficacy.
Three patients had acute HIT, one had recent HIT, and one with remote HIT was re-exposed to heparin during heart surgery. Danaparoid was started as intravenous bolus and infusion in one patient, and as 1250 units subcutaneously twice daily in four patients. The new complications that emerged on danaparoid were new venous thrombi in three patients (one with pulmonary emboli), lower extremity arterial thrombosis in one, myocardial ischemia in one, thromboembolic cardiovascular accidents in one, and fatal bowel necrosis in one (two patients suffered more than one complication). Platelet counts did not improve or worsened in four, improved partially in the other, and parameters of disseminated intravascular coagulation failed to improve in one patient. Four patients responded relatively dramatically when direct thrombin inhibitors were substituted. Possible reasons for danaparoid failure include that: 1) no treatment is expected to completely prevent complications, 2) antithrombin III consumption can blunt efficacy in some patients, 3) low or intermediate doses may be insufficient, and 4) there was clinically significant cross-reactivity of the pathogenic HIT antibodies.
It is emphasized that the possibility of clinically significant antibody cross-reactivity and that low or intermediate dosage may be inadequate when using danaparoid in therapy of HIT. The latter problem probably extrapolates to other anticoagulants used for HIT.
Chronic heart failure (CHF) is associated with impaired endothelium-dependent vasodilation and increased basal vascular tone due, in part, to elevated endothelin-1 plasma levels. In the present study, we investigated whether a reduction of vascular tone using an endothelin A receptor blocker attenuates the impairment of endothelium-dependent, flow-mediated vasodilation (FMD).
Twenty-one patients with CHF randomly received either the endothelin A receptor blocker LU 135252 (30 mg/d, n=7; 300 mg/d, n=7) or a placebo (n=7). Using high-resolution ultrasound, FMD and endothelium-independent, nitroglycerin-induced dilation of the brachial artery were assessed at baseline in the 21 patients with CHF and in 11 controls and after 3 weeks treatment in the 21 patients with CHF. FMD at baseline was impaired in all 21 patients with CHF (3.2+/-2%) when compared with the 11 controls (9.7+/-4.9%; P=0.0005). In comparison with baseline, FMD significantly improved after 3 weeks of treatment with LU 135252 in all 14 patients receiving it (from 3.0+/-2.0% to 4.9+/-2.9%; P=0.04), but FMD remained unchanged with placebo. Subgroup analysis, according to different dosages, revealed a significant increase of FMD compared with baseline (from 2.4+/-1.5% to 5.5+/-2.4%; P=0.03) in the patients treated with the low-dose (30 mg/d), whereas a high dose of 300 mg/d failed to increase FMD significantly. Improvement in the high-dose group, however, may have been masked by reduced vasodilator capacity due to a significant increase in vessel size (from 4.8+/-0.4 to 5.1+/-0.7 mm; P=0.03).
These results suggest that endothelin A receptor blockade improves FMD in CHF patients.
We recently reported that rosiglitazone (RGTZ), a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) agonist, has a protective effect against cyclosporine (CsA)- induced renal injury. Here we report the effect of RGTZ on peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) expression in an experimental model of chronic cyclosporine (CsA) nephropathy.
Chronic CsA nephropathy was induced in Sprague-Dawley rats by administering CsA (15mg/kg per day) for 28 days, and control rats were treated with vehicle (VH group, olive oil 1mL/kg per day) for 28 days. RGTZ (3mg/kg) was concurrently administered via gavage to the CsA and VH groups. Expression of PPARgamma mRNA and protein was evaluated with RT-PCR, immunohistochemistry, and immunoblotting.
PPARgamma mRNA expression was similar to the level of PPARgamma protein constitutively expressed in the kidneys of the VH treated rats, with expression in the glomerular epithelial, distal tubular cells, and collecting tubular cells. PPARgamma protein expression in CsA-treated rat kidneys was significantly less than in the VH group. However, concomitant administration of RGTZ restored PPARgamma protein expression in the kidneys of the CsA- reated rats.
Exogenous administration of RGTZ treatment upregulates PPARgamma expression and that this mechanism may play a role in protecting against CsA-induced renal injury.
Homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations within the insulin binding domain of the human insulin receptor (INSR) are usually associated with severe impairment of insulin binding leading to Donohue syndrome ("Leprechaunism"), which is characterized by excessive hyperglycemia with hyperinsulinism, pre- and postnatal growth retardation, distinct dysmorphism and early death. Missense mutations in the beta subunits are commonly associated with a milder impairment of insulin binding and milder phenotype with prolonged survival and less dysmorphism, the so called Rabson-Mendenhall syndrome. We report on a 13-year-old girl with Donohue syndrome like dysmorphism, hyperinsulinism and prolonged survival due to two novel INSR missense mutations within the insulin binding domain. Unexpectedly, insulin binding assays and investigations of activation of central insulin signaling pathways in fibroblasts revealed no significant alterations. Instead, immunofluorescence studies showed abnormal perinuclear distribution of the INSR alpha and beta subunits. Our data indicate that the quality of insulin binding activity is correlated with survival, not with the dysmorphic phenotype, and it is not always a valid parameter for predicting INSR mutations as proposed.
We have recently reported that peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) ligands produce antitumor effects against human ovarian cancer in conjunction with reduction in angiogenesis and induction of apoptosis via regulating prostaglandin (PG) E(2) level. In this study, we investigated the effects of combination of ciglitazone, a PPARγ ligand, and cisplatin, a cytotoxic anti-cancer drug, on growth of ovarian cancer.
Tumor growth and survival were examined in female nu/nu mice xenografted with subcutaneous OVCAR-3 tumors or with intraperitoneal DISS tumors and treated with cisplatin alone (5 mg/kg intraperitoneally once on day 1), ciglitazone alone (15 mg/kg intraperitoneally once a week), or the combination.
Ciglitazone alone, cisplatin alone, or their combination significantly suppressed the growth of OVCAR-3 tumors xenotransplated subcutaneously and prolonged the survival of mice with malignant ascites derived from DISS cells as compared with the control. Furthermore, the combination produced a significantly greater antitumor effect than cisplatin or ciglitazone alone and also significantly prolonged the survival time as compared with cisplatin or ciglitazone alone. The combination significantly decreased PGE(2) concentration in serum as well as in ascites, reduced vascular endothelial growth factor as well as microvessel density, and induced apoptosis in solid OVCAR-3 tumor as compared with cisplatin or ciglitazone alone. The combination remarkably decreased the expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), microsomal PG E synthase (mPGES), and PG receptor 3 (EP3) in tumors. In vitro experiment showed that ciglitazone enhances the cytotoxicity of cisplatin against ovarian cancer cells.
In conclusion, the combination inhibited the growth of ovarian cancer in conjunction with reduction in angiogenesis and induction of apoptosis resulting from suppression of PGE(2) activation through decreasing the expression of COX-2, mPGES, and EP3. The inhibitory effect of this combination treatment on growth of ovarian cancer suggests a potential to lead a novel therapeutic strategy against ovarian cancer.
We previously reported that electroporation mediated hPON1 or hPON3 gene delivery could protect against CCl(4)-induced liver injury. However, substantial evidence supported that the in vivo physiological functions of hPON1 and hPON3 were distinct. To compare the protective efficacies of hPON1 and hPON3 against liver injury, recombinant adenovirus AdPON1 and AdPON3, which were capable of expressing hPON1 and hPON3 respectively, were intravenously injected into mice before they were given CCl(4). Adenovirus mediated expression of hPON1 and hPON3 were demonstrated by elevated serum esterase activity, hepatic lactonase activity, and hPON1/hPON3 mRNA expression in liver. Serum transaminase assay, histological observation and TUNEL analysis revealed that the extent of liver injury and hepatocyte apoptosis in AdPON1 or AdPON3 treated mice was significantly ameliorated in comparison with control. Meanwhile, overexpression of hPON1 and hPON3 reduced the hepatic oxidative stress and strengthen the total antioxidant capabilities in liver through affecting the hepatic malondialdehyde (MDA), glutathione (GSH) and total antioxidant capability (T-AOC) levels, regardless of the exposure to CCl(4) or corn oil. Administration of AdPON1 or AdPON3 also suppressed inflammatory response by decreasing TNF-alpha and IL-1beta levels in CCl(4) mice. In this study, hPON1 exhibited a slightly higher efficacy than hPON3 in alleviating liver injury, but the difference between them were not significant.
Defective bone and cartilage development account for a large number of human birth defects annually. Normal skeletogenesis involves cartilage development in early morphogenesis through a highly coordinated and orchestrated series of events involving commitment and differentiation of mesenchymal cells to chondrocytes followed by a highly programmed process of structural maturation. Recent developmental studies with laboratory model fish demonstrate that exposure to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) results in cartilage and skeletal abnormalities. In this study, we exposed embryonic medaka to TCDD to induce developmental modification(s) of both cartilage and bone formation. Emphasis is placed on cell-rich hyaline cartilage of the hypural plate where both chondrogenesis and osteogenesis are impaired by TCDD exposure. In this model, TCDD exposure results in a concentration-dependent impairment of mesenchymal cell recruitment, chondrocyte cell proliferation, differentiation, and progression to hypertrophy. Gene expression of ColA2, a marker of chondrocyte terminal differentiation in hypural structures, is markedly attenuated consistent with hypural dysmorphogenesis. Assessment of hypural structure using a transgenic medaka expressing mCherry under control of the osterix promoter illustrated significant attenuation in expression of the osteoblast gene marker and lack of formation of a calcified perichondral sheath surrounding hypural anlage. Overall, these studies illustrate that TCDD impacts terminal differentiation and growth of cartilage and bone in axial structures not likely derived from neural crest progenitors in medaka hypurals.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a complex autoimmune disease that causes substantial morbidity. As is typical for many other multifactorial disorders, much of the heritability of SLE remains unknown. We identified a rare autosomal recessive form of SLE, in which autozygome analysis revealed a null mutation in the DNASE1L3 gene. The DNASE1L3-related SLE we describe was always pediatric in onset and correlated with a high frequency of lupus nephritis. Our findings confirm the critical role of impaired clearance of degraded DNA in SLE pathogenesis.
Ethanol is a frequently abused drug that impairs cognitive processes such as learning. Varenicline, an alpha4beta2 nicotinic receptor partial agonist and alpha7 nicotinic receptor full agonist prescribed for smoking cessation, has been shown to decrease ethanol consumption. The current study investigated whether varenicline could ameliorate ethanol-induced deficits in learning and whether varenicline alters blood alcohol concentration in C57BL/6 mice. Conditioning consisted of two auditory conditioned stimulus (CS; 30s, 85dB white noise)-foot shock unconditioned stimulus (US; 2s, 0.57mA) pairings. For all studies, saline or ethanol (1.0, 1.5, 2.0g/kg i.p.) was administered 15min before training, and saline or varenicline (0.05, 0.1, 0.2mg/kg i.p.) was administered 60min before either training or testing. For blood alcohol analysis, saline or varenicline (0.1mg/kg) was administered 60min before collection, and saline or ethanol (1.0, 1.5, 2.0g/kg) was administered 15min before collection. Varenicline dose-dependently ameliorated ethanol-induced conditioning deficits for all three doses of ethanol when administered before training but not when administered 24h later, before testing. In addition, varenicline did not alter blood alcohol concentration. The smoking cessation aid varenicline may have therapeutic uses for treating ethanol-associated disruptions in cognitive processes.
The antiestrogen tamoxifen citrate is an effective antitumor agent in postmenopausal women with advanced breast cancer. The drug has produced relatively few and generally mild side effects. However, a not uncommon clinical phenomenon that may falsely suggest premature discontinuation of tamoxifen therapy has become evident to us and has not yet been sufficiently emphasized in the literature. We have designated this phenomenon as the tamoxifen flare. It consists of transient, at times severe, increase in pain with an apparent worsening of the patient's clinical status occurring within the first few weeks of therapy. In each of six patients experiencing this flare (45 patients treated) pain subsided despite continuation of tamoxifen therapy, followed by a partial remission lasting from six to 20 months.
Acute interstitial nephritis (AIN) is often induced by drug therapy and accounts for 1%-3% of adult cases of renal failure. A 13-year-old white female with cystic fibrosis developed two episodes of biopsy proven AIN following antibiotic use over a 5-year period. The first episode resolved with pulse steroid therapy and the second resolved without intervention. Steroid therapy may play a role in aborting subsequent AIN attacks.
Certain loci on the human genome, such as glutathione S-transferase M1 (GSTM1), do not permit heterozygotes to be reliably determined by commonly used methods. Association of such a locus with a disease is therefore generally tested with a case-control design. When subjects have already been ascertained in a case-parent design however, the question arises as to whether the data can still be used to test disease association at such a locus.
A likelihood ratio test was constructed that can be used with a case-parents design but has somewhat less power than a Pearson's chi-squared test that uses a case-control design. The test is illustrated on a novel dataset showing a genotype relative risk near 2 for the homozygous GSTM1 deletion genotype and autism.
Although the case-control design will remain the mainstay for a locus with a deletion, the likelihood ratio test will be useful for such a locus analyzed as part of a larger case-parent study design. The likelihood ratio test has the advantage that it can incorporate complete and incomplete case-parent trios as well as independent cases and controls. Both analyses support (p = 0.046 for the proposed test, p = 0.028 for the case-control analysis) an association of the homozygous GSTM1 deletion genotype with autism.
There is general agreement that dopaminergic neurons projecting from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) to the nucleus accumbens and prefrontal cortex play a key role in drug reinforcement. The activity of these neurons is strongly modulated by the inhibitory and excitatory input they receive. Activation of mu-opioid receptors, located on GABAergic neurons in the VTA, causes hyperpolarization of these GABAergic neurons, thereby causing a disinhibition of VTA dopaminergic neurons. This effect of mu-opioid receptors upon GABA neurotransmission is a likely mechanism for mu-opioid receptor modulation of drug reinforcement. We studied mu-opioid receptor signaling in relation to cocaine reinforcement in wild-type and mu-opioid receptor knockout mice using a cocaine self-administration paradigm and in vitro electrophysiology. Cocaine self-administration was reduced in mu-opioid receptor knockout mice, suggesting a critical role of mu-opioid receptors in cocaine reinforcement. The frequency of spontaneous inhibitory post-synaptic currents onto dopaminergic neurons in the ventral tegmental area was increased in mu-opioid receptor knockout mice compared with wild-type controls, while the frequency of spontaneous excitatory post-synaptic currents was unaltered. The reduced cocaine self-administration and increased GABAergic input to VTA dopaminergic neurons in mu-opioid receptor knockout mice supports the notion that suppression of GABAergic input onto dopaminergic neurons in the VTA contributes to mu-opioid receptor modulation of cocaine reinforcement.
In this study, we investigated the effects of GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptor agonists on the methamphetamine-induced impairment of recognition memory in mice. Repeated treatment with methamphetamine at a dose of 1 mg/kg for 7 days induced an impairment of recognition memory. Baclofen, a GABA(B) receptor agonist, ameliorated the repeated methamphetamine-induced cognitive impairment, although gaboxadol, a GABA(A) receptor agonist, had no significant effect. GABA(B) receptors may constitute a putative new target in treating cognitive deficits in patients suffering from schizophrenia, as well as methamphetamine psychosis.
In rats characterized by aggressive behaviour induced by apomorphine, only amantadine in doses of 10 mg/kg i.v. and 50 mg/kg i.p. induces a very slight aggressive effect, but in doses of 30 and 50 mg/kg i.p. it inhibits the aggressive behaviour induced by 1 mg/kg apomorphine. The effect is dose-related and it is more pronounced when amantadine (50 mg/kg i.p.) is injected 30 min rather than 1 h before apomorphine.
Exposure to high levels of many pesticides has both acute and long-term neurologic consequences, but little is known about the neurotoxicity of chronic exposure to moderate levels of pesticides. We analyzed cross-sectional data from 18,782 white male licensed private pesticide applicators enrolled in the Agricultural Health Study in 1993-1997. Applicators provided information on lifetime pesticide use and 23 neurologic symptoms typically associated with pesticide intoxication. An indicator of more symptoms (> or = 10 vs. < 10) during the year before enrollment was associated with cumulative lifetime days of insecticide use: odds ratios (95% confidence intervals) were 1.64 (1.36-1.97) for 1-50 days, 1.89 (1.58-2.25) for 51-500 days, and 2.50 (2.00-3.13) for > 500 days, compared with never users. A modest association for fumigants [> 50 days, 1.50 (1.24-1.81)] and weaker relationships for herbicides [> 500 days, 1.32 (0.99-1.75)] and fungicides [> 50 days, 1.23 (1.00-1.50)] were observed. Pesticide use within the year before enrollment was not associated with symptom count. Only associations with insecticides and fumigants persisted when all four pesticide groups were examined simultaneously. Among chemical classes of insecticides, associations were strongest for organophosphates and organochlorines. Associations with cumulative exposure persisted after excluding individuals who had a history of pesticide poisoning or had experienced an event involving high personal pesticide exposure. These results suggest that self-reported neurologic symptoms are associated with cumulative exposure to moderate levels of fumigants and organophosphate and organochlorine insecticides, regardless of recent exposure or history of poisoning.
