Caffeine is known to disrupt sleep and its administration to human subjects has been used to model sleep disruption. We previously showed that its effects on sleep onset latency are comparable between rats and humans. This study evaluated the potential use of caffeine as a model of sleep disruption in the rat, by assessing its effects on sleep architecture and electroencephalogram (EEG) frequency spectrum, and using sleep-promoting drugs to reverse these effects. Rats were implanted with radiotelemetry devices for body temperature, EEG, electromyogram and locomotor activity. Following recovery, animals were dosed with caffeine (10 mg/kg) alone or in combination with zolpidem (10 mg/kg) or trazodone (20 mg/kg). Sleep was scored for the subsequent 12 h using automated analysis software. Caffeine dose-dependently disrupted sleep: it increased WAKE time, decreased NREM (non-REM) sleep time and NREM bout duration (but not bout number), and decreased delta activity in NREM sleep. It also dose-dependently increased locomotor activity and body temperature. When given alone, zolpidem suppressed REM whilst trazodone increased NREM sleep time at the expense of WAKE, increased NREM bout duration, increased delta activity in NREM sleep and reduced body temperature. In combination, zolpidem attenuated caffeine's effects on WAKE, whilst trazodone attenuated its effects on NREM sleep, NREM bout duration, delta activity, body temperature and locomotor activity. Caffeine administration produced many of the signs of insomnia that were improved by two of its most successful current treatments. This model may therefore be useful in the study of new drugs for the treatment of sleep disturbance.
Five patients with amiodarone-induced QT prolongation and torsade de pointes are described. Hypokalemia was present in three patients, marked bradycardia - in two, and T-wave alternans - also in two patients. Patients with negative T waves in precordial leads were at higher risk of ventricular fibrillation than the patients with positive T waves. Beta-blocker, lidocaine and, in two patients, tosylate bretylate were effective. All patients survived to hospital discharge, however, one patient died four months later.
We sought to compare the rate of akathisia after administration of intravenous prochlorperazine as a 2-minute bolus or 15-minute infusion.
We conducted a prospective, randomized, double-blind study in the emergency department of a central-city teaching hospital. Patients aged 18 years or older treated with prochlorperazine for headache, nausea, or vomiting were eligible for inclusion. Study participants were randomized to receive 10 mg of prochlorperazine administered intravenously by means of 2-minute push (bolus group) or 10 mg diluted in 50 mL of normal saline solution administered by means of intravenous infusion during a 15-minute period (infusion group). The main outcome was the number of study participants experiencing akathisia within 60 minutes of administration. Akathisia was defined as either a spontaneous report of restlessness or agitation or a change of 2 or more in the patient-reported akathisia rating scale and a change of at least 1 in the investigator-observed akathisia rating scale. The intensity of headache and nausea was measured with a 100-mm visual analog scale.
One hundred patients were enrolled. One study participant was excluded after protocol violation. Seventy-three percent (73/99) of the study participants were treated for headache and 70% (70/99) for nausea. In the bolus group, 26.0% (13/50) had akathisia compared with 32.7% (16/49) in the infusion group (Delta=-6.7%; 95% confidence interval [CI] -24.6% to 11.2%). The difference between the bolus and infusion groups in the percentage of participants who saw a 50% reduction in their headache intensity within 30 minutes was 11.8% (95% CI -9.6% to 33.3%). The difference in the percentage of patients with a 50% reduction in their nausea was 12.6% (95% CI -4.6% to 29.8%).
A 50% reduction in the incidence of akathisia when prochlorperazine was administered by means of 15-minute intravenous infusion versus a 2-minute intravenous push was not detected. The efficacy of prochlorperazine in the treatment of headache and nausea likewise did not appear to be affected by the rate of administration, although no formal statistical comparisons were made.
A 64-year-old woman developed hypertension and hypokalemia, due to ACTH-independent bilateral macronodular adrenocortical hyperplasia (AIMAH) with excessive secretion of 18-hydroxydeoxycorticosterone and corticosterone. Plasma cortisol did not show a diurnal rhythm, and was not suppressed by dexamethasone (8 mg). Plasma cortisol responded to ACTH and was increased by hypoglycemia without modifying ACTH levels. Radiological studies demonstrated that adrenal glands were enlarged with macronodules. Although the patient exhibited a low plasma renin activity and aldosterone levels, hypokalemia and hypertension were observed. Hormonal findings would support the hypothesis that the tumor of AIMAH originated from cells of the upper zona fasciculata.
The susceptibility of analbuminemic rats (Nagase analbuminemic rats; NAR) to induction of bladder cancer by oral N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT) was studied. Male NAR and Sprague-Dawley rats (SD) were fed normal diet or normal diet supplemented with 0.2% FANFT for 10 weeks and killed in week 52. Bladder cancer was found in 5 of 24 SD (21%) but not in 18 NAR (0%). Proliferative lesions of the bladder epithelium, which are considered to be precancerous or more advanced than precancerous changes, were found in 16 of 24 SD (67%), but in only 4 of 18 NAR (22%). NAR showed lower susceptibility than control SD to induction of bladder cancer by FANFT.
The authors examined dopamine transporter density in the orbitofrontal cortex, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and amygdala in methamphetamine users and assessed the relationship of these measures to the subjects' clinical characteristics.
Positron emission tomography with [(11)C]WIN 35,428 was used to examine the regions of interest in 11 methamphetamine users and nine healthy comparison subjects. Psychiatric symptoms were evaluated with the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale.
Dopamine transporter density in the three regions studied was significantly lower in the methamphetamine users than in the comparison subjects. The lower dopamine transporter density in the orbitofrontal and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex was significantly correlated with the duration of methamphetamine use and the severity of psychiatric symptoms.
Chronic methamphetamine use may cause dopamine transporter reduction in the orbitofrontal cortex, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and amygdala in the brain. Psychiatric symptoms in methamphetamine users may be attributable to the decrease in dopamine transporter density in the orbitofrontal cortex and the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex.
Cardiotoxicity is a well recognized side effect of anthracyclines (doxorubicin and epirubicin) or antracenadiones (mitoxantrone) at cumulative or high doses. However the side effects have not been evaluated in adults with Hodgkin's disease who received therapeutic doses of these drugs. We analyzed the cardiac function studying the left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) at rest in 136 patients with Hodgkin's disease treated with doxorubicin, epirubicin or mitoxantrone used in combination with vinblastine, bleomycin and decarbazine. No other risk factors, such as radiation therapy to the mediastinum, were considered. The follow-up is 5 to 8 years for patients in complete remission. Forty-five patients received doxorubicin (from 325 to 685 mg/m2, median 475 mg/m2), 51 patients received epirubicin (from 310 to 610 mg/m2, median 510 mg/m2) and 40 patients were treated with mitoxantrone (from 70 to 165, median 125 mg/m2). The median time between the end of treatment and the evaluation was 6.7 years. Thirty seven percent of the patients (similar rates in the three groups) showed abnormalities in the LVEF with decreased rates independent of the drug dosage. These were compared with two control groups, 46 patients treated with the MOPP combination (mechlorethamine, vincristine, prednisone and procarbazine) or LOPP (chlorambucil, for mechlorethamine) and 35 healthy volunteers. We believe that the use of anthracyclines or antracenadione will produce late cardiac effects in a fraction of patients independently of the doses used and that the indications for these drugs be carefully monitoring so as to evaluate the development of late side effects.
Effective anesthetic techniques include local anesthetic infiltration with or without sedation and general anesthesia. Local anesthesia is a safe and effective anesthetic technique, that when performed properly is applicable to many outpatient urologic procedures. We have found that the pain usually associated with intradermal injection of lidocaine is attenuated by the addition of sodium bicarbonate.
A case of carcinoma of the bladder in a patient treated for 20 years with Endoxan is reported. The role of this drug in the aetiology of an urothelial carcinoma was appeared to be demonstrated by the 35 published cases in the literature and should lead to a limitation of its prescription and to regulate urological surveillance of patients receiving the agent.
During an 8-year period of clinic improvements, an increased incidence of postanesthetic myopathy (PAM) was observed in horses undergoing anesthesia. A request was made for an independent anesthesiologist to examine possible reasons for this increase. Routine methods used for anesthesia were then compared with new methods introduced by the anesthesiologist.
Investigative observations were conducted from October 1999 to April 2000. Following premedication with xylazine or detomidine, anesthesia was induced with diazepam or guiaifenesin followed by ketamine. Maintenance of anesthesia was with halothane/O(2) with mechanical ventilation. Information was gathered from observing routine anesthetics. Seventeen horses were designated group A (October-December 1999) for which hypotension was defined as mean arterial pressure (MAP) <60 mmHg and managed using low-volume crystalloid fluid therapy, etilefrine, or dopamine. In the next 18 horses (group B), hypotension was redefined as MAP <70 mmHg, and was managed using high-volume fluid therapy and dobutamine (January-April 2000). No other changes were made. In both groups, creatine kinase (CK) and aspartate transaminase (AST) concentrations were measured before induction, 1 and 25 hours after standing. Occurrence of PAM was defined as CK and/or AST concentrations above 1000 IU L(-1) and analyzed with Fisher's exact test between groups. Muscle enzymes increased in five horses in group A (two with clinical signs) and in one horse in group B (difference between groups: p = 0.088).
Maintaining MAP >70 mmHg with high-volume fluid therapy and dobutamine may help to reduce the severity of myopathy.
To report a case of suspected extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) in a patient initiated on ritonavir and indinavir while taking risperidone for a tic disorder.
A 35-year-old white man with AIDS received risperidone 2 mg twice daily for treatment of a Tourette's-like tic disorder. Ritonavir and indinavir were initiated, and 1 week later, he experienced significantly impaired swallowing, speaking, and breathing, and worsening of his existing tremors. Ritonavir and indinavir were discontinued. On the same day, the patient increased the risperidone dosage to 3 mg twice daily. Symptoms continued to worsen over the next 3 days. All investigations and laboratory parameters were unremarkable, and vital signs were stable. Risperidone was discontinued and clonazepam initiated. Three days later, the patient's symptoms were significantly improved.
The symptoms described herein are consistent with neuroleptic-induced acute dystonia and potentially neuroleptic-induced parkinsonism. We believe this adverse effect occurred as a result of a drug interaction between ritonavir/indinavir and risperidone. Based on the pharmacokinetics of these medications, we hypothesize that inhibition of CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 by ritonavir and indinavir may have resulted in an accumulation of the active moiety of risperidone, which may explain the occurrence of EPS in this patient.
This is the second published case report describing a suspected drug interaction with ritonavir, indinavir, and risperidone. Caution is warranted when risperidone is prescribed with ritonavir/indinavir, and possibly with other antiretrovirals that inhibit the same pathways.
An 18-year-old man visited the outpatient cardiology clinic because of a cardiac murmur found at a medical examination for military service. An Ebstein's anomaly was diagnosed, with tricuspid valve insufficiency. Exposure to lithium in utero was established. Literature reports indicate an association between exposure to lithium in utero and cardiac anomalies, notably Ebstein's anomaly.
To assess whether copper deficiency plays a role in the recently described cysteamine toxicity in patients with cystinosis, and to examine whether polymorphisms in copper transporters, lysyl oxidase, and/or type I procollagen genes could be responsible for the occurrence of cysteamine toxicity in a small subset of patients with cystinosis.
Thirty-six patients with cystinosis were included: 22 with Fanconi syndrome (including 7 with cysteamine toxicity), 12 after renal transplantation, 1 receiving hemodialysis, and 1 with ocular cystinosis. Serum copper and ceruloplasmin levels and urinary copper/creatinine ratio were measured. Genes ATP7A and CTR1 (encoding copper transporters), LOX (encoding lysyl oxidase), and COL1A1 and COL1A2 (encoding type I procollagen) were analyzed in patients with (n = 6) and without (n = 5) toxicity. Fibroblast (pro)collagen synthesis was compared in patients with (n = 3) and those without (n = 2) cysteamine toxicity.
All 22 patients with Fanconi syndrome had increased urinary copper excretion. Serum copper and ceruloplasmin levels were decreased in 9 patients, including all 7 patients with cysteamine toxicity. No specific sequence variations were associated with toxicity. All fibroblasts exhibited normal (pro)collagen synthesis.
Patients with cystinosis with cysteamine toxicity demonstrate copper deficiency. This can cause decreased activity of lysyl oxidase, the enzyme that generates the aldehydes required for collagen cross-linking. Thus, copper supplementation might prevent cysteamine toxicity.
Three months after anticonvulsive regulation by means of the spasmolytic agent Convulsofin, a 46-year-old man suffered severe hepatosis, and when the preparation was discontinued he suffered a severe cerebral dysfunction. The clinical picture is interpreted as being "similar to the Reye syndrome", and distinctions between this and previously reported cases are noted. There has been very little observation of such complications among adult patients.
Penicillin is well known as a potent convulsive agent. A cortical topical, intracerebral or systemic administration of penicillin produces abnormal and paroxysmal activity which may lead to seizure, and has been used in the investigation of the mechanisms of epilepsy. This is a report on the studies of an acute effect of potassium penicillin G on two models of experimental focal epilepsy: a) amygdaloid kindling model, and b) kainic acid-induced limbic seizure model. Twelve adult cats for amygdaloid kindling model (kindling group), six for KA-induced limbic seizure model (KA group) and four for a control group were prepared for this study. In kindling group, after completion of kindling procedure, 40-60 X 10(4) unit/kg of potassium penicillin G (PC), dissolved in sterilized normal saline, was injected intraperitoneally during an interictal period. In KA group, 1 micrograms of KA was injected into the left amygdala. Limbic seizures occurred frequently during the initial 5 hours but subsided completely within 3 days. After a latent period, spontaneous secondarily generalized convulsion occurred from 30 to 60 days after KA injection. The cats were completely normal in their behavior during the interictal period. During the interictal stage after the first generalized convulsion has been observed, 15-20 X 10(4) unit/kg of PC was injected intraperitoneally. In the control group, 40-60 X 10(4) unit/kg was injected intraperitoneally. Electroclinical observations were continued until 5 hours after PC injection in three groups. In the control group, no cats developed generalized convulsion. In the kindling group, 4 of 12 cats developed focal amygdaloid seizures with secondary generalization by nearly the identical doses required in the control group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In the BASIS study, an improvement in 1 year survival of patients with asymptomatic complex ventricular arrhythmias with low-dose amiodarone was shown in comparison with an untreated control group. To assess whether this beneficial effect would last for a longer follow-up despite discontinuation of amiodarone therapy after one year, we assessed long-term survival and mode of death in the 91 survivors of the first year in the amiodarone treatment group and the 99 survivors in the control group by phone calls to private physicians, patients and hospitals. During a median follow-up of 72 (55-125) months, 184/193 patients (95%) could be reached. Causes of death during the follow-up were sudden (6 vs 14), non-sudden cardiac (8 vs 9), non cardiac (5 vs 9) and unknown (7 vs 6) in patients initially treated with amiodarone versus the control group respectively. The probability of death after 84 months was 30% in the amiodarone group and 45% in the control group, and was significantly lower in amiodarone treated patients with respect to all deaths (p = 0.024) as well as cardiac deaths (p = 0.027). This mortality reduction was only due to amiodarone treatment during the first year after the index infarction, whereas the survival curves did not differ significantly during the late follow-up. Thus, the risk of cardiac death is low after the first year after myocardial infarction and may not justify continued antiarrhythmic therapy in patients with initially complex asymptomatic ventricular arrhythmias.
To report a severe episode of pruritus and elevated serum transaminases in a patient who was receiving carvedilol.
A 40-year-old white man who had been taking carvedilol for the treatment of cardiomyopathy presented to the emergency department with pruritus over his entire body. Laboratory tests showed elevated serum transaminases. Carvedilol was discontinued and the patient received hydroxyzine hydrochloride to relieve symptoms. Liver function test results returned to normal in three weeks. Approximately one year later the patient was started on metoprolol and within 10 days again developed pruritus. The patient was told to discontinue the metoprolol immediately. At the time the metoprolol was stopped the liver function test results were normal.
To the best of our knowledge, the adverse reaction presented in this case report is rare. The etiology of this adverse reaction remains unknown but suggests a possible adverse reaction that may recur if the patient is switched to another beta-adrenergic blocker. The liver function test abnormalities appear to return to normal on discontinuation of carvedilol.
Carvedilol may cause pruritus and elevated liver function test results. This reaction may recur if the patient is changed to an alternative beta-adrenergic blocker. Patients taking carvedilol should be monitored for signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity. If elevated liver function test results are noted, carvedilol should be discontinued.
Both levosimendan and prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) have beneficial effects on hemodynamic parameters and outcome compared to dobutamine in decompensated chronic heart failure (CHF).
We compared short-term effects of levosimendan versus PGE1 on hemodynamic parameters and B-type natriuretic peptide levels (BNP) in patients with decompensated CHF.
73 patients (cardiac index < 2.5 L/min/m2, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCP) >15 mmHg) with decompensated CHF were randomised to treatment with either a 24 h-infusion of levosimendan (n=38) or a chronic infusion of PGE1 (n = 35). Hemodynamic parameters and BNP were measured at baseline, 24 and 48 h, BNP levels were also measured after 1 week. Baseline characteristics including concomitant medication were similar in both groups. Levosimendan and PGE1 increased cardiac output (CO) after 24 and 48 h. Levosimendan increased CO twice as much as PGE1 (24 h: Levosimendan +1.1 +/- 0.1 L/min, PGE1 +0.6 +/- 0.1 L/min, p < 0.001). Both drugs produced a comparable reduction in PCP and pulmonary artery pressure after 24 and 48 h. Levosimendan decreased BNP by 28% after 24 h and 22% after 48 h, but effects disappeared after 1 week. In contrast, PGE1 decreased BNP by 15% after 48 h (no change at 24 h), but a decrease of 20% was sustained at 1 week.
The differential beneficial effects of levosimendan (greater increase in CO) and PGE1 (sustained decrease in BNP) may have a potential impact on clinical outcome.
Clinical reports document that depression as a side effect is more prevalent in hepatic patients given interferon (IFN)-alpha therapy than in those given lamivudine. The mechanisms, however, are poorly understood. Serotonin transporter (5-HTT), via uptake of serotonin (5-HT) into presynaptic serotoninergic neurons, is an initial action site for antidepressants. Real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to quantify 5-HTT mRNA expression in immune cells in order to evaluate whether 5-HTT acted as an indicator of depression. Results showed that the 5-HTT mRNA expression was much higher in T-cell and B-cell lines than that in a monocytic cell line. Treatment with either lamivudine or ribavirin reduced the 5-HTT mRNA expression, protein level and 5-HT uptake in T-cell line. Treatment with IFN-alpha, however, increased those levels in the same group. A similar effect was observed in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC). Mimicking clinical use by treating PBMC with a combination of IFN-alpha and ribavirin increased the 5-HTT mRNA expression level. Our study indicates that these therapeutic drugs regulate 5-HTT expression, which implies that 5-HTT might be a trait marker in IFN-alpha-induced depression after hepatic therapy.
Convulsant activity of pazufloxacin mesilate (PZFX mesilate), a new quinolone antibacterial agent for intravenous use, in combination with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) was investigated in mice after intravenous or intracerebroventricular administration. Following results were obtained. 1. In combination with 4-biphenylacetic acid (BPAA) at an oral dose of 100 mg/kg, PZFX mesilate did not induce any convulsions at intravenous doses up to 200 mg/kg. Reference quinolones induced convulsions at the following intravenous doses: Enoxacin (ENX), 3.13 mg/kg or more; norfloxacin (NFLX) and lomefloxacin (LFLX), 6.25 mg/kg or more; ciprofloxacin (CPFX), 50 mg/kg or more; sparfloxacin (SPFX) and temafloxacin (TMFX), 100 mg/kg or more; fleroxacin (FLRX), 200 mg/kg. 2. PZFX mesilate at an intravenous dose of 50 mg/kg did not induce convulsions in mice after oral administration of any of 14 kinds of NSAIDs. It induced convulsions at 200 mg/kg in combination with aspirin at an oral dose of 600 mg/kg, while it did not with the other 13 kinds of NSAIDs. 3. Convulsion-inducing dose of PZFX mesilate after intracerebroventricular administration was 100 mg/body, which was higher than those of reference quinolones (NFLX, CPFX, ENX, LFLX, TMFX, levofloxacin, ofloxacin, FLRX and SPFX) and beta-lactam antibiotics (penicillin G, cefazoline, imipenem/cilastatin and panipenem/betamipron). In addition, concurrent dosing of BPAA (1 microgram/body) did not reduce the convulsion-inducing dose of PZFX mesilate. These results suggest that PZFX mesilate has remarkably weak convulsant activity.
This study examined the influence of premedication with morphine or diazepam on the dose of eltanolone, a steroidal intravenous anaesthetic agent, required to induce anaesthesia.
Two hundred and sixteen patients, aged 18 to 65 years, were randomly assigned to receive premedication with diazepam 10 mg orally, morphine 10 mg intramuscularly, or placebo. The double-dummy technique was used to maintain blinding. Eltanolone 0.16-0.75 mg x kg(-1) was given intravenously over 20 s. At the commencement of injection patients were instructed to begin counting; if the patient ceased counting within 120 s and failed to respond to commands to continue, anaesthesia was considered to have been induced. The dose required to anaesthetise 50% of patients (ED50) was determined by logistic regression.
The ED50 (95% confidence interval) of eltanolone in patients who received placebo premedication was 0.31 (0.27-0.34) mg x kg(-1). It was reduced slightly and nonsignificantly by premedication with diazepam, to 0.27 (0.24-0.30) mg x kg(-1), or morphine, to 0.26 (0.23-0.29) mg x kg(-1). Involuntary movement occurred in 65% of placebo premedicated patients. Its incidence was not significantly reduced by diazepam (57%), but was significantly (P<0.001) reduced by morphine (37%). Morphine premedication was, however, associated with a significant (P<0.01) increase in the incidence of apnoea (21%) compared to placebo premedicated patients (4%).
Premedication with diazepam or morphine had little influence on the dose of eltanolone required to induce anaesthesia.
Vincristine, a microtubule-depolymerizing agent, is known to induce neuronal cell damage. Biochemical, histological and behavioral alterations were investigated after intracerebroventricular injection of vincristine in mice. Intracerebroventricular injection of vincristine caused caspase-3-like protease activation followed by nucleosomal release in the cerebellum. Histological examinations showed that vincristine-induced damage was relatively specific to granule cells in the cerebellum, and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick-end labeling-positive cells were observed among these cells. Chromatin condensation, one of the criteria for apoptosis, was seen on electron microscopy. Behavioral changes, namely head movements, pivoting and backward walking, were observed in parallel with the increase of caspase-3-like protease activity and nucleosomal release. Furthermore, motor function tests (bulb balance test and rotating rod test) showed deficits of motor coordination ability. These observations suggest that intracerebroventricular vincristine causes massive apoptosis of cerebellar granule cells accompanied with caspase-3-like protease activation, leading to motor dysfunction, in this model. These vincristine-treated mice should be a useful in vivo model for examination of neuronal apoptosis, which might be involved in a variety of neurodegenerative diseases.
We describe a 43-year-old woman with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), who developed severe infectious mononucleosis (IM)-like syndrome during treatment with salazosulfapyridine (SASP). She presented with fever, skin rash, lymphadenopathy, and hepatosplenomegaly. Laboratory tests revealed a marked increase of atypical lymphocytes in the peripheral blood and biphasic hepatic dysfunction. IM-like syndrome can be caused by various drugs, including SASP, and the concept of drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome has been proposed recently. IM-like syndrome due to SASP has been reported in patients taking higher dosages for the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease, but has not been reported earlier in patients with RA. The results of the drug-induced lymphocyte stimulation test tests suggested that 5-aminosalicylic acid was a possible causative metabolite. This severe type of drug-induced hypersensitivity reaction mimicking IM due to SASP should be granted wider awareness in the field of rheumatology, because the drug is widely used for the treatment of RA.
The purpose of this study was to examine in vivo the activity of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2A6, an enzyme capable of activating carcinogens, including N-nitrosodimethylamine, in humans with the carcinogenic liver fluke infection, opisthorchiasis viverrini, before and after treatment with the antiparasitic agent, praziquantel. Coumarin hydroxylase activity of CYP 2A6 was assessed by administering a probe drug, coumarin, and measuring its metabolite, 7-hydroxycoumarin, in urines collected between 0-2 h and 2-4 h of 106 people with varying intensities of Opisthorchis viverrini infection. Five individuals who did not excrete any detectable 7-hydroxy coumarin (and have a genetic defect probably leading to an absence of catalytic activity of the CYP 2A6 protein) were excluded from analysis. Infected people excreted an average of 22.7 mumol of 7-hydroxycoumarin in the first 2 h after taking the drug, whereas the mean of the uninfected group was 19.4 mumol; this difference did not reach statistical significance (P = 0.10). However, a highly significant increase in CYP 2A6-related activity was observed in infected individuals who also had radiological evidence of biliary fibrosis (28.1 mumol) compared to those without (19.4 mumol; P = 0.01). Reassessments of coumarin hydroxylase activity of CYP 2A6 made 2 months after praziquantel treatment showed highly significant reductions in the amount of 7-hydroxycoumarin excreted among the infected groups but no difference in the uninfected group. These results suggest that expression of CYP 2A6 is induced among chronically infected people who also have fibrosis of the intrahepatic bile duct. As already demonstrated in an animal model and now observed in humans for the first time, this increase in CYP 2A6-related enzyme activity may represent an important mechanistic link between inflammatory products of chronic liver fluke infection (e.g., DNA alkylation damage from endogenously formed N-nitrosamines) and the high risk of cholangiocarcinoma faced by infected individuals.
