Reports of severe adverse reactions following the ingestion of single (75 mg) or double doses of the sympathomimetic drug phenylpropanolamine (PPA), with and without caffeine, prompted us to undertake a study of the effects of five drug preparations (75 mg PPA, 150 mg PPA, 75 mg PPA plus 400 mg caffeine, 400 mg caffeine, and placebo) in 16 resting, normotensive subjects. The study was of a double-blind, randomized, crossover design. Each subject consented to take the five drug preparations on different study days, which were separated by at least 48 hours.
Compared with blood pressure (BP) values obtained after placebo ingestion, significant BP increases occurred over several hours following 150 mg PPA and after 75 mg PPA plus 400 mg caffeine. Significant BP increases after ingestion of 75 mg PPA and after 400 mg caffeine were less frequent. The mean peak BP following 150 mg PPA was 173 +/- 9/103 +/- 4 mm Hg, compared with 148 +/- 4/97 +/- 3 mm Hg after the other three active preparations; after placebo, peak BP reached 137 +/- 8/85 +/- 5 mm Hg.
These results indicate that 150 mg PPA (the amount in two diet aids) substantially elevates BP. Our findings may explain some of the recent case reports of nontraumatic intracranial hemorrhage in young, healthy persons ingesting PPA at recommended or minimally greater dosages. We suggest physicians inform patients who are likely consumers of PPA (i.e., those with allergies, those with eating disorders, overweight persons, women during the postpartum period) and patients at risk for stroke (i.e., the elderly and hypertensive patients) of the risks of taking more than the recommended amounts of PPA and of combining caffeine with PPA.
This report examines whether in the Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial death and cardiac arrest from encainide, flecainide and moricizine during the titration phase and from encainide and flecainide during the follow-up phase were related to presence (Q-wave acute myocardial infarction [Q-AMI]) or absence (non-Q-AMI) of pathologic Q waves. In all, 2,371 patients (70% with Q-AMI, 26% with non-Q-AMI, and 4% unknown) entered the titration phase, starting 117 +/- 163 days after index AMI and lasting for an average of 21 days. For the titration phase, no significant differences existed between Q-AMI and non-Q-AMI patients for death and cardiac arrest rate, ventricular premature complex suppression rate, and nonrandomization rate. A total of 1,498 patients entered the follow-up phase of an average of 10 months (starting 129 +/- 158 days after the index AMI), and were randomized to encainide or flecainide, or their matching placebos. In the placebo group, non-Q-AMI patients had a significantly lower rate of death and cardiac arrest than Q-AMI patients (1.0 and 4.6%, respectively; p = 0.04). Encainide and flecainide significantly elevated death and cardiac arrest rate in both non-Q-AMI patients (8.7%, p less than 0.01) and Q-AMI patients (7.8%, p = 0.04). The relative risk for encainide or flecainide over placebo in the non-Q-AMI patients was 8.7, which was significantly higher than 1.7 observed for the Q-AMI patients (p = 0.03). None of the baseline characteristics had any significant interaction with encainide or flecainide.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Caffeine is a popular stimulant often used to counter the effects of sleep loss and fatigue. Withdrawal from caffeine may produce mild declines in simple cognitive capacities such as attention and concentration, but it is unclear whether more complex cognitive functions, such as abstract reasoning or concept formation, may be similarly affected. To assess the effect of acute caffeine withdrawal on executive functioning during sleep deprivation, 26 healthy volunteers were administered in double-blind form either repeated doses of caffeine or placebo over two nights of continuous wakefulness. The 108-item Short Category Test was administered after 56 hr. of total sleep deprivation (9 hr. post-caffeine administration). The caffeine group scored significantly more poorly, making approximately 57% more errors on the test than the placebo group. These findings suggest that acute caffeine withdrawal during prolonged sleep deprivation has an adverse effect on abstract reasoning and concept formation.
We compared the myocardial lesions caused by the long-term inhibition of nitric oxide (NO) biosynthesis with those associated with renovascular hypertension (two-kidney, one-clip model [2K-1C]) and superimposed streptozotocin-induced diabetes mellitus (DM).
Prospective trial.
University laboratory.
Male Wistar rats were classified into the following groups: (1) a control group; (2) the L-NAME group (treatment with the NO synthase inhibitor N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester [L-NAME], 75 micro mol per rat per day, orally); (3) the 2K-1C group (renovascular hypertension); (4) the DM group (treatment with streptozotocin, 60 mg/kg via intraperitoneal route); and (5) the 2K-1C plus DM group (renovascular hypertension and streptozotocin-induced DM). Arterial BP was measured by a tail-cuff method for 3 weeks, after which histologic and stereological analysis of the heart was done and cardiac NO synthase type 3 (NOS3) levels were assessed by Western blotting. The circulating levels of nitrates/nitrites and thromboxane B(2) (TXB(2), the stable metabolite of thromboxane A(2)) were also measured.
In DM and 2K-1C rats, the myocardial lesions consisted mainly of recent myocardial infarcts, which were more severe in the 2K-1C plus DM group. In L-NAME-treated rats, multiple foci of reparative fibrosis and fresh myocardial necrosis resembled the severe lesions found in the 2K-1C plus DM group. Although NOS3 protein expression increased (19 to 44%; p < 0.05) in all treated groups, serum nitrate/nitrite levels decreased only in the L-NAME group and the 2K-1C plus DM group. These two groups also showed a more pronounced increase in TXB(2) concentrations.
These results indicate that the association of hypertension and DM mimics the alterations induced by L-NAME in rats, which suggests a role for NO in the pathophysiology of hypertensive-diabetic cardiomyopathy.
Benign recurrent intrahepatic cholestasis (BRIC) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by bouts of cholestasis that resolve spontaneously without leaving considerable liver damage. Most of BRIC patients have mutations in ATP8B1 gene coding FIC1 protein. It has been suggested that an imbalance between the gut absorption of bile acids and the liver excretion possibly causes the development of cholestasis. We encountered a Japanese woman patient with familial intrahepatic cholestasis type 1 (FIC1) deficiency manifesting BRIC, in whom a rapid and gross elevation of serum total bile acid (TBA) level preceded that of serum total bilirubin level. Interestingly, the early administration of colestimide prevented the development of hyperbilirubinemia along with the additional elevation of serum TBA level. This case suggests that FIC1 deficiency causes an imbalance between the gut absorption of bile acids and the liver excretion leading to cholestasis, and raised the possibility that colestimide may be used as an optional treatment for BRIC.
To determine whether severity of obsessive-compulsive symptoms (OCS) differs during treatment with olanzapine or risperidone and to establish whether duration of antipsychotic treatment is related to severity of OCS.
We conducted a prospective study of consecutively hospitalized young patients (mean age = 22.4 years) with DSM-IV schizophrenia or related disorders (N = 113) who were treated with olanzapine or risperidone. Olanzapine or risperidone was randomly prescribed for patients who were drug-naive or were treated with typical antipsychotics before admission (N = 36). Patients who had started olanzapine (N = 39) or risperidone treatment (N = 23) prior to admission continued with that medication if they showed initial clinical response. Patients who prior to admission started olanzapine (N = 6) or risperidone (N = 9) but showed no response or suffered from adverse effects switched at admission to risperidone or olanzapine, respectively. Medical records, parents, and patients revealed information on duration of treatment and compliance with olanzapine or risperidone prior to admission. The Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (YBOCS) was administered at admission and 6 weeks thereafter.
At baseline and 6-week assessments, OCS were found in about 30% of 106 evaluable cases and 15% met DSM-IV criteria for obsessive-compulsive disorder. No differences in OCS were found in the patients randomly assigned to olanzapine or risperidone. The 35 subjects treated with olanzapine at both assessments had significantly (p = .01) more severe OCS at week 6 than the 20 subjects treated with risperidone at both assessments. Duration of treatment with olanzapine was significantly (p < .01) related to severity of OCS.
There are no differences in the short-term propensity of olanzapine or risperidone to induce or exacerbate OCS. However, severity of OCS was associated with duration of treatment with olanzapine.
Urinary incontinence may occur in patients with severe mental illness. Psychosis and neuroleptic medication have both been implicated, but there has been a lack of systematic evaluation of the precise relationship between these phenomena. Incontinence has been recognized as a complication of clozapine treatment and we examined this in 16 consecutively treated patients. Thirteen were established on therapeutic doses, one of whom was excluded from further study due to pre-existing incontinence. Retrospective assessment revealed that nocturnal incontinence was experienced by five of the remaining 12 patients, occurring in the first 3 months of treatment and resolving spontaneously in all cases. Incontinence was documented in the case notes in only one of the five cases and there was a tendency for affected patients to be embarrassed and reluctant to report it to staff. Specific enquiry may be necessary to elicit this phenomenon and incontinence should be considered as a possible factor in poor compliance with clozapine.
Chronic hepatitis C virus is a major worldwide cause of hepatitis, cirrhosis, end-stage liver disease, and hepatocellular carcinomas. Combination therapy of ribavirin with short- or long-acting interferon-alpha is now the standard treatment of chronic hepatitis C. This therapy is associated with a wide range of side effects. Although hemolysis is almost an invariable result of ribavirin, black urine due to hemoglobinuria has never been previously reported. We recently encountered two cases of black urine (hemoglobinuria) in patients treated with combination therapy. Based on reports of dark urine in many of our patients, we suggest that this phenomenon may be more common than is currently appreciated. It indicates a marked degree of hemolysis, which prompts immediate measurement of hemoglobin level.
Central histaminergic modulation of H1 rather than H2-receptors has been shown to modify epileptic activity. Compounds acting on the HIC- and H3-receptors were tested against chemically-induced seizures in mice. Compounds antagonising the microsomal and nuclear intracellular receptors (HIC) only modified seizures at doses where toxicity was observed. Antagonists of the histamine H3-receptor (thioperamide and burimamide) only potentiated the severity of clonic convulsions induced by picrotoxin, while impromidine (i.c.v.), an antagonist with H2-agonist activity, inhibited leptazol-induced seizures. The H3-agonist, (R)alpha-methylhistamine, potentiated chemically-induced seizures, but at lower doses there was slight inhibition.
Eleven patients with acute non-lymphocytic leukemia and persistent leukemia on a bone marrow done 6 days after the start of standard induction chemotherapy with daunorubicin and cytosine arabinoside were given augmentation chemotherapy with carboplatin as a continuous intravenous infusion over 3 days. Nine of the 11 patients (82%) entered complete remission. The hematologic and non-hematologic toxicities encountered by these patients were similar to those seen after conventional therapy alone with the exception of peripheral neuropathy in one patient. Of the two induction failures, one patient died of treatment-related toxicity and one patient had resistant leukemia.
Elevated fatty acid levels have been thought to contribute to insulin resistance. Repression of the glucose transporter 4 (GLUT4) gene as well as impaired GLUT4 translocation may be a mediator for fatty acid-induced insulin resistance. This study was initiated to determine whether palmitate treatment repressed GLUT4 expression, whether glucose/fatty acid metabolism influenced palmitate-induced GLUT4 gene repression (PIGR), and whether attempts to prevent PIGR restored palmitate-induced impairment of glucose uptake (PIIGU) in C2 myotubes. Not only stimulators of fatty acid oxidation, such as bezafibrate, AICAR, and TOFA, but also TCA cycle substrates, such as pyruvate, leucine/glutamine, and α-ketoisocaproate/monomethyl succinate, significantly prevented PIGR. In particular, supplementing with pyruvate through methyl pyruvate resulted in nearly complete prevention of PIIGU, whereas palmitate treatment reduced the intracellular pyruvate level. These results suggest that pyruvate depletion plays a critical role in PIGR and PIIGU; thus, pyruvate supplementation may help prevent obesity-induced insulin resistance in muscle cells.
To examine the effect of celecoxib on tumor growth and angiogenesis in an orthotopic implantation tumor model of colon cancer.
Human colorectal adenocarcinoma HT-29 cells were implanted subcutaneously in nude mice. Four groups of animals received different doses of celecoxib after tumor implantation. After 42 days, all animals were evaluated for changes in body weight, the volume and weight of colorectal tumors, and tumor growth inhibition. The content of prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) in the tumor tissue homogenate was estimated by radioimmunoassay (RIA). Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and CD34 expression in tumor tissue was assessed by immunohistochemistry, and the microvessel density (MVD) of tumor tissue was determined. Apoptosis of the tumor cells was detected by the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL). The expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) mRNA and matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) mRNA extracted from the tumor tissue was analyzed by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
There was no statistically significant change in the animals' body weight between the treatment groups. However, with increasing doses of celecoxib, the volume and weight of the tumor decreased. The rates of tumor growth inhibition for the L (low), M (medium) and H (high) groups were 25.30%, 38.80%, and 76.92%, respectively, which were significant compared to the C (control) group. There were significant differences in COX-2 expression in the tumor tissue between all groups, except between the L and M groups. Celecoxib exposure also reduced PGE2 levels in the tumor tissue homogenates. The level of PGE(2) correlated to the weight of tumor (r=0.8814, P < 0.05) and to COX-2 expression (r=0.8249, Puse < 0.05). Compared to the control group, the tumor cells from celecoxib-treated mice had a significantly higher apoptotic index. Celecoxib also decreased CD34(+) expression in tumors from treated mice. There were significant differences in the MVD between all groups except between groups H and M. Celecoxib significantly reduced the expression of VEGF and MMP-2 mRNA in the group H but not in L and M groups. The MVD in tumor tissue was closely related to the PGE2 levels, as well as the expression of VEGF and MMP-2 mRNA (r = 0.9006, r = 0.8573 and r = 0.6427, respectively; P < 0.05).
By inhibiting COX-2, PGE(2) synthesis, and VEGF and MMP-2 mRNA expression in tumor tissue, celecoxib enhances tumor cell apoptosis, thereby inhibiting the growth and angiogenesis of orthotopically implanted tumors in a mouse model of human colorectal cancer.
Hepatocytic neoplasms (nodules and carcinomas) and islands of cellular alteration which display abnormal retention of glycogen on fasting were quantified in F344 male rats at intervals after initiation of hepatocarcinogenesis by the combination of a two-thirds partial hepatectomy with a single treatment with methyl(acetoxymethyl)-nitrosamine during the subsequent peak of DNA synthesis in regenerating livers. In initiated rats fed the liver tumor promoter phenobarbital, yields of neoplasms and islands maintained a constant numerical relationship over time, with one neoplasm emerging for every 1600 islands. Significantly fewer neoplasms developed in rats not fed the phenobarbital, although the numbers of islands observed at 45 and 60 weeks after initiation were not significantly increased by the promoter. The ratio of islands to neoplasms in rats not fed the phenobarbital was about 11,000:1. Dietary phenobarbital appeared to have an effect on initiated hepatocytes (or latent neoplasms) that was not revealed by its effects on the growth and size of the island population.
A series of chalcone derivatives from 3,4-methylenedioxybenzaldehyde and substituted acetophenones have been synthesized and investigated as antihyperglycemic agents in a glucose loaded animal model. Chalcones with biological activity were compared with lispro, regular insulin and tolbutamide effects on serum glucose levels. Compound 01, without substituent in the A-ring was not able to change glycemic levels. On the other hand, compounds 03, 04, 05, 09 and 10 with substitutions at position 3' and/or 4' in the A-ring caused significant reduction in serum glucose levels. Concerning the antihyperglycemic effect, compounds 03 and 05 (methoxy substituent) inhibited the hyperglycemia induced by glucose around 96% similar to that demonstrated for lispro insulin and tolbutamide at 60 min. A rapid and lasting antihyperglycemic effect was found with compound 09 and 10 (nitro substituent). In conclusion, besides the nature of the functional groups electron-donor substituent, as methoxy and hydroxyl or electron-acceptor, as nitro groups, the position of the group may be mandatory for biological activity.
Fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis (FCH) is a peculiar variant of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection in immunocompromised patients characterized by rapid viral replication. Posttransplant patients receiving lamivudine for prophylaxis or treatment of HBV infection may develop drug resistance due to viral mutants, but FCH is rare because escape mutants are usually replication deficient. We report the development of FCH due to lamivudine-resistant HBV mutants in 2 patients at 12 and 13 months after liver transplantation. Rapidly progressive graft failure, accompanied by an escalating HBV DNA level, developed within weeks of onset. Analysis of gene sequence variation by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and direct sequencing showed that both had a core promoter variant A1762T/G1764A and 1 had a concomitant precore stop codon G1896A variant in prelamivudine and postrecurrence serum samples. Comparison of the HBV polymerase gene in the 2 serum samples revealed a single mutation with methionine-to-isoleucine substitution at codon 552 (M552I) in both patients. "Add-in" treatment with adefovir dipivoxil resulted in a more than 2 to 3log10 reduction in HBV DNA level within 2 weeks and retransplantation was performed with adefovir dipivoxil and hepatitis B immunoglobulin (HBIG) prophylaxis. Both patients were alive at 15 months and 48 months after retransplantation, with normal graft function and serum negative for HBsAg and HBV DNA by quantitative PCR (< 200 copies/mL). The current report demonstrates that recurrent graft infection by precore/core promoter variant with lamivudine-resistant escape mutation may result in FCH. With combination of adefovir and high-dose HBIG, however, long-term survival can be achieved after retransplantation.
The present study was aimed at estimate, based on the rat model of human moderate and relatively high chronic exposure to cadmium (Cd), whether zinc (Zn) supplementation may prevent Cd-induced weakening in the bone biomechanical properties. For this purpose, male Wistar rats were administered Cd (5 or 50 mg/l) or/and Zn (30 or 60 mg/l) in drinking water for 6 and 12 months. Bone mineral density (BMD) and biomechanical properties (yield load, ultimate load, post-yield load, displacement at yield and at ultimate, stiffness, work to fracture, yield stress, ultimate stress and Young modulus of elasticity) of the femoral distal end and femoral diaphysis were examined. Biomechanical properties of the distal femur were estimated in a compression test, whereas those of the femoral diaphysis -- in a three-point bending test. Exposure to Cd, in a dose and duration dependent manner, decreased the BMD and weakened the biomechanical properties of the femur at its distal end and diaphysis. Zn supplementation during Cd exposure partly, but importantly, prevented the weakening in the bone biomechanical properties. The favorable Zn influence seemed to result from an independent action of this bioelement and its interaction with Cd. However, Zn supply at the exposure to Cd had no statistically significant influence on the BMD at the distal end and diaphysis of the femur. The results of the present paper suggest that Zn supplementation during exposure to Cd may have a protective influence on the bone tissue biomechanical properties, and in this way it can, at least partly, decrease the risk of bone fractures. The findings seem to indicate that enhanced dietary Zn intake may be beneficial for the skeleton in subjects chronically exposed to Cd.
Biodegradable nanoparticles are being considered more often as drug carriers to address pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic issues, yet nano-product safety has not been systematically proven. In this study, haematological, biochemical and histological parameters were examined on 28 day daily dosing of rats with nano- or micro-particle encapsulated cyclosporine (CsA) to confirm if any changes observed were drug or carrier dependent. CsA encapsulated poly(lactide-co-glycolide) [PLGA] nano- (nCsA) and micro-particles (mCsA) were prepared by emulsion techniques. CsA (15, 30, 45 mg/kg) were administered by oral gavage to Sprague Dawley (SD) rats over 28 days. Haematological and biochemical metrics were followed with tissue histology performed on sacrifice. Whether presented as nCsA or mCsA, 45 mg/kg dose caused significant loss of body weight and lowered food consumption compared to untreated control. Across the doses, both nCsA and mCsA produce significant decreases in lymphocyte numbers compared to controls, commensurate with the proprietary product, Neoral(®) 15. Dosing with nCsA showed higher serum drug levels than mCsA presumably owing to the smaller particle size facilitating absorption. The treatment had no noticeable effects on inflammatory/oxidative stress markers or antioxidant enzyme levels, except an increase in ceruloplasmin (CP) levels for high dose nCsA/mCsA group. Further, only subtle, sub-lethal changes were observed in histology of nCsA/mCsA treated rat organs. Blank (drug-free) particles did not induce changes in the parameters studied. Therefore, it is extremely important that the encapsulated drug in the nano-products is considered when safety of the overall product is assessed rather than relying on just the particle size. This study has addressed some concerns surrounding particulate drug delivery, demonstrating safe delivery of CsA whilst achieving augmented serum concentrations.
Acral erythema after high-dose cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C) has been described as a painful, sharply demarcated, and intense erythema of the palms and soles. This phenomenon occurred and is described in three out of three allogeneic bone marrow transplant (BMT) recipients who received high-dose Ara-C and total-body irradiation for conditioning therapy via the same protocol. These patients also received cyclosporine and methotrexate as prophylaxis for acute graft-versus-host disease. Two of the three patients experienced an increase in the pain associated with acral erythema during cyclosporine infusions and required large doses of narcotic analgesics. Since alcohol intensifies the pain of stomatitis and cyclosporine is manufactured in an alcohol base, the high alcohol content is suspect as the causative factor for this adverse reaction/drug interaction.
We present a masquerade syndrome recently described following uneventful laser in situ keratomileusis (LASIK). If misdiagnosed or left unattended, this condition can lead to severe visual loss.
Findings concerning ten patients who underwent uneventful myopic LASIK, but who presented with a granular haze in the interface in the early postoperative period, are described. Initially, some of the patients were treated for diffuse lamellar keratitis with an intensive course of topical steroids, but, rather than improving, the haziness of the interface worsened or remained the same, and was even accompanied by the development of epithelial edema.
Tonometry led to the diagnosis of ocular hypertension induced by the steroid therapy. The clinical picture resolved completely with topical hypotensive treatment and with the cessation of steroid treatment.
In the early postoperative period following LASIK an atypical presentation of ocular hypertension can occasionally be observed. A high index of suspicion of this diagnosis must be maintained due to the inaccuracy of tonometry after LASIK and the similarity of this clinical picture with diffuse lamellar keratitis. These cases emphasize the importance of taking into account underestimation of the intraocular pressure after myopic LASIK.
We report the case of a 35-year-old patient who presented with acute adrenal insufficiency, then developed fever, hypoalbuminuria, anasarca, thrombocytopaenia and anaemia. Lymphadenopathy appeared later with microscopic features typical of Castleman's disease. Clinical remission followed treatment with intravenous immunoglobulin. Circulating interleukin-6 levels were elevated initially but were normal after immunoglobulin therapy. We surmise that high circulating levels of interleukin-6 (and ACTH) may have induced haemorrhagic necrosis of the adrenal glands and accounted for the constitutional symptoms.
Chronic consumption of ethanol causes morphological and physiological changes in the reproductive system of mammals. Vitamin C has an antioxidant role in organisms by neutralizing the ROS (reactive oxygen species) produced by oxidizing agents and this vitamin has an important function in the male reproductive system. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether vitamin C could prevent or attenuate the alterations in the male reproductive system caused by ethanol consumption. To test this hypothesis, male rats were divided into three experimental groups and treated by gavage for 63 days. The ethanol (E) and ethanol+vitamin C (EC) groups received 2 g/kg of ethanol (25%v/v) daily. In addition to ethanol, the EC group received vitamin C at a dose of 100 mg/day, diluted in water. The control group (C) received only the vehicle. On the 64th experimental day, the animals were anesthetized and euthanized, and blood was collected for plasmatic hormonal analysis. The testis, epididymis, vas deferens, and seminal vesicles were removed and weighed. Sperm from the vas deferens was submitted to morphological and motility analysis. The testis and epididymis were used for oxidative stress and histopathological analysis, sperm count, morphometric analysis of the testis, and stereological analysis of the epididymis. The results showed that vitamin C has a protective effect in the testes of adult male rats, entirely normalizing the parameters of sperm count, spermatogenesis kinetics, lipid peroxidation levels, and sperm motility, as well as partially normalizing the histopathological damage in the testis, epididymis, and sperm morphology. Thus, we concluded that lipid peroxidation is a major mechanism by which ethanol affects the testes and sperm, whereas no plasmatic testosterone alterations were found.
Inbred mice vary in their susceptibility to develop macroscopic, chemically-induced, pulmonary neoplasias. It is not known, however, whether microscopic lesions appear in resistant strains but do not grow or if no early lesions arise at all. We show herein that resistant C57BL/6J (B6) and intermediately resistant BALB/cByJ (BALB) mice form very few urethane-induced early microadenomas (i.e. adenomas larger than hyperplasic foci, but detectable only by light microscopy). Additionally, while all urethane-induced microadenomas in sensitive A/J mice gave rise to adenomas, most microscopic tumors induced in BALB mice by 2-stage, 3-methylcholanthrene/butylated hydroxytoluene carcinogenesis spontaneously regressed. The formation of microscopic lesions is thus genetically dependent, but whether they continue to grow or regress depends on how they were induced.
The aim of the present study was to assess the contribution of the level of expression of heat shock protein 25 (HSP25), 60 (HSP60), 70 (HSC70) and 70i (HSP70i) in mouse livers after a lethal dose of acetaminophen (APAP) to their survival. We examined changes in survival ratio, plasma APAP level and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) activity, and hepatic reduced glutathione (GSH), HSP25, HSP60, HSC70 and HSP70i levels following treatment of mice with APAP (500 mg/kg, p.o.). The plasma APAP level increased rapidly, and reached a maximum 0.5 h after APAP treatment. Hepatic GSH decreased rapidly, and was almost completely depleted 1 h after APAP treatment. Plasma ALT activity, an index of liver injury, significantly increased from 3 h onwards after APAP treatment. The survival ratios 9 h, 24 h and 48 h after APAP treatment were 96%, 38% and 36%, respectively. We found a remarkable difference in the patterns of hepatic HSP25 and HSP70i induction in mice that survived after APAP treatment. HSP70i levels increased from 1 h onwards after APAP treatment in a time-dependent manner, and reached a maximum at 9 h. In contrast, HSP25 could be detected just 24 h after APAP treatment, and maximal accumulation was observed at 48 h. Other HSPs examined were unchanged. Notably, the survival ratio dropped by only 2% after HSP25 expression. Recently, a novel role for HSP25 as an anti-inflammatory factor was suggested. We have already shown that 48-h treatment with APAP induces severe centrilobular necrosis with inflammatory cell infiltration in mouse livers. Taken together, the level of expression of hepatic HSP25 may be a crucial determinant of the fate of mice exposed to APAP insult.
Ultrastructural changes in the podocytes were studied during the development of, and recovery from, acute puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) nephrosis using high-resolution scanning electron microscopy (hrSEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). In the process of development of PAN nephrosis, four types of early structural changes were observed before total loss of foot processes: formation of cytoplasmic blebs, masking of filtration clefts, flattening of foot processes, and retraction of foot processes. The masking of filtration clefts visualized by hrSEM corresponded to the multiplication of slit diaphragms and adhesion of foot processes in the TEM findings, and preceded retraction of the foot processes. Changes of podocyte configuration were produced. Recovery from this change of podocyte configuration began as islands of podocyte interdigitation, and was proceeded by expansion of the islands. During recovery, the primary processes were re-established either by retraction or perforation of the thin cytoplasm after the formation of foot processes. We conclude that loss of foot processes begins with the masking of filtration clefts. Recovery from the change in podocyte configuration begins with the formation of new foot processes.
Neuropsychological deficits in the areas of learning, memory, attention, and abstraction abilities have been associated with cocaine dependence, especially during the period of early abstinence. Although cocaine users tend to be multidrug users, few studies have focused on the combined effect of alcohol and cocaine on neuropsychological functioning. Consistent with prior research, results from the current study indicated that cocaine-dependent subjects showed a significantly greater degree of neuropsychological impairment as compared to controls. In addition, cocaine-dependent subjects with a history of alcohol disorder showed less memory impairment but similar impairments in attention and overall neuropsychological functioning as cocaine subjects with no such history. The vasodilatation produced by alcohol may attenuate some of the vasoconstriction and neurotoxic effects of cocaine, accounting for the fewer deficits in this group.
Acute hemodynamic and hormonal responses to ramipril in comparison with captopril were studied in 10 patients with moderate to severe congestive heart failure in an open, randomized study. Both drugs were given to 5 patients each in 2 increasing doses on 2 successive days. After 5 mg of ramipril angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) activity was significantly decreased during 24 hours with a maximum decrease 4 hours after administration. Mean arterial blood pressure decreased from 84 +/- 5 to 62 +/- 5 mm Hg at 4 hours and 71 +/- 4 mm Hg at 12 hours, respectively, after this dose. Capillary wedge pressure decreased from 19 +/- 1 mm Hg to 13 +/- 1 mm Hg at 4 hours with a maximum increase in cardiac output from 3.8 +/- 0.3 liters/min to 4.4 +/- 0.3 liters/min at 2 hours. No significant cardiac effects were present 8 hours after administration. After 10 mg of ramipril, cardiac and hormonal effects showed a quicker onset of action and longer duration compared with the 5 mg dose. Mean arterial pressure decreased to 61 +/- 6 mm Hg. Similar effects were seen after captopril, but with a significantly shorter duration. Mean arterial pressure decreased from 82 +/- 4 mm Hg to 64 +/- 5 mm Hg after 12.5 mg and to 58 +/- 6 mm Hg after 25 mg of captopril. In patients with congestive heart failure ramipril has the hemodynamic profile of a long-acting and potent ACE inhibitor. Significant cardiac effects are present during 4 to 8 hours and ACE activity is still significantly inhibited 24 hours after a single dose of ramipril.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Our previous phase II study of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and cisplatin (FP) for treatment of advanced gastric cancer showed that strong immunoreactivity for vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is associated with chemoresponse. Patients with four or five of the favorable phenotypes, p53 (-), bcl-2 (-), gluthathione S-transferase pi (-), thymidylate synthase (-), and VEGF (+), survived longer than those with three or less of these phenotypes. The purpose of this study is to confirm our previous results and to compare the significance of those markers between continuous infusion of 5-FU (5-FUci) and FP.
Pretreatment biopsies from 131 of 210 advanced gastric cancer patients enrolled to JCOG9205 were analyzed immunohistochemically for the presence of the five markers.
Median survival times of patients treated with 5-FUci (n = 65) or FP (n = 66) were 216 and 253 days, respectively (P = 0.6953). After FP treatment, patients with four or five favorable phenotypes (n = 20) survived longer than those with three or less favorable phenotypes (n = 46) (334 days and 243 days, respectively; P = 0.0463), and the survival times of 34 and 32 patients with VEGF (-) and (+) were similar (269 days and 253 days, respectively; P = 0.6317). After 5-FUci, 30 patients with VEGF (+) survived for a shorter time than 35 patients with VEGF (-) (142 days and 302 days, respectively; P = 0.0043).
The number of favorable phenotypes is prognostic for gastric cancer patients treated with FP, and VEGF has a different impact on survival between treatment with 5-FUci and FP.
