A 52-year-old man who had sustained a cerebellar infarct was given the platelet inhibitor ticlopidine (2 x 250 mg/d) to prevent further thromboses. 28 days after starting the medication he complained of itchings, feeling unwell and diarrhoea. He had also noted darkened urine and faecal discoloration. Physical examination revealed marked jaundice and multiple scratch marks over the entire body.
The activities in serum of alkaline phosphatase (420 U/l) and of gamma-GT (470 U/l) were markedly elevated and total bilirubin concentration was maximally 26.4 mg/dl. Activities of GPT (197 U/l) and GOT (44 U/l) were slightly increased. No cause was found for any extra- or intrahepatic cholestasis with or without mechanical obstruction (e.g. viral or autoimmune hepatitis). A biopsy, which showed centro-acinar cholestasis also suggested drug-induced liver damage.
Despite discontinuing ticlopidine, the signs of cholestatic hepatitis had only disappeared 2 1/2 months after the onset of symptoms.
Changes in the blood picture, allergic skin reactions and gastrointestinal disorders are among the significant clinical side effects of ticlopidine. As this drug is increasingly being prescribed world-wide, the possibility of toxic liver damage should be taken into account.
The supposed role of cardiac sigma receptors is fine tuning of contractility. Sigma receptors affect several ionic channels and hence their signaling is reflected by the electrophysiological properties of the heart. Numerous ligands of sigma receptors are known to prolong the QT interval and therefore cause a variety of arrhythmias, including severe ones. The effects of the prototypical sigma ligand haloperidol have been studied extensively in humans as well as in various animal models, primarily after acute administration. We examined the incidence of arrhythmias, changes in heart rate, and prolongation of QT interval in isolated Langendorff-perfused rat and guinea pig hearts after they were exposed to nanomolar concentrations of haloperidol. Hearts from both untreated (acute) and pretreated (chronic) animals were investigated. While QT prolongation and arrhythmias due to haloperidol administration were observed in untreated rat and guinea pig hearts, arrhythmias were completely prevented in both species of chronically treated animals. In treated guinea pigs, the results were generally less convincing. Since the hearts were exposed to nanomolar concentration of haloperidol, we conclude that our data may be explained by desensitization of sigma receptors.
We sought to evaluate the effects of spironolactone on neurohumoral factors and left ventricular remodeling in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF).
Aldosterone (ALD) promotes collagen synthesis and structural remodeling of the heart. Spironolactone, an ALD receptor antagonist, is reported to reduce mortality in patients with CHF, but its influence on left ventricular remodeling has not been clarified.
Thirty-seven patients with mild-to-moderate nonischemic CHF were randomly divided into two groups that received treatment with spironolactone (n = 20) or placebo (n = 17). We measured left ventricular volume and mass before treatment and after four months of treatment. We also measured the plasma levels of neurohumoral factors, such as atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and brain natriuretic peptide (BNP), as well as plasma procollagen type III aminoterminal peptide (PIIINP), a marker of myocardial fibrosis.
Left ventricular volume and mass were significantly decreased and ejection fraction was significantly increased in the spironolactone group, while there were no changes in the placebo group. Plasma levels of ANP, BNP and PIIINP were significantly decreased after spironolactone treatment, but were unchanged in the placebo group. There was a significant positive correlation between the changes of PIIINP and changes of the left ventricular volume index (r = 0.45, p = 0.045) as well as the left ventricular mass index (r = 0.65, p = 0.0019) with spironolactone treatment.
These findings indicate that four months of treatment with spironolactone improved the left ventricular volume and mass, as well as decreased plasma level of BNP, a biochemical marker of prognosis and/or ventricular hypertrophy, suggesting that endogenous aldosterone has an important role in the process of left ventricular remodeling in nonischemic patients with CHF.
Pluronic block copolymer P85 (P85) sensitizes multidrug resistant (MDR) cancer cells resulting in the increase of cytotoxic activity of antineoplastic agents. This effect is attributed to the inhibition of the most clinically relevant drug efflux transporter, P-glycoprotein (Pgp), through the combined ATP depletion and inhibition of Pgp ATPase activity. The present study elucidates effects of an anticancer agent, doxorubicin (Dox), formulated with P85 on drug-induced apoptosis in MDR cancer cells. Early and late stages of apoptosis were detected by Annexin V and TUNEL methods, respectively. In parallel experiments, the expression of genes related to apoptosis, BCL2, BCLXL, BAX, P53, APAF1, Caspase 3, and Caspase 9, was determined by RT-PCR. The obtained data suggest that Dox/P85 formulation induces apoptosis in the resistant cancer cells more efficiently than free Dox. The treatment of the cells with Dox alone simultaneously activated a proapoptotic signal and an antiapoptotic cellular defense. Therefore, the apoptosis induction by Dox was substantially limited. In contrast, the treatment of the cells with Dox/P85 formulation significantly enhanced the proapoptotic activity of the drug and prevented the activation of the antiapoptotic cellular defense. This is likely to result in the stronger cytotoxic response of the resistant cells to the Dox/P85 formulation compared to the free drug.
Conditioned stimuli (CS) previously paired with drugs of abuse can elicit cravings in humans, relapse to drug use, and can also reinforce drug-seeking behavior in both humans and animals, events that are believed to be subserved in part by activation of the mesolimbic dopamine system. Converging anatomical, pharmacological, and behavioral evidence implicates dopamine D(3) receptors in the mechanisms underlying cue-controlled behaviors. The purpose of the present study was therefore to investigate the effects on cocaine-seeking behavior of a novel D(3) receptor antagonist, SB-277011-A, which is 100-fold more selective for D(3) over D(2) dopamine receptors. We have established previously that second-order schedules of reinforcement provide an animal model of cue-controlled drug-seeking both prior to and after cocaine has been self-administered. SB-277011-A dose-dependently decreased cocaine-seeking maintained by a cocaine-associated conditioned reinforcer in both the first, drug-free interval and also following self-administration of cocaine. At higher doses, SB-277011-A also increased the latency to receive the first CS presentation and cocaine infusion, thereby decreasing the number of cocaine infusions self-administered under the second-order schedule of reinforcement. SB-277011-A had no effect on cocaine intake under an FR-1 schedule of reinforcement, or on responding for sucrose under a second-order schedule of reinforcement, at any dose tested. These results therefore suggest that D(3) dopamine receptors may be critically involved in cue-controlled drug-seeking behavior independently of any interaction with the reinforcing effects of cocaine itself, and may therefore provide a therapeutic target in the treatment of relapse to cocaine use induced by CSs.
A case of renal papillary necrosis is reported in a 55-year-old man with rheumatoid arthritis. He consumed 1.1 kg indomethacin and 5.5 kg phenylbutazone over the seven years prior to presentation.
Patients on nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs can develop curious intestinal fibrotic diaphragms.
Groups of rats received indomethacin mixed into a powdered diet at 3 mg.kg/day for 6 and 12 weeks and 6 mg.kg/day for up to 6 weeks. In an attempt to reproduce a human dosing regimen, another group of rats, for a total of 30 weeks, received consecutive periods of indomethacin at 3 mg.kg/day for 12 weeks, 4.5 mg.kg/day for 1 week, 6 mg.kg/day for 1 week, control diet for 6 weeks, 4.5 mg.kg/day for 2 weeks and finally, a control diet for a healing period of 8 weeks. Control rats received powdered diet alone. At termination, the small and large intestines were examined macroscopically and histologically.
Indomethacin caused microcytic anaemia, hypoalbuminaemia, small intestinal ulceration, caecal ulceration and inconspicuous raised mucosal lesions in the caecum that histologically showed submucosal fibrosis with disruption and thickening of the apical muscularis mucosae. No control rats showed any abnormality.
These fibrotic lesions of the rat caecum resemble human diaphragms and may arise from healed caecal ulcers.
To compare the frequency of adverse events after cardioangiography with iohexol and iodixanol in an unselected patient population with special regard to previously defined "risk patients": age> or =65 years, severe coronary artery disease, unstable angina pectoris and left ventricular dysfunction.
A total of 1020 patients referred to cardioangiography were included in this open, prospective cross-sectional study, comparing iodixanol (320 mgI/ml) and iohexol (350 mgI/ml). Adverse events were recorded and the patients answered a questionnaire.
Cardiac adverse events (CAE) i.e., angina pectoris, arrhythmia and dyspnea within 24 h of examination were reported by 9% of patients receiving iohexol and by 7% receiving iodixanol. Two cases of ventricular fibrillation occurred, both after iohexol. The proportion of CAE was 11% for patients> or =65 years receiving iohexol and 7% in younger patients. For patients receiving iodixanol the proportion was 7%, in both age groups. Patients with severe coronary disease had more CAE than less ill patients in both CM groups. The proportion of unstable patients with CAE was 18% in the iohexol group and 12% in the iodixanol group. Left ventricular dysfunction was not related to CAE.
Iodixanol could be advantageous in patients with unstable angina.
The development of kidney disease is influenced by both genetic and environmental factors. Searching for models of glomerulopathy that display strong gene-environment interaction, we examined the determinants of anthracycline-induced nephropathy, a classic, strain-dependent experimental model applied to rodents in the past four decades. We produced three crosses derived from mice with contrasting susceptibility to doxorubicin (DOX) nephropathy and, surprisingly, we found that this widely studied model segregates as a single-gene defect with recessive inheritance. By genome-wide analysis of linkage, we mapped the trait locus to chromosome 16A1-B1 (DOXNPH locus) in all three crosses [peak logarithm of odds (lod) score of 92.7, P = 1 x 10(-65)]; this interval represents a susceptibility locus for nephropathy. Gene expression analysis indicated that susceptibility alleles at the DOXNPH locus are associated with blunted expression of protein arginine methyltransferase 7 (Prmt7) on chromosome 8, a protein previously implicated in cellular sensitivity to chemotherapeutic agents (lod = 12.4, P = 0.0001). Therefore, Prmt7 expression serves as a molecular marker for susceptibility to DOX nephropathy. Finally, increased variation in the severity of kidney disease among affected mice motivated a second genome-wide search, identifying a locus on chromosome 9 that influences the severity and progression of nephropathy (DOXmod, peak lod score 4.3, P = 0.0018). These data provide genetic and molecular characterization of a previously unrecognized Mendelian trait. Elucidation of DOX nephropathy may simultaneously provide insight into the pathogenesis of renal failure and mechanisms of cytotoxicity induced by chemotherapeutic agents.
The effect of chronic theophylline administration on amphotericin B nephrotoxicity was investigated in rats. A 7-day treatment of amphotericin B (5 mg/kg/day i.p.) significantly reduced the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) measured as inuline clearance and creatinine clearance (0.74 +/- 0.29 and 0.16 +/- 0.04 ml/min, respectively) in comparison to vehicle-treated rats (2.04 +/- 0.23 and 1.29 +/- 0.19 ml/min, respectively). The reduced GFR led to evaluations in serum creatinine and BUN concentrations (0.94 +/- 0.09 and 78 +/- 11 mg/dl) in comparison to their own values before treatment (0.45 +/- 0.11 and 19 +/- 3 mg/dl). In addition amphotericin B induced an increase in sodium and a decrease in potassium excretion, the fractional sodium excretion was elevated 50-fold. The methylxanthine, theophylline, had a beneficial effect on the outcome of amphotericin-B-induced renal failure. The inuline clearance was 1.17 +/- 0.04 ml/min, the creatinine clearance 0.43 +/- 0.03 ml/min, the serum creatinine concentration 0.76 +/- 0.05 mg/dl and the BUN concentration 40 +/- 6 mg/dl. Theophylline had no effect on total sodium excretion and potassium excretion. The fractional sodium excretion, however, improved significantly. Theophylline as well as sodium deoxycholate, the detergent of amphotericin B, given alone had no effect on renal hemodynamics measured after 7 days.
The arylhydrocarbon receptor (AhR) was initially identified as a member of the adaptive metabolic and toxic response pathway to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and to halogenated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans. In the present study, we sought to determine the functional significance of the AhR pathway in pancreatic carcinogenesis. AhR expression was analysed by Northern blotting. The exact site of AhR expression was analysed by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. The effects of TCDD and four selective AhR agonists on pancreatic cancer cell lines were investigated by growth assays, apoptosis assays, and induction of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21. There was strong AhR mRNA expression in 14 out of 15 pancreatic cancer samples, weak expression in chronic pancreatitis tissues, and faint expression in all normal pancreata. In pancreatic cancer tissues, AhR mRNA and protein expression were localized in the cytoplasm of pancreatic cancer cells. TCDD and the four AhR agonists inhibited pancreatic cancer cell growth in a dose-dependent manner, and decreased anchorage-independent cell growth. DAPI staining did not reveal nuclear fragmentation and CYP1A1 and was not induced by TCDD and AhR agonists. In contrast, TCDD and AhR agonists induced the expression of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21. In conclusion, the relatively non-toxic AhR agonists caused growth inhibition in pancreatic cancer cells with high AhR expression levels via cell cycle arrest. In addition, almost all human pancreatic cancer tissues expressed this receptor at high levels, suggesting that these or related compounds may play a role in the therapy of pancreatic cancer in the future.
Intracellular reduced glutathione (GSH) antioxidant system is crucial for counteracting oxidative stress-induced liver injury. The present study was designed to observe the gender-dependent difference of GSH antioxidant system and its influence on hepatotoxic pyrrolizidine alkaloid (HPA) isoline-induced liver injury. Lower activities and protein expressions of glutamate-cysteine ligase (GCL) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) were found in male mice livers than in female. Isoline is a natural HPA, our further results showed that male mice demonstrated more higher serum ALT/AST levels, less GSH amounts, lower GCL and GPx activities and proteins induced by isoline as compared to female. N-acetyl-l-cysteine (NAC), which is the precursor of cellular GSH biosynthesis, ameliorated liver injury induced by isoline. l-Buthionine-(S, R)-sulfoximine (BSO) and mercaptosuccinic acid (MA), inhibitors of GCL and GPx, both augmented isoline-induced cytotoxicity in cultured mice hepatocytes. BSO and MA also increased other natural HPAs clivorine and senecionine-induced cytotoxicity. Taken together, our results demonstrated the higher GCL and GPx activities in female mice, which indicated their crucial roles in regulating the resistance of liver injury induced by hepatotoxins in female. Meanwhile, our results also revealed the female-resistant liver injury induced by HPAs for the first time.
WITH THE MORE FREQUENT USE of antibiotics as adjuncts to periodontal therapy today, it is imperative that dental clinicians be aware of adverse reactions to these drugs, regardless of their reported incidence. It is the purpose of this case report to present and describe a rare adverse reaction to tetracycline hydrochloride called pseudotumor cerebri or benign intracranial hypertension. It is manifested by an abnormal increase in intracranial pressure and papilledema in a patient with an otherwise normal neuroradiologic condition. Although severe headache appears to be the most bothersome acute symptom, the more important long-term side effect is visual loss caused by the papilledema. Treatment should be directed towards discontinuation of the drug therapy, and immediate referral to a physician for a neuro-ophthalmic evaluation.
Bisphenol A (BPA) is a widespread estrogenic compound. We investigated the effects of maternal exposure to BPA at reference doses on sexual behavior and neuroendocrine functions of female offspring in C57BL/6J mice. The dams were orally exposed to vehicle alone or vehicle-containing BPA at doses equivalent to the no observed adverse effect level (5 mg/kg body weight per day) and tolerable daily intake (TDI, 0.05 mg/kg body weight per day) level from gestational day 15 until weaning. Developmental exposure to BPA increased the lordosis quotient in naive females exposed to BPA at the TDI dose only. BPA exposure had no effect on olfactory preference, ability to express masculine behaviors or number of calbindin-positive cells, a sexually dimorphic population of the preoptic area. BPA at both doses selectively increased kisspeptin cell number in the preoptic periventricular nucleus of the rostral periventricular area of the third ventricle in adult females. It did not affect the number of GNRH-positive cells or percentage of kisspeptin appositions on GNRH neurons in the preoptic area. These changes were associated with higher levels of estradiol (E2) at the TDI dose while levels of LH, estrus cyclicity, ovarian and uterine weights, and fertility remained unaffected. Delay in the time of vaginal opening was observed during the postnatal period at TDI dose, without any alteration in body growth. This shows that developmental exposure to BPA at reference doses did not masculinize and defeminize the neural circuitry underlying sexual behavior in female mice. The TDI dose specifically exacerbated responses normally induced by ovarian E2, through estrogen receptor α, during the postnatal/prepubertal period.
Cases of N-acetylcysteine overdose have been reported before. In some cases, these overdoses have led to death if an anaphylactoid reaction was present. A healthy 30-month-old girl allegedly ingested acetaminophen at 418 mg/kg. Because the emergency physician feared the time of ingestion might not be accurate, he decided to start the 20.5-hour intravenous N-acetylcysteine protocol 8 hours after ingestion. He mistakenly prescribed the maximum milliliter-per-kilogram volume of the dextrose 5% diluent for the milliliter-per-kilogram volume of N-acetylcysteine 20% to be administered. Five hours after the error was detected (19.5 hours postingestion), the patient started developing myoclonus on the left side of her body, with left eye deviation. This condition persisted intermittently for 3 hours despite treatment with diazepam, lorazepam, and phenytoin. A first computed tomographic scan result was normal. A few hours later, she sustained shorter recurrences of the myoclonus. At 30 hours after ingestion, she started to have irregular breathing and became unresponsive to pain. A repeated computed tomographic scan showed diffuse cerebral edema. A postmortem examination showed the presence of acute anoxic encephalopathy with marked cerebral edema and the beginning of uncal herniation that confirmed the clinical diagnosis of intracranial hypertension and brain death. A cumulative intravenous dose of 2,450 mg/kg of N -acetylcysteine was associated with status epilepticus, intracranial hypertension, and death in a child.
Amphetamine is being investigated to reduce morbidity following stroke. However, the medicinal use of amphetamine is complicated because this drug is addictive, cardiotoxic, and can be neurotoxic. Thus, further research into the safety of giving amphetamine to stroke patients is required. Here, we examine whether prior treatment with amphetamine has any effect on oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD)-evoked transmitter efflux and mitochondrial function. To circumvent the well-documented cardiovascular effects of amphetamine we have used rat brain slices. Brain slices were exposed to 30μM of amphetamine for 10min 1h before being exposed to OGD. Using fast cyclic voltammetry in rat caudate, dopamine efflux induced by OGD was measured. The effect of amphetamine on mitochondrial function was examined using triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC) staining. Prior amphetamine exposure decreased the time to onset of OGD-evoked dopamine efflux (from 460 to 220s), suggesting that the caudate was more sensitive to OGD. This increased sensitivity to OGD was attenuated by pre-treatment with the dopamine transporter blocker GBR12909 (1μM). Pre-treatment with the dopamine D2 receptor antagonist metoclopramide (1μM) had no effect on the amphetamine-evoked sensitisation to OGD. Amphetamine decreased TTC staining in the caudate suggesting that amphetamine compromised the dopamine system by disrupting mitochondrial function. Amphetamine treatment may be harmful in stroke recovery by making the brain more vulnerable to ischaemia. These data also suggest that amphetamine abusers might be more susceptible to cerebral ischaemia.
The study presents the clinical symptomatology of acute embolic-toxic reactions to penicillin seen in 9 patients treated with the drug. The complex of short-lasting symptoms characterized by severe agitation with confusion, visual and auditory hallucinations and dire fear is caused by accidental penetration of an amount of intramuscular penicillin injected into the venous system. The authors' experience and the data so far published reveal a much more frequent occurrence of Hoigné's (1959) syndrome than is usually thought. The syndrome does not depend upon the dose of a single injection of procaine penicillin but it may be attributed to poor technique of intramuscular injection and to great number of injections in a small area of the buttock. It is recommended that intravenous steroids in the treatment of acute symptoms of Hoigné's syndrome beside pharmacological sedation of the patient are applied.
To compare the efficacy of 20 mg of IV metoclopramide, given up to four times over 2 hours as needed for persistent headache, with 6 mg of subcutaneous sumatriptan for the emergency department treatment of migraine headaches.
This was a randomized, double-blind, clinical trial with two intervention arms. The primary endpoint was change in pain intensity as measured by an 11-point pain scale at 2 hours. Secondary endpoints included change in pain intensity at 24 hours and rates of pain-free headache relief at 2 and 24 hours.
Two hundred two patients were screened, and 78 of 91 eligible patients were randomized. The two groups had comparable pain scores at baseline. By 2 hours, the change in pain intensity for the metoclopramide group was 7.2 compared with 6.3 for the sumatriptan group (95% CI for difference: -0.2 to 2.2). When compared at 24 hours, the metoclopramide group had improved by 6.1 compared with baseline and the sumatriptan group had improved by 5.0 (95% CI for difference: -0.6 to 2.8). At 2 hours, pain-free rates were 59% in the metoclopramide arm and 35% in the sumatriptan arm (95% CI for difference of 24%: 2 to 46%). The most common side effects at both time points were weakness, dizziness, and drowsiness, which were distributed evenly between the two groups. There were no reports of chest pain within the first 2 hours. The incidence of restlessness, stiffness, and abnormal movements was distributed equally between the two groups.
When compared at 2 and 24 hours, aggressive (20 mg dosed up to four times) IV metoclopramide and 6 mg of subcutaneous sumatriptan relieved migraine headache pain comparably. Some secondary endpoints suggest that metoclopramide may be the preferable therapy for migraines presenting to the emergency department.
The Hippo kinase cascade, a growth-suppressive pathway that ultimately antagonizes the transcriptional coactivator Yes-associated protein (YAP), has been shown in transgenic animals to orchestrate organ size regulation. The purpose of this study was to determine whether in non-genetically modified mice (1) the Hippo pathway is involved in the regulation of adaptive liver enlargement caused by the mitogen 1,4-bis[2-(3,5-dichloropyridyloxy)]benzene (TCPOBOP), an agonist of constitutive androstane receptor and (2) a dysregulation of this pathway occurs during the development of chemically induced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). We show that liver enlargement caused by TCPOBOP was associated with an increase of YAP protein levels that paralleled the increase in 2-bromodeoxyuridine incorporation. Interestingly, when a second dose of TCPOBOP was given to mice with enlarged livers, no further increases in liver mass or YAP protein levels were observed, suggesting that the Hippo pathway prevents further growth of the hyperplastic liver. Viral-mediated exogenous expression of active YAP in mouse livers was able to partially overcome the block of hepatocyte proliferation. We also show that HCCs developed in mice given diethylnitrosamine and then subjected to repeated treatments with TCPOBOP had increased levels of YAP that were associated with down-regulation of microRNA 375, which is known to control YAP expression, and with enhanced levels of alpha-fetoprotein and connective tissue growth factor, two target genes of YAP.
These results suggest that the Hippo pathway regulates adaptive liver enlargement and is probably inactivated in initiated cells that escape the suppressive constrain exerted on the surrounding normal tissue, thus allowing clonal expansion to HCC.
Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) is a widespread environmental contaminant that is detectable in serum of the general U.S. population. PFOA is a known developmental toxicant that induces mortality in mammalian embryos and is thought to induce toxicity via interaction with the peroxisome proliferator activated receptor alpha (PPARα). As the cardiovascular system is crucial for embryonic survival, PFOA-induced effects on the heart may partially explain embryonic mortality. To assess impacts of PFOA exposure on the developing heart in an avian model, we used histopathology and immunohistochemical staining for myosin to assess morphological alterations in 19-day-old chicken embryo hearts after PFOA exposure. Additionally, echocardiography and cardiac myofibril ATPase activity assays were used to assess functional alterations in 1-day-old hatchling chickens following developmental PFOA exposure. Overall thinning and thinning of a dense layer of myosin in the right ventricular wall were observed in PFOA-exposed chicken embryo hearts. Alteration of multiple cardiac structural and functional parameters, including left ventricular wall thickness, left ventricular volume, heart rate, stroke volume, and ejection fraction were detected with echocardiography in the exposed hatchling chickens. Assessment of ATPase activity indicated that the ratio of cardiac myofibril calcium-independent ATPase activity to calcium-dependent ATPase activity was not affected, which suggests that developmental PFOA exposure may not affect cardiac energetics. In summary, structural and functional characteristics of the heart appear to be developmental targets of PFOA, possibly at the level of cardiomyocytes. Additional studies will investigate mechanisms of PFOA-induced developmental cardiotoxicity.
The androgen receptor (AR) is one of the most studied drug targets for the treatment of prostate cancer. However, all current anti-androgens directly interact with the AR at the androgen binding site, which is prone to resistant mutations, calling for new strategies of the AR inhibition. The current study represents the first attempt to use virtual screening to identify inhibitors of activation function-2 (AF2) of the human AR. By combining large-scale docking with experimental approaches, we were able to identify several small molecules that interact with the AF2 and effectively prevent the transcriptional activation of the AR. The crystallographic structure of one of these inhibitors in complex with the AR provides critical insight into the corresponding protein-ligand interactions and suitable for future hit optimization. Taken together, our results provide a promising ground for development of novel anti-androgens that can help to address the problem of drug resistance in prostate cancer.
Fibroblast growth factor 8 (FGF8) is an androgen-induced growth factor (AIGF) that is crucial for embryonic development. This study was developed to investigate the role of FGF8 in developmental abnormalities of the genital tubercle (GT) in hypospadiac male rats when prenatally exposed to di-n-butyl phthalate (DBP). DBP was administered to timed-pregnant rats to establish the hypospadiac rat model where the incidence of hypospadias in male offspring was 43.6%. On postnatal day (PND) 7, decreased mRNA and protein expression levels for androgen receptor (AR) and FGF8 were observed in the GT of hypospadiac rats. Decreased serum testosterone (T) levels were observed in groups displaying hypospadias, which was confirmed using histological analysis. Further anatomical examination using digital photography helped to reveal visualized expression of dysplasia in organs strongly associated with hypospadias. In addition, changes in body weight (BW) and anogenital distance (AGD) were recorded, showing definitive decreases. Collectively, these data clearly demonstrate an interaction between androgen and FGF8, which might play an important role in the occurrence of hypospadias and abnormal organ development induced by DBP.
Treatment with small doses of topical capsaicin protects the gastric mucosa from the damage by strong irritants but functional ablation of sensory nerves by pretreatment with larger dose of parenteral capsaicin augments the formation of gastric lesions via unknown mechanism. This study was designed to determine the role of gastric acid secretion, mucosal blood flow (GBF) and prostaglandins (PG) generation in the gastroprotection induced by small doses of topical or parenteral capsaicin in rats with intact or capsaicin-deactivated sensory nerves. Gastric lesions were produced in rats with intact sensory nerves (series A) or capsaicin-deactivated nerves (series B) using intragastric (i.g.) application of 100% ethanol, acidified aspirin (ASA) or water immersion and restraint stress (WRS). Pretreatment with i.g. capsaicin (0.12-1.0 mg/kg) in rats with intact sensory nerves (series A) reduced dose-dependently the mucosal damage caused by ethanol, ASA or WRS, the dose inhibiting the lesion area by 50% (ID50) being 0.3, 0.5 and 0.7 mg/kg, respectively. This protection was accompanied by a significant rise in gastric mucosal blood flow (GBF). Parenteral application of capsaicin (1.2-10 mg/kg s.c.) that in intact rats dose-dependently increased GBF, also dose-dependently reduced gastric damage induced by ASA or WRS (but not by ethanol), the ID50 being 5 and 3 mg/kg, respectively. The reduction by i.g. capsaicin of ethanol-or WRS-induced mucosal lesions was accompanied by a rise in GBF and this effect was reversed by indomethacin at a dose that suppressed endogenous PG biosynthesis by about 90%, indicating that PG are involved in the protective activities of topical capsaicin. Furthermore, topical and to a lesser extent parenteral capsaicin given to rats with intact or deactivated sensory nerves inhibited gastric acid and pepsin outputs, suggesting that this inhibition could contribute to the capsaicin-induced gastroprotection against acid-dependent mucosal lesions (ASA or WRS). Capsaicin deactivation of sensory nerves aggravated mucosal lesions induced by all three ulcerogens and this effects was accompanied by a marked decrease in GBF. In such capsaicin-deactivated rats, topical capsaicin also reduced ethanol-, ASA- or WRS-induced lesions, while parenteral capsaicin was effective only in the protection against the damage induced by acidified ASA and WRS but not by ethanol. The protection against WRS lesions and accompanying rise in GBF by parenteral capsaicin were also reversed by the pretreatment with indomethacin applied in a dose suppressing the generation of PG. We conclude that capsaicin is capable of protecting gastric mucosa in rats with both intact and capsaicin-deactivated rats and that this protective activity depends, at least in part, upon its hyperemic and antisecretory effects that may be mediated, at least in part, by endogenous release of PG.
Intracranial headaches, including migraines, are mediated by nociceptive activation of the trigeminal nucleus caudalis (TNC), but the precise mechanisms are poorly understood. We previously demonstrated that selective blockage of spinal sigma-1 receptors (Sig-1R) produces a prominent antinociceptive effect in several types of pain models. This study evaluates whether the Sig-1R antagonist (BD1047) has an antinociceptive effect on capsaicin (a potent C-fiber activator) induced headache models in rats. Intracisternal infusion of capsaicin evoked pain behavior (face grooming), which was significantly attenuated by BD1047 pretreatment. BD1047 consistently reduced capsaicin-induced Fos-like immunoreactivity (Fos-LI), a neuronal activator, in the TNC in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, capsaicin-induced phosphorylation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1 was reversed by BD1047 pretreatment in the TNC. These results indicate that the Sig-1R antagonist has an inhibitory effect on nociceptive activation of the TNC in the capsaicin-induced headache animal model.
Tryptase is predominantly found in mast cells, where it resides in secretory granules, and is released with other mediators during mast cell degranulation. By using a newly developed commercial assay for measurements of tryptase levels we have investigated two cases of suspected drug-induced anaphylaxis. Each patient had a similar clinical presentation, consisting of hypotension and cyanosis after administration of thiopentone and suxamethonium. One of the patients showed a highly elevated serum level of tryptase reaching 26 micrograms/l 30 min after the initial reaction. In addition, slightly elevated levels of specific IgE antibodies to thiopentone were detected. The other patient with similar symptoms showed no increase in the level of tryptase, nor any specific IgE to thiopentone or suxamethonium. These data indicate the patient I suffered from true anaphylaxis, whereas the reaction of patient II occurred by a different mechanism.
Protein palmitoylation has emerged as an important mechanism for regulating protein trafficking, stability, and protein-protein interactions; however, its relevance to disease processes is not clear. Using a genome-wide, phenotype driven N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea-mediated mutagenesis screen, we identified mice with failure to thrive, shortened life span, skin and hair abnormalities including alopecia, severe osteoporosis, and systemic amyloidosis (both AA and AL amyloids depositions). Whole-genome homozygosity mapping with 295 SNP markers and fine mapping with an additional 50 SNPs localized the disease gene to chromosome 7 between 53.9 and 56.3 Mb. A nonsense mutation (c.1273A>T) was located in exon 12 of the Zdhhc13 gene (Zinc finger, DHHC domain containing 13), a gene coding for palmitoyl transferase. The mutation predicted a truncated protein (R425X), and real-time PCR showed markedly reduced Zdhhc13 mRNA. A second gene trap allele of Zdhhc13 has the same phenotypes, suggesting that this is a loss of function allele. This is the first report that palmitoyl transferase deficiency causes a severe phenotype, and it establishes a direct link between protein palmitoylation and regulation of diverse physiologic functions where its absence can result in profound disease pathology. This mouse model can be used to investigate mechanisms where improper palmitoylation leads to disease processes and to understand molecular mechanisms underlying human alopecia, osteoporosis, and amyloidosis and many other neurodegenerative diseases caused by protein misfolding and amyloidosis.
Massive pulmonary embolism is an uncommon complication of multiple myeloma treated with thalidomide-dexamethasone regimen. In 2006, multiple myeloma was diagnosed in a 72-year-old man, who received thalidomide-dexamethasone therapy. In January 2007, echocardiography and computerized tomography identified massive pulmonary embolism in the pulmonary arteries and a deep vein thrombus of the right leg. The patient also had an elevated concentration of B-type natriuretic peptide. After heparinization and warfarin therapy, the patient's condition improved. This is the first report of a patient with a rare complication of pulmonary embolism from thalidomide-treated multiple myeloma.
Glucocorticoids are widely used chemotherapeutic agents for multiple myeloma. Drug resistance to steroid therapies is associated with the downregulation or loss of glucocorticoid receptor expression in malignant plasma cells. In this study, we examined the constitutive expression of glucocorticoid receptor in dexamethasone-sensitive and dexamethasone-resistant multiple myeloma cell lines. We found that triptolide increased the amount of the phosphorylated glucocorticoid receptor and enhanced the growth inhibitory effect of dexamethasone. Notably, these effects could not be blocked by interleukin-6, one of the most important growth factors in multiple myeloma.
