The effects of metoprine administered orally every 2 weeks were studied in 71 evaluable adult patients with advanced malignant tumors. Two escalating dose schedules were explored in this phase I evaluation: (a) doses ranging from 20 to 65 mg/m2 without scheduled leucovorin, and (b) doses ranging from 100 to 300 mg/m2 with scheduled iv leucovorin. Thrombocytopenia was dose-limiting at 65 mg/m2 in the low-dose schedule; CNS toxicity was dose-limiting at 300 mg/m2 in the high-dose schedule. Occasionally leukopenia and mild nausea or vomiting were noted. Therapeutic responses were observed in patients with mycosis fungoides, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, and adenocarcinoma of unknown origin. Phase II (disease-oriented) studies can appropriately be initiated with fortnightly metoprine at 50 mg/m2 without leucovorin. In the high-dose schedule, 225 mg/m2 of metoprine with 75 mg/m2 of iv leucovorin at 24 hours appears appropriate for good-risk patients; in marginal-risk patients, two doses of leucovorin should be given: 75 and 37.5 mg/m2 at 24 and 96 or 168 hours, respectively.
To characterize the acute and chronic behavioral, electrographic and histological changes of sustained seizures induced by pilocarpine in rats.
The rats in the study were divided into the experimental group and control group. After status epilepticus (SE) was induced in the experimental rats, the surviving animals were continuously monitored for 6 h-60 days. At different times after the pilocarpine injection, the animals were processed for neo-Timm and Nissl staining to visualize granule cell mossy fiber sprouting and hippocampal cell damage.
Of the animals injected with pilocarpine, 87% developed SE, and most of the pilocarpine-induced SE rats (20%-100%) showed recurrent seizures during the chronic period. A widespread cell loss was noted in the hippocampal formation of the rats with pilocarpine-induced SE. The pattern of neo-Timm staining in the inner molecular layer was clearly altered in animals that showed pilocarpine-induced SE. The Neo-Timm staining score of the experimental group was significantly higher than that of the control group. The degree of inner molecular layer mossy fiber terminal staining increased with time after the epileptogenic lesion.
The temporal lobe epilepsy model induced by pilocarpine in rats can replicate several of the features of human temporal epilepsy (hippocampal cell loss, inner molecular layer mossy fiber sprouting, and spontaneous recurrent seizures), and it may be a useful model for studying this human temporal lobe epilepsy. The results also suggest that structural brain damage insulted by pilocarpine-induced SE may underlie or be associated with recurrent spontaneous seizures in rats.
Congenital diaphragmatic hernia is accompanied by pulmonary hypoplasia. Fetal lung growth is dependent on the secretion of lung liquid, in which Cl(-) secretion by the pulmonary epithelium plays a crucial role. A decrease of lung liquid production during fetal development renders marked pulmonary hypoplasia, while accelerated fetal lung growth in the form of pulmonary hyperplasia can be achieved by in utero tracheal occlusion (TO). Cl(-) secretion presumably involves NKCC-1, the primary basolateral Cl(-) entry pathway in airway epithelia, coupled to an apical Cl(-) exit pathway. The chloride channels ClC-2, -3 and -5, members of the CLC gene family, are all localized to the apical membrane of fetal respiratory epithelia, which makes them possible candidates for being mediators of fetal apical Cl(-) secretion. The aim of the study was to examine the potential of ClC-2, -3 and -5 as alternative apical airway epithelial Cl(-) channels in normal lung development and their possible role in the development of hypoplastic lungs in CDH. We also wanted to examine ClC-2, -3 and -5 together with the NKCC-1 in hyperplastic lungs created by TO.
Pregnant Sprague-Dawley rat dams were given nitrofen on gestational day 9.5 to induce pulmonary hypoplasia. Controls were given only olive oil. The rat fetuses were removed on days 17, 19 and 21. Hyperplastic lungs were created by intrauterine TO of rat fetuses on day 19 and the lungs were harvested on day 21. The pulmonary expression of ClC-2, -3, -5 and NKCC-1 was then analyzed using Western blot.
We found that the temporal expression of ClC-2 and -3 in normal fetal lungs points toward a developmental regulation. ClC-2 and -3 were also both down-regulated on day 21 in hypoplastic CDH lungs. In TO induced hyperplastic lungs, the levels of ClC-2 were found to be significantly up-regulated. NKCC-1 showed a tendency toward up-regulation in hyperplastic lungs, while ClC-3 showed a tendency to be down-regulated, but no statistically significant changes could be seen. There was no difference between controls and any of the groups for the expression of ClC-5.
We show that the developmental changes in ClC-2 and ClC-3 protein expression are negatively affected in hypoplastic CDH lungs. Lung hyperplasia created by TO up-regulates the expression of ClC-2. ClC-2 is therefore an interesting potential target in the development of novel, non-invasive, therapies for CDH treatment.
Methadone is recommended as being free of some of the neuropsychological side effects noticed with morphine, which are attributed to active metabolites. A patient that received methadone for cancer-associated pain developed myoclonus as a side effect. This has rarely been reported before in the literature. The pathophysiology and management of myoclonus are discussed.
Possible discrepancy between the dose level required for promoting action, when given after initiation process, and that needed to exert an anticarcinogenic effect when given simultaneously with a carcinogen, of hepatic promoters were investigated in an attempt to obtain a 'practical' threshold dose of promoters. Phenobarbital (PB) and dichlorophenyltrichloroethane (DDT) were used as promoters and 3'-methyl-4-(dimethylamino)-azobenzene (3'-Me-DAB) was used as the carcinogen. Male weanling rats were treated with 600 p.p.m. 3'-Me-DAB for 3 weeks followed by a diet containing a promoter at various dose levels (5-500 p.p.m.), or the animals were treated with a low dose (100 p.p.m.) of 3'-Me-DAB plus a promoter at various dose levels (20-500 p.p.m.). The effects of promoters were measured by scoring size and number of enzyme-altered islands at weeks 12 and 24 of rat age. The promoting effect of PB and DDT was demonstrated in dose-dependent fashion, in the dose range of 10-500 p.p.m. and 20-500 p.p.m., respectively. On the other hand, promoters given simultaneously with a low dose of carcinogen enhanced the carcinogenesis at all the dose levels tested, quite in contrast with their inhibitory effect on carcinogenesis when given together with relatively high doses of carcinogens.
Urate is the final metabolite of purine in humans. Renal urate handling is clinically important because under-reabsorption or underexcretion causes hypouricemia or hyperuricemia, respectively. We have identified a urate-anion exchanger, URAT1, localized at the apical side and a voltage-driven urate efflux transporter, URATv1, expressed at the basolateral side of the renal proximal tubules. URAT1 and URATv1 are vital to renal urate reabsorption because the experimental data have illustrated that functional loss of these transporter proteins affords hypouricemia. While mutations affording enhanced function via these transporter proteins on urate handling is unknown, we have constructed kidney-specific transgenic (Tg) mice for URAT1 or URATv1 to investigate this problem. In our study, each transgene was under the control of the mouse URAT1 promoter so that transgene expression was directed to the kidney. Plasma urate concentrations in URAT1 and URATv1 Tg mice were not significantly different from that in wild-type (WT) mice. Urate excretion in URAT1 Tg mice was similar to that in WT mice, while URATv1 Tg mice excreted more urate compared with WT. Our results suggest that hyperfunctioning URATv1 in the kidney can lead to increased urate reabsorption and may contribute to the development of hyperuricemia.
Any toxicant that affects Sertoli cell development can potentially disturb male fertility. So far, the effects of organochlorine compounds have been poorly investigated in male. Here, we studied the effects of dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT), an organochloride pesticide, on Sertoli cells. DDT inhibited the cAMP response to follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), the major endocrine control of Sertoli cell development, and to a beta2-agonist, isoproterenol. DDT exposure decreased the level of FSH binding sites. Direct adenylyl cyclase activation by Forskolin was unaltered by DDT, while the activation of Galphas by cholera toxin was decreased by DDT. The DDT inhibitory effect on the FSH response was also observed in Ser W3 cells, a Sertoli cell-derived immortalized cell line. All these effects were reproduced by the lipophilic aromatic bisphenol A but not by structurally unrelated CisPlatin. In conclusion, these results are a first step in understanding the molecular basis of DDT deleterious effects in spermatogenesis.
To evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of nitrendipine in comparison with captopril in hypertensive diabetic patients with left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH).
A total of 75 patients enrolled in this study presented stable type 2 diabetes (not treated with insulin) and mild-to-moderate hypertension with a left ventricular mass > or = 75 g/m2 by two-dimensional echocardiography. After a 4-week washout period, 38 patients were assigned to treatment with captopril, and 37 patients to nitrendipine (random allocation). The duration of follow-up was 36 weeks.
Patients of both groups were similar with regard to the duration of diabetes and hypertension, systolic and diastolic blood pressure at rest, degree of LVH, metabolic control, and albumin excretion rate (AER). Both drugs were equally effective in reducing systolic and diastolic blood pressure (captopril: from 165 +/- 13/100 +/- 4 to 147 +/- 11/87 +/- 4 mmHg; nitrendipine: from 167 +/- 17/100 +/- 5 to 143 +/- 9/86 +/- 4 mmHg; P < 0.05) and in reversing LVH (nitrendipine: from 87 +/- 2 to 81 +/- 1 g/m2; captopril: from 89 +/- 2 to 85 +/- 2 g/m2; P = 0.0001). Neither the left ventricular end-diastolic volume index nor the left ventricular ejection fraction changed significantly during the treatment period.
Nitrendipine is as effective as captopril in reducing both systolic and diastolic blood pressure and in reversing LVH. Neither drug showed any negative side effects on fasting plasma glucose and glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) levels, and both maintain constant AERs.
It is believed that acupunctural stimulation induces an analgesic response mainly through a central mechanism: that is, through an increase in the production of opioid peptides and their release at different levels in the nervous system. We sought to establish whether the modulating effect of acupuncture on experimental neurogenic edema can be attributed to a central mechanism only or whether a peripheral mechanism could also exist. Intraperitoneal administration was compared to local administration in the same paw in rats that were injected with capsaicin and in the same dermatome of the acupunctural stimulation.
Experimentation was conducted on 105 male Sprague-Dawley rats weighing 180-220 g, divided into 7 groups as follows: group 1, control; groups 2-4 (15 animals), stimulated with manual acupuncture; group 3 also treated with intraperitoneal naloxone 1 mg/kg; group 4 also treated locally with naloxone (20 microg); groups 5-7 (15 animals), stimulated with 5 Hz and 5 mA electroacupuncture (EAP); group 6 also treated with intraperitoneal naloxone, 1 mg/kg, group 7 also treated locally with naloxone (20 microg).
The results indicate that the administration of 1 mg/kg of naloxone intraperitoneally can inhibit the modulating effect of acupunctural stimulation. Equally effective in inhibiting the modulating effect of acupunctural stimulation, although not having a systemic effect, is a 20-microg dose of naloxone administered peripherally on the site of edema induction.
It is possible to conclude that both systemic and peripheral mechanisms seem to be implicated in the modulating effect of acupuncture on the neurogenic inflammation mechanism.
We investigated conventional motor and sensory nerve conduction studies (MCS & SCS) with regard to the sensitivity in detecting axonopathies. Twelve patients with axonal type of polyneuropathy, 2 vincristin neuropathy and 10 cisplatin neuropathy, were examined by MCS & SCS. Their data were compared with those by intrafascicular microneurography (MNG) of the median nerve. Nerve conduction velocities were within normal limits or slightly reduced to 87-99% of the normal. Amplitude of compound muscle action potential (CMAP) by MCS decreased to 4 or 5 mV in vincristin neuropathy, though cisplatin neuropathy presented normal amplitude. Amplitude of sensory nerve action potential (SNAP) by SCS was undetected in one median nerve and in three sural nerves. While, compound nerve action potential (CNAP) by MNG was all recorded, and presented the amplitude value of below 150 microV in seven patients. The waveform was normal or mild neuropathic pattern. No patients presented normal CNAP amplitude and reduced SNAP amplitude. But there were three patients who had normal SNAP amplitude and reduced CNAP amplitude. In SCS we could recognize abnormal only after CNAP amplitude by MNG dropped to below 100 microV. Cisplatin neuropathy demonstrates reduction of CNAP or SNAP amplitude, and vincristin neuropathy further presents reduction of CMAP amplitude. Evaluation of axonopathy is best achieved by nerve action potential amplitude. Conventional surface electrode methods are available for this purpose, but MNG is more sensitive and is capable of quantitative analysis even in severely damaged nerves.
2,3,7,8,-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) has been classified as a known human carcinogen, and epidemiologic studies identify the lung as one of the target organs. Few experimental studies have attempted to characterize pulmonary effects of TCDD exposure. In this study, we characterize the induction of lesions in the lung by chronic oral TCDD exposure in diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-initiated or noninitiated female Sprague-Dawley rats. Two or 18 weeks after initiation, rats were treated with TCDD continuously for 14, 30, or 60 weeks by biweekly oral gavage (1,750 ng TCDD/kg) at a dose equivalent to 125 ng/kg body weight per day (controls received corn oil). To assess the time dependence and reversibility of potential changes, some groups included withdrawal periods of 16 or 30 weeks after 30 weeks of TCDD treatment. TCDD treatment alone for 60 weeks caused significant increases in alveolar-bronchiolar (AB) metaplasia. TCDD treatment of DEN-initiated animals for 60 weeks resulted in a significant increase in bronchiolar epithelial hyperplasia. These increases were not observed in animals treated with TCDD for 30 weeks followed by corn oil for 30 weeks, indicating that the development of these lesions required continuous exposure to TCDD. AB hyperplasia increased in an age-dependent manner after DEN initiation but was unaffected by TCDD treatment. Expression of the aromatic hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) and induction of CYP1A1 was observed only in bronchiolar Clara and ciliated cells, indicating that the mechanism of induction of AB metaplasia may be mediated by the AHR. TCDD elimination half-life was monophasic in the lung, and serum and was estimated to be 39.7 days and 44.6 days, respectively, independent of age, tissue TCDD concentration, or body weight. This is the first report to identify the AB region as a target for TCDD-induced metaplastic and proliferative changes after chronic oral exposure.
We present a case of an 80-year-old man who developed a seizure disorder at age 66 and was treated with chronic phenytoin. In the last 3 years of his life, he developed multiple neurological deficits, including bilateral chorea, ataxic gait, sensory neuropathy, and progressive dementia. After death from pneumonia, autopsy examination of the patient's brain was most remarkable for a selective loss of neurons from both subthalamic nuclei and Purkinje cell loss in the cerebellum. This pattern of injury is consistent with a toxic process and does not fit previously characterized pathological syndromes known to be associated with movement disorders or dementia or both. Phenytoin has been shown to cause choreiform movements, peripheral neuropathy, and cognitive decline in some patients, but the pathological basis for these changes has not been elucidated. The patient's chorea was very likely the result of neuronal loss in the subthalamic nuclei, but causes for his dementia and neuropathy were not found. The pathological findings may represent either an unusual form of chronic phenytoin toxicity or a previously undescribed primary degenerative brain syndrome.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) cell lines displaying microsatellite instability (MSI) are resistant to 5-fluorouracil in vitro, which can be overcome by restoring DNA mismatch repair (MMR) competence. Furthermore, elevated levels of Bcl-2 protein confers cytotoxic drug resistance to tumour cell lines. We examined the expression of Bcl-2 and two MMR proteins (hMLH1 and hMSH2) in advanced CRC patients, to determine their mutual relationship, association to therapeutic response and impact on disease outcome. Tumour samples from 73 CRC patients who were treated in advanced stage with either irinotecan alone or in combination with 5-FU/leucovorin, were analysed for expression of Bcl-2, hMLH1 and hMSH2 using immunohistochemistry. Bcl-2 expression was closely correlated with hMLH1 and hMSH2 expression (negative-weak/moderate-strong) (p=0.01). Bcl-2/MMR expression was significantly (p=0.030 for whole series; p=0.018 for the 5-FU-treated cases) related to the response to treatment; tumours with low levels of both Bcl-2 and MMR responded better (n=18/31, 58%) than those with high Bcl-2 and MMR (n=3/16, 18%). Patients with high Bcl-2/MMR expression had a significantly longer DFS (47 vs. 11 months, n=26) than those with low Bcl-2/MMR index (p=0.005). Bcl-2/MMR index was not significantly related to disease-specific survival or survival with metastases. The present data suggest that MSI patients with low Bcl-2/MMR demonstrate a significantly shorter DFS, whereas patients with high expression of the two markers obtain the greatest benefit from 5-FU-based chemotherapy.
The emphasis to date in the DES syndrome has been confined to the presence of adenosis in the vagina and the occassional adenocarcinoma which may arise from this ectopic glandular epithelium (less than 250 to date). As these patients mature, however, the glandular epithelium in the vagina is replaced by squamous metaplastic epithelium. Forty-six patients with benign vaginal adenois were observed colposcopically for up to 2 years. Atypical squamous epithelium (white epithelium, punctation, or mosiac pattern) was observed in 40 of the 46 patients. Colposcopically directed biopsy revealed six cases ofdysplasia (mild to severe) and one unequivocal case of in situ squamous carcinoma. These squamous lesions in the vagina were identical, both colposcopically and histologically,to similiar lesions on the cervix. These data suggest that squamous neoplasia may be more frequent in the future of the DES-exposed patient than adenocarcinoma.
To investigate the effect of trans-resveratrol on hypertension-induced cardiac hypertrophy and its potential mechanisms involving endothelin (ET), angiotensin II (AngII) and nitric oxide (NO).
Animal models bearing cardiac hypertrophy were replicated in male SD rats following partially nephrectomy (PNX). 10 mg/kg bw or 50 mg/kg bw of resveratrol was administered to rats by gavage, respectively, for 4 weeks. PNX control and sham-operation control (SHAM) were simultaneously established. Systolic pressure of rats was measured through tail at baseline and it, as well as heart weight, was measured after 4-week treatment. Serum ET-1 and AngII concentrations were determined using radioimmunological assay and NO using nitric acid reductase method.
After 4-week treatment, animals in PNX control group had significantly higher systolic pressure and heart weight, higher ET-1 and AngII concentrations while lower NO concentrations, compared with those in SHAM group (P < 0.05). Rats treated with 50 mg/kg bw of resveratrol had significantly lower systolic pressure and heart weight, lower ET-1 concentrations while higher NO concentrations, compared with animals in PNX group (P < 0.05).
Trans-resveratrol could protect against the increase of systonic pressure and subsequent cardiac hypertrophy in vivo, which mechanisms might, at least partly, involve with its modulation on NO, AngII and ET.
Sequential changes in plasma renin activity and urinary aldosterone and noradrenaline were assessed in eight patients with severe hypertension after minoxidil had been added to their treatment. Doses of 2.5--27.5 (mean 12.5) mg/day reduced the mean blood pressure from 166/113 +/-6/2 mm Hg to 124/88+/-4/2 mm Hg in one week. Plasma renin activity and urinary aldosterone and noradrenaline increased twofold to threefold initially but returned to baseline values within two to three weeks and remained unchanged during a mean follow-up of 5.1 months. Beta-blocking drugs were then withdrawn slowly in six patients without adverse effects, though blood pressure and heart rate increased in three patients, who required minimal doses of beta-blockers. Plasma renin activity and urinary aldosterone and noradrenaline did not change significantly after beta-blockade had been stopped. We conclude that the need for beta-blockade is greatly reduced with long-term minoxidil treatment and that it may be unnecessary in some patients.
During the last 4 years, 225 patients have been referred to the Danish Cholinesterase Research Unit following an episode of prolonged apnoea after suxamethonium. Fourteen patients (6.2%) were found to have a low serum cholinesterase activity due to an acquired deficiency (for instance, liver disease, chronic debilitating disease or carcinoma). One hundred and forty-eight patients (65.8%) had an inherited abnormal serum cholinesterase, and 105 of these patients (46.7%) were homozygous for the atypical enzyme (E1 Ea1). The mean period of apnoea in this latter group was 92 min (range: 25--240). Seventeen patients (7.6%) were heterozygous for the normal and the atypical enzyme (Eu1 Ea1), with a mean apnoea period of 25 min (range: 7--60 min). Twelve patients were found to be heterozygous for the atypical and the silent gene (E(a)1 E(s)1). The mean period of apnoea was 126 min (range: 45--210 min). Fourteen patients had other rare genotypes. The longest mean period of apnoea (170 min, range: 70--330) was found in patients homozygous for the silent gene (Es1 Es1). The silent gene and the fluoride-resistant gene were found in 8.9% and 2.7% of the patients, respectively. In 63 patients (28.1%) both the type and quantity of serum cholinesterase were normal. In 34 of these patients (15.2%), the prolonged apnoea was due to other causes; for example, suxamethonium overdose, hyperventilation and central as well as peripheral respiratory depression. However, in the other 29 patients (12.9%), the reason for the prolonged apnoea could not be established. The possibility therefore exists that these cases represent unknown genotypes.
Because of a depressive syndrome, a 39-year-old patient received 20 mg fluoxetine per day. Approximately 4 weeks later, treatment with this drug was stopped after the patient had complained of worsening tremor, particularly of the upper extremities. In addition, accommodation difficulties and problems with word-finding had appeared shortly before. The symptoms became worse after fluoxetine had been discontinued. Treatment of the side effects with piperiden and bromazepam brought about no real improvement in the patient's condition. The passive tremor with a frequency of approximately eight per second mainly suggests an extrapyramidal-parkinsonian cause. Five weeks after treatment with fluoxetine had been discontinued, owing to the persistence of the depressive syndrome the patient received maprotiline and clomipramine by infusion in a private hospital. After 2-3 days the patient complained of headaches and had a slightly raised temperature. After 7 days maprotiline and clomipramine were discontinued completely. During the fever there was no leucocytosis, so that a drug fever was diagnosed. These rare side effects are discussed.
Atenolol was compared with five other beta-blockers and a thiazide diuretic in a randomised cross-over trial of once-daily treatment of essential hypertension. Atenolol was significantly better at reducing resting and exercise blood pressures at 24 hours than any of the other drugs and had a low incidence of side effects. Both timolol and acebutolol had a significant hypotensive effect at 24 hours and a low incidence of side effects, suggesting that further increases in dosage might be effective and well tolerated. Labetalol proved ineffective when given once daily, and the high incidence of side effects, equalled only by pindolol, would probably prohibit further increases in dosage. Bendrofluazide was equal or superior to all the beta-blockers except atenolol at reducing resting blood pressure, and its cheapness still makes it an agent of first choice in mild or moderate essential hypertension.
Epidemiological and preclinical studies have suggested that nutrition plays an important role in the etiology of cancer. Our group previously demonstrated that rice germ or fermented brown rice has a preventive effect on colorectal carcinogenesis. The experiment described here was examined for the potential anticancer properties of brown rice fermented by Aspergillus Oryzae (FBRA) in male F344 rats using inhibition of diethylnitrosoamine (DEN) and phenobarbital (PB)-induced hepatocarcinogenesis as the measure of preventive efficacy when this agent was administered at 5% and 10% levels in diet during initiation phase (during and until 1 week after carcinogen treatment) or post-initiation phase (beginning 1 week after carcinogen treatment) of the carcinogenesis. Rats were sacrificed 20 weeks after the initiation of DEN treatment (200 mg/kg body weight, once weekly for 3 weeks). Expression of liver tumors was evaluated histopathologically. Administration of 10% FBRA in the diet during the initiation phase significantly decreased the incidence (43% vs. 8%) and multiplicity (0.5+/-0.6 vs. 0.1+/-0.3) of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) as compared to those given the control diet. In addition, 5% and 10% of FBRA in the diet during post-initiation phase significantly decreased the incidence of HCC (43% vs. 15% and 9%, respectively) and multiplicity of hepatocellular adenoma (4.7+/-3.7 vs. 2.1+/-2.2 and 2.4+/-1.4, respectively) and HCC (0.5+/-0.6 vs. 0.2+/-0.4 and 0.1+/-0.3, respectively). These data prove that FBRA has an inhibitory effect on the hepatocarcinogenesis in rats. FBRA could be a promising chemopreventive agent for human liver as well as colorectal neoplasia.
Proteins that are phosphorylated during apoptosis are commonly precipitated by autoantibodies found in the sera of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. We sought to determine whether scleroderma autoantigens such as small nucleolar RNPs (snoRNP) also associate with phosphoproteins in response to various cellular stressors.
We screened a panel of monoclonal antibodies derived from mice exposed to mercury, a well-characterized murine model of the anti-snoRNP autoimmune response, for the ability to selectively precipitate phosphoproteins from radiolabeled lysates prepared from Jurkat T cells subjected to stressful stimuli.
Monoclonal antibodies reactive with snoRNPs precipitated a phosphoprotein complex (pp42, pp34, and pp23) from lysates prepared from apoptotic cells. Several novel phosphoproteins (pp62 and pp18) were also observed. The phosphorylation and/or recruitment of these proteins to the snoRNP complex is induced by multiple apoptotic stimuli (e.g., Fas ligation, anisomycin, or ultraviolet irradiation), an effect that is blocked by overexpression of Bcl-2. We were unable to demonstrate an association of the phosphoprotein complex with snoRNPs in cells treated with the xenobiotic agent mercury. The snoRNP-associated phosphoprotein complex is composed of serine/arginine (SR) splicing factors, including SRp40.
The association of phosphorylated SR proteins with snoRNPs in cells undergoing apoptosis suggests that the immune response to fibrillarin that characterizes a subset of patients with scleroderma may be related to cell death induced by apoptotic stimuli (e.g., Fas ligation, irradiation, or chemical toxins), or by exposure to mercury.
Seven patients with bone or soft tissue sarcomas but without metastatic CNS disease developed a chronic leukoencephalopathy after high-dose (8000-15,000 mg/m2) iv methotrexate (MTX) chemotherapy with leucovorin (LV) rescue. Approximately 12 MTX-LV treatments were administered over a 3-7 month period. None of the patients had cranial irradiation. The syndrome usually began several months after the initiation of chemotherapy with subtle personality changes followed by a progressive dementia, focal seizures, pseudobulbar palsy, spastic quadriparesis, and stupor. Computerized tomographic scans revealed diffuse white matter hypodensity in five patients and atropic changes in five patients. Serum MTX concentrations were elevated in four of six patients prior to several MTX-LV treatments, suggesting that MTX persisted in tissues for a long time. Abnormally high levels of MTX were detected in the cerebrospinal fluid of all four patients several days after an MTX-LV treatment, at a time when their encephalopathy was most severe. Pathologic brain material was obtained from three patients and revealed a spectrum of abnormalities. The syndrome observed in our patients clinically resembles the one described in children with acute lymphatic leukemia who received cranial irradiation and large cumulative amounts of low-dose (12-20 mg/m2) systemic MTX without LV.
To clarify the dose-response relationship between constitutive androstane receptor (CAR) activity and induction of cytochrome P450 2B (CYP2B) expression and hypertrophy by triazole fungicides in mouse liver, three dose levels of cyproconazole (Cypro), tebuconazole (Teb), fluconazole (Flu), and phenobarbital (PB), a typical CYP2B inducer, were administrated in diet to male wild-type (WT) and CAR-knockout (CARKO) mice for one week. In WT mice, all compounds dose-dependently induced liver weight increases and hepatocellular hypertrophy accompanied by CYP2B expression. In CARKO mice, these effects were not induced by PB, while Cypro or Flu induced these effects only at the highest dose. Dose-dependent liver hypertrophy was detected in CARKO mice treated with Teb, but at the lowest dose the intensity was weakened compared to WT mice. The present results indicate that Cypro and Flu mainly induced CAR-mediated liver hypertrophy, while Teb slightly involved CAR. The involvement of CAR in triazole-induced liver hypertrophy was dose-responsive. In addition, all three triazoles have non-CAR-mediated liver hypertrophy pathways, indicating that the hypertrophy induced by these triazoles differs from that of PB.
We recently reported that nitrotyrosine and acetaminophen (APAP)-cysteine protein adducts colocalize in the hepatic centrilobular cells following a toxic dose of APAP to mice. Whereas APAP-adducts are formed by reaction of the metabolite N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone imine with cysteine, nitrotyrosine residues are formed by reaction of tyrosine with peroxynitrite. Peroxynitrite is formed from nitric oxide (NO) and superoxide. This manuscript examines APAP (300 mg/kg) hepatotoxicity in mice lacking inducible nitric oxide synthase activity (NOS2 null or knockout mice; C57BL/6-Nos2(tm1Lau)) and in the wildtype mice. In a time course the ALT levels in the exposed NOS2 null mice were approximately 50% of the wildtype mice; however, histological examination of liver sections indicated similar levels of centrilobular hepatic necrosis in both wild-type and NOS2 null mice. Serum nitrate plus nitrite levels (NO synthesis) were identical in saline-treated NOS2 null and wild-type mice (53 +/- 2 microM). APAP increased NO synthesis in wild-type mice only. The increases paralleled the increases in ALT levels with peak levels of serum nitrate plus nitrite at 6 h (168 +/- 27 microM). In wild-type mice hepatic tyrosine nitration was greatly increased relative to saline treated controls. Tyrosine nitration increased in NOS2 null mice also, but the increase was much less. APAP increased hepatic malonaldehyde levels (lipid peroxidation) in NOS2 null mice only. The results suggest the presence of multiple pathways to APAP-mediated hepatic necrosis, one via nitrotyrosine, as in the wild-type mice, and another that is not dependent upon inducible nitric oxide synthase activity, but which may involve increased superoxide.
