The effects of a novel prolyl oligopeptidase (POP) inhibitor KYP-2047 on spatial memory of young (3-month-old) and old (8- to 9-month-old) scopolamine-treated rats (0.4 mg/kg intraperitoneally) was investigated in the Morris water maze. In addition, the concentrations of promnesic neuropeptide substrates of POP, substance P and neurotensin in various brain areas after acute and chronic POP inhibition were measured in young rats. In addition, inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3)) levels were assayed in rat cortex and hippocampus after effective 2.5-day POP inhibition. KYP-2047 (1 or 5 mg/kg 30 min. before daily testing) dose-dependently improved the escape performance (i.e. latency to find the hidden platform and swimming path length) of the young but not the old rats in the water maze. POP inhibition had no consistent effect on substance P levels in cortex, hippocampus or hypothalamus, and only a modest increase in neurotensin concentration was observed in the hypothalamus after a single dose of KYP-2047. Moreover, IP(3) concentrations remained unaffected in cortex and hippocampus after POP inhibition. In conclusion, the behavioural data support the earlier findings of the promnesic action of POP inhibitors, but the mechanism of the memory-enhancing action remains unclear.
In the present study, we investigated the hepatoprotective effects of salvianolic acid A, a novel antioxidant, against oxidative stress and acute liver injury induced by carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) in rats, and the mechanisms underlying its protective effects. Administration of CCl(4) to rats caused severe hepatic damage, as demonstrated by the significant increase in the levels of serum alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase and classic histological changes including hepatocyte necrosis or apoptosis, haemorrhage, fatty degeneration, etc. Co-treatment with salvianolic acid A (20 mg/kg, intraperitoneally), a water-soluble extract from a Chinese traditional drug, Radix Salvia miltiorrhiza, significantly decreased CCl(4)-induced hepatotoxicity. Salvianolic acid A not only decreased serum alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferas levels and ameliorated histopathological manifestations in CCl(4)-treated rats, but also reduced oxidative stress, as evidenced by decreased reactive oxygen species production and malondialdehyde concentrations in the liver tissues, combined with elevated hepatic superoxide dismutase activity and gluthathione content. In addition, salvianolic acid A treatment remarkably reduced intrahepatic tumour necrosis factor-alpha concentrations and caspase-3 activities as compared with the CCl(4)-treated rats. The results suggested that treatment with salvianolic acid A provides a potent protective effect against acute hepatic damage caused by CCl(4) in rats, which may mainly be related to its antioxidative effect.
Air pollution is associated with significant adverse health effects including increased cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. However research on the cardiovascular effect of "real-world" exposure to ambient particulate matter (PM) in susceptible animal model is very limited. In this study, we aimed to investigate the association between Beijing ambient particle exposure and the atherosclerosis development in the apolipoprotein E knockout mice (ApoE(-/-) mice).
Two parallel exposure chambers were used for whole body exposure among ApoE knockout mice. One of the chambers was supplied with untreated ambient air (PM group) and the other chamber was treated with ambient air filtered by high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filter (FA group). Twenty mice were divided into two groups and exposed to ambient PM (n=10 for PM group) or filtered air (n=10 for FA group) for two months from January 18th to March 18th, 2010. During the exposure, the mass concentrations of PM2.5 and PM10 in the two chambers were continuously monitored. Additionally, a receptor source apportionment model of chemical mass balance using 19 organic tracers was applied to determine the contributions of sources on the PM2.5 in terms of natural gas, diesel vehicle, gasoline vehicle, coal burning, vegetable debris, biomass burning and cooking. At the end of the two-month exposure, biomarkers of oxidative stress, inflammation and lipid metabolism in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BAL) and blood samples were determined and the plaque area on the aortic endothelium was quantified.
In the experiment, the concentrations of PM10 and PM2.5 in PM chamber were 99.45μg/m(3) and 61.0μg/m(3) respectively, while PM2.5 in FA chamber was 17.6μg/m(3). Source apportionment analysis by organic tracers showed that gasoline vehicle (39.9%) and coal burning (24.3%) emission were the two major sources contributing to the mass concentration of PM2.5 in Beijing. Among the ApoE knockout mice, the PM group were significantly higher than the FA group in terms of serum total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and C-reactive protein as well as TNF-alpha and interleukin-6 in BAL. Also the total antioxidant capacity and oxidized low-density lipoprotein were significantly different between the two groups. In addition, pathological analysis of aortic arch reveals that the plaques area in the PM group increased significantly compared to the FA group.
Our results demonstrated that ambient PM exposure could induce considerable oxidative stress and systemic inflammation in ApoE knockout mice and contribute to the progression of atherosclerosis.
Reduction of activity levels in the noradrenergic innervation of the iris of the rat by decentralization of the superior cervical ganglion resulted in a marked increase in sensitivity of these fibers to damage by chronic guanethidine treatment (15 mg/kg/day) as shown by fluorescence histochemistry. Guanethidine also had an increased cytotoxic effect on the decentralized nerve cell bodies. These results suggest that the relative inactivity of male "short" noradrenergic neurons may contribute to their sensitivity to damage by guanethidine. The nature of the damage produced in other tissues by this dose of guanethidine indicates that levels of neuronal activity are not the only factor determining sensitivity to the cytotoxic effects of this drug.
To investigate the mechanism of antianginal action of the calcium channel blocker nisoldipine and to determine the reproducibility of the clinical and hemodynamic events induced by supine leg exercise, 30 patients with stable effort angina pectoris were studied. They were divided into two groups; one group of 19 patients received a single 10-mg dose of nisoldipine orally, and the other group of 11 patients received a single dose of placebo orally. Chest pain was induced in all of 30 patients during the control exercise test. After nisoldipine administration, chest pain was not induced in 13 of 19 patients and was of lessened severity in five patients with the same work load as those performing control exercise. ST segment at peak exercise showed less severe depression after nisoldipine. Systemic vascular resistance was reduced by 38% (p less than 0.001) at rest and 22% (p less than 0.001) at peak exercise, and coronary vascular resistance was reduced by 31% (p less than 0.01) at rest and 18% (p less than 0.01) at peak exercise. Pulmonary artery wedge pressure fell from 6 +/- 1 to 3 +/- 1 mm Hg (p less than 0.001) at rest and from 28 +/- 3 to 11 +/- 2 mm Hg (p less than 0.001) at peak exercise. Coronary sinus flow at rest and myocardial oxygen uptake both at rest and during exercise was not modified by nisoldipine. However, coronary sinus flow at peak exercise increased significantly from 219 +/- 24 to 249 +/- 31 ml/min (p less than 0.01) after nisoldipine, and myocardial oxygen uptake was not significantly changed despite decreased coronary vascular resistance. The clinical and hemodynamic events induced by the exercise during invasive studies (except pulmonary artery wedge pressure at rest) were reproducible after placebo administration. Our data demonstrate that increased coronary blood flow could be the major mechanism of the antianginal action of nisoldipine in supine leg exercise-induced angina.
This study focused on the effects of status epilepticus on the activity of calcineurin, a neuronally enriched, calcium-dependent phosphatase. Calcineurin is an important modulator of many neuronal processes, including learning and memory, induction of apoptosis, receptor function and neuronal excitability. Therefore, a status epilepticus-induced alteration of the activity of this important phosphatase would have significant physiological implications. Status epilepticus was induced by pilocarpine injection and allowed to continue for 60 min. Brain region homogenates were then assayed for calcineurin activity by dephosphorylation of p-nitrophenol phosphate. A significant status epilepticus-dependent increase in both basal and Mn(2+)-dependent calcineurin activity was observed in homogenates isolated from the cortex and hippocampus, but not the cerebellum. This increase was resistant to 150 nM okadaic acid, but sensitive to 50 microM okadaic acid. The increase in basal activity was also resistant to 100 microM sodium orthovanadate. Both maximal dephosphorylation rate and substrate affinity were increased following status epilepticus. However, the increase in calcineurin activity was not found to be due to an increase in calcineurin enzyme levels. Finally, increase in calcineurin activity was found to be NMDA-receptor activation dependent. The data demonstrate that status epilepticus resulted in a significant increase in both basal and maximal calcineurin activity.
Male and female germ cells enter meiosis in response to an extrinsic cue by retinoic acid (RA), but the pathways downstream of RA signaling that regulate early gametogenesis remain uncertain. We identified a novel reproductive homeobox gene, Rhox13, transcribed in the prenatal ovary and testis beginning on Embryonic Day (E) 13.5. Translation of RHOX13 also begins in female germ cells on E13.5 but is suppressed in male germ cells until Postnatal Day 3. Translation of RHOX13 coincides with initiation of RA signaling in both male and female gonads in vivo but occurs precociously in neonatal testes exposed to RA in vitro or in fetal male germ cells when NANOS2 is absent in vivo. Conversely, RHOX13 translation in female germ cells is suppressed in the presence of ectopically induced NANOS2. These results strongly suggest that RHOX13 expression is regulated at a posttranscriptional step by direct interaction of NANOS2 with Rhox13 mRNA to suppress translation.
Thrombospondin-1 is a major activator of transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1), and a peptide derived from the latency-associated peptide, Leu-Ser-Lys-Leu (LSKL), inhibits the activation of TGF-beta1. In this study, the effects of LSKL on the hepatocyte damage and fibrogenesis in dimethylnitrosamine (DMN)-induced rat liver fibrosis were examined.
Animals were given an intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of DMN or saline three times per week for 4 weeks, and treated with LSKL, a control peptide, or saline i.p. daily.
Liver atrophy caused by DMN-injection was significantly inhibited in the DMN+LSKL group. The degrees of necrosis/degeneration and fibrosis scores were significantly lower in the DMN+LSKL group than in the control groups. The hydroxyproline content was significantly higher in the control groups than in the DMN+LSKL group. The amount of active TGF-beta1 was less in the DMN+LSKL group than in the control groups, and the active/total TGF-beta1 ratio in the DMN+LSKL group was suppressed in the control groups. Phosphorylation of Smad 2 in the liver was significantly decreased in the DMN+LSKL group.
The LSKL peptide prevented the progression of hepatic damage and fibrosis through the inhibition of TGF-beta1 activation and its signal transduction in vivo.
Loss of the PTEN tumor suppressor is a common occurrence in human prostate cancer, particularly in advanced disease. In keeping with its role as a pivotal upstream regulator of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signaling pathway, experimentally-induced deletion of Pten in the murine prostate invariably results in neoplasia. However, and unlike humans where prostate tumorigenesis likely evolves over decades, disease progression in the constitutively Pten deficient mouse prostate is relatively rapid, culminating in invasive cancer within several weeks post-puberty. Given that the prostate undergoes rapid androgen-dependent growth at puberty, and that Pten excisions during this time might be especially tumorigenic, we hypothesized that delaying prostate-specific Pten deletions until immediately after puberty might alter the pace of tumorigenesis. To this end we generated mice with a tamoxifen-inducible Cre recombinase transgene enabling temporal control over prostate-specific gene alterations. This line was then interbred with mice carrying floxed Pten alleles. Despite evidence of increased Akt/mTOR/S6K axis activity at early time points in Pten-deficient epithelial cells, excisions induced in the post-pubertal (6 wk-old) prostate yielded gradual acquisition of a range of lesions. These progressed from pre-malignant changes (nuclear atypia, focal hyperplasia) and low grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN) at 16-20 wks post-tamoxifen exposure, to overtly malignant lesions by approximately 1 yr of age, characterized by high-grade PIN and microinvasive carcinoma. In contrast, when Pten excisions were triggered in the pre-pubertal (2 week-old) prostate, neoplasia evolved over a more abbreviated time-frame, with a spectrum of premalignant lesions, as well as overt PIN and microinvasive carcinoma by 10-12 wks post-tamoxifen exposure. These results indicate that the developmental stage at which Pten deletions are induced dictates the pace of PIN development.
To elucidate the role of transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) and the TGF-beta type II receptor (TGF-beta RII) as tumor-suppressor genes in lung carcinogenesis, we mated C57BL/6 mice heterozygous (HT) for deletion of the TGF-beta1 gene with A/J mice to produce AJBL6 TGF-beta1 HT progeny and their wild-type (WT) littermates. Immunohistochemical staining, in situ hybridization, and northern blot analyses showed lower staining and hybridization for TGF-beta1 protein and mRNA, respectively, in the lungs of normal HT mice versus WT mice. Competitive reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (CRT-PCR) amplification showed the level of TGF-beta1 mRNA in the lungs of HT mice to be fourfold lower than the level in WT lung. When challenged with ethyl carbamate, lung adenomas were detected in 55% of HT mice by 4 mo but only in 25% of WT littermates at this time. Whereas all HT mice had adenomas by 6 mo, it was not until 10 mo before all WT mice had adenomas. After 12 mo, the average number of adenomas was fivefold higher in HT lungs than in WT lungs. Most dramatic was the appearance of lung carcinomas in HT mice 8 mo before they were visible in WT mice. Thus, the AJBL6 TGF-beta1 HT mouse provides an excellent model system to examine carcinogen-induced lung tumorigenesis by increasing progressive lesion incidence and multiplicity relative to their WT littermates. Immunohistochemical staining showed expression of the TGF-beta type I receptor (TGF-beta RI) at moderate to strong levels in lung adenomas and carcinomas in HT and WT mice. In contrast, whereas weak immunostaining for TGF-beta RII was detected in 67% of HT carcinomas at 12 mo, only 22% of WT carcinomas showed weak staining for this protein. Individual lung carcinomas showing reduced TGF-beta RII expression and adjacent normal bronchioles were excised from HT lungs using laser capture microdissection, and CRT-PCR amplification of the extracted RNA showed 12-fold less TGF-beta RII mRNA in these carcinomas compared with bronchioles. Decreasing TGF-beta RII mRNA levels occurred with increasing tumorigenesis in lung hyperplasias, adenomas, and carcinomas, with carcinomas having fourfold and sevenfold lower levels of TGF-beta RII mRNA than adenomas and hyperplasias, respectively. These data show enhanced ethyl carbamate-induced lung tumorigenesis in AJBL6 HT mice compared with WT mice, suggesting that both TGF-beta1 alleles are necessary for tumor-suppressor activity. Reduction of TGF-beta RII mRNA expression in progressive stages of lung tumorigenesis in HT mice suggests that loss of TGF-beta RII may play an important role in the promotion of lung carcinogenesis in mice with reduced TGF-beta1 gene dosage when challenged with carcinogen.
Taxanes have high activity against breast cancer cells either as the single agent or in combination with other anticancer compounds. The aim of the study was to determine the effects of vitamin A compounds on the cytotoxic action of paclitaxel and on the expression of ERs in the MCF-7 breast cancer cells. Retinol and beta-carotene, but not retinoids, added to the culture exerted an effect on paclitaxel activity. However, only beta-carotene significantly reduced the percentage of proliferating cells (40.36% +/- 5.64, p < 0.01). We observed that vitamin A and its derivatives combined with paclitaxel and estradiol decreased the percentage of proliferating cells, but only in comparison to estradiol group, whereas retinol and lycopene administered together with paclitaxel and tamoxifen decrease significantly the percentage of proliferatin cells (36.85% +/- 4.71, p < 0.0001 and 37.22% +/- 1.59, p < 0.0001 respectively, compared with paclitaxel group). We have shown that paclitaxel increases the expression of ERalpha and ERbeta mRNA in MCF-7 line. The strongest effect of transcription inhibition ERalpha (2.5 times) and especially ERbeta (10 times) was observed after addition of 9-cis retinoic acid and paclitaxel. This data suggests a synergistic effect of the compounds on ERbeta down-regulation. Our results support the use of retinoid is treatment of ER positive breast cancer patients.
The effect of the calcium antagonist, diltiazem, was examined in gentamicin-induced nephrotoxicity states in rats. Animals were injected for 5 days with diltiazem intraperitoneally (40 mg/kg/day), or gentamicin subcutaneously (100 mg/kg/day) or simultaneously with both preparations using the same doses. At the time of sacrifice, the urea and creatinine clearances, as well as urine osmolality were determined and the renal tissues were processed for examination by light microscopy. Gentamicin-injected rats demonstrated the typical pattern of aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity characterized by poliuric renal failure and necrosis of the proximal tubular epithelium. Rats injected with diltiazem revealed only mild depression of urine osmolality. There was no elevation of blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine or depression of urea and creatinine clearances, and no focal tubular cell necrosis was detected. However, concomitant administration of both compounds considerably increased nephrotoxicity by according both histological indications and renal function measurements. Thus, we conclude that the combination of diltiazem and gentamicin must be used carefully in human clinical practice.
Two children with hypoglycaemia secondary to hyperinsulinaemia were treated with diazoxide. They suffered serious side effects of cardiac failure and truncal ataxia.
Male rat pituitary glands, diethylstilbestrol (DES)-induced rat pituitary tumors and 12 human pituitary adenomas were immunostained with antibodies raised against AT1 and AT2 angiotensin receptor proteins. Positive immunostaining of AT1 was observed in a subpopulation of anterior and intermediate pituitary lobe cells as well as in some nerve endings of the neurohypophysis. In the DES-induced rat pituiary tumors, the subpopulation of AT1-immunnopositive cells was smaller than in the non-tumoral anterior pituitary. In human pituitary adenomas, weak AT1 immunostaining was found in 5 tumors. In the remaining adenomas, the AT1 immunostaining was trace (doubtful) or absent. The AT1 immunostaining in the peritumoral non-neoplastic pituitary tissue was stronger than that observed in the tumors. The normal rat pituitaries and rat tumors did not show immunostaining with anti-AT2 antibody. In human pituitary adenomas, the tumoral cells were AT2- negative but moderate to strong AT2 immunostaining was observed in intratumoral blood vessel walls. The data suggest that the experimental (in rat) and spontaneous (in man) pituitary tumorigenesis is associated with the down-regulation of AT1 receptors. The expression of AT2 receptors, in turn, may be connected with the process of tumoral neo-angiogenesis.
Previous studies have demonstrated a widespread stimulation of regional cerebral metabolic rate(s) for glucose (rCMRglc) in morphine-dependent rats subjected to opioid withdrawal precipitated by systemic injection of naloxone. Nonetheless, many of the behavioral signs of opioid withdrawal are produced by intracerebral injections of an opioid antagonist, methylnaloxonium (MN), into the locus coeruleus (LC). The purpose of the present work was to determine the extent to which cerebral metabolic alterations in opioid withdrawal could be initiated by a local action in LC. Intracerebral injections of MN into LC increased rCMRglc in morphine-dependent rats, and the anatomical distribution of this effect was similar to that produced by systemic injections of naloxone. The present data support the view that LC is a major substrate of opioid withdrawal in the brain, and they suggest that LC plays an important role in changing rCMRglc during opioid withdrawal induced by systemic naloxone administration.
Ropivacaine is less cardiotoxic than bupivacaine and may be used in higher doses in order to increase the quality of a block. The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy and safety of 40 ml ropivacaine 7.5 mg/ml (300 mg) and 40 ml bupivacaine 5 mg/ml (200 mg) for axillary plexus block.
One hundred and four adult patients were included in a prospective, double-blind study. Sensory and motor block were tested for the five main terminal nerves of the arm at 10-min intervals until start of surgery and every second hour there-after until full resolution of the block.
The overall evaluation of the block by the surgeon and the anesthesiologist showed a significantly better quality in the ropivacaine patients, regarding both anesthesia and motor block. There were no differences in the time to onset and duration of the block. Except for one patient, who had seizures after an accidental IV injection of ropivacaine, there were no major side effects.
Ropivacaine 7.5 mg/ml, 40 ml, produces axillary plexus block of similar onset and duration but better quality than 40 ml of bupivacaine 5.0 mg/ml.
Dimenhydrinate may be a relatively common yet unrecognized substance of abuse among adolescents. Abuse of this drug may present as a psychiatric syndrome, particularly depression. Three cases are presented which illustrate this relationship. A review of the literature is presented and suggestions are made for identifying adolescents who abuse dimenhydrinate.
Four patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease developed subacute confusional states, associated with delusions, hallucinations, and myoclonus, following an increase in the dose of levodopa. The EEG revealed periodic generalized triphasic waves. The clinical condition and EEG cleared following levodopa dose reduction or discontinuation. This is the first report of encephalopathy associated with periodic triphasic activity following levodopa treatment.
Four patients who took the antitumor agent mitomycin manifested microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, and renal failure. At autopsy, kidneys from all four patients had a microangiopathy typical of the hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS), with thromboses in glomerular capillaries and arterioles, fibrin deposition in mesangium, and prominent cellular intimal proliferation of the interlobular arteries. Development of the HUS was an important factor contributing to death in all four patients. From a review of the literature and our initial results of a randomized chemotherapy protocol for metastatic adenocarcinoma of the colorectum, it appears that mitomycin was the most likely cause for the development of the HUS in these patients. As more patients are being treated with mitomycin, particular care must be taken to monitor them for development of a drug-induced HUS.
Nifedipine is a calcium channel blocker which results in relaxation of smooth muscle. Although it has been utilized clinically to treat cardiovascular disease, and more recently spastic disorders of the esophagus and colon, its effects on gallbladder contractility have not been clearly defined. We tested the effects of nifedipine on gallbladder contraction stimulated by cholecystokinin (CCK) in a conscious guinea pig model and in healthy human volunteers. Gallbladder contraction was measured in response to repeated injections of CCK before and after intravenous nifedipine given to groups of five guinea pigs in a dose of 100, 200, or 300 micrograms. Nifedipine virtually abolished spontaneous interdigestive gallbladder contractile activity and decreased resting gallbladder tone. The mean amplitude of gallbladder contraction in response to CCK was decreased by 45, 73, and 67% (P less than 0.01), in response to the nifedipine doses of 100, 200, and 300 micrograms, respectively. The integrated gallbladder contractile response and the rate of rise of gallbladder pressure in response to CCK were also significantly decreased by nifedipine. In nine healthy human volunteers, gallbladder emptying was measured by radionuclide cholescintigraphy in response to CCK infusion; on another day the study was repeated after oral administration of 10 mg nifedipine. Ejection fraction was significantly decreased by nifedipine from 72 +/- 5 to 51 +/- 5% (P less than 0.001). These data demonstrate that nifedipine is a potent inhibitor of gallbladder contractility in guinea pigs and man. This may provide the basis for the use of nifedipine clinically in the treatment of biliary colic and also raises questions about the potential effect of long-term nifedipine use on gallstone formation and cholecystitis.
Ropivacaine is a new local anesthetic with alleged lower systemic toxicity and slightly lower potency as compared with bupivacaine. The present study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of ropivacaine in peribulbar block, as compared with that of bupivacaine.
Eighty patients aged 45-92 years with physical status ASA I, II, or III were randomized to Group R (n=40) or Group B (n=40). Group R received 8.0 ml of 1.0% ropivacaine and Group B received 8.0 ml of 0.75% bupivacaine, both solutions with 50 IU/ml hyaluronidase, to induce peribulbar block according to the double-injection technique. Decreased ocular motility was the only criterion of successful block.
The percentage of patients with decreased ocular motility showing successful block was higher in Group R 1 and 5 min after injection. A score indicating successful peribulbar block was found in all patients 10 min after injection. While no patient complained of a burning sensation during ropivacaine injection, 22.5% of the patients given bupivacaine reported this symptom.
Both local anesthetics were effective in inducing peribulbar block for intraocular surgery. A tendency was noted to a faster onset of peribulbar block with ropivacaine; nevertheless, both drugs had a high degree of success for this block.
Effects of nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitors on the enoxacin-induced convulsions were examined in mice pretreated with fenbufen. 7-nitroindazole markedly suppressed the incidence of convulsions, whereas L-arginine did not modify the convulsions at all. The suppression of the convulsions by 7-nitroindazole was not reversed by the pretreatment of L-arginine. Brain NO synthase activity was significantly raised at 30 min after enoxacin when combined with fenbufen. The increased NO synthase activity was found to be suppressed by the pretreatment of 7-nitroindazole. These findings suggest that endogenous NO may be involved as a proconvulsant substance in the development of enoxacin-induced convulsions in mice pretreated with fenbufen.
Heart failure (HF) clinical trials suggest different responses of blacks and whites to beta-blockers. Differences between clinical trial and community settings may also have an impact. The Carvedilol Heart Failure Registry (COHERE) observed experience with carvedilol in 4280 patients with HF in a community setting. This analysis compares characteristics, outcomes, and carvedilol dosing of blacks and whites in COHERE. Compared with whites (n=3433), blacks (n=523) had more severe HF symptoms despite similar systolic function. At similar carvedilol maintenance doses, symptoms improved in 33% of blacks vs 28% of whites, while worsening in 10% and 11%, respectively (both nonsignificant), and HF hospitalization rates were reduced comparably in both groups (-58% vs -56%, respectively; both P<.001). Incidence and hazard ratios of death were similar in blacks and whites (6.9% vs 7.5%, hazard ratio 1.2 vs 1.0, P=.276). Thus carvedilol was similarly effective in blacks and whites with HF in the community setting, consistent with carvedilol clinical trials.
Treatment of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection with lamivudine is effective and well-tolerated. However, discontinuation of the treatment is associated frequently with acute exacerbation of liver diseases. A patient suffering from acute liver failure after discontinuation of lamivudine treatment is described. The patient was treated with lamivudine for 4 months and ceased the treatment without consulting. After receiving lamivudine, the patient developed anti-HBs and became negative for hepatitis B surface antigens (HBsAg). However, HBV DNA reappeared to a level of 6.47 x 10(5) copies/ml. The patient died due to acute liver failure. Sequencing of HBV isolates revealed that mutations including G145R and stop codons occurred within the HBsAg coding region. In conclusion, HBV replication resumed after the uncontrolled cessation of lamivudine treatment in this patient and may have triggered the process leading to liver failure. Anti-HBs antibody appeared and may be the selective force for the emergence of HBV mutants.
Rats were treated with amiodarone (20 mg/kg/day) up to 6 weeks and the neurotoxicity was assessed by determining changes in motor coordination, pain-threshold and rectal temperature every week during treatment. Body weight gain was decreased during amiodarone treatment and it was significant at and after 5 weeks. Food intake and water consumption were significantly reduced during treatment. After the first week of treatment with amiodarone, rats showed decreased ability to balance on horizontal rods. In the hot plate test (paw-lick), the amiodarone treated rats showed increased pain-thresholds throughout the treatment. Hypothermia was significant only at 6 weeks. These results show that amiodarone causes toxicity in rats and this model might be useful for further studies. Decreased motor-coordination, and increased pain-responding times may indicate development of peripheral neuropathy in addition to muscle weakness.
In 58 human subjects monophasic action potentials (MAPs) were recorded with suction electrodes in several areas of the right ventricle (RV). Individual differences between the longest and the shortest RV MAP durations indicate that: normally (40 subjects) ventricular repolarization is almost synchronous; QT prolongation due either to bradycardia or to amiodarone treatment (eight cases) may be the result of a uniform lengthening of ventricular repolarization, when ventricular arrhythmias are not present; in long QT syndromes (LQTSs) of differing etiology (10 cases), in which severe ventricular arrhythmias are present, marked individual differences in RV MAP duration are present and correspond with pathological asynchrony of ventricular repolarization. Also observed in the LQTSs are morphological alterations (humps) in the terminal phase of the longest MAPs. Humps, interpreted as pathological delayed repolarization phenomena, may lead to focal re-excitation which seems to play a key role in the genesis of the arrhythmias complicating LQTSs.
