The purpose of the paper was to present tobacco addiction problem in group of drugs of abuse addicted patients. The structure of abused drugs and addiction to many substances was described. The material was information from patients treated in substitution program in Krakow. There were 64 persons (22 women and 42 men). All of them used illegal drugs of abuse (opiates, amphetamines, cananbinoids) and used other psychoactive substances. The most often was tobacco (93.7%), alcohol (34.4%), drugs (67.2%) and spices (mephedrone). For most of them tobacco was the first abused addicted substance. The mean age of addiction beginning was 17,6 years for tobacco, 19,5 years for drugs of abuse, 21,8 years for alcohol, 25,7 years for medicines. All patients used more than one substance. 25% of them used drugs of abuse, tobacco, alcohol and medicines. The substances can cause different toxicokinetics and toxicodynamics interactions. The problem of addiction to many substances is complex both in patients diagnostics and treatment.
Toluene, an industrial organic solvent, is voluntarily inhaled as drug of abuse. Toluene has been shown to inhibit the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. Nicotinic receptors play an important role in brain development during brain growth spurt and early adolescence. The long-term effects of neonatal and adolescent toluene exposure on behavioral responses to nicotine in early adulthood were compared. Sprague-Dawley male and female rats were treated with toluene (500 mg/kg, ip) or corn oil daily over postnatal day (PN) 4-9 or 25-30. Nicotine-induced hypothermia, antinociception, and seizure activity were examined during PN 56-60. Toluene exposure during the brain growth spurt, but not adolescence, reduced the behavioral responses to nicotine in young adult rats. However, the levels of alpha4, alpha7, and beta2 nicotinic receptors were not altered in the frontal cortex, striatum, thalamus, hippocampus, and cerebellum by neonatal toluene exposure. These results indicate that toluene exposure during the brain growth spurt produces long-term changes in nicotine sensitivity, which may be unrelated to the total expression levels of alpha4, alpha7, and beta2 nicotinic receptors. The alterations in nicotine sensitivity may be related to the neurobehavioral disturbance associated with fetal solvent syndrome.
The GTF2IRD1 gene is of principal interest to the study of Williams-Beuren syndrome (WBS). This neurodevelopmental disorder results from the hemizygous deletion of a region of chromosome 7q11.23 containing 28 genes including GTF2IRD1. WBS is thought to be caused by haploinsufficiency of certain dosage-sensitive genes within the deleted region, and the feature of supravalvular aortic stenosis (SVAS) has been attributed to reduced elastin caused by deletion of ELN. Human genetic mapping data have implicated two related genes GTF2IRD1 and GTF2I in the cause of some the key features of WBS, including craniofacial dysmorphology, hypersociability, and visuospatial deficits. Mice with mutations of the Gtf2ird1 allele show evidence of craniofacial abnormalities and behavioral changes. Here we show the existence of a negative autoregulatory mechanism that controls the level of GTF2IRD1 transcription via direct binding of the GTF2IRD1 protein to a highly conserved region of the GTF2IRD1 promoter containing an array of three binding sites. The affinity for this protein-DNA interaction is critically dependent upon multiple interactions between separate domains of the protein and at least two of the DNA binding sites. This autoregulatory mechanism leads to dosage compensation of GTF2IRD1 transcription in WBS patients. The GTF2IRD1 promoter represents the first established in vivo gene target of the GTF2IRD1 protein, and we use it to model its DNA interaction capabilities.
The finely-tuned increases and decreases in the intracellular calcium levels in myocytes ultimately regulate the contraction and relaxation of the heart. Therapeutic agents can improve or interfere with this delicate balance. Calcium sensitizers enhance cardiac contraction by improving the use of calcium that is available, rather than by inundating the cell with excessive calcium, as is the case with traditional inotropes. With the sensitizing mechanism, the energy cost of contraction is maintained at a near-normal level, and the threat of arrhythmias and sudden death is low. Levosimendan is the first calcium sensitizer to become available for the treatment of patients with acute heart failure. In recent clinical studies, levosimendan increased cardiac output and stroke volume without significantly increasing oxygen demand. By its additional action as a vasodilator (via potassium channel opening), levosimendan also corrects the hemodynamic decompensation, thus lowering the pulmonary capillary wedge pressure and systemic vascular resistance. Furthermore, levosimendan increases the coronary circulation thus leading to an improved function of the stunned myocardium and lessened ischemia. Taken together, levosimendan's primary calcium-sensitizing action, along with its complementary vasodilator properties, make this new drug a highly promising agent for the treatment of patients with acute heart failure.
Brugada syndrome is characterized by the presence of right bundle branch block on electrocardiography and by ST-segment elevation in the right precordial leads (V1-V3), by the absence of structural cardiac abnormalities, and by episodes of syncope or sudden death. On occasion, diagnosis is made difficult by temporary normalization of the ECG. The condition can be unmasked by potent sodium channel blockers, such as flecainide. Our patient presented with a Brugada syndrome-type ECG after intake of a large amount of cocaine.
Chronic and recreational use of cocaine has been shown to impair inhibitory output control (response inhibition) but whether input control is also affected is an open question. For the first time, this study compared the ability to perform a cued target-discrimination task that measured inhibition of return (IOR), a reflexive inhibitory mechanism that delays attention from returning to a previously attended location, in adult recreational users and in a cocaine-free-matched sample controlled for age, race, gender distribution, and level of intelligence. Results show that the recreational use of cocaine eliminates IOR, suggesting that input control is strongly impaired.
Sulfonylureas have, in the past, been reported to have adverse cardiovascular effects. Glimepiride is a new sulfonylurea. In spite of stimulating less insulin secretion, it has, depending on the species, equal or higher blood glucose decreasing activity and according to preliminary studies less cardiovascular activity than glibenclamide. Further studies were performed to confirm the lower cardiovascular activity of glimepiride. The IC50 for inhibition of rilmakalim-activated KATP channel currents in isolated ventricular myocytes was 31.6 nM for glimepiride and 6.8 nM for glibenclamide. In endotoxin shock-rats at a dose of 1 x 2 mg/kg i.v., glibenclamide induced a significantly higher blood pressure increase than glimepiride. At two i.v. doses of 20 mg/kg 4 min apart, in normal rats, glibenclamide produced signs of ischemia in the ECG in nearly all animals, glimepiride almost none, in diabetic rats, glibenclamide produced in all animals a lethal cardiogenic shock preceeded by serious ECG changes, glimepiride only in one fifth of the animals. In open-chest dogs, on intracoronary infusion of equieffective blood glucose-lowering doses, glibenclamide, gliclazide and glimepiride all reduced coronary blood flow, increased coronary resistance, depressed the mechanical activity of the heart, enhanced myocardial O2-extraction, reduced the serum potassium level and induced a moderate endocardial ST-segment elevation, but glimepiride to a significantly less extent than glibenclamide and gliclazide. The presented data confirm that glimepiride at equivalent blood glucose decreasing doses has less cardiovascular activity than conventional sulfonylureas.
Vigabatrin (VGB) is a new-generation anticonvulsant used in the treatment of partial seizures and West syndrome. Side effects of VGB treatment in adults and children are well described. Acute encephalopathy with VGB has recently been reported in eight adults. They developed stupor, confusion, and electroencephalographic abnormalities after starting VGB. Does the acute encephalopathy with VGB also occur in childhood?
We describe a 6-month-old girl with infantile Alexander disease with hydrocephalus who developed similar clinical symptoms with apathia, somnolence, and sopor, as well as slowing of the background activity in EEG, 3 days after starting VGB. After exclusion of shunt dysfunction, encephalitis, metabolic dysfunction, and renal failure, VGB was discontinued.
During the next 2 days, symptoms subsided, and after 10 days, EEG background activity returned to the one before starting VGB.
Acute encephalopathy associated with VGB in children seems to be very rare, but should not be ignored.
Both RhoA/ROCK and NF-κB signaling pathways play important roles in the pathogenesis of diabetic nephropathy (DN). However, it remains unknown whether and how RhoA/ROCK regulates NF-κB signaling in diabetic kidneys. In cultured glomerular mesangial cells (GMCs), the high glucose-activated NF-κB nuclear translocation and DNA binding activity were attenuated by ROCK inhibitor Y27632 or dominant-negative RhoA mutant, indicating that RhoA/ROCK signaling regulates high glucose-activated NF-κB pathway. Furthermore, NF-κB-regulated inflammatory factors ICAM-1 and TGF-β1 were markedly increased in high glucose-treated GMCs, leading to accumulation of fibronectin (FN), an important component of extracellular matrix (ECM), This effect was also effectively attenuated by Y27632 or dominant-negative RhoA mutant. In STZ-induced diabetic rats, treatment with ROCK inhibitor fasudil suppressed the RhoA/ROCK activation and NF-κB nuclear translocation, and significantly reduced the renal FN, ICAM-1 and TGF-β1 protein levels. Thus, the RhoA/ROCK pathway may regulate NF-κB to upregulate inflammatory genes and mediate the development of DN.
ORG 5222 is a tetracyclic compound with high affinity for dopamine and 5-HT2 receptors. ORG 5222 was compared to fluphenazine in behavioural tests and was shown to be less potent to cause catalepsy on peripheral administration or to induce asymmetric body posturing following intrastriatal injection. On injection into the nucleus accumbens, ORG 5222 antagonised spontaneous and amphetamine-induced hyperactivity. The peripheral administration of ORG 5222 antagonised the hyperactivity induced by infusion of dopamine into the nucleus accumbens of rat or ventral striatum of the marmoset and, unlike the use of fluphenazine, there was no evidence of a 'rebound' hyperactivity after discontinuation of treatment. Furthermore, ORG 5222 prevented changes in responsiveness to dopamine agonist challenge following dopamine infusion. In a mouse black and white test box and the rat elevated plus maze ORG 5222 released exploratory behaviour suppressed by the aversive white or elevated environments. It is concluded that ORG 5222 is effective to antagonise mesolimbic dopamine function in the rodent and primate and an aversive behaviour in rodent tests. Such effects reveal a novel profile of action of ORG 5222 in behavioural paradigms predictive of antipsychotic and anxiolytic potential and may relate to a dopamine and 5-HT receptor antagonism.
Pentavalent antimony compounds are the first line of drugs in the treatment of cutaneous leishmaniasis. However, because of their potential toxic effects, many investigations are performed to find an effective and safe treatment for cutaneous leishmaniasis patients. Our objective in this investigation was to compare the effect of oral omeprazole and low dose systemic meglumine antimoniate (MA) and standard dose of systemic MA in the treatment of cutaneous leishmaniasis.
This was a randomized double-blinded clinical trial. In 150 patients with cutaneous leishmaniasis who were randomly divided into three groups and were treated with: (i) MA 60 mg/kg/day/ IM and oral placebo for three weeks; (ii) MA 30 mg/kg/day/IM and oral omeprazole 40 mg/day for three weeks; and (iii) MA 30 mg/kg/day/IM and oral placebo for three weeks. All the patients were visited every two weeks from the beginning of the trial up to six weeks and then at 8 and 12 weeks. The effectiveness of the treatment was classified in three levels as complete response, partial response and no response. Data were analyzed by SPSS 10 using KI square, Mann-Whitney, Kaplan-Mayer and ANOVA tests.
Rate of complete response for three months (12 weeks) after starting the treatments was 93% for the group treated with standard dose of glucantime and placebo, 89% for the group treated with omeprazole and low dose glucantime and 80% for the group treated with low dose glucantime and placebo and these differences were significant (p < 0.05). The highest response rate was for the group treated with standard dose of glucantime and placebo.
Although oral omeprazole and low dose of systemic MA showed less efficacy in comparison to standard dose of systemic MA in the treatment of cutaneous leishmaniasis, it still can be considered as a replacement therapy in high risk patients (such as patients with heart, kidney and/or liver disease) under close supervision of physician.
The present study was designed to explore the protective effects of melatonin and its analogs, 6-hydroxymelatonin and 8-methoxy-2-propionamidotetralin, on the survival of doxorubicin-treated mice and on doxorubicin-induced cardiac dysfunction, ultrastructural alterations, and apoptosis in mouse hearts. Whereas 60% of the mice treated with doxorubicin (25 mg/kg ip) died in 5 days, almost all the doxorubicin-treated mice survived when melatonin or 6-hydroxymelatonin (10 mg/l) was administered in their drinking water. Perfusion of mouse hearts with 5 microM doxorubicin for 60 min led to a 50% suppression of heart rate x left ventricular developed pressure and a 50% reduction of coronary flow. Exposure of hearts to 1 microM melatonin or 6-hydroxymelatonin reversed doxorubicin-induced cardiac dysfunction. 8-Methoxy-2-propionamidotetralin had no protective effects on animal survival and on in vitro cardiac function. Infusion of melatonin or 6-hydroxymelatonin (2.5 microg/h) significantly attenuated doxorubicin-induced cardiac dysfunction, ultrastructural alterations, and apoptosis in mouse hearts. Neither melatonin nor 6-hydroxymelatonin compromised the antitumor activity of doxorubicin in cultured PC-3 cells. These results suggest that melatonin protect against doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity without interfering with its antitumor effect.
The Department of Defense (DoD) has identified that one of the main complaints of personnel exposed to JP-8 jet fuel is irritant dermatitis. The purpose of this investigation is to describe the JP-8-induced inflammatory cytokine response in skin. JP-8 jet fuel or acetone control (300 microl) was applied to the denuded skin of rats once a day for 7 days. Skin samples from the exposed area were collected 2 and 24 h after the final exposure. Histological examination of skin biopsies showed neutrophilic inflammatory infiltrate. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was performed utilizing skin total RNA to examine the expression of various inflammatory cytokines. The CXC chemokine GROalpha was significantly upregulated at both time points, whereas GRObeta was only increased 2 h post final exposure. The CC chemokines MCP-1, Mip-1alpha, and eotaxin were induced at both time points, whereas Mip-1beta was induced only 24 h post exposure. Interleukins-1beta and -6 (IL-1beta and IL-6) mRNAs were significantly induced at both time points, while TNFalpha was not significantly different from control. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) of skin protein confirmed that MCP-1, TNFalpha, and IL-1beta were modulated as indicated by PCR analysis. However, skin IL-6 protein content was not increased 2 h post exposure, whereas it was significantly upregulated by jet fuel after 24 h. Data from the present study indicate that repeated (7 days) JP-8 exposure induces numerous proinflammatory cytokines in skin. The increased expression of these cytokines and chemokines may lead to increased inflammatory infiltrate in exposed skin, resulting in JP-8-induced irritant dermatitis.
Lead (Pb(2+)) is a naturally occurring systemic toxicant heavy metal that affects several organs in the body including the kidneys, liver, and central nervous system. However, Pb(2+)-induced cardiotoxicity has never been investigated yet and the exact mechanism of Pb(2+) associated cardiotoxicity has not been studied. The current study was designed to investigate the potential effect of Pb(2+) to induce cardiotoxicity in vivo and in vitro rat model and to explore the molecular mechanisms and the role of aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) and regulated gene, cytochrome P4501A1 (CYP1A1), in Pb(2+)-mediated cardiotoxicity. For these purposes, Wistar albino rats were treated with Pb(2+) (25, 50 and 100mg/kg, i.p.) for three days and the effects on physiological and histopathological parameters of cardiotoxicity were determined. At the in vitro level, rat cardiomyocyte H9c2 cell lines were incubated with increasing concentration of Pb(2+) (25, 50, and 100 μM) and the expression of hypertrophic genes, α- and β-myosin heavy chain (α-MHC and β-MHC), brain Natriuretic Peptide (BNP), and CYP1A1 were determined at the mRNA and protein levels using real-time PCR and Western blot analysis, respectively. The results showed that Pb(2+) significantly induced cardiotoxicity and heart failure as evidenced by increase cardiac enzymes, lactate dehydrogenase and creatine kinase and changes in histopathology in vivo. In addition, Pb(2+) treatment induced β-MHC and BNP whereas inhibited α-MHC mRNA and protein levels in vivo in a dose-dependent manner. In contrast, at the in vitro level, Pb(2+) treatment induced both β-MHC and α-MHC mRNA levels in time- and dose-dependent manner. Importantly, these changes were accompanied with a proportional increase in the expression of CYP1A1 mRNA and protein expression levels, suggesting a role for the CYP1A1 in cardiotoxicity. The direct evidence for the involvement of CYP1A1 in the induction of cardiotoxicity by Pb(2+) was evidenced by the ability of AhR antagonist, resveratrol, to significantly inhibit the Pb(2+)-modulated effect on β-MHC and α-MHC mRNAs. It was concluded that acute lead exposure induced cardiotoxicity through AhR/CYP1A1-mediated mechanism.
The objective of the present study is to determine whether di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) exposure at adulthood increases rat Leydig cell number and to investigate the possible mechanism. 90-day-old Long-Evans rats were randomly divided into 3 groups, and were gavaged with the corn oil (control) or 10 or 750 mg/kg DEHP daily for 7 days, and then received an intraperitoneal injection of 75 mg/kg ethane dimethanesulfonate (EDS) to eliminate Leydig cells. Serum testosterone concentrations were assessed by RIA, and the mRNA levels of Leydig cell genes were measured by qPCR. EDS eliminated all Leydig cells in the control testis on day 4 post-EDS, as judged by undetectable serum testosterone level and no 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase positive (3β-HSD(pos)) cells in the interstitium. However, in DEHP-treated groups, there were detectable serum testosterone concentrations and some oval-shaped 3β-HSD(pos) cells in the interstitium. These 3β-HSD(pos) cells were not stained by the antibody against 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 1 (11β-HSD1), a marker for Leydig cells at a more advanced stage. The disappearance of mRNAs of Leydig cell biomarkers including Lhcgr, Cyp11a1, Cyp17a1, Insl3 and Hsd11b1 in the control testis was observed on day 4 post-EDS. However, there were detectable concentrations of Lhcgr, Cyp11a1 and Cyp17a1 mRNAs but undetectable concentrations of Insl3, Hsd17b3 and Hsd11b1 in the DEHP-treated testes, indicating that these 3β-HSD(pos) cells were newly formed progenitor Leydig cells. The mRNA level for nestin (Nes, biomarker for stem Leydig cells) was significantly increased in the control testis on day 4 post-EDS, but not in the DEHP treated testes, suggesting that these nestin positive stem cells were differentiated into progenitor Leydig cells in the DEHP-treated testes. The present study suggests that DEHP increases the differentiation of stem cells into progenitor Leydig cells.
Epidural steroid injections are widely used for the treatment of lumbago and sciatica although their efficacy has not yet been demonstrated in a convincing way. Moreover, systemic complications, although rare, have been documented. The present case report illustrates that even a single low-dose epidural injection may induce Cushing's syndrome and even steroid myopathy.
The risk of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) in patients receiving antithrombotic therapy is well known. However, there is sparse literature regarding the risk of intracerebral hemorrhage in patients receiving warfarin, who have an intracranial meningioma.
We report a case of a 66-year-old man who developed multifocal ICHs in the context of supratherapeutic anticoagulation. There was sparing of the intracranial meningioma despite the development and growth of multiple intraparenchymal hemorrhages that resulted in death. We also review the literature evaluating the risk of ICH in anticoagulated patients with an intracranial meningioma.
The findings of this case lend further support to the gradually developing notion of relative safety of anticoagulation in patients with meningioma. They also underscore the importance of close monitoring of the INR.
We report a case of bidirectional tachycardia (BT) found on Holter recording (H-ECG), likely due to antiarrhythmic therapy with lorajmine. The patient, who was not on digitalis therapy and had good myocardial function, was investigated for presyncope. H-ECG revealed frequent premature ventricular complexes (PVC). Disopyramide, lorajmine and amiodarone (in succession) were ineffective in controlling the arrhythmias. During therapy with lorajmine (600 mg/die) H-ECG showed numerous symptomless episodes of BT. Two forms of BT were found. In the first one the PVC had a right bundle branch block (BBB) pattern in lead CM1 and alternating polarity (Rs-rS) in lead CM5, whereas in the second one an alternating right and left BBB pattern in CM1 was found. PVC were subsequently controlled with flecainide. In a 4-year follow-up period the patient underwent several H-ECGs, both with and without antiarrhythmic drugs; however, BT episodes were found only during lorajmine therapy. Thus, this drug was likely responsible for the appearance of BT episodes.
Exposure of isolated SENCAR mouse epidermal cells to the tumor promoter 12-0-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) in vitro resulted in the production of oxidant species detected as chemiluminescence. This oxidant response can be inhibited by superoxide dismutase and copper complexes but not catalase or scavengers of hydroxyl radical or singlet oxygen, suggesting that the oxidant is superoxide anion. Inhibitors of various parts of the arachidonate cascade affect the TPA-induced oxidant response in a manner that corresponds to their effects on in vivo tumor promotion experiments. Agents that inhibit lipoxygenase activity, i.e. nordihydroguaiaretic acid, benoxaprofen, but not agents that are cyclooxygenase inhibitors, i.e. indomethacin, are effective in suppressing the oxidant response to TPA. Phospholipase C but not phospholipase A2 or D produced an oxidant response kinetically similar to that elicited by TPA. The inhibitors of TPA-induced oxidants inhibited the phospholipase C response to the same extent, suggesting that TPA and phospholipase C may produce an oxidant species through a common mechanism, via phospholipid turnover-protein kinase C activation. The relevance of oxidant production to the tumor promotion process is suggested by the ability of exogenous xanthine/xanthine oxidase, a superoxide anion-generating system, to induce ornithine decarboxylase, a characteristic of TPA-treated cells. In addition, oxidant production is significantly lower in cells from the TPA-promotion resistant C57BL/6J mouse. These studies provide further support for a role for reactive oxygens in the tumor promotion process.
Circulating autoimmune complexes of IgM rheumatoid factors (RF) bound to the Fc portions of normal, polyclonal IgG antibodies are frequently present in humans with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The sweet tasting methyl ester of L-Asp-L-Phe (aspartame or APM) was found to relieve pain and improve joint mobility in subjects with osteo- and mixed osteo/rheumatoid arthritis [Edmundson, A. B. and Manion, C. V. (1998). Clin. Pharmac. Ther. 63, 580-593]. These clinical observations prompted the testing of the inhibition by APM of the binding interactions of human IgM RFs with IgG Fc regions. The propensity of APM to inhibit IgM RF binding was assessed by competitive enzyme immunoassays with solid-phase human IgG. Ten RA serum samples and three purified monoclonal cryoglobulins, all of which had RF activity, were tested in this system. We found that the presence of APM significantly reduced the binding of IgM RFs. The inhibitory propensity of APM with monoclonal RF cryoglobulins was increased by the addition of CaCl(2) to the binding buffer. Similar inhibition of the binding of RA derived RFs to IgG was observed for Asp-Phe and its amidated derivative, indicating that the methyl ester is not required for APM's interaction with IgM antibodies. A human (Mez) IgM known to bind octameric peptides derived from the Fc portion of a human IgG(1) antibody was tested for binding of dipeptides by the Pepscan method of combinatorial chemistry. The relative binding constants of Asp-Phe and Phe-Asp were ranked among the highest values for 400 possible combinations of the 20 most common amino acids. Possible blocking interactions of APM were explored by computer-assisted docking studies with the model of a complex of an RF Fab with the Fc of a human IgG(4) antibody. Modeling of ternary immune complexes revealed a few key residues, which could act as molecular recognition sites for APM. A structural hypothesis is presented to explain the observed interference with RF reactivity by APM. Extrapolations of the current results suggest that APM may inhibit the binding of IgG in a substantial proportion of IgM RFs. Interference of RF reactivity, especially in RA patients, may alleviate the pain and immobility resulting from chronic inflammation of the joints.
Thimerosal is an organic mercury compound that is used as a preservative in vaccines and pharmaceutical products. Recent studies have shown a TH2-skewing effect of mercury, although the underlying mechanisms have not been identified. In this study, we investigated whether thimerosal can exercise a TH2-promoting effect through modulation of functions of dendritic cells (DC). Thimerosal, in a concentration-dependent manner, inhibited the secretion of LPS-induced proinflammatory cytokines TNF-alpha, IL-6, and IL-12p70 from human monocyte-derived DC. However, the secretion of IL-10 from DC was not affected. These thimerosal-exposed DC induced increased TH2 (IL-5 and IL-13) and decreased TH1 (IFN-gamma) cytokine secretion from the T cells in the absence of additional thimerosal added to the coculture. Thimerosal exposure of DC led to the depletion of intracellular glutathione (GSH), and addition of exogenous GSH to DC abolished the TH2-promoting effect of thimerosal-treated DC, restoring secretion of TNF-alpha, IL-6, and IL-12p70 by DC and IFN-gamma secretion by T cells. These data suggest that modulation of TH2 responses by mercury and thimerosal, in particular, is through depletion of GSH in DC.
Four elderly patients developed nephrotic syndrome while receiving sulindac. Sulindac treatment had commenced 4-12 months prior to presentation with the nephrotic syndrome. Two patients also developed oliguric renal failure. Renal biopsy in one showed minimal change nephropathy and in three cases membranous nephropathy. Interstitial nephritis was present on renal biopsy in all cases. The nephrotic syndrome and renal failure resolved in all cases after withdrawal of sulindac. Two patients received steroid therapy and improvement in renal function and disappearance of proteinuria seemed to be temporarily related to steroid therapy in both cases. Despite the fact that sulindac is less likely to cause renal failure due to inhibition of renal prostaglandin secretion this report shows that sulindac treatment can be associated with renal failure and the nephrotic syndrome.
The anti-inflammatory activities of some medicinal plants are attributed to their contents of sesquiterpene lactones. In the present study, the anti-inflammatory and anti-nociceptive activity of a sesquiterpene lactone isolated from Viguiera robusta, budlein A in mice was investigated. The treatment with budlein A dose--(1.0-10.0 mg/kg, p.o., respectively) dependently inhibited the carrageenan-induced: i. neutrophil migration to the peritoneal cavity (2-52%), ii. neutrophil migration to the paw skin tissue (32-74%), iii. paw oedema (13-74%) and iv. mechanical hypernociception (2-58%) as well as the acetic acid-induced writhings (0-66%). Additionally, budlein A (10.0 mg/kg) treatment inhibited the mechanical hypernociception-induced by tumour necrosis factor (TNF-alpha, 36%), Keratinocyte-derived chemokine (KC, 37%) and Interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta, 28%), but not of prostaglandin E(2) or dopamine. Budlein A also inhibited the carrageenan-induced release of TNF-alpha (52%), KC (70%) and IL-1beta (59%). Furthermore, an 8 days treatment with budlein A inhibited Complete Freund's adjuvant (10 microl/paw)-induced hypernociception, paw oedema and paw skin myeloperoxidase activity increase while not affecting the motor performance or myeloperoxidase activity in the stomach. Concluding, the present data suggest that budlein A presents anti-inflammatory and antinociceptive property in mice by a mechanism dependent on inhibition of cytokines production. It supports the potential beneficial effect of orally administered budlein A in inflammatory diseases involving cytokine-mediated nociception, oedema and neutrophil migration.
The nuclear hormone receptor, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-gamma, originally identified as a key mediator of adipogenesis, is expressed widely and implicated in diverse biological responses. Both natural and synthetic agonists of PPAR-gamma abrogated the stimulation of collagen synthesis and myofibroblast differentiation induced by transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta in vitro. To characterize the role of PPAR-gamma in the fibrotic process in vivo, the synthetic agonist rosiglitazone was used in a mouse model of scleroderma. Rosiglitazone attenuated bleomycin-induced skin inflammation and dermal fibrosis as well as subcutaneous lipoatrophy and counteracted the up-regulation of collagen gene expression and myofibroblast accumulation in the lesioned skin. Rosiglitazone treatment reduced the induction of the early-immediate transcription factor Egr-1 in situ without also blocking the activation of Smad2/3. In both explanted fibroblasts and skin organ cultures, rosiglitazone prevented the stimulation of collagen gene transcription and cell migration elicited by TGF-beta. Rosiglitazone-driven adipogenic differentiation of both fibroblasts and preadipocytes was abrogated in the presence of TGF-beta; this effect was accompanied by the concomitant down-regulation of cellular PPAR-gamma mRNA expression. Collectively, these results indicate that rosiglitazone treatment attenuates inflammation, dermal fibrosis, and subcutaneous lipoatrophy via PPAR-gamma in a mouse model of scleroderma and suggest that pharmacological PPAR-gamma ligands, widely used as insulin sensitizers in the treatment of type-2 diabetes mellitus, may be potential therapies for scleroderma.
We describe the case of a patient treated for hypertension with the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril, who developed hypotension after recovery from anaesthesia.
Dextromethorphan, a noncompetitive blocker of N-methyl-D- aspartate (NMDA) type of glutamate receptor, at 7.5-75 mg/kg, ip did not induce oral stereotypies or catalepsy and did not antagonize apomorphine stereotypy in rats. These results indicate that dextromethorphan at 7.5-75 mg/kg does not stimulate or block postsynaptic striatal D2 and D1 dopamine (DA) receptors. Pretreatment with 15 and 30 mg/kg dextromethorphan potentiated dexamphetamine stereotypy and antagonised haloperidol catalepsy. Pretreatment with 45, 60 and 75 mg/kg dextromethorphan, which release 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), however, antagonised dexamphetamine stereotypy and potentiated haloperidol catalepsy. Apomorphine stereotypy was not potentiated or antagonised by pretreatment with 7.5-75 mg/kg dextromethorphan. This respectively indicates that at 7.5-75 mg/kg dextromethorphan does not exert facilitatory or inhibitory effect at or beyond the postsynaptic striatal D2 and D1 DA receptors. The results are explained on the basis of dextromethorphan (15-75 mg/kg)-induced blockade of NMDA receptors in striatum and substantia nigra pars compacta. Dextromethorphan at 15 and 30 mg/kg, by blocking NMDA receptors, activates nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons and thereby potentiates dexampetamine stereotypy and antagonizes haloperidol catalepsy. Dextromethorphan at 45, 60 and 75 mg/kg, by blocking NMDA receptors, releases 5-HT and through the released 5-HT exerts an inhibitory influence on the nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons with resultant antagonism of dexampetamine stereotypy and potentiation of haloperidol catalepsy.
Cefazolin injection (3000 mg/kg, i.v.) in mice showed several behavioral excitations such as wild running, jumping, rolling, and finally undergoing severe convulsions followed by death. It's lower doses (500-2000 mg/kg, i.v.) were unable to produce any convulsions or behavioral excitations in mice. However, cefazolin (500 or 1000 mg/kg, i.v.) when administered before different doses of pentylenetetrazol (PTZ; 40 or 60 mg/kg, i.p.) or picrotoxin (PTX; 4 or 8 mg/kg, i.p.), it produced severe tonic-clonic convulsions in mice. The convulsions or behavioral excitations produced by 3000 mg/kg, i.v. cefazolin was also reversed by different doses of diazepam (0.5-2 mg/kg, i.p.) further proving the GABAergic modulatory effect of cefazolin. The results conclude the pro-convulsant action of cefazolin on PTZ- or PTX-induced convulsions, and further confirm the clinical reports.
