In unaneasthetized and unrestrained cats, muscarine and carbachol were injected into the cerebral ventricles. The kind of aggressive behaviour depended on the cholinomimetic drug and was classified as fear and an irritable kind of aggression. Muscarine induced the fear kind of aggression. The aggressive behaviour was usually preceded by attempts to escape and the attack was relevant to the situation. For the attack the presence of some threatening agent was needed. The aggression was accompanied by intense motor but less autonomic activation. On the other hand, carbachol induced an irritable kind of aggression and had the following characteristics: for the attack the presence of some threatening agent was not needed; the attack was not relevant to the situation; the aggression was not preceded by attempts to escape; and the aggressive behaviour was accompanied by intense motor and autonomic activation. It is concluded that cholinoceptive mechanisms are involved in the control of aggressive behaviour.
The incidence of nephrotoxicity has been studied in 175 patients who received either gentamicin or tobramycin. All patients received individualized dosing regimens of the drugs based on pharmacokinetic parameters measured after the initial dose. Subsequent doses were calculated from the pharmacokinetic data to produce peak aminoglycoside levels of between 6 and 8 micrograms ml-1 and trough levels that were below 2 micrograms ml-1. Renal toxicity was defined as a 30 per cent or greater increase in the serum creatinine level above the baseline value. Five of the 125 patients (4 per cent) who received gentamicin, and 1 of the 39 patients (2.6 per cent) who received tobramycin developed signs of nephrotoxicity. This difference was not statistically significant.
Administration of 0.025--0.1 mg/kg of apomorphine i.p. to mice produced a dose-dependent locomotor depression. Haloperidol, 0.025 mg/kg, produced locomotor stimulation, whereas 0.1 mg/kg caused locomotor depression. Pretreatment with haloperidol also reversed the depression caused by apomorphine. The functional antagonism is discussed in terms of a possible agonist-antagonist interaction on dopaminergic autoreceptors.
To report a case of central retinal vein occlusion associated with clomiphene citrate (CC).
Case study.
Ophthalmology clinic of an academic hospital.
A 36-year-old woman referred from the infertility clinic for blurred vision.
Ophthalmic examination after CC therapy.
Central retinal vein occlusion after ovulation induction with CC.
A 36-year-old Chinese woman developed central retinal vein occlusion after eight courses of CC. A search of the literature on the thromboembolic complications of CC does not include this severe ophthalmic complication, although mild visual disturbance after CC intake is not uncommon.
This is the first reported case of central retinal vein occlusion after treatment with CC. Extra caution is warranted in treating infertility patients with CC, and patients should be well informed of this side effect before commencement of therapy.
Variation in sensitivity to glucocorticoids observed in healthy population is influenced by genetic polymorphisms of the glucocorticoid receptor gene (NR3C1). N363S, ER22/23EK, and Bcl I have been previously described as glucocorticoid-sensitivity modulating polymorphisms. We investigated whether these variants may contribute to steroid-induced ocular hypertension and if they play a role as protective or risk factors during exogenous glucocorticoid administration.
We examined 102 patients who underwent photorefractive keratectomy and received topical steroids (either fluorometholone 0.1% or prednisolone acetate 0.5% alone or combined) as part of postoperative therapy. The choice of steroid depended on course of wound healing and regression. Variations in intraocular pressure (IOP) levels in response to steroid therapy were observed. To genotype DNA, allele-specific PCR amplification was applied for the N363S polymorphism, and PCR-based restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis was performed to examine the Bcl I and the ER22/23EK polymorphisms. We separately analyzed data from three groups of patients: those who received fluorometholone only; those who were initially given fluorometholone then later switched to prednisolone acetate; and those who received prednisolone acetate only. Covariance analysis with forward stepwise variable selection was carried out.
In cases where prednisolone acetate was administered, we found a significant correlation between N363S heterozygosity and steroid-induced ocular hypertension. ER22/23EK and Bcl I polymorphisms do not have a major influence on the risk of developing steroid-induced ocular hypertension.
Genotyping of high risk steroid responders may allow an individual therapy to avoid steroid-induced ocular hypertension. The N363S polymorphism may have a clinical significance in the future.
The DNA repair gene XPD, an important caretaker of the overall genome stability, is thought to play a major role in the development of human malignancy. Polymorphic variants of XPD, at codon 312, 751, and other sites, have been associated with cancer susceptibility, but few studies have investigated their effect on prostate cancer risk.
In this hospital-based case-control study, the association of XPD codon 312, 751 and promoter-114 polymorphisms with prostate cancer risk in a Taiwanese population were investigated. In total, 123 patients with prostate cancer and 479 healthy controls recruited from the China Medical Hospital in Central Taiwan were genotyped.
We found a significant difference in the frequency of the XPD codon 312 genotype, but not the XPD codon 751 or promoter-114 genotypes, between the prostate cancer and control groups. Those who had GIA or A/A at XPD codon 312 showed a 1.81-fold (95% confidence interval=1.21-2.69) increased risk of prostate cancer compared to those with GIG. As for XPD codon 312 or promoter-114, there was no difference in distribution between the prostate cancer and control groups.
Our findings suggest that the heterozygous and homozygous A allele of the XPD codon 312 may be associated with the development of prostate cancer and may be a useful marker for primary prevention and anticancer intervention.
This study assessed once-daily (OD), sustained-release (SR) diltiazem alone and in combination with ramipril in essential hypertension. Fifty patients with supine diastolic blood pressure (DBP) > or = 95-< or = 114 mm Hg were entered into the active treatment phase of the study after 2 weeks of placebo run-in. Sustained-release diltiazem 180 mg OD was administered for 2 weeks, then optimally titrated, at 2 week intervals, to SR diltiazem 240 mg OD and then SR diltiazem 180 mg + ramipril 2.5 mg OD to achieve supine DBP < or = 90 mm Hg. After 4 weeks of diltiazem monotherapy (SR diltiazem 180 mg or 240 mg OD) mean supine DBP was reduced from 102.84 +/- 3.81 mm Hg to 90.15 +/- 5.02 mm Hg (P < 0.01) and mean supine heart rate was reduced from 85.15 +/- 11.02 bpm to 77.62 +/- 11.45 bpm (p < 0.01). Diltiazem monotherapy reduced supine DBP to < or = 90 mm Hg in 35/45 (77.77%) patients. Combination therapy (SR diltiazem 180 mg + ramipril 2.5 mg OD), received by non-responders to diltiazem monotherapy, reduced supine DBP to < or = 90 mm Hg in 3/10 (30%) patients. Sinus bradycardia was observed in one patient. Sustained-release diltiazem alone and in combination with ramipril reduce blood pressure in a dose related manner and is well tolerated.
A 48-year-old patient with Crohn's disease was admitted to our hospital with fatigue, icterus, hepatosplenomegaly and ascites. INVESTIGARTIOS: The whole blood count revealed a pancytopenia, hyperbilirubinemia and slightly elevated transaminases. Examination of the liver histology showed areas of enlarged hyperplastic hepatocytes adjacent to areas of atrophic hepatocytes and dilated sinusoids.
Pancytopenia was most likely azathioprine-related. Analysis of the liver histology was highly suggestive of an azathioprine-related, nodular regenerative hyperplasia (NRH). After discontinuation of azathioprine the patient's condition improved substantially.
NRH is a rare but potentially serious complication of azathioprine therapy. Other causes include various rheumatological, vascular and myeloproliferative diseases. When azathioprine is prescribed it must be borne in mind that it can cause NRH as a potential adverse effect, and liver enzymes should be measured at regular follow-up examinations.
The pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, clinical efficacy, adverse effects, and dosage of guanfacine hydrochloride are reviewed. Guanfacine lowers blood pressure by activating CNS alpha adrenoreceptors, which results in sympathetic outflow leading to reduced vascular tone. However, initial hypotensive response to guanfacine may be caused by stimulation of peripheral presynaptic receptors that inhibit sympathetic nerve function. Guanfacine is rapidly and completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and apparently undergoes extensive distribution to all tissues. Steady-state plasma concentrations may be reached in four days. About 30% is excreted renally; the rest is metabolized hepatically. Its long duration of action is related to a slow elimination half-life. In the few controlled clinical trials of guanfacine versus placebo, systolic and diastolic blood pressures were reduced in patients treated with guanfacine; daily dosages of guanfacine 1, 2, and 3 mg (as the hydrochloride salt) were comparable in efficacy. Several large open trials of guanfacine showed blood pressure reductions of about 16% after one year; some patients received other antihypertensive therapy concomitantly. Guanfacine and clonidine appear to have comparable effects in reducing both systolic and diastolic blood pressure when given as monotherapy and as step-2 therapy; data on the comparative blood-pressure-lowering effects of guanfacine and methyldopa are less consistent. Guanfacine's adverse reactions include dry mouth, sedation, and constipation. Adverse effects and reaction to sudden withdrawal of the drug may be less severe with guanfacine than with clonidine. A daily dose of guanfacine 1 mg (as the hydrochloride salt) at bedtime is recommended; 2 or 3 mg, or divided doses, may be given if needed. Once-daily administration and fewer adverse effects may give guanfacine some advantage over other centrally acting antihypertensive agents. Further study is needed to determine whether it will be adequate as first-line therapy.
Two cases of infection with Campylobacter fetus subspecies intestinalis are reported. In a 46-year-old farmer the development of septicaemic campylobacteriosis with acute gastroenterocolitis was favoured by malnutrition due to chronic alcoholism. After treatment with erythromycin the patient recovered completely. The second patient, a 40-year-old worker with meningitis, recovered after combined streptomycin-erytro-mycin therapy. In both patients antibodies against homologous and reference strains of Campylobycter fetus subspecies intestinalis, serotype 1 (Mitscherlich) were demonstrated in titres ranging from 1:16 to 1:64 by type the complement-fixation test.
Opiate replacement therapy has been useful in reducing heroin use and in keeping patients in treatment programs. However, neuropsychological and neurophysiological effects of this treatment regimen have not been evaluated systematically. To determine whether methadone treatment reduces the magnitude of cerebral blood flow alternations in polysubstance (heroin and cocaine) abusers, we compared blood flow parameters in control subjects (n=26), polysubstance abusers (n=28) maintained on methadone for 24 weeks, and polysubstance abusers (n=22) who were not seeking treatment. Blood flow velocity was recorded from the anterior and middle cerebral arteries using transcranial Doppler sonography on an outpatient visit. The pulsatility index, a measure of cerebrovascular resistance, was significantly (p&<0.05) increased in both groups of polysubstance abusers compared to control subjects. Increased pulsatility in the two groups of substance abusers suggests constriction of the small cortical arteries. Nevertheless, the methadone-maintained polysubstance abusers had significantly lower pulsatility values than the nontreatment substance-abusing group. These findings suggest that maintenance on methadone might have significant beneficial neurovascular effects on this population of patients.
NGF and PGs in the bladder can be affected by pathological changes in the bladder and these changes can be detected in urine. We investigated changes in urinary NGF and PGs in women with OAB.
The study groups included 65 women with OAB and 20 without bladder symptoms who served as controls. Evaluation included patient history, urinalysis, a voiding diary and urodynamic studies. Urine samples were collected. NGF, PGE2, PGF2alpha and PGI2 were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and compared between the groups. In addition, correlations between urinary NGF and PG, and urodynamic parameters in patients with OAB were examined.
Urinary NGF, PGE2 and PGF2alpha were significantly increased in patients with OAB compared with controls (p <0.05). However, urinary PGI2 was not different between controls and patients with OAB. In patients with OAB urinary PGE2 positively correlated with volume at first desire to void and maximum cystometric capacity (p <0.05). Urinary NGF, PGF2alpha and PGI2 did not correlate with urodynamic parameters in patients with OAB.
NGF and PGs have important roles in the development of OAB symptoms in female patients. Urinary levels of these factors may be used as markers to evaluate OAB symptoms.
The chemical warfare nerve agent, soman irreversibly inhibits acetylcholinesterase (AChE) leading to hypercholinergy and seizures which trigger glutamate toxicity and status epilepticus ultimately resulting in neuropathology and neurobehavioral deficits. The standard emergency treatment comprising of anticholinergic, AChE reactivator and anticonvulsant does not completely protect against soman toxicity. We have evaluated imidazenil, a new anticonvulsant imidazo benzodiazepine with high affinity and intrinsic efficacy at α5-, α2-, and α3- but low intrinsic efficacy at α1-containing GABA(A) receptors and is devoid of cardiorespiratory depression, sedative/hypnoitc and amnestic actions and does not elicit tolerance and dependence liabilities unlike diazepam, for protection against soman toxicity. Guinea pigs implanted with bipotential radiotelemetry probes for recording EEG and ECG were administered with 26 μg/kg pyridostigmine bromide 30 min prior to 2× LD(50) soman exposure and 1 min later treated with a combination of 2mg/kg atropine sulfate and 25mg/kg 2-pralidoxime and various doses of imidazenil. Intramuscular administration of imidazenil, dose-dependently protected against 2× LD(50) of soman toxicity up to 1mg/kg. Further increase in the dose of imidazenil to 2.5mg/kg was less effective than 1mg/kg probably due to non-specific actions at sites other than GABA(A) receptors. Compared to vehicle group, 1mg/kg imidazenil treatment showed optimal increase in survival rate, reduction in behavioral manifestations and high power of EEG spectrum as well as neuronal necrosis. These data suggest that imidazenil is an effective anticonvulsant for medical countermeasure against soman-induced toxicity.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors, like other antidepressants, generally are considered free of risk for abuse. There is, however, some evidence that MAOIs possess dependence and abuse potential for some patients. We will review the available literature and describe three current cases. Recommendations for treatment are discussed briefly.
The molecular mechanisms underlying the diaphragmatic defect in congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) are still poorly understood. The transcription factor GATA4 is essential for normal development of the diaphragm. Recently, mutations in the GATA4 gene have been linked to human and rodent CDH. We hypothesized that diaphragmatic GATA4 expression is downregulated in the nitrofen CDH model.
Pregnant rats received Nitrofen or vehicle on day 9 of gestation (D9). Fetuses were sacrificed on D13, D18, or D21. Pleuroperitoneal folds (n=20) and fetal diaphragms (n=40) were (micro) dissected and divided into CDH group and controls. RNA and protein were extracted. GATA4 mRNA levels were determined by real-time PCR. Protein levels were determined by ELISA and Immunohistochemistry.
mRNA levels and Protein levels were significantly decreased in the CDH group compared to controls on D13 (mRNA 15.96±6.99 vs. 38.10±5.01, p<0.05), D18 (mRNA 10.45±1.84 vs. 17.68±2.11, Protein 2.59±0.06 vs. 4.58±0.35 p<0.05) and D21 (mRNA 4.31±0.83 vs. 6.87±0.88, Protein 0.16±0.08 vs. 1.26±0.49, p<0.05). Immunoreactivity of GATA4 was markedly decreased in CDH-diaphragms on D13, D18, and D21.
We provide evidence for the first time that diaphragmatic expression of GATA4 is downregulated in the nitrofen model, suggesting that decreased expression of GATA4 may impair diaphragmatic development in nitrofen-induced CDH.
A 79-year-old man was admitted to a previous hospital complaining of left precordial swelling. Chest CT scan showed destruction of left sternoclavicular joint and a mass of 5 cm in diameter. Needle biopsy was performed and the diagnosis of sternoclavicular joint tuberculosis was made on the basis of presence of M. tuberculosis in the specimen. The patient was treated with isoniazid, ethambutol, rifampicin, and pyrazinamid but he developed renal failure. Then, he was transferred to our hospital. All medications were suspended because of the possibility of the side effect of drugs. We performed renal biopsy and histopathological examination revealed interstitial nephritis and minimal-change glomerulonephritis. From the result of examination, we considered interstitial nephritis was due to rifamicin. The treatment with 50 mg/day of prednisolone and isoniazid, ethambutol, and levofloxacin was administrated and renal failure and precordial mass were improved. Tuberculous arthritis usually affect hip and knee joint and sternoclavicular joint involvement is very rare.
In mice, styrene is hepatotoxic, pneumotoxic, and causes lung tumors. One explanation for the mechanism of toxicity is oxidative stress/damage. Previous studies have shown decreased glutathione levels, linked to increased apoptosis, in lung homogenates and isolated Clara cells 3 h following styrene or styrene oxide (SO) administration or in vitro exposure. The objective of the current studies was to determine what effects styrene and its active metabolites, primarily styrene oxide, had on indicators of oxidative stress and attendant apoptosis in order to understand better the mechanism of styrene-induced toxicity. Three hours following in vitro exposure of Clara cells to styrene or SO there were increases in reactive oxygen species (ROS). Following administration of styrene or styrene oxide ip, increases in ROS, superoxide dismutase (SOD), and 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) formation were observed. Since increases in ROS have been linked to increases in apoptosis ratios of bax/bcl-2, mRNA and protein expression were determined 3-240 h following the administration of styrene and R-styrene oxide (RSO). The bax/bcl-2 mRNA ratio increased 12 and 24 h following R-SO and 120 h following styrene administration. However, the bax/bcl-2 protein ratio was not increased until 240 h following R-SO, and 24 and 240 h following styrene administration. However, only a slight increase in caspase 3 was observed. These results indicated that oxidative stress occurred 3h following styrene or styrene oxide as evidenced by increased ROS and SOD. This increased ROS may be responsible for the increased 8-OHdG formation. Our findings of limited apoptosis in Clara cells following acute exposure to styrene or SO are in agreement with others and may reflect the minimal extent to which apoptosis plays a role in acute styrene toxicity. It is clear, however, that oxidative stress and oxidative effects on DNA are increased following exposure to styrene or styrene oxide, and these may play a role in the lung tumorigenesis in mice.
The failure of N-ethylretinamide and N-(2-hydroxyethyl)retinamide to inhibit the incidence or severity of bladder carcinoma in female Fischer rats initiated with N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide supports the concept that the inhibition of bladder carcinogenesis by natural and synthetic retinoids is carcinogen-class specific.
Ribomunyl was administered in an open clinical trial for the treatment of chronic repetitive infectious diseases of the upper respiratory tract. Two groups of patients were treated with either Ribomunyl aerosol (n = 19) or with Ribomunyl aerosol and injections (n = 17); a third group of 17 patients, serving as a control group, did not receive treatment with either form of Ribomunyl. The treatment lasted two months and was followed by an observation period of another four months. The patients treated with Ribomunyl showed a distinct improvement compared to the untreated group. Ribomunyl was generally well tolerated. Plasma antibodies determined before, during and after the trial showed a clear-cut relationship between the increase in plasma antibody levels and improvement of clinical picture.
Amphotericin B, a systemic antifungal agent, has not been associated with clinical evidence of cardiac toxicity. We report the case of a 76-year-old patient who developed transient asystole with cardiovascular collapse on two occasions, which coincided with infusion of amphotericin B. The patient was semicomatose and had candida septicemia and renal failure. Serum potassium and digoxin levels were elevated, and serum calcium was low when these episodes occurred. Subsequent postmortem examination revealed no gross evidence of cardiac disease apart from fungal vegetations on the aortic valve. A clear causal relationship between amphotericin B and transient asystole is not demonstrated, but a temporal association, confirmed with rechallenge, is documented in this patient. No similar cases were found in a review of the literature.
Photodamaged skin occurs as a result of long-term exposure to ultraviolet radiation. The incidence of photodamage in European and North American populations with Fitzpatrick skin types I, II, and III is estimated at 80% to 90%. We conducted a double-blind clinical trial to test the efficacy and safety of 0.1% isotretinoin versus vehicle cream in 800 patients with moderate to severe photodamaged skin. Patients applied either 0.1% isotretinoin or matching vehicle cream to the face, forearms, and hands once nightly for 36 weeks. Local irritation and adverse events were assessed, and plasma retinoid levels were measured before and during treatment. Treatment response increased throughout the 36-week treatment period and the overall appearance of photodamaged skin was significantly better than with the vehicle alone. Topical application of 0.1% isotretinoin is an effective and well-tolerated treatment leading to clinically apparent improvement in the appearance of photodamaged skin of the face, forearms, and hands.
We investigated the age-specific arrhythmogenic effects of digoxin in the rat. Adult female rats (n = 26) and one-day-old newborns (n = 20) were anesthetized with pentobarbital and injected subcutaneously with varying doses of digoxin. Electrocardiograms (ECG) were monitored continuously for four and one-half hours following digoxin administration. The arrhythmogenic dose 50 (AD50) and lethal dose 50 under anesthesia (LD50) were determined using the method of Litchfield and Wilcoxon. AD50 in adults was 13.0 +/- 1.0 mg/kg (X +/- SD) compared with 2.9 +/- 0.3 mg/kg in the newborns (P less than 0.01), and LD50 in adults was 30.0 +/- 1.9 mg/kg compared with 5.0 +/- 0.2 mg/kg in the newborns (P less than 0.01). Arrhythmias appeared earlier in adults (54 +/- 11.5 minutes after digoxin, X +/- SEM) than in newborns (132.2 +/- 11.0 minutes, P less than 0.01). Paroxysmal atrial tachycardia was the predominant arrhythmia in adults (73%), while transient sinus bradycardia appeared in only 9%. In contrast, all newborns with arrhythmias had severe sinus bradycardia and 69% had profound first degree heart block as well. In conclusion, the newborn rat is more sensitive to digoxin toxicity and develops lethal arrhythmias much more readily than the adult.
Extreme sinus bradycardia and T wave changes are described in a patient receiving lithium therapy. Ischemic heart disease was excluded by the results of radionuclide study and an exercise stress test. The electrocardiographic changes were shown to be related to lithium therapy, as documented by the inverse correlation between heart rate and plasma lithium levels.
