Nephrotoxicity is the main side effect of gentamicin (GENTA). Preconditioning (PC) refers to a situation in which an organ subjected to an injury responds less intensely when exposed to another injury. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of PC with GENTA on nephrotoxic acute kidney injury (AKI). GENTA group rats were injected daily with GENTA (40 mg/kg/BW) for 10 days. PC animals were injected with GENTA for 3 days (40 mg/kg/BW/daily) and, after one rest week, were injected daily with GENTA for 10 days. Animals of the L-NAME and DICLO groups were preconditioned for 3 days and then received daily injections of GENTA for 10 days; they were concomitantly treated with L-NAME (10 mg/kg/BW) and diclofenac (DICLO, 5 mg/kg/BW) for 13 days. Blood and urine were collected for measurement of serum creatinine, urea, urine sodium, protein, hydroperoxides, lipid peroxidation and nitric oxide (NO). The animals were killed; kidneys were removed for histology and immunohistochemistry for apoptosis and cell proliferation. GENTA group rats showed an increase in plasma creatinine, urea, urine sodium, hydroperoxides, lipid peroxidation, proteinuria, necrosis and apoptosis, characterizing nephrotoxic AKI. PC animals showed a decrease in these parameters and increased proliferation. The blockade of NO synthesis by L-NAME potentiated the protective effect, suggesting that NO contributed to the injury caused by GENTA. The blockade of prostaglandin synthesis with DICLO increased serum and urinary parameters, blunting the protective effect of PC. Our data suggest that PC could be a useful tool to protect against nephrotoxic AKI.
Here, we tried to elucidate the possible role of autophagy against H2O2 and Amyloid beta (Aβ) induced neurotoxicity using retinoic acid differentiated SH-SY5Y cells. We found that H2O2 disrupted neurite outgrowth concomitant with production of Aβ. Furthermore, we showed that H2O2 could increase the apoptotic factors such as Bax/Bcl-2 ratio, caspase-3 level, and PARP activity in a time course manner. These findings were confirmed by acridine orange/ethidium bromide and Hoechst staining. In addition, we observed that H2O2 led to conversion of LC3 protein from LC3I to LC3II and an increase in autophagy flux. Autophagy factors including LC3B, Atg7, and Atg12 increased and reached their highest level after 2h of insulting and then dropped to a lower level. Our results showed that autophagy could internalize and degrade intra- and extracellular Aβ after 3h treatment with H2O2. However, the remaining amount of Aβ accelerated morphological atrophy and, as a result, increased neuronal death (apoptosis). Inhibition of autophagy influx, using 3-methyl-adenine, increased intra- and extracellular levels of Aβ, providing more proof for a protective role of autophagy against oxidative stress. Further studies can shed light on the important role of autophagy by finding new pathways involved in Aβ degeneration.
A case of severe valproic acid poisoning with coma and insufficient respiration is reported. The clinical condition and EEG changes are presented. The patient recovered completely, and the toxicity of sodium valproate to the brain and the liver in severe intoxication is discussed.
We showed that when CA3 pyramidal neurons in the caudal 80% of the dorsal hippocampus had almost disappeared completely, the efferent pathway of CA3 was rarely detectable. We used the mouse pilocarpine model of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), and injected iontophoretically the anterograde tracer phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) into gliotic CA3, medial septum and the nucleus of diagonal band of Broca, median raphe, and lateral supramammillary nuclei, or the retrograde tracer cholera toxin B subunit (CTB) into gliotic CA3 area of hippocampus. In the afferent pathway, the number of neurons projecting to CA3 from medial septum and the nucleus of diagonal band of Broca, median raphe, and lateral supramammillary nuclei increased significantly. In the hippocampus, where CA3 pyramidal neurons were partially lost, calbindin, calretinin, parvalbumin immunopositive back-projection neurons from CA1-CA3 area were observed. Sprouting of Schaffer collaterals with increased number of large boutons in both sides of CA1 area, particularly in the stratum pyramidale, was found. When CA3 pyramidal neurons in caudal 80% of the dorsal hippocampus have almost disappeared completely, surviving CA3 neurons in the rostral 20% of the dorsal hippocampus may play an important role in transmitting hyperactivity of granule cells to surviving CA1 neurons or to dorsal part of the lateral septum. We concluded that reorganization of CA3 area with its downstream or upstream nuclei may be involved in the occurrence of epilepsy.
Male adult Fischer-344 rats were given various doses of lindane (0, 15, and 30 mg/kg, po), chlordecone (0, 25, 50, or 100 mg/kg, ip), or p,p'-dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (p,p'-DDT) (0, 25, 50, or 100 mg/kg, po) and tested for their ability to perform a two-way shuttle box task or to learn and retain a step-through passive avoidance response. Administration of p,p'-DDT or chlordecone 3 hr prior to acquisition did not affect the number of shuttle box avoidance responses made during a 60-trial training task, while responses during the intertrial interval (ITI) were decreased. Rats receiving 15 or 30 mg/kg of lindane made fewer avoidance responses, but did not differ from controls in terms of the number of responses during the ITI. When 30 mg/kg lindane was given 3 hr prior to passive avoidance acquisition, retention was impaired 7 days later; the lower dose of lindane, and all doses of chlordecone or p,p'-DDT had no effect under these conditions. When these chemicals were given immediately after passive avoidance training, animals treated with lindane were not affected. Animals receiving 100 mg/kg of p,p'-DDT or chlordecone displayed marked signs of toxicity and animals tested 7 days after training showed an impaired retention. Pretreatment with anticonvulsants such as phenobarbital and chlordiazepoxide, which may enhance GABA-mediated responses, blocked the disruptive effects of lindane (30 mg/kg) on shuttle box avoidance. The seizure-related activity produced by a higher dose of lindane (60 mg/kg) and kainic acid, a hippocampal excitotoxin, was also blocked by phenobarbital and chlordiazepoxide. Pretreatment with phenytoin, which is thought to bind to the inactivation gates of sodium, had no effect on the effects produced by lindane or kainic acid. These data suggest that treatment with nonconvulsant doses of lindane can interfere with the ability to acquire and use new information and that these effects may be associated with alterations in GABA.
A population pharmacokinetic model was developed after administration of orogastric and/or intravenous indomethacin for the treatment of patent ductus arteriosus in preterm infants. Plasma indomethacin concentrations (n=227) were obtained from 90 preterm infants of median gestational age 27 weeks, mean postnatal age of 12 days, and a mean current weight (WT) of 1010 g. Infants received one to three courses of indomethacin (0.1 mg/kg per day for 6 days). A one-compartment model was fitted to the data to obtain estimates of clearance (CL), volume of distribution (V), absorption rate constant (Ka) and orogastric bioavailability (F), using NONMEM. Model robustness was assessed by bootstrapping with replacement (500 samples). The structural model was: CL (L/h)=0.0166 (WT / 0.936)1.54; V (L)=0.484 (WT / 0.936)1.41; F=0.986; Ka (h(-1))=0.786. The interindividual variability for CL and V was 57.7% and 45.6%, respectively. There remained considerable residual unexplained variability (45.4%). Mean (range) conditional estimates from individual infants for CL, V, and elimination half-life were 18.9 (4.7-45.5) mL/h/kg, 509 (191-1120) mL/kg, and 20.0 (12.0-37.3) hours, respectively. Complete ductus closure occurred in 67% of patients. Infants of lower gestational age or birth weight had less chance of successful ductal closure. There was no obvious dose-response relationship between systemic exposure to varying plasma indomethacin concentrations and ductus closure, which does not support individualized indomethacin dosing based on monitoring to a target plasma concentration.
To determine the natural history of lung vascular remodeling and cardiac changes in the rat model of persistent pulmonary hypertension syndrome (PPHN) of the newborn, we studied fetal rats subjected to maternal indomethacin administration initiated on day 19 of gestation and continued for 2, 3, or 4 days. Animals receiving a similar volume of water or alcohol served as controls. Significant pulmonary hypertension was noted in the experimental group, as evidenced by a significantly increased right to left ventricular wall ratio to 1.6 +/- 0.1 in the 4-day treatment group, as compared with 1.2 +/- 0.4 in the control group (P < 0.01). The smooth muscle area for <25 microm external diameter arterial vessels was significantly increased (12.7 +/- 0.6 vs. 10.0 +/- 0.6 microm; P < 0.01) and the adventitial area of all diameters vessels was significantly greater (P < 0.01) following 3 days of indomethacin treatment, as compared with water controls. Associated with these changes, the 4-day treatment group's lung/body weight ratio was 0.021 +/- 0.001, and was significantly less (P < 0.01) than for the control group (0.035 +/- 0.001). This reduction in lung weight was not associated with changes in lung protein content or wet/dry weight ratio, indicating that pulmonary hypertension in the fetal rat induced lung hypoplasia. In conclusion, closure of the ductus arteriosus in the fetal rat results in early-onset right ventricular hypertrophy, followed by pulmonary vascular remodeling and lung hypoplasia. We speculate that lung growth in late gestation is adversely affected by pulmonary hypertension.
Neuroblastoma is a childhood malignancy of sympathetic embryonal origin. A high potential for differentiation is a hallmark of neuroblastoma cells. We have previously presented data to suggest that in situ differentiation in tumors frequently proceeds along the chromaffin lineage and that decreased oxygen (hypoxia) plays a role in this. Here we explore the utility of Neuro-Endocrine Secretory Protein 55 (NESP55), a novel member of the chromogranin family, as a marker for this process.
Immunohistochemical analyses and in situ hybridizations were performed on human fetal tissues, mouse xenografts of human neuroblastoma cell lines, and on specimens of human neuroblastoma/ganglioneuroma. Effects of anaerobic exposure on gene expression by cultured neuroblastoma cells was analyzed with quantitative real-time PCR. Fetal sympathetic nervous system expression of NESP55 was shown to be specific for chromaffin cell types. In experimental and clinical neuroblastoma NESP55 immunoreactivity was specific for regions of chronic hypoxia. NESP55 expression also correlated strikingly with morphological evidence of differentiation and with other chromaffin-specific patterns of gene expression, including IGF2 and HIF2α. Anaerobic culture of five neuroblastoma cell lines resulted in an 18.9-fold mean up-regulation of NESP55.
The data confirms that chronic tumor hypoxia is a key microenvironmental factor for neuroblastoma cell differentiation, causing induction of chromaffin features and NESP55 provides a reliable marker for this neuronal to neuroendocrine transition. The hypoxia-induced phenotype is the predominant form of differentiation in stroma-poor tumors, while in stroma-rich tumors the chromaffin phenotype coexists with ganglion cell-like differentiation. The findings provide new insights into the biological diversity which is a striking feature of this group of tumors.
There is strong evidence for a genetic predisposition to autism and an intense interest in discovering heritable risk factors that disrupt gene function. Based on neurobiological findings and location within a chromosome 7q31 autism candidate gene region, we analyzed the gene encoding the pleiotropic MET receptor tyrosine kinase in a family based study of autism including 1,231 cases. MET signaling participates in neocortical and cerebellar growth and maturation, immune function, and gastrointestinal repair, consistent with reported medical complications in some children with autism. Here, we show genetic association (P = 0.0005) of a common C allele in the promoter region of the MET gene in 204 autism families. The allelic association at this MET variant was confirmed in a replication sample of 539 autism families (P = 0.001) and in the combined sample (P = 0.000005). Multiplex families, in which more than one child has autism, exhibited the strongest allelic association (P = 0.000007). In case-control analyses, the autism diagnosis relative risk was 2.27 (95% confidence interval: 1.41-3.65; P = 0.0006) for the CC genotype and 1.67 (95% confidence interval: 1.11-2.49; P = 0.012) for the CG genotype compared with the GG genotype. Functional assays showed that the C allele results in a 2-fold decrease in MET promoter activity and altered binding of specific transcription factor complexes. These data implicate reduced MET gene expression in autism susceptibility, providing evidence of a previously undescribed pathophysiological basis for this behaviorally and medically complex disorder.
LY274614, 3SR,4aRS,6SR,8aRS-6-[phosphonomethyl]decahydr oisoquinoline-3- carboxylic acid, has been described as a potent antagonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptor. Here its ability to antagonize the prolonged depletion of dopamine in the striatum by amphetamine in iprindole-treated rats is reported. A single 18.4 mg/kg (i.p.) dose of (+/-)-amphetamine hemisulfate, given to rats pretreated with iprindole, resulted in persistent depletion of dopamine in the striatum 1 week later. This prolonged depletion of dopamine in the striatum was antagonized by dizocilpine (MK-801, a non-competitive antagonist of NMDA receptors) or by LY274614 (a competitive antagonist of NMDA receptors). The protective effect of LY274614 was dose-dependent, being maximum at 10-40 mgkg (i.p.). A 10 mg/kg dose of LY274614 was effective in antagonizing the depletion of dopamine in the striatum, when given as long as 8 hr prior to amphetamine but not when given 24 hr prior to amphetamine. Depletion of dopamine in the striatum was also antagonized when LY274614 was given after the injection of amphetamine; LY274614 protected when given up to 4 hr after but not when given 8 or 24 hr after amphetamine. The prolonged depletion of dopamine in the striatum in mice, given multiple injections of methamphetamine, was also antagonized dose-dependently and completely by LY274614. The data strengthen the evidence that the neurotoxic effect of amphetamine and related compounds toward nigrostriatal dopamine neurons involves NMDA receptors and that LY274614 is an NMDA receptor antagonist with long-lasting in vivo effects in rats.
Previous reports have demonstrated mercury accumulation and toxicity in oral tissues following exposure to mercury vapor from dental amalgam restorations. In the present study, inflammatory responses to subcutaneously administered mercury were assessed histopathologically and immunocytochemically in a rat model system. A panel of six well-characterized monoclonal antibodies specific for monocytes, macrophage subsets, T and B lymphocytes, and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II (la) determinants was used to quantitate alterations in mononuclear cell subsets in situ at time intervals from 2 d to 8 wk. The results revealed acute inflammatory cell infiltration at 2 and 3 d, followed by chronic inflammation that persisted after 8 wk. The numbers of monocytes, resident macrophage subsets, and mononuclear cells expressing la antigen were significantly different from control tissues at 1-2 wk. The numbers of resident macrophages remained significantly higher even after 8 wk. These data showed that in situ mercury accumulation can lead to altered expression of MHC class II determinants with persistent chronic inflammation and shifts in mononuclear cell subpopulations.
Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is treated effectively with tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs); however, 2 key problems remain-the insensitivity of CML stem and progenitor cells to TKIs and the emergence of TKI-resistant BCR-ABL mutations. BCR-ABL activity is associated with increased proteasome activity and proteasome inhibitors (PIs) are cytotoxic against CML cell lines. We demonstrate that bortezomib is antiproliferative and induces apoptosis in chronic phase (CP) CD34+ CML cells at clinically achievable concentrations. We also show that bortezomib targets primitive CML cells, with effects on CD34+38(-), long-term culture-initiating (LTC-IC) and nonobese diabetic/severe combined immunodeficient (NOD/SCID) repopulating cells. Bortezomib is not selective for CML cells and induces apoptosis in normal CD34+38(-) cells. The effects against CML cells are seen when bortezomib is used alone and in combination with dasatinib. Bortezomib causes proteasome but not BCR-ABL inhibition and is also effective in inhibiting proteasome activity and inducing apoptosis in cell lines expressing BCR-ABL mutations, including T315I. By targeting both TKI-insensitive stem and progenitor cells and TKI-resistant BCR-ABL mutations, we believe that bortezomib offers a potential therapeutic option in CML. Because of known toxicities, including myelosuppression, the likely initial clinical application of bortezomib in CML would be in resistant and advanced disease.
In addition to the core circadian oscillator, located within the suprachiasmatic nucleus, numerous peripheral tissues possess self-sustaining circadian timers. In vivo these are entrained and temporally synchronized by signals conveyed from the core oscillator. In the present study, we examine circadian timing in the lung, determine the cellular localization of core clock proteins in both mouse and human lung tissue, and establish the effects of glucocorticoids (widely used in the treatment of asthma) on the pulmonary clock. Using organotypic lung slices prepared from transgenic mPER2::Luc mice, luciferase levels, which report PER2 expression, were measured over a number of days. We demonstrate a robust circadian rhythm in the mouse lung that is responsive to glucocorticoids. Immunohistochemical techniques were used to localize specific expression of core clock proteins, and the glucocorticoid receptor, to the epithelial cells lining the bronchioles in both mouse and human lung. In the mouse, these were established to be Clara cells. Murine Clara cells retained circadian rhythmicity when grown as a pure population in culture. Furthermore, selective ablation of Clara cells resulted in the loss of circadian rhythm in lung slices, demonstrating the importance of this cell type in maintaining overall pulmonary circadian rhythmicity. In summary, we demonstrate that Clara cells are critical for maintaining coherent circadian oscillations in lung tissue. Their coexpression of the glucocorticoid receptor and core clock components establishes them as a likely interface between humoral suprachiasmatic nucleus output and circadian lung physiology.
To summarize the clinical characteristics of partial 17alpha-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase deficiency (17OHD) in 46,XX Chinese patients.
Five cases of 46,XX partial 17OHD from Peking Union Medical College Hospital were studied retrospectively by summarizing and analyzing their clinical data. The molecular pathogenic mechanisms involved are discussed after reviewing the literature.
Both complete and partial 17OHD patients have hypergonadotropic hypogonadism and elevated serum levels of adrenocorticotropic hormone and mineralocorticoids. The clinical characteristics of partial 17OHD are different from those of complete 17OHD; patients with the former having various degrees of estrogenic and androgenic impacts such as the development of breasts and pubic hair, and oligomenorrhea or secondary amenorrhea. Elevated serum progesterone with or without elevated serum 17alpha-hydroxyprogesterone and recurrent ovarian cysts are typical manifestations of partial 17OHD. Furthermore, hypokalemic hypertension may be absent in partial 17OHD. The 46,XX partial 17OHD should be differentiated from pure gonadal dysgenesis, premature ovarian failure and polycystic ovarian syndrome. It has been reported that specific mutations of the CYP17 gene can cause partial loss of 17alpha-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase activities or dissociation between the 17alpha-hydroxylase and the 17,20-lyase functions. Oral contraceptive pills are effective for artificial menstruation, but not for the correction of hormone deficiency. A low dose of cortisol should be prescribed in the presence of hypokalemic hypertension.
The congenital partial 17OHD should be included in the differential diagnosis of menstrual disorders. In these cases, elevated progesterone offers a valuable clue for further investigation.
Cisplatin, a widely used chemotherapy drug, induces acute kidney injury, which limits its use and efficacy in cancer treatment. However, the molecular mechanism of cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity is currently unclear. Using pharmacological and gene knockout models, we now demonstrate a pathological role for p53 in cisplatin nephrotoxicity. In C57BL/6 mice, cisplatin treatment induced p53 phosphorylation and protein accumulation, which was accompanied by the development of acute kidney injury. p53 was induced in both proximal and distal tubular cells and partially colocalized with apoptosis. Pifithrin-alpha, a pharmacological inhibitor of p53, suppressed p53 activation and ameliorated kidney injury during cisplatin treatment. Moreover, cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity was abrogated in p53-deficient mice. Compared with wild-type animals, p53-deficient mice showed a better renal function, less tissue damage, and fewer apoptotic cells. In addition, cisplatin induced less apoptosis in proximal tubular cells isolated from p53-deficient mice than the cells from wild-type animals. Together these results suggest the involvement of p53 in cisplatin-induced renal cell apoptosis and nephrotoxicity.
Fifty-eight evaluable patients with acute leukemia were treated with Mitoxantrone (DHAD) according to two schedules: 14 mg/M2 as a single I.V. pulse dose administered three-week intervals, and 4 mg/M2/day for five days every three weeks. Six of 58 patients achieved a complete remission. One complete remission and 1 partial remission were observed among 26 patients treated with the single pulse schedule. Five (16%) complete remissions were attained among 32 patients treated on the daily x 5 schedule. Responses were observed only in patients with non-lymphoblastic leukemia. DHAD was very well tolerated with myelosuppression as the major toxicity. Nausea and vomiting were minimal. Subclinical cardiac toxicity occurred in two patients. This was identified by serial reductions in cardiac ejection fractions. DHAD appears to have significant activity in acute non-lymphoblastic leukemia with minimal toxicity.
Cyclooxygenase (COX) is a key enzyme in the synthesis of prostaglandins from arachidonic acid. Much evidence, including that from epidemiological and experimental studies, suggests that the inducible form of COX, COX-2, is increased in colon tumor tissues and is involved in colon cancer tumorigenesis. To determine the significance of COX-2 in tumorigenesis in the urinary bladder, the expression of COX-2 in transitional cell carcinoma and preneoplastic lesions of the bladder was examined. Tumor specificity of COX-2 immunoblotting was 100% in 12 of 35 (34%) tumors, but in 0 of the 10 normal urothelia samples. COX-2 expression was significantly correlated with tumor stage in 9 of 20 (45%) muscle-invasive (pT2-4) tumors and in 3 of 15 (20%) superficially invasive (pT1) tumors (P < 0.05). Immunohistochemical examination revealed that 13 of 14 (93%) samples of carcinoma in situ (CIS), which may be the precursor of muscle-invasive-type tumors, expressed COX-2, whereas 10 of 21 (48%) samples of dysplasia, which may be the precursor of both superficially invasive and muscle-invasive tumors, expressed COX-2. From the expression profile of COX-2 in these various urothelia, it is suggested that COX-2 is involved in the development of transitional cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder, especially that of muscle-invasive tumors via CIS. Furthermore, COX-2 may be a therapeutic target for CIS because of the high expression rate of COX-2 in CIS lesions.
Mitoxantrone is an immunosuppressive drug usually delivered in severe relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis. It can also be used in secondary progressive and progressive relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis. Left ventricular ejection fraction has to be monitored because of the cardiotoxicity risk of mitoxantrone. Acute cardiac side effects in multiple sclerosis have not yet been described. We report the single case of an acute heart failure occurring in a cohort of more than 800 patients treated with mitoxantrone. We discuss about interruption criteria as maximal cumulative dose allowed and left ventricular ejection fraction cut off value.
A case of coma due to carbamazepine ingestion with the intention of committing suicide at 33 weeks' gestation is presented. Management included activated charcoal administration and exchange plasmapheresis. A fetal non-stress test was non-reassuring but the Apgar score, cord blood gases and early neonatal outcome were normal. Differential diagnosis of coma in pregnancy should include investigation for drug intoxication.
Women undergoing breast surgery are at particular risk for post-operative nausea and vomiting (PONV), with an incidence of emesis as high as 50% when no prophylactic antiemetic is used.
This study compared the efficacy of the selective 5-hydroxytryptamine(3) receptor antagonist granisetron with that of the traditional antiemetics droperidol and metoclopramide in the treatment of established PONV after breast surgery.
In this prospective, randomized, double-blind trial, patients who had undergone breast surgery and were experiencing PONV during the first 3 hours after anesthesia received either granisetron 40 microg/kg IV, droperidol 20 microg/kg IV, or metoclopramide 0.2 mg/kg IV. Patients were observed for 24 hours after administration of study drug. Emetic episodes were recorded by nursing staff who were blinded to treatment assignment.
Seventy-five patients were enrolled in the study, 25 in each treatment group. Their age ranged from 41 to 65 years. There were no significant between-group differences in patients' demographic or surgical characteristics at study entry. The number of patients who were emesis free (no nausea, retching, or vomiting) was significantly higher in patients who received granisetron (88% [2225]) than in those who received droperidol (64% [1625]; P = 0.047) or metoclopramide (56% [1425]; P = 0.013). In patients who experienced nausea (3, 8, and 9 patients in the granisetron, droperidol, and metoclopramide groups, respectively), the severity of nausea was significantly lower with granisetron compared with droperidol (P = 0.028) and metoclopramide (P = 0.025). No clinically serious adverse events were observed in any group.
Granisetron was significantly more effective than the traditional antiemetics droperidol and metoclopramide for the treatment of PONV in this population of patients undergoing breast surgery.
Darier's disease is an inherited genodermatosis with autosomal dominant transmission characterized by hyperkeratotic papules of seborrheic regions in the axillae, groin or submammary skin in women. Current therapeutic alternatives are poor, encouraging recourse to alternatives treatments such as topical 5-fluorouracil (Efudix) used until now for pre-epitheliomatous keratosis.
A 55-year-old man presenting severe Darier's disease refractory to therapy for more than twenty years was treated with topical 5-fluorouracil. The cream was applied at a concentration of 1% every second day for five months, alternating with clobetasol ointment in order to improve tolerability. After one month of treatment, clinical signs of hyperkeratosis had virtually disappeared from the patient's face and neck. This dramatic improvement persisted for 2 months after the end of the treatment with 5-fluorouracil. No local or systemic side-effects have been observed to date.
Darier's disease is caused by mutations of the ATP2A2 gene, which codes for the SERCA2 endoplasmic reticulum calcium pump. This pump is rendered non-functional through decreased ATP and calcium affinity and blockade of phosphorylation-dephosphorylation. We propose a new hypothesis according to which the action of 5-fluorouracil results from restoration of normal intracytoplasmic calcium concentrations, leading to renewed keratinization. Thanks to its mode of activation, this prodrug can compensate for failure of the ATP phosphorylation-dephosphorylation mechanisms necessary for calcium pump activity by releasing phosphoric acids. Thus, topical 5-fluorouracil appears to constitute an effective alternative therapy. Long-term studies in a larger population are needed to clarify the optimal dosage and identify potential side effects.
Antihypertensive agents differentially influence the plasma adiponectin concentration and the effects of fixed-dose combination regimens remain unclear. The influence of a combination of an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) and a thiazide-type diuretic or an ACEI alone on plasma adiponectin concentrations in patients with essential hypertension was evaluated in the present study.
After a 2-week placebo run-in phase, 30 patients with essential hypertension were randomized to receive preterax (2 mg perindopril/0.625 mg indapamide) or cilazapril (2.5 mg) once daily for 12 weeks. Plasma adiponectin and insulin concentrations were measured before and after treatment. Insulin resistance was measured by homeostasis assessment index (HOMA-IR). Treatment with preterax (P=0.003) and cilazapril (P=0.031) significantly reduced systolic blood pressure (BP), but only preterax reduced diastolic BP (P=0.024). Cilazapril treatment significantly increased the plasma adiponectin concentration (P=0.025) and reduced plasma triglycerides (P=0.041), whereas preterax treatment increased the plasma insulin concentration (P=0.041) and tended to increase HOMA-IR.
The combination of an ACEI and indapamide improved BP control, but attenuated the beneficial effects of ACE inhibition on plasma adiponectin in patients with essential hypertension. Such a combination may be best reserved for improved BP control rather than for metabolic protection in clinical hypertension.
The intracerebroventricular injection of pyridoxal phosphate (PLP, 0.125-1.25 mumol/rat) causes epileptic seizures (4 min leads to 1 min) that are preventable or reversible by GABA (1 mumol/rat), by muscimol (0.025 mumol/rat), or by diazepam (1.75 mumol/rat). At the peak of PLP-induced convulsions, the activities of GAD and GABA-T in 14 regions of rat brain remained unaltered, whereas the concentrations of PLP remained elevated. The PLP-induced convulsion was blocked by DABA (10 mumol/rat) but was not altered by beta-alanine (50 mumol/rat). The previous in vitro studies have shown that PLP increases the uptake of [3H]GABA into synaptosomes and inhibits the binding of [3H]GABA to synaptic membranes. These data suggest that PLP-induced convulsion is due to reduced availability of GABA to its recognition sites, rather than to alteration in the activity of GABA metabolizing enzymes, or unavailability of PLP as a coenzyme for GAD and GABA-T. Since the duration of PLP-induced epileptic seizures is short and can be prevented by GABA agonists, PLP may be used as a tool to study the nature of GABA-mediated neuroinhibition and the properties of GABA receptor sites.
CLINICAL BACKGROUND: Autism is a developmental disorder that is usually diagnosed in early childhood. According to ICD-10 criteria, autism can be characterized by delays in language skills, by impaired social interaction, verbal or non-verbal communication and by repetitive, stereotyped or severely restricted activities and interests. The causes of autism are not yet elucidated, but both genetics and environment seem to play a role in 10 to 25% of autism cases. Several biochemical abnormalities, such as impairment of serotoninergic, catecholinergic, dopaminergic, and opioid systems have been reported. Autism therapies are designed to treat symptoms, and medication can be associated with psychoeducational and environmental interventions. Generally, the medications that are currently used are not intended for autism, and must be used with caution and selected according to the type and intensity of symptoms. The most common medication consists of psychotropic therapies by administration of dopaminergic and/or serotoninergic receptor antagonists (haloperidol, risperidone, clomipramine). Several drugs, such as anxiolytics (buspirone), mood stabilisers (lithium, sodium valproate), vitamins (vitamins B6, B12) or opioid antagonists (naltrexone) can be prescribed, in second intention, in cases of severe behavioural disorders. The prescription of opioid antagonists is based on the possible implication of an opioid system disorder observed in some cases. Nevertheless, several clinical studies reveal its variable effectiveness. Naltrexone is a competitive antagonist of opioid receptors OPRM1, OPRD1 and OPRK1. In France, this drug is prescribed for treating opioid and alcohol dependence. Moreover, several studies describe naltrexone as a possible treatment of autistic children in cases of developmental disorder and hyperactivity.
In the Child and Adolescent Psychopathology Department of Sainte-Anne's Hospital, autistic children benefit from a multidisciplinary treatment program that sometimes includes the administration of psychotropic medication. One of these children presented with a severe autistic disorder according to the Childhood Autism Rating Scale (CARS). Considering ICD-10 criteria, he benefited from a multidisciplinary program, associating cognitive psychotherapy, psychomotor rehabilitation, speech therapy and educational intervention. However, persistent sleep disorder and motor instability led to successive prescriptions of several different psychotropic drugs. Initial treatment by thioridazine (10mg per day) followed by propericiazine (2.5mg per day) improved sleep, but was not efficient in reducing self-mutilating behaviour. A new treatment by risperidone (from 0.5mg to 1.5mg per day) was therefore chosen; however it lost its efficacy after five months. Finally, an anxiolytic (cyamemazine) and a thymoregulator (sodium valproate) were successively tried without yielding any clinical improvement. Owing to the persistence of communication difficulties, major instability, self-mutilating behaviour and heteroaggressiveness, treatment with naltrexone was subsequently chosen with parental consent. In France, naltrexone hydrochloride is only available in tablet form (Nalorex 50mg and Revia 50mg), which is not adapted to children at the efficient dose. Consequently, an oral suspension form marketed in Spain (Antaxone 50mg) was imported, having obtained the Afssaps' (the French drug administration) authorisation for its temporary use. The Connors and Nisonger scales were used as outcome measures of behavioural symptom change. The Conners scale is used to assess attention deficit and hyperactivity, whereas the Nisonger scale analyses social skills and behaviour disorders in children and adolescents with mental retardation. The onset of treatment, at a dose of 1mg/kg/day, led to a transitory increase in negative behaviour. However, a dose of 0.75mg/kg per day subsequently led to significant improvements, as shown by outcome measurements. Self-mutilating behaviour disappeared completely. Certain side effects were observed, namely transitory sedation at the beginning of treatment and moderate constipation.
This clinical case confirms that treatment of a serious autistic disorder in children using Naltrexone in oral suspension form is a potentially interesting therapeutic alternative for treating behavioural symptoms resistant to classical drug therapy.
This study investigates whether allergen exposure elevates the risk of diabetes or cardiovascular diseases using acute OVA (Ovalbumin) allergen exposure model. We hypothesize that exposure to allergen can induce adipose tissue inflammation and affect adiponectin levels. An intranasal challenge with OVA male C57BL/6 mice was performed at dose of 6.25, 12.5, 25, 50 and 100μg, and compared to which challenge with PBS (phosphate buffered saline). Results showed that acute OVA exposure did not only cause airway inflammation in study mice, but also decreased serum adiponectin levels with a dose-response effect. When examining the gonadal adipose tissues, there was no significantly difference of adiponectin mRNA in OVA challenged mice compared to those PBS challenged, but lower inguinal adiponectin mRNA expression was found compared to those PBS-challenged, and had a good relationship with the serum adiponectin. Inguinal adipose tissues of OVA challenged mice, had significantly lower adipose tissue weight, and higher TNF-α expression without statistical significance. Our data indicate that acute OVA exposure appears to affect the characteristics of adipose tissues, and change the adiponectin levels in serum and adipose tissues. Allergen exposure may be considered a potential risk factor for presenting diabetes or cardiovascular diseases.
A report of a probable case of acute, reversible renal failure and hyperkalemia, after an increase in dose of ibuprofen, is presented. Other cases of renal dysfunction associated with various nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are reviewed. The ability of NSAIDs to inhibit prostaglandin synthesis may explain the various renal consequences. Possible predisposing factors to renal deterioration include the amount of drug consumed, presence of compromised renal blood flow, underlying renal insufficiency, nephrotoxic drug combinations, and high urinary prostaglandin excretion. Generally, the renal failure with NSAIDs is acute and reversible, though analgesic nephropathy with papillary necrosis and chronic renal failure are reported. Electrolytes, blood urea nitrogen, and serum creatinine levels need to be monitored in high-risk patients with predisposing factors and for chronic, long-term use of drugs that inhibit prostaglandin synthesis.
To report a case of retinopathy associated with the longterm intake of the antiepileptic drug clonazepam.
Case report.
A 36-year-old woman, with a history of long-term use of the antiepileptic drug clonazepam developed subtle visual disturbances. Funduscopy revealed areas of mild depigmentation of the retinal pigment epithelium throughout the posterior pole bilaterally corresponding to transmission hyperfluorescence on fluorescein angiography. There was no history of any inherited retinal degenerative disease and no other known agent responsible for retinal toxicity had been used.
The longstanding intake of the antiepileptic drug clonazepam may be associated with the development of toxic retinopathy.
