Butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) 500 mg/kg body wt/day was given in the diet to Fo-rats from 6 weeks of age to weaning of the F1-generation (growth period to age 19 week, gestation period and lactation period) and subsequent to F1-animals until 21 days of age. Body weight of F0-animals was recorded, and the influence on the F1-generation was investigated applying crossfostering. Mortality, litter size, weight gain and some developmental events as well as tests for auditory and visual function and locomotor coordination in the F1-generation were recorded. The applied dose of BHT exerted a significant adverse effect on body weight in both F0 and F1-animals and on several developmental parameters in F1-animals. The effects arose during the lactation period.
1. Glomeruli possess properties which vary between Lewis and DA strains of rat. 2. These properties may account for differences in the expression of various forms of experimental glomerular injury. 3. The difference in susceptibility to Heymann nephritis in the Lewis strain was confirmed. 4. Chronic serum sickness induced by cationic human serum albumin led to capillary loop deposits in Lewis rats, whereas DA rats had mesangial deposits of rat immunoglobulin G even in control kidneys. 5. Lewis rats developed proteinuria after infusion of the polycation hexadimethrine whereas DA rats did not. 6. DA rats developed greater proteinuria after injection of puromycin aminonucleoside. 7. These results support the hypothesis that an individual's susceptibility to different forms of glomerulonephritis may result from their glomerular properties and not necessarily from their immune responses.
Bisphenol-A (BPA) has estrogenic properties both in vitro and in vivo. We investigated its impacts upon uterine morphology and estrogen and progesterone receptors after injection on gestational days 1-4 in doses known to disrupt pregnancy. Blastocyst implantation was significantly reduced by doses of 6.75 and 10.125 mg/animal. Uterine luminal area expanded substantially in response to increasing doses of BPA. Luminal epithelial cell height increased following exposure to 10.125 mg/animal, whereas there were no differences in the number of corpora lutea among conditions. The proportion of cells staining positively for estrogen receptors was affected non-monotonically, showing highest levels at 3.375 mg/animal and lowest levels at 10.125 mg/animal. Similarly progesterone receptor expression measured through western blots related non-monotonically to dose, being highest at 3.375 mg/animal and diminishing with increasing dose. These results suggest that BPA exposure during early gestation acts at the uterus to disrupt intrauterine implantation, consistent with an estrogenic effect.
Neuroleptic-induced extrapyramidal side effects (EPS) were evaluated in 92 patients treated with clozapine for the first time and 59 patients treated with haloperidol followed in a drug monitoring program. Side effects were measured by the Columbia University Rating Scale, the Simpson Dyskinesia Scale and the Hillside Akathisia Scale. The cumulative incidence rate for tremor was found to be 24.4% in the clozapine group and 39.3% in the haloperidol group. This did not amount to a statistically significant group difference. Bradykinesia was observed in 21.8% of the patients treated with clozapine and in 47.7% of the patients of haloperidol (P = 0.011). In the clozapine group the akathisia incidence rate was 5.6%, whereas haloperidol patients showed a higher rate of 31.7% (P = 0.005). Our results show higher incidence rates of tremor and bradykinesia during clozapine treatment than previous studies. We conclude that clozapine is not entirely free of EPS, but they are usually less severe and of a different quality than side effects induced by typical antipsychotics.
Renal failure is a rare complication associated with the use of rifampin. Intravascular hemolysis leading to acute renal failure following rifampin therapy is extremely rare. Two patients with leprosy who developed hemolysis and acute renal failure following rifampin are reported.
Contact sensitization is frequent in the general population and arises from excessive or repeated skin exposure to chemicals and metals. However, little is known about its genetic susceptibility.
To determine the role of polymorphisms of glutathione S-transferase (GST) genes and the claudin-1 gene (CLDN1) on the risk of contact sensitization, taking common filaggrin gene (FLG) mutations into account.
In total, 3471 adult Danes from the general population were standard patch tested and filled out a questionnaire on their general health. They were genotyped for the following polymorphisms: GSTM1 and GSTT1 deletion, GSTP1 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) rs1695, four CLDN1 SNPs (rs893051, rs9290927, rs9290929 and rs17501010) and the FLG null mutations R501X and 2282del4.
In individuals without ear piercings, a higher prevalence of nickel sensitization was found in those with the minor allele of CLDN1 SNP rs9290927 (P(trend)=0·013). For CLDN1 rs17501010, contact sensitization to organic compounds was associated with the major allele (P(trend)=0·031). The risk pattern was also identified for self-reported nickel dermatitis (P(trend)=0·011). The fragrance sensitization prevalence differed in a pairwise comparison of the CLDN1 rs893051 SNP genotypes (P=0·022), with the minor allele being associated with a higher prevalence. The associations were confirmed in logistic regression analyses.
The CLDN1 polymorphisms rs9290927, rs893051 and rs17501010 were associated, respectively, with nickel contact sensitization in individuals without ear piercings, contact sensitization to fragrances, and with both organic compounds and nickel contact dermatitis. We could not find associations between GST gene polymorphisms and contact sensitization. FLG mutations did not affect the observed associations.
We report a cohort of 21 patients (12 females and nine males), with a mean age of 42.4 years, who developed tremor after receiving fluoxetine at a mean dose of 25.7 mg per day. The mean latency period for tremor appearance was 54.3 days. Severity was found to be mild. In all patients, tremor was postural, with P<0.0005, compared to patients with rest tremor and P<0.05 compared to action/intention-tremor patients. The frequency range was 6-12 Hz/s. After fluoxetine was discontinued, tremor disappeared in 10 patients after a mean latency period of 35.5 days. In the remaining 11 patients, tremor persisted up to the end of the observation period (a mean of 449 days). We believe that this tremor phenomenon is due to the involvement of the red nucleus and the inferior olivary nucleus through their projections to the thalamus and the spinal cord.
To test the hypothesis that early postnatal dexamethasone will reduce the incidence of death or chronic lung disease (CLD) in ventilated extremely low birth weight premature infants.
Multicenter randomized double-blinded controlled clinical trial.
A total of 42 neonatal intensive care units in the Vermont Oxford Network.
Infants weighing 501 to 1000 g were eligible for enrollment at 12 hours of age if they needed assisted ventilation, had received surfactant replacement therapy, were physiologically stable, had no obvious life-threatening congenital anomaly, and had blood cultures obtained and antibiotic therapy initiated.
Infants were randomly assigned to dexamethasone or saline placebo. Intravenous dexamethasone was administered for 12 days according to the following dosing schedule: 0.5 mg/kg/d for 3 days, 0.25 mg/kg/d for 3 days, 0.10 mg/kg/d for 3 days, 0.05 mg/kg/d for 3 days. Infants in either group could receive treatment with selective late postnatal steroids beginning on day 14 of life if they were on assisted ventilation with supplemental oxygen greater than 30%.
The primary outcome measure was CLD or death at 36 weeks postmenstrual age.
The study was stopped before completion of sample size goals because of concern about serious side effects in the early steroid treatment group. A total of 542 infants were enrolled (early treatment N = 273, control N = 269). The 2 groups had similar demographic characteristics. No differences were noted in the primary outcome of CLD or death at 36 weeks postmenstrual age (early treatment 50% vs control: 53%, relative risk: 0.93; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.79-1.09). Fewer infants who received early steroid treatment had a patent ductus arteriosus (relative risk: 0.78; 95% CI: 0.63-0.96), and fewer infants in the early steroid group received indomethacin therapy (relative risk: 0.74; 95% CI: 0.64-0.86) or late steroid treatment (relative risk: 0.69; 95% CI: 0.58-0.81). However, more infants who received early steroid treatment had complications associated with therapy including an increase in hyperglycemia (relative risk: 1.29; 95% CI: 1.13-1.46) and an increase in the use of insulin therapy (relative risk: 1.62; 95% CI: 1.36-1.94). A trend toward increased gastrointestinal hemorrhage (relative risk: 1.55; 95% CI: 0.92-2.61), gastrointestinal perforation (relative risk: 1.53; 95% CI: 0.89-2.61), and an increased systolic blood pressure (relative risk: 1.34; 95% CI: 0.97-1.85) was noted. In infants receiving cranial ultrasound examinations, a marginal increase in periventricular leukomalacia was noted in the early steroid treatment group (relative risk: 2.23; 95% CI: 0.99-5.04). Infants who received early steroid therapy had fewer days in supplemental oxygen but experienced poor weight gain.
A 12-day course of early postnatal steroid therapy given to extremely low birth weight infants did not decrease the risk of CLD or death at 36 weeks postmenstrual age and was associated with an increased risk of complications and poor weight gain.
The amikacin sensitivity of bacteria cultured from 3282 clinical cases of mixed type was determined. Gentamicin and amikacin were equally effective against E. coli strains. Amikacin inhibited the growth of more Pseudomonas aeruginosa strains than did gentamicin. Against Gram-positive bacteria gentamicin proved to be more effective. Many of the gentamicin-resistant strains were sensitive to amikacin. Amikacin levels were measured during 21 pulmonary and 14 heart operations, subsequent to a intramuscular administration of 500 mg amikacin. The serum contained 17-20 microgram/ml amikacin, in the intact, inflamed and tumourous parts of removed lung tissue 9, 6 and 6 microgram/g concentrations were detected, respectively, whereas the cardiac auricle and the pericardial fluid contained 3-4 and 2-4 microgram/ml, respectively. These amikacin levels reach or in most cases even exceed the minimal inhibiting concentrations against the bacteria. Therefore, amikacin is excellent for the treatment of respiratory infections, pericarditis and endocarditis caused by Gram-negative, gentamicin-resistant bacteria. Amikacin treatment of 8 patients with grave diseases as well as the successful local administration of amikacin based on the therapy of 55 cases of surgical suppurations is reported.
Lurasidone [(3aR,4S,7R,7aS)-2-[(1R,2R)-2-[4-(1,2-benzisothiazol-3-yl)piperazin-1-ylmethyl]cyclohexylmethyl]hexahydro-4,7-methano-2H-isoindole-1,3-dione hydrochloride; SM-13496] is an azapirone derivative and a novel antipsychotic candidate. The objective of the current studies was to investigate the in vitro and in vivo pharmacological properties of lurasidone. Receptor binding affinities of lurasidone and several antipsychotic drugs were tested under comparable assay conditions using cloned human receptors or membrane fractions prepared from animal tissue. Lurasidone was found to have potent binding affinity for dopamine D(2), 5-hydroxytryptamine 2A (5-HT(2A)), 5-HT(7), 5-HT(1A), and noradrenaline alpha(2C) receptors. Affinity for noradrenaline alpha(1), alpha(2A), and 5-HT(2C) receptors was weak, whereas affinity for histamine H(1) and muscarinic acetylcholine receptors was negligible. In vitro functional assays demonstrated that lurasidone acts as an antagonist at D(2) and 5-HT(7) receptors and as a partial agonist at the 5-HT(1A) receptor subtype. Lurasidone showed potent effects predictive of antipsychotic activity, such as inhibition of methamphetamine-induced hyperactivity and apomorphine-induced stereotyped behavior in rats, similar to other antipsychotics. Furthermore, lurasidone had only weak extrapyramidal effects in rodent models. In animal models of anxiety disorders and depression, treatment with lurasidone was associated with significant improvement. Lurasidone showed a preferential effect on the frontal cortex (versus striatum) in increasing dopamine turnover. Anti-alpha(1)-noradrenergic, anticholinergic, and central nervous system (CNS) depressant actions of lurasidone were also very weak. These results demonstrate that lurasidone possesses antipsychotic activity and antidepressant- or anxiolytic-like effects with potentially reduced liability for extrapyramidal and CNS depressant side effects.
The development of acute neuropsychiatric symptoms in a 10-year-old boy subsequent to his return from travel abroad in Africa, where he had taken the antimalarial agent mefloquine (Lariam), is reported. A 4-week course of cognitive-behavioral therapy was used to effectively treat this substance-induced anxiety disorder, which had been caused by treatment with mefloquine. A review of the literature about adverse neuropsychiatric effects of mefloquine and the differential diagnosis of malaria is provided. In an age in which international travel is occurring with increasing frequency, it is important to obtain travel histories, including exposure to prophylactic medication, when patients present with acute-onset psychiatric symptoms.
Voriconazole (VRCZ) has a curious visual adverse event that is completely reversible, but its mechanism has not been fully addressed. We observed 20 consecutive patients treated with VRCZ after chemotherapy for hematological malignancy. Six of these cases experienced visual disturbance, and all cases among those treated with oral VRCZ. The authors discuss a relatively higher frequency of visual events complicated with hallucination, which might be associated with a special metabolism of VRCZ in Japanese patients with hematological malignancies. Hallucination and oral administration were specific clinical features for the patients presenting with visual adverse events in response to VRCZ.
To report a case of angina pectoris associated with chemotherapy for testicular cancer.
An HIV-infected patient with massive retroperitoneal metastases of a mixed embryonal and undifferentiated teratocarcinoma was treated with cisplatin, etoposide, and bleomycin. While the patient was receiving the second course of chemotherapy, he developed several episodes of angina pectoris that responded to nitroglycerin. Coronary angiography excluded structural abnormalities in the coronary arteries. The patient was treated prophylactically with nifedipine during the 2 following courses of chemotherapy with no new ischemic events.
Coronary vasospasm seemed to be responsible for the angina in this patient. Several pathogenetic mechanisms that could explain these vascular events are discussed, including the possible role of bulky metastatic disease.
The combination of cisplatin, etoposide, and bleomycin for testicular cancer, perhaps associated with bulky metastatic disease, can induce vasospastic phenomena that might be life-threatening.
Antiplatelet drug use increases bleeding risk, but its role in precipitating subarachnoid hemorrhage remains unclear.
We examined whether the use of low-dose acetylsalicylic acid (LDA), clopidogrel or dipyridamole increased the risk of subarachnoid hemorrhage.
This population-based case-control study was conducted in northern Denmark. We used the Danish National Patient Registry to identify all persons admitted to neurosurgery or neurology departments with a first diagnosis of subarachnoid hemorrhage between 1997 and 2008 (n = 1186). Using risk-set sampling, we selected 10 population controls (n = 11 840) for each case, matched by age and sex. We obtained data on prescriptions for antiplatelet drugs, use of other medications and comorbidity from medical databases. We used conditional logistic regression to compute odds ratios with 95% confidence intervals (CIs), controlling for confounding factors.
One hundred and nine cases (9.2%) and 910 controls (7.7%) used antiplatelet drugs. Among cases, 104 (8.8%) used LDA and 11 (0.9%) used dipyridamole. Among controls, 891 (7.5%) used LDA and 48 (0.4%) used dipyridamole. As compared with not using any antiplatelet drugs during the study period, the adjusted odds ratios were 1.03 (95% CI 0.81-1.32) for long-term LDA use, 2.52 (95% CI 1.37-4.62) for new LDA use, and 2.09 (95% CI 1.04-4.23) for long-term dipyridamole use. Owing to the low number of users, data were inconclusive for clopidogrel.
Long-term dipyridamole use and new LDA use were associated with an increased risk of subarachnoid hemorrhage. Because of the limited precision of these risk estimates, however, caution is advised in their interpretation. Long-term LDA use was not associated with subarachnoid hemorrhage.
The selective estrogen-receptor modulator (SERM) tamoxifen became the first U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved agent for reducing breast cancer risk but did not gain wide acceptance for prevention, largely because it increased endometrial cancer and thromboembolic events. The FDA approved the SERM raloxifene for breast cancer risk reduction following its demonstrated effectiveness in preventing invasive breast cancer in the Study of Tamoxifen and Raloxifene (STAR). Raloxifene caused less toxicity (versus tamoxifen), including reduced thromboembolic events and endometrial cancer. In this report, we present an updated analysis with an 81-month median follow-up. STAR women were randomly assigned to receive either tamoxifen (20 mg/d) or raloxifene (60 mg/d) for 5 years. The risk ratio (RR; raloxifene:tamoxifen) for invasive breast cancer was 1.24 (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.05-1.47) and for noninvasive disease, 1.22 (95% CI, 0.95-1.59). Compared with initial results, the RRs widened for invasive and narrowed for noninvasive breast cancer. Toxicity RRs (raloxifene:tamoxifen) were 0.55 (95% CI, 0.36-0.83; P = 0.003) for endometrial cancer (this difference was not significant in the initial results), 0.19 (95% CI, 0.12-0.29) for uterine hyperplasia, and 0.75 (95% CI, 0.60-0.93) for thromboembolic events. There were no significant mortality differences. Long-term raloxifene retained 76% of the effectiveness of tamoxifen in preventing invasive disease and grew closer over time to tamoxifen in preventing noninvasive disease, with far less toxicity (e.g., highly significantly less endometrial cancer). These results have important public health implications and clarify that both raloxifene and tamoxifen are good preventive choices for postmenopausal women with elevated risk for breast cancer.
It is well known that the intake of paraquat (PQ), an herbicide, causes severe lung injury at chronic phases. We examined the intrapulmonary gene expression of cytokines and growth factors after PQ administration. To induce lung injury, C57BL/6 mice were intraperitoneally injected twice a week with 20 mg/kg of PQ. Histopathologically, at the early phase, lots of alveolar spaces contained edematous fluid. At 3 weeks after PQ challenge, a marked thickening of the alveolar walls with the accumulation of macrophages and T cells was found. Azan staining revealed the patchy distribution of collagen accumulation, indicating pulmonary fibrosis. Consistently, intrapulmonary hydroxyproline contents were significantly elevated, compared with the controls. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis demonstrated that the gene expression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 were significantly increased at 3 weeks after PQ challenge compared with the controls. The mRNA expression of macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP)-1alpha and MIP-2 was significantly enhanced at 1 and 2 weeks after PQ treatment, respectively. Moreover, PQ-treated mice showed enhanced gene expression of fibrogenic growth factors such as transforming growth factor-beta, platelet-derived growth factor-A, acidic fibroblast growth factor, and hepatoctyte growth factor at 2 and/or 3 weeks after PQ challenge. The synergistic effects of these molecules are presumed to cause pulmonary fibrosis due to PQ challenge.
Renal osteodystrophy therapy in dialysis patients with calcitriol and intestinal phosphate binders containing calcium entails the risk of hypercalcemia. A study was performed using 35 hemodialysis patients to see whether the time of day when calcitriol is administered influences the incidence of hypercalcemia. It was shown that simply by administering at night (11:00 PM), the occurrence of hypercalcemia was significantly reduced. While greater than 80% of patients developed hypercalcemia when calcitriol was administered in the morning, when administered at night, this figure was only 50% (P less than 0.013). At the same time, the extent of hypercalcemia when calcitriol was administered at night was significantly lower than when it was administered in the morning. The incidence of hypercalcemia occurred regardless of the type of phosphate binder containing calcium used, whether it was calcium acetate or calcium carbonate. In addition, hypercalcemic episodes were always associated with hyperphosphatemia. On the basis of the above information, it would be expedient to administer calcitriol at night to dialysis patients, in order to reduce the risk of hypercalcemia and to preserve the hypophosphatemic effect of the applied intestinal phosphate binders.
It was investigated whether ethanol (Et) modifies the damaging impact of lead (Pb) on bone metabolism in a rat model reflecting excessive alcohol consumption by humans exposed to relatively high levels of this metal. For this purpose, markers of bone formation (osteocalcin, procollagen I, osteoprotegerin, alkaline phosphatase) and resorption (telopeptides of collagen I, soluble receptor activator of nuclear factor-κB ligand), calciotropic hormones (parathormone, calcitonin, 25-hydroxyvitamin D and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D) in the serum, and the femur content of mineral (including calcium - Ca and inorganic phosphorus - P(i)) and organic components were estimated in the rats exposed to 500 mg Pb/l (in drinking water) or/and Et (5 g/kg b.wt./24 h, by oral gavage) for 12 weeks. Moreover, Ca and P(i) in the serum and urine, alkaline phosphatase in the bone tissue and Pb in the blood and femur were determined. The exposure to Pb or/and Et decreased bone formation and increased its resorption resulting in the bone demineralization. These effects were accompanied by destroying the hormonal regulation of mineral metabolism, and Ca and P(i) imbalance. The co-exposure to Pb and Et-induced disorders in bone metabolism were more advanced than those caused by Pb alone. Et co-administration increased Pb concentration in the blood and decreased its accumulation in the bone. This paper is the first report providing evidence that consumption of Et under exposure to Pb intensifies disorders in bone metabolism and that destroying of the receptor activator nuclear factor-κB (RANK)/RANK ligand/osteoprotegerin system is involved in the mechanisms of interactive action of these xenobiotics on the skeleton. The modifying impact of Et may be an effect of its independent osteotropic action and interaction with Pb. Based on the results it can be concluded that alcohol abuse by subjects excessively exposed to Pb considerably increases the risk of bone damage.
Southeast Asian immigrants, with a high prevalence of both hepatitis B and latent tuberculosis, constitute a large proportion of immigrants to the United States. Isoniazid hepatotoxicity may be associated with hepatitis B. This study was conducted to document the prevalence and interaction of hepatitis B, latent tuberculosis, and isoniazid toxicity.
Hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) and tuberculin skin testing was done on 743 Vietnamese immigrants to the Midwest between January, 1991 and December, 1999. HBsAg positive cases were tested for hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg). All tuberculin skin test-positive patients were treated with isoniazid, unless contraindicated. Complications of isoniazid treatment and compliance with hepatitis B virus immunization recommendations were evaluated.
One hundred three subjects (13.86%) had HBsAg, and 43 (5.7%) HBeAg. Prevalences of latent tuberculosis were similar in HBsAg positive (53%) and HBsAg negative (45%) subjects. Sixty-two percent of HBeAg positive versus 19% of HBeAg negative subjects had hepatotoxic side effects requiring discontinuation of treatment (relative risk [RR] = 11.38, CI = 5.49 < RR < 23.59, p < 0.001). Three cases of severe isoniazid hepatitis occurred in 21 HBeAg positive subjects, versus no cases in 121 HBeAg negative cases treated with isoniazid (RR = 7.72, CI = 5.02 < RR < 11.88, p < 0.001). Only 58% of subjects at risk of developing hepatitis B virus infection were appropriately immunized.
Vietnamese immigrants have a high prevalence of hepatitis B and latent tuberculosis. HBeAg positive cases have a 7.7-fold increased risk of serious isoniazid toxicity and an 11.3-fold increased risk of isoniazid side effects requiring discontinuation of treatment. HBeAg represents an important risk factor for severe isoniazid hepatitis.
Investigators at 30 centers evaluated an intravenous hepatitis B immune globulin preparation in the therapy of fulminant type B hepatitis. Patients with serum positive for hepatitis B surface antigen were treated at stage II to stage IV of hepatic encephalopathy. A central computer program randomized cases for treatment with hyperimmune globulin or albumin placebo. During the first 6 months, the dose of hepatitis B immune globulin was 1.32 g of immunoglobulin G protein; during the last 7 months, it was 5.28 g. Neither dose eliminated antigenemia. In the placebo group, death occurred in four of eight cases randomized at stage II, five of eight at stage III, and 10 of 12 at stage IV. In the group treated with hyperimmune globulin, death occurred in three of five patients randomized at stage II, seven of 12 at stage III, and six of eight at stage IV. The study, therefore, showed no benefit of treatment with exogenous antibody.
Isoniazid is the antituberculosis drug that causes psychiatric manifestations most often. Their incidence is nonetheless rare: a review of the literature found only 16 cases. Only one author has reported hallucinosis, defined by isolated sensorial symptoms, and perceptions not believed to be the reality of the object.
We report a case of a 42-year-old woman, a nonsmoker with no particular history and with lymph node tuberculosis. Three weeks after beginning antituberculosis treatment (isoniazid, rifampicin, pyrazinamide and streptomycin), visual hallucinosis and a headache appeared. The symptoms disappeared when Isoniazid was stopped and an anxiolytic drug prescribed. These findings suggest that these effects were due to isoniazid.
Two mechanisms may explain these psychiatric manifestations: vitamin B6 deficiency or interference between isoniazid and bioamine metabolism.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), one of the most lethal cancers, results in more than one million fatalities worldwide every year. In view of the limited therapeutic alternatives and poor prognosis of liver cancer, preventive control approaches, notably chemoprevention, have been considered to be the best strategy in lowering the present prevalence of the disease. Resveratrol, a naturally occurring antioxidant and antiinflammatory agent found in grapes and red wine, inhibits carcinogenesis with a pleiotropic mode of action. Recently, we have reported that dietary resveratrol significantly prevents chemically-induced liver tumorigenesis in rats. One of the mechanisms of resveratrol-mediated chemoprevention of hepatocarcinogenesis could be related to its antiinflammatory action through hepatic cyclooxygenase (COX-2) inhibition. Although several COX-2 inhibitors are known to exert chemopreventive efficacy, not all are considered ideal candidates for chemoprevention due to the risk of adverse cardiovascular events. Accordingly, the objective of the present study was to evaluate the role of resveratrol on cardiac performance during experimental hepatocarcinogenesis initiated with diethylnitrosamine and promoted by phenobarbital. Rats had free access to diet supplemented with resveratrol four weeks before the carcinogen injection and 14 weeks thereafter. The cardiotoxicity of resveratrol was assessed by monitoring the cardiac function using transthoracic echocardiography as well as Western blot analysis of cardiac tissue. Long-term dietary administration of resveratrol dose-dependently suppressed hepatic tumor multiplicity, the principal endpoint for evaluating the chemopreventive potential of a candidate agent. The chemopreventive effects of resveratrol were also reflected in histopathological assessment of hepatic tissues. Resveratrol did not exhibit any cardiotoxicity but rather improved the cardiac function in a dose-responsive fashion. Our results indicate that resveratrol-mediated chemoprevention of rat liver carcinogenesis is devoid of any adverse cardiovascular events. Resveratrol may be developed as a chemopreventive as well as therapeutic drug for human HCC.
A series of α-ketooxazoles containing conformational constraints in the C2 acyl side chain of 2 (OL-135) were examined as inhibitors of fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH). Only one of the two possible enantiomers displayed potent FAAH inhibition (S vs R enantiomer), and their potency is comparable or improved relative to 2, indicating that the conformational restriction in the C2 acyl side chain is achievable. A cocrystal X-ray structure of the α-ketoheterocycle 12 bound to a humanized variant of rat FAAH revealed its binding details, confirmed that the (S)-enantiomer is the bound active inhibitor, shed light on the origin of the enantiomeric selectivity, and confirmed that the catalytic Ser241 is covalently bound to the electrophilic carbonyl as a deprotonated hemiketal. Preliminary in vivo characterization of the inhibitors 12 and 14 is reported demonstrating that they raise brain anandamide levels following either intraperitoneal (ip) or oral (po) administration indicative of effective in vivo FAAH inhibition. Significantly, the oral administration of 12 caused dramatic accumulation of anandamide in the brain, with peak levels achieved between 1.5 and 3 h, and these elevations were maintained over 9 h. Additional studies of these two representative members of the series (12 and 14) in models of thermal hyperalgesia and neuropathic pain are reported, including the demonstration that 12 administered orally significantly attenuated mechanical (>6 h) and cold (>9 h) allodynia for sustained periods consistent with its long-acting effects in raising the endogenous concentration of anandamide.
Several mechanisms may explain the aggravation of atheroma lesions in patients receiving corticosteroid treatments.
This 68-year-old man, a smoker with high cholesterol levels and a history of two transient ischemic attacks, also had severe Horton disease (giant cell arteritis) requiring treatment by corticosteroids and azathioprine. After a new transient ischemic accident, clopidogrel treatment was initiated. Ten months later, severe carotid stenosis was observed. Endarterectomy removed a recent thrombus and the pathology examination showed necrotic lesions complicated by hemorrhage with inflammatory infiltrate.
This patient's atheromatous disease was aggravated by intraplaque hemorrhage, caused by several factors include his corticosteroid therapy and platelet aggregation inhibition treatment.
Alterations in mRNA for myelin proteins are reported in animal models of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathies (CIPN); however, ultrastructural changes in aldehyde-fixed and plastic-embedded myelin are not evident by electron microscopy. Therefore, we used X-ray diffraction (XRD) to investigate more subtle changes in myelin sheath structure from unfixed nerves.
We used in vivo chronic animal models of CIPN in female Wistar rats, administering cisplatin (CDDP 2mg/kg, i.p. twice/week), paclitaxel (PT 10mg/kg, i.v. once/week) or bortezomib (0.20mg/kg, i.v. three times/week) over a total period of 4weeks. Animal weights were monitored, and tail nerve conduction velocity (NCV) was determined at the end of the treatments to assess the occurrence of peripheral neuropathy. Sciatic nerves were collected and the myelin structure was analyzed using electron microscopy (EM) and XRD.
All the rats treated with the chemotherapy agents developed peripheral neuropathy, as indicated by a decrease in NCV values; however, light and electron microscopy indicated no severe pathological alterations of the myelin morphology. XRD also did not demonstrate significant differences between sciatic nerves in treated vs. control rats with respect to myelin period, relative amount of myelin, membrane structure, and regularity of membrane packing.
These results indicate that experimental peripheral neuropathy caused by CDDP, PT, and bortezomib-which are among the most widely used chemotherapy agents-does not significantly affect the structure of internodal myelin in peripheral nerve.
