1 Two cannabinoid receptors, CB1 and CB2, have been identified. The CB1 receptor is preferentially expressed in brain, and the CB2 receptor in cells of leukocyte lineage. We identified the mRNA for the CB1 receptor in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells, and the mRNA and protein for the CB2 receptor in human microglia and THP-1 cells. 2 Delta(9)-and Delta(8)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) were toxic when added directly to SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. The toxicity of Delta(9)- THC was inhibited by the CB1 receptor antagonist SR141716A but not by the CB2 receptor antagonist SR144528. The endogenous ligand anandamide was also toxic, and this toxicity was enhanced by inhibitors of its enzymatic hydrolysis. 3 The selective CB2 receptor ligands JWH-015 and indomethacin morpholinylamide (BML-190), when added to THP-1 cells before stimulation with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and IFN-gamma, reduced the toxicity of their culture supernatants to SH-SY5Y cells. JWH-015 was more effective against neurotoxicity of human microglia than THP-1 cells. The antineurotoxic activity of JWH-015 was blocked by the selective CB2 receptor antagonist SR144528, but not by the CB1 receptor antagonist SR141716A. This activity of JWH-015 was synergistic with that of the 5-lipoxygenase (5-LOX) inhibitor REV 5901. 4 Cannabinoids inhibited secretion of IL-1beta and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) by stimulated THP-1 cells, but these effects could not be directly correlated with their antineurotoxic activity. 5 Specific CB2 receptor ligands could be useful anti-inflammatory agents, while avoiding the neurotoxic and psychoactive effects of CB1 receptor ligands such as Delta(9)-THC.
Celecoxib, a selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor, is effective as chemopreventive against colon cancer and it is the only nonsteoroidal antiinflammatory drug approved by the FDA for adjuvant therapy in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis. It is also being evaluated, within Phase II and III clinical trials, in combination with standard chemotherapy to treat sporadic colorectal cancer. Nevertheless, its antitumor mechanism of action is still not fully understood. In this study, we have evaluated the in vitro growth inhibitory effect of celecoxib in colon carcinoma cells and analyzed its mechanism of action. We report that the deregulation of the focal adhesion assembly protein Crk-associated substrate 130 kDa (p130Cas) by celecoxib plays a relevant role in the cytotoxic effect of this drug. Thus, celecoxib induces the proteolysis of p130Cas and the nuclear translocation of the 31 kDa generated fragment leading to apoptosis. Furthermore, overexpression of wild-type p130Cas reverts, in part, the growth inhibitory effect of celecoxib. In contrast, FAK and AKT do not appear to be involved in this activity. Our data suggest, for the first time, that the antitumor mechanism of action of celecoxib includes the induction of anoikis, an effect that is not related to COX-2 inhibition. Besides providing new insights into the antitumor effect of celecoxib, this novel mechanism of action holds potential relevance in drug development. Indeed, our results open the possibility to develop new celecoxib derivatives that induce anoikis without COX-2 inhibition so as to avoid the cardiovascular toxicity recently described for the COX-2 inhibitors.
Prinzmetal-variant angina is a syndrome of chest pain caused by myocardial ischemia secondary to reversible coronary artery vasospasm, which may occur in angiographically normal and diseased coronary arteries. It typically occurs at rest and is accompanied by transient ST-segment elevation. Although the underlying pathophysiology is not well established, coronary spasm secondary to increased serotonergic activity as well as increased sympathetic activity may prevail. Coronary artery spasm can be invoked by antimigraine therapy and also by drugs having serotonergic activity such as ergonovine and ergotamine. Prinzmetal-variant angina may be complicated with acute myocardial infarction, ventricular arrhythmias as well as sudden cardiac death. We report a case of 48-year old woman presenting with chest pain and diffuse ST-segment elevation on electrocardiography during an episode of angina, while she was taking zolmitriptan 5 mg/d and citalopram 20 mg/d for migraine and depression, respectively. Coronary angiography (performed because of prolonged angina and presence of diffuse ST-segment elevation on electrocardiography) revealed that diffuse narrowing of left anterior descending coronary artery alleviated after intracoronary nitrate therapy. The most likely cause of myocardial infarction was coronary artery spasm because of the possible increased serotonergic activity secondary to concomitant use of zolmitriptan and citalopram.
Reports on the use of the real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RQ-PCR) for childhood acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) therapy are scarce. This study describes the prognostic significance of quantification of the PML-RARa transcript in children with APL. Since January 2004, we have analyzed 40 children treated with all-trans-retinoic acid ± arsenic trioxide in induction. Thirty-nine patients (97.5%) entered complete remission. The 5-year rates of disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival in these patients were 73.1 and 91.4%, respectively. By employing a standardized RQ-PCR protocol for minimal residual disease (MRD) monitoring, we determined that less than 1 normalized copy number (NCN) after induction indicates higher probability of a more favorable treatment outcome. After induction therapy, thirteen out of 38 (34.2%) patients in hematologic remission showed a negative RQ-PCR result (less than 1 NCN), which was correlated with the lower probability of relapse (100 and 55.2% DFS at 5 years in the negative and positive RQ-PCR groups, respectively; P = 0.018). PML/RARa-based MRD monitoring by RQ-PCR may allow us to identify subgroups of patients at low risk of relapse after induction.
1 Puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced nephrosis is a model of human minimal change disease. In rats, PAN induces nephrotic-range proteinuria, renal epithelial cell (podocyte) damage, infiltration of mononuclear leukocytes, and apoptosis of several renal cell types. 2 Retinoic acid (RA) modulates a wide range of biological processes, such as inflammation and apoptosis. Since renal damage by PAN is characterized by inflammatory infiltration and epithelial cell death, the effect of treatment with all-trans RA (tRA) was examined in the PAN nephrosis model and in the cultured differentiated podocyte. 3 Treatment with tRA 4 days after PAN injection did not inhibit the proteinuria peak but reversed it significantly. However, treatment with tRA both before and 2 days after the injection of PAN protected the glomerular epithelial cells, diminishing the cellular edema and diffuseness of the foot process effacement. Preservation of the podocyte architecture correlated with the inhibition of proteinuria. The anti-inflammatory effect of tRA was evidenced by the inhibition of PAN-induced interstitial mononuclear cell infiltration and the decreased renal expression of two molecules involved in monocyte infiltration: fibronectin and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1. TUNEL assays showed that tRA inhibited the PAN-induced apoptosis of cultured differentiated mouse podocytes. 4 We conclude that tRA treatment may prevent proteinuria by protecting the podocytes from injury and diminishing the interstitial mononuclear infiltrate in the model of PAN nephrosis. Retinoids are a potential new treatment for kidney diseases characterized by proteinuria and mononuclear cell infiltration.
Nucleoside and nucleobase derivatives are currently used in the treatment of a variety of solid tumors; however, the role of plasma membrane transporters as biomarkers of drug metabolism has not been fully addressed. Thus, the purpose of this study was to determine whether the concentrative nucleoside transporter hCNT1 is a predictive marker of therapeutic response.
We studied a cohort of 90 breast cancer patients who were treated with cyclophosphamide-methotrexate-5-fluorouracil after surgery and then monitored for up to 108 months. hCNT1 and enzymes associated with nucleotide metabolism (thymidine phosphorylase, dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase and thymidylate synthase) were assessed immunohistochemically in tissue samples.
Human CNT1 presence was mostly cytoplasmic, with some nuclear staining. The percentage of hCNT1-positive cells correlated positively with the expression of thymidine phosphorylase and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase. Nuclear staining correlated negatively with decreased disease-free survival, whereas the percentage of hCNT1-positive cells correlated positively with reduced long-term survival, with the hCNT1-positive index (>80%) being indicative of poor prognosis. A relative risk of relapse was associated with high hCNT1-positive indexes, whereas when this parameter was combined with the nodal status (positive), a high risk of relapse was found, suggesting that both parameters may reflect a poor prognosis.
These results indicate that the expression of the high-affinity concentrative nucleoside transporter hCNT1 has a prognostic value in determining disease-free survival and risk of relapse in breast cancer patients undergoing surgery followed by cyclophosphamide-methotrexate-5-fluorouracil chemotherapy.
While the therapeutic activity of the deoxycytidine analogue decitabine is thought to reflect its ability to reactivate methylation-silenced genes, this agent is also known to trigger p53-dependent DNA damage responses. Here, we report that p53-inducible ribonucleotide reductase (p53R2/RRM2B) is a robust transcriptional target of decitabine. In cancer cells, decitabine treatment induces p53R2 mRNA expression, protein expression, and promoter activity in a p53-dependent manner. The mechanism of p53R2 gene induction by decitabine does not seem to be promoter DNA hypomethylation, as the p53R2 5' CpG island is hypomethylated before treatment. Small interfering RNA (siRNA) targeting of DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) in wild-type p53 cells leads to genomic DNA hypomethylation but does not induce p53R2, suggesting that DNMT/DNA adduct formation is the molecular trigger for p53R2 induction. Consistent with this idea, only nucleoside-based DNMT inhibitors that form covalent DNA adducts induce p53R2 expression. siRNA targeting of p53R2 reduces the extent of cell cycle arrest following decitabine treatment, supporting a functional role for p53R2 in decitabine-mediated cellular responses. To determine the clinical relevance of p53R2 induction, we measured p53R2 expression in bone marrow samples from 15 myelodysplastic syndrome/acute myelogenous leukemia (MDS/AML) patients undergoing decitabine therapy. p53R2 mRNA and protein were induced in 7 of 13 (54%) and 6 of 9 (67%) patients analyzed, respectively, despite a lack of methylation changes in the p53R2 promoter. Most notably, there was a significant association (P = 0.0047) between p53R2 mRNA induction and clinical response in MDS/AML. These data establish p53R2 as a novel hypomethylation-independent decitabine gene target associated with clinical response.
Phenytoin is a widely used antiepileptic drug. However, hepatotoxicity is one of its adverse effects reported in some patients. The mechanism(s) by which phenytoin causes hepatotoxicity is not clear yet. This study was designed to evaluate the cytotoxic mechanism(s) of phenytoin toward rat hepatocytes (whose cytochrome P450 enzymes had been induced by Phenobarbital). Furthermore, the effect of taurine and/or melatonin on this toxicity was investigated. Cell death, reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation, lipid peroxidation (LPO), and mitochondrial depolarization were monitored as toxicity markers. Results showed that phenytoin caused an elevation in ROS formation, depletion of intracellular reduced glutathione, increase in cellular oxidized glutathione, enhancement of LPO, and mitochondrial damage. Taurine (1 mM) and/or melatonin (1 mM) administration decreased the intensity of cellular injury caused by phenytoin. This study suggests the protective role of taurine and/or melatonin against phenytoin-induced cellular damage probably through their reactive radical scavenging properties and their effects on mitochondria.
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is an autosomal recessive disorder affecting the expression or function of survival motor neuron protein (SMN) due to the homozygous deletion or rare point mutations in the survival motor neuron gene 1 (SMN1). The human genome includes a second nearly identical gene called SMN2 that is retained in SMA. SMN2 transcripts undergo alternative splicing with reduced levels of SMN. Up-regulation of SMN2 expression, modification of its splicing, or inhibition of proteolysis of the truncated protein derived from SMN2 have been discussed as potential therapeutic strategies for SMA. In this manuscript, we detail the discovery of a series of arylpiperidines as novel modulators of SMN protein. Systematic hit-to-lead efforts significantly improved potency and efficacy of the series in the primary and orthogonal assays. Structure-property relationships including microsomal stability, cell permeability, and in vivo pharmacokinetics (PK) studies were also investigated. We anticipate that a lead candidate chosen from this series may serve as a useful probe for exploring the therapeutic benefits of SMN protein up-regulation in SMA animal models and a starting point for clinical development.
Risperidone has been used in some stress disorders and may be potentially protective against stress-induced gastric lesions. Thus, the aim of the present study is to investigate, whether risperidone, a D(2) receptor and 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonist, would be able to result in gastroprotective effect in stress-induced lesions and also explore the possible mechanism of action behind its gastroprotective activity. Gastroprotective activity of risperidone was evaluated both by single treatment and 21 days repeated (0.03, 0.1, 0.3 and 1mg/kg, p.o.) treatment in the cold restraint stress (CRS) model and 21 days repeated treatment in the pyloric ligation (PL) model and compared with that of sulpiride (D(2) receptor antagonist) and ketanserin (5-HT(2) receptor antagonist) as standard. Histopathological assessment was done to evaluate the gastroprotective activity of risperidone in CRS model. The roles of nitric oxide (NO), sulfhydryl (SH) group, ATP-sensitive K(+) channels (K(ATP) channels) and prostaglandins (PGs) in the gastroprotective effect of risperidone against CRS were also investigated. PGE(2), hexosamine as a marker of mucus barrier and microvascular permeability were also estimated. Results show that repeated treatment of risperidone, sulpiride and ketanserin exhibited a gastroprotective effect against CRS-induced lesions while single administration of risperidone was found to be ineffective. Moreover, repeated treatment of risperidone and ketanserin was found to be ineffective in case of PL in contrast to sulpiride. Risperidone pretreatment reverses the stress induced alteration in hexosamine, PGE(2) and microvascular permeability. Pretreatment with l-NAME, NEM, glibenclamide and indomethacin reversed the gastroprotective effect of risperidone. The results suggest that risperidone has significant gastroprotective effects in CRS-induced gastric lesions models, which appears to be mediated by endogenous NO, SH, PGs and K(ATP) channel opening.
Atacicept, a fully human recombinant fusion protein that blocks the activity of BLyS (B-Lymphocyte Stimulator) and APRIL (a proliferation-inducing ligand), is undergoing clinical evaluation in B-cell-mediated diseases, including autoimmune disorders. Nonclinical studies in mice and cynomolgus monkeys demonstrate dose-dependent, reversible decreases in circulating Ig concentrations and reductions in mature B cells in the peripheral blood and lymphoid tissues. However, the combination of atacicept with purine synthesis inhibitors (e.g., mycophenolate mofetil [MMF]) and anti-B-cell monoclonal therapy (e.g., rituximab) has not been evaluated. Atacicept does not augment hematological toxicities associated with MMF, including anemia or thrombocytopenia. Combination of atacicept with MMF or rituximab reduced B cells in the periphery (MMF) or tissues (MMF and rituximab) further than did monotherapy, as was the case with atacicept-MMF combination therapy and serum Ig concentrations. Overall, atacicept appears to augment the pharmacologic activity toward B cells of current immunosuppressive therapies without increasing the hematological toxicities associated with MMF. Enhanced reduction in B cells and Ig concentrations associated with atacicept combination therapy may increase therapeutic activity or allow dose reduction in autoimmune patients. Findings from nonclinical safety studies support clinical evaluation of atacicept combination therapies.
The primary objectives of this study were to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of paclitaxel administered by 3-h infusion to patients with solid tumors, and to characterize the pharmacokinetics of a 3-h infusion in comparison with those of a 24-h infusion. Twenty-seven patients each received one of six levels of paclitaxel, 105, 135, 180, 210, 240 and 270 mg/m2, with premedication. Two patients given 240 mg/m2 and one patient given 270 mg/m2 unexpectedly had grade 3/4 hypotension just after finishing the paclitaxel infusion. Peripheral neuropathy was also dose-limiting at 270 mg/m2. Although granulocytopenia was significantly less severe than with a 24-h infusion, more than half of the patients experienced grade 4 toxicity at doses of 240 or 270 mg/m2. Severe hypersensitivity reactions (HSRs) were not observed. Pharmacokinetic studies using high performance liquid chromatography demonstrated proportionally greater increases in the peak plasma concentration and area under the curve, and decreases in clearance and volume of distribution with increasing dose, suggesting non-linear pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel when given by 3-h infusion. The MTD of paclitaxel given as a 3-h infusion was determined to be 240 mg/m2 with dose-limiting toxicities of granulocytopenia, peripheral neuropathy and hypotension. Hypotension just after infusion, induced by 3-h infusion of paclitaxel, is a new observation which has not been reported previously. The recommended dose for phase II study is 210 mg/m2. Although hypotension was observed as an unexpected toxic effect, paclitaxel could be administered safely over 3 h with premedication and proper monitoring, resulting in reduced myelotoxicity and with no increase in the incidence of HSRs as compared with a 24-h infusion.
We studied the features of dystonia in 9 patients with untreated idiopathic Parkinson's disease and in 56 patients on sustained treatment with L-dopa. Dystonia was seen as an initial symptom in patients with both early- and late-onset Parkinson's disease and included action dystonia of the limbs and cranial dystonia. Although the coexistence of parkinsonism and dystonia suggests a common pathophysiology, antiparkinsonian drugs did not consistently influence dystonic spasms. L-dopa-induced dystonia was seen as an off-period, biphasic, or peak-dose phenomenon. Each type showed a distinctive pattern of localization of dystonic spasms, possibly reflecting neurochemical aspects of basal ganglia somatotopy. Neuropharmacological studies performed in 12 patients suggest that off-period dystonia is genuinely induced by L-dopa and best relieved by antiparkinsonian agents.
In this prospective study, we evaluated whether high thoracic epidural anesthesia (TEA) or i.v. clonidine, in addition to general anesthesia, affects the cardiopulmonary bypass- and surgery-associated stress response and incidence of myocardial ischemia by their sympatholytic properties. Seventy patients scheduled for elective coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) received general anesthesia with sufentanil and propofol. TEA was randomly induced before general anesthesia and continued during the study period in 25 (anesthetized dermatomes C6-T10). Another 24 patients received i.v. clonidine as a bolus of 4 microg/kg before the induction of general anesthesia. Clonidine was then infused at a rate of 1 microg x kg(-1) x h(-1) during surgery and at 0.2-0.5 microg x kg(-1) x h(-1) postoperatively. The remaining 21 patients underwent general anesthesia as performed routinely (control). Hemodynamics, plasma epinephrine and norepinephrine, cortisol, the myocardial-specific contractile protein troponin T, and other cardiac enzymes were measured pre- and postoperatively. During the preoperative night and a follow-up of 48 h after surgery, five-lead electrocardiogram monitoring was used for ischemia detection. Both TEA and clonidine reduced the postoperative heart rate compared with the control group without jeopardizing cardiac output or perfusion pressure. Plasma epinephrine increased perioperatively in all groups but was significantly lower in the TEA group. Neither TEA nor clonidine affected the increase in plasma cortisol. The release of troponin T was attenuated by TEA. New ST elevations > or = 0.2 mV or new ST depression > or = 0.1 mV occurred in > 70% of the control patients but only in 40% of the clonidine group and in 50% of the TEA group. We conclude that TEA (but not i.v. clonidine) combined with general anesthesia for CABG demonstrates a beneficial effect on the perioperative stress response and postoperative myocardial ischemia.
Thoracic epidural anesthesia combined with general anesthesia attenuates the myocardial sympathetic response to cardiopulmonary bypass and cardiac surgery. This is associated with decreased myocardial ischemia as determined by less release of troponin T. These findings may have an impact on the anesthetic management for coronary artery bypass grafting.
Cystic fibrosis results from mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene. Premature termination codons represent a common minority of CFTR mutations, and are caused by base pair substitutions that produce abnormal stop codons in the coding sequence. Select aminoglycosides induce "translational readthrough" of premature stop codons and have been shown to restore full-length functional protein in a number of preclinical and clinical settings. We studied two well-described premature termination codons found in the distal open reading frame of CFTR, W1282X and R1162X, expressed in polarizing and nonpolarizing cells. Our findings indicate that W1282X CFTR-expressing cells demonstrate significantly greater CFTR activity when overexpressed compared with R1162X CFTR cells, even when truncated protein is the predominant form. In addition, our results show that the combination of stimulated expression and stop codon suppression produces additive effects on CFTR-mediated ion transport. These findings provide evidence that W1282X CFTR exhibits membrane localization and retained chloride channel function after enhanced expression, and suggest that patients harboring this mutation may be more susceptible to CFTR rescue.
The superior toxicity profile is one of the major reasons for the widespread use of gemcitabine in cancer treatment. Bone marrow suppression is the most common side effect, while non-hematological events are relatively infrequent. Cardiac toxicity is a rare complication and cardiac arrhythmia is even rarer. We report the case of a 67-year-old woman with metastatic breast cancer without a history of cardiac arrhythmia or ischemic heart disease who developed supraventricular tachycardia. The symptoms had started immediately after gemcitabine treatment. The arrhythmia responded poorly to common treatment and was eventually controlled by oral propranolol five days after admission. The present case suggests that supraventricular tachycardia may be triggered by gemcitabine even without underlying significant heart disease and may be resistant to conventional therapy.
The antibacterial efficacies of daptomycin and vancomycin were compared in male Fischer rats with subcutaneous abscesses caused by either methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA) or methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA). The influence of daptomycin on tobramycin nephrotoxicity was also assessed. MSSA or MRSA abscesses were treated with subcutaneous daptomycin (10 mg/kg every 12 h), vancomycin (125 mg/kg every 12 h), or diluent (every 12 h) for 5 to 10 days. Rats in both antibiotic treatment groups had lower abscess bacterial counts than did controls at days 5 and 10 (P less than 0.0025). The daptomycin treatment groups had lower abscess bacterial counts than did the vancomycin treatment groups for MSSA at day 5 (P less than 0.0025) and day 10 (P less than 0.025) and for MRSA at day 10 (P less than 0.0025). Nephrotoxicity treatment groups included animals treated for 3, 7, 10, 14, and 17 days with subcutaneous diluent (every 12 h), daptomycin (20 mg/kg every 12 h), tobramycin (40 mg/kg every 12 h), and the combination of daptomycin and tobramycin. Compared with controls, animals treated with daptomycin alone exhibited no detectable nephrotoxicity. Rats given tobramycin alone developed functional and histopathologic abnormalities from days 7 through 17. Animals treated with daptomycin and tobramycin for 14 days had a lower mean concentration of creatinine in serum (P less than 0.005), higher mean creatinine clearance values (P less than 0.05), and less cortical tubular cell regeneration (P less than 0.05) than did rats treated with tobramycin alone. In rats with staphylococcal subcutaneous abscesses, daptomycin was superior to vancomycin in treating both MSSA and MRSA. Daptomycin alone caused no detectable renal injury, and in rats given daptomycin combined with tombramycin, there was less histologic and functional renal injury than in animals given tobramycin alone.
A newly diagnosed diabetic patient, recently started on chlorpropamide, required emergency admission because of sudden onset of weakness and syncope. In vitro testing confirmed the diagnosis of chlorpropamide induced haemolysis, and withdrawal of the drug resulted in clinical recovery.
Multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) is the most serious complication of trauma or infection. Our previous study has shown that activated intestinal mucosal mast cells (IMMC) might play an important role in the development of MODS. Somatostatin (SST), one of the peptides derived from gut, is an important regulator in the neuroendocrine-immune network. However, the effects of SST on IMMC, especially in the situation of MODS, remain unclear. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of SST on the activity of IMMC in MODS. A rat model of MODS was established 24 h after intraperitoneal injection of zymosan at dosage of 75 mg/kg. SST was injected into the tail vein 30 min after intraperitoneal inoculation of zymosan. Animals were sacrificed 25 h after zymosan injection. The concentration of histamine and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) in plasma and intestinal tissue was measured. The pathological changes of vital organs, including intestine, liver, kidney, and lung, were studied under light microscopy. The ultramicrostructures of IMMC were observed by transmission electron microscopy. Obvious improvement of pathological changes of vital organs was observed in the rats with MODS treated with SST at 2.3 ng/kg/h. PO2 was increased by 50% (P < 0.05). The histamine level in the intestinal tissue of rats with MODS treated with SST (14.50 +/- 1.08 ng/g protein) was significantly higher than that of the group without treatment (8.60 +/- 0.50 ng/g protein, P < 0.01). Furthermore, degranulation of IMMC in the rats treated with SST was less obvious. The in vitro inhibitive effect of SST on the histamine release rate of IMMC was negatively correlated to its concentration (r = -0.991, P < 0.01). In conclusion, suppression of IMMC activity might be an important mechanism of the protective effects of SST in rats with a high risk of MODS.
Recent progress in molecular biology has led to an increase of prognostic markers and development of molecular-targeted therapy in pediatric malignancies. Previous treatment including stem cell transplantation showed a remarkable cure rate, however, some patients are resistant to such therapy. Recently, all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) for acute promyeloblastic leukemia, imatinib for chronic myeloid leukemia, and rituximab for B-cell malignant lymphoma serve to improve the clinical outcome of these patients. Furthermore, molecular-targeted therapies including tyrosine kinase inhibitor, farnesyl transferase inhibitor, methylation inhibitor, and histone deacetyl enzyme inhibitor, were applied for clinical study. For pediatric malignancies, in addition to molecular-targeted therapy against leukemia, molecular-targeted therapies, mainly tyrosin kinase inhibitors, were applied to neuroblastoma and various types of sarcomas. Recent progress in prognostic molecular marker and molecular-targeted therapy against pediatric malignancies was here reviewed.
Much evidence supports the hypothesis that A2A adenosine receptors play an important role in the expression of morphine withdrawal and that the dopaminergic system might also be involved. We have evaluated morphine withdrawal signs in wild-type and A2A receptor knockout mice and shown a significant enhancement in some withdrawal signs in the knockout mice. In addition, micro -opioid and dopamine D2 receptor autoradiography, as well as micro -opioid receptor-stimulated guanylyl 5'-[gamma-[35S]thio]-triphosphate ([35S]GTPgammaS) autoradiography was carried out in brain sections of withdrawn wild-type and knockout mice. No significant changes in D2 and micro -opioid receptor binding were observed in any of the brain regions analysed. However, a significant increase in the level of micro receptor-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding was observed in the nucleus accumbens of withdrawn knockout mice. These data indicate that the A2A receptor plays a role in opioid withdrawal related to functional receptor activation.
Human neutrophil lipocalin was purified from human buffycoat. A polyclonal antibody was obtained by immunisation of rabbits. The antibody reacted with the free lipocalin as well as with the PMNL-gelatinase bound protein. This antibody was used to establish a sensitive sandwich-ELISA for the determination of the protein in body fluids using the biotin/streptavidin system. The mean intra-assay C.V. was 2.3% and the mean inter-assay C.V. 6.7%. The recovery in human plasma was determined to be 98.8%. The ELISA allowed the determination of the protein in the concentration range 0.2-25 micrograms/l. Measurement of the neutrophil lipocalin concentration showed that human plasma of healthy donors contained 9.7 +/- 81 micrograms/l (n = 122) and that the concentrations in serum were significantly higher (P < 0.001) with 133 +/- 90 micrograms/l (n = 122). Neutrophil lipocalin was also found in the urine of healthy donors (8.1 micrograms/l; n = 9). Very high concentrations of this lipocalin were found in the synovial fluids of patients suffering from inflammatory rheumatoid arthritis (1.7 +/- 1.4 mg/l; n = 37).
We report the case of a 60 year old male who complained of headache and blurry vision--that progressed to left ophthalmoplegia and ptosis--after receiving a dose of leuprolide for Prostate cancer therapy. Imaging showed a hemorrhagic sellar mass. The patient underwent transsphenoidal debulking, and the tissue obtained demonstrated immunohistochemical staining for LH. A literature review revealed nine previously reported cases of pituitary apoplexy after GnRH agonist therapy for prostate cancer. In most cases, the sellar tissues stained for LH, consistent with a gonadotropinoma. The pathophysiology of these events is unclear, but recent animal models suggest possible explanations. The predominance of gonadotropinomas is important because they do not usually present with hypersecretory symptoms. Particular attention to clinical findings suggestive of a non functioning pituitary tumor in patients receiving GnRH agonist therapy is critical as routine screening with MRI is not practical.
The effects of intravenous (i.v.) administration of four agonists at central 5-HT1A receptors were investigated and compared. Acute iv injection of 0.1 mg/kg of 8-OH-DPAT induced a decrease in blood pressure both in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY). The maximal hypotensive effect was observed 15 and 10 min after injection, respectively, but the effect was greater and longer-lasting in the SHR. 8-OH-DPAT significantly decreased heart rate in WKY and, to a lesser extent, in SHR. The i.v. injection of 1 mg/kg of flesinoxan caused a similar fall in blood pressure and heart rate in SHR and WKY. The i.v. administration of 1 mg/kg of 5-methyl-urapidil or MDL 75,608A caused a fall in blood pressure which was significantly more pronounced in SHR than in WKY. 5-methyl-urapidil induced a significant tachycardia in WKY, but had little effect on heart rate in SHR. MDL 75,608A caused a short-lasting tachycardia in SHR and WKY. In conscious SHR, the intracerebroventricular (icv) injection of 10 micrograms of 8-OH-DPAT or 100 micrograms of either flesinoxan or MDL 75,608A caused a decrease in blood pressure and heart rate. The icv injection of 100 micrograms of 5-methyl-urapidil caused only a decrease in blood pressure. Chronic pre-treatment with these compounds, by daily i.v. injection, did not significantly influence the hypotensive or bradycardic effects in an acute experiment. The involvement of alpha 1-adrenoceptors in the effects of these compounds was studied by administering phenylephrine (1 microgram/i.v.) at 5-min intervals before and after the i.v. injection of the experimental compounds. The injection of phenylephrine reproducibly increased blood pressure by 35-40 mm Hg after saline pre-treatment, and these responses were not affected by the i.v. injection of 0.1 mg/kg of either 8-OH-DPAT or 1 mg/kg of flesinoxan. In contrast, the phenylephrine-induced pressor responses were markedly diminished at 5 min after treatment with 1 mg/kg of either 5-methyl-urapidil or MDL 75,608A, but slowly recovered thereafter. These results show that the 5-HT1A receptor agonists 8-OH-DPAT, flesinoxan, 5-methyl-urapidil and MDL 75,608A show antihypertensive properties in conscious SHR after iv or icv injection. However, the mechanism of action of the compounds differs: 8-OH-DPAT and flesinoxan may act predominantly as 5-HT1A receptor agonists, where as 5-methyl-urapidil and MDL 75,608A also seem to have an effect on peripheral alpha 1-adrenoceptors.
Seizure susceptibility varies among inbred mouse strains. Chromosome substitution strains (CSS), in which a single chromosome from one inbred strain (donor) has been transferred onto a second strain (host) by repeated backcrossing, may be used to identify quantitative trait loci (QTLs) that contribute to seizure susceptibility. QTLs for susceptibility to pilocarpine-induced seizures, a model of temporal lobe epilepsy, have not been reported, and CSS have not previously been used to localize seizure susceptibility genes. We report QTLs identified using a B6 (host) x A/J (donor) CSS panel to localize genes involved in susceptibility to pilocarpine-induced seizures. Three hundred fifty-five adult male CSS mice, 58 B6, and 39 A/J were tested for susceptibility to pilocarpine-induced seizures. Highest stage reached and latency to each stage were recorded for all mice. B6 mice were resistant to seizures and slower to reach stages compared to A/J mice. The CSS for Chromosomes 10 and 18 progressed to the most severe stages, diverging dramatically from the B6 phenotype. Latencies to stages were also significantly shorter for CSS10 and CSS18 mice. CSS mapping suggests seizure susceptibility loci on mouse Chromosomes 10 and 18. This approach provides a framework for identifying potentially novel homologous candidate genes for human temporal lobe epilepsy.
