A 58-year-old woman with tuberculosis received antituberculous drugs which included isoniazid, rifampicin, and ethambutol. Nausea and anorexia were initial symptoms while jaundice and abdominal pain were late manifestations. She became comatose and died 7 weeks after therapy. Autopsy revealed submassive necrosis of the liver and active advanced pulmonary tuberculosis. It is, thus, necessary for the physician to be alert for this serious complication in prescribing a combination of these antituberculous drugs.
The usefulness of ACTH in the treatment of childhood epilepsy is assessed by improvement in the EEG and in the clinical condition. However, pronounced side effects, even serious ones, must be encountered. The most common complications are Cushing syndrome, infections, and arterial hypertension. We report on seven patients with infantile myoclonic seizures, who exhibited myocardial hypertrophy with increased left ventricular function during ACTH treatment. These changes were detected and followed by serial echocardiographic investigations. Within a period of 5 months after the termination of ACTH therapy the abnormal echocardiographic findings disappeared. We believe that the cardiac hypertrophy is ACTH-induced. Based on the various biological effects of ACTH different explanations are proposed: oedema or deposition of glycogen in the myocardial tissue, hyperinsulinism, arterial hypertension and increased inotropic stimulus. Because of our observations, we suggest careful monitoring of children treated with ACTH by performing serial echocardiographic investigations.
Loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra (A9 cells) and ventral tegmental area (VTA) (A10 cells) has been reported in Parkinson's disease with reference to causing motor and non-motor deficits, although clinical and laboratory animal studies on the degeneration of VTA neurons are less emphasized comparative to the degeneration of substantia nigra neurons. In the present study, we examined the VTA dopaminergic neurons in a chronic mouse model of Parkinson's disease induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine and probenecid at a level showing moderate neurodegeneration and studied the impact of endurance exercise on VTA neurons in this model. In comparison to the normal control animals, the chronic mouse model of Parkinson's disease with moderate neurodegeneration demonstrated a significant reduction of VTA neurons (52% loss), when these animals were kept sedentary throughout the study. Morphologically, the VTA dopaminergic neurons in this model displayed a decrease in cell volume and showed irregular or disparaging axonal and dendritic projections. When the chronic Parkinsonian mice were exercised on a motorized rodent treadmill up to 15m/min, 40 min/day, 5 days/week for 10 and 18 weeks, the total number of VTA dopaminergic neurons were significantly higher than the sedentary Parkinsonian animals. Especially noted with the 18-week exercised Parkinsonian mice, the number of VTA neurons returned to normal range and the cells were densely populated and displayed distinctive axons and dendritic arborization. These results demonstrate that prolonged exercise training is neuroprotective to the dopaminergic neurons in the VTA of the chronic mouse model of Parkinson's disease with moderate neurodegeneration.
Metallothioneins are central for the metabolism and detoxification of transition metals. Exposure to mercury during early neurodevelopment is associated with neurocognitive impairment. Given the importance of metallothioneins in mercury detoxification, metallothioneins may be a protective factor against mercury-induced neurocognitive impairment. Deletion of the murine metallothionein-1 and metallothionein-2 genes causes choice accuracy impairments in the 8-arm radial maze. We hypothesize that deletions of metallothioneins genes will make metallothionein-null mice more vulnerable to mercury-induced cognitive impairment. We tested this hypothesis by exposing MT1/MT2-null and wild-type mice to developmental mercury (HgCl(2)) and evaluated the resultant effects on cognitive performance on the 8-arm radial maze. During the early phase of learning metallothionein-null mice were more susceptible to mercury-induced impairment compared to wildtype mice. Neurochemical analysis of the frontal cortex revealed that serotonin levels were higher in metallothionein-null mice compared to wild-type mice. This effect was independent of mercury exposure. However, dopamine levels in mercury-exposed metallothionein-null mice were lower compared to mercury-exposed wild-type mice. This work shows that deleting metallothioneins increase the vulnerability to developmental mercury-induced neurocognitive impairment. Metallothionein effects on monoamine transmitters may be related to this cognitive effect.
Mitomycin C is a powerful antineoplastic agent. If used at high dosage, it may cause a secondary form of adult hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS). Blood transfusions worsen the evolution of this peculiar form of HUS. We describe a patient who developed HUS after treatment with mitomycin C (total dose 144 mg/m2) due to a carcinoma of the ascending colon. Repeated blood transfusions were associated with rapidly evolving renal failure coupled with anemia and thrombocytopenia. Haptoglobin was undetectable. Soon after starting subcutaneous erythropoietin, the velocity of progression of renal failure slowed whilst no more blood transfusions were required and haptoglobin levels returned to normal. Thereafter, the patient's renal function slowly worsened and she started chronic hemodialysis 5 years later. Up to now, all investigations have failed to show a relapse of her adenocarcinoma. A possible explanation of these data is that erythropoietin permitted the termination of blood transfusions which both triggered and perpetuated the syndrome. However, we cannot exclude a primitive effect of erythropoietin on the endothelium or on the platelets.
Candesartan cilexetil, an angiotensin (Ang) II receptor 1 blocker was reported to suppress the myocardial damage in various cardiovascular complications but the mode by which it is effective in preventing the progression of dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is unknown. Emerging evidences suggest that, at least, part of the benefits observed with the use of AT1 receptor blockers could be attributed to the increased Ang (1-7) levels observed during administration of these agents. Identification of the novel components of the RAS, ACE2 and Ang (1-7) receptor mas, provided essential elements for considering the existence of a vasodilator arm of the RAS, represented by the ACE2-Ang (1-7)-mas axis. In this study, rat model of DCM was prepared by injection with porcine cardiac myosin. Twenty-eight days after immunization, candesartan cilexetil was administered intraperitoneally at 1 or 10mg/kg/day to rats for four weeks. Myocardial expression of Ang receptors and markers of calcium homeostasis, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and apoptosis were measured by Western blotting and histopathological staining techniques. Candesartan improved the functional markers in a dose-dependent manner and also upregulated Ang (1-7), ACE2 and mas1 in the myocardium of DCM rats. Various ER stress and apoptosis markers were attenuated and the number apoptotic cells were significantly lower in the candesartan treated rats compared with those of the vehicle group. These findings suggest that candesartan treatment prevented the progression of DCM by activation of the counter regulatory arm of the RAS and possibly through modulation of ER stress and subsequently, cardiac apoptosis.
The aim of this study was to examine if the peripheral antinociceptive effects of diclofenac and indomethacin involve the sequential participation of NO and cGMP synthesis followed by potassium channel opening. The peripheral antinociceptive effects of diclofenac, indomethacin, pinacidil (a potassium channel opener) and atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP, which increases cGMP content in a NO-independent manner) were assayed using the formalin test in the rat. All compounds produced significant local antinociception. Diclofenac effect was reverted by N(G)-L-nitro-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, an inhibitor of NO synthesis), by 1 H-(1,2,4)-oxadiazolo (4,2-a) quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ, an inhibitor soluble guanylyl cyclase), and by the potassium channel blockers glibenclamide, tolbutamide, charybdotoxin and apamin. Pinacidil effect was blocked by glibenclamide, tolbutamide, charybdotoxin and apamin, strongly suggesting that potassium channel opening results in antinociception. ANP effect was inhibited by the potassium channel blockers, but not by L-NAME, suggesting that potassium channel opening is a consequence of an increased cGMP content. Indomethacin was effective, but at doses higher than those of diclofenac, and could not be blocked by L-NAME nor by potassium channel blockers. The present results suggest that the L-arginine-NO-cGMP-potassium channel pathway is involved in the peripheral antinociceptive effect of diclofenac, but not of indomethacin, and thus provide evidence for differences in mechanisms of action among nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Chlorine is highly irritating when inhaled, and is a common toxic industrial gas causing tissue damage in the airways followed by an acute inflammatory response. In this study, we investigated mechanisms by which chlorine exposure may cause reactive airways dysfunction syndrome (RADS) and we examined the dose-dependency of the development of symptoms. Mice were exposed to 50 or 200 ppm Cl(2) during a single 15 min exposure in a nose-only container. The experiment terminated 2, 6, 12, 24, 48, 72 h and 7, 14, 28 and 90 days post exposure. Inflammatory cell counts in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL), secretion of inflammatory mediators in BAL, occurrence of lung edema and histopathological changes in lung tissue was analyzed at each time-point. Airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR) was studied after 24 and 48 h and 7, 14, 28 and 90 days. The results showed a marked acute response at 6h (50 ppm) and 12h (200 ppm) post exposure as indicated by induced lung edema, increased airway reactivity in both central and peripheral airways, and an airway inflammation dominated by macrophages and neutrophils. The inflammatory response declined rapidly in airways, being normalized after 48 h, but inflammatory cells were sustained in lung tissue for at least seven days. In addition, a sustained AHR was observed for at least 28 days. In summary, this mouse model of chlorine exposure shows delayed symptoms of hyperreactive airways similar to human RADS. We conclude that the model can be used for studies aimed at improved understanding of adverse long-term responses following inhalation of chlorine.
The behavioral effects of the acute and subchronic administration of L-alpha-glycerylphosphorylcholine (alpha-GPC) on passive and active avoidance behavioral tasks were investigated. When administered IP after training together with scopolamine 2 h before retest, alpha-GPC reverses the scopolamine-induced amnesia in the passive avoidance conditioning in young and old rats. Furthermore, the subchronic treatment with alpha-GPC positively and significantly influences the performance of both young and old animals in the active avoidance test. Moreover, in in vitro/ex vivo experiments alpha-GPC potentiates receptor-stimulated phosphatidylinositol hydrolysis in cortical synaptoneurosomes derived from young and old animals. In young but not old animals, alpha-GPC significantly potentiates potassium (40 mM)-stimulated intrasynaptosomal calcium oscillations in purified synaptosomes derived from the hippocampus. These results show that alpha-GPC improves the performance of animals in both active and passive conditioning tasks. Furthermore, subchronic treatment with the compound enhances in young and restores in aged animals the transduction of the signal, namely, the receptor-mediated production of inositol phosphate and the potassium-induced calcium mobilization. These modifications may represent at least part of the molecular mechanism of action of the compound.
The in vivo and in vitro toxic effects of the synthetic polymeric 3-alkylpyridinium salt (APS3), from the Mediterranean marine sponge Reniera sarai, were evaluated on mammals, with emphasis to determine its mode of action. The median lethal doses of APS3 were 7.25 and higher that 20mg/kg in mouse and rat, respectively. Intravenous administration of 7.25 and 20mg/kg APS3 to rat caused a significant fall followed by an increase in mean arterial blood pressure accompanied by tachycardia. In addition, cumulative doses of APS3 (up to 60 mg/kg) inhibited rat nerve-evoked skeletal muscle contraction in vivo, with a median inhibitory dose (ID(50)) of 37.25mg/kg. When administrated locally by intramuscular injection to mouse, APS3 decreased the compound muscle action potential recorded in response to in vivo nerve stimulation, with an ID(50) of 0.5mg/kg. In vitro experiments confirmed the inhibitory effect of APS3 on mouse hemidiaphragm nerve-evoked muscle contraction with a median inhibitory concentration (IC(50)) of 20.3 μM, without affecting directly elicited muscle contraction. The compound inhibited also miniature endplate potentials and nerve-evoked endplate potentials with an IC(50) of 7.28 μM in mouse hemidiaphragm. Finally, APS3 efficiently blocked acetylcholine-activated membrane inward currents flowing through Torpedo nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) incorporated to Xenopus oocytes, with an IC(50) of 0.19 μM. In conclusion, our results strongly suggest that APS3 blocks muscle-type nAChRs, and show for the first time that in vivo toxicity of APS3 is likely to occur through an antagonist action of the compound on these receptors.
The aim of this paper is to examine if pre- and neonatal exposure to lead (Pb) may intensify or inhibit apoptosis or necroptosis in the developing rat brain. Pregnant experimental females received 0.1% lead acetate (PbAc) in drinking water from the first day of gestation until weaning of the offspring; the control group received distilled water. During the feeding of pups, mothers from the experimental group were still receiving PbAc. Pups were weaned at postnatal day 21 and the young rats of both groups then received only distilled water until postnatal day 28. This treatment protocol resulted in a concentration of Pb in rat offspring whole blood (Pb-B) below the threshold of 10 μg/dL, considered safe for humans.We studied Casp-3 activity and expression, AIF nuclear translocation, DNA fragmentation, as well as Bax, Bcl-2 mRNA and protein expression as well as BDNF concentration in selected structures of the rat brain: forebrain cortex (FC), cerebellum (C) and hippocampus (H). The microscopic examinations showed alterations in hippocampal neurons.Our data shows that pre- and neonatal exposure of rats to Pb, leading to Pb-B below 10 μg/dL, can decrease the number of hippocampus neurons, occurring concomitantly with ultrastructural alterations in this region. We observed no morphological or molecular features of severe apoptosis or necrosis (no active Casp-3 and AIF translocation to nucleus) in young brains, despite the reduced levels of BDNF. The potential protective factor against apoptosis was probably the decreased Bax/Bcl-2 ratio, which requires further investigation. Our findings contribute to further understanding of the mechanisms underlying Pb neurotoxicity and cognition impairment in a Pb-exposed developing brain.
Carbonyl reducing enzymes play important roles in the biotransformation and detoxification of endo- and xenobiotics. They are grouped into two protein superfamilies, the short-chain dehydrogenases (SDR) and aldo-keto reductases (AKR), and usually are present in the cytoplasm of a cell. So far, only one membraneous carbonyl reductase has been described, 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11beta-HSD1), which is located in the endoplasmic reticulum and which significantly contributes to the metabolism of a variety of carbonyl containing drugs and toxicants. Oracin is a new and prospective anticancer drug bearing a prochiral carbonyl moiety. The main metabolic pathway of oracin is carbonyl reduction to 11-dihydrooracin (DHO) which, however, eliminates the therapeutic potential of the drug, because the two DHO enantiomers formed have significantly less anti-tumor activities. Therefore, the oracin inactivating enzymes should urgently be identified to search for specific inhibitors and to enhance the chemotherapeutic efficacy. Interestingly, the calculation of enzyme specific activities and stereospecificities of (+)-DHO and (-)-DHO formation strongly suggested the existence of a second, hitherto unknown microsomal oracin carbonyl reductase in human liver. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to provide proof for the existence of this new enzyme and to develop a purification method for further characterization. First, we succeeded in establishing a gentle solubilization technique which provided a favourable detergent surrounding during the further purification procedure by stabilizing the native form of this fragile protein. Second, we could partially purify this new microsomal carbonyl reductase by a two step separation on Q-sepharose followed by Phenyl-sepharose. The enzyme turned out to be NADPH specific, displaying kinetic values for oracin carbonyl reduction of K(m)=42 microM and V(max)=813 nmol/(30 min x mg protein). Compared to the microsomal fraction, the enzyme specific activity towards oracin could be enhanced 73-fold, while the stereospecificity of (+)-DHO formation shifted from 40% to 86%. Considering these data for 11beta-HSD1, as described in previous reports, it is clear that the microsomal carbonyl reductase investigated in the present study is new and has a great potential to significantly impair the chemotherapy with the new anticancer drug oracin.
Chlorogenic acid (CGA) is a type of polyphenol with anti-inflammatory, antioxidant activities. Our previous studies showed CGA could efficiently inhibit carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4))-induced liver fibrosis in rats. However, the specific underlying mechanism remains unclear. The aim of this study is to investigate the effects of CGA on liver inflammation and fibrosis induced by CCl(4) and whether they are related to inhibition of toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) signaling pathway. Male Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were administrated CCl(4) together with or without CGA for 8 weeks. Histopathological and biochemical analyses were carried out. The mRNA and protein expression levels of proinflammatory and profibrotic mediators were detected by RT-PCR and Western blot, respectively. The levels of serum proinflammatory cytokines were detected by ELISA. CGA significantly attenuated CCl(4)-induced liver damage and symptoms of liver fibrosis, accompanied by reduced serum transaminase levels, collagen I and α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) expression. As compared with the CCl(4)-treated group, the expression levels of TLR4, myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) were reduced in the treatment group of CCl(4) and CGA, whereas bone morphogenetic protein and activin membrane-bound inhibitor (Bambi) expression was increased. CGA also suppressed CCl(4) induced nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) activation. Moreover, the hepatic mRNA expression and serum levels of tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-6 (IL-6) and interleukin-1β (IL-1β) were significantly increased in CCl(4)-treated rats and attenuated by co-treatment with CGA. Our data indicate that CGA can efficiently inhibit CCl(4)-induced liver fibrosis in rats and the protective effect may be due to the inhibition of TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB signaling pathway.
Thalidomide, which is clinically recognized as an efficient therapeutic agent for multiple myeloma, has been thought to exert antiangiogenic action through an unknown mechanism. We here show a novel mechanism of thalidomide-induced antiangiogenesis in zebrafish embryos. Thalidomide induces the defect of major blood vessels, which is demonstrated by their morphologic loss and confirmed by the depletion of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptors such as neuropilin-1 and Flk-1. Transient increase of ceramide content through activation of neutral sphingomyelinase (nSMase) precedes thalidomide-induced vascular defect in the embryos. Synthetic cell permeable ceramide, N-acetylsphingosine (C2-ceramide) inhibits embryonic angiogenesis as well as thalidomide. The blockade of ceramide generation by antisense morpholino oligonucleotides for nSMase prevents thalidomide-induced ceramide generation and vascular defect. In contrast to ceramide, sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) inhibits nSMase-dependent ceramide generation and restores thalidomide-induced embryonic vascular defect with an increase of expression of VEGF receptors. In human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs), thalidomide-induced inhibition of cell growth, generation of ceramide through nSMase, and depletion of VEGF receptors are restored to the control levels by pretreatment with S1P. These results suggest that thalidomide-induced antiangiogenic action is regulated by the balance between ceramide and S1P signal.
Since the biochemical disturbance underlying hypertension may be an important determinant of patient outcome, we compared the effects of early treatment with different antihypertensive drugs on end-organ damage in the TGR(mREN2)27 transgenic rat (REN-2). In these REN-2 rats, hypertension is primarily caused by increased activity of the tissue renin-angiotensin system.
Seven-week-old REN-2 rats were either untreated or treated orally with an optimal daily dose of carvedilol (30 mg/kg), hydralazine (30 mg/kg), losartan (10 mg/kg) or quinapril (15 mg/kg). Nontransgenic littermates served as normotensive controls. After 11 weeks of treatment, we determined plasma norepinephrine concentrations, left ventricular atrial natriuretic factor messenger RNA and cardiac and vascular function and hypertrophy.
Chronic treatment with carvedilol and hydralazine significantly decreased blood pressure to a similar level but failed to normalize it, whereas both losartan and quinapril completely normalized blood pressure. Despite a blood pressure reduction in all treatment groups, only losartan, quinapril and hydralazine preserved endothelial function, while carvedilol did not. Furthermore, losartan and quinapril prevented cardiac and medial hypertrophy. The expression of atrial natriuretic factor messenger RNA paralleled the hemodynamic changes. Plasma norepinephrine levels were normalized by losartan or quinapril but remained increased after carvedilol and hydralazine treatment.
In REN-2 hypertensive rats, end-organ damage can be prevented by both inhibition of the angiotensin converting enzyme and blockade of the angiotensin II type 1 receptor, but not by merely lowering blood pressure. When blood pressure is not fully normalized, the effects on end-organs are clearly dissociated from the antihypertensive effects.
Epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is a cellular process during which epithelial polarized cells become motile mesenchymal-appearing cells, which in turn promotes carcinoma invasion and metastasis. Resveratrol (trans-3,4',5-trihydroxystilbene) is a natural polyphenolic compound found in grapes, red wine and several other plants. Numerous reports in the literature indicate that resveratrol can suppress cancer invasion and metastasis. However, the underlying mechanisms of inhibiting metastasis by resveratrol are complex, not fully elucidated and the subject of intense scientific debate. Despite evidence indicating that EMT can be a target for resveratrol, little is known about the effect of resveratrol on lung cancer cells. Our previous studies demonstrated that TGF-β1 induces EMT to promote lung adenocarcinoma invasion and metastasis. To understand the repressive role of resveratrol in lung cancer invasion and metastasis, we sought to investigate the potential use of resveratrol as an inhibitor of TGF-β1-induced EMT development in A549 lung cancer cells in vitro. Here we show that when A549 cells are treated with TGF-β1 and resveratrol, the latter inhibits the initiation of TGF-β1-induced EMT. Our results show that 20 μM resveratrol increases expression of the epithelial phenotype marker E-cadherin and represses the expression of the mesenchymal phenotype markers, Fibronectin and Vimentin during the initiation of TGF-β1-induced EMT. Resveratrol also inhibits expression of EMT-inducing transcription factors Snail1 and Slug, although the expression of the Twist1 transcription factor remained unchanged. Resveratrol inhibits the TGF-β1-induced increase in cell adhesion, migration and invasion of A549 lung cancer cells. Taken together, our findings provide new evidence that resveratrol suppresses lung cancer invasion and metastasis in vitro through inhibiting TGF-β1-induced EMT.
Antiosteoporotic activity of ormeloxifene, a multifunctional SERM, using inhibition in parathyroid hormone (PTH) induced resorption of 45Ca from prelabeled chick and rat fetal limb bones in chase cultures and modulation of certain biochemical markers of bone turnover and bone mineral density (BMD) in ovariectomized adult female rats, was investigated. Ormeloxifene concentration-dependently inhibited PTH-induced resorption of 45Ca from chick fetal femora with treated/control (T/C) ratio of 0.71, 0.32 and 0.20 at 50, 100 and 200 microM concentration, in comparison to 0.49, 0.53 and 0.95 in case of CDRI-85/287 (a pure antiestrogen), tamoxifen and ethynylestradiol (100 microM), respectively. Using rat fetal limb bones, ormeloxifene (100 microM) exhibited T/C ratio of 0.67, in comparison to 1.43 with PTH alone. Heat-killed bones exhibited negligible resorption (2.9%; T/C: 0.098) in response to PTH. In adult female rats, ormeloxifene (1.25 and 12.5 mg/kg per day) inhibited ovariectomy-induced increase in serum total and bone-specific alkaline phosphatase and osteocalcin and urine calcium/creatinine ratio to almost intact control level. Ovariectomy was accompanied by marked decrease in bone mineral density of isolated femur and tibia, being maximum in femur neck (28.3%; P < 0.01) and midshaft (23.7%; P < 0.01), but only marginal (6.7%; P > 0.05) in region proximal to tibio-fibular separation point. Decrease in BMD based on T-/Z-score, too, was >2.5 S.D. than mean value of normal young adult/age-matched females. This was prevented by ormeloxifene and the effect, though apparently more in females supplemented with higher dose of ormeloxifene, was not always significantly different and clear dose-response was not evident until BMD data was evaluated on T-/Z-score basis. The analysis also demonstrated much higher threshold level of tibia than femur and more so for their mid-shafts. Increase in BMD of isolated bones was also observed in ormeloxifene-treated intact females, without significantly altering biochemical markers of bone turnover or uterine weight. Findings suggest potential of ormeloxifene in management of post-menopausal osteoporosis and beneficial effect on BMD in women taking this SERM for contraception or any hormone-related clinical disorder.
Trichloroethylene (TCE) is a suspected renal carcinogen. TCE-associated renal genotoxicity occurs predominantly through glutathione S-transferase (GST) conjugation and bioactivation by renal cysteine beta-lyase (CCBL1). We conducted a case-control study in Central Europe (1,097 cases and 1,476 controls) specifically designed to assess risk associated with occupational exposure to TCE through analysis of detailed job histories. All jobs were coded for organic/chlorinated solvent and TCE exposure (ever/never) as well as the frequency and intensity of exposure based on detailed occupational questionnaires, specialized questionnaires, and expert assessments. Increased risk was observed among subjects ever TCE exposed [odds ratio (OR) = 1.63; 95% confidence interval (95% CI), 1.04-2.54]. Exposure-response trends were observed among subjects above and below the median exposure [average intensity (OR = 1.38; 95% CI, 0.81-2.35; OR = 2.34; 95% CI, 1.05-5.21; P(trend) = 0.02)]. A significant association was found among TCE-exposed subjects with at least one intact GSTT1 allele (active genotype; OR = 1.88; 95% CI, 1.06-3.33) but not among subjects with two deleted alleles (null genotype; OR = 0.93; 95% CI, 0.35-2.44; P(interaction) = 0.18). Similar associations for all exposure metrics including average intensity were observed among GSTT1-active subjects (OR = 1.56; 95% CI, 0.79-3.10; OR = 2.77; 95% CI, 1.01-7.58; P(trend) = 0.02) but not among GSTT1 nulls (OR = 0.81; 95% CI, 0.24-2.72; OR = 1.16; 95% CI, 0.27-5.04; P(trend) = 1.00; P(interaction) = 0.34). Further evidence of heterogeneity was seen among TCE-exposed subjects with >or=1 minor allele of several CCBL1-tagging single nucleotide polymorphisms: rs2293968, rs2280841, rs2259043, and rs941960. These findings provide the strongest evidence to date that TCE exposure is associated with increased renal cancer risk, particularly among individuals carrying polymorphisms in genes that are important in the reductive metabolism of this chemical, and provides biological plausibility of the association in humans.
Nineteen adult patients with cancer received six to 10 monthly treatments of doxorubicin and cisplatin. Recumbent pulse was measured for 24 to 30 hours before each treatment. Treatment was stopped for disease progression or when a total doxorubicin dose of 550 mg/m2 was reached. Rising serial 24-hour pulse averages predicted congestive heart failure reliably. No patient had congestive heart failure during therapy, but three patients had congestive heart failure two to four months after receiving 540, 525, and 530 mg/m2 of doxorubicin. In these, two to six months before completion of therapy, the 24-hour rhythm-qualified mean (mesor) of pulse showed a positive slope by linear regression analysis (p less than 0.05) that was apparent at cumulative doxorubicin doses of 300, 420, and 240 mg/m2. All 19 patients received similar total doses of doxorubicin and were followed to death or 12 months after the last doxorubicin dose. In addition, a progressive rise in the 24-hour mean pulse coincided with histologically documented doxorubicin-induced lethal congestive heart failure in Wistar-Kyoto rats of both sexes.
Peroxisomes in hepatomas and hyperplastic preneoplastic liver lesions induced in mice by 500 ppm alpha-benzene hexachloride were examined histochemically and electron microscopically. Although most of the hepatomas were well-differentiated tumors and contained a considerable number of peroxisomes, the tumor cells did not respond to ethyl-alpha-p-chlorophenoxyisobutyrate with proliferation of peroxisomes. At the 16th week of carcinogen feeding, hyperplastic nodules appeared and advanced to further stages. A majority of the nodules showed a considerable number of peroxisomes and the inductive proliferation of peroxisomes. Within the nodules, foci of proliferation of the cells that showed no inducibility of proliferation of peroxisomes appeared. These cells proliferated further, replacing the most part of the nodules, and with this process hepatomas appeared to have been formed. No abnormal matrical inclusions of peroxisomes were formed in the cells of hyperplastic nodules by ethyl-alpha-p-chlorophenoxyisobutyrate unlike in the case of rats.
Indications for the administration of vancomycin in the perioperative period have expanded in recent years. Used in this situation, vancomycin has caused adverse reactions, the most serious of which is hypotension. We describe five patients who had adverse reactions to vancomycin perioperatively. Vancomycin-induced hypotension usually results from a negative inotropic and vasodilator effect produced in part by a histamine-release phenomenon, which occurs most commonly with rapid intravenous infusion of the drug. Such a release of histamine may also produce an acute urticarial flushing of the upper torso (the "red neck syndrome") and symptoms of pain and muscle spasm in the chest or paraspinal muscles, which may mimic myocardial infarction. These effects usually abate promptly when the infusion of vancomycin is discontinued, and their resolution may be expedited by administration of an antihistamine.
The arrhythmogenic dose of epinephrine (ADE) was determined in six dogs during halothane (1.35%) anesthesia before and after xylazine administration (1.1 mg/kg, i.v. bolus; 1.1 mg/kg/hr, i.v. infusion). The arrhythmogenic dose was determined by constant infusion of freshly mixed epinephrine (100 microgram/ml). The ADE was defined as the total dose of epinephrine which produced four or more intermittent or continuous premature ventricular contractions within a 15-sec period. Total dose was calculated as a function of infusion rate and time to arrhythmia. Following xylazine administration, ADE significantly decreased from 6.28 +/- 0.522 to 4.17 +/- 0.679 micrograms/kg. At the end of i.v. xylazine bolus administration, heart rate significantly decreased (115 +/- 4 to 99 +/- 4.9 b.p.m.), and mean arterial pressure significantly increased (83 +/- 4.0 to 122 +/- 3.4 mm Hg). Heart rate measured immediately prior to epinephrine-induced arrhythmia formation was significantly increased following xylazine administration (177 +/- 8 vs 78 +/- 3 b.p.m.). Mean arterial blood pressure was unchanged. Apparently, xylazine, a mixed alpha agonist, potentiated halothane-induced myocardial sensitization to ventricular arrhythmogenesis and was associated with a significant increase in heart rate, but not blood pressure, during subsequent epinephrine infusions.
The design of novel targeted or combination therapies may improve treatment options for gastric cancer. In this study, we determined the inhibitory effects of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) combined with gambogic acid (GA) on BGC-823 human gastric carcinoma cells in vitro and in vivo and investigated the underlying mechanisms. 5-FU combined with GA inhibited the viability of BGC-823 human gastric cells in a concentration-dependent manner. The pro-apoptotic activity of the two-drug combination was much stronger than single. Furthermore, the results showed GA could regulate the metabolic enzymes of 5-FU. GA decreased the mRNA levels of thymidine synthetase (TS) and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD), while increased the mRNA level of orotate phosphoribosyltransferase (OPRT). Moreover, combined treatment caused significantly growth inhibition of human tumor xenografts in vivo. Taken together, our data showed that GA attenuated 5-FU-induced apoptosis by modulating metabolic enzymes of 5-FU and the antigastric cancer effect of two drugs combination was much stronger than that of GA or 5-FU alone.
The present study investigated the preventive effect of eugenol, a naturally occurring food flavouring agent on thioacetamide (TA)-induced hepatic injury in rats. Adult male Wistar rats of body weight 150-180 g were used for the study. Eugenol (10.7 mg/kg b.w./day) was administered to rats by oral intubation for 15 days. TA was administered (300 mg/kg b.w., i.p.) for the last 2 days at 24h interval and the rats were sacrificed on the 16th day. Markers of liver injury (aspartate transaminase, alanine transaminase, alkaline phosphatase, gamma-glutamyl transferase and bilirubin), inflammation (myeloperoxidase, tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-6), oxidative stress (lipid peroxidation indices, protein carbonyl and antioxidant status) and cytochrome P4502E1 activity were assessed. Expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and the extent of DNA damage were analyzed using immunoblotting and comet assay, respectively. Liver injury and collagen accumulation were assessed using histological studies by hematoxylin and eosin and Masson trichrome staining. Rats exposed to TA alone showed increased activities of hepatocellular enzymes in plasma, lipid peroxidation indices, inflammatory markers and pro-inflammatory cytokines and decreased antioxidant status in circulation and liver. Hepatic injury and necrosis were also evidenced by histology. Eugenol pretreatment prevented liver injury by decreasing CYP2E1 activity, lipid peroxidation indices, protein oxidation and inflammatory markers and by improving the antioxidant status. Single-cell gel electrophoresis revealed that eugenol pretreatment prevented DNA strand break induced by TA. Increased expression of COX-2 gene induced by TA was also abolished by eugenol. These findings suggest that eugenol curtails the toxic effects of TA in liver.
This retrospective cohort study examined the risk of selected serious cardiac events in new users of either astemizole or sedating antihistamines identified from the COMPASS Ohio Medicaid population of approximately 1 million active lives per year (1986-1992). (COMPASS is an automated claims database.) There were 15,585 patients in the astemizole group and 30,105 in the sedating antihistamines group. Reports of ventricular arrhythmia or sudden death occurring within 30 days of the first antihistamine claim were identified from Medicaid claims. Medical records were obtained and reviewed by a clinician for validity of diagnoses. Records for patients without a full 30 days of follow-up were sought in the National Death Index. Death certificates were obtained for all patients who died within 30 days of the first antihistamine claim. Of 53 cases identified, 6 were in the astemizole group and 47 in the sedating antihistamines group. The relative risk for all selected cardiac events among astemizole users compared with sedating antihistamine users was 0.25 (95% confidence interval: 0.11 to 0.58), and this estimate did not change substantially when adjusted for age; sex; race; recent history of cardiovascular disease, arrhythmias, asthma/pulmonary disease, or malignant neoplasms; or concomitant prescription of other drugs. This study provided no evidence that astemizole users are at increased risk for cardiac events in the first month of use when compared with users of sedating antihistamines.
The effects of a synthetic peptide analog of thymulin (PAT) were tested on nociceptive behavior in two animal models for peripheral mononeuropathy and in another two models for capsaicin-induced hyperalgesia. Treatment with PAT (0.25-25 microg/rat, i.p.) produced significant reduction of the mechanical allodynia and heat hyperalgesia in rats subjected to either chronic constriction injury (CCI) or spared nerve injury (SNI) models for mononeuropathy. Cold allodynia was moderately reduced in the CCI model. The inhibition of neuropathic manifestations peaked at 1-2 h post-treatment and disappeared in 3-4 h. Daily treatment with PAT, however, produced progressive attenuation of all neuropathic manifestations in the SNI model. On the other hand, pretreatment with similar doses of PAT produced dose-dependent reduction of the hyperalgesia induced by intraplantar injection of capsaicin (10 microg in 50 microl). The highest dose of PAT (50 microg) produced significant reduction of abdominal aversive behavior induced by i.p injection of capsaicin (20 microg in 100 microl). Compared with the effects of treatment with morphine or meloxicam (injected at single doses known to produce analgesia), PAT exerted equal or stronger inhibitory effects on neuropathic manifestations. The reported results suggest a possible direct action of PAT on afferent nerve fibers but its mechanisms remain to be determined.
The effect of 0.1 mg/kg verapamil on left ventricular (LV) diastolic mechanics was evaluated in ten patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and 13 patients with aortic stenosis. LV diastolic function was assessed from simultaneous M-mode echocardiograms and high-fidelity pressure measurements at rest and 10 to 15 min after intravenous administration of verapamil. The time constant of LV pressure decay (T), LV early and mean diastolic filling rate as well as diastolic pressure-diameter relations, were determined before and after verapamil administration. Heart rate, LV peak systolic pressure, maximum and minimum dP/dt remained unchanged in both groups after verapamil administration. LV end-diastolic pressure increased slightly although significantly from 15 to 17 mm Hg (P less than 0.02) in aortic stenosis but remained unchanged in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. T decreased significantly from 79 to 60 ms (P less than 0.001) in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy but increased from 53 to 68 ms (P less than 0.025) in aortic stenosis. Parallel to the decrease in T, early and mean diastolic lengthening rate increased significantly in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, but remained unchanged in aortic stenosis before and after verapamil. The diastolic pressure-diameter relation was not affected in both groups by verapamil administration. However, cycle efficiency improved significantly from 71% to 77% (P less than 0.02) in cardiomyopathy but remained unchanged in aortic stenosis (80% versus 80%). Thus, it is concluded that verapamil improves relaxation in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy but delays relaxation in aortic stenosis. The beneficial effect of verapamil in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is related to improved relaxation and diastolic filling rather than to changes in passive elastic chamber properties.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Endometrial cancer is associated with enhanced cell proliferation due to high concentrations of estrogens, and decreased cell differentiation due to low levels of progesterone and retinoic acid. It is also associated with aberrant inflammatory responses and concomitant increased production of prostaglandins. The human members of the aldo-keto reductase 1B (AKR1B) subfamily, AKR1B1 and AKR1B10, have roles in these processes and can thus be implicated in endometrial cancer. To date, there have been no reports on the expression of AKR1B1 in endometrial cancer, while AKR1B10 has only been studied at the cellular level. To evaluate the roles of these AKR1B enzymes, we investigated expression of AKR1B1 and AKR1B10 in 47 paired samples of cancerous and adjacent control endometrium at the mRNA and protein levels, by quantitative PCR, Western blotting and immunohistochemistry staining. There were significantly lower mRNA and protein levels of AKR1B1 in cancerous tissues compared to adjacent endometrium. The gene expression of AKR1B10 at the mRNA level was significantly increased, while there were significantly decreased protein levels. Immunohistochemistry revealed that both of these enzymes were present in all of the samples, and are located in epithelial cells of cancerous and control endometrial glands. Elevated levels in adjacent non-cancerous tissues imply that these enzymes are more important in the initiation of endometrial cancer than in its progression. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report on the expression of AKR1B1 and AKR1B10 in endometrial cancer. Further studies are needed to define the precise roles of these enzymes in the pathogenesis of endometrial cancer.
