Excitotoxicity (caused by over-activation of glutamate receptors) and inflammation both contribute to motor neuron (MN) damage in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and other diseases of the spinal cord. Microglial and astrocytic activation in these conditions results in release of inflammatory mediators, including the cytokine, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α). TNF-α has complex effects on neurons, one of which is to trigger rapid membrane insertion of α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) type glutamate receptors, and in some cases, specific insertion of GluA2 lacking, Ca(2+) permeable AMPA receptors (Ca-perm AMPAr). In the present study, we use a histochemical stain based upon kainate stimulated uptake of cobalt ions ("Co(2+) labeling") to provide the first direct demonstration of the presence of substantial numbers of Ca-perm AMPAr in ventral horn MNs of adult rats under basal conditions. We further find that TNF-α exposure causes a rapid increase in the numbers of these receptors, via a phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase (PI3K) and protein kinase A (PKA) dependent mechanism. Finally, to assess the relevance of TNF-α to slow excitotoxic MN injury, we made use of organotypic spinal cord slice cultures. Co(2+) labeling revealed that MNs in these cultures possess Ca-perm AMPAr. Addition of either a low level of TNF-α, or of the glutamate uptake blocker, trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid (PDC) to the cultures for 48 h resulted in little MN injury. However, when combined, TNF-α+PDC caused considerable MN degeneration, which was blocked by the AMPA/kainate receptor blocker, 2,3-Dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoylbenzo (F) quinoxaline (NBQX), or the Ca-perm AMPAr selective blocker, 1-naphthyl acetylspermine (NASPM). Thus, these data support the idea that prolonged TNF-α elevation, as may be induced by glial activation, acts in part by increasing the numbers of Ca-perm AMPAr on MNs to enhance injurious excitotoxic effects of deficient astrocytic glutamate transport.
Eutopic endometrium in endometriosis has molecular evidence of resistance to progesterone (P(4)) and activation of the PKA pathway in the stromal compartment. To investigate global and temporal responses of eutopic endometrium to P(4), we compared early (6-h), intermediate (48-h), and late (14-Day) transcriptomes, signaling pathways, and networks of human endometrial stromal fibroblasts (hESF) from women with endometriosis (hESF(endo)) with hESF from women without endometriosis (hESF(nonendo)). Endometrial biopsy samples were obtained from subjects with and without mild peritoneal endometriosis (n = 4 per group), and hESF were isolated and treated with P(4) (1 μM) plus estradiol (E(2)) (10 nM), E(2) alone (10 nM), or vehicle for up to 14 days. Total RNA was subjected to microarray analysis using a Gene 1.0 ST (Affymetrix) platform and analyzed by using bioinformatic algorithms, and data were validated by quantitative real-time PCR and ELISA. Results revealed unique kinetic expression of specific genes and unique pathways, distinct biological and molecular processes, and signaling pathways and networks during the early, intermediate, and late responses to P(4) in both hESF(nonendo) and hESF(endo), although a blunted response to P(4) was observed in the latter. The normal response of hESF to P(4) involves a tightly regulated kinetic cascade involving key components in the P(4) receptor and MAPK signaling pathways that results in inhibition of E(2)-mediated proliferation and eventual differentiation to the decidual phenotype, but this was not established in the hESF(endo) early response to P(4). The abnormal response of this cell type to P(4) may contribute to compromised embryonic implantation and infertility in women with endometriosis.
Several cytopathic mechanisms have been suggested to mediate the dose-limiting cumulative and irreversible cardiomyopathy caused by doxorubicin. Recent evidence indicates that oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction are key factors in the pathogenic process. The objective of this investigation was to test the hypothesis that carvedilol, a nonselective beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist with potent antioxidant properties, protects against the cardiac and hepatic mitochondrial bioenergetic dysfunction associated with subchronic doxorubicin toxicity. Heart and liver mitochondria were isolated from rats treated for 7 weeks with doxorubicin (2 mg/kg sc/week), carvedilol (1 mg/kg ip/week), or the combination of the two drugs. Heart mitochondria isolated from doxorubicin-treated rats exhibited depressed rates for state 3 respiration (336 +/- 26 versus 425 +/- 53 natom O/min/mg protein) and a lower respiratory control ratio (RCR) (4.3 +/- 0.6 versus 5.8 +/- 0.4) compared with cardiac mitochondria isolated from saline-treated rats. Mitochondrial calcium-loading capacity and the activity of NADH-dehydrogenase were also suppressed in cardiac mitochondria from doxorubicin-treated rats. Doxorubicin treatment also caused a decrease in RCR for liver mitochondria (3.9 +/- 0.9 versus 5.6 +/- 0.7 for control rats) and inhibition of hepatic cytochrome oxidase activity. Coadministration of carvedilol decreased the extent of cellular vacuolization in cardiac myocytes and prevented the inhibitory effect of doxorubicin on mitochondrial respiration in both heart and liver. Carvedilol also prevented the decrease in mitochondrial Ca(2+) loading capacity and the inhibition of the respiratory complexes of heart mitochondria caused by doxorubicin. Carvedilol by itself did not affect any of the parameters measured for heart or liver mitochondria. It is concluded that this protection by carvedilol against both the structural and functional cardiac tissue damage may afford significant clinical advantage in minimizing the dose-limiting mitochondrial dysfunction and cardiomyopathy that accompanies long-term doxorubicin therapy in cancer patients.
Five patients with chronic renal failure, complicated by bone aluminum toxicity, were treated with deferoxamine (DFO). This treatment appeared to precipitate dialysis dementia, which was fatal in three patients. In two patients, continuous treatment with lower doses of DFO was possible. The development of dialysis dementia in chronic renal failure patients with very high serum aluminum levels may be a complication of DFO treatment.
Gefitinib, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), has been used to treat numerous cancers; however, evidence has shown that cancer cells can become resistant to gefitinib during therapy. Here, we report a human proto-oncogene, securin, which displays resistance to death in cancer cells. Gefitinib treatment decreases securin levels at the protein level by inducing protein instability but did not affect on the securin gene expression. Treatment with gefitinib induced cytotoxicity in various human cancer cell types, including RKO (colon cancer), A549 (lung cancer), BFTC905 (bladder cancer), MCF7 (breast cancer) and A375 (skin cancer). BFTC905 and A549 cells expressed relatively high levels of the phosphorylated and total EGFR proteins; however, A375, MCF7 and RKO cells did not markedly express these proteins. Moreover, following treatment with gefitinib, the securin-wild type cancer cells were more resistant to apoptotic induction than the securin-null cancer cells. Surprisingly, both the securin-wild type and securin-null cancer cells expressed the EGFR protein at similar levels. Treatment with gefitinib induced mitochondrial dysfunction, cytochrome c release, caspase-3 activation and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase protein cleavage, indicating that apoptosis occurred in these cancer cells. The transfection of a GPF-securin expression vector increased both the proliferation rates and resistance to gefitinib-induced death in these cancer cells. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that the presence of securin promotes resistance to gefitinib-induced apoptosis via an EGFR-independent pathway in human cancer cells.
Two cases of oliguric acute renal failure in HIV+ patients treated with indinavir are described.
Patient evaluation included blood analysis, urinalysis, abdominal x-rays, renal US and IVP.
Both cases resolved with discontinuation of drug therapy, administration of fluids and urine acidification.
Severe acute renal failure is an uncommon complication in HIV+ patients treated with indinavir. This drug has a great tendency to precipitate in urine. The severity of the crystalluria depends on the drug dose and urinary pH, and can cause tubulointerstitial nephritis and urinary calculi with obstruction of the urinary tract.
To elucidate how the neuropeptide Y (NPY) gene is regulated by physiological/pharmacological changes in neural functions, the expression and regulation of the NPY gene were studied by measuring changes in the abundances of NPY and NPY mRNA in the adrenal gland and brain regions of rats in vivo and in PC12 rat pheochromocytoma cells after reserpine treatment. Long term treatment with reserpine in vivo, which causes hypotension and increased splanchnic nerve activity, induced prolonged increases in the abundance of NPY mRNA and putative NPY pre-mRNA, with concomitant increases in NPY, in the adrenal gland in a tissue-dependent manner but caused no changes in the abundance of beta-actin mRNA. Transection of the splanchnic nerves almost completely (76%) prevented the reserpine-induced increases in the abundance of NPY mRNA and NPY pre-mRNA, but denervation alone did not affect their steady state levels. These results suggested that increased activity of the splanchnic nerves regulates NPY gene expression positively in the adrenal gland, probably at the level of transcription. In PC12 cells, reserpine decreased the abundance of NPY mRNA directly, but nicotinic receptor activation increased its abundance transiently and the persistent membrane depolarization increased its abundance markedly. Thus, NPY gene expression is positively regulated by membrane depolarization via increased transsynaptic activation with reserpine.
The purpose of this study was to determine the distribution of polyethylene glycol-conjugated superoxide dismutase in the brain, cerebrospinal fluid, and various organs.
Distribution of iodine-125-labeled polyethylene glycol-conjugated superoxide dismutase was determined in three groups of male Sprague-Dawley rats: a normotensive sham control group (n = 9) and groups given 125I-labeled polyethylene glycol-conjugated superoxide dismutase either 30 minutes before (n = 10) or 30 minutes after (n = 7) norepinephrine-induced hypertensive injury.
In the first 30 minutes after intravenous administration, polyethylene glycol-conjugated superoxide dismutase plasma activity declined to 70% of the initial value and then decreased negligibly between 30 and 90 minutes. Levels of 125I-labeled polyethylene glycol-conjugated superoxide dismutase in normotensive animals were low in the brain and cerebrospinal fluid and highest in kidney. Brain levels of polyethylene glycol-conjugated superoxide dismutase were elevated only in those rats that received it before hypertensive injury; however, cerebrospinal fluid levels were elevated in animals receiving the drug either before or after hypertensive injury.
Our results suggest that the blood-brain barrier becomes more permeable to polyethylene glycol-conjugated superoxide dismutase only during the hypertensive period but that the blood-cerebrospinal fluid barrier sustains more permanent injury. We suggest that the therapeutic effectiveness of polyethylene glycol-conjugated superoxide dismutase in hypertensive brain injury is due to its action in the vascular wall or to its extracellular activity in the cerebrospinal fluid.
In this study, S-allyl cysteine sulfoxide (SACS) was used to evaluate its preventive effect in isoproterenol (ISO)-induced myocardial ischemia in male Wistar rats. Rats were pretreated with SACS (40 and 80 mg kg(-1)) orally for 5 weeks. After the treatment period, ISO (150 mg kg(-1)) was administered subcutaneously to rats at an interval of 24 h for 2 days. The activities of beta-D-N-acetyl-glucosaminidase, beta-galactosidase, beta-glucosidase, and acid phosphatase increased in serum and heart in ISO-induced rats. In addition, these rats showed a significant (p < 0.05) increase in the activities of beta-glucuronidase and cathepsin-D in serum and heart and a significant (p < 0.05) decrease in their activities in lysosomal fraction of the heart. The activity of Na(+)K(+)-ATPase declined, while those of Ca(2+)- and Mg(2+)-ATPases significantly (p < 0.05) elevated in the heart of ISO-induced rats. Pretreatment with SACS (40 and 80 mg kg(-1)) showed a significant (p < 0.05) effect in all the biochemical parameters studied. The effect at a dose of 80 mg kg(-1) body weight was more effective than that at 40 mg kg(-1) body weight and brought back all the biochemical parameters to near normal levels. Hereby, our study shows the membrane-stabilizing as well as antioxidant effects of SACS in ISO-induced rats.
Prolongation of the QTc interval (a QT interval that has been corrected for heart rate) increases the risk of cardiac arrhythmias, and is an important topic with regard to psychotropic medication. Several typical (e.g., pimozide, thioridazine, haloperidol) and atypical (e.g., sertindole, ziprasidone) antipsychotics may cause QTc prolongation as well as some antidepressants in overdose (e.g., citalopram). We wish to present a case of QTc prolongation that was due to an overdose of propranolol (used in psychiatry for the treatment of akathisia, lithium-induced tremor, and performance anxiety; used in medicine for hypertension and congestive heart failure).
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of chronic liver injury; however its therapeutic strategy has not been established yet. Nitro-aspirin (NO-aspirin) is a new molecule in which aspirin and a NO-donating group are covalently linked. This study investigated the potential protective effect of NO-aspirin on NAFLD. Experimental rats were assigned into 4 groups. Group 1 was fed with normal diet and served as normal control group. Group 2 was fed with 2% cholesterol diet and received vehicle as positive control NAFLD group. Group 3 was fed with 2% cholesterol diet plus NO-aspirin (100 mg/kg/day). Group 4 was fed with 2% cholesterol diet plus aspirin (55 mg/kg/day). Rats were treated for 8 weeks. The results showed that NO-aspirin (but not aspirin) prevented the development of NAFLD as evidenced by significant reduction in liver weight/body weight ratio (liver index) and histopathologic changes. The protective effect of NO-aspirin is accompanied with significant decrease in triglycerides, malondialdehyde (MDA), and nitric oxide (NO) in hepatic tissue. Semi-quantitative immunohistochemical studies showed significant decrease in expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) in hepatic tissue. In conclusion, NO-aspirin inhibited multiple pathways involved in the pathogenesis of NAFLD indicating that it might serve as a new therapeutic strategy.
Variation within intron 19 of the CLEC16A (KIAA0350) gene region was recently found to be unequivocally associated with type 1 diabetes (T1D) in genome-wide association (GWA) studies in Northern European populations. A variant in intron 22 that is nearly independent of the intron 19 variant showed suggestive evidence of association with multiple sclerosis (MS). Here, we genotyped the rs725613 polymorphism, representative of the earlier reported associations with T1D within CLEC16A, in 1037 T1D cases, 1498 MS cases and 1706 matched controls, all from the founder, autoimmunity-prone Sardinian population. In these Sardinian samples, allele A of rs725613 is positively associated not only with T1D (odds ratio=1.15, P one-tail=5.1 x 10(-3)) but also, and with a comparable effect size, with MS (odds ratio=1.21, P one-tail 6.7 x 10(-5)). Taken together these data provide evidence of joint disease association in T1D and MS within CLEC16A and underline a shared disease pathway.
To probe the risk of colorectal polyp, colon and rectal carcinoma and the intake of NSAIDs.
Case-control study participants were from patients who underwent colonoscopy at different hospitals, the persons with the above disease was as cases, and those without the above diseases was as controls. Use of NSAIDs was assessed by interviewing the participants with a questionnaire which include a list of NSAIDs and related dietary and life style factors and family history.
There are 37 cases of colorectal polyp, 105 cases of colon carcinoma and 142 cases of rectal carcinoma and 66 controls. Adjusted for potential confounders, the risk of colorectal polyposis, colon carcinoma and rectal carcinoma were markedly reduced by NSAIDs. The OR values were 0.21 (95% CI 0.07-0.65, P = 0.007), 0.13 (95% CI 0.05-0.35, P < 0.001), 0.15 (95% CI 0.11-0.58, P < 0.001) respectively. The risk of the above diseases were also reduced markedly by aspirin, the OR values were 0.265 (95% CI 0.07-0.96, P = 0.044), 0.10 (95% CI 0.03-0.35, P < 0.001), 0.15 (95% CI 0.04-0.49, P = 0.002) respectively. The risk of colon carcinoma was also reduced by profen, with the OR being 0.11 (95% CI 0.02-0.64, P = 0.014).
Aspirin and other NSAIDs could reduced the risk of colorectal polyp, colon carcinoma and rectal carcinoma markedly. Aspirin was the most prospective chemopreventive agents for colorectal polyp, colon and rectal carcinoma for its capability of reducing the risk of cardio-cerebral vascular disease as well.
Manganese can be toxic to the heart, causing dysfunction following long exposure. In our experiments, we examined the cytotoxicity of manganese in neonatal rat ventricular myocytes (NRVM) by MTT assays in vitro. Results showed that after incubation in the different concentrations of manganese for 24 h, apparent cytotoxicity was observed. At 500, 1000, and 1500 2 microM of manganese, the percentage of cell viability dropped to 82% +/- 6.13, 78% +/- 5.28, and 66% +/- 4.22, respectively. When cells were treated for 48 h, all concentrations tested exerted toxic effect; especially from 500 to 1500 microM the cell viability dropped from 67% +/- 4.84 to 37% +/- 3.25. Apoptosis in NRVM was then examined by flow cytometry. Results showed that the percentage of apoptotic cells treated with 500 microM of manganese for 24 h increased from 4% +/- 0.84 to 7% +/- 1.16. After 48 h of incubation, this percentage increased to 11% +/- 0.91. There was no significant difference between control groups (0 microM manganese) after 24 and 48 h incubation. The morphological changes of NRVM nuclei were visualized with the fluorescent DNA-binding dye Hoechst33342 after incubation in 500 microM of manganese for 48 h. Compared with normal nuclei, apoptotic nuclei showed the typical features of fragmentation and condensation. To investigate whether there are any apoptotic gene expression changes during apoptosis, we examined the expression level of Bcl-2, Bax, and P53 mRNAs after treatment with 500 microM of manganese for 48 h. The Bcl-2 mRNA expression decreased while the expression of Bax as well as P53 mRNAs increased. These results suggested that manganese cytotoxicity on NRVM could induce apoptosis in NRVM cells. The apoptosis process might involve, and be promoted by, the changes of the expression levels of P53, Bcl-2, and Bax proteins.
Memogain (Gln-1062) is an inactive pro-drug of galantamine, the latter being a plant alkaloid approved for the treatment of mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease. Memogain has more than 15-fold higher bioavailability in the brain than the same doses of galantamine. In the brain, Memogain is enzymatically cleaved to galantamine, thereby regaining its pharmacological activity as a cholinergic enhancer. In animal models of drug-induced amnesia, Memogain produced several fold larger cognitive improvement than the same doses of galantamine, without exhibiting any significant levels of gastrointestinal side effects that are typical for the unmodified drug and other inhibitors of cholinesterases, such as donepezil and rivastigmin. In the ferret, dramatically reduced emetic and behavioral responses were observed when Memogain was administered instead of galantamine. Based on these and other preclinical data, Memogain may represent an advantageous drug treatment for Alzheimer's disease, combining much lesser gastrointestinal side effects and considerably higher potency in enhancing cognition, as compared to presently available drugs.
A new method for the fast screening of cocaine and 6-monoacetylmorphine (6-MAM) in a single hair, using gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS), is described. The analyses are conducted in less than 10 min with minimal sample preparation. The novel method combines the ChromatoProbe direct sample introduction device for intrainjector thermal extraction, fast GC separation, a supersonic molecular beam GC/MS interface and hyperthermal surface ionization (HSI). The technique has been successfully employed for the detection of cocaine in as little as a 1-mm section of hair using selected ion monitoring (SIM). Unambiguous full scan mass spectra of cocaine and 6-MAM were obtained on a single hair for cocaine and heroin users, respectively. HSI was found to be almost 3 orders of magnitude more selective than electron impact ionization for cocaine compared with the major hair constituents, with a minimum detected concentration of approximately 10 ppb in the SIM mode. Results obtained for 12 drugs users showed full qualitative agreement with similar results using rigorous solvent extraction followed by electrospray-liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry analysis. However, quantitative studies showed only partial agreement. No false positives were observed for 10 drugs free subjects. This method enables fast drug monitoring along the hair length which permits time correlation studies.
The efficacy and safety of the novel calcium antagonist Amlodipine (Pfizer Laboratories, New York, New York) and hydrochlorothiazide were evaluated and compared in a randomized, single-blind, parallel group study in black Africans with essential hypertension. Twenty Nigerians with newly diagnosed mild to moderate essential hypertension were randomized to receive ascending doses of Amlodipine (5 mg and 10 mg) or hydrochlorothiazide (25 mg or 50 mg), and blood pressure and heart rate were measured at baseline and at 2, 4, and 6 weeks of therapy. Both Amlodipine and hydrochlorothiazide significantly reduced supine and erect blood pressure. Supine blood pressure on Amlodipine fell from a mean of 190/104 mm Hg to 150/79 mm Hg, and on thiazide from 180/103 mm Hg to 141/84 mm Hg. There was, however, no significant difference between both drugs in antihypertensive efficacy. Neither drug induced a reflex increase in heart rate. The fall in blood pressure on both agents was associated with an increase in plasma urea. Amlodipine induced no change in plasma potassium, but hydrochlorothiazide caused hypokalemia. Both agents were well tolerated, and Amlodipine should undergo further study in the treatment of hypertension in blacks.
The antiepileptic drug valproic acid (VPA) is well known to cause neural tube and skeletal defects in both humans and animals. The amidic VPA analogues valpromide (VPD) and valnoctamide (VCD) have much lower teratogenicity than VPA inducing exencephaly in mice. The objective of this study was to investigate the teratogenic effects of VPA, VPD, and VCD on the skeleton of NMRI mice.
Pregnant NMRI mice were given a single subcutaneous injection of VPA (400 and 800 mg/kg), VPD (800 mg/kg), or VCD (800 mg/kg) on the morning of gestation day (GD) 8. Cesarean section was carried out on GD 18. Live fetuses were double-stained for bone and cartilage and their skeletons were examined.
Significant increases in fetal loss and exencephaly rate were observed with VPA at 800 mg/kg compared to the vehicle control. There were no significant differences between either VPD or VCD and the control groups for any parameter at cesarean section. A number of abnormalities were dose-dependently induced at high incidences by VPA in both the cartilage and bone of vertebrae, ribs and sternum. In contrast, lower frequencies of abnormality were exhibited with VPD and VCD than VPA in all skeletons affected by VPA.
These findings clearly indicate that VPD and VCD are distinctly less teratogenic than VPA in the induction of not only neural tube defects, but also skeletal abnormalities. A structure-teratogenicity relationship of VPA on the skeleton is suspected.
The patch-clamp method was used to study the effect of N-propyl ajmaline (NPA) on sodium currents (INa) in enzymatically isolated cells of adult rats. When applied at concentrations of 10(-5)--2 X 10(-5) M NPA produced a use-dependent inhibition of INa. The rate and depth of this blockade increased with NPA concentration, frequency and magnitude of depolarizing pulses. Voltage dependence of the blockade was revealed beyond the potential range where the fraction of activated Na channels was close to 1.0. Turning on the strong hyperpolarizing prepulse (100-ms duration) before each test pulse induced a prompt increase of INa (due to the removal of resting inactivation) which declined pulse by pulse during subsequent repetitive stimulation. A single long-lasting (3000 ms) depolarizing step, in contrast to the train of short (5 ms) depolarizing pulses did not enhance appreciably the blocking action of NPA. From an analysis of the data obtained it was inferred that NPA inhibits INa due to a voltage-dependent interaction with open Na channels. It is emphasized that NPA has similar blocking effects on Na channels in myocardial cells and nerve fibers.
In the course of an acute intoxication by lithium, neuromuscular junction has been tested by 1 sec bursts of repetitive stimulation. Recorded data concern: (1) inhibition of acetylcholine synthesis, at the time of high seric rates; (2) exhibition, at rather lower concentrations, of two types of potentiation: a primary, moderate potentiation, high frequency-sensitive (30 or 50 HZ), and a more lasting cumulative potentiation, enhancing the post-tetanic potentiation by nearly 300%. Results are compared with some of the neurophysiological data in the literature.
Taxol has recently been approved for the treatment of ovarian cancer that has failed to respond to other chemotherapeutic agents. A predominantly sensory neuropathy has been reported in patients receiving taxol, but corresponding nerve changes have not been described. The patient described herein received taxol at a dose of 275 mg/m2 every 21 days. The sural nerve biopsy performed after 17 courses of taxol (cumulative dose, 6603 mg) showed severe nerve fiber loss, axonal atrophy, and secondary demyelination. Axonal regeneration was absent. The findings are compatible with a cell body disease or a length-dependent, distal neuropathy with failure of axonal regeneration. The findings observed in taxol-induced neuropathy are important to document for comparison with other neoplastic and paraneoplastic neuropathies affecting patients with cancer.
Neuropsychiatric complications are commonly seen in major burn patients. Haloperidol is frequently used to treat severe psychopathic behavior. We have noted severe muscle rigidity-an extrapyramidal side effect of the agent-in a number of burn patients. Haloperidol causes a relative imbalance of dopaminergic and cholinergic neuronal activity in the basal ganglia with a relative increase in cholinergic activity being responsible for EPS. The burn patient may be more prone to extrapyramidal symptoms because of increased sensitivity of skeletal muscle neuromuscular junctions to acetylcholine after thermal injury.
The antiarrhythmic action of the beta-blocking drug, acebutolol, was evaluated in patients with frequent premature ventricular contractions (PVCs). In the 12 hours following administration of a single 300 mg oral dose, 8 of 10 patients showed a greater than 50% reduction in PVC frequency, and statistical analysis indicated that PVC reduction persisted for 10 hours after the single dose. Analysis of plasma concentrations of acebutolol and an acetyl metabolite indicated that after single oral doses of plasma concentrations of the metabolite exceed those of unchanged acebutolol. When patients were studied during periods of 300 mg doses every 8 hours, eight of 11 showed a 70% reduction in PVC frequency, and analysis showed that the therapeutic effect was present throughout the 24-hour monitoring period. Acebutolol slowed the heart rate and prolonged the PR interval without affecting the QT interval. Significant clinical or laboratory toxicity was not encountered. In the small group studied, acebutolol was found to be safe and effective for short-term administration to patients with frequent PVCs and possessed a relatively long duration of antiarrhythmic action.
Static encephalopathy of childhood with neurodegeneration in adulthood (SENDA) is a recently established subtype of neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation (NBIA). By exome sequencing, we found de novo heterozygous mutations in WDR45 at Xp11.23 in two individuals with SENDA, and three additional WDR45 mutations were identified in three other subjects by Sanger sequencing. Using lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs) derived from the subjects, aberrant splicing was confirmed in two, and protein expression was observed to be severely impaired in all five. WDR45 encodes WD-repeat domain 45 (WDR45). WDR45 (also known as WIPI4) is one of the four mammalian homologs of yeast Atg18, which has an important role in autophagy. Lower autophagic activity and accumulation of aberrant early autophagic structures were demonstrated in the LCLs of the affected subjects. These findings provide direct evidence that an autophagy defect is indeed associated with a neurodegenerative disorder in humans.
Severe cardiac adverse effects are often related to intravenous phenytoin overdose. However, there is no reported cardiotoxicity resulting from oral overdose of phenytoin. We report a patient with post-traumatic epilepsy who received oral phenytoin for five months and developed life-threatening junctional bradycardia, with his serum phenytoin level reaching up to 91 microg/mL. The patient was successfully treated with temporary transvenous pacemaker implantation for his severe bradycardia and hypotension. To our knowledge, our patient had the most serious cardiovascular toxicity ever reported with chronic oral phenytoin overdose. From emergency department (ED) physician's perspective, when a patient with dysrhythmias and cardiovascular collapse is presented to the ED, severe phenytoin overdose should be considered in patients on oral phenytoin with hyperbilirubinemia, hypoalbuminemia, and severe electrolyte imbalance.
We determined whether chronic administration of IFN-alpha at optimal biological dose inhibits angiogenesis of human pancreatic carcinoma growing in the pancreas of nude mice.
Cells of the human pancreatic cancer cell line L3.6pl were implanted into the pancreas of nude mice. Seven days later, groups of mice received s.c. injection with IFN-alpha alone (50,000 units biweekly or 10,000 units daily), i.p. injection with gemcitabine alone (125 mg/kg biweekly), or injection with both daily IFN-alpha and biweekly gemcitabine for 35 days. In a survival study, the mice were treated until they became moribund.
Biweekly treatments with 50,000 units of IFN-alpha alone were ineffective. In contrast, daily injections of IFN-alpha (10,000 units/day) alone, biweekly injections of gemcitabine alone, or the combination of IFN-alpha and gemcitabine reduced tumor volume by 53%, 70%, and 87%, respectively. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that treatment with IFN-alpha alone or with IFN-alpha plus gemcitabine inhibited expression of the proangiogenic molecules basic fibroblast growth factor and matrix metalloproteinase 9 more than did treatment with gemcitabine alone. These treatments also decreased the staining of proliferating cell nuclear antigen within the tumor and induced apoptosis in tumor-associated mouse endothelial cells (staining with CD31/terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated nick end labeling), leading to a decrease in microvessel density.
These data show that administration of IFN-alpha at optimal biological dose and schedule in combination with gemcitabine induced apoptosis in tumor-associated endothelial cells and decreased growth of human pancreatic cancer cells in the pancreas, leading to a significant increase in survival.
