Levamisole (LEV) has been used as an immunomodulating medication in patients with recurrent aphthous ulcers and as an adjuvant for chemotherapy. LEV, with or without 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), induces multifocal inflammatory leukoencephalopathy (MIL). We identified 31 patients with LEV-induced MIL: 7 from our institution and 24 from a MEDLINE search. Twenty-one patients (67.7%) had been treated with a combination of LEV and 5-FU, while 10 patients had been treated with LEV alone. The onset of MIL was delayed in patients who took LEV and 5-FU in combination compared with the patients treated with LEV alone (11.7 +/- 3.7 vs. 4 +/- 2.5 wk, p < 0.001). Colon cancer (67.7%) was the most common indication for LEV administration. Gait ataxia occurred in 20 (64.5%) patients, and dysphagia was noted in 16 (51.6%) patients. Imaging studies revealed periventricular enhancement in 17 (54.8%) patients and supratentorial lesions in 16 (51.6%) patients. Cerebrospinal fluid studies showed lymphocytic pleocytosis in 10 of 21 (47.6%) patients. Early diagnosis of MIL and discontinuation of LEV is essential, yielding good recovery in most cases. Treatment with corticosteroids and/or intravenous immunoglobulin may be needed for this serious inflammatory encephalopathy. Twenty-nine patients exhibited improved clinical status and imaging findings after initial steroid or immunoglobulin treatment. Plasmapheresis may be an alternative regimen for patients with steroid resistance.
We report a case of hepatoportal sclerosis in a renal transplant patient treated with azathioprine. The initial symptom was ascites. On the biochemical level, there were cholestasis without cytolysis or hepatocellular insufficiency. A presinusoidal portal hypertension was found on haemodynamic studies, without portal thrombosis at CT-scan. A diagnosis of hepatoportal sclerosis was evoked on histology and attributed to azathioprine. This case gives an illustration of a classical albeit rare complication of azathioprine. The indolent pattern of the disease and the risk of variceal bleeding point out the need for a hepatic follow-up during the treatment.
There is a need for case-control studies of the effect of paroxetine on the occurrence of specific heart defects.
We performed a case-control study with data from a population-based birth defects registry in the Netherlands. All the children born between 1997 and 2006 were selected. Cases were defined as fetuses and children with isolated heart defects, and the controls were fetuses and children with a genetic disorder with no heart defect. We excluded children for whom there was no information on maternal medication use and deceased children and fetuses who were not examined postmortem. First-trimester exposure to paroxetine was compared between cases and controls by calculating adjusted odds ratios (AOR).
We included 678 cases with isolated heart defects and 615 controls. The first trimester exposure rate was 1.5% for cases and 1.0% for controls. After excluding mothers who used paroxetine outside the first trimester, or who had used another SSRI, we found no significantly increased risk for heart defects overall (10 exposed cases; AOR, 1.5; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.5-4.0), but we did find a significantly increased risk for atrium septum defects (three exposed cases; AOR, 5.7; 95% CI, 1.4-23.7).
Our results suggest that the use of paroxetine in early pregnancy is associated with an increased risk of atrium septum defects. The results stress the importance of studying possible teratogenic effects of a drug, preferably in regard to well-specified malformations.
Stress and renewed contact with drug (a "slip") have been linked to persisting relapse of methamphetamine abuse. Human brain microglial activation has been linked with methamphetamine abuse, and inhibitors of glial cell activation, certain phosphodiesterase (PDE) inhibitors, and glial cell derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) have been reported to modulate drug abuse effects. Our objective was to determine whether the glial cell attenuator, 3-isobutyryl-2-isopropylpyrazolo-[1,5-a]pyridine (AV411, ibudilast), a non-selective PDE inhibitor and promoter of GDNF, could reduce stress- and methamphetamine prime-induced reinstatement of methamphetamine-seeking behavior. Male Long-Evans hooded rats were trained to lever press reinforced with 0.1 mg/kg i.v. methamphetamine infusion according to fixed-ratio 1 (FR1) reinforcement schedules during daily, 2-hour experimental sessions. After performance had stabilized, lever pressing was extinguished for 12 consecutive sessions and doses of 0 (vehicle), 2.5 and 7.5 mg/kg AV411 were then administered intraperitoneally b.i.d. on the last 2 days of extinction and then once on the testday to separate groups of 12 rats. During testing, the rats were given 15 min of intermittent footshock or a 1 mg/kg i.p. methamphetamine prime followed by a 2-hour reinstatement test session. AV411 significantly reduced response levels of footshock-induced (2.5 and 7.5 mg/kg) and prime-induced (7.5 mg/kg) reinstatement of extinguished methamphetamine-maintained responding. AV411 has properties consistent with the ability to attenuate relapse precipitated by stress and methamphetamine "slips" during abstinence. These results thus reinforce interest in atypical neurobiological mechanisms which could be exploited for developing novel medications for treating drug abuse disorders.
There has been in recent years an increase in the number of medical emergencies due to the consumption of designer drugs. We decided to study the characteristics of medical emergencies generated by the consumption of amphetamine derivates.
For the period 2000-2002, the medical records of patients attending the Emergency Department (ED) who claimed to have consumed ecstasy or other amphetamine derivates or whose toxicological tests were positive for amphetamines were reviewed.
A total of 230 cases were identified, of whom 135 attended the ED due directly to ecstasy consumption. The average age was 23 years and 68% were men. Most patients were attended on weekend nights. The main reasons for attendance at the ED were anxiety, agitation or cognitive disturbances, reduced consciousness and fits or motor disturbances. Eighty per cent of patients admitted having consumed ecstasy and 65% of patients had consumed additional drugs. Three severe cases were recorded: two died in the ED and another was admitted to the ICU.
Ecstasy consumption generates common attendance at the Emergency Department and can be potentially fatal.
Valproic acid is a commonly prescribed antiepileptic agent that causes birth defects including neural tube defects. The purpose of this study was to measure DNA damage and downstream changes in cell cycle inhibitors and apoptosis to further elucidate the molecular changes that occur following VPA exposure. Pregnant CD-1 mice were administered a teratogenic dose of VPA (400mg/kg) on gestational day 9 (plug=day 1) and embryos extracted 0.5, 1, 3, 6, and 24h after injection. Western blotting and immunohistochemistry were performed for γH2A.X, p21(WAF1/CIP1), p27(KIP1), and cleaved caspase-3. A rapid increase in γH2A.X expression was observed a half hour following VPA exposure, followed by a subsequent decrease. p27(KIP1)and cleaved caspase-3 expression was significantly increased 3 and 6h following VPA exposure. Immunohistochemistry revealed increased staining for γH2A.X, p27(KIP1), and cleaved caspase 3 in the head, confirming our hypothesis that DNA damage, cell cycle inhibition, and apoptosis are induced by VPA.
Seventy frail elderly patients attending a day hospital were studied to investigate the incidence of postural hypotension in control patients on no diuretic treatment (n = 30), patients on loop diuretics (frusemide) for mild cardiac failure (n = 20) and patients on thiazide diuretics for mild cardiac failure (n = 20). The results showed that patients on thiazide diuretics had a higher incidence of postural hypotension (reduction in systolic blood pressure greater than 20 mmHg on standing after 2 minutes) than patients on loop diuretics (12 out of 20 vs 4 out of 20, p less than 0.05). Mean plasma potassium levels were lower in the thiazide group than in the frusemide group (p less than 0.05) and this correlated significantly with change in systolic blood pressure from supine to standing position (r = -0.56, p less than 0.01). These findings indicate that a loop diuretic (frusemide) is as safe if not safer than thiazides in older patients and the latter have an unjustified reputation of being safer first-line drugs for the treatment of cardiac failure.
The tremorogenic effect of nicotine was studied in control rats and in rats withdrawn for 16-48 h from six to nine days' ethanol administration. The frequency and the intensity of tremor were measured electronically. A single dose of nicotine 5 mg/kg caused shortlasting (2-3 min) convulsions within 1 min after injection in control rats. Tremor occurred first after five repeated injections of nicotine (5 mg/kg) at half-hour intervals. This tremor encompassed peak frequencies of 6, 10 and 15 Hz. Hexamethonium at a dose of 10 mg/kg did not inhibit the tremor but eliminated the highest peak frequency (15 Hz) and tended to increase the intensity. Propranolol 5 mg/kg completely abolished the nicotine-induced tremor in control rats. Rats withdrawn from repeated ethanol administration showed a marked hypersensitivity to the tremorogenic action of nicotine so that a single dose of 1 mg/kg of nicotine caused clear tremor. The frequency spectra of this tremor showed peak frequencies at 6, 10 and 12 Hz. Hexamethonium did not change these frequencies. Furthermore, it tended to increase the intensity of nicotine-induced tremor in ethanol-withdrawn rats. Propranolol did not inhibit the tremor although it eliminated the 12 Hz peak frequency. The results suggest that the hypersensitivity to the tremorogenic action of nicotine in ethanol-withdrawn rats is not mediated by a sympathetic beta-adrenergic mechanism.
We studied the impact of the reactive oxygen species hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and antioxidative enzymes on the pathogenesis of diabetes induced by multiple low doses of streptozotocin (MLD-STZ).
We isolated the islets of C57BL/6 mice. For ex vivo analyses, mice had been injected with MLD-STZ. For in vitro analyses, islets were incubated with different concentrations of STZ, with either of the two moieties of STZ, methylnitrosourea and D-glucose, with H2O2 or with alloxan. Levels of H2O2 generation were measured by the scopoletin method. We assessed mRNA expression of Cu/Zn and Mn superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione peroxidase (GPX) by semiquantitative polymerase chain reaction. GPX activity was measured spectrophotometrically. In vitro, beta cell function was assayed by measuring basal and D-glucose-stimulated release of immunoreactive insulin using an ELISA kit.
Ex vivo, MLD-STZ significantly increased H2O2 generation in male but not in female mice. It also increased GPX activity and mRNA expression of catalase, Cu/Zn and Mn superoxide dismutase, and GPX in female but not in male mice. In vitro, STZ significantly stimulated H2O2 generation in islets of male mice only. In male islets, alloxan increased H202 generation at a highly toxic concentration, but D-glucose and methylnitrosourea did not. Both STZ and H2O2 dose-dependently inhibited the release of immunoreactive insulin after a D-glucose challenge.
The results indicate that H2O2 participates in the pathogenesis of MLD-STZ diabetes in male C57BL/6 mice, which do not up-regulate antioxidative enzymes in islets. Conversely, female mice are protected, probably due to an increment of several enzymes with the potential to detoxify H2O2.
The effect of delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) on the locomotor activity-stimulating action of morphine has been investigated in mice. THC (10 mg/kg) has been found to potentiate morphine-induced hyperactivity. On the other hand, the stimulating action of morphine on motor activity strongly diminished in mice rendered tolerant by the implantation of a morphine pellet. The pretreatment of morphine-tolerant mice with the same dose of THC did not change the effect of morphine on the motor activity. These results suggest that tolerance also developed to the potentiating action of THC on morphine-induced hyperactivity during the development of tolerance to this action of morphine.
The author describes a case of grand mal seizures that occurred on two occasions after ocular instillation of cyclopentolate 2% for refraction in a 11-year old epileptic girl. The first and the second crisis developed respectively 45 and 30 minutes after instillation of the drug. Cyclopentolate should be contraindicated in known epileptic children.
Ten patients with a history of ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation underwent electrophysiologic study with programmed stimulation before and 90 minutes after oral administration of bethanidine sulfate, 20 mg/kg. Mean plasma bethanidine concentration was 2.62 +/- 2.2 (+/- SD) micrograms/ml at the start of repeat testing. This dose of bethanidine produced no effect on sinus node function, atrioventricular conduction, or atrial or ventricular refractoriness. Ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation, inducible in all patients during the control study, could still be initiated by ventricular stimulation in 9 of 10 patients after bethanidine. Bethanidine suppressed the ability to initiate an arrhythmia in one patient with ventricular fibrillation during control stimulation. Orthostatic hypotension was seen in all patients despite pretreatment with the tricyclic antidepressant, protriptyline, 15 mg every 8 hours. The results suggest that bethanidine has few electrophysiologic effects and is of limited efficacy during electrophysiologic testing in patients with life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias.
Valproic acid has been implicated in at least 100 cases of fatal acute liver failure. Most cases have occurred in patients less than 10 yr old; however, at least seven have involved adults. Microvesicular steatosis has been uniformly observed, but its incidence in less severe liver disease and in asymptomatic patients receiving valproate is unknown. We report two patients receiving maintenance valproate, one with resolving acute hepatitis C and the other with chronic persistent hepatitis C, with incidental microvesicular steatosis demonstrated on oil-red O stains. We conclude that microvesicular steatosis does not necessarily signify hepatotoxicity in patients on chronic valproic acid, and should not lead to discontinuation of the drug until other causes of acute or chronic liver disease have been excluded.
Estriol (E3) has little effect on the female genitals. E3 is used in hormone replacement therapy, particularly in Europe and Japan, since it obviates the need for progestin administration. However, the effect of E3 on atherosclerosis has not been elucidated. In this study, we evaluated the effect of E3 on the progression of atherosclerosis in a rabbit model. Thirty-six rabbits total were used. Twenty-eight were bilaterally oophorectomized, and 8 were not. The rabbits were divided into 5 groups and treated for 12 weeks as follows. Gp I (n = 8) was fed a high cholesterol diet (HCD; standard diet plus 0.5% cholesterol); Gp II (n = 8) was fed a HCD with E3 (0.3 mg/kg/day); Gp III (n = 8) was fed a HCD with 17beta estradiol (E2) (0.1 mg/kg/day); Gp IV (n = 8), the non oophorectomized group, was fed a HCD; and Gp NC was oophorectomized (n = 4), and fed a regular diet. E3 treatment increased the plasma E2 and E3 levels in Gp II. The plasma lipid levels were not altered by the E2 or E3 treatment. A HCD diminished the acetylcholine-induced NO mediated relaxation in the thoracic aorta. The E2 treatment (Gp III) and E3 treatment (Gp II) restored the aortic basal NO release and the aortic cyclic GMP levels, particularly effectively in the E3 group. E3 treatment also decreased the atherosclerotic area, and its effect was comparable with E2 (surface involvement: 41.2 +/- 5.1% in Gp I; 10.1 +/- 2.7% in Gp II; and 6.5 +/- 1.3% in Gp III). All four hyperlipidemic groups showed an increase of eNOS mRNA in the aortae, and this was especially pronounced in Gps II and III. The level of peroxynitrite, as determined by immunohistochemical nitrotyrosine staining, was lower in Gps II and III than in Gp I. E3 strongly activates NO-mediated systems, and could play a role in retarding the progression of atherosclerosis and in stabilizing atheroma.
Cadmium (Cd) is one of the environmental pollutants that affect various tissues and organs including testis. Harmful effect of cadmium on testis is known to be germ cell degeneration and impairment of testicular steroidogenesis. In the present study, the effect of diallyl sulfide (DAS), a sulfur-containing volatile compound present in garlic, and zinc (Zn) was investigated on cadmium-induced testicular toxicity in rats. Male adult Wistar rats treated with cadmium (2.5 mg/kg body wt, five times a week for 4 weeks) showed decreased body weight, paired testicular weight, relative testicular weight, serum testosterone, luteinizing hormone, follicle-stimulating hormone, and testicular total antioxidant capacity (TAC) and protein levels. Testicular steroidogenic enzymes, such as 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3beta-HSD) and 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (17beta-HSD), and marker enzymes, such as sorbitol dehydrogenase (SDH), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), acid phosphatase (ACP), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD), showed a significant decrease in activities whereas that of gamma-glutamyl transferase was significantly increased after cadmium exposure. The results have revealed that concurrent treatment with DAS or zinc restored key steroidogenic enzymes, SDH, LDH, and G6PD and increased testicular weight significantly. DAS restored the TAC level and increased testosterone level and relative testicular weight significantly. Zinc restored testicular protein level and body weight. It can be concluded that cadmium causes testicular toxicity and inhibits androgen production in adult male rats probably by affecting pituitary gonadotrophins and that concurrent administration of DAS or zinc provides protection against cadmium-induced testicular toxicity.
The events after the first dose of prazosin have been studied. Twenty-four patients with hypertension were given a single 1 mg tablet. Supine and erect blood pressures were recorded at 15-minute intervals for up to 270 minutes. Six had no previous therapy, 18 were uncontrolled on other drugs, chiefly thiazides or beta-adrenergic blockers or a combination of both. In 10 patients in whom no symptoms of postural hypotension occurred, there was a mean maximum erect diastolic blood pressure fall of 21/14mmHg at an average of 110 minutes after the dose. The remaining 14 had symptoms of postural hypotension of which four were milk, seven moderate and three severe. The mean maximum erect diastolic blood pressure reduction in this group was 67/52mmHg at a mean of 90 minutes after the dose. Subsequent therapeutic response was better in those with an abrupt initial blood pressure fall. Twenty-two further patients were studied in the same manner with a single dose 0.5mg (tablet), 11 of them in a double-blind within-patient crossover study with placebo. Postural symptoms or significant tachycardia did not occur with this dose. Most patients experience some postural hypotension after the first dose of prazosin. Symptoms occur only when this fall is marked, and the extent of the fall is dose related.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) and type 1 diabetes (T1D) are organ-specific autoimmune disorders with significant heritability, part of which is conferred by shared alleles. For decades, the Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) complex was the only known susceptibility locus for both T1D and MS, but loci outside the HLA complex harboring risk alleles have been discovered and fully replicated. A genome-wide association scan for MS risk genes and candidate gene association studies have previously described the IL2RA gene region as a shared autoimmune locus. In order to investigate whether autoimmunity risk at IL2RA was due to distinct or shared alleles, we performed a genetic association study of three IL2RA variants in a DNA collection of up to 9,407 healthy controls, 2,420 MS, and 6,425 T1D subjects as well as 1,303 MS parent/child trios. Here, we report "allelic heterogeneity" at the IL2RA region between MS and T1D. We observe an allele associated with susceptibility to one disease and risk to the other, an allele that confers susceptibility to both diseases, and an allele that may only confer susceptibility to T1D. In addition, we tested the levels of soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2RA) in the serum from up to 69 healthy control subjects, 285 MS, and 1,317 T1D subjects. We demonstrate that multiple variants independently correlate with sIL-2RA levels.
Fulminant hepatitis develops in 1 % of patients with acute hepatitis B. Lamivudine therapy in patients with severe acute hepatitis B probably reduces their risk of fulminant hepatitis but experience with this type of treatment is still limited.
Between 1999 and 2006, 17 immunocompetent patients (12 women, 5 men, age 17-83 years) with severe acute hepatitis B were treated with lamivudine. Prior to treatment, all patients had their total bilirubin values above 220 micromol/l (more than 13 mg/dl). In 9 patients, the marked increase of bilirubin levels was accompanied by aminotransferase level decrease. Sixteen patients received lamivudine at a dose of 100 mg per day; one patient was given 150 mg daily. In 12 patients, concurrent corticosteroid therapy was administered.
One patient developed fulminant hepatitis B and underwent successful urgent liver transplantation 5 days after the lamivudine therapy was initiated. Sixteen patients responded well to the treatment and their biochemical parameters improved rapidly. Within 3-7 months, the HBsAg was undetectable in 14 out of 15 investigated patients. Protective anti-HBs antibodies developed in 11 of them in 3-21 months. The lamivudine therapy was terminated in 12 patients and it continued for more than 1 year in 3 patients only. Four patients continue to receive lamivudine but the therapy still has not exceeded 9 months. The corticosteroid therapy was short-term; it was longer than one month in 1 of 12 patients.
Early treatment with lamivudine alone or with corticosteroids probably decreases the risk of progression to fulminant hepatitis in patients with severe acute hepatitis B.
The effects of amiodarone in a low dosage (200 mg every 8 h for 2 weeks, then 200 mg/day) was assessed in a double-blind placebo-controlled trial in 34 patients with a history of severe congestive heart failure but no sustained ventricular arrhythmia. Left ventricular ejection fraction, treadmill exercise tolerance and 48 h electrocardiographic monitoring were assessed before and repeatedly after beginning amiodarone or placebo therapy over 6 months, and side effects were monitored. In patients receiving amiodarone, the ejection fraction increased significantly from 19 +/- 7 to 29 +/- 15% at 6 months (p less than 0.01 from baseline), but not significantly in 14 placebo-treated patients (18 +/- 5 to 22 +/- 9%). Exercise tolerance increased significantly in amiodarone-treated patients (median 433 s to 907 s, p less than 0.05), but not significantly in placebo-treated patients (757 to 918 s). Nonsustained ventricular tachycardia was present in 88% of amiodarone-treated patients before, but in only 21% of patients after 6 months of treatment (p = 0.06); it was seen in 43% of placebo-treated patients at baseline and in 50% after 6 months. Fifty percent of amiodarone-treated patients had side effects (principally nausea) and the drug was withdrawn in 28% of cases; no life-threatening effects were seen. Low dose amiodarone appears to have a multifaceted potential to produce benefits in arrhythmia control, exercise tolerance and ventricular function in patients with a history of severe congestive heart failure, but better control of side effects (principally nausea) appears essential. Effects on mortality could not be determined from this study; such assessment requires a larger cohort of patients.
Progressive systemic sclerosis (PSS; scleroderma) is a multisystem disease characterized by inflammation, fibrosis and degeneration of the integument, with similar changes and vascular lesions in the heart, lungs, kidneys, gastrointestinal tract and synovia. Its etiology is not clear. Several occupational exposures have been implicated as potential causes of PSS and scleroderma-like diseases. Among them are vinyl chloride monomer, silica dust, epoxy resin, and benzene and other solvents, aromatic and aliphatic, specifically chlorinated (trichloroethylene, perchloroethylene and trichloromethane). We present a patient whose illness was diagnosed as occupationally induced PSS. During 13 years of work renovating carburetors he was heavily exposed to trichloromethane. To the best of our knowledge this is the first reported case of PSS due to exposure to organic solvents in Israel; very few cases have been reported from abroad.
Intraarterial papaverine infusions are performed to reverse cerebral arterial vasospasm resulting from subarachnoid hemorrhage, but such infusions may lead to increases in intracranial pressure (ICP). This study was undertaken to determine when ICP monitoring is indicated during papaverine treatment.
Seventy-eight vessels were treated in 51 sessions in 28 patients with symptomatic vasospasm. ICP, papaverine doses, and infusion rates were recorded during treatment sessions. The procedural data, Hunt and Hess scores, Fisher grades, Glasgow Coma Scale scores, and ages for all subjects were reviewed and analyzed retrospectively.
Baseline ICP ranged from 0 to 34 mm Hg. With typical papaverine doses of 300 mg per territory and infusion times ranging from 5 to 60 minutes per vessel, ICP increases above baseline during papaverine infusion ranged from 0 to 60 mm Hg. Significant (> or = 20 mm Hg) ICP increases during therapy were observed even in patients with low baseline ICP and with papaverine infused at the slowest rate. Patients with a baseline ICP of more than 15 mm Hg were much more likely to have significant ICP increases than were patients with a baseline ICP of 0 to 15 mm Hg. Hunt and Hess scores, Fisher grades, age, and Glasgow Coma Scale scores on admission and immediately before treatment did not correlate with ICP increases during papaverine infusion. Patients with ICP increases of more than 10 mm Hg during therapy were more likely to experience adverse clinical events than were patients with ICP increases of < or = 10 mm Hg. Reduction in the rate of papaverine infusion, or termination of infusion, resulted in reversal of drug-induced ICP elevation.
ICP monitoring during intraarterial papaverine infusions for cerebral vasospasm is recommended for all patients and is particularly important for patients with elevated baseline ICP. Continuous ICP monitoring facilitates safe and time-efficient drug delivery.
Fenfluramine or norfenfluramine produced a marked and persistent depletion of whole-brain serotonin and antagonized potently the apomorphine-induced aggression response in Long Evans male rats. Chronic treatment with fenfluramine or norfenfluramine resulted in the development of complete tolerance to the antiaggression action of fenfluramine whereas tolerance to the serotonin-depleting action was not observed. Pretreatment with chlorimipramine antagonized both the antiaggression and the serotonin-depleting activity of fenfluramine yet the antiaggression activity of haloperidol was unaffected. Neither p-chlorophenylalanine nor the combination of alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine and reserpine affected the antiaggression activity of fenfluramine. It is concluded that the serotonin-depleting and antiaggression effects are dependent upon the ability of fenfluramine to gain access into the serotonergic neuron and that whereas serotonin release can account for the antiaggression action, release does not seem to explain adequately the depleting action of fenfluramine.
DNA methylation contributes to carcinogenesis by mediating transcriptional regulation and chromatin remodelling, which may influence the effect of DNA-damaging drugs. We examined the prognostic and predictive impact of DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) 1 and 3b expression in gastric carcinomas (GC) treated by neoadjuvant chemotherapy. In vitro, DNMT1 expression and chemosensitivity were investigated for a functional relationship and the DNMT inhibitor decitabine (DAC) was tested as an alternative treatment option.
DNMT1/3b expression was analysed immunohistochemically in 127 pretherapeutic biopsies of neoadjuvant (platinum/5-fluorouracil)-treated GC patients and correlated with response and overall survival (OS). Short hairpin RNA technology was used to knockdown DNMT1 in the GC cell line, AGS. The chemosensitivity of GC cell lines to DAC alone and to DAC in combination with cisplatin was analysed by XTT or colony formation assays.
High DNMT1 and DNMT3b expression was found in 105/127 (83%) and 79/127 (62%) carcinomas, respectively. Patients with low DNMT1 expression demonstrated a significantly better histopathological/clinical response (P=0.03/P=0.008) and OS (P(log-rank)=0.001). In vitro, knockdown of DNMT1 caused an increased chemosensitivity towards cisplatin. Combined treatment with cisplatin and DAC showed a synergistic effect leading to increased cytotoxicity in the cisplatin-resistant cell line AGS.
Low DNMT1 expression defines a subgroup of GC patients with better outcomes following platinum/5FU-based neoadjuvant chemotherapy. In vitro data support a functional relationship between DNMT1 and cisplatin sensitivity. Besides its potential use as a predictive biomarker, DNMT1 may represent a promising target for alternative therapeutic strategies for a subset of GC patients.
A randomized double-blind crossover trial was performed in 32 patients with chronic stable angina to compare the antianginal actions of verapamil (120 mg 3 times daily) and nifedipine (20 mg 3 times daily). Efficacy was assessed using objective end points obtained by computer-assisted exercise testing and 24 hour ambulatory monitoring for S-T segment shift. Twenty-eight patients completed the trial. The mean exercise time to produce angina improved from 5.7 +/- 0.3 minutes (mean +/- standard error of the mean) in patients on placebo, to 7.9 +/- 0.5 minutes in those on nifedipine and 10.0 +/- 0.7 minutes in those on verapamil. Similar improvement was seen in all other objective variables. Generally verapamil produced mild bradycardia and nifedipine mild tachycardia. Four patients complained of palpitations and angina after ingestion of nifedipine and were identified by ambulatory monitoring to have tachycardia and persistent S-T depression. These opposite effects on heart rate may explain the differences in efficacy between these 2 potent calcium ion antagonists.
Fibrates, the ligands of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha), are used as a class of lipid-lowering drugs in clinical practice for the treatment of dyslipidemia. Fibrates are well tolerated in most cases concomitantly with occasional adverse reactions including muscular toxicity, which is enhanced by the combination with statins. This study was designed to investigate the effects of bezafibrate as a PPARalpha agonist on human embryo rhabdomyosarcoma (RD) cells and possible mechanisms responsible for bezafibrate-mediated myopathy. The results revealed that bezafibrate caused a dose-dependent decrease in cell viability, which was fortified in association with atorvastatin at a pharmacological dose. Bezafibrate at toxic doses of 300 and 1000microM upregulated PPARalpha at the mRNA level, counteracted by a PPARalpha antagonist (MK886). Bezafibrate at a toxic dose induced typical apoptotic characteristics related to the inhibition of phosphorylation of Akt which was blocked by PPARalpha antagonist. Toxic doses of bezafibrate initiated a significant increase in pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 4 mRNA and protein levels, compromised by MK886. These results suggest the critical roles of PPARalpha signaling in bezafibrate-induced myotoxicity and the involvement of apoptosis through Akt pathway.
Bone marrow is richly innervated with both myelinated and non-myelinated nerve fibers, but the role of this innervation on hemopoiesis is poorly understood. Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate the role of C-fibers on hematopoiesis. Wistar rats were neonatally injected with either capsaicin or its vehicle, and used at adult ages (8-10 weeks). In capsaicin-pretreated rats, the levels of substance P (SP) in bone marrow fluid were markedly reduced in comparison with the vehicle group (13.1+/-4.5 pg/ml versus 47.3+/-5.5 pg/ml, p<0.05). In bone marrow, the number of total leukocytes was 28% higher (p<0.05) in capsaicin-pretreated group, and this accompanied by a higher number of neutrophils, particularly of the immature forms. The mononuclear cell and eosinophils counts did not differ significantly among vehicle and capsaicin groups. In peripheral blood, the number of circulating neutrophils in the capsaicin group increased by 53.8% (p<0.05), whereas the number of mononuclear cells did not change significantly among groups. Eosinophils were virtually absent in the circulating blood in both groups. Semi-quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) showed that both preprotachykinin (PPT)-I mRNA and the tachykinin neurokinin (NK)-1 mRNA expression in bone marrow cells significantly increased in capsaicin group, whereas the NK-2 mRNA expression was unchanged after capsaicin pretreatment. In conclusion, our data show that chronic neuropeptide depletion enhance the neutrophil proliferation and differentiation in the rat bone marrow by mechanisms involving upregulation of PPT-I gene and NK-1 receptors.
Long-term exposure of agriculturally used organochloride and organophosphate pesticides have been shown to cause long-lasting hematotoxicity and increased incidence of aplastic anemia in humans. The mechanisms involved in pesticide induced hematotoxicity and the features of toxicity that may play a major role in bone marrow suppression are not known. The aim of the present study was to investigate the hematological consequences of pesticide exposure in swiss albino mice exposed to aqueous mixture of common agriculturally used pesticides for 6 h/day, 5 days/week for 13 weeks. After the end of last exposure, without a recovery period, the strong hematotoxic effect of pesticide was assessed in mice with long-term bone marrow explant culture (LTBMC-Ex) system and cell colony forming assays. Bone marrow explant culture from the pesticide exposed group of mice failed to generate a supportive stromal matrix and did not produce adequate number of hematopoietic cells and found to contain largely the adipogenic precursors. The decreased cell colony numbers in the pesticide exposed group indicated defective maturational and functional status of different marrow cell lineages. As a whole, exposure of mice to the mixture of pesticides reduced the total number of bone marrow cells (granulocytes are the major targets of pesticide toxicity), hematopoietic, and non-hematopoietic progenitor cells and most of the hematological parameters. Replication of primitive stem/progenitor cells in the marrow was decreased following pesticide exposure with G0/G1-phase arrest of most of the cells. The progenitor cells showed decreased percentage of cells in S/G2/M-phase. The increased apoptosis profile of the marrow progenitors (Increased CD95 expression) and primitive stem cells (High Annexin-V positivity on Sca1+ cells) with an elevated intracellular cleaved caspase-3 level on the Sca1+ bone marrow cells provided the base necessary for explaining the deranged bone marrow microenvironmental structure which was evident from scanning electron micrographs. These results clearly indicate a strong, long lasting toxic effect of pesticides on the bone marrow microenvironment and different microenvironmental components which ultimately leads to the formation of a degenerative disease like aplastic anemia.
