Inbred strains of mice exhibit differing susceptibilities to formation of lung tumors induced by procarcinogens including ethyl carbamate (EC) and vinyl carbamate (VC). Strain A/J mice are susceptible, whereas C57BL/6 mice are resistant to lung tumor development. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that differential susceptibilities of A/J, CD-1, and C57BL/6 mice to lung tumor development are associated, in part, with their capacities for VC bioactivation and with the extents of DNA adduct formation. Previous studies have shown that the P450 isozyme CYP2E1 and microsomal carboxylesterases are involved in activation and detoxication of VC, respectively. Bioactivation capacity, as estimated by ratios of p-nitrophenol hydroxylase, a CYP2E1 catalytic marker, to carboxylesterase activities, was greater in control A/J (1.32 +/- 0.18 x 10(-6)) and CD-1 (1.25 +/- 0.29 x 10(-6)) mice than in control C57BL/6 (0.69 +/- 0.12 x 10(-6)) mice. The ratios were reduced in all three strains of mice treated with VC. Covalent binding of [(14)C-carbonyl]-VC to lung proteins was time- and dose-dependent, and was significantly higher in A/J and CD-1 mice than in C57BL/6 mice. Experiments using (32)P-postlabeling/thin-layer chromatography showed formation of the DNA adducts 1,N:(6)-ethenodeoxyadenosine and 3,N:(4)-ethenodeoxycytidine in lungs of mice treated with VC. The DNA adducts were detected at 30 min after treatment, peaked at 60 min, and declined thereafter. Levels of 1,N:(6)-ethenodeoxyadenosine and 3,N:(4)-ethenodeoxycytidine were about 70% higher in A/J and CD-1 mice than in C57BL/6 mice. These results indicated that formation of VC metabolites in these murine strains is linked to their bioactivation capacities, and suggested that this attribute may confer differing susceptibilities to lung tumor development.
Genetic disorders of homocysteine (Hcy) or folate metabolism or high-methionine diets elevate plasma Hcy and its atherogenic metabolite Hcy-thiolactone. In humans, severe hyperhomocysteinemia due to genetic alterations in cystathionine beta-synthase (Cbs) or methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (Mthfr) results in neurological abnormalities and premature death from vascular complications. In mouse models, dietary or genetic hyperhomocysteinemia results in liver or brain pathological changes and accelerates atherosclerosis. Hcy-thiolactone has the ability to form isopeptide bonds with protein lysine residues, which generates modified proteins (N-Hcy-protein) with autoimmunogenic and prothrombotic properties. Our aim was to determine how N-Hcy-protein levels are affected by genetic or nutritional disorders in Hcy or folate metabolism in mice. We found that plasma N-Hcy-protein was elevated 10-fold in mice fed a high-methionine diet compared with the animals fed a normal commercial diet. We also found that inactivation of Cbs, Mthfr, or the proton-coupled folate transporter (Pcft) gene resulted in a 10- to 30-fold increase in plasma or serum N-Hcy-protein levels. Liver N-Hcy-protein was elevated 3.4-fold in severely and 11-fold in extremely hyperhomocysteinemic Cbs-deficient mice, 3.6-fold in severely hyperhomocysteinemic Pcft mice, but was not elevated in mildly hyperhomocysteinemic Mthfr-deficient animals, suggesting that mice have a capacity to prevent accumulation of N-Hcy-protein in their organs. These findings provide evidence that N-Hcy-protein is an important metabolite associated with Hcy pathophysiology in the mouse.
The association between methotrexate therapy and idiosyncratic neurological complications is well recognised in children. This case illustrates the importance of considering the diagnosis of methotrexate toxicity in an adult patient with behavioural and speech disturbances, who received it by intrathecal route only and in whom the only indicator was an abnormal electroencephalographic study.
Mechlorethamine, when administered in massive doses (0.6-1.5 mg/kg) to cancer patients in several early studies, caused severe irreversible hearing loss. There have been no reports of ototoxicity with doses of 0.4 mg/kg or less. The authors describe a 36-year-old man who developed profound sensorineural hearing loss during his first cycle of MOPP chemotherapy for Hodgkin's disease. Cyclophosphamide was substituted for mechlorethamine in subsequent cycles and his hearing deficit resolved. This is the first reported case of reversible ototoxicity associated with currently recommended doses of mechlorethamine.
Rosiglitazone not only improves insulin-sensitivity, but also exerts anti-inflammatory effects. We have now examined in type 2 diabetic patients if these effects are reflected by changes in mRNA expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) to see if these cells can be used to study these anti-inflammatory effects at the molecular level in vivo.
Eleven obese type 2 diabetic patients received rosiglitazone (2 x 4 mg/d) for 8 weeks. Fasting blood samples were obtained before and after treatment. Ten obese control subjects served as reference group. The expression of NFkappaB-related genes and PPARgamma target genes in PBMCs, plasma TNFalpha, IL6, MCP1 and hsCRP concentrations were measured. In addition, blood samples were obtained after a hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp.
Rosiglitazone reduced plasma MCP1 and hsCRP concentrations in diabetic patients (-9.5 +/- 5.3 pg/mL, p = 0.043 and -1.1 +/- 0.3 mg/L p = 0.003), respectively). For hsCRP, the concentration became comparable with the non-diabetic reference group. However, of the 84 NFkappaB-related genes that were measured in PBMCs from type 2 diabetic subjects, only RELA, SLC20A1, INFgamma and IL1R1 changed significantly (p < 0.05). In addition, PPARgamma and its target genes (CD36 and LPL) did not change. During the clamp, insulin reduced plasma MCP1 concentration in the diabetic and reference groups (-9.1 +/- 1.8%, p = 0.001 and -11.1 +/- 4.1%, p = 0.023, respectively) and increased IL6 concentration in the reference group only (23.5 +/- 9.0%, p = 0.028).
In type 2 diabetic patients, the anti-inflammatory effect of rosiglitazone is not reflected by changes in NFkappaB and PPARgamma target genes in PBMCs in vivo. Furthermore, our results do not support that high insulin concentrations contribute to the pro-inflammatory profile in type 2 diabetic patients.
Carboplatin has been reported to cause acute renal failure when administered in high doses to adult patients. We report a 4 1/2-year-old girl who was treated with high-dose carboplatin for metastatic parameningeal embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma. Acute renal failure developed followed by a slow partial recovery of renal function. Possible contributing factors are discussed.
Alterations in the retinoblastoma ( Rb) gene have been correlated with a large number and wide variety of human tumors, including hepatocellular carcinoma. We have previously characterized a medaka homologue of the human Rb complementary DNA that is conserved in regions of functional importance. Structural alterations in the entire coding region (exons 1 to 27) of the Rb gene in methylene-chloride-induced medaka liver tumors were investigated using polymerase chain reaction and single strand conformation polymorphism analysis. Four of 5 liver tumors were found to have Rb alterations. Sequencing revealed 7 point mutations in exons 18 and 23, resulting in 5 amino acid substitutions, and a deletion within exon 19. Our results suggest that the molecular etiology of the medaka hepatocellular carcinoma models appear similar to that reported in humans. As such, the medaka appears to be a valid model for the study of Rb-implicated tumorigenesis.
Sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) is a nuclear deacetylase that modulates lipid metabolism and enhances mitochondrial activity. SIRT1 targets multiple transcription factors and coactivators. Thyroid hormone (T(3)) stimulates the expression of hepatic genes involved in mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation and gluconeogenesis. We reported that T(3) induces genes for carnitine palmitoyltransferase (cpt1a), pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 4 (pdk4), and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (pepck). SIRT1 increases the expression of these genes via the activation of several factors, including peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α, estrogen-related receptor α, and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ coactivator (PGC-1α). Previously, we reported that PGC-1α participates in the T(3) induction of cpt1a and pdk4 in the liver. Given the overlapping targets of T(3) and SIRT1, we investigated whether SIRT1 participated in the T(3) regulation of these genes. Resveratrol is a small phenolic compound whose actions include the activation of SIRT1. Addition of resveratrol increased the T(3) induction of the pdk4 and cpt1a genes in hepatocytes. Furthermore, expression of SIRT1 in hepatocytes mimicked resveratrol in the regulation of gene expression by T(3). The deacetylase activity of SIRT1 was required and PGC-1α was deacetylated following addition of T(3). We found that SIRT1 interacted directly with T(3) receptor (TRβ). Knockdown of SIRT1 decreased the T(3) induction of cpt1a and pdk4 and reduced the T(3) inhibition of sterol response element binding protein (srebp-1c) both in isolated hepatocytes and in rat liver. Our results indicate that SIRT1 contributes to the T(3) regulation of hepatic genes.
To describe the phenotype caused by a retinol deficiency in a family with compound heterozygous missense mutations (Ile41Asn and Gly75Asp) in the gene for serum retinol binding protein (RBP).
The two affected sisters, 17 (BR) and 13 (MR) years old, were examined clinically and with perimetry, color vision tests, dark adaptometry, rod- and cone-isolated electroretinograms (ERGs), multifocal ERGs, electrooculograms (EOGs), and laboratory tests.
There were no complaints besides night vision problems and no history of systemic disease. Visual acuity was reduced to 20/40 (BR) and 20/25 (MR). Anterior segments were normal except for a discrete iris coloboma. Both patients showed a typical "fundus xerophthalmicus," featuring a progressed atrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium. Dark adaptation thresholds were elevated. In the scotopic ERG, only reduced mixed responses were recordable. The photopic ERG was reduced in BR and normal in MR; implicit times were highly (BR) to slightly (MR) elevated. There was no (BR) to little (MR) light reaction in the EOG. All-trans retinol levels were 0.19 microM and 0.18 microM (normal range, 0.7-1.5 microM) for BR and MR, respectively, and did not increase in a dose-response test. RBP was below detection threshold, and retinyl esters were normal.
Both affected siblings had no detectable serum RBP, one sixth of normal retinol levels, and normal retinyl esters. The retinal pigment epithelium was severely affected, but besides acne there were no changes to other organs. This gives evidence for an alternative tissue source of vitamin A, presumably retinyl esters from chylomicron remnants. The normal retinol levels in the tear fluid explain the lack of xerophthalmia. However, considering the role of RBP in the tear fluid and, during development, in the yolk sac there is also evidence that there are organ-specific RBP forms not affected by the genetic defect.
Extracapillary glomerulonephritis was diagnosed in a 51-year-old woman after 11 months of D-Penicillamine treatment given for systemic sclerosis. Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies specific for myeloperoxydase were detected. Penicillamine was stopped and the patient was treated with plasma exchanges, cyclophosphamide and corticosteroids. The renal function progressively deteriorated leading to end stage requiring dialysis. Previous reports of extracapillary glomerulonephritis after D-penicillamine are analysed. Several cases with alveolar haemorrhage are consistent with the diagnosis of microscopic polyangiitis.
Hepatocellular carcinoma is among the most common and lethal cancers in humans. Hepatocellular carcinoma is commonly associated with physical or functional inactivation of the p53 tumor suppressor, high levels of chromosomal instability, and disease conditions causing chronic cycles of hepatocyte death and regeneration. Mounting evidence has implicated regeneration-induced telomere erosion as a potential mechanism fueling genome instability. In mouse models of hepatocellular carcinoma, telomere dysfunction has been shown to enhance initiation of hepatic neoplasias yet constrain full malignant progression of these neoplasms possibly due to activation of a p53-dependent checkpoint and/or intolerable levels of genomic instability. Here, in a hepatocellular carcinoma-prone model brought about through toxin-induced hepatocyte injury and regeneration, we sought to determine the cooperative interactions of germ line p53 mutation and telomere dysfunction [produced by telomerase reverse transcriptase (mTERT) gene knockout]. In the setting of intact telomeres, p53 mutation had no effect on hepatocarcinogenesis, whereas in the setting of telomere dysfunction, p53 mutation enabled advanced hepatocellular carcinoma disease. Notably, there was no evidence of deletion or mutation of the wild-type p53 allele in the late generation mTert(-/-)p53(+/-) mice, suggesting that reduced levels of p53 potently enable hepatocellular carcinoma progression in the setting of telomere dysfunction. Thus, this study supports a model that, in the face of chronic liver damage, attenuated p53 function and telomere-induced chromosomal instability play critical and cooperative roles in the progression of hepatocellular carcinoma.
Bisphenol A (BPA) is a high production volume chemical with hormone-like properties that has been implicated as a potential carcinogen. Early-life exposure has been linked to increased risk for precancerous lesions in mammary and prostate glands and the uterus, but no prior study has shown a significant association between BPA exposure and cancer development.
We explored the effects of BPA exposure during gestation and lactation on adult incidence of hepatic tumors in mice.
Isogenic mice were perinatally exposed to BPA through maternal diets containing one of four environmentally relevant doses of BPA (0, 50 ng, 50 μg, or 50 mg per kilogram of diet), and we followed approximately one male and one female per litter until they were 10 months of age. Animals were tested for known risk factors for hepatocellular carcinoma, including bacterial and viral infections.
We found dose-dependent incidence of hepatic tumors in 10-month-old BPA-exposed mice. Of the offspring examined, 23% presented with hepatic tumors or preneoplastic lesions. We observed a statistically significant dose-response relationship, with an odds ratio for neoplastic and preneoplastic lesions of 7.23 (95% CI: 3.23, 16.17) for mice exposed to 50 mg BPA/kg diet compared with unexposed controls. Observed early disease onset, absence of bacterial or viral infection, and lack of characteristic sexual dimorphism in tumor incidence support a nonclassical etiology.
To our knowledge, this is the first report of a statistically significant association between BPA exposure and frank tumors in any organ. Our results link early-life exposure to BPA with the development of hepatic tumors in rodents, and have potential implications for human health and disease.
Torsade de pointes (TdP) is a life threatening cardiac arrhythmia that is typically associated with prolongation of the QT interval. A wide variety of nonantiarrthymic medications may trigger TdP in patients with prolonged QT interval, only a few reports have described an association between TdP and methadone. We report a case of TdP caused by a large dose of methadone in a patient with presumably normal QT interval at baseline prior to his presentation at the hospital.
The effectiveness and safety of transdermally administered clonidine hydrochloride was assessed in 16 patients with type-II diabetes mellitus. This group of patients was chosen because of the frequent occurrence of hypertension in diabetic patients and potential problems with transdermal absorption of medication because of small vessel disease. A skin patch containing clonidine hydrochloride (Catapres TTS) was applied at weekly intervals after an appropriate placebo lead-in period. Satisfactory response to therapy was seen in 15 of the 16 patients. One patient developed a generalized skin rash and was withdrawn from the study. Correlation between change in diastolic blood pressure and plasma clonidine levels was noted. Of note was the absence of the usual side effects (drowsiness, dry mouth, etc.) seen with oral clonidine administration. This study thus highlights the success of transdermal clonidine therapy in controlling blood pressure in the mild hypertensive patient with diabetes mellitus.
The increasing use of nano-sized materials in our environment, and in many consumer products, dictates new safety concerns. In particular, adequate experimental models are needed to evaluate skin toxicity of metal oxide ions, commonly found in cosmetic and dermatologic preparations. We have addressed the biological effects of topically applied copper oxide (CuO) nanoparticles in human skin organ cultures, using light and electron microscopy, and biochemical tests. Nanoparticles were more toxic than micro-sized particles, and their effects were stronger when supplied in growth medium than in topical application. Still topically applied CuO nanoparticles induced inflammatory cytokine secretion and necrosis, especially in epidermis deprived of its protective cornea. Since nanoparticle penetration was not seen, we propose that they may adhere to skin surface, react with the local acidic environment, and generate soluble ions that make their way to inner sites. This work illustrates the abilities of skin organ culture to evaluate the biological effects of topically-applied materials on skin in vitro.
The management of pediatric patients with severe head trauma often requires aggressive physiologic monitoring and treatment. As intracranial pressure (ICP) increases, so does mortality. Yet attempts to decrease elevated ICP can cause physiologic and hemodynamic problems. In this retrospective analysis of 25 patients treated with ICP monitoring alone, ICP measurements plus mannitol, or ICP measurements plus pentobarbital (PB) induced coma/mannitol, survival rates were higher than predicted, particularly among the most severely injured. These results were apparently due to the intensive care and aggressive monitoring. Although barbiturates are known to decrease ICP, the adverse effects encountered, including hypotension, cardiovascular depression and arrhythmias, often outweigh the benefits. Hemodynamic abnormalities are unpredictable and monitoring with Swan-Ganz catheter is useful in managing patients with PB-induced comas. Many failures of PB therapy in pediatric patients may be related to undiagnosed decreases in cardiac output, resulting in decreased cerebral blood flow, even with well-controlled ICP.
Use of antimalarial prophylaxis continues to be routine practice among military personnel returning from areas where malaria is endemic. Primaquine may be used for terminal prophylaxis against Plasmodium ovale and Plasmodium vivax. Serious complications of this regimen are infrequent. We report the occurrence of significant hemolytic anemia for two soldiers returning from Operation Iraqi Freedom. They presented with dark urine, headaches, and classic laboratory findings of hemolysis. Both soldiers were subsequently found to have glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, and both responded to conservative treatment and cessation of medication. Although this complication is unusual, medical personnel involved in the care of recently returned deployed service members should be alert to its potential occurrence among patients who are receiving antimalarial prophylaxis. This complication could be completely avoided with prescreening of personnel for glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, as is currently done in the Air Force and Navy, before the use of primaquine.
The cause of acne is still obscure, but genetic predisposition, sebaceous overactivity, overgrowth of bacterial flora and exposure to comedogenic substances are all significant factors. Acne lesions occur mainly in sebaceous follicles, which are characterized by deep follicular canals and large sebaceous glands. The associated seborrhea is not due to a circulatory excess of androgens but may be caused by a local amplification of androgenic activity. This, in turn, may be due to large numbers of androgen receptors and a high concentration of enzymes such as 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, within the sebaceous gland itself. Hyperkeratosis of the retention type in the pilary infrainfundibulum obstructs the outflow of sebum and keratin flakes. This favors the proliferation of Propionibacterium acnes which may initiate inflammation in microcomedos and lead to formation of pustules, papules or nodules. Topical therapy with tretinoin, benzoyl peroxide and antibiotics such as clindamycin is widely used today. Oral tetracyclines and other chemotherapeutic agents remain necessary in severe cases.
Silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) are among the most widely commercialised engineered nanomaterials, because of their antimicrobial properties. They are already commonly used in medical devices, household products and industry. Concerns have been raised about potential adverse health effects due to increasing dispersion of AgNPs in the environment. The present study examined the cytotoxic effects of spherical, citrate-coated AgNPs (10, 50 and 100 nm) in rat brain endothelial (RBE4) cells and investigated whether the observed effects can be explained by the intrinsic toxicity of the particles or the silver ions released from the particles. The results indicated that exposure of RBE4 cells to AgNPs lead to significant reduction in dye uptake as measured with the Neutral red (NR) assay. The effect was found to be related to particle size, surface area, dose and exposure time. In contrast, silver ions increased NR uptake (ca. 10%) in RBE4 cells after 1h, while a reduction in NR uptake was observed after 24h exposure at high concentrations (20-30 μM). Colony formation, as an indicator of proliferation ability, was completely inhibited by AgNPs at concentrations higher than 1 μg/ml. Silver ions had less effect on the colony formation of RBE4 cells than AgNPs.
Nanomaterials and relevant products are now being widely used in the world, and their safety becomes a great concern for the general public. Tungsten carbide nanoparticles (nano-WC) are widely used in metallurgy, aeronautics and astronautics, however our knowledge regarding the influence of nano-WC on neurons is still lacking. The aim of this study was to investigate the impact of nano-WC on tetrodotoxin (TTX)-sensitive voltage-activated sodium current (I(Na)) of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. Results showed that acute exposure of nano-WC attenuated the peak amplitudes of I(Na) in a concentration-dependent manner. The minimal effective concentration was 10(-5)g/ml. The exposure of nano-WC significantly decreased current amplitudes of the current-voltage curves of I(Na) from -50 to+50 mV, shifted the steady-state activation and inactivation curves of I(Na) negatively and delayed the recovery of I(Na) from inactivation state. After exposure to nano-WC, the peak amplitudes, overshoots and the V-thresholds of action potentials (APs) were markedly reduced. These results suggested that exposure of nano-WC could influence some characteristics of APs evoked from the hippocampal CA1 neurons by modifying the kinetics of voltage-gated sodium channels (VGSCs).
A case is reported of hypertensive crisis associated with treatment of premature labor with intravenous ritodrine hydrochloride and betamethasone. Ritodrine has been in clinical use for over 10 yr in Europe, and recently also in the U.S.A. The drug has proved to be efficient and relatively safe. Yet, a few cases of severe side effects, all related to its effect on the cardiovascular system, have already been reported. The pathophysiology of this episode is unclear, but it is most likely related to the treatment, and should be added to the list of reported side effects of treatment with ritodrine and betamethasone.
Amiodarone-induced hepatotoxicity consists of mild liver test abnormalities and rare cases of acute hepatitis and chronic hepatic lesions, and histologically resembles the whole spectrum of alcoholic liver disease, i.e., non-alcoholic steatohepatitis. Amiodarone-induced neurotoxicity, including tremor, ataxia and peripheral neuropathy, is known, and some cases of parkinsonism following amiodarone use have also been reported.
To study the pathology of amiodarone-associated parkinsonism.
Light and electromicroscopic examinations of a patient with liver cirrhosis and amiodarone-induced parkinsonism.
On postmortem examination, the liver showed micronodular cirrhosis. Striking steatosis and frequent Mallory bodies were present on light microscopy. There were lysosomal inclusion bodies on electron microscopy. From these findings, amiodarone-induced liver cirrhosis was diagnosed. Brain atrophy and infarcts were not observed, and pigmentation in the substantia nigra was preserved. Histologically, there was a slightly lesser degree of neuronal loss with astrocytosis in the substantia nigra, locus ceruleus, and dorsal vagal nucleus. Lewy bodies were not found. In the cerebral white matter and basal ganglia, Alzheimer Type II astrocytes, which are abundant in hepatic encephalopathy, had deposition of electron-dense materials within the lysosomes and mitochondrial matrices. The materials were compatible with the accelerated amiodarone.
This is the first case in which the accumulation of amiodarone in the brain was morphologically observed. Amiodarone accumulation in the brain may play a role in neurotoxicity inducing parkinsonism.
Cerebral microbleeds (CMBs) are known to be indicative of bleeding prone microangiopathy. Little is known about its significance in anticoagulated patients. We aimed to determine the frequency of CMBs in ischemic stroke patients on warfarin treatment.
A total of 141 ischemic stroke patients on warfarin therapy were enrolled in this study. One hundred five patients with similar demographic features who do not use warfarin were chosen as controls. We compared vascular risk factors and radiological findings including CMBs and leukoaraiosis between the groups.
CMBs on gradient-echo MRI (GE-MRI) were found in 31 patients (22%) and 17 controls (16%) and there was not a significant difference between 2 groups (P=0.25). Study patients with CMBs were older than patients without CMBs (P=0.04) and frequency of leukoaraiosis was significantly higher (P=0.008). Mean duration of warfarin treatment was not different between the patients with and without CMBs (P=0.83).
Although patients with CMBs were older and had more leukoaraiosis the impact of warfarin treatment on CMBs is still controversial.
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome was induced by aripiprazole in a 12 1/2-year-old boy. The patient had a history of reactive airway disease, pervasive developmental disorder, and learning disability.
The patient was interviewed and examined, and additional history was taken from the medical records. The Naranjo adverse drug reaction rating scale was applied.
The patient developed neuroleptic malignant syndrome 2 days after starting aripiprazole 10 mg/d. This patient had no history of exposure to dopamine-blocking drugs or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors or of neurological disorder, movement disorder, or substance use. Aripiprazole discontinuation and supportive treatment led to resolution. The Naranjo scale indicates high probability of neuroleptic malignant syndrome from aripiprazole.
Aripiprazole can rapidly induce neuroleptic malignant syndrome in adolescents.
Mice with functional genetic ablation of the Tacr1 (substance P-preferring receptor) gene (NK1R-/-) are hyperactive. Here, we investigated whether this is mimicked by NK1R antagonism and whether dopaminergic transmission is disrupted in brain regions that govern motor performance. The locomotor activity of NK1R-/- and wild-type mice was compared after treatment with an NK1R antagonist and/or psychostimulant (d-amphetamine or methylphenidate). The inactivation of NK1R (by gene mutation or receptor antagonism) induced hyperactivity in mice, which was prevented by both psychostimulants. Using in vivo microdialysis, we then compared the regulation of extracellular dopamine in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and striatum in the two genotypes. A lack of functional NK1R reduced (>50%) spontaneous dopamine efflux in the prefrontal cortex and abolished the striatal dopamine response to d-amphetamine. These behavioural and neurochemical abnormalities in NK1R-/- mice, together with their atypical response to psychostimulants, echo attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in humans. These findings prompted genetic studies on the TACR1 gene (the human equivalent of NK1R) in ADHD patients in a case-control study of 450 ADHD patients and 600 screened supernormal controls. Four single-nucleotide polymorphisms (rs3771829, rs3771833, rs3771856, and rs1701137) at the TACR1 gene, previously known to be associated with bipolar disorder or alcoholism, were strongly associated with ADHD. In conclusion, our proposal that NK1R-/- mice offer a mouse model of ADHD was borne out by our human studies, which suggest that DNA sequence changes in and around the TACR1 gene increase susceptibility to this disorder.
