This study analyzes the relationship of plasmatic colloid osmotic pressure (PCO) and viscosity with the different hyperlipidemic stages observed in rats with acute liver damage induced by carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) and in rats with nephrotic syndrome induced by puromycin amino nucleoside (PAN). In both animal models viscosity increases were associated with the induction of the hyperlipidemic stage characterized by an increase of high density lipoproteins (HDL) and steady-state levels (SSL) of apo A-1 mRNA. In both animal models PCO decreased at early stages of the disease when hyperlipidemia was characterized principally by an increase of total cholesterol and triacylglycerols, but was not associated with the induction of HDL and apo A-1 mRNA. To confirm the in vivo findings, we studied the effect of viscosity on apo A-1 gene expression in an in vitro model using cultured hepatocytes. When medium viscosity was maintained below physiological values, an induction of the SSL of apo A-1 mRNA was observed. By contrast, when medium viscosity was raised to values similar or higher than the physiological range, the SSL of apo A-1 mRNA decreased steadily and after 24 h incubation an almost total inhibition was observed. These results suggest that in both experimental animal models of secondary hyperlipidemia, small viscosity changes below the physiological range, most probably in the interstitial fluid, can induce apo A-1 gene expression at the mRNA level, and that when viscosity reaches physiological values, apo A-1 gene expression is inhibited. Both effects were shown in cultured hepatocytes.
This is a review of reserpine, haloperidol, and various phenothiazines that produce parkinsonism and other movement disorders. The by-products of illicit meperidine synthesis, MPTP and its more sinister companion, MPP, are also discussed. Movement disorders, transient or fixed, frank parkinsonism and/or dyskinesia, due to a variety of other medications and toxic agents are included. These are methanol, lithium, methyldopa, antimetabolites, antidepressants, sympathomimetic anorexiants, some types of antihistamines, and various combinations of agricultural chemicals.
This study, carried out in three centers in the United States, investigated the antihypertensive effect of three dosages of indapamide in 87 patients with mild to moderate hypertension. The dosages studied were 1 mg, 2.5 mg, and 5 mg daily. A double-blind, parallel study design was used with a six-week placebo run-in period followed by an eight-week treatment period and a two-week follow-up period. Compared with placebo, all dosages caused a significant decrease (P less than 0.05) in blood pressure, with an average decrease of approximately 6 mmHg diastolic and 13 mmHg systolic. The antihypertensive effect seemed to be fully manifest after six weeks of treatment. At all dosage levels, indapamide produced markedly greater therapeutic success rates than did the placebo. Success was defined as either a standing phase-5 diastolic blood pressure of less than 90 mmHg or a decrease by at least 10 mmHg from baseline. Although the decrease in mean serum potassium concentration was dose-related, the decrease was not clinically significant with any dose. A reduction in serum chloride and increases in serum uric acid and glucose were also observed. These changes were slight and did not cause the discontinuation of treatment for any patient. The most frequently observed side effects were mild to moderately severe dizziness, weakness, and headaches.
Friedreich ataxia (FRDA) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by neurodegeneration and cardiomyopathy. The presence of a GAA trinucleotide repeat expansion in the first intron of the FXN gene results in the inhibition of gene expression and an insufficiency of the mitochondrial protein frataxin. There is a correlation between expansion length, the amount of residual frataxin and the severity of disease. As the coding sequence is unaltered, pharmacological up-regulation of FXN expression may restore frataxin to therapeutic levels. To facilitate screening of compounds that modulate FXN expression in a physiologically relevant manner, we established a cellular genomic reporter assay consisting of a stable human cell line containing an FXN-EGFP fusion construct, in which the EGFP gene is fused in-frame with the entire normal human FXN gene present on a BAC clone. The cell line was used to establish a fluorometric cellular assay for use in high throughput screening (HTS) procedures. A small chemical library containing FDA-approved compounds and natural extracts was screened and analyzed. Compound hits identified by HTS were further evaluated by flow cytometry in the cellular genomic reporter assay. The effects on FXN mRNA and frataxin protein levels were measured in lymphoblast and fibroblast cell lines derived from individuals with FRDA and in a humanized GAA repeat expansion mouse model of FRDA. Compounds that were established to increase FXN gene expression and frataxin levels included several anti-cancer agents, the iron-chelator deferiprone and the phytoalexin resveratrol.
Wide interindividual variation in responses to cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitory drugs limits their clinical utility and safety.
To better understand the molecular responses to COX inhibition, we analyzed the gene expression level of the genes encoding enzymes related to prostaglandin production including the COX-1 gene (PTGS1) and the COX-2 gene (PTGS2), as well as their genetic polymorphisms, and the analgesic response to COX inhibitory drugs such as ibuprofen or rofecoxib or to placebo after minor surgery.
Notable heterogeneity in global gene expression was evident between subjects. At 2 to 4 hours after surgery, PTGS1 expression was slightly decreased (36%, P < .001) and PTGS2 expression was markedly increased (300%, P < .001) with wide interindividual variation; at 48 hours after surgery, little detectable change in PTGS1 and PTGS2 expression was found in the control group. However, ibuprofen and rofecoxib treatment significantly increased PTGS2 expression at 48 hours (P = .001 and P = .049, respectively). At 2 to 4 hours after surgery, patients with the G/G allele at the nucleotide position of -765G>C in PTGS2 showed a significantly higher increase in PTGS2 expression (P = .012) compared with G/C and C/C patients, although all of them showed an increase in PTGS2 expression (P < .001 and P = .043, respectively). Among G/G patients, rofecoxib administration resulted in significantly lower pain intensity on a visual analog scale (7.2 +/- 2.5 mm) (P = .008) at 48 hours after surgery, as compared with ibuprofen administration (31.3 +/- 6.7 mm). The finding regarding pain intensity at 48 hours in G/C and C/C patients was opposite (P = .002), being greater in the rofecoxib group (37 +/- 6.8 mm) compared with the ibuprofen group (7 +/- 1.9 mm).
These results suggest that wide variability in gene expression and functional polymorphisms in PTGS2 may explain part of the interindividual variations in acute pain and the analgesic efficacy of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and selective COX-2 inhibitors; this may be useful to define individual responders on the basis of genetic variations to predict patient risk and benefit to drugs.
Palinopsia refers to the persistence or reappearance of an image of a recently viewed object. Typically, patients with palinopsia have other visual symptoms or signs, and the underlying cause is a structural lesion of the posterior portions of the cerebral hemispheres. However, we treated three patients who experienced palinopsia as an isolated symptom, apparently as a side effect of trazodone hydrochloride therapy for depression. The palinopsia was dose related and disappeared with reduction or cessation of therapy.
Liver cirrhosis is caused by a relative imbalance between synthesis and degradation of collagens. Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD) peptide is a major adhesive domain of several extracellular matrix (ECM) components, such as that involved in the binding of fibronectin to the alpha5beta1 integrin receptor. We previously reported that RGD peptide increased the expression of matrix metalloproteinase in hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) which play a major role in hepatic fibrosis. We evaluated whether RGD-peptides inhibit the progression of liver fibrosis in an animal model of carbon tetrachloride-induced hepatotoxicity. RGD peptide (GRGDS) (1 mg/kg body weight) was injected intraperitoneally (i.p.) 3 times a week for one month. The group treated with control peptide (GRGES) showed pathologically typical hepatic fibrosis, while the RGD-treated group showed minimal fibrotic changes. The liver contents of collagen and hydroxyproline in the RGD-treated group was significantly lower than that of the control group. Collagenase activity measured in liver homogenates was significantly higher in the treated group than in the control group. In an in vitro study using TWNT-4 cells derived from human HSCs, RGD peptide (100 mug/ml) reduced the expression of type I collagen and tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase-1, and increased that of matrix metalloproteinase-1. These results indicated that RGD peptides inhibited liver fibrosis associated with both decreased collagen production and increased collagenase acitivity, and suggested that RGD peptide might be useful for the therapy of hepatic fibrosis.
In male albino rats the electrolytic lesions of the dorsal and median raphe nuclei of the mesencephalon diminished apomorphine-induced aggressiveness (number of attacks, aggressive posture latencies) but didn't influence significantly the intensity of the stereotypy. Both the blockator of tryptophane hydroxylase parachlorophenylamine (PCPA) and 1-tryptophane did not exert any influence on behavioral effects of apomorphine. The raphe-lesion as well as PCPA decreased the level of serotonin and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid in the rat forebrain. PCPA decreased in raphe-lesioned rats the dopamine level too. M-cholinoblocking agent atrophine enhanced apomorphine-induced aggressiveness and stereotypy. The blockator of cholinesterase physostigmine had opposite effects. The results suggest that apomorphine induced aggressiveness depends on serotoninergic and cholinergic activity in the brain and there exists a functional link between these neuromediator systems in the CNS.
Though an increased efficacy of carmustine and temozolomide (TMZ) has been demonstrated by inactivation of O(6)-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) with O(6)-benzyl-guanine (BG) in human pancreatic tumors refractive to alkylating agents, the regulatory mechanisms have not been explored.
The effects of TMZ and BG on apoptosis, cell growth, the mitotic index, cell cycle distribution, and protein expression were studied by TUNEL, cell counting, flow cytometry, and Western blot analysis, respectively.
The wt-p53 human pancreatic tumor cell line Capan-2 and p53-efficient mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) were more responsive to treatment with TMZ + BG than mutant p53 Capan-1 and p53-null MEFs. S phase delay with a subsequent G2/M arrest was observed in Capans in response to BG + TMZ. The G1-to-S transition delay in Capan-2 was associated with p53-dependent apoptosis and was distinctly different from the presumed mismatch repair (MMR) killing operative during the G2/M arrest. The effect of p53 on BG + TMZ toxicity was supported by a marked change in apoptosis when p53 function was restored/inactivated. There was an early induction of MMR proteins in p53-efficient lines.
p53 provokes a classic proapoptotic response by delaying G1-to-S progression, but it may also facilitate cell killing by enhancing MMR-related cell cycle arrest and cell death.
The therapeutic effects of Factor XIII (F XIII) concentrate against drug-induced hemorrhagic cystitis (HC) was investigated. HC occurred in 4 children with malignant disease during anti-cancer chemotherapy. Two (CML and T-ALL) of 4 patients developed HC after the administration of high dose cyclophosphamide as conditioning for allo bone marrow transplantation or peripheral blood stem cell autografts, and the other 2 patients (rhabdomyosarcoma, Wilm's tumor) developed HC after the administration of ifosfamide for relapse. When F XIII concentrate at a dose of 20 to 230 U/kg was administrated immediately after the onset of HC, the symptoms, i.e., bladder irritability and macrohematuria disappeared within a few days. The F XIII serum levels of those patients were low (27-57%), and the levels increased (63-230%) after administration of F XIII concentrate. The two patients with relapsed solid tumor showed no symptoms of HC during subsequent ifosfamide treatment when F XIII concentrate was administrated to maintain a normal F XIII range. These results suggest that the administration of F XIII concentrate may be useful for the prophylaxis and treatment of drug-induced HC in patients with a low F XIII level.
Radiocontrast medium- (RM) associated nephrotoxicity continues to be a common cause of acute renal failure and may lead in patients with pre-existing chronic renal insufficiency even to end-stage renal failure requiring chronic dialysis. Since extracorporeal removal of RM after RM administration has been shown to be effective but does not prevent radiocontrast-induced nephropathy, the effect of a simultaneous dialysis during RM administration on renal function is not clear.
In a prospective, randomized and controlled trial, we studied the effect of a 4-hour online dialysis during RM (iomeprol) application in patients with advanced chronic renal failure (serum creatinine > or = 3 mg/dl) undergoing coronary angiography. All patients received hydration with saline before and after standardized coronary angiography and were randomized to receive a simultaneous high-flux hemodialysis (7 patients, HD group) or to control group (10 patients). 24-hour creatinine clearance (CrCl) was measured in all patients before, 1 week and 8 weeks after coronary angiography. The clinical follow-up comprised 8 weeks after RM application. RM plasma levels were measured in both groups 15, 30, 60 minutes, 2, 4, 12, 24, 48 and 72 hours after application by high-pressure liquid chromatography.
At baseline, CrCl (19 +/- 10 vs 17 +/- 7 ml/min), percentage of diabetics (57 vs 70%) and dose of RM (77 +/- 27 vs 86 +/- 21 ml) were similar in both groups. Pharmacokinetics: Total clearance of iomeprol was significantly higher (54 +/- 15 vs 20 +/- 12 ml/min, p < 0.001) and the area under curve (AUC) was significantly lower (23 +/- 10 g x h/l vs 94 +/- 57 g x h/l, p < 0.001) in the HD group compared to control group. RM peak plasma levels 15 min after application were not different in both groups (3.0 +/- 1.1 vs 4.2 +/- 1.7 mmol/l, NS), however, significantly lower 60 min (1.6 +/- 0.4 vs 3.7 +/- 1.5 mmol/l, p < 0.01) and 240 min (0.7 +/- 0.3 vs 2.3 +/- 0.7 p < 0.001) after angiography.
CrCl showed no difference 1 week (24 +/- 11 vs 19 +/- 9 ml/min, ns) and 8 weeks (24 +/- 5 vs 20 +/- 9 ml/min, NS) after angiography from baseline or between the groups. In each group, 2 patients developed end-stage renal disease and requested permanent dialysis during the 8-week follow-up.
Simultaneous dialysis reduces AUC of iomeprol significantly, however, does not influence plasma peak concentration after angiography. Renal function and incidence of end-stage renal failure were not influenced by online-dialysis.
Lycopene has been credited with a number of health benefits including a decrease in prostate cancer risk. Our study investigates the molecular mechanism underlying anti-cancer activity of lycopene-based products in androgen-responsive (LNCaP) and androgen-independent (PC3) cells.
The effect of lycopene-based agents on prostate cancer growth and survival were examined using proliferation assays, bromodeoxyuridine incorporation and flow cytometric analysis of cellular DNA content. Biochemical effects of lycopene treatment were investigated by immunoblotting for changes in the absolute levels and phosphorylation states of cell cycle regulatory and signalling proteins.
LNCaP and PC3 cells treated with the lycopene-based agents undergo mitotic arrest, accumulating in G0/G1 phase. Immunoblot screening indicated that lycopene's antiproliferative effects are likely achieved through a block in G1/S transition mediated by decreased levels of cyclins D1 and E and cyclin dependent kinase 4 and suppressed Retinoblastoma phosphorylation. These responses correlated with decreased insulin-like growth factor-I receptor expression and activation, increased insulin-like growth factor binding protein 2 expression and decreased AKT activation. Exposure to lycopene at doses as low as 10 nM for 48 h induced a profound apoptotic response in LNCaP cells. In contrast PC3 cells were resistant to apoptosis at doses up to 1 microM.
Lycopene exposure can suppress phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-dependent proliferative and survival signalling in androgen-responsive LNCaP and androgen-independent PC3 cells suggesting that the molecular mechanisms for the cytostatic and cytotoxic actions of lycopene involve induction of G0/G1 cell cycle arrest. This study supports further examination of lycopene as a potential agent for both the prevention and treatment of prostate cancer.
(1) It is possible to investigate aspects of phospholipid-related signal transduction in humans noninvasively using the niacin skin flush test. (2) Patients with schizophrenia have previously been reported to show a reduced flushing response. (3) The aim of this study was to devise a comprehensive index of cutaneous response to the niacin test, incorporating aqueous methyl nicotinate concentration and time, and to test this index in schizophrenia. (4) A discrete approximation to a continuous volumetric index, which we have named the volumetric niacin response (VNR), was devised. Its value was measured in 27 patients with DSM-IV schizophrenia and 26 age- and sex-matched normal controls. (5) The mean value of the VNR in the patients with schizophrenia (16.26) was significantly smaller than that of 26.77 in the normal controls (P<.0004). (6) With a threshold value for the VNR of 21, the test differentiated well between schizophrenia and normal controls (P=.002) with a sensitivity of 78% and a specificity of 65%. (7) The present results confirm that the flushing response is reduced in schizophrenia, and show that calculation of the VNR is an effective means of allowing the total response in different patients or patient groups to be readily compared.
In this study we investigated whether intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of L-NAME (a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor) or CaEDTA (an extracellular zinc chelator) or the combination of the two could affect the initial phase of pilocarpine induced (2 h) seizures. Two groups of rats were used. Animals from both groups were given with i.c.v. injections of either saline (10 microl), L-NAME (150 microg/10 microl), CaEDTA (100 mM/10 microl) or L-NAME and CaEDTA. One group received pilocarpine HCl (380 mg/kg i.p.) the other served as control. Pilocarpine HCl was injected intraperitoneally 10 min later. The behavior of the animals was observed for 2h and the intensity of their seizures was scored. The rats were then sacrificed and their brains were removed and analyzed for zinc ions by using the immersion autometallography and the TSQ fluorescence staining. All the animals which received pilocarpine HCl developed seizures. Despite treatment with L-NAME and/or CaEDTA we found that the latency and the intensity of seizures were similar in both groups investigated. The distribution of stainable zinc ions and the intensity of staining in hippocampus were not affected by pilocarpine and found unchanged after L-NAME and/or CaEDTA injections in both the control animals and the pilocarpine treated animals. The data suggest that the nitric oxide system and zinc ions do not affect pilocarpine-induced seizures in their initial state.
To report a case of retinal and choroidal vascular occlusion occurring as a complication after posterior sub-Tenon triamcinolone injection for treatment of uveitic cystoid macular edema.
Interventional case report.
Retrospective study. A 32-year-old woman with uveitis and cystoid macular edema underwent a right posterior sub-Tenon injection of triamcinolone (40 mg/ml, 1 ml total) through a superotemporal approach after topical anesthesia. After the procedure, the patient experienced severe eye pain, orbital ecchymosis, and globe proptosis consistent with retrobulbar hemorrhage.
Dilated fundus examination of the right eye (OD) demonstrated multiple intraretinal hemorrhages with particulate white emboli occluding the retinal and choroidal vessels. Visual acuity was no light perception. Ocular massage and hypotensive therapy was initiated for an intraocular pressure of 50 mm Hg. Canthotomy and cantholysis were performed. A total of 39 months post-incident, her visual acuity improved to 20/100.
Posterior sub-Tenon triamcinolone injection can rarely result in retinal and choroidal occlusion. Immediate intervention may preserve limited visual acuity.
A 50-y-old male worker developed an asthmatic reaction after exposure to bichromate in a metal-plating plant. Evaluation included skin tests, bronchial provocation tests, and specific radioallergosorbent tests with metal salts. A 49-y-old worker who suffered from hard metal asthma was the control. These workers were not atopic, and they exhibited similar bronchial hyperresponsiveness in methacholine-PC20 (74 mg/ml versus 81 mg/ml, respectively) and IgE titers (129 IU/ml versus 130 IU/ml). Positive intradermal and patch tests to bichromate were found in the subject. A bronchial provocation test with inhalation of .01 % bichromate produced an immediate decrease in forced vital capacity in 1 s, followed by a rapid recovery within 5 min absent any treatment. There was no reaction to cobalt (1% cobalt chloride) or to nickel (2% nickel sulfate) salts. In the control, a positive bronchial provocation occurred (absent chromium) with cobalt and nickel. Administration of a subcutaneous preparation of 1 mg atropine sulfate or of 1 puff of disodium cromoglycate or beta-stimulant reduced bronchial responsiveness to methacholine-PC20, and no asthmatic reaction occurred following inhalation of 1% bichromate. No blocking of asthmatic reaction occurred after pretreatment with beclomethasone dipropionate inhalation. Administration of propranolol, however, potentiated the acute bronchoconstriction induced by bichromate. The 50-y-old worker had evidence of IgE antibody to chromium-conjugated human serum albumin and to chromium-conjugated exchange resin. His serum selectively bound 51Cr, but antibodies specific to cobalt and nickel were absent. These results, if viewed collectively, suggest that bichromate exposure causes brief reversible bronchospasm via alteration of autonomic balance and increased vagal activation.
The expression and localization of FXYD domain containing ion transport regulator 3 (FXYD3), a transmembrane protein that acts as a chloride channel or chloride channel regulator, was analyzed in pancreatic tissues derived from donors and patients suffering from chronic pancreatitis (CP) or pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) as well as in pancreatic cancer cells using QRT-PCR, laser-capture microdissection and microarray analysis, in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. FXYD3 antisense expressing T3M4 pancreatic cancer cells were generated and compared to control cells using anchorage-dependent and independent growth assays, and xenotransplantation into nude mice. FXYD3 mRNA levels were 3.4-fold increased in PDAC tissues compared to donor specimens (p = 0.006), and 3.9-fold increased in microdissected cancer cells compared to normal pancreatic ductal cells (p = 0.02). FXYD3 was localized in the tubular complexes and PanIN lesions of both CP and PDAC, as well as in pancreatic cancer cells. Downregulation of FXYD3 by stable antisense transfection increased significantly the doubling time of T3M4 pancreatic cancer cells from 44 +/- 2 hr to 55 +/- 12 hr (p = 0.02). Nude mice transplanted with antisense transfected cells displayed a significant increase in tumor doubling time from 3.3 days +/- 1.0 to 4.3 days +/- 0.43 (p = 0.058). Anchorage-independent growth and sensitivity to 5-fluorouracil, gemcitabine and cisplatin as well as to MgCl(2) were not dependent on the level of FXYD3 expression. In conclusion, overexpression of FXYD3 in pancreatic cancer may contribute to the proliferative activity of this malignancy.
Use of the oral antidiabetic drug metformin may cause lactic acidosis, a rare but life-threatening complication, especially in patients with renal function loss. Since intravenously administered iodide-containing contrast media may cause renal function disturbances precautions should be taken in metformin-treated patients for whom a radiological study with intravenous contrast media is considered. In diabetic patients who use metformin a serum creatinine concentration should be measured prior to the radiological study. If the serum creatinine is within normal limits (< 130 mumol/l), metformin can be continued and the examination performed. If the serum creatinine concentration is increased (> or = 130 mumol/l), metformin should be discontinued and replaced by another antidiabetic drug if necessary. The radiological procedure with intravenous contrast media should be postponed for 48 hours. If such a procedure cannot be postponed, additional measures to prevent lactic acidosis (hydration, monitoring of the renal function) should be taken.
The effect of the imidazoline compound LY374284 has been studied in pancreatic islets of db/db mice, a progressive model of diabetes. In perifusion experiments, pancreatic islets of db/db mice showed a progressive deterioration of glucose-induced insulin release with increasing age, whereby the first phase of insulin secretion was almost completely abolished and the second phase was substantially decreased by 15 weeks of age. LY374284 restored the first phase of glucose-induced insulin secretion in islets of 16-week-old db/db mice to 70% of that observed in islets isolated from age-matched nondiabetic db/1 mice. LY374284 did not affect insulin secretion at a low glucose concentration (3.3 mmol/L). A similar restoration of first phase insulin secretion was observed after application of glucagon-like peptide-1, whereas a sulfonylurea agent, tolbutamide, was inactive. LY374284 did not affect cytosolic Ca(2+) concentration or cellular ATP content. Furthermore, LY374284 strongly enhanced insulin secretion in islets of db/db and db/1 mice maximally depolarized by 30 mmol/L K(+) and 250 micromol/L diazoxide. The present data suggest that the imidazoline compound LY374284 restores biphasic insulin secretion in islets of diabetic db/db mice by amplifying glucose-induced insulin secretion at a site distal to Ca(2+)-influx.
Selective and characteristic neuron damage induced by acromelic acid, a potent kainate analogue, was investigated in comparison to a kainate-induced one. A single systemic injection of acromelic acid A caused behavioral and pathological effects distinct from those seen after systemic kainate. There was an initial marked tonic extension of the rat hindlimb, often followed by convulsions and, in surviving rats, by a transient flaccid paralysis and ultimately, a persistent spastic paraplegia. Pathological examination suggested specific lesions of interneurons in the lower spinal cord with little or no damage to the hippocampal neurons preferentially affected by systemic kainate. Another agonist for kainate-type receptors, which is not a kainoid, demonstrated neurological symptoms and neuron damage quite similar to those of kainate. Pharmacological actions of our newly developed agonists for metabotropic glutamate receptors were described with special reference to kainate excitotoxicity. Intraventricular DCG-IV, a new agonist, caused selective neuron damage in the cingulate cortex and the hippocampal subiculum at relatively high doses, but other agonists did not cause neuron damage in the rat. DCG-IV considerably alleviated the kainate-induced limbic seizures. At relatively low doses, DCG-IV protected some kinds of neurons in the hippocampal CA3 and the amygdala against kainate neurotoxicity, when intraventricularly injected to the rat. These new agonists would provide useful probe for elucidating the mechanism underlying neuron damage induced by kainate-type agonists.
The case of an adolescent female patient with acute lymphoblastic leukemia and stroke-like hemiparesis demonstrates a typical manifestation of methotrexate-induced acute encephalopathy. This rare entity occurs both in children and adults and can result from intrathecal as well as high dose intravenous administration of methotrexate. Diagnosis can confidently be made using cerebral MRI including diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI), so that patients can be informed about the favorable prognosis.
The synergistic effect of nicorandil (K(ATP) channel opener) and amlodipine (calcium channel blocker) on lysosomal hydrolases in serum and heart was examined by determining the activity of beta-glucuronidase, beta-N-acetyl glucosaminidase, beta-galactosidase, cathepsin-D and acid phosphatase on isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction in rats. The rats given isoproterenol (150 mg kg(-1) daily, i.p.) for 2 d showed significant increase in serum and heart lysosomal hydrolases activity. Isoproterenol administration to rats resulted in decreased stability of the membranes, which was reflected by the lowered activity of cathepsin-D and beta-glucuronidase in mitochondrial, nuclear, lysosomal and microsomal fractions. Pretreatment with nicorandil (2.5 mg kg(-1) daily, p.o.) and amlodipine (5.0 mg kg(-1) daily, p.o.) for 3 d significantly prevented these alterations and restored the enzyme activity to near normal. These findings demonstrate that the pretreatment with nicorandil and amlodipine could preserve lysosomal integrity and hence establish the cardioprotective effect of the combination.
To report the first case of ciprofloxacin-associated hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS).
A 53-year-old white man was treated with chemotherapy for acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Four weeks after initiation of treatment, he recovered his blood cell counts, but developed fever and was prescribed oral ciprofloxacin 500 mg twice daily. After 4 doses, he developed the typical features of HUS manifested by microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, oliguric renal failure, and thrombocytopenia. The medication was withdrawn, and he received 5 sessions of plasma exchange. He recovered completely and has normal renal function.
Secondary HUS or its related syndrome, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), is uncommon, but has been reported in association with cancer, chemotherapy, and a variety of medications. Our case represents a possible adverse drug reaction to ciprofloxacin according to the Naranjo probability scale. It is the first reported case of HUS associated with ciprofloxacin.
Ciprofloxacin use was followed by HUS in our patient and was possibly causally related. Early detection, discontinuation of the offending medication, and treatment of HUS/TTP is critical.
To report a case of acquired long QT syndrome that, after exclusion of all other possible causes, was probably related to therapy with efavirenz, a novel nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor.
This patient presented with recurrent syncope and polymorphic ventricular tachycardia, which was treated with overdrive ventricular pacing and was eliminated by discontinuation of the offending drug.
This is the first reported case of QT prolongation and severe ventricular arrhythmia associated with the use of efavirenz. The temporal relationship between the initiation of treatment and the onset of electrocardiographic abnormalities, the absence of other apparent precipitating factors, as well as the normalization of QT interval and the resolution of the arrhythmia after discontinuation of the drug, strongly suggest a causal relationship between efavirenz and this adverse clinical event.
Our case shows that any new pharmaceutical compound introduced in clinical practice may potentially result in QT prolongation and life-threatening arrhythmia.
Patients with neurological symptoms and signs of Wilson's disease have been frequently noted to have a worsening of their condition after beginning chelation therapy with D-penicillamine. Presymptomatic patients, however, are not expected to develop neurological manifestations once appropriate therapy is begun. We describe a patient who was seen with hepatic disease and no neurological symptoms who became neurologically incapacitated soon after beginning penicillamine therapy. This case identifies an unexpected complication of penicillamine therapy that should be watched for in the presymptomatic patient who is beginning therapy.
During July 2000-January 2002, the Wisconsin Division of Public Health conducted a study in 19 rural townships. A high percentage of private drinking-water wells in these townships contained traces of arsenic. Residents were asked to collect well-water samples and complete a questionnaire regarding residential history, consumption of drinking-water, and family health. In total, 2,233 household wells were tested, and 6,669 residents, aged less than one year to 100 years, provided information on water consumption and health. The well-water arsenic levels ranged from less than 1.0 to 3,100 microg/L. The median arsenic level was 2.0 microg/L. The arsenic levels were below the federal drinking-water standard of 10 microg/L in 80% of the wells, while 11% had an arsenic level of above 20 microg/L. Of residents aged over 35 years, those who had consumed arsenic-contaminated water for at least 10 years were significantly more likely to report a history of skin cancer than others. Tobacco use was also associated with higher rates of skin cancer and appeared to synergize the effect of arsenic on the development of skin cancer.
The antiarrhythmic efficacy of mexiletine was evaluated in 28 subjects with recurrent ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation (22 subjects) or with symptomatic complex ventricular ectopy (six subjects). In all, either the arrhythmia was refractory to other drugs, or such therapy was not tolerated. Response to mexiletine was assessed by continuous ECGs, and in five cases by programmed electrical stimulation. Mexiletine abolished the arrhythmia in 12 cases, but was not tolerated long-term in four. Mexiletine was ineffective in 10 subjects. Seven subjects had significant adverse reactions during short-term dosing; in six, mexiletine was discontinued because of adverse effects after the first few doses so efficacy was not evaluated. The most common adverse effects were nausea, tremor, and generalized malaise. We conclude that mexiletine is an effective antiarrhythmic in some patients with life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias refractory to conventional drugs. Adverse effects significantly limit its use.
