Almost 5 million individuals in the United States have chronic heart failure (HF), which is increasing in prevalence. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors are standard therapies for HF, although more than 10% of patients with HF are unable to tolerate these agents. Furthermore, ACE inhibitors may not provide complete blockade of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) in the long term. Because angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) may block the RAS more completely than ACE inhibitors and are better tolerated, several large-scale ARB trials have been performed exploring their potential role in treating patients with symptomatic HF and left ventricular systolic dysfunction. The Losartan Heart Failure Survival Study (ELITE II) demonstrated no significant differences in morbidity and mortality between the ARB losartan and the ACE inhibitor captopril among elderly patients with HF. The Valsartan Heart Failure Trial (Val-HeFT) demonstrated reductions in hospitalizations for HF with the ARB valsartan when added to standard HF therapy, with no effect on mortality. Both trials suggested a potential negative interaction between ARB and beta-blocker therapy. The Candesartan in Heart failure-Assessment of Reduction in Mortality and morbidity (CHARM) program demonstrated significant reductions in morbidity and mortality with the ARB candesartan in patients with HF due to systolic dysfunction, with or without ACE inhibitors and with or without beta blockers. Thus, the addition of ARBs to the treatment regimen of patients with symptomatic HF should be strongly considered.
The Randomized Evaluation of Long-term anticoagulation therapY (RE-LY) study demonstrated a significant increase in myocardial infarction events with dabigatran compared with warfarin, provoking renewed interest in whether vitamin K antagonists are useful drugs for the prevention of myocardial infarction in high-risk patients with atrial fibrillation. Present analyses examined whether there was an increased risk of myocardial infarction associated with non-warfarin anticoagulants (Stroke Prevention with the ORal direct Thrombin Inhibitor ximelagatran compared with warfarin in patients with non-valvular atrial Fibrillation III and IV, RE-LY, Amadeus) or "anticoagulant equivalents" (Atrial fibrillation Clopidogrel Trial with Irbesartan for the prevention of Vascular Events) in patients with atrial fibrillation who are prescribed anticoagulation for stroke thromboprophylaxis. The overall annual event rate for those receiving warfarin was 0.98% compared with 1.32% for those receiving comparators. Warfarin was associated with a significant reduction in myocardial infarction (relative risk 0.77; 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.63-0.95), an effect largely driven by the RE-LY trial. Sensitivity analyses, excluding RE-LY, revealed a nonsignificant reduction in myocardial infarctions (relative risk 0.83; 95% CI, 0.62-1.10); an analogous analysis excluding the Atrial fibrillation Clopidogrel Trial with Irbesartan for the prevention of Vascular Events demonstrated a significant reduction in myocardial infarctions (relative risk 0.80; 95% CI, 0.64-1.00). Warfarin might provide a protective effect against myocardial infarction compared with non-warfarin anticoagulants or "anticoagulation equivalents" in patients with atrial fibrillation who are prescribed anticoagulation for stroke thromboprophylaxis.
Chest pain and myocardial infarction following the use of cocaine have been well documented. We assessed the prevalence of cocaine use in patients who presented to the emergency department with chest pain of possibly ischemic origin.
During times of research assistant availability, consecutive adults with the chief complaint of chest pain unexplained by trauma or radiographic abnormality were questioned about cocaine use in the preceding week. Urine was tested for the presence of cocaine or cocaine metabolites with a highly accurate bedside urine test kit (specificity, 100%; sensitivity 98%). Anonymous unlinked data-collection methods were used. Therefore we could not determine whether the patients who used cocaine had sustained myocardial infarctions.
One suburban and three urban EDs.
We enrolled 359 patients with a mean age of 51 years, 8% of whom sustained myocardial infarctions. Sixty patients (17%) had cocaine or cocaine metabolites in urine. The likelihood of testing positive for cocaine varied by age group: 18 to 30 years, 29%; 31 to 40 years, 48%; 41 to 50 years, 18%; 51 to 60 years, 3%; 61 years or older, 0% (P < .0001). Of the 60 patients who tested positive for cocaine, only 43 (72%) admitted recent use.
Many ED patients with chest pain have recently used cocaine. Because the recent use of cocaine is not uncommon in patients with chest pain up to 60 years old, such patients should be questioned about cocaine use. When treatment or disposition may be altered, consideration should be given to objective assessment of cocaine use because patient self-report does not appear reliable.
Although antiplatelets are known to be effective for secondary prevention of cerebral infarction, the number needed to treat is rather large and the effects in stroke patients with complications such as hypertension or diabetes are inadequately defined. This study was conducted to examine the effect of such complications on recurrence of cerebral infarction, and to assess the effect of cilostazol, an antiplatelet agent, in these high-risk subjects.
A post hoc subgroup analysis of the already reported Cilostazol Stroke Prevention Study, which was a placebo-controlled double-blind trial, has been carried out to clarify the influence of various complications on recurrence in the placebo group and the effects of cilostazol in 1,095 patients with noncardioembolic ischemic cerebrovascular disease. Treatment continued for an average of 1.8 +/- 1.3 years (maximum 4.8 years).
The recurrence rate of the diabetic stroke patients was significantly higher compared with the nondiabetics in the placebo group (9.4 vs. 4.7%/year, p = 0.01). Furthermore, our study showed that the relative risk reduction (RRR) for recurrence of infarction was 41.7% with cilostazol. This treatment provided a significant benefit in patients with lacunar infarction (RRR 43.4%, p = 0.04), with diabetes (RRR 64.4%, p = 0.008), or with hypertension (RRR 58.0%, p = 0.003).
Diabetic patients are particularly at risk for recurrence of cerebral infarction. Cilostazol is useful for the prevention of the recurrence of vascular events in patients with lacunar infarction, and is probably effective in high-risk patients with diabetes and/or hypertension.
Methylsulfonylmethane (MSM), naturally occurring in green plants, fruits and vegetables, has been shown to exert anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects. MSM is an organosulfur compound and a normal oxidative metabolite of dimethyl sulfoxide. This study was carried out to investigate the effect of MSM in a rat model of experimental colitis. Colitis was induced by intracolonic instillation of 1 ml of 5% of acetic acid. Rats were treated with MSM (400 mg/kg/day, orally) for 4 days. Animals were euthanized and distal colon evaluated histologically and biochemically. Tissue samples were used to measurement of malondialdehyde (MDA), myeloperoxidase (MPO), catalase (CAT), glutathione (GSH) and proinflammatory cytokine (TNF-α and IL-1β) levels. Results showed that MSM decreased macroscopic and microscopic colonic damage scores caused by administration of acetic acid. MSM treatment also significantly reduced colonic levels of MDA, MPO and IL-1β, while increased the levels of GSH and CAT compared with acetic acid-induced colitis group. It seems that MSM as a natural product may have a protective effect in an experimental ulcerative colitis.
Rat genotypes tentatively identified as addiction-prone or addiction-resistant on the basis of alcohol preference and locomotor responsiveness to novelty--Lewis versus Fischer strains and Nijmegen high versus low responder lines--differed in time to develop intravenous cocaine self-administration habits, but did not differ in sensitivity to the ability of cocaine reward to summate with lateral hypothalamic brain stimulation reward. Moreover, rats from the Nijmegen low-responder line that initiated self-administration came to do so compulsively and to the same degree as did the Nijmegen high-responder rats. Thus the differences between both sets of genotypes appeared to reflect differences in reactions to the testing situation more than differences in reaction to the reinforcing drug per se.
Exposure to diesel exhaust (DE) and associated gases is linked to cardiovascular impairments; however, the susceptibility of hypertensive individuals is poorly understood. The objectives of this study were (1) to determine cardiopulmonary effects of gas-phase versus whole-DE and (2) to examine the contribution of systemic hypertension in pulmonary and cardiovascular effects. Male Wistar Kyoto (WKY) rats were treated with hydralazine to reduce blood pressure (BP) or l-NAME to increase BP. Spontaneously hypertensive (SH) rats were treated with hydralazine to reduce BP. Control and drug-pretreated rats were exposed to air, particle-filtered exhaust (gas), or whole DE (1500μg/m(3)), 4h/day for 2days or 5days/week for 4weeks. Acute and 4-week gas and DE exposures increased neutrophils and γ-glutamyl transferase (γ-GT) activity in lavage fluid of WKY and SH rats. DE (4weeks) caused pulmonary albumin leakage and inflammation in SH rats. Two-day DE increased serum fatty acid binding protein-3 (FABP-3) in WKY. Marked increases occurred in aortic mRNA after 4-week DE in SH (eNOS, TF, tPA, TNF-α, MMP-2, RAGE, and HMGB-1). Hydralazine decreased BP in SH while l-NAME tended to increase BP in WKY; however, neither changed inflammation nor BALF γ-GT. DE-induced and baseline BALF albumin leakage was reduced by hydralazine in SH rats and increased by l-NAME in WKY rats. Hydralazine pretreatment reversed DE-induced TF, tPA, TNF-α, and MMP-2 expression but not eNOS, RAGE, and HMGB-1. ET-1 was decreased by HYD. In conclusion, antihypertensive drug treatment reduces gas and DE-induced pulmonary protein leakage and expression of vascular atherogenic markers.
Restriction enzyme maps were made of the region around exons 1 and 2 of activated c-Ki-ras of a fibrosarcoma (1,8-DNP2) induced in a rat by 1,8-dinitropyrene. Nucleotide sequence analysis revealed that activated c-Ki-ras shows a G----T transversion in codon 12 and consequently encodes cysteine instead of glycine in normal rat c-Ki-ras.
The aim was to study the differences in cardiac sodium channel block among combinations of class I antiarrhythmic drugs.
Conventional glass microelectrode techniques were used to record transmembrane action potentials and their maximum upstroke velocity (dV/dtmax) reflecting the sodium channel availability, during treatment of the preparations with mexiletine (20, 40 microM) in combination with aprindine (5 microM), disopyramide (40 microM), and flecainide (5 microM).
Guinea pig papillary muscles (n = 6.8 per experiment) were used for the study.
In preparations constantly stimulated at 1 Hz, a shortening of action potential duration by aprindine was further enhanced, while prolongation by disopyramide or flecainide was reduced, after additional application of mexiletine. Trains of stimuli (0.5-2.0 Hz) were applied following a long quiescent period to evaluate "tonic" and "use dependent" decrease (block) of dV/dtmax. Additional application of mexiletine to the other three drugs resulted in an enhancement of tonic block. Use dependent block by aprindine at 0.5-1.0 Hz was reduced by 8-9% after admixture of mexiletine, reflected in net increase in dV/dtmax at steady states (reductive effect). Dual exponential components of dV/dtmax recovery from use dependent block in presence of both drugs suggest their competitive interaction on a common receptor site associated with sodium channels. Use dependent block by flecainide at 0.5-2.0 Hz was increased (p less than 0.01) after admixture of mexiletine. Steady state dV/dtmax was therefore largely inhibited by the drug combination (synergistic effect). Use dependent block in the presence of both disopyramide and mexiletine was similar to that predicted from the algebraic sum of each treatment.
Combined application of class I antiarrhythmic drugs causes not only additive but also reductive or synergistic effects on dV/dtmax through modulation of use dependent block.
By incorporating an N-hydroxyurea functionality onto diaryltetrahydrofurans, a novel series of compounds was investigated as dual 5-lipoxygenese (5-LO) inhibitor and platelet-activating factor (PAF) receptor antagonist. These dual functional compounds were evaluated in vitro for 5-LO inhibition in RBL cell extracts and human whole blood, and PAF receptor antagonism in a receptor binding assay. PAF-induced hemoconcentration and arachidonic acid- and TPA-induced ear edema in mice were used to determine in vivo activities. The structure-activity relationship analysis to define a preclinical lead is presented. (+/-)-trans-2-[3-methoxy-4-(4-chlorophenylthioethoxy)-5-(N-methyl- N-h ydroxyureidyl)methylphenyl]-5-(3,4, 5-trimethoxyphenyl)tetrahydrofuran (40, CMI-392) was selected for further study. In the arachidonic acid-induced mouse ear edema model, 40 was more potent than either zileuton (a 5-LO inhibitor) or BN 50739 (a PAF receptor antagonist), and it demonstrated the same inhibitory effect as a physical combination of the latter two agents. These results suggest that a single compound which both inhibits leukotriene synthesis and blocks PAF receptor binding may provide therapeutic advantages over single-acting agents. The clinical development of compound 40 is in progress.
Asymptomatic children in Guinea Bissau were given 5 mg quinine per kg body weight two times daily for 5 days (n = 18) or 3 days (n = 20) for treatment of Plasmodium falciparum. Parasites disappeared within four days after initiation of treatment and remained absent during the first week afterwards. Six children reported adverse reactions, mainly mild tinnitus which disappeared after termination of treatment. Reduced doses of quinine for shorter treatment periods was effective in this study. Further studies in symptomatic patients are needed to elucidate whether this low-dose regimen could be an alternative to chloro-quine in the treatment of P. falciparum in Africa.
Effects of miconazole, an azole antifungal, have not been fully determined in cardiomyocytes. We therefore identified the transcriptome in neonatal rat cardiomyocytes responding to miconazole using DNA microarray analysis and selected a gene and investigated its role in cardiomyocytes. Miconazole dose-dependently increased the levels of superoxide (O(2)(-)) and apoptosis in cardiomyocytes; these increases were inhibited by treatment with antioxidants. The DNA microarray revealed that 4163 genes were upregulated and 4829 genes downregulated by more than threefold in miconazole-treated cardiomyocytes compared with the vehicle-treated control. Moreover, redox homeostasis-, oxidative stress-, and reactive oxygen species (ROS)-related categories of genes were strongly affected by miconazole treatment. Among genes overlapped in all these categories, apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease-1/redox factor-1 (APE/Ref-1), a redox-related gene, was prominent and was diminished in the miconazole-treated group. Changes in the O(2)(-) production and apoptosis induction in response to miconazole were inhibited in cardiomyocytes transfected with adenoviral APE/Ref-1. Overexpression of APE/Ref-1 reversed the reduction in beating frequency induced by miconazole. Our results demonstrate that miconazole may induce rat cardiotoxicity via a ROS-mediated pathway, which is initiated by the inhibition of APE/Ref-1 expression. This possible new adverse event in cardiomyocyte function caused by miconazole may provide a basis for the development of novel antifungal agents.
Previous studies have shown that metallothionein (MT) can antagonize the myocardiotoxicity induced by doxorubicin (Dox), a most effective anticancer agent. However, the molecular mechanisms are not well-understood. Using a proteomics approach we have detected that major peroxiredoxins (Prxs), an important redox regulating molecule family, may be involved in this process. In the present study, we assessed a link between metallothionein and peroxiredoxins. Wild-type (MT(+/+)) and MT(-/-) mice were treated intraperitoneally with doxorubicin at a single dose of 15 mg/kg and sacrificed on the 4th day after treatment. Doxorubicin induced cardiotoxicity in both wild-type and MT(-/-) mice was manifested with increased serum creatine kinase (CK) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activities, and cardiac morphological changes. These toxic responses were stronger in the hearts of MT(-/-) mice that were more vulnerable to doxorubicin-induced oxidative injury as exhibited by increased lipid peroxidation and decreased catalase and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) expression. Moreover, in the MT(-/-) mice, the deficiency of metallothionein inhibited the expression of Cu/Zn Superoxide dismutase (SOD-1) induced by doxorubicin. Doxorubicin significantly increased the mRNA levels and protein expressions of Prx-1, -2, -3, -5, and -6 in the hearts of wild-type but not MT(-/-) mice. Therefore, the present study suggests that metallothionein provides protection against doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity, which possibly involves regulation of peroxiredoxins.
Certain human diseases affecting the biliary tree can be modeled in rats by ingestion of the hepatobiliary toxin alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate (ANIT). Phosphorus magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) allows the noninvasive monitoring of cell dynamics through detection of phosphodiesters (PDE) and phosphomonoesters (PME). Hepatic (31)P MRS techniques were therefore used to study the toxic effects of low-dose chronic ANIT ingestion, with a view toward providing biomarkers sensitive to hepatobiliary dysfunction and cholestatic liver injury. Rats were fed an ANIT supplemented diet at three doses (ANIT_0.05%, ANIT_0.04%, and ANIT_0.025%) for 2 weeks. Data from in vivo MRS were compared with results from pair-fed controls (PFCs). Blood and tissue samples were collected at 2 weeks for clinical chemistry, histology, and (1)H magic angle spinning MRS. Increases in PDE, relative to total phosphorus (tPh), were detected in both the ANIT_0.05% and ANIT_0.04% groups (0.07 ± 0.01 and 0.08 ± 0.01, respectively) relative to PFC groups (0.03 ± 0.01 and 0.05 ± 0.01, respectively). An increase in PME/tPh was observed in the ANIT_0.05% group only (0.17 ± 0.02) relative to PFC_0.05% (0.12 ± 0.01). Ex vivo (1)H MRS findings supported this, wherein measured phosphocholines (PCs) were increased in ANIT_0.05% and ANIT_0.04% groups. Increases in relative total choline (tCho) distinguished the ANIT_0.05% group from the ANIT_0.04% group. Markers of hepatotoxicity such as raised total bilirubin and alkaline phosphatase were found at all ANIT doses. Histological findings included a dose-related increase in both severity of biliary hyperplasia and focal hepatocellular necrosis. Here, we found that ANIT-induced moderate hepatobiliary dysfunction was associated with a relative increase in phosphodiesters in vivo and PCs ex vivo. Raised PME/tPh in vivo and tCho ex vivo were also present at high doses corresponding to a higher incidence of marked biliary hyperplasia and moderate hepatocellular necrosis.
The specific properties of nanoscale particles, large surface-to-mass ratios and highly reactive surfaces, have increased their commercial application in many fields. However, the same properties are also important for the interaction and bioaccumulation of the nonbiodegradable nanoscale particles in a biological system and are a cause for concern. Hematite (α-Fe₂O₃), being a mineral form of Fe(III) oxide, is one of the most used iron oxides besides magnetite. The aim of our study was the characterization and comparison of biophysical reactivity and toxicological effects of α-Fe₂O₃ nano- (d < 100 nm) and microscale (d < 5 μm) particles in human lung cells. Our study demonstrates that the surface reactivity of nanoscale α-Fe₂O₃ differs from that of microscale particles with respect to the state of agglomeration, radical formation potential, and cellular toxicity. The presence of proteins in culture medium and agglomeration were found to affect the catalytic properties of the hematite nano- and microscale particles. Both the nano- and microscale α-Fe₂O₃ particles were actively taken up by human lung cells in vitro, although they were not found in the nuclei and mitochondria. Significant genotoxic effects were only found at very high particle concentrations (> 50 μg/ml). The nanoscale particles were slightly more potent in causing cyto- and genotoxicity as compared with their microscale counterparts. Both types of particles induced intracellular generation of reactive oxygen species. This study underlines that α-Fe₂O₃ nanoscale particles trigger different toxicological reaction pathways than microscale particles. However, the immediate environment of the particles (biomolecules, physiological properties of medium) modulates their toxicity on the basis of agglomeration rather than their actual size.
A number of mutations in the rhodopsin gene have been shown to cause both dominant and recessive retinitis pigmentosa. Here we describe another phenotype associated with a defect in this gene. We discovered a patient with congenital stationary night blindness who carries the missense mutation Ala292Glu. When coupled with 11-cis-retinal in vitro, Ala292Glu rhodopsin is able to activate transducin in a light-dependent manner like wild-type rhodopsin. However, without a chromophore, Ala292Glu opsin anomalously activates transducin. We speculate that the rod dysfunction in this patient is due to an abnormal, continuous activation of transducin by mutant opsin molecules in photoreceptor outer segments.
The whole embryo culture (WEC) model serves as a potential alternative for classical in vivo developmental toxicity testing. In the WEC, cultured rat embryos are exposed during neurulation and early organogenesis and evaluated for morphological effects. Toxicogenomic-based approaches may improve the predictive ability of WEC by providing molecular-based markers associated with chemical exposure, which can be compared across multiple parameters (e.g., exposure duration, developmental time, experimental model). Additionally, comparisons between in vitro and in vivo models may identify objective relevant molecular responses linked with developmental toxicity endpoints in vivo. In this study, using a transcriptomic approach, we compared all-trans retinoic acid (RA)-exposed and nonexposed Wistar rat embryos derived using WEC (RA, 0.5 μg/ml) or in vivo (RA, 50 mg/kg, oral gavage) to identify overlapping and nonoverlapping effects of RA on RNA expression in parallel with morphological changes. Across six time points (gestational day 10 + 2-48 h), we observed strong similarities in RA response at the gene (directionality, significance) and functional (e.g., embryonic development, cell differentiation) level which associated with RA-induced adverse morphological effects, including growth reduction as well as alterations in neural tube, limb, branchial, and mandible development. We observed differences between models in the timing of RA-induced effects on genes related to embryonic development and RA metabolism. These observations on the gene expression level were associated with specific differential morphological outcomes. This study supports the use of WEC to examine compound-induced molecular responses relative to in vivo and, furthermore, assists in defining the applicability domain of the WEC in determining complementary windows of sensitivity for developmental toxicological investigations.
Direct ingestion of contaminated soil by depleted uranium (DU) might lead to internal exposure to DU by local populations through hand contamination. The purpose of this study was to assess the immunological changes of long-term exposure to various doses of DU in mice. Three-week-old Kunming mice were divided into the following 4 groups based on the various feeding doses (containing DU): 0 (control group), 3 (DU3 group), 30 (DU30 group), and 300 mg/kg feed (DU300 group). After 4 months of exposure, in the DU300 group, the innate immune function decreased, manifesting as decreased secretion of nitric oxide, interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-18, and tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-α in the peritoneal macrophages, as well as reduced cytotoxicity of the splenic natural killer cells. Moreover, the cellular and humoral immune functions were abnormal, as manifested by decreased proliferation of the splenic T cells, proportion of the cluster of differentiation (CD) 3(+) cells, ratio of CD4(+)/CD8(+) cells and delayed-type hypersensitivity, and increased proliferation of the splenic B cells, total serum immunoglobin (Ig) G and IgE, and proportion of splenic mIgM(+)mIgD(+) cells. Through stimulation, the secretion levels of interferon (IFN)-γ and TNF-α in the splenic cells were reduced, and the levels of IL-4 and IL-10 were increased. By comparison, in the DU30 and DU3 groups, the effects were either minor or indiscernible. In conclusions, chronic intake of higher doses of DU (300 mg/kg) had a significant impact on the immune function, most likely due to an imbalance in T helper (Th) 1 and Th2 cytokines.
To evaluate current performance on recommended perinatal hepatitis B and rubella prevention practices in New Hampshire.
Data were extracted from 2021 paired mother-infant records for the year 2000 birth cohort in New Hampshire's 25 delivery hospitals. Assessment was done on the following: prenatal screening for hepatitis B and rubella, administration of the hepatitis B vaccine birth dose to all infants, administration of hepatitis B immune globulin to infants who were born to hepatitis B surface antigen-positive mothers, rubella immunity, and administration of in-hospital postpartum rubella vaccine to rubella nonimmune women.
Prenatal screening rates for hepatitis B (98.8%) and rubella (99.4%) were high. Hepatitis B vaccine birth dose was administered to 76.2% of all infants. All infants who were born to hepatitis B surface antigen-positive mothers also received hepatitis B immune globulin. Multivariate logistic regression showed that the month of delivery and infant birth weight were independent predictors of hepatitis B vaccination. The proportion of infants who were vaccinated in January and February 2000 (48.5% and 67.5%, respectively) was less than any other months, whereas the proportion who were vaccinated in December 2000 (88.2%) was the highest. Women who were born between 1971 and 1975 had the highest rate of rubella nonimmunity (9.5%). In-hospital postpartum rubella vaccine administration was documented for 75.6% of nonimmune women.
This study documents good compliance in New Hampshire's birthing hospitals with national guidelines for perinatal hepatitis B and rubella prevention and highlights potential areas for improvement.
The aim of the present study was to characterize the role of the drug-efflux transporter P-glycoprotein (P-gp) for the disposition of trospium chloride, a widely used anticholinergic drug for the treatment of overactive bladder. P-gp-deficient mdr1a,b(-/-) knockout mice were given either 1 mg/kg trospium chloride orally or 1 mg/kg intravenously to analyze brain penetration, intestinal secretion, and hepatobiliary excretion of the drug. The concentrations of trospium chloride in the brain were up to 7 times higher in the mdr1a,b(-/-) knockout mice compared with wild-type mice (p < 0.05), making P-gp a limiting factor for the blood-brain barrier penetration of this drug. Moreover, the residence time of the drug in the central nervous system was significantly prolonged in mdr1a,b(-/-) knockout mice. Apart from the blood-brain barrier, P-gp also had significant effects on the overall pharmacokinetics of trospium chloride. In the mdr1a,b(-/-) knockout mice, hepatobiliary excretion and intestinal secretion were significantly reduced compared with the wild-type mice. Our study indicates that the multidrug resistance transporter P-gp is a major determinant for the distribution of trospium chloride in the body and highly restricts its entry into the brain.
Friedreich ataxia is the most common hereditary ataxia. The signs and symptoms of the disorder derive from decreased expression of the protein frataxin, which is involved in iron metabolism. Frataxin chaperones iron for iron-sulfur cluster biogenesis and detoxifies iron in the mitochondrial matrix. Decreased expression of frataxin is associated with impairments of iron-sulfur cluster biogenesis and heme synthesis, as well as with mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress. Compounds currently in clinical trials are directed toward improving mitochondrial function and lessening oxidative stress. Iron chelators and compounds that increase frataxin expression are under evaluation. Further elucidation of frataxin's function should lead to additional therapeutic approaches.
Atrioventricular (AV) block is rare in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), but it is usually of complete type. A 55-year-old woman had complaints of fatigue, dizziness, and light-headedness, all of a week history. She had been receiving treatment for RA for about six years, and had been on methylprednisolone 5 mg/day for a year. On physical examination, her heart rate was 32 bpm, blood pressure was 160/80 mmHg. She had a grade 1-2/6 apical systolic ejection murmur. The electrocardiogram showed complete AV block. Transthoracic echocardiography showed grade I mitral regurgitation. No rheumatoid nodule was noted on transesophageal echocardiography. Coronary arteries appeared normal on coronary angiography. A temporary pacemaker was implanted in the coronary care unit, after which complete AV block improved to a second-degree Mobitz type II block. Her heart rate was 45 bpm. As no further improvement was observed in the AV block during a 10-day monitoring, she underwent DDD-R permanent pacemaker implantation.
To test the efficacy and safety of vitamin E in preventing retinopathy of prematurity, 287 infants with birth weights of less than 1.5 kg or gestational ages of less than 33 weeks were enrolled within 24 hours of birth in a randomized, double-masked trial of IV, followed by oral, placebo v tocopherol (adjusted to plasma levels of 3 to 3.5 mg/dL). In the 196 infants completing ophthalmic follow-up, tocopherol did not prevent retinopathy of prematurity of any stage (28% placebo treated v 26% tocopherol treated) or moderately severe retinopathy of prematurity (8% placebo treated v 11% tocopherol treated). Cicatricial sequelae were not significantly different (1/97 placebo treated v 3/99 tocopherol treated), with one placebo-treated infant and one tocopherol-treated infant having retinal detachments. Among all 232 infants examined, those treated with tocopherol had more retinal hemorrhage than placebo-treated infants (8/121 placebo treated v 16/111 tocopherol treated), and retinal hemorrhage correlated positively (P less than .01) with plasma levels of tocopherol after the first 2 weeks of age. Prospective monitoring of morbidity including late-onset sepsis, necrotizing enterocolitis, etc revealed no differences between groups except that grades 3 and 4 intraventricular hemorrhage occurred more frequently in infants weighing less than 1 kg at birth who had received tocopherol (14/42, 33%) v those who had received placebo (4/43, 9%) (P less than .02). Our data do not support the use of tocopherol for prophylaxis against retinopathy of prematurity in premature infants and suggest that IV tocopherol treatment starting on day 1 may increase the incidence of hemorrhagic complications of prematurity, particularly in infants with birth weights of less than 1 kg.
