Type 2 diabetes mellitus is frequently accompanied by fatty liver/nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. Hence, accumulation of lipids in the liver is considered to be one of the risk factors for insulin resistance and metabolic syndrome. Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) is widely used for the treatment of liver dysfunction. We investigated the therapeutic effects of UDCA on type 2 diabetes mellitus exacerbating hepatic steatosis and the underlying mechanisms of its action using KK-A(y) mice fed a high-fat diet. KK-A(y) mice were prefed a high-fat diet; and 50, 150, and 450 mg/kg of UDCA was orally administered for 2 or 3 weeks. Administration of UDCA decreased fasting hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia. Hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp analyses showed that UDCA improved hepatic (but not peripheral) insulin resistance. Hepatic triglyceride and cholesterol contents were significantly reduced by treatment with UDCA, although the genes involved in the synthesis of fatty acids and cholesterol, including fatty acid synthase and 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-coenzyme A reductase, were upregulated. Fecal levels of bile acids, neutral sterols, fatty acids, and phospholipids were significantly increased by UDCA treatment. The gene expression levels and protein phosphorylation levels of endoplasmic reticulum stress markers were not changed by UDCA treatment. These results indicate that UDCA ameliorates hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia by improving hepatic insulin resistance and steatosis in high-fat diet-fed KK-A(y) mice. Reduction of hepatic lipids might be due to their excretion in feces, followed by enhanced utilization of glucose for the synthesis of fatty acids and cholesterol. Ursodeoxycholic acid should be effective for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus accompanying hepatic steatosis.
The predominant hypothesis for cyclosporine-induced acute renal failure is postulated to be prerenal vasoconstriction with concomitant hemodynamic changes; an alternate hypothesis, however, may be that cyclosporine (CsA) affects intrarenal processes, i.e., direct renal parenchymal cell injury. However, reports on this direct effect of CsA on renal parenchymal cells are contradictory. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to address whether CsA is directly toxic to renal parenchymal cells in a primary culture system of rat renal cortical epithelial cells. The cytotoxicity of Sandimmune, the commercial form of CsA in a polyoxyethylated castor oil vehicle (Cremophor), CsA without vehicle, and the Cremophor vehicle was assessed by plasma membrane integrity (lactate dehydrogenase leakage), mitochondrial metabolic activity [3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide reduction], and gross morphology (phase-contrast microscopy). The cytotoxicity of Sandimmune was also assessed by lysosomal activity (neutral red uptake), by proximal tubular enzyme activity (alkaline phosphatase), and by three fluorescent probes using a multiwell scanner. The three fluorescent probes were propidium iodide which stains nuclei of nonviable cells; bis-carboxyethyl-carboxyfluorescein which is retained by viable cells; and rhodamine 123, which assesses mitochondrial membrane potential. The results of this study demonstrated that Sandimmune caused dose- (10, 25, and 50 microM) and time- (12, 24, and 48 hr) dependent cytotoxicity, while Cremophor caused cytotoxicity only at high concentrations and long incubations. We conclude that (1) CsA is directly toxic to renal parenchymal cells in vitro and this system potentially represents a sensitive model for further mechanistic studies; (2) CsA plus vehicle (Sandimmune) was more cytotoxic to renal cells than CsA alone (without the polyoxyethylated castor oil vehicle).
Several inflammatory processes play a critical role in brain aging and are associated with increased vulnerability to neurodegeneration. Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and 5-lipoxygenase (5-LOX), two enzymes involved in the oxygenation of the arachidonic acid, are upregulated in the central nervous system during aging and are associated with different aging-related brain pathologies. The present experiment was performed to study the effects of 5-LOX inhibitor, acetyl-11-keto-beta-boswellic acid (AKBA), nimesulide (preferential COX-2 inhibitor), and their combination on cognitive performance of young and aged mice, using elevated plus maze test. Chronic administration of AKBA (100 mg/kg, p.o.) and nimesulide (2.42 mg/kg, p.o.) for 15 days significantly reversed the aging-induced retention deficit in mice. Coadministration of AKBA and nimesulide enhanced the cognitive performance in aged mice when compared with that in per se treatment. The aging-related increase in oxidative damage (increased LPO and decreased GSH) was reversed by AKBA, nimesulide, and their combination. Further, per se COX and LOX inhibitors and their combination did not produce any alteration in gastrointestinal parameters; they also reversed the aging-induced motor dysfunction in the aged animals. On the basis of these observations, present findings indicated that the combination of COX and LOX inhibitors (dual inhibitors) may provide a new therapeutic innovation for the treatment of aging-related brain disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and different motor dysfunctions with adequate gastrointestinal tolerability.
Copper uptake at the plasma membrane and subsequent delivery to copper-dependent enzymes is essential for many cellular processes, including mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, free radical detoxification, pigmentation, neurotransmitter synthesis, and iron metabolism. However, intracellular levels of this nutrient must be controlled because it is potentially toxic in excess concentrations. The hCtr1 protein functions in high affinity copper uptake at the plasma membrane of human cells. In this study, we demonstrate that levels of the hCtr1 protein at the plasma membrane of HEK293 cells were reduced when cells were exposed to elevated copper. This decrease in surface hCtr1 levels was associated with an increased rate of endocytosis, and low micromolar concentrations of copper were sufficient to stimulate this process. Inhibitors of clathrin-dependent endocytosis prevented the trafficking of hCtr1 from the plasma membrane, and newly internalized hCtr1 and transferrin were co-localized. Significantly, elevated copper concentrations also resulted in the degradation of the hCtr1 protein. Our findings suggest that hCtr1-mediated copper uptake into mammalian cells is regulated by a post-translational mechanism involving copper-stimulated endocytosis and degradation of the transporter.
Endemic (Balkan) nephropathy is a chronic tubulointerstitial disease frequently accompanied by urothelial cell carcinomas of the upper urinary tract. This disorder has recently been linked to exposure to aristolochic acid, a powerful nephrotoxin and human carcinogen. Following metabolic activation, aristolochic acid reacts with genomic DNA to form aristolactam-DNA adducts that generate a unique TP53 mutational spectrum in the urothelium. The aristolactam-DNA adducts are concentrated in the renal cortex, thus serving as biomarkers of internal exposure to aristolochic acid. Here, we present molecular epidemiologic evidence relating carcinomas of the upper urinary tract to dietary exposure to aristolochic acid. DNA was extracted from the renal cortex and urothelial tumor tissue of 67 patients that underwent nephroureterectomy for carcinomas of the upper urinary tract and resided in regions of known endemic nephropathy. Ten patients from nonendemic regions with carcinomas of the upper urinary tract served as controls. Aristolactam-DNA adducts were quantified by (32)P-postlabeling, the adduct was confirmed by mass spectrometry, and TP53 mutations in tumor tissues were identified by chip sequencing. Adducts were present in 70% of the endemic cohort and in 94% of patients with specific A:T to T:A mutations in TP53. In contrast, neither aristolactam-DNA adducts nor specific mutations were detected in tissues of patients residing in nonendemic regions. Thus, in genetically susceptible individuals, dietary exposure to aristolochic acid is causally related to endemic nephropathy and carcinomas of the upper urinary tract.
This study investigates the molecular mechanisms by which minocycline, a second generation tetracycline, prevents cardiac myocyte death induced by in utero cocaine exposure. Timed mated pregnant Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats received one of the following treatments twice daily from embryonic (E) day 15-21 (E15-E21): (i) intraperitoneal (IP) injections of saline (control); (ii) IP injections of cocaine (15 mg/kg BW); and (iii) IP injections of cocaine + oral administration of 25 mg/kg BW of minocycline. Pups were killed on postnatal day 15 (P15). Additional pregnant dams received twice daily IP injections of cocaine (from E15-E21) + oral administration of a relatively higher (37.5 mg/kg BW) dose of minocycline. Minocycline treatment continued from E15 until the pups were sacrificed on P15. In utero cocaine exposure resulted in an increase in oxidative stress and fetal cardiac myocyte apoptosis through activation of c-Jun-NH(2)-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-mediated mitochondria-dependent apoptotic pathway. Continued minocycline treatment from E15 through P15 significantly prevented oxidative stress, kinase activation, perturbation of BAX/BCL-2 ratio, cytochrome c release, caspase activation, and attenuated fetal cardiac myocyte apoptosis after prenatal cocaine exposure. These results demonstrate in vivo cardioprotective effects of minocycline in preventing fetal cardiac myocyte death after prenatal cocaine exposure. Given its proven clinical safety and ability to cross the placental barrier and enter into the fetal circulation, minocycline may be an effective therapy for preventing cardiac consequences of in utero cocaine exposure.
I.V. pentamidine therapy in HIV-infected patients has been associated in case reports and one uncontrolled prospective series with frequent prolongation of the rate-corrected QT interval (QTc) and a high risk for potentially lethal ventricular arrhythmias, especially torsade de pointes. The aim of this study was to prospectively examine in a controlled manner the effect of I.V. pentamidine therapy on the QT interval and the incidence of ventricular arrhythmias.
Open, nonrandomized, prospective evaluation of ventricular arrhythmia incidence in HIV-infected patients receiving pentamidine or trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) utilizing Holter monitoring prior to and during therapy with these agents.
Staten Island University Hospital, Staten Island, NY.
Twenty-seven HIV-infected patients, of whom 16 received I.V. pentamidine and 11 received I.V. TMP-SMX.
Study patients underwent Holter monitoring prior to therapy and during the first 3 days and last 2 days of therapy with pentamidine or TMP-SMX, 12-lead ECG prior to and every 24 to 48 h, serum electrolytes prior to and on days 3, 6, 9, and 12 of therapy, and baseline transthoracic two-dimensional and Doppler echocardiography. In the pentamidine group, the results for each monitoring period were as follows (means are presented +/- SEM): pretherapy, 1.66+/-1.03 (median=0) premature ventricular complexes (PVCs) per hour, zero nonsustained ventricular tachycardia (NSVT), zero sustained ventricular tachycardia (VT); early therapy, 1.55+/-0.91 (median=0.04) PVCs per hour, two NSVT (both < or = 5 complexes), zero sustained VT; late therapy, 1.69+/-1.17 (median=0.08) PVCs per hour, zero NSVT, zero sustained VT (p value not significant for early or late therapy as compared to pretherapy for PVCs per hour, NSVT, or sustained VT). In the TMP-SMX group, the Holter monitoring results were as follows: pretherapy, 1.36+/-1.27 (median=0) PVCs per hour, zero NSVT, zero sustained VT; early therapy, 0.71+/-0.53 (median=0.03) PVCs per hour, two NSVT, zero sustained VT; late therapy, 0.56+/-0.51 (median=0) PVCs per hour, zero NSVT, zero sustained VT (p value not significant for pretherapy, early therapy, or late therapy with TMP-SMX as compared to pentamidine for PVCs per hour, NSVT, or VT). The QTc also did not significantly differ during therapy with pentamidine as compared to TMP-SMX. The mean QTc in the pentamidine group decreased during therapy as compared to pretherapy with the difference approaching significance for days 2, 4, and 6 with pentamidine (p<0.06).
QTc prolongation during therapy with pentamidine in HIV-infected patients is not as frequent an occurrence as has been reported previously. In the absence of QTc prolongation, pentamidine therapy was not associated with a significant increase in PVCs, NSVT, or sustained VT as compared to pretherapy recordings or as compared to therapy with TMP-SMX.
In the adult, Amiodarone is a very effective drug in the treatment of ventricular and supraventricular arrhythmias. The presence of severe side effects such as some alterations in the thyroid function and/or pulmonary fibrosis have restricted the use in children. Nevertheless, research has shown that there is a low incidence of collateral side effects and this therapy in infancy can be very effective. For this reason we evaluated a group of 27 children with supraventricular (19 patients) and ventricular (8 patients) arrhythmias. The mean age of patients treated was 6 +/- 5 years (2 days-13 years). The follow-up period was of 13 +/- 10 months. Amiodarone has been used in 9 patients intravenously, with the loading dose of 5 mg/Kg followed by an infusion of 10 mg/Kg/day. In 18 patients we administered the drug orally with a loading dose of 10 mg/Kg/day for a period of 10 days, thereafter the maintenance was of 5-7 mg/Kg/day for 5 days every week. The patients were all checked for thyroid function and Holter monitoring quarterly; they were given an ophthalmologic examination (every 6 months) and a chest-x-ray and echocardiography annually. The efficacy of intravenous treatment was judged successful in 56% of patients, partially successful in 22% and ineffective in the remaining 22%. The oral treatment was completely effective in 77% of children, partially in 5% and ineffective in 18%. In one case we had to suspend the therapy because we found high values of T3 and T4. During the treatment, in 86% of cases, we had blood level fluctuations of T3 and T4, however these did not exceed the normal ranges. The most important side effect observed has been the photosensitivity found in 22% of children. Moreover we observed a reduction of sinusal automatism, which was more marked in patients less than year old. In 4 cases an A/V block of first degree appeared. In all patients we found changes of ventricular repolarization, while corneal deposits appeared in only one child after a year of therapy and did not cause an impairment of visual acuity. In conclusion we can assert that Amiodarone is a very effective drug in children, specially in small babies, where it can safety be used as a first choice drug.
This study examined postmenopausal estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer patients who received prospective neoadjuvant endocrine therapy (NAET) with tamoxifen or anastrozole to determine if the 21-gene recurrence score (RS) predicts NAET responses. RS scores were determined from pretreatment core biopsy specimens. Although half of the specimens yielded insufficient RNA, the remaining samples were highly representative. Patients with a low RS tended to respond better than those with an intermediate or high RS (n=43). Response rates by RS were similar between the tamoxifen and anastrozole groups. Patients with a low RS tended to have better relapse-free survival (RFS) than those with an intermediate or high RS (5y-RFS; 100% vs. 84% and 73%, respectively). These results suggest that RS predicts responses to NAET with tamoxifen or anastrozole. Because this pilot study examined a small sample size, these results should be validated in larger studies.
Hydroquinone (HQ) is an environmental contaminant which causes immune toxicity. In this study, the effects of exposure to low doses of HQ on neutrophil mobilization into the LPS-inflamed lung were investigated. Male Swiss mice were exposed to aerosolized vehicle (control) or 12.5, 25 or 50ppm HQ (1h/day for 5 days). One hour later, oxidative burst, cell cycle, DNA fragmentation and adhesion molecules expressions in circulating neutrophils were determined by flow cytometry, and plasma malondialdehyde (MDA) levels were measured by HPLC. Also, 1h later the last exposures, inflammation was induced by LPS inhalation (0.1mg/ml/10min) and 3h later, the numbers of leukocytes in peripheral blood and in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) were determined using a Neubauer chamber and stained smears; adhesion molecules expressed on lung microvessel endothelial cells were quantified by immunohistochemistry; myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity was measured in the lung tissue by colorimetric assay; and cytokines in the BALF were determined by ELISA. In vivo HQ exposure augmented plasma MDA levels and oxidative activity of neutrophils, but did not cause alterations in cell cycle and DNA fragmentation. Under these conditions, the number of circulating leukocytes was not altered, but HQ exposure reduced LPS-induced neutrophil migration into the alveolar space, as these cells remained in the lung tissue. The impaired neutrophil migration into BALF may not be dependent on reduced cytokines secretions in the BALF and lung endothelial adhesion molecules expressions. However, HQ exposure increased the expression of β(2) and β(3) integrins and platelet-endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 (PECAM-1) in neutrophils, which were not further enhanced by fMLP in vitro stimulation, indicating that HQ exposure activates circulating neutrophils, impairing further stimulatory responses. Therefore, it has been shown, for the first time, that neutrophils are target of lower levels of in vivo HQ exposure, which may be considered in host defense in infectious diseases.
The intestinal microflora is an important cofactor in the pathogenesis of intestinal inflammation; and the epithelial cell barrier function is critical in providing protection against the stimulation of mucosal immune system by the microflora. In the present study, therapeutic role of the antibacterial drugs rifampicin and ciprofloxacine were investigated in comparison to spironolactone, an enzyme inducer, in 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis of the rats. Drugs were administered for 14 days following induction of colitis. All drug treatments ameliorated the clinical hallmarks of colitis as determined by body weight loss and assessment of diarrhea, colon length, and histology. Oxidative damage and neutrophil infiltration as well as nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) and tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α) expressions that were increased during colitis, were decreased significantly. Rifampicin and ciprofloxacin were probably effective due to their antibacterial and immunomodulating properties. The multidrug resistence gene (MDR1) and its product p-glycoprotein (P-gp) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). In the present study, findings of the P-gp expression were inconclusive but regarding previous studies, it can be suggested that the beneficial effects of rifampicin and spironolactone may be partly due to their action as a P-gp ligand. Spironolactone has been reported to supress the transcription of proinflamatory cytokines that are considered to be of importance in immunoinflammatory diseases. It is also a powerful pregnane X receptor (PXR) inducer; thus, inhibition of the expression of NF-κB and TNF-α, and amelioration of inflammation by spironolactone suggest that this may have been through the activation of PXR. However, our findings regarding PXR expression were inconclusive. Activation of PXR by spironolactone probably also contributed to the induction of P-gp, resulting in extrusion of noxious substances from the tissue.
Previous work from our laboratory suggested that locus coeruleus (LC) and the coerulospinal noradrenergic pathway are intimately related to the elicitation of muscular rigidity by fentanyl. The present study attempted to identify the subtype of guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory protein that may participate in this process, using Sprague-Dawley rats anesthetized with ketamine and under mechanical ventilation. Immunofluorescent staining with a polyclonal antiserum directed against a 39-kDa protein that corresponds to the alpha subunit of G(o) revealed the presence of G(o) alpha immunoreactivity in neurons of the LC. Bilateral microinjection of the same G(o) alpha antiserum into the LC also significantly blunted the enhanced electromyographic activity recorded from the sacrococcygeus dorsalis lateralis muscle induced by intravenous administration of fentanyl (100 micrograms/kg). These results suggest that G(o) alpha protein at the LC may participate in the signal transduction process that underlies muscular rigidity induced by high-dose fentanyl.
Renal function was evaluated in 104 patients with severe chronic heart failure whom we treated with captopril or enalapril. Seventy patients showed no change or an improvement in renal function (group A), and 34 patients developed functional renal insufficiency (group B). Before converting-enzyme inhibition, group B patients received higher doses of furosemide (p less than 0.02) and had lower central venous pressures (p less than 0.05) than group A patients. After 1 to 3 months of converting-enzyme inhibition, an excessive reduction in left ventricular filling pressure (to less than 15 mm Hg) or mean arterial pressure (to less than 60 mm Hg) was noted in 28 of 34 (82%) patients in group B but in only 22 of 70 patients in group A (31%) (p less than 0.001). At the end of the study, drug-induced azotemia resolved after a reduction in the dosage of diuretics, despite unaltered treatment with captopril and enalapril. Hence, the deterioration of renal function after converting-enzyme inhibition in heart failure is not a toxic or immunologic reaction to therapy but results from specific hemodynamic events that can be ameliorated by sodium repletion.
We have studied the actions of tumour-necrosis-factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) on cells isolated from patients with acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). Apoptosis induction was initially assessed by quantitative morphological analysis. Only 2/19 isolates showed a > 10% increase in apoptotic cells following TRAIL treatment. However, incubation with TRAIL combined with fludarabine, cytosine arabinoside or daunorubicin resulted in additive or super-additive apoptosis induction in approximately half of the isolates. Molecular evidence of super-additive apoptosis induction by TRAIL and cytotoxic agents was obtained by quantification of caspase 3 activation, detected by Western blot analysis of poly (ADP ribose) polymerase cleavage. The ability of TRAIL and daunorubicin to induce super-additive apoptosis correlated with the ability of these agents to activate caspase 8 and to augment cellular levels of the truncated pro-apoptotic form of the BCL-2 family member BID. Our data suggest that co-administration of TRAIL with conventional cytotoxic drugs may be of therapeutic value in some patients with AML.
In the course of a large-scale prospective study of the health of oral contraceptive users, the rate of reporting of arterial diseases was examined in two groups of users of pill brands that permitted the effect of the progestogen to be assessed independently of estrogen effect. The rate of reporting was consistently higher with the brands with the higher progestogenic activity. The reports of cerebrovascular diseases showed a significant trend in relation to the dose of norethindrone acetate as well as in relation to total arterial diseases. Total arterial diseases were also reported more frequently in association with brands containing 250 microgram of levonorgestrel than with those containing 150 microgram of this progestogen. The mean serum levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol in users of the brands described show a striking inverse relationship to the rate of reporting of arterial diseases and to the progestogenic activity of the pills.
A large-scale prospective study of 23,000 current oral contraceptive users and a similar number of matched nonusers (controls) was conducted to evaluate the effects of 2 types of progestogens (norethindrone acetate of NEA and levonorgestrel) on the rate of reporting of arterial diseases. 3 NEA pills contained 50 mcg of ethinyl estradiol combined with 1, 3, and 4 mg of NEA. 2 levonorgestrel pills contained 30 mcg ethinyl estradiol combined with 150 and 250 mcg respectively of levonorgestrel. All 3 categories of arterial diseases (ischemic heart disease, cerebrovascular, and peripheral vascular diseases) exhibited a clear association of higher rates of reporting with larger doses of progestogens. In cerebrovascular diseases specifically, and arterial diseases in general, the trend with the NEA dose is statistically significant (P0.05). Pills with 250 mcg levonorgestrel are also significantly associated with a higher rate of total arterial disease than those with 150 mcg of progestogen. A striking inverse relationship is observed between high density lipoprotein cholesterol and the progestogen dose and rate of reporting of arterial disease, confirming previous observations. This study does not provide evidence that progestogens administered alone would have the same effects, nor does it assume that estrogens do not contribute to the increased risk of vascular disease in pill users. The need to develop a contraceptive risk of vascular disease in pill users. The need to develop a contraceptive pill with the lowest activity of both steroids consistent with contraceptive effectiveness and high menstrual cycle control is indicated.
We report the clinical and EEG findings in three patients presenting with seizures associated with intrathecal baclofen application for treatment of spasticity. All patients had a history of traumatic brain injury, while one patient also suffered a spinal cord injury. Two patients experienced their first seizure following intrathecal baclofen test bolus injection. Another patient had convulsions on two occasions: following postoperative baclofen dose adjustment, and after sleep deprivation. Structural brain disease seems prerequisite for baclofen to exert epileptogenic activity, since seizures have not occurred in patients receiving intrathecal baclofen for spasticity of solely spinal origin. Antiepileptic medication permitted the continuation of intrathecal baclofen treatment in the three patients.
Torsade de pointes (TdP) due to QT prolongation is often a drug-induced ventricular tachyarrhythmia. Different classes of drugs including antiarrhythmics, antipsychotics, and antimicrobials may lead to TdP by a patient-specific response altering repolarization. Combinations of other TdP risk factors such as bradycardia, ischemia, or electrolyte abnormalities are usually also present. In this paper, we describe the development of TdP after the administration of intravenous haloperidol in a patient with complete heart block. The importance of evaluating predisposing risk factors before the administration of any potential QT-prolonging medications is highlighted.
The aim of the study was to compare efficacy and safety of quinapril and lisinopril once-daily administered in patients with mild to moderate hypertension. After a two-week placebo period, 23 patients with sitting diastolic blood pressure between 95 and 110 mmHg were randomly assigned to the therapy with quinapril 20 mg/die or lisinopril 10 mg/die for 4 weeks in a single-blind design. After 4 weeks patients with diastolic blood pressure greater than 90 mmHg were treated with a higher dose (lisinopril 20 mg/die; quinapril 40 mg/die). Therapy with lisinopril normalized 83% of patients, and quinapril 45% of patients. Lisinopril was significantly better than quinapril in reducing blood pressure after 4 and 8 weeks of active treatment. The 24 hours ambulatory blood pressure monitoring showed that quinapril failed to control blood pressure after 12 hours from the administration of the drug.
In children with advanced stages of cancer, pain control remains inadequate in many patients and a solution to this problem is sorely lacking. Factors related to progression of the primary disease and side-effects of high doses of opioids, the mainstay of pain therapy, contribute to the inadequacy of pain control. In addition, few studies suggest that opioids, by inducing tolerance, having pronociceptive effects and producing hyperalgesia in some patients, can also contribute to inadequacy of pain control. Researchers have shown that N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists may have a role in mitigating opioid-induced tolerance and hyperalgesia in adults. However, literature on NMDA antagonists to treat cancer pain in children and adolescents is scarce. We used subanesthetic doses of ketamine to treat 11 children and adolescents who were on high doses of opioids and yet had uncontrolled cancer pain. A low-dose ketamine infusion was administered to all patients to modulate the need for rapidly escalating opioid therapy. We found that in 8 of 11 patients, ketamine infusions used as an adjuvant to opioid analgesia was associated with opioid-sparing effects and apparent improvement in pain control and in the children's ability to interact with their family. This study suggests that infusions of ketamine may offer a promising therapeutic option in the treatment of appropriately selected children and adolescents with intractable cancer pain.
In many children with advanced stages of cancer, pain control remains inadequate. We used subanesthetic doses of ketamine to treat 11 children and adolescents who were on high doses of opioids and had uncontrolled cancer pain. In the majority of patients, ketamine appeared to improve pain control and to have an opioid-sparing effect.
To report successful treatment using daptomycin for pyelonephritis associated with vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium (VRE) in a 27-week pregnant woman.
A 20-year-old 27-week pregnant patient with a history of spina bifida, neurogenic bladder, and multiple hospitalizations for recurrent urinary tract infections (UTIs) was diagnosed with pyelonephritis. She was treated with daptomycin 260 mg (4 mg/kg) daily for 14 days on the basis of a urine culture that revealed E. faecium resistant to ampicillin, nitrofurantoin, and vancomycin. All cultures following treatment revealed no growth, and the patient as well as the neonate displayed no adverse effects.
VRE UTIs can be treated safely in pregnancy with nitrofurantoin, if the organism is susceptible. Other viable options in the treatment of VRE, including linezolid, doxycycline, and quinupristin/dalfopristin, have lower urinary concentrations, teratogenic risk, or limited findings regarding their safety in pregnancy. Daptomycin was selected in this case due to its efficacy in the treatment of VRE, high urinary concentrations, pregnancy category B, and one case report indicating its successful use in pregnancy.
Treatment of VRE in pregnancy can be challenging due to the teratogenicity or unknown safety of available options. The use of daptomycin in our patient enabled a successful outcome of multidrug-resistant E. faecium in a complicated pregnant patient without observed neonatal abnormalities.
N-acetyltransferase 2 (NAT2) polymorphism may be involved in the pathogenesis of allergic contact dermatitis.
The present study was designed to evaluate whether acetylation polymorphism plays a role in the susceptibility to p-Phenylenediamine (PPD) sensitization.
The frequencies of seven NAT2 point mutations, namely G191A, C282T, T341C, C481T, G590A, A803G, and G857A, and genotypes were determined by PCR/RFLP in a total of 70 patients with allergic contact dermatitis to PPD and 100 control subjects with no history of allergy, atopy, lung disease, diabetes mellitus and cancer.
Genotypes coding rapid acetylation were detected in 52.9% and 37.0% of patients with contact dermatitis and control subjects, respectively (P = 0.04). The frequency of the NAT2*4 allele and NAT2*4/*4 genotype, coding for rapid acetylation, were also significantly higher in the contact dermatitis patients than in the control subjects (P = 0.003).
Our results suggest an association between rapid acetylation polymorphism and susceptibility to PPD sensitization.
The potential for proarrhythmic responses to the class IC sodium channel-blocking drugs encainide and flecainide has not been well described in young patients. Therefore, data were retrospectively collected from 36 institutions regarding 579 young patients who were administered encainide or flecainide for treatment of supraventricular tachycardias (encainide 86 patients, flecainide 369 patients) or ventricular arrhythmias (encainide 21 patients, flecainide 103 patients) to assess the frequency of proarrhythmia, cardiac arrest and death during therapy (adverse events). The two drugs were similar in regard to efficacy (flecainide 71.4%, encainide 59.8%) and rate of proarrhythmic responses (flecainide 7.4%; encainide 7.5%). However, patients receiving encainide more frequently experienced cardiac arrest (encainide 7.5% vs. flecainide 2.3%, p less than 0.05) or died during treatment (encainide 7.5% vs. flecainide 2.1%, p less than 0.05). Detailed data were provided for 44 patients experiencing one or more adverse events. Patient age, previous drug trials, concomitant therapy and days of inpatient monitoring were similar for patients receiving encainide or flecainide. However, echocardiographic left ventricular shortening before treatment was lower among patients receiving encainide (0.23 +/- 0.09) than among those receiving flecainide (0.34 +/- 0.06, p less than 0.05). Plasma drug concentrations were rarely elevated. Cardiac arrest (12 patients) and deaths (13 patients) occurred predominantly among patients with underlying heart disease, particularly among patients receiving flecainide for supraventricular tachycardia (8.3% vs. 0.3%, p less than 0.001). Fifteen patients with an ostensibly normal heart and normal ventricular function experienced proarrhythmia during treatment for supraventricular tachycardia, but only 3 of the 15 had a cardiac arrest or died. The relatively high incidence of adverse events should be considered when contemplating treatment with encainide or flecainide, particularly among patients with underlying heart disease.
Studies on the association between the long-term use of aspirin and other analgesic and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and end-stage renal disease (ESRD) have given conflicting results. In order to examine this association, a case-control study with incident cases of ESRD was carried out.
The cases were all patients entering the local dialysis program because of ESRD in the study area between June 1, 1995 and November 30, 1997. They were classified according to the underlying disease, which had presumably led them to ESRD. Controls were patients admitted to the same hospitals from where the cases arose, also matched by age and sex. Odds ratios were calculated using a conditional logistic model, including potential confounding factors, both for the whole study population and for the various underlying diseases.
Five hundred and eighty-three cases and 1190 controls were included in the analysis. Long-term use of any analgesic was associated with an overall odds ratio of 1.22 (95% CI, 0.89-1.66). For specific groups of drugs, the risks were 1.56 (1.05-2.30) for aspirin, 1.03 (0.60-1.76) for pyrazolones, 0.80 (0.39-1.63) for paracetamol, and 0.94 (0.57-1.56) for nonaspirin NSAIDs. The risk of ESRD associated with aspirin was related to the cumulated dose and duration of use, and it was particularly high among the subset of patients with vascular nephropathy as underlying disease [2.35 (1.17-4.72)].
Our data indicate that long-term use of nonaspirin analgesic drugs and NSAIDs is not associated with an increased risk of ESRD. However, the chronic use of aspirin may increase the risk of ESRD.
Intradermal capsaicin injection (CAP) and electrical current stimulation (ES) are analyzed in respect to patterns and test-retest reliability of pain as well as sensory and neurosecretory changes. In 10 healthy subjects, 2x CAP (50 microg) and 2x ES (5 to 30 mA) were applied to the volar forearm. The time period between 2 identical stimulations was about 4 months. Pain ratings, areas of mechanical hyperalgesia, and allodynia were assessed. The intensity of sensory changes was quantified by using quantitative sensory testing. Neurogenic flare was assessed by using laser Doppler imaging. Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) release was quantified by dermal microdialysis in combination with an enzyme immunoassay. Time course and peak pain ratings were different between CAP and ES. Test-retest correlation was high (r > or = 0.73). Both models induced primary heat hyperalgesia and primary plus secondary pin-prick hyperalgesia. Allodynia occurred in about half of the subjects. Maximum flare sizes did not differ between CAP and ES, but flare intensities were higher for ES. Test-retest correlation was higher for flare sizes than for flare intensity. A significant CGRP release could only be measured after CAP. The different time courses of pain stimulation (CAP: rapidly decaying pain versus ES: pain plateau) led to different peripheral neurosecretory effects but induced similar central plasticity and hyperalgesia.
The present study gives a detailed overview of psychophysical and neurosecretory characteristics induced by noxious stimulation with capsaicin and electrical current. We describe differences, similarities, and reproducibility of these human pain models. These data might help to interpret past and future results of human pain studies using experimental pain.
Fifty-two patients with localized (stage I-II) non-Hodgkin's lymphoma were treated with a combination of vincristine, cyclophosphamide and prednisolone (VCP) as an adjuvant therapy between 1975 and 181. Forty-two patients had extended-field radiotherapy, and ten patients had only surgical excision (6 gastrointestinal tract, 2 breast, one each of skin and axillary lymph node). Clinical stages of these patients were divided into stage I (21 patients) and stage II (31 patients). With a median follow-up time of relapse-free survival (RFS) were calculated by Kaplan and Meier method. At two years after the initiation of chemotherapy, survival and RFS were 95% and 83% for stage I, and 76% and 74% for stage II, respectively. These ratios remained stable for 7 years. Survival and RFS of diffuse histiocytic lymphoma (34 patients) were 90% and 83% at 7 years, while these of diffuse poorly differentiated lymphocytic lymphoma (18 patients) were 75% and 69% at 4 years. Of 52 patients, 10 had relapsed (Stage I: 3 patients and stage II: 7 patients) within the first 2 years. Side effect was minimal with moderate peripheral neuropathy due to vincristine. The result suggests that adjuvant chemotherapy is necessary to improve prognosis of patients with localized non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
