A case of combined poisoning due to exposure to an aerosol containing both malathion and methoxychlor (sold under the trade name Ortho TM Orchard Spray in the United States) ps presented. The following unusual features occurred in the course and outcome of the poisoning: slow onset of symptoms and signs, bilateral profound and permanent sensorineural hearing loss, and residual peripheral neuropathies in the extremites. The possible potentiation of the usually low toxicity of malathion is suggest and discussed.
Epidemiological studies demonstrate an association between arrhythmias and air pollution. Aconitine-induced cardiac arrhythmia is widely used experimentally to examine factors that alter the risk of arrhythmogenesis. In this study, Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) and spontaneously hypertensive (SH) rats acutely exposed to synthetic residual oil fly ash (s-ROFA) particles (450 mug/m(3)) were "challenged" with aconitine to examine whether a single exposure could predispose to arrhythmogenesis. Separately, SH rats were exposed to varied particulate matter (PM) concentrations (0.45, 1.0, or 3.5 mg/m(3) s-ROFA), or the irritant gas acrolein (3 ppm), to better assess the generalization of this challenge response. Rather than directly cause arrhythmias, we hypothesized that inhaled air pollutants sensitize the heart to subsequent dysrhythmic stimuli. Twenty-four hour postexposure, urethane-anesthetized rats were monitored for heart rate (HR), electrocardiogram, and blood pressure (BP). SH rats had higher baseline HR and BP and significantly longer PR intervals, QRS duration, QTc, and JTc than WKY rats. PM exposure caused a significant increase in the PR interval, QRS duration, and QTc in WKY rats but not in SH rats. Heart rate variability was significantly decreased in WKY rats after PM exposure but increased in SH rats. Cumulative dose of aconitine that triggered arrhythmias in air-exposed SH rats was lower than WKY rats and even lower for each strain postexposure. SH rats exposed to varied concentrations of PM or acrolein developed arrhythmia at significantly lower doses of aconitine than controls; however, there was no PM concentration-dependent response. In conclusion, a single exposure to air pollution may increase the sensitivity of cardiac electrical conduction to disruption. Moreover, there seem to be host factors (e.g., cardiovascular disease) that increase vulnerability to triggered arrhythmias regardless of the pollutant or its concentration.
Ligand activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-beta/delta and inhibition of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) activity by nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs can attenuate skin tumorigenesis. There is also evidence that attenuation of skin tumorigenesis by inhibition of COX-2 activity occurs through PPARbeta/delta-independent mechanisms. The present study examined the hypothesis that combining ligand activation of PPARbeta/delta with inhibition of COX-2 activity will cooperatively inhibit chemically induced skin tumor progression using both in vivo and ex vivo models. A two-stage chemical carcinogenesis bioassay was performed in wild-type and Pparbeta/delta-null mice. After 22 weeks, cohorts of both mouse lines were divided into four experimental groups: (1) control, (2) topical application of the PPARbeta/delta ligand GW0742, (3) dietary administration of the COX-2 inhibitor nimesulide, or (4) both GW0742 and nimesulide. Ligand activation of PPARbeta/delta did not influence skin tumor progression, while a modest decrease in skin tumor multiplicity was observed with dietary nimesulide. Interestingly, the combined treatment of GW0742 and nimesulide increased the efficacy of the decrease in papilloma multiplicity for 6 weeks in wild-type mice, but this effect was not found at later time points and was not found in similarly treated Pparbeta/delta-null mice. Neoplastic keratinocyte lines cultured with GW0742 and nimesulide also exhibited enhanced inhibition of cell proliferation coincident with increased expression of Keratin messenger RNAs. Results from these studies support the hypothesis that combining ligand activation of PPARbeta/delta with inhibition of COX-2 activity can inhibit chemically induced skin tumor progression by modulating differentiation.
Recent studies have revealed that angiogenesis plays a pivotal role in carcinogenesis and tumor growth. We previously reported that the clinically used vitamin K(2) (VK) and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACE-I) exerted potent anti-angiogenic activities. The aim of our current study was to examine the combination effect of VK and ACE-I on hepatocarcinogenesis induced by diethyl-nitrosamine, and orthotopic hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) growth in rats. When used individually, both VK and ACE-I at clinically comparable low doses exerted significant inhibitory effects on tumor development in the liver. A combination treatment of VK and ACE-I showed a more potent suppressive effect against hepatocarcinogenesis. Neovascularization increased during hepatocarcinogenesis, and VK and ACE-I significantly attenuated angiogenesis in the tumor. In orthotopic HCC transplantation, VK and ACE-I also showed marked suppressive effects against HCC development similar to those against hepatocarcinogenesis. In both experiments, the suppressive effects of VK and ACE-I against angiogenesis were similar in magnitude to their inhibitory effects against hepatocarcinogenesis and orthotopic HCC development. In the orthotopic model, VK and ACE-I treatment resulted in a marked increase of apoptosis in the tumor, whereas tumor cell proliferation itself was not altered. Since both VK and ACE-I are widely used in clinical practice without serious side effects, this combination therapy may be an effective new therapeutic strategy against hepatocarcinogenesis and HCC growth in the future.
Valproic acid is added to the lithium regimens of many patients with bipolar disorder, especially those with mania refractory to lithium treatment.
We evaluated the pharmacokinetic effects and safety of coadministration of lithium and valproate in 16 healthy volunteers in this randomized, placebo-controlled, two-period (12 days each) crossover trial. Valproate or placebo was given twice daily. On Days 6-10, lithium was added. Blood samples drawn on Days 5 and 10 were analyzed for valproate by high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) and for lithium by atomic absorption spectrophotometry.
Lithium pharmacokinetics were unchanged by valproate, but valproate C(max), C(min), and AUC rose slightly during lithium coadministration. Adverse events did not change significantly.
Concomitant administration of lithium and valproate appears to be safe in patients with bipolar disorder.
A left sided Horner's syndrome (ptosis, prolapse of the nictitating membrane and miosis) was observed in a 4-year-old female, neutered Beagle dog after epidural injection of 0.22 mL kg(-1) ropivacaine (0.75%) in 0.01 mL kg(-1) of saline during isoflurane anaesthesia. Clinical signs disappeared gradually and resolved completely 4 hours and 10 minutes after injection.
The epidural injection of 0.22 mL kg(-1) ropivacaine (0.75%) in 0.01 mL kg(-1) of saline during isoflurane anaesthesia caused unilateral (left) Horner's syndrome in a 4-year-old female, neutered Beagle dog.
Antrafenine effectively suppressed carrageenan paw oedema in the rat (ED 40 = 24 mg/kg p.o) in the dose range of 10-40 mg/kg p.o, approximating that of phenylbutazone. Antrafenine was superior to phenylbutazone with respect to inhibition of exudate volume and total leucocyte infiltration in carrageenan and calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystal pleurisies. The effect of antrafenine on leucocytes was most striking, significant suppression being observed at each dose tested (10, 20, 40 mg/kg p.o), whereas phenylbutazone showed significant activity only at the relatively elevated dose of 40 mg/kg p.o. These observations suggest that antrafenine merits further investigation with respect to its anti-inflammatory effects.
Thalidomide has antiangiogenic properties and was found to be effective in patients with multiple myeloma (MM) when used in the setting of posttransplantation relapse. We have now analyzed risk factors associated with development of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) in a cohort of 535 patients treated with thalidomide with cytotoxic chemotherapy (VAD [vincristine/doxorubicin/dexamethasone], CAD [cyclophosphamide/doxorubicin/dexamethasone], DCEP [dexamethasone/cyclophosphamide/etoposide/cisplatin], or DT-PACE [dexamethasone/thalidomide/cisplatin/doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide/etoposide] or without cytotoxic chemotherapy (thalidomide and dexamethasone only). A total of 82 patients developed DVT, and the frequency was affected by a number of baseline characteristics. On multivariate analysis, the combination of thalidomide with chemotherapy including doxorubicin was associated with the highest odds ratio (OR) for DVT (4.3; P < or = 0.001); in addition, newly diagnosed disease (OR, 2.5; P = 0.001) and chromosome 11 abnormality (OR, 1.8; P = 0.048) were also independent predictors for DVT. With a median follow-up of 2.9 years, survival was inferior in patients with chromosome 13 abnormalities (P = 0.001), age > 60 years (P = 0.001), lactate dehydrogenase level > or = 190 IU/L (P = 0.002), and creatinine level > or = 2 mg/dL (P < 0.001). However, the development of DVT did not adversely affect survival when examined as a time-dependent variable and adjusted for standard risk features (hazard ratio, 0.8; P = 0.162).
Anticancer agents, such as cisplatin, stimulate nausea, vomiting, and behaviors indicative of malaise. Rats and mice do not possess a vomiting response, and, therefore, in these species, the ingestion of kaolin clay (a pica response) has been used as an index of malaise. In the rat, cisplatin-induced kaolin intake is inhibited by antiemetic treatments. In addition, cisplatin activates vagal afferent fibers in the gut, and kaolin intake induced by cisplatin is largely dependent on an intact vagus. Nevertheless, little is known about the brain pathways controlling pica. We investigated the role of the lateral parabrachial nucleus (lPBN), a major visceral afferent link between the hindbrain and forebrain, in cisplatin-induced c-Fos expression and pica. Injection of cisplatin (6 mg/kg ip) produced c-Fos expression in the ventrolateral (external) lPBN, a region receiving viscerosensory input. In rats with bilateral ibotenic acid lPBN lesions, cisplatin treatment substantially increased kaolin intake compared with controls ( approximately 30 g vs. approximately 5 g, respectively, over 24 h). Food intake was reduced by cisplatin treatment and by apomorphine, an emetic agent that acts centrally. Unlike cisplatin, however, apomorphine stimulated kaolin intake to a similar degree in both the lesioned and control rats, suggesting that lPBN damage neither produces nonspecific effects nor enhances malaise in general. These data suggest that lPBN-lesioned animals not only demonstrate pica after cisplatin treatment, but, in fact, show an exaggerated response that is greatly in excess of any treatment known to produce kaolin intake in rats.
Acute tubulointerstitial nephritis (ATIN) as a complication of antituberculous therapy has been most commonly reported due to rifampicin therapy. This reaction typically occurs following re-exposure to the drug. This study undertook to investigate the clinicopathological features of ATIN related to antituberculous therapy.
We performed a retrospective study of all adult patients with a biopsy-proven diagnosis of ATIN on chemotherapy for tuberculosis. The patients presented with acute renal failure at our institution during 1995 - 2007. The demographic, clinical, biochemical and histopathological features were studied. The patient outcome and management were analyzed.
41 patients had histologically proven ATIN. 23 (56%) were female. The mean age at presentation was 42 years. The most common regimen included rifampicin used intermittently to treat pulmonary tuberculosis. The average duration of antituberculosis therapy was 19 days before presentation and the duration of the acute illness averaged 5 days. The most common clinical manifestation included gastro-intestinal symptoms occurring in 35 (85%) patients with associated hepatitis biochemically in 20 (53%) patients. No skin rashes were observed and eosinophilia was only present in two patients. Hematuria was observed universally without any significant proteinuria. Anemia was present in 37 (90%) patients, with associated thrombocytopenia in 15 (37%). Rifampicin was discontinued in 37 (90%) cases. Nine (22%) patients required dialysis. One patient failed to recover renal function and 4 (10%) patients died. Mortality was related to overwhelming tuberculosis infection. The main factor predicting the need for dialysis was duration of oliguria.
ATIN is a rare, but serious complication of repeat antituberculous therapy mainly due to re-exposure to rifampicin. Although the renal prognosis is generally good the disease does carry significant morbidity and mortality risks. A high index of suspicion is needed in re-treatment patients. A suggested screening test is for microhematuria with urine dipstix.
The raphe magnus (RM) participates in opioid analgesia and contains pain-modulatory neurons with respiration-related discharge. Here, we asked whether RM contributes to respiratory depression, the most prevalent lethal effect of opioids. To investigate whether opioidergic transmission in RM produces respiratory depression, we microinjected a mu-opioid receptor agonist, DAMGO, or morphine into the RM of awake rodents. In mice, opioid microinjection produced sustained decreases in respiratory rate (170 to 120 breaths/min), as well as heart rate (520 to 400 beats/min). Respiratory sinus arrhythmia, indicative of enhanced parasympathetic activity, was prevalent in mice receiving DAMGO microinjection. We performed similar experiments in rats but observed no changes in breathing rate or heart rate. Both rats and mice experienced significantly more episodes of bradypnea, indicative of impaired respiratory drive, after opioid microinjection. During spontaneous arousals, rats showed less tachycardia after opioid microinjection than before microinjection, suggestive of an attenuated sympathetic tone. Thus, activation of opioidergic signaling within RM produces effects beyond analgesia, including the unwanted destabilization of cardiorespiratory function. These adverse effects on homeostasis consequent to opioid microinjection imply a role for RM in regulating the balance of sympathetic and parasympathetic tone.
In vivo renal micropuncture techniques were used to locate the nephron site of hypercalciuria induced by acute gentamicin infusion in anaesthetized Sprague Dawley rats. Three series of experiments were conducted. The effect of gentamicin on calcium reabsorption in the proximal tubule (Series I) and loop of Henle (Series II) was investigated using in vivo microperfusion whereas the effect on distal calcium handling (Series III) was studied using in vivo microinfusion. In all three experimental series, acute systemic gentamicin infusion at 0.28 mg kg(-1) min(-1) caused significant hypercalciuria within 30 min of commencing drug infusion. Gentamicin had no effect on the rates of urine flow or sodium excretion. Acute gentamicin infusion had no effect on unidirectional calcium reabsorption in the proximal tubule or loop of Henle despite a simultaneous and highly significant hypercalciuria at the whole kidney level. Net fluid reabsorption was also unaffected by the drug in these nephron segments. Acute gentamicin infusion significantly increased the urinary recovery of calcium following microinfusion into early distal tubules, whereas urinary calcium recovery was decreased after microinfusion into late distal tubules. We conclude that acute gentamicin-induced hypercalciuria is mediated by a decrease in calcium reabsorption in the early distal tubule. Thus, the acute hypercalciuric effect of gentamicin occurs at a different nephron site to the nephrotoxic effects associated with longer-term administration of the drug. It is, therefore, unlikely that gentamicin-induced hypercalciuria is involved in the pathogenesis of subsequent proximal tubular cell injury.
Side effects of pentagastrin were registered in 50 patients before application of a gastric suction drainage tube, during the basal secretion period as well as after injection of 6 microgram/kg pentagastrin resp. 1 ml of physiological saline. Discrete symptoms occurred significantly more frequently after pentagastrin application: 28% of patients complained about nausea, 24% about tremor, 22% about hot feeling. These sensations occurred immediately after injection and continued for several minutes. In 4 persons the test had to be stopped because of collapse. There was no correlation between the frequency of symptoms, age of the patient, sex or gastric acidity. Causal relationships to lowering of blood pressure or changes of gastrointestinal motility are discussed.
Injection of fentanyl into the cisterna magna of the brain leads to hypotension and bradycardia in anesthetised dogs. To determine if this effect is related to the recently discovered opiate receptors fentanyl was perfused in increasing concentrations (2.5-20 microgram/ml) through the cerebro-ventricular system in conscious dogs. Blood pressure was recorded continuously from a punctured exteriorised carotid artery; heart rate was derived from the ECG. Baroreflex activity was tested repeatedly by clamping of both common carotid arteries. Cerebral activity was evaluated from the EEG. Perfusion of the fourth cerebral ventricle resulted in a concentration-related fall in heart rate by 43% and in an inhibition of the reflex response of heart rate to carotid clamping. In contrast, blood pressure fell only moderately by 14% and its reflex response was well maintained. The EEG pattern changed from frequencies in the beta-band (awake control) to gradual synchronisation with delta-activity corresponding to behavioural signs of tranquilisation and sleep-like states. All these effects were reversed by naloxone. No effects were seen when fentanyl was perfused through the lateral ventricles and third ventricle although this yielded similar serum concentration as after perfusion of the fourth ventricle. It is concluded that opiate receptors bordering the fourth cerebral ventricle mediate the cardiovascular and hypnotic action of fentanyl.
Venous thrombo-embolism is a major and often unrecognized cause of morbidity and mortality in patients after acute strokes. Three hundred and five elderly patients were randomly allocated to either control (161) or treatment (144) with 5000 units calcium heparin subcutaneously 8-hourly for two weeks. A reduction in deep-vein thrombosis rate from 72.7% in the control group to 22.2% in treatment patients was achieved. In patients who died (84), post-mortem examination to look for pulmonary emboli was performed in 71. Comparison between treated and untreated patients showed significantly fewer deaths and pulmonary emboli in the treated group. Most of the beneficial effect on mortality was seen in patients with lighter strokes. When patients with pulmonary emboli at post-mortem were excluded, there was no significant difference in the death rate in treatment (17) and control (14) groups. At post-mortem, 9.9% of the strokes were haemorrhagic (4 in the treatment and 3 in the control group). Low-dose calcium heparin given subcutaneously following acute stroke reduced the number of deep-vein thromboses, pulmonary emboli and deaths without increasing the number of haemorrhagic strokes in this study.
A 24-year-old woman with a history of penicillin allergy developed reversible acute renal failure after receiving cephalexin for 4 days. The patient experienced nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, pruritus, cough, and an elevated creatinine level of 2.2 mg/dl. The patient's creatinine level continued to rise, peaking at 5.3 mg/dl on hospital day 3. Nephrotoxic acute tubular necrosis was confirmed by electron microscopy. Within 1 month of discharge from the hospital, the patient's creatinine level decreased to 0.6 mg/dl. Although the renal injury most commonly associated with the cephalosporin class of antibiotics is allergic interstitial nephritis, currently available cephalosporins infrequently can cause direct tubular toxicity.
A 79-year-old Caucasian woman who had been taking alendronate 10 mg/day for over 2 years to prevent osteoporosis reported hearing "voices in her head" along with red-colored visual disturbances. These auditory hallucinations and visual disturbances began shortly after her regimen was changed from alendronate 10 mg/day to 70 mg once/week. Assessment of causality using the Naranjo and Jones algorithms revealed a "probable" and "highly probable" relationship, respectively, between this adverse drug event and the switch from daily to weekly alendronate therapy. Other bisphosphonates, such as etidronate and pamidronate, have caused both reversible and irreversible auditory, visual, and olfactory hallucinations beginning 2 hours--1 week after drug administration. The mechanism behind these adverse effects is unknown but is thought to be independent of calcium homeostasis. Clinicians should be aware of central nervous system toxicity as a rare but potential adverse effect associated with bisphosphonates.
N-cadherin has known to be involved in tumor progression and metastasis. However, it is still obscure about the signaling pathway involving in the processing of N-cadherin. Thus, we examined which signaling pathway plays a major role in the processing of N-cadherin in C6 glioma cells following treatment of cadmium (Cd), a highly ubiquitous heavy metal. A cleavage product of N-cadherin, N-cad/CTF2 was observed by the treatment of Cd to C6 cells in a time and concentration-dependent manner. The production of N-cad/CTF2 was inhibited by pretreatment of γ-secretase inhibitors or siRNA transfection of nicastrin, indicating that γ-secretase is involved in the cleavage. Interestingly, Cd could activate both ERK and JNK signaling pathways in C6 cells; however, γ-secretase-mediated N-cad/CTF2 production by Cd was completely blocked by MEK1/2 inhibitors PD184352 and U0126, but not by a JNK inhibitor SP600125, demonstrating that the ERK signaling pathway plays a major role in the cleavage. In addition, pretreatment of an antioxidant or Ca²⁺ blocker blocked the production of N-cad/CTF2 by Cd together with the inhibition of ERK1/2 phosphorylation. Collectively, these results suggest that Cd increases intracellular Ca²⁺ or ROS, which induces γ-secretase-dependent N-cad/CTF2 production via the activation of the ERK signaling pathway in C6 glial cells.
Paclitaxel and vincristine are chemotherapeutic drugs that often evoke a long-lasting painful peripheral neuropathy. Using drugs that reduce intracellular or extracellular calcium ions (Ca2+), we investigated the hypothesis that impaired Ca2+ regulation contributes to the chemotherapy-evoked neuropathic pain syndrome. For comparison, we also tested rats with painful peripheral neuropathy caused by nerve trauma and to the anti-human immunodeficiency virus nucleoside analog 2',3'-dideoxycytidine (ddC). Normal naïve (without neuropathy), paclitaxel-treated, and vincristine-treated rats received the following intrathecal injections: TMB-8 (46 nmol), Quin-2 (1.8 nmol), EGTA (0.1 micromol), EGTA-am (0.1 micromol), and their vehicle controls. Chronic constriction injury (CCI) rats were examined after TMB-8 and Quin-2 injections, and ddC-treated rats were examined after receiving TMB-8. Mechano-allodynia and mechano-hyperalgesia were evaluated after each injection. Drug effects on heat hyperalgesia were also tested in CCI rats. All four Ca2+-reducing drugs significantly inhibited mechano-allodynia and mechano-hyperalgesia in the rats treated with paclitaxel, vincristine, or ddC, but no effects were seen in the CCI or naïve rats. We conclude that a similar abnormality of cellular Ca2+ homeostasis contributes to the pain caused by paclitaxel, vincristine, and ddC, but not posttraumatic painful peripheral neuropathy.
Creatine kinase (CK) was used as a marker molecule to examine the side effect of damage to tissues by indomethacin (IM), an effective drug to treat rheumatoid arthritis and gout, with horseradish peroxidase and hydrogen peroxide (HRP-H2O2). IM inactivated CK during its interaction with HRP-H2O2. Under aerobic conditions, inactivation of CK significantly decreased. CK in rat heart homogenate was also inactivated by IM with HRP-H2O2. When IM was incubated with HRP-H2O2, the maximum absorption of IM at 280 nm rapidly decreased and a new peak at 410 nm occurred with isosbestic points at 260 and 312 nm. In contrast, under anaerobic conditions, the spectral change of IM was almost absent, indicating IM was oxidized to the yellow substance by HRP-H2O2. Adding catalase strongly inhibited the production of yellow substance. Sodium azide also blocked the formation of yellow substance and the inactivation of CK. Electron spin resonance signals of IM carbon-centered radical were detected using 2-methyl-2-nitrosopropane during the interaction of IM with HRP-H2O2 under anaerobic conditions. Oxygen was consumed during the interaction of IM with HRP-H2O2. These results suggest that IM carbon-centered radicals may rapidly react with O2 to generate the peroxyl radicals. Sulfhydryl groups and tryptophane residues of CK decreased during the interaction of IM with HRP-H2O2. Other sulfhydryl enzymes, including alcohol dehydrogenase and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, were also readily inactivated during the interaction with HRP-H2O2. Sulfhydryl enzymes seem to be very sensitive to IM activated by HRP-H2O2.
Comprehensive review of safety data from approximately 3500 patients who received nefazodone in premarketing clinical trials demonstrates the drug to be very well tolerated, with a favorable side effect profile compared with other antidepressant drugs. Nefazodone treatment was associated with fewer side effects than were the control drugs. The incidence of side effects was generally low, and treatment discontinuations for adverse effects were less frequent with nefazodone than with imipramine and comparable with fluoxetine. No late-appearing side effects or toxicity emerged during the long-term treatment (1 year or longer) of several hundred patients. There were no drug-related fatalities and no evidence that nefazodone caused specific organ toxicity, although some cardiovascular side effects were noted (e.g., asymptomatic reduced systolic blood pressure, asymptomatic sinus bradycardia). Experience in 488 elderly patients treated with nefazodone yielded no evidence of increased susceptibility of older patients to nefazodone-associated adverse experiences, including those pertaining to the cardiovascular system. However, treatment should be initiated at a reduced dose in elderly patients because of reduced hepatic clearance of nefazodone in this age group. Final dose range may be similar in healthy younger and older patients. Although nefazodone may interact with some other medications (e.g., increases at steady state in AUC: alprazolam, twofold; triazolam, fourfold), drug-drug interactions involving patients have been clinically minor. On the basis of the inhibition of cytochrome P450 3A4 isoenzyme by nefazodone in vitro, coadministration of terfenadine or astemizole with nefazodone is contraindicated because nefazodone can increase the plasma levels of these two drugs. Extensive clinical experience provides substantial evidence that nefazodone is an extremely safe and effective treatment for depression, with important advantages over existing therapies. Therapeutic benefits include a low incidence of clinically troublesome side effects and lack of unwanted psychic activation, sexual dysfunction, weight change, and the cardiotoxicity of other antidepressants.
Abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs) exhibit marked sexual dimorphism with higher prevalence in men. Similarly, AAAs induced by angiotensin II (AngII) infusion into mice exhibit a higher prevalence in males. Testosterone promotes AAA pathology in adult male mice through regulation of angiotensin type 1A receptors (AT1aR) in abdominal aortas. However, mechanisms for sexual dimorphism of regional aortic angiotensin receptor expression and AAA formation are unknown.
To define the role of developmental testosterone exposures in sexual dimorphism of AAAs, we determined if exposure of neonatal female mice to testosterone confers adult susceptibility to AngII-induced AAAs.
One-day-old female hypercholesterolemic mice were administered a single dose of either vehicle or testosterone. Neonatal testosterone administration increased abdominal aortic AT1aR mRNA abundance and promoted a striking increase in AngII-induced AAAs in adult females exhibiting low serum testosterone concentrations. AngII-induced atherosclerosis and ascending aortic aneurysms were also increased by testosterone administration to neonatal females. In contrast, neonatal testosterone administration in males had no effect on AngII-induced vascular pathologies. Deficiency of AT1aR in smooth muscle cells reduced effects of neonatal testosterone to promote AAAs in adult females but did not alter atherosclerosis or ascending aortic aneurysms. Testosterone increased AT1aR mRNA abundance and hydrogen peroxide generation in cultured abdominal aortic SMCs. Increased AT1aR mRNA abundance was maintained during progressive passaging of female smooth muscle cells.
These data reveal an unrecognized role of transient sex hormone exposures during neonatal development as long-lasting mediators of regional aortic AT1aR expression and sexual dimorphism of AAAs.
We used in vivo microdialysis in awake rats to test the hypothesis that intravenous morphine increases serotonin (5-HT) release within the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM). We also injected morphine into various sites along the rostrocaudal extent of the periaqueductal gray (PAG), and examined the extent of its diffusion to the RVM. Intravenous morphine (3.0 mg/kg) produced thermal antinociception and increased RVM dialysate 5-HT, 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid (5-HIAA), and homovanillic acid (HVA) in a naloxone-reversible manner. As neither PAG microinjection of morphine (5 micro g/0.5 micro L) nor RVM administration of fentanyl or d-Ala(2),NMePhe(4),Gly-ol(5)]enkephalin (DAMGO) increased RVM 5-HT, we were unable to determine the precise site of action of morphine. Surprisingly, peak morphine levels in the RVM were higher after microinjection into the caudal PAG as compared to either intravenous injection or microinjection into more rostral sites within the PAG. Naloxone-precipitated withdrawal in morphine-tolerant rats not only increased extracellular 5-HT in the RVM, but also dopamine (DA) and HVA. We conclude that substantial amounts of morphine diffuse from the PAG to the RVM, and speculate that opioid receptor interactions at multiple brain sites mediate the analgesic effects of PAG morphine. Further studies will be required to elucidate the contribution of 5-HT and DA release in the RVM to opioid analgesia and opioid withdrawal.
The extrapyramidal side effects of neuroleptics vary not only in their clinical manifestations, but also in the severity of the symptoms and the response to treatment. The most common reactions are Parkinson-like symptoms, dystonias, dyskinesias and akathisia. All of these are reversible side effects and in general respond well to the administration of anti-parkinson medication. On the other hand, tardive dyskinesia is an involuntary movement disorder that is irreversible and difficult to treat. Some forms of severe Parkinsonism may evolve at times into akinetic and catatonic forms and, even worse, into a morbid and lethal condition called the neuroleptic malignant syndrome. The case presented here responded well to the use of amantadine hydrocloride, but not all cases respond well. Psychiatric research regarding the use of dantrium would be most important and beneficial. This treatment is known more to anesthesiologists as effective in the treatment of a syndrome characterized by profound rigidity accompanied by neurovegetative symptoms and high fever found as a complication of general anesthesia. However, in the United States there are legal obstacles to test this drug with psychiatric patients. It is possible that these restrictions are less rigid in Latin America.
A case of haemolytic uraemic syndrome is described in a young woman in whom the illness was apparently precipitated by the change from a low to a high oestrogen containing oral contraceptive agent.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy is a lethal muscle wasting disorder, resulting from mutations in the gene encoding for the skeletal muscle protein dystrophin. The absence of functional dystrophin leaves the muscle membrane vulnerable to damage during contraction. Damage initially occurs as 'tears' in the membrane, this damage can be exacerbated by the inflammatory response leading to myofibre necrosis rather than repair. Mast cells resident within skeletal muscle represent an immediate source of pro-inflammatory cytokines. We hypothesise that blockade of mast cell degranulation would reduce the extent of myofibre necrosis in the mdx mouse. Daily cromolyn injections were performed on young and exercised adult mdx mice and histological analysis confirmed that mast cell degranulation contributes to myofibre necrosis. This research identified high biological variation between individual mdx mice in the severity of the dystrophic pathology, and supported a relationship between extent of muscle damage in adult mdx mice and their individual enthusiasm for voluntary wheel running.
