One of the steps in thyroid hormone biosynthesis is the generation of hydrogen peroxide by dual oxidases (DUOX). Only one study reported mutations in DUOX2 gene in congenital hypothyroidism (CH) associated with total iodide organification defect (TIOD) in homozygosity or with partial iodide organification defect (PIOD) in heterozygous patients. We report genetic and phenotypic characterization of a family affected with isolated CH. The proband was positive at neonatal TSH screening. High serum TSH with low FT4 confirmed the diagnosis. At 4 years, TSH was high after L-T(4) withdrawal and (123)I scintigraphy with perchlorate discharge test revealed a PIOD. His brother was negative at TSH screening, but perinatal iodine overload was documented by urinary test. Serum TSH was elevated at postnatal day 11 and progressively increased together with a decline in urinary iodine. Reevaluation at 4 years confirmed a persistent hyperthyrotropinemia associated with PIOD. Both siblings resulted compound heterozygotes for two novel DUOX2 variants, a nonsense mutation (c.2524C>T, p.Arg842X) and a missense substitution (c.1126C>T, p.Arg376Trp), undetected in 140 control alleles. The parents had normal thyroid function and were heterozygous carriers of mutant alleles. In conclusion, we report two novel sequence variants in DUOX2 gene that are associated with persistent mild hypothyroidism and PIOD in two siblings. Different neonatal iodine supply apparently acted as disease modifier, justifying the discrepant results at TSH screening in the two siblings with same DUOX2 genotype and suggesting that mild dyshormonogenic defects may remain undisclosed in areas characterized by elevated iodine intake.
An effort was made to determine the efficacy of auditory threshold monitoring of patients receiving ototoxic drugs. Forty-four patients treated with either tobramycin or vancomycin for osteomyelitis were tested at the beginning of treatment, following treatment, and twice weekly during treatment when possible. All patients had renal function carefully monitored. Peak and trough drug levels were kept out of the toxic range throughout the study. In no patient did indisputable ototoxicity occur, and therefore, no conclusion about the most efficacious schedule for auditory monitoring of patients receiving ototoxic drugs was made, and what constitutes a significant intratherapeutic threshold shift is still in question. Until further data are collected, monitoring of renal function and peak and trough drug levels, as well as patient counseling, is recommended. Pretherapy and posttherapy auditory monitoring and intratherapeutic monitoring of high-risk patients and those who develop aural symptoms may prove beneficial.
To investigate the expression profiles and protective roles of the inducible isoform of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) in cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis, as the HO system is involved in heme degradation and plays an important role in cellular homeostasis but its characterization is still unknown in urinary tract diseases.
In female Sprague-Dawley rats CYP was administed intraperitoneally and the bladders excised at various time points. In separate experiments, hemin, an inducer of HO, was administered before CYP treatment, and bladders were harvested 24 h after CYP injection. The expressions of HO-1 and HO-2 were investigated by reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemistry. The effects of CYP with/without hemin pretreatment were evaluated by microscopic features, bladder wet weight, myeloperoxidase activity, nitric oxide (NO)-metabolite production, and expression levels of inflammation-related genes.
CYP injection resulted in severe cystitis with time-dependent increases both in bladder wet weight and HO-1 mRNA expression. Pretreatment with hemin enhanced the CYP-induced expression of HO-1 mRNA and protein further, but significantly ameliorated inflammatory changes and reduced the increases in bladder oedema and myeloperoxidase activity. NO-metabolite production and inducible NO synthase (iNOS) expression, induced by CYP, were down-regulated significantly by hemin pretreatment. By contrast, HO-2 was constitutively present in the urothelium and its expression was not influenced by CYP or by CYP plus hemin.
HO-1 expression is up-regulated in bladders with CYP-induced haemorrhagic cystitis, and this inducible enzyme plays cytoprotective roles in association with down-regulation of NO production and iNOS expression. Our results suggest that HO-1 induction might have therapeutic potential against inflammatory insults such as CYP-induced cystitis.
The objective of this study was to compare the block durations and haemodynamic effects associated with intrathecal levobupivacaine or bupivacaine in elderly patients undergoing transurethral prostate surgery. Eighty patients were prospectively randomised to receive plain 1.5 ml levobupivacaine 0.5% (group levobupivacaine) or 1.5 ml plain bupivacaine 0.5% (group bupivacaine) in combination with fentanyl 0.3 ml (15 microg) for spinal anaesthesia. The time to reach T10 and peak sensory block level, and to maximum motor block were significantly shorter in group bupivacaine compared to group levobupivacaine (p < 0.05). Peak sensory block level was also significantly higher in group bupivacaine. In group bupivacaine, mean arterial pressure was significantly lower than group levobupivacaine, starting from 10 min until 30 min after injection (p < 0.05). Hypotension and nausea were less common in group levobupivacaine than group bupivacaine (p < 0.05). Because of the better haemodynamic stability and fewer side-effects associated with levobupivacaine, it may be preferred for spinal anaesthesia in elderly patients.
We retrospectively reviewed our experience with 45 kidney transplant recipients (KTR) that were switched from CNI to SRL, mainly for chronic allograft dysfunction (CAD) (41/45). The mean serum creatinine at switch was 2.5 +/- 0.8 mg/dl. At 1 year, patient survival was 93%. Death-censored graft survival was 67% at 1 year and 54% at 2 years. SRL was stopped because of severe side effects in 15 patients. Among these, eight patients developed 'de novo' high-grade proteinuria. Univariate analysis revealed that (1) a higher SRL level at 1 month was a predictor of SRL withdrawal due to severe side effects (P = 0.006), and (2) predictors of graft failure after SRL conversion were low SRL loading dose (P = 0.03) and a higher creatinine level at conversion (P = 0.003). In conclusion, the therapeutic index of SRL in patients suffering from CAD is narrow, with high exposure triggering serious adverse events that may mandate SRL discontinuation, while too low exposure may expose patients to under-immunosuppression and graft loss.
Chronic valproate therapy induces symptomatic tremor in about 10% of patients. We studied the effects of propranolol, amantadine, diphenhydramine, benztropine, and cyproheptadine on these tremors in 19 patients by using serial accelerometric recordings. Propranolol was clearly the most therapeutic. Amantadine was moderately effective, but cyproheptadine, diphenhydramine, and benztropine gave little or no relief.
The alpha-adrenergic nature of tetramethylpyrazine (TMPZ), a commonly used cardiovascular drug in China, was studied with a combined bradycardia and mydriasis model in the pentobarbital anesthesized rat. Intravenous injections of TMPZ at 1-30 mg/kg failed to change heart rate or pupil size, whereas iv injections of both clonidine (alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist, 1-30 micrograms/kg) and methoxamine (alpha 1-adrenoceptor agonist, 10-300 micrograms/kg) caused dose-dependent bradycardia and mydriasis. Pretreatment of rats with TMPZ (30 mg/kg) did not significantly change clonidine- or methoxamine-induced bradycardia or mydriasis. However, when TMPZ was injected 2 min after clonidine administration (30 micrograms/kg), while the mydriasis reached a maximum, it slightly but significantly reversed the clonidine-induced mydriasis for 15-20 s. In contrast, the alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist idazoxan (6 micrograms/kg) caused the same degree of reduction of the clonidine-induced mydriasis for greater than 2 min. Our results suggested that TMPZ at the doses studied did not have alpha-adrenoceptor agonistic activities, but may have slight alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonistic activities.
To assess in patients with long-term lithium treatment the incidence and prevalence of hypercalcaemia and hyperparathyroidism, and to evaluate the relationship between parathyroid function and renal function: also, to examine the effect of treatment discontinuation.
Part 1. An epidemiological cross-sectional study covering defined catchment areas. Part 2. A lithium withdrawal study in a subgroup of the patients who were examined after a mean of 8.5 (4-16) weeks off lithium. Comparisons were made with a group of psychiatric non-lithium patients matched for sex and age.
Outpatient treatment at nine psychiatric departments in southern Sweden.
Inclusion criterion was 15 years or more on lithium. Excluded from Part 2 were patients with a high risk of relapse. Out of 215 identified patients. 142 (66%) entered and completed Part 1, while 13 of the latter entered and completed Part 2.
The point prevalence of persistent hypercalcaemia was 3.6% and of surgically verified hyperparathyroidism 2.7%. The observed incidence of hyperparathyroidism over 19 years was 6.3%. It was significantly higher than expected in females. In the withdrawal group serum calcium was significantly increased compared to controls, and did not change during 8.5 weeks without lithium. Isostenuria was significantly more common among patients with than without hyperparathyroidism.
The point prevalence, and the 19-year incidence of hyperparathyroidism, were increased. The point prevalence of hypercalcaemia was also increased, and not reversible during 8.5 weeks off lithium. The findings support the hypothesis of a causal relationship between lithium treatment and hyperparathyroidism. Hypercalcaemia and hyperparathyroidism are sometimes aetiologically related to reduced renal function in long-term lithium patients.
Erlotinib, a popular drug for treating non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), causes diarrhea in approximately 55% of patients receiving this drug. In the present study, we found that erlotinib induced barrier dysfunction in rat small intestine epithelial cells (IEC-6) by increasing epithelial permeability and down-regulating E-cadherin. The mRNA levels of various pro-inflammatory cytokines (Il-6, Il-25 and Il-17f) were increased after erlotinib treatment in IEC-6 cells. Erlotinib concentration- and time-dependently induced apoptosis and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress in both IEC-6 and human colon epithelial cells (CCD 841 CoN). Intestinal epithelial injury was also observed in male C57BL/6J mice administrated with erlotinib. Knockdown of C/EBP homologous protein (CHOP) with small interference RNA partially reversed erlotinib-induced apoptosis, production of IL-6 and down-regulation of E-cadherin in cultured intestinal epithelial cells. In conclusion, erlotinib caused ER stress-mediated injury in the intestinal epithelium, contributing to its side effects of diarrhea in patients.
To present a case of complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) type II with sympathetic dysfunction and trophic changes in the orofacial region, which was partially responsive to intravenous ketamine.
The patient was a 68-year-old man who suffered from inveterate pain with trophic changes of the right face and tongue and vasomotor dysfunction on the right side of the face after ipsilateral trigeminal nerve block. Allodynia and hyperalgesia were observed on the affected side of the face. Pain initially improved after sympathetic nerve block, but similar pain returned that was unresponsive to the same procedure. Repeated intravenous administration of low-dose ketamine preceded by intravenous midazolam alleviated the pain, but trophic changes of the tongue persisted.
CRPS in the orofacial region has not been clearly defined and has been infrequently documented. Clinical findings in this patient met the criteria of the International Association for the Study of Pain's and Harden's diagnostic criteria for CRPS. The reason for gradual pain relief after induction of intravenous ketamine therapy was unclear, but the fact that only ketamine and not other various pain medicines or procedures alleviated the pain is important to note.
Distinct cases of CRPS involving the orofacial region are rare. Thorough observations and documentation of signs and symptoms may lead to future standardization of diagnostic criteria and treatment strategies for this disorder.
A patient receiving sotalol developed recurrent torsades de pointes following the addition of terfenadine (Seldane) to her medical regimen. A 71-year-old woman with a history of atrial fibrillation successfully suppressed with sotalol, 80 mg bid, was started on terfenadine, 60 mg bid. Eight days later, she developed repeated self-terminating episodes of torsades de pointes. Sotalol and terfenadine were discontinued, and no further arrhythmia was observed after 72 hours of temporary pacing was discontinued.
Adverse birth outcomes such as low birth weight and premature birth have been previously linked with exposure to ambient air pollution. Most studies relied on a limited number of monitors in the region of interest, which can introduce exposure error or restrict the analysis to persons living near a monitor, which reduces sample size and generalizability and may create selection bias.
We evaluated the relationship between premature birth and birth weight with exposure to ambient particulate matter (PM₂.₅) levels during pregnancy in Massachusetts for a 9-year period (2000-2008). Building on a novel method we developed for predicting daily PM₂.₅ at the spatial resolution of a 10x10 km grid across New-England, we estimated the average exposure during 30 and 90 days prior to birth as well as the full pregnancy period for each mother. We used linear and logistic mixed models to estimate the association between PM₂.₅ exposure and birth weight (among full term births) and PM₂.₅ exposure and preterm birth adjusting for infant sex, maternal age, maternal race, mean income, maternal education level, prenatal care, gestational age, maternal smoking, percent of open space near mothers residence, average traffic density and mothers health.
Birth weight was negatively associated with PM₂.₅ across all tested periods. For example, a 10 μg/m³ increase of PM₂.₅ exposure during the entire pregnancy was significantly associated with a decrease of 13.80 g [95% confidence interval (CI) = -21.10, -6.05] in birth weight after controlling for other factors, including traffic exposure. The odds ratio for a premature birth was 1.06 (95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.01-1.13) for each 10 μg/m3 increase of PM₂.₅ exposure during the entire pregnancy period.
The presented study suggests that exposure to PM₂.₅ during the last month of pregnancy contributes to risks for lower birth weight and preterm birth in infants.
Alcoholic liver disease may be frequently complicated by mesangial proliferation with the deposition of IgA in glomeruli and glomerulosclerosis, but these glomerular lesions are usually mild and without greater impact on renal function. To evaluate the putative role of ethanol in glomerular pathology we studied the influence of chronic ethanol administration on the development of experimental adriamycin nephropathy in rats. Nephrotic syndrome was induced by a single i.v. dose of adriamycin (5 mg/kg body wt) both in rats given ethanol at a dose of 4 g/day for 3 months and control rats given standard chow. Further controls on both diets without adriamycin administration were also studied. Blood and urine were examined before and 3 and 6 weeks after adriamycin administration. All rats were killed and examined histologically 6 weeks after adriamycin administration. Ethanol fed nephrotic rats were more catabolic than control nephrotic rats (with higher free fatty acids, lower glycaemia, higher urea with similar creatinine) and had lower proteinuria (0.55 +/- 0.34 versus 5.79 +/- 3.15 g of protein/nmol of creatinine, P < 0.05), higher albuminaemia (5.41 +/- 2.62 versus 1.92 +/- 1.94 g/l, P < 0.01), lower plasma cholesterol (6.54 +/- 2.6 versus 10.57 +/- 2.92 mmol/l, P < 0.01) and triglycerides. The development of nephrotic syndrome and renal morphological changes after adriamycin administration in rats seemed to be ameliorated, or at least delayed by chronic ethanol feeding with much milder and focal glomerulosclerosis as compared with more severe and diffuse glomerulosclerosis in control nephrotic animals. The mechanism of this effect of chronic ethanol feeding remains to be elucidated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effects of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) on the induction of convulsions by local anesthetics were investigated in mice and rats. Intraventricular administration of 0.8-1.6 mg GABA protected rats against convulsions induced by procaine, lidocaine, cocaine, and tetracaine in a dose-related manner. Intraperitoneal gamma-acetylenic GABA was also effective against procaine-induced convulsions in mice, but the metabolites of GABA, gamma-hydroxybutyrate, and gamma-butyrolactone were without effect. Intraventricular GABA, 1.6 mg, delayed the onset of convulsions induced by hydrazine, but had no influence on the incidence of convulsions induced by nicotine, pentylenetetrazol, picrotoxin, or strychnine. These results suggest that the GABA system may be involved in the mechanisms of local anesthetic-induced convulsions.
While the incidence of new-onset diabetes mellitus may be increasing in patients with schizophrenia treated with certain atypical antipsychotic agents, it remains unclear whether atypical agents are directly affecting glucose metabolism or simply increasing known risk factors for diabetes.
To study the 2 drugs most clearly implicated (clozapine and olanzapine) and risperidone using a frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test.
A cross-sectional design in stable, treated patients with schizophrenia evaluated using a frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test and the Bergman minimal model analysis.
Subjects were recruited from an urban community mental health clinic and were studied at a general clinical research center. Patients Fifty subjects signed informed consent and 41 underwent the frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test. Thirty-six nonobese subjects with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder, matched by body mass index and treated with either clozapine, olanzapine, or risperidone, were included in the analysis.
Fasting plasma glucose and fasting serum insulin levels, insulin sensitivity index, homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance, and glucose effectiveness.
The mean +/- SD duration of treatment with the identified atypical antipsychotic agent was 68.3 +/- 28.9 months (clozapine), 29.5 +/- 17.5 months (olanzapine), and 40.9 +/- 33.7 (risperidone). Fasting serum insulin concentrations differed among groups (F(33) = 3.35; P = .047) (clozapine>olanzapine>risperidone) with significant differences between clozapine and risperidone (t(33) = 2.32; P = .03) and olanzapine and risperidone (t(33) = 2.15; P = .04). There was a significant difference in insulin sensitivity index among groups (F(33) = 10.66; P<.001) (clozapine<olanzapine<risperidone), with subjects who received clozapine and olanzapine exhibiting significant insulin resistance compared with subjects who were treated with risperidone (clozapine vs risperidone, t(33) = -4.29; P<.001; olanzapine vs risperidone, t(33) = -3.62; P = .001 [P<.001]). The homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance also differed significantly among groups (F(33) = 4.92; P = .01) (clozapine>olanzapine>risperidone) (clozapine vs risperidone, t(33) = 2.94; P = .006; olanzapine vs risperidone, t(33) = 2.42; P = .02). There was a significant difference among groups in glucose effectiveness (F(30) = 4.18; P = .02) (clozapine<olanzapine<risperidone) with significant differences between clozapine and risperidone (t(30) = -2.59; P = .02) and olanzapine and risperidone (t(30) = -2.34, P = .03).
Both nonobese clozapine- and olanzapine-treated groups displayed significant insulin resistance and impairment of glucose effectiveness compared with risperidone-treated subjects. Patients taking clozapine and olanzapine must be examined for insulin resistance and its consequences.
A 46-year-old woman with a previous history of thyroiditis but without clinical evidence of preexisting liver disease presented with severe acute hepatitis while under benzarone therapy (Fragivix, 400 mg per day, p.o.). Because of negative serological work-up, a tentative diagnosis of "sporadic" non-A, non-B hepatitis was considered. Two months after resolution, a relapse of clinical and biochemical features of hepatitis occurring 10 days after the spontaneous resumption of therapy led to the diagnosis of drug-induced liver damage. This case represents the third reported case of severe hepatitis related to benzarone. The mechanism of liver toxicity was likely due to hypersensitivity.
Aspirin and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) have been shown to reduce risk of colorectal cancer. Although inhibition of cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 is generally thought to be the relevant mechanism, aspirin-like drugs apparently are involved in other pathways and mechanisms. We explore the associations between aspirin/NSAIDs, the insulin-related pathway, and the risk of colorectal cancer.
Genetic polymorphisms of five genes identified as being involved in an insulin-related pathway were genotyped using data collected in a case-control study of 1346 incident colon cancer cases and 1544 population-based controls and 952 incident rectal cancer cases and 1205 controls. Genotypes assessed were the 3' untranslated region poly(A) and the intron 8 BsmI polymorphisms of the VDR gene, a CA repeat polymorphism of the IGF1 gene, the A/C polymorphism at nucleotide -202 of the IGFBP3, the Gly972Arg polymorphism of the IRS1 gene, and the Gly1057Asp polymorphism of the IRS2 gene.
Use of aspirin and NSAIDs was associated with a decreased risk of colorectal cancer, with slightly greater protection from NSAIDs than aspirin for rectal cancer. We observed a significant interaction between IRS1 genotype and aspirin/NSAIDs use and risk of colorectal cancer. Relative to the GR/RR IRS1 genotype, a protective effect from the GG IRS1 genotype was seen in those who did not use NSAIDs; use of NSAIDs was protective for all genotypes. These associations were especially strong for those diagnosed prior to age 65 (P interaction = 0.0006). We also observed a significant interaction between aspirin/NSAIDs use and the VDR gene. Having the SS or BB VDR genotypes reduced risk of colorectal cancer among non-aspirin/NSAID users; however, aspirin/NSAIDs reduced risk for all VDR genotypes.
These data support the protective effect of aspirin and NSAIDs on colorectal cancer risk. In addition, the observed interactions for aspirin/NSAIDs and IRS1 and VDR genotypes suggest that mechanisms other than COX-2 inhibition may be contributing to the protective effect of aspirin and NSAIDs on colorectal cancer risk.
The mechanisms for the relationship between particulate air pollution and cardiac disease are not fully understood. Air pollution-induced myocardial ischemia is one of the potentially important mechanisms.
We investigate the acute effects and the time course of fine particulate pollution (PM2.5) on myocardium ischemic injury as assessed by ST-segment height in a community-based sample of 106 healthy non-smokers. Twenty-four hour beat-to-beat electrocardiogram (ECG) data were obtained using a high resolution 12-lead Holter ECG system. After visually identifying and removing all the artifacts and arrhythmic beats, we calculated beat-to-beat ST-height from ten leads (inferior leads II, III, and aVF; anterior leads V3 and V4; septal leads V1 and V2; lateral leads I, V5, and V6,). Individual-level 24-hour real-time PM2.5 concentration was obtained by a continuous personal PM2.5 monitor. We then calculated, on a 30-minute basis, the corresponding time-of-the-day specific average exposure to PM2.5 for each participant. Distributed lag models under a linear mixed-effects models framework were used to assess the regression coefficients between 30-minute PM2.5 and ST-height measures from each lead; i.e., one lag indicates a 30-minute separation between the exposure and outcome.
The mean (SD) age was 56 (7.6) years, with 41% male and 74% white. The mean (SD) PM2.5 exposure was 14 (22) μg/m3. All inferior leads (II, III, and aVF) and two out of three lateral leads (I and V6), showed a significant association between higher PM2.5 levels and higher ST-height. Most of the adverse effects occurred within two hours after PM2.5 exposure. The multivariable adjusted regression coefficients β (95% CI) of the cumulative effect due to a 10 μg/m3 increase in Lag 0-4 PM2.5 on ST-I, II, III, aVF and ST-V6 were 0.29 (0.01-0.56) μV, 0.79 (0.20-1.39) μV, 0.52 (0.01-1.05) μV, 0.65 (0.11-1.19) μV, and 0.58 (0.07-1.09) μV, respectively, with all p < 0.05.
Increased PM2.5 concentration is associated with immediate increase in ST-segment height in inferior and lateral leads, generally within two hours. Such an acute effect of PM2.5 may contribute to increased potential for regional myocardial ischemic injury among healthy individuals.
The potassium salt of a chemically stabilized dipeptide, {1-[4-(1 H-tetrazol-5-yl)butyl]indol-3-yl}carbonyl-Hyp-Nal-N(methyl)-Bzl , (Hyp = (R)-4-hydroxy-L-proline; Nal = 3-L-(beta-naphthyl)-alanine), S18523, is described as a new water-soluble, potent and selective NK1 receptor antagonist. The low molecular weight antagonist (M(r) = 736) displays nanomolar potency (pA2 = 9.6) in the rabbit vena cava (NK1) bioassay and nanomolar affinity (pKi = 9.1) on the human NK1 receptor expressed by lymphoblastoma cells. It is devoid of mu-opiate affinity (Ki > 10(-4) M with respect to tritiated Tyr-DAla-Gly-MePhe-Gly-ol), has negligible calcium-channel affinity (estimated Ki = 2.6 x 10(-5) M, with respect to isradipine) and does not cause peritoneal mast-cell degranulation. S18523 has strong antinociceptive effects in three classical pain tests in vivo both by i.v. and p.o. routes. The dipeptide potently antagonizes bronchoconstriction provoked by exogenous substance P in the guinea-pig and acts longer than the non-peptide antagonist CP99994, when administered as aerosol. Finally, S18523 displays antiinflammatory properties, since it dose-dependently inhibits substance P-induced plasma extravasation both in the bladder (ID50 = 0.18 mg/kg i.v.) and bronchi (ID50 = 0.14 mg/kg i.v.) of the guinea-pig.
Estrogens protect ovariectomized rats from hippocampal injury induced by kainic acid-induced status epilepticus (SE). We compared the effects of 17beta-estradiol in adult male and ovariectomized female rats subjected to lithium-pilocarpine-induced SE. Rats received subcutaneous injections of 17beta-estradiol (2 microg/rat) or oil once daily for four consecutive days. SE was induced 20 h following the second injection and terminated 3 h later. The extent of silver-stained CA3 and CA1 hippocampal neurons was evaluated 2 days after SE. 17beta-Estradiol did not alter the onset of first clonus in ovariectomized rats but accelerated it in males. 17beta-Estradiol reduced the argyrophilic neurons in the CA1 and CA3-C sectors of ovariectomized rats. In males, estradiol increased the total damage score. These findings suggest that the effects of estradiol on seizure threshold and damage may be altered by sex-related differences in the hormonal environment.
Despite therapy with diuretics, ACE inhibitors and digoxin morbidity and mortality in heart failure remain high and might respond favorably to an additional vasodilator.
Male patients (n=450) with chronic heart failure (cardiac dysfunction and impaired exercise performance) on optimal current therapy (97% enalapril, 89% diuretics) were randomly assigned to double-blind treatment with felodipine extended release (5 mg BID) or placebo for 3 to 39 months (average, 18 months). Felodipine significantly reduced blood pressure and, at 3 months, increased ejection fraction (2.1% versus -0.1% units in the placebo group, P=.001) and reduced plasma atrial natriuretic peptide levels (-2.9 versus 26.9 pg/mL in the placebo group, P=.01) but did not improve exercise tolerance, quality of life, or the need for hospitalization. During long-term follow-up, the favorable effects on ejection fraction and atrial peptide did not persist, but felodipine prevented worsening exercise tolerance and quality of life. In the felodipine and placebo groups, mortality (13.8% versus 12.8%, respectively) and hospitalization (43% versus 42%) rates were similar, and a higher incidence of peripheral edema was the only apparent side effect of felodipine therapy.
Felodipine exerts a well-tolerated additional sustained vasodilator effect in patients with heart failure treated with enalapril, but the only possible long-term benefit was a trend for better exercise tolerance and less depression of quality of life in the second year of treatment. The drug appears to be safe but not clearly efficacious in patients with heart failure.
The present study was undertaken to examine the role of sleep disturbance, induced by clomipramine administration, on the secretory rate of prolactin (PRL) in addition to the direct drug effect. Two groups of supine subjects were studied under placebo-controlled conditions, one during the night, when sleeping (n = 7) and the other at daytime, when awake (n = 6). Each subject received a single 50 mg dose of clomipramine given orally 2 hours before blood collection. Plasma PRL concentrations were analysed at 10 min intervals and underlying secretory rates calculated by a deconvolution procedure. For both experiments the drug intake led to significant increases in PRL secretion, acting preferentially on tonic secretion as pulse amplitude and frequency did not differ significantly from corresponding control values. During the night clomipramine ingestion altered the complete sleep architecture in that it suppressed REM sleep and the sleep cycles and induced increased wakefulness. As the relative increase in PRL secretion expressed as a percentage of the mean did not significantly differ between the night and day time studies (46 +/- 19% vs 34 +/- 10%), it can be concluded that the observed sleep disturbance did not interfere with the drug action per se. The presence of REM sleep was shown not to be a determining factor either for secretory pulse amplitude and frequency, as, for both, mean nocturnal values were similar with and without prior clomipramine ingestion.
The main aim of this double-blind randomized crossover study was to compare the efficacy and safety of alprostadil sterile powder (Caverject) (PGE1) in a new sterile powder formulation versus placebo in producing erection in patients with erectile dysfunction. Each patient was treated with 5 or 10 micrograms PGE1 and placebo in random order. If the results of the three injections were unsatisfactory, 20 micrograms PGE1 was administered in an open fashion. A total of 45 patients were recruited and evaluated; 31/45 patients (68.8%) responded to at least one injection of alprostadil. A dose-response relation was observed during the double-blind phase; the 10-micrograms dose was effective in 55.5% of patients. The acceptability and tolerability of the preparation, evaluated both clinically and by laboratory tests, was very good. In particular, only four drug-related side effects were observed, three (penile burning, penile pain and pain after injection) after 10 micrograms and one (hematoma) after 5 micrograms PGE.
Drinking alcohol is a risk factor for breast cancer. Salsolinol (SAL) is endogenously formed by a condensation reaction of dopamine with acetaldehyde, a major ethanol metabolite, and SAL is detected in blood and urine after alcohol intake. We investigated the possibility that SAL can participate in tumor initiation and promotion by causing DNA damage and cell proliferation, leading to alcohol-associated mammary carcinogenesis. SAL caused oxidative DNA damage including 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-oxodG), in the presence of transition metal ions, such as Cu(II) and Fe(III)EDTA. Inhibitory effects of scavengers on SAL-induced DNA damage and the electron spin resonance study indicated the involvement of H₂O₂, which is generated via the SAL radical. Experiments on scavengers and site specificity of DNA damage suggested ·OH generation via a Fenton reaction and copper-peroxide complexes in the presence of Fe(III)EDTA and Cu(II), respectively. SAL significantly increased 8-oxodG formation in normal mammary epithelial MCF-10A cells. In addition, SAL induced cell proliferation in estrogen receptor (ER)-negative MCF-10A cells, and the proliferation was inhibited by an antioxidant N-acetylcysteine and an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitor AG1478, suggesting that reactive oxygen species may participate in the proliferation of MCF-10A cells via EGFR activation. Furthermore, SAL induced proliferation in estrogen-sensitive breast cancer MCF-7 cells, and a surface plasmon resonance sensor revealed that SAL significantly increased the binding activity of ERα to the estrogen response element but not ERβ. In conclusion, SAL-induced DNA damage and cell proliferation may play a role in tumor initiation and promotion of multistage mammary carcinogenesis in relation to drinking alcohol.
The rapid fall in blood pressure after removal of the constricting clip in two-kidney one-clip (2K-1C) hypertension in the rat is not fully explained by inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system or change in sodium balance. It has been postulated that compounds released in the renal venous effluent following unclipping of 2K-1C rats have a central opiate-like action and endogenous opioids are recognized to have profound hypotensive properties. To investigate this, we removed the clip from, or performed a sham operation in, early phase (less than 6 weeks) 2K-1C hypertensive rats during an infusion of naloxone, an opioid antagonist, or vehicle alone. The infusion of naloxone did not affect the pattern of blood pressure fall in either unclipped or sham-operated rats. Both naloxone-treated and control groups were similarly normotensive at 24 hr postoperation, the MAP being significantly lower than in the sham-operated groups, which regained previously hypertensive levels. Heart rate was unchanged 24 hr postoperatively in all groups. Morphine-induced bradycardia and hypotension were significantly reduced by naloxone infusion. Thus, naloxone infusion had no effect on blood pressure or heart rate in either the sham-operated or the unclipped groups, indicating that endogenous opioids do not have a major role in the reversal of renovascular hypertension under these circumstances.
