The carcinogenic effects of individual polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) are well established. However, their potency within an environmental complex mixture is uncertain. We evaluated the influence of diesel exhaust particulate matter on PAH-induced cytochrome P450 (CYP) activity, PAH-DNA adduct formation, expression of certain candidate genes and the frequency of tumor initiation in the two-stage Sencar mouse model. To this end, we monitored the effects of treatment of mice with diesel exhaust, benzo[a]pyrene (BP), dibenzo[a,l]pyrene (DBP), or a combination of diesel exhaust with either carcinogenic PAH. The applied diesel particulate matter (SRM(1975)) altered the tumor initiating potency of DBP: a statistically significant decrease in overall tumor and carcinoma burden was observed following 25 weeks of promotion with 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA), compared with DBP exposure alone. From those mice that were treated at the beginning of the observation period with 2 nmol DBP all survivors developed tumors (9 out of 9 animals, 100%). Among all tumors counted at the end, nine carcinomas were detected and an overall tumor incidence of 2.6 tumors per tumor-bearing animal (TBA) was determined. By contrast, co-treatment of DBP with 50mg SRM(1975) led to a tumor rate of only 66% (19 out of 29 animals), occurrence of only three carcinomas in 29 animals and an overall rate of 2.1 tumors per TBA (P=0.04). In contrast to the results with DBP, the tumor incidence induced by 200 nmol BP was found slightly increased when co-treatment with SRM(1975) occurred (71% vs. 85% after 25 weeks). Despite this difference in tumor incidence, the numbers of carcinomas and tumors per TBA did not differ statistically significant between both treatment groups possibly due to the small size of the BP treatment group. Since bioactivation of DBP, but not BP, predominantly depends on CYP1B1 enzyme activity, SRM(1975) affected PAH-induced carcinogenesis in an antagonistic manner when CYP1B1-mediated bioactivation was required. The explanation most likely lies in the much stronger inhibitory effects of certain PAHs present in diesel exhaust on CYP1B1 compared to CYP1A1. In the present study we also found molecular markers such as highly elevated AKR1C21 and TNFRSF21 gene expression levels in tumor tissue derived from animals co-treated with SRM(1975) plus DBP. Therefore we validate microarray data as a source to uncover transcriptional signatures that may provide insights into molecular pathways affected following exposure to environmental complex mixtures such as diesel exhaust particulates.
Misclassification of exposure usually leads to biased estimates of exposure-response associations. This is particularly an issue in cases with multiple correlated exposures, where the direction of bias is uncertain. It is necessary to address this problem when considering associations with important public health implications such as the one between mortality and air pollution, because biased exposure effects can result in biased risk assessments. The National Morbidity and Mortality Air Pollution Study (NMMAPS) recently reported results from an assessment of multiple pollutants and daily mortality in 90 U.S. cities. That study assessed the independent associations of the selected pollutants with daily mortality in two-pollutant models. Excess mortality was associated with particulate matter of aerodynamic diameter less than or equal to 10 microm/m3 (PM10), but not with other pollutants, in these two pollutant models. The extent of bias due to measurement error in these reported results is unclear. Schwartz and Coull recently proposed a method that deals with multiple exposures and, under certain conditions, is resistant to measurement error. We applied this method to reanalyze the data from NMMAPS. For PM10, we found results similar to those reported previously from NMMAPS (0.24% increase in deaths per 10-microg/m3) increase in PM10). In addition, we report an important effect of carbon monoxide that had not been observed previously.
L-tryptophan (L-T) was added at a dose of 150-450 mg daily to eight Parkinsonian patients who developed visual hallucinations with paranoidal features under L-dopa (L-D) treatment (112.5-75 mg daily) in combination with alpha-methyldopa hydrazine (12.5-75 mg daily). In six patients L-T ameliorated the symptomatology by arresting the visual paranoidal hallucinations or diminishing their frequency and relieving the psychomotor agitation. As a 'side effect', L-T produced new 'pleasurable', 'LSD-like' visual images in three patients. In two patients, in whom L-T did not affect the mental disturbances, amelioration was obtained only by phenothiazines. Theoretical considerations on the role of dopamine in the genesis of visual hallucinations and mental disturbances emphasizes the benefit of L-T administration in this 'organomental' syndrome.
Most of the general population is exposed to carbaryl and other contemporary-use insecticides at low levels. Studies of laboratory animals, in addition to limited human data, show an association between carbaryl exposure and decreased semen quality. In the present study we explored whether environmental exposures to 1-naphthol (1N), a metabolite of carbaryl and naphthalene, and 3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridinol (TCPY), a metabolite of chlorpyrifos and chlorpyrifos-methyl, are associated with decreased semen quality in humans. Subjects (n=272) were recruited through a Massachusetts infertility clinic. Individual exposures were measured as spot urinary concentrations of 1N and TCPY adjusted using specific gravity. Semen quality was assessed as sperm concentration, percent motile sperm, and percent sperm with normal morphology, along with sperm motion parameters (straight-line velocity, curvilinear velocity, and linearity). Median TCPY and 1N concentrations were 3.22 and 3.19microg/L, respectively. For increasing 1N tertiles, adjusted odds ratios (ORs) were significantly elevated for below-reference sperm concentration (OR for low, medium, and high tertiles = 1.0, 4.2, 4.2, respectively; p-value for trend =0.01) and percent motile sperm (1.0, 2.5, 2.4; p-value for trend = 0.01). The sperm motion parameter most strongly associated with 1N was straight-line velocity. There were suggestive, borderline-significant associations for TCPY with sperm concentration and motility, whereas sperm morphology was weakly and nonsignificantly associated with both TCPY and 1N. The observed associations between altered semen quality and 1N are consistent with previous studies of carbaryl exposure, although suggestive associations with TCPY are difficult to interpret because human and animal data are currently limited.
Sterile hemorrhagic cystitis following cyclophosphamide (Cph) therapy is a relatively frequent and well-documented phenomenon. On the other hand, cancer of the urinary bladder associated with Cph therapy is rarely observed. We present two cases and summarize 32 patients reported in the literature. Thirty patients had malignant disease elsewhere, 27 of them nonsolid tumors. The other four patients received treatment with Cph for nonmalignant disease (systemic lupus erythematosus--3; rheumatoid arthritis--1). The bladder tumor developed several months to years after treatment. In 20 patients hemorrhagic cystitis antedated the tumors. We conclude that hemorrhagic cystitis in patients on Cph therapy should indicate at least temporary withdrawal of the drug. The decision to resume treatment should be taken with extreme caution considering the risk of the development of bladder cancer.
The effect of herbal preparation Qingjunyin (QJY) on the animal model of drug dependence was studied. After the morphinistic models of white rats and mice were made by ever increasing doses of morphine each time, the animals were divided into large dosage QJY group, small dosage QJY group, sustained morphine group and control group. The withdrawal symptoms were observed after naloxone was given to the animals intraperitoneally. The results showed that QJY groups withdrawal symptoms of the addicted white rats were alleviated, the number of jumps of the addicted mice was reduced, the scores of the principal symptoms of the animals were decreased, while the body weights of the animals were gained, comparing with the control group, the difference was significant (P < 0.01). The effects of QJY enhanced in the large dosage group, which suggests QJY has abstinence effects.
The activation of glial cells and enhanced proinflammatory cytokine expression at the spinal cord has been implicated in the development of morphine tolerance, and morphine withdrawal-induced hyperalgesia. The present study investigated the effect of propentofylline, a glial modulator, on the expression of analgesic tolerance and withdrawal-induced hyperalgesia in chronic morphine-treated rats. Chronic morphine administration through repeated subcutaneous injection induced glial activation and enhanced proinflammatory cytokine levels at the lumbar spinal cord. Moreover, glial activation and enhanced proinflammatory cytokine levels exhibited a temporal correlation with the expression of morphine tolerance and hyperalgesia. Consistently, propentofylline attenuated the development of hyperalgesia and the expression of spinal analgesic tolerance to morphine. The administration of propentofylline during the induction of morphine tolerance also attenuated glial activation and proinflammatory cytokines at the L5 lumbar spinal cord. These results further support the hypothesis that spinal glia and proinflammatory cytokines contribute to the mechanisms of morphine tolerance and associated abnormal pain sensitivity.
NMDA receptor antagonists impair learning and memory in animal models, presumably by inhibiting long-term potentiation in the motor cortex. Human studies are limited and restricted by the paucity of safe NMDA antagonists. Here, we investigated the contribution of glutamatergic neurotransmission to the capacity of acquiring motor-adaptation learning in humans. In a double-blind design, 200 mg of amantadine (a low-affinity NMDA receptor channel blocker) or a matching placebo were given orally to groups of 14 and 13 human healthy young volunteers, respectively. Blood samples were collected 3 h after treatment to assay plasma concentrations, and the subjects were then tested using a motor-adaptation paradigm consisting of an eight-target-pointing task. To rule out drug-related generalized impairments such sedation, tests measuring motor dexterity and attention were also administered pre- and post-treatment. Comparison of the mean performance levels on the motor-adaptation task revealed that subjects in the amantadine group performed at a lower level than those in the placebo group, but this difference did not reach significance. Interestingly, however, despite plasma amantadine concentrations being relatively low, ranging from 2.09 to 4.74 microM (mean=3.3 microM), they nevertheless correlated negatively with motor learning. Furthermore, when the amantadine group was divided into low-performance and high-performance subgroups, subjects in the former subgroup displayed mean amantadine concentrations 36% higher than the latter subgroup, and performed significantly worser than the placebo group. No change in performance was found on the motor-dexterity and attention tests. Altogether, our results lend support to the hypothesis that normal NMDA receptor function is necessary for the acquisition of motor adaptation.
Five patients with seizures related to imipenem administration are described. The potential of imipenem therapy to cause seizure was further studied in a mouse model and compared with the potential for seizure with penicillin and cefotaxime therapy. Penicillin caused ataxia and seizure at a mean mouse serum level of 5800 microns/mL, cefotaxime at 3400 microns/mL, and imipenem at a much lower serum concentration of 1900 microns/mL. The potent activity of imipenem therapy against bacteria, allowing for a clinical dose of only 2 g/d, is unfortunately offset by its higher propensity to induce neurologic symptoms in humans and mice at much smaller doses than would therapy with penicillin G or the cephalosporins, such as cefotaxime.
An unselected series is presented of 17 infants born to epileptic mothers and exposed to sodium valproate during pregnancy. Nine infants had minor abnormalities and of these infants five also had major malformations, described as the 'fetal valproate syndrome'. The most frequent malformation was congenital heart disease. Nine of the infants had manifestations of withdrawal, such as irritability, jitteriness, abnormalities of tone, seizures, and feeding problems. Four of these infants had an unrelated hypoglycaemia. The frequency of withdrawal symptoms was significantly related to the dose of valproate given to the mothers in the third trimester, and there was a tendency for both the frequency of the minor abnormalities and the major malformations to be related to the valproate dosage in the first trimester.
Conclusions regarding the contribution of low molecular weight secretory phospholipase A2 (sPLA2) enzymes in eicosanoid generation have relied on data obtained from transfected cells or the use of inhibitors that fail to discriminate between individual members of the large family of mammalian sPLA2 enzymes. To elucidate the role of group V sPLA2, we used targeted gene disruption to generate mice lacking this enzyme. Zymosan-induced generation of leukotriene C4 and prostaglandin E2 was attenuated approximately 50% in peritoneal macrophages from group V sPLA2-null mice compared with macrophages from wild-type littermates. Furthermore, the early phase of plasma exudation in response to intraperitoneal injection of zymosan and the accompanying in vivo generation of cysteinyl leukotrienes were markedly attenuated in group V sPLA2-null mice compared with wild-type controls. These data provide clear evidence of a role for group V sPLA2 in regulating eicosanoid generation in response to an acute innate stimulus of the immune response both in vitro and in vivo, suggesting a role for this enzyme in innate immunity.
The acute and chronic effects of cocaine over various organ systems have been well documented. A more recent approach to the effects of this drug has focused on the immunological consequences of its exposure, with results that indicate a possible carcinogenic effect.
A chart review was made in order to search for young pancreatic adenocarcinoma patients (arbitrarily defined as younger than 40) who made use of inhaled cocaine. This age was chosen because of a higher probability of cocaine addiction than at older ages.
Of the 198 patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma, 13 were younger than 40 years (range 19 to 37) and 5 of these had abused inhaled cocaine for about a decade. One patient had abused marijuana, and there was no information on drug usage in the other 7 patient charts.
Although this is a very small series, we believe there might be a possibility that chronic cocaine exposure predisposes to the development of pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Further studies are necessary.
This study was undertaken to examine whether exercise can prevent glucocorticoid-induced muscle atrophy in previously untrained individuals and to evaluate whether the time of hormone administration is a determinant in the muscle's response to glucocorticoids. Female rats were divided into five groups: 1) a sedentary group that received cortisol acetate (CA, 100 mg/kg body wt); 2) a sedentary group that received the dosing vehicle (1% aqueous carboxymethyl cellulose); 3) an exercise group that received CA immediately after each exercise session; 4) an exercise group that received CA 90 min after each exercise session; and 5) an exercise group that received the vehicle. Steroid treatment and exercise (28.7 m/min for 90 min/day) were performed for 11 consecutive days. Initiation of training prevented muscle mass loss by 60% in plantaris (P) muscles and by 25% in gastrocnemius (G) muscles. Time of steroid injection was not related to the muscle sparing response. In the glucocorticoid-treated exercised rats, the activities of citrate synthase, a training marker, increased 60% in P and 37% in G. Thus the exercise appeared to cause a greater recruitment of P muscles. These data support the hypothesis that entering into an exercise program can be effective in retarding glucocorticoid-induced muscle atrophy. The degree of atrophy prevention, however, may be related to the extent that specific muscles are recruited during exercise.
The penetration of telavancin was 2% into inflamed meninges and ca. 1 per thousand into noninflamed meninges after two intravenous injections (30 mg/kg of body weight). In experimental meningitis, telavancin was significantly superior to vancomycin combined with ceftriaxone against a penicillin-resistant pneumococcal strain. Against a methicillin-sensitive staphylococcal strain, telavancin was slightly but not significantly superior to vancomycin.
Hemolytic anemia is one of the major adverse events of the combination therapy of interferon and ribavirin. Because of ribavirin-related hemolytic anemia, dose reduction is a common event in this therapy. In this clinical retrospective cohort study we have examined the suitable timing of ribavirin reduction in patients with hemolysis during combination therapy.
Thirty-seven of 160 patients who had HCV-genotype 1b, had high virus load, and received 24-week combination therapy developed anemia with hemoglobin level <10 g/dl or anemia-related signs during therapy. After that, these 37 patients were reduced one tablet of ribavirin (200 mg) per day. After reduction of ribavirin, 27 of 37 patients could continue combination therapy for a total of 24 weeks (group A). However, 10 of 37 patients with reduction of ribavirin could not continue combination therapy because their <8.5 g/dl hemoglobin values decreased to or anemia-related severe side effects occurred (group B). We assessed the final efficacy and safety after reduction of ribavirin in groups A and B.
A sustained virological response (SVR) was 29.6% (8/27) in group A and 10% (1/10) in group B, respectively. A 34.4% (12/27) of SVR + biological response in group A was higher than 10% (1/10) in group B ( P = 0.051), with slight significance. With respect to hemoglobin level at the time of ribavirin reduction, a rate of continuation of therapy in patients with > or =10 g/dl hemoglobin was higher than that in patients with <10 g/dl ( P = 0.036).
Reduction of ribavirin at hemoglobin level > or =10 g/dl is suitable in terms of efficacy and side effects.
Liver cirrhosis is a critical stage of chronic liver diseases that can produce liver failure, portal hypertension and hepatocarcinoma. Sustained oxidative stress plays a key role in cell damage and fibrosis induced during liver cirrhosis. We evaluated the effect of oxidative stress regulation by melatonin on the development of parenchymal destruction and stellate cell activation in experimental liver cirrhosis. Melatonin was administered to rats with liver cirrhosis induced by thioacetamide (TAA) for 1 or 3 months. Liver injury was assessed by serological analysis, as well as hematoxylin-eosin staining and the in situ apoptosis detection assay in liver sections. Oxidative stress was evaluated by lipoperoxide and reduced glutathione levels, and by the measurement of catalase and superoxide dismutase activities in liver and serum respectively. The activation of stellate cells was evaluated by alpha-smooth muscle actin expression in liver sections. Our results showed that TAA induced oxidative stress with extensive tissue damage and enhanced alpha-smooth muscle actin expression in liver. Melatonin prevented the oxidative stress-related changes associated with TAA toxicity. In conclusion, the study showed that melatonin prevents the tissue damage and fibrosis associated with TAA-induced liver cirrhosis in rats.
The benefits of thrombolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction are now well established. However many uncertainties, such as adverse effects, are still remain in venous thromboembolic disease. We describe a unique patient who treated with streptokinase for the methylen tetrahydrofolate reductase mutation associated acute deep vein thrombosis and massive pulmonary embolism. After therapy patient developed acute anuric renal failure without an evidence of bleeding or immunologic reaction and we would like to review the renal side effects of streptokinase in patients with venous thromboembolic disease.
To investigate the effectiveness of the vitamin D analogues 1,25-(OH)(2)-16-ene-23-yne vitamin D(3) (16,23-D(3)) and 1alpha-hydroxyvitamin D(2) (1alpha-OH-D(2)) in inhibiting retinoblastoma growth in large tumors in a xenograft model and with prolonged use in a transgenic model.
For the large-tumor study, the xenograft athymic mouse/human retinoblastoma cell (Y-79) model was used. Subcutaneous tumors were allowed to grow to an average volume of 1600 mm(3). Systemic treatment with 1 of the vitamin D analogues or with vehicle (control groups) was carried out for 5 weeks. For the long-term study, transgenic beta-luteinizing hormone-large T antigen (LHbeta-Tag) mice were systemically treated with 1 of the 2 compounds or vehicle (control groups) for up to 15 weeks. Tumor size and signs of toxicity were assessed.
In the large-tumor study, tumor volume ratios for the 1alpha-OH-D(2) and 16,23-D(3) groups were significantly lower than those for controls (P<.002). No significant differences in tumor volume were seen between the 1alpha-OH-D(2) and 16,23-D(3) groups (P =.15). In the long-term study, the 1alpha-OH-D(2) group showed significantly smaller tumor size compared with its control (P<.001). No significant difference was seen between the 16,23-D(3) group and its control. Some toxic effects related to hypercalcemia were seen in both studies.
In athymic mice in the large-tumor study, both 1alpha-OH-D(2) and 16,23-D(3) were effective in inhibiting tumor growth compared with controls. In the long-term study, 1alpha-OH-D(2) inhibited tumor growth but 16,23-D(3) did not. Effective doses of both compounds caused hypercalcemia and a significant increase in mortality. Clinical Relevance Use of 1alpha-OH-D(2) inhibited tumor growth in large tumors and with long-term treatment compared with controls. Because of hypercalcemia-related toxic effects seen in the present experiments, in clinical trials, serum calcium levels should be carefully monitored. This analogue may require use with drugs that lower serum calcium levels or use of relatively lower doses or skipped doses. The ideal alternative solution would be to identify vitamin D analogues that retain the antineoplastic action without the calcemic activity.
Two markedly hypertensive patients in their 70s both had been on captopril for months when they each developed life threatening angioedema. Their families and physicians responded promptly and effectively in saving their lives with one patient receiving tracheotomy and the other 24 h of intensive care with adrenaline, hydrocortisone and antihistamines. Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are not without their significant risks and should not be used when less dangerous but equally efficacious medication is available.
We studied the effects of tandospirone, a 5-HT(1A) agonistic anxiolytic agent, on haloperidol-induced catalepsy and forebrain Fos expression in mice. Haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) markedly increased the catalepsy time and enhanced Fos expression in the shell (AcS) and core (AcC) regions of the nucleus accumbens, the dorsolateral striatum (dlST), and the lateral septal nucleus (LSN). Tandospirone (0.1 - 1 mg/kg, s.c.) significantly alleviated haloperidol-induced catalepsy in a dose-dependent manner, which was antagonized by WAY-100135 (a selective 5-HT(1A) antagonist). The anticataleptic dose of tandospirone (1 mg/kg, s.c.) significantly reduced haloperidol-induced Fos expression in the dlST. This inhibition by tandospirone was regionally specific, and it failed to affect haloperidol-induced Fos expression either in the AcS, AcC, or LSN. In addition, the reversal of haloperidol-induced striatal Fos expression by tandospirone was antagonized by WAY-100135. These results support the notion that stimulation of 5-HT(1A) receptors region-specifically counteracts the D(2)-blocking actions of haloperidol in the striatum, which may account for the ameliorative effects of 5-HT(1A) agonists on antipsychotic-associated extrapyramidal disorders.
Glomerular epithelial cell (GEC) injury has been considered to play an important role in puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced nephrosis. We studied the effect of PAN on rat as well as human GEC apoptosis. Morphogic evaluation of GEC apoptosis and necrosis was carried out by staining with H-33342 and propidium iodide. GEC apoptosis was further confirmed by DNA fragmentation assay (by both agarose gel electrophoresis and end-labeling). To determine the dose- and time-response effect of PAN, GECs were treated with variable concentrations of PAN (10 to 500 microg/ml) for variable time periods (6 to 48 h). To determine the role of gene synthesis, we studied the effect of actinomycin D (a transcriptional inhibitor) on PAN-induced GEC apoptosis. To determine the role of free radicals, we evaluated the effect of superoxide dismutase (SOD), dimethylthiourea (DMTU), and catalase on PAN-induced GEC apoptosis. PAN induced GEC apoptosis in a dose- and time-dependent manner. PAN at a high concentration (PAN, 100 microg/ml) also induced a moderate degree of GEC necrosis. In DNA fragmentation assays PAN-treated GECs showed the classic ladder pattern. PAN-induced GEC apoptosis was partly attenuated with free radical scavengers, such as SOD, DMTU, and catalase. In addition, actinomycin D attenuated PAN-induced GEC apoptosis. PAN induces GEC apoptosis, which may be mediated through the generation of reactive oxygen species.
Depression occurs frequently in patients with acute myocardial infarction and is associated with increased mortality rates. It is not known whether serotonin reuptake inhibitors would be safe and effective for patients with depression after myocardial infarction and whether such treatment would reduce mortality rates.
We conducted a multicenter, open-label, pilot study of sertraline treatment in patients with major depressive disorder identified 5 to 30 days after admission for acute myocardial infarction. Outcome measures included cardiovascular and hemostatic function, adverse events, and mood ratings. Twenty-six patients were enrolled in the study. During treatment there were no significant changes in heart rate, blood pressure, cardiac conduction, or left ventricular ejection fraction, and there was a trend toward reduced ventricular ectopic activity. There were no changes in coagulation measures. Bleeding time increased in 12 patients, decreased in 4 patients, and was unchanged in 2 patients. Three (12%) patients withdrew from treatment prematurely because of adverse events. Significant improvements in mood ratings occurred over the course of treatment.
Sertraline treatment was associated with clinical improvement and was well tolerated in >85% of the patients in this open-label treatment trial for patients with major depression after myocardial infarction. These results encourage further controlled trials to establish the effects of treatment for this high-risk population.
To determine the short-term outcomes of newborn infants and mothers exposed to antenatal amphetamines in the state of New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory during 2004.
Amphetamine exposure was determined retrospectively using ICD-10 AM morbidity code searches of hospital medical records and from records of local drug and alcohol services. Records were reviewed on site. All public hospitals (n = 101) with obstetric services were included.
Amphetamines were used by 200 (22.9%) of the 871 identified drug-using mothers. Most women (182, 91%) injected amphetamines intravenously. Compared with the other 669 drug users, amphetamine-using mothers were significantly more likely to use multiple classes of drugs (45.0% vs 7.8%), be subject to domestic violence (32.1% vs 17.5%), be homeless (14.8% vs 4.9%) and be involved with correctional services (19.8% vs 9.7%). The incidence of comorbid psychiatric illnesses were significantly higher (57.4% vs 41.7%) and their infants were more likely to be preterm (29.5% vs 20.4%), notified as children at risk (67.0% vs 32.8%), fostered before hospital discharge (14.5% vs 5.5%) and less likely to be breastfed (27.0% vs 41.6%).
Amphetamine-exposed mothers and infants in public hospitals of NSW and the ACT are at significantly higher risk of adverse social and perinatal outcomes even when compared with mothers and infants exposed to other drugs of dependency. Increased vigilance for amphetamine exposure is recommended due to a high prevalence of use, especially in Australia, as a recreational drug.
To examine whether early intervention with timolol influences the occurrence of left ventricular thrombi in acute anterior myocardial infarction, 40 patients with acute anterior myocardial infarction admitted to hospital within 6 hr of onset of symptoms were randomly assigned to receive intravenous followed by oral timolol maleate or placebo. Five (25%) of 20 patients in the placebo group and 14 (73.7%) of 19 patients with confirmed infarction in the timolol group developed a left ventricular apical thrombus as detected by two-dimensional echocardiography from 2 to 10 days after inclusion (p less than .005). Patients received anticoagulants only after a left ventricular thrombus had been diagnosed. Only one patient with thrombus suffered peripheral embolization (timolol group). The treatment groups were comparable with respect to location of regional left ventricular dysfunction, electrocardiographic changes, and infarct size estimated by creatine kinase release. However, computer-assisted regional wall motion analysis demonstrated significantly reduced apical wall motion in the timolol group compared with the placebo group (p less than .01). Also, the mean heart rate during the first 10 days after the acute infarction was reduced by 13% in the timolol group (p less than .001). The reduction in heart rate and left ventricular apical wall motion caused by timolol in patients with acute anterior myocardial infarction may increase the occurrence of left ventricular thrombi.
A 63-year-old woman presented with an exacerbation of her chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. While receiving an infusion of ampicillin/sulbactam, she developed anaphylaxis-induced myocardial injury. Subsequent coronary angiography revealed minimal atherosclerosis of her coronary arteries. The patient remained under continuous observation and cardiac monitoring throughout her reaction, thus providing unique insight into the pathophysiology of myocardial injury caused by anaphylaxis. The medical literature that pertains to this phenomenon is discussed.
Perioperative opioids increase postoperative pain and morphine requirement, suggesting acute opioid tolerance. Furthermore, opioids elicit N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-dependent pain hypersensitivity. We investigated postfentanyl morphine analgesic effects and the consequences of NMDA-receptor antagonist (ketamine) pretreatment. The rat nociceptive threshold was measured by the paw-pressure vocalization test. Four fentanyl boluses (every 15 min) elicited a dose-dependent (a) increase followed by an immediate decrease of the nociceptive threshold and (b) reduction of the analgesic effect of a subsequent morphine administration (5 mg/kg): -15.8%, -46.6%, -85.1% (4 x 20, 4 x 60, 4 x 100 microg/kg of fentanyl, respectively). Ketamine pretreatment (10 mg/kg) increased the fentanyl analgesic effect (4 x 60 microg/kg), suppressed the immediate hyperalgesic phase, and restored the full effect of a subsequent morphine injection. Fentanyl also elicited a delayed dose-dependent long-lasting decrease of the nociceptive threshold (days) that was prevented by a single ketamine pretreatment before fentanyl. However, a morphine administration at the end of the fentanyl effects restored the long-lasting hyperalgesia. Repeated ketamine administrations were required to obtain a complete preventive effect. Although ketamine had no analgesic effect per se at the dose used herein, our results indicate that sustained NMDA-receptor blocking could be a fruitful therapy for improving postoperative morphine effectiveness.
Fentanyl-induced analgesia is followed by early hyperalgesia (hours), acute tolerance to the analgesic effects of morphine, and long-lasting hyperalgesia (days). All these phenomena are totally prevented by repeated administrations of the NMDA-receptor antagonist, ketamine, simultaneously with fentanyl and morphine administration.
Human non-small cell lung cancers (NSCLCs) with activating mutations in EGFR frequently respond to treatment with EGFR-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), such as erlotinib, but responses are not durable, as tumors acquire resistance. Secondary mutations in EGFR (such as T790M) or upregulation of the MET kinase are found in over 50% of resistant tumors. Here, we report increased activation of AXL and evidence for epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in multiple in vitro and in vivo EGFR-mutant lung cancer models with acquired resistance to erlotinib in the absence of the EGFR p.Thr790Met alteration or MET activation. Genetic or pharmacological inhibition of AXL restored sensitivity to erlotinib in these tumor models. Increased expression of AXL and, in some cases, of its ligand GAS6 was found in EGFR-mutant lung cancers obtained from individuals with acquired resistance to TKIs. These data identify AXL as a promising therapeutic target whose inhibition could prevent or overcome acquired resistance to EGFR TKIs in individuals with EGFR-mutant lung cancer.
