Resveratrol, a polyphenolic activator of the silent information regulation 2 homolog 1 (SIRT1), is known to extend lifespan and improve metabolic disease. The aim of the present study is to test whether resveratrol protects against metabolic steatohepatitis through the modulation of lipid metabolism-related genes.
We used a mouse model in which steatohepatitis can be induced by an atherogenic diet (Ath diet) to evaluate the effects of resveratrol on steatotic hepatitis and hepatic gene expression.
The Ath diet induced excessive weight gain, hepatomegaly, dyslipidemia, and steatohepatitis after 8 weeks. The addition of resveratrol protected against Ath diet-induced changes and also alleviated steatohepatitis. Whole-genome expression analysis revealed that an Ath diet altered the hepatic expression of genes involved in lipid metabolism, and the addition of resveratrol to the diet reversed that effect. Real-time PCR and Western blot analysis confirmed the Ath diet up-regulated the levels of genes related to lipogenesis and down-regulated genes involved in lipolysis. Resveratrol clearly suppressed the Ath diet-induced alterations of the expression of genes related to lipid metabolism.
Resveratrol ameliorated dyslipidemia and steatohepatitis induced by the Ath diet, and its beneficial effects were associated with the altered expression of hepatic genes involved in lipid metabolism.
Inflammatory mediators and drugs which affect inflammation can influence the healing of injured tissues. Leukotrienes are potent inflammatory mediators, and similar to prostaglandins, are metabolites of arachidonic acid which can have positive or negative effects on bone and cartilage tissues. Here we tested the hypothesis that blocking the negative regulation of leukotrienes, would lead to enhanced endochondral bone formation during fracture repair. A closed femoral fracture was created in mice. Animals were divided into three groups for treatment with either montelukast sodium, a cysteinyl leukotriene type 1 receptor antagonist (trade name Singulair), zileuton, a 5-lipoxygenase enzyme inhibitor (trade name Zyflo), or carrier alone. The fractures were analyzed using radiographs, quantitative gene expression, histology and histomorphometry, and immunohistochemistry. Both the montelukast sodium group and the zileuton group exhibited enhanced fracture repair when compared with controls. Both treatment groups exhibited increased callous size and earlier bone formation when compared to controls as early as day 7. Gene expression analysis of treatment groups showed increased markers of chondrocyte proliferation and differentiation, and increased early bone formation markers when compared with controls. Treatment with montelukast sodium directly targeted the cysteinyl leukotriene type 1 receptor, leading to increased chondrocyte proliferation at early time points. These novel findings suggests a potential mechanism by which the cysteinyl leukotriene type 1 receptor acts as a negative regulator of chondrocyte proliferation, with important and previously unrecognized implications for both fracture repair, and in a broader context, systemic chondrocyte growth and differentiation.
We report a case of reversible, dose-related parkinsonian tremor in a patient taking amiodarone. In previous writings by others, basal ganglia dysfunction associated with amiodarone was dose related and reversibility was inversely related to duration of therapy. Patients receiving amiodarone are at risk for the development of basal ganglia dysfunction which may persist if the drug is not discontinued or the dosage reduced.
The present work was conducted to further examine the effects of thymosin beta-4 (Tbeta4) upregulation on the apoptosis of SW480 colon cancer cells induced by T cells and various chemotherapeutic agents because reduced susceptibility to the cytotoxicity of an anti-Fas IgM (CH-11) in Tbeta4-overexpressing cells has previously been reported by us. As expected, Tbeta4 overexpressers were also more resistant to the killing effect of FasL-bearing Jurkat T cells. On the other hand, pretreating these cells with an MMP inhibitor restored not only their Fas levels but also their sensitivity to CH-11, suggesting a pivotal role of MMP in downregulating Fas in Tbeta4 overexpressers. Interestingly, while the susceptibilities of Tbeta4 overexpressers to 5-FU and irinotecan remained unchanged, they were more resistant to doxorubicin and etoposide which triggered apoptosis via a mitochondrial pathway. Concordantly, activation of both caspases 9 and 3 in Tbeta4 overexpressers by the two aforementioned topoisomerase II inhibitors was dramatically abrogated which could be accounted mainly by an increased expression of Survivin, a critical anti-apoptotic factor. Finally, poor survival was found in stage III colon cancer patients whose tumors were stained positively by the anti-Survivin antibody. Thus, advantages such as immune evasion and resistance to anticancer drug-induced apoptosis acquired by colon cancer cells through Tbeta4 overexpression might facilitate their survival during metastasis and chemotherapy.
Long QT syndrome, either inherited or acquired from drug treatments, can result in ventricular arrhythmia (torsade de pointes) and sudden death. Human ether-a-go-go-related gene (hERG) channel inhibition by drugs is now recognized as a common reason for the acquired form of long QT syndrome. It has been reported that more than 100 known drugs inhibit the activity of the hERG channel. Since 1997, several drugs have been withdrawn from the market due to the long QT syndrome caused by hERG inhibition. Food and Drug Administration regulations now require safety data on hERG channels for investigative new drug (IND) applications. The assessment of compound activity on the hERG channel has now become an important part of the safety evaluation in the process of drug discovery. During the past decade, several in vitro assay methods have been developed and significant resources have been used to characterize hERG channel activities. However, evaluation of compound activities on hERG have not been performed for large compound collections due to technical difficulty, lack of throughput, and/or lack of biological relevance to function. Here we report a modified form of the FluxOR thallium flux assay, capable of measuring hERG activity in a homogeneous 1536-well plate format. To validate the assay, we screened a 7-point dilution series of the LOPAC 1280 library collection and reported rank order potencies of ten common hERG inhibitors. A correlation was also observed for the hERG channel activities of 10 known hERG inhibitors determined in this thallium flux assay and in the patch clamp experiment. Our findings indicate that this thallium flux assay can be used as an alternative method to profile large-volume compound libraries for compound activity on the hERG channel.
For a long time vitamin A has been known to be essential for immune defense of the organism and protection against infections. Vitamin A deficiency in children is associated with morbidity and mortality from infectious diseases which could be prevented and even alleviated by vitamin A supplementation. Moreover, this vitamin is involved in the modulation of immunological and inflammatory responses by regulation of cytokine production. The aim of the study was to compare the in vitro effect of vitamin A on the production of pro-inflammatory (IL-1beta and IL-6) and anti-inflammatory (IL-1 receptor antagonist (ra) and IL-10) cytokines, as well as IL-2 and IFNgamma by cord blood mononuclear cells (CBMC) of preterm newborns to that of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from adults.
Mononuclear cells (MC) from individuals of the two age groups were incubated with vitamin A (retinyl palmitate) at various concentrations in the presence of phytohemagglutinin for IL-2 and IFNgamma production or LPS for IL-1beta, IL-1ra, IL-6 and IL-10 secretion. The level of the cytokines in the supernatants was tested by ELISA.
Vitamin A exerted an in vitro inhibitory effect on the production of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-1ra by MC of preterm newborns and adults, but did not affect the secretion of the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1beta, IL-6 and IFNgamma. Vitamin A caused inhibition of IL-10 secretion by cells from adults, but it did not significantly affect this function in cells from newborns except when high unphysiological doses were applied. In addition vitamin A stimulated the secretion of IL-2 by cells isolated from adults but had no effect on those derived from premature neonates.
The results indicate that vitamin A may affect the immune function of premature infants via inhibition of IL-1ra secretion. It is suggested that the beneficial effect of vitamin A on the clinical course of bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) may be due to the reduced production of anti-inflammatory cytokines by neonatal CBMC. This may indicate the importance of the pro-inflammatory cytokines in the management of severe lung diseases and BPD.
Adriamycin (ADM) is an effective antineoplastic drug. However, the amount of ADM that can be administered must be limited because of the risk of developing a severe dose-dependent myocardiopathy. Prenylamine (PNL), a calcium antagonistic drug, provided partial protection against ADM-induced cardiotoxicity in mice and in the rabbit. Thus, it was considered important to evaluate the cardioprotective potential of PNL in patients given ordinary doses of ADM. Twenty-six patients were selected and randomized in two groups, and a double-blind trial was begun. Group A (n = 13): patients received ADM, i.v. at standard oncological doses up to 550 mg/m2, plus placebo, orally. Group B (n = 13): ADM was administered as in Group A, but PNL 200 mg/day was given instead of placebo. Standard ECG and chest radiographs were performed at the beginning of treatment and every two months. Mode-M echocardiograms and 24-hour ambulatory ECGs were obtained previously to the beginning of the ADM treatment and two months after the administration of the last dose of the drug. In Group A, three patients died from oncological causes, total ADM dose was 359 +/- 100 mg/m2, and the mean age was 59.7 years. One patient in this group developed a congestive myocardiopathy while another patient developed a severe supraventricular arrhythmia. In Group B, four patients died from oncological causes, total ADM dose was 367 +/- 132 mg/m2, and the mean age was 63.8 years. No myocardiopathy was found in this group. These findings suggest that simultaneous administration of PNL may mitigate ADM cardiotoxicity, but larger trials are needed to draw definite conclusions.
Individuals with autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) have impairments in executive function and social cognition, with males generally being more severely affected in these areas than females. Because the dopamine D1 receptor (encoded by DRD1) is integral to the neural circuitry mediating these processes, we examined the DRD1 gene for its role in susceptibility to ASDs by performing single marker and haplotype case-control comparisons, family-based association tests, and genotype-phenotype assessments (quantitative transmission disequilibrium tests: QTDT) using three DRD1 polymorphisms, rs265981C/T, rs4532A/G, and rs686T/C. Our previous findings suggested that the dopaminergic system may be more integrally involved in families with affected males only than in other families. We therefore restricted our study to families with two or more affected males (N = 112). There was over-transmission of rs265981-C and rs4532-A in these families (P = 0.040, P = 0.038), with haplotype TDT analysis showing over-transmission of the C-A-T haplotype (P = 0.022) from mothers to affected sons (P = 0.013). In addition, haplotype case-control comparisons revealed an increase of this putative risk haplotype in affected individuals relative to a comparison group (P = 0.004). QTDT analyses showed associations of the rs265981-C, rs4532-A, rs686-T alleles, and the C-A-T haplotype with more severe problems in social interaction, greater difficulties with nonverbal communication and increased stereotypies compared to individuals with other haplotypes. Preferential haplotype transmission of markers at the DRD1 locus and an increased frequency of a specific haplotype support the DRD1 gene as a risk gene for core symptoms of ASD in families having only affected males.
We investigated the effect of the synthetic vitamin A derivative isotretinoin (13-cis-retinoic acid) on advanced cancers in 103 patients and on preneoplastic lesions in five patients. Six of 14 patients with squamous cell epithelial cancers had objective regressions of skin or subcutaneous metastases. Three of five patients with preneoplastic lesions had objective responses. The major dose-limiting toxic effects were reversible dermatitis, emotional lability, and headaches. We conclude that the growth of some squamous cell epithelial malignancies can be inhibited by isotretinoin and suggest that other retinoids should be evaluated as antitumor agents.
Troglitazone was studied in pH-sensitive LLC-PK1-F+ cells to determine the effect on pHi and glutamine metabolism as well as the role of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPARgamma)-dependent and PPARgamma-independent signaling pathways. Troglitazone induces a dose-dependent cellular acidosis that occurs within 4 min and persists over 18 h as a result of inhibiting Na+/H+ exchanger-mediated acid extrusion. Cellular acidosis was associated with glutamine-dependent augmented [15N]ammonium production and decreased [15N]alanine formation from 15N-labeled glutamine. The shift in glutamine metabolism from alanine to ammoniagenesis appears within 3 h and is associated after 18 h with both a reduction in assayable alanine aminotransferase (ALT) activity as well as cellular acidosis. The relative contribution of troglitazone-induced cellular acidosis vs. the decrease in assayable ALT activity to alanine production could be demonstrated. The PPARgamma antagonist bisphenol A diglycide ether (BADGE) reversed both the troglitazone-induced cellular acidosis and ammoniagenesis but enhanced the troglitazone reduction of assayable ALT activity; BADGE also blocked troglitazone induction of peroxisome proliferator response element-driven firefly luciferase activity. The protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor chelerythrine mimics troglitazone effects, whereas phorbol ester reverses the effects on ammoniagenesis consistent with troglitazone negatively regulating the DAG/PKC/ERK pathway. Although functional PPARgamma signaling occurs in this cell line, the major troglitazone-induced acid-base responses appear to be mediated by pathway(s) involving PKC/ERK.
Two patients with cyclophosphamide induced cystitis and co-existent bladder tumour are described. Possible mechanisms for these associated diseases are discussed and the difficulty of diagnosing bladder tumour in patients with haemorrhagic cystitis is stressed.
The homeostasis of copper (Cu) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is partially regulated by the Cu transporter-1 (CTR1) and divalent metal transporter-1 (DMT1) at the blood-CSF barrier (BCB) in the choroid plexus. Data from human and animal studies suggest an increased Cu concentration in blood, CSF, and brains following in vivo manganese (Mn) exposure. This study was designed to investigate the relative role of CTR1 and DMT1 in Cu transport under normal or Mn-exposed conditions using an immortalized choroidal Z310 cell line. Mn exposure in vitro resulted in an increased cellular 64Cu uptake and the up-regulation of both CTR1 and DMT1. Knocking down CTR1 by siRNA counteracted the Mn-induced increase of 64Cu uptake, while knocking down DMT1 siRNA resulted in an increased cellular 64Cu uptake in Mn-exposed cells. To distinguish the roles of CTR1 and DMT1 in Cu transport, the Z310 cell-based tetracycline (Tet)-inducible CTR1 and DMT1 expression cell lines were developed, namely iZCTR1 and iZDMT1 cells, respectively. In iZCTR1 cells, Tet induction led to a robust increase (25 fold) of 64Cu uptake with the time course corresponding to the increased CTR1. Induction of DMT1 by Tet in iZDMT1 cells, however, resulted in only a slight increase of 64Cu uptake in contrast to a substantial increase in DMT1 mRNA and protein expression. These data indicate that CTR1, but not DMT1, plays an essential role in transporting Cu by the BCB in the choroid plexus. Mn-induced cellular overload of Cu at the BCB is due, primarily, to Mn-induced over-expression of CTR1.
The ability of dexrazoxane (DEX) to protect against doxorubicin (DOX)-induced cardiomyopathy has been demonstrated in mice, normotensive and hypertensive rats, rabbits, dogs, swine, and humans. These animal models of DOX-induced cardiomyopathy were found to be highly predictive of DEX activity clinically. In mice administered maximally tolerated doses of DOX over a period of 7 weeks, the optimum dose of DEX was from 10:1 to 20:1 (DEX:DOX) given from 30 minutes before to 15 minutes after DOX. The dose ratio required to reduce the incidence of moderate to severe cardiomyopathy by 90% in the mouse was more than 20:1 for DOX and 10:1, 5:1, and 5:1 for epirubicin, daunorubicin, and idarubicin, respectively. Dexrazoxane was most effective in rats when treatment commenced with the first and third doses of DOX, but also provided cardioprotection when started with the sixth of 10 doses of DOX. The cardioprotective activity of DEX in rats was evident for more than 6 months after completion of DOX dosing. Results of antitumor studies in several experimental tumor models indicate that DEX does not interfere with the antineoplastic activity of DOX or other antitumor drugs. In some case, especially cyclophosphamide, there was a markedly synergistic antitumor effect when combined with DEX.
Two large multicenter placebo controlled trials (088001 and 088006) in metastatic breast cancer found a significant cardioprotective effect of dexrazoxane when administered with doxorubicin. A delayed dose analysis found a protective effect even after a cumulative dose of doxorubicin of 300 mg/m2. Exploratory analysis combing the arms on the two studies found a cardioprotective effect of dexrazoxane either initially or after 300 mg/m2 when administered in patients older than 65 years, compared to patients receiving only placebo. Also, patients with an ejection fraction within 10% above the lower limit of normal were protected with dexrazoxane. Objective response rates were borderline significantly lower for patients receiving dexrazoxane. Recommendations are to administer dexrazoxane after 300 mg/m2.
The anti-inflammatory activity of alpha-viniferin, a trimer of resveratrol, has been demonstrated in an animal model of carrageenin-induced paw edema, and inhibitory effects of the compound on cyclooxygenase (COX) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) have been investigated in order to understand the mode of the observed action. alpha-Viniferin at doses > 30 mg/kg ( p. o.) or > 3 mg/kg ( i. v.) showed significant anti-inflammatory activity on carrageenin-induced paw edema in mice. alpha-Viniferin showed an inhibitory effect with an IC (50) value of 4.9 microM on COX-2 activity but a very weak inhibitory effect with 55.2 +/- 2.1 % of the control (100 %) at 100 microM on COX-1 activity. alpha-Viniferin at doses of 3 microM to 10 microM inhibited the synthesis of COX-2 transcript in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-activated murine macrophages Raw264.7. alpha-Viniferin showed an IC50 value of 2.7 microM on nitric oxide (NO) production in LPS-activated Raw264.7 cells when alpha-viniferin and LPS were treated simultaneously, but did not inhibit the NO production when alpha-viniferin was treated at 12 h after LPS stimulation. alpha-Viniferin inhibited synthesis of iNOS transcript with an IC50 value of 4.7 microM. Consequently, the inhibitory effect of alpha-viniferin on the release of prostanoids and NO could play an important role to show anti-inflammatory action.
Since the removal of intravenous propafenone from the Israeli market, flecainide is the only intravenous antiarrhythmic class 1C drug available nowadays in Israel.
The study aimed to report our experience of intravenous flecainide administration in the treatment of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (PAF) in the Emergency Room (ER).
Patients with AF lasting > 1 hour and <48 hour duration were considered possible candidates for entry into the study. Exclusion criteria were clinical signs of congestive heart failure, acute coronary syndrome, electrolyte imbalances, significant hepatic and renal disease, and any previously documented conduction disturbance. Flecainide was administered as a bolus dose of 2mg/kg in 10 minutes (maximum 150 mg). The patients with a ventricular response > 130 beats/min received intravenous verapamil or metoprolol in order to reduce the ventricular rate. Efficacy was defined as conversion to sinus rhythm (SR) within 120 minutes of starting medication.
Twenty three consecutive patients were enrolled in the study. Their mean age was 60 +/- 19 years; the mean ventricular response at admission was 128 +/- 26 beats/min. SR was achieved in 10 patients (43%) after the intravenous bolus of flecainide (10 minutes) and in 17 patients (74%) 120 minutes after the beginning of the therapy.
Hypotension (systolic blood pressure < 90 mmHg) was reported in 1 patient and QRS enlargement was seen in 1 patient.
Intravenous flecainide has effective and rapid action in the conversion of PAF and its administration is safe in the treatment of this arrhythmia in the ER.
Dexrazoxane (DEX) selectively blocks the development of irreversible diffuse myocardial toxicity induced by anthracyclines and related antitumor agents, such as mitoxantrone (MTX). Therefore, daunorubicin (DNR) should not be administered to patients with cumulative DNR doses higher than 550 to 700 mg/m2, which we used for remission induction and consolidation therapy in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML). To administer further doses of anthracyclines without risks in seven relapsed AML patients and in one patient with impaired heart functions receiving consolidation therapy, we used DEX as a cardioprotective agent. Patients received DEX 30 minutes before DNR 45 mg/m2 or MTX 10 mg/m2 in doses eight to 13 times higher (DNR) or 30 to 60 times higher (MTX) in the treatment cycle with 10 high doses (2,000 mg/m2/12 hr) of cytosine arabinoside plus two doses of DNR or MTX on the fourth and fifth day. When this cycle was used as reinduction therapy, complete remission was achieved in all five cases. A cycle of MTX and etoposide was given three times with DEX as consolidation. Myelotoxicity of the treatment cycles with DEX was similar to the cycles without it. Two patients received cumulative anthracyclines doses corresponding to more than 1,300 and 1,000 mg/m2 of DNR, respectively; the remaining five relapsed patients received 550 to 850 mg/m2 of DNR, all without signs of cardiac toxicity. Delayed administration of DEX after cumulative doses of DNR 500 mg/m2 in AML patients at relapse provides cardioprotection against DNR or MTX in combination with high doses of cytosine arabinoside. This type of chemotherapy seems to be effective for remission induction in relapsed, heavily pretreated AML patients or in patients with impaired heart functions.
The human cytochrome P450 3A subfamily of enzymes is involved in the metabolism of steroid hormones, carcinogens, and many drugs. A cytosine-to-guanine polymorphism in CYP3A43 results in a proline-to-alanine substitution at codon 340. Although the functional significance of this polymorphism is unknown, we postulate that the substitution of proline, an alpha-imino acid, with alanine, an amino acid, could be of biochemical significance. In a case-control study with 490 incident prostate cancer cases (124 African Americans and 358 Caucasians) and 494 controls (167 African Americans and 319 Caucasians), we examined the association between CYP3A43 Pro(340)Ala polymorphism and prostate cancer risk. When all subjects were considered, there was a 3-fold increase in risk of prostate cancer among individuals with the CYP3A43-Ala/Ala genotype (odds ratio, 3.0; 95% confidence interval, 1.2-7.2) compared with those with the CYP3A43-Pro/Pro genotype after adjusting for age, race, and smoking. The prevalence of the polymorphism was significantly higher in African Americans than Caucasians (45% versus 13%). In African Americans, there was a 2.6-fold increase in prostate cancer risk among individuals with the CYP3A43-Ala/Ala genotype (odds ratio, 2.6; 95% confidence interval, 1.0-7.0) compared with those with the CYP3A43-Pro/Pro genotype. Among Caucasians, the small number of homozygotes precluded computing risk estimates; there were only three individuals with the CYP3A43-Ala/Ala genotype. Our results suggest that the CYP3A43-Pro(340)Ala polymorphism contributes to prostate cancer risk.
Women who are born with constitutional heterozygous mutations of the BRCA1 gene face greatly increased risks of breast and ovarian cancer. The product of the BRCA1 gene is involved in the repair of double-stranded DNA breaks and it is believed that increased susceptibility to DNA breakage contributes to the cancer phenotype. It is hoped therefore that preventive strategies designed to reduce chromosome damage will also reduce the rate of cancer in these women. To test for increased mutagenicity of cells from BRCA1 carriers, the frequency of chromosome breaks was measured in cultured blood lymphocytes following in vitro exposure to bleomycin in female BRCA1 carriers and was compared with noncarrier relatives. The frequency of chromosome breaks was also measured in BRCA1 carriers following oral selenium supplementation. Carriers of BRCA1 mutations showed significantly greater mean frequencies of induced chromosome breaks per cell than did healthy noncarrier relatives (0.58 versus 0.39; P < 10(-4)). The frequency of chromosome breaks was greatly reduced following 1 to 3 months of oral selenium supplementation (mean, 0.63 breaks per cell versus 0.40; P < 10(-10)). The mean level of chromosome breaks in carriers following supplementation was similar to that of the noncarrier controls (0.40 versus 0.39). Oral selenium is a good candidate for chemoprevention in women who carry a mutation in the BRCA1 gene.
The in vitro mammalian cytogenetic tests monitor chromosomal aberrations in cultured mammalian cells to test the mutagenicity of compounds. Although these tests are especially useful for evaluating the potential clastogenic effects of chemicals, false positives associated with excessive toxicity occur frequently. There is a growing demand for mechanism-based assays to confirm positive results from cytogenetic tests. We hypothesized that a toxicogenomic approach that is based on gene expression profiles could be used to investigate mechanisms of genotoxicity. Human lymphoblastoid TK6 cells were treated with each of eight different genotoxins that included six DNA damaging compounds-mitomycin C, methyl methanesulfonate, ethyl methanesulfonate, cisplatin, etoposide, hydroxyurea-and two compounds that do not damage DNA-colchicine and adenine. Cells were exposed to each compound for 4h, and Affymetrix U133A microarrays were then used to comprehensively examine gene expression. A statistical analysis was used to select biomarker candidates, and 103 probes met our statistical criteria. Expression of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1A (CDKN1A)/p21 was ranked highest for discriminating DNA-damaging compounds. To further characterize the biological significance of alterations in gene expression, functional network analysis was performed with the 103 selected probes. Interestingly, a CDKN1A-centered interactome was identified as the most significant network. Together, these findings indicated that DNA-damaging compounds often induced changes in the expression of a large number of these 103 probes and that upregulation of CDKN1A was a common key feature of DNA damage stimuli. The utility of CDKN1A as a biomarker for assessing the genotoxicity of drug candidates was further evaluated; specifically, quantitative RT-PCR was used to assess the effects of 14 additional compounds-including DNA damaging genotoxins and genotoxins that do not damage DNA and five newly-synthesized drug candidates-on CDKN1A expression. In these assays, DNA damage-positive clastogens were clearly separated from DNA damage-negative compounds based on CDKN1A expression. In conclusion, CDKN1A may be a valuable biomarker for identifying DNA damage-inducing clastogens and as a follow-up assay for mammalian cytogenetic tests.
We describe the first reported case of a proconvulsant effect of an alpha(1)-adrenergic antagonist in humans.
A patient with medial temporal lobe seizures (MTLE) had increased seizure frequency after treatment with tamsulosin, an alpha(1)-adrenergic antagonist.
Experimental evidence suggests that noradrenaline, which has inhibitory effects on the excitatory synaptic response, can act as a powerful anticonvulsant. Mostly, alpha(2)-adrenoreceptors, but also alpha(1)-adrenoreceptors, have been implicated in this effect by different experimental models. Clinical reports of a proconvulsant or anticonvulsant effect of drugs that act through the adrenergic pathway are scarce.
This is the first report of a proconvulsant effect by an alpha(1)-adrenergic antagonist in humans and suggests that alpha(1)-adrenoreceptors may be involved in modulating noradrenergic activity in the limbic region.
The syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) is a disorder in which a sustained release of antidiuretic hormone occurs because of certain diseases, pharmacological agents, or trauma. Fluid volume expands with a resultant hyponatremia which, depending on the degree, may be asymptomatic or result in death. This case report describes a 38-year-old male in whom SIADH was strongly suspected secondary to Tegretol therapy to control a seizure disorder. Medical consultation is imperative for these patients before administering a fluid challenge during general anesthesia.
Polymorphisms in the CYP2C9 gene can have a significant impact on drug therapy by affecting the pharmacokinetics of frequently prescribed drugs, such as phenprocoumon and warfarin. It is essential therefore that genetic CYP2C9 variants are excluded in patients with a suspected intolerance of anticoagulant therapy. Here we present the first report of a case of left ventricular non-compaction syndrome associated with a genetic variant of the CYP2C9 gene in a 45-year-old woman with myocardial insufficiency who was scheduled for implantation of a cardioverter defibrillator.
A group of 51 patients treated surgically for ovarian carcinoma was randomly subdivided to test the efficacy of lithium carbonate in the prevention of leucopenia during systemic chemotherapy. In 26 patients receiving sequential lithium carbonate the side effect of myelosuppression was mitigated and the leucocyte count during treatment, which determines the dosage of the cytostatic drugs, was significantly higher in this group. It was, thus, possible to reduce the number of cytostatic courses of treatment in the lithium group in comparison with the treatment courses in the 25 control patients. Lithium therapy had to be discontinued due to side effects in seven patients, which were then excluded from the trial.
To compare the protective effects of amifostine and dexrazoxane against the chronic toxicity induced by doxorubicin in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR).
The animals were pretreated with amifostine (200 mg/kg. i.p.), dexrazoxane (25 mg/kg, i.p.) or saline 30 min before the administration of doxorubicin (1 mg/kg, i.v.), once-weekly for 12 weeks. Control animals received similar amounts of amifostine or saline. The SHR underwent necropsy examination 1 week after the last dosing, and cardiac, renal, and gastrointestinal lesions were graded semiquantitatively.
Amifostine and dexrazoxane provided equal degrees of protection against the renal toxicity of doxorubicin. However, dexrazoxane was more cardioprotective than amifostine, and prevented the mortality induced by doxorubicin. This mortality was not decreased by pretreatment with amifostine. The loss of body weight caused by doxorubicin was actually worsened by coadministration of amifostine.
Compared to dexrazoxane, amifostine provided a comparable degree of protection against the nephrotoxicity of doxorubicin, but was less cardioprotective and did not prevent the mortality and loss of body weight produced by doxorubicin. These differences may be related to the fact that amifostine may act as a scavenger of reactive oxygen species, whereas dexrazoxane may prevent their formation.
The present study uses latent class methods and multiple regression to shed light on hypothesized cocaine dependence syndromes experienced by community residents, who initiated cocaine use within 24 months of survey assessment, and explores possible variation in risk. Identified within public use data files from the United States National Household Surveys on Drug Abuse (NHSDA), and with assessments completed between 1995 and 1998, the study sample consists of 927 recent-onset cocaine users, defined as having initiated cocaine use no more than 24 months prior to assessment (approximate median elapsed time since onset of use approximately 12-13 months). The NHSDA included items to assess seven clinical features often associated with cocaine dependence, which were used in latent class modeling. Empirically derived latent classes, in conjunction with prior theory, tend to support a three-class solution, according to which 4% of recent-onset users are members of a class that resembles the DSM-IV cocaine dependence syndrome (mean: 5.4 clinical features (CF)); 16% might be in a cocaine dependence prodrome (mean: 2.4 CF); 80% of recent-onset cocaine users had few or no clinical features (mean<1 CF). Results from latent class regressions indicate that susceptibility to rapid transition from first cocaine use to onset of the LCA-assigned cocaine dependence syndrome might depend upon whether the user starts smoking crack-cocaine and, independently, age at first cocaine use.
Lead is a ubiquitous toxicant that causes tremor and cerebellar damage. Essential tremor (ET) is a highly prevalent neurologic disease associated with cerebellar involvement. Although environmental toxicants may play a role in ET etiology and their identification is a critical step in disease prevention, these toxicants have received little attention. Our objective was to test the hypothesis that ET is associated with lead exposure. Therefore, blood lead (BPb) concentrations were measured and a lifetime occupational history was assessed in ET patients and in controls. We frequency matched 100 ET patients and 143 controls on age, sex, and ethnicity. BPb concentrations were analyzed using graphite furnace atomic absorption spectrophotometry. A lifetime occupational history was reviewed by an industrial hygienist. BPb concentrations were higher in ET patients than in controls (mean +/- SD, 3.3 +/- 2.4 and 2.6 +/- 1.6 microg/dL, respectively; median, 2.7 and 2.3 microg/dL; p = 0.038). In a logistic regression model, BPb concentration was associated with diagnosis [control vs. ET patient, odds ratio (OR) per unit increase = 1.21; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.05-1.39; p = 0.007]. BPb concentration was associated with diagnosis (OR per unit increase = 1.19; 95% CI, 1.03-1.37; p = 0.02) after adjusting for potential confounders. Prevalence of lifetime occupational lead exposure was similar in ET patients and controls. We report an association between BPb concentration and ET. Determining whether this association is due to increased exposure to lead or a difference in lead kinetics in ET patients requires further investigation.
