To determine adverse events associated with the use of antimalarial chemoprophylaxis in Peace Corps volunteers who have served in malaria-endemic countries 6 months or longer.
Survey of Peace Corps volunteers' adverse events associated with the use of antimalarial chemoprophylaxis between August 1, 2005 and July 31, 2006. Analyses were conducted in fall 2006.
Two thousand seven hundred and one surveys were received (43% response rate) from volunteers in malaria-endemic countries, with 1,731 (64%) in country for 6 months or longer (average 19 months). Nearly two thirds (62%) reported at least one adverse event. Those on mefloquine reported the most neuropsychologic adverse events; those on doxycycline reported the most gastrointestinal as well as skin and vaginal adverse events. Nearly one quarter of respondents (23%) changed their chemoprophylaxis regimen due to adverse events. Severe adverse events were reported by 9% of respondents, and 1% reported being hospitalized.
Adverse events were frequently reported among volunteers using antimalarial medications for more than 6 months, but very few were severe or required hospitalization. In light of the large number of adverse events, having multiple drug regimens available for the long-term traveler may be one method of maintaining adherence to antimalarial chemoprophylaxis.
Iron and copper are essential microminerals that are intimately related. The present study was performed to determine the effect of iron-deficiency anemia (IDA) and treatment with iron on laboratory indicators of copper status. Hemoglobin, mean corpuscular volume erythrocyte Zn protoporphyrin, serum ferritin, serum copper, serum ceruloplasmin, and erythrocyte CuZn-superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity were studied in 12 adult women with IDA before and after iron treatment for 60-90 d (100 mg/d Fe, as ferric polymaltose) and in 27 women with normal iron status. Prior to treatment with iron, serum copper and ceruloplasmin were not different between the groups and treatment with iron did not affect these measures. IDA women, before and after treatment with iron, presented a 2.9- and 2-fold decrease in erythrocyte CuZn-SOD activity compared to women with normal iron status (p < 0.001). Treatment with iron increased erythrocyte CuZn-SOD activity of the IDA group; however, this change was not statistically significant. In conclusion, CuZn-SOD activity is decreased in IDA. Measurement of this enzyme activity is not useful for evaluating copper nutrition in iron-deficient subjects.
Recent investigations identified heterozygous CFC1 mutations in subjects with heterotaxy syndrome, all of whom had congenital cardiac malformations, including malposition of the great arteries. We hypothesized that a subset of patients with similar types of congenital heart disease---namely, transposition of the great arteries and double-outlet right ventricle, in the absence of laterality defects---would also have CFC1 mutations. Our analysis of the CFC1 gene in patients with these cardiac disorders identified two disease-related mutations in 86 patients. The present study identifies the first autosomal single-gene defect for these cardiac malformations and indicates that some cases of transposition of the great arteries and double-outlet right ventricle can share a common genetic etiology with heterotaxy syndrome. In addition, these results demonstrate that the molecular pathway involving CFC1 plays a critical role in normal and abnormal cardiovascular development.
The aim of the present study was to examine a potential antiparkinsonian-like action of 3-[(2-methyl-1,3-thiazol-4-yl)ethynyl]pyridine (MTEP), a new non-competitive antagonist of mGluR5, in the rat models. This compound has affinity for mGluR5 in a nanomolar concentration range and seems to be superior to the earlier known antagonists in terms of its specificity and bioavailability. Catalepsy and muscle rigidity induced by haloperidol administered at doses of 0.5 and 1 mg/kg were regarded as models of parkinsonian akinesia and muscle rigidity, respectively. MTEP at doses between 0.5 and 3 mg/kg i.p. decreased the haloperidol-induced muscle rigidity measured as an increased muscle resistance of the rat's hind leg in response to passive extension and flexion at the ankle joint. The strongest and the longest effect was observed after the dose of 1 mg/kg. MTEP (0.5-3 mg/kg i.p.) also reduced the haloperidol-induced increase in electromyographic (EMG) activity recorded in the gastrocnemius and tibialis anterior muscles. MTEP (3 and 5 mg/kg i.p.) inhibited the catalepsy induced by haloperidol. The present study confirms earlier suggestions that the antagonists of mGluR5 may possess antiparkinsonian properties. However, selective mGluR5 antagonists may be more effective in inhibiting parkinsonian muscle rigidity than parkinsonian akinesia.
Ketamine, an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, is known to be analgesic and to induce psychomimetic effects. Benefits and risks of ketamine for the control of postoperative pain are not well understood. We systematically searched for randomised comparisons of ketamine with inactive controls in surgical patients, reporting on pain outcomes, opioid sparing, and adverse effects. Data were combined using a fixed effect model. Fifty-three trials (2839 patients) from 25 countries reported on a large variety of different ketamine regimens and surgical settings. Sixteen studies tested prophylactic intravenous ketamine (median dose 0.4 mg/kg, range (0.1-1.6)) in 850 adults. Weighted mean difference (WMD) for postoperative pain intensity (0-10 cm visual analogue scale) was -0.89 cm at 6 h, -0.42 at 12 h, -0.35 at 24 h and -0.27 at 48 h. Cumulative morphine consumption at 24 h was significantly decreased with ketamine (WMD -15.7 mg). There was no difference in morphine-related adverse effects. The other 37 trials tested in adults or children, prophylactic or therapeutic ketamine orally, intramuscularly, subcutaneously, intra-articulary, caudally, epidurally, transdermally, peripherally or added to a PCA device; meta-analyses were deemed inappropriate. The highest risk of hallucinations was in awake or sedated patients receiving ketamine without benzodiazepine; compared with controls, the odds ratio (OR) was 2.32 (95%CI, 1.09-4.92), number-needed-to-harm (NNH) 21. In patients undergoing general anaesthesia, the incidence of hallucinations was low and independent of benzodiazepine premedication; OR 1.49 (95%CI 0.18-12.6), NNH 286. Despite many published randomised trials, the role of ketamine, as a component of perioperative analgesia, remains unclear.
Heparin in ultra low doses had a stabilizing effect on endothelial lining in rats. This effect was demonstrated as prevention of increases in counts of circulating endothelial cells after a standard intravenous citrate injection. The same effect of heparin was observed even with other provoking agents /adrenaline, hypotonic saline/. The duration of heparin effect was very prolonged, a 50% effect having been observed 5 hours after the administration. Subcutaneous heparin was effective only in relatively high doses and had a lower maximum effect compared with intravenous heparin.
Despite widespread use of aminosalicylates as maintenance treatment for ulcerative colitis (UC), patients still report troublesome symptoms, often nocturnally.
To compare the efficacy and safety of balsalazide (Colazide) with mesalazine (Asacol) in maintaining UC remission.
A randomized, double-blind comparison of balsalazide 3 g daily (1.04 g 5-ASA) and mesalazine 1.2 g daily for 12 months, in 99 (95 evaluable) patients in UC remission.
Balsalazide patients experienced more asymptomatic nights (90% vs. 77%, P=0.0011) and days (58% vs. 50%, N.S.) during the first 3 months. Balsalazide patients experienced more symptom-free nights per week (6.4+/-1.7 vs. 4.7+/-2.8; P=0.0006) and fewer nights per week with blood on their stools or on the toilet paper, mucus with their stools or with sleep disturbance resulting from symptoms or lavatory visits (each P < 0.05). Fewer balsalazide patients relapsed within 3 months (10% vs. 28%; P=0.0354). Remission at 12 months was 58%, in both groups. Similar proportions of patients reported adverse events (61% balsalazide vs. 65% mesalazine). There were five serious adverse events (two balsalazide, three mesalazine) and four withdrawals due to unacceptable adverse events (three balsalazide, one mesalazine), of which one in each group was also a serious adverse event.
Balsalazide 3 g/day and mesalazine 1.2 g/ day effectively maintain UC remission and are equally well tolerated over 12 months. At this dose balsalazide prevents more relapses during the first 3 months of treatment and controls nocturnal symptoms more effectively.
Recent studies have demonstrated nanosized titanium dioxide (nano-TiO2)-induced fertility reduction and ovary injury in animals. To better understand how nano-TiO2 act in mice, female mice were exposed to 2.5, 5, and 10 mg/kg nano-TiO2 by intragastric administration for 90 consecutive days; the ovary injuries, fertility, hormone levels, and inflammation-related or follicular atresia-related cytokine expression were investigated. The results showed that nano-TiO2 was deposited in the ovary, resulting in significant reduction of body weight, relative weight of ovary and fertility, alterations of hematological and serum parameters and sex hormone levels, atretic follicle increases, inflammation, and necrosis. Furthermore, nano-TiO2 exposure resulted in marked increases of insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 2, epidermal growth factor, tumor necrosis factor-α, tissue plasminogen activator, interleukin-1β, interleukin -6, Fas, and FasL expression, and significant decreases of insulin-like growth factor-1, luteinizing hormone receptor, inhibin α, and growth differentiation factor 9 expression in mouse ovary. These findings implied that fertility reduction and ovary injury of mice following exposure to nano-TiO2 may be associated with alteration of inflammation-related or follicular atresia-related cytokine expressions, and humans should take great caution when handling nano-TiO2.
The present study was performed to further evaluate the contribution of antimuscarinic activity and hypoglycaemia to the development of scopolamine-induced convulsions in fasted mice after food intake. The effects of anticonvulsant drugs on convulsions were also evaluated. Antimuscarinic drugs atropine (3 mg/kg) and biperiden (10 mg/kg) were given intraperitoneally (i.p) to animals fasted for 48 h. Like scopolamine, both drugs induced convulsions after animals were allowed to eat ad libitum. Another group of animals was given glucose (5%) in drinking water during fasting. These animals, although they had normoglycaemic blood levels after fasting, also developed convulsions after treated with scopolamine i.p. (3 mg/kg), atropine (3 mg/kg) or biperiden (10 mg/kg) and allowed to eat ad libitum. Among the drugs studied, only valproate (340 mg/kg), gabapentin (50 mg/kg) and diazepam (2.5 and 5 mg/kg) markedly reduced the incidence of scopolamine-induced convulsions. The present results indicate that antimuscarinic activity, but not hypoglycaemia, underlies these convulsions which do not respond to most of the conventional anticonvulsant drugs.
The periaqueductal gray (PAG) and rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) are part of a nociceptive modulatory system. Microinjection of morphine into either structure produces antinociception. Tolerance develops to ventrolateral PAG mediated antinociception with repeated microinjection of morphine. In contrast, there are no published reports of tolerance to morphine administration into the RVM. Three experiments were conducted to determine whether tolerance develops to morphine microinjections into the RVM. Experiment 1 compared tolerance to the antinociceptive effect of microinjecting morphine (5 microg/0.5 microl) into the PAG and RVM following daily injections for four consecutive days. Experiment 2 assessed tolerance to a range of morphine doses (2.5-20 microg) after injecting morphine into the RVM twice a day for two consecutive days. Experiment 3 followed a similar procedure except twice as many RVM injections were made (8 microinjections in 4 days). The degree to which tolerance developed to the antinociceptive effect of morphine was much greater with microinjections into the PAG compared to the RVM. There was a 64% drop in hot plate latency from the first to the fifth injection of morphine into the PAG, but only a 36% drop in latency following RVM microinjections. Reducing the interdose interval to two injections a day or increasing the total number of injections from 4 to 8 did not enhance the development of tolerance to RVM morphine administration. These data demonstrate that opioid-sensitive neurons in the RVM are relatively resistant to the development of tolerance compared to PAG neurons.
Status epilepticus (SE) has been related to subsequent development of epilepsy. The present work was aimed at elucidating the relationship between the duration of pilocarpine- (PILO)-induced SE and the subsequent development of epilepsy in rats. The latency for the appearance of the first spontaneous seizure, the frequency of spontaneous seizures, the cell density in the hippocampal formation and the density of supragranular neo-Timm staining were monitored. At 30 min, 1, 2 and 6 h after the beginning of SE, animals were treated with diazepam plus pentobarbital. In non-treated rats, SE remitted spontaneously. Animals exhibiting 30 min of PILO-induced SE did not develop spontaneous seizures. Hippocampal cell counts and the density of neo-Timm staining in these animals were similar to those observed in control rats. In the other groups longer SE durations were related to: shorter latency for the appearance of the first spontaneous seizure, increased number of the spontaneous recurrent seizures, severe cell loss in the hippocampal formation, or increased supragranular neo-Timm staining. These data suggest that more than 30 min of SE is required to produce hippocampal damage with subsequent synaptic reorganization of the mossy fibre pathway that could account for SRSs observed in the PILO model of epilepsy.
Hair dye ingestion is an uncommon form of poisoning in the west, however, in some parts of the world such as East Africa and Indian Sub-continent it is not uncommon. The main component of hair dye causing toxicity is Paraphenylenediamine (PPD). This compound has been found to cause angioneurotic edema, rhabdomyolysis and renal failure. We present a case of hair dye poisoning who presented with respiratory distress due to laryngeal edema and later developed trismus and carpopedal spasm. This case report highlights the combined toxicities of sodium EDTA and PPD.
The aim of the work was to establish the impact of urethane-chloralose anaesthesia on pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic (PK-PD) properties of carvedilol in control rats and L-NAME hypertensive animals.
Male Wistar Rats were randomly divided into: control (n=12) with tap water to drink and L-NAME rats (n=12) with L-NAME solution (40 mg/kg/day) to drink for 2 weeks. Effects of carvedilol (1 mg kg(-1), i.v.) on blood pressure and heart rate were recorded during 3 h in conscious and urethane (500 mg kg(-1), i.p.) - chloralose (50 mg kg(-1), i.p.) anaesthetized rats. Carvedilol plasma pharmacokinetics was studied by means of traditional blood sampling. PK-PD modeling of carvedilol was made by means of an effect compartment model.
Neither urethane-chloralose nor L-NAME modified estimation of pharmacokinetic parameters of carvedilol. Although urethane-chloralose did not modify potency of carvedilol comparing with awake animals in control and hypertensive group, maximal negative chronotropic response was significantly greater in anaesthetized L-NAME rats in comparison to awake animals. Conversely, anaesthesia did not modify maximal chronotropic response to carvedilol in control rats. Whilst no differences were found in the estimated potency of carvedilol hypotensive response comparing control and L-NAME rats in both awake and anaesthetized conditions, maximal hypotensive effect of carvedilol was significantly greater in anaesthetized control and L-NAME animals in comparison to conscious rats. L-NAME rats showed a greater maximal hypotensive response comparing to control group.
Urethane-chloralose anaesthesia is an acceptable experimental condition for the evaluation of PK-PD properties of carvedilol, considering that it does not affect the potency of carvedilol for its chronotropic and hypotensive effect. Conclusions obtained from urethane-chloralose anaesthetized animals, regarding the impact of l-NAME treatment on PK-PD properties of carvedilol, did not differ from those obtained from conscious animals. Anaesthesia did not modify pharmacokinetic behaviour of carvedilol in both normotensive and L-NAME hypertensive rats.
The present study was undertaken to examine the role of the benzodiazepine/GABA and N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) systems in the convulsive effect of cocaine in mice. When cocaine (3.5 mg/ml) solution was infused into the tail vein at a rate of 0.3 ml/min, mice showed clonic and tonic convulsions. These seizures were not affected by low doses of bicuculline or picrotoxin, a GABAA receptor antagonist and a Cl ion channel blocker, respectively. Aminooxyacetic acid (AOAA), a GABA deaminase inhibitor, and phenobarbital, a Cl ion channel activator, and baclofen, a GABAB receptor agonist, also had no effect on these convulsions. Benzodiazepine inverse agonist beta-DMCM, at a dose which by itself had no convulsive effect lowered the convulsive threshold of cocaine. This lowered convulsive threshold was reversed by flumazenil, a benzodiazepine inverse antagonist, and diazepam, a benzodiazepine full agonist, which by themselves did not inhibit cocaine seizure. It is likely that cocaine seizure involves a benzodiazepine (beta-carboline) recognition site other than the benzodiazepine/GABAA receptor-Cl ionophore complex system. CPP and MK-801, competitive and noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonists, respectively, inhibited cocaine seizures. The inhibitory effects of CPP on cocaine convulsion were reversed by a low dose of NMDA, which by itself did not induce seizure. A dopamine D1 receptor agonist SKF38393 enhanced both clonic and tonic convulsions, while a dopamine D2 receptor agonist bromocriptine inhibited these convulsions. These stimulatory and inhibitory effects were reversed by the D1 and D2 receptor antagonists, SCH23390 and haloperidol, respectively. These results suggest that the cocaine-induced convulsion may involve an activation of the NMDA-Ca ionophore complex system, which is mediated by the dopaminergic system, and a beta-carboline recognition site other than the benzodiazepine/GABAA receptor-Cl ionophore complex system.
Caripia montagnei is a basidiomycete species which contains polysaccharides with immunomodulatory properties. An extract of this mushroom underwent removal of the fat content by organic solvent and subsequently proteolysis. The aqueous phase obtained after proteolysis was precipitated with methanol yielding a fraction containing carbohydrates (98.7+/-3.3%) and protein (1.3+/-0.25%). Chemical analysis, infrared spectroscopy and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) showed that the carbohydrate fraction contained (63.3+/-4.1) of beta-glucans and proteins (2.2+/-0.3%). These glucans (50mg/kg of body weight) significantly reduced the inflammatory infiltrate produced by thioglycolate-induced peritonitis by 75.5+/-5.2%, when compared to Wy-14643 (60.3+/-6.1%), PFOA (37.8+/-2.8%) and clofibrate (52.2+/-3.2%), p<0.001, which are of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR-alpha). L-NAME, a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, reduced the plantar edema in Wistar rats by 91.4+/-1.3% (p<0.001). A significant reduction in nitric oxide (NO) levels was observed in the exudates when the glucans was used in comparison to carrageenan. The C. montagnei glucans did not present signs of inducing cytotoxicity. A decrease in IL-1ra, IL-10 and IFN-gamma in the peritonitis model was observed. Thus, the results suggest that glucans from the C. montagnei mushroom is an effective immunomodulator and may have potential for anti-inflammatory properties.
Escobar syndrome is a form of arthrogryposis multiplex congenita and features joint contractures, pterygia, and respiratory distress. Similar findings occur in newborns exposed to nicotinergic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibodies from myasthenic mothers. We performed linkage studies in families with Escobar syndrome and identified eight mutations within the gamma -subunit gene (CHRNG) of the AChR. Our functional studies show that gamma -subunit mutations prevent the correct localization of the fetal AChR in human embryonic kidney-cell membranes and that the expression pattern in prenatal mice corresponds to the human clinical phenotype. AChRs have five subunits. Two alpha, one beta, and one delta subunit are always present. By switching gamma to epsilon subunits in late fetal development, fetal AChRs are gradually replaced by adult AChRs. Fetal and adult AChRs are essential for neuromuscular signal transduction. In addition, the fetal AChRs seem to be the guide for the primary encounter of axon and muscle. Because of this important function in organogenesis, human mutations in the gamma subunit were thought to be lethal, as they are in gamma -knockout mice. In contrast, many mutations in other subunits have been found to be viable but cause postnatally persisting or beginning myasthenic syndromes. We conclude that Escobar syndrome is an inherited fetal myasthenic disease that also affects neuromuscular organogenesis. Because gamma expression is restricted to early development, patients have no myasthenic symptoms later in life. This is the major difference from mutations in the other AChR subunits and the striking parallel to the symptoms found in neonates with arthrogryposis when maternal AChR auto-antibodies crossed the placenta and caused the transient inactivation of the AChR pathway.
The toxicity of the conditioning regimen of high dose busulphan (Bu) (16 mg/kg) and cyclophosphamide (Cy) (120 mg/kg) has been compared to cyclophosphamide (Cy) (120 mg/kg) and fractionated total body irradiation (TBI) 12-14 Gy. Since 1985, 67 patients have received conditioning of Bu and Cy for HLA-identical sibling bone marrow transplants. 166 patients have received Cy and TBI since 1981. Veno-occlusive disease of the liver occurred in 19% in the Bu-Cy group and was fatal in 1/12 cases, but only in 1.3% of Cy-TBI group (P less than 0.0005) and was fatal in 1/2. 30% of evaluable patients developed haemorrhagic cystitis in the Bu-Cy group and 14% in the Cy-TBI group (P = 0.008). A multiple logistic regression analysis demonstrated the preparative regimen as the only significant risk factor for the development of veno-occlusive disease or haemorrhagic cystitis. Interstitial pneumonia was diagnosed in 12/56 evaluable patients (21%) in the Bu-Cy group and was fatal in 75%. It occurred in 39/137 evaluable patients (28%) in the Cy-TBI group with a 54% case mortality. Within the Bu-Cy group, the incidence of veno-occlusive disease and haemorrhagic cystitis was similar in chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) and acute leukaemia (AL) groups, but there was a significant (P = 0.003) incidence of interstitial pneumonia in the CML group 36% as compared to 7% in the AL group. Preparative regimen and age were significant risk factors in the development of interstitial pneumonia in patients with CML. A flexural and acral rash ranging from pigmentation to severe erosion was noted in the Bu-Cy group, but not in the Cy-TBI group. Thus, veno-occlusive disease, haemorrhagic cystitis and cutaneous changes were more common in patients receiving Bu-Cy. Interstitial pneumonia was more common in patients receiving Bu-Cy for CML than for AL.
Since H3 receptor (H3R) antagonists/inverse agonists can improve cognitive function in animal models, they may have the potential to be used as add-on therapy in the treatment of schizophrenia, a disease with significant cognitive deficits. However, a recent study showed potentiation of haloperidol-induced catalepsy by ciproxifan, an imidazole-containing H3R antagonist/inverse agonist, suggesting there is a potential risk of exacerbating extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) if H3R antagonists were used as adjunctive treatment [Pillot, C., Ortiz, J., Heron, A., Ridray, S., Schwartz, J.C. and Arrang, J.M., Ciproxifan, a histamine H3-receptor antagonist/inverse agonist, potentiates neurochemical and behavioral effects of haloperidol in the rat, J Neurosci, 22 (2002) 7272-80]. In order to clarify the basis of this finding, we replicated this result and extended the work with another imidazole and two non-imidazole H3R antagonists. The results indicate that ciproxifan significantly augmented the effects of haloperidol and risperidone on catalepsy. Another imidazole H3R antagonist, thioperamide, also potentiated the effect of risperidone on catalepsy. In contrast, no catalepsy-enhancing effects were observed when selective non-imidazole H3R antagonists, ABT-239 and A-431404, were coadministered with haloperidol and/or risperidone. As ciproxifan and thioperamide are inhibitors of cytochrome P450 enzymes, responsible for metabolizing risperidone and haloperidol, the possibility that the augmentation of antipsychotics by imidazoles resulted from drug-drug interactions was tested. A drug metabolism study revealed that an imidazole, but not a non-imidazole, potently inhibited the metabolism of haloperidol and risperidone. Furthermore, ketoconazole, an imidazole-based CYP 3A4 inhibitor, significantly augmented risperidone-induced catalepsy. Together, these data suggest the potentiation of antipsychotic-induced catalepsy may result from pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions and support the potential utility of non-imidazole H3R antagonists in treatment of cognitive impairment in schizophrenia without increased risk of increased EPS in patients.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the severity of hearing loss after cisplatin and/or carboplatin treatment in young children and to analyze its evolution and its relation to different therapy schedules.
One hundred twenty patients treated in the Pediatrics Department at the Institut Gustave-Roussy from 1987 to 1997 for neuroblastoma, osteosarcoma, hepatoblastoma, or germ cell tumors were analyzed. Median age at diagnosis was 2.6 (range 0-17) years. Median follow-up was 7 (1-13) years. Chemotherapy regimens contained cisplatin and/or carboplatin. Three patients also received high-dose carboplatin. Cisplatin was administered at a dose of 200 mg/m/course in 72% of cases. The median cumulative dose was 400 mg/m for cisplatin and 1,600 mg/m for carboplatin. Hearing loss of grade 2 or above, according to Brock's grading scale, was revealed with pure tone audiometry and behavioral techniques.
Carboplatin alone was not ototoxic. Deterioration of hearing of grade 2 or above was observed in 37% of patients treated with cisplatin and 43% of patients treated with cisplatin plus carboplatin (P = NS). Fifteen percent of patients experienced grade 3 or 4 ototoxicity. Ototoxicity was most often observed after a total cisplatin dose of at least 400 mg/m. No improvement was observed with time; on the contrary, worsening or progression of hearing loss at lower frequencies was detected during follow-up. Only 5% of audiograms showed toxicity of at least grade 2 before the end of therapy; in contrast, this level was observed in 11% of early post-therapy evaluations and in 44% after more than 2 years of follow-up.
Children treated with cisplatin at cumulative doses approaching 400 mg/m require long-term surveillance to avoid overlooking hearing deficits. Carboplatin, at a standard dose, does not appear to be a significant risk factor for ototoxicity even in patients who have already been treated with cisplatin.
A 20-year-old patient with biologically-confirmed lupus developed a perirenal abscess following puncture biopsy of the kidney. Postoperative treatment included metronidazole at a mean dose of 2.5 g daily for 68 days (total dose : 165 g). Generalised convulsive seizures occurred on four occasions, associated with paresthesia of the four limbs, but without loss of motor or reflex activity, though some distal hypoesthesia was detected. An acute lupus attack was eliminated, the convulsive seizures not recurring after discontinuation of treatment, and the paresthesias diminishing progressively over a period of three months. Electrical investigations showed lack of motor anomalies but a marked reduction in sensory conduction. This is the 13th reported case of polyneuritis due to metronidazole, the 4th case of convulsive seizures, and the first case in which both manifestations occurred. The plasma concentration curve after oral administration of 1 g of the product to this patient demonstrated that the product was not being metabolised in a pathological manner.
Studies in areas with relatively high levels of air pollution have found some positive associations between exposures to ambient levels of air pollution and several birth outcomes including low birth weight (LBW). The purpose of this study was to examine the association between LBW among term infants and ambient air pollution, by trimester of exposure, in a region of lower level exposures.
The relationship between LBW and ambient levels of particulate matter up to 10 um in diameter (PM10), sulfur dioxide (SO2) and ground-level ozone (O3) was evaluated using the Nova Scotia Atlee Perinatal Database and ambient air monitoring data from the Environment Canada National Air Pollution Surveillance Network and the Nova Scotia Department of Environment. The cohort consisted of live singleton births (> or =37 weeks of gestation) between January 1, 1988 and December 31, 2000. Maternal exposures to air pollution were assigned to women living within 25 km of a monitoring station at the time of birth. Air pollution was evaluated as a continuous and categorical variable (using quartile exposures) for each trimester and relative risks were estimated from logistic regression, adjusted for confounding variables.
There were 74,284 women with a term, singleton birth during the study period and with exposure data. In the analyses unadjusted for year of birth, first trimester exposures in the highest quartile for SO2 and PM10 suggested an increased risk of delivering a LBW infant (relative risk = 1.36, 95% confidence interval = 1.04 to 1.78 for SO2 exposure and relative risk = 1.33, 95% confidence interval = 1.02 to 1.74 for PM10). After adjustment for birth year, the relative risks were attenuated somewhat and not statistically significant. A dose-response relationship for SO2 was noted with increasing levels of exposure. No statistically significant effects were noted for ozone.
Our results suggest that exposure during the first trimester to relatively low levels of some air pollutants may be associated with a reduction in birth weight in term-born infants. These findings have implications for the development of effective risk management strategies to minimize the public health impacts for pregnant women.
Noncirrhotic portal hypertension (NCPH) represents a relatively infrequent group of conditions that causes portal hypertension in the absence of cirrhosis. An association between NCPH and patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) has been reported. Six consecutive patients with HIV infection and NCPH were the subject of this series. Case histories, including medication lists, liver biopsy and laboratory data were reviewed. Age at diagnosis was 43 +/- 3 years (range, 37-47). Liver disease was diagnosed 12 +/- 4 years (range, 8-18) after initiation of antiretroviral therapy (ART). All patients developed esophageal varices, 5 patients presented at least one bleeding episode and 2 required TIPS. Serum liver tests showed a mean total bilirubin of 1.4 +/- .7 mg/dL (range, .5-2.5) and INR was 1.2 +/- .14 (range, 1.0-1.4). CD4 count was 326 +/- 124 cells/mL (range, 198-467) and all patients presented HIV viral load < 75 copes/mL. Didanosine (ddl) was the most common ART drug being used by 4 patients. Portal vein thrombosis was diagnosed in 2 patients. Hepatic portal sclerosis (HPS) alone was observed in 1 patient, nodular regenerative hyperplasia (NRH) alone in 2 patients and combined HPS/NRH in 3 patients. In conclusion, NCPH should be included in the differential diagnosis of HIV-individuals presenting with clinical manifestations of portal hypertension and well preserved liver synthetic function. Prolonged exposure to ART, specially ddl, can play a pathogenic role. Rarely, liver synthetic function is sufficiently severe to warrant liver transplantation.
Acne vulgaris, an inflammatory skin disease with different clinical appearances, is a common problem in most adolescents. It seems that using combinations of topical agents can decrease resistance to the treatment and improve the efficacy. Therefore, we evaluated the effects of azelaic acid (AA) 5% and clindamycin (Clin) 2% combination (AA-Clin) on mild-to-moderate acne vulgaris.
The efficacy and safety of 12-week treatment with AA-Clin in patients with mild-to-moderate facial acne vulgaris were evaluated by a multicenter, randomized, and double-blind study. A total of 88 male and 62 female patients were randomly assigned to one of these treatments: AA 5%, Clin 2%, and combination of them. Every 4 weeks, total inflammatory and noninflammatory lesions were counted, acne severity index (ASI) was calculated, and patient satisfaction was recorded.
Treatment for 12 weeks with combination gel significantly reduced the total lesion number compared with baseline (p < 0.01), as well as Clin 2% or AA 5% treatment groups (p < 0.05 or p < 0.01). The percentage of reduction in ASI in combination treated group (64.16 ± 6.01) was significantly more than those in the Clin 2% (47.73 ± 6.62, p < 0.05) and 5% AA (32.46 ± 5.27, p < 0.01) groups after 12 weeks. Among the patients in the AA-Clin group, 75.86% of males were satisfied or very satisfied and 85.71% of females were satisfied or very satisfied. This trend was significant in comparison to the number of patients who were satisfied with AA 5% or Clin 2% treatment (p < 0.01). Seven patients in AA-Clin group (incidence = 22%) showed adverse effects that were not statistically significant compared to treatment with individual active ingredients.
The profound reduction in lesion count and ASI by combination therapy with AA-Clin gel in comparison to individual treatment with 5% AA or Clin 2% suggested the combination formula as an effective alternative in treatment of acne vulgaris.
We report a case of biopsy-proven acute tubulointerstitial nephritis associated with a second course of flurbiprofen, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug of the propionic acid class. The clinical presentation and course was consistent with acute tubulointerstitial nephritis due to these agents.
Capecitabine is a fluoropyrimidine-based drug that offers physicians a more convenient treatment for advanced colorectal cancer (CRC), with manageable toxicity and antitumor activity comparable to that of continuous-infusion therapies with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). However, there are no validated and established predictive factors for clinical outcome of capecitabine efficacy in CRC. The gene expressions of the pyrimidine metabolism enzymes dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD), thymidine phosphorylase (TP) and thymidylate synthase (TS) have previously been shown to be response determinants of fluoropyrimidine-based drugs in various tumors. Therefore, we investigated whether intratumoral mRNA expression levels of these genes are also associated with the clinical outcome of patients with metastatic CRC treated with first-line capecitabine. Thirty-seven patients with metastatic CRC were enrolled in this study and treated with single agent capecitabine. The intratumoral mRNA levels of DPD, TP and TS were assessed from paraffin-embedded tissue samples using laser-capture-microdissection methods and quantitative real-time PCR. There were 20 women and 17 men with a median age of 61 years (range 49-74). The median progression-free survival was 6.7 months (95% CI, 4.8-11.6 months), with a median follow-up of 14.4 months (range 1.3-18.7 months). Complete response was observed in 1 (3%), partial response in 6 (20%), stable disease in 14 (47%) and progressive disease in 9 (30%) patients (response was inevaluable in 7 patients). Higher gene expression levels of DPD were associated with resistance to capecitabine (P=0.032; Kruskal-Wallis test). Patients with a lower mRNA amount of DPD (<or=0.46) had a longer progression-free survival compared with patients that had a higher mRNA amount (8.0 vs. 3.3 months; adjusted P=0.048; log-rank test). This pilot study suggests that intratumoral gene expression levels of DPD may be useful in predicting the clinical outcome of patients with metastatic CRC with first-line single agent capecitabine treatment. Our data should be validated in larger and prospective clinical trials.
The long-term effects of converting enzyme inhibitors and calcium channel blockers on proteinuria and the progression of renal disease in patients with hypertension and chronic renal insufficiency are not well established. We have studied the long-term effects of treating hypertension with an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, enalapril, and a calcium channel blocker, nicardipine, on urinary albumin excretion (UAE) and on renal function in 16 patients with hypertension and chronic renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance ranging between 17 and 62 ml/min). After 1 year of treatment, these agents caused a similar decrease in blood pressure. Only enalapril, however, caused a significant decrease in UAE (from 641 +/- 98 to 292 +/- 47 mg/24 h, p less than 0.01), whereas UAE did not change in the group treated with nicardipine (675 +/- 78 vs. 601 +/- 75 mg/24 h). Creatinine clearance at the beginning of the study was similar in the group treated with enalapril and in the group treated with nicardipine (35 +/- 3.6 vs. 40 +/- 4.1 ml/min). After 1 year of follow-up, creatinine clearance remained unchanged in both groups of patients. These studies demonstrate that both enalapril and nicardipine can effectively reduce blood pressure in patients with hypertension and chronic renal insufficiency. Enalapril but not nicardipine, however, appears to reduce urinary albumin excretion in these patients. Whether the reduction in UAE has any significant impact on the progression of renal disease remains to be established.
