Aggressive behaviors have been reported in patients who suffer from some psychiatric disorders, and are common in methamphetamine (METH) abusers. Herein, we report that multiple (but not single) injections of METH significantly increased aggressiveness in male CD-1 mice. This increase in aggressiveness was not secondary to METH-induced hyperactivity. Analysis of protein expression using antibody microarrays and Western blotting revealed differential changes in MAP kinase-related pathways after multiple and single METH injections. There were statistically significant (p<0.05) decreases in MEK1, Erk2p, GSK3alpha, 14-3-3e, and MEK7 in the striata of mice after multiple injections of METH. MEK1 was significantly decreased also after a single injection of METH, but to a much lesser degree than after multiple injections of METH. In the frontal cortex, there was a statistically significant decrease in GSK3alpha after multiple (but not single) injections of METH. These findings suggest that alterations in MAP kinase-related pathways in the prefronto-striatal circuitries might be involved in the manifestation of aggressive behaviors in mice.
Dietary phytochemicals as adjuvants have been suggested to play important roles in enhancing chemotherapeutic potential owing to multitargeted chemopreventive properties and lack of substantial toxicity. Here, we investigated the efficacy of the combined treatment of various phytochemicals with the anticancer drug clofarabine in malignant mesothelioma MSTO-211H cells and normal mesothelial MeT-5A cells. The combined treatment of resveratrol and clofarabine produced a synergistic antiproliferative effect in MSTO-211H cells, but not in MeT-5A cells. In MSTO-211H cells, the nuclear accumulation of Sp1 and the levels of p-Akt, Sp1, c-Met, cyclin D1, and p21 were effectively decreased by the combined treatment of them. In combination with clofarabine, the ability of resveratrol to reduce the contents of Sp1 and its target gene products was also evident in a time- and dose-dependent experiment. The inhibition of phosphoinositide 3-kinase using Ly294002 augmented a decrease in the p21 level induced by their combination, but it showed no significant effects on expression of Sp1 and cyclin D1. Taken together, the data provide evidence that the synergistic antiproliferative effect of resveratrol and clofarabine is linked to the inhibition of Akt and Sp1 activities, and suggest that this combination may have therapeutic value in treatment of malignant mesothelioma.
Selective cardiotoxicity of doxorubicin remains a significant and dose-limiting clinical problem. The mechanisms involved have not been fully defined but may involve the production of reactive oxygen species and/or alteration of cardiac energetics. Here, we tested the hypotheses that doxorubicin causes left ventricular dysfunction in mice and is associated with dysregulation of nitric oxide in cardiac tissue, leading to the accumulation of 3-nitrotyrosine (a biomarker of peroxynitrite formation). Animals were dosed with doxorubicin (20 mg/kg i.p.), and left ventricular performance was assessed in vivo using M-mode and Doppler echocardiography. Five days after doxorubicin administration, left ventricular fractional shortening, cardiac output, and stroke volume parameters were significantly reduced relative to control values (30.0 +/- 3.6 versus 46.1 +/- 1. 6%, 8.9 +/- 0.9 versus 11.5 +/- 0.6 ml/min, and 21.2 +/- 0.1 versus 29.5 +/- 0.1 microl for doxorubicin versus control, P <.05). Statistically significant (P <.05) increases in the immunoprevalence of myocardial inducible nitric oxide synthase (33 +/- 18 versus 9 +/- 2%, via quantitative image analysis) and 3-nitrotyrosine formation (56 +/- 24 versus 0.3 +/- 0.4%) were also observed after doxorubicin. Correlation analyses revealed a highly significant inverse relationship between left ventricular fractional shortening and cardiac 3-nitrotyrosine immunoprevalence (P <.01). No such relationship was observed for inducible nitric oxide synthase. Western blot analyses of cardiac myofibrillar fractions revealed extensive nitration of an abundant 40-kDa protein, shown to be the myofibrillar isoform of creatine kinase. These data demonstrate that alteration of cardiac nitric oxide control and attendant peroxynitrite formation may be an important contributor to doxorubicin-induced cardiac dysfunction. Furthermore, nitration of key myofibrillar proteins and alteration of myocyte energetics are implicated.
Liver fibrosis is a response to chronic hepatic damage, which ultimately leads to liver failure and necessitates liver transplantation. A characteristic of fibrosis is pathological vessel growth. This type of angiogenesis may contribute to the disturbance of hepatocyte perfusion dynamics and lead to aggravation of disease. We hypothesized that angiostatin can inhibit pathological vessel growth and, consequently, the development of hepatic fibrosis.
Hepatic fibrosis was induced by injection of carbon tetrachloride for 5 weeks. Angiostatin mice received carbon tetrachloride for 5 weeks and angiostatin during weeks 4 and 5. After 5 weeks, immunohistochemistry for endothelial cell marker von Willebrand factor and for cell proliferation was performed. Angiogenesis was quantified by counting the number of immunopositive microvessels. Also, the relative fibrotic surface was determined using Sirius Red histostaining and computer image analysis.
Immunohistochemistry revealed increased expression for von Willebrand factor in fibrotic livers. Immunopositive microvessels were localized in fibrotic areas surrounding larger vessels and in emerging fibrotic septa. Angiostatin reduced the number of immunopositive microvessels by 69% (p<0.001). In addition, angiostatin reduced the relative fibrotic area in the liver by 63+/-0.1% (p<0.001). Finally, angiostatin treatment was not associated with differences in cell proliferation.
Angiostatin inhibits the development of pathological angiogenesis and liver fibrosis in mice. These results warrant further evaluation of angiostatin as an antifibrotic agent, potentially contributing to the deferment of liver transplantation and reduced recurrence of fibrotic disease in the transplanted liver.
Myopathy and rhabdomyolysis are rare adverse effects of treatment with hydroxymethylglutaryl-coA reductase inhibitors. The risk of adverse effects is increased with the concomitant use of statin and specific drugs that can induce myopathy, in patients with liver and renal function impairment, hypothyroidism and diabetes mellitus. The clinical picture of rhabdymyolysis with acute renal failure caused by the use of simvastatin in a 54-year-old patient with diabetes mellitus and hypertension is described.
Serotonergic mechanisms have been implicated in levodopa-induced psychiatric toxicity reactions in Parkinson's disease (PD). Although CNS serotonin levels are reduced in Parkinsonian patients, the contribution of this abnormality to the pathophysiology of the motor symptoms of the disease are largely unknown. The following report concerns a 62-year-old female Parkinsonian patient with levodopa-induced "On-Off", depression and sleep disturbances, the severity of which was dramatically reduced by administration of low dosage amitriptyline (a serotonergic agent). The report suggests that impaired central serotonergic functions may be implicated in the pathophysiology of the levodopa-induced "On-Off" and that pharmacologic manipulations of serotonergic functions may be useful in the management of this motor side effect of chronic levodopa therapy.
In order to establish the role of mast cells in aspirin-induced urticaria and angioedema, neutrophil chemotactic activity (NCA) in serum was assayed using the method of Nelson before and after aspirin challenge. In 14 (82.4%) persons sensitive to aspirin an increase in NCA during aspirin-induced urticaria and angioedema was observed and in 9 of them (52.9%) it was considerable (index NCA greater than or equal to 2.0). None of the 18 persons from the control group with idiopathic urticaria and/or angioedema but without aspirin-sensitivity exhibit an increase in NCA after aspirin challenge. The author assumes that mast cell degranulation does occur in aspirin-induced urticaria and angioedema.
Serum triiodothyronine (T3), free T3, thyroxine (T4) and free T4 levels were measured before and immediately after daily ACTH-Z therapy (0.01 mg/kg/day, 1-2 weeks) for patients with 9 cases of infantile spasms and one case of myoclonus epilepsy. In some of them, serum reverse T3 (rT3) and thyroxine binding globulin (TBG) levels were also measured. All patients became seizure free after ACTH-Z therapy. Before ACTH-Z therapy, all of the hormone levels were within normal limits. Serum T3 and free T3 levels were markedly decreased after daily ACTH-Z therapy, and serum T4, free T4 and TBG levels were moderately decreased after the therapy. 1-6 weeks after the daily treatment, all of these hormone levels returned to pretreatment levels. Serum rT3 levels did not change after ACTH-Z therapy. These results suggest that the effect of long-term daily ACTH-Z therapy is very critical to the immature brain, and conventional ACTH-Z therapy has to be reconsidered.
A five-year-old girl of Aicardi syndrome showed moderate psychomotor retardation. She could walk and communicate. At six months of age, she developed salaam convulsion with series. Convulsions disappeared immediately after ACTH treatment. At eighteen months of age, she developed myoclonic seizures. From three years of age, head-nodding seizures with series relapsed and could not be controlled. But she could walk alone at two years old and speak a word at one and half years old. A degree of her psychomotor retardation was more slightly than others published cases of Aicardi syndrome. There were eleven reports, included our case, with mild retardation in Aicardi syndrome. The features of these are 1) late onset of seizures, 2) good response to ACTH therapy, 3) no significant abnormalities of brain except for agenesis of corpus callosum.
Immune escape variants of the hepatitis B virus (HBV) represent an emerging clinical challenge, because they can be associated with vaccine escape, HBV reactivation, and failure of diagnostic tests. Recent data suggest a preferential selection of immune escape mutants in distinct peripheral blood leukocyte compartments of infected individuals. We therefore systematically analyzed the functional impact of the most prevalent immune escape variants, the sG145R and sP120T mutants, on the viral replication efficacy and antiviral drug susceptibility of common treatment-associated mutants with resistance to lamivudine (LAM) and/or HBeAg negativity. Replication-competent HBV strains with sG145R or sP120T and LAM resistance (rtM204I or rtL180M/rtM204V) were generated on an HBeAg-positive and an HBeAg-negative background with precore (PC) and basal core promoter (BCP) mutants. The sG145R mutation strongly reduced HBsAg levels and was able to fully restore the impaired replication of LAM-resistant HBV mutants to the levels of wild-type HBV, and PC or BCP mutations further enhanced viral replication. Although the sP120T substitution also impaired HBsAg secretion, it did not enhance the replication of LAM-resistant clones. However, the concomitant occurrence of HBeAg negativity (PC/BCP), sP120T, and LAM resistance resulted in the restoration of replication to levels of wild-type HBV. In all clones with combined immune escape and LAM resistance mutations, the nucleotide analogues adefovir and tenofovir remained effective in suppressing viral replication in vitro. These findings reveal the differential impact of immune escape variants on the replication and drug susceptibility of complex HBV mutants, supporting the need of close surveillance and treatment adjustment in response to the selection of distinct mutational patterns.
Characterization of molecular events during N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU)-induced rat prostate carcinogenesis enhances the utility of this model for the preclinical assessment of preventive strategies. Androgen independence is typical of advanced human prostate cancer and may occur through multiple mechanisms including the loss of androgen receptor (AR) expression and the activation of alternative signaling pathways.
We examined the interrelationships between AR and p-AKT expression by immunohistochemical staining during MNU-androgen-induced prostate carcinogenesis in male Wistar-Unilever rats. Histone nuclear staining and image analysis was employed to assess parallel changes in chromatin and nuclear structure.
The percentage of AR positive nuclei decreased (P < 0.01) as carcinogenesis progressed: hyperplasia (92%), atypical hyperplasia (92%), well-differentiated adenocarcinoma (57%), moderately-differentiated adenocarcinoma (19%), and poorly-differentiated adenocarcinoma (10%). Conversely, p-AKT staining increased significantly during carcinogenesis. Sparse staining was observed in normal tissues (0.2% of epithelial area) and hyperplastic lesions (0.1%), while expression increased significantly (P < 0.001) in atypical hyperplasia (7.6%), well-differentiated adenocarcinoma (16.7%), moderately-differentiated adenocarcinoma (19.6%), and poorly-differentiated adenocarcinoma (17.4%). In parallel, nuclear morphometry revealed increased nuclear size, greater irregularity, and lower DNA compactness as cancers became more poorly differentiated.
In the MNU model, the progressive evolution of dominant tumor cell populations showing an increase in p-AKT in parallel with a decline in AR staining suggests that activation of AKT signaling may be one of several mechanisms contributing to androgen insensitivity during prostate cancer progression. Our observations mimic findings suggested by human studies and support the relevance of the MNU model in preclinical studies of preventive strategies.
Tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration in the treatment of patients with acute ischaemic stroke presenting within three hours from onset of symptoms. This study aims to identify the potential number of stroke patients suitable for t-PA in Hong Kong.
All patients with a clinical diagnosis of acute stroke were recruited. Data collected included demographics, vital signs, medical history, contraindications to thrombolysis, severity of stroke (Canadian neurological scale), time course from onset of symptoms to computed tomography, computed tomography results, and final diagnoses by physicians.
During the five month study period, 201 patients were recruited and nine were subsequently excluded from further analysis because computed tomography was not performed. Their mean age was 70.9 (range from 41-91) years. Eighty (41.7%) and 100 (52.1%) patients presented to our emergency department within two hours and three hours respectively from symptom onset. The mean severity score (Canadian neurological scale) was 7.83 (out of a maximum of 11.5). A total of 132 (68.8%) patients had acute ischaemic stroke confirmed by computed tomography. Mean delay in computed tomography was 4.91 hours. Fourteen (7.3%) and 52 (27.1%) of all patients had computed tomography of the brain done within one and two hours respectively. Only 20 patients (10.45%) could meet the three hour criteria as stated in the National Institute of Neurologic Disorders and Stroke rt-PA stroke study and seven (3.6%) of them were confirmed to have acute ischaemic stroke. Two patients were further excluded because of high systolic blood pressure and current warfarin medication.
At present very few patients could benefit from thrombolytic treatment. Delays in the chain of recovery in stroke management should be identified and corrected.
Episodes of depression and acute psychosis in two patients receiving propranolol hydrochloride are described, and the literature on propranolol-induced depression and psychosis is reviewed. A 42-year-old woman developed severe depression, marked apathy, social withdrawal, and anorexia after taking propranolol hydrochloride (80 mg/day) for three months to control her hypertension. Five days after the dose was reduced to 40 mg/day, there was a major improvement in her depressive symptoms, with a complete resolution in eight days. Upon rechallenge with 80 mg/day of propranolol, she again experienced depressive symptoms. Atenolol 50 mg/day was substituted for the propranolol therapy, and she exhibited a complete remission of her depression. The second patient was a 63-year-old man who had been taking propranolol hydrochloride 160 mg/day for three months without incident. Because of an increased frequency of anginal attacks, the dosage was increased to 240 mg/day. Within two days, he demonstrated such agitation, excitement, and combativeness that he had to be controlled with a 25-mg dose of methotrimeprazine. When the propranolol dose was reduced to 160 mg/day, his psychotic symptoms rapidly cleared. However, when the dose was subsequently increased to 200 mg/day, he again showed increased agitation. After substituting atenolol 100 mg/day for propranolol, the patient's mental status returned to normal. Both of these patients experienced symptoms that were temporarily associated with propranolol. Both patients were subsequently controlled without symptoms with atenolol therapy. Propranolol is a highly lipophilic beta blocker that achieves high concentrations in the brain. When continued beta-blocking therapy is necessary or beta blockade is indicated, a weakly lipophilic agent such as atenolol is indicated.
Prostate cancer is a major health problem in the U.S. and the available treatment and surgical options have proven to be inadequate in controlling the mortality and morbidity associated with this disease. It is therefore necessary to intensify our efforts to better understand this disease and develop novel approaches for its prevention and treatment. This study was conducted to evaluate the chemopreventive/antiproliferative potential of resveratrol (trans-3,4',5,-trihydroxystilbene) against prostate cancer and its mechanism of action. Treatment with resveratrol (0-50 micromol/L for 24 hours) resulted in a significant (a) decrease in cell viability, (b) decrease of clonogenic cell survival, (c) inhibition of androgen (R1881)-stimulated growth, and (d) induction of apoptosis in androgen-responsive human prostate carcinoma (LNCaP) cells. Interestingly, at similar concentrations, resveratrol treatment did not affect the viability or rate of apoptosis in normal human prostate epithelial cells. Furthermore, our data showed that resveratrol-treatment resulted in significant dose-dependent inhibition in the constitutive expression of phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase and phosphorylated (active) Akt in LNCaP cells. Resveratrol treatment for LNCaP cells was also found to result in a significant (a) loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, (b) inhibition in the protein level of antiapoptotic Bcl-2, and (c) increase in proapoptotic members of the Bcl-2 family, i.e., Bax, Bak, Bid, and Bad. Taken together, our data suggested that resveratrol causes an inhibition of phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase/Akt activation that, in turn, results in modulations in Bcl-2 family proteins in such a way that the apoptosis of LNCaP cells is promoted. Based on these studies, we suggest that resveratrol could be developed as an agent for the management of prostate cancer.
To further evaluate the dopamine (DA) neurotoxic potential of the widely prescribed psychostimulant, methylphenidate, mice were treated with various doses (range: 10-120 mg/kg) and treatment schedules of methylphenidate (every 2 h x 4 or twice daily x 4). Higher doses of methylphenidate produced intense stereotypy, as well as short- (5-day), but not long- (2-week), term depletions of striatal DA axonal markers. By contrast, amphetamine caused not only intense stereotypy, but also profound, long-lasting, dose-related DA deficits. These findings indicate that results of studies of amphetamine neurotoxicity using short (5-day) post-drug survival periods are potentially misleading. Further, the present findings confirm and extend previous results indicating that methylphenidate, unlike amphetamine, lacks DA neurotoxic potential, and strongly suggest that DA efflux, although perhaps necessary, is not sufficient for the expression of amphetamine-induced DA neurotoxicity.
Benztropine (BZT) analogs inhibit dopamine uptake but are less effective than cocaine in producing behavioral effects predicting abuse liability. The present study compared reinforcing effects of intravenous BZT analogs with those of standard monoamine uptake inhibitors and the effects of their oral pretreatment on cocaine self-administration. Responding of rats was maintained by cocaine [0.032-1.0 mg/kg/injection (inj)] or food reinforcement under fixed-ratio five-response schedules. Maximal rates of responding were maintained by 0.32 mg/kg/inj cocaine or substituted methylphenidate, with lower rates maintained at lower and higher doses. The N-methyl BZT analog, AHN 1-055 (3alpha-[bis(4'-fluorophenyl)methoxy]-tropane), also maintained responding (0.1 mg/kg/inj), although maximal rates were less than those with cocaine. Responding was not maintained above vehicle levels by the N-allyl, AHN 2-005 (N-allyl-3alpha-[bis(4'-fluorophenyl)methoxy]-tropane), and N-butyl, JHW 007 [N-(n-butyl)-3alpha-[bis(4'-fluorophenyl)methoxy]-tropane], BZT analogs, and it was not maintained with nisoxetine or citalopram. Presession treatment with methylphenidate (3.2-32 mg/kg) dose-dependently shifted the cocaine self-administration dose-effect curve leftward, whereas nisoxetine and citalopram effects were not significant. An intermediate dose of AHN 1-055 (32 mg/kg) increased responding maintained by low cocaine doses and decreased responding maintained by higher doses. A higher dose of AHN 1-055 completely suppressed cocaine-maintained responding. Both AHN 2-005 and JHW 007 dose-dependently (10-32 mg/kg) decreased cocaine self-administration, shifting its dose-effect curve down. Decreases in cocaine-maintained responding occurred at doses of methylphenidate and BZT analogs that left food-maintained responding unchanged. During a component in which injections were not available, methylphenidate and AHN 1-055, but not AHN 2-005 or JHW 007, increased response rates. These findings further support the low abuse liability of BZT analogs and their potential development as medications for cocaine abuse.
Data on the antiarrhythmic properties of opioid receptor (OR) agonists have been systematized. An analysis of published works which indicate that opioids increase cardiac tolerance to arrhythmogenic influences both in vivo and in vitro has been performed. For example, occupancy of central micro- and delta-OR and also ORL1 receptors increases cardiac tolerance to arrhythmogenic action epinephrine and aconitine. In contrast, activation of central kapa-OR exacerbates arrhythmogenic action epinephrine. Stimulation of peripheral delta2- and kappa1-OR decreases an incidence of arrhythmias induced coronary artery occlusion and reperfusion in vivo. Occupancy of peripheral micro-, kappa2-, delta1-OR and also ORL1 receptors has no effect on the cardiac tolerance to arrhythmogenic action of ischemia and reperfusion but increases cardiac electrical stability in rats with post-infarction cardiosclerosis. Authors suggest that opioids which unable penetrate to blood barrier may be used for therapy of arrhythmias.
Our practical experience indicates that sexual side-effects in subjects taking finasteride 1 mg (Propecia) for androgenetic alopecia are much less common than reported in the literature.
To evaluate the sexual function in subjects taking finasteride (1 mg) compared with age-matched controls using the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF).
The IIEF, a brief, reliable questionnaire, was self-administered to 236 patients taking Propecia and 236 age-matched males attending the Department of Dermatology of the University of Bologna.
Statistical analysis showed no differences between scores obtained with the IIEF in subjects taking finasteride and controls.
The sexual and erectile function of subjects taking finasteride does not significantly differ from that of age-matched controls. This is consistent with the experience of many dermatologists who do not see sexual or erectile dysfunction in patients taking Propecia.
Development of resistance is a major issue in antiviral treatment of hepatitis B reinfection after liver transplantation. Antiviral combination therapy is discussed for therapy or prevention of this breakthrough of viral replication. Eight patients were enrolled into this retrospective analysis after liver transplantation for chronic hepatitis B infection. All had reinfection of the graft and breakthrough of HBV during consecutive famciclovir and lamivudine monotherapy. Subsequently a combination therapy with lamivudine and interferon-alpha 2a (group I, n = 4) or lamivudine and famciclovir (group II, n = 4) was initiated. Combination therapy was started 61 months (group I) and 25 months (group II) after liver transplantation. It markedly reduced the viral replication rate in all patients despite lamivudine resistance. In group I three of four patients and in group II two of four patients became HBV-DNA negative. Two long-term responders were observed in group I, and none in group II. No patient became HBsAg negative or lost HbeAg. Pretreatment elevated ALT and AST levels were significantly reduced. No severe complications, and especially no rejection episodes, occurred. Lamivudine in combination with other antiviral agents, especially interferon-alpha, might be a therapeutic option for hepatitis B reinfection after liver transplantation. Suppression of virus replication to the point of undetectable values is possible even in patients with lamivudine-resistant virus mutations.
To analyze the disproportionality of reporting of hyperprolactinemia, galactorrhea, and pituitary tumors with seven widely used antipsychotic drugs.
Retrospective pharmacovigilance study.
United States Food and Drug Administration's Adverse Event Reporting System (AERS) database.
We initially identified higher-than-expected postmarketing reports of pituitary tumors associated with risperidone, a potent dopamine D2-receptor antagonist antipsychotic, by analyzing reporting patterns of these tumors in the AERS database. To further examine this association, we analyzed disproportionate reporting patterns of pituitary tumor reports for seven antipsychotics with different affinities for blocking D2 receptors: aripiprazole, clozapine, olanzapine, quetiapine, risperidone, ziprasidone, and haloperidol.
To conduct both of these analyses, we used the Multi-item Gamma Poisson Shrinker (MGPS) data mining algorithm applied to the AERS database. The MGPS uses a Bayesian model to calculate adjusted observed:expected ratios of drug-adverse event associations (Empiric Bayes Geometric Mean [EBGM] values) in huge drug safety databases. The higher the adjusted reporting ratio, or EBGM value, the greater the strength of the association between a drug and an adverse event. Risperidone had the highest adjusted reporting ratios for hyperprolactinemia (EBGM 34.9, 90% confidence interval [CI] 32.8-37.1]), galactorrhea (EBGM 19.9, 90% CI 18.6-21.4), and pituitary tumor (EBGM 18.7, 90% CI 14.9-23.3) among the seven antipsychotics, and one of the highest scores for all drugs in the AERS database. Some tumors were associated with visual field defects, hemorrhage, convulsions, surgery, and severe (>10-fold) prolactin elevations. The EBGM values for risperidone for these adverse events were higher in women, but high EBGM values for these events were also seen in men and children. Moreover, the rank order of the EBGM values for pituitary tumors corresponded to the affinities of these seven drugs for D2 receptors.
Treatment with potent D2-receptor antagonists, such as risperidone, may be associated with pituitary tumors. These findings are consistent with animal (mice) studies and raise the need for clinical awareness and longitudinal studies.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of noncoding RNA acting at a post-transcriptional level to control the expression of large sets of target mRNAs. While there is evidence that miRNAs deregulation plays a causative role in various complex disorders, their role in fibrotic kidney diseases is largely unexplored. Here, we found a strong up-regulation of miR-21 in the kidneys of mice with unilateral ureteral obstruction and also in the kidneys of patients with severe kidney fibrosis. In addition, mouse primary fibroblasts derived from fibrotic kidneys exhibited higher miR-21 expression level compared to those derived from normal kidneys. Expression of miR-21 in normal primary kidney fibroblasts was induced upon TGFβ exposure, a key growth factor involved in fibrogenesis. Finally, ectopic expression of miR-21 in primary kidney fibroblasts was sufficient to promote myofibroblast differentiation. As circulating miRNAs have been suggested as promising non-invasive biomarkers, we further assess whether circulating miR-21 levels are associated with renal fibrosis using sera from 42 renal transplant recipients, categorized according to their renal fibrosis severity, evaluated on allograft biopsies (Interstitial Fibrosis/Tubular Atrophy (IF/TA). Circulating miR-21 levels are significantly increased in patients with severe IF/TA grade (IF/TA grade 3: 3.0±1.0 vs lower grade of fibrosis: 1.5±1.2; p = 0.001). By contrast, circulating miR-21 levels were not correlated with other renal histological lesions. In a multivariate linear regression model including IF/TA grade and estimated GFR, independent associations were found between circulating miR-21 levels and IF/TA score (ß = 0.307, p = 0.03), and between miR-21 levels and aMDRD (ß = -0.398, p = 0.006). Altogether, these data suggest miR-21 has a key pathogenic role in kidney fibrosis and may represent a novel, predictive and reliable blood marker of kidney fibrosis.
We have studied the effects of single oral doses of amoxapine (100 mg and 200 mg), amitriptyline (50 mg and 100 mg), and placebo on some autonomic functions in ten healthy volunteers, using a balanced double-blind crossover design. Amitriptyline significantly reduced salivation and it significantly attenuated both miosis evoked by locally applied pilocarpine and sweat secretion evoked by locally applied carbachol. Amoxapine did not significantly alter any of these measures. Neither treatment significantly altered the pupillary light reflex (latency, amplitude, or 75% recovery time). Resting pupil diameter was significantly reduced by the higher dose of amoxapine but was not affected by the other treatments. The higher dose of amoxapine significantly increased supine systolic blood pressure, but did not affect heart rate or diastolic blood pressure; amitriptyline had no effect on any of these cardiovascular measures. These results confirm the antimuscarinic effects of amitriptyline in man, but provide no evidence for antimuscarinic effects of amoxapine.
We previously reported targeted overexpression of c-myc to alveolar epithelium to cause lung cancer. We now extended our studies to the serum proteome of tumor bearing mice. Proteins were extracted with a thiourea-containing lysis buffer and separated by 2-DE at pH 4-7 and 3-10 followed by MALDI-TOF/TOF analysis. Forty-six proteins were identified in tumor bearing mice of which n = 9 were statistically significant. This included disease regulated expression of orosomucoid-8, alpha-2-macroglobulin, apolipoprotein-A1, apolipoprotein-C3, glutathione peroxidase-3, plasma retinol-binding protein, and transthyretin, while expression of apolipoprotein-E was decreased at late stages of disease. Moreover, serum amyloid P component was uniquely expressed at late stages of cancer. It is of considerable importance that most disease regulated proteins carried the E-Box sequence (CACGTG) in the promoter of the coding gene, therefore providing evidence for their regulation by c-myc. Notably, expression of alpha-2-macroglobulin, transthyretin, alpha-1-antitrypsin, and properdin was in common in different lung tumor models, but regulation of orosomucoid-8, apolipoprotein-A1, apolipoprotein-C3, apolipoprotein-E, glutathione peroxidase-3, plasma retinol-binding protein, and serum amyloid P component was unique when the serum proteomes of c-myc and c-raf tumor bearing mice were compared. Therefore, candidate biomarkers to differentiate between atypical adenomatous hyperplasias (AAH) and bronchiolo-alveolar carcinomas (BAC)/papillary adenocarcinomas (PLAC) can be proposed.
The objectives of this study were to establish if, and to what extent, benzbromarone affects allopurinol/oxypurinol kinetics, and to compare the uric acid lowering capabilities of Allomaron (allopurinol 100 mg plus benzbromarone 20 mg) with the effects of allopurinol alone in patients with confirmed gout. We studied 14 adult men in an open randomized cross-over study. After a 14 day run-in period with Zyloprim (2 x 100 mg allopurinol tablets in the morning), the patients were randomly allocated to morning doses of either Allomaron (2 tablets) or Zyloprim (2 tablets). Seven days later cross-over was effected and the alternative treatment was taken for a further 7 days. On days 7 and 14 the patients came into hospital and venous blood samples were taken over 24 h for allopurinol and oxypurinol assays by HPLC. Serum uric acid was determined on days -14, 1, 7, and 14. Benzbromarone lowered plasma oxypurinol concentrations (Allomaron/Zyloprim mean ratio of AUC0-->24 was 59%; 95% confidence interval 54-64%), but did not affect plasma allopurinol concentrations. Despite this pharmacokinetic interaction of benzbromarone with allopurinol, resulting in lower plasma concentrations of oxypurinol, Allomaron was superior to allopurinol alone in lowering serum uric acid, probably because of the added uricosuric effect of benzbromarone.
A child with rheumatic carditis developed acute renal failure due to renal papillary necrosis while receiving a short course of aspirin treatment. It is suggested that in this child the aspirin therapy predisposed the renal medulla to hypoxic damage induced by the carditis and congestive heart failure. It is therefore recommended that children receiving aspirin or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, even for a short time, be closely observed and the drug discontinued of hypoxia is evident. Moreover, during illnesses tending to cause hypoxia such as carditis, aspirin or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are best avoided since they are additional risk factors for renal damage.
The effect of different dopamine (DA) agonists on spontaneous activity and d-amphetamine-induced hyperactivity was studied in 11, 20 and 30 day old rats. The proposed selective DA autoreceptor agonist 3-PPP induced biphasic hyperactivity at 11 and 20 days of age, whereas only hypoactivity was observed at 30 days of age, as shown previously for adult rats. The enantiomers of 3-PPP had differential effect: (+)-3-PPP increased activity in 11 and 20 day old rats, where (-)-3-PPP had no effect in similar doses but motility decreased at a higher dose. At 30 days of age (+)-3-PPP decreased motility at low doses and increased motility at a high dose, whereas (-)-3-PPP induced a monotonic decrease, as observed in adult rats. The reference DA agonists apomorphine and pergolide induced only hyperactivity at 11 and 20 days of age. At 30 days the usual sedative effect of low doses was seen. These results confirm that DA autoreceptors mediating sedation are developed later than postsynaptic DA receptors mediating hyperactivity and suggest that 3-PPP (by its (+)-enantiomer) stimulates postsynaptically. (-)-3-PPP had no detectable postsynaptic DA stimulating activity and may, in contrast, act as a postsynaptic antagonist at high doses. Racemic-and (-)-3-PPP antagonized the d-amphetamine-induced hyperactivity at all ages, whereas (+)-3-PPP had no effect and apomorphine was effective at 30 days of age only. These results suggest that the d-amphetamine antagonism by (-)-3-PPP cannot be explained solely by DA autoreceptor stimulation but that autoreceptor stimulation may contribute to the inhibitory effect in mature rats.
Plasmatic levels of PDGF-AB, TGFbeta1, and bFGF are increased in patients with essential thrombocythemia (ET) while intraplatelet levels are low for PDGF, normal for TGFbeta, and elevated for bFGF. To evaluate the contribution of gene expression to the dysregulated cytokine levels, we studied platelet PDGF-A, PDGF-B, TGFbeta1, and bFGF mRNA in ET patients before and during anagrelide treatment. We found decreased PDGF-A and PDGF-B, increased TGFbeta1, and normal bFGF mRNA levels. During treatment, mRNA levels remained decreased for PDGF-A, were increased for PDGF-B and normal for TGFbeta1. In untreated patients, protein expression of PDGF paralleled its mRNA levels while different patterns of RNA and protein were found for TGFbeta1 and bFGF.
