Several genes that predispose to type 2 diabetes have recently been identified. In addition to the recognized and powerful effects of environmental factors, there is abundant evidence in support of genetic susceptibility to the microvascular complication of nephropathy in individuals with both type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Familial aggregation of phenotypes such as end-stage renal disease, albuminuria, and chronic kidney disease have routinely been reported in populations throughout the world, and heritability estimates for albuminuria and glomerular filtration rate demonstrate strong contributions of inherited factors. Recent genome-wide linkage scans have identified several chromosomal regions that likely contain diabetic nephropathy susceptibility genes, and association analyses have evaluated positional candidate genes under these linkage peaks. These complimentary approaches have demonstrated that polymorphisms in the carnosinase 1 gene on chromosome 18q, the adiponectin gene on 3q, and the engulfment and cell motility gene on 7p are likely associated with susceptibility to diabetic nephropathy. Additional genes that seem to be of importance in renal phenotypes include manganese superoxide dismutase and angiotensin 1-converting enzyme, with nitric oxide synthase implicated in albuminuria. This article reviews the inherited aspects of diabetic kidney disease with particular emphasis on recently implicated genes and pathways. It seems likely that the risk for diabetes-associated kidney disease is magnified by inheriting risk alleles at several susceptibility loci, in the presence of hyperglycemia.
Plasma albumin has been considered as important for governing glomerular permselectivity as well as being tubulotoxic in proteinuric states. The purpose of this study was to examine glomerular permselectivity and protein clearance of plasma albumin-deficient Nagase analbuminaemic rats (NAR) in normal and proteinuric states associated with puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN) and anti-glomerular basement membrane glomerulonephritis (anti-GBM GN) and to compare the results with those of previous studies using Sprague-Dawley rats.
Glomerular permselectivity was measured using tritium-labelled polydisperse Ficoll. In vivo fractional clearance (FC) of albumin, transferrin and immunoglobulin G was measured to include both intact and degraded forms of filtered material. Endogenous protein clearance was analysed using two-dimensional electrophoresis in combination with matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization (MALDI) mass spectrometry.
FCs of proteins and Ficoll in control NAR were similar to those found in Sprague-Dawley rats. Despite the lack of serum albumin in NAR, proteinuria and morphological changes observed were also similar to those found in Sprague-Dawley rats, with total protein excretion increasing 6-fold in PAN rats and 4-fold in anti-GBM GN rats with respect to controls. Two-dimensional electrophoresis in combination with MALDI mass spectrometry identified the major proteins being excreted as transferrin and a group of mildly acidic proteins in the MW range 40-50 kDa, namely antithrombin III, kininogen, alpha-1-antiproteinase, haemopexin and vitamin D-binding protein.
Both diseases exhibited similar effects to those observed in Sprague-Dawley rats despite the lack of serum albumin, including inhibition of renal protein degradation. The net changes in protein FC, particularly in the range of radii of 36-55 A, could not be accounted for by changes in size selectivity as Ficoll FC was little affected by the disease states. This emphasizes the need to reassess the relative importance of changes in renal tubular handling vs changes in glomerular capillary barrier in proteinuric states. These studies also demonstrate that albumin is not a critical factor in governing glomerular permselectivity or proteinuria.
A vast majority of pharmacological compounds and their metabolites are excreted via the urine, and within the complex structure of the kidney,the proximal tubules are a main target site of nephrotoxic compounds. We used the model nephrotoxicants mercuric chloride, 2-bromoethylamine hydrobromide, hexachlorobutadiene, mitomycin, amphotericin, and puromycin to elucidate time- and dose-dependent global gene expression changes associated with proximal tubular toxicity. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were dosed via intraperitoneal injection once daily for mercuric chloride and amphotericin (up to 7 doses), while a single dose was given for all other compounds. Animals were exposed to 2 different doses of these compounds and kidney tissues were collected on day 1, 3, and 7 postdosing. Gene expression profiles were generated from kidney RNA using 17K rat cDNA dual dye microarray and analyzed in conjunction with histopathology. Analysis of gene expression profiles showed that the profiles clustered based on similarities in the severity and type of pathology of individual animals. Further, the expression changes were indicative of tubular toxicity showing hallmarks of tubular degeneration/regeneration and necrosis. Use of gene expression data in predicting the type of nephrotoxicity was then tested with a support vector machine (SVM)-based approach. A SVM prediction module was trained using 120 profiles of total profiles divided into four classes based on the severity of pathology and clustering. Although mitomycin C and amphotericin B treatments did not cause toxicity, their expression profiles were included in the SVM prediction module to increase the sample size. Using this classifier, the SVM predicted the type of pathology of 28 test profiles with 100% selectivity and 82% sensitivity. These data indicate that valid predictions could be made based on gene expression changes from a small set of expression profiles. A set of potential biomarkers showing a time- and dose-response with respect to the progression of proximal tubular toxicity were identified. These include several transporters (Slc21a2, Slc15, Slc34a2), Kim 1, IGFbp-1, osteopontin, alpha-fibrinogen, and Gstalpha.
Doxorubicin induces a self-perpetuating nephropathy characterized by early glomerular and late-onset tubular lesions in rats. We investigated the potential role of mitochondrial injury in the onset of these lesions.
Rats were treated with intravenous doxorubicin (1 mg kg(-1) week(-1)) for 7 weeks and were sacrificed either 1 week ('short-term') or 30 weeks ('long-term') following the last dose. Additional rats received a single dose either 6 days or 2 h prior to euthanasia. All rats were killed at 48 weeks of age. Glomerular and tubular injury was monitored and correlated to the activity or expression of respiratory chain components. Finally, we quantified both nuclear and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) as well as superoxide production and the 4834 base pair 'common' mtDNA deletion.
The 'long-term' group had significant glomerular and tubular lesions, depressed activities of mtDNA-encoded NADH dehydrogenase and cytochrome-c oxidase (COX) and increased citrate synthase activity. In addition, expression of the mtDNA-encoded COX subunit I was reduced and mtDNA levels were decreased. In 'short-term' rats, there were fewer tubular lesions, but similar numbers of glomerular lesions activity. Among all animals, glomerular and tubular injury were inversely correlated with mtDNA levels, mtDNA-encoded respiratory chain activities and with the expression of the mtDNA-encoded respiratory chain subunit COX-I. Injury was positively correlated with superoxide production and the activities of nucleus-encoded mitochondrial or cytoplasmic enzymes. Kidneys from the 'long-term' group showed more mtDNA deletions than in 'short-term' animals and these were not observed in the other groups.
These results suggest an important role for quantitative and qualitative mtDNA alterations through the reduction of mtDNA-encoded respiratory chain function and induction of superoxide in doxorubicin-induced renal lesions.
Mice were treated either with diazepam (15 mg/kg s.c. in oil), for 21 days, or for 3x7-day periods interspersed with two 72-h drug-free periods. Convulsant thresholds to pentylentetrazole infused into the tail vein 72 h following the final chronic treatment were lower in multiple-withdrawal mice than in mice which had experienced the same drug load, but only a single withdrawal, consistent with sensitisation of withdrawal events following previous withdrawal experience. The increase in seizure sensitivity of repeatedly withdrawn mice was prevented by treatment with the NMDA receptor antagonist CGP 39551 (20 mg/kg, i.p.) given once daily during the 3-day breaks in diazepam treatment, suggesting a role of glutamatergic transmission in the sensitisation process.
Environmental cues associated with cocaine evoke craving and seeking. This process, termed cue reactivity, is a critical element of cocaine addiction. Although glutamatergic neurotransmission has been implicated in this effect of cocaine, the precise subtype and localization in the brain of the glutamatergic receptor critical for cocaine cue reactivity is not well-understood.
We used a conditional N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor (NMDAR) knockout mouse whose NMDAR gene was deleted by Cre expression restricted to striatal neurons. To evaluate the role of NMDAR in cocaine cue reactivity, conditional knockout mice and control mice (n = 5-8/group) were conditioned for place preference with cocaine (5 and 10 mg/kg SC) for 3 days. Their subsequent place preference was examined in a drug-free state.
Although control mice developed cocaine conditioned place preference, mice deficient for NMDAR on striatal neurons failed to develop conditioned place preference.
The NMDAR on striatal neurons is essential for the development of cocaine cue reactivity in the place conditioning paradigm. Our finding identifies a brain region whose constitutive NMDAR level serves as a determinant for susceptibility to this aspect of cocaine addiction.
Despite the increasing need to identify and quantify tissue oxygenation at the cellular level, relatively few methods have been available. In this study, we developed a new hypoxia-responsive reporter vector using a hypoxia-responsive element of the 5' vascular endothelial growth factor untranslated region and generated a novel hypoxia-sensing transgenic rat. We then applied this animal model to the detection of tubulointerstitial hypoxia in the diseased kidney. With this model, we were able to identify diffuse cortical hypoxia in the puromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephrotic syndrome and focal and segmental hypoxia in the remnant kidney model. Expression of the hypoxia-responsive transgene increased throughout the observation period, reaching 2.2-fold at 2 weeks in the puromycin aminonucleoside model and 2.6-fold at 4 weeks in the remnant kidney model, whereas that of vascular endothelial growth factor showed a mild decrease, reflecting distinct behaviors of the two genes. The degree of hypoxia showed a positive correlation with microscopic tubulointerstitial injury in both models. Finally, we identified the localization of proliferating cell nuclear antigen-positive, ED-1-positive, and terminal dUTP nick-end labeled-positive cells in the hypoxic cortical area in the remnant kidney model. We propose here a possible pathological tie between chronic tubulointerstitial hypoxia and progressive glomerular diseases.
The clinical use of arsenic trioxide (ATO), a potent anti-neoplastic agent, is often limited because of its severe cardiotoxicity. Salviae miltiorrhiza is widely used for the treatment of cardiovascular diseases. One of the most abundant ingredients of S. miltiorrhiza is salvianolic acid B (Sal B). The present study was designed to evaluate whether Sal B protects against ATO-induced cardiac cell injury in vitro. With MTT cell viability assay, LDH release, ROS generation, caspase-3 activity assay and Hoechst 33342/PI staining, we found that Sal B pretreatment provided significantly protection against ATO-induced cell death. The effect was correlated with the activation of the PI3K/Akt signal pathway. Conversely, blocking Akt activation with the PI3K inhibitor LY294002 effectively suppressed the protective effect of Sal B against ATO-induced cell apoptosis. In addition, the PI3K inhibitor partially blocked the effects of Sal B on the upregulation of Bcl-2 and Bcl-xl protein expression, and downregulation of Bax protein expression. Collectively, the results showed that Sal B decreased the apoptosis and necrosis of H9c2 cardiomyocytes caused by ATO treatment, and PI3K played a crucial role in enhancing cell survival during this process. These observations indicate that Sal B has the potential to exert cardioprotective effects against ATO toxicity.
Panaxydol, a polyacetylene compound isolated from Panax ginseng, exerts anti-proliferative effects against malignant cells. No previous study, however, has been reported on its effects on hepatocellular carcinoma cells. Here, we investigated the effects of panaxydol on the proliferation and differentiation of human hepatocarcinoma cell line HepG2. We studied by electronic microscopy of morphological and ultrastructural changes induced by panaxydol. We also examined the cytotoxicities of panaxydol against HepG2 cells using the 3-(4,5-dimethyl-2-thiazolyl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide assay and the effect of panaxydol on cell cycle distributions by flow cytometry. We investigated the production of liver proteins in panaxydol-treated cells including alpha-fetoprotein and albumin and measured the specific activity of alkaline phosphatase and gamma-glutamyl transferase. We further investigated the effects of panaxydol on the expression of Id-1, Id-2, p21 and pRb by RT-PCR or immunoblotting analysis. We found that panaxydol inhibited the proliferation of HepG2 cells and caused morphological and ultrastructural changes in HepG2 cells resembling more mature forms of hepatocytes. Moreover, panaxydol induced a cell cycle arrest at the G(1) to S transition in HepG2 cells. It also significantly decreased the secretion of alpha-fetoprotein and the activity of gamma-glutamyl transferase. By contrast, panaxydol remarkably increased the secretion of albumin and the alkaline phosphatase activity. Furthermore, panaxydol increased the mRNA content of p21 while reducing that of Id-1 and Id-2. Panaxydol also increased the protein levels of p21, pRb and the hypophosphorylated pRb in a dose-dependent manner. These findings suggest that panaxydol is of value for further exploration as a potential anti-cancer agent.
Six parkinsonian patients with symptomatic postural hypotension secondary to levodopa therapy were treated with 0.05 to 0.2 mg of fludrocortisone acetate daily for six to ten months. Severe orthostatic light-headedness and frequent syncope had previously been alleviated only be reducing the dosage of levodopa to levels producing less than optimal antiparkinsonian benefits. In all six patients, symptoms were alleviated satisfactorily, and supine and upright blood pressures returned to normal levels during treatment with fludrocortisone acetate. There were no adverse reactions. Fludrocortisone acetate is an effective and safe drug for the treatment of severe and otherwise intractable postural hypotension secondary to therapy with levodopa.
A 3 1/2-yr-old boy with acute leukemia rapidly developed quadriparesis during induction treatment that included vincristine. Accompanying the paralysis, spinal fluid protein was increased. This has not previously been associated with vincristine neuropathy. In addition to leukemia, we suggest that the patient had the Guillain-Barré syndrome, potentiating the neurotoxicity of vincristine.
The neutralization by protamine sulfate of bleeding enhancement induced by the potent anti-factor Xa pentasaccharide SR 90107A/Org 31540 and by heparin has been studied in rats and mice. Bleeding, as measured by transection of the tail of anaesthetised rats or mice, was increased following the administration of heparin and very high doses of SR 90107A/Org 31540. In rats, i.v. doses of 0.6 mg/kg heparin or 15 mg/kg SR 90107A/Org 31540 were required to enhance bleeding time to approximately the same extent (5- or 7-fold increase), whereas in mice a 13-fold increase in blood loss was observed with i.v. doses of 3 mg/kg heparin or 10 mg/kg SR 90107A/Org 31540. Protamine sulfate (10 mg/kg i.v.) reduced bleeding in rats and mice induced by both compounds. It also neutralized the anti-factor Xa activity as well as the antithrombotic activity of heparin as observed in venous thrombosis models in both species. However, protamine sulfate neither affected the anti-factor Xa activity nor the antithrombotic activity of SR 90107A/Org 31540 in rats and mice. The present results suggest that protamine sulfate may be regarded as a potential antidote to neutralize bleeding side-effects in cases of SR 90107A/Org 31540 overdosing.
High dietary salt-caused hypertension is associated with increasing reactive oxygen species generation and reduced nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability. Transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1), a specific receptor for capsaicin, is proposed to be involved in Dahl salt-sensitive hypertension, as determined in acute or short-term experiments. However, it remains unknown whether activation of TRPV1 by dietary capsaicin could prevent the vascular oxidative stress and hypertension induced by a high-salt diet. Here, we report that consumption of a high-salt diet blunted endothelium-dependent relaxation in mesenteric resistance arteries and elevated nocturnal blood pressure in mice. These effects were associated with increased superoxide anion generation and reduced NO levels in mesenteric vessels in mice on a high-salt diet. However, chronic administration of capsaicin reduced the high-salt diet-induced endothelial dysfunction and nocturnal hypertension in part by preventing the generation of superoxide anions and NO reduction of mesenteric arteries through vascular TRPV1 activation. Our findings provide new insights into the role of TRPV1 channels in the long-term regulation of blood pressure in response to high-salt intake. TRPV1 activation through chronic dietary capsaicin may represent a promising lifestyle intervention in populations with salt-sensitive hypertension.
Severe ovarian hyperstimulation developed in a young woman during ovulation induction with human menopausal and chorionic gonadotropins. This was complicated by acute functional renal insufficiency with vascular overfilling and incipient pulmonary edema, possibly caused by indomethacine and fluid treatment. The pathogenetic mechanisms involved are discussed.
The paper deals with chosen parameters that can be used for heart hypertrophy diagnosis and are obtained from body surface electrocardiographic maps. Parameters are analysed in repeated measurements of a patient with left ventricular hypertrophy that regressed due to treatment with verapamil.
The aldose reductase pathway has been demonstrated to be a key component of myocardial ischemia reperfusion injury. Previously, we demonstrated that increased lactate/pyruvate ratio, a measure of cytosolic NADH/NAD+, is an important change that drives the metabolic cascade mediating ischemic injury. This study investigated signaling mechanisms by which the aldose reductase pathway mediates myocardial ischemic injury. Specifically, the influence of the aldose reductase pathway flux on JAK-STAT signaling was examined in perfused hearts. Induction of global ischemia in rats resulted in JAK2 activation followed by STAT5 activation. Pharmacological inhibition of aldose reductase or sorbitol dehydrogenase blocked JAK2 and STAT5 activation and was associated with lower lactate/pyruvate ratio and lower protein kinase C activity. Niacin, known to lower cytosolic NADH/NAD+ ratio independent of the aldose reductase pathway inhibition, also blocked JAK2 and STAT5 activation. Inhibition of protein kinase C also blocked JAK2 and STAT5 activation. Transgenic mice overexpressing human aldose reductase exhibited increased JAK2 and STAT5 activation. Pharmacological inhibition of JAK2 reduced ischemic injury and improved functional recovery similar to that observed in aldose reductase pathway inhibited mice hearts. These data, for the first time, demonstrate JAK-STAT signaling by the aldose reductase pathway in ischemic hearts and is, in part, due to changes in cytosolic redox state.
The majority of patients undergoing surgical treatment for ST-elevation myocardial infarction receive antifibrinolytic therapy to limit blood loss. This approach appears counterintuitive to the accepted medical treatment of the same condition--namely, fibrinolysis to limit thrombosis. Despite this concern, no independent, large-scale safety assessment has been undertaken.
In this observational study involving 4374 patients undergoing revascularization, we prospectively assessed three agents (aprotinin [1295 patients], aminocaproic acid [883], and tranexamic acid [822]) as compared with no agent (1374 patients) with regard to serious outcomes by propensity and multivariable methods. (Although aprotinin is a serine protease inhibitor, here we use the term antifibrinolytic therapy to include all three agents.)
In propensity-adjusted, multivariable logistic regression (C-index, 0.72), use of aprotinin was associated with a doubling in the risk of renal failure requiring dialysis among patients undergoing complex coronary-artery surgery (odds ratio, 2.59; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.36 to 4.95) or primary surgery (odds ratio, 2.34; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.27 to 4.31). Similarly, use of aprotinin in the latter group was associated with a 55 percent increase in the risk of myocardial infarction or heart failure (P<0.001) and a 181 percent increase in the risk of stroke or encephalopathy (P=0.001). Neither aminocaproic acid nor tranexamic acid was associated with an increased risk of renal, cardiac, or cerebral events. Adjustment according to propensity score for the use of any one of the three agents as compared with no agent yielded nearly identical findings. All the agents reduced blood loss.
The association between aprotinin and serious end-organ damage indicates that continued use is not prudent. In contrast, the less expensive generic medications aminocaproic acid and tranexamic acid are safe alternatives.
Benign psychiatric side effects have been frequently associated with mefloquine therapy. On the other hand, severe psychiatric disorders due to mefloquine are rare but must be detected by physicians. Two such cases are reported. In the first case, excessive curative mefloquine therapy caused an acute psychotic state which ultimately regress without treatment. The second report concerns a transient memory failure following prophylactic mefloquine treatment. The causative role of this compound is being discussed and the importance of a differential diagnosis of neuropsychiatric disorders from toxic or parasitic origin is underlined. Circumstances aggravating such neuropsychiatric side effects and actual recommendations concerning the prescription of mefloquine are recalled.
The present study aims to explore the effects of perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) on cognitive function in developing rats and the underlying mechanism associated with synaptic plasticity. Pregnant Wistar rats were fed with 0, 5, and 15 mg/L of PFOS via drinking water during gestation and lactation. Offspring were exposed to PFOS on prenatal and/or postnatal days by cross-fostering. Spatial learning and memory abilities were tested from postnatal day (PND) 35. We also analyzed the expression pattern of the synaptic plasticity-related genes and proteins in the hippocampus on PND7 and PND35. Results revealed that PFOS exposure reduced the spatial learning and memory abilities of the offspring, particularly of those with prenatal exposure. Meanwhile, protein levels of growth-associated protein-43, neural cell adhesion molecule 1, nerve growth factor, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor decreased on PND35, which are involved in the formation of synaptic plasticity. In contrast, significant increase in gap-43, ncam1, and bdnf genes on the mRNA level was observed on PND7, possibly due to the post-transcriptional mechanism. Results of both behavioral effects and molecular endpoints suggested the high risk of prenatal PFOS exposure. The decline of spatial learning and memory abilities induced by developmental PFOS exposure was closely related to synaptic plasticity.
Sperm-positive female Long-Evans hooded rats were injected with 6 mg/kg lidocaine (with epinephrine), 6 mg/kg mepivacaine, or saline, into the masseter muscle of the jaw on Day 11 of gestation. Birth, growth, and litter composition were unaffected by the drug treatment, as was shuttle box acquisition. Offspring of drug-treated dams had longer latencies than controls on the first day of negative geotaxis training, and were more sensitive to electric footshock. Lidocaine-dosed offspring responded less in the presence of the correct cue in the visual discrimination task, and mepivacaine-dosed animals were hypoactive in the open field. In a second study, offspring of lidocaine-dosed dams were slower to develop the righting reflex, made more errors in acquiring a water maze, had longer suppression times in a conditioned suppression task, and had longer latencies in the tail flick test. Dosing had no effect upon birth and growth, shuttle box, or footshock sensitivity. These data demonstrate that midgestational exposure to lidocaine or mepivacaine at a dose near the limits of permissible human exposure produces significant behavioral changes in the offspring. This preliminary study suggests that development of some portion of the central nervous system is altered by such exposure. Further work is required to determine the parameters and the extent of the effect.
To describe a patient who developed serotonin syndrome on four separate occasions as a result of monotherapy with two different selective serotonin receptor inhibitors (fluoxetine and cetalopram).
Case report.
Community hospital.
Single patient with four episodes of serotonin syndrome.
The syndrome was characterized by coma/unresponsiveness (four episodes), dilated pupils (four episodes), salivation (two episodes), dryness of mouth (two episodes), myoclonus like activity of eyelids (four episodes), oculogyric crisis (four episodes), flaccid paralysis of all extremities (four episodes), tremors (two episodes), apnea (two episodes), restlessness (one episode). Recovery occurred within 24 hrs, although muscle pain and weakness persisted for 2 months after stopping fluoxetine. Apnea occurred in both episodes associated with fluoxetine therapy.
Apnea and coma may occur in serotonin syndrome.
Potential behavioral and teratogenic effects of caffeine were studied in Charles River CD albino rats. Caffeine in distilled water was given by gavage to pregnant rats (dams) at doses of 5, 25, 50 or 75 mg/kg on Days 3-19 of gestation. Concurrent controls received distilled water gavage (10 ml/kg) on the same days. Dams were allowed to deliver normally. Physical and behavioral observations were made on dams during gestation and lactation and on F1 offspring through 9 weeks of age. Caffeine decreased body weights and food intake and increased water intake in gestating dams but these effects dissipated during lactation. Spontaneous locomotor activity (PAC) and open field (OF) were increased immediately after caffeine gavage but not before. Parturition was slightly delayed. With analyses of data based on individual pups the following effects were noted. Pre- and post-weaning offspring body weights were decreased in females at 50 and 75 mg/kg and in males at 75 mg/kg. Incisor eruption was delayed in females at 5, 50 and 75 mg/kg and in males at all doses. Auditory startle developed earlier in the 5 mg/kg dose group but was delayed at 75 mg/kg for males only. Eye opening was delayed in both sexes at 25, 50 and 75 mg/kg. In females, vaginal opening was delayed at 5, 25 and 75 mg/kg and 9-week ovary weights were increased at 75 mg/kg. In postweaning males, food intake was decreased and water intake was increased with increasing dose. In males, PAC was decreased at 75 mg/kg only on Day 12. At 7 weeks of age, step-down passive avoidance was decreased at 5 and 25 mg/kg but increased at 50 and 75 mg/kg, and at 8 weeks of age, shuttlebox active avoidance was decreased with increasing dose. Maternal and offspring behaviors were only weakly correlated. Correction for litter effect in developmental data yielded fewer significant results and only at 50 and 75 mg/kg. The issue of whether it is always appropriate to correct for "litter effect" is discussed.
It has been demonstrated that thalidomide's anti-angiogenic properties result in clear anti-tumor activity in a number of human malignancies. We studied thalidomide in a human melanoma severe combined immunodeficiency mouse xenotransplantation model. Thalidomide as a single agent showed a significant tumor reduction of 46% compared with the control group. Thalidomide combined with dacarbazine treatment markedly enhanced the anti-tumor effect of chemotherapy and showed a significant tumor reduction relative to the dacarbazine-only group (61%) and even more tumor reduction (74%) compared with the control group. We also measured clearly reduced levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha in the thalidomide-treated group. A significantly lower microvessel density was encountered in the thalidomide treatment groups (thalidomide alone or combined with DTIC), underscoring the anti-angiogenic effect of thalidomide as a single agent as well as in combination with chemotherapy in this model. In line with these results, we observed a nearly 3-fold increase of apoptosis for the combination of thalidomide and DTIC compared with the rate of apoptotic cells in DTIC-only-treated melanoma xenotransplants. These data underline the rationale for combining dacarbazine--a cytotoxic agent--and thalidomide--an anti-angiogenic cytostatic agent--as a promising strategy for the treatment of melanoma.
