Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), the most common liver cancer, occurs mainly in men. Similar gender disparity is seen in mice given a chemical carcinogen, diethylnitrosamine (DEN). DEN administration caused greater increases in serum interleukin-6 (IL-6) concentration in males than it did in females. Furthermore, ablation of IL-6 abolished the gender differences in hepatocarcinogenesis in mice. DEN exposure promoted production of IL-6 in Kupffer cells (KCs) in a manner dependent on the Toll-like receptor adaptor protein MyD88, ablation of which also protected male mice from DEN-induced hepatocarcinogenesis. Estrogen inhibited secretion of IL-6 from KCs exposed to necrotic hepatocytes and reduced circulating concentrations of IL-6 in DEN-treated male mice. We propose that estrogen-mediated inhibition of IL-6 production by KCs reduces liver cancer risk in females, and these findings may be used to prevent HCC in males.
Splenomegaly with sea-blue histiocytes is not associated with dyslipidemia, except in severe cases of hypertriglyceridemia, Tangier disease, or lecithin cholesterol acyltransferase deficiency. We describe two kindreds in which the sea-blue histiocyte syndrome was associated with an apoE variant in the absence of severe dyslipidemia. Both patients presented with mild hypertriglyceridemia and splenomegaly. After splenectomy both patients developed severe hypertriglyceridemia. Pathological evaluation of the spleen revealed the presence of sea-blue histiocytes. A mutation of apoE was demonstrated, with a 3-bp deletion resulting in the loss of a leucine at position 149 in the receptor-binding region of the apoE molecule [apoE (delta149 Leu)]. Although both probands were unrelated, they were of French Canadian ancestry, suggesting the possibility of a founder effect. In summary, we describe two unrelated probands with primary sea-blue histiocytosis who had normal or mildly elevated serum triglyceride concentrations that markedly increased after splenectomy. In addition, we provide evidence linking the syndrome to an inherited dominant mutation in the apoE gene, a 3-bp deletion on the background of an apoE 3 allele that causes a derangement in lipid metabolism and leads to splenomegaly in the absence of severe hypertriglyceridemia.
Caesalpinia sappan Linn. has long been used in traditional medicine in China. Here, the anticancer activity of brazilein, a compound isolated from C. sappan Linn. was investigated. MTT assay showed that the IC50 value of brazilein against human breast cancer MCF-7 cells was 7.23 ± 0.24 μmol/L. PI staining and flow cytometry analysis indicated that brazilein caused cell cycle arrest in G1 phase. Western blot and RT-PCR assay demonstrated that cyclin D1, a key factor of the G1 to S phase progression, was downregulated in a concentration-dependent manner by brazilein treatment. Further Western blot and RNA interference assay showed that brazilein treatment activated GSK-3β and following reduced β-Catenin protein, which accounted for the downregulation of cyclin D1 and blockage of cell cycle at G1 phase. Together, all these results illustrated that brazilein induced growth inhibition of breast cancer cells and downregulation of GSK-3β/β-Catenin pathway was involved in its action mechanism.
Several occurrences of immune complex-mediated, cephalosporin-induced intravascular hemolysis have been reported. This report describes the first case of hemolytic anemia caused by an immune-complex mechanism associated with ceftizoxime and delineates the epitope responsible for hemolysis.
The patient's serum was tested for antibody that reacted with five penicillins and 30 cephems (all types of cephalosporins) by using protocols to detect drug-adsorption and immune-complex mechanisms. The patient's antibody that formed immune complexes with ceftizoxime reacted with 10 of 30 cephems. These 10 drugs were classified as oxime-type cephalosporins, which have a common structural formula consisting of [(Z)-2-(2-amino-4-thiazolyl)-2-methoxyiminoacetoamido] at the C7 position on 7-aminocephalosporinic acid with or without substitution at the C3 position.
The patient's antibody recognized a common structure in 10 oxime-type cephalosporins, and immune complexes formed by the antibody specifically or nonspecifically bound to red cell membranes. Therefore, when intermittent antibiotic therapy is required, as in this case, care should be taken in antibiotic selection to avoid drug-induced hemolytic anemia. In addition, when this type of hemolysis is observed, tests for antibody that reacts by adsorption and immune-complex mechanisms should be performed against penicillins and cephems to select antibiotics not showing a cross-reaction.
The effect of endogenous hyperprolactinemia induced by pituitary transplantation under the kidney capsule on haloperidol induced catalepsy was evaluated in male Wistar rats treated with two doses of the drug (500 gamma/kg; 2 mg/kg i.p.). Rats of 220 +/- 30 g received intraperitoneal injection of haloperidol. Every five minutes following drug administration the rats were assessed for catalepsy by placing the forepaw on a horizontal bar, and observed for two minutes. Data obtained show that hyperprolactinemia potentiates the cataleptic score in rats treated with dose of 500 gamma/kg i.p., while no significant difference was observed between hyperprolactinemic rats and control rats, at the dose of 2 mg/kg i.p. of haloperidol.
A cardioselective parameter has been available for about 2 years since the development by KATUS of an immunoassay for cardiac Troponin T (TnT). The major advantages of this TnT assay are its cardiospecificity and its sensitivity. The parameters usually determined in toxicity studies in rats to detect alterations in the myocardial cells, e.g. aspartate aminotransferase (ASAT), creatinine kinase (CK) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), are either of low sensitivity in this species or give falsely high results as the consequence of stress or haemolysis. We therefore investigated in the present study how well Troponin T, determined with the ELISA Troponin T from Boehringer Mannheim, can detect experimentally induced myocardial lesions in rats. In order to achieve hypoxic damage of the cardiomyocytes in these experiments in rats, male Sprague-Dawley rats were given two doses of 4 mg/kg isoprenaline each (Aludrin from Boehringer Ingelheim, FRG) subcutaneously. The second dose was given 7 h after the start of the experiment. Serum samples were analysed for Troponin T (TnT) levels and, for comparison, aspartate aminotransferase (ASAT), creatine kinase (CK), and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). Histological examinations of the heart muscle were performed 24 and 96 h after the first injection. As expected, histological examinations of the isoprenaline-treated animals revealed marked myofibrillic degeneration of the myocardium 24 h after the first injection. Markedly elevated serum TnT levels (up to 7.9 ng/ml) were already evident in these animals after 6 h. TnT values decreased with time, but were still statistically significant after 48 h. Of the well-established indicators for diagnosing myocardial infarction, only ASAT showed transient statistically significant increases over 24 h.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Magnesium sulfate is commonly used as the anticonvulsant drug of choice for preeclampsia and eclampsia. It is effective, nontoxic to both mother and fetus, and side effects are rare within the therapeutic range. This report describes paroxysmal atrial fibrillation occurring at low serum levels of the drug during the treatment of preeclampsia.
A case of nonoliguric acute renal failure complicated with tumor lysis syndrome is described. The patient is a 14-year-old boy who was diagnosed chronic myelocytic leukemia 17 months ago. On lymphoid crisis, he received vindesine-prednisolone therapy and acute renal failure occurred. Urine output was kept enough volume (2,500-4,000 ml/day), but blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine levels rose and hyperkalemia, hyperphosphatemia and hypocalcemia were observed. Tumor lysis syndrome in patients with chronic myelocytic leukemia is rare, and acute renal failure with tumor lysis syndrome is oliguric or anuric in most patients. At therapy of lymphoproliferative disease, nonoliguric acute renal failure may occur. Physicians who treat patients with lymphoproliferative disease should pay attention to blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine levels even if urine output is satisfactory.
Ophthalmoplegia is a rarely observed sign in carbamazepine and other anticonvulsant overdoses. We present a patient who developed transient complete external ophthalmoplegia and asterixis with relative preservation of consciousness, in association with carbamazepine toxicity. Previously reported cases and proposed mechanisms are reviewed.
Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder presenting before 3 years of age with deficits in communication and social skills and repetitive behaviors. In addition to genetic influences, recent studies suggest that prenatal drug or chemical exposures are risk factors for autism. Terbutaline, a beta2-adrenoceptor agonist used to arrest preterm labor, has been associated with increased concordance for autism in dizygotic twins. We studied the effects of terbutaline on microglial activation in different brain regions and behavioral outcomes in developing rats. Newborn rats were given terbutaline (10 mg/kg) daily on postnatal days (PN) 2 to 5 or PN 11 to 14 and examined 24 h after the last dose and at PN 30. Immunohistochemical studies showed that administration of terbutaline on PN 2 to 5 produced a robust increase in microglial activation on PN 30 in the cerebral cortex, as well as in cerebellar and cerebrocortical white matter. None of these effects occurred in animals given terbutaline on PN 11 to 14. In behavioral tests, animals treated with terbutaline on PN 2 to 5 showed consistent patterns of hyper-reactivity to novelty and aversive stimuli when assessed in a novel open field, as well as in the acoustic startle response test. Our findings indicate that beta2-adrenoceptor overstimulation during an early critical period results in microglial activation associated with innate neuroinflammatory pathways and behavioral abnormalities, similar to those described in autism. This study provides a useful animal model for understanding the neuropathological processes underlying autism spectrum disorders.
Cigarette smoke (CS) exposure during gestation may increase the risk of bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD)-a developmental lung condition primarily seen in neonates that is characterized by hypoalveolarization, decreased angiogenesis, and diminished surfactant protein production and may increase the risk of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
We investigated whether gestational exposure to secondhand CS (SS) induced BPD and sought to ascertain the role of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in this response.
We exposed BALB/c and C57BL/6 mice to filtered air (control) or SS throughout the gestation period or postnatally up to 10 weeks. Lungs were examined at 7 days, 10 weeks, and 8 months after birth.
Gestational but not postnatal exposure to SS caused a typical BPD-like condition: suppressed angiogenesis [decreased vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), VEGF receptor, and CD34/CD31 (hematopoietic progenitor cell marker/endothelial cell marker)], irreversible hypoalveolarization, and significantly decreased levels of Clara cells, Clara cell secretory protein, and surfactant proteins B and C, without affecting airway ciliated cells. Importantly, concomitant exposure to SS and the nAChR antagonist mecamylamine during gestation blocked the development of BPD.
Gestational exposure to SS irreversibly disrupts lung development leading to a BPD-like condition with hypoalveolarization, decreased angiogenesis, and diminished lung secretory function. Nicotinic receptors are critical in the induction of gestational SS-induced BPD, and the use of nAChR antagonists during pregnancy may block CS-induced BPD.
We investigated the effect of intense audiogenic stimulation (AGS) on rats treated with the antibiotic imipenem and dipeptidase inhibitor cilastatin (Imi/Cil). Under pentobarbital anesthesia (40 mg/kg) adult male Wistar rats were implanted with electrodes and cannulas were placed in the right lateral ventricle. Animals were divided into the following groups: (1) vehicle, (2) Imi/Cil 10 microg/10 microg, (3) Imi/Cil 25 microg/25 microg, (4) vehicle+AGS, (5) Imi/Cil 10 microg/10 microg +AGS, and (6) Imi/Cil 25 microg/25 microg +AGS. Imi/Cil was administered intracerebroventricularly in 5 microl of physiological saline. AGS (100+/-3 dB, 60 seconds) was applied at 15-minute intervals after the injection. Imi/Cil-induced seizures (twitching, forelimb clonus, headnodding, rearing, and clonic convulsions) and Imi/Cil-audio-induced seizures (wild running, clonic and tonic convulsions) were scored according to appropriate rating scales. Imi/Cil provoked convulsions dose-dependently. Each behavioral seizure response had a characteristic EEG correlate. AGS by itself did not provoke seizures in untreated rats. Sound stimulation in Imi/Cil-injected rats elicited typical audiogenic seizures, which were induced during five AGS tests (75 minutes postinjection). In most cases audiogenic seizures were not associated with epileptiform activity in the EEG, indicating that spreading of seizures did not involve the cortex. Since Imi/Cil-induced and Imi/Cil-audio-induced seizures differed behaviorally and electroencephalographically, it is suggested that different neural pathways are responsible for these two types of seizures: neuronal networks in the cortex are involved in Imi/Cil-induced seizures, whereas audiogenic seizures use networks residing primarily in the brainstem.
The potential teratogenicity of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) is a major concern for women with epilepsy who are considering pregnancy. Traditional AEDs are associated with an at least twofold risk of fetal malformations compared with the general population. The risk of malformations with newer AEDs is unclear. This article reports the multicenter clinical experience in Argentina of pregnant women with epilepsy receiving AEDs. Of 114 pregnancies monitored, 16 newborns had anomalies: 3 cardiac, 3 skull, and 2 gastrointestinal malformations, and 8 facial dysmorphies. Most fetal anomalies were observed following exposure to phenobarbital, valproate, and carbamazepine. Of 55 babies exposed to the new-generation AED oxcarbazepine (20 as combination therapy and 35 as monotherapy), one malformation (cardiac) was reported (in a patient receiving oxcarbazepine and phenobarbital). Thus, newer AEDs may have a lower teratogenic risk than traditional AEDs. These data add to the growing experience with AED therapy in pregnant women with epilepsy.
The effect of isoproterenol-induced myocardial damage on heart rate variability was examined in conscious, unrestrained, male, Sprague-Dawley rats. We used power spectrum analysis of beat-to-beat heart rate to study the levels and interaction of sympathetic and parasympathetic neural influences on the heart. One day after isoproterenol (80 mg/kg s.c.), mean heart rate was significantly elevated when compared to controls (isoproterenol 413.9 b.p.m. +/- 7.7 S.E.M.; saline 368.8 b.p.m. +/- 12.8 S.E.M.; P less than 0.05), even though the low frequency and respiratory components of the power spectrum were not different between the two groups. By contrast, a week after isoproterenol administration, heart rate was normal; however, variability in low frequency and respiratory areas of the power spectrum was significantly increased suggesting an abnormal sympathovagal balance. An imbalance in autonomic regulation of cardiac automaticity could account for the 27% incidence of arrhythmias in rats given isoproterenol. These results indicate that autonomic responses associated with isoproterenol-induced myocardial ischemia differ from those in human and in animal models of myocardial infarction.
Dysregulation of signaling pathways is believed to contribute to Parkinson's disease pathology and l-DOPA-induced motor complications. Long-lived dopamine (DA) agonists are less likely to cause motor complications by virtue of continuous stimulation of DA receptors. In this study, we compared the effects of the unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion and subsequent treatment with l-DOPA and DA agonist pergolide on signaling pathways in rats. Pergolide caused less pronounced behavioral sensitization than l-DOPA (25 mg/kg, i.p., 10 days), particularly at lower dose (0.5 and 0.25 mg/kg, i.p.). Pergolide, but not l-DOPA, reversed lesion-induced up-regulation of preproenkephalin and did not up-regulate preprodynorphine or DA D3 receptor in the lesioned hemisphere. Pergolide was as effective as l-DOPA in reversing the lesion-induced elevation of ERK2 phosphorylation in response to acute apomorphine administration (0.05 mg/kg, s.c.). Chronic l-DOPA significantly elevated the level of Akt phosphorylation at both Thr(308) and Ser(473) and concentration of phosphorylated GSK3alpha, whereas pergolide suppressed the lesion- and/or challenge-induced supersensitive Akt responses. The data indicate that l-DOPA, unlike pergolide, exacerbates imbalances in the Akt pathway caused by the loss of DA. The results support the hypothesis that the Akt pathway is involved in long-term actions of l-DOPA and may be linked to l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.
Phenytoin was administered intravenously in large doses (mean = 16.6 mg per kilogram) for prevention and treatment of seizures on 159 occasions to 139 patients aged 17 to 94 years (mean = 52 years) and weighing 37 to 113 kg (mean = 65 kg). Hypotension was more frequent among older patients. No deaths were attributable to phenytoin. Volumes of distribution were relatively constant (mean = 0.78 +/- 0.11 liters per kilogram), but half-lives varied considerably and were prolonged (mean = 51 +/- 32 hours) because of the large doses administered. A dose of 18 mg per kilogram was effective in maintaining phenytoin serum levels above 10 microgram per milliliter for 24 hours.
The aim of our study was to determine the role and dynamics of oxidative and nitrosative stress, as well as superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase activity in the hepatocytes and erythrocytes in early phase of acute lindane intoxication. Male Wistar rats were divided into groups: control, dimethylsulfoxide and lindane-treated groups (L, 8 mg/kg, intraperitoneally). Animals were sacrificed 0.5 and 4 hours after treatment (L(0.5) and L(4) groups, respectively). Oxidative and nitrosative stress parameters and antioxidant enzymes were determined spectrophotometrically. Liver and plasma thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) concentration were significantly increased 0.5 after lindane administration (p < .01), with subsequent additional rise within 4 hours (p < .01), while plasma nitrite + nitrate level was significantly higher only 4 hours after lindane treatment. Total liver SOD activity was significantly increased in L(4) group in comparison with control group (p < .01). In conclusion, oxidative and nitrosative stress play an important role in early phase of acute lindane hepatotoxicity. Antioxidant capacity of hepatocytes is partly increased, due to an adaptive increase in SOD activity.
Exposure to genotoxic chemicals at a young age increases cancer incidence later in life. Aflatoxin B(1) (AFB(1)) is a potent genotoxin that induces hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in many animal species and in humans. Whereas adult mice are insensitive to aflatoxin-induced carcinogenesis, mice treated with AFB(1) shortly after birth develop a high incidence of HCC in adulthood. Furthermore, the incidence of HCC in adult male mice treated as infants is much greater than in females, reasons for which are unclear. In this study, treatment with AFB(1) produced similar levels of DNA damage and mutations in the liver of newborn male and female gpt delta B6C3F1 mice. Twenty-four hours after dosing with AFB(1) (6 mg/kg), the highly mutagenic AFB(1)-FAPY adduct was present at twice the level of AFB(1)-N(7)-guanine in liver DNA of males and females. A multiple dose regimen (3 × 2 mg/kg), while delivering the same total dose, resulted in lower AFB(1) adduct levels. Mutation frequencies in the gpt transgene in liver were increased by 20- to 30-fold. The most prominent mutations in AFB(1)-treated mice were G:C to T:A transversions and G:C to A:T transitions. At this 21-day time point, no significant differences were found in mutation frequency or types of mutations between males and females. These results show that infant male and female B6C3F1 mice experience similar amounts of DNA damage and mutation from AFB(1) that may initiate the neoplastic process. The gender difference in the subsequent development of HCC highlights the importance of elucidating additional factors that modulate HCC development.
Oxygen-derived free radicals have been implicated in myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury. It has been proposed that deferoxamine, an iron chelator, improves myocardial preservation by reducing the iron-catalyzed production of the hydroxyl radical. The objectives of this study were to define the appropriate timing of iron chelation therapy and the dose-response properties of deferoxamine. Isolated working rat hearts were subjected to 25 minutes of normothermic global ischemia. Deferoxamine was given as pretreatment (n = 39; doses of 10 or 30 mg/kg), added to cardioplegic solution (n = 43; doses 0.46 to 1.90 mmol/L), or administered upon reperfusion (n = 52; doses 0.15 to 0.76 mmol/L) and compared with saline controls (n = 25). Deferoxamine pretreatment improved survival at each dose from a control value of 44% to 71% and 72% (p less than 0.05), respectively. A cardioplegia dose of 0.46 mmol/L improved survival from 48% to 75%. Higher doses reduced survival and implied a toxic effect. Reperfusion therapy did not alter survival. Regardless of time of administration, deferoxamine did not improve ventricular function or adenosine triphosphate levels. Deferoxamine given as pretreatment 1 hour before ischemia at doses of 30 mg/kg, and perhaps as low as 10 mg/kg, significantly improved survival. The addition of deferoxamine to cardioplegic solution was safe and may be protective at approximately 0.50 mmol/L; however, toxicity should be considered at concentrations greater than 0.76 mmol/L. These data support the postulate that iron catalysis is involved in the production of oxygen-derived free radicals during ischemia-reperfusion injury. We conclude that pretreatment before ischemia is an important component of iron chelation therapy in myocardial preservation.
Epidemiological evidence regarding the impact of drugs of abuse on HIV disease is mixed but points to a likely association between cocaine use (by different routes) and acquisition of either HIV infection or an AIDS-defining illness. In vitro studies indicate that cocaine increases replication of HIV in both stimulated and unstimulated human peripheral blood monocytes. Recent studies using the huPBL SCID mouse model demonstrate that systemic exposure to cocaine enhances HIV replication and spread in vivo. The huPBL SCID mouse and SCID-hu mouse provide potentially useful models for evaluating the impact of other drugs of abuse on HIV infection and the mechanisms mediating these effects.
To investigate the occurrence of tramadol-associated seizures.
Retrospective cohort and case-control studies.
UnitedHealth Group-affiliated independent practice model health plans, from different regions of the United States, contracting with large networks of physicians.
Analysis of administrative data from a large U.S. managed care population.
A cohort of 9218 adult tramadol users and 37,232 concurrent nonusers.
Fewer than 1% of users (80) had a presumed incident seizure claim after the first tramadol prescription. Risk of seizure claim was increased 2- to 6-fold among users adjusted for selected comorbidities and concomitant drugs. Risk was highest among those aged 25-54 years, those with more than four tramadol prescriptions, and those with history of alcohol abuse, stroke, or head injury. A case-control study among users was conducted to validate incident seizure outcomes from medical records. Only eight cases were confirmed, and all had cofactors associated with increased seizure risk.
In a general population, risk of seizure may be associated with long-term therapy with tramadol or the presence of cofactors, or confined to a small sensitive population subset.
ACTH-independent macronodular adrenocortical hyperplasia (AIMAH) is rare and generally presents as a sporadic disease. We describe a familial case of AIMAH with in vivo and in vitro demonstration of aberrant 5-HT4 and vasopressin adrenal receptors. Two sisters presented with clinical and biological features of mild Cushing's syndrome with bilateral macronodular adrenal enlargement on computerized tomography (CT)-scan evaluation. In vivo pharmacological tests showed a significant increase in plasma cortisol after terlipressin and metoclopramide administration. Unilateral adrenalectomy was performed in one of these patients. Reverse transcriptase-PCR analysis of the hyperplastic tissue revealed expression of 5-HT4 receptor isoforms (a), (b), (c), (i), and (n), and of vasopressin receptors, V1 and V2. Their father and brother were overweight, had easy bruisability and presented with biological features of subclinical Cushing's syndrome. CT scan showed moderate adrenal enlargement. In vivo pharmacological screening tests for the detection of adrenal aberrant receptors in the brother were negative. Finally, three out of the two sisters' children were evaluated. They had neither clinical nor biological features of Cushing's syndrome. Their adrenal glands were normal on CT-scan evaluation. In vivo evaluation for the detection of aberrant adrenocortical receptors performed in one of these subjects was negative. In conclusion, this study shows that (i) familial AIMAH could be an autosomal dominantly inherited disorder; (ii) aberrant 5-HT4 serotonin and vasopressin receptors can be expressed in familial AIMAH; and (iii) phenotypic expression of familial AIMAH could be varied in a same family and more pronounced in female than in male patients.
Fifty-two patients with severe rheumatoid arthritis (RA) from four Australian centres were randomised to receive cyclosporin A (CSA) (n = 25) or azathioprine (AZA) (n = 27) for six months. Initial mean doses of CSA and AZA were 4.2 mg/kg and 1.7 mg/kg respectively. The mean doses of CSA and AZA at six months were 3.4 mg/kg and 1.9 mg/kg. Assessments of side-effects and outcomes of benefit were made monthly by independent, blinded observers. Both treatment groups exhibited statistically significant improvement in standard outcome parameters when compared with baseline values. However, there were no statistically significant differences in these parameters between the two groups. There was a mean increase in serum creatinine concentration associated with CSA; no persons were withdrawn from the study for this reason. Seven CSA recipients (three gastrointestinal symptoms, two neurological symptoms, two other) and 12 AZA recipients (six gastrointestinal symptoms, four inefficacy, two other) withdrew from treatment prematurely. Seven CSA recipients became hypertensive and four required anti-hypertensive therapy. Adverse events not requiring cessation of therapy were more commonly seen among CSA patients. In this group of severely affected patients with RA both cyclosporin and azathioprine were effective therapies. CSA toxicities were predictable and manageable but required close monitoring.
Variant angina developed during intravenous 5-fluorouracil therapy in a patient without prior history of angina pectoris. Ambulatory electrocardiography demonstrated S-T segment elevation and ventricular ectopy during pain, whereas no symptoms or S-T segment changes occurred during placebo therapy. Prophylaxis with both nifedipine and diltiazem was successful in preventing recurrence. It is believed that 5-fluorouracil induced coronary vasospasm and that this was prevented by prophylactic calcium antagonist therapy. Drug-induced coronary artery spasm may be the cause of 5-fluorouracil-associated chest pain.
Sixty-three cases with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) were treated with all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA). The rates of hyperleukocytosis, intracranial hypertension, retinoic acid syndrome were 57.1%, 9.5%, and 3.2% respectively. Mortality of the treatment was 11.1%. Under ATRA treatment, hyperleukocytosis leading to leukostasis was the cause of death in patients with APL. We therefore suggest that the patients with such leukocyte levels (that is, 5.0 x 10(9).L-1 on the 6th day, 10.0 x 10(9).L-1 on the 10th day, 15.0 x 10(9).L-1 on the 15th day) can be used as guidelines for starting chemotherapy(homoharringtonine); before ATRA treatment, while leukocyte counts are > 10 x 10(9).L-1, the patients only receive homoharringtonine; when leukocyte counts are < or = 5.0 x 10(9).L-1, the patients receive a combination of homoharringtonine and ATRA. Retinoic acid syndrome is a distinctive complication of ATRA therapy in the patients with APL. While the syndrome occurs, the treatment of ATRA must be stopped and corticosteroids must be used.
The skin is an organ that is highly sensitive to chronic arsenic (As) exposure. Skin lesions such as hyperkeratoses (HKs) are common early manifestations of arsenicosis in humans. HKs can be precursor lesions of nonmelanoma skin cancers (NMSCs), but the driving forces behind their formation and how they may ultimately progress to NMSCs are unknown. The goal of this study was to examine the global gene expression profiles of As-related HKs in an effort to better understand gene expression changes that are potentially associated with early stages of As carcinogenesis. HK biopsies were removed from individuals living in an arsenicosis-endemic region in Inner Mongolia who had been exposed to high As levels in their drinking water for >20 years. Gene expression profiling was performed on RNA isolated from 7 individuals in this group and from 4 lesion-free skin samples from healthy individuals. Consistent with the pathological characteristics of the HK lesions, major functional categories and known canonical pathways represented by altered transcripts include those involved in development, differentiation, apoptosis, proliferation, and stress response. The results of this study may help define a signature profile of gene expression changes associated with long-term As exposure in the skin.
