Cigarette smoking is a significant environmental factor in the human inflammatory bowel diseases, remarkably, conferring protection in ulcerative colitis. We previously demonstrated that a prominent component of cigarette smoke, CO, suppresses Th17-mediated experimental colitis in IL-10(-/-) mice through a heme oxygenase (HO)-1-dependent pathway. In this study, homeostatic and therapeutic effects of CO and HO-1 were determined in chronic colonic inflammation in TCR-α-deficient ((-/-)) mice, in which colitis is mediated by Th2 cytokines, similar to the cytokine milieu described in human ulcerative colitis. TCRα(-/-) mice exposed to CO or treated with the pharmacologic HO-1 inducer cobalt protoporphyrin demonstrated amelioration of active colitis. CO and cobalt protoporphyrin suppressed colonic IL-1β, TNF, and IL-4 production, whereas IL-10 protein secretion was increased. CO induced IL-10 expression in macrophages and in vivo through an HO-1-dependent pathway. Bacterial products regulate HO-1 expression in macrophages through MyD88- and IL-10-dependent pathways. CO exposure and pharmacologic HO-1 induction in vivo resulted in increased expression of HO-1 and IL-10 in CD11b(+) lamina propria mononuclear cells. Moreover, induction of the IL-10 family member IL-22 was demonstrated in CD11b(-) lamina propria mononuclear cells. In conclusion, CO and HO-1 induction ameliorated active colitis in TCRα(-/-) mice, and therapeutic effects correlated with induction of IL-10. This study provides further evidence that HO-1 mediates an important homeostatic pathway with pleiotropic anti-inflammatory effects in different experimental models of colitis and that targeting HO-1, therefore, is a potential therapeutic strategy in human inflammatory bowel diseases.
We present here a case with various physical and neuropsychiatric symptoms caused by the administration of carbamazepine. The patient suffering from right ophthalmic neuralgia showed fever, eczema, erythema, lymphoadenopathy, eosinophilia, vomiting, headache, dizziness, nystagmus, and various mental disorders which consisted of emotional instability, personality change, delusions of reference and persecution, depressive state, and hyperventilation syndrome during the administration of carbamazepine. The physical symptoms in the present case were conformable to the side effect of carbamazepine. The mental disorders appeared in a few days from the start of carbamazepine administration and disappeared after the discontinuation of the administration of this drug without antipsychotic therapy and have never relapsed until now. The mental disorders and the physical symptoms were in parallel with their clinical course. This kind of mental disorders induced by carbamazepine has not yet been reported.
Thirty adult patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma who were planned to receive up to 8-10 cycles of CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisolone) to a cumulative doxorubicin dose of 400-500 mg/m2 were studied to evaluate the value of serial plasma atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), N-terminal pro-ANP (NT-proANP) and brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) measurements in the early detection of doxorubicin-induced left ventricular dysfunction. Plasma levels of natriuretic peptides were measured before every treatment course and 4 wk after the last one. Cardiac function was monitored with serial radionuclide ventriculography. Twenty-eight patients were evaluable for cardiotoxicity. Clinical heart failure developed in 2 patients (7%). Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) decreased from 58.0+/-1.3% to 49.6+/-1.7% (p <0.001). Plasma levels of ANP increased from 16.4+/-1.3 pmol/l to 22.7+/-2.4 pmol/l (p= 0.002), NT-proANP from 288+/-22 to 380+/-42 pmol/l (p = 0.019) and BNP from 3.3+/-0.4 to 8.5+/-2.0 pmol/l (p = 0.020). There was a significant correlation between the increase in plasma ANP and the decrease in LVEF (r = -0.447, p = 0.029), and a trend towards significance between the increase in NT-proANP and the decrease in LVEF (r=-0.390, p=0.059). The decrease in LVEF started very early and could already be seen after the cumulative doxorubicin dose of 200 mg/m2, whereas the increase in plasma natriuretic peptides was not evident until the cumulative doxorubicin dose of 400 mg/m2. Our results show that neuroendocrine activation - increased concentrations of plasma natriuretic peptides - occurs when left ventricular function has reduced substantially and its compensatory capacity has been exceeded resulting in atrial and ventricular overload. Thus, serial natriuretic peptide measurements cannot be used in predicting the impairment of left ventricular function. On the other hand, our study suggests that natriuretic peptides are useful in the detection of subclinical left ventricular dysfunction in patients receiving doxorubicin therapy.
Cyclosporin-induced hypertension and endothelial dysfunction have been attributed to the effects of cyclosporin on factors controlling vasomotor tone. Endothelial nitric oxide (NO) regulates basal vasodilation, and an NO-mediated protective mechanism from cyclosporin-induced vasoconstriction has been proposed. In transplanted patients with cyclosporin-induced hypertension, we have recently demonstrated upregulation of the NO system and superoxide and free radical overproduction, which, by increasing NO metabolism, could induce hypertension, vascular remodeling and chronic rejection. In the present work, we have evaluated endothelial constitutive NO synthase (ecNOS), transforming growth factor beta and heme oxygenase-1 (protective against oxidative stress), mRNA production and plasma NO metabolites, peroxynitrite and antioxidant power in 15 kidney transplanted patients before and after 4 months of treatment with carvedilol alpha 1-beta-blocker and potent antioxidant. Our aim was to study the efficacy of the reduction of oxidative stress on complications such as endothelial dysfunction and fibrogenesis. Monocyte ecNOS and plasma NO metabolites remained higher versus those of control subjects and were unchanged by carvedilol, while antioxidant power and heme oxygenase-1 mRNA production increased. Peroxynitrite, as well as transforming growth factor beta mRNA, were reduced by carvedilol. It also normalized blood pressure. In conclusion, carvedilol reduces oxidative stress and normalizes blood pressure; ecNOS remains upregulated while mRNA for transforming growth factor beta, a key fibrogenic cytokine, is reduced by carvedilol, which seems to preserve protective mechanisms such as NO and heme oxygenase-1 against long-term complications of oxidative stress, e.g., endothelial dysfunction, fibrogenesis and chronic rejection.
Cisplatin is one of the most active cytotoxic agents in the treatment of cancer, but its clinical use is frequently limited by nephrotoxicity. The study presented here attempted to evaluate the effect of fructose-1,6-bisphosphate in the cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity in rats. The drugs were administered intraperitoneally as a single dose: sodium chloride 0.9%, cisplatin (6 mg/kg), fructose-1,6-bisphosphate (500 mg/kg), and cisplatin plus fructose-1,6-bisphosphate (6 and 500 mg/kg, respectively). The use of cisplatin resulted in significant elevation of serum creatinine and urea. The group that received cisplatin plus fructose-1,6-bisphosphate presented a significantly lower level of creatinine and urea compared to the cisplatin group. Acute tubular necrosis was demonstrated in the animals that received cisplatin and a less severe one in the cisplatin plus fructose-1,6-bisphosphate group. Fructose-1,6-bisphosphate has a protective effect over renal function and renal parenchyma in a rat experimental model of cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity. The anti-inflammatory effect of fructose-1,6-bisphosphate confirms its protective effect in cases of cellular injury.
Despite the availability of 14 new antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), about 30% of epileptic patients are not seizure-free. Consequently there is substantial need to develop new effective AEDs. A novel class of aromatic amides composed of phenylacetic acid or branched aliphatic carboxylic acids, with five to nine carbons in their carboxylic moiety, and aminobenzenesulfonamide were synthesized and evaluated in the anticonvulsant rat-maximal electroshock (MES) and subcutaneous metrazol seizure (scMet) tests. Fourteen of the synthesized amides had an anticonvulsant ED(50) of <50 mg/kg in the rat-MES test. The amides 2-methyl-N-(4-sulfamoylphenyl)butyramide (10), 2-ethyl-N-(4-sulfamoylphenyl)butyramide (11), and 3,3-dimethyl-N-(4-sulfamoylphenyl)butyramide (15) were the most potent compounds possessing MES-ED(50) values of 7.6, 9.9, and 9.4 mg/kg and remarkable protective index (PI = TD(50)/ED(50)) values of 65.7, 50.5, and 53.2, respectively. These potent sulfanylamides caused neural tube defects only at doses markedly exceeding their effective dose. The anticonvulsant properties of these compounds make them potential candidates for further development as new, potent, and safe AEDs.
Cigarette smoke represents the major risk factor for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Cigarette smoke extracts (CSE) alter TLR4 expression and activation in bronchial epithelial cells. Carbocysteine, an anti-oxidant and mucolytic agent, is effective in reducing the severity and the rate of exacerbations in COPD patients. The effects of carbocysteine on TLR4 expression and on the TLR4 activation downstream events are largely unknown. This study was aimed to explore whether carbocysteine, in a human bronchial epithelial cell line (16-HBE), counteracted some pro-inflammatory CSE-mediated effects. In particular, TLR4 expression, LPS binding, p21 (a senescence marker), IL-8 mRNA and release in CSE-stimulated 16-HBE as well as actin reorganization in neutrophils cultured with supernatants from bronchial epithelial cells which were stimulated with CSE and/or carbocysteine were assessed. TLR4 expression, LPS binding, and p21 expression were assessed by flow cytometry, IL-8 mRNA by Real Time PCR and IL-8 release by ELISA. Actin reorganization, a prerequisite for cell migration, was determined using Atto 488 phalloidin in neutrophils by flow cytometry and fluorescence microscopy. CSE increased: (1) TLR4, LPS binding and p21 expression; (2) IL-8 mRNA and IL-8 release due to IL-1 stimulation; (3) neutrophil migration. Carbocysteine in CSE stimulated bronchial epithelial cells, reduced: (1) TLR4, LPS binding and p21; (2) IL-8 mRNA and IL-8 release due to IL-1 stimulation; (3) neutrophil chemotactic migration. In conclusion, the present study provides compelling evidences that carbocysteine may contribute to control the inflammatory and senescence processes present in smokers.
Glutamate-induced excitotoxicity is suggested to play a central role in the development of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), although it is still unclear whether it represents a primary cause in the cascade leading to motor neurone death. We used western blotting, immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization to examine the expression of GLT-1 in transgenic mice carrying a mutated (G93A) human copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (TgSOD1 G93A), which closely mimic the features of ALS. We observed a progressive decrease in the immunoreactivity of the glial glutamate transporter (GLT-1) in the ventral, but not in the dorsal, horn of lumbar spinal cord. This effect was specifically found in 14- and 18-week-old mice that had motor function impairment, motor neurone loss and reactive astrocytosis. No changes in GLT-1 were observed at 8 weeks of age, before the appearance of clinical symptoms. Decreases in GLT-1 were accompanied by increased glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) levels and no change in the levels of GLAST, another glial glutamate transporter. The glutamate concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of TgSOD1 G93A mice was not modified at any of the time points examined, compared with age-matched controls. These findings indicate that the loss of GLT-1 protein in ALS mice selectively occurs in the areas affected by neurodegeneration and reactive astrocytosis and it is not associated with increases of glutamate levels in CSF. The lack of changes in GLT-1 at the presymptomatic stage suggests that glial glutamate transporter reduction is not a primary event leading to motor neurone loss.
Assessment of folate and methotrexate concentrations in erythrocytes has been suggested as criterion for when to institute liver biopsy surveillance during methotrexate treatment of psoriasis. We report an investigation of these parameters in thirty psoriatics on long-term methotrexate treatment. The patients were six psoriatics with histologically verified methotrexate-induced liver cirrhosis, eleven patients in which a blind histological evaluation had established a liver fibrosis in progression during treatment, and thirteen patients, who either had no liver fibrosis or no progression in the degree of fibrosis. There was no statistically significant difference in erythrocyte folate between the groups. When the two groups with progression were combined and compared with the group without progressive hepatic disease, erythrocyte methotrexate was found significantly higher in the patients with progression. Individual data, however, did not support the idea that assessment of folate and methotrexate in erythrocytes can limit the number of necessary liver biopsies during methotrexate treatment.
Recent in vitro work using purified enzymes demonstrated that nicotine and/or a nicotine metabolite could inhibit CYPs (CYP2A6, 2A13, 2E1) involved in the metabolism of the genotoxic tobacco nitrosamine NNK. This observation raises the possibility of nicotine interaction with the mechanism of NNK bioactivation. Therefore, we hypothesized that nicotine or a nicotine metabolite such as cotinine might contribute to the inhibition of NNK-induced DNA strand breaks by interfering with CYP enzymes. The effect of nicotine and cotinine on DNA strand breaks was evaluated using the COMET assay in CYP competent HepaRG cells incubated with bioactive CYP-dependent NNK and CYP-independent NNKOAc (4-(acetoxymethylnitrosoamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone). We report a dose-dependent reduction in DNA damage in hepatic-derived cell lines in the presence of nicotine and cotinine. Those results are discussed in the context of the in vitro model selected.
Manganese is essential for several metabolic pathways but becomes toxic in excessive amounts. Manganese levels in the body are therefore tightly regulated, but the responsible protein(s) remain incompletely known. We studied two consanguineous families with neurologic disorders including juvenile-onset dystonia, adult-onset parkinsonism, severe hypermanganesemia, polycythemia, and chronic hepatic disease, including steatosis and cirrhosis. We localized the genetic defect by homozygosity mapping and then identified two different homozygous frameshift SLC30A10 mutations, segregating with disease. SLC30A10 is highly expressed in the liver and brain, including in the basal ganglia. Its encoded protein belongs to a large family of membrane transporters, mediating the efflux of divalent cations from the cytosol. We show the localization of SLC30A10 in normal human liver and nervous system, and its depletion in liver from one affected individual. Our in silico analyses suggest that SLC30A10 possesses substrate specificity different from its closest (zinc-transporting) homologs. We also show that the expression of SLC30A10 and the levels of the encoded protein are markedly induced by manganese in vitro. The phenotype associated with SLC30A10 mutations is broad, including neurologic, hepatic, and hematologic disturbances. Intrafamilial phenotypic variability is also present. Chelation therapy can normalize the manganesemia, leading to marked clinical improvements. In conclusion, we show that SLC30A10 mutations cause a treatable recessive disease with pleomorphic phenotype, and provide compelling evidence that SLC30A10 plays a pivotal role in manganese transport. This work has broad implications for understanding of the manganese biology and pathophysiology in multiple human organs.
Rectal methohexital has been used for nearly 30 yr in pediatric anesthesia. Despite this long and increasingly varied use, no large prospective series has been published detailing safety and efficacy. This study prospectively evaluated the efficacy, safety, and side effects of this medication in a series of 648 cases. On 553 of 648 occasions (85%), the child fell asleep after a single 30-mg/kg dose of 10% methohexital. Sleep was less likely in patients with myelomeningocele or who were receiving oral phenobarbital or phenytoin. When sleep occurred, the average time to onset of sleep was 6 min. Most patients who remained awake 15 min after drug were sedated. Defecation (10%) and hiccups (13%) were common but benign side effects. Partial airway obstruction and/or desaturation to Spo2 < or = 93% occurred in 26 patients (4%), but was resolved with blow-by oxygen and/or jaw-thrust in all but two cases. These two patients (0.3% of total) required aggressive airway intervention by the supervising anesthesiologist. Apnea did not occur in any patient. Methohexital has a high efficacy rate for sleep (85%) or sedation (96%), and has a relatively rapid onset. Significant respiratory side effects occur infrequently, but can be life threatening if not properly managed.
Arsenic trioxide (As2O3) induces apoptosis in certain types of cancer cells. But the detailed mechanisms of As2O3 efficacy are not completely known. Here we demonstrate that As2O3 has a therapeutic effect on cervical cancer in vitro and in vivo. We investigated the As2O3-induced apoptosis in various cervical cancer cells. The apoptosis was triggered by mitochondrial pathway and associated with dissociation of Bcl-2 from Bax and VDAC, then the release of cytochrome c from Bax and VDAC channel, resulting in the activation of caspase-9 and caspase-3. The overexpression of Bcl-2 counteracted the As2O3-mediated apoptosis. The As2O3 treatment also resulted in an increased M phase cell cycle distribution by inducing microtubule polymerization. Two independent death-signaling pathways in cervical cancer cells were activated, one dominated by JNK/p38/GADD45 and one by p53 signals. Further investigation involving assessment of As2O3 on tumor cell growth in mice indicated that As203 also inhibited in vivo tumor growth. As2O3 as an inhibitor of cervical cancer proliferation both in vitro and in vivo suggests a potential clinical application in cervical cancer therapies.
Further information on the structure-activity relationships among the synthetic and naturally occurring alkenylbenzene derivatives was obtained by examining their hepatocarcinogenicities for mice following administration of one or a few doses prior to weaning. Under these conditions preweanling male C3H/HeJ mice were more susceptible than male C57BL/6J mice or females of either strain to liver tumor induction by 1'-hydroxyestragole (1'-hydroxy-1-allyl-4-methoxybenzene) and 1'-hydroxysafrole (1'-hydroxy-1-allyl-3,4-methylenedioxybenzene). Male C57BL/6J X C3H/HeJ F1 mice given a single dose of 1'-hydroxyestragole at 12 days of age developed approximately twice as many hepatomas per liver as did those given the same dose per g of body weight at 1 day of age. The acetylenic compounds 1'-hydroxy-2',3'-dehydroestragole and 1'-hydroxy-2',3'-dehydrosafrole were the most potent derivatives studied; they were 5- and 10-fold more potent (based on the average numbers of hepatomas per liver) than the corresponding allylic benzene derivatives. 1'-Acetoxyestragole and 1'-acetoxysafrole had activities similar to those of their respective 1'-hydroxy derivatives; estragole derivatives were consistently 2- to 3-fold more potent than the related safrole derivatives. 1'-Hydroxyelemicin (1'-hydroxy-1-allyl-3,4,5-trimethoxybenzene), its acetic acid ester 1'-oxoestragole, and 3'-bromo-trans-anethole (3'-bromo-1-trans-propenyl-4-methoxybenzene) each had very weak, but statistically significant, hepatocarcinogenic activity. The propenylic derivatives cis-anethole, trans-isosafrole, 1:1 cis,trans-isosafrole, 3'-hydroxy-trans-anethole, piperine, and trans-cinnamaldehyde showed no hepatocarcinogenic activity at the levels examined. In contrast, the propenylic derivatives cis- and trans-asarone (1-propenyl-2,4,5-trimethoxybenzene) were each active; the hepatocarcinogenicities of the asarones were not inhibited by prior administration of pentachlorophenol, a sulfotransferase inhibitor that abolished the hepatocarcinogenicity of estragole under the same conditions. Furthermore, precocene II (6,7-dimethoxy-2,2-dimethyl-2H-1-benzopyran), a cyclic propenylic plant metabolite and asarone analogue, showed strong hepatocarcinogenic activity similar to that of 1'-hydroxy-2',3'-dehydroestragole and 1'-hydroxy-2',3'-dehydrosafrole; precocene I (the 7-methoxy analogue of precocene II) was less active than precocene II but more active than cis-asarone.
Hereditary hemochromatosis type 3 is an iron (Fe)-overload disorder caused by mutations in transferrin receptor 2 (TfR2). TfR2 is expressed highly in the liver and regulates Fe metabolism. The aim of this study was to investigate duodenal Fe absorption and hepatic Fe uptake in a TfR2 (Y245X) mutant mouse model of hereditary hemochromatosis type 3. Duodenal Fe absorption and hepatic Fe uptake were measured in vivo by 59Fe-labeled ascorbate in TfR2 mutant mice, wild-type mice, and Fe-loaded wild-type mice (2% dietary carbonyl Fe). Gene expression was measured by real-time RT-PCR. Liver nonheme Fe concentration increased progressively with age in TfR2 mutant mice compared with wild-type mice. Fe absorption (both duodenal Fe uptake and transfer) was increased in TfR2 mutant mice compared with wild-type mice. Likewise, expression of genes participating in duodenal Fe uptake (Dcytb, DMT1) and transfer (ferroportin) were increased in TfR2 mutant mice. Nearly all of the absorbed Fe was taken up rapidly by the liver. Despite hepatic Fe loading, hepcidin expression was decreased in TfR2 mutant mice compared with wild-type mice. Even when compared with Fe-loaded wild-type mice, TfR2 mutant mice had increased Fe absorption, increased duodenal Fe transport gene expression, increased liver Fe uptake, and decreased liver hepcidin expression. In conclusion, despite systemic Fe loading, Fe absorption and liver Fe uptake were increased in TfR2 mutant mice in association with decreased expression of hepcidin. These findings support a model in which TfR2 is a sensor of Fe status and regulates duodenal Fe absorption and liver Fe uptake.
Dlx5 and Dlx6, two members of the Distalless gene family, are required for development of numerous tissues during embryogenesis, including facial and limb development. This gene pair is expressed in tandem, transcribed toward each other and separated by a short intergenic region containing multiple putative enhancers. Targeted inactivation of Dlx5 and Dlx6 in mice results in multiple developmental defects in craniofacial and limb structures, suggesting that these genes are crucial for aspects of both neural crest and nonneural crest development. To further investigate potential developmental roles of Dlx5 and Dlx6, we used one of the Dlx5/6 intergenic enhancers to drive Cre recombinase expression in transgenic mice. Crossing Dlx5/6-Cre transgenic mice with mice from the R26R strain results in beta-galactosidase staining in the apical ectodermal ridge, brain, and neural crest-derived mesenchyme of the pharyngeal arches, with staining in term embryos observed in the facial skeleton and specific brain structures. However, in contrast to endogenous expression patterns of Dlx5 and Dlx6, Cre expression within the pharyngeal arches occurs during a very narrow window in early development. Our studies suggest that Dlx5/6-Cre mice may prove useful both in further understanding the function and regulation of Distalless genes during development and in studies of gene function in conditional knockout mice.
It is well known that methamphetamine is a neurotoxic drug of abuse to cause cell death both in vitro and in vivo. In this study, the protective effect of nerve growth factor on methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity was examined in R2 cells. Treatment of R2 cells with methamphetamine for 48 h induced apoptotic-like death as determined by cell viability assay, DNA fragmentation on agarose gel and flow cytometric analysis. Co-treatment of R2 cells with nerve growth factor (10-1000 U/ml) in the presence of methamphetamine increased cell viability, decreased the intensity of methamphetamine-induced DNA fragmentation and reduced the number of apoptotic cells with flow cytometry. These results indicate that nerve growth factor may be useful for the treatment of methamphetamine users.
The peritubular capillary (PTC) network is a component of the tubulointerstitium of the kidney with important roles in renal function and hemodynamics. Bone marrow (BM)-derived cells can contribute to repair of the renal PTC network after ischemic injury. However, the cell fate and the regulation of renal BM-derived cell engraftment in comparison with somatic cells during disease progression are unclear. This study characterized the time course and regulation of PTC endothelial cell injury in adriamycin (ADR)-induced nephropathy in mice, a model of chronic, irreversible, progressive renal disease. Enhanced green fluorescence protein-positive BM cells that coexpressed two endothelial cell markers, von Willebrand factor and CD31, were found to engraft into the PTC of chimeric ADR-injected mice in a time-dependent manner. The number of BM-derived PTC endothelial cells peaked 2 wk after ADR injection, then declined dramatically thereafter. In these mice, apoptosis was evident in BM-derived PTC endothelial cells, and the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and TGF-beta1/Smad signaling pathways were activated. Blocking both the p38 MAPK and TGF-beta1/Smad signaling pathways by administration of a p38 MAPK inhibitor (SB203580) and a TGF-beta receptor 1 inhibitor (ALK5I) to ADR-injected mice rescued BM-derived PTC endothelial cells from apoptosis, reduced the loss of PTC, and restored kidney function. Investigation into the signaling pathways that regulate the differentiation and survival of BM-derived cells that engraft into the kidney in the proinflammatory setting of progressive renal disease is vital for the successful development of cell-based therapies to promote renal regeneration and repair.
Eleven children and adolescents with previously normal renal function who received ifosfamide for the treatment of extrarenal solid tumours underwent detailed investigation of glomerular and renal tubular function to assess the incidence and extent of renal damage. None had received cisplatin. Glomerular filtration rate (measured by plasma clearance of 51Cr labelled edetic acid) was reduced in six children. All 11 patients had evidence of proximal, and six of distal, tubular damage. Proximal tubular toxicity was indicated by phosphaturia and hypophosphataemia (n = 4), glycosuria (n = 5), increased urine beta 2 microglobulin excretion (n = 11), and generalised aminoaciduria (n = 10); distal tubular damage caused a reduction of the osmolality of the urine in an early morning sample. Two children developed clinical hypophosphataemic rickets, and one of these also had severe nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. Glomerular and tubular nephrotoxicity are common and potentially serious complications of ifosfamide treatment in children.
Steatosis increases operative morbidity/mortality from ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI); few pharmacological approaches have been protective. Using novel genetic/dietary models of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and simple steatosis (SS) in Alms1 mutant (foz/foz) mice, we characterized severity of IRI in NASH versus SS and lean liver and tested our hypothesis that the lipid-lowering effects of the peroxisome proliferation-activator receptor (PPAR)-alpha agonist Wy-14,643 would be hepatoprotective. Mice were subjected to 60-minute partial hepatic IRI. Microvascular changes were assessed at 15-minute reperfusion by in vivo microscopy, injury at 24 hours by serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT), and hepatic necrosis area. Injury and inflammation mediators were determined by way of immunoblotting for intercellular cellular adhesion molecule, vascular cellular adhesion molecule, p38, c-jun N-terminal kinase, IkappaB-alpha, interleukin (IL)-1a, IL-12, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and IL-6, cell cycle by cyclin D1 and proliferating cell nuclear antigen immunohistochemistry. In foz/foz mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD) to cause NASH or chow (SS), IRI was exacerbated compared with HFD-fed or chow-fed wild-type littermates by ALT release; corresponding necrotic areas were 60 +/- 22% NASH, 29 +/- 9% SS versus 7 +/- 1% lean. Microvasculature of NASH or SS livers was narrowed by enormous lipid-filled hepatocytes, significantly reducing numbers of perfused sinusoids, all exacerbated by IRI. Wy-14,643 reduced steatosis in NASH and SS livers, whereas PPAR-alpha stimulation conferred substantial hepatoprotection against IRI by ALT release, with reductions in vascular cellular adhesion molecule-1, IL-1a, TNF-alpha, IL-12, activated nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB), p38, IL-6 production and cell cycle entry.
NASH and SS livers are both more susceptible to IRI. Mechanisms include possible distortion of the microvasculature by swollen fat-laden hepatocytes, and enhanced production of several cytokines. The beneficial effects of Wy-14,643 may be exerted by dampening adhesion molecule and cytokine responses, and activating NF-kappaB, IL-6 production, and p38 kinase to effect cell cycle entry.
Previous studies show skin reactions after exposure to acetaminophen and/or nimesulide to occur in about 10% of patients with a history of urticaria induced by aspirin or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). This fact is surprising since cross-reactivity among different NSAIDs should not occur among subjects without a history of chronic urticaria.
To detect risk factors for intolerance to alternative drugs such as acetaminophen and nimesulide in different groups of patients with a history of adverse skin reactions (urticaria/angioedema, or anaphylaxis) after the ingestion of aspirin and other NSAIDs.
Two hundred fifty-six patients with a history of recent pseudoallergic skin reactions caused by NSAIDs underwent elective oral challenges with increasing doses of both acetaminophen and nimesulide. Patients were divided into three groups: A = 69 subjects with chronic urticaria, B = 163 otherwise normal subjects with a history of urticaria after the ingestion of aspirin, and C = 24 otherwise normal subjects with a history of urticaria after the ingestion of pyrazolones but aspirin-tolerant.
Forty-eight (19%) patients reacted to acetaminophen and/or nimesulide. Similar numbers of patients with chronic urticaria (23%) and of normal subjects with a history of aspirin-induced urticaria (19%) did not tolerate one of the alternative drugs challenged. Pyrazolones-intolerant patients showed the lowest number of reactors (4%). Aspirin intolerance represented a risk factor for acetaminophen- and/or nimesulide-induced urticaria (RR = 5.4). A history of anaphylactoid reactions induced by NSAID represented a risk factor for urticaria after the ingestion of the alternative study drugs (RR = 5.7). Atopic status was associated with a higher risk of reactivity to nimesulide: this drug induced urticaria in 11/47 (23%) atopics versus 18/209 (9%) non-atopics (P < .005; RR = 3.2). A history of intolerance to antibacterial drugs was not associated with a higher prevalence of reactivity against acetaminophen and/or nimesulide.
In at least 20% of patients with a history of urticaria/angioedema or anaphylaxis induced by aspirin or other NSAIDs, but without a history of chronic urticaria, cross-reactivity with other NSAIDs occurs. Atopy as well as a history of aspirin-induced anapylactoid reactions seem to represent relevant risk factors for intolerance to alternative NSAIDs. In view of these findings, aspirin-intolerant patients with such clinical features should be submitted to peroral tolerance tests with at least two alternative substances in order to avoid potentially severe reactions.
This is a case report of a 39-year-old man who suffered from a fatal cerebellar infarction whilst on sumatriptan therapy for an acute attack of migraine. Intracranial vasospasm is proposed as the likely causative mechanism and possible therapeutic intervention is highlighted.
Conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) mixtures demonstrated antiatherogenic properties in several animal models, including hamsters, but the mechanism of action of the main food-derived CLA isomer is unknown in this species. This study thus focused on cis-9,trans-11-CLA (rumenic acid), and its effect was compared with that of fish oil, which is known to influence several aspects of atherogenesis. Syrian hamsters were fed (for 12 wk) diets containing 20% (wt/wt) butter fat (B diet) or the same diet augmented with either 1% (wt/wt) of a cis-9,trans-11-CLA-rich oil (BR diet) or 1% (wt/wt) fish oil (BF diet). The BR diet induced the lowest aortic lipid deposition (from -30% to -45%) among the butter oil-fed hamsters. In this group, plasma also displayed a reduced non-HDL-to-HDL-cholesterol ratio (21% less than in the butter oil group) and inflammatory serum amyloid A levels (70-80%) and an improvement of anti-oxidized LDL paraoxonase activity (all P < 0.05). Compared with the B group, the beneficial effects of the BR diet could be further explained in part by preventing the high VCAM-1 expression rate, increasing (30%) ATP-binding cassette subfamily A1 expression in the aorta, and downregulating expression of inflammatory-related genes (TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and cyclooxygenase 2, 2- to 2.8-fold, P < 0.05). This effect was partly associated with an activation of peroxisome proliferator-activating receptor (PPAR)/liver X receptor (LXR)-alpha signaling cascade. Interestingly, activation of PPAR/LXR-alpha signaling was not observed in hamsters fed the BF diet, in which the early signs of atherogenesis were increased. In conclusion, this study demonstrated that milk fat-rich cis-9,trans-11-CLA reduces the atherogenic process in hyperlipidemic hamsters.
Gastric cancer (GC) is a heterogeneous disease comprising multiple subtypes that have distinct biological properties and effects in patients. We sought to identify new, intrinsic subtypes of GC by gene expression analysis of a large panel of GC cell lines. We tested if these subtypes might be associated with differences in patient survival times and responses to various standard-of-care cytotoxic drugs.
We analyzed gene expression profiles for 37 GC cell lines to identify intrinsic GC subtypes. These subtypes were validated in primary tumors from 521 patients in 4 independent cohorts, where the subtypes were determined by either expression profiling or subtype-specific immunohistochemical markers (LGALS4, CDH17). In vitro sensitivity to 3 chemotherapy drugs (5-fluorouracil, cisplatin, oxaliplatin) was also assessed.
Unsupervised cell line analysis identified 2 major intrinsic genomic subtypes (G-INT and G-DIF) that had distinct patterns of gene expression. The intrinsic subtypes, but not subtypes based on Lauren's histopathologic classification, were prognostic of survival, based on univariate and multivariate analysis in multiple patient cohorts. The G-INT cell lines were significantly more sensitive to 5-fluorouracil and oxaliplatin, but more resistant to cisplatin, than the G-DIF cell lines. In patients, intrinsic subtypes were associated with survival time following adjuvant, 5-fluorouracil-based therapy.
Intrinsic subtypes of GC, based on distinct patterns of expression, are associated with patient survival and response to chemotherapy. Classification of GC based on intrinsic subtypes might be used to determine prognosis and customize therapy.
We report the successful treatment with linezolid of a methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) endocarditis in a patient with a severe allergic reaction to glycopeptides. Linezolid is a drug with well-recognised activity against S. aureus and proved to be efficacious even in the unusual site of heart valves. This drug could be a good therapeutic choice when glycopeptides treatment is not feasible.
2-chlorodeoxyadenosine (2-CdA) has been demonstrated to be a neurotoxic agent when used at significantly greater doses than currently recommended for clinical use. In this report we describe a case of a 37-years-old man lymphoplasmacytoid malignant lymphoma and pre-existing paraneoplastic neurological syndrome who died of an apparent rapidly progressive sensorimotor peripheral neuropathy after completing treatment with two courses of low-doses of 2-CdA.
Several experimental and clinical studies indicate that the renin system may play a pivotal role in progressing renal disease. The combination of an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and an angiotensin receptor blocker could provide a higher degree of blockade of the renin-angiotensin system than either agent alone. Such enhanced suppression might be of benefit for patients exhibiting a progressive decline in renal function because of chronic renal disease.
A pilot multinational, multicentre, randomized, active-controlled, parallel group open-label study has been conducted in a group of patients with progressive chronic renal failure (creatinine clearance 20-45 ml/min) either with or without proteinuria and hypertension. The primary aim of the study was to investigate the safety and tolerability of the combination of valsartan and benazepril. Patients were randomly assigned to one of three groups: group 1 received valsartan 160 mg once daily (n = 22); group 2 received valsartan 80 mg once daily plus benazepril 5 or 10 mg once daily (n = 42); group 3 received valsartan 160 mg once daily plus benazepril 5 or 10 mg once daily (n = 44). The study lasted for 5 weeks, and in groups 2 and 3 benazepril was added on top of valsartan after the first week of therapy with the angiotensin receptor blocker.
Serum creatinine increased in all three groups (mean change within a group: 11 micromol/l in group 1, P= 0.045; 9 micromol/l in group 2, P= 0.030; 15 micromol/l in group 3, P= 0.0006). Serum potassium also increased in all three groups of patients (mean change within a group: 0.28 mmol/l in group 1, P= 0.28; 0.48 mmol/l in group 2, P= 0.0008; 0.36 mmol/l in group 3, P= 0.02). After 5 weeks of treatment, the largest decrease in blood pressure was observed in group 3 (the mean change from baseline in seated diastolic blood pressure (SDBP) and seated systolic blood pressure (SSBP), respectively, were: -2.0 and -11.5 mmHg in group 1; -7.6 and -15.4 mmHg in group 2; -12.6 and -21.6 mmHg in group 3). In addition, both combination treatments resulted in the reduction of proteinuria. The total number of patients with adverse experiences were 10 (45.5%), 14 (33.3%) and 11 (25%) in groups 1,2 and 3, respectively. In six patients (5.6%) therapy was discontinued as a result of adverse experiences. Only one patient in each of the combined therapy groups withdrew from the study because of hyperkalaemia and no patients were forced to withdraw because of an increase in serum creatinine, acute renal failure or hospitalization.
These results indicate that short-term combination of an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and an angiotensin receptor blocker is safe and well tolerated in patients with moderate chronic renal failure.
Hormone therapy (HT) is widely used for controlling menopausal symptoms and has also been used for the management and prevention of cardiovascular disease, osteoporosis and dementia in older women. This is an updated version of the original Cochrane review first published in 2005.
To assess the effect of long-term HT on mortality, cardiovascular outcomes, cancer, gallbladder disease, cognition, fractures and quality of life.
We searched the following databases to November 2007: Trials Register of the Cochrane Menstrual Disorders and Subfertility Group, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, MEDLINE, EMBASE, Biological Abstracts. Also relevant non-indexed journals and conference abstracts.
Randomised double-blind trials of HT versus placebo, taken for at least one year by perimenopausal or postmenopausal women. HT included oestrogens, with or without progestogens, via oral, transdermal, subcutaneous or transnasal routes.
Two authors independently assessed trial quality and extracted data.
Nineteen trials involving 41,904 women were included. In relatively healthy women, combined continuous HT significantly increased the risk of venous thrombo-embolism or coronary event (after one year's use), stroke (after three years), breast cancer and gallbladder disease. Long-term oestrogen-only HT significantly increased the risk of venous thrombo-embolism, stroke and gallbladder disease (after one to two years, three years and seven years' use respectively), but did not significantly increase the risk of breast cancer. The only statistically significant benefits of HT were a decreased incidence of fractures and (for combined HT) colon cancer, with long-term use. Among women aged over 65 who were relatively healthy (i.e. generally fit, without overt disease) and taking continuous combined HT, there was a statistically significant increase in the incidence of dementia. Among women with cardiovascular disease, long-term use of combined continuous HT significantly increased the risk of venous thrombo-embolism.One trial analysed subgroups of 2839 relatively healthy 50 to 59 year old women taking combined continuous HT and 1637 taking oestrogen-only HT, versus similar-sized placebo groups. The only significantly increased risk reported was for venous thrombo-embolism in women taking combined continuous HT: their absolute risk remained low, at less than 1/500. However, this study was not powered to detect differences between groups of younger women.
HT is not indicated for the routine management of chronic disease. We need more evidence on the safety of HT for menopausal symptom control, though short-term use appears to be relatively safe for healthy younger women.
