Pulmonary silicosis is a deadly disease which kills thousands of people every year worldwide. The disease initially develops as an inflammatory response with recruitment of inflammatory cells into the lung controlled by multiple cytokines. The question whether these cytokines exert biological functions through signal transducing pathway remains unanswered along with the potential role of interleukin-6 receptor α (IL-6Rα) in regulating inflammatory cytokines. We aimed to assess the status of signal transducers and activator of transcription (Stat3), suppressor of cytokine signalling 3(Socs3) and inflammatory cytokines in airways of silica-exposed mice, and their relationship with IL-6Rα. Silica-exposed and silica-exposed IL-6Rα gene knockdown Balb/c mice were used in the study. Lung function was measured by plethysmography, mRNA expression of cytokines and signal molecules by qRT(2)-PCR and lung architecture by histopathology; T helper cell-type 2 (Th2) cytokines in broncho-alveolar lavage fluids were evaluated by ELISA and hydroxyproline in lung by colorimetry. Elevated levels of collagen deposition, signs of lung fibrosis, infiltration of inflammatory cells and presence of exfoliated mucosa in the lung of silica-exposed mice with concurrent increase in methacholine-induced specific resistance of airways were observed on day 60 post-exposure. In parallel, heightened expression of Th2 cytokines (IL-4, IL-5, IL-6) and signal molecules (Stat3 and Socs3) were observed in the airways of silica-exposed mice. Th1 (IL-1β and TNF-α) cytokines are underexpressed in majority of the airways tissues of silica-exposed mice. Silencing IL-6Rα in lung of silica-exposed mice down regulated the hypermorphic mRNA pool of potential Th2 cytokines and signal molecules. Hypermorphic expression of Th2 cytokines and signal molecules in airways of silica-exposed mice are mediated through IL-6Rα.
Iohexol, a contrast medium widely used for myelography, has rarely been reported to cause convulsive disorders. A case of status epilepticus resulting from iohexol myelography is reported and problems of treatment are discussed.
Melatonin may be used to treat sleep disorders in both children and adults with intellectual disability. The evidence for its efficacy, potential adverse effects and drug interactions are reviewed in the context of prescription of melatonin to patients with autism.
This study presents the use of melatonin to treat severe circadian sleep-wake disturbances in 6 adults with autism. Melatonin was initiated at a daily dose of 3 mg at nocturnal bedtime. If this proved ineffective, the melatonin dose was titrated over the following 4 weeks at increments of 3 mg/2 weeks up to a maximum of 9 mg, unless it was tolerated. Assessments included Clinical Global Impression-Severity (CGI-S) and CGI-Improvement (CGI-I).
Melatonin administered in the evening dramatically improved the sleep-wake pattern in all patients. Melatonin appears to be effective in reducing sleep onset latency and is probably effective in improving nocturnal awakenings and total sleep time in adults with autism. Its effectiveness remained stable for the 6-month period of administration. Melatonin was well tolerated in all patients and no side effects were noted during the therapy.
Melatonin appears to be promising as an efficient and seemingly safe alternative for treatment of severe circadian sleep disturbances in adults with autism. There may be heterogeneity of response depending on the nature of the sleep problem and cause of the intellectual disability or associated disabilities. Further studies are necessary before firm conclusions can be drawn and guidelines for the use of melatonin in people with autism formulated.
A clear understanding of physicochemical factors governing nanoparticle toxicity is still in its infancy. We used a systematic approach to delineate physicochemical properties of nanoparticles that govern cytotoxicity. The cytotoxicity of fourth period metal oxide nanoparticles (NPs): TiO2, Cr2O3, Mn2O3, Fe2O3, NiO, CuO, and ZnO increases with the atomic number of the transition metal oxide. This trend was not cell-type specific, as observed in non-transformed human lung cells (BEAS-2B) and human bronchoalveolar carcinoma-derived cells (A549). Addition of NPs to the cell culture medium did not significantly alter pH. Physiochemical properties were assessed to discover the determinants of cytotoxicity: (1) point-of-zero charge (PZC) (i.e., isoelectric point) described the surface charge of NPs in cytosolic and lysosomal compartments; (2) relative number of available binding sites on the NP surface quantified by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy was used to estimate the probability of biomolecular interactions on the particle surface; (3) band-gap energy measurements to predict electron abstraction from NPs which might lead to oxidative stress and subsequent cell death; and (4) ion dissolution. Our results indicate that cytotoxicity is a function of particle surface charge, the relative number of available surface binding sites, and metal ion dissolution from NPs. These findings provide a physicochemical basis for both risk assessment and the design of safer nanomaterials.
We present a case of fentanyl overdose via mucous membrane absorption. A 31-year-old man presented to the emergency department in respiratory arrest. At intubation, a Duragesic transdermal patch (75 micrograms/h) was recovered from the buccal cavity. A second fentanyl transdermal patch (75 micrograms/h) was noted on the right lateral aspect of the thigh. Postmortem blood evaluation returned a venous fentanyl level of 17.2 micrograms/L. The therapeutic range for analgesic use is 1 microgram/L to 3 micrograms/L. Drug screens were positive for benzodiazepines and cocaine. Mass spectrophotometry/gas chromatography was used to determine fentanyl levels and to confirm drug screen results. Case history, findings at intubation, and high fentanyl blood concentration suggest the cause of respiratory arrest and death was fentanyl overdose.
Contrast-induced nephropathy is a serious complication of diagnostic and interventional procedures.
To evaluate the nephrotoxicity of high- and low-osmolar contrast media (HOCM, LOCM) on kidneys in Sprague-Dawley rats. Telmisartan was administered to confirm its protective role against nephrotoxicity induced by contrast media.
Sixty male rats were randomly divided into six groups (n=10/group). Glycerin was given to all rats except controls to induce renal injury. HOCM (diatrizoate) or LOCM (iohexol) (10 ml/kg b.w., 300 mg I/ml) was given through a caudal vein. Serum creatinine level was measured by an automatical biochemical analyzer. Caspase-3 activity and Angiotensin II (Ang II) level of renal tissue were detected by fluorometric method and radioimmunoassay, respectively. The renal injury was also assessed by hematoxylin and eosin and TdT-mediated deoxyuridine nick end-labeling staining.
In diatrizoate-injected rats, serum creatinine level was increased (P<0.001). There was no significant difference between iohexol animals and glycerol controls in the level of serum creatinine. The renal caspase-3 activity and Ang II levels in HOCM and LOCM groups were higher than those in glycerol control group (P<0.001). The percentage of apoptotic tubular cells and pathological scores were lower in the iohexol animals than that in the diatrizoate animals (P<0.001). In the groups pretreated with telmisartan, no increase in the levels of serum creatinine, renal Ang II, and caspase-3 activity was observed (P>0.05). The renal injuries induced by contrast media were alleviated.
Both HOCM (diatrizoate) and LOCM (iohexol) could cause renal tubular cell apoptosis in the kidneys damaged by glycerin. LOCM was less toxic to rat kidneys than HOCM. Caspase-3 and Ang II might play a role in renal tubular cell apoptosis induced by contrast media. Telmisartan protected the renal tissue from nephrotoxicity induced by contrast media.
The caudal intralaminar nuclei are a major source of glutamatergic afferents to the basal ganglia. Experiments in the 6-hydroxydopamine rat model have shown that the parafascicular nucleus is overactive and its lesion alleviates basal ganglia neurochemical abnormalities associated with dopamine depletion. Accordingly, removal of this excitatory innervation of the basal ganglia could have a beneficial value in the parkinsonian state. To test this hypothesis, unilateral kainate-induced chemical ablation of the centromedian thalamic nucleus (CM) has been performed in MPTP-treated monkeys. Successful lesions restricted to the CM boundaries (n = 2) without spreading over other neighboring thalamic nuclei showed an initial, short-lasting, and mild change in the parkinsonian motor scale but no effect against levodopa-induced dyskinesias. The lack of significant and persistent motor improvement leads us to conclude that unilateral selective lesion of the CM alone cannot be considered as a suitable surgical approach for the treatment of PD or levodopa-induced dyskinesias. The role of the caudal intralaminar nuclei in the pathophysiology of movement disorders of basal ganglia origin remains to be clarified.
To explore whether intrathecal baclofen (ITB) therapy improves ambulation in stroke survivors.
Case series.
Tertiary care center.
Ten adults with poststroke hemiparesis who were ambulatory at the time of pump implantation.
Implantation of ITB pump after inadequate control of spasticity with other interventions. Time from stroke onset to implantation averaged 28.6 months (range, 9-55mo).
Customary walking speed was measured from the time required to walk 50ft (15m) at a self-selected pace. Evaluators rated spastic hypertonia and functional mobility.
Statistically significant improvements occurred in walking speed, functional mobility ratings, and spasticity (P<.05) at a follow-up interval that averaged 8.9 months. Mean walking speed over 50ft improved from 36.6 to 52cm/s. Mean Modified Ashworth Scale scores in the muscles of the affected lower limb improved from 2.0 to 0.4. Normal muscle strength (5/5) was preserved in the unaffected limbs.
This preliminary study suggests that ITB therapy, in combination with physical therapy, may improve walking speed and functional mobility in ambulatory individuals with poststroke spastic hemiplegia.
The safety and efficacy of long-term amiodarone therapy were examined in 12 patients who had previously developed torsade de pointes as a complication of previous antiarrhythmic therapy. The QTc intervals were determined at the time of torsade de pointes (570 +/- 40 ms), after 7 days of amiodarone loading (490 +/- 70 ms), and after 3 months of chronic amiodarone administration (580 +/- 80 ms). Compared to a drug-free control period, QTc was significantly prolonged (P less than 0.05) at the time of torsade de pointes, after amiodarone loading, and after 3 months of amiodarone therapy. The QTc intervals at the time of torsade de pointes and after chronic amiodarone treatment were not significantly different. At 16 +/- 7 months of follow-up, all patients remained free of subsequent torsade de pointes, syncope, or sudden death. In addition, 5 of 6 patients with a history of sustained ventricular tachycardia remained free from arrhythmic recurrence despite persistence of inducible ventricular tachycardia during programmed stimulation studies done before discharge. We conclude that amiodarone can often be used safely and effectively in patients who have previously had an episode of drug-mediated torsade de pointes. Amiodarone-induced QTc prolongation, even when marked, does not predict recurrent torsade de pointes. These observations also suggest that the propensity for a drug to produce this arrhythmia is dependent on other electrophysiologic effects in addition to its ability to simply lengthen repolarization.
Capsaicin (8-methyl-N-vanillyl-6-nonenamide), the major pungent ingredient of red pepper, has been reported to possess anti-carcinogenic and anti-mutagenic activities. In this study, the effects of capsaicin on human glioblastoma A172 cells were investigated. Treatment of A172 cells with capsaicin inhibited cell growth and induced apoptosis through down-regulation of Bcl-2 and activation of caspase-3. Interestingly, synergistic induction of morphological alternation was observed when A172 cells were treated with capsaicin. A double immunostaining analysis indicated that capsaicin stimulated terminal differentiation predominantly to astrocyte-like cells. Moreover, capsaicin increased the transcription levels of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and neuronal microtubule-associated protein 2ab (MAP2ab). These results demonstrated that capsaicin inhibits A172 cell growth through apoptosis and terminal differentiation. Consequently, this research may provide further support for capsaicin-based anti-tumor therapies and consideration should be given to developing capsaicin for use in chemotherapy for malignant human glioblastoma.
Aberrant DNA methylation is deeply involved in the development and progression of human breast cancers, but its inducers and molecular mechanisms are still unclear. To reveal such inducers and clarify the molecular mechanisms, animal models are indispensable. Here, to identify genes silenced by promoter DNA methylation in rat mammary carcinomas, we took a combined approach of methylated DNA immunoprecipitation (MeDIP)-CpG island (CGI) microarray analysis and expression microarray analysis after treatment with epigenetic drugs. MeDIP-CGI microarray revealed that among 5031 genes with promoter CGI, 465 were methylated in a carcinoma cell line induced by 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP), but not in normal mammary epithelial cells. By treatment of the cell line with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine and trichostatin A, 29 of the 465 genes were shown to be re-expressed. In primary mammary carcinomas, five (Angptl4, Coro1a, RGD1304982, Tmem37 and Ndn) of the 29 genes were methylated in one or more of 25 samples. Quantitative expression analysis revealed that Angptl4 had high expression in normal mammary glands, but low expression in primary carcinomas. Also in humans, ANGPTL4 was unmethylated and expressed in normal mammary epithelial cells, but was methylated in 11 of 91 (12%) primary breast cancers. This is the first study to identify genes aberrantly methylated in rat mammary carcinomas, and Angptl4 is a novel methylation-silenced gene both in rat and human mammary carcinomas. The combination of the MeDIP-CGI microarray analysis and expression microarray analysis after treatment with epigenetic drugs was effective in reducing the number of methylated genes that are not methylation silenced.
Infection at time of MR contrast administration has been reported to predispose patients with renal failure to development of nephrogenic systemic fibrosis (NSF). We assessed the frequency of infection at the time of MR contrast administration in a group of NSF patients.
Eight patients developed NSF during 2002-2006, of whom seven received the MR contrast agent gadodiamide (Omniscan), with doses of 0.10-0.31 mmol/kg. Data for the following were available for only 2005 and 2006: numbers of infected and uninfected renal failure patients who received MR contrast material and number of contrast-enhanced MR scans in all patients. We extrapolated data to 2002-2006 to approximate rates of NSF in infected and uninfected renal failure patients using Fisher's exact test for association between variables and calculated odds ratios with 95% CIs.
Five of seven NSF patients receiving MR contrast material had infections at the time of contrast administration. Three hundred thirty-four patients with renal failure received MR contrast material in 2005 and 2006 (29 infected). The rate of NSF was 6.7% in infected renal failure patients and 0.26% in uninfected patients. Data extrapolated to 2002-2006 yielded estimates of 75 infected and 750 uninfected renal failure patients. The association of NSF with infection was highly significant (p < 0.001) with an odds ratio of 25 and CI of 3.9-264.4.
The association of NSF with infection was highly significant, supporting the hypothesis that infection at the time of MR contrast administration in renal failure patients predisposes to NSF.
Interindividual differences in the psychotomimetic response to the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist ketamine are commonly observed. The apolipoprotein E (APOE) epsilon 4 allele has been associated with reduced severity of positive psychotic symptoms in schizophrenia. In this study, we sought to determine if the APOE epsilon 4 allele influences the psychotomimetic response to ketamine in schizophrenics. Eighteen patients genotyped at the APOE locus underwent a double-blind infusion of ketamine and of placebo. Ketamine-induced alterations in the brief psychiatric rating scale factors were compared between schizophrenics with and without the APOE epsilon 4 allele. APOE epsilon 4+ schizophrenics displayed significantly reduced ketamine-induced psychosis, as compared to epsilon 4-patients. These preliminary data indicate that the psychotomimetic response to ketamine may be genetically influenced and may provide additional evidence that APOE may modify expression of the positive symptoms in schizophrenia.
The objective of our study was to retrospectively review one institution's cases of nephrogenic systemic fibrosis (NSF), evaluate possible associated factors, determine the prevalence of NSF, and search for gadolinium in skin samples obtained from patients with NSF.
A retrospective review of our dermatopathology database from 1997 to 2007 was performed to search for patients with NSF. The records of patients with NSF were reviewed for factors suspected to be associated with NSF such as acidosis, low hemoglobin levels, low serum calcium levels, inflammatory conditions, serum antibodies, pharmaceutical erythropoietin, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, gadolinium-based contrast agents (GBCAs), renal failure, and dialysis. The biopsy samples from NSF patients and from control subjects were examined with energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy to detect gadolinium. Retrospective chart reviews of patients evaluated at our local dialysis center and our dermatology clinic were conducted to identify patients who underwent MRI, who had NSF managed exclusively by our tertiary referral centers, or both from 1997 to 2007.
Seven cases of NSF were found in the dermatopathology database. Two of the seven patients were also followed up at our outpatient dialysis clinic. No other cases of NSF were discovered within the dialysis clinic's population exclusively followed within our institution. All seven dermatopathology database NSF patients developed symptoms of NSF after receiving GBCAs during renal failure and showed concomitant proinflammatory conditions. No other proposed risk factors were uniformly present in these NSF cases. All four NSF patients with chronic renal failure developed NSF after hemodialysis, with one patient dialyzed 12 hours after receiving a contrast dose. Gadodiamide was the only GBCA that all seven NSF patients received before symptom onset. Symptom onset was from 3 weeks to 18 months after GBCA exposure, with cumulative GBCA doses ranging from 0.16 to 0.43 mmol/kg. Gadolinium was detected in six of seven NSF patients' skin biopsies. Seven of eight random control specimens obtained from three healthy control subjects, three patients with renal insufficiency who had not been exposed to gadodiamide, and two patients without renal disease who had been exposed to gadodiamide were negative. Seventy-two dialysis clinic patients underwent 127 contrast-enhanced MR examinations from 1997 to 2007. Eighteen patients received gadopentetate, none of whom developed NSF. Sixty-three patients received gadodiamide, two of whom developed NSF (prevalence of NSF in patients exposed to GBCA, 2.8%; odds ratio, 0.82 [95% CI, 0.04-18.10]; likelihood ratio, 1.16 [95% CI, 1.06-1.26]). Nine patients received both contrast agents.
An association with GBCAs in the development of NSF is suggested in the setting of renal insufficiency, but other factors seem to play a role. Dialysis did not prevent the development of NSF. Gadolinium was detected in skin samples from NSF patients.
Although terminally differentiated neurons lack the capacity to undergo cell division, they retain the capacity to reactivate the cell cycle. This reactivation, however, has been linked to the degeneration of neurons in many experimental models of neurodegenerative disease and in post-mortem brains of affected patients. Expression of markers of the G1 phase and apoptotic neurons has been detected in the striatal lesion of rats treated with 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NPA). Here we examined whether neuronal apoptosis induced by 3-NPA was mediated by the reactivation of the cell cycle. To this end, we studied whether TUNEL-positive neurons expressed the G1-phase markers cyclin-dependent kinase 4 (CDK4) and cyclin D (CyD). In addition, we also evaluated the neuronal expression of pRb and Ki67 antigens, both of which are involved in the regulation of cell-cycle progression. In 3-NPA-treated rats, CDK4 and CyD were not detected in TUNEL-positive neurons, but they were expressed in neurons in the core of the lesion, which were assumed to be in a more advanced stage of degeneration, since they had weaker NeuN staining and lacked Hoechst staining. In addition, injured neurons in the striatal lesion of 3-NPA-treated rats had lost the constitutive expression of pRb and Ki67 that we had detected in control animals. Taken together, these results indicate that neuronal apoptosis in the striatal lesion of 3-NPA-treated rats was not triggered by cell-cycle re-entry, and we conclude that expression of G1 markers may be considered an aberrant survival response, with no relation to the mechanisms of apoptosis.
The present study investigates the effect of chronic curcumin administration on phenytoin-induced cognitive impairment and oxidative stress in rats. Male Wistar rats were administered drugs/vehicle for 21 days. Learning and memory was evaluated using the passive avoidance paradigm and the elevated plus maze. On day 21, serum phenytoin concentrations and whole brain malondialdehyde (MDA) and glutathione (GSH) levels were estimated. Phenytoin (75 mg/kg, i.p.) produced significant deficits in learning/memory as indicated by the significant increase in retention transfer latency in elevated plus maze test and a significant decrease in retention latency in the passive avoidance paradigm. Chronic administration of phenytoin also produced significant elevations in brain MDA and reduction of brain GSH levels. Curcumin (100, 200 and 300 mg/kg, orally), when administered with phenytoin, significantly prevented phenytoin-induced cognitive impairment and oxidative stress in a dose-dependent manner. There were no significant differences in the serum levels of phenytoin in any of the treatment groups. This study demonstrates that curcumin is effective in preventing phenytoin-induced cognitive impairment and oxidative stress in rats without altering the serum phenytoin levels. This suggests the potential of adjuvant curcumin therapy in ameliorating cognitive impairment caused by chronic phenytoin therapy.
A stop codon defect in methylmalonyl-CoA mutase (resulting in a truncated unstable protein) accounts for up to 14% of mutations identified as causes of Methylmalonic aciduria. There are currently limited treatment regimes for patients with this inherited condition. We aimed to investigate the use of stop codon read-through drugs in a genomic reporter assay cell line with a defect in the mutase gene. A single C-T base change was introduced into exon 6 of the human MUT sequence in the BAC clone RP11-463L20 resulting in an arginine residue being replaced with a TGA stop codon. An enhanced green fluorescent protein reporter gene was introduced in-frame with exon 13 of the MUT gene. The construct was transfected into HeLa cells to produce the genomic reporter assay cell line. To test the suppression of nonsense mutations, cells were incubated in the presence of different compounds for a period of 72 h then analysed by flow cytometry. Treatment of the cells with gentamicin resulted in a 1.6-fold increase in reporter protein, whilst G418 treatment resulted in no change, however the two drugs together acted synergistically to increase the production of methylmalonyl-CoA mutase 2.0-fold (confirmed by mRNA, flow cytometry and enzyme activity). Zidovudine, adefovir and cisplatin were also found to have some activity in the stop codon read-through genomic reporter assay. These results encourage further testing of compounds as well as follow up animal studies. This is the first study to demonstrate the use of stop codon read-through drugs for the potential treatment of Methylmalonic aciduria.
Orthotopic heart transplantation was performed in a 21-year-old medical student 11 years after left pneumonectomy for a rhabdomyosarcoma. The cardiomyopathy was the result of the administration of doxorubicin (Adriamycin). The surgical procedure was largely facilitated as a result of an in-hospital donor and the absence of major adhesions. The early postoperative course was mainly uneventful. The patient is doing well 9 months after operation, without any episode of rejection or infection.
Lycopene, a carotenoid rich in tomato fruit (ripe), is an effective antioxidant and free radical scavenger. In this study n-hexane extract of tomato was evaluated for its protective action against oxidative stress in experimental myocardial infarction induced by administration of adrenaline in rats. Adrenaline produced significant elevation of malondialdehyde content of heart, an indicator of lipid peroxidation, with a significant rise in serum aspartate aminotransferase (AST) level and different grades of necrotic changes in myocardium. Rats were treated with two doses of n-hexane extract of tomato, intragastrically daily for one month prior to administration of adrenaline on the 31st and 32nd day. Pretreatment of tomato extract (1 mg/kg, 2 mg/kg) and vitamin E (50 mg/kg) significantly reduced the malondialdehyde concentration in heart and significantly lowered the serum AST level in adrenaline treated rats. Myocardial necrosis was significantly prevented by pretreatment. These results suggest that n-hexane extract of tomato possesses antioxidative property that may protect heart against catecholamine induced myocardial infarction.
We report here the results of a simple and reproducible technique which can be used in semi-routine analysis of peripheral nerve biopsy specimens, so as to have a quantitative analysis of the major lipid classes, i.e. cholesterol, cerebrosides, ethanolamine phospholipids, phosphatidyl-choline, phosphatidyl-serine + phosphatidylinositol, sphingomyelin and gangliosides. Glycolipid hexoses, cholesterol and total phospholipids have been compared in different age groups. Although all lipid classes increased from the younger to the older age group, the molar ratio of cholesterol to phospholipid differed less than the glycolipid to phospholipid ratio. Both increased significantly, even between age group 10--16 and older patients (36, 54, 61, 68, 72 and 73 years old). Although individual variations in lipid content are noteworthy, it must be emphasized that evolution with age of the lipid composition must be taken into account. Furthermore, this study confirms and extends earlier findings of increased ganglioside levels in some cases of peripheral neuropathies observed during perhexiline maleate therapy where characteristic lipid-like polymorphous inclusions have been demonstrated.
Dysregulation of the monoaminergic systems is likely a sufficient but not a necessary cause of depression. A wealth of data indicates that neuropeptides, e.g., NPY, CRH, somatostatin, tachykinins and CGRP play a role in affective disorders and alcohol use/abuse. This paper focuses on NPY in etiology and pathophysiology of depression. Decreased peptide and mRNA NPY were found in hippocampus of both the genetic, e.g., the FSL strain, and environmental rat models of depression, e.g., chronic mild stress and early life maternal separation paradigms. Rat models of alcoholism also show altered NPY. Furthermore, NPY is also reduced in CSF of depressed patients. Antidepressive treatments tested so far (lithium, topiramate, SSRIs, ECT and ECS, wheel running) increase NPY selectively in rat hippocampus and in human CSF. Moreover, NPY given icv to rat has antidepressive effects which are antagonized by NPY-Y1 blockers. The data support our hypothesis that the NPY system dysregulation constitutes one of the biological underpinnings of depression and that one common mechanism of action of antidepressive treatment modalities may be effects on NPY and its receptors. In a novel paradigm, early life maternal separation was superimposed on "depressed" FSL and control rats and behavioral and brain neurochemistry changes observed in adulthood. The consequences were more deleterious in genetically vulnerable FSL. Early antidepressive treatment modulated the adult sequelae. Consequently, if these data are confirmed, the ethical and medical question that will be asked is whether it is permissible and advisable to consider prophylactically treating persons at risk.
Little information on the micronutrient status of HIV-infected (HIV-positive) breastfeeding women is available.
The objective was to compare the protein and micronutrient status of South African breastfeeding women by HIV status.
Serum albumin, prealbumin, vitamin B-12, folate, retinol, alpha-tocopherol, hemoglobin, ferritin, and zinc concentrations were compared between 92 HIV-positive and 52 HIV-uninfected (HIV-negative) mothers 6, 14, and 24 wk after delivery. C-reactive protein and alpha1-acid glycoprotein were used as proxy indicators of an inflammatory process.
Mean albumin and prealbumin were significantly lower in HIV-positive mothers, and a higher proportion of HIV-positive mothers had low albumin concentrations (< 35 g/L). Less than 45% of the mothers were vitamin B-12 or folate sufficient. Significantly more HIV-positive (70.5%) than HIV-negative (46.2%) mothers had marginal vitamin B-12 status (P < 0.05), and mean folate concentrations were lower in HIV-positive mothers (P = 0.05). Mean serum retinol was significantly lower in HIV-positive mothers, even after control for the acute phase response. At 24 wk, 70% of both groups had an alpha-tocopherol deficiency (< 11.6 micromol/L), but no significant difference by HIV status was observed. More HIV-positive (33.3%) than HIV-negative (8.7%) mothers had anemia (P = 0.018), whereas 25% of all mothers had low serum ferritin concentrations. After the acute phase response was controlled for, zinc deficiency was more common in HIV-positive (45.0%) than in HIV-negative (25.0%) mothers (P = 0.05).
Deficiencies in vitamins B-12, folate, alpha-tocopherol, ferritin, and zinc are common in South African breastfeeding mothers. HIV-positive mothers had lower mean serum concentrations of albumin, prealbumin, folate, retinol, and hemoglobin than did HIV-negative mothers.
Cadmium (Cd) and its compounds are well-known human carcinogens, but the mechanisms underlying the carcinogenesis are not entirely understood yet. Aberrant methylation was investigated in order to obtain insight into the DNA repair-related epigenetic mechanisms underlying CdCl(2)-induced malignant transformation of human bronchial epithelial cells (16HBE). Gene expression and DNA methylation were assessed in untreated control cells; 5th, 15th, and 35th passage of CdCl2-treated cells and tumorigenic cells (TCs) from nude mice by using high-performance liquid chromatography, real-time PCR, Western blot analysis, and methylation-specific PCR assay. During Cd-induced malignant transformation, global DNA methylation progressively increased and was associated with the overexpression of the DNA methyltransferase genes DNMT1 and DNMT3a but not DNMT3b. Expression of both the messenger RNA and proteins of the DNA repair genes (hMSH2, ERCC1, XRCC1, and hOGG1) progressively reduced and DNA damage increased with Cd-induced transformation. The promoter regions of hMSH2, ERCC1, XRCC1, and hOGG1 were heavily methylated in the 35th passage transformed cells and the TCs. The DNA demethylating agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine could reverse the Cd-induced global DNA hypermethylation, DNMT hyperactivity, and the silencing of hMSH2, ERCC1, XRCC1, and hOGG1 in a time-dependent manner. The results indicate that DNMT1 and DNMT3a overexpression can result in global DNA hypermethylation and silencing of the hMSH2, ERCC1, XRCC1, and hOGG1 genes. They may partly explain the epigenetic mechanisms underlying the carcinogenesis due to Cd.
Caffeine is widely consumed by children around the world. The purpose of this study was to determine whether children manifest withdrawal effects after cessation of caffeine intake.
Thirty normal children completed the single-blind, within-subjects, repeated-measures study with weekly sessions. Subjects were tested four times: (1) baseline (on regular caffeine diet); (2) on caffeine (approximately 120 to 145 mg/day); (3) during withdrawal (24 hours after discontinuation of caffeine taken for 13 consecutive days); and (4) at return to baseline. Subjects were evaluated with self-report measures of symptoms and objective measures of attention, motor performance, processing speed, and memory.
During caffeine withdrawal, there was a significant deterioration on response time of a visual continuous performance test of attention. This finding is consistent with caffeine withdrawal. The deterioration in response time appeared to persist for 1 week.
Twenty-four hours after children discontinued caffeine, there was a decrease in performance on reaction time of a task requiring sustained attention. Further work is indicated to determine whether children manifest caffeine withdrawal effects after cessation of caffeine intake.
Considering the growing importance of the interaction between components of kallikrein-kinin and renin-angiotensin systems in physiological and pathological processes, particularly in diabetes mellitus, the aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of enalapril on the reduced response of bradykinin and on the interaction between angiotensin-(1-7) (Ang-(1-7)) and bradykinin (BK), important components of these systems, in an insulin-resistance model of diabetes. For the above purpose, the response of mesenteric arterioles of anesthetized neonatal streptozotocin-induced (n-STZ) diabetic and control rats was evaluated using intravital microscopy. In n-STZ diabetic rats, enalapril treatment restored the reduced response to BK but not the potentiation of BK by Ang-(1-7) present in non-diabetic rats. The restorative effect of enalapril was observed at a dose that did not correct the altered parameters induced by diabetes such as hyperglycemia, glicosuria, insulin resistance but did reduce the high blood pressure levels of n-SZT diabetic rats. There was no difference in mRNA and protein expressions of B1 and B2 kinin receptor subtypes between n-STZ diabetic and control rats. Enalapril treatment increased the B2 kinin receptor expression. From our data, we conclude that in diabetes enalapril corrects the impaired BK response probably by increasing the expression of B2 receptors. The lack of potentiation of BK by Ang-(1-7) is not corrected by this agent.
The present study investigates the results of pretreatment with five prostaglandin (PG) synthetase inhibitors on effects of morphine on body temperature, pupillary diameter, body movement and production of exophthalmos in rat. Hyperthermia, induced by a low dose of morphine, was inhibited in animals pretreated with any of the PG synthetase inhibitors. However, PG synthetase inhibitors had no clear effect on hypothermia induced by higher doses of morphine. The duration of morphine-induced catalepsy was attenuated by pretreatment with the PG synthetase inhibitors in a dose-related manner. The exophthalmos induced by all doses of morphine was either shortened in duration or inhibited by sulindac, paracetamol or ibuprofen. Morphine-induced mydriasis was either attenuated or inhibited by paracetamol, ibuprofen or meclofenamic acid. The results suggest that endogenous PGs play a role in morphine-induced hyperthermia, catalepsy, exophthalmos and mydriasis whereas a physiological role for PGs in morphine-induced hypothermia was not indicated.
Circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as novel noninvasive biomarkers for several diseases and other types of tissue injury. This study tested the hypothesis that changes in the levels of urinary miRNAs correlate with liver injury induced by hepatotoxicants. Sprague-Dawley rats were administered acetaminophen (APAP) or carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) and one nonhepatotoxicant (penicillin/PCN). Urine samples were collected over a 24 h period after a single oral dose of APAP (1250 mg/kg), CCl(4) (2000 mg/kg), or PCN (2400 mg/kg). APAP and CCl(4) induced liver injury based upon increased serum alanine and aspartate aminotransferase levels and histopathological findings, including liver necrosis. APAP and CCl(4) both significantly increased the urinary levels of 44 and 28 miRNAs, respectively. In addition, 10 of the increased miRNAs were in common between APAP and CCl(4). In contrast, PCN caused a slight decrease of a different nonoverlapping set of urinary miRNAs. Cluster analysis revealed a distinct urinary miRNA pattern from the hepatotoxicant-treated groups when compared with vehicle controls and PCN. Analysis of hepatic miRNA levels suggested that the liver was the source of the increased urinary miRNAs after APAP exposure; however, the results from CCl(4) were equivocal. Computational analysis was used to predict target genes of the 10 shared hepatotoxicant-induced miRNAs. Liver gene expression profiling using whole genome microarrays identified eight putative miRNA target genes that were significantly altered in the liver of APAP- and CCl(4)-treated animals. In conclusion, the patterns of urinary miRNA may hold promise as biomarkers of hepatotoxicant-induced liver injury.
We treated a coronary artery bypass patient whose postoperative course was complicated by heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and resultant pulmonary artery and saphenous vein graft thromboses. The pulmonary thromboemboli were found first, and pulmonary blood flow was restored with intravenously administered tissue plasminogen activator (tPA). A short time later, the vein grafts were found to be occluded, and we subsequently performed multivessel percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) using tPA as an adjuvant to oral warfarin sodium therapy with excellent results. We conclude that heparin-induced thromboses in the pulmonary arteries are amenable to thrombolytic therapy, including tPA, whereas this regimen appears to have little effect on saphenous vein grafts. We also found that a combination of warfarin and thrombolytic therapy is an alternative regimen for heparin-intolerant patients who require PTCA.
