Attacks of sustained dystonic postures of limbs and trunk can be initiated by handling or mild environmental stimuli (e.g. new cage) in an inbred line of Syrian hamsters. The severity of the dystonic syndrome in these mutant hamsters (gene symbol dtsz) is age-dependent, with a peak at about 30-40 days of age. A scoring system for grading type and severity of the dystonic attacks can be used to study the activity of drugs against dystonic movements with individual pre- and post-drug vehicle trials as control. In the present experiments, the effects of drugs which alter GABAergic functions in the brain were studied in dystonic hamsters. Anticonvulsants, i.e. valproate, diazepam and phenobarbital, which augment GABAergic neurotransmission, decreased the severity of dystonic attacks in the mutant hamsters, while administration of subconvulsive doses of pentylenetetrazol or the inverse benzodiazepine receptor agonist FG 7142 increased the severity of the syndrome. Anticonvulsants, i.e. phenytoin and carbamazepine, which are not thought to act via effects on GABAergic neurotransmission, exerted no antidystonic effects, but even worsened the attack in several animals. In contrast, the GABA-elevating drug, aminooxyacetic acid, produced a marked antidystonic effect in the hamsters. Similarly, the GABAB receptor agonist, baclofen, significant decreased the severity of the dystonic attack. The data indicate that dystonic movements in dtsz mutant hamsters can be attenuated by drugs which facilitate GABAergic functions, but worsened by drugs which impair GABAergic neurotransmission. These data thus seem to suggest that the dystonic syndrome in dtsz mutant hamsters is under GABAergic influence. The data show furthermore that dystonic hamsters are a suitable model to detect antidystonic effects of drugs.
Peritonsillar infiltration of a local anesthetic solution for reduction of posttonsillectomy pain is commonly used although the benefit and complications of this technique have not yet been well established. We report a case of a 4-year-old boy who developed peripheral facial nerve paralysis after perioperative infiltration of bupivacaine and uneventful tonsillectomy. The paralysis was noticed a few minutes after extubation and resolved completely after 8 hours. We assumed this to be caused by the direct action of the local anesthetic agent on the facial nerve.
Central monoaminergic mechanisms are believed to be involved in cardiovascular regulation. The present study was designed to evaluate the involvement of central serotonergic pathways in the antihypertensive action of propranolol in pentobarbital anesthetized mongrel dogs. Ventriculocisternal perfusion of propranolol (25 ug/kg/min for 30 min) decreased serotonin turnover as indicated by a significant decrease in cerebrospinal fluid levels of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA). This effect was accompanied by a significant reduction in mean arterial pressure and heart rate. These results indicate that propranolol decreases central serotonergic activity and suggests a possible role for central serotonergic pathways in the antihypertensive action of propranolol. Several studies have indicated that central serotonergic pathways participate in the regulation of blood pressure. Brainstem regions including the nucleus tractus solitarius, the raphe nucleus and the anterior hypothalamic preoptic region are involved in cardiovascular control and contain a dense population of serotonergic neurons. A centrally-mediated hypotensive effect of propranolol has been demonstrated. Centrally administered propranolol increases cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of norepinephrine and reduces blood pressure possibly due to decreased peripheral sympathetic nerve activity. Central serotonergic pathways may also be involved in the antihypertensive action of some beta-adrenoceptor antagonists. Destruction of central serotonergic neurons with 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine and desipramine abolished the antihypertensive effect of intracisternal propranolol in sinoaortic denervated dogs. Acute administrations of (-)-propranolol and (-)-pindolol decreased the synthesis rate of serotonin, while acute administration of salbutamol, a beta 2-adrenoceptor agonist, increased 5-HIAA levels in rat brain structures. The present study was designed to evaluate the involvement of central serotonergic pathways in the antihypertensive action of propranolol.
A combination of levodopa and the extracerebrally acting decarboxylase inhibitor benserazide (ratio 4:1) (Madopar), was compared with levodopa alone in a controlled double-blind clinical multicenter trial on 94 patients with Parkinson's disease. During 4 months of therapy levodopa + benserazide proved superior to levodopa on several accounts. Nausea and vomiting occurred with statistically significant less severity and frequency. Clinical improvement expressed through improvement in Webster rating occurred sooner and was all together greater. The treatment schedules did not differ with regard to other side effects, in particular involuntary movements and reduction in supine blood pressure. Neither treatment seemed to influence liver function, renal function and hematological parameters.
To investigate the effects of prenatal cocaine exposure on the corticogenesis in primates we developed a monkey model in which pregnant animals received 10 mg/kg cocaine orally twice a day from the 40th to the 102nd day of pregnancy. The animals gave birth at term, and brains of the 2-month and 1.5-year-old infants were examined. Examination revealed the structural abnormalities throughout the cerebral cortex that would be expected from modulation of the nonselectively diffusing circulation-derived monoamines. They include: (1) reduction in the number of cortical cells, which most likely reflects abnormal cell proliferation; (2) inappropriate positioning of cortical neurons, which resulted from alterations in migration of cortical cells; and (3) altered glial morphology. The structural alterations were accompanied by abnormalities in animal temperament reminiscent of those seen in human infants of drug-abusing mothers. As predicted by the morphologic studies, we found that cocaine treatment produced significant changes in the levels of monoamines and their receptors in all laminae of the frontal, parietal, temporal, and occipital regions of the fetal cerebral wall. This indicates that cocaine abuse by pregnant human mothers may affect the global levels of monoamines in the fetal brain and, in doing so, interfere with a broad range of developmental events regulated by these chemicals.
The effect of muscimol and baclofen injected into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus on penile erection and yawning induced by apomorphine, oxytocin and N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) was studied in male rats. Muscimol (20-200 ng), but not baclofen (200 ng), injected into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus 10 min before apomorphine (50 ng), oxytocin (10 ng) or NMDA (50 ng) reduced penile erection and yawning induced by the above compounds given into the paraventricular nucleus. Bicuculline (250 ng) injected into the paraventricular nucleus 5 min before muscimol (100 ng) prevented the inhibitory effect of muscimol on penile erection and yawning induced by apomorphine, oxytocin and NMDA. The present results show that gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) inhibits penile erection and yawning by acting on GABA(A) receptors in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus.
A 55 year old man developed an acute confusional state with grossly impaired short-term memory accompanied by a Status Petit Mal epilepsy pattern on EEG, one to two weeks after abruptly discontinuing a large amount of oxazepam and a smaller amount of alcohol. Both his mental status and EEG pattern normalized markedly after intravenous diazepam. On 5 year follow-up the patient was seizure-free and medication-free without any significant residual cognitive deficit.
Cannabinoid CB1 antagonists decrease self-administration of palatable food and several abused drugs in animals and modulate extinction of conditioned fear responses. Less is known, however, about whether and how CB1 antagonists might modulate the extinction of appetitive behavior. Therefore, this study examined the effects of the CB1 receptor antagonist rimonabant (SR141716) during extinction of responding maintained either by cocaine or by palatable foods (corn oil or Ensure), as well as responding elicited by stimulus cues that had been paired with the presentation of cocaine (i.e., cue-induced reinstatement) or a prime (presentation of cocaine or food). The effect of rimonabant on high rate responding in water-deprived mice trained to self-administer water was also examined. In mice self-administering cocaine, rimonabant attenuated cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine self-administration, the initial burst of responding during cocaine extinction and responding during spontaneous recovery. In mice self-administering corn oil, rimonabant decreased responding during extinction and also attenuated responding that had been reinstated by a priming presentation of corn oil. Moreover, mice treated with rimonabant required fewer daily sessions to reach criterion for extinction of cocaine-maintained responding than vehicle treated mice. Also, rimonabant had no effect on the rate of operant responding in mice trained to respond for water under an FR5 schedule of reinforcement. Taken together, these data suggest that in addition to attenuating the primary reinforcing effects of both palatable foods and drugs of abuse, CB1 receptor antagonism can attenuate context and cue reactivity during extinction learning and potentially enhance extinction learning in this way.
Methadone is an effective treatment for opioid dependency and chronic pain. A methadone derivative, levacetylmethadol, was withdrawn from the European market after being associated with torsade de pointes. To date, no association between methadone and this arrhythmia has been described.
To evaluate a series of methadone-treated patients experiencing torsade de pointes.
Retrospective case series.
Methadone maintenance treatment programs in the United States and a pain management center in Canada.
17 methadone-treated patients who developed torsade de pointes.
Chart review for concomitant arrhythmia risk factors and quantification of corrected QT interval (QTc).
The mean daily methadone dose was 397 +/- 283 mg, and the mean QTc interval was 615 +/- 77 msec. Fourteen patients had a predisposing risk factor for arrhythmia. A cardiac defibrillator or pacemaker was placed in 14 patients; all 17 patients survived.
This series raises concern that very-high-dose methadone may be associated with torsade de pointes. Given the likely expansion of methadone treatment into primary care, further investigation of these findings is warranted.
Tumor growth delays were obtained in the MX1 human breast carcinoma xenograft treated with various combinations of Adriamycin (doxorubicin), Fluosol-DA, and carbogen breathing (95% oxygen/5% carbon dioxide). Adding carbogen breathing (6 hours) or Fluosol-DA (Green Cross, Osaka, Japan) and air breathing to this drug treatment did not change the tumor growth delay observed. When 2 hours of carbogen breathing was delivered immediately after injection with Fluosol-DA and Adriamycin, a tumor growth delay of almost 36 days was observed, which was a significant increase from the tumor growth delay obtained with Adriamycin alone (P less than 0.01). Increasing the carbogen breathing time to 6 hours immediately after drug administration resulted in a tumor growth delay of about 43 days which was not statistically significantly different from the tumor growth delay seen with the complete treatment and 2 hours of carbogen breathing, but was different from the drug alone (P less than 0.005). A morphologic evaluation of Adriamycin cardiotoxicity in combination with Fluosol-DA and carbogen breathing was carried out. There was only mild cardiotoxicity in all treatment groups. There was a trend towards increased cardiotoxicity of Adriamycin as the treatment dose was increased from 1 to 4 mg/kg/dose, reaching statistical significance (P less than 0.05) for the Adriamycin (4 mg/kg/dose) + Fluosol-DA + carbogen breathing group when compared to the three treatment groups at 1 mg/kg/dose Adriamycin. The results of these studies indicate that there may be a therapeutic gain by the use of Fluosol-DA and carbogen breathing in combination with Adriamycin chemotherapy.
The binding of polymorphonuclear leucocytes (PMN) to the glomeruli of rats in which glomerulonephritis had been induced by bovine serum albumin, suggested a biological activity of the immune complexes localized in the glomeruli. To evaluate divalent cations or serum factors which may be involved, a two-step method for PMN binding was introduced. PMN were suspended in serum-free media and incubated with cryostat kidney sections pretreated with divalent cation-chelated or fresh sera. An appropriate concentration of Mg++ was found to be essential for maximal PMN binding; however, Ca++ may represent a partial substitute for Mg++. Immune complexes localized in the glomeruli fix and activate the complement system via both the classical and the alternative pathways.
An 11-year-old female developed heparin induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) with thrombosis during therapy for lower extremity deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism. Transition from bivalirudin, a direct thrombin inhibitor (DTI), to warfarin resulted in extensive re-thrombosis, and fondaparinux therapy similarly failed. She was then treated with argatroban, and transitioned successfully to warfarin after 9 weeks. The risk of re-thrombosis was ultimately reduced by allowing time for the thrombogenic potential to abate. The argatroban/warfarin transition was monitored with chromogenic factor X levels. This case highlights several difficult problems in pediatric thrombosis.
Biventricular hypertrophy and failure developed in two patients during treatment of systemic lupus erythematosus with chloroquine phosphate. In both patients, morphologic analysis of the myocardium, obtained by a right ventricular endomyocardial biopsy in one patient and at autopsy in the other, revealed accumulations of electron-dense concentric and parallel lamellae and curvilinear bodies within cardiac myocytes. These deposits were similar to those reported in chloroquine-induced skeletal myopathy and were considered to represent evidence of chloroquine-induced cardiotoxicity rather than a cardiovascular manifestation of the underlying disease. Clinical awareness and an endomyocardial biopsy specimen are necessary for the appropriate diagnosis of chloroquine-induced cardiomyopathy.
To evaluate the effects of clonidine and ephedrine on propofol-induced pain and on hemodynamic changes during the induction sequence.
This was a prospective, randomized, double-blind study.
The study was conducted at a university hospital.
200 ASA physical status I or II adult patients scheduled for elective surgery.
Patients were randomly allocated to one of 4 groups (50 patients per group): clonidine-ephedrine (CE), clonidine-saline (CS), diazepam-ephedrine (DE), and diazepam-saline (DS). Thirty seconds after the administration of ephedrine or saline, propofol 2 mg/kg was infused at a rate of 18.3 mL/min.
Patients were asked whether they had pain due to propofol injection. A blinded investigator evaluated the pain score: 0 = no pain, 1 = mild pain, 2 = severe pain without behavioral signs such as grimace or arm withdrawal movement, and 3 = severe pain accompanied by behavioral signs. Mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR) were measured at 1-minute intervals from just before the administration of ephedrine or saline to 5 minutes after the tracheal intubation.
Median pain score in CE was significantly lower than those in the other groups (P < 0.0001). Pain scores in CS and DE were significantly lower than that in DS (P < 0.05). Ephedrine increased HR in CE and DE (P < 0.05), but clonidine did not augment the effect. Mean arterial blood pressure before tracheal intubation decreased to comparable values in all groups. After the intubation, mean arterial blood pressure and HR in CE and CS were significantly lower than those in DE and DS (P < 0.05).
Combination of clonidine and ephedrine effectively reduced propofol-induced pain, but did not prevent propofol-induced hypotension. Clonidine did not augment low dose of ephedrine-induced increase in HR and produced stable hemodynamic condition during the induction sequence.
Thirteen consecutive patients with thalamic deep brain stimulation (DBS) were examined serially for 3 to 5 years. Initially, all demonstrated at least 50% improvement in contralateral tremor. At last follow-up, three of eight patients with Parkinson disease no longer used DBS because tremor had markedly improved, and for two, motor fluctuations and levodopa-induced dyskinesias became the major disability, with tremor less troublesome. Two of five patients with essential tremor had contralateral tremor improvement after ongoing stimulation for 2 years; two developed marked tolerance to DBS.
Sex difference in the cataleptic response to continuous or intermittent administration of haloperidol (1 mg/kg, i.p.) was examined in the rat. Weekly administration of haloperidol induced a hypersensitivity to haloperidol itself to a greater extent in adult female rats as compared to adult males. Five daily injection of haloperidol induced a marked tolerance to haloperidol in adult female rats but not in males. Ovariectomy in adult rats failed to alter the development of hypersensitivity or tolerance to haloperidol. Orchiectomy in adult rats resulted in the development of a hypersensitivity to haloperidol during the weekly administration and a tolerance during daily injection of haloperidol. In immature female rats, weekly administration began at 3 weeks of age induced a marked increase in the intensity of haloperidol-induced catalepsy at 7 weeks of age. Daily injection of haloperidol in 3-week-old rats did not show any significant sex difference. These findings suggest that exposure to sex hormones probably during the time of puberty onset, results in a modification of the activity of dopaminergic and/or related neurons responsible for cataleptic behavior to female and male types. Female sex hormones appear to induce a persistent modification of the dopaminergic system at a certain critical period during the maturation.
A young Black woman with mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD) developed an aseptic meningitis after receiving ibuprofen. The meningeal reaction, reported infrequently in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and only once previously in MCTD, was characterized by a predominantly polymorphonuclear cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pleocytosis and depression of CSF glucose. Reversible renal insufficiency also occurred. Features suggestive of a hypersensitivity reaction included pruritus, conjunctivitis, facial oedema, desquamation of the palms and soles, and subsequent near total alopecia. Meningeal signs responded rapidly to systemic corticosteroid therapy. Patients with MCTD as well as those with SLE may be at peculiar risk of developing this uncommon reaction to ibuprofen.
The muscle-relaxing effect of antibiotics, particularly that of aminoglycosides and polymyxins after oral, intravenous, intramuscular and local application is described. After local application of Isoptomax eye drops, one patient suffered from relaxation of the muscular system of the neck and throat. The phenomenon did not recede until several hours after therapy was discontinued. The mechanism of action is described and a possible treatment discussed with reference to the relevant literature.
Ceftriaxon is a third-generation cephalosporin with a wide and powerful spectrum of antimicrobal activity. It is often used in pediatrics. The authors draw the attention to the side-effect of the medicament, which might cause renal gravel-formation. They report a case of a 9-years old boy, who suffered from ceftriaxone-associated cholelithiasis and hephrolithiasis, which induced anuria and uraemia.
Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is highly prevalent in chronic kidney disease, suggesting that molecules retained in uremia might contribute to this increased risk. We explored the relationship between p-cresol, a protein-bound uremic retention solute, and CVD by comparing the strength of this relationship relative to traditional and novel cardiovascular risk factors. Univariate Cox proportional hazard analysis showed that the free serum p-cresol concentration was significantly associated with CVD when the primary end point was the time to the first cardiovascular event. In multivariate analysis, free p-cresol was significantly associated with CVD in non-diabetics. In diabetic patients, however, a significant relationship between p-cresol and cardiovascular events could not be demonstrated despite their having significantly higher p-cresol levels. Our study shows that free p-cresol is a novel cardiovascular risk factor in non-diabetic hemodialysis patients.
In a patient treated with intravenous streptokinase, inflammation developed at the infusion site followed by permanent ulnar and median neuropathy. Although adverse streptokinase infusion site reactions have been reported to the Food and Drug Administration, no other cases have been reported in the medical literature. We suggest that extravasated streptokinase may produce permanent ulnar and median neuropathy.
Quinine was compared with a 9-phenanthrene methanol (WR33063) and a 4-quinoline methanol (WR30090) for the treatment of 207 patients with falciparum malaria in Southeast Thailand. Quinine eradicated parasitaemia (average 70 hours) more rapidly than either WR30090 (72 hours) or WR33063 (77 hours). But WR33063 had a higher cure rate (92%) than WR30090 (86%) or quinine (85%). The mean duration of fever and of parasitaemia were combined with the failure rate to form an arbitrary efficacy index. Using this concept WR33063 was the most effective drug. The recrudescence rate correlated with the degree and duration of parasitaemia and with the duration of fever. WR33063 was the least toxic drug. Side effects associated with WR30090 appeared to be headache, backache and urticaria. Quinine was the most toxic drug. All 3 drugs were inconvenient in having to be administered every 8 hours for 6 days. One patient did not respond to oral quinine but did respond to an intravenous quinine infusion (IVQ). A "Medication Ward Round" was perfected during the study and comprised sequential history, drug administration, physical examination, dose notation and patient observation. Falciparum nephrosis was diagnosed in one patient.
Oxidative stress (OS) has been related to cocaine's actions and also to numerous nervous system pathologies, including seizures. The purpose of this work was to determine the alterations in glutathione (GSH) content, nitrite/nitrate and MDA levels after cocaine-induced toxicity. Male Swiss mice were injected (i.p.) with cocaine 90 mg/kg and observed during 1h. After this cocaine overdose some animals presented status epilepticus (SE) while some died after seizures. These animals were divided in two groups, SE and death. A group with an association of the antioxidant Vitamin E (Vit E, 400mg/kg, i.p.) plus Coc 90 (Vit E plus Coc 90) was undertaken to assess the neuroprotective effect of Vit E. Neurochemical analyses were carried out in prefrontal cortex (PFC) and striatum (ST). GSH levels increased only after cocaine-induced death in both areas studied. Cocaine-induced SE has increased nitrite/nitrate content in PFC and ST, while after death the increase was only in PFC. MDA (the lipid peroxidation marker) was elevated after SE and death in ST and only after death in PFC. Antioxidant treatment significantly reduced the GSH, nitrite/nitrate in ST and MDA levels. Only nitrite/nitrate content in PFC has not been decreased by Vit E pretreatment. The results relate that oxidative stress occurs after cocaine-induced toxicity mainly after death indicating that probably the increase of OS in the animal's brain leads to seizures and death, also showing a protective effect of Vit E in this process. Together with previous results this study contributes to the knowledge of cocaine-induced toxicity and possible in the near future to the use of antioxidants in the prevention of cocaine-induced CNS toxicity.
Sensory neuropathy is a serious side effect of anti-tumour drugs such as cisplatin and taxol. There are indications that an analogue of the adrenocorticotrophic hormone 4-9 fragment (ACTH4-9: Met(O2)-Glu-His-Phe-D-Lys-Phe) can prevent these neurotoxic effects. We studied the potential protective effects of this analogue in cultures of chick dorsal root ganglia and rat Schwann cells treated with cisplatin or taxol to gain insight into the mode of action and characteristics of this neuroprotection. Neurite outgrowth of sensory neurons in vitro was dose-dependently inhibited by cisplatin and taxol; after 48 hr, 10 micrograms/ml cisplatin reduced outgrowth from 431 +/- 17 microns to 220 +/- 6 microns and 0.01 micrograms/ml taxol from 344 +/- 3 microns to 200 +/- 43 microns. Co-treatment of 10 micrograms/ml cisplatin with the ACTH4-9 analogue (0.1 nM-1 nM) resulted in about 35% more outgrowth than cisplatin alone. In contrast, the analogue could not prevent taxol neurotoxicity. Migration of neurons and satellite cells from the DRG-body is completely inhibited by 10 micrograms/ml cisplatin. Taxol had no effect on the migration of these cells. In addition, cisplatin was more toxic to Schwann cells than taxol; 3-10 micrograms/ml cisplatin significantly reduced their laminin content, total protein, 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase activity, and cell division. The ACTH4-9 analogue (0.01 nM-100 nM) had no effect on the migration of cells out of the DRGs and could not prevent the toxic effect on the Schwann cells. These data support our hypothesis that the neuroprotective effect of ACTH4-9 analogue is brought about by a direct action on neurons, possibly by replacing a Schwann-/satellite-cell derived trophic factor.
