Two cases of retinopathy possibly caused by the antiepileptic drug, carbamazepine (Tegretol) are presented. Two female patients in middle age with epilepsy had been treated with carbamazepine for more than 7 years when they experienced sudden visual disturbances and reduction of visual acuity without known concomitant systemic toxic effects. Ophthalmoscopy, fundus colour photography and fundus fluorescein angiography disclosed in one patient discrete, and in the other patient extensive lesions of the retinal pigment epithelium in the posterior poles of the eyes including the macular regions. Discontinuation of carbamazepine led to improvement of visual function and of the morphological changes in the fundi of the patient with the most pronounced lesions. It is suggested that carbamazepine, a drug nearly chemically identical with the tricyclic psychotropic agents, might cause damage of the retinal pigment epithelium in long-term treatment. Further clinical controlled studies of the possible retinotoxic effect of this agent are, however, required.
Ifosfamide is an alkylating agent used in the treatment of a variety of solid tumours. Ten to 15% of patients treated with ifosfamide develop an encephalopathy. Methylene blue (MB) may be used in the treatment of this encephalopathy. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the neuroprotective effect of MB in these patients and to review the literature. Between 1993 and 1997, 52 patients (age 16-77 years) with solid tumours were treated with ifosfamide in dosages ranging from 3 to 5 g m(-2) q3w when given in combination schedules and up to 12 g m(-2) q4w when given as a single agent. Twelve patients developed central nervous system (CNS) depression, defined as National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI-CTC) neurocortical toxicity grade 2 or higher. Eight were treated with MB at a dose of 6 x 50 mg day(-1) intravenously (i.v.). Four recovered fully within 24 h, two recovered partially after 24 h and completely after 48 h while two recovered only after 72 h. Four patients did not receive MB and all recovered only after 48 h. Three patients received prophylaxis with MB at a dose of 4 x 50 mg day(-1) i.v. for the subsequent chemotherapy cycles. Two developed milder encephalopathy; one had no CNS depression at all. We conclude that MB is an effective treatment for ifosfamide-induced encephalopathy. Our findings suggest that it may also be used as a prophylactic agent.
Although reinstatement of extinguished cocaine self-administration is widely used as an animal model of relapse, it is unclear which behavioral effects of the drug stimulus (i.e., unconditioned, discriminative or reinforcing) mediate the increases in responding after extinction.
To examine the influence of experience with cocaine as a reinforcer on the ability of response-independent cocaine injections to increase extinguished responding.
Effects of noncontingent injections of cocaine (0.01-1.0 mg/kg, i.v.) were assessed in two groups of cynomolgus monkeys, those with extensive histories of cocaine self-administration when responding was maintained under a concurrent fixed ratio (FR) 50 schedule of saline and food presentation (n = 8) and cocaine-naive monkeys (n = 5) responding under an FR 50 schedule of food presentation. In the latter group, the effects of noncontingent cocaine and food (one or five pellets) were examined before and after a brief history of cocaine (0.03 mg/kg/inj) self-administration under an FR 50 schedule.
In the cocaine-experienced subjects responding under a concurrent schedule of saline and food availability, noncontingent cocaine dose-dependently increased injection-lever responding. In the initially cocaine-naive subjects, no dose of cocaine increased extinguished food-maintained responding before or after a brief exposure to cocaine self-administration. In contrast, noncontingent delivery of five food pellets significantly increased extinguished food-maintained responding after cocaine self-administration.
These results support the view that, under self-administration conditions, the discriminative stimulus effects of cocaine play a prominent role in the ability of cocaine to increase extinguished responding.
To evaluate the effect of dosage regimen (once-daily vs. twice-daily) of tobramicyn on steady-state serum concentrations and toxicity.
Patients undergoing treatment with i.v. tobramycin (4 mg/kg/day) were randomised to two groups. Group OD (n = 22) received a once-daily dose of tobramycin and group TD (n = 21) received the same dose divided into two doses daily. Tobramycin serum concentrations (peak and trough) were measured by enzyme multiplied immunoassay. The renal and auditory functions of the patients were monitored before, during and immediately after treatment.
The two groups were comparable with respect to sex, age, body weight and renal function. No statistically significant differences were found in mean daily dose, duration of treatment, or cumulative dose. Trough concentrations were < 2 g/ml in the two groups (100%). Peak concentrations were > 6 microg/ml in 100% of the OD group and in 67% of the TD group (P< 0.01). Mean peak concentrations were markedly different: 11.00+/-2.89 microg/ml in OD vs. 6.53+/-1.45 microg/ml in TD (P< 0.01). The pharmacokinetics parameters were: Ke, (0.15+/-0.03/h in OD vs. 0.24+/-0.06/h in TD), t1/2, (4.95+/-1.41 h in OD vs. 3.07+/-0.71 h in TD), Vd (0.35+/-0.11 l/kg in OD vs. 0.33+/-0.09 l/kg in TD), Cl (0.86+/-0.29 ml/min/kg in OD vs. 1.28+/-0.33 ml/min/kg in TD). Increased serum creatinine was observed in 73% of patients in OD versus 57% of patients in TD, without evidence of nephrotoxicity. In TD group, three patients developed decreased auditory function, of which one presented with an auditory loss of -30 dB, whereas in the OD group only one patient presented decreased auditory function.
This small study suggests that a once-daily dosing regimen of tobramycin is at least as effective as and is no more and possibly less toxic than the twice-daily regimen. Using a single-dose therapy, peak concentration determination is not necessary, only trough samples should be monitored to ensure levels below 2 microg/ml.
Transduction of tumor cells with herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase (HSV-tk) gene and subsequent treatment with the prodrug ganciclovir (GCV) is the most common system utilized to date for "suicide" gene therapy of cancer. In the current report, we show that HSV-tk gene transduction enhances tumor growth rate of murine colon cancer cells, that are implanted subcutaneously in syngeneic mice, and enhances cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) protein expression and prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) release in vitro and in vivo. It is further shown that the observed phenomenon is related to the presence of the HSV-tk sequence insert in the retroviral vector used for HSV-tk gene delivery. Transduction of murine colon cancer cells with control vector, carrying the neomycin-resistance gene alone, failed to increase tumor growth rate and COX-2 protein expression or PGE(2) production. On the contrary, it even decreased tumor growth, COX-2 protein expression and PGE(2.) The growth rate of HSV-tk-transduced murine tumors was significantly reduced by treatment with the selective COX-2 inhibitor nimesulide. Additionally, we demonstrate herein that both enhanced growth rate of HSV-tk-transduced murine tumors and increased levels of PGE(2) in HSV-tk-transduced cells persist upon the development of GCV resistance. Taken together, these results provide a better understanding of the direct effect of HSV-tk gene transduction on tumor cell biology and target tumor development.
Ten cases of subdural hematoma and one case of spinal epidural hematoma encountered in patients who were receiving anticoagulant therapy are discussed.This surprisingly large number of complications was observed within three years in a single hospital and represents 36.6% of all chronic and subacute subdural hematomas seen during the same period. The cases are analyzed and the conclusion reached that the causal relationship between anticoagulant therapy and hemorrhage cannot be denied.Suggestions are made as to how to decrease the danger of such complications.
Patients with congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) frequently have associated anomalies. Experiments in the nitrofen CDH model have shown differential embryonic cell death patterns in rodents suggesting unique mechanisms in the formation of right-sided (RCDH) or left-sided (LCDH) diaphragmatic hernia. These findings provide insight into the pathogenesis of CDH and may aid our understanding on the spectrum of associated anomalies commonly observed in humans. This study therefore set out to test the hypothesis that the side of the diaphragmatic defect in humans is related to the incidence and severity of coexistent organ malformations.
The medical and autopsy records of 301 CDH patients presenting to two institutions over a 23-year period were examined to analyze these factors.
One hundred patients (33%) were found to have one or more associated anomalies. The incidence of multiple-RCDH (10%) versus LCDH (7.3%) and cardiac anomalies-RCDH (10%) versus LCDH (8.5%) was similar in both groups of patients. However, the hypoplastic heart syndrome was a unique feature in 5 of 22 patients (23%) with LCDH who had cardiac abnormalities. This cardiac anomaly may be related developmentally to LCDH.
The cellular mechanisms underlying the genesis of this spectrum of abnormalities in humans and the nitrofen CDH model warrant further study to elucidate factors governing embryonic cell fate and phenotype expression.
CNDP1 is located on 18q22.3, where linkage with diabetic nephropathy has been observed in several populations, including Pima Indians. However, evidence for association between CNDP1 alleles and diabetic nephropathy is equivocal and population-dependent. This study investigated CNDP1 as a candidate for diabetic kidney disease in Pima Indians. Nineteen tag single nucleotide polymorphisms spanning the CNDP1 locus were selected using genotype data from Chinese individuals in the HapMap resource along with 2 variants previously associated with diabetic nephropathy. All variants were genotyped in 3 different samples including a diabetic end-stage renal disease (ESRD) case-control study, a family-based study of diabetic individuals who participated in the linkage study for nephropathy, and a cohort of diabetic individuals in whom longitudinal measures of glomerular filtration rates (GFR) were performed. There was no statistically significant evidence for association with diabetic ESRD. However, nominal evidence for association was found in the family study, where markers rs12957330 (Odds ratio [OR]=0.29 per copy of G allele; p=0.04) and rs17817077 (OR=0.46 per copy of G allele; p=0.05) were associated with diabetic nephropathy. In addition, markers rs12964454, rs7244647, and rs7229005 were associated with changes in GFR (-8.5ml/min per copy of the G allele; p=0.04; 18.8ml/min per copy of the C allele; p=0.03; and -13.4ml/min per copy of the C allele; p=0.001, respectively). These findings provide nominal evidence supporting a role between CNDP1 variants and diabetic kidney disease.
Similar to rats, systemic pilocarpine injection causes status epilepticus (SE) and the eventual development of spontaneous seizures and mossy fiber sprouting in C57BL/6 and CD1 mice, but the physiological correlates of these events have not been identified in mice. Population responses in granule cells of the dentate gyrus were examined in transverse slices of the ventral hippocampus from pilocarpine-treated and untreated mice. In Mg(2+)-free bathing medium containing bicuculline, conditions designed to increase excitability in the slices, electrical stimulation of the hilus resulted in a single population spike in granule cells from control mice and pilocarpine-treated mice that did not experience SE. In SE survivors, similar stimulation resulted in a population spike followed, at a variable latency, by negative DC shifts and repetitive afterdischarges of 3-60 s duration, which were blocked by ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists. Focal glutamate photostimulation of the granule cell layer at sites distant from the recording pipette resulted in population responses of 1-30 s duration in slices from SE survivors but not other groups. These data support the hypothesis that SE-induced mossy fiber sprouting and synaptic reorganization are relevant characteristics of seizure development in these murine strains, resembling rat models of human temporal lobe epilepsy.
Cocaine has anaesthetic, vasoconstrictive and CNS stimulatory effects. Presently, it is used clinically as a local anaesthetic and abused as a recreational drug. It has been implicated in both acute and chronic renal failure and has been reported to affect every aspect of the nephron. This article will review the spectrum of cocaine-induced kidney disease and attempt to give insight into the pathophysiological mechanisms involved.
We assessed the therapeutic efficacy and toxicity of continuous hepatic infusion of vinblastine in the treatment of breast cancer predominantly metastatic to the liver. Twenty-six patients previously treated with one or more chemotherapeutic regimens received vinblastine at a dose of 2.0 mg/m2 daily for 5 days, via percutaneously inserted intra-arterial catheters, at 3-4-week intervals. Nine of 25 evaluable patients (36%) achieved partial response and four (16%) had minor response. For responding patients, the median time to disease progression was 21 weeks (range, 12-99), with a median survival of 11 months (range, 4-29) from the beginning of hepatic arterial infusion. The toxicity of the treatment was acceptable, and drug-related effects were comparable to those seen in patients with breast cancer treated by iv continuous infusion of vinblastine at slightly lower doses. We observed two episodes of transient inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion. Percutaneous hepatic arterial infusion of vinblastine had significant activity in the treatment of breast cancer metastatic to the liver.
Interactions between cells and extracellular matrix (ECM) molecules play a crucial role during brain development. The ECM glycoprotein tenascin-R (TN-R) has been implicated in the control of axon targeting, neural cell adhesion, migration and differentiation. Here, we have focused on the putative role of TN-R in chronic brain diseases involving increased neuronal excitability, as found in epilepsy. An episode of pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) led over a period of 3-30 days to neuron loss in the hippocampal hilus, CA3 and CA1 with reactive mossy fiber sprouting and astrogliosis in these regions. We found a focal up-regulation of granular TN-R immunoreactivity within the neuropil of segments of the CA3 pyramidal cell layer, the extent of this up-regulation paralleled the degree of pyramidal cell loss, mossy fiber sprouting and astrogliosis in these CA3 segments. In contrast, parvalbumin immunoreactivity and Wisteria floribundi agglutinin (WFA)-labeled perineuronal nets were reduced in CA3 segments with neuronal cell loss. The parallel development of increase in focal granular TN-R immunoreactivity, reactive mossy fiber sprouting and astrogliosis in CA3 implies a role for TN-R in axon targeting and synapse formation and/or in astrocytic targeting and interactions with the ECM during lesion-induced sprouting in the adult brain.
We investigated possible differences in the impact of chronic amphetamine administration during adolescence and adulthood on aspects of behaviour and brain chemistry.
Adult (n=32) and adolescent (n=32) male Sprague-Dawley rats were given either D-amphetamine sulphate (10 mg kg(-1) daily, i.p.) or saline (1 mL kg(-1), i.p.) for 10 days. Rats were subsequently tested for anxiety-like behaviour, learning and memory, and sensorimotor gating. Nine weeks later, rats received saline (1 mL kg(-1)) or acute amphetamine challenge (1.5 mg kg(-1)) and the expression levels of mRNA for tyrosine kinase B (TrkB) or cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) were measured in the hippocampus.
The adolescent amphetamine pretreated group revealed a deficit in exploration on the Y-maze during a 6 h retention test. The frequency of visits to the novel arm was 35% lower for the amphetamine group compared with controls. In parallel, a 43% decrease in hippocampal CREB mRNA, but not TrkB mRNA, was observed in periadolescent rats treated chronically with amphetamine 9 weeks earlier. None of the effects were detected in the adult treated cohort.
Chronic amphetamine treatment during periadolescence resulted in altered behaviour on the Y-maze and persistent downregulation of hippocampal CREB mRNA expression. Given that this group had intact spatial learning and reference memory, it would appear that the deficits observed on the Y-maze reflect a dysfunction in response to novelty. Because no effects of amphetamine treatment were observed in the adult cohort, these data suggest idiosyncratic sensitivity of periadolescence to the long-term effects of psychostimulants.
We examined how repolarization and depolarization abnormalities contribute to the development of extrasystoles and subsequent ventricular fibrillation (VF) in a model of the Brugada syndrome.
Repolarization and depolarization abnormalities have been considered to be mechanisms of the coved-type ST-segment elevation (Brugada-electrocardiogram [ECG]) and development of VF in the Brugada syndrome.
We used high-resolution (256 x 256) optical mapping techniques to study arterially perfused canine right ventricular wedges (n = 20) in baseline and in the Brugada-ECG produced by administration of terfenadine (5 micromol/l), pinacidil (2 micromol/l), and pilsicainide (5 micromol/l). We recorded spontaneous episodes of phase 2 re-entrant (P2R)-extrasystoles and subsequent self-terminating polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (PVT) or VF under the Brugada-ECG condition and analyzed the epicardial conduction velocity and action potential duration (APD) restitutions in each condition.
Forty-one episodes of spontaneous P2R-extrasystoles in the Brugada-ECG were successfully mapped in 9 of 10 preparations, and 33 of them were originated from the maximum gradient of repolarization (GR(max): 176 +/- 54 ms/mm) area in the epicardium, leading to PVT (n = 12) or VF (n = 5). The epicardial GR(max) was not different between PVT and VF. Wave-break during the first P2R-extrasystole produced multiple wavelets in all VF cases, whereas no wave-break or wave-break followed by wave collision and termination occurred in PVT cases. Moreover, conduction velocity restitution was shifted lower and APD restitution was more variable in VF cases than in PVT cases.
Steep repolarization gradient in the epicardium but not endocardium develops P2R-extrasystoles in the Brugada-ECG condition, which might degenerate into VF by further depolarization and repolarization abnormalities.
Although surgery and radiotherapy have been the standard treatment modalities for head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), the integration of cisplatin (CDDP)-based therapy has led to improvements in local and regional control of disease for patients. However, many trials show that only 10-20% of patients benefit from this treatment intensification, which can result in profound treatment-associated morbidity and mortality. Moreover, the marginal survival improvement suggests that CDDP resistance is an innate characteristic of HNSCC. To elucidate the biological mechanisms underpinning CDDP resistance in HNSCC, we utilized an experimental model of CDDP resistance in this disease. We first observed significant enhancements in local tumor growth and metastasis, as well as adverse survival, in CDDP-resistant (CR) tumors compared with sensitive tumors. To elucidate the molecular mechanisms of this phenotype, we undertook a systems biology-based approach utilizing high-throughput PCR arrays, and we identified a significant suppression of KiSS1 mRNA and protein expression in the CR cells, but no significant regions of genomic loss with array comparative genomic hybridization. Genetic suppression of KiSS1 in CDDP-sensitive cell lines rendered them CR, an observation that was mechanistically linked to alterations in glutathione S-transferase-π expression and function. We next confirmed that, in human HNSCC tumors, loss of KiSS1 expression was associated with metastatic human HNSCC tumors compared with non-metastatic tumors. Genetic reconstitution of KiSS1 in CR cells abrogated cellular migration and induced CDDP sensitivity. To confirm these findings in a murine model, either CR or KiSS1-transfected CR cells were studied in an orthotopic model of HNSCC, or survival studies revealed significant improvement in survival of the mice bearing CR-KiSS1 tumors. Mechanistically, alterations in apoptotic pathways and CDDP metabolism contributed to KiSS1-associated chemotherapy sensitization. These studies provided further direct evidence for the role of KiSS1 loss in biologically aggressive HNSCC and suggest potential targets for therapy in CR cancers.
Paclitaxel (Taxol) is a new antineoplastic agent derived from the bark of the western yew, Taxus brevifolia, with important activity against several tumors such as ovarian cancer, breast cancer, lung cancer and head and neck cancer. Because it promotes microtubule assembly, neuropathy occurs as one of its toxic side effects. Our purpose was to evaluate the incidence, severity, dose-dependency and reversibility of paclitaxel-induced neuropathy.
We prospectively studied 27 patients treated with single-agent paclitaxel at three dose levels. Paclitaxel was administered by 3-hour intravenous infusion every three weeks in all patients, and if possible, all were evaluated neurologically before paclitaxel, after every other cycle and after discontinuation of therapy. We used a standardized questionnaire and neurologic examination with emphasis on neuropathic symptoms and signs. The severity of symptoms and signs was scored. Quantitatively, vibratory perception threshold (vibrameter) and grip strength (dynamometer) were measured.
Six, 14 and seven patients were treated with 135 mg/m2, 175 mg/m2 and 250-300 mg/m2, respectively. Neuropathic symptoms occurred in 50%, 79% and 100%, neuropathic signs in 83%, 86% and 100%, and dose-limiting neurotoxicity in 0%, 21% and 71% of patients, respectively. Neurotoxicity progressed with higher cumulative dose and was more pronounced with higher dose per course. Paclitaxel-induced neuropathy was predominantly sensory in character, though minor motor signs were present. Follow-up data of 12 patients after discontinuation of paclitaxel therapy showed that paclitaxel-induced neuropathy is at least partially reversible.
Paclitaxel-induced neuropathy is a dose-dependent phenomenon, occurring with higher cumulative dose and higher dose per cycle. Using 3-weekly 3-hour infusions of paclitaxel, dose-limiting neurotoxicity can be expected in patients treated with 250 mg/m2 or more each cycle.
Mossy fiber sprouting and the genesis of ectopic granule cells contribute to reverberating excitation in the dentate gyrus of epileptic brain. This study determined whether the extent of sprouting after status epilepticus in rats correlates with the seizure-induced degeneration of GluR2-immunoreactive (GluR2+) hilar neurons (presumptive mossy cells) and also quantitated granule cell-like GluR2-immunoreactive hilar neurons. Stereological cell counting indicated that GluR2+ neurons account for 57% of the total hilar neuron population. Prolonged pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus killed 95% of these cells. A smaller percentage of GluR2+ neurons (74%) was killed when status epilepticus was interrupted after 1-3.5 h with a single injection of phenobarbital, and the number of residual GluR2+ neurons varied among animals by a factor of 6.2. GluR2+ neurons were not necessarily more vulnerable than other hilar neurons. In rats administered phenobarbital, the extent of recurrent mossy fiber growth varied inversely and linearly with the number of GluR2+ hilar neurons that remained intact (P=0.0001). Thus the loss of each GluR2+ neuron was associated with roughly the same amount of sprouting. These findings support the hypothesis that mossy fiber sprouting is driven largely by the degeneration of and/or loss of innervation from mossy cells. Granule cell-like GluR2-immunoreactive neurons were rarely encountered in the hilus of control rats, but increased 6- to 140-fold after status epilepticus. Their number did not correlate with the extent of hilar cell death or mossy fiber sprouting in the same animal. The morphology, number, and distribution of these neurons suggested that they were hilar ectopic granule cells.
In experiments on rats the degrees of the central m-cholinergic blocking (by the ability to suppress arecoline-induced tremor /AT/) and dopamine-potentiating (by potentiation of apomorphine-induced stereotypy (AS] effects of amizyl, glypine, scopolamine and 4-methylpyperidylbenzylate (4-MP) and an esther of phenylcyclopentylglycolinic acid and tropanol (PCT) were compared. It was found that with respect to AS and AT one can distinguish central m-cholinergic blocking agents with milddly (PCT, glypine) and strongly (4-MP, amizyl) dopamine-potentiating properties. None of these compounds administered in the doses corresponding to ED84 by AS influenced nicotine-induced tremor in rats.
Our previous studies revealed that iptakalim, a novel ATP-sensitive potassium channel opener, has a significant neuroprotective function against ischemia in vivo or rotenone-induced neurotoxicity in vitro. To investigate the potential pharmaceutical benefit of ATP-sensitive potassium channel openers on neurodegenerative diseases, we studied the effects of iptakalim and diazoxide, a selective mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium channel opener, on the rotenone-induced nigrostriatal degeneration in rats. Iptakalim (1.5 mg/kg/day, orally) or diazoxide (1.5 mg/kg/day, orally) alone was administered to rats for 3 days, and then for 4 weeks was used daily with an injection of rotenone (2.5 mg/kg/day, subcutaneously) 1 hr later each time. The results showed that rotenone-infused rats exhibited parkinsonian symptoms and had dopamine depletion in the striatum and substantia nigra. Pretreatment with iptakalim or diazoxide prevented rotenone-induced catalepsy and the reduction of striatum dopamine contents. Moreover, iptakalim and diazoxide reduced the enzymatic activities and mRNA levels of inducible nitric oxide synthase elicited by chronic administration of rotenone. These neuroprotective effects of iptakalim and diazoxide were abolished by 5-hydroxydecanoate, a selective mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium channel blocker. In conclusion, our data suggested that mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium channels might play a key role in preventing both parkinsonian symptoms and neurochemistry alterations induced by rotenone in rats. The selective activation of mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium channels may provide a new therapeutic strategy for prevention and treatment of neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease.
Previous studies demonstrate a positive correlation between pesticide usage and Parkinson's disease (PD), which preferentially targets dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons. In order to examine the potential relationship between two common pesticides and specific neurodegeneration, we chronically (24 h) or acutely (30 min) exposed two Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans) strains to varying concentrations (LC(25), LC(50) or LC(75)) of TouchDown(®) (TD) as percent active ingredient (glyphosate), or Mancozeb(®) (MZ) as percent active ingredient (manganese/zinc ethylene-bis-dithiocarbamate). Furthermore, to more precisely model environmental exposure, worms were also exposed to TD for 30 min, followed by 30-min incubation with varying MZ concentrations. Previous data from out lab suggested general neuronal degeneration using the worm strain NW1229 (pan-neuronal//green fluorescent protein (GFP) construct). To determine whether distinct neuronal groups were preferentially affected, we specifically used EG1285 (GABAergic neurons//GFP construct) and BZ555 (DAergic neurons//GFP construct) worms to verify GABAergic and DAergic neurodegeneration, respectively. Results indicated a statistically significant decrease, when compared to controls (CN), in number of green pixels associated with GABAergic neurons in both chronic (*P < 0.05) and acute (*P < 0.05) treatment paradigms. Analysis of the BZ555 worms indicated a statistically significant decrease (*P < 0.05) in number of green pixels associated with DAergic neurons in both treatment paradigms (chronic and acute) when compared to CN. Taken together, our data suggest that exposure to TD and/or MZ promotes neurodegeneration in both GABAergic and DAergic neurons in the model organism C. elegans.
Although nifedipine therapy resulted in substantial relief of dysphagia in six patients with diffuse esophageal spasm, significant side effects, particularly in young working subjects, precluded prolonged use.
The clinical efficacy of amiodarone in the management of patients with complex cardiac arrhythmias refractory to therapy with two or more conventional or other investigational anti-arrhythmic agents was studied by long-term follow-up of patients who had received the drug for a period of at least three months. A total of 181 patients, classified into four groups (Group 1--supraventricular arrhythmias, n = 42; Group 2--frequent VPBs, n = 46; Group 3--nonsustained V-tach, n = 16; and Group 4--sustained V-tach, n = 77) received a daily maintenance dose of 200-800 mg of Amiodarone for a period of up to 30 months. There were a total of 26 deaths (14%). Ten of these were classified as probable arrhythmic deaths; however, all had either good or excellent response to therapy over a mean follow-up period of 14.9 months prior to death. The drug had to be permanently discontinued due to side effects only in three patients and in the majority of patients with side effects symptoms could be alleviated with adjustment of dosage, thyroid replacement therapy or transient cessation of therapy. We conclude that amiodarone is highly effective in the management of high-risk patients with complex refractory cardiac arrhythmias and that close monitoring and prompt recognition of side effects and appropriate adjustment of dosage or institution of supplemental or replacement therapy (in less than 5% of patients) will allow continuation of amiodarone. The benefit of suppression of symptomatic arrhythmias and the potential of prevention of sudden death, far outweighs the incidence of severe side effects.
In experiments on 183 rats it was shown that cordarone, anapriline, dimedrol and riboxine increasing in experimental cardiac insufficiency tolerance to the cardiotoxic effect of strophanthin differ significantly by their influence on the hemodynamic effects of this cardiac glycoside. Cordarone increased intensity of the hemodynamic effects of strophanthin and accelerated their development. Under the action of anapriline and dimedrol the stimulating effect of strophanthin on hemodynamics decreased to a much lesser degree than its cardiotoxicity. Riboxine virtually abolished the hemodynamic effects of strophanthin.
Tardive dyskinesia (TD) is a debilitating side effect of long-term treatment with neuroleptics with an unclear pathophysiologic basis. It has been proposed that TD may be a result of neuroleptic-induced oxidative stress. To investigate this hypothesis, we studied if neuroleptic-induced oral dyskinesias in rats, a putative analogue to human TD, could be prevented by the antioxidant coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10). Rats received 16 weeks of treatment with haloperidol decanoate (HAL) IM alone or together with orally administered CoQ10, and the behavior was recorded during and after treatment. HAL significantly increased the level of oral dyskinesias, and the increase persisted for 12 weeks after drug withdrawal. Cotreatment with CoQ10 did not attenuate the development of HAL-induced oral dyskinesia. Despite adequate absorption of orally administered CoQ10, shown by the increased serum levels of CoQ10, no increase of either CoQ10 or coenzyme Q9 was detected in the brain. These results suggest that cotreatment with CoQ10 does not inhibit the development of HAL-induced oral dyskinesias in rats, and that further studies seem to be needed in order to clarify the pharmacokinetics of CoQ10 in rats.
To compare the classical uroprotective efficacy of mesna (2-mercaptoethanesulfonic acid) with ternatin (flavonoid isolated from Egletes viscosa Less.) in cyclophosphamide (CYP) and ifosfamide (IFS) induced hemorrhagic cystitis (HC). Male Wistar rats received an intraperitoneal injection of saline, CYP or IFS and were treated with saline or mesna, 5 min before, 4 and 8 h after CYP or IFS administration. In other animals, 1, 2 or 3 doses of mesna were replaced with ternatin or 3 doses of mesna were replaced with dimethylsulphoxide (DMSO), ternatin diluent. In an additional group, the last 2 doses of mesna were replaced with saline. HC was evaluated 24 h after CYP or IFS administration. CYP or IFS treatment induced marked changes in macroscopic and microscopic evaluation and in bladder wet weight (BWW), and these alterations were significantly inhibited by treatment with 3 doses of mesna, as well as by the replacement of 1 or 2 doses of mesna with ternatin. The replacement of 2 doses of mesna with saline or all doses of mesna with ternatin or DMSO did not prevent HC. In conclusion, the replacement of 1 or 2 doses of mesna with ternatin efficiently blocked CYP- or IFS-induced HC, however mesna is necessary for initial uroprotection.
