Nephrocalcinosis (NC) detected by ultrasound is a recognized abnormality for some patients with X-linked hypophosphatemia (XLH) who received vitamin D2 and inorganic phosphate therapy, but is commonly observed in XLH patients treated with 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 and inorganic phosphate supplementation. Nevertheless, long-term follow-up of kidney function in XLH patients with NC detected ultrasonographically has not been reported. We investigated two women with XLH, ages 31 (patient 1) and 39 (patient 2) years, each of whom had suffered at least one documented episode of vitamin D2-induced hypercalcemia and renal azotemia during childhood. Patient 2 had also been treated with inorganic phosphate. No medications for XLH had been taken during adulthood. Renal ultrasonography at our institution demonstrated marked bilateral medullary NC in both women. No other explanation was found for their NC that apparently occurred several decades earlier from medical therapy for XLH. Detailed studies (including creatinine clearance, beta2-microglobulin excretion, and fasting urinary osmolality and acidification) revealed no impairment of kidney function in either patient. Our findings indicate that subradiographic medullary NC acquired during medical therapy for XLH may persist for decades, but with no adverse renal sequelae. Definitive (long-term) assessment of kidney function in the XLH population with NC, however, will be necessary to fully understand the risk of current medical treatment for this most common heritable form of rickets.
Following cardiac transplantation, accelerated coronary disease limits long-term survival. Because statins may reduce the progression of the disease in part by their anti-inflammatory effects, this study was designed to assess if atorvastatin prevented neointimal hyperplasia and endothelial dysfunction independently of baseline cholesterol levels. Patients were randomized to usual therapy (n = 13) or to 10 to 20 mg of atorvastatin (n = 12). Control subjects received niacin when their low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels were >130 mg/dl (n = 4). Neointimal hyperplasia by intracoronary ultrasonography, endothelial dependent vascular reactivity, and coronary flow reserve were measured at baseline and 1 year. Control group total cholesterol (203 +/- 11 to 200 +/- 13 mg/dl) and LDL (116 +/- 10 to 119 +/- 11 mg/dl) remained stable, whereas there was a nonsignificant reduction at 12 months in the atorvastatin group (total cholesterol 216 +/- 28 to 178 +/- 21 mg/dl; LDL 126 +/- 17 to 100 +/- 18 mg/dl). At 2 to 3 months there was a significant increase in total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol that was reduced with atorvastatin. At 1 year, patients taking atorvastatin showed a decrease in new or progressing lesions (2.5 +/- 1.7 vs 4.2 +/- 1.8 lesions/patient, p = 0.02), progression of maximal intimal thickness (0.12 +/- 0.07 vs 0.52 +/- 0.17 mm, p = 0.04), and percent area stenosis (5.9 +/- 2.2% vs 19.0 +/- 5.5%, p = 0.04). Atorvastatin ameliorated progressive endothelial dysfunction, whereas coronary flow reserve was unchanged in both groups. Atorvastatin administered to patients with normal or mild hypercholesterolemia in the initial year after transplant reduced the initial increase in LDL cholesterol, and, by doing so, prevented the development and progression of coronary artery lesions and endothelial dysfunction with only mild long-term decreases in cholesterol levels.
1,25(OH)2-Vitamin D3 inhibits breast cancer cell proliferation through interaction with the vitamin D receptor (VDR). Regulation of VDR is under the influence of several factors which include the functional ligand for this receptor (1,25(OH)2-vitamin D3) as well as heterologous steroid hormones. We evaluated the nature of homologous regulation in T-47D human breast cancer cells with a radiolabelled ligand binding assay and a ribonuclease protection assay for VDR. Significant VDR up-regulation, as measured by hormone binding assays, occurred with pre-incubations with 10(-9)M through 10(-6)M 1,25(OH)2-vitamin D3 (P < 0.05). A 7-fold VDR up-regulation with 10(-8)M 1,25(OH)2-vitamin D3 occurred at 4 h treatment and was not associated with an increase in VDR mRNA expression on ribonuclease protection assay. This supports the hypothesis that up-regulation of VDR is probably the result of ligand-induced stabilization of pre-existing receptor. All-trans-retinoic acid, the progesterone analog R-5020, and prednisone were found to induce heterologous up-regulation of the VDR. We then determined with ligand binding assays whether 1,25(OH)2-vitamin D3 could influence receptor levels for another hormone in a manner analogous to the heterologous regulation of VDR. Regulation of estrogen receptor (ER) by 1,25(OH)2-vitamin D3 was studied in T-47D and MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells. Incubation of T-47D cells, which are ER (+), with 10(-8)M 1,25(OH)2-vitamin D3 did not result in up-regulation of ER. Yet estrogen binding was significantly up-regulated in a cell line that is ER(-), MDA-MB-231. The increased estrogen binding was associated with a shift in binding affinity and ribonuclease protection assay showed absence of ER mRNA in these cells, suggesting an up-regulation of estrogen binding proteins and not of the ER itself.
An increase in blood pressure, accompanied by atrial fibrillation, agitation, incomprehensible shouts and loss of consciousness, was observed in an elderly, ASA classification group II, cardiovascularly medicated male, 12 min after performance of axillary block with mepivacaine 850 mg containing adrenaline 0.225 mg, for correction of Dupuytren's contracture. After intravenous administration of labetalol, metoprolol and midazolam the patient's condition improved, and 15 min later he woke up. The block was successful and surgery was conducted as scheduled despite persisting atrial fibrillation. Postoperatively, the patient refused DC cardioversion and was treated medically. Both the temporal relationship of events and the response to treatment suggest that a rapid systemic absorption of mepivacaine with adrenaline and/or interaction of these drugs with the patient's cardiovascular medications were responsible for the perioperative complications.
It has been suggested that zinc may have a protective role against heart defects during fetal development. We investigated the effects of zinc on the development of fetal cardiac malformations induced by homocysteine. Pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were randomized into one of five groups: control (C), homocysteine (H), homocysteine + zinc (Z), homocysteine + folic acid (F), or homocysteine + zinc + folic acid (ZF) (each n = 8). Homocysteine (8 nmol/day) was administered intraperitoneally in the H, Z, F, and ZF groups on gestation days (GD) 8, 9, and 10. Zinc (30 mg/kg day), folic acid (30 mg/kg day), or both (30 mg/kg day each) were administered intragastrically daily in the Z, F, and ZF groups, respectively, throughout the pregnancy. In each group, two fetuses were removed on GD 13, 15, 17, and 19 and examined for cardiac malformations; maternal copper/zinc-containing-superoxide dismutase (Cu/Zn-SOD) activity and metallothionein type I (MT-1) mRNA expression were measured simultaneously. The prevalence of cardiac malformations was significantly higher in group H than in group C, and significantly lower in group Z than in group H at the studied time points. Cu/Zn-SOD activity and MT-1 mRNA levels were significantly lower in group H than in group C, and significantly higher in group Z than in group H. Our data suggest that zinc antagonizes homocysteine-induced teratogenic effects on the fetal heart, possibly via the inhibition of excessive peroxidation.
Fulvestrant (ICI 182 780, ICI) has been used in treating patients with hormone-sensitive breast cancer, yet initial or acquired resistance to endocrine therapies frequently arises and, in particular, cancer recurs as metastasis. We demonstrate here that both 17-beta-estradiol (E2) and ICI enhance cell adhesion to matrigel in MCF-7 breast cancer cells, with increased autolysis of calpain 1 (large subunit) and proteolysis of focal adhesion kinase (FAK), indicating calpain activation. Additionally, either E2 or ICI induced down-regulation of estrogen receptor α without affecting G protein coupled estrogen receptor 30 (GPR30) expression. Interestingly, GPR30 agonist G1 triggered calpain 1 autolysis but not calpain 2, whereas ER agonist diethylstilbestrol caused no apparent calpain autolysis. Furthermore, the actions of E2 and ICI on calpain and cell adhesion were tremendously suppressed by G15, or knockdown of GPR30. E2 and ICI also induced phosphorylation of extracellular regulated protein kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2), and suppression of ERK1/2 phosphorylation by U0126 profoundly impeded calpain activation triggered by estrogenic and antiestrogenic stimulations indicating implication of ERK1/2 in the GPR30-mediated action. Lastly, the E2- or ICI-induced cell adhesion was dramatically impaired by calpain-specific inhibitors, ALLN or calpeptin, suggesting requirement of calpain in the GPR30-associated action. These data show that enhanced cell adhesion by E2 and ICI occurs via a novel GPR30-ERK1/2-calpain pathway. Our results indicate that targeting the GPR30 signaling may be a potential strategy to reduce metastasis and improve the efficacy of antiestrogens in treatment of advanced breast cancer.
Cyclosporine, a potent immunosuppressive drug, has been suggested to be beneficial in the treatment of some immune-mediated dermatoses, including pemphigus.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of combined treatment with prednisone and cyclosporine compared with prednisone alone in patients with pemphigus.
Sixteen hospitalized patients with pemphigus vulgaris received combined treatment with cyclosporine and prednisone for 12 months. Cyclosporine and prednisone were given orally at an initial dose of 5 mg/kg/day and 60 to 80 mg/day, respectively. The cyclosporine dose was adjusted to obtain plasma levels of 100 to 150 ng/L. A historical control group was composed of 15 patients with pemphigus who received prednisone at an initial dose of 120 mg/day, which was decreased according to clinical response. The clinical response, serum titer of autoantibodies, and frequency of side effects during a 1-year follow-up period were evaluated and compared.
The 16 patients in the combined therapy group achieved clinical remission within 25 days or less, a shorter period than for the control group, although the difference was not statistically significant. New blister formation ceased after a mean of 11.1 +/- 7.9 days of onset of treatment in the combined treatment group versus 20.5 +/- 12 days in the control group (p = 0.004). Hospital stay was shorter in the combined treatment group (mean, 32.6 +/- 12.5 days) than in the control group (mean, 50.7 +/- 17.1 days; p = 0.003).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The visceral (VAT) and subcutaneous (SCAT) adipose tissues play different roles in physiology and obesity. The molecular mechanisms underlying their expansion in obesity and following body weight reduction are poorly defined.
C57Bl/6 mice fed a high fat diet (HFD) for 6 months developed low, medium, or high body weight as compared to normal chow fed mice. Mice from each groups were then treated with the cannabinoid receptor 1 antagonist rimonabant or vehicle for 24 days to normalize their body weight. Transcriptomic data for visceral and subcutaneous adipose tissues from each group of mice were obtained and analyzed to identify: i) genes regulated by HFD irrespective of body weight, ii) genes whose expression correlated with body weight, iii) the biological processes activated in each tissue using gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), iv) the transcriptional programs affected by rimonabant.
In VAT, "metabolic" genes encoding enzymes for lipid and steroid biosynthesis and glucose catabolism were down-regulated irrespective of body weight whereas "structure" genes controlling cell architecture and tissue remodeling had expression levels correlated with body weight. In SCAT, the identified "metabolic" and "structure" genes were mostly different from those identified in VAT and were regulated irrespective of body weight. GSEA indicated active adipogenesis in both tissues but a more prominent involvement of tissue stroma in VAT than in SCAT. Rimonabant treatment normalized most gene expression but further reduced oxidative phosphorylation gene expression in SCAT but not in VAT.
VAT and SCAT show strikingly different gene expression programs in response to high fat diet and rimonabant treatment. Our results may lead to identification of therapeutic targets acting on specific fat depots to control obesity.
Treatment of the pain of acute herpes zoster by local anesthetic injections has drawbacks. Topical percutaneous local anesthesia (TPLA) may offer another strategy of providing regional analgesia in affected patients.
We evaluate the analgesic efficacy and safety of 9% (wt/vol) lidocaine (base) in petrolatum/paraffin ointment in patients with acute herpes zoster.
Ointment was applied to the affected skin of 22 patients. Pain, tenderness, sensitivity to pinprick and cold, and blood lidocaine concentration were measured repeatedly during a 20-hour interval and intermittently thereafter.
Mean pain, tenderness, and cutaneous sensation scores were reduced at measurements taken from 4 to 20 hours after ointment application (p < 0.05), but not every patient obtained relief. No patient had local skin irritation or systemic toxic effects related to the local anesthetic.
TPLA is a promising therapy for control of cutaneous pain of acute herpes zoster. Controlled studies should be performed to prove efficacy, determine optimal TPLA formulation, and define dosage limits.
The effects of 2 days of oral dosing with sulindac (200 mg twice a day) or indomethacin (75 mg twice a day) on glomerular filtration rate, urinary excretion of prostaglandin E2, sodium homeostasis, and other renal function parameters were investigated in eight patients with chronic stable impaired renal function. Indomethacin reduced creatinine clearance (from 41.0 +/- 7.9 to 30.3 +/- 6.3 ml/min) and increased serum levels of creatinine and beta 2-microglobulin. Sulindac had no effect on any of these parameters. Both drugs induced depression of urinary prostaglandin E2 excretion; this depression was greater after indomethacin. Urinary sodium excretion fell from 144.4 +/- 18.7 to 85.5 +/- 9.7 mmol/24 hr after indomethacin and from 131.7 +/- 11.6 to 103.4 +/- 13.3 mmol/24 hr after sulindac. Body weight increased 1.2 kg after indomethacin but was not changed by sulindac. Plasma renin activity was reduced from 2.3 +/- 0.8 to 1.7 +/- 0.6 nmol/L/hr by sulindac and from 2.8 +/- 0.8 to 1.5 +/- 0.5 nmol/L/hr by indomethacin. Urinary N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase and kallikrein excretion was not changed by either drug. Our data suggest that sulindac affects renal prostaglandin E2 synthesis and sodium excretion in patients with severe renal failure to a lesser extent than does indomethacin. Sulindac still seems to be the drug of choice in this group of patients, but glomerular filtration rate, body weight, and electrolyte balance should be carefully monitored.
The environmental pollutant 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD; dioxin) induces severe reproductive defects in male rats when exposure occurs in utero and during lactation. Yet there is currently a paucity of information regarding the effects of this exposure paradigm in females. In the current study, we examine the effects of TCDD during fetal and perinatal development on the estrogen-signaling system in peripubertal female rats. Pregnant Holtzman rats were given 1 microgram/kg TCDD or vehicle control by gavage on gestational Day 15. Body weights were reduced, though not significantly, on postnatal Day 21. While ovarian and uterine wet weights were not increased by TCDD exposure, the percentage of body weight attributed to the ovary was increased significantly. Through use of ribonuclease protection and gel-shift assays, exposed females were compared with nonexposed counterparts for estrogen receptor (ER) mRNA and DNA-binding activity in the following tissues: hypothalamus, pituitary (mRNA only), uterus, and ovary. ER mRNA levels increased in the hypothalamus, uterus, and ovary, and decreased in the pituitary. The results of the DNA-binding assays paralleled the mRNA results in the uterus, while DNA-binding activity was decreased in the hypothalamus and was unchanged in ovarian protein extracts. Circulating concentrations of estrogen were significantly lower in TCDD-exposed rats than in controls. These data suggest that the decrease in serum estrogen may be a cause of the alterations in ER mRNA; the changes in ER DNA-binding activity may indicate alterations in either translation or posttranslational receptor processing. Overall, this study shows that TCDD may act systemically in this model, and these effects should not necessarily be characterized as antiestrogenic.
The ocular hypertensive response to corticosteroids is well established. Elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) secondary to corticosteroids by nasal spray or inhalation has rarely been reported.
Three patients showed a possible ocular hypertensive response to beclomethasone dipropionate by nasal spray or inhalation. In two patients, the IOP returned to pretreatment levels after discontinuing nasal corticosteroid spray. One patient required medication to control IOP with continued inhaled corticosteroid. One patient later demonstrated an ocular hypertensive response to oral steroids.
Corticosteroids by nasal spray or inhalation may cause ocular hypertension in susceptible patients. The authors recommend surveillance of IOP in patients using these medications.
Antiretroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs), given to human immunodeficiency virus-1-infected pregnant women to prevent vertical viral transmission, have caused mitochondrial dysfunction in some human infants. Here, we examined mitochondrial integrity in skeletal muscle from offspring of pregnant retroviral-free Erythrocebus patas dams administered human-equivalent NRTI doses for the last 10 weeks of gestation or for 10 weeks of gestation and 6 weeks after birth. Exposures included no drug, Zidovudine (AZT), Lamivudine (3TC), AZT/3TC, AZT/Didanosine (ddI), and Stavudine (d4T)/3TC. Offspring were examined at birth (n=3 per group) and 1 year (n=4 per group, not including 3TC alone). Circulating levels of creatine kinase were elevated at 1 year in the d4T/3TC-exposed group. Measurement of oxidative phosphorylation enzyme activities (complexes I, II, and IV) revealed minimal NRTI-induced changes at birth and at 1 year. Histochemistry for complex IV activity showed abnormal staining with activity depletion at birth and 1 year in groups exposed to AZT alone and to the 2-NRTI combinations. Electron microscopy of skeletal muscle at birth and 1 year of age showed mild to severe mitochondrial damage in all the NRTI-exposed groups, with 3TC inducing mild damage and the 2-NRTI combinations inducing extensive damage. At birth, mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) was depleted by approximately 50% in groups exposed to AZT alone and the 2-NRTI combinations. At 1 year, the mtDNA levels had increased but remained significantly below normal. Therefore, skeletal muscle mitochondrial compromise occurs at birth and persists at 1 year of age (46 weeks after the last NRTI exposure) in perinatally exposed young monkeys, suggesting that similar events may occur in NRTI-exposed human infants.
Since 1977, eight children have had major liver resections with the aid of normovolemic hemodilution anesthesia. Five children were 7 months of age or less; the other three were 3 1/2, 8, and 12 years old. This includes three operations for hepatoblastoma, three for hepatoma, and two for mesenchymal hamartoma. There were three right lobectomies, two trisegmentectomies, two extended left lobectomies, and one standard left lobectomy. With the use of this method, operative blood loss has been greatly reduced and operating technique significantly improved. After abdominal exploration and initial liver mobilization, whole blood is removed from the patient and simultaneously replaced with three times the volume of Ringer's lactate solution to maintain adequate intravascular volume. After the major blood loss has ceased, the patient is reinfused with his own blood and a simultaneous diuresis is induced with LASIX to remove the previously administered crystalloid solution. Metabolic demand is reduced by allowing the patient's temperature to drift down to 32 degrees C. Blood loss is further reduced by a Halothane-induced hypotension to a mean arterial pressure of 40 to 50 torr. The diluted blood lost during surgery has a low red blood cell volume per cc; therefore, each cc of blood lost depletes the total red cell volume by a lesser amount. This results in a nearly bloodless operative field which facilitates the ease, speed, and safety of the dissection. Use of this technique can avoid the need for massive intra-operative transfusions and the threat of cardiac arrest due to extensive blood loss during major liver resection in children.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We have investigated whether fetal exposure to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) causes defects in the male reproductive system of the rat using chronically exposed rats to ensure continuous exposure of the fetus. Five- to six-week-old rats were exposed to control diet, or diet containing TCDD, to attain an average dose of 2.4, 8, and 46 ng TCDD/kg/day for 12 weeks, whereupon the rats were mated and allowed to litter; rats were switched to control diet after parturition. Male offsprings were allowed to develop until kills on PND70 (25 per group) or PND120 (all remaining animals). Offspring from the high-dose group showed an increase in total litter loss, and the number of animals alive on postnatal day (PND)4 in the high-dose group was approximately 26% less than control. The high and medium dose offsprings showed decreased weights at various ages. Balano-preputial separation (BPS) was significantly delayed in all three dose groups compared to control. There were no significant effects of maternal treatment when the offsprings were subjected to a functional observational battery or learning tests, with the exception that the high-dose group showed a deficit in motor activity. Twenty rats per group were mated to females, and there were no significant effects of maternal treatment on the fertility of these rats or on the F1 or F2 sex ratio. Sperm parameters at PND70 and 120 showed no significant effect of maternal treatment, with the exception that there was an increase in the proportion of abnormal sperm in the high-dose group at PND70; this is associated with the developmental delay in puberty in this dose group. There were no remarkable findings of maternal treatment on organ weights, with the exception that testis weights were reduced by approximately 10% at PND70 (but not PND120), and although the experiment was sufficiently powered to detect small changes, ventral prostate weight was not reduced. There were no significant effects of maternal treatment upon histopathological comparison of high-dose and control group organs. These data confirm that developmental exposure to TCDD shows no potent effect on adult sperm parameters or accessory sexual organs, but show that delay in BPS occurs after exposure to low doses of TCDD, and this is dependent upon whether TCDD is administered acutely or chronically.
It has been reported that fetal exposure to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) causes defects in the male reproductive system of the rat. We set out to replicate and extend these effects using a robust experimental design. Groups of 75 (control vehicle) or 55 (50, 200, or 1000 ng of TCDD/kg bodyweight) female Wistar(Han) rats were exposed to TCDD on gestational day (GD)15, then allowed to litter. The high-dose group dams showed no sustained weight loss compared to control, but four animals had total litter loss. Pups in the high-dose group showed reduced body weight up till day 21, and pups in the medium dose group showed reduced body weight in the first week postpartum. Balano-preputial separation was significantly delayed in the high-dose group male offspring. There were no significant effects of treatment when the offspring were subjected to a functional observational battery or mated with females to assess reproductive capability. Twenty-five males per group were killed on postnatal day (PND) 70, and approximately 60 animals per group (approximately 30 for the high-dose group) on PND120 to assess seminology and other end points. At PND120, the two highest dose groups showed a statistically significant elevation of sperm counts, compared to control; however, this effect was small (approximately 30%), within the normal range of sperm counts for this strain of rat, was not reflected in testicular spermatid counts nor PND70 data, and is therefore postulated to have no biological significance. Although there was an increase in the proportion of abnormal sperm at PND70, seminology parameters were otherwise unremarkable. Testis weights in the high-dose group were slightly decreased at PND70 and 120, and at PND120, brain weights were decreased in the high-dose group, liver to body weight ratios were increased for all three dose groups, with an increase in inflammatory cell foci in the epididymis in the high-dose group. These data show that TCDD is a potent developmental toxin after exposure of the developing fetus but that acute developmental exposure to TCDD on GD15 caused no decrease in sperm counts.
Subclinical hypothyroidism (sHT) is associated with enhanced cardiovascular risk. To test the hypothesis that patients with sHT are characterized by endothelial dysfunction and impaired nitric oxide (NO) availability, in 14 patients [serum cholesterol, 218 +/- 41 mg/dl (5.6 +/- 0.9 mM)] and 28 euthyroid subjects, subdivided into groups A and B [serum cholesterol, 170 +/- 19 mg/dl (4.4 +/- 0.5 mM) and 217 +/- 21 mg/dl (5.6 +/- 0.5 mM), respectively], we studied the forearm blood flow (strain-gauge plethysmography) response to intrabrachial acetylcholine, an endothelium-dependent vasodilator, at baseline and during infusion of N(G)-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA), a NO synthase inhibitor. Response to sodium nitroprusside and minimal forearm vascular resistances were also evaluated. In sHT patients, vasodilation to acetylcholine was reduced, compared with group B (+358 +/- 29% vs. +503 +/- 19%, P = 0.0003) and group A (663 +/- 65%, P = 0.02 vs. group B and P = 0.0002 vs. sHT). L-NMMA blunted the vasodilation to acetylcholine in groups A and B (49.1 +/- 6.3% and 42.7 +/- 5.5% maximal forearm blood flow reduction, respectively, P < 0.0001 vs. acetylcholine), whereas it was ineffective in sHT patients (12.8 +/- 2.5%). Response to sodium nitroprusside and minimal vascular resistances were similar. In sHT (n = 9) patients, 6 months of euthyroidism by levothyroxine replacement increased acetylcholine-vasodilation and restored L-NMMA inhibition. Patients with sHT are characterized by endothelial dysfunction resulting from a reduction in NO availability, an alteration partially independent of dyslipidemia and reversed by levothyroxine supplementation.
The administration of high doses of methamphetamine causes the degeneration of striatal dopaminergic fibers in the brains of rodents, and oxidative stress appears to be one of the main factors of neurotoxicity. This study examined whether edaravone, a radical scavenger, protects against methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity in mice. Methamphetamine treatment (4 mg/kg, s.c. x 4 with 2 h intervals) showed striatal dopaminergic degeneration as observed by decreases in dopamine levels and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in the striatum. The neurotoxicity was reduced by edaravone (3 mg/kg, i.p.), when it was administered four times 30 min before methamphetamine at 2 h intervals and additionally four times after methamphetamine at 12 h intervals. An immunohistochemical study showed that methamphetamine increased 3-nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity, an in vivo marker of peroxynitrite production, and activated microglia and astrocytes in the striatum. Edaravone blocked the increase in 3-nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity and the activation of astrocytes, but it did not affect the activation of microglia. Edaravone did not affect methamphetamine-induced hyperthermia and striatal dopamine release. These results suggest that edaravone protects against methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity in the striatum by blocking peroxynitrite production. This study also suggests that methamphetamine activates microglia in a radical-independent mechanism.
Heparin induced thrombosis (HIT) after low-molecular-weight (LMWH) administration for thrombosis prevention is a limb and life threatening condition.
Two previously healthy individuals, with nonviable forearm amputation and knee osteoarthritis, suffered from multiple arterial thromboses (>2 sites each) after postoperative administration of LMWH.
Both patients suffered from thrombocytopenia on the first postoperative days (4-7) and had signs of arterial occlusions on the 9th and 10th postoperative days. The patient with the initially successful forearm replantation was finally amputated below the elbow, whereas the lower extremity of the patient with total knee arthroplasty and contralateral femoral artery occlusion was salvaged with foot fingers amputation only.
Early recognition of the syndrome by monitoring daily platelet counts during heparin therapy is essential. In case of postheparin (LMWH or unfractionated) platelet decrease, heparin administration should be ceased after emergency testing for heparin induced antibodies. When HIT syndrome is confirmed to have occurred, heparin/LMWH must be replaced with thrombin-specific inhibitors.
The purpose of the study was to compare the analgesic and side effects of two epidurally administered mixtures of bupivacaine and fentanyl with the same drug ratios.
One hundred patients scheduled for colorectal surgery were randomized to receive a thoracic epidural infusion of either bupivacaine 0.12% with fentanyl 2 micrograms/ml or bupivacaine 0.24% with fentanyl 4 micrograms/ml during 48 h postoperatively. The pumps were adjusted to keep the visual analogue scale (VAS) pain score at 3 or less (on a scale of 0-10) with a minimum of adverse effects.
There were no statistically significantly differences between the two groups in VAS pain scores. The average VAS pain score resting varied between 0.5 and 1, and coughing between 1.9 and 3.4. One case of respiratory depression with breathing frequency 7 occurred in each group, but none of the patients required naloxone. One patient in the low concentration group developed partial motor weakness in both legs 36 h postoperatively. Equal drug amounts--bupivacaine 10.8-11 mg/h and fentanyl 18-18.4 micrograms/h--were given in both groups throughout the study.
Both groups had low pain scores with few and comparable adverse effects. It thus seems that the volume is not important when mixtures of bupivacaine and fentanyl in the studies concentrations are infused epidurally at a low thoracic level. Practical reasons favour the higher concentration mixture.
Transient radicular irritation (TRI) is common after spinal anesthesia induced with hyperbaric lidocaine 50 mg/ml. The purpose of this study was to determine the incidence of TRI after spinal anesthesia with hyperbaric lidocaine 50 mg/ml diluted with cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) 1:1 and hyperbaric mepivacaine 40 mg/ml and hyperbaric bupivacaine 5 mg/ml.
Ninety ASA class I-IV patients undergoing mostly brief urological procedures under spinal anesthesia were randomly allocated to receive either hyperbaric lidocaine 50 mg/ml diluted with CSF 1:1 (Group L), hyperbaric mepivacaine 40 mg/ml (Group M) or hyperbaric bupivacaine 5 mg/ml (Group B). Characteristics of the patients and details of the surgical procedures and spinal anesthesias were similar in all groups except for the intensity of motor block. The patients were evaluated on the first postoperative day by an anesthesiologist who did not know which spinal anesthetic agent had been used.
Six patients (20%) in group L, 11 patients (37%) in Group M and none (0%) in Group B experienced pain in the legs and/or back (TRI) after spinal anesthesia.
TRI is frequent after spinal anesthesia induced with hyperbaric lidocaine 50 mg/ml diluted with CSF 1:1. The incidence of TRI after hyperbaric mepivacaine 40 mg/ml is of the same magnitude. TRI could not be observed after bupivacaine spinal anesthesia.
Twenty-four assessable patients with hormone-resistant prostate cancer (HRPC) were to receive daily doses of oral estramustine phosphate (EMP), 10 mg kg(-1), and intravenous epirubicin (EPR) infusions, 100 mg m(-2), every third week up to a cumulative dose of 500 mg m(-2). Biochemical response [> or = 50% reduction in pretreatment serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) after three cycles of > or = 3 weeks' duration] was demonstrated in 13 of 24 patients included (54%). No objective response (WHO criteria) was observed, although seven of nine evaluable patients achieved a > or = 50% serum PSA reduction. Subjective improvement (pain score, performance status) occurred in 7 of 24 patients, whereas nine patients progressed subjectively. There was no correlation between subjective and biochemical response. Biochemical progression (> or = 50% increase of nadir PSA) occurred after a median of 12 weeks. All but two patients were alive after a median follow-up time of 8.7 months for surviving patients (range 3.3-13.2). Eight patients experienced grade 3/4 leucopenia, with no indication of cumulative myelosuppression. Cardiovascular toxicity was experienced by four patients. Two patients developed angioedema twice, in one patient requiring hospitalization at the intensive ward. Based on this limited series, the combination of EPR and EMP in patients with HRPC is tolerable and appears to be effective in terms of significant PSA reduction. The results warrant further investigations of the two drugs and, in particular, of the clinical significance of > or = 50% PSA decrease in patients with HRPC.
Rifampicin, an antituberculosis agent, is known to be a potent inducer of microsomal drug-metabolizing enzymes in the liver. Elimination or clearance of many drugs has been reported to be enhanced, and their effectiveness reduced; however, no report in the literature has dealt with the interaction between rifampicin and dihydropiridine calcium entry-blocking drugs such as nifedipine. We present here evidence for the possible interaction between rifampicin and nifedipine in a patient with angina pectoris, which was exacerbated during coadministration or rechallenge with rifampicin. The peak plasma level and area under the curve were reduced and the apparent oral clearance of nifedipine was increased by rifampicin, suggesting that rifampicin enhanced the elimination of nifedipine via induction of a hepatic microsomal drug-metabolizing enzyme, as has been reported on other drugs widely metabolized in the liver.
Two hundred and fifty-six patients with a wide variety of advanced neoplasms who were treated with adriamycin at Roswell Park Memorial Institute were studied for electrocardiographic changes. All the patients had pre- and posttreatment electrocardiograms (ECG's) and changes were found in 85 (33.2%). In the group of 1-8 patients with normal pretreatment ECG's, changes occurred in 51 (30.3%). In the group of 88 patients who had abnormal pretreatment ECG's, 34 (38.6%) developed further changes following treatment. Twenty-five patients received cytoxan concomitantly and ECG changes developed in 12 (48%); however, this and the above difference were not statistically significant. Frequency of ECG changes was higher and the extent of histologic abnormality in the myocardium was greater in those patients who received high doses of adriamycin. Arrythmias were rather benign and only a small number of patients required treatment. ECG changes following adriamycin treatment occurred more frequently than previously reported.
