The study was designed to investigate the hepatoprotective activity of methanol extract of Cissus quadrangularis (CQ) against isoniazid-induced hepatotoxicity in rats.
The successive petroleum ether (60-80°C) and methanol extracts of C. quadrangularis were used. Hepatic damage was induced in Wistar rats by administering isoniazid (54 mg/kg, p.o.) once daily for 30 days. Simultaneously, CQ (500 mg/kg p.o) was administered 1 h prior to the administration of isoniazid (54 mg/kg, p.o.) once daily for 30 days. Silymarin (50 mg/kg p.o) was used as a reference drug.
Elevated levels of aspartate transaminase, alanine transaminase, alkaline posphatase, and bilirubin following isoniazid administration were significantly lowered due to pretreatment with CQ. Isoniazid administration significantly increased lipid peroxidation (LPO) and decreased antioxidant activities such as reduced glutathione, superoxide dismutase, and catalase. Pretreatment of rats with CQ significantly decreased LPO and increased the antioxidant activities.
The results of this study indicated that the hepatoprotective effect of CQ might be attributed to its antioxidant property.
The SCNN1G gene, located on human chromosome 16p12, encodes the gamma subunit of the amiloride-sensitive epithelial sodium channel, and mutations in SCNN1G can result in Liddle's syndrome or pseudohypoaldosteronism type I. We identified sequence variations in the promoter region of SCNN1G and examined the association between this polymorphism and blood pressure in a large cohort (n=4075) representing the general population in Japan. We found T(-1290)C, T(-501)G, G(-173)A, and G(-104)T polymorphisms in the promoter region of SCNN1G and confirmed the existence of T387C and T474C polymorphisms in exon 3 and the C1947G polymorphism in exon 13. Because the genotypes of the T(-1290)C, T(-501)G, G(-104)T, and T474C polymorphisms were in tight linkage disequilibrium, we selected the T474C and G(-173)A polymorphisms for an association study. The G(-173)A polymorphism of SCNN1G had a significant effect on systolic pressure (P=0.0050) and pulse pressure (P=0.0050). The AA genotype was associated with an 11 mm Hg drop in systolic pressure and an 8 mm Hg drop in pulse pressure and with a higher prevalence of hypotension (P=0.0195). A transient transfection assay using MDCK cells and human renal epithelial cells indicated that the promoter activity of the G(-173) allele was higher than that of the A(-173) allele. Although the effects of the A(-173) allele were recessive and although the AA genotype was found in just 0.7% of our study population, we observed that this variation of human SCNN1G had significant effects on blood pressure.
The NOD-like receptor (NLR) family pyrin domain-containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome is a cytoplasmic protein complex that mediates inflammatory responses to a broad array of danger signals. The inflammasome drives caspase-1 activation and promotes secretion of the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1β and IL-18, and might also participate in other cellular processes. Here, we tried to identify new pathways regulated by the NLRP3 inflammasome in murine dendritic cells (DCs) in response to monosodium urate (MSU) crystals. Using a transcriptomic approach, we found that DCs from Nlrp3(-/-) mice responded to MSU with differential expression of genes involved in the DNA damage response and apoptosis. Upon exposure to MSU or other ROS-mobilizing stimuli (rotenone and γ-radiation), DNA fragmentation was markedly ameliorated in Nlrp3(-/-) and casp-1(-/-) DCs compared with WT DCs. Moreover, Nlrp3(-/-) DCs experienced significantly less oxidative DNA damage mediated by ROS. A significant decrease of the expression of several genes involved in double-strand and base-excision DNA repair was observed in WT DCs. Basal DNA repair capacity in WT DCs resulted in activation and stabilization of p53 in vitro and in vivo, which resulted in increased cell death compared with that in Nlrp3(-/-) DCs. These data provide the first evidence for the involvement of the NLRP3 inflammasome in DNA damage responses induced by cellular stress.
To identify the effect of prenatal labetalol exposure on children's long-term neurodevelopment.
A cohort study with matched controls using a prospectively collected database.
Participants were women counseled for hypertension in pregnancy at the Motherisk Program at The Hospital for Sick Children, and The Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, Toronto, Canada and their children. Mother-child pairs were divided into groups based on in-utero exposure to labetalol (n = 32), non-teratogenic substances (n = 42), and methyldopa (n = 25). The main outcome measures were children's Full-Scale IQ, Performance IQ and Verbal IQ assessed with the Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence.
There were no statistically significant differences in scores on Full-Scale IQ, Performance IQ, or Verbal IQ between children exposed in utero to labetalol and to non-teratogenic substances (Full-Scale IQ: 109.60 +/- 8.20 vs. 111.90 +/- 11.39, p = 0.647; Performance IQ: 104.80 +/- 8.69 vs. 110.19 +/- 12.91, p = 0.186; Verbal IQ: 112.27 +/- 11.05 vs. 11.21 +/- 11.98, p = 0.922, respectively). Children in the methyldopa group achieved lower scores on measures of Full-Scale IQ and Performance IQ when compared to children exposed to non-teratogenic substances (Full-Scale IQ: 105.24 +/- 12.46 vs. 111.90 +/- 11.39, p = 0.043; Performance IQ: 98.80 +/- 16.16 vs. 110.19 +/- 12.91, p = 0.002, respectively). Linear regression analysis revealed that maternal Full Scale IQ was a significant predictor of children's Full-Scale IQ (p = 0.020, beta = 0.229). Maternal Performance IQ and duration of treatment with methyldopa were significant predictors of children's Performance IQ (p = 0.028, beta = 0.232; p = 0.16, beta = -0.255, respectively).
In-utero exposure to labetalol does not appear to adversely affect the neurocognitive development of young children. These reassuring results may aid disease management for pregnant women with hypertension.
Endocrine treatments of breast cancer patients antagonize estrogen and may lead to consequences of estrogen deprivation including menopausal symptoms. We analyzed the changes in frequency and severity of menopausal symptoms in patients receiving tamoxifen or aromatase inhibitors and identified factors influencing these symptoms. One hundred and eighty-one consecutive postmenopausal breast cancer patients scheduled to start endocrine treatment were included in this prospective study. A menopause symptom questionnaire covering vasomotor, atrophic, psychological, cognitive and somatic symptoms was filled in at baseline, and after 1 and 3 months of therapy. Both first-line tamoxifen and aromatase inhibitors induced an increase in the occurrence and severity of hot flashes (p<0.0001 and p=0.014, respectively). Musculoskeletal pain and dyspareunia significantly increased under first-line non-steroidal aromatase inhibitors (p=0.0039 and p=0.001, respectively), while patients under tamoxifen had significant decrease in sexual interest (p< or =0.0001). Younger age was associated with more hot flashes and vaginal dryness at baseline, and after 1 and 3 months of therapy (all p<0.02). We conclude that there are significant differences between the early effects of tamoxifen and aromatase inhibitors on menopausal symptoms of breast cancer patients. Our results underscore the need for safe and effective non-hormonal interventions to alleviate vasomotor and musculoskeletal symptoms which were the most prevalent and severe symptoms.
To identify genes important in hepatocellular carcinogenesis, especially processes involved in malignant transformation, we focused on differences in gene expression between adenomas and carcinomas by DNA microarray. Eighty-one genes for which expression was specific in carcinomas were analyzed using Ingenuity Pathway Analysis software and Gene Ontology, and found to be associated with TP53 and regulators of cell proliferation. In the genes associated with TP53, we selected high mobility group box (HMGB) for detailed analysis. Immunohistochemistry revealed expression of HMGBs in carcinomas to be significantly higher than in other lesions among both human and rat liver, and a positive correlation between HMGBs and TP53 was detected in rat carcinomas. Knock-down of HMGB 2 expression in a rat hepatocellular carcinoma cell line by RNAi resulted in inhibition of cell growth, although no effects on invasion were evident in vitro. These results suggest that acquisition of malignant potential in the liver requires specific signaling pathways related to high cell proliferation associated with TP53. In particular, HMGBs appear to have an important role for progression and cell proliferation associated with loss of TP53 function in rat and in human hepatocarcinogenesis.
To examine concurrent buprenorphine and benzodiazepine consumption and to compare opioid toxicity symptoms induced by methadone and buprenorphine, examining factors associated with the reporting of these symptoms.
Self-report cross-sectional survey.
Five needle syringe programmes and five opioid substitution treatment services in Melbourne, Australia.
A total of 250 people who had experience with methadone or buprenorphine. Eligibility criteria were current or previous methadone or buprenorphine use.
Structured questionnaire covering: demographic characteristics; current treatment and drug use; concurrent use of buprenorphine and benzodiazepines, including route of administration and source of medications; and opioid toxicity symptoms reported in association with methadone and buprenorphine consumption.
Of those reporting buprenorphine use, two-thirds reported concurrent benzodiazepine use, with a median dose reported of 30 mg diazepam equivalents. A greater number of opioid toxicity symptoms were reported in relation to methadone consumption compared with buprenorphine. Those reporting opioid toxicity with buprenorphine were more likely to report intravenous use compared with those reporting opioid toxicity with methadone.
The risk of opioid toxicity appeared greater with methadone compared with buprenorphine, despite high levels of benzodiazepine consumption and injection being reported in relation to buprenorphine use. The prevalence of buprenorphine injection and the normalization of methadone-induced sedation are two findings that merit further investigation. Establishing recommendations as to the safest and most effective way to manage benzodiazepine-using people in opioid substitution treatment is necessary for the optimization of treatment for opioid dependence in polydrug-using individuals.
The histological appearance of a prolactin-producing tumor and of a growth hormone-producing tumor after short term bromocriptine therapy was studied in detail using light microscopy with conventional and immunocytochemical methods and using transmission electron microscopy. The findings were correlated with clinical, radiological, and biochemical data. Histological changes consisting of clumping of nuclear chromatin and a marked reduction in cytoplasmic volume due to loss of ribosomes, rough endoplasmic reticulum, and Golgi complexes were observed only in the prolactin-producing tumor. Normalization of elevated serum prolactin levels and reduction in size of the tumor observed in serial computed tomograms correlated with striking histological changes found in the tumor. These changes were interpreted to represent a reversible inhibition of the protein-synthetic machinery of the neoplastic cell. Comparable clinical, biochemical, radiological, or structural changes were not observed in the growth hormone-secreting tumor.
To better understand the mechanism underlying hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) metastasis and to search for potential markers for HCC prognosis, differential proteome analysis on two HCC cell strains with high and low metastatic potentials, MHCC97-H and MHCC97-L, was conducted using two-dimensional (2-D) gel electrophoresis followed by matrix-assisted laser desorption/time of flight mass spectrometry and liquid chromatography ion trap mass spectrometry. Image analysis of silver-stained 2-D gels revealed that 56 protein spots showed significant differential expression in MHCC97-H and MHCC97-L cells (Student's t-test, P < 0.05) and 4 protein spots were only detected in MHCC97-H cells. Fourteen protein spots were further identified using in-gel tryptic digestion, peptide mass fingerprinting and tandem mass spectrometry. The expressions of pyruvate kinase M2, ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase L1, laminin receptor 67 kDa, S100 calcium-binding protein A4, thioredoxin and cytokeratin 19 were elevated in MHCC97-H cells. However, manganese superoxide dismutase, calreticulin precursor, cathepsin D, lactate dehydrogenase B, non-metastatic cell protein 1, cofilin 1 and calumenin precursor were down-regulated in MHCC97-H cells. Intriguingly, most of these identified proteins have been reported to be associated with tumor metastasis. The functional implications of alterations in the levels of these proteins are discussed.
Changes in preproenkephalin expression in the caudate and putamen have been linked to the development of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesias in primate models of Parkinson's disease, although not all investigators have been able to confirm this association. Because nigrostriatal damage per se is associated with increases in striatal preproenkephalin mRNA levels, it is difficult to know if changes in transcript levels are a result of lesioning or concurrent L-DOPA treatment and resulting dyskinesias. To circumvent these difficulties, we measured striatal preproenkephalin mRNA levels in monkeys with L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias both with and without lesions of the nigrostriatal system. The latter model is not confounded by morphological and biochemical changes resulting from nigrostriatal damage. Monkeys were gavaged with L-DOPA (15 mg/kg) twice daily for a 2-week period and killed 3 days after treatment. 1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) treatment alone resulted in an increase in preproenkephalin mRNA levels as previously shown. However, striatal transcript levels were similarly elevated in dyskinetic MPTP-lesioned animals treated with L-DOPA. In unlesioned animals, preproenkephalin mRNA levels were also similar in control and L-DOPA-treated dyskinetic monkeys. Because drug-induced changes in mRNA may not be sustained for a prolonged period after treatment, a second series of experiments were done in which animals were killed 3-4 h after the last dose of L-DOPA, but the results were similar to those obtained after 3 days. These data show that, while elevations in striatal preproenkephalin mRNA levels are associated with nigrostriatal damage, they are not linked to the development of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias. These results thus question the importance of preproenkephalin mRNA in the pathogenesis of this disabling complication of L-DOPA therapy in Parkinson's disease.
Toosendanin (TSN), a triterpenoid isolated from Melia toosendan Sieb. et Zucc., has been found to suppress proliferation and induce apoptosis in a variety of human cancer cells. However, the mechanism how TSN induces apoptosis remains poorly understood. In this study, we examined the effects of TSN on the growth, cell cycle arrest, induction of apoptosis and the involved signaling pathway in human promyelocytic leukemia HL-60 cells. Proliferation of HL-60 cells was inhibited in a dose-dependent manner with the IC(50 (48 h)) of 28 ng/mL. The growth inhibition was due primarily to the S phase arrest and cell apoptosis. Cell apoptosis induced by TSN was confirmed by Annexin V-FITC/propidium iodide staining. The increase of the pro-apoptotic protein Bax, cleaved PARP and caspase-3, and the decrease of anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 were observed. Western blot analysis indicated that TSN inhibits the CDC42/MEKK1/JNK pathway. Taken together, our study suggested, for the first time, that the pro-apoptotic effects of TSN on HL-60 cells were mediated through JNK signaling pathway.
Many human lung cancer cell lines express apolipoprotein E (ApoE), especially cells derived from malignant pleural effusions (MPE) in patients with lung adenocarcinoma. This study aimed to investigate the influence of ApoE expression on lung cancer. In lung cancer tissues, ApoE expression was more frequently found in malignant pleural effusions (MPE)-associated lung adenocarcinoma than in lung adenocarcinoma or squamous cell carcinoma without MPE (P<0.05), indicating that ApoE is associated with the pathogenesis of MPE in patients with lung adenocarcinoma. Next, we examined the roles of ApoE in an MPE-derived lung adenocarcinoma cell line that endogenously over-expresses ApoE, PC14PE6/AS2 (AS2). In that experiment we inhibited ApoE expression by transfection of a plasmid carrying ApoE siRNAs into AS2 cells to generate AS-S2 and AS-S3 cells. Compared to vector-control cells and parental AS2 cells, AS2-S2 and AS2-S3 cells grew slower (P<0.05), were more sensitive to cisplatin, and had significantly impaired cellular migration (P<0.05). Furthermore, over-expression of ApoE was independently associated with poor survival in lung adenocarcinoma patients who had MPE at the time of diagnosis (P<0.001). Conclusively, ApoE over-expression promotes cancer proliferation and migration and contributes to an aggressive clinical course in patients with lung adenocarcinoma and MPE.
Atrial fibrillation (AF) and heart failure (HF) often coexist. The aim was to investigate whether restoring sinus rhythm (SR) could improve cardiac function, symptoms, exercise capacity and quality of life (QoL) in patients with chronic heart failure.
Patients with HF and persistent AF receiving guideline-recommended treatments, including anticoagulants, were eligible for the study. Patients were randomised to either rhythm (treated with amiodarone for at least 3 months prior to attempting biphasic external cardioversion and continued amiodarone long-term if SR was restored) or rate control. Anticoagulants were continued throughout the study regardless of rhythm, unless contraindications developed. Both groups were treated with beta blockers and/or digoxin to reduce the heart rate to <80 bpm at rest and <110 bpm after walking. Symptoms, walk distance (6-minute corridor walk test, 6MWT), QoL and cardiac function were assessed at baseline and 1 year.
61 patients with HF and persistent AF (median duration 14 months (IQR 5 to 32)) were randomly assigned to a rate or rhythm control strategy. Of patients assigned to rhythm control (n = 30), 66% were in SR at 1 year, and 90% of those assigned to rate control (n = 31) achieved the heart rate target. At 1 year, NYHA class (p = 0.424) and 6MWT distance (p = 0.342) were similar between groups but patients assigned to rhythm control had improved LV function (p = 0.014), NT-proBNP concentration (p = 0.046) and QoL (p = 0.019) compared with those assigned to rate control. Greatest improvement was seen in patients in whom SR was maintained.
Restoring SR in patients with AF and heart failure may improve QoL and LV function when compared with a strategy of rate control.
Vitamin C (ascorbate) has important antioxidant functions that can help protect against oxidative stress in the brain and damage associated with neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease. When administered parenterally ascorbate can bypass saturable uptake mechanisms in the gut and thus higher tissue concentrations can be achieved than by oral administration. In the present study we show that ascorbate (125 mg/kg) administered intraperitoneally (i.p.) 1-h before testing, partially attenuated scopolamine-induced (1 mg/kg i.p.) cognitive deficits in Morris water maze performance in young mice. Cumulative search error, but not escape latency nor path length, was significantly improved during acquisition in ascorbate plus scopolamine-treated mice although performance did not equal that of control mice. During the probe trial, scopolamine led to increased search error and chance level of time spent in the platform quadrant, whereas mice pre-treated with ascorbate prior to scopolamine did not differ from control mice on these measures. Ascorbate had no effect on unimpaired, control mice and neither did it reduce the peripheral, activity-increasing effects of scopolamine. Ascorbate alone increased acetylcholinesterase activity in the medial forebrain area but had no effect in cortex or striatum. This change, and its action against the amnestic effects of the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine, suggest that ascorbate may be acting in part via altered cholinergic signaling. However, further investigation is necessary to isolate the cognition-enhancing effects of ascorbate.
We studied the effects of the 5-HT(1A/7) agonist 8-OH-DPAT on haloperidol-induced catalepsy and forebrain Fos expression in mice to clarify its mechanism in modulating extrapyramidal motor disorders. 8-OH-DPAT (0.1-1mg/kg, i.p.) markedly attenuated haloperidol-induced catalepsy in a dose-dependent manner with a potency greater than that of the antiparkinsonian agent trihexyphenidyl. The anticataleptic action of 8-OH-DPAT was completely antagonized by WAY-100135 (a selective 5-HT(1A) antagonist), but not by SB-269970 (a selective 5-HT(7) antagonist). Depletion of cerebral 5-HT by p-chlorophenylalanine (300mg/kg, i.p. for 3 days) did not attenuate, but rather potentiated the action of 8-OH-DPAT. Furthermore, the anticataleptic dose of 8-OH-DPAT showed a regionally specific reduction of haloperidol-induced Fos expression in the dorsolateral striatum (dlST) and the core region of the nucleus accumbens (AcC), without affecting that in the medial prefrontal cortex, the shell region of the nucleus accumbens or the lateral septal nucleus. These results suggest that 8-OH-DPAT alleviates antipsychotic-associated extrapyramidal motor disorders by stimulating the postsynaptic 5-HT(1A) receptors, which specifically counteracts the D(2) receptor blocking actions of antipsychotics in the dlST and AcC.
Carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) is a condition in which the median nerve is compressed, leading to pain and muscle weakness in the fingers and hand. Aromatase inhibitors lead to profound estrogen suppression and may be expected to increase the risk of CTS in postmenopausal women receiving adjuvant therapy for early breast cancer.
The current analyses were based on the 100-month median follow-up data in postmenopausal women in the two monotherapy arms (anastrozole, n = 3,092; tamoxifen, n = 3,094). Here, we investigate the natural history of patients who presented with CTS during adjuvant treatment for breast cancer and the relative importance of a range of known risk factors for CTS.
After 100 months of follow-up, 80 cases (2.6%) of CTS were reported in the anastrozole arm, compared with 23 cases (0.7%) in the tamoxifen arm (P < .0001). The majority of CTS cases were reported as mild to moderate intensity and occurred early. None of the women stopped treatment medication as a result of CTS. CTS was significantly increased for women who used prior hormone replacement therapy (P = .007) or received prior chemotherapy (P = .01). Those who were 60 years of age or older at entry were at lower risk of CTS compared with their counterparts (P = .002).
Although the use of anastrozole is associated with a greater incidence of CTS, it is rare, and most cases were of mild to moderate intensity and short duration. CTS has little impact on the overall risk-to-benefit ratio for the use of anastrozole in postmenopausal women with early breast cancer.
Integrins link the extracellular matrix to the cellular cytoskeleton and serve important roles in cell growth, differentiation, migration, and survival. Ablation of beta1 integrin in all murine tissues results in peri-implantation embryonic lethality. To investigate the role of beta1 integrin in the myocardium, we used Cre-LoxP technology to inactivate the beta1 integrin gene exclusively in ventricular cardiac myocytes. Animals with homozygous ventricular myocyte beta1 integrin gene excision were born in appropriate numbers and grew into adulthood. These animals had 18% of control levels of beta1D integrin protein in the heart and displayed myocardial fibrosis. High-fidelity micromanometer-tipped catheterization of the intact 5-week-old beta1 integrin knockout mice showed depressed left ventricular basal and dobutamine-stimulated contractility and relaxation (LV dP/dt(max) and LV dP/dt(min)) as compared with control groups (n=8 to 10 of each, P<0.01). Hemodynamic loading imposed by 7 days of transverse aortic constriction showed that the beta1 integrin knockout mice were intolerant of this stress as they had 53% survival versus 88% in controls (n=15 each). By 6 months of age, mice with depressed ventricular expression of beta1 integrin developed a dilated cardiomyopathy that was not evident in any control animals and had patchy decrease in glucose metabolism as determined by positron emission tomography. Myocyte membrane integrity as determined via Evan's blue dye staining was disrupted in the beta1 integrin knockout mice. This model provides strong evidence for the importance of beta1 integrin in cardiac form and function and indicates that integrins can be linked to development of cardiomyopathies.
In Italy, revascularization interventions increased from 44,600 in 1996 to more than 100,000 in 2001. In particular, the occurrence of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) increased from 239 cases per million population in 1994 to about 1300 cases per million population in 2001. This trend has caused a concomitant increase in revascularization costs, which have doubled in few years, rising from Euro 421 millions in 1996 to Euro 850 millions in 2001. In 2001, PTCA amounted to 55% of total cost of revascularizations. The aim of this study was to assess the pharmacoeconomic consequences of amlodipine besylate therapy administered in patients at high risk of restenosis after PTCA. We conducted a cost-effectiveness analysis comparing therapy with amlodipine besylate added to standard care versus standard care alone. Information on clinical outcomes was drawn from the Coronary Angioplasty Amlodipine Restenosis Study (CAPARES). Medical costs were estimated with reference to drug therapy and hospitalizations for coronary events and revascularization procedures. The study was conducted from the perspective of the Italian third party payer (National Health Service). The analysis was applied to a time horizon of 4 months. Amlodipine besylate resulted less expensive and more effective than standard care. It reduced mortality, morbidity for coronary reasons and the need of revascularization procedures. The cost per 1000 patients was estimated at Euro 1,166,000 in the placebo and Euro 950,000 in the amlodipine besylate group, resulting into a cost saving of Euro 216,000, that is 18.5% of total cost of standard care. Results are sensitive to the cost of amlodipine besylate and the cost of hospitalizations, but therapy with amlodipine besylate resulted dominant even in the most unfavorable hypothesis.
Chronic exposure to low-concentration arsenic promotes cell proliferation and carcinogenesis both in vitro and in vivo. Centrosome amplification, the major cause of chromosome instability, occurs frequently in cancers. Aurora-A is a mitotic kinase and causes centrosome amplification and chromosome instability when overexpressed. Our previous study revealed that low-concentration arsenic induces Aurora-A overexpression in immortalized bladder cells. In this study, we hypothesized that low-concentration arsenic induces aberrant mitosis in keratinocytes due to Aurora-A overexpression. The specimen of Bowen's disease (BD) and squamous cell carcinoma obtained from arseniasis-endemic areas in Taiwan showed Aurora-A overexpression. The mRNA/protein levels and kinase activity of Aurora-A were increased in immortalized keratinocyte HaCaT cells after arsenic treatment at low concentration (< 1µM). Aberrant spindles, multiple centrosomes, and multinucleated cells were detected under fluorescent microscopy in HaCaT cells after arsenic treatment. These findings were associated with increased expression of Aurora-A. We further revealed that Aurora-A was regulated by arsenic-induced transcriptional factor E2F1 as demonstrated by chromosome immunoprecipitation, promoter activity, and small interfering RNA assays. Finally, in arsenic-treated HaCaT cells and in BD, a significant increase of dysfunctional p53 was found, and this event correlated with the increase in expression of Aurora-A. Altogether, our data suggest that low concentration of arsenic induces activation of E2F1-Aurora-A axis and results in aberrant mitosis of keratinocytes. Overexpression of Aurora-A and dysfunctional p53 may act synergistically to trigger skin tumor formation. Our findings suggest that Aurora-A may be a potential target for the prevention and treatment of arsenic-related cancers.
DNA methylation is an epigenetic mechanism regulating transcription, which when disrupted, can alter gene expression and contribute to carcinogenesis. Diethanolamine (DEA), a non-genotoxic alkanolamine, produces liver tumors in mice. Studies suggest DEA inhibits choline uptake and causes biochemical changes consistent with choline deficiency (CD). Rodents fed methyl-deficient diets exhibit altered methylation of hepatic DNA and an increase in liver tumors, e.g., CD causes liver tumors in B6C3F1 mice. We hypothesize that DEA-induced CD leads to altered methylation patterns which facilitates tumorigenesis. B6C3F1 hepatocytes in primary culture were grown in the presence of either 4.5 mM DEA, 3 mM Phenobarbital (PB), or CD media for 48 h. These concentrations induced comparable increases in DNA synthesis. PB, a nongenotoxic rodent liver carcinogen known to alter methylation in mouse liver, was included as a positive control. Global, average, DNA methylation status was not affected. The methylation status of GC-rich regions of DNA, which are often associated with promoter regions, were assessed via methylation-sensitive restriction digestion and arbitrarily primed PCR with capillary electrophoretic separation and detection of PCR products. DEA, PB, and CD treatments resulted in 54, 63, and 54 regions of altered methylation (RAMs), respectively, and the majority were hypomethylations. A high proportion of RAMs (72%) were identical when DEA was compared to CD. Similarly, 70% were identical between PB and CD. Altered patterns of methylation in GC-rich regions induced by DEA and PB resemble that of CD and indicate that altered DNA methylation is an epigenetic mechanism involved in the facilitation of mouse liver tumorigenesis.
The neurotoxic effect on the central and peripheral nervous system of dichlorvos (DDVP) was investigated by a computer system in acute and subchronic experiments in CFY male rats. The administered peroral doses were given by gavage; the acute group was given a single 88 mg/kg dose and the 2 subchronic groups were given 1.6 mg/kg or 0.8 mg/kg daily for a period of 6 weeks. Significant changes of the function of CNS - increase of EEG mean frequency, decrease of EEG mean amplitude, that of activity of EEG bands (power density) - and peripheral nervous system - decrease of conduction velocity, increase of relative and absolute refractory periods - were found after treatment with both the single large and repeated small doses of dichlorvos. There were no correlations between the functional disturbances of the central and peripheral nervous systems and the inhibition of the cholinesterase activity in various organs and the blood.
Total serum protein, serum albumin, total urine protein excretion, and the serum activity of several enzymes--aldolase (ALS), cholinesterase (CHS), leucine aminopeptidase (LAP), isocitrate dehydrogenase (ICD), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), alpha-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase (HBD), creatine kinase (CK), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), and gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT)--were estimated in rats with nephrotic syndrome (NS) at 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 16, 20, and 30 days after a single injection of puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN). It was found that: (a) total serum protein and serum albumin diminished on day 4 and returned to control values on days 20 and 30, respectively; (b) total urine protein excretion rose on day 4, reached a peak value on day 8, and then fell substantially but still remained higher than control values on day 30; (c) ALS and CHS activities increased; (d) LAP, ICD, and AST activities showed a biphasic pattern, first increasing and then decreasing; (e) ALT, LDH, HBD, CK, and ALP activities decreased; and (f) GGT activity remained unchanged. The differences in the profiles of the enzyme activities suggest their independent regulation in experimental NS induced by PAN.
Candida albicans is the most important human fungal pathogen. Amphotericin (AmB) is a gold standard of antifungal treatment for fungi, but the severe side effect of this drug restricts its clinical application. In this study, the interaction of AmB and baicalein (BE) was investigated against thirty clinical isolates of C. albicans. Synergistic activities were determined using the checkerboard microdilution assay based on the fractional inhibitory concentration indices. Combination of BE and AmB accelerated C. albicans apoptosis accompanied with an increase of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Moreover, AmB increased the caspase activity and expression of the corresponding gene CaMCA1 in C. albicans. These effects were enhanced in the presence of BE. Deletion of CaMCA1 clearly attenuated AmB-induced apoptosis, indicating the involvement of CaMCA1-mediated caspase pathway in AmB-induced apoptosis and the synergistic action.
Acrolein is a toxic metabolite of cyclophosphamide that causes hemorrhagic cystitis in 2 to 40% of treated patients. Hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) is used to treat poorly healing wounds in conditions such as Fournier's gangrene and radiation-induced cystitis. The present study was designed to evaluate the effects of HBO on acute acrolein-induced hemorrhagic cystitis in a rat model. Rats were divided into 4 groups. Group I served as a control and received only HBO prior to sacrifice. Group II received acrolein only, while groups III and IV received acrolein as well as HBO therapy. Hyperbaric oxygen (100% oxygen, 2.8 atmospheres, 90 minutes) was delivered twice a day for 4 days, with group III receiving a fifth HBO treatment just before acrolein and group IV receiving the fifth HBO treatment just after acrolein. After therapy, the amount of urothelial injury was determined morphometrically. Group II untreated rat bladders had only 33% of the urothelium intact after acrolein injury, whereas groups III and IV rat bladders had 93% (p < 0.01) and 55% (p < 0.01) intact urothelium, respectively, after treatment with HBO. The timing of the HBO treatment appeared to be a critical factor, with less injury occurring if the fifth HBO treatment immediately preceded acrolein. These results suggest that HBO may be useful as prophylaxis and treatment of cyclophosphamide-induced hemorrhagic cystitis.
Recently, there are in literature some reports concerning the sonographic observation of transient gallbladder precipitates in children and adults during ceftriaxone treatment. The condition is defined as ceftriaxone-reversible "pseudolithiasis" and the gallbladder precipitates resolve spontaneously after cessation of therapy. We present a case of a 1 year old children treated with ceftriaxone who presented asymptomatic pseudolithiasis that resolved partially two weeks after cessation of treatment. The sonographic observation performed four months after cessation of therapy show a normally gallbladder, without precipitates or sludge.
Fenfluramine is a widely prescribed anorectic drug as adjuvant therapy for obesity. Pulmonary vascular hypertension after use of fenfluramine is rarely reported. We present a patient with pulmonary hypertension and right heart failure after treatment with fenfluramine. Pulmonary hypertension resolved after withdrawal of the drug.
The ability of Bothrops moojeni venom (BmV) to induce oedema in mice, the involvement of principal inflammatory mediators and mast cells (MCs) were investigated. The intraplantar injection of BmV (0.3-6 microg/paw) caused a dose- and time-dependent oedema with a peak between 30 and 60 min after venom injection (0.3-1 microg/paw), disappearing within 24h. Either MCs granule inhibition or depletion by cromoglycate or C48/80, respectively, markedly reduced BmV-induced oedema. MCs depletion by imatinib also reduced oedema. Intraperitoneal BmV injection (2.5-10 microg/site) induced MCs degranulation and release of PGD(2). Treatment with promethazine, cimetidine or thioperamide, histamine H1, H2 and H3/H4 receptor antagonists, respectively, markedly reduced the initial phase of oedema. Combined treatment with these antagonists further reduced, but not abrogated oedema. Indomethacin or eterocoxib (cyclooxygenase inhibitors) reduced oedema until 180 min, whereas zileuton (lipoxygenase inhibitor) affected this event until 60 min. Dexamethazone caused a long lasting reduction of oedema. However, L-NAME and aminoguanidine (NO synthase inhibitors) significantly increased BmV-induced oedema. In conclusion, BmV induces oedema, mediated by MCs degranulation, histamine by H1, H2, H3/H4 receptors, prostaglandins and leukotrienes, and down-regulated by NO. Partial neutralization of oedema was observed even when polyspecific bothropic antivenom was injected immediately after venom.
A 49 year old man with rheumatoid arthritis developed a proliferative glomerulonephritis with progressive renal impairment during treatment with D-penicillamine. His renal function continued to deteriorate after the drug was stopped but improved after treatment with corticosteroids and azathioprine.
It is unclear how amiodarone therapy exerts its effects on left ventricular remodeling and cardiac sympathetic nerve function in chronic heart failure. We investigated long-term effects of amiodarone on rat dilated cardiomyopathy after healing of cardiac myosin-induced autoimmune myocarditis.
Rats were treated with oral amiodarone or vehicle for 6 weeks. We determined cardiac function, left ventricular remodeling, and cardiac sympathetic nerve function with iodine-125-labeled metaiodobenzylguanidine ([I125]MIBG). Amiodarone treatment improved left ventricular pressure, central venous pressure, and rate of isovolumetric contraction and decreased ventricular weight (P<0.005). Expression of cytokine mRNA was unchanged; expression of atrial natriuretic peptide, collagen III, and transforming growth factor-beta1 mRNA was decreased in amiodarone-treated rats (P<0.05). Phenotype of myosin heavy chain was moved toward that of normal rats by amiodarone. Initial myocardial uptake of MIBG decreased by 67% (P<0.001) and washout rate accelerated by 221% in rats with chronic heart failure compared with normal rats. Whereas amiodarone decreased the initial uptake by 71% in normal rats, amiodarone decelerated the early washout and the late washout and improved the late myocardial distribution of MIBG in rats with chronic heart failure (257% compared with vehicle-treated rats with chronic heart failure; P<0.01). In proportion to MIBG distributions, cardiac tissue catecholamines were increased by amiodarone treatment.
Long-term amiodarone treatment prevented left ventricular remodeling and improved cardiac function in rat dilated cardiomyopathy. Long-term amiodarone treatment also restored cardiac sympathetic tone to hold norepinephrine in the heart.
