The total alkaloidal fraction of Albizia inopinata leaves (FLA) was investigated for its central nervous system (CNS) effects. FLA (10 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly reduced (45%) the locomotor activity in mice. In addition, it inhibited the conditioned avoidance response behavior and induced ptosis in rats. On the other hand, FLA did not exert significant effect on catalepsy, but potentiated the haloperidol-induced catalepsy. No effect was observed on sleep induced by sodium pentobarbital or apomorphine-induced stereotypes.
Mercury-induced autoimmunity is characterized by a T cell-dependent B cell activation (mainly of IgG1 and IgE isotypes), production of anti-nucleolar autoantibodies (ANolA) and the formation of renal IgG deposits. The autoimmunity is to a large extent controlled by genetic factors. We studied 15 different inbred mouse strains of seven H-2 (mouse MHC) genotypes to determine the importance of H-2 and non-H-2 background genes in mercury-induced autoimmunity. The tested strains exhibited a diverse autoimmune response to mercury. In each H-2 genotype, there was at least one strain which responded to mercury by the production of high levels of IgG1 and IgE Ig as well as by the development of high titers of renal IgG1 deposits. Only mouse strains with H-2(s) and H-2(q) genotypes, irrespective of their background genes, produced ANolA after mercury treatment. Only SJL (H-2(s)) and A.SW (H-2(s)) mice were highly susceptible to all characteristics of mercury-induced autoimmunity. NZB (H-2(d)) mice were also highly susceptible, but they did not develop ANolA. Only the DBA/2 (H-2(d)) strain was found to be resistant to all tested mercury-induced autoimmune manifestations, suggesting that non-responsiveness to mercury in DBA/2 mice was largely influenced by non H-2 genes. These findings imply that H-2 genes mainly determine the susceptibility to mercury-induced ANolA production, whereas non-H-2 genes control the susceptibility to and the severity of the B cell activation and renal IgG deposition.
Adefovir dipivoxil (ADV) has demonstrated clinical activity against both wild-type and lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV). We analyzed the evolution of viral load and the changes of polymerase and precore/core promoter sequences in lamivudine-resistant virus during ADV therapy. The authors studied 14 patients who had breakthrough hepatitis after lamivudine therapy. Serial sera were obtained prior to adefovir administration and at 3, 6 and 12 months after ADV therapy. Nucleotide sequences of polymerase and the precore/core promoter from the hepatitis B virus were analyzed. The median serum HBV DNA decrease with adefovir treatment was 4.35 log(10) copies/mL at 12 months. Tyrosine-methionine-aspartate-aspartate (YMDD) mutants were found in 12 patients among the 14 patients with lamivudine resistance. The YMDD mutant viruses reversed to the wild-type in 6 patients out of the 12 patients after 3-6 months of ADV after discontinuing lamivudine therapy. In the analysis of the nucleotide sequences of the precore/core promoter gene, core promoter mutants in 12 patients were replaced by wild-type virus in three patients (25%), while precore mutants in four patients were replaced by the wild-type in three patients (75%). The results demonstrate the patterns of polymerase and precore/core promoter mutations in lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B viruses and the reversion from the mutant to the wild-type in some patients. In addition, despite several mutations in the polymerase during ADV therapy, ADV effectively suppressed HBV replication without the emergence of resistant viral mutants.
An open clinical evaluation was carried out in 736 African out-patients suffering from rheumatic and inflammatory disorders to assess the efficacy and tolerability of tenoxicam in relieving the signs and symptoms of their condition. On entry, all previous treatment was discontinued and patients received a simple daily dose of 20 mg tenoxicam orally for 15 days in the case of those with rheumatoid arthritis or tendinitis, or for 30 days in those with osteoarthritis. Paracetamol was allowed as a rescue analgesic. Subjective verbal scale assessments were used to determine levels of pain at rest, on movement and at night, sleep disturbance and functional incapacity, on entry and during treatment. At the end of the study period, both physicians and patients gave an overall opinion of the clinical response to tenoxicam, and patients were asked how their current compared with their previous treatment. The results showed that approximately 90% of patients had an excellent or good response to tenoxicam with marked improvement in all the signs and symptoms evaluated. Moreover, tenoxicam proved to be well tolerated, only a small number of patients reporting adverse events, mainly gastro-intestinal.
The prognosis of pancreatic adenocarcinoma is poor and current treatment ineffective. A novel treatment strategy is described here using a mouse model system for pancreatic cancer. Cells that have been genetically modified to express the cytochrome P450 2B1 enzyme are encapsulated in cellulose sulphate and implanted into pre-established tumours derived from human pancreatic cells. Cytochrome P450 2B1 converts the chemotherapeutic agent ifosfamide to toxic metabolites. Administration of ifosfamide to tumour-bearing mice that were recipients of implanted encapsulated cells results in partial or even complete tumour ablation. These results suggest that in situ chemotherapy with genetically modified cells in an immunoprotected environment may prove useful for application in man.
Tetramethylenedisulfotetramine (TETS) is a potent convulsant that is considered a chemical threat agent. We characterized TETS as an activator of spontaneous Ca²⁺ oscillations and electrical burst discharges in mouse hippocampal neuronal cultures at 13-17 days in vitro using FLIPR Fluo-4 fluorescence measurements and extracellular microelectrode array recording. Acute exposure to TETS (≥ 2 µM) reversibly altered the pattern of spontaneous neuronal discharges, producing clustered burst firing and an overall increase in discharge frequency. TETS also dramatically affected Ca²⁺ dynamics causing an immediate but transient elevation of neuronal intracellular Ca²⁺ followed by decreased frequency of Ca²⁺ oscillations but greater peak amplitude. The effect on Ca²⁺ dynamics was similar to that elicited by picrotoxin and bicuculline, supporting the view that TETS acts by inhibiting type A gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA(A)) receptor function. The effect of TETS on Ca²⁺ dynamics requires activation of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptors, because the changes induced by TETS were prevented by MK-801 block of NMDA receptors, but not nifedipine block of L-type Ca²⁺ channels. Pretreatment with the GABA(A) receptor-positive modulators diazepam and allopregnanolone partially mitigated TETS-induced changes in Ca²⁺ dynamics. Moreover, low, minimally effective concentrations of diazepam (0.1 µM) and allopregnanolone (0.1 µM), when administered together, were highly effective in suppressing TETS-induced alterations in Ca²⁺ dynamics, suggesting that the combination of positive modulators of synaptic and extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors may have therapeutic potential. These rapid throughput in vitro assays may assist in the identification of single agents or combinations that have utility in the treatment of TETS intoxication.
1. Rats were used for studies on organophosphate (OP) toxicity both in acute and chronic cold exposure. Furthermore the effects of OPs on tissue acetyl- and butyrylcholinesterase activities were studied in the cold environment. 2. No change in the toxicity of dichlorovinyl phosphate (DDVP) was observed whereas that of diisopropylphosphofluoridate (DFP) increased 1.5-fold at +5 degrees C. 3. Chronic exposure to cold produced no change in DFP toxicity. 4. The survival time in acute cold exposure (1.1 x LD50 DFP) was longer than in chronic exposure or at +20 degrees C. 5. In control rats, chronic cold exposure increased blood BuChE and decreased BuChE in lungs. 6. A dose-dependent inhibition of cholinesterases was observed. 7. AcChE in the liver of chronically cold exposed rats was more sensitive to DFP inhibition compared to acute exposure. 8. Blood AcChE activity correlated only to AcChE in brain and lungs in rats.
Pre-operative 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)-based chemoradiotherapy in locally advanced rectal cancer (UICC-II/III) may significantly reduce local tumour mass. Response to pre-operative treatment, however, varies significantly. Thymidylate synthase (TS), thymidine phosphorylase (TP), and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) are thought to be important predictors for the efficiency of 5-FU-based treatment. The aim of this study was to determine the correlation between TS-, TP-, and DPD-gene expression and the response to 5-FU-based long-term pre-operative chemoradiotherapy assessed by histopathological tumour regression. Additionally, the predictive value of intra-tumoural TS-, TP-, and DPD-gene expression in pre-operative rectal tumour biopsies was assessed by correlation with the histopathological regression grade. Formalin-fixed, paraffin wax-embedded pre-operative biopsies (n = 14) and surgical resection specimens (n = 40) from patients with rectal carcinoma (clinical UICC stage II/III) receiving neo-adjuvant 5-FU-based chemoradiotherapy were studied for TS-, TP-, and DPD-gene expression by quantitative TaqMan real-time PCR after laser microdissection. Results were compared with standardized histopathological tumour regression analysis. There was a significant association between low TS-gene expression in pre-operative tumour biopsies and tumour response (p = 0.02). TS- and TP-gene expression was significantly lower in resection specimens of responders than of non-responders (p = 0.02) when microdissection was used. Statistical significance was even higher when TS and TP were combined (p = 0.0001). For the DPD gene, no significance was found at all. In conclusion, this study shows that TS gene expression in a pretreatment biopsy predicts the response of local rectal cancer to neo-adjuvant 5-FU-based chemoradiotherapy in a high percentage. Moreover, intra-tumoural TS- and TP-gene expression in surgical rectal specimens after neo-adjuvant chemoradiotherapy correlates significantly with histopathological tumour regression when microdissection is applied.
Disruption of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) signaling during early development results in abnormal angiogenesis and increased vascular lesions. Embryonic exposure to 0.625-10mM methyl tert butyl ether (MTBE), a highly water soluble gasoline additive, resulted in a dose dependent increase in pooled blood in the common cardinal vein (CCV), cranial hemorrhages and abnormal intersegmental vessels (ISVs). The EC50s for the lesions ranked in terms of likelihood to occur with MTBE exposure were: pooled blood in the CCV, 3.2 mM [95% CI: 2.2-4.7]>cranial hemorrhage, 11 mM [5.9-20.5]>abnormal ISV, 14.5 mM [6.5-32.4]. Organ systems other than the vascular system appear to develop normally, which suggests MTBE toxicity targets developing blood vessels. Equal molar concentrations (0.625-10mM) of the primary metabolites, tertiary butyl alcohol (TBA) and formaldehyde, did not result in vascular lesions, which suggested that the parent compound is responsible for the toxicity. Stage specific exposures were carried out to determine the developmental period most sensitive to MTBE vascular disruption. Embryos treated until 6-somites or treated after Prim-5 stages did not exhibit a significant increase in lesions, while embryos treated between 6-somites and Prim-5 had a significant increase in vascular lesions (p≤0.05). During the critical window for MTBE-induced vascular toxicity, expression of vegfa, vegfc, and flk1/kdr were significantly decreased 50, 70 and 40%, respectively. This is the first study to characterize disruption in vascular development following embryonic exposure to MTBE. The unique specificity of MTBE to disrupt angiogenesis may be mediated by the down regulation of critical genes in the VEGF pathway.
Propofol is a commonly used anaesthetic agent and is rarely associated with seizure-like phenomena. This case report presents a young woman with seizure-like phenomena lasting more than 4 weeks after a single dose of propofol. The underlying pathophysiology of this condition is poorly understood but a psychological component is possible in this case.
Adriamycin (ADR) is an anticancer drug known to cause severe cardiac toxicity by generating free radicals. We investigated the role of a redox-regulating molecule, thioredoxin-1 (TRX1), in ADR-induced cardiotoxicity.
The in vitro study showed that TRX1 was dose-dependently increased concomitant with the formation of hydroxyl radicals in ADR-treated neonatal rat cardiomyocytes. Lactate dehydrogenase-releasing assay showed that treatment with recombinant human TRX1 suppressed cardiomyocyte injury in ADR-treated cardiomyocytes. To examine the biological significance of TRX1 in vivo, we used transgenic mice expressing increased levels of human TRX1 (TRX1-TG mice). Electron microscopy revealed that mitochondria, myofibrils, and other cellular details were much better maintained in ADR-treated TRX1-TG mice than in ADR-treated nontransgenic (WT) mice. The increase in the protein carbonyl content, a marker of cellular protein oxidation, was suppressed in ADR-treated TRX1-TG mice compared with ADR-treated WT mice. The formation of hydroxyl radicals in ADR-treated heart homogenates of TRX1-TG mice was decreased compared with WT mice. For the survival study, all WT mice treated with ADR died within 6 weeks, but 5 of 6 TRX1-TG mice treated with ADR survived >8 weeks.
TRX1 is upregulated by intracellular oxidative stress generated by ADR. TRX1 has a protective role against ADR-induced cardiotoxicity by reducing oxidative stress.
A pediatric kidney transplant recipient receiving tacrolimus for immunosuppression experienced symptoms consistent with idiopathic intracranial hypertension. The diagnosis of idiopathic intracranial hypertension and possible secondary causes of intracranial hypertension are reviewed in association with the patient's clinical course. Treatment options for the reversal of intracranial hypertension are summarized. Because of the complexity of associated conditions in kidney transplant recipients, symptoms of persistent headaches, visual changes and nausea and vomiting should be promptly investigated by fundoscopic examination in the setting of immunosuppression therapy to prevent vision loss.
Mannitol is commonly used for acute insults to the central nervous system; acute renal insufficiency is one of its side effects. The cause of mannitol-induced acute renal insufficiency (MI-ARI) is unknown, although elevated osmolality has been implicated as a risk factor. The goal of this study was to determine risk factors and outcomes of MI-ARI and to determine whether osmolality is associated with MI-ARI.
The authors retrospectively reviewed the cases of 95 patients treated with mannitol to determine if MI-ARI (an increase in the creatinine level of > 0.5 mg/dl if the baseline value is < 2 mg/dl or an increase > 1 mg/dl if the baseline value is > 2 mg/dl) is linked to elevated osmolality. The 11 patients (11.6%) in whom MI-ARI developed did not exhibit significant differences in patient age, sex, or race; history of cerebrovascular disease or smoking; baseline renal function; or Glasgow Coma Scale score from those in whom MI-ARI did not occur. Cumulative fluid balance, exposure to nephrotoxic drugs, and the peak osmolality and osmotic gap before onset of renal insufficiency were also similar in the two groups. Factors predictive of the onset of MI-ARI included a higher Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE) II score on admission and a history of diabetes, coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure, and hypertension. The presence of congestive heart failure and a high APACHE II score were the only factors independently associated with a higher likelihood of MI-ARI according to a multivariate analysis. Renal function spontaneously returned to baseline in all patients. With maintenance of normovolemia and monitoring of the osmotic gap, MI-ARI appears to be associated with chronic insults to the kidneys such as a history of diabetes or hypertension, not mannitol dose, or osmolality.
Use of osmolality to limit mannitol use and thus prevent MI-ARI may be unwarranted. Prospective studies are needed.
Brucine (BRU), a natural plant alkaloid is reported to possess cytotoxic and antiproliferative activities. In this study we aimed to investigate its in vitro and in vivo antitumor and antiangiogenic effects.
Cell proliferation and viability was assessed using microculture tetrazolium tests (MTT). As predictive markers we determined intracellular levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), Interleukin-12 (IL-12), tumor necrosis factor (TNF-α), caspase-3, -8 and -9 by ELISA and enzymatic activity assays. In addition, anti-VEGF neutralization effect was evaluated to assess whether it could result in augmented anticancer efficacy than the single agent. Antitumor activity was evaluated against Ehrlich ascites and solid tumor models. 15×10(6) EAC cells were implanted intraperitoneally (i.p., ascites tumor) and subcutaneous (s.c., solid tumor) in Swiss albino mice. Mice with established tumors received brucine i.p. at 12.5, 25, and 50mg/kg for 14days in ascites tumor and 50mg/kg in solid tumor for 30days. Tumor volume, cell viability, angiogenic, anti-angiogenic, anti-inflammatory factors and antioxidant parameters were determined. Immunohistochemistry analysis for VEGF and CD-31 was also performed.
BRU produced time and dose-dependent inhibition of MCF-7 in vitro and EAC tumors in vivo. The anti-angiogenic effects were accompanied with decreased VEGF and TNF-α and increased IL-12 expression. BRU reduced peritoneal angiogenesis and microvessel density in vivo.
Our findings suggest that BRU possesses antitumor and anti-angiogenic activities in vitro and in vivo. The above results showed that BRU can be used as a potential anticancer agent as an antimetastatic and anti-angiogenic agent.
To report the first five cases of amphotericin B overdose with secondary cardiac complications in a pediatric population. Treatment is also presented.
Hospital.
Two infants and three children inpatients receiving amphotericin B.
Cardiac complications were observed in five pediatric patients who received between 4.6 and 40.8 mg/kg/d of amphotericin B. Cardiac arrest occurred in all patients, and four patients died. A detailed description of the cardiac event is provided for one patient who was on a cardiac monitor during the adverse reaction. Hydrocortisone prophylaxis and verapamil therapy were the primary therapies used in patient 1 (the only survivor). Evaluation of the literature provides substantial evidence for the use of hydrocortisone in prevention of cardiac arrhythmias.
Amphotericin B overdose can be fatal in children and infants. The presentation in humans appears similar to that in dogs where cardiac arrhythmias occurred at doses of 5-15 mg/kg. Hydrocortisone may decrease the incidence of mortality associated with cardiac arrhythmias in children receiving amphotericin B overdoses. Animal studies are necessary to evaluate this observation and potential disadvantages of hydrocortisone usage.
We describe the unintentional injection of a small amount of local anesthetic with steroids into the subdural space during an attempted lumbar epidural injection for low back pain. When small volumes of local anesthetic are injected into the subdural space, a patchy and unilateral block of greater magnitude than expected will result. When larger volumes of local anesthetic are injected, a massive motor and sensory block can occur due to the small confines of this space. Accidental subdural injection must be recognized early and treated appropriately to avoid serious complications, especially in an outpatient setting.
Porphyria cutanea tarda (PCT), the most common form of porphyria in humans, is due to reduced activity of uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase (URO-D) in the liver. Previous studies have demonstrated that protein levels of URO-D do not change when catalytic activity is reduced, suggesting that an inhibitor of URO-D is generated in hepatocytes. Here, we describe the identification and characterization of an inhibitor of URO-D in liver cytosolic extracts from two murine models of PCT: wild-type mice treated with iron, delta-aminolevulinic acid, and polychlorinated biphenyls; and mice with one null allele of Uro-d and two null alleles of the hemochromatosis gene (Uro-d(+/-), Hfe(-/-)) that develop PCT with no treatments. In both models, we identified an inhibitor of recombinant human URO-D (rhURO-D). The inhibitor was characterized by solid-phase extraction, chromatography, UV-visible spectroscopy, and mass spectroscopy and proved to be uroporphomethene, a compound in which one bridge carbon in the uroporphyrinogen macrocycle is oxidized. We synthesized uroporphomethene by photooxidation of enzymatically generated uroporphyrinogen I or III. Both uroporphomethenes inhibited rhURO-D, but the III isomer porphomethene was a more potent inhibitor. Finally, we detected an inhibitor of rhURO-D in cytosolic extracts of liver biopsy samples of patients with PCT. These studies define the mechanism underlying clinical expression of the PCT phenotype, namely oxidation of uroporphyrinogen to uroporphomethene, a competitive inhibitor of URO-D. The oxidation reaction is iron-dependent.
Our laboratory has recently observed the development of an anxiogenic response after a short abstinence period ( approximately 10 days) in young adult rats treated repeatedly with cocaine during adolescence. The present study was conducted to determine if this effect persists into adulthood following extended durations of abstinence and whether it could be modulated with the 5-HT(1A) agonist (+/-)-8-hydroxy-2-(dipropylamino)tetralin hydrobromide (8-OH-DPAT). Accordingly, 30-day-old rats were injected with either 10mg/kg cocaine or saline for 8 consecutive days. Approximately 8 weeks after the final injection, anxiety levels in subjects were assessed with an elevated zero maze with a second assessment performed 4 weeks thereafter. Shortly prior to each test session, half the subjects in each of the two adolescent drug conditions received injections of 300 microg/kg 8-OH-DPAT while the other half received injections of the vehicle. Based on total time spent in the open areas of the maze, the results obtained at the first abstinent duration indicated that adolescent cocaine treatment did not induce an anxiogenic response. Assessment of maze behavior at the second abstinent duration was aided with a digital tracking and computerized scoring system (LimeLight, Actimetrics). Similar to the results obtained at the first abstinent duration, the amount of time spent in the open areas of the maze was unrelated to prior cocaine treatment. However, cocaine-treated rats did show evidence of an anxiogenic response at this abstinent duration based on more frequent entries into and out of the open and enclosed areas of the maze, more frequent and longer durations of exploratory bouts beyond the perimeter of the maze, excessive number of cautious protrusions into the open areas, and faster running velocities through the open areas. These results were not artifacts of generalized motor activation in that comparable total distance traveled scores were noted for all subjects. Treatment with 8-OH-DPAT shortly prior to elevated zero maze testing normalized these behaviors induced by adolescent cocaine. It is concluded that the anxiogenic response produced by cocaine exposure during adolescence persists 12 weeks beyond cessation of drug treatment and that this effect is reversible with 8-OH-DPAT. In addition, the results underscore the importance of taking multiple measures when assessing anxiety in experimental animals. Implications for the neurobiology of drug abuse and the role of serotonin are discussed.
To report a case of intravenous streptomycin sulfate use in a patient infected with high-level, gentamicin-resistant Streptococcus faecalis.
A 37-year-old woman with a history of schizoaffective disorder, diabetes insipidus possibly induced by lithium, chronic renal insufficiency, and anemia presented with a two-day history of decreased responsiveness, decreased verbalization, and tremulousness. Her hospital course was complicated by polymicrobial sepsis (S. faecalis, coagulase-negative staphylococci, Citrobacter diversus, Enterobacter aerogenes, and unidentified gram-negative bacilli #2) requiring vancomycin and gentamicin therapy. Gentamicin was discontinued after two doses because she developed acute-on-chronic renal insufficiency. Subsequent susceptibility data showed the enterococcus to be highly resistant to gentamicin. The patient deteriorated clinically when treated only with vancomycin. She remained septic with a blood pressure of 80/40 mm Hg; streptomycin was added to her regimen. We were concerned that streptomycin concentrations obtained following intramuscular administration would not be adequate because of possible hypoperfusion. Based on limited published literature, streptomycin was administered intravenously via a central intravenous catheter.
A review of high-level aminoglycoside-resistant S. faecalis and treatment with intravenous streptomycin therapy are discussed. The availability and monitoring of streptomycin therapy are also described.
Streptomycin is an antimicrobial agent that must be used with vancomycin in serious infections to eradicate high-level, gentamicin-resistant S. faecalis. Its unique administration and monitoring concerns require individual patient assessment.
Tacrolimus-related posterior reversible leukoencephalopathy (PRLE) is a rare complication which should be recognized by clinicians who regularly use immunosuppressive therapy. We report the case of an HIV-positive, hepatitis C-positive liver transplant patient who presented with this complication. Immunosuppression with tacrolimus was started after postsurgery. On the 20th day, the patient suffered two tonic-clonic convulsive attacks against a background of hypertension. Cerebral magnetic resonance imaging and lumbar puncture led to diagnosis of tacrolimus-related PRLE after eliminating other possible diagnoses. Therapeutic management consisted of withdrawing tacrolimus and initiating treatment with antiepileptogenic and antihypertensive drugs, supplemented with magnesium sulphate. The symptoms regressed in the days following withdrawal of tacrolimus and the majority of lesions on magnetic resonance imaging disappeared within two weeks. The aim of which should be to identify patients at risk of developing this complication. This would enable targeted prevention involving magnesium supplementation, strict control of blood pressure and serial monitoring of tacrolimus blood concentrations.
Case 1, a 60-year-old man and case 2, a 70-year-old man had several year history of chronic renal failure with hypertension and hyperlipidemia due to diabetes mellitus. Treatment of hyperlipidemia was started by oral bezafibrate intake 1,200 mg per day in case 1 and 400 mg per day in case 2 respectively. Three to fourteen days later, both patients noticed symmetrical muscle pain and weakness. Then the symptoms worsened and they were hospitalized. At the time of admission, both patients revealed weakness in the proximal muscles of their upper and lower limbs and the serum creatine kinase and myoglobin levels were remarkably elevated. Myoglobinuria was also noted. Routine light microscopic examination of biopsied quadriceps femoris muscles of two patients showed scattered necrotic muscle fibers, some of which were under phagocytosis. The symptoms of the patients were immediately resolved after the drug was discontinued. Serum concentration of bezafibrate was remarkably elevated during treatment. Thus the diagnosis was established as having bezafibrate induced myopathy and, as far as we know, this is the first report of bezafibrate induced myopathy in Japan. On the basis of the above description, bezafibrate may induce muscle damage if dose is excess over the renal capacity. Extreme caution is warranted when the patient is placed on bezafibrate and has renal dysfunction. Strict dose adjustment is necessary in taking account of renal function to avoid muscle damage including rhabdomyolysis.
The superiority of olanzapine to haloperidol with respect to a decreased incidence of treatment-emergent extrapyramidal syndromes (EPS) in patients with schizophrenia was demonstrated in studies conducted in both Japan and Western countries. EPS measurements used in Western countries included the Simpson-Angus, Barnes akathisia and the Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale, while the Drug-Induced Extrapyramidal Symptom Scale (DIEPSS) was used in Japan. The aim of this study was to clarify how the DIEPSS captures EPS profiles. The baseline prevalence and treatment-emergent incidence of EPS in Japanese schizophrenic patients treated with olanzapine or haloperidol were retrospectively compared as assessed by the DIEPSS to the prevalence and incidence of EPS in primarily Caucasian schizophrenic patients who were treated with olanzapine or haloperidol. Specifically, the prevalence and incidence of dyskinesia, akathisia and parkinsonism were compared between the Japanese trial and an international trial to examine if appropriate definitions using the DIEPSS can be derived assuming that a comparable prevalence and incidence of the syndromes would be observed when any differences in residual antipsychotic exposure at the initiation of study treatment were accounted for. For the incidence of all EPS syndromes, odds ratios were observed to be similar between the two studies, indicating that appropriate criteria for the clinical diagnosis of the EPS syndromes could be established based on the DIEPSS. This preliminary and retrospective work suggests that the DIEPSS can be used to operationally define the presence or absence, and make the clinical diagnosis, of specific EPS syndromes.
Because of its lack of nephrotoxicity, the use of sirolimus, as an immunosuppressive agent, has increased considerably in solid-organ transplant (Tx) recipients. With its increased use, Tx professionals are encountering a variety of previously unreported side-effects such as angioedema and interstitial pneumonitis. We describe here the case of a pediatric renal Tx recipient who, while receiving sirolimus, developed a large pericardial effusion requiring pericardiocentesis. An extensive workup for an infectious etiology was performed; the only positive result was isolation of adenovirus type 2 from the patient's stool specimen. Following sirolimus dose reduction this child's effusion stabilized and has not recurred. The purpose of this report is to advise health-care professionals caring for Tx recipients about this potentially life-threatening complication associated with sirolimus. The role of adenovirus, if any, in contributing to the development of our patient's pericardial effusion is discussed herein.
Leptin regulates energy homeostasis and reproduction as evidenced by dysfunctions characterized in several genetic models of leptin pathway deficiency, such as the ob/ob and db/db mice and fa/fa Zucker rat. An additional model, the obese (f/f) Koletsky rat with a nonsense leptin receptor mutation has not been fully characterized. These rats are obese, hyperphagic, diabetic, and infertile; however, little else is known about the effects of the mutation. We have characterized alterations in hypothalamic appetite regulating neuropeptides as well as energy expenditure, metabolic hormones, and the reproductive axis of obese f/f rats. As expected, obese rats of both sexes were hyperinsulinemic, hyperglycemic, and hyperleptinemic. They exhibited reduced uncoupling protein-1 mRNA expression in brown fat, indicating reduced energy expenditure. In addition, hypothalamic expression of orexigenic neuropeptide Y and agouti-related peptide mRNA levels was upregulated while the anorexigenic cocaine and amphetamine regulated transcript and proopiomelanocortin mRNA levels were reduced. We also observed reproductive axis perturbations including reduced hypothalamic luteinizing hormone releasing hormone, serum estradiol and testosterone, and increased serum progesterone levels. In conclusion, obese Koletsky rats are phenotypically similar to other leptin pathway deficiency models with reduced energy expenditure and hypothalamic neuropeptidergic alterations that could account for their obesity and infertility.
Upregulated noradrenergic activity occurs early in cocaine withdrawal. Our previous work revealed impaired cognitive flexibility in acute cocaine withdrawal, a cognitive domain that appears to be modulated by noradrenergic activity. Therefore, we wished to determine the effect of beta-adrenergic antagonists on cognitive performance in acute cocaine withdrawal. Eleven subjects acutely withdrawing from cocaine were tested in this pilot study on tasks of cognitive flexibility as well as word fluency, attention, verbal memory, and spatial memory, off and on propranolol in a double-blinded manner. Propranolol significantly benefited certain aspects of cognitive flexibility in acute cocaine withdrawal, and improved some measures of verbal fluency and verbal recall. Cocaine withdrawal treatment is characterized by high failure rates. Further research is needed to determine the role this finding of a reversible cognitive impairment in cocaine withdrawal has in treatment.
In search of novel gastroprotective agents, mangiferin, a naturally occurring glucosylxanthone from Mangifera indica L. (Anacardiaceae), was evaluated in mice on gastric injury induced by ethanol and indomethacin. The effects of mangiferin on gastric mucosal damage were assessed by determination of changes in mean gastric lesion area or ulcer score in mice and on gastric secretory volume and total acidity in 4-h pylorus-ligated rats. Mangiferin (3, 10 and 30 mg/kg, P. O.) significantly attenuated the gastric damage induced by ethanol by 30, 35, and 63 %, and of indomethacin by 22, 23 and 57 %, respectively. N-Acetylcysteine (750 mg/kg, I. P.) and lansoprazole (30 mg/kg, P. O.) used as positive controls in these ulcerogenic models resulted in 50 % and 76 % suppression of gastric injury, respectively. In 4-h pylorus-ligated rats, intraduodenally applied mangiferin (30 mg/kg) caused significant diminutions in gastric secretory volume and total acidity. In addition, like N-acetylcysteine, a donor of sulfhydryls, mangiferin effectively prevented the ethanol-associated depletion of gastric mucosal non-protein sulfhydryl content in mice, suggesting an antioxidant action. These findings provide evidence that mangiferin affords gastroprotection against gastric injury induced by ethanol and indomethacin most possibly through the antisecretory and antioxidant mechanisms of action.
Chronic exposure to manganese (Mn) can cause manganism, a neurodegenerative disorder similar to Parkinson's disease. The toxicity of Mn includes impairment of astrocytic glutamate transporters. 17beta-Estradiol (E2) has been shown to be neuroprotective in various neurodegenerative diseases including Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease, and some selective estrogen receptor modulators, including tamoxifen (TX), also possess neuroprotective properties. We have tested our hypothesis that E2 and TX reverse Mn-induced glutamate transporter impairment in astrocytes. The results established that E2 and TX increased glutamate transporter function and reversed Mn-induced glutamate uptake inhibition, primarily via the up-regulation of glutamate/aspartate transporter (GLAST). E2 and TX also increased astrocytic GLAST mRNA levels and attenuated the Mn-induced inhibition of GLAST mRNA expression. In addition, E2 and TX effectively increased the expression of transforming growth factor beta1, a potential modulator of the stimulatory effects of E2/TX on glutamate transporter function. This effect was mediated by the activation of MAPK/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt signaling pathways. These novel findings suggest, for the first time, that E2 and TX enhance astrocytic glutamate transporter expression via increased transforming growth factor beta1 expression. Furthermore, the present study is the first to show that both E2 and TX effectively reverse Mn-induced glutamate transport inhibition by restoring its expression and activity, thus offering a potential therapeutic modality in neurodegenerative disorders characterized by altered glutamate homeostasis.
