Chinese patients with arthralgia during treatment with an antituberculosis regimen containing pyrazinamide were allocated at random to 3 anti-arthralgia treatment series in a controlled double-blind study. One series (18 patients) received soluble aspirin 2.4 g daily, the second (23 patients) allopurinol 200 mg daily, and the third (19 patients) placebo only, for 8 weeks. The response was assessed both by independent assessors and by the patients themselves using a diary card. The serum uric acid concentration was measured before and during anti-arthralgia treatment. The joints most commonly affected were the shoulders, the knees and the fingers, and symptoms and signs were in general neither severe nor protracted. For most of the patients in all 3 series the joint symptoms and signs improved during the 8 weeks, but a higher proportion of patients in the aspirin and placebo series than in the allopurinol series experienced improvement, this being most rapid in the aspirin series. Only in the aspirin series was the mean serum uric acid concentration lower during treatment than before it, and this effect was related to the dose in mg per kg. It is concluded that the arthralgia was often self-limiting, that aspirin had a small beneficial effect, that allopurinol, in the dosage studied, may have had a slightly deleterious effect, but that it would be worth studying larger dosages of allopurinol because the dosage studied did not affect the serum uric acid concentration.
We describe an unusual adverse reaction that was probably caused by taking ecstasy: the patient developed widespread oral and oropharyngeal mucosal oedema, which was triggered after he had taken ecstasy and alcohol. The reaction to this could have been fatal.
We investigated the role of tamoxifen and radiotherapy (RT) for the prevention and treatment of gynecomastia and breast pain during adjuvant bicalutamide monotherapy after radical prostatectomy (RP) in patients with prostate cancer. Also, we evaluated their effects on patient hormonal status, quality of life (QOL), sexual function and prostate specific antigen relapse-free survival.
This was a multicenter prospective trial. From January 2002 to February 2004, 102 patients who had undergone RP for localized or locally advanced prostate cancer were recruited and randomized into 3 groups, namely group 1-those receiving only 150 mg bicalutamide as adjuvant hormonal therapy, group 2-those receiving bicalutamide and 10 mg tamoxifen, and group 3-those receiving bicalutamide and RT. Patients in group 1 in whom gynecomastia or breast pain developed were subsequently randomized to receive tamoxifen or RT soon after symptoms started. Gynecomastia, breast pain, prostate specific antigen, QOL, sexual function and hormonal levels were assessed. Minimum followup was 12 months.
Of group 1 patients 67% had gynecomastia compared with 8% in group 2 and 34% in group 3. Breast pain was more frequent in group 1 than in groups 2 and 3 (58% vs 7% and 30%, respectively). Differences were significant between groups 1 and 2 (OR 0.12 p <0.001), and groups 1 and 3 (OR 0.52 p < 0.01). In patients in group 1 who had gynecomastia or breast pain a significant decrease in symptoms was achieved in those receiving tamoxifen (p <0.05). Treatments were well tolerated in the 3 groups. No differences in QOL between groups 2 and 3 were found. At a median followup of 26 months we observed 12 biochemical relapses.
Gynecomastia and breast pain induced by bicalutamide monotherapy after RP can be prevented and treated. Tamoxifen has been shown to be more effective and safe than RT in this setting. QOL and sexual function are not negatively influenced by these 2 treatment options.
Treatment of cultured PANC-1, MIA PaCa-2, and BxPC-3 human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cells with 0.1 to 1.6 nM 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) for 96 h inhibited the proliferation of these cells in a dose-dependent manner, and PANC-1 and MIA PaCa-2 cells were more sensitive to TPA than BxPC-3 cells. Inhibition of proliferation by TPA in PANC-1 cells was associated with an increase in the level of p21, but this was not observed in MIA PaCa-2 or BxPC-3 cells. The TPA-induced increase of p21 in PANC-1 cells was blocked by bisindolylmaleimide or rottlerin (inhibitors of protein kinase C). Studies in NCr-immunodeficient mice with well established PANC-1 tumor xenografts indicated that daily i.p. injections of TPA strongly inhibited tumor growth, increased the percentage of caspase-3-positive cells, and decreased the ratio of mitotic cells to caspase-3-positive cells in the tumors. Studies with BxPC-3 tumors in NCr mice receiving daily i.p. injections of vehicle, TPA, all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), or a TPA/ATRA combination showed that TPA had an inhibitory effect on tumor growth, but treatment of the animals with the TPA/ATRA combination had a greater inhibitory effect on tumor growth than TPA alone. Treatment with the TPA/ATRA combination resulted in a substantially decreased ratio of the percentage of mitotic cells to the percentage of caspase-3-positive cells in the tumors compared with tumors from the vehicle-treated control animals. The inhibitory effects of TPA on tumor growth occurred at clinically achievable blood levels.
Metabotropic glutamate receptor type 1 (mGluR1) is thought to play important roles in the neurotransmission and pathogenesis of several neurological disorders. Here, we describe the radioligand binding properties and pharmacological effects of a newly synthesized, high-affinity, selective, and noncompetitive mGluR1 antagonist, 6-amino-N-cyclohexyl-N,3-dimethylthiazolo[3,2-a]benzimidazole-2-carboxamide (YM-298198). YM-298198 inhibited glutamate-induced inositol phosphate production in mGluR1-NIH3T3 cells with an IC50 of 16 +/- 5.8 nM in a noncompetitive manner. Its radiolabeled form, [3H]YM-298198, bound to mGluR1-NIH3T3 cell membranes with a KD of 32 +/- 8.5 nM and a Bmax of 2297 +/- 291 fmol/mg protein. In ligand displacement experiments using rat cerebellum membrane, an existing noncompetitive mGluR1 antagonist 7-(hydroxyimino)cyclo-propa[b]chromen-1a-carboxylate ethyl ester (CPCCOEt) competitively displaced [3H]YM-298198 binding, although glutamate and other mGluR1 ligands acting on a glutamate site failed to inhibit [3H]YM-298198 binding, suggesting that YM-298198 binds to CPCCOEt (allosteric) binding sites but not to glutamate (agonist) binding sites. Specificity was demonstrated for mGluR1 over mGluR subtypes 2 to 7, ionotropic glutamate receptors, and other receptor, transporter, and ion channel targets. In in vivo experiments, orally administered YM-298198 showed a significant analgesic effect in streptozotocin-induced hyperalgesic mice at doses (30 mg/kg) that did not cause Rotarod performance impairment, indicating that it is also useful even for in vivo experiments. In conclusion, YM-298198 is a newly synthesized, high-affinity, selective, and noncompetitive antagonist of mGluR1 that will be a useful pharmacological tool due to its highly active properties in vitro and in vivo. Its radiolabeled form [3H]YM-298198 will also be a valuable tool for future investigation of the mGluR1.
We conducted a phase II trial of high-dose bolus (HDB) interleukin-2 (IL-2) in patients with metastatic melanoma who had experienced progression after biochemotherapy (BCT).
Eligible patients had experienced progression on or after BCT (cisplatin, vinblastine, dacarbazine, IL-2 9 MU/m(2)/d for 4 days, and interferon alfa-2b). HDB IL-2 was administered at 600,000 U/kg per dose for a maximum of 14 doses per cycle with a 1-week rest period between cycles. Stable or responding patients were offered an additional course (two cycles) after 6 to 8 weeks.
Twenty-six patients (12 men and 14 women), age 28 to 70 years (median, 45 years), have been treated. All but three patients received at least two cycles of HDB IL-2; 10 patients received a second course of therapy. Disease stage was American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) stage M1a (n = 5), M1b (n = 5), and M1c (n = 16). Grade 3 and 4 toxicities included hyperbilirubinemia (n = 10), thrombocytopenia (n = 6), oliguria (n = 3), diarrhea (n = 1), infection (n = 2), and neurologic toxicity (n = 2). Overall response rate was 19.2% (four complete responses, lasting 4, 4, 26+, and 41+ months; and one partial response, lasting 3 months). Five patients (19%) had stable disease lasting 1 to 3 months, but all eventually experienced progression. All four complete responders had AJCC stage M1a disease. At a median follow-up time of 10 months, median survival time was 42 weeks (95% CI, 19.1 to 86.6 weeks), and median progression-free survival time was 10 weeks (95% CI, 8 to 16.1 weeks). An initial response to BCT was not found to be predictive for response to HDB IL-2.
HDB IL-2 is active therapy for patients who experience progression on BCT. This observation has implications regarding the importance of dose-intensity for IL-2 therapy.
The evolution of threshold values of air conduction in the extended high frequency range (9-18 kHz) at patients suffering from the active pulmonary tuberculosis treated with the combined therapy (SM, INH, RFM, PZA). There were audiologically examined 13 patients (the average age 41.2) suffering from the active pulmonary tuberculosis and treated with the combined therapy (SM, INH, RFM, PZA). In 13 tuberculosis patients the full range of audiometric tests and measurements including: the pure tone audiometry, acoustic impedance and the extended high frequency range threshold audiometry (9-18 kHz) have been applied before starting the treatment with SM, INH, RMP and PZA and in the two months later--after its completion. The reference group was composed of 10 audiologically healthy individuals (the average age 40.2). A significant hearing loss with respect to air conduction within the extended range of high frequencies (9-17 kHz) was stated. The said hearing pathology can be diagnosed at earlier stages by the use of the extended high frequency range audiometry than through applying methods of conventional audiometry.
The function of neutrophil protease 3 (PR3) is poorly understood despite of its role in autoimmune vasculitides and its possible involvement in cell apoptosis. This makes it different from its structural homologue neutrophil elastase (HNE). Endogenous inhibitors of human neutrophil serine proteases preferentially inhibit HNE and to a lesser extent, PR3. We constructed a single-residue mutant PR3 (I217R) to investigate the S4 subsite preferences of PR3 and HNE and used the best peptide substrate sequences to develop selective phosphonate inhibitors with the structure Ac-peptidyl(P)(O-C6H4-4-Cl)2. The combination of a prolyl residue at P4 and an aspartyl residue at P2 was totally selective for PR3. We then synthesized N-terminally biotinylated peptidyl phosphonates to identify the PR3 in complex biological samples. These inhibitors resisted proteolytic degradation and rapidly inactivated PR3 in biological fluids such as inflammatory lung secretions and the urine of patients with bladder cancer. One of these inhibitors revealed intracellular PR3 in permeabilized neutrophils and on the surface of activated cells. They hardly inhibited PR3 bound to the surface of stimulated neutrophils despite their low molecular mass, suggesting that the conformation and reactivity of membrane-bound PR3 is altered. This finding is relevant for autoantibody binding and the subsequent activation of neutrophils in granulomatosis with polyangiitis (formerly Wegener disease). These are the first inhibitors that can be used as probes to monitor, detect, and control PR3 activity in a variety of inflammatory diseases.
Thirty cocaine-dependent subjects were enrolled into a cue-laboratory study to determine the specificity and sensitivity of this paradigm as a craving measure. Subjects experienced three cue types (i.e., cocaine, arousing, and neutral stimuli) in three cue modalities (i.e., audio, visual, and manual). Cue types were administered in different experimental sessions with a period of 2 to 3 days between sessions. Our results showed that subjective and physiological craving for cocaine was relatively specific for the cocaine cue as compared with either the arousing or the neutral cue. The relative sensitivities of the cue modalities in decreasing order was manual, audio, and visual. We suggest that a modified conditioned-cue paradigm could be a useful tool in the repeated assessment of craving during a clinical study.
To investigate the renal safety of amphotericin B lipid complex (ABLC), records from 3514 ABLC-treated patients with fungal infections were reviewed. The median change in predicted creatinine clearance (CCr) from baseline to the end of therapy was -3 mL/min (range, -119 to 118 mL/min); doubling of serum creatinine (S-Cr) level occurred in 13% of patients, and new dialysis was needed for 3% of patients. Patients with underlying renal disease who had received prior antifungal therapy demonstrated a median CCr of 0.5 mL/min (range, -107 to 52 mL/min). Despite increased risk for renal impairment in allogeneic hematopoietic stem-cell transplant recipients, only 17% of patients demonstrated end-of-therapy doubling of S-Cr levels, and the median change in CCr was -10 mL/min (range, -107 to 108 mL/min). In ABLC-treated patients, concomitant treatment with potentially nephrotoxic agents and a baseline S-Cr level of <2 mg/dL were factors predisposing for the development of nephrotoxicity. These data provide evidence that ABLC may be used safely to treat patients who are at increased risk for renal impairment.
I have described a case of procainamide-induced peripheral neuropathy with a complete resolution after withdrawal of the drug. Extremely close observation is suggested, and if paresthesia and/or polyarthralgias develop, this agent must be withdrawn. The SLE-like syndrome inducted by procainamide completely resolves on withdrawal of the drug. N-acetylprocainamide (NAPA) should probably be prescribed in preference to procainamide.
The systemic and cerebral effects of hypotension induced with isoflurane were examined in 12 dogs. Hypotension to a mean arterial pressure of either 50 mmHg or 40 mmHg for 1 h was produced by 2.5 +/- 0.1-2.9 +/- 0.3% end-expired isoflurane anesthesia. Before and during the period of hypotension the following were measured or derived: arterial and pulmonary artery pressures; arterial, mixed venous, and sagittal sinus blood gases; cardiac output and cerebral blood flow; whole body and cerebral oxygen consumption; systemic and cerebral vascular resistance; intracranial pressure, serum lactate, and pyruvate concentrations; and blood glucose. At the end of the period of hypotension, brain biopsy specimens were taken for the determination of ATP, ADP, AMP, phosphocreatine, lactate, and pyruvate concentrations. Isoflurane-induced hypotension produced a significant decrease in systemic vascular resistance (27-43%) associated with a significant decrease in cardiac output (39-42%) and a smaller decrease in whole-body oxygen consumption (14-21%). Isoflurane also produced a significant decrease in cerebral oxygen consumption (40-44%) accompanied by a decrease in cerebral blood flow (60-62%). Following both the 40 and 50 mmHg periods of hypotension, the cerebral energy state was normal, indicating the preservation of normal aerobic metabolism.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Patients treated with peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-gamma agonist manifest favorable metabolic profiles associated with increased plasma adiponectin (APN). However, whether increased APN production as a result of PPAR-gamma agonist treatment is an epiphenomenon or is causatively related to the cardioprotective actions of PPAR-gamma remains unknown.
To determine the role of APN in rosiglitazone (RSG) cardioprotection against ischemic heart injury.
Adult male wild-type (WT) and APN knockdown/knockout (APN(+ or -) and APN(- or -)) mice were treated with vehicle or RSG (20 mg/kg per day), and subjected to coronary artery ligation 3 days after beginning treatment. In WT mice, RSG (7 days) significantly increased adipocyte APN expression, elevated plasma APN levels (2.6-fold), reduced infarct size (17% reduction), decreased apoptosis (0.23 + or - 0.02% versus 0.47 + or - 0.04% TUNEL-positive in remote nonischemic area), attenuated oxidative stress (48.5% reduction), and improved cardiac function (P<0.01). RSG-induced APN production and cardioprotection were significantly blunted (P<0.05 versus WT) in APN(+ or -), and completely lost in APN(- or -) (P>0.05 versus vehicle-treated APN(- or -) mice). Moreover, treatment with RSG for up to 14 days significantly improved the postischemic survival rate of WT mice (P<0.05 versus vehicle group) but not APN knockdown/knockout mice.
The cardioprotective effects of PPAR-gamma agonists are critically dependent on its APN stimulatory action, suggesting that under pathological conditions where APN expression is impaired (such as advanced type 2 diabetes), the harmful cardiovascular effects of PPAR-gamma agonists may outweigh its cardioprotective benefits.
Aromatic amines, N-nitroso compounds and heterocyclic amines are suspected human pancreatic carcinogens. Cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A2, N-acetyltransferase (NAT) 1, NAT2 and sulfotransferase (SULT) are enzymes involved in the metabolism of these carcinogens. To test the hypothesis that genetic variations in carcinogen metabolism modify the risk of pancreatic cancer (PC), we investigated the effect of single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the CYP1A2, NAT1, NAT2 and SULT1A1 gene on modification of the risk of PC in a hospital-based study of 755 patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma and 636 healthy frequency-matched controls. Smoking and dietary mutagen exposure information was collected by personal interviews. Genotypes were determined using the polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism and Taqman methods. Odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were estimated using unconditional multivariate logistic regression analysis. We observed no significant main effects of any of these genes on the risk of PC. The CYP1A2 and NAT1 but not SULT1A1 and NAT2 genotypes showed significant interactions with heavy smoking in women not men. In contrast, a significant interaction between NAT1 genotype and dietary mutagen intake on modifying the risk of PC were observed among men but not women. The OR (95% CI) of PC was 2.23 (1.33-3.72) and 2.54 (1.51-4.25) for men having the NAT1*10 and a higher intake of 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine and benzo[a]pyrene, respectively, compared with individuals having no NAT1*10 or a lower intake of these dietary mutagens. These data suggest the existence of gender-specific susceptibility to tobacco carcinogen and dietary mutagen exposure in PC.
A 74-year-old man had severe persistent asthma, poorly controlled by treatment with an inhaled steroid (beclomethasone dipropionate [BDP-CFC]), an oral steroid (prednisolone), a sustained-release theophylline preparation, and a leukotriene receptor antagonist. The oral steroid dose was tapered and discontinued because the patient achieved good control by switching to inhaled steroids (fluticasone propionate [FP-DPI]) and adding inhaled cromoglycate and an inhaled beta 2 agonist. On this regimen, the peripheral-blood eosinophil count increased significantly, followed by numbness in the right hand and right foot and left oculomotor paralysis. The patient was given a diagnosis of Churg-Strauss syndrome because his symptoms improved with re-administration of the oral steroid. This syndrome is rarely accompanied by cranial nerve paralysis, and oculomotor paralysis has been reported in only 4 Churg-Strauss patients. The clinical course of this patient was considered to be consistent with Churg-Strauss syndrome, which had been suppressed by steroids for asthma control, but then manifested with dose tapering and discontinuation of the systemic steroid therapy.
The pleiotropic effects of hMG-CoA (3-hydroxy-3-metylglutaryl coenzyme A) reductase inhibitors may provide renal protection in chronic kidney disease. We examined whether atorvastatin administration preserved renal function in rats with chronic unilateral ureteral obstruction.
Renal clearance experiments were performed in sham operated rats and rats subjected to 3 or 12-day unilateral ureteral obstruction. Hemodynamics parameters and urinary microalbumin levels from the obstructed kidney were also measured. The rats were maintained on a regular diet or the same diet but supplemented with atorvastatin (50 mg/kg daily).
Atorvastatin administration did not alter plasma total cholesterol but it significantly decreased triglyceride levels. In sham operated and 3-day unilateral ureteral obstruction rats atorvastatin treatment did not have effects on the glomerular filtration rate or effective renal plasma flow and it also did not affect urinary microalbumin levels. In rats with 12-day unilateral ureteral obstruction the glomerular filtration rate but not effective renal plasma flow was significantly higher and urinary microalbumin was significantly lower in atorvastatin treated rats than in those without atorvastatin treatment.
Atorvastatin treatment decreased microalbuminuria and helped preserve filtration function in chronic unilateral ureteral obstruction without altering plasma cholesterol levels, suggesting that pleiotropic renal protection is offered by this statin.
Diazoxide (DZ), a highly selective opener of the mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium (mitoK(ATP)) channel, has neuroprotective effects. However, the mechanism of DZ protecting hippocampal neurons against cell death in pilocarpine-induced seizures is unknown. In this study, we investigated DZ attenuating neuronal loss caused by pilocarpine-induced seizures in rat hippocampus. DZ inhibited seizure-induced change in phospho-Akt expression, translocation of apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF), release of cytochrome c (CytC) and caspase-3 activation, which could be abolished by preincubation with 5-hydroxydecanoic acid, an inhibitor of mitoK(ATP). In addition, wortmannin, an inhibitor of phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K), attenuated the translocation of AIF, CytC release and caspase-3 activation after seizures. DZ could reduce neuronal death induced by seizures in hippocampus by suppressing the translocation of AIF, CytC release and the activation of caspase-3 via the PI3K/Akt pathway.
Recent behavioral and neurobiological data indicate that GABA(B) receptor transmission is involved in cocaine-induced hyperactivity and reinforcement. GABA(B) receptor gene expression in cocaine-sensitized rats was examined in this study. Rats were injected with cocaine (15 mg/kg, daily, i.p.) or saline for 5 consecutive days, and challenged with the same dose of cocaine after a 1-, or 20-day hiatus. The locomotor activities of rats were recorded after challenge, and the rats were killed 24 hr later. GABA(B)R1a, 1b, and GABA(B)R2 mRNA in discrete brain regions was detected by RPA and In Situ Hybridization; GABA(B)R1a protein was measured by Western blotting. Rats pretreated with cocaine developed a hyperactivity to the cocaine challenge after a 1-day or 20-day hiatus, but GABA(B)R subunit mRNA and GABA(B)R1a protein densities in the targeted regions showed no significant difference compared to those in control rats. These data indicate that GABA(B) receptor gene expression is not necessarily relevant to the behavioral sensitization of cocaine.
The aim of this study was to explain whether serum autotaxin (ATX) activity might be a target for regulation of liver fibrosis and to evaluate the hepatoprotective and antifibrotic effects of histidine in thioacetamide (TAA)-induced liver fibrosis in rats. This study was carried out on 100 Wistar Albino rats, classified into five groups, each containing 20 rats: Group I (control group), Group II: rats were given histidine intraperitoneally, Group III: rats were injected intraperitoneally with TAA, Group IV: rats were injected with L-histidine together with TAA, and Group V: rats were injected with TAA for 1 month then treated with intraperitoneal injection of L-histidine for another month. At the end of experiment, blood and liver were collected for determination of some liver enzymes, plasma total antioxidant capacity (TAC), serum ATX activity, and liver tissue hydroxyproline. Thioacetamide treatment caused significant increases in liver enzymes, ATX activities, and liver hydroxyproline, but a significant decrease in plasma's TAC. Upon treatment with histidine, a significant decrease in liver enzymes, ATX activities, and liver hydroxyproline was observed with a significant increase in plasma TAC in Group IV and a significant decrease in Group V. Histidine as an antioxidant has a protective effect on TAA-induced liver fibrosis; it is beneficial in rats not only by inhibition of collagen synthesis and increasing TAC but also by inhibition of ATX activities thus reducing its capacity to produce lysophosphatidic acid, which has a role in liver fibrosis.
The aim of this review is to present an overview of the results of randomized primary preventive trials with beta-blockers in patients with hypertension. For statistical and biological reasons, any preventive effect on coronary events is hard to demonstrate in women in these primary preventive trials because of the low incidence of coronary events in middle-aged, white women. Therefore, special attention will be focused on the effect in men. Four beta-blockers have been studied: propranolol, oxprenolol, atenolol, and metoprolol. Results from the Metoprolol Atherosclerosis Prevention in Hypertensives (MAPHY) trial showed that the risk for coronary events was 24% lower in patients receiving beta-blockade compared with patients receiving diuretics (p less than 0.001). In men, three beta-blockers (propranolol, oxprenolol, and metoprolol) have shown significantly lower risk for coronary events (fatal and nonfatal) in the nonsmoking subgroup. Results from the MAPHY study also indicated a reduction in total and coronary mortality with the beta-blocker as compared with thiazide diuretics. The observed reduced risk for coronary events with beta-blockers as compared with diuretics is probably independent of the reduction in blood pressure. Mechanisms currently under study include antiatherosclerotic effects, antithrombotic effects, anti-ischemic effects, and antifibrillatory effects. It is not possible to judge, with present evidence, if all beta-blockers are equally effective in preventing sudden death and other coronary events.
This study examined the possible protective effects of thymoquinone (TQ), the main constituent of the volatile oil of black seed (Nigella sativa), against cyclophosphamide (CP)-induced cardiotoxicity. Adult male Wistar albino rats were divided into four treatment groups. Rats in the first group were served as control. Rats in the second group received TQ (50 mg/L in drinking water) for 12 days. Animals in the third group were injected with a single dose of CP (200 mg/kg, IP) at day 5. Rats in the fourth group received TQ (50 mg/L in drinking water) for 5 days before a single dose of CP (200 mg/kg, IP) and continued thereafter throughout the experiment. On day 13, animals were sacrificed; serum and hearts were isolated and analyzed. Cyclophosphamide resulted in a significant increase in serum creatine kinase, lactate dehydrogenase, cholesterol, triglycerides, creatinine, urea, and tumor necrosis factor-α. In heart tissues, CP resulted in a significant increase in thiobarbituric acid reactive substances and total nitrate/nitrite and a significant decrease in reduced glutathione, glutathione peroxidase, catalase, and adenosine triphosphate levels. Interestingly, TQ supplementation resulted in a complete reversal of all the biochemical changes induced by CP to their control values. Data from this study suggest that TQ supplementation attenuates CP-induced cardiotoxicity by a mechanism related, at least in part, to its ability to decrease oxidative and nitrosative stress and to preserve the activity of antioxidant enzymes as well as its ability to improve the mitochondrial function and energy production. .
Acute liver failure (ALF) is a life-threatening disease that has proven difficult to cure. In Western countries, acetaminophen (APAP) poisoning is the most common cause of ALF. However, the mode of cell death in APAP-induced ALF cases is controversial. Previous studies have shown that administration of anti-interleukin-1 (anti-IL-1) antibody attenuated APAP-induced liver injury, and that administration of anti-IL-1 receptor antagonist (anti-IL-1Ra) antibody exacerbated organ injury. These results prompted us to investigate the roles of IL-1Ra in APAP-induced ALF mice. Our results show that administration of recombinant human IL-1Ra (rhIL-1Ra) could significantly improve the survival rate of mice with ALF induced by APAP. Furthermore, we found that rhIL-1Ras could dramatically inhibit the activities of alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase in serum, reduce the death of hepatocytes and accelerate the proliferation of hepatocytes. In addition, we show that hepatocellular apoptosis rather than necrosis was the major cause of ALF-induced animal death, and that the anti-apoptosis role of rhIL-1Ra was mediated by reducing the release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria, and the activities of caspase-3, caspase-8 and caspase-9 in the liver tissue. In conclusion, these data indicate that rhIL-1Ra is a promising candidate for the treatment of APAP-induced ALF in mice through the reduction of hepatocellular apoptosis.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is one of the most effective chemotherapeutic drugs; however, its incidence of cardiotoxicity compromises its therapeutic index. DOX-induced heart failure is thought to be caused by reduction/oxidation cycling of DOX to generate oxidative stress and cardiomyocyte cell death. Resveratrol (RV), a stilbene found in red wine, has been reported to play a cardioprotective role in diseases associated with oxidative stress. The objective of this study was to test the ability of RV to protect against DOX-induced cardiomyocyte death. We hypothesized that RV protects cardiomyocytes from DOX-induced oxidative stress and subsequent cell death through changes in mitochondrial function. DOX induced a rapid increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) production in cardiac cell mitochondria, which was inhibited by pretreatment with RV, most likely owing to an increase in MnSOD activity. This effect of RV caused additional polarization of the mitochondria in the absence and presence of DOX to increase mitochondrial function. RV pretreatment also prevented DOX-induced cardiomyocyte death. The protective ability of RV against DOX was abolished when Sirt1 was inhibited by nicotinamide. Our data suggest that RV protects against DOX-induced oxidative stress through changes in mitochondrial function, specifically the Sirt1 pathway leading to cardiac cell survival.
Abnormalities in pain perception, especially altered warmth and heat pain sensitivity, have been reported in schizophrenia. Therefore, genes associated with schizophrenia, including neuregulin-1 (NRG1), catechol-O-methyltranferase (COMT) and disrupted-in-schizophrenia-1 (DISC1), may play a role in modulating the physiological and psychological effects of pain stimuli in such patients. Thermal pain sensitivity was assessed in NRG1, COMT and DISC1 mutant mice, and the anti-nociceptive effects of acute Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) were compared in NRG1 and COMT mutants. At baseline, deletion of NRG1 and DISC1 each reduced thermal pain sensitivity, while deletion of COMT increased pain sensitivity. Neither NRG1 nor COMT deletion altered the anti-nociceptive effects of acute systemic THC (8.0mg/kg). These results indicate a differential contribution of NRG1 and DISC1 vis-à-vis COMT to the processing of thermal nociceptive stimuli and extend their phenotypic relationship to psychotic illness.
Resveratrol is a phytoalexin abundantly found in red grape skin and is effective in antitumor and antiinflammation associated with immune responses. This study investigated whether resveratrol suppressed immunoglobulin (Ig)E-mediated allergic responses and passive cutaneous anaphylaxis (PCA) in rat RBL-2H3 mast cells and in BALB/c mice. The release of β-hexosaminidase and histamine was enhanced in mast cells sensitized with anti-dinitrophenyl (DNP)-IgE and subsequently stimulated by DNP-human serum albumin (HSA), indicative of mast cell degranulation. When mast cells were pretreated with nontoxic resveratrol at 1-25 μmol/L, such induction was dose dependently diminished. Spleen tyrosine kinase (Syk) and phospholipase Cγ (PLCγ) of sensitized mast cells were activated by stimulation with DNP-HSA antigen, which was dampened by ≥5 μmol/L resveratrol. The phosphorylation of protein kinase C (PKC)μ and PKCθ was attenuated by administering resveratrol to DNP-HSA-exposed mast cells, whereas quiescent PKCζ/λ in sensitized cells was dose-dependently activated by resveratrol. Male BALB/c mice were sensitized for 24 h with DNP-IgE and orally administered with resveratrol 1 h before the DNP-HSA challenge. The histamine concentration was enhanced in sensitized mice challenged to DNP-HSA, which was reversed by administration of 10 mg/kg resveratrol. Additionally, it encumbered the tissue activation of Syk, PLCγ, and PKCμ in antigen-exposed mice. Resveratrol decreased IgE-mediated PCA and alleviated allergic edema of mouse ear and dorsal skin. Mast cell degranulation and allergic inflammation, accompanying the induction of monocyte chemotactic protein-1 and macrophage inflammatory protein-2, were inhibited by supplementing resveratrol to antigen-challenged mice. Resveratrol inhibited mast cell-derived, immediate-type allergic reactions, and these responses of resveratrol suggest possible therapeutic strategies in preventing allergic inflammatory diseases.
Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is a lethal malignancy of the biliary epithelium associated with p53 mutations, bile duct injury, inflammation, and fibrosis. Here, to validate these processes in CCA, we developed a liver cirrhosis model driven by chronic intermittent toxin exposure, which provokes bile duct injury/necrosis and proliferation, fibroblast recruitment, and progressive extracellular matrix (ECM) changes. Fibrotic changes in the matrix microenvironment, typified by increased type I and III collagens and fibroblast recruitment, were shown to stimulate biliary epithelium hyperplasia with subsequent progression to malignant intrahepatic CCA only in mice harboring a p53 mutant allele. These murine CCAs bear histologic and genetic features of human intrahepatic CCA, including dense peritumoral fibrosis, increased inducible nitric oxide synthase, nitrotyrosine, and cyclooxygenase-2 expression, c-Met activation, cErbB2 overexpression, down-regulation of membrane-associated E-cadherin, and p53 codon 248 mutation. Thus, p53 deficiency, chronic bile duct injury/proliferation, and the fibrotic matrix microenvironment cooperate to induce intrahepatic CCA, highlighting the key role of the ECM microenvironment in this common liver cancer.
A well-recognized complication of ethambutol use is optic neuropathy, but the potential ocular toxicity of isoniazid is often overlooked. A patient developed optic neuropathy while being treated with isoniazid and ethambutol. The optic neuropathy subsided only when both drugs were discontinued, suggesting an additive toxic effect.
