The effect of water deprivation on lithium clearance was studied in rats with lithium-induced polyuria. During a 3-hr period of water deprivation, the rats lost water in amounts corresponding to about 10% of body weight. Lithium clearance fell to about 25% of the level observed in rats which were not water deprived. During shorter periods of water deprivation, the fall of lithium clearance was less. The decrease of lithium clearance was partly due to a fall of inulin clearance and partly due to a fall of fractional excretion of lithium. The decrease of the two variables contributed to the same extent to the decrease of lithium clearance. The findings support the suggestion that insufficient intake of water in patients with lithium-induced polyuria may lead to a rapid lowering of lithium clearance and, hence, to a rise of the serum lithium concentration and development of intoxication.
The relationships between the gross appearance, histologic types, and cytochemical characteristics of hepatocellular neoplasms were studied in B6C3F1 mice given the liver carcinogen diethylnitrosamine either alone or followed by the organochlorine pesticides, 4,4'-dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane, chlordane, or heptachlor as promoting agents. Hepatocellular neoplasms were categorized according to their cytoplasmic staining properties with hematoxylin and eosin. Acidophilic neoplasms more often displayed increased activity of alkaline phosphatase than did basophilic neoplasms. The activities of glucose-6-phosphatase and adenosine triphosphatase were decreased in both acidophilic and basophilic neoplasms. There was no difference in the activities of these enzymes or gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase between adenomas and carcinomas, although most neoplasms did not display gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase. Chlordane or heptachlor exposure increased the alkaline phosphatase activity in neoplastic cells, but not that of other enzymes. The majority of neoplasms displayed a deficiency of iron accumulation. The macroscopic appearance of neoplasms was closely related to their cytoplasmic staining properties and cytochemical characteristics.
Peroxisome biogenesis disorders, of which 13 complementation groups have been identified, are subdivided with regard to two major dysfunctions: peroxisomal matrix protein import and peroxisomal membrane synthesis. Detectable remnant membrane structures are evident only in the former. Molecular defects have been defined in 10 PEX genes, including eight related to protein import and two to membrane synthesis. We now have evidence that the human complete cDNA encoding Pex3p, a peroxisomal membrane protein (PMP) factor for the proper localization of PMPs, rescues the import of both PMP and the matrix protein in fibroblasts from a Zellweger syndrome patient of complementation group G. This patient was homozygous for a 1 base insertion in the codon for V182, which resulted in a change of codon (182-183) and introduced a termination codon (184), which inactivated PMP and matrix protein import by Pex3p. A PEX3-defective CHO mutant clone, ZPG208, was of the same complementation group as group G.
The livers of soles (Solea senegalensis) injected with subacute doses of cadmium (Cd), benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P), or their combination, were screened for alterations to cytosolic protein expression patterns, complemented by cytological and histological analyses. Cadmium and B[a]P, but not combined, induced hepatocyte apoptosis and Kupfer cell hyperplasia. Proteomics, however, suggested that apoptosis was triggered through distinct pathways. Cadmium and B[a]P caused upregulation of different anti-oxidative enzymes (peroxiredoxin and glutathione peroxidase, respectively) although co-exposure impaired induction. Similarly, apoptosis was inhibited by co-exposure, to which may have contributed a synergistic upregulation of tissue metalloproteinase inhibitor, beta-actin and a lipid transport protein. The regulation factors of nine out of eleven identified proteins of different types revealed antagonistic or synergistic effects between Cd and B[a]P at the prospected doses after 24 h of exposure. The results indicate that co-exposure to Cd and B[a]P may enhance toxicity by impairing specific responses and not through cumulative damage.
Status epilepticus was produced in rats by administering pilocarpine (30 mg/kg, s.c.) 16 h after treatment with LiCl (3 meq/kg, i.p.). After 35 min of status epilepticus, several parameters of cholinergic activity were measured. Seizures had no effect on the in vivo concentration of acetylcholine or choline in cerebellum, cortex, hippocampus, or striatum. Synaptosomal high-affinity choline transport was also not changed by seizures in hippocampus, cortex, or striatum. Cortical slices from seizing rats had elevated concentrations of acetylcholine and released acetylcholine at a greater rate than did controls, but these effects seemed to be due to a reduction in the postmortem hydrolysis of acetylcholine. Synaptosomal 45calcium uptake during 2 to 60 s of incubation was no different from control rates in tissue prepared from seizing rats. These results indicate that presynaptic cholinergic activity is not markedly altered by 35 min of continuous seizure activity induced by lithium and pilocarpine. In contrast, the in vivo concentration of cyclic guanosine 5'-monophosphate was elevated above control values in seizing rats by 57 to 170% in cerebellum, cortex, hippocampus, and striatum.
The aim of this case report is to highlight that risperidone may cause and ameliorate tardive dyskinesia. A 16 year old white women with a 12 month history of schizophrenia, developed buccolingual masticatory tardive dyskinesia after receiving risperidone 6 mg. She had received small dosages of typical antipsychotics before and during receiving risperidone for short periods. Recommencement of risperidone with 2 mg and increasing to 6 mg resulted in improvement in tardive dyskinesia and up until now she remains free of any abnormal involuntary movements.
The reversibility of the inhibitory effect of capsaicin on the micturition reflex was investigated in adult rats. The experimental group (n = 38) were given 0.5 mL of 1 mmol/L intravesical capsaicin. After 30 minutes the bladder was evacuated, then the rats were allowed to recover for various times from 0 to 24 hours before cystometrography. Control rats (n = 6) were injected with saline. Immediately after capsaicin treatment, the bladders showed detrusor hyperactivity and high intravesical pressure during cystometrography. All capsaicin-treated bladders showed final urinary retention and hematuria developed in 32 of 38. At 6 hours after intravesical instillation of capsaicin, detrusor hyperactivity was reduced and the micturition reflex gradually reappeared. By 12 hours, micturition reflexes were noted in seven of eight bladders with a volume threshold equal to that of the control group. At 24 hours, the volume threshold for the micturition reflex was significantly greater in the capsaicin-treated group than in the control group. The amplitude of detrusor contractions at 6, 12, and 24 hours showed no significant difference from that in the controls. In vitro whole bladder contractility in response to electrical field stimulation, bethanechol, and KCl also showed no significant difference between the control and the experimental groups. The bladder weight increased as the recovery period increased, indicating the presence of neurogenic inflammation. From this study we conclude that capsaicin-induced micturition reflex inhibition in rats is reversible at 12 hours and the volume threshold for eliciting the micturition reflex continues to increase up to 24 hours after capsaicin treatment. These results may provide insight into the clinical application of capsaicin in the treatment of various voiding disorders in humans.
To ascertain the relative contributions of genotypes of conceptus and dam to developmental toxicity occasioned by valproic acid (VPA), crosses were established between resistant C57BL/6JBk (C, C57) and susceptible SWV/Bk (S, SWV) strains of mice. These included matings of pure lines, reciprocal outcrosses, and reciprocal backcrosses with F1 hybrids. At 8 d:12 h +/- 5 h, for each mating, 0, 500, or 600 mg/kg aqueous VPA was injected ip. Fetuses were examined on gestation day (gd) 18 for exencephaly (the paradigmatic anomaly), other abnormalities, mortality, litter size, and fetal weight. At 600 mg/kg, sensitivity to exencephaly induction in all cases was that of the dam, regardless of sire. Thus exencephaly here seems to be largely a function of the uterine environment produced by the maternal genotype. This inference is confirmed in backcrosses where F1-dams x S-sires and F1-dams x C-sires produced-identical outcomes, and S-dams x F1-sires produced much higher frequencies of exencephaly than C-dams x F1-sires. For prenatal mortality, the genotypes of both dam and conceptus appear to be important determinants. Fetal contribution is inferred from the observations that S-dam x S-sire matings produced a much higher frequency of mortality than S-dams x C-sires, and C-dams x C-sires produced higher mortality than C-dams x S-sires. Therefore, heterozygosity of the conceptus was protective. Among backcrosses, fetal determination of sensitivity to mortality is also seen by the observation that F1-dams x C-sires produces the same fetal mortality as C-dams x F1-sires. The contribution of uterine environment is seen in the observation that matings of S-dams x C-sires resulted in higher fetal mortality than did those with C-dams x S-sires. Therefore, identical conceptuses in different dams showed different levels of fetal loss. Thus exencephaly response appears to be largely controlled by genes active in the dam, and mortality as a result of a multigenic outcome with contributing genes active in both conceptus and dam. The data also suggest that SWV pure-line dams make a contribution to prenatal mortality not seen in C57 or F1 dams. Mean litter size among VPA-exposed litters showed high variability in pure lines and outcrosses. In backcrosses, F1 dams produced larger litters than pure line dams, arguing for heterosis as a contributor to this parameter. Reduction in litter size occasioned by VPA exposure was great in pure line dams and nonexistent in F1 dams. The SWV dams crossed with F1 sires were the only group among the backcrosses to show reduction of litter size, providing further confirmation of the increased sensitivity of pure-line (i.e., homozygous) SWV dams to VPA exposure. Fetal weight seems to be a function of uterine environment because female SWV produced conceptuses with lower fetal weight in all crosses, and produced a greater reduction in fetal weight attributable to VPA exposure than C57 or F1 dams. Fetal weight did not correlate closely with litter size, suggesting that a lower fetal weight may be a strain characteristic, as are exencephaly induction and prenatal mortality in response to VPA. Differences in sensitivity to VPA insult are seen for all parameters investigated with SWV dams being the most sensitive, but mechanisms seem to differ for a number of the endpoints.
Out of 84 patients with colchicine poisoning hospitalised between 1966 and 1976, 11 died during the first 72 hours. Amongst the 73 survivors, 20 showed signs of marrow aplasia between the 3rd and 6th days, lasting on average 4 days. The average amount of colchicine ingested by these patients was 0.5 to 0.8mg/5g. Marrow aplasia was associated with: -- infectious episodes in all cases, -- haemorrhage in 50%, -- dilution hyponatraemia in 25% (but in 50 % of patients if those in renal failure are excluded), -- regressive polyneuropathy in 10 % of cases, -- secondary alopoecia in all cases, -- weight loss of more than 10 % of initial weight in 60 %. Two patients died as a result of septicaemia. This mortality rate of 10 per cent despite the brief duration of the aplasia and the absence of underlying haematological disease would appear to be related to the susceptibility of these poisoned patients to endogenous secondary infections, essentially intestinal in origin.
Lithium-induced nephrotic syndrome is a rare complication of lithium therapy and is even rarer in children. Most reported cases have been secondary to minimal change disease, which reverses within 1-4 weeks on discontinuation of lithium therapy. However, focal glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) has occasionally been reported and is not always reversible with discontinuation of lithium. We report an 11-year-old child with lithium-induced FSGS nephrotic syndrome who went into full remission after lithium was discontinued.
Postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) are among the most common complications in operative medicine. Especially patients undergoing middle ear surgery or stapedectomy are frequently suffering from PONV. On the other hand vertigo might be a symptom of an operative complication. For symptomatic therapy a various number of different drugs is available.
We describe the clinical course of a 25-years-old female patient, who presented with massive orofacial tardive dsykinesia after therapy with metoclopramide (MCP). She had stapedectomy in general anaesthesia and suffered from PONV. The dyskinesia was treated successfully with Biperiden 5 mg i. v.
Tardive dyskinesia is a potential and in rare cases irreversible complication of MCP-therapy. The efficiacy of MCP is in controversy. Studies with 5-HT3-antagonists like Ondansetron or neuroleptics like Droperidol show good results in PONV especially after middle ear surgery.
Tardive dyskinesia is a rare but possible drug-related adverse effect of MCP. After review of the literature we can not recommend MCP as an antiemetic drug in PONV.
In an inbred Iraqi Jewish family, we have studied three siblings with presenile cataract first noticed between the ages of 20 and 51 years and segregating in an autosomal recessive mode. Using microsatellite repeat markers in close proximity to 25 genes and loci previously associated with congenital cataracts in humans and mice, we identified five markers on chromosome 19q that cosegregated with the disease. Sequencing of LIM2, one of two candidate genes in this region, revealed a homozygous T-->G change resulting in a phenylalanine-to-valine substitution at position 105 of the protein. To our knowledge, this constitutes the first report, in humans, of cataract formation associated with a mutation in LIM2. Studies of late-onset single-gene cataracts may provide insight into the pathogenesis of the more common age-related cataracts.
The aim of the study was to compare the efficacies of telavancin and vancomycin against glycopeptide-intermediate Staphylococcus aureus (GISA) and heterogeneous vancomycin-intermediate S. aureus (hVISA) in a neutropenic murine bacteraemia model.
Immunocompromised mice (female non-Swiss albino, 18-30 g) were inoculated intraperitoneally with 10(7) cfu/mL of GISA (strain HIP-5836 or Mu50) or hVISA (strain Mu3). Infected mice received a subcutaneous dose of telavancin (40 mg/kg) or vancomycin (110 mg/kg) at 4 and 16 h post-inoculation. Control animals received a subcutaneous dose of vehicle at 4 h post-inoculation only. Blood and spleen bacterial titres were quantified in drug-treated mice at 16, 28 and 52 h post-inoculation.
Telavancin was 8-fold more potent than vancomycin against HIP-5836 (MIC 1 versus 8 mg/L), 16-fold more potent against Mu50 (MIC 0.5 versus 8 mg/L) and 8-fold more potent against Mu3 (MIC 0.25 versus 2 mg/L). Telavancin produced significant (P < 0.05) and sustained reductions in blood and spleen titres from pre-treatment levels in mice infected with HIP-5836, Mu50 or Mu3. Vancomycin lowered blood and spleen HIP-5836 counts transiently, but did not lower blood or spleen Mu50 or Mu3 counts significantly at any timepoint. Reductions in blood and spleen HIP-5836 and Mu3 titres and in spleen Mu50 titres at 52 h post-inoculation were significantly greater with telavancin than vancomycin (P < 0.05).
Telavancin was more efficacious than vancomycin in clearing infections caused by GISA strains HIP-5836 and Mu50 and hVISA strain Mu3 in a neutropenic mouse bacteraemia model. Further evaluation of telavancin for GISA and hVISA bacteraemia is warranted.
The anticarcinogenic/antioxidant potential of sodium selenite (Se), a micronutrient, was evaluated on liver tumourigenesis induced by N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN) and promoted by phenobarbital (PB; 0.05% in diet). Male, albino rats of the Wistar strain were exposed intravenously to a single dose of DEN (200 mg x kg(-1) body weight). Se (4 ppm in drinking water) was supplemented before initiation, or during initiation and/or during the promotion period of carcinogenesis. At the end of 16 weeks (after DEN administration) nodular incidence, the total number of nodules and non-enzymic antioxidants such as vitamin E, vitamin C, total thiol, protein thiol and non-protein thiol contents were measured in hepatoma, surrounding tissue and kidney tissue of control and experimental groups. In hepatoma-bearing animals the above biochemical changes were decreased when compared with normal control animals. On Se treatment throughout the study, (20 weeks) the above biochemical changes reverted to normal levels. Pre- and post-treatment with Se also shows a tendency to reverse the above changes. The results indicate that prior application of Se significantly reverses the adverse changes produced during the tumourigenesis. Furthermore, prior applications of Se significantly reduced the cumulative number of tumours per tumour-bearing animals. The present study reveals the antitumour potential of Se against DEN-induced liver carcinogenesis.
Endogenous agonists of transient receptor potential vanilloid-1 (TRPV1) (endovanilloids) are implicated as mediators of lung injury during inflammation. This study tested the hypothesis that endovanilloids produced following lipopolysaccharide (LPS) treatment activate TRPV1 and cause endoplasmic reticulum stress/GADD153 expression in lung cells, representing a mechanistic component of lung injury. The TRPV1 agonist nonivamide induced GADD153 expression and caused cytotoxicity in immortalized and primary human bronchial, bronchiolar/alveolar, and microvascular endothelial cells, proportional to TRPV1 mRNA expression. In CF-1 mice, Trpv1 mRNA was most abundant in the alveoli, and intratracheal nonivamide treatment promoted Gadd153 expression in the alveolar region. Treatment of CF-1 mice with LPS increased Gadd153 in the lung, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid, and lung wet-to-dry weight ratio. Cotreating mice with LPS and the TRPV1 antagonist LJO-328 reduced Gadd153 induction and LDH in BAL but did not inhibit increases in lung wet-to-dry ratio. In Trpv1(-/-) mice treated with LPS, Gadd153 induction and LDH in BAL were reduced relative to wild-type mice, and the wet-to-dry weight ratios of lungs from both wild-type and Trpv1(-/-) mice decreased. Organic extracts of blood collected from LPS-treated mice were more cytotoxic to TRPV1-overexpressing cells compared with BEAS-2B cells and extracts from control mice, however, most pure endovanilloids did not produce cytotoxicity in a characteristic TRPV1-dependent manner. Collectively, these data indicate a role for TRPV1, and endogenous TRPV1 agonists, in ER stress and cytotoxicity in lung cells but demonstrate that ER stress and cytotoxicity are not essential for pulmonary edema.
A simple test was devised to identify people susceptible to chlorpropamide-alcohol flushing (CPAF). Subjects were given a placebo tablet, followed by sherry 12 and 36 hours later. They then received a chlorpropamide tablet and sherry again after 12 and 36 hours. This single-dose challenge test was given to non-insulin-dependent diabetics, insulin-dependent diabetics, and normal subjects. CPAF was common in the non-insulin-dependent diabetics but rare in the other groups. When the test was used in identical twins and families of affected subjects CPAF appeared to be a dominantly inherited trait. We conclude that facial flushing after alcohol in people taking chlorpropamide is related to non-insulin-dependent diabetes, especially when there is a strong family history of diabetes, but not to insulin-dependent diabetes. It is a dominantly inherited trait.
Inorganic arsenic (As) is a human carcinogen but has not been unequivocally proven carcinogenic in rodents. For instance, one older study indicates that repeated iv injections of sodium arsenate might induce lymphomas in Swiss mice (58% incidence) (Osswald and Goerttler, Verh. Dtsch. Ges. Pathol. 55, 289-293, 1971), but it was considered inadequate for critical evaluation of carcinogenic potential largely because of issues in experimental design. Therefore, we studied repeated iv sodium arsenate injection and neoplastic response in male and female Swiss mice. Groups (n = 25) of mice received sodium arsenate (0.5 mg/kg, iv) or saline (control) once/week for 20 weeks and were observed for a total of 96 weeks when the study ended. Differences in survival and body weights were unremarkable. In females, arsenate induced marked increases in the incidence and severity of cystic hyperplasia of the uterus compared against controls. Arsenate also was associated with a rare adenocarcinoma of the uterus. Hyperplastic uterine epithelium from arsenate-exposed animals showed strong positive immunostaining for the proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). There was also an upregulation of estrogen receptor (ER) immunoreactive protein in the early lesions of uterine luminal and glandular hyperplasia, although a progressive decrease in its expression was seen in the severe hyperplastic or neoplastic epithelium. In common with the preneoplastic and neoplastic gynecological lesions in humans, the levels of immunoreactive inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and 3-nitrotyrosine-containing proteins were greater in the uterine hyperplastic epidermis and their intensity was positively correlated with the severity of the lesions. Arsenate-induced uterine hyperplastic lesions also showed a strong upregulation of cyclin D1, an estrogen-associated gene product essential for progression through the G1 phase of the cell cycle. In other tissues, arsenate increased testicular interstitial cell hyperplasia incidence and severity over control but without affecting the incidence of tubular degeneration. Arsenate also induced increases in hepatic proliferative lesions (HPL; foci of alteration + neoplasia), but only in females. Significant skin changes (incidence of hyperkeratotic lesions) and renal lesions (severity of nephropathy) also occurred in arsenate-treated females. Thus, repeated arsenate exposure, though not outright tumorigenic in the present study, was associated with proliferative, preneoplastic lesions of the uterus, testes, and liver. Estrogen treatment has been associated with proliferative lesions and tumors of the uterus, female liver, and testes in other studies, supporting a hypothesis that arsenate might somehow act through an estrogenic mode of action.
The sigma1 (sigma1) receptor constitutes a particular target of cocaine believed to be involved in some of its behavioral effects. In the present study, its involvement in the rewarding effect of cocaine was examined using the conditioned place preference (CPP) procedure. CPP was induced in C57Bl/6 mice injected repeatedly with cocaine (20 mg/kg, i.p.). The selective sigma1 receptor antagonists NE-100 and BD1047 (1-10 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly attenuated or blocked the cocaine-induced CPP. Animals treated centrally with a sigma1 receptor antisense oligodeoxynucleotide failed to develop cocaine-induced CPP, unlike mismatch controls. The sigma1 receptor thus appears to be critically involved in the development of the cocaine-induced CPP and, in consequence, may constitute a promising approach to blocking cocaine reward.
The single-challenge test for chlorpropamide-alcohol flushing (CPAF) was used to study two groups of patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes and a family history of the disease who were distinguished only by their age at diagnosis (under and over 30). Their relatives were also studied. The proportions of patients showing CPAF in both groups were similar, and the family histories suggested dominant inheritance. When offspring of diabetics in whom the disease was diagnosed early were studied CPAF seemed to precede the appearance of diabetes. We conclude that the patients in both groups had the same, distinct syndrome, which is characterised by diabetes diagnosed at any age that is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait and associated with CPAF. This syndrome, which constitutes about one-fifth of all cases of non-insulin-dependent diabetes, may be detected with a single-challenge CPAF test before the onset of glucose intolerance. CPAF therefore acts as a genetic marker for the syndrome.
To determine whether pesticide methoxychlor (MXC) alters sexual arousal in male offspring, pregnant ICR mice remained untreated or received daily subcutaneous injections (s.c.) of olive oil, 33.0 mg/kg bw purified (95%) MXC, or 0.33 mg/kg bw estradiol-173 in vehicle on Days 5 to 7 of pregnancy. Live births were recorded in all groups except the estradiol group. At 4 months, untreated or olive oil-treated male offspring exhibited normal sexual arousal. When placed near a plastic partition with an estrus female behind it, these males spent significantly more time near the partition than near a vacant half of the cage and exhibited a sharp increase in plasma testosterone. MXC-exposed males showed no sexual arousal, spent much less time near the partition with an estrus female, and exhibited significantly lower plasma testosterone levels. Exposure to purified MXC close to implantation alters the function of the hypothalamic-pituitary-testicular axis and compromises male sexual behavior in offspring.
Sirolimus has been shown to inhibit vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation and migration. Stents coated with a mixture of polymer and active drug achieved near total inhibition of neointimal hyperplasia in patients with de novo coronary lesions. Larger, randomized trials confirmed these initial results to a large extent; late luminal loss was not only reduced by > 70% in patients with type A lesions, but also in complex situations such as diabetic patients, long lesions, and small vessels < 2.5 mm. Registries containing several thousand patients, however, indicate that under realistic conditions the flawless results of the initial studies could not be reproduced in all patient groups.
Resveratrol has several beneficial effects, including reductions of oxidative stress, inflammatory responses and apoptosis. It has been known that resveratrol is a sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) activator and protective effects of resveratrol are mediated by Akt and mitogen-activated protein kinases. However, it is not examined whether these pathways are regulated by resveratrol in the ischemic brain. Previously, we found that acute resveratrol treatment reduces brain injury induced by transient focal ischemic stroke. In the present study, we defined the signaling pathways modulated by resveratrol in ischemia by examining SIRT1 expression and phosphorylation of Akt, ERK1/2 and p38 in the ischemic cortex. Resveratrol increased expression of SIRT1 and phosphorylation of Akt and p38 but inhibited the increase in phosphorylation of ERK1/2. Gene and protein levels of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ coactivator 1α, a downstream molecule of SIRT1, and mRNA levels of its target genes antioxidative superoxide dismutase 2 and uncoupling protein 2 were elevated. Resveratrol also increased phosphorylation of cyclic AMP-response-element-binding protein and transcription of the anti-apoptotic gene Bcl-2. These results suggest that various neuroprotective actions of resveratrol, including anti-oxidative, anti-apoptotic and inflammatory effects, are mediated via modulation of multiple signaling pathways in the ischemic brain.
Common food irritants elicit oral heat or cool sensations via actions at thermosensitive transient receptor potential (TRP) channels. We used a half-tongue, 2-alternative forced-choice procedure coupled with bilateral pain intensity ratings to investigate irritant effects on heat and cold pain. The method was validated in a bilateral thermal difference detection task. Capsaicin, mustard oil, and cinnamaldehyde enhanced lingual heat pain elicited by a 49 degrees C stimulus. Mustard oil and cinnamaldehyde weakly enhanced lingual cold pain (9.5 degrees C), whereas capsaicin had no effect. Menthol significantly enhanced cold pain and weakly reduced heat pain. To address if capsaicin's effect was due to summation of perceptually similar thermal and chemical sensations, one-half of the tongue was desensitized by application of capsaicin. Upon reapplication, capsaicin elicited little or no irritant sensation yet still significantly enhanced heat pain on the capsaicin-treated side, ruling out summation. In a third experiment, capsaicin significantly enhanced pain ratings to graded heat stimuli (47 degrees C to 50 degrees C) resulting in an upward shift of the stimulus-response function. Menthol may induce cold hyperalgesia via enhanced thermal gating of TRPM8 in peripheral fibers. Capsaicin, mustard oil, and cinnamaldehyde may induce heat hyperalgesia via enhanced thermal gating of TRPV1 that is coexpressed with TRPA1 in peripheral nociceptors.
This study investigated the effects of hyperoxic treatment on growth, angiogenesis, apoptosis, general morphology and gene expression in DMBA-induced rat mammary tumors.
One group of animals was exposed to normobaric hyperoxia (1 bar, pO2 = 1.0 bar) and another group was exposed to hyperbaric hyperoxia (1.5 bar, pO2 = 1.5 bar). A third group was treated with the commonly used chemotherapeutic drug 5- Fluorouracil (5-FU), whereas animals housed under normal atmosphere (1 bar, pO2 = 0.2 bar) served as controls. All treatments were performed on day 1, 4, 7 and 10 for 90 min. Tumor growth was calculated from caliper measurements. Biological effects of the treatment, was determined by assessment of vascular morphology (immunostaining for von Willebrandt factor) and apoptosis (TUNEL staining). Detailed gene expression profiles were obtained and verified by quantitative rtPCR.
Tumor growth was significantly reduced (~57-66 %) after hyperoxic treatment compared to control and even more than 5-FU (~36 %). Light microscopic observations of the tumor tissue showed large empty spaces within the tissue after hyperoxic treatment, probably due to loss of glands as indicated by a strong down-regulation of glandular secretory proteins. A significant reduction in mean vascular density (30-50%) was found after hyperoxic treatment. Furthermore, increased apoptosis (18-21%) was found after hyperoxic treatment.
Thus, by increasing the pO2 in mammary tumor tissue using normobaric and moderate hyperbaric oxygen therapy, a significant retardation in tumor growth is achieved, by loss of glands, reduction in vascular density and enhanced cell death. Hyperbaric oxygen should therefore be further evaluated as a tumor treatment.
Recent reports suggest the involvement of free radicals in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease [AD]. Streptozotocin [STZ] injection in the brain is known to cause cognitive impairment in rats and is likened to sporadic AD in humans. Though STZ is known to cause impairment in glucose and energy metabolism, it is not known whether this is associated with free radical generation. The present study was designed to investigate if the changes in learning and memory by intracerebroventricular administration of STZ are associated with changes in the markers of oxidative stress. Adult male Wistar rats [330-340 g] were injected with intracerebroventricular STZ [3 mg/kg] bilaterally stereotaxically under ketamine anesthesia [70 mg/kg]. The rats were treated with STZ twice, on day 1 and on day 3. The learning and memory behavior was analyzed using passive avoidance paradigms, elevated plus maze and the closed field activity test while the parameters of oxidative stress assessed were malondialdehyde [MDA] and glutathione. The behavioral tests were performed on day 17, 18 and 19. The rats developed significant deficits in learning, memory and cognitive behavior, indicated by deficits in passive avoidance paradigm and elevated plus maze as compared to sham rats. On day 21, the rats were sacrificed under ether anesthesia and the brains were analyzed for biochemical studies. There was a development of oxidative stress in the brain as indicated by significant elevations in malondialdehyde [MDA] levels and decreased levels of glutathione. The study demonstrates that intracerebroventricular STZ may be appropriate model for investigations of antioxidants as potential treatment in Alzheimer's dementia.
Similar movement disorders developed in two 8-year-old retarded children while they were receiving phenytoin. Seizures subsequent to a diphtheria-pertussis-tetanus immunization had developed in each child at 1 to 2 months of age. A static encephalopathy ensued, characterized by mental retardation, ataxia, spasticity, and a mixed seizure disorder. Intermittent dystonia and choreoathetosis developed insidiously while serum phenytoin concentrations were in the therapeutic range. Sustained dystonia and choreoatheosis developed 2 hours after an oral provocation with phenytoin. The baseline abnormalities on the electroencephalogram remained unchanged during the choreoathetosis. Recognizable metabolic abnormalities known to be associated with similar movement disorders were excluded. It was concluded from these studies that the movement disorder is secondary to phenytoin and can occur at therapeutic serum concentrations. Phenytoin is a central anticholinergic agent and a central stimulant of serotonin, and may induce movement disorders as a result of altering these neurotransmitters in the brain. The variable expression of these movement disorders may relate to the nature of the preexisting striatal insult.
We report a patient with sotalol-induced torsades de pointes episodes that did not respond to magnesium and amiodarone. Electrical defibrillation totaling 15,120 joules had to be applied. However, torsades de pointes episodes could be brought under control only after the induction of general anesthesia with pentothal.
