Mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene result in defective epithelial cAMP-dependent Cl(-) secretion and increased airway Na(+) absorption. The mechanistic links between these altered ion transport processes and the pathogenesis of cystic fibrosis lung disease, however, are unclear. To test the hypothesis that accelerated Na(+) transport alone can produce cystic fibrosis-like lung disease, we generated mice with airway-specific overexpression of epithelial Na(+) channels (ENaC). Here we show that increased airway Na(+) absorption in vivo caused airway surface liquid (ASL) volume depletion, increased mucus concentration, delayed mucus transport and mucus adhesion to airway surfaces. Defective mucus transport caused a severe spontaneous lung disease sharing features with cystic fibrosis, including mucus obstruction, goblet cell metaplasia, neutrophilic inflammation and poor bacterial clearance. We conclude that increasing airway Na(+) absorption initiates cystic fibrosis-like lung disease and produces a model for the study of the pathogenesis and therapy of this disease.
The prognosis of pancreatic adenocarcinoma is poor and current treatment is for the most part ineffective. We describe here a novel treatment strategy using a mouse model system for pancreatic cancer. Human embryonic epithelial cells have been genetically modified to express the cytochrome P450 2B1 enzyme under the control of a CMV immediate-early promoter. This CYP2B1 gene converts oxazaphosphorines (ifosfamide or cyclophosphamide) to their active cytotoxic compounds, phosphoramide mustard, which alkylates DNA, and acrolein, which alkylates proteins. A number of assays were performed to demonstrate the CYP2B1 gene function as well as toxic effects on neighbouring cells (bystander effect). The cells were then encapsulated in a cellulose sulphate formulation shown to be well tolerated in the pancreas of immunocompetent mice, and injected 1 cm away from pre-established tumours derived from a human pancreatic tumour cell line (PaCa-44). Intraperitoneal administration of low-dose ifosfamide to tumour bearing mice that received the encapsulated cells results in partial or even complete tumour ablation. Such an in situ chemotherapy strategy utilizing genetically modified cells in an immunoprotected environment may prove useful for solid tumour therapy in man.
Catecholamine-induced cardiomyopathy has been recognized for decades. We present the case of a 21-year-old female referred for an electrophysiologic (EP) study who underwent an infusion of isoproterenol and epinephrine in an attempt to unmask an ectopic atrial tachycardia. Prior to leaving the study suite, the patient started complaining of chest pain and shortness of breath. Bedside echocardiography revealed a severely depressed left ventricular ejection fraction (EF) of 25-30% with basal-mid left ventricular cavity hypokinesis, but normal apical wall motion. Her coronary angiography was normal. Repeat echocardiography 48 hours post EP study revealed a normally contracting LV with an ejection fraction of 55-60%. Our case illustrates an interesting clinical setting of acute catecholamine-induced cardiomyopathy. Takotsubo syndrome has been classically attributed to an intense emotional or physical stress resulting in excessive serum catecholamine levels causing apical hypokinesis and sparing of basal left ventricular function. This case is felt to represent an uncommon presentation of takotsubo cardiomyopathy occurring during an EP study triggered by iatrogenic catecholamine excess and manifesting with mid-ventricular wall hypokinesis.
Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is routinely performed in patients with non-ST elevation acute coronary syndromes after pretreatment with clopidogrel and periprocedural administration of unfractionated heparin on a weight-adjusted basis. Although activated clotting time (ACT) monitoring is encouraged to verify the adequacy of anticoagulation during the procedures, this is not a common practice in many laboratories. The authors describe 4 cases of patients with bifurcation lesions involving the left anterior descending coronary artery, who developed periprocedural thrombosis with acute transmural ischemia. All patients had inadequate ACT measurements, despite conventional heparin dosage and ongoing clopidogrel treatment. In order to achieve complete anticoagulation, patients were switched to bivalirudin, which determined a prompt effect on measured ACT. This therapeutic regimen, coupled with further intervention, allowed resolution of the thrombotic complication without bleeding. This report suggests the feasibility of a strategy of bivalirudin use in patients who have some degree of heparin 'resistance' in the setting of complicated PCI.
The tolerance and prolactin (PRL) release-inhibiting action of the 8 alpha-aminoergoline, mesurlergine, were investigated. In a blind crossover study in six subjects with hyperprolactinemia, 0.5 mg mesulergine induced fewer side effects than did 2.5 mg bromocriptine, while the PRL release-inhibiting effect of the two was of the same order. Six different subjects with suspected PRL-secreting pituitary adenomas who (repeatedly) had to discontinue bromocriptine because of nausea, vomiting, or symptoms of orthostatic hypotension were treated for 20 mo with mesulergine (1 to 2 mg/day). Mesulergine did not induce side effects and its actions resembled those of bromocriptine. Mesulergine induced cessation of galactorrhea and resumption of normal menstrual cycles in five subjects, while in one subject an insufficient luteal phase persisted. No abnormalities in routine blood parameter estimations were observed. In two of three subjects there was shrinkage of a pituitary tumor after 12 to 15 mo on mesulergine. Mesulergine did not directly inhibit PRL release by cultured normal rat pituitary cells and human prolactinoma cells and it antagonized the action of dopamine in a dose-dependent manner. This suggests that the dopaminergic action is carried out by a metabolite of mesulergine, while the parent drug probably prevents the well-known side effects of dopamine-agonistic drugs by its dopamine receptor blocking activity. Because of its acceptability, mesulergine might be important in the treatment of hyperprolactinemia and perhaps also of acromegaly and Parkinson's disease.
Hypertension is associated with endothelial dysfunction that is attributable to oxidative stress and a proinflammatory state. Under these conditions, enhanced expression of cyclooxygenase-2 might lead to increased production of vasoconstrictor prostanoids and reactive oxygen species that reduce the bioavailability of endothelium-derived nitric oxide. To investigate the contribution of cyclooxygenase-2 activity to endothelial dysfunction in human hypertension, we evaluated brachial artery vasodilator function by ultrasound in 29 hypertensive patients before and after treatment with the selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor celecoxib or placebo in a randomized, double-blind study. Brachial artery flow-mediated dilation improved from a baseline of 7.9+/-4.5% to 9.9+/-5.1% (P=0.005) 3 hours after the first dose and to 10.1+/-6.1% (P=0.006) after 1 week of treatment with celecoxib. In contrast, placebo treatment had no significant effect on flow-mediated dilation (8.1+/-4.4%, 8.3+/-3.5%, and 8.0+/-3.2%, respectively). Neither treatment altered nitroglycerin-mediated dilation, extent of reactive hyperemia, or baseline arterial diameter. Celecoxib treatment had no significant effect on the urinary concentrations of F2 isoprostane or thromboxane metabolites. However, urinary concentrations of the prostacyclin metabolite 2,3-dinor-6-ketoprostglandin F1alpha were significantly lower after 1 week of celecoxib treatment. Thus, cyclooxygenase-2 products contribute to endothelial dysfunction in hypertension, and treatment with a cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor could have a beneficial effect in this setting. However, cyclooxygenase-2 inhibition also has an adverse effect on prostacyclin production that could promote thrombosis, and the net clinical consequences of improved endothelial function versus loss of prostacyclin merits further investigation.
Chromium and cysteine supplementation have been shown to improve glucose metabolism in animal studies. This study examined the hypothesis that chromium dinicocysteinate (CDNC), a complex of chromium and l-cysteine, is beneficial in lowering oxidative stress, vascular inflammation, and glycemia in type 2 diabetic subjects.
Type 2 diabetic subjects enrolled in this study were given placebo for 1 month for stabilization and then randomized into one of three groups: placebo (P), chromium picolinate (CP), or CDNC, after which they received daily oral supplementation for 3 months. Of the 100 patients enrolled in the study, 74 patients completed it. There were 25 patients in the P supplemented group, 25 in the CP supplemented and 24 in the CDNC supplemented group who completed the study. Blood markers of glycemia, vascular inflammation, HOMA insulin resistance, and oxidative stress were determined at randomization and after 3 months of supplementation with P, CP, or CDNC. There was a significant decrease at 3 months in insulin resistance (p = 0.02) and in the levels of protein oxidation (p = 0.02) and TNF-α (p = 0.01) in the CDNC supplemented cohort compared to baseline. However, there was no statistically significant change in these markers in the CP supplemented group compared to baseline. Insulin levels significantly decreased (p = 0.01) for subjects receiving CDNC but not CP. There was no significant impact of supplementation on HbA(1c) or glucose levels in either of the groups.
CDNC supplementation lowers insulin resistance by reducing blood levels of TNF-α, insulin, and oxidative stress in type 2 diabetic subjects. Therefore, CDNC supplementation has potential as an adjunct therapy for individuals with type 2 diabetes.
Combined irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) formulations are often used clinically. Pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) modeling was applied to investigate the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interaction between irbesartan and HCTZ in renal hypertensive dogs at non-steady-state and steady-state. The renal hypertensive dogs were treated with oral irbesartan alone, or HCTZ alone, or the combination of irbesartan and HCTZ for 8 days. Blood pressure and plasma concentrations were measured and pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic parameters were analyzed. Irbesartan showed a two-compartment model pharmacokinetic profile. The concentration-time course of irbesartan was not changed by HCTZ, but irbesartan increased the peak plasma concentration and area under the curve of HCTZ at steady-state. HCTZ had no blood pressure lowering effect at non-steady-state. Irbesartan plus HCTZ had greater blood pressure lowering action than irbesartan alone. HCTZ increased actions of irbesartan. Hysteresis loops were found between effect and plasma concentrations of irbesartan after a single dose. However, hysteresis loops disappeared at steady state with more rapid realization of maximum concentration and effects. The relationship between effects and effect-compartment concentrations of the drugs was represented by a sigmoid Emax model. The results suggest synergistic pharmacodynamic interaction between irbesartan and HCTZ in renal hypertensive dogs and some differences of pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic properties between irbesartan and irbesartan/HCTZ combinations at non-steady-state and steady state.
Elevated plasma homocysteine (HCy), which results from folate (folic acid, FA) deficiency, and the mood-stabilizing drug lithium (Li) are both linked to the induction of human congenital heart and neural tube defects. We demonstrated previously that acute administration of Li to pregnant mice on embryonic day (E)6.75 induced cardiac valve defects by potentiating Wnt-beta-catenin signaling. We hypothesized that HCy may similarly induce cardiac defects during gastrulation by targeting the Wnt-beta-catenin pathway. Because dietary FA supplementation protects from neural tube defects, we sought to determine whether FA also protects the embryonic heart from Li- or HCy-induced birth defects and whether the protection occurs by impacting Wnt signaling. Maternal elevation of HCy or Li on E6.75 induced defective heart and placental function on E15.5, as identified non-invasively using echocardiography. This functional analysis of HCy-exposed mouse hearts revealed defects in tricuspid and semilunar valves, together with altered myocardial thickness. A smaller embryo and placental size was observed in the treated groups. FA supplementation ameliorates the observed developmental errors in the Li- or HCy-exposed mouse embryos and normalized heart function. Molecular analysis of gene expression within the avian cardiogenic crescent determined that Li, HCy or Wnt3A suppress Wnt-modulated Hex (also known as Hhex) and Islet-1 (also known as Isl1) expression, and that FA protects from the gene misexpression that is induced by all three factors. Furthermore, myoinositol with FA synergistically enhances the protective effect. Although the specific molecular epigenetic control mechanisms remain to be defined, it appears that Li or HCy induction and FA protection of cardiac defects involve intimate control of the canonical Wnt pathway at a crucial time preceding, and during, early heart organogenesis.
We investigated two siblings with granulomatous histiocytosis prominent in the nasal area, mimicking rhinoscleroma and Rosai-Dorfman syndrome. Genome-wide linkage analysis and whole-exome sequencing identified a homozygous frameshift deletion in SLC29A3, which encodes human equilibrative nucleoside transporter-3 (hENT3). Germline mutations in SLC29A3 have been reported in rare patients with a wide range of overlapping clinical features and inherited disorders including H syndrome, pigmented hypertrichosis with insulin-dependent diabetes, and Faisalabad histiocytosis. With the exception of insulin-dependent diabetes and mild finger and toe contractures in one sibling, the two patients with nasal granulomatous histiocytosis studied here displayed none of the many SLC29A3-associated phenotypes. This mild clinical phenotype probably results from a remarkable genetic mechanism. The SLC29A3 frameshift deletion prevents the expression of the normally coding transcripts. It instead leads to the translation, expression, and function of an otherwise noncoding, out-of-frame mRNA splice variant lacking exon 3 that is eliminated by nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD) in healthy individuals. The mutated isoform differs from the wild-type hENT3 by the modification of 20 residues in exon 2 and the removal of another 28 amino acids in exon 3, which include the second transmembrane domain. As a result, this new isoform displays some functional activity. This mechanism probably accounts for the narrow and mild clinical phenotype of the patients. This study highlights the 'rescue' role played by a normally noncoding mRNA splice variant of SLC29A3, uncovering a new mechanism by which frameshift mutations can be hypomorphic.
The incidence and pathogenesis of withdrawal phenomena with the centrally acting drugs clonidine (CLON) and tiamenidine (TIAM) were evaluated. Thirty subjects with hypertension on hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) were randomized to TIAM or CLON. Blood pressure and integrated plasma catecholamine levels fell equally in response to both drugs. On withdrawal, blood pressure and pulse rose in both groups with no difference between them. Three subjects had symptoms of withdrawal, four had blood pressure overshoot above pretreatment levels of 10 mm Hg or more, and eight had a rise in blood pressure of 30 mm Hg systolic or 20 mm Hg diastolic. There was no difference between TIAM and CLON in these effects. There was a direct correlation between blood pressure rise and increase in integrated plasma norepinephrine levels. We conclude that the incidence of withdrawal phenomena in subjects on TIAM or CLON is infrequent and that there is a direct relationship between the rise in blood pressure and the loss of suppression of catecholamines by these drugs.
The objective of this study was to ascertain the effect of dehydroepiandrosterone-sulphate (DHEA-S) on changes of anxiety level, induced by corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) injection. Active and passive rats were selected from Wistar rats on the basis of T-maze testing. Active rats were then divided into the groups with high (HA) and low anxiety (LA) level after testing in elevated-plus maze. Intranasal injection of CRH induced increase of anxiety level in the LA rats, while in HA rats it remained unchanged. DHEA-S exerted a moderate anxiolytic effect on the LA rats and sedative effect--on the HA rats. DHEA-S injection had no effect on anxiety level in passive rats that typically demonstrate high level of trait-anxiety and resistance to CRH. These results suggest that DHEA-S effect depends on the individual psycho-emotional status and responsiveness to CRH.
Emerging data indicate that gut-derived endotoxin may contribute to low-grade systemic inflammation in insulin resistant states. This study aimed to examine the importance of serum endotoxin and inflammatory markers in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) patients, with and without type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), and to explore the effect of treatment with a lipase inhibitor, Orlistat, on their inflammatory status.
Fasted serum from 155 patients with biopsy proven NAFLD and 23 control subjects were analysed for endotoxin, soluble CD14 (sCD14), soluble tumour necrosis factor receptor II (sTNFRII) and various metabolic parameters. A subgroup of NAFLD patients were re-assessed 6 and 12 months after treatment with diet alone (n = 6) or diet plus Orlistat (n = 8).
Endotoxin levels were significantly higher in patients with NAFLD compared with controls (NAFLD: 10.6(7.8, 14.8) EU/mL; controls: 3.9(3.2, 5.2) EU/mL, p < 0.001); NAFLD alone produced comparable endotoxin levels to T2DM (NAFLD: T2DM: 10.6(5.6, 14.2) EU/mL; non-diabetic: 10.6(8.5, 15.2) EU/mL), whilst a significant correlation between insulin resistance and serum endotoxin was observed (r = 0.27, p = 0.008). Both sCD14 (p < 0.01) and sTNFRII (p < 0.001) increased with severity of fibrosis. A positive correlation was also noted between sTNFRII and sCD14 in the NAFLD subjects (r = 0.29, p = 0.004).Sub-cohort treatment with Orlistat in patients with NAFLD showed significant decreases in ALT (p = 0.006), weight (p = 0.005) and endotoxin (p = 0.004) compared with the NAFLD, non-Orlistat treated control cohort at 6 and 12 months post therapy, respectively.
Endotoxin levels were considerably increased in NAFLD patients, with marked increases noted in early stage fibrosis compared with controls. These results suggest elevated endotoxin may serve as an early indicator of potential liver damage, perhaps negating the need for invasive liver biopsy. As endotoxin may promote insulin resistance and inflammation, interventions aimed at reducing endotoxin levels in NAFLD patients may prove beneficial in reducing inflammatory burden.
17 alpha-hydroxylase deficiency is a rare form of congenital abnormality in steroid synthesis, usually associated with moderate arterial hypertension and suppression of the renin-angiotensin system in a young adult. We report on a 45 years old woman with malignant hypertension (220/135 mmHg, severe retinopathy with papilledema, progressive renal insufficiency with serum creatinine over 300 mumol/l) of recent onset. Biological exploration revealed a metabolic alkalosis, a moderate hypokalemia (3 mmol/l), with elevated urinary excretion of potassium. Plasma aldosterone concentration (33 ng/dl) and plasma renin activity (17 ng/ml/h) were elevated. Acute captopril administration was followed by a marked (-29 p. 100) decrease in mean arterial pressure. In this 46 XX patient, a primary amenorrhea had never been explored; clinical examination disclosed the absence of female secondary sex characteristics. Plasma cortisol was low (203 mmol/l) as were plasma androgens (testosterone 0.55, androstene dione 0.19, delta HEA less than 0.1 nmol/l respectively) and oestrogens (oestradiol 59 nmol/l). Elevated levels of progesterone and pregnenolone sulfate (12.1 and 2027 nmol/l respectively) contrasted with decreased levels of 17 OH progesterone (0.35 nmol/l). Computed tomography revealed a subnormal right adrenal gland and a pseudo-tumoral aspect on the left side. Treatment with dexamethasone and combined antihypertensive drugs (captopril, nifedipine and atenolol) resulted in normalisation of blood pressure and secretion of renin and aldosterone but renal function did not fully recovered. Thus, the hypertension of 17 alpha-hydroxylase deficiency can follow a malignant course in association with a marked activation of the renin-angiotensin system.
Obesity is the most common health problem in developed countries. Recently, several physicians' organizations have issued recommendations for treating obesity to family physicians, including instructions in nutrition, physical activity and medications. The aim of this study was to examine if effective weight-reducing treatment can be given by a family physician. It compares regular treatment with intensive treatment that include close follow-up and orlistat treatment.
The study was conducted in three primary care clinics. 225 patients were divided into three groups according to their choice. Group A received a personal diet with fortnightly meetings with the family physician and dietitian and orlistat treatment. Group B received a general diet, monthly meetings with the family physician only and orlistat treatment. Group C received a personal diet, monthly meetings with the dietitian only and no drug treatment. The primary endpoint was reduction of at least 5% of the initial weight during the study period.
A greater percentage of patients in group A achieved their weight reduction goals than in other groups (51%, 13% and 9% in groups A, B and C, respectively, p < 0.001). There was a significant reduction in triglycerides in all groups, a significant reduction of low density lipids (LDL) in groups A and B and no significant difference in high density lipids (HDL) in any group.
Significant weight reduction was obtained in a family physician setting. Further research is needed to evaluate if, by providing the family physician with the proper tools, similar success can be achieved in more clinics.
Glufosinate ammonium (GLA) is the active component of herbicides widely used in agriculture, truck farming, or public domains. GLA acts by inhibiting the plant glutamine synthetase (GlnS). It also inhibits mammalian GlnS in vitro and ex vivo. In the central nervous system this enzyme is exclusively localized in glial cells. Whereas acute neurotoxic effects of GLA are well documented, long-term effects during chronic exposure at low doses remain largely undisclosed. In the present work, C57BL/6J mice were treated intraperitoneally with 2.5, 5, and 10 mg/kg of GLA three times a week during 10 weeks. Cerebral magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) experiments were performed at high field (9.4 T) and the images were analyzed with four texture analysis (TA) methods. TA highlighted structural changes in seven brain structures after chronic GLA treatments. Changes are dose dependent and can be seen at a dose as low as 2.5 mg/kg for two areas, namely hippocampus and somatosensorial cortex. Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression in the same seven brain structures and GlnS activity in the hippocampus and cortex areas were also studied. The number of GFAP-positive cells is modified in six out of the seven areas examined. GlnS activity was significantly increased in the hippocampus but not in the cortex. These results indicate some kind of suffering at the cerebral level after chronic GLA treatment. Changes in TA were compared with the modification of the number of GFAP-positive astrocytes in the studied brain areas after GLA treatment. We show that the noninvasive MRI-TA is a sensitive method and we suggest that it would be a very helpful tool that can efficiently contribute to the detection of cerebral alterations in vivo during chronic exposure to xenobiotics.
We investigated the effects of two flavonoids quercetin and dihydroquercetin (DHQ), which have different solubilities and antioxidant capacities, on hemolysis and platelet aggregation in human blood. Exposure of human red blood cells (RBCs) to free radicals generated by 2,2'-azobis(2-amidinopropane) dihydrochloride (AAPH) for 2h resulted in 63.5+/-3.9% hemolysis (vehicle: 0.3+/-0.4%). Pre-incubation of RBCs with lipid-soluble quercetin and water-soluble DHQ for 30min significantly reduced the AAPH-induced hemolysis to 3.6+/-1.5% and 32.5+/-5.6% respectively. In contrast, quercetin and DHQ were similarly effective in reducing phospholipase C-induced hemolysis (37.2+/-9.1% and 45.4+/-10.0% versus vehicle 75.7+/-5.2%, P<0.001). Pre-incubation with quercetin, but not DHQ, inhibited the aggregation of platelets by adenosine diphosphate. DHQ was more potent than quercetin in inhibiting superoxide produced by xanthine oxidase. These results suggest that the antihemolytic effects of flavonoids may not be directly mediated by removal of free radicals and may likely be due to their interaction with cell membrane.
The aim of this pilot study was to investigate the antiepileptic effects of a novel noninvasive stimulation technique, transcutaneous electrical stimulation (TcES) via scalp concentric ring electrodes, on pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) in rats.
Five minutes after the onset of SE, TcES was administered to the experimental rat via bipolar concentric ring electrode at the CZ location. Symmetrical, biphasic, charge-balanced, constant current, isolated pulses were applied via a custom-made stimulator. TcES parameters ranged from 200-750 Hz, 200 or 300 mus pulse duration, and 50 or 60 mA, applied for 1 min, started with the least intense parameter set and progressively increased.
TcES attenuated electrographic seizure activity and halted the progression of behavioral seizures. Interruption of seizure activity outlasted the period of stimulation and appeared to be long-lasting. TcES treatment significantly extended the life and enhanced the survival of rats after SE.
Noninvasive TcES, applied 5 min after SE onset via novel concentric ring electrodes on the scalp, reduced, or abolished electrographic and behavioral seizure activity in pilocarpine-induced SE in rats. These findings suggest that TcES may have a role in the treatment of SE.
The case of a 57-year-old woman with rheumatoid arthritis is presented to illustrate the rare occurrence of a myasthenic syndrome induced by D-penicillamine, which led to prolonged (5.25-h) postoperative apnoea necessitating artificial ventilation.
The endothelin-1 (ET-1) is known to cause myocardial ischemia; however, whether this effect is entirely dependent on vasoconstriction is uncertain. The aim of this study was to characterize the myocardial ischemia after the intracoronary administration of endothelin-1, and compare it with that induced by coronary stenosis. In the left anterior descending coronary artery of 15 dogs, a mild inflow reduction (30%) was produced for 10 minutes using intracoronary endothelin-1 (46 +/- 33 pmol/min) or coronary stenosis. The hearts were rapidly cross-sectioned at short axial plane and freeze-clamped within 120 milliseconds using a specially developed device to visualize and quantify the area of ischemia (%IA) with NADH fluorescence photography. The %IA was larger in the endothelin-1 group than in the stenosis group (66 +/- 23 versus 18 +/- 18, P = 0.0005); furthermore, the ischemia was transmural in the ET-1 group, but limited to subendocardium in the stenosis group. ET-1 increased the coronary arterial resistance especially in subepicardial region and produced smaller ischemic foci in microcirculation. The mechanism of larger ischemia produced by ET-1 might depend on pro-ischemic effects on myocytes and vasoconstriction of the coronary microcirculation, predominantly in the subepicardium in vivo.
The etiology of hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia in adolescents is similar to that of adults. Patients resistant to medical treatment may undergo pancreatectomy. Diazoxide is the mainstay of medical treatment. Rarely bone marrow suppression is reported due to diazoxide.
An adolescent with severe hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia was referred for pancreatectomy after she was treated with high doses of diazoxide, octreotide and glucose. She developed anemia and febrile neutropenia in the course of diazoxide treatment that resolved with cessation of medication. The cause of the hyperinsulinemia proved to be classical Munchausen by proxy.
This is the first report of bone marrow suppression involving erythroid series by diazoxide. Follow-up of blood count may be considered in patients on high dosages since anemia may be dose dependent. Munchausen by proxy poses a serious threat to children with significant morbidity and mortality. Awareness and a high index of suspicion in clinical settings with unusual causes are the mainstay for the diagnosis.
Calcium channel blockers (CCBs) are widely used in clinical practice, and have been reported to be effective in preventing the progression of atherosclerosis. We examined whether various types of calcium channel blockers affected the expression of ATP binding cassette transporter A1 (ABCA1), a factor contributing to anti-atherogenesis. Undifferentiated monocytic cell line, THP-1 cells were maintained in RPMI 1640 medium and treated with different kinds of calcium channel blockers. Among the calcium channel blockers tested, aranidipine and efonidipine increased ABCA1 protein expression without an increase in ABCA1 mRNA expression, whereas other calcium channel blockers (eg, nifedipine, amlodipine, and nicardipine) or T-type calcium channel blockers (eg, mibefradil and nickel chloride) failed to upregulate ABCA1 expression. H89, a protein kinase A inhibitor inhibited the aranidipine-induced ABCA1 protein expression, whereas genistein (a tyrosine kinase inhibitor), or AG490 (a JAK-2 inhibitor) had no effects. Neither of these inhibitors suppressed the efonidipine-induced ABCA1 protein expression. Intracellular cAMP levels were elevated only by aranidipine, but not by efonidipine. In conclusion, aranidipine and efonidipine have the ability to induce ABCA1 protein by distinct mechanisms; protein kinase A is involved in the aranidipine-induced ABCA1 upregulation. This non-class effect of calcium channel blockers may potentially offer beneficial action in the treatment of hypertensive subjects with atherosclerosis.
A 74-year-old woman with mild dementia became disoriented and developed paranoid delusions when treated with low-dose propranolol. There was no evidence of cardiovascular instability, and the symptoms resolved within a week. Rechallenge with propranolol led to a recurrence of mental status changes.
DNA methylation is a key mechanism for repression of gene expression, including that of α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) gene expression in fibroblasts. However, the trans-acting factors that interact with the methylated α-SMA gene to regulate its expression have not been identified. Using gel shift and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays, methyl CpG binding protein 2 (MeCP2) was shown to bind to the α-SMA gene. Suppression of MeCP2 gene expression by siRNA or its deficiency in lung fibroblasts isolated from MeCP2 knockout mice caused significant reduction of α-SMA gene expression. In contrast, transient transfection of MeCP2 expression plasmid into fibroblasts enhanced α-SMA gene expression. Moreover, in vivo studies revealed that compared to their wild type littermates, MeCP2-deficient mice exhibited significantly decreased alveolar wall thickness, inflammatory cell infiltration, interstitial collagen deposition, and myofibroblast differentiation in response to endotracheal injection of bleomycin. Thus, MeCP2 is essential for myofibroblast differentiation and pulmonary fibrosis.
Mesalazine is a widely prescribed medication, developed as an alternative to sulfasalazine in the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease. In contrast to sulfasalazine, there are only a few case reports on its causing hepatic injury. We here report on a patient with cholestasis after mesalazine therapy for Crohn's disease of the ileum.
The patient, a 30-year-old man, developed clinical signs of severe hepatic injury 4 months after treatment with mesalazine (4 g/day) including biopsy-proven hepatocellular cholestasis with minimal focal mononuclear inflammatory infiltration. Contrary to previous reports, no symptoms of generalized hypersensitivity were seen. The patient's illness was resolved by discontinuing the mesalazine treatment and he recovered completely in 40 days.
This case reinforces the possibility of a causal relationship between mesalazine treatment and toxic hepatic injury without systemic hypersensitivity.
Clozapine is an atypical antipsychotic agent that is effective in refractory schizophrenic patients. Older patients may have various psychotic manifestations that may not be responsive to typical neuroleptic therapy. There may also be patient-specific factors--declines in reserve capacity and homeostasis, and age-related changes in the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of drugs--in older patients that increase their susceptibility to the side effects of psychotropic medications. While clozapine has few extrapyramidal side effects, it has other side effects that may be problematic in the older population.
In our geropsychiatric unit, clozapine was prescribed for four patients over the age of 65 years. All patients were either experiencing psychotic symptoms refractory to other antipsychotic medications or had relative contraindications to a typical neuroleptic. Two of the four were chronic schizophrenics, and three of the four also presented with dementia.
Two of the four patients did eventually receive relief of psychotic symptoms from clozapine. All four experienced events after initiation of clozapine therapy, which included falls (2 patients), symptomatic bradycardia (2 patients), and delirium (1 patient). All these adverse effects occurred on doses ranging from 6.25 to 37.50 mg/day, and the three patients with moderate-to-severe dementia experienced these severe adverse effects after administration of the first dose.
Clozapine may be a useful drug for older patients with psychotic symptoms; however, at current dosage recommendations, adverse events may occur, especially on first dose. Well-designed studies need to be performed to assess the effectiveness and dosage ranges for this population.
1997, sumatriptan-treated migraineurs had significantly higher depression PCRs (22.3%) compared with non-triptan users (19.3%), a difference of 6.4% (95% confidence interval (CI) 4.6-8.4%, P < 0.001). In the year (April 1997 to March 1998) following the launch of the TELs, depression PCRs were significantly higher among patients using these compounds compared with sumatriptan-treated patients (5.1%, CI 1.8-12.0%, P < 0.05). However, after taking account of prior depression (odds ratio (OR) 6.45, 95% CI 3.63-11.43), TELs were not significantly associated with depression (OR 0.27, 95% CI 0.03-2.13). Furthermore, rates of newly diagnosed depression after treatment were similar in the two triptan groups (sumatriptan 4.2%; TELs 3.9%). Although, the TELs are being prescribed to patients with higher pre-existing rates of depression, they are not associated with subsequently increased consulting for depressive illness compared with patients taking sumatriptan. This study highlights the potential to use GPRD to test targeted hypotheses exploring pharmacovigilance issues for patients using new medicines.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are widely used drugs for the treatment of inflammatory disease and have a chemopreventive effect in a variety of tumors. Several studies have demonstrated unequivocally that certain NSAIDs cause antiproliferative effects independent of cyclooxygenase (COX) activity. In this study, we investigated the effect of chemically unrelated NSAIDs in the proliferation of glioma cell lines and the possible mechanisms involved in indomethacin-mediated inhibition of proliferation in glioma cells lines. The glioma cell lines were treated with NSAIDs and proliferation was measured by cell counting. Indomethacin, acetaminophen, sulindac sulfide and NS-398 (N-[2-cyclohexyloxy)-4-nitrophenyl]methane-sulfonamide) induced a time- and concentration-dependent inhibition of C6 rat glioma cell proliferation. The inhibition of COX by chemically unrelated NSAIDs leads to inhibition of rat and human glioma cell proliferation. The tetrazolium reduction assay (MTT) indicated a reduction in cell viability induced by indomethacin. None of the NSAIDs tested induced caspase-3/7 activation, assayed with a fluorigenic substrate. The indomethacin-induced inhibition of C6 cells proliferation was abrogated by the use of the c-Src inhibitor, PP2 and the MEK inhibitor, PD 098059, suggesting COX-independent mechanisms. Indomethacin decreased the percentage of cells in the S phase, with relative increases in the G0/G1 and/or the G2/M phase. NSAIDs may be clinically important for pharmacological intervention in gliomas.
