In this study we establish an animal model of chemotherapy-induced autonomic neuropathy. Rats were injected with vincristine (30 and 100 microg/kg/day) for 2 weeks while cardiovascular parameters were collected telemetrically. Vincristine caused a dose-dependent decrease in vagal activity expressed by decreased parasympathetic parameters of heart rate variability, without expression of damage to the cardiac sympathetic innervation. This model can serve in assessing the potential contribution of chemotherapy-induced vagal neuropathy to morbidity and mortality.
In our previous study, microarray analysis was performed on N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU)-induced forestomach tumors in transgenic mice carrying the human prototype c-Ha-ras gene (ras H2 mice). Ras-MAPK related genes, including the transgene and mouse endogenous ras genes, that are involved in enhanced carcinogenesis were up-regulated in these tumors. In the present study, ras H2 mice received five intraperitoneal injections of 1,000 mg/kg urethane at 2-day intervals. Subsequently, microarray and RT-PCR analyses for the transgene and some molecules involved in the Ras pathway were performed on the induced lung tumors. In the microarray analysis, gene expression profiles of normal lungs and adenomas showed a distinct pattern, and several genes related to the cell cycle and nucleotide metabolism were up-regulated in the adenomas. RT-PCR confirmed the overexpression of the transgene in lung tumors; however, the up-regulation of the mouse endogenous ras genes was not observed. Some genes showed a similar expression pattern in both ENU- and urethane-induced tumors. These results suggest that the overexpression of the transgene plays an important role in the carcinogenesis of both ENU- and urethane-induced tumors in ras H2 mice. The genes that showed a similar expression pattern in both tumors were considered to be the candidate genes responsible for enhanced carcinogenesis.
Seventeen oncological patients reported unpleasant but clinically harmless skin sensations directly after intravenous injection of dexamethasone, persisting for 2-4 minutes. In 16 cases, these paraesthesias (tingling, burning, itching, twinging) occurred in the genital or perineal area. In one case, the symptoms started in this area and then extended over the entire truncus integument for a short period. The cause of this obviously drug-induced side effect is unknown.
The biochemical influence of flavonolignans from the milk thistle Silybum marianum has been tested on kidney cells of African green monkeys. Two nonmalignant cell lines were selected, with the focus of the work on the fibroblast-like Vero line. Proliferation rate, biosynthesis of protein and DNA, and the activity of the enzyme lactate dehydrogenase (as a measure of the cellular metabolic activity) were chosen as parameters for the effect of the flavonolignans. Silibinin and silicristin show remarkable stimulatory effects on these parameters, mainly in Vero cells; however, isosilibinin and silidianin proved to be inactive. In vitro experiments with kidney cells damaged by paracetamol, cisplatin, and vincristin demonstrated that administration of silibinin before or after the chemical-induced injury can lessen or avoid the nephrotoxic effects. The results warrant in vivo evaluations of the flavonolignan derivatives.
Resveratrol exhibits colon cancer prevention activity in animal models; it is purported to have this activity in humans and inhibit a key signaling pathway involved in colon cancer initiation, the Wnt pathway, in vitro.
A phase I pilot study in patients with colon cancer was performed to evaluate the effects of a low dose of plant-derived resveratrol formulation and resveratrol-containing freeze-dried grape powder (GP) on Wnt signaling in the colon. Eight patients were enrolled and normal colonic mucosa and colon cancer tissue were evaluated by Wnt pathway-specific microarray and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) pre- and post-exposure to resveratrol/GP.
Based on the expression of a panel of Wnt target genes, resveratrol/GP did not inhibit the Wnt pathway in colon cancer but had significant (p < 0.03) activity in inhibiting Wnt target gene expression in normal colonic mucosa. The greatest effect on Wnt target gene expression was seen following ingestion of 80 g of GP per day (p < 0.001). These results were confirmed with qRT-PCR of cyclinD1 and axinII. The inhibitory effect of GP on Wnt signal throughput was confirmed in vitro with a normal colonic mucosa-derived cell line.
These data suggest that GP, which contains low dosages of resveratrol in combination with other bioactive components, can inhibit the Wnt pathway in vivo and that this effect is confined to the normal colonic mucosa. Further study of dietary supplementation with resveratrol-containing foods such as whole grapes or GP as a potential colon cancer preventive strategy is warranted.
NCT00256334.
One to two percent of the general population of western countries are regular consumers of cocaine, 10% being sporadic consumers. This proportion increases considerably in the population age groups which are most frequently organ donors. Cocaine may directly cause brain death, or be present in those with brain death who died from other causes, especially head trauma. We present a 30-yr-old female donor, a regular consumer of inhaled cocaine, who died of brain anoxia after cocaine inhalation. Twenty-five hours after cocaine inhalation, the liver and kidneys were removed for transplantation. The liver was transplanted to a patient with acute hepatocellular failure caused by isoniazids, and the kidneys to two recipients with renal polycystosis. Toxicity attributable to the cocaine was not observed in any of the three recipients. All three grafts presented immediate function, and the clinical evolution of all three recipients and the function of all three grafts were excellent during the 5 yr of follow-up. The serum creatinines of the two kidney recipients 5 yr from transplantation were 76 and 72 micro mol/L, respectively.
Previous studies have established that neuroleptic-induced catalepsy in mice is a highly heritable trait. The current study focuses on the detection of quantitative trait loci (QTL) for haloperidol-induced catalepsy in a BALB/cJ x LP/J F(2) intercross. One thousand thirty-seven F(2) animals were phenotyped and divided into four categories: very responsive (RR), responsive, nonresponsive, and very nonresponsive (NN). The RR and NN phenotypes comprised approximately 18% each of the total and differed in their haloperidol sensitivity by >10-fold. Sex differed significantly between the NN and RR groups (chi(2) = 14.0; p <.0002); females comprised 58% of the RR individuals but only 38% of the NN individuals. The difference between the extreme phenotypes in the number of piebald animals was highly significant (chi(2) = 30, p <. 00001). Eight percent of the RR individuals were piebald compared with 30% of the NN individuals. A genome wide scan confirmed the presence of a QTL (peak LOD = 6.4) on chromosome 14 near the piebald (Ednrb) and 5-hydroxytryptamine(2A) (Htr2a) loci. Although the parental BALB/cJ and LP/J strains differed significantly in striatal 5-hydroxytryptamine(2A) receptor binding, no marked differences were detected between the phenotypic extremes. A second QTL was detected on chromosome 14 (peak LOD = 6.9), which was located more proximally and included the Chat locus. No QTLs were detected on chromosomes 1 and 9, thus differentiating this cross from previous results obtained for a C57BL/6J x DBA/2J intercross.
Hepatobiliary imaging with 99mTc-p-isopropyl-iminodiacetic acid (PIPIDA) and other acetanilidoiminodiacetic acid derivatives is a frequently used clinical tool in evaluating patients with jaundice. However, there has been little objective assessment of the effects of cholestasis on hepatic transport of acetanilioiminodiacetic acid derivatives. In our studies, transport of 99mTc-PIPIDA by isolated rat hepatocytes obtained from animals with extrahepatic obstruction secondary to bile duct ligation or intrahepatic cholestasis induced by ethinyl estradiol therapy was determined. Uptake constants for 99mTc-PIPIDA by hepatocytes isolated from livers of animals with ligated bile ducts were significantly decreased compared with uptake by liver cells from sham-operated controls (0.0030 +/- 0.0003 vs. 0.0089 +/- 0.0010 femtomole X 10(6) cells-1 X min-1 X pmol/L-1; p less than 0.001). Hepatocytes isolated from livers of animals given ethinyl estradiol also demonstrated significantly reduced 99mTc-PIPIDA uptake compared with controls given propylene glycol (0.0034 +/- 0.0002 vs. 0.0060 +/- 0.0004 fmol X 10(6) cells-1 X min-1 X pmol/L-1; p less than 0.001). Fractional rates of efflux of the study compound from hepatocytes preincubated with 99mTc-PIPIDA were significantly decreased in experiments using ethinyl estradiol (p less than 0.005) but did not differ significantly from controls in studies of bile duct ligation. 99mTc-PIPIDA uptake was significantly decreased in the presence of high bile salt concentrations (100 to 200 mumol/L), but unconjugated bilirubin concentrations as high as 200 mumol/L (approximately 12 mg/dl) had no effect on hepatocyte uptake of the ligand. The finding that cholestasis significantly impairs hepatocyte uptake of 99mTc-PIPIDA provides a possible explanation for the clinical observation that a patent biliary tree and normal serum bilirubin level are not always sufficient to ensure normal hepatobiliary imaging. These data also suggest that elevation of bile acid levels during cholestasis may either contribute to impaired uptake of hepatobiliary imaging agents or serve as a marker of cholestasis-induced abnormalities in the liver functions responsible for hepatic transport of these compounds.
Two-stage carcinogenesis (initiation and promotion) has been demonstrated in various mammalian tissues, but there is no conclusive evidence that it occurs in the nervous system. The present work has investigated the possibility that it might occur in the brain of the rat. Pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were given an initiating dose (10 mg/kg intravenously (i.v.)) of N-ethylnitrosourea (ENU), which resulted in a low but consistent yield of brain tumours in the offspring. The dose was determined in a prior dose-response investigation. The 'initiated' offspring were treated postnatally with the putative promoter, hexachlorophane, and its ability to increase tumour incidence was examined by standardized step sectioning of the brain from rats killed at 6 months. There was no evidence of promotion of ENU-induced brain neoplasms by hexachlorophane in the rat. The experimental procedure led to a reproducible incidence of glial tumours in the pups.
Enoxaparin inhibits smooth muscle cell proliferation in experimental models. Intimal hyperplasia has been found to be the principal cause of restenosis after coronary stent implantation. We sought to determine whether the intramural delivery of enoxaparin before stenting of de novo lesions decreases restenosis.
One hundred patients who were undergoing stenting were randomly assigned to either local administration of enoxaparin during predilation with reduced systemic heparinization or stenting with standard, systemic heparinization. All patients were treated with the same type of stent (NIR). The primary study end point was late luminal loss. The secondary end points were major adverse cardiac events, target lesion revascularization, and angiographic restenosis at 6 months. Angiographic follow-up at 6 months was completed in all except 1 patient. Late luminal loss was reduced to 0.76+/-0.42 mm in the local enoxaparin delivery group versus 1. 07+/-0.49 mm in the systemic heparinization group (P:<0.001). Restenosis, using a binary definition, occurred in 10% of patients in the enoxaparin group and in 24% of patients in the systemic heparinization group (P:<0.05). Target lesion revascularization rates occurred in 8% of the enoxaparin group and 22% of the systemic heparinization group (P:<0.05). There were no deaths and no emergent CABGs were performed. The only subacute stent closure and non-Q-wave infarction occurred in a patient assigned to the systemic heparinization group.
This is the first prospective randomized trial in which the local delivery of a drug, enoxaparin, resulted in significant reduction in late luminal loss and restenosis after stent implantation in de novo coronary lesions.
Increasing evidence has shown that excess androgen may be a main cause of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). However, the molecular mechanism of androgen action on the ovary is unclear. To investigate the possible impacts of androgen on early follicular development, neonatal mouse ovaries mainly containing primordial follicles were cultured with testosterone. We demonstrated that the number of primary follicles was increased after 10 d culture with testosterone treatment via phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt pathway. Androgen induced Forkhead box (Foxo)-3a activation, and translocation of Foxo3a protein from oocyte nuclei to cytoplasm, which might be a key step for primordial follicle activation. Interestingly, testosterone was also capable of down-regulating growth and differentiation factor-9 expression via its receptor. In summary, we infer that intraovarian excess androgen in PCOS might result in excess early follicles by inducing oocyte Foxo3a translocation and follicular arrest by down-regulating growth and differentiation factor-9 expression.
We report in this study a patient who developed repeated convulsions as a result of valproate therapy. MELAS (mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes) was subsequently diagnosed and a nucleotide 3243 A-->G mutation was detected in the mitochondrial DNA. This mutation predisposes the patient to the detrimental effects of valproate on oxidative phosphorylation.
We support the suggestion of Ponchaut et al. [14] that valproate should not be given to patients suspected of having mitochondrial diseases. In addition, for patients whose seizures worsen with valproate therapy, an inborn error of mitochondrial metabolism should be suspected. The underlying mitochondrial DNA defects should be sought for family screening and genetic counselling.
Calcineurin inhibition with tacrolimus has been used after renal transplantation (RTPL) as rescue therapy for insufficient immunological control or if cyclosporin A (CSA) toxicity occurred. Neurologic side-effects occur but are rare in children, usually presenting as tremor; however, serious complications, e.g. the posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome are also documented. Twenty children (10 girls) were switched to tacrolimus: 11 (55%) for immunological reasons (n = 9: steroid-resistant rejection; n = 2: recurrent rejections) and nine for CSA side-effects. Tacrolimus was started at a median of 8 wk (range 10 d to 8.7 yr) after RTPL and was continued for a median of 2.5 yr (range 5 wk to 4.6 yr). Renal function significantly improved over a period of 12 months following conversion to tacrolimus (glomerular filtration rate 56 +/- 19 vs. 66 +/- 16 mL/min/1.73 m2; p < 0.03; n = 13). Fifteen of 20 (75%) patients tolerated tacrolimus well. The most frequent side-effects were neuropsychological and behavioral symptoms in three children, ranging from anorexia nervosa-like symptoms with weight loss, amenorrhea, depression and school problems to severe insomnia and to aggressive and anxious behavior in one child. Only the latter child was exposed to toxic tacrolimus blood levels. All side-effects were fully reversible after discontinuation of tacrolimus. In conclusion, tacrolimus had a beneficial effect on renal function and was well tolerated in the majority of pediatric patients. However, neuropsychologic and behavioral side-effects are important and maybe underrecognized in children.
Supplemental dosing of an opioid is the main treatment suggested to manage breakthrough pain in cancer patients. The intravenous route has been proven to be safe and effective, providing rapid analgesia in patients receiving oral morphine. Transdermal buprenorphine (TTS-BUP) is increasingly used in cancer pain management, but this drug has been labeled as a difficult drug to use in combination with other opioids. The aim of this open-label study was to verify the safety and effectiveness of intravenous morphine (IV-MO) for the treatment of episodic pain in cancer patients receiving TTS-BUP. A consecutive sample of 29 cancer patients, who were treated with TTS-BUP, reported an acceptable basal analgesia, and presented with episodic pains were selected for the study. The IV-MO dose was one-fifth of the morphine equivalent oral daily dose calculated using a ratio of TTS-BUP/oral morphine of 1:75, and a morphine IV/oral ratio of 1:3. For each episode, pain intensity and opioid-related adverse effects were recorded when severe pain occurred (T0), and 15 minutes after. One hundred six breakthrough events in the 29 patients (3.7 episodes per patient, on average) were recorded during admission. The mean pain intensity decreased from an initial value of 7.3 (confidence interval [CI] 95% 7.0-7.5) to 2.9 (CI 95% 2.5-3.3) 15 minutes after IV-MO. Ninety-eight episodes (92.4%) were considered treated successfully, defined as a reduction of more than 33% within 15 minutes; 88 of these episodes (83.0%) had more than 50% pain intensity decrease. No differences in age, gender, pain mechanism, and time of events were found. Eight episodes (7.5%) did not respond effectively within 15 minutes, and required further doses. The occurrence of adverse effects for each episode treated was not frequent and intensity was not relevant. IV-MO was effective and safe in most cancer patients receiving TTS-BUP who experienced pain exacerbation.
We used the C57BL/6J-APC(Min)/+ mouse (Min mouse) to evaluate the chemopreventive effects of R-flurbiprofen (R-FB), the noncyclooxygenase-inhibiting enantiomer of FB. Weanling Min mice were administered 6 weeks of oral treatment with R-FB using 2.5-25 mg/kg of R-FB once per day (q.d.), 2.5-10 mg/kg of R-FB twice per day (b.i.d.), and 5 mg/kg of R-FB b.i.d. challenged with a high saturated fat diet. At necropsy we determined tumor and ulcer numbers, tumor size, and plasma levels of R- and S-FB. A linear dose response was observed from 2.5 to 10 mg/kg of R-FB, regardless of whether the drug was administered as a single or divided dose. Reductions in tumor number were significant (P < or = 0.02) for doses of R-FB from 2.5 to 25 mg/kg/day. A dose of 5 mg/kg R-FB b.i.d. was able to overcome the doubling in tumor number associated with the high saturated fat diet. At 20 and 25 mg/kg/day R-FB, we obtained the maximum response with up to 90% inhibition of total tumor number. At these doses, however, there was toxicity and animal deaths. This toxicity was associated with ulceration, presumably resulting from the in vivo epimerization of R- to S-FB that occurs in the mouse. Thus, we evaluated the oral pharmacokinetics of R-FB and its conversion to S-FB in wild-type mice. These kinetics experiments revealed inversion rates of 7.3 and 11.0% for the 2.5 and 10 mg/kg R-FB doses, respectively. S-FB administered alone (0.5 and 2.0 mg/kg q.d.), in doses mimicking the concentrations of S-FB associated with the R to S epimerization of the doses of R-FB used in our experiments, had little or no antitumor efficacy (P > 0.05). Thus, we conclude that R-FB itself, not the S-FB resulting from epimerization in the mouse, inhibits adenoma formation in the Min mouse. In humans, where there is no R to S epimerization, it is possible that larger doses of R-FB can be used without causing cyclooxygenase inhibition and its resulting ulcerogenicity and other side effects. To assess the effect of R-FB on established adenomas, we allowed 40 Min mice to remain untreated until 70 days of age (the time of necropsy in the previous experiments) and then treated them for an additional 42 days with 10 mg/kg R-FB q.d. or 5 mg/kg R-FB b.i.d.. Both drug-treated groups demonstrated tumor numbers significantly less than that of the vehicle control (P < 0.01). Our results suggest that prophylaxis and treatment trials of R-FB should be extended to humans.
This study investigated the protective effects of bicyclol against cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity and the possible mechanisms in mice. Bicyclol (250 mg/kg, p.o., 5 days) showed significant protection as evidenced by the decrease of elevated serum creatine and blood urea nitrogen, and improvement of histopathological injury induced by cisplatin. The formation of kidney malondialdehyde with a concomitant reduction of reduced glutathione were also inhibited by bicyclol, while the activities of kidney superoxide dismutase, catalase and glutathione peroxidase were all increased, respectively. Bicyclol also inhibited the increase of kidney and serum nitric oxide induced by cisplatin. In addition, induction of induced nitric oxide synthase and nitrotyrosine were suppressed by bicyclol. Bicyclol suppressed cisplatin-induced extracelluar signal regulated kinases 1/2 and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase activation in the kidney of mice. Results obtained demonstrate that bicyclol pre-administration can prevent the nephrotoxicity induced by cisplatin.
To determine whether ACE inhibitor other than captopril improves insulin sensitivity in patients with essential hypertension, we measured insulin sensitivity to glucose utilization using SSPG method in 10 lean hypertensive subjects before and after chronic cilazapril treatment (1.5 +/- 0.2 mg/day, 15.6 +/- 2.1 weeks). The results were compared with those obtained in 10 healthy control subjects. SSPG obtained by insulin sensitivity test was significantly higher in hypertensive subjects, indicating a lower insulin sensitivity than in controls. After cilazapril treatment, SSPG reduced significantly to the level which was statistically not different from control subjects. Hyperinsulinemia diminished after treatment, while no significant change of blood glucose was observed during oral glucose tolerance test in hypertensive subjects. Plasma HDL cholesterol increased by cilazapril treatment. Cilazapril treatment has beneficial effect in the reversal of insulin resistance in patients with essential hypertension.
At our institution, high-dose i.v. dexmedetomidine is used to provide sedation for pediatric patients undergoing nonpainful radiological imaging studies. Some of these patients exhibit marked bradycardia (more than 20% deviation from the lowest age-adjusted normal values) while maintaining an arterial blood pressure within an acceptable normal range. We report on three cases wherein treatment of dexmedetomidine-induced bradycardia with i.v. glycopyrrolate (5.0 microg/kg) not only resulting in resolution of bradycardia but also resulting in an exaggerated increase of arterial blood pressure.
Case reports and retrospective studies suggest that methadone causes an increase in QTc (QT time corrected for heart rate) time and risk of torsades de pointes arrhythmia. No prospective studies in pain patients have been conducted, and data on whether a methadone-induced increase in QTc time persists during long-term treatment have not been reported. Eight chronic nonmalignant pain patients experiencing insufficient pain control or intolerable side effects during treatment with oral morphine switched to oral methadone and were included in this study. Electrocardiograms were obtained at baseline and at follow-up 2 weeks, and 3 and 9 months after the opioid switch. Start of methadone caused a minor but statistically significant increase in QTc time, while fluctuations in QTc during treatment with stable doses of methadone were neither clinically nor statistically significant. We observed no episodes of arrhythmias.
Although colchicine induced myopathy has been described in patients with chronic renal failure, colchicine induced myopathy with myotonia has been reported very rarely. A 49-year-old man with chronic renal failure was hospitalised for investigation of fatigue, malaise and severe pain in all extremities. He was on colchicine therapy for 5 months. Neurological examination showed mildly decreased sensation in a distal symmetric pattern in lower extremities, moderate proximal limb weakness, hyporeflexia and severe myalgia on palpation. No clinical evidence of myotonia was present. Laboratory studies showed elevated creatine phosphokinase (CK), lactic dehydrogenase (LDH), aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels. Electromyographic (EMG) findings were compatible with myopathy and abundant, widespread myotonic discharges were determined. Muscle biopsy was consistent with vacuolar myopathy. After withdrawal of colchicine, CK, LDH, AST and ALT levels were normalised and the symptoms were disappeared gradually. In conclusion, the detection of myopathic motor unit potentials with myotonic discharges on EMG in patients on colchicine therapy is an important finding and it is possible to suggest that this clue may lead to the invasive procedure of muscle biopsy unnecessary.
Lipid peroxidation is one of the most important sources of endogenous toxic metabolites. 4-Hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE) and 4-hydroxy-2-hexenal (HHE) are produced in several oxidative stress associated diseases from peroxidation of n-6 and n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids, respectively. Both are able to form covalent adducts with many biomolecules. Particularly, proteins adduction can induce structural and conformational changes and impair biological function, which may be involved in the toxicity of hydroxy-alkenals. The aim of this study was to compare the effect of 4-hydroxy-2-alkenals to several chemically related derivatives in order to clarify the physico-chemical requirement of their toxicity. L6 muscle cells were treated with HHE, HNE and parent derivatives (acetal derivative, trans-alkenals and alkanals). Viability and necrosis were estimated using MTT, LDH and caspase-3 tests. LogLC50 (Lethal Concentration 50) was then tested for correlation with adducts formation (estimated using dinitrophenylhydrazine) and several molecular descriptors in order to establish quantitative structure-toxicity relationship (QSTR) models. The rank of derivatives toxicity, based on LC50 was: hydroxy-alkenals>acetal derivatives approximately 2-alkenals>alkanals and a high correlation was found between logLC50 and protein carbonylation. Moreover, logLC50 was correlated to the electrophilic descriptor LUMO (lowest unoccupied molecular orbital) as well as with electronegativity-related molecular descriptors such as number of oxygen atoms, partial negative surface area (PNSA3) and partial positive surface area (PPSA3). Together, these results point out the important role of the electrophilic structure and adduct formation in hydroxy-alkenals toxicity. Our present study demonstrates that 4-hydroxy-2-alkenals dramatic effects on cell viability are due to covalent adducts formation, particularly Michael adducts. This capacity is related to the electrophilic structure and reactive CC double bond, making it highly accessible for nucleophilic addition. The present study suggests that nucleophilic scavengers might protect cells against electrophile compounds and might be of possible therapeutic value in oxidative stress associated diseases.
Present treatment strategies for kala-azar (visceral leishmaniasis, VL) include use of first line drug sodium antimony gluconate (SAG) to all patients but a large number of patients do not get relief with this drug. If a patient does not respond to a full course of SAG, a second or third line drug is given. We undertook this study to test whether an improved outcome can be achieved by employing a strategy of treatment based on culture and sensitivity of amastigotes to SAG compared with conventional empirical treatment.
In a double-blind, randomized, controlled trial done in Balaji Utthan Sansthan, Patna, of the 181 patients screened,140 were finally randomly allocated to two groups A and B; group A patients were treated with SAG if their amastigotes were sensitive to SAG, and all patients in group B were treated with SAG to start with. Primary outcome measured was as no relapse within 6 months of follow up after cure and other outcomes measured were period of stay of patients in hospital, expenditure involved in the treatment, and infectivity periods of two groups, two-third of treatment period and whole of untreated period were taken as infectivity period. SAG was used at a dosage of 20 mg/kg given deep intramuscular injections in buttock for 28 days, amphotericin B (AMB) given at a dose of 1 mg/kg body wt daily for 20 days as a slow intravenous infusion in 5 per cent dextrose.
Of the 70 patients in group A, 29 patients whose amastigotes were sensitive to SAG were treated with SAG, 2 patients were withdrawn due to drug toxicity; and 2 relapsed within 6 months of follow up and ultimate cure occurred in 25 (86.2%) patients only. Of the 70 patients in group B treated with SAG, 5 (7.1%) patients withdrew due to drug toxicity, 35 patients (50%) did not respond to treatment, 5 (7.1%) relapsed during 6 months of follow up and thus only 25 patients (35.7%) were ultimately cured. The difference between the two groups was significant (P<0.001). No patient died during treatment due to any toxicity because of early withdrawal of patients from treatment apprehending toxicity. Patients whose amastigotes were resistant to SAG, withdrawn from the study due to SAG toxicity, relapsed after cure with SAG, and who did not respond to SAG in both the groups were treated with AMB and all were cured. Groups B and A patients spent 3065 and 2340 days respectively in hospital, group B 1.3 times more than group A. The likely period of spread of parasites in society was 1965 days in group B and 1644 days in group A, group B 1.4 times more than group A. The total expenditure on treatment in groups B and A was dollars 65,575 and dollars 50,590 respectively; group B patient had to spend 1.3 times more than group A.
A new strategy for treatment of kala-azar based on culture and sensitivity of amastigotes improved the cure rate, saved expenditure on the patient's treatment, patients had to stay for shorter periods in hospital and reduced the chance of spread of SAG resistant disease in society. Till the government opts for better drugs, the treatment based on culture and sensitivity of the parasites to SAG may be a better method.
In a 66-year-old woman with unstable angina, treated with 20,000 IU heparin daily for 6 days, platelet count fell dramatically from 310,000 to 1000/microliters 8 hours after injection of 90 ml of contrast medium (Iopromide) during coronary angiography. In addition to a marked tendency towards spontaneous bleeding she developed a large haematoma at the site of the arterial puncture, with a fall in haemoglobin to 9 g/dl, and acute renal failure.
Red blood cell and platelet infusions were given, together with cortisone, 1000 mg, and immunoglobulins. Platelet count returned to within normal limits after 8 days. Two haemodialyses initiated polyuria, followed by rapid normalization of kidney function. No antibodies against iopromide, iopamidol, heparin or heparinoids were found. At an emergency coronary balloon angioplasty 3 weeks later iopamidol was injected (45 ml). Again there was a profound fall in platelets to 1000/microliters, associated with acute renal failure. Treatment identical to that after the first episode brought about complete normalization.
The reported reactions were most likely due to immune thrombocytopenia after administration of contrast medium.
