The intracellular chloride concentration ([Cl(-)](i)) in β-cells plays an important role in glucose-stimulated plasma membrane depolarisation and insulin secretion. [Cl(-)](i) is maintained above equilibrium in β-cells by the action of Cl(-) co-transporters of the solute carrier family 12 group A (Slc12a). β-Cells express Slc12a1 and Slc12a2, which are known as the bumetanide (BTD)-sensitive Na(+)-dependent K(+)2Cl(-) co-transporters 2 and 1 respectively. We show that mice lacking functional alleles of the Slc12a2 gene exhibit better fasting glycaemia, increased insulin secretion in response to glucose, and improved glucose tolerance when compared with wild-type (WT). This phenomenon correlated with increased sensitivity of β-cells to glucose in vitro and with increased β-cell mass. Further, administration of low doses of BTD to mice deficient in Slc12a2 worsened their glucose tolerance, and low concentrations of BTD directly inhibited glucose-stimulated insulin secretion from β-cells deficient in Slc12a2 but expressing intact Slc12a1 genes. Together, our results suggest for the first time that the Slc12a2 gene is not necessary for insulin secretion and that its absence increases β-cell secretory capacity. Further, impairment of insulin secretion with BTD in vivo and in vitro in islets lacking Slc12a2 genes unmasks a potential new role for Slc12a1 in β-cell physiology.
A series of thiazolidinones related to loperamide was synthesized and evaluated for antidiarrhoeal activity in mice, using the castor oil test. Of five compounds tested, antidiarrhoeal activity was found only for 2-(p-nitrophenyl)-3-¿3-[(4-(p-chlorophenyl)-4-hydroxy)piperidino]ethyl¿- 1,3-thiazolidin-4-one. The compound was less active than loperamide (ED50 values = 48.7 (24.8-95.6) and 0.91 (0.24-3.40) mg kg-1 respectively), but was also less toxic (LD50 values = 745.9 (545.2-929.8) and 108.9 (85.5-138.7) mg kg-1, respectively). Its antidiarrhoeal activity was counteracted by naloxone. Our results support the hypothesis that this compound, like loperamide, is an opiate-receptor agonist.
The combined effects of two sialagogues, with proposed different mechanisms of action, were studied in a phase I/II trial in the management of xerostomia. Improvement in saliva-flow rates and subjective symptoms were seen in the patients.
Autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa (adRP) is a heterogeneous set of progressive retinopathies caused by several distinct genes. One locus, the RP10 form of adRP, maps to human chromosome 7q31.1 and may account for 5-10% of adRP cases among Americans and Europeans. We identified two American families with the RP10 form of adRP by linkage mapping and used these families to reduce the linkage interval to 3.45 Mb between the flanking markers D7S686 and RP-STR8. Sequence and transcript analysis identified 54 independent genes within this region, at least 10 of which are retinal-expressed and thus candidates for the RP10 gene. A screen of retinal transcripts comparing retinas from normal mice to retinas from crx-/crx- knockout mice (with poorly differentiated photoreceptors) demonstrated a 6-fold reduction in one candidate, inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase 1 (IMPDH1; EC 1.1.1.205). Since many of the genes known to cause retinitis pigmentosa are under CRX control in photoreceptors, IMPDH1 became a high-priority candidate for mutation screening. DNA sequencing of affected individuals from the two American RP10 families revealed a GAC-->AAC transition in codon 226 substituting an asparagine for an aspartic acid in both families. The identical mutation was also found in a British RP10 family. The Asp226Asn missense mutation is present in all affected individuals tested and absent from unaffected controls. The aspartic acid at codon 226 is conserved in all IMPDH genes, in all species examined, including bacteria, suggesting that this mutation is highly deleterious. Subsequent screening of probands from 60 other adRP families revealed an additional family with this mutation, confirming its association with retinitis pigmentosa and the relatively high frequency of this mutation. Another IMPDH1 substitution, Val268Ile, was also observed in this cohort of patients but not in controls. IMPDH1 is a ubiquitously expressed enzyme, functioning as a homotetramer, which catalyzed the rate-limiting step in de novo synthesis of guanine nucleotides. As such, it plays an important role in cyclic nucleoside metabolism within photoreceptors. Several classes of drugs are known to affect IMPDH isoenzymes, including nucleotide and NAD analogs, suggesting that small-molecule therapy may be available, one day, for RP10 patients.
Clinical, electrocardiographic and ultrasonic investigations of the cardiovascular system were conducted in 64 children, suffering from leukemia for more than two years, and who received daunorubicin, from 8 to 64 mg/kg, during polychemotherapy. Cardiac changes have been detected in 42 of them. Three stages of daunorubicin-induced lesions of the cardiovascular system have been distinguished. The effectiveness of cardiotropic therapy in this group of patients has been evaluated. Recommendations have been given for the use of functional methods of heart investigation for early detection of toxic heart lesions during treatment with daunorubicin.
Acute liver failure (ALF) is a medical emergency. Molecular adsorbent recirculating system (MARS), an artificial liver support system, can partly compensate for the detoxifying function of the liver by removing toxins from blood. To analyze the efficacy of MARS treatment, the outcomes of 113 ALF patients, treated with MARS between 2001 and 2007, were compared with a historical control group of 46 ALF patients treated without MARS between 1995 and 2001. Overall survival of transplanted patients was 94% in the MARS group and 77% in the control group (P=0.06). Without transplantation, survival was 66% and 40% (P=0.03), respectively. However, the etiological distribution of ALF differed significantly between the groups. In ALF patients with unknown etiology, groups were comparable at baseline; 91% and 69% of transplanted patients survived the MARS and control groups and the native liver recovered in 20% and 8% of the patients, respectively. Of the originally nonencephalopathic patients of unknown etiology, 36% underwent liver transplantation in the MARS group compared to 100% in the control group. Interpretation of the results was difficult in toxic etiology patients on account of differing baseline statuses. MARS treatment might partly explain the trend toward increased survival of ALF patients with unknown etiology.
The purpose of the study was to investigate the anti-fibrotic effect and the potential mechanisms of action of betulinic acid (BA) against hepatic fibrosis in vivo and in vitro. BA is an active compound isolated from the bark of the birch tree Betula spp. (Betulaceae). Liver fibrosis was induced by intraperitoneal injections of thioacetamide (TAA, 200mg/kg) twice weekly for 6weeks in Wistar rats. The administration of BA (20 or 50mg/kg) was started following TAA injections and was continued for 6 or 8weeks to evaluate both the preventive and the protective effects. BA demonstrated great efficacy in preventing and curing hepatic fibrosis via attenuating the TAA-mediated increases in liver tissue hydroxyproline and α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA). In vitro, BA effectively decreased the HSC-T6 cell viability induced by TNF-α and showed low toxicity in normal human chang liver cells. Moreover, BA significantly attenuated the expression of α-SMA and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 (TIMP-1) and increased the levels of matrix metalloprotease (MMP)-13. BA also inhibited the expression of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88) and the activation of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) in a time-dependent manner. This study provides evidence that BA exerts a significant anti-fibrosis effect by modulating the TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB signaling pathway.
We recently reported that scopolamine pretreated mice fasted for 48 h developed clonic convulsions soon after they were allowed to eat a small amount of food for 30 s. The present experiments were performed to determine whether animals also develop convulsions when they were allowed to eat ad libitum and to find some evidence for the contribution of the cholinergic and/or glutamatergic systems in the underlying mechanism(s) of convulsions. Animals fasted for 48 h were treated with 3 mg/kg scopolamine or saline. Twenty minutes later, they were allowed to eat either ad libitum or a small portion of food for 30 s. Scopolamine pretreated animals after starting to eat ad libitum or a small amount in a restricted time developed convulsions in a few minutes, the incidence being 76 and 54%, respectively. Pretreatment of 0.17 mg/kg MK-801, the noncompetitive NMDA antagonist, decreased the incidence of scopolamine-induced convulsions (22%) without affecting latency to the onset of seizures. Pretreatment of 0.1 mg/kg physostigmine, the cholinesterase inhibitor, changed neither the incidence (90%) nor latency to the onset of scopolamine-induced convulsions.
Depressive symptoms are common in epilepsy. To determine associations between depression and demographic, clinical, and pharmacological factors among epileptic patients, we conducted a cross-sectional survey. We evaluated 241 epileptic outpatients at a neurological center in a 6-month period. Depressive syndrome was diagnosed when both the Montgomery-Asberg Scale and the Beck Depression Inventory were rated above the standard cutoff points. Bivariate and multivariate analyses were performed to assess the differences between depressed and nondepressed patients with respect to demographic, clinical, and pharmacological features. Depressive syndrome was diagnosed in 42.7% of patients (n=103). Factors associated in the bivariate analysis were: cryptogenic etiology, posttraumatic epilepsy, use of primidone, and inadequate seizure control. After logistic regression, inadequate seizure control (OR 3.08, 95% CI 1.40-6.77, P=0.005) and use of primidone (OR 4.08, 95% CI 2.09-7.98; P<0.001) remained significantly associated. Depression was common and associated with inadequate seizure control and use of primidone.
The aim of this paper is to describe two cases of clomipramine-induced delirium. One 61-year-old and one 67-year-old female depressive patients became delirious after beginning intravenous clomipramine injections in addition to their oral clomipramine administrations. Their plasma levels of both clomipramine and its metabolite, desmethylclomipramine, were acutely increased about twofold during delirium. The intravenous clomipramine administrations were discontinued. Their delirious state was gradually improved after stopping the intravenous clomipramine administrations. These findings suggest that acute increases of plasma levels of clomipramine and desmethylclomipramine after intravenous clomipramine injections might be related to the appearance of the delirious episodes.
After levodopa, dopaminergic agonists are the most powerful agents in idiopathic Parkinson's disease treatment. Used in monotherapy or rather in early combination with levodopa, they allow a dramatic reduction of long-term motor side effects of the latter: onset and peak-dose dyskinesias, early morning dystonias. Their gastro-intestinal (nauseas) and moreover psychiatric (confusion and hallucinations) side effects limit their use, notably in geriatric populations. Superiority of so-called "second generation" agonists (ropinirole, pramipexole) on "first generation" agonists (bromocriptine, pergolide) remains to be proved.
The anticonvulsant drug Diazepam (DIA-2 mg/kg b. wt), the nitric oxide (NO) donor L-Arginine (L-Arg-2000 mg/kg b. wt) and the putative nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor N(G)-Nitro-L-Arginine methyl ester (L-NAME-50 mg/kg b. wt) were used to determine the role of endogenous NO on convulsions induced by picrotoxin (PCT-5 mg/kg b. wt) in rats. Rats given a convulsant dose of PCT (5 mg/kg b. wt) had convulsion and it suppresses the NOS activity and NO concentration in brain regions. The anticonvulsant L-Arg alone significantly increases the NO concentration and NOS activity in brain regions, but not diazepam. Whereas DIA, along with L-Arg, enhances the NO and NOS activity when compared to L-Arg alone. The combination of both OIA and L-Arg completely suppressed the convulsions. L-NAME alone had no effect to produce convulsions but it completely decreased NO concentration and NOS activity and potentiated the PCT convulsions. This was reverted by pre- and post treatment of DIA plus L-Arg indicating, the increased NO concentration and NOS activity in brain regions suppresses convulsions.
Hepatic lesions due to toxic pyrazolone actions are very rare. Relevant observations and reports are reviewed and compared with liver injury caused by other analgesics.
A 50-year-old woman had a lifelong history of painful ulcerations as a result of livedoid vasculopathy. She was a heterozygous carrier of factor V Leiden and prothrombin gene mutations and was receiving hormone replacement therapy. The ulcers healed after warfarin therapy, which has been reported to be effective in only one previous patient with this condition.
The use of tenofovir as part of a HAART regimen has been widely used in HIV-multi-experienced-patients because of its favourable resistance profile. Tenofovir is mainly eliminated by the kidneys and renal toxicity should be carefully monitored. We describe here the case of an HIV-infected patient, without a prior history of renal failure who developed nephrolithiasis and hydronephrosis after starting a tenofovir-containing HAART regimen.
Acetaminophen toxicity is the most common cause of acute liver failure (ALF) in the United States and Great Britain, but may be underrecognized in certain settings. Acetaminophen-protein adducts are specific biomarkers of drug-related toxicity in animal models and can be measured in tissue or blood samples. Measurement of serum adducts might improve diagnostic accuracy in acute liver failure (ALF) patients.
We measured serum acetaminophen-protein adducts using high-pressure liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection in coded sera of 66 patients with ALF collected prospectively at 24 US tertiary referral centers. Samples were included from 20 patients with well-characterized acetaminophen-related acute liver failure, 10 patients with ALF owing to other well-defined causes, 36 patients with ALF of indeterminate etiology, and 15 additional patients without ALF but with known acetaminophen overdose and minimal or no biochemical liver injury.
Acetaminophen-protein adducts were detected in serum in 100% of known acetaminophen ALF patients and in none of the ALF patients with other defined causes, yielding a sensitivity and specificity of 100%. In daily serial samples, serum adducts decreased in parallel with aminotransferase levels. Seven of 36 (19%) indeterminate cases demonstrated adducts in serum suggesting that acetaminophen toxicity caused or contributed to ALF in these patients. Low adduct levels were present in 2 of 15 patients with acetaminophen overdose without significant liver injury.
Measurement of serum acetaminophen-protein adducts reliably identified acetaminophen toxicity, and may be a useful diagnostic test for cases lacking historical data or other clinical information.
The present study was aimed to find out the protective effect of quercetin on hepatotoxicity resulting by commonly used antimalarial drug chloroquine (CQ). Swiss albino mice were administered with different amounts of CQ ranging from human therapeutic equivalent of 360 mg/kg body wt. to as high as 2000 mg/kg body wt. We observed statistically significant generation of reactive oxygen species, liver toxicity, and oxidative stress. Our observation of alterations in biochemical parameters was strongly supported by real-time PCR measurement of mRNA expression of key biochemical enzymes involved in hepatic toxicity and oxidative stress. However, the observed hepatotoxicity and accompanying oxidative stress following CQ administration show dose specific pattern with little or apparently no effect at therapeutic dose while having severe effects at higher dosages. We further tested quercetin, an antioxidant flavanoid, against CQ-induced hepatoxicity and found encouraging results as quercetin was able to drastically reduce the oxidative stress and hepatotoxicity resulting at higher dosages of CQ administration. In conclusion, our study strongly suggests co administration of antioxidant flavonoid like quercetin along with CQ for antimalarial therapy. This is particularly important when CQ is administered as long-term prophylactic treatment for malaria as chronic exposure has shown to be resulting in higher dose level of drug in the body.
Wet dog shakes (WDS) and head shakes (HS) are associated with experimentally induced convulsive seizures. We sought to determine whether these behaviors are correlated or not with major (status epilepticus (SE) or fully kindled animals) or minor (non-SE or partially kindled animals) seizure severity. WDS are directly correlated with SE induced by intracerebral star fruit extract (Averrhoa carambola) injection and with kindled animals in the amygdala fast kindling model. On the other hand, WDS are inversely correlated with SE induced by intracerebral bicuculline and pilocarpine injections. Systemic pilocarpine in animals pretreated with methyl-scopolamine barely induced WDS or HS. The role of shaking behaviors may vary from ictal to anticonvulsant depending on the experimental seizure model, circuitries involved, and stimulus intensity. The physical presence of acrylic helmets may per se inhibit the HS response. Also, methyl-scopolamine, a drug incapable of crossing the blood-brain barrier, can induce HS in animals without acrylic helmets.
In order to establish the experimental model for human prolactinomas and its bromocriptine treatment, estrogen-induced prolactinoma was produced in the female Wistar rats, in which daily bromocriptine treatment was given for a week, 3 days or 1 day (24 hours). The prolactinoma was produced by giving 5 mg estrogen depot every four weeks. The rats were killed at 4, 12, 20, and 24 weeks after the initial injection of the estrogen. By immunoelectron microscopy, in the estrogen induced prolactinoma, PRL was localized in well developed lamellar or whorling rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER) and Golgi saccules. In the rats treated with bromocriptine for a week, the serum PRL levels were lowered and the atrophied cytoplasm was filled with secretory granules containing PRL. These data were comparable to those of the human prolactinomas and the present experiment will serve as an animal model for studying the morphofunctional changes of human prolactinomas induced by bromocriptine treatment. The experiment with bromocriptine treatment for 24 hours supported the proposed mechanism that bromocriptine evokes inhibition of exocytosis followed by continuous granule formation in Golgi complexes and subsequently lowers synthesis of PRL.
The compound 5-(4-chlorophenyl)-2,4-dihydro-4-ethyl-3H-1,2,4-triazol-3-one (MDL 27,192) was evaluated in a variety of rodent models to assess its anticonvulsant profile and its potential neuroprotective activity. MDL 27,192 demonstrated anticonvulsant activity in a wide range of epilepsy models that are genetically-based (audiogenic seizures in the seizure susceptible DBA/2J or Frings mouse; spike wave seizures in genetic absence epilepsy rats of Strasbourg (GAERS), electrically-based (MES seizures in mice and rats, corneally-kindled seizures in rats) and chemically-based (bicuculline, PTZ, picrotoxin, 3-mercaptopropionic acid, quinolinic acid and strychnine). When compared to valproate, orally administered MDL 27,192 was 17-48-fold more potent as an anticonvulsant and showed a safety index one to three-fold greater. Following a timed intravenous administration of PTZ to mice, MDL 27,192, but not phenytoin or carbamazepine, consistently increased the latencies to first twitch and clonus. MDL 27,192 was active in a genetic model of absence epilepsy, the GAERS rat model. These data indicate that MDL 27,192 likely exerts its anticonvulsant action by affecting seizure spread and by raising seizure threshold. MDL 27,192 did not display any signs of tolerance following subchronic (15 day) administration. In tests of neuroprotective potential, MDL 27,192 reduced infarct volume in a permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion model of focal cerebral ischemia in rats and reduced the loss of hippocampal dentate hilar neurons in an animal model of unilateral head injury. In summary, MDL 27,192 possesses a broad-spectrum anticonvulsant profile. The potential for reduced tolerance and neuroprotective activity are additional positive features of MDL 27,192's preclinical profile.
Endogenously formed reactive oxygen species continuously damage cellular constituents including DNA. These challenges, coupled with exogenous exposure to agents that generate reactive oxygen species, are both associated with normal aging processes and linked to cardiovascular disease, cancer, cataract formation, and fatty liver disease. Although not all of these diseases have been definitively shown to originate from mutations in nuclear DNA or mitochondrial DNA, repair of oxidized, saturated, and ring-fragmented bases via the base excision repair pathway is known to be critical for maintaining genomic stability. One enzyme that initiates base excision repair of ring-fragmented purines and some saturated pyrimidines is NEIL1, a mammalian homolog to Escherichia coli endonuclease VIII. To investigate the organismal consequences of a deficiency in NEIL1, a knockout mouse model was created. In the absence of exogenous oxidative stress, neil1 knockout (neil1-/-) and heterozygotic (neil1+/-) mice develop severe obesity, dyslipidemia, and fatty liver disease and also have a tendency to develop hyperinsulinemia. In humans, this combination of clinical manifestations, including hypertension, is known as the metabolic syndrome and is estimated to affect >40 million people in the United States. Additionally, mitochondrial DNA from neil1-/- mice show increased levels of steady-state DNA damage and deletions relative to wild-type controls. These data suggest an important role for NEIL1 in the prevention of the diseases associated with the metabolic syndrome.
Two female patients developed localized scleroderma on the trunk and the thighs after oral ingestion of L-tryptophan for some years. Both patients reported acute progressive myalgia and weakness of the proximal parts of the extremities. On laboratory evaluation, the leucocyte count was approximately 20,000/mm3, with 38% blood eosinophils in one patient and 53% in the other. The ESR was slightly elevated; electrophoresis and muscle enzymes were normal. Skin and muscle biopsies revealed characteristic features of diffuse fasciitis with eosinophilia. High-dose glucocorticoid therapy resulted in a rapid normalization of the ESR and blood eosinophilia, whereas the scleroderma showed little improvement. The diffuse edema observed in one patient receded within a few days. A correlation between oral ingestion of L-tryptophan and the eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome has been reported recently, and the present case reports must be discussed in the light of this observation. Both patients developed a tryptophan-induced scleroderma-like illness resembling diffuse fasciitis with eosinophilia (Shulman's syndrome).
Human Pex16p, a peroxisomal membrane protein composed of 336 amino acids, plays a central role in peroxisomal membrane biogenesis. A nonsense mutation (R176ter) in the PEX16 gene has been reported in the case of only one patient (D-01) belonging to complementation group D of the peroxisome biogenesis disorders. We have now identified two patients belonging to group D (D-02 and D-03) whose fibroblasts were found to contain no peroxisomal membrane structure ghosts. Molecular analysis of the PEX16 gene revealed aberrant cDNA species lacking 65 bp, corresponding to exon 10 skipping caused by a splice site mutation (IVS10 + 2T -->C). Both patients, although unrelated, were homozygous for this mutation. This mutation changes the amino acid sequence starting from codon 298 and introduces a termination codon at codon 336. As a consequence, the cell's ability to membrane synthesis and protein import is disrupted, which implies that the changed C terminus of the Pex16p in these patients likely affects its function.
Drug interactions can significantly complicate the management of patients receiving multiple medications. It is essential therefore that potential pharmcokinetic interactions be evaluated as new antiepileptic medications are introduced. Lamotrigine (LTG) is a recently marketed medication whose pharmacokinetics are significantly influenced by concomitant drugs. Felbamate (FBM), another relatively new antiepileptic agent has been associated with multiple interactions including both enzyme induction and inhibition. The purpose of the present pilot study was to evaluate potential differences in lamotrigine kinetics in six patients concomitantly receiving FBM compared to five patients receiving lamotrigine as monotherapy. There was no statistically significant differences in either apparent LTG oral clearance (0.026 +/- 0.005 vs. 0.024 +/- 0.01 l/kg per h, respectively), or in mean elimination half-life (33.7 +/- 7.5 vs. 40.2 +/- 15.05 h, respectively). Oral clearance values in our patients are also consistent with data reported previously in the literature. Data from this pilot study suggest that a marked effect of FBM upon lamotrigine pharmacokinetics is unlikely.
The "purple toes syndrome" is a rare complication of oral anticoagulant therapy. Four patients who presented with "purple toes syndrome" several weeks after warfarin therapy was initiated are described. The diagnosis of cholesterol microembolization was made by biopsy in three cases. Malignant hypertension and renal failure developed in two patients who died within three to six months of onset of purple toes. Postmortem examination in one of these patients showed widespread cholesterol microembolization. Renal failure has not developed in the other two patients, who are doing well. These biopsy and autopsy results suggest that the warfarin-related "purple toes syndrome" is due to cholesterol microembolization.
The design, synthesis, and structure-activity relationships of a novel series of pyrazines, acting as corticotropin releasing factor-1 (CRF-1) receptor antagonists, are described. Synthetic methodologies were developed to prepare a number of substituted pyrazine cores utilizing regioselective halogenation and chemoselective derivatization. Noteworthy, an efficient 5-step synthesis was developed for the lead compound 59 (NGD 98-2), which required no chromatography. Compound 59 was characterized as an orally bioavailable, brain penetrant, and highly selective CRF-1 receptor antagonist. Occupancy of rat brain CRF-1 receptors was quantified using ex vivo receptor occupancy assays, using both brain tissue homogenates as well as brain slices receptor autoradiography. Behaviorally, oral administration of 59 significantly antagonized CRF-induced locomotor activity at doses as low as 10 mg/kg and dose-dependently reduced the restraint stress-induced ACTH increases.
