Signal transducer and activator of transcription (Stat) 5a is a transcription factor mediating the action of specific cytokines, growth factors and hormones on gene expression. In the mammary gland, Stat5a is well recognized for its function in prolactin signaling, lobuloalveolar development, and milk protein expression during pregnancy and lactation. Latent cytoplasmic Stat5a is activated by tyrosine phosphorylation and following dimerization undergoes nuclear import. In the current study, Stat5a expression was examined immunohistochemically in carcinomas induced by the chemical carcinogens 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene and 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine. A high percentage of carcinomas showed nuclear labeling of Stat5a [44 of 68 (65%)] with Stat5a nuclear labeling index ranging from 18 to 77%. In contrast, control normal mammary gland tissue displayed cytosolic expression. Carcinomas with different Stat5a staining patterns (cytoplasmic or nuclear) showed a statistical difference for the proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) labeling, tumor differentiation, nuclear grade, mitotic activity, and tumor size. High Stat5a nuclear expression was closely correlated with the higher-grade carcinomas. Stat5a nuclear expression was also detected in intraductal proliferations (10 of 21 lesions) and in ductal carcinomas in situ (13 of 15 lesions). Immunohistochemical analysis was further carried out in human breast cancers. Stat5a nuclear expression was detected in ductal and lobular carcinomas and DCIS at a frequency of 48% (15/31), 33% (2/6), and 40% (2/5), respectively. Nuclear expression of Stat5a in human breast cancers also correlated with the PCNA nuclear labeling index. The findings implicate activated Stat5a in mammary gland cancer development in the rat and human.
Mirtazapine is an a2A antagonist and mixed 5-HT2/5-HT3 antagonist that has been proposed as a potential treatment for obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). A small, randomized, controlled trial has previously found an approximate halving in the severity of OSA with daily doses of 4.5 and 15 mg. We aimed to confirm and extend these findings in 2 randomized placebo-controlled, proof-of-concept trials.
Two randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials of mirtazapine for OSA (apnea-hypopnea index 10-40/h). Study 1: 3-way crossover, dose-finding study testing the self-administration of mirtazapine (7.5, 15, 30, and/or 45 mg) or placebo 30 minutes prior to bedtime for 2 weeks at each dose. Twenty patients were randomly assigned to 1 of 6 different dose-sequence groups, with each patient exposed to a maximum of 3 doses. Study 2: 3-arm, randomized, parallel-group trial of mirtazapine at 15 mg or mirtazapine 15 mg + Compound CD0012 or placebo for 4 weeks in 65 patients with OSA.
Two patients withdrew from Study 1 after complaints of unacceptable lethargy. Fifteen patients were withdrawn from study 2, 7 after complaints of unacceptable lethargy or other side-effects. No measurement of sleep apnea improved due to mirtazapine in either study. Weight gain was significantly greater on mirtazapine than on placebo in both trials.
Mirtazapine did not improve sleep apnea in either trial. Mirtazapine caused weight gain, which may further worsen OSA. Therefore, mirtazapine is not recommended for the treatment of OSA.
The p53 tumor suppressor pathway limits oncogenesis by inducing cell cycle arrest or apoptosis. A key p53 target gene is PUMA, which encodes a BH3-only proapoptotic protein. Here we demonstrate that Puma deletion in the Emu-Myc mouse model of Burkitt lymphoma accelerates lymphomagenesis and that approximately 75% of Emu-Myc lymphomas naturally select against Puma protein expression. Furthermore, approximately 40% of primary human Burkitt lymphomas fail to express detectable levels of PUMA and in some tumors this is associated with DNA methylation. Burkitt lymphoma cell lines phenocopy the primary tumors with respect to DNA methylation and diminished PUMA expression, which can be reactivated following inhibition of DNA methyltransferases. These findings establish that PUMA is silenced in human malignancies, and they suggest PUMA as a target for the development of novel chemotherapeutics.
Five new piperidine alkaloids were designed from natural (-)-3-O-acetyl-spectaline and (-)-spectaline that were obtained from the flowers of Senna spectabilis (sin. Cassia spectabilis, Leguminosae). Two semi-synthetic analogues (7 and 9) inhibited rat brain acetylcholinesterase, showing IC50 of 7.32 and 15.1 microM, and were 21 and 9.5 times less potent against rat brain butyrylcholinesterase, respectively. Compound 9 (1mg/kg, i.p.) was fully efficacious in reverting scopolamine-induced amnesia in mice. The two active compounds (7 and 9) did not show overt toxic effects at the doses tested in vivo.
Myopathy and hepatic toxicity are important complications of zidovudine (3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine therapy) in patients infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) both may also occur in HIV infection in the absence of zidovudine therapy. We report 2 cases of myopathy caused by zidovudine, occurring within 16 wks of initiation of therapy, and a case of concurrent hepatic and muscle toxicity. In one case, electron microscopy demonstrated characteristic enlarged mitochondria with paracrystalline inclusions. This technique can distinguish the myopathies caused by either HIV or zidovudine. Both zidovudine-induced myopathy and hepatoxicity require discontinuation of the drug if severe.
Neuromyelitis optica (NMO) is a neurologic disease characterized by severe optic neuritis, longitudinally extended, transverse myelitis and serum aquaporin-4 (AQP4) antibody. Our recent neuropathological study revealed the extensive loss of AQP4 and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), an astrocyte-specific protein, in NMO lesions, but not in MS lesions, suggesting that severe astrocytic damage or dysfunction may be related to the pathogenesis of NMO. Here we report a patient of NMO, in which the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of GFAP were measured both during relapse of myelitis and after high-dose intravenous methylprednisolone (HIMP). The patient was a 34-year old woman with two previous episodes of optic neuritis. She developed myelitis longitudinally extending from C3 to T12 with contrast enhancement, and was AQP4 antibody-positive. In the acute phase, the GFAP level in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was prominently elevated (18,966.7 ng/ml) as compared with controls (0.6 +/- 0.33 ng/ml). However, following HIMP, the clinical and MRI findings improved, and the CSF-GFAP level was near-normal (2.1 ng/ml). The CSF of myelin basic protein was also elevated in relapse (1,016.0 pg/ml), and became lower but still remained high (158.7 pg/ml) after HIMP compared with controls (3.36 +/- 3.83 pg/ml). The prominent elevation of the CSF-GFAP level in relapse of NMO, followed by its sharp decline after therapy, suggests severe astrocytic damage with a temporal profile distinct from that of the demyelinating process in NMO. CSF-GFAP may be useful as a biomarker of NMO.
Mizolastine is a second generation antihistamine agent with high affinity and specificity for histamine H(1) receptors. Mizolastine has demonstrated antiallergic effects in animals and healthy volunteers and anti-inflammatory activity in animal models. Double-blind trials have shown mizolastine to be significantly more effective than placebo and as effective as other second generation antihistamine agents, such as loratadine or cetirizine, in the management of patients with perennial or seasonal allergic rhinitis and in patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria. Available data also suggest that prophylactic administration of mizolastine is significantly more effective than placebo and as effective as prophylactic terfenadine in delaying the onset of symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis. Mizolastine 10 mg/day is generally well tolerated, with the most common adverse events being drowsiness (7%), fatigue (2%), increased appetite (2%) and dry mouth (2%). In volunteers and patients the incidence of prolonged QT(c) interval was similar in mizolastine and placebo recipients, although mizolastine is contraindicated in those with cardiac disease or hepatic impairment or in those receiving erythromycin, ketoconazole or class I or III antiarrhythmic agents. Tests of psychomotor function in volunteers revealed no impairment after single doses of mizolastine <or=10mg.
Mizolastine is a second generation antihistamine agent administered at a dosage of 10mg once daily. Unlike terfenadine and astemizole, mizolastine has not been shown to increase the QT(c) interval in volunteers and patients. Mizolastine may be considered an effective alternative to other second generation antihistamine agents in the management of allergic rhinitis and chronic idiopathic urticaria.
Although frequently pointed out in the aetiology of chronic angioedema or chronic abdominal pain, food allergy is frequently a diagnosis for lack of anything better, as exemplified by disappointing results of eviction regimens. This has resulted in the search for other aetiologies, such as an iatrogenic effect of oral contraceptives.
Detailed medical history was obtained on 38 young women, aged a mean of 26 years, experiencing chronic angioedema initially ascribed to food hypersensitivity, but in whom a deficit in C1 inhibitor was demonstrated. We investigated the effects of oral contraception on their level of C1-INH, functional C1-INH assay and their clinical symptoms.
An interruption of oral contraception induced an increase of the C1-INH level from 0.201 to 0.224 g/L (p < 0.002) and of the C1-INH functional assay fom 0.396 to 0.702 U (p < 0.0001), associated with a recovery or a marked improvement of the clinical symptoms formerly ascribed to food allergy. The replacement of the initial contraception containing ethinyloestradiol by a progestogen maintained or even improved their clinical and biological state.
Exogenous estrogen such as those contained in most oral contraceptive may play an iatrogenic role in the aetiology of chronic angioedema.
Sotalol is a unique antiarrhythmic drug that combines beta-blocking effects with actions to prolong action potential duration. The net effect is a drug that is efficacious in the management of ventricular tachyarrhythmias. Although sotalol has effects on both heart rate and QT interval, these effects do not help predict the antiarrhythmic efficacy of the agent. Changes in QT dispersion may, however, prove to be relevant to both the antiarrhythmic effects and the arrhythmogenic effects of sotalol. Thus, although sotalol may occasionally cause torsades de pointes, this complication may be predictable and clinically controllable. Sotalol is well tolerated, and it may be used, with caution, in some patients with impaired myocardial contractile performance, despite its beta-blocking action. Sotalol has an important indication for the management of ventricular tachyarrhythmias.
Four quadrant quantitative amniotic fluid volume (length, width, and depth) was performed in six fetuses prior to and during indomethacin therapy for preterm labor in patients with normal amniotic fluid volume prior to therapy. The dose of indomethacin was 25 mg orally every 6 hours. One patient had to have the dose reduced to 25 mg every 12 hours due to constriction of the ductus arteriosus. Fetal urine output was determined prior to and during indomethacin therapy. The mean pretherapy amniotic fluid volume of 341.5 +/- 43.2 mm declined to 97 +/- 9.3 mm at the time of discontinuation of indomethacin for oligohydramnios. This occurred after 15 days of 25 mg indomethacin orally every 6 hours in four patients and after 28 days at 25 mg indomethacin every 12 hours in the remaining patient. Fetal urine output prior to and following indomethacin was 4.93 +/- 14 ml and 1.73 +/- 0.6 ml/hr, respectively. Prolonged indomethacin therapy results in decreased fetal urine output with resultant oligohydramnios and appears to be the major limiting factor aside from ductal constriction to long-term indomethacin therapy.
Inherited erythromelalgia (IEM), characterized by episodic burning pain and erythema of the extremities, is produced by gain-of-function mutations in sodium channel Na(v)1.7, which is preferentially expressed in nociceptive and sympathetic neurons. Most patients do not respond to pharmacotherapy, although occasional reports document patients as showing partial relief with lidocaine or mexiletine. A 7-year-old girl, with a two-year history of symmetric burning pain and erythema in her hands and feet, was diagnosed with erythromelalgia. Treatment with mexiletine reduced the number and severity of pain episodes. We report here a new IEM Na(v)1.7 mutation in this patient, and its response to mexiletine. SCN9A exons from the proband were amplified and sequenced. We identified a single nucleotide substitution (T2616G) in exon 15, not present in 200 ethnically-matched control alleles, which substitutes valine 872 by glycine (V872G) within DII/S5. Whole-cell patch-clamp analysis of wild-type and mutant Na(v)1.7 channels in mammalian cells show that V872G shifts activation by -10 mV, slows deactivation, and generates larger ramp currents. We observed a stronger use-dependent fall-off in current following exposure to mexiletine for V872G compared to wild-type channels. These observations suggest that some patients with IEM may show a favorable response to mexiletine due to a use-dependent effect on mutant Na(v)1.7 channels. Continued relief from pain, even after mexiletine was discontinued in this patient, might suggest that early treatment may slow the progression of the disease.
A patient, while on intravenous ritodrine therapy for preterm labor, experienced an episode of acute chest pain. The electrocardiogram (ECG), which was read as normal prior to ritodrine infusion, demonstrated a type I second-degree AV block which disappeared upon discontinuation of ritodrine therapy. This case illustrates the need for close ECG monitoring during ritodrine treatment when clinical symptoms arise.
Platelet activating factor (PAF) is produced by the rat renal papilla from a neutral lipid, alkylacetylglycerol. Renal release of another neutral lipid, antihypertensive neutral renomedullary lipid, and PAF might account for normalization of blood pressure after unclipping in Goldblatt hypertensive rats. We studied the potential storage and release of hypotensive substances by the rat renal papilla in vitro. Rat kidneys were snap-frozen in liquid N2-cooled freon immediately after removal and the total lipids were extracted from pooled dissected papillae and partially separated by thin layer chromatography on silica gel with a hexane: ether: acetic acid (40:60:1) solvent system. Lipids eluted from four, contiguous silica gel zones were assayed in anesthetized spontaneously hypertensive rats. No hypotensive activity was found in the thin layer chromatography lipid fraction co-migrating with palmitylacetylglycerol or in any other neutral lipid fraction. In contrast, the Krebs medium obtained after 30-min incubation of freshly minced papillary tissue induced dose-related hypotension and bradycardia. The hypotensive activity was equivalent to 48 +/- 9 ng prostaglandin E2 (PGE2)/mg wet papilla. Bradycardia induced by the incubation medium was correlated with decrements in blood pressure. In the same assays, nitroprusside caused tachycardia which was correlated with hypotension, and the bradycardia associated with PGE2-induced hypotension was significantly less than that induced by the incubation medium. The dose-related effects of the incubation medium were dramatically attenuated by indomethacin treatment of the papilla, suggesting that the hypotensive activity is dependent upon papillary cyclooxygenase activity. However, PGI2 elicited hypotension concomitant with tachycardia rather than bradycardia and PGE2 did not mimic the incubation medium-induced bradycardia. Therefore, the effects of the papillary incubation medium may be mediated by other cyclooxygenase metabolites. Production/release of hypotensive material by indomethacin-treated papillary tissue was potentiated by co-incubation with non-hypotensive quantities of PGE2, suggesting a potential role for PGE2 in the renal antihypertensive function. Increasing pressure on the papilla from 6 to 20 mmHg during incubation did not increase release of non-prostanoid hypotensive substance(s). These results suggest that the formation and release of cyclooxygenase metabolites accounts primarily for the hypotensive activity released from rat renal papillae in vitro, and that prostaglandins might play a permissive role in the release of other renomedullary hypotensive substances.
We present three patients who, after long-term therapy with amantadine (4 to 18 years), experienced an acute delirium with confusion, disorientation, agitation, and paranoia on withdrawal. These patients had Parkinson's disease for 5 to 29 years; mean age was 73 years. All had a history of varying degrees of dementia and transient hallucinations in the past. Adjustment of other medications was ineffective in improving their condition and no other cause was found. Only with reinstitution of amantadine did the patients return to baseline status (usually within days).
We report a case of hepatolithiasis (intrahepatic stone) complicated by gram-negative sepsis in a 37 year old male with acromegaly being treated with octreotide. As a child, he had suffered a traumatic injury to his liver requiring the surgical repair of a laceration. This is the first reported case of hepatolithiasis during octreotide therapy. Gallstones and bile sludge are common side effects of octreotide therapy but rarely become symptomatic or require treatment. Hepatolithiasis is uncommon in western countries but is quite prevalent in East Asia and is often associated with a predisposing condition that causes intrahepatic bile stasis (eg. bile duct stricture). In addition to its known effect on gallbladder stasis, octreotide alters bile acid composition and may thus hasten intrahepatic sludge and stone formation. Extra caution should be taken in using octreotide or its long-acting analog in patients otherwise predisposed to intrahepatic bile stasis.
Priapism is a urologic disorder and medical emergency with a variety of known etiologies including the use of psychotropic medications. The antidepressant trazodone is the agent most frequently implicated in the precipitation of priapism. Additionally, a number of drugs of abuse including marijuana, ethanol, and cocaine have been known to cause the disorder. It is unknown if drugs may act in an additive or a synergistic manner to cause priapism. We report a case of priapism which occurred following trazodone overdose in an individual actively using cocaine. This case suggests that combined trazodone and cocaine use may pose an additional risk of priapism. Since trazodone is commonly employed as a hypnotic and often chosen for polysubstance abusers due to its low abuse potential, clinicians should be aware of the possible additive risk of priapism in this patient population.
In a retrospective analysis of clinically diagnosed and lower limb deep vein thrombosis (DVT) proven by contrast venography, DVT complicated admissions in 46 (3.4%) of 1366 adult patients treated in a tuberculosis hospital during 1986. Analysis of 7542 admissions during 1978-86 showed a relative risk of 4.74 in patients treated with regimens including rifampicin compared with other regimens. DVT was significantly more common in winter months and usually occurred within 2 weeks of treatment being started. This probable association between rifampicin and DVT does not contraindicate use of this drug, but measures to prevent DVT should be taken in inpatients receiving rifampicin.
Conversion of the normal membrane-bound prion protein (PrP-sen) to its pathological isoform (PrP-res) is a key event in the pathogenesis of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies. Although the subcellular sites of conversion are poorly characterized, several lines of evidence have suggested the involvement of membrane lipid rafts in the conversion process. Here we report that copper stimulates the endocytosis of PrP-sen via a caveolin-dependent pathway in both microglia and neuroblastoma cells. We show that the polyene antibiotic filipin both limits endocytosis of PrP-sen and dramatically reduces the amount of membrane-bound PrP-sen. This reduction results from a rapid and massive release of full matured PrP-sen into the culture medium. Finally, we demonstrate that filipin is a potent inhibitor of PrP-res formation into chronically infected neuroblastoma cells. Our results reinforce the role of rafts in PrP trafficking and raise the possibility that the release of PrP-sen from the plasma membrane decreases the amount of available substrate PrP-sen at the conversion sites.
The preferential alpha-2 noradrenergic agonists, clonidine (0.2--0.4 mg/kg), oxymetazoline (2.5--10.0 mg/kg) and UK 14,304 (0.6 mg/kg), when given i.p., reduce the severity of audiogenic seizures in 19- to 26-day-old DBA/2 mice. This protective effect can be diminished or reversed by alpha-2 noradrenergic antagonists such as yohimbine (2.5 mg/kg) or piperoxan (20--50 mg/kg) given i.p. or phentoalamine (100 micrograms) given intracerebroventricularly. It is not reversed by the preferential alpha-1 noradrenergic antagonist phenoxybenzamine (5 mg/kg) given i.p. Yohimbine, (1--2.5 mg/kg), piperoxan (20--50 mg/kg) or phenoxybenzamine (5 mg/kg) given i.p. alone did not change the severity of audiogenic seizure responses. Phentolamine (10--100 micrograms) or prazosin (10--50 micrograms) given intracerebroventricularly induced spontaneous limb myoclonus in some mice. Audiogenic seizure responses were unchanged after phentolamine (10--100 micrograms) but were reduced after prazosin (25--50 micrograms). Activation of a receptor pharmacologically similar to the peripheral alpha-2 noradrenergic receptor protects against seizures in this epilepsy model.
Since 1978 a 63-year-old woman with rheumatoid arthritis received D-penicillamine (D-PA) in a daily dose of 250-500 mg (mean 300 mg/d). In 1982 the patient complained of diplopia for several days, the ophthalmological and neurological examinations three days later were normal. In July 1983 she developed a myasthenic syndrome, D-PA was stopped and treatment with mestinon was started. At this time anti-acetylcholine-receptor-antibodies (anti-AChR) were detectable in the patient's serum. The examination of sera stored at -80 degrees C since 1978 revealed anti-AChR existing since 1981 -1 1/2 years, however, before the temporary diplopia. Therefore in 13 other patients receiving D-PA for more than one year anti-AChR were examined. In two of these patients anti-AChR were found. The electroneurological tests were (still?) normal. The question arises whether anti-AChR should be measured routinely in patients with D-PA.
COX-2-derived prostaglandins (PG) have been suggested to be important modulators of renin release and expression. However, the role of COX-2 in various high-renin states is still being debated. In the present studies we explored the role of COX-2-derived PG on basal and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI)-stimulated plasma and renal renin concentrations (PRC and RRC, RIA), and mRNA expression (RmRNA, RNAse protection assay) in experimental diabetes (DM). Groups of moderately hyperglycemic (n = 5, approximately 350 mg/dl), streptozotocin-diabetic rats (D) after 3 weeks of DM were treated with a selective COX-2 inhibitor, MF-tricyclic (MF, 5 mg/kg/day for 10 days in food), the combination of MF and the ACEI enalapril (3 mg/kg/day), enalapril alone, or vehicle (MF-free chow), for 10 days. Non-diabetic control rats, fed MF-free chow, were also studied. All groups of diabetic rats demonstrated similar glycemic control. Treatment with ACEI resulted in significant elevations in PRC, RRC and RmRNA as compared to non-ACEI treated groups of diabetic and control rats. A similar rise in these parameters was observed in the rats treated with the combination of ACEI and MF. Furthermore, in diabetic rats treated with MF alone, PRC and RRC were similar to vehicle-treated animals. Diabetic rats demonstrated higher urinary PG as compared to controls. MF-treated rats demonstrated a significant reduction in urinary PG excretion. In summary, selective COX-2 inhibition influenced neither basal renin status nor ACEI-induced renin release and expression in diabetic rats. These findings do not support a significant role for COX-2 in mediating renin status in diabetes.
The Y-box binding protein 1 (YB-1) is a multifunctional protein that affects transcription, splicing, and translation. Overexpression of YB-1 in breast cancers causes cisplatin resistance. The exact mechanism by which YB-1 confers cisplatin resistance is unknown. The aim of the present study was to identify, using mass spectrometry, proteins that interact with YB-1 that are important for cisplatin resistance in two breast cancer cell lines, namely MCF7 and MDA-MB-231. A tagged YB-1 construct was used to identify proteins interacting directly with YB-1 in breast cancer cells. We then focused on proteins that are potentially involved in breast cancer progression based on the ONCOMINE public microarray database. Genes encoding for these YB-1-interacting proteins were examined in the public NCBI comparative genomic hybridization database to determine whether they are localized to regions of chromosomes that are rearranged in breast cancer tissues. From these analyses, we generated a list of proteins potentially involved in cisplatin resistance. Cisplatin dose-response curves were constructed in MCF7 and MDA-MB-231 transfected with four siRNA corresponding to each of these YB-1 interactors to identify proteins significantly affecting cisplatin sensitivity upon gene silencing. Depletion of only the X-linked ribosomal protein S4 (RPS4X) resulted in consistent resistance to cisplatin in both cell lines with at least three different siRNA sequences against RPS4X. Further analyses indicated that the knock down of RPS4X decreased DNA synthesis, induced cisplatin resistance, and is equivalent to the overexpression of YB-1 in both MCF7 and MDA-MB-231 cells. These results suggest that the RPS4X/YB-1 complex is a significant potential target to counteract cisplatin resistance in breast cancer.
In addition to reducing the expression of transferrin and ceruloplasmin genes, hypolipidemic peroxisome proliferators may alter iron homeostasis in the liver. Therefore, this study investigates the effects of clofibrate on proteins related to liver iron metabolism in a rat model using a 2 x 2 experimental design: two dose levels of clofibrate in diet (0 and 0.5%) and two dietary iron levels (35 ppm as normal level and 15 ppm as low-iron diet). Twenty-four Wistar rats were assigned to the four diets and fed for 6 weeks. Subsequent measurements of iron parameters in the blood and the liver indicated that, in addition to mild anemia and the reduction in serum iron and total iron-binding capacity, clofibrate treatment altered IRP1 and IRP2 activities differentially and increased mitochondrial aconitase both at activity and protein levels. At both normal and low-iron intakes, clofibrate caused a 50% reduction in serum iron and TIBC with a corresponding reduction in transferrin mRNA. The RNA-binding activities of IRP1 were selectively activated by clofibrate treatment even though liver iron concentration was not depleted. The RNA-binding activity of IRP2 was selectively activated by the low iron intake and correlated with an increase of transferrin receptor mRNA, while clofibrate treatment offset the effects of the low iron intake.
In the traditional system of medicine, the roots and rhizomes of Glycyrrhiza glabra (family: Leguminosae) have been employed clinically for centuries for their anti-inflammatory, antiulcer, expectorant, antimicrobial and anxiolytic activities. The present study was undertaken to investigate the effects of Glycyrrhiza glabra (popularly known as liquorice) on learning and memory in mice. Elevated plus-maze and passive avoidance paradigm were employed to test learning and memory. Three doses (75, 150 and 300 mg/kg p.o.) of aqueous extract of Glycyrrhiza glabra were administered for 7 successive days in separate groups of animals. The dose of 150 mg/kg of the aqueous extract of liquorice significantly improved learning and memory of mice. Furthermore, this dose significantly reversed the amnesia induced by diazepam (1 mg/kg i.p.) and scopolamine (0.4 mg/kg i.p.). Anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties of liquorice may be contributing favorably to the memory enhancement effect. Since scopolamine-induced amnesia was reversed by liquorice, it is possible that the beneficial effect on learning and memory was due to facilitation of cholinergic-transmission in mouse brain. However, further studies are necessitated to identify the exact mechanism of action. In the present investigation, Glycyrrhiza glabra has shown promise as a memory enhancing agent in all the laboratory models employed.
We investigated whether chronic infusion of phenylephrine could induce structural and functional changes in the kidney of rats with the subsequent development of salt-sensitive hypertension. Rats were infused with phenylephrine (0.15 mmol/kg per day) by minipump, resulting in a moderate increase in systolic blood pressure (BP) (17 to 25 mm Hg) and a marked increase in BP variability as measured by an internal telemetry device. After 8 weeks, the phenylephrine infusion was stopped with the return of BP to normal, and a nephrectomy was performed for histological studies. Glomeruli were largely spared, but focal tubulointerstitial fibrosis was present, with the de novo expression of osteopontin by injured tubules, macrophage and "myofibroblast" accumulation, and focal increases in mRNA for transforming growth factor beta by in situ hybridization. Peritubular capillaries at sites of injury had distorted morphology with shrinkage, rounding, and focal rarefaction, and endothelial cell proliferation was also identified. Rats were randomized to a high (8% NaCl or 1.36 mol/kg) or low (0.1% NaCl or 17 mmol/kg) salt diet. After 4 to 8 weeks, phenylephrine-treated rats on a high salt diet developed marked hypertension, which was in contrast with phenylephrine-treated rats placed on a low salt diet or vehicle-treated rats given a high salt diet. Hypertension after phenylephrine exposure correlated with the initial mean systolic BP (r(2)=0.99) and the degree of BP lability (r(2)=0.99) during the phenylephrine infusion, the amount of osteopontin expressed in the initial biopsy/nephrectomy (r(2)=0.74), and the final glomerular filtration rate (r(2)=0.58). These studies provide a mechanism by which a markedly elevated sympathetic nervous system can induce salt-dependent hypertension even when the hyperactive sympathetic state is no longer engaged.
In connection with the elucidation of the mechanisms of the acute and chronic haemodynamic stress during cardiac overloading, as well as in investigations on the role of neurotransmitter systems in the genesis of myocardial hypertrophy (MH), we carried out a complex of studies involving modelling of MH induced by treatment of rats with isoprenaline (ISO.) and of rabbits with thyreotom (Tri-iodothyronin +L-Thyroxin). With a view to studying some pathogenetic factors participating in the characteristics of the reproduced pathological states, combinations with oxprenolol, atropine, phentolamine (Phent.) and amino-oxyacetic acid (AOAA), which is a GABA-inhibitor, were also applied. The results of the ECG studies performed are the main object of the present article. Marked MH was found in rats injected for 12 days with Iso. in doses of 2 mg/kg, as well as in rabbits which received thyreotom (accompanied with development of arterial hypertension). Considerable functional and morphological damage (with subendocardial fibrous proliferations) were discovered in rats treated with Iso. +Phent. The combinations of oxprenolol and AOAA manifested a protective effect to rabbits with thyrotoxic disturbances. Evident is also the essential role played by the adrenergic mechanisms in MH pathogenesis.
Rg1, as a ginsenoside extracted from Panax ginseng, could ameliorate spatial learning impairment. Previous studies have demonstrated that Rg1 might be a useful agent for the prevention and treatment of the adverse effects of morphine. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of Rg1 on learning impairment by chronic morphine administration and the mechanism responsible for this effect. Male rats were subcutaneously injected with morphine (10 mg/kg) twice a day at 12 hour intervals for 10 days, and Rg1 (30 mg/kg) was intraperitoneally injected 2 hours after the second injection of morphine once a day for 10 days. Spatial learning capacity was assessed in the Morris water maze. The results showed that rats treated with Morphine/Rg1 decreased escape latency and increased the time spent in platform quadrant and entering frequency. By implantation of electrodes and electrophysiological recording in vivo, the results showed that Rg1 restored the long-term potentiation (LTP) impaired by morphine in both freely moving and anaesthetised rats. The electrophysiological recording in vitro showed that Rg1 restored the LTP in slices from the rats treated with morphine, but not changed LTP in the slices from normal saline- or morphine/Rg1-treated rats; this restoration could be inhibited by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist MK801. We conclude that Rg1 may significantly improve the spatial learning capacity impaired by chonic morphine administration and restore the morphine-inhibited LTP. This effect is NMDA receptor dependent.
To compare bimatoprost with timolol maleate in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
In 2 identical, multicenter, randomized, double-masked, 1-year clinical trials, patients were treated with 0.03% bimatoprost once daily (QD) (n = 474), 0.03% bimatoprost twice daily (BID) (n = 483), or 0.5% timolol maleate BID (n = 241).
Diurnal intraocular pressure (IOP) at 8 AM, 10 AM, and 4 PM and safety variables (IOP was also measured at 8 PM at selected sites).
Bimatoprost QD provided significantly lower mean IOP than timolol at every time of the day at each study visit (P<.001). This was also true for bimatoprost BID at most time points, but the efficacy was not as good as that of the QD regimen. At 10 AM (peak timolol effect) at month 12, the mean reduction in IOP from baseline was 7.6 mm Hg (30%) with bimatoprost and 5.3 mm Hg (21%) with timolol (P<.001). A significantly higher percentage of patients receiving bimatoprost QD (58%) than timolol (37%) achieved IOPs at or below 17 mm Hg (10 AM, month 12; P<.001). The most common adverse effect with bimatoprost was hyperemia (significantly higher with bimatoprost QD than timolol; P<.001).
Bimatoprost QD provides sustained IOP lowering superior to timolol or bimatoprost BID and achieves low target IOPs in significantly more patients.
