We examined an 11-year-old boy who complained of acute onset of diplopia. The patient had head trauma and postsurgical convulsions and had been treated with carbamazepine. Diplopia developed after the dose of carbamazepine was increased to 700 mg/day. On examination, comitant esotropia and lateral gaze nystagmus were found. These disorders disappeared after carbamazepine was decreased to 400 mg/day. We believe that acute comitant esotropia and lateral gaze nystagmus may have been precipitated by head trauma and carbamazepine in our patient.
Although beta-sympathomimetic tocolytic therapy has been associated with transient subendocardial ischemia, magnesium sulfate has rarely been noted to cause acute chest pain and is, in fact, known to improve myocardial perfusion in patients with variant angina. We believe this report represents the first case in which intravenous magnesium sulfate administered as a tocolytic agent caused acute chest pain accompanied by transient electrocardiographic evidence of subendocardial ischemia.
To investigate the effects of Shenshuning Recipe (SSNR) on gene expression of hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) in renal tissues in rats with glomerulosclerosis.
Glomerulosclerosis was induced in 42 rats by unilateral nephrectomy and intravenous injection of doxorubicin. Then these 42 rats were randomly divided into three groups: untreated group, SSNR-treated group and benazepril-treated group. Another eight rats were included into sham-operation group. The rats in the SSNR-treated group and the benazepril-treated group were fed SSNR or benazepril respectively for 8 weeks. The levels of 24 h urine protein (Upr), serum creatinine (Cr) and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) of rats in each group were examined. The renal morphological changes were observed under microscope, and the diameter of glomerular capillary, mesangial matrix and glomerulosclerosis index were analyzed by image analysis software. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method was used to detect the gene expression of HGF in the renal tissues.
The levels of 24 h Upr, serum Cr and BUN in the untreated group were remarkably increased than those in the sham-operation group (P<0.01). The pathological morphological changes in the untreated group showed that the glomerulosclerosis was diffused around the renal tissue and the capillaries were shrunk. The expression level of mesangial matrix was up-regulated and the glomerulosclerosis index was 3.32+/-0.35. The expression level of HGF mRNA in the untreated group was obviously lower than that in the sham-operation group (P<0.05). The levels of 24 h Upr, serum Cr and BUN in the SSNR-treated group and the benazepril-treated group were remarkably decreased as compared with those in the untreated group, while the expression levels of HGF mRNA were both obviously higher than that in the untreated group (P<0.01). The pathological morphological changes in the SSNR-treated group and the benazepril-treated group were both alleviated. There was no significant difference in therapeutic effect between the SSNR-treated group and the benazepril-treated group.
Shenshuning Recipe can up-regulate the expression of HGF mRNA, decrease the mesangial matrix, and improve the renal function, so that it may retard the development of glomerulosclerosis.
An excessive activation of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1), a nuclear enzyme able to catalyze the transfer of ADP-ribose from NAD to acceptor proteins, is involved in the progression of neuronal damage after brain insult. Potent and selective PARP-1 inhibitors have neuroprotective properties in experimental models of brain ischemia. As a follow up of our previous structure-activity relationship study and in search for novel potent PARP-1 inhibitors, a series of 4H-thieno[2,3-c]-isoquinolin-5-one derivatives was designed and synthesized. Tested for their ability to inhibit PARP-1, these novel derivatives showed high inhibitory potency. The unsubstituted derivative TIQ was selected for further characterization and found to be endowed with strong neuroprotective properties in models of cerebral ischemia.
We report a rare case of malignant syndrome with leukoencephalopathy due to cocaine abuse. The patient was a 22-year-old man. After nasally ingesting 4.2 g of cocaine, he developed coma, high grade fever of 39 degrees C, excessive sweating, muscular rigidity, and elevation of CK to 61,240 mU/ml. Although these symptoms improved in about 2 weeks, diffuse low density area of the cerebral white matter was observed in CT scan, and T2-weighted MRI revealed a high signal intensity area. Since disorientation and abnormal behavior appeared on the 24th hospital day after a lucid interval, sulpiride and haloperidol were administered. The patient again had fever, akinetic mutisn, severe muscular rigidity and excessive sweating. This patient has malignant syndrome associated with a wide-ranging lesion of the cerebral white matter as a result of cocaine abuse. And then antipsychotic drugs were administered for mental symptoms that recurred after a lucid interval, and second bouts of neuroleptic malignant syndrome occurred. There have been only a few reports on malignant syndrome due to cocaine, and there have been no reports on leukoencephalopathy due to cocaine or malignant syndrome.
Sexual and reproductive function side effects of atypical antipsychotics are frequent, often underestimated and badly tolerated. They contribute to the 50% rate of non-compliance reported for treated patients. Prevalence of sexual dysfunction associated with atypical antipsychotic treatment is high, varying from 18 to 96%. Atypical antipsychotics aren't, as a group, much better than typical antipsychotics, and among them, risperidone seems to induce more and quetiapine less sexual dysfunction. Most atypicals are non-selective, and have actions on multiple central and peripheral receptors. Among these, dopaminergic blockade could have a direct - altering motivation (desire) and reward (orgasm) - and an indirect negative influence on sexuality. Actually, the secondary hyperprolactinemia induced by some antipsychotics (typical antipsychotics, risperidone and amisulpiride), is dose-dependent, more pronounced for female patients, and may have a detrimental effect on sexual function. It also may result in hypogonadism, particularly for female patients. The long-term consequences of this secondary hypogonadism are subject to debate but potentially severe. Furthermore, the blocking and/or modulating actions of atypical antipsychotics on adrenaline, serotonine, histamine or acetyl-choline receptors all have the potential to contribute to secondary sexual problems. The pharmacological profile of risperidone, characterized by a strong affinity for D2 and alpha1 receptors, correlates with his tendency to significantly elevate prolactin levels and to produce ejaculatory disturbances. FIVE CASE-REPORTS: We describe five case-reports of sexual or hormonal disturbances associated with risperidone treatment: two cases of ejaculatory disturbance, one case of galactorrhea and two cases of amenorrhea. Alberto and David are two young male schizophrenic patients, treated with risperidone, and complaining of a total absence of ejaculation despite a preserved orgasm. Many recent case-reports describe the occurrence of retrograde ejaculation associated with risperidone but the exact prevalence is unknown. Retrograde ejaculation is thought to be related to the strong adrenolytic activity of risperidone. Alberto refused his medication because the ejaculatory dysfunction was unbearable for him. A switch to haloperidol depot was eventually well tolerated, without any sexual complaints. His case emphasizes the importance of sexual function for self-esteem and how this may amplify the intolerance to side-effects. David is on depot-risperidone in a setting of a legally forced treatment. Though he - reluctantly - accepts his medication, this side effect exacerbates his pre-existing delusions, strongly focused on sexual themes. His case illustrates how intolerance to sexual side-effects may be amplified by nature of delusions. Mireille is a 58 year old psychotic female patient, whose 2 mg risperidone treatment produced a unilateral galactorrhea. This sign became problematic because potentially visible at a time when Mireille started an activity in a sheltered occupation in town. Lowering dosage of antipsychotic allowed disappearance of the problem. Subjective responses to galactorrhea have been reported to be highly individual. Apart being a potentially visible side-effect, it may be misinterpreted as evidence of pregnancy or of a tumoral process. The cases of Ermina and Denise illustrate two contrasted situations in terms of subjective tolerability of reproductive function side-effects. Both were pre-menopausal patients with hyperprolactinemia secondary to risperidone treatment, resulting in amenorrhea. This was unbearable for Ermina. A switch to olanzapine allowed, one month later, the menses to resume. For Denise, on the other hand, the amenorrhea was a positive event, freeing her of unpleasant menses.
Amenorrhea occurs in about 30% of pre-menopausal women treated with risperidone. It is a consequence of hyperprolactinemia, which, although often silent, is not devoid of potential negative consequences (ie increased risk of osteoporosis or neoplasia, worsening of psychopathology) (34). When hyperprolactinemia is symptomatic, lowering of the dose of the antipsychotic, or switching to a prolactin-sparing agent (olanzapine, quetiapine, aripiprazole and clozapine) is recommended. Before this, women with amenorrhea secondary to antipsychotic-induced hyperprolactinemia should be advised that menses may resume. Especially after long-standing amenorrhea they may assume being menopaused, hence may believe birth control measures are no longer required. The prevalence of antipsychotic-induced sexual and reproductive function side-effects is high. Clinicians should be aware of them, because they are often badly tolerated, are associated with a low satisfaction and may therefore result in low adherence with treatment. This implies for the clinician to overtly discuss with the patient of his sexuality and the potential negative impact of antipsychotic treatment on it. The recognition of these problems allows the searching together for a solution.
The described cases indicate that solving the problem is often possible, provided that individual preferences and subjective impact are taken in account. Antipsychotic treatment is often prescribed for very long periods. A better knowledge of - and attention to - the associated side effects, particularly on the sexual and reproductive functions, is necessary in order to reduce some potentially negative long-term effects and to improve the adherence to treatment of our patients.
Rosacea fulminans is a rare variant of rosacea conglobata that occurs almost exclusively in women well past adolescence. The aetiology is unknown, although immunological, hormonal, and vascular factors have been suggested. We report the case of a 17-year-old girl with rosacea fulminans that was temporally associated with daily ingestion of high-dose vitamin B supplements. The onset was sudden and cosmetically disabling. The eruption improved when the vitamin supplement was discontinued and a therapeutic regimen including isotretinoin and methylprednisolone was introduced. It seems appropriate to consider the possibility of such a vitamin B-triggered condition in cases of subjects presenting new or exacerbating facial eruptions.
Maternal cholestasis causes oxidative damage to the placental-fetal unit that may challenge the outcome of pregnancy. This has been associated with the accumulation of biliary compounds able to induce oxidative stress. However, other cholephilic compounds such as ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) and bilirubin have direct anti-oxidant properties. In the present study we investigated whether these compounds exert a protective effect on cholestasis-induced oxidative stress in placenta as compared to maternal and fetal livers, and whether this is due in part to the activation of anti-oxidant mechanisms involving vitamin C uptake and biliverdin/bilirubin recycling. In human placenta (JAr) and liver (HepG2) cells, deoxycholic acid (DCA) similar rates of free radical generation. In JAr (not HepG2), the mitochondrial membrane potential and cell viability were impaired by low DCA concentrations; this was partly prevented by bilirubin and UDCA. In HepG2, taurocholic acid (TCA) and UDCA up-regulated biliverdin-IX alpha reductase (BVR alpha) and the vitamin C transporter SVCT2 (not SVCT1), whereas bilirubin up-regulated both SVCT1 and SVCT2. In JAr, TCA and UDCA up-regulated BVR alpha, SVCT1 and SVCT2, whereas bilirubin up-regulated only SVCT2. A differential response to these compounds of nuclear receptor expression (SXR, CAR, FXR and SHP) was found in both cell types. When cholestasis was induced in pregnant rats, BVR alpha, SVCT1 and SVCT2 expression in maternal and fetal livers was stimulated, and this was further enhanced by UDCA treatment. In placenta, only BVR alpha was up-regulated. In conclusion, bilirubin accumulation and UDCA administration may directly and indirectly protect the placental-fetal unit from maternal cholestasis-induced oxidative stress.
Clinical trials have shown that chemotherapy with docetaxel combined with prednisone can improve survival of patients with androgen-independent prostate cancer. It is likely that the combination of docetaxel with other novel chemotherapeutic agents would also improve the survival of androgen-independent prostate cancer patients. We investigated whether the combination of docetaxel and flavopiridol, a broad cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, can increase apoptotic cell death in prostate cancer cells. Treatment of DU 145 prostate cancer cells with 500 nmol/L flavopiridol and 10 nmol/L docetaxel inhibited apoptosis probably because of their opposing effects on cyclin B1-dependent kinase activity. In contrast, when LNCaP prostate cancer cells were treated with flavopiridol for 24 hours followed by docetaxel for another 24 hours (FD), there was a maximal induction of apoptosis. However, there was greater induction of apoptosis in DU 145 cells when docetaxel was followed by flavopiridol or docetaxel. These findings indicate a heterogeneous response depending on the type of prostate cancer cell. Substantial decreases in X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis (XIAP) protein but not survivin, both being members of the IAP family, were required for FD enhanced apoptosis in LNCaP cells. Androgen ablation in androgen-independent LNCaP cells increased activated AKT and chemoresistance to apoptosis after treatment with FD. The proteasome inhibitor MG-132 blocked FD-mediated reduction of XIAP and AKT and antagonized apoptosis, suggesting that the activation of the proteasome pathway is one of the mechanisms involved. Overall, our data suggest that the docetaxel and flavopiridol combination requires a maximal effect on cyclin B1-dependent kinase activity and a reduction of XIAP and AKT prosurvival proteins for augmentation of apoptosis in LNCaP cells.
Trabectedin is a novel anticancer drug active against soft tissue sarcomas. Trabectedin is a substrate for P-glycoprotein (P-gp), which is encoded by mdr1a/1b in rodents. Plasma and tissue distribution, and excretion of [(14)C]-trabectedin were evaluated in wild-type and mdr1a/1b(-/-) mice. In parallel, we investigated the toxicity profile of trabectedin by serial measurements of blood liver enzymes and general pathology. [(14)C]-trabectedin was extensively distributed into tissues, and rapidly converted into a range of unknown metabolic products. The excretion of radioactivity was similar in both genotypes. The plasma clearance of unchanged trabectedin was not reduced when P-gp was absent, but organs under wild type circumstances protected by P-gp showed increased trabectedin concentrations in mdr1a/1b(-/-) mice. Although hepatic trabectedin concentrations were not increased when P-gp was absent, mdr1a/1b(-/-) mice experienced more severe liver toxicity. P-gp plays a role in the in vivo disposition and toxicology of trabectedin.
The effect of drug-specific antibody Fab' fragment on desipramine (DMI) toxicity was studied in anesthetized rats to determine 1) whether DMI-induced hypotension can be reversed, and 2) whether the effect of this Fab' fragment can be enhanced by the concurrent administration of hypertonic NaHCO3. DMI (60 mg/kg) was administered i.p. to produce marked hypotension. Antitricyclic antidepressant (TCA) Fab' (molar Fab'/DMI ratio = 0.11) or control Fab' was administered 15 min later as a 10 min i.v. infusion. The mean arterial pressure was higher at the end of anti-TCA Fab' infusion than after control Fab' (58 +/- 8 vs. 17 +/- 7 mm Hg, P less than .001). In a second protocol, DMI (30 mg/kg) was administered to prolong QRS duration. Anti-TCA Fab' alone (molar Fab'/DMI ratio = 0.09) and NaHCO3 alone both reduced QRS prolongation compared to control treatment, and combined therapy was more effective than either one alone. In both protocols, anti-TCA Fab' markedly increased the total DMI concentration and the bound fraction of DMI in serum, but did not alter the unbound DMI concentration. In the low DMI dose protocol, anti-TCA Fab' also reduced the cardiac DMI concentration. Concurrent treatment with anti-TCA Fab' and NaHCO3 substantially increased urinary DMI and anti-TCA Fab' excretion compared to treatment with anti-TCA Fab' alone.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We studied rejection, allograft function and side effects, such as hypertension, renal dysfunction and hypercholesterolemia, in seven patients switched from cyclosporine-based triple-drug immunosuppression to FK 506.
A subset of pediatric heart transplant recipients treated with triple-drug immunosuppression consisting of cyclosporine, azathioprine and prednisone experience either persistent rejection when attempts are made to taper corticosteroids or morbidity from cyclosporine and corticosteroids. Experience with the new immunosuppressive agent FK 506 has demonstrated its effectiveness as a single agent in heart transplant recipients, and anecdotal evidence has shown that side effects such as hypertension and hypercholesterolemia may be lower.
Seven patients whom we deemed corticosteroid dependent were switched to FK 506-based therapy. Allograft function, episodes of rejection, need for corticosteroids and incidence of side effects from FK 506 were monitored. The switch to FK 506 was performed using an established protocol. Follow-up time has ranged from 15 to 41 months. Serial right heart catheterizations and endomyocardial biopsies were performed after each reduction of corticosteroid dosing.
Catheterization data showed no significant change in pulmonary wedge pressure, mean right atrial pressure or cardiac index, indicating no decline in allograft function. Serial echocardiographic variables of allograft function were also stable. At present, all seven patients are free of the corticosteroid portion of their immune suppression. There have been only two episodes of significant acute rejection requiring treatment with intravenous corticosteroids. Antihypertensive medications have been discontinued in five of six patients previously treated with these drugs. Plasma cholesterol, low density lipoprotein and triglyceride levels were decreased, and renal function was stable.
Preliminary studies suggest that FK 506 may be an alternative immunosuppressive agent for pediatric and adolescent patients experiencing ongoing rejection or significant morbidity from cyclosporine and corticosteroids and in those patients dependent on corticosteroids for immune suppression.
Arterial hypotension to about 50 mm Hg mean pressure was induced in anaesthetized and artificially ventilated dogs by halothane, nitroprusside, and trimethaphan to study their effects on cerebral blood flow and intracranial pressure during hypotension. During nitroprusside induced hypotension there was a 32% increase in cerebral blood flow above control and a marked decrease in cerebral arteriovenous oxygen content difference indicating luxury perfusion of the brain. Cerebral blood flow remained high even 30 min after termination of hypotension. During halothane and trimethaphan hypotension cerebral blood flow remained unchanged. In all groups epidural pressure did not change substantially during hypotension but increased during recovery from nitroprusside hypotension by a maximum of 72% above control. It is concluded that during and after nitroprusside hypotension loss of cerebral autoregulation occurs which may result in a marked rise in intracranial pressure. Special vulnerability seems to exist shortly after termination of induced hypotension when arterial pressure begins to rise and brain perfusion follows a pressure-flow relationship.
To seek behavioural, reflexive and histochemical evidence of long-lasting changes in nociceptive stimulus transmission induced by exposure to doses of pentobarbital that induce nocifensive hyperreflexia.
Nocifensive hyperreflexia was induced in 12 rats with 30 mg x kg(-1) pentobarbital ip. Reflex latency times for withdrawal of the hind paw from noxious radiant heat were measured with an automated electronic timer. Subjective responses to noxious stimulation (licking or biting of the stimulated hindpaw) and the level of sedation were recorded. Histological sections of lumbar spinal cord were stained for immunoreactivity of the immediate-early-gene (IEG), c-fos, in three rats that received repeated threshold noxious radiant heat stimulation during the period of nocifensive hyperreflexia induced by 30 mg x kg(-1) pentobarbital ip.
Reflex withdrawal latency decreased by 32 +/- 8% of control values (P < 0.001 ) following pentobarbital injection and returned to control values 120 min after drug injection. Once fully alert, pentobarbital-treated animals did not show any increase in nociceptive behaviour relative to saline-injected controls (P = 0.41). Sustained noxious stimulation to the hindpaw in halothane-anesthetized animals was associated with an increase in c-fos immunoreactivity in the dorsal horn of the lumbar spinal cord ipsilateral to the stimulation (P < 0.001). Threshold stimulation in the pentobarbital-treated animals was not associated with any increase in c-fos expression.
During pentobarbital-induced hyperreflexia, rats did not show any reflexive, behavioural, or histochemical evidence of long-lasting enhancement of nocifensive signal transmission. The results are consistent with previous observations that, in the absence of tissue injury, nocifensive hyperreflexia induced by barbiturates is a short-lived pharmacological effect.
The hemodynamic changes on the course of septic multiorgan failure (s-MOF), and the effects of norepinephrine administrated at septic shock state were evaluated in thirteen patients who died of s-MOF in ICU. The course in ICU was divided into following three stages. Stage I was for a few days after admission in ICU. Stage II was severe infected state. Stage III was the terminal state, i.e., a few days before death. Norepinephrine was administrated when conventional catecholamines (dopamine and/or dobutamine) could not maintain the blood pressure level in the shift from stage II to III, and the hemodynamic changes were evaluated before and after the administration. The following results were obtained: 1) Hemodynamic changes: The stage I was characterized as a moderately hyperdynamic state. The stage II exhibited a typical hyperdynamic state distinguished by a decrease in systemic vascular resistance (SVR). The stage III was distinguished as a normodynamic shock state, because of fall of cardiac output within normal control level. 2) Norepinephrine increased cardiac index, heart rate, and right ventricular stroke work index, but mean arterial pressure, stroke index and SVR did not exhibit any change. However, norepinephrine was useful aid to maintain the circulation in hypotensive state, when conventional catecholamines could not maintain blood pressure any more.
One of the shortcomings of current treatment of nerve agent poisoning is that oximes hardly penetrate the blood-brain barrier (BBB), whereas nerve agents easily do. Increasing the concentration of oximes in the brain, would therefore provide an attractive approach to improve medical countermeasures. An explanation for limited penetration might be that oximes are substrates for the active P-glycoprotein (Pgp) efflux transporter located in the BBB. Using quantitative brain microdialysis in rats, the effect of i.v. injected tariquidar, a non-competitive, specific Pgp-inhibitor, on HI-6 levels in blood and brain was investigated. It appeared that tariquidar enhanced HI-6 levels in the brain approximately 2-fold during the first hour after HI-6 administration, whereas plasma levels did not differ between the treatment groups. A subsequent proof-of-concept study in rats showed that soman-induced seizures and convulsions were prevented almost completely when they were, in addition to HI-6 and atropine, pretreated with tariquidar. Moreover, twice as much AChE activity was present in their brains as compared to control rats. These results in rats indicate that modulation of the BBB by a drug like tariquidar, which is non-toxic by itself, is of great value in enhancing the efficacy of oximes.
Menopausal hormone therapy (MHT) is a well-established factor in endometrial carcinogenesis, and therefore, could have prognostic implications. We investigated the effects of ever use of MHT on tumour grade and depth of myometrial invasion and 5-year relative survival in postmenopausal endometrial cancer patients.
We used a nationwide, population-based case-case design, of 683 Swedish women aged 50-74 years diagnosed with endometrial cancer during 1994 to 1995, followed up to 5 years after diagnosis. We applied polytomous multiple logistic regression to investigate the associations between the use of MHT and tumour grade, and myometrial invasion and Poisson regression for modelling 5-year excess mortality.
Compared to never use, ever use of any MHT entailed lower risks of having moderately and poorly differentiated tumours. The lowest odds ratios for poorly differentiated tumours were seen for ever users of cyclically combined oestrogen-progestin [OR=0.23 (95% CI=0.07-0.73)]. Ever users of any form of MHT; particularly, medium potency MHT users, had significantly lower risks for tumours with deep myometrial invasion. Adjusted estimated relative excess hazard ratios revealed significantly improved survival for ever users of any form of MHT [RER=0.40 (95% CI=0.16-0.97)]; in particular ever users of any form of oestrogens [RER=0.38 (95% CI=0.15-0.99)].
Endometrial cancer patients who were ever users of MHT had more favourable tumour characteristics and better survival compared to never users of MHT. These findings support the notion that MHT induces endometrial cancer with less aggressive characteristics.
This study assessed BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation prevalence in an unselected cohort of patients with triple-negative breast cancer (BC).
One hundred ninety-nine patients were enrolled. Triple negativity was defined as <1% estrogen and progesterone staining by immunohistochemistry and HER-2/neu not overexpressed by fluorescence in situ hybridization. Having given consent, patients had BRCA1 and BRCA2 full sequencing and large rearrangement analysis. Mutation prevalence was assessed among the triple-negative BC patients and the subset of patients without a family history of breast/ovarian cancer. Independent pathological review was completed on 50 patients.
Twenty-one deleterious BRCA mutations were identified--13 in BRCA1 and 8 in BRCA2 (prevalence, 10.6%). In 153 patients (76.9%) without significant family history (first-degree or second-degree relatives with BC aged <50 years or ovarian cancer at any age), 8 (5.2%) mutations were found. By using prior National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines recommending testing for triple-negative BC patients aged <45 years, 4 of 21 mutations (19%) would have been missed. Two of 21 mutations (10%) would have been missed using updated NCCN guidelines recommending testing for triple-negative BC patients aged <60 years.
The observed mutation rate was significantly higher (P = .0005) than expected based on previously established prevalence tables among patients unselected for pathology. BRCA1 mutation prevalence was lower, and BRCA2 mutation prevalence was higher, than previously described. Additional mutation carriers would have met new NCCN testing guidelines, underscoring the value of the updated criteria. Study data suggest that by increasing the age limit to 65 years, all carriers would have been identified.
The authors describe three patients whose panic disorder began during recreational use of cocaine and continued autonomously even after the drug was stopped. Theoretical and practical implications are discussed.
Fulminant hepatitis was observed in a 44-year-old patient with cirrhosis, 38 days after the beginning of a treatment by disulfiram. Hepatitis was associated with fever and hypereosinophilia. Liver transplantation was performed with success. We reviewed 15 previously published cases of disulfiram-induced hepatitis. They occurred from 10 to 180 days after the beginning of the treatment by disulfiram, aminotransferases were increased whereas alkaline phosphatases were not markedly changed; there was either focal or widespread necrosis. Fulminant hepatitis was observed mainly in patients with alcoholic chronic liver disease or in patients who continued to ingest disulfiram while jaundice was already present. An immunoallergic mechanism is thought to be responsible for disulfiram-induced hepatitis.
To study the effects of norepinephrine on right ventricular function in patients with hyperdynamic septic shock.
Prospective, open study.
A 15 bed ICU in a university hospital.
9 patients with hyperdynamic septic shock (SBP < 90 mmHg, Cl > or = 4 l.min-1.m-2, SVRI < or = 850 dynes.s.cm-5m-2 and oliguria).
Plasma volume expansion was used to correct a suspected volume deficit and then, norepinephrine infusion was started and titrated to restore systemic blood pressure to the normal range (mean infusion rate: 1.1 +/- 0.2 mcg.kg-1.min-1). Norepinephrine was the only vasoactive agent used in these patients.
A modified Swan-Ganz catheter mounted with a fast response thermistor was inserted in each patient, allowing repeated measurements of RVEDVI and RVEF. At time of inclusion to the study, all but one patient had elevated MPAP (23 +/- 4 mmHg) and RVEF < or = 50%, and all patients had RVEDVI > or = 90 ml.m-2. During norepinephrine infusion, MAP increased from 51 +/- 9 to 89 +/- 10 mmHg (p < 0.0001), PVRI increased from 204 +/- 35 to 286 +/- 63 dynes.s.cm-5.m-2 (p < 0.05), and despite this increase in right ventricular afterload, no detrimental effect in RVEF (36 +/- 11 to 36 +/- 10%) or in RVEDVI (116 +/- 30 to 127 +/- 40 ml.m-2) was observed. A Frank-Starling relationship for the right ventricle was constructed by plotting an index of ventricular performance (RVSWI) against an index of ventricular preload (RVEDVI). A significant upward shift to the right of the relationship was observed during norepinephrine infusion.
It was concluded that norepinephrine exerted a favourable effect on right ventricular function.
This paper reports on 12 patients in a 3-year period (from 1st July 1980 to 1st July 1983) who were treated with artificial ventilation and with the muscle relaxant pancuronium bromide (Pavulon), over a period of 6 days or longer. After discontinuation of this drug these patients developed severe tetraparesis with areflexia, sometimes combined with disturbances of the extraocular and facial muscles and diffuse muscular atrophy, without sensory disturbances. Seven patients recovered completely after 2-5 months, two made an incomplete recovery and three died due to the primary disease. It is suggested that these neuromuscular complications were caused by prolonged high-dosage Pavulon treatment in combination with renal and hepatic disturbances and/or the use of aminoglucosides.
Pregnant CD rats were treated subcutaneously with 0, 0.1, 0.33, or 1.0 mg reserpine/kg/day either on Days 12-15 or on Days 16-19 of gestation. Dams were allowed to deliver and litters (4 +/- 1 of each sex) were weighed weekly and held to 21 days of age. Basal ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity and neurochemical determinations were made on hearts and brains, respectively, from pups culled from litters on postnatal Day 1, and from two males and two females/litter at 21 days of age. Following both treatment schedules, the high dose of reserpine resulted in maternal weight loss during dosing, increased stillborn pups, reduced pup weight at birth, retarded postnatal growth, and decreased survival to 21 days of age. Basal cardiac ODC activity was reduced to 33% of control levels only on Postnatal Day 1 in both high-dose groups, while absolute heart weight decreased and relative heart weight increased in these pups. Whole-brain concentrations of two neurotransmitter metabolites, 3-4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), were increased only at Postnatal Day 1 in the high dose group treated on Days 12-15 of gestation. No other changes were found in concentrations of these metabolites or in the transmitters dopamine and serotonin. The only effect found following administration of 0.33 mg/kg reserpine was a reduction in maternal weight gained during both dosing periods. No signs of toxicity were observed following low-dose exposure on either schedule. Most previously reported postnatal functional studies following reserpine exposure have used mid- to late-gestational treatment with 1.0 mg/kg, a dose shown here to result in marked overt maternal and fetal toxicity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
