The acute nephrotoxic effects of paracetamol in the uninephrectomized homozygous Gunn rat are different from those of aspirin. Both compounds induce renal papillary necrosis but paracetamol produces accumulation of non-cellular material in the interstitial space, less damage to interstitial cells, more damage to tubular epithelium, and more severe necrosis of proximal convoluted tubules. In both cortex and papilla only a small fraction of the cells at risk are affected. It is concluded that the findings are consistent with a synergistic nephrotoxic effect between the two compounds, but that the lesions are not sufficiently severe for the natural history of analgesic nephropathy to be wholly explicable by such synergism.
The effect of 3--4 weeks of chronic lithium (Li) treatment in food on amphetamine-induced stereotypy, hyperactivity, and hypothermia was examined. The long-term Li treatment failed to inhibit these behaviors and even resulted in small but statistically significant potentiation of stereotypy and hypothermia. The absence of an inhibitory effect of Le on these dopaminergic processes is consistent with Li's lack of antischizophrenic properties. Previous studies reporting conflicting results, including lithium inhibition of amphetamine-induced hyperactivity, used acute or very short-term lithium administration and/or did not verify serum lithium levels to be at therapeutically equivalent levels.
To study the possible effect of angiotensin II type 1 Receptor blocker (AT1 blocker) on renal function, arterial blood pressure and parathyroid hormone related protein over expression in cadmium induced nephrotoxicity in adult male rats. Forty five rats were divided randomly into a control (group I), group II, received cadmium chloride at a dose of 5 mg/kg/day, orally, for nine weeks, group III received telmisartan (TEL) treatment (1 mg/kg/day, orally) one week before cadmium administration and continued for ten weeks.
Telmisartan significantly reduced blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and serum creatinine levels which were increased significantly by cadmium. Telmisartan significantly suppressed lipid peroxidation, compensated deficits in the antioxidant defenses (super oxide dismutase (SOD) level and catalase activity), decreased the elevations of nitric oxide (NO) and cadmium ion concentrations in renal tissue observed in Cd-treated rats. Group III had a significant decrease of urinary levels of total protein, N-acetyl-β-d-glucosaminidase (NAG), alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and γ-glutamyl-transpeptidase (GGT) and urinary 8-isoprostanes than those of group II. Telmisartan decreased the systolic blood pressure significantly than those of group II. Histopathological examination revealed that cadmium-induced renal tissue damage was ameliorated by telmisartan treatment. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that telmisartan significantly decreased the cadmium-induced overexpression of parathyroid hormone receptor 1 (PTHR1) in renal tissue. RT-PCR analysis showed that Cd increased renal expression of PTHrP; however telmisartan could decrease the expression of PTHrP in group III.
Blocking AT1 receptors significantly decreases PTHrP over expression and ameliorates renal dysfunction in Cd induced nephrotoxicity. These data suggest that Ang II might contribute to pathophysiology and deleterious effects in cadmium nephrotoxicity.
To describe the association of choreiform movements with the use of valproic acid.
Case series.
Three patients who developed chorea during long-term treatment with valproic acid. All patients had severe brain damage; one had a preexisting unilateral vascular lesion in the caudate nucleus. At the time chorea developed, two patients were also receiving phenytoin sodium.
Chorea developed between 30 minutes and 3 hours after ingestion of valproic acid, and the duration of the episodes varied between 30 minutes and 8 hours. The episodes of chorea occurred frequently for several days followed by asymptomatic periods lasting several weeks. Choreic movements involved the head, mouth, tongue, trunk, and limbs bilaterally in two cases and contralaterally in the patient with the caudate lesion. In one case, it was necessary to withdraw valproic acid treatment, while in the other two cases, replacement of valproic acid by divalproex sodium sprinkles presumably decreased peak concentrations and resulted in resolution with no recurrence of the chorea.
Valproic acid-associated chorea occurred in patients with severe epilepsy and brain damage. It may occur after several years of valproic acid use and may be more likely to develop if valproic acid is taken together with phenytoin. Because valproic acid-associated chorea seemed to be dose related, avoiding excessive fluctuations of serum levels by the use of divalproex sodium sprinkles may be an effective solution in these cases.
Cyclosporine A (CsA) is a potent immunosuppressant used to prevent organ transplant rejection and in the treatment of autoimmune diseases. However, chronic CsA nephropathy is the major limiting factor to its widespread use. The exact mechanisms of CsA-induced renal damage remain to be fully elucidated. The objective of the current research was to examine whether CsA treatment induced any glomerular mesangial cell alterations. In this research goal, human mesangial cells (HMCs) were treated with CsA for various time points. CsA caused an increase in the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Microarray analysis of mesangial cells treated with CsA also indicated 282 dysregulated genes. Bioinformatic analysis of these 282 genes indicated enriched apoptotic oxidative stress, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), and transforming growth factor-β signaling in response to CsA treatment. The focus of this study was directed on oxidative stress and MAPK signaling as potential novel mechanisms of CsA nephrotoxicity. One key contributor to oxidative stress, thioredoxin interacting protein, was significantly upregulated following CsA treatment. Inhibition of the MAPK pathway resulted in attenuation of the CsA-induced mesangial cell alterations. These findings suggest a major role for ROS, oxidative stress, and MAPK signaling in promoting CsA-induced glomerular dysfunction and subsequent nephrotoxicity.
The current study examines the genotoxic effects of subchronic exposure via drinking water to a mixture of eight metals (arsenic, cadmium, lead, mercury, chromium, nickel, manganese and iron) found as contaminants of water sources in different parts of India and its possible association with oxidative stress. Male rats were exposed to the mixture at 0, 1, 10 and 100 times the mode concentration of each metal daily for 90 days. Another dose group at concentration equivalent to maximum permissible limit (MPL) for each metal and a reference group given ip cyclophosphamide were incorporated. The mixture at 100x level significantly increased chromosomal aberrations and micronuclei induction (2.4 folds) in bone marrow cells and reduced the ratio of polychromatic to normochromatic erythrocytes by 25%. The mixture significantly increased sister chromatid exchange in bone marrow (1.67 and 2.3 folds) and spleen (1.57 and 1.98 folds) cells with both 10x and 100x doses. Cyclophosphamide was more potent than the mixture in causing cytogenetic damage in these parameters. In rat spleen, the mixture at 10x and 100x doses caused dose-dependent increase in lipid peroxidation (25.95 and 52.71%) and decrease in the activities of superoxide dismutase (20.36 and 40.62%), catalase (18.24 and 35.50%), glutathione peroxidase (22.33 and 36.12%) and glutathione reductase (19.22 and 31.35%) and in the level of GSH (19.76 and 35.15%). The results suggest that the mixture induced genotoxicity in rat bone marrow and spleen cells at concentrations relatively higher than that found in groundwater sources and the genotoxic effect could relate to induction of oxidative stress. However, observations with lower doses indicate that additive or synergistic interactions following exposure to metal components at MPL levels or at mode concentrations of contemporary groundwater levels in India may not result in clastogenicity in male rats.
To investigate the effects and mechanisms of 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-Aza-CdR) on endometrial cancer cell.
In vitro experiments of 5-Aza-CdR were done using human endometrial cancer cell line HEC-1B. Evaluation of cellular proliferation and apoptosis was ascertained respectively using trypan blue exclusion and flow cytometry. RT-PCR and methylation specific PCR(MSP) was done to detect the expression of RASSF1A mRNA and methylation status of RASSF1A promoter of HEC-1B cell line.
(1) The status of cellular growth and apoptosis of HEC-1B cell line: the growth inhibition effects of 5-Aza-CdR on HEC-1B cell line were both concentration-dependent (P < 0.01) and time-dependent (P < 0.01), as well as the apoptosis rate of HBC-1-B cell line depended on the dose of 5-Aza-CdR obviously (P < 0.01). (2) The expression of RASSF1A mRNA of HEC-1B cell line: RASSF1A mRNA was expressed in HEC-1B cell after 5-Aza-CdR treatment, but it was undetectable before the treatment. In the groups with different concentration of 5-Aza-CdR (0.05, 0.1, 1, 5, 10 nmol/ml), the expression of RASSF1A mRNA was respectively 0.074 +/- 0.004, 0.105 +/- 0.004, 0.167 +/- 0.006, 0.334 +/- 0.005, 0.484 +/- 0.007, which were remarkably different from the group without 5-Aza-CdR(the expression of RASSF1A mRNA was 0; P < 0.01). (3) The hypermethylation of RASSF1A promoter of HEC-1B cell line: the hypermethylation of RASSF1A promoter was detected in HEC-1B cell line. The status of hypermethylation was decreased after treatment with 5-Aza-CdR of 0.05, 0.1, 1, 5 nmol/ml, meanwhile, both methylation bands and demethylation bands were observed by methylation specific PCR. After the treatment with 5-Aza-CdR of 10 nmol/ml the hypermethylation was absent absolutely.
(1) In HEC-1B cell line, 5-Aza-CdR can inhibit cell proliferation and induce cell apopotosis. (2) 5-Aza-CdR can renew the expression of RASSF1A mRNA of HEC-1B cell line and reverse the hypermethylation of RASSF1A promoter.
To determine the influence of the epirubicin dose in operable node-positive breast cancer patients with factors of poor prognosis.
Between April 1990 and July 1993, 565 operable breast cancer patients with either more than three positive nodes or between one and three positive nodes with Scarff Bloom Richardson grade > or = 2 and hormone receptor negativity were randomized after surgery to receive either fluorouracil 500 mg/m(2), epirubicin 50 mg/m(2), and cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m(2) every 21 days for six cycles (FEC 50) or the same regimen except with epirubicin dose of 100 mg/m(2) (FEC 100). Postmenopausal patients received tamoxifen 30 mg/d for 3 years at the beginning of chemotherapy. Radiotherapy was delivered at the end of chemotherapy in both groups.
The median follow-up was 67 months. The 5-year disease-free survival (DFS) was 54.8% with FEC 50 and 66.3% with FEC 100 (P =.03). The 5-year overall survival (OS) was 65.3% and 77.4%, respectively (P =.007). The mean relative dose-intensity was similar in the two groups (90.3% and 86.1%, respectively). Neutropenia and anemia were significantly more frequent in FEC 100 (P < 10(-3)), as were nausea-vomiting (P =.008) and stomatitis and alopecia (P < 10(-3)). Nine cases of grade 3 infection occurred only with FEC 100, and no toxic deaths occurred. Three cases of acute cardiac toxicity were observed (FEC50 = 1, FEC100 = 2) and 10 patients (FEC50 = 6, FEC100 = 4) presented delayed cardiac dysfunctions. Two cases of secondary leukemia were observed (acute lymphatic leukemia with FEC 50 and acute myelogenous leukemia with FEC 100).
After 5 years of follow-up, the increased epirubicin dose led to a significant benefit in terms of DFS and OS, with a high survival rate among patients with poor-prognosis breast cancer.
Thalidomide has demonstrated a broad spectrum of pharmacological and immunological effects, with potential therapeutic applications that span a wide spectrum of diseases: cancer and related conditions; infectious diseases; autoimmune diseases; dermatological diseases; and other disorders such as sarcoidosis, macular degeneration and diabetic retinopathy. Immunomodulatory derivative lenalidomide has more potent antitumour and anti-inflammatory effects. The molecular mechanisms of antitumour activity of lenalidomide have been extensively studied in multiple myeloma (MM). It directly induces growth arrest and/or apoptosis of even drug-resistant MM cells; inhibits binding of MM cells to bone marrow extracellular matrix proteins and stromal cells; modulates cytokine secretion and inhibits angiogenesis in the bone marrow milieu; and augments host antitumour immunity. Importantly, lenalidomide induces significant clinical responses even in patients with relapsed/refractory MM. Therefore, lenalidomide represents a new class of antitumour agents that is useful in the treatment of MM. Lenalidomide has received fast track designation from the FDA for the treatment of MM and myelodysplastic syndromes.
Epidemiological and model studies with laboratory animals have provided evidence that nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs reduce the risk of colon cancer. Sulindac, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug, has been shown to inhibit azoxymethane (AOM)-induced colon carcinogenesis in rats when administered continuously before, during, and after carcinogen treatment (initiation and postinitiation periods) or when given continuously beginning 14 weeks after carcinogen administration (promotion/ progression stage). The present study was designed to investigate the chemopreventive efficacy of sulindac sulfone (exisulind), the sulfone metabolite of sulindac, when administered during the promotion/progression stage of colon carcinogenesis in comparison to the effect during the initiation and postinitiation periods. We have also studied the modulating effect of exisulind on colonic tumor apoptosis. At 5 weeks of age, groups of male F344 rats were fed diets containing 0%, 0.06%, and 0.12% exisulind. At 7 weeks of age, groups of animals were injected s.c. with AOM (15 mg/kg body weight, once weekly for 2 weeks). Animals intended for the promotion/progression study and receiving 0% exisulind were switched to an experimental diet containing 0.12% exisulind at 14 weeks after the second AOM treatment. All rats remained on their respective dietary regimens until the termination of the study, 50 weeks after the second AOM injection. Colon tumors were evaluated histopathologically for tumor type. Administration of 0.06% and 0.12% exisulind during the initiation and postinitiation periods significantly inhibited the incidence and multiplicity of invasive and/or noninvasive adenocarcinomas of the colon. The inhibition of colon tumorigenesis by exisulind was associated with a significant retardation of body weight gain shortly after sulfone administration and increased apoptosis in the colon tumors. In contrast, administration of the higher dose (0.12%) of exisulind during the promotion/progression stage had only minimal effects on colon tumorigenesis and apoptosis in the colon tumors, suggesting that early administration, but not late administration, may be required for chemopreventive efficacy of this drug.
Congestive heart failure (CHF) is characterized by an initial compensatory, but subsequently deleterious, activation of both the renin-angiotensin (RAS) and the sympathetic nervous system (SNS). Incomplete suppression of the SNS may contribute to the residual mortality during optimal ACE inhibitor therapy in CHF. Carvedilol, a mixed alpha and beta-blocker with antioxidant properties, and other pure beta-adrenoceptor blockers reduce morbidity and mortality in Caucasians with CHF. However, beta-blocker monotherapy is of poor efficacy in Blacks with essential hypertension or in the treatment of glaucoma. The efficacy of beta-blockers in the treatment of African Americans with congestive heart failure is a controversial issue with conflicting findings. The aims of the present study were to examine and compare the cardiovascular, autonomic, and clinical effects of additional alpha-1, or beta-1 blockade in ACE-inhibitor treated Black patients with moderate to severe CHF.
Twenty-eight Nigerian patients with chronic CHF stabilized on digoxin and diuretics, were randomized to 3 groups of similar demographics according to a single blind, parallel group design. The patients were aged 53 +/- 6 years, and comprised 14 men and 14 women, with a mean cardiothoracic ratio of 0.66 +/- 0.03, and ejection fraction of 0.38 +/- 0.10, 60% hypertensive etiology. Group 1 patients received 5 mg enalapril alone, group 2 received 5 mg enalapril + 1 mg prazosin, and group 3 received 5 mg enalapril + 50 mg atenolol. All medication was taken daily for 4 weeks. Blood pressure, heart rate, pressure rate product, 6-minute walk test, NYHA class, and cardiac autonomic reflexes were measured at baseline and again at 2 and 4 weeks of treatment. Two-way repeated measures ANOVA, and a one-way ANOVA were used in data analysis.
The 3 treatments caused significant (P<.001 ANOVA) and similar improvements for the NYHA class (-1.0 to -1.6), and increased the 6-minute distance covered (+130 m to +205 m). Although no treatment differences were observed, a trend suggesting a greater improvement with enalapril + atenolol became apparent. By the fourth week, the sympathoplegic treatments, enalapril + atenolol, and enalapril + prazosin, caused significant reductions in the pressure rate product (-3726 +/- 1885 mm Hg x beats/min; -3498 +/- 396 mm Hg beats/min, respectively), (compared to enalapril alone (-1349 +/- 894 mm Hg x beats/min) (P<.001 ANOVA). During the Valsalva maneuver, the phase IV bradycardia were significantly greater after treatment with enalapril + atenolol (944 +/- 66 msec) or with enalapril + prazosin (825 +/- 48 msec), compared to enalapril alone (760 +/- 45 msec) (P<.001 ANOVA). The phase II Valsalva tachycardia were similar between treatments. The respiratory sinus arrhythmia ratio increased significantly (P<.005 ANOVA) and equally on all treatments. However, the pressor and chronotropic responses to forearm isometric handgrip increased significantly on the enalapril + prazosin combination (P<.02), compared to the other treatments.
Our findings demonstrated not only the safety of providing additional therapy with alpha-1 or beta-1 receptor blockade concurrent with ACE inhibition in Blacks with CHF, but also the resultant improvement in exercise tolerance and NYHA class. Compared to using ACE inhibition alone, the combined therapies caused a marked reduction in the pressure rate product, an index of myocardial oxygen consumption, and a greater enhancement of cardiac parasympathetic activity. Selective beta-1 blockade caused a greater enhancement of central baroreceptor vagal activity compared to alpha-1 blockade. Conversely, the pressor and chronotropic abnormalities during forearm isometric handgrip in CHF, were normalized by alpha-1, but not beta-1, blockade. Thus, the combined reflex cardiac vagal augmentation following selective beta-1 blockade, and the hemodynamic effects of alpha-1 antagonism with concurrent ACE inhibition, may be of major therapeutic and prognostic benefit in Blacks with non-ischemic (hypertensive) CHF stabilized on digoxin and diuretics.
Serious cardiac toxicity due to lithium toxicity is uncommon and generally only occurs in individuals with underlying heart disease. Cardiac impairment may result in dysrhythmias, including sinus bradycardia, sinoatrial block, and first-degree atrioventricular block. This paper describes a patient with complete AV block in the course of chronic lithium treatment.
Fifty-seven year-old female was brought into the emergency department (ED) due to altered mental status and malaise by ambulance from hospice. She had hypertension, type-II diabetes mellitus, and depression. The caregivers told that she had been fine yesterday, had taken regular medications (lysinopril, furosemid, acetyl salicylic acid, oral antidiabetic tablets and lithium (300 mg tb/day)). Her vital signs were; blood pressure: 70/45 mmHg, pulse: 37 bpm, respiratory rate: 22 bpm, and oxygen saturation 86%. She was confused and unresponsive to verbal stimulation. Her EKG revealed total atrioventricular block. Initial biochemical results were unremarkable except for a lithium level of 2.2 mmol/l (therapeutic range 0.5-0.8 mmol/l) and an increased creatinine of 2.11 mg/dl. A transvenous pacing electrode was introduced into the right ventricle, which allowed rapid restoration of haemodynamic and neurological status. Her neurologic examination was completely normal in the follow-up period and she was discharged without sequelae.
In conclusion, emergency physicians should bear in mind that complete AV block can ensue in the course of lithium toxicity and it is an entity that should be included in the differential diagnosis.
Indinavir, a protease inhibitor widely used to treat patients with HIV infection, has been associated with nephrolithiasis. Distinctive urinary crystals and a spectrum of urologic disorders were noted in patients receiving indinavir.
To determine the composition of urinary crystals and the frequency of asymptomatic crystalluria and urinary tract symptoms in patients receiving indinavir.
Patients with HIV infection who were enrolled in studies conducted at the National Institutes of Health.
Microscopic urinalysis, high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and mass spectrometry of urinary crystals and stones, and clinical evaluation of patients with urologic symptoms.
Of 240 patients receiving indinavir, 142 provided urine specimens for analysis. Twenty-nine (20%) had crystals consisting of plate-like rectangles and fan-shaped or starburst forms. Mass spectrometry and HPLC confirmed that these crystals were composed of indinavir. Of 40 patients who were not receiving indinavir, none had similar crystals (P < 0.001). Nineteen of the 240 patients receiving indinavir (8%) developed urologic symptoms. Of these, 7 (3%) had nephrolithiasis and the other 12 (5%) had previously undescribed syndromes: crystalluria associated with dysuria and crystalluria associated with back or flank pain. Four of the patients with the latter syndrome had radiographic evidence of intrarenal sludging.
Indinavir forms characteristic crystals in the urine. This crystalluria may be associated with dysuria and urinary frequency, with flank or back pain associated with intrarenal sludging, and with the classic syndrome of renal colic.
Four cases of postoperative meningitis caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) are reported together with a review of the literature. These 4 cases were treated successfully by intravenous administration of minomycin, fosfomycin, and cefmetazole. Factors associated with the development of meningitis included multiple craniotomies, the presence of ventricular drainage or a ventriculo-peritoneal shunt, and irradiation.
The beta-adrenoceptor blocking properties of vaninolol ((+/-)4-[4'-(2-hydroxy-3-tert-butyl-aminopropoxy)-3'-methoxyphenyl]- 3-buten-2-one), derived from vanillin, were first investigated under in vivo and in vitro conditions. Vaninolol (0.1, 0.5, 1.0 mg/kg, i.v.), as well as propranolol, produced a dose-dependent bradycardia response and a sustained pressor action in urethane-anesthetized normotensive rats. Vaninolol inhibited the tachycardia effects induced by (-)isoproterenol, but had no blocking effect on the arterial pressor responses induced by phenylephrine. These findings suggested that vaninolol possessed beta-adrenergic blocking activity, but was without alpha-adrenergic blocking activity. In isolated guinea-pig tissues, vaninolol antagonized (-)isoproterenol-induced positive inotropic and chronotropic effects of the atria and tracheal relaxation responses in a concentration-dependent manner. The parallel shift to the right of the concentration-response curve of (-)isoproterenol suggested that vaninolol was a beta-adrenoceptor competitive antagonist. The effect of vaninolol was more potent on the atria than on tracheal tissues, indicating it had some beta 1-adrenoceptor selectivity. On the other hand, the order of the hydrophilicity was atenolol > vaninolol > propranolol. In addition, vaninolol had a mild direct cardiac depression at high concentrations and was without intrinsic sympathomimetic activity (ISA). Furthermore, binding characteristics of vaninolol and other beta-adrenoceptor antagonists were evaluated in [3H]dihydroalprenolol binding to guinea-pig ventricular membranes. The order of potency of beta-adrenoceptor antagonists in competing for the binding sites was (-)propranolol > vaninolol > or = atenolol. In conclusion, vaninolol was found to be a selective beta 1-adrenoceptor antagonist with relatively low lipophilicity in comparison with propranolol, devoid of ISA, and had a mild myocardial depressant effect.
Previous studies have shown that N-methyl-D-aspartate, the formation of free radicals and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase are related to methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity. This study was designed to investigate the involvement of oxidative stress in methamphetamine-induced self-injurious behavior in mice. In this study, methamphetamine (20 mg/kg) induced continuous self-injurious behavior in six of seven mice. N-methyl-D-aspartate-receptor antagonists (MK801 and 3-((R)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl) propyl-1-phosphonic acid) significantly attenuated this methamphetamine-induced self-injurious behavior. These results suggest that the activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors is involved in methamphetamine-induced self-injurious behavior. Furthermore, we found that the nonselective nitric oxide synthase inhibitor l-N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester hydrochloride and the neuronal nitric oxide synthase inhibitor 7-nitroindazole, but not the inducible nitric oxide synthase inhibitor aminoguanidine, the free-radical inhibitors fullerene and 3-methyl-1-phenyl-2-pyrazolin-5-one-186, or the poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitor benzamide, significantly attenuated methamphetamine-induced self-injurious behavior. The present results show that oxidative stress, which is mediated by the activation of neuronal nitric oxide synthase, is associated with methamphetamine-induced self-injurious behavior. These findings may help us to better understand the clinical phenomenon of self-injurious behavior.
Clinical studies with opioid antagonists for treatment of problem drinking have mainly been conducted in specialized alcohol treatment centers, included structured psychosocial treatment, and have focused on maintaining abstinence after a period of abstinence from alcohol.
This multisite, randomized double-blind study investigated targeted nalmefene in reducing heavy drinking. Specialized alcohol treatment centers and private general practices enrolled 403 subjects (328 men, 75 women). Subjects were instructed to take nalmefene 10 to 40 mg (n=242) or placebo (n=161) when they believed drinking to be imminent. After 28 weeks, 57 subjects from the nalmefene group continued into a 24-week randomized withdrawal extension. Concomitant psychosocial intervention was minimal and no treatment goals were imposed. Alcohol consumption was recorded using the time-line follow-back method. Biochemical indicators of alcohol use were also measured.
The mean monthly number of heavy drinking days (HDDs) during the 12-week period before inclusion was 15.5 (SD 6.9) in the nalmefene group and 16.2 (SD 6.9) in the placebo group. During treatment, the mean numbers of HDDs were 8.6 to 9.3 in the nalmefene group and 10.6 to 12.0 in the placebo group (p=0.0065). The levels of serum alanine aminotransferase and gamma-glutamyl transferase decreased in the nalmefene group compared with the placebo group (p=0.0088 and 0.0023). During the randomized withdrawal period, subjects randomized to placebo apparently returned to heavier drinking. Subjects receiving nalmefene reported more nausea, insomnia, fatigue, dizziness, and malaise than subjects on placebo.
Nalmefene appears to be effective and safe in reducing heavy drinking, even when accompanied by minimal psychosocial support.
Protein kinase C (PKC) mediates a number of intracellular signal transduction pathways implicated in the pathogenesis of inflammation, including phospholipase A2-dependent arachidonic acid release and eicosanoid production. Recent studies demonstrate that the PKC inhibitor GF109203X significantly reduces a number of inflammatory processes resulting from PKC activation by the topical application of phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) to mouse ears. In this model, GF109203X significantly reduced edema at doses similar to the PKC inhibitor staurosporine, and more effectively than indomethacin, zileuton, or sodium meclofenamate. Histological and biochemical analysis of biopsies from control and drug-treated ears revealed a marked reduction in edema, infiltrating neutrophils, and levels of the neutrophil-specific marker, myeloperoxidase, in GF109203X-treated mice. Prostaglandin E2 levels were also reduced in ears treated with GF109203X. These data suggest that GF109203X is an effective antiinflammatory agent as evaluated in the PMA model of edema, and implicates PKC as a potential target in the development of novel anti-inflammatory agents.
Inorganic mercury causes systemic autoimmunity and/or immune-complex deposits in strains of mice carrying certain H-2 haplotypes, for example H-2s and H-2d. This study aimed at describing the genetic mechanisms regulating these reactions. Inbred SJL, C57BL/6J (B6), C57BL/10J (B10), and DBA mice, F1(SJL x DBA), F1(SJL x B6), and F2(SJL x B6) hybrids, and mice derived from a backcross of SJL or B6 mice to F1(SJL x B6) hybrids were given subcutaneous injections of either 1.6 mg HgCl2/kg body wt or 0.1 ml NaCl every third day for 6 weeks. SJL mice developed a high titer of serum antinucleolar antibodies (ANoA) of the IgG class targeting the nucleolar protein fibrillarin and a significantly increased titer of IgG and C3 colocalized as granular deposits in the renal mesangium and vessel walls. The B6 and DBA strains lacked ANoA and showed no increase in titers of immune deposits. Nine percent of mercury-treated F1(SJL x DBA) hybrids developed IgG-ANoA which were of a low titer, and only occasional hybrids showed an increased titer of granular mesangial IgG deposits. Mercury treatment induced ANoA of low titer in 41% of F1(SJL x B6) hybrids, and 24% had increased granular mesangial immune deposits. Four of 61 mercury-treated BC-[SJL x F1(SJL x B6)] mice showed ANoA which were of a high titer and targeted the nucleolar protein fibrillarin. ANoA were not found in 55 mercury-treated F2(SJL x B6) hybrids or in 56 mercury-treated mice derived from a backcross of B6 mice to F1(SJL x B6) hybrids. Increased mesangial immune deposits were regularly accompanied by vessel wall deposits in F1- and F2(SJL x B6) hybrids, but only 53% of BC(SJL x F1[SJL x B6]) mice with increased mesangial deposits had vessel wall deposits. Vessel wall immune deposits were only present in mice with increased mesangial deposits. A majority of mice which developed significantly increased titers of mesangial IC deposits showed no ANoA. In conclusion, the susceptibility in SJL mice to develop ANoA during mercury treatment, which has been shown to reside in the H-2A locus, was codominantly inherited in a cross with mice carrying the H-2b and H2d haplotypes. Non-H-2 genes dampened ANoA expression to a degree which varied between the strains. Since renal vessel and mesangial IC deposits developed in backcross mice lacking serum ANoA, these deposits must contain IC not related to fibrillarin-antifibrillarin.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Spontaneously hypertensive rats (japanese strain) have been treated with furosemide, potassium canrenoate or d-l-propranolol. Present results indicate that: 1)furosemide admiinistration, from the 3rd to the 15th week of life, does not prevent the development of hypertension but the blood pressure rises more slowly in treated rats. In the established phase of hypertension furosemide administration produces a decrease in blood pressure; the blood pressure increases rapidly after cessation of the treatment. 2) potassium canrenoate, injected from the 3rd to the 14th week of life, does not prevent the rise in blood pressure.3) d-l-propranolol, administered from the 5th to the 34th week of life, is without effect on the development of hypertension, though it significantly decreases heart rate.
Unaccustomed smoking may elicit transient nystagmus, dizziness, unsteadiness, and nausea. Infrared videonystagmography and posturography were performed simultaneously to study the differential effects of nicotine on the association of ocular motor and postural disturbances in 25 non- or occasional smokers. Sixteen showed nicotine-induced nystagmus (NIN) of various directions (mainly horizontal or upbeat) which was associated with a significant increase in postural sway after smoking a cigarette (total sway path (SP) before smoking 2.22 +/- 0.82 m/min (mean +/- s.d.), 1 min after smoking 3.83 +/- 1.41 m/min; p < 0.0004, ANOVA); nine showed neither effect. There was a high correlation between the intensity of the nystagmus (measured as peak slow phase velocity) and the increase in total SP (correlation coefficient 0.78) as well as the time courses of both. Visual fixation of an LED integrated in the mask not only caused a suppression of NIN but also a decrease in body sway. Transient ocular motor and postural effects are compatible with simultaneous nicotine-induced effects on the vestibulo-ocular and vestibulo-spinal functions.
Current therapeutic use of heparin as an adjunct to thrombolytic therapy for myocardial infarction is suboptimal with respect to efficacy and bleeding risk. In a rat carotid arterial thrombolysis model (FeCl3-induced injury) we evaluated the combined effect of tPA (2.0 mg/kg/30 min) with our potent injectable direct thrombin inhibitor, BCH-2763 (Ki 0.11 nM; MW 1.5 kDa), which, unlike heparin, inhibits bound and free thrombin; comparisons were with standard heparin (SH), other direct thrombin inhibitors, r-hirudin (MW 6.5 kDa) and hirulog (MW 2.3 kDa), or tPA alone. Time to lysis (TL), patency time (PT), aPTT (fold increase) and bleeding time (BT) were determined. ED100 (100% of rats reperfused) for BCH-2763, hirulog or r-hirudin was 1, 3 or 2 mg/kg/60 min, respectively; 67% of rats reperfused with SH at the highest dose tested (220 U/kg/60 min) and 43% with tPA alone. At these doses, TL (min) was shorter (p < 0.01) with BCH-2763 (0.5 +/- 0.1), hirulog (3.3 +/- 2.3) or r-hirudin (2.3 +/- 1.0) than SH (66.3 +/- 30.8) or tPA alone (93.4 +/- 21.4). The aPTT fold increase after 15 min infusion was markedly greater (p < 0.001) for SH (32.0 +/- 0.8) than BCH-2763 (3.7 +/- 0.5), hirulog (5.2 +/- 0.3) or r-hirudin (4.5 +/- 0.8) in combination with tPA or tPA alone (1.1 +/- 0.1). In addition, the BT (min) for BCH-2763 (3.0 +/- 0.4) was similar to tPA alone (1.6 +/- 0.3), but prolonged (p < 0.05) for hirulog (7.5 +/- 2.7), r-hirudin (6.6 +/- 0.8) or SH (7.3 +/- 1.8). Comparisons at same aPTT fold increase revealed that in combination with tPA, BCH-2763 required a lower anticoagulant level to shorten the TL and prolong the PT than hirulog, r-hirudin or SH. Thus, in this rat arterial thrombolysis model direct thrombin inhibitors are more effective than SH as antithrombotic adjuncts to tPA. BCH-2763 is effective at a lower gravimetric dose and more modest aPTT fold increase than hirulog or r-hirudin with less alteration in haemostasis, which may confer an improved safety index.
Hepatic function was studied in 31 patients with coronary heart disease before and after treatment with nicardipine. Clinical and biochemical findings (enhanced gamma-glutamate transferase and high cholesterol, hepatobiliary syndrome) provide evidence for hepatic function disturbance associated with coronary heart disease. Nicardipine produced a good subjective response, the attenuation of hepatobiliary syndrome. Biochemical indices did not change.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis (white clot syndrome) is a devastating clinical problem as illustrated by the case presented. A high index of suspicion is required to make the diagnosis. Management included discontinuing heparin and administering alternative forms of anticoagulation. Surgery on both the arterial and venous systems may be required. Fibrinolytic therapy as well as antiplatelet therapy may at times be necessary. The mortality rate is high and prevention is of key importance.
To investigate the association between serum perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) concentration and cardiovascular disease, as measured by homocysteine level and blood pressure in a representative sample of US adults.
A cross-sectional study of 2934 adults (≥20 years) who participated in the 2003-2004 and 2005-2006 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey and had detectable levels of PFOA in their serum. The health effects analysed as potentially associated with PFOA exposure included homocysteine level and blood pressure.
The geometric mean value (95% CI) of the study participants' serum PFOA concentration was 4.00 μg/l (95% CI 3.86 to 4.13). The homocysteine and systolic blood pressure were shown to increase significantly with an increase in the log-transformed serum PFOA concentration, after adjusting for potential confounding variables. Adjusted ORs comparing participants at the 80th versus the 20th percentiles were 2.62 for hypertension (95% CI 2.09 to 3.14), and a positive association was also evident in models based on quartiles or based on restricted cubic splines.
These findings suggest that background exposure to PFOA may continue a risk factor for the development of cardiovascular diseases.
Hepatic clearance is a major route of endotoxin detoxification. In the present study, the potential relationship between TCDD-induced endotoxin hypersensitivity and hepatotoxicity was examined. Acute doses of 50, 100, or 200 micrograms TCDD/kg body weight induced an endotoxin hypersensitive state in B6C3F1 mice as demonstrated by increased mortality 24-48 h following i.v. injection of endotoxin. This hypersensitive state occurred when endotoxin was administered 7 days following TCDD exposure, but not 1 day post-TCDD exposure. TCDD did not affect endogenous serum endotoxin levels. However, clearance of injected endotoxin was significantly inhibited following exposure to TCDD. Six hours post endotoxin treatment serum triglycerides were significantly increased in TCDD/endotoxin-treated mice compared to either treatment alone. Methylprednisolone and uridine were both examined in this model due to their roles in inflammation and RNA synthesis, respectively. Both compounds significantly reversed the mortality associated with the combined exposure. [3H]Uridine incorporation into liver was decreased following TCDD treatment alone, further suggesting impaired RNA synthesis. Studies performed on congenic mice indicate that the observed effects segregate with the Ah locus. The ability of methylprednisolone and uridine to reverse the mortality associated with TCDD/endotoxin treatment is consistent with an inflammatory response and impaired hepatic detoxification mechanisms. Thus, changes in hepatic handling of endotoxin, caused by progressive TCDD-induced liver dysfunction, may be responsible for the endotoxin hypersensitivity.
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved oral ganciclovir as the first preventive treatment for cytomegalovirus (CMV) in people with advanced stages of AIDS. CMV and its most common manifestation, CMV retinitis, affect 25 to 40 percent of AIDS patients and can lead to blindness. Hoffmann-La Roche will offer a screening program for CMV retinitis to 200 AIDS health organizations and clinics. A video, a brochure, and an Amsler grid which allows patients to check for blind spots and distortions at home will be available through the program. A published study found that the inhibition of CMV replication also inhibits HIV through a lowering of p24 antigen, an HIV protein. Ganciclovir and foscarnet, used as CMV treatments, were found to equally lower the p24 antigen.
