Though a relatively uncommon finding in general radiologic practice, urinary bladder wall calcification has relatively few etiologies. A series of 19 patients with radiographically visible bladder wall calcification encompassing most of the known causes is presented and other reported causes are discussed. Eight patients had schistosomiasis, six had primary carcinoma of the bladder, two had encrustation cystitis, and one each had amyloidosis, cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis, and tuberculosis. While a correct diagnosis is often not possible solely on the basis of the appearance of the calcification, such a diagnosis can usually be obtained expediently from a combination of history, clinical examination, appropriate laboratory studies, and radiographic evaluation of the bladder calcification and remaining urinary tract. Cystoscopy with biopsy of involved tissues is almost necessary, however, for confirmation and to rule out bladder neoplasia.
The present study was undertaken to test the hypothesis that women are more prone than men to develop torsade de pointes (TdP) in a defined cohort of patients exposed to the QT-prolonging antiarrhythmic drug d,l-sotalol.
In a database derived from 22 clinical trials involving 3135 adult patients who received oral d,l-sotalol (median follow-up, 164 days), TdP developed in 44 (1.9%) of 2336 men and in 33 (4.1%) of 799 women (P < .001). Logistic regression analysis identified female sex (P < .0001), presenting arrhythmia of sustained ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation (P < .0001), history of congestive heart failure (P < .001), and d,l-sotalol dose > 320 mg/d (P < .001) as factors most predictive of TdP; in addition to these, a serum creatinine > 1.4 mg/dL in women and > 1.6 mg/dL in men was weakly predictive (P < .05). After adjustment for these risk factors, women had threefold greater odds of developing TdP than men. The sex difference in TdP risk was age independent and could not be explained by differential dose-related bradycardic responses in women versus men.
Women are at increased risk of developing TdP during-administration of d,l-sotalol. This finding needs to be taken into account, together with other TdP risk factors, when patients are treated with this antiarrhythmic agent. Given the consistency between the present and other recent observations, greater caution in women regarding use of QT-prolonging drugs, in general, is advisable.
To evaluate and describe the clinical course of angio-oedema reactions induced by angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors.
All reports of angio-oedema reactions associated with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors submitted to Swedish Adverse Reactions Advisory Committee were reviewed and the clinical courses summarised. Numbers of cases judged to be induced by angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors were related to their annual usage, estimated from total sales of defined daily doses, as well as to the estimated number of new patients. All cases of angio-oedema associated with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors reported to the World Health Organisation's international drug information system were also summarised.
36 of the 38 reported cases in Sweden between 1981 and 1990 were judged to be related to angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. During 1981 through 1990, altogether 1309 cases of angio-oedema associated with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors were registered with the international drug information system. The incidence of reported cases of angio-oedema increased largely in parallel with the increased sales (usage) of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. Of the 36 Swedish patients, 77% experienced the reaction within the first three weeks after starting treatment. 10 patients needed hospitalisation, two of whom had life threatening laryngeal obstruction. With one exception all 36 patients were free of symptoms within one week after discontinuing the drug.
Angio-oedema induced by angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors is a rare but potentially life threatening reaction, which in most instances occurs shortly after the start of treatment. Any patient in whom the reaction is suspected should have the treatment interrupted and, if necessary, be admitted for observation.
Nifedipine is known to reduce blood pressure both acutely and chronically. However, the following questions remain to be answered: can nifedipine be given acutely and safety to patients with severe hypertension in an outpatient setting, would its efficacy be retained with long-term therapy, and is nifedipine safe in the presence of cardiomegaly? Nifedipine (10 mg capsule sublingually) was given to 46 outpatients with severe or apparently refractory hypertension; 19 were followed-up for 18 months and 18 for 24 months. Nifedipine reduced blood pressure acutely and safely in 43 of 46 outpatients (mean control diastolic pressure 137 mm Hg), irrespective of prior treatment regimen. Blood pressure levels after 2 to 24 months of twice daily oral nifedipine (10 mg) were similar to 20-minutes levels, showing that tolerance did not occur. In a separate series of 37 patients, who had radiologic cardiomegaly in addition to hypertension, the control ejection fraction was 62%. Nifedipine, when used acutely, slightly increased the ejection fraction to 65% (p less than 0.005). Our studies show that in outpatients with severe hypertension, sublingual nifedipine is an antihypertensive agent which acts swiftly and safely, without causing a decrease in the ejection fraction when it is used for acute blood pressure reduction, and that subsequent therapy with oral nifedipine results in a predictive long-term hypotensive effect.
Promoter hypermethylation is one of the common mechanisms leading to gene silencing in various human cancers. Using a combination of pharmacologic unmasking and microarray techniques, we identified 59 candidate hypermethylated genes, including LOXL1, a lysyl oxidase-like gene, in human bladder cancer cells. We further showed that LOXL1 and LOXL4 are commonly silenced genes in human bladder cancer cells, and this silence is predominantly related to promoter methylation. We also found LOXL1 and LOXL4 gene methylation and loss of expression in primary bladder tumors. In addition, somatic mutations were identified in LOXL4, but not in LOXL1 in bladder cancer. Moreover, reintroduction of LOXL1 and LOXL4 genes into human bladder cancer cells leads to a decrease of colony formation ability. Further studies indicated that the overexpression of LOXL1 and LOXL4 could antagonize Ras in activating the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling pathway. Thus, our current study suggests for the first time that lysyl oxidase-like genes can act as tumor suppressor genes and exert their functions through the inhibition of the Ras/ERK signaling pathway in human bladder cancer.
A chronically hemodialyzed patient experienced recurrent episodes of myalgia while on cimetidine treatment (400 mg/day). After two uneventful courses of cimetidine, the pain appeared at the end of a third fourteen-weeks long course. Severe myalgia occurred at the sixth week of a fourth exposure to cimetidine. Pain was predominant in the hip area, disappeared within a few days after withdrawal and recurred three weeks after resuming therapy. There was no sign of neurological involvement and CPK remained consistently normal. Ranitidine was subsequently administered for four months whereby the patient showed no symptoms of myalgia. This observation suggests that, in susceptible individuals, a progressive decrease in tolerance to cimetidine might occur with repeated courses.
It has been previously shown that oxcarbazepine (OXCBZ), a keto-analogue of carbamazepine, exhibits an antidepressive-like effect profile in the learned helplessness and forced swimming test (FST). Since carbamazepine possesses dopaminergic effect, the present study was carried out to evaluate the extent to which the antidepressive effect of OXCBZ might be mediated by dopaminergic system. Thus, the effects of OXCBZ in haloperidol-induced catalepsy and apomorphine-induced stereotypy were studied. The anti-immobility effect of OXCBZ in the FST was also evaluated in haloperidol pre-treated rats. OXCBZ (40 and 80 mg/kg, i.p.) dose-dependently reduced the catalepsy induced by haloperidol (2.0 mg/kg, i.p.). Moreover, OXCBZ (80 mg/kg, but not 20 or 40 mg/kg, i.p.) increased the intensity of apomorphine-induced stereotypy (0.6 mg/kg, s.c.). Finally, it was observed that the combination of OXCBZ (80 mg/kg, i. p.) and haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) antagonized the anti-immobility effect of OXCBZ and further increased the immobility time when compared to haloperidol alone. Haloperidol alone (0.5 or 1. 0 mg/kg) did not change the immobility time. Thus, these results suggest that OXCBZ could enhance dopaminergic neurotransmission, which might mediate its antidepressive-like effect.
A 2-yr-old child with idiopathic pulmonary hemosiderosis and autoimmune thrombocytopenia developed hepatic veno-occlusive disease after being treated with long-term, low-dose cyclophosphamide. The authors believe that the injury was induced by cyclophosphamide. Although transplant dosages of cyclophosphamide alone or in conjunction with other drugs have been shown to induce hepatic venocclusive disease, this is the first case of hepatic venocclusive disease associated with nontransplant dosages of cyclophosphamide. Histopathologically, the injury was characterized by occlusive lesions of intrahepatic veins, both the terminal hepatic venules and portal veins branches, together with necrosis (predominately involving Zones 3 and 2) and hemorrhages. An added risk factor could have been release of platelet-derived growth factor that in turn activated and promoted proliferation of fibroblasts and smooth muscle cells in the vessels. Previously reported cases of cyclophosphamide-related injury are reviewed.
Glucocorticoid hormones cause marked muscular atrophy, the mechanism of which is unknown. We employed a potent glucocorticoid antagonist, RU38486 [11 beta-(4-dimethylaminophenyl)17 beta-hydroxy-17 alpha-(prop-1-ynyl)estra-4,9-dien-3-one], to determine whether intracellular glucocorticoid receptors are involved. RU38486 was shown to be an effective blocker of glucocorticoid receptor binding in vivo and in vitro. Furthermore, this compound significantly blocked the loss of body and muscle weight caused by injection of dexamethasone. These data indicate that intracellular glucocorticoid receptors are important in the etiology of steroid myopathy. Studies with glucocorticoid antagonists may lead to the design of specific therapeutic modalities for the treatment of both endogenously and exogenously produced steroid myopathies.
Patients with aspirin-sensitive respiratory and cutaneous diseases experience cross reactions to all nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) which inhibit cyclo-oxigenase (COX) enzymes. As are now available drugs which selectively inhibit COX-2, questions are raised whether cross-reactivity occurs between aspirin and these COX 2 inhibitors.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the tolerability of three COX-2 inhibitors (meloxicam, celecoxib and rofecoxib) in subjects with previous pseudoallergic respiratory and cutaneous reactions to NSAIDs.
76 subjects with documented previous cutaneous and respiratory pseudoallergic reactions to aspirin and/or other NSAIDs underwent a single blind challenge with celecoxib, meloxicam and rofecoxib.
All subjects with previous respiratory reactions tolerated all drugs. Three subjects with multiple-drug induced urticaria complained of a generalized reaction after challenge (Two due to celecoxib and one due to meloxicam). Among the group of patients with NSAIDs-induced urticaria five complained of a relapse of the disease due to rofecoxib (one subject), celecoxib (two subjects and meloxicam (two subjects).
According to these results the cross-reactivity between aspirin and these COX-2 inhibitors does not occur in subjects with previous respiratory pseudoallergic reactions. A good safety profile was also demonstrated in patients with cutaneous reactions, being few reactions observed. However for this reason a controlled oral challenge with these drugs is useful for the proper management of patients sensitive to classic NSAIDs.
CZP1, a locus for autosomal dominant "zonular pulverulent" cataract, previously had been linked with the Duffy blood-group-antigen locus on chromosome 1q. Here we report genetic refinement of the CZP1 locus and show that the underlying mutation is present in GJA8, the gene for connexin50. To map the CZP1 locus we performed linkage analysis using microsatellite markers on two distantly related branches of the original Ev. pedigree, which now spans eight generations. Significantly positive two-point LOD score (Z) values were obtained for markers D1S2669 (maximum Z [Zmax] = 4.52; maximum recombination frequency [thetamax] = 0) and D1S514 (Zmax = 4.48; thetamax = 0). Multipoint analysis gave Zmax = 5.22 (thetamax = 0) at marker D1S2669. Haplotyping indicated that CZP1 probably lies in the genetic interval D1S2746-(20.6 cM)-D1S2771. Sequence analysis of the entire protein-coding region of the GJA8 gene from the pedigree detected a C-->T transition in codon 88, which introduced a novel MnlI restriction-enzyme site that also cosegregated with the cataract. This missense mutation is predicted to result in the nonconservative substitution of serine for a phylogenetically conserved proline (P88S). These studies provide the first direct evidence that GJA8 plays a vital role in the maintenance of human lens transparency and identify the genetic defect believed to underlie the first inherited disease to be linked to a human autosome.
Lung tumors have been reproducibly induced in A/J mice exposed to a surrogate for experimental environmental tobacco smoke (ETSS) in a 5-mo inhalation period followed by 4 mo without further exposure. In order to increase our mechanistic understanding of this model, male mice were whole-body exposed for 6 h/d, 5 d/wk to ETSS with a particulate matter concentration of 100 mg/m(3). Food restriction regimens were included to model or exceed the ETSS-related impairment of body weight development. Half of the mice were pretreated with a single ip injection of urethane to study the effect of the above treatments on lung tumor development induced by this substance. At 5 mo, the tumor response was statistically the same for all groups of non-pretreated mice; however, the expected urethane-induced lung tumorigenesis was significantly inhibited by approximately 25% by ETSS and food restriction. This inhibition was accompanied by a threefold increase in blood corticosterone as a common stress marker for both ETSS and food restriction. At 9 mo, in mice not pretreated, the lung tumor incidence and multiplicity were significantly increased by twofold in the ETSS group; in the urethane-treated groups, the same high tumor multiplicity was reached regardless of previous treatment. The predominant tumor type in all groups was bronchiolo-alveolar adenoma. There was no induction of a specific K-ras mutation pattern by ETSS exposure. These data suggest a stress-induced inhibition of lung tumorigenesis in this model, explaining the need for the posttreatment period.
The present study was undertaken to investigate the effect of vitamin E on valproic acid (VPA) induced teratogenesis. Pregnant Balb mice were divided into six groups of 10-11 animals each. The mice in group 1 served as control and were injected with saline subcutaneously on day 8 of gestation, whereas, animals in group 2 received a single injection of VPA (700 mg/kg (s.c.)). Groups 3 and 4 received an oral administration of vitamin E in the doses of 250 and 500 mg/kg, respectively, 1 h before VPA injection. Group 5 and 6 were given vitamin E only, in the same doses as group 3 and 4. On day 18 of gestation, the mice were killed by cervical dislocation. Embryotoxicity was assessed by counting the number of implants, live and dead fetuses, resorptions, crown rump length and fetal body weight. The fetuses were observed for malformations including neural tube defects (excencephaly), open eye lid and micrognathae. VPA administration resulted in a significant reduction of the average live fetuses/litter, fetal weight and crown rump length and a significant increase in malformations (excencephaly, open eye lid and micrognathae). Concomitant administration of vitamin E significantly attenuated VPA induced decrease in the fetal weight, crown rump length and malformations.
In an attempt to induce prostatic adenocarcinoma at higher incidence in a shorter period, we administered diet containing 0.75 ppm of ethinyl estradiol (EE) for three weeks to ACI/Seg rats, which are predisposed to develop a high incidence of microscopic adenocarcinoma of the prostate at higher age. Then, feeding was changed to basal diet and a single subcutaneous injection of 50 mg/kg body weight of 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB) was given two days after the change. We repeated this schedule 10 times. The rats were killed in week 60 of the experiment and subjected to routine autopsy. The average body weight of rats in group 1 given EE and DMAB was lower than that of control rats in group 2. The incidence of adenocarcinoma was not significantly different in the two groups, i.e., 6/74 (8.1%) in group 1 and 2/54 (3.7%) in group 2. The lesions were all microscopic. The incidence of atypical hyperplasia was significantly higher in group 1 at 17 of 74 rats (23.0%) whereas in group 2, it was only 2 of 54 rats (3.7%). Simple hyperplasia was also observed in 25 of 74 rats (33.8%) in group 1, which was significantly higher than that in group 2, where six of 54 rats (11.1%) had this lesion. The reduced growth of animals due to treatments with EE and DMAB probably suppressed the development of prostate cancer in this experiment. Further studies are needed to develop an appropriate model to induce prostate carcinoma at higher incidence in a shorter period.
The authors report a case of an acute toxic cholestatic reaction to clarithromycin, proven by liver biopsy, in a patient with comorbid diseases, prior exposure to erythromycin and ultimate death. No autopsy was performed. A 59-year-old woman with diabetes mellitus and chronic renal insufficiency received clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily for 3 days for acute maxillary sinusitis and then developed a rash and jaundice. She was hospitalized 11 days after stopping clarithromycin. Progressive cholestatic jaundice accompanied by oligo-anuric renal failure requiring hemodialysis ensued. Liver biopsy showed pure bilirubinostasis without parenchymal inflammation. On the 22nd hospital day, after clinical deterioration, she died from an apparent cardiopulmonary death. This is the first report in the literature of a fatality associated with a short-term, low (1 g) daily dose of drug-induced pure cholestasis, an entity not previously identified with severe drug-induced hepatotoxicity.
It is well known that rifampicin can cause nephrotoxicity. Rifampicin-related pancreatitis and hyperthyroidism are rarely reported in the same patient in the presence of tubulointerstitial nephritis. Reported herein is the medical management of a patient with hemolytic anemia, acute renal failure, pancreatitis, and hyperthyroidism during with rifampicin therapy. A 50-year-old man was admitted to the hospital owing to abdominal colic and acute renal failure. He was treated with 2 courses of tetracycline-rifampicin for brucellosis 3 weeks and 4 months prior to admission. Physical examination showed blood pressure of 130/70 mm Hg, pulmonary crackles, and edema. Laboratory findings are detailed in the case report. Findings of abdominal ultrasonography suggested edematose pancreatitis and thyroid ultrasonography showed several solid nodules. Renal biopsy showed tubulointerstitial nephritis. Although rifampicin-related tubulointerstitial nephritis and acute renal failure are not uncommon during rifampicin therapy, the convergence of hyperthyroidism, pancreatitis, tubulointerstitial nephritis, and acute renal failure rarely presents in the same patient. Although pancreatitis, tubulointerstitial nephritis, and acute renal failure were ameliorated with corticoid therapy within 2 months, hyperthyroidism continued and required antithyroid therapy. In conclusion, rifampicin may trigger hyperthyroidism in patients with goiter.
The reduced expression of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) 2 in the kidneys of animal models and patients with diabetes suggests ACE2 involvement in diabetic nephrology. To explore the renoprotective effects of ACE2 overexpression, ACE inhibition (ACEI) or both on diabetic nephropathy and the potential mechanisms involved, 50 Wistar rats were randomly divided into a normal group that received an injection of sodium citrate buffer and a diabetic model group that received an injection of 60 mg/kg streptozotocin. Eight wks after streptozotocin injection, the diabetic rats were divided into no treatment group, adenoviral (Ad)-ACE2 group, Ad-green flurescent protein (GFP) group, ACEI group receiving benazepril and Ad-ACE2 + ACEI group. Four wks after treatment, physical, biochemical, and renal functional and morphological parameters were measured. An experiment in cultured glomerular mesangial cells was performed to examine the effects of ACE2 on cellular proliferation, oxidative stress and collagen IV synthesis. In comparison with the Ad-GFP group, the Ad-ACE2 group exhibited reduced systolic blood pressure, urinary albumin excretion, creatinine clearance, glomeruli sclerosis index and renal malondialdehyde level; downregulated transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and collagen IV protein expression; and increased renal superoxide dismutase activity. Ad-ACE2 and ACEI had similar effects, whereas combined use of Ad-ACE2 and ACEI offered no additional benefits. ACE2 transfection attenuated angiotensin (Ang) II-induced glomerular mesangial cell proliferation, oxidative stress and collagen IV protein synthesis. In conclusion, ACE2 exerts a renoprotective effect similar to that of ACEI treatment. Decreased renal Ang II, increased renal Ang-(1-7) levels, and inhibited oxidative stress were the possible mechanisms involved.
Accumulating evidence has shown the neuroactive properties of oxytocin (OT), a neurohypophyseal neuropeptide, and its ability to reduce the abuse potential of drugs. The present study investigated the effects of OT on the conditioned place preference (CPP) induced by methamphetamine (MAP, 2.0 mg/kg, i.p.) in mice and the possible role of glutamatergic neurotransmission in the reinstatement of CPP. The results showed that OT (0.1, 0.5, 2.5 microg, i.c.v.) significantly inhibited the acquisition and facilitated the extinction of MAP-induced CPP and abolished the reinstatement of CPP induced by restraint stress. This effect of OT could be attenuated by atosiban (Ato, 2.0 microg, i.c.v.), a selective OT-receptor antagonist. OT failed to block the expression and the reinstatement of CPP induced by MAP challenge. Extracellular glutamate (Glu) levels in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) were determined using microdialysis coupled to a high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with a fluorescence detection system. The results indicated that OT markedly inhibited extracellular Glu levels induced by restraint stress in CPP mice, but not those induced by MAP priming. Ato also attenuated the effects of OT on the changes in Glu levels. Therefore, these findings suggest that OT inhibits drug reward-related behaviors induced by MAP via the OT receptor, and OT blocks the reinstatement of CPP, at least partially, by interfering with the glutamatergic system in the mPFC.
We sought to evaluate the effects of intermittent transdermal nitroglycerin (TD-NTG) on the occurrence of ischemia during patch-off hours in patients with stable angina pectoris receiving a beta-adrenergic blocking agent or calcium antagonist, or both.
The current recommendations for the use of intermittent TD-NTG may be associated with the occurrence of rebound ischemia.
This was a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial with three study periods. Tolerability to TD-NTG was assessed in Period I. Seventy-two patients were assigned to receive either double-blind transdermal placebo or maximally tolerated TD-NTG for 2 weeks (Period II) and were then crossed over to the alternative treatment for another 2 weeks (Period III). The patients were instructed to apply medication daily at 8 AM, to remove it at 10 PM and to note symptoms and sublingual nitroglycerin (SL-NTG) use in a diary. The occurrence of ischemia was assessed from patient-perceived angina, symptom-limited exercise treadmill test (ETT) and 48-h ambulatory electrocardiographic (AECG) monitoring.
Transdermal NTG (0.2 to 0.4 mg/h) significantly reduced the magnitude of ST segment depression at angina onset during ETT compared with placebo. Total angina frequency was not significantly different between TD-NTG (mean [+/-SD] 3.2 +/- 4.2) and placebo (3.3 +/- 5.2). During patch-off hours, angina frequency increased with TD-NTG (1.1 +/- 2.1) compared with placebo (0.7 +/- 1.6) (p = 0.03). Similar trends for an increase in ischemia after TD-NTG were also observed from AECG analyses. Specifically, ischemia frequency tended to be lower during patch-off hours for placebo than with TD-NTG (0.05 +/- 0.09 vs. 0.08 +/- 0.20 episodes/h, respectively, p = 0.08), even though frequency of ischemia tended to be higher during patch-on hours for placebo than with TD-NTG (0.12 +/- 0.19 vs. 0.07 +/- 0.15 episodes/h, respectively, p = 0.11). During placebo, ischemia frequency decreased 58% (patch-on to patch-off, p = 0.01) compared with a 14% increase with TD-NTG. These changes attenuate the usual circadian variation in ischemia.
An increase in ischemia frequency during patch-off hours after use of intermittent TD-NTG was perceived by patients, and this subjective finding was supported by a corresponding trend for AECG ischemia to increase during these same hours.
The experiences of human fear and anxiety are discussed within the context of locus ceruleus function in animals. The rationale for studying correlates of noradrenergic function, such as 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenethylene glycol (MHPG), is reviewed, and data demonstrating a positive correlation between plasma free MHPG and state anxiety in normal volunteers is presented. The behavioral effects of oral caffeine (240-720 mg), intravenous clonidine (2 micrograms/kg), and oral yohimbine (20 mg) were studied in various psychiatric patients and normal volunteers. Caffeine and yohimbine had anxiogenic properties; conversely, clonidine reduced self-rated measures of anxiety across a wide spectrum of psychiatric conditions. These findings expand previous research indicating that noradrenergic hyperactivity may be associated with many types of human fear and anxiety.
In the epileptic brain, seizure activity induces expression of the blood-brain barrier efflux transporter, P-glycoprotein, thereby limiting brain penetration and therapeutic efficacy of antiepileptic drugs. We recently provided the first evidence that seizures drive P-glycoprotein induction through a pathway that involves glutamate-signaling through the NMDA receptor and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2). Based on these data, we hypothesized that selective inhibition of COX-2 could prevent seizure-induced P-glycoprotein up-regulation. In the present study, we found that the highly selective COX-2 inhibitors, NS-398 and indomethacin heptyl ester, blocked the glutamate-induced increase in P-glycoprotein expression and transport function in isolated rat brain capillaries. Importantly, consistent with this, the COX-2 inhibitor, celecoxib, blocked seizure-induced up-regulation of P-glycoprotein expression in brain capillaries of rats in vivo. To explore further the role of COX-2 in signaling P-glycoprotein induction, we analyzed COX-2 protein expression in capillary endothelial cells in brain sections from rats that had undergone pilocarpine-induced seizures and in isolated capillaries exposed to glutamate and found no change from control levels. However, in isolated rat brain capillaries, the COX-2 substrate, arachidonic acid, significantly increased P-glycoprotein transport activity and expression indicating that enhanced substrate flux to COX-2 rather than increased COX-2 expression drives P-glycoprotein up-regulation. Together, these results provide the first in vivo proof-of-principle that specific COX-2 inhibition may be used as a new therapeutic strategy to prevent seizure-induced P-glycoprotein up-regulation at the blood-brain barrier for improving pharmacotherapy of drug-resistant epilepsy.
Due to concerns over the side effects of cyclosporine, tacrolimus is widely used in pediatric heart transplantation. However, tacrolimus therapy is also accompanied by potentially serious side effects. This paper examines the side effect profile of tacrolimus in a large group of pediatric heart recipients. Data on renal function, diabetes, hyperlipidemia and hypertension were collected by case-note review of 100 patients who had received . OR = 12 months treatment with tacrolimus. Forty-two patients received tacrolimus from the time of transplant (de novo), and 58 were initially treated with cyclosporine (switch). Mean estimated glomerular filtration rate improved in the first six months post transplant in the de novo group (66.7-84.6 mL/min/1.73 m2, p = 0.002). Conversely, it decreased in those initially treated with cyclosporine (82.1-68.8, p = 0.032), but improved after switch to tacrolimus (77.3-85.6, p = 0.006). Twenty-one percent exhibited glucose intolerance, and 2% had diabetes. Borderline or elevated fasting cholesterol levels were present in 4.4%. Hypertension was seen in 67% at the point of switch from cyclosporine, which fell to 36% at latest follow-up (p = 0.001). These results present an encouraging outlook for this cohort of patients. The relatively low levels of complications shown may be due to early weaning of steroids, and concomitant statin therapy.
The aim of the present study was to assess the contribution of the glycine site of NMDA receptors in the striatum to the regulation of muscle tone. Muscle tone was examined using a combined mechanoand electromyographic method, which measured simultaneously the muscle resistance (MMG) of the rat's hind foot to passive extension and flexion in the ankle joint and the electromyographic activity (EMG) of the antagonistic muscles of that joint: gastrocnemius and tibialis anterior. Muscle rigidity was induced by haloperidol (2.5 mg/kg i.p.). 5,7-dichlorokynurenic acid (5,7-DCKA), a selective glycine site antagonist, injected in doses of 2.5 and 4.5 microg/0.5 microl bilaterally, into the rostral region of the striatum, decreased both the haloperidol-induced muscle rigidity (MMG) and the enhanced electromyographic activity (EMG). 5,7-DCKA injected bilaterally in a dose of 4.5 microg/0.5 microl into the intermediate-caudal region of the striatum of rats not pretreated with haloperidol had no effect on the muscle tone. The present results suggest that blockade of the glycine site of NMDA receptors in the rostral part of the striatum may be mainly responsible for the antiparkinsonian action of this drug.
Wilms' tumor 1 (WT1) is a transcription factor with a multitude of downstream targets that have wide-ranging effects in non-glioma cell lines. Though its expression in glioblastomas is now well-documented, the role of WT1 in these tumors remains poorly defined. We hypothesized that WT1 functions as an oncogene to enhance glioblastoma viability and chemoresistance. WT1's role was examined by studying the effect of WT1 silencing and overexpression on DNA damage, apoptosis and cell viability. Results indicated that WT1 silencing adversely affected glioblastoma viability, at times, in synergy with 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) and cisplatin. To investigate other mechanisms through which WT1 could affect viability, we measured cell cycle distribution, senescence, and autophagy. WT1 silencing had no effect on these processes. Lastly, we examined WT1 regulation of IGF-1R expression. Counterintuitively, upregulation of IGF-1R was evident after WT1 silencing. In conclusion, WT1 functions as a survival factor in glioblastomas, possibly through inhibition of IGF-1R expression.
The authors examined 223 children at age 4 years for the effects of prenatal cocaine exposure, exposure to other substances, maternal and environmental risk factors, and neonatal medical problems on IQ, externalizing problems, and internalizing problems. Regression analyses showed that maternal verbal IQ and low environmental risk predicted child IQ. Cocaine exposure negatively predicted children's overall IQ and verbal reasoning scores, but only for boys. Cocaine exposure also predicted poorer short-term memory. Maternal harsh discipline, maternal depressive symptoms, and increased environmental risk predicted externalizing problems. In contrast, only maternal depressive symptoms predicted internalizing problems. These findings indicate that early exposure to substances is largely unrelated to subsequent IQ or adjustment, particularly for girls.
Azidothymidine (AZT) induces severe anemia in patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). To evaluate the mechanism of anemia in immune-suppressed animals, a murine model of AIDS (MAIDS), caused by infection with LP-BM5 murine leukemia virus (LP-BM5 MuLV) was used at early and late stages of the disease. AZT-induced anemia was dose- and time-dependent. An increased percentage of erythroblasts in bone marrow was observed, with an increased ratio of early to late erythroblasts in both disease stages. Increases in splenic erythroid burst-forming units (BFUe) were observed in early-stage AZT-treated mice. Mean plasma erythropoietin (EPO) levels were increased by AZT in both groups in a dose-dependent manner and were inversely proportional to hematocrit values. These data suggest that the anemia induced by AZT stimulated a response by immature erythroid elements, but that the maturation or survival of early erythroblasts may be impaired.
A study from five hepatology units documenting 157 cases of drug-induced hepatitis and a second study from a laboratory of immunology which tested more than 100,000 sera permitted us to establish the frequency of antiorganelle antibodies and their diagnostic value in drug-induced hepatitis. In drug-induced hepatitis caused by a heterogenous group of drugs consisting of ajmaline, aminopterine, isaxonine, isoniazid, perhexiline, phenylbutazone and troleandromycine, antiorganelle antibodies were absent or rare. In drug-induced hepatitis caused by another heterogenous group of drugs, including clometacin, fenofibrate, oxyphenisatin and papaverine, antismooth muscle, antinucleus and antimitochondria antibodies were found in isolation or in different combinations in 70% of cases. From the presence of antismooth muscle antibodies in sera, we could trace 30 cases of clometacin-induced hepatitis. The third group included drug-induced hepatitis with special antibody:iproniazid-induced hepatitis with antimitochondrial antibody 6 and tienilic acid (ticrynafen)-induced hepatitis with antiliver/kidney microsome antibody 2 (anti-LKM2). These two antibodies are rare in routine sera and were absent in patients who received the drug and had no liver damage. From the presence of corresponding antibodies, we detected six cases of iproniazid-induced hepatitis and 67 cases of tienilic acid-induced hepatitis. Antiorganelle antibodies found in high titers disappeared in 2 to 24 months following withdrawal of the offending drug. The fourth group was represented by halothane-induced hepatitis; antiliver/kidney microsome antibody 1 was weak and infrequent. Similarities between drug-induced hepatitis of the second group and lupoïd hepatitis suggest that drugs may reveal this spontaneous disorder.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
