Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) using I-123 metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) was evaluated for the detection of doxorubicin (DXR) cardiomyopathy in seven patients with malignant lymphoma receiving DXR doses ranging from 70 to 530 mg (DXR group), and 20 normal subjects without hypertension, diabetes mellitus or electrocardiographic abnormalities (control group). The ratio of the heart to mediastinal counts (H/M) and the washout rate (WR) in MIBG SPECT images were compared between the two groups. Correlation of total doses of DXR with H/M and the relationship of H/M to WR were investigated. The H/M of the DXR group was lower than that of the control group (3.00 +/- 0.97 vs 4.90 +/- 1.08, p < 0.001). The WR of the DXR group was higher than that of the control group (30.9 +/- 10.5% vs 16.5 +/- 9.1%, p < 0.001). Total DXR doses were inversely correlated with H/M (r = -0.86), H/M correlated inversely with the WR (r = -0.83) only in the DXR group. Pathological findings of one patient, who died of DXR cardiomyopathy, showed atrophic and fibrotic nerve fibers in the apical inferior segment of the left ventricle where MIBG uptake was reduced markedly. DXR cardiomyopathy can be detected with MIBG SPECT as cardiac sympathetic nervous dysinnervation. The pathological findings correspond to the MIBG SPECT findings.
Selected parameters of coagulation and fibrinolysis were determined in 25 postmenopausal women, treated chronically for breast cancer with the use of tamoxifen. The significant influence of tamoxifen therapy on the serous fibrinolysis parameters was found. The time of euglobulin lysis was shorter, the concentration of alpha 2-antiplasmin decreased, and plasminogen concentration increased. The content of antithrombin III, fibrinogen, and caolin-cephalin time did not change significantly during therapy, except the prothrombin rate which increased. Tamoxifen is an important medicine with beneficial influence on the fibrinolytic system, without affecting the serous coagulation system.
The annual incidence of warfarin-related bleeding at Brigham and Women's Hospital increased from 0.97/1,000 patient admissions in the first time period (January 1995 to October 1998) to 1.19/1,000 patient admissions in the second time period (November 1998 to August 2002) of this study. The proportion of patients with major and intracranial bleeding increased from 20.2% and 1.9%, respectively, in the first time period, to 33.3% and 7.8%, respectively, in the second.
31 college age men and women who consume less than three caffeinated beverages per week agreed to participate as subjects in research on the effects of acute caffeine intake on low intensity task performance. All subjects performed two randomly administered test conditions: (1) caffeine (5 mg/kg) and (2) placebo on separate visits following an initial 1-hr. orientation visit. Subjects were administered the beverage 30 min. prior to performing 12 separate tests assessing basic mathematics, simple response, logical reasoning, hand-eye coordination, and spatial and assembly skills. The Spielberger State Anxiety test was administered immediately after consuming the test beverage and once again at posttest. Analysis showed that caffeine did not significantly affect performance on all tests with the exception of the peripheral awareness (hand-eye coordination) test on which performance was higher after ingesting caffeine. The placebo treatment produced no effect on state anxiety, which contrasted with a significant rise in anxiety after caffeine consumption. State anxiety values were significantly greater after caffeine treatment relative to the placebo at pretest, and this difference persisted at posttest. These results demonstrated that the dose of caffeine increased scores on state anxiety for individuals who consumed less than three caffeinated beverages weekly but had very little effect on performance of low intensity tasks, except for a hand-eye coordination test involving peripheral awareness. Perhaps longer continuous performance of more demanding tasks would be more sensitive.
Plasma renin activity (PRA) and angiotensin II (AII) were measured in peripheral venous samples obtained from the following subgroups: normal ambulant subjects (n = 61): normal subjects after 7 days treatment with a thiazide diuretic (n = 27): hypertensive subjects before and after a thiazide diruretic (n = 35); severely hypertensive subjects after diazoxide treatment (n = 14) and untreated severely hypertensive subjects (n = 27). In addition aortic (n = 27) and renal vein (n =48) samples were taken from the latter group during investigation of possible renovascular hypertension. Values for PRA and AII were clearly correlated in all groups. Further, calculated regression lines of PRA upon AII did not differ significantly from that calculated for normal subjects, with the exception of the intercept of the diazoxide treated group. However, when the regression line for renal venous samples was compared with that calculated for peripheral venous samples of all other subjects (199), there was a relative increase in the ratio of PRA to AII at all values. Thus, except in the renal vein, measurement of AII and PRA appear to reflect changes in activity of the renin-angiotensin system equally well and there is no support for the view that there is a discrepancy between measured AII and PRA in peripheral venous blood in the clinical situations examined here.
The radioprotective effects of various concentrations (0, 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 5, 10, 17.5, 25, 50, 75 and 100 mg/kg b.wt.) of mangiferin (MGN) was studied in the DBAxC57BL mice whole body exposed to 10 Gy of gamma-irradiation. Treatment of mice with different doses of MGN, one hour before irradiation reduced the symptoms of radiation sickness and delayed the onset of mortality when compared with the non-drug treated irradiated controls. The radioprotective action of MGN increased in a dose dependent manner up to 2mg/kg and declined thereafter. The highest radioprotective effect was observed at 2mg/kg MGN, where greatest number of animals survived against the radiation-induced mortality. The administration of 0.5, 1, 2, 5, 10 and 17.5 mg/kg MGN reduced the radiation-induced gastrointestinal death as evident by a greater number of survivors up to 10 days in this group when compared with the DDW + 10 Gy irradiation group. A similar effect of MGN was observed for the radiation-induced bone marrow deaths also. Our study demonstrates that mangiferin, a gluosylxanthone, present in the Mangifera indica protected mice against the radiation-induced sickness and mortality and the optimum protective dose of 2mg/kg was 1/200 of LD50 dose (400 mg/kg) of MGN. The administration of 400 mg/kg MGN induced 50% mortality, therefore LD50 of the drug was considered to be 400 mg/kg.
Twenty women whose blood pressure became elevated during oral contraceptive treatment had higher serum prolactin levels (31 +/- 5.3 microgram/liter) than did 20 normotensive pill takers (16.1 +/- 1.8 microgram/liter) and 20 women who were not taking the pill (14 +/- 1.1 microgram/liter), and the higher level was maintained (30 +/- 3.5 microgram/liter) after the pill was discontinued and blood pressure had become normal. This increase in prolactin levels was not related to differences in age or mode of treatment, and it is thought to reflect an alteration in dopaminergic transmission in patients with pill-related hypertension.
Serum prolactin levels were examined in women with pill-associated hypertension since changes in serum prolactin levels also reflect changes in transmission of dopamine. 20 women whose blood pressure elevated during use of oral contraceptives had higher serum prolactin levels than did 20 normotensive pill users (31 vs. 16 mcgm per liter) and 20 nonpill users (14 mcgm); the correlation of elevated arterial pressure with elevated prolactin was P.005. After the pill was discontinued, the blood pressure of each hypertensive woman dropped to normal range by the end of the first posttreatment cycle; however, the serum prolactin levels continued to be higher than those of normotensive pill users and those of nonpill users. In 1 patient an elevated prolactin level persisted after 12 months of nontreatment (50 mcgm/liter). This increase in serum prolactin level was unrelated to age differences or mode of treatment; hence, it was thought to reflect an alteration in dopaminergic transmission in patients with oral contraceptive-related hypertension.
Furan is a liver toxicant and carcinogen in rodents. On the basis of these observations and the large potential for human exposure, furan has been classified as a possible human carcinogen. The mechanism of tumor induction by furan is unknown. However, the toxicity requires cytochrome P450-catalyzed oxidation of furan. The product of this oxidation, cis-2-butene-1,4-dial (BDA), reacts readily with glutathione, amino acids, and DNA and is a bacterial mutagen in Ames assay strain TA104. Characterization of the urinary metabolites of furan is expected to provide information regarding the structure(s) of the reactive metabolite(s). Recently, several urinary metabolites have been identified. We reported the presence of a monoglutathione-BDA reaction product, N-[4-carboxy-4-(3-mercapto-1H-pyrrol-1-yl)-1-oxobutyl]-l-cysteinylglycine cyclic sulfide. Three additional urinary metabolites of furan were also characterized as follows: R-2-acetylamino-6-(2,5-dihydro-2-oxo-1H-pyrrol-1-yl)-1-hexanoic acid, N-acetyl-S-[1-(5-acetylamino-5-carboxypentyl)-1H-pyrrol-3-yl]-l-cysteine, and its sulfoxide. It was postulated that these three metabolites are derived from degraded protein adducts. However, the possibility that these metabolites result from the reaction of BDA with free lysine and/or cysteine was not ruled out. In this latter case, one might predict that the reaction of thiol-BDA with free lysine would not occur exclusively on the epsilon-amino group. Reaction of BDA with N-acetylcysteine or GSH in the presence of lysine indicated that both the alpha- and the epsilon-amino groups of lysine can be modified by thiol-BDA. The N-acetylcysteine-BDA-N-acetyllysine urinary metabolites were solely linked through the epsilon-amino group of lysine. A GSH-BDA-lysine cross-link was a significant hepatocyte metabolite of furan. In this case, the major product resulted from reaction with the epsilon-amino group of lysine; however, small amounts of the alpha-amino reaction product were also observed. Western analysis of liver and hepatocyte protein extracts using anti-GSH antibody indicated that GSH was covalently linked to proteins in tissues or cells exposed to furan. Our data support the hypothesis that GSH-BDA can react with either free lysine or protein lysine groups. These data suggest that there are multiple pathways by which furan can modify cellular nucleophiles. In one pathway, BDA reacts directly with proteins to form cysteine-lysine reaction products. In another, BDA reacts with GSH to form GSH-BDA conjugates, which then react with cellular nucleophiles like free lysine or lysine moieties in proteins. Both pathways will give rise to N-acetyl-S-[1-(5-acetylamino-5-carboxypentyl)-1H-pyrrol-3-yl]-l-cysteine. Given the abundance of these metabolites in urine of furan-treated rats, these pathways appear to be major pathways of furan biotransformation in vivo.
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is increasing in prevalence both in nosocomial and in community settings. Treatment of such infections, particularly in the central nervous system (CNS), is problematic, as available options are limited. Linezolid is a new antibiotic with activity against Gram-positive cocci, including MRSA, and has good penetration into the cerebrospinal fluid. To our knowledge, there are only three case reports of successful treatment of CNS infections caused by MRSA with linezolid; we report herein a fourth such case. Clinical trials to address the role of linezolid in CNS infections are urgently needed.
The aim of the present study was to find out whether (+/-)-8-hydroxy-2(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), a prototypical 5-HT1A agonist, and (R)-(-)-2-[5-(4-fluorophenyl)-3-pyridylmethylaminomethyl]-chromane HCl (EMD 128130), a compound with serotonin 5-HT1A-agonist and dopamine D2-like antagonist properties, are able to attenuate the haloperidol-induced (1 mg/kg) muscle rigidity in rats. Muscle tone was examined using a combined mechano- and electromyographic (EMG) method that simultaneously measured the mechanical muscle resistance (MMG) of the rat's hind foot to passive movements in the ankle joint, and the EMG activity of two antagonist muscles. Both 8-OH-DPAT (0.125-0.5 mg/kg i.p.) and EMD 128130 (1-10 mg/kg i.p.) dose-dependently decreased the haloperidol-enhanced MMG to passive movements, as well as the tonic and the long-latency reflex EMG activities. Provided these results can be extrapolated to humans, the efficacy of EMD 128130 in relieving the haloperidol-induced muscle rigidity supports the concept that novel antipsychotics with 5-HT1A agonist and dopamine D2 antagonist activities should have a favourable extrapyramidal side-effect profile.
Four patients with the hemolytic uremic syndrome secondary to mitomycin therapy were treated with intense plasmapheresis and antiplatelet agents. All four patients had a hematologic response and three had slow, but steady, improvement in renal function. These results suggest an important role for these agents in mitomycin-induced hemolytic uremic syndrome.
2-Amino-3,4-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (MeIQ) induces cancers in the forestomach and liver, but not in the colon, of CDF1 male and female mice, which are thought to be resistant to induction of colon cancer by 1,2-dimethylhydrazine. In this study, we examined the carcinogenicity of MeIQ in C57BL/6N female mice, which are susceptible to 1,2-dimethylhydrazine. This strain of mice developed carcinomas of the cecum, colon and liver, but not the forestomach, when given a diet containing 300 ppm of MeIQ. This fact indicates that the target organs of a chemical carcinogen change depending on the strain of a given animal species.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of pretreatment with propranolol on the cardio-respiratory toxicity of bupivacaine, either plain or with epinephrine 1:200,000 (5 micrograms.ml-1) added. Adult male Sprague Dawley rats, anaesthetized with intraperitoneal pentobarbital, were divided into four groups. Groups I and III were pretreated with iv propranolol 150 micrograms.kg-1, and Groups II and IV received iv NS as a placebo. Three minutes later, rats in Groups I and II received plain 0.5% bupivacaine, 4 mg.kg-1, and Groups III and IV received 4 mg.kg-1 of 0.5% bupivacaine with epinephrine, 5 micrograms.ml-1 iv. Five of eight rats pretreated with propranolol survived (Group I), compared with uniform fatality with NS pretreatment (Group II) (P less than 0.05). Addition of epinephrine to the bupivacaine eliminated the protective effect of propranolol. All rats pretreated with propranolol (Group III) or NS (Group IV) died when given bupivacaine with epinephrine. In conclusion, acute propranolol pretreatment reduced the fatal cardiotoxicity due to iv bupivacaine in male Sprague Dawley rats, but the addition of epinephrine 5 micrograms.ml-1 to bupivacaine eliminated the protective effect of propranolol.
Physicochemical characterization and antinociceptive and anti-inflammatory activities of atranorin (AT) extracted from Cladina kalbii Ahti in formalin- and capsaicin-induced orofacial pain and anti-inflammatory tests in rodents were studied. Physicochemical characterization showed that AT has the general formula C19H18O8. Male Swiss mice were pretreated with AT (100, 200, and 400 mg/kg, i.p.), morphine (3 mg/kg, i.p.), or vehicle (0.9% saline with two drops of 0.2% Tween 80) before formalin (20 microl, 2%) or capsaicin (20 microl, 2.5 microg) were injected into the right vibrissa. Our results showed that i.p. treatment with AT displayed marked inhibitory effects in different orofacial pain tests in mice. AT (400 mg/kg, i.p.) was effective in reducing the nociceptive face-rubbing behavioural response in both phases of the formalin test, which was also naloxone-sensitive. Additionally, AT produced a significant antinociceptive effect at all doses in the capsaicin test. Such results were unlikely to be provoked by motor abnormality, since AT-treated mice exhibited no performance alteration on the rota rod apparatus. AT exhibited significant anti-inflammatory activity in the acute model of inflammation (leukocyte migration to the peritoneal cavity), carrageenan- and arachidonic acid-induced hind paw edema in rats. Additionally, AT exhibited a dose-dependent antioxidant activity in vitro, as assessed by total radical-trapping antioxidant parameter and total antioxidant reactivity assays. All these findings suggest that AT might represent an important tool for the management of orofacial pain and/or inflammatory disorders.
The belief that chest pain relief with nitroglycerin indicates the presence of active coronary artery disease is common. However, this hypothesis has not been tested.
To define the diagnostic and prognostic value of chest pain relief with nitroglycerin.
Prospective observational cohort study.
Urban community teaching hospital.
459 consecutive patients with chest pain admitted through the emergency department who received nitroglycerin from emergency services personnel or an emergency department nurse. Follow-up was obtained by telephone contact at 4 months.
Chest pain relief was defined as a decrease of at least 50% in patients' self-reported pain within 5 minutes of the initial dose of sublingual or spray nitroglycerin. Active coronary artery disease was defined as any elevated serum enzyme levels, coronary angiography demonstrating a 70% or greater stenosis, or a positive exercise test result.
Nitroglycerin relieved chest pain in 39% of patients (181 of 459). In patients with active coronary artery disease as the likely cause of their chest pain, 35% (49 of 141) had chest pain relief with nitroglycerin. In contrast, in patients without active coronary artery disease, 41% (113 of 275) had chest pain relief (P > 0.2). Four-month clinical outcomes were similar in patients with or without chest pain relief with nitroglycerin (P > 0.2).
These data suggest that, in a general population admitted for chest pain, relief of pain after nitroglycerin treatment does not predict active coronary artery disease and should not be used to guide diagnosis.
Repeated administration of diazepam in two ventilated patients had caused drug cumulation and coma over several days. In both cases central nervous depression could be demonstrated by the benzodiazepin antagonist Ro 15-1788 which induced reversal of coma. Estimation of plasma concentrations in a 70-year-old female patient 150 hours after the last administration showed a diazepam concentration of 437 ng/ml and a desmethyl-diazepam concentration of 483 ng/ml. The calculated elimination half-life of these substances were 109 and 403 hours. In the second case benzodiazepin could be demonstrated in urine for 10 days after withdrawal of medication. These observations suggest that diazepam is not a suitable drug for prolonged sedation in artificially ventilated patients. The benzodiazepin antagonist Ro 15-1788 represents a valuable diagnostic aid in ascertained or suspect cases of benzodiazepin intoxications. It can also be used therapeutically for reversal of central nervous depression.
Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory disease associated with increased expression of adhesion molecules in vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs). The objective of this study was to examine the in vitro effects of extract from aerial Bulbil of Dioscorea batatas Decne (Db-Ex) on the ability to suppress the expression of adhesion molecules induced by TNF-α. We also identified bioactive components from a methanol extract. VSMCs pre-exposed to Db-Ex (10-100 μg/ml) were stimulated with TNF-α (10 ng/ml). Preincubation of VSMCs for 2 h with Db-Ex dose-dependently inhibited TNF-α-induced adhesion of THP-1 monocytic cells and mRNA and protein expression of vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1). Db-Ex treatment decreased ROS production and the amount of phosphorylated form of p38, ERK, JNK and Akt in TNF-α-stimulated cells, suggesting that Db-Ex inhibits adhesion molecule expression possibly through MAPK and Akt regulation. Db-Ex also suppressed TNF-α-activation NK-κB. This effect was mediated through degradation of IκBα and nuclear translocation of the p65 subunit of NF-κB. These results suggest that Db-Ex inhibits monocyte adhesion and the TNF-α-mediated induction of adhesion molecules in VSMC by downregulating the MAPK/Akt/NF-κB signaling pathway, which may explain the ability of Db-Ex to suppress inflammation within the atherosclerotic lesion.
This study was designed to investigate whether the hypertension produced by dexamethasone in the rat is associated with a deficit in circulating and renal prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and PGI2, PGs that are presumed to contribute to antihypertensive mechanisms. The administration of dexamethasone (2.5 mg kg-1 week-1, sc) increased systolic blood pressure by 41 +/- 6 mm Hg (P less than 0.05) after 14 days of treatment, associated with elevations of urine volume and fluid intake and loss of body weight. The glucocorticoid, however, had no effect on the plasma concentration, urinary excretion, or vascular and renal tissue release of immunoreactive 6-keto-PGF1 alpha, a PGI2 metabolite. In contrast, dexamethasone increased (P less than 0.05) the plasma PGE2 concentration by 157% and PGE2 urinary excretion by 134% after 14 days of treatment. However, the basal release of immunoreactive PGE2 as well as the angiotension II-induced release of radiolabeled arachidonic acid and PGs from renal medulla slices incubated in Krebs solution were diminished in rats receiving dexamethasone. The steroid also reduced to about 60% (P less than 0.05) of the control value the activity in renal homogenates of 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase (PGDH), a major PG-catabolizing enzyme, without affecting the activity of the enzyme in the lung. Hence, the increased plasma concentration and renal excretion of PGE2 caused by dexamethasone in the face of reduced renomedullary production of the PG is presumably related to diminished degradation in the kidney and perhaps in other extrapulmonary tissues. Altogether, this study demonstrates that the hypertension induced by dexamethasone in the rat is not associated with a deficit in circulating and renal PGE2 and PGI2.
A 42-year-old man came to our emergency room hyperthermic (oral temperature, 42.4 degrees C), diaphoretic, and delirious. Other findings included labile blood pressure, sinus tachycardia (heart rate, 138/min), tachypnea (respiratory rate 34/min), muscle rigidity, and incontinence. Two days earlier, he had gone to a local clinic with complaints of abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting. Promethazine was prescribed, and this was the patient's only medication on admission. Laboratory studies showed leukocytosis, hypernatremia, metabolic acidosis, elevated creatinine phosphokinase level, elevated transaminase levels, azotemia, hyperkalemia, hyperphosphatemia, hypocalcemia, and myoglobulinuria. The clinical and laboratory findings were characteristic of the neuroleptic malignant syndrome, with promethazine as the offending agent.
