Eighty-eight patients (84 men and 4 women; mean age 59.3 years) with stable exercise-induced angina pectoris were enrolled in this within-patient, placebo-controlled study aimed at comparing the efficacy of the continuous and intermittent (12 hour on, 12 hour off) application of transdermal nitroglycerin. Eighty-one patients completed the study. After a 1-week placebo run-in period, during which the stability of angina was assessed on a bicycle ergometer, the patients received continuous treatment (two 10 mg/24 hour patches twice daily, at 8 a.m. and 8 p.m.), intermittent treatment (two 10 mg/24 hour patches at 8 a.m. and two placebo patches at 8 p.m.) and placebo (two placebo patches twice daily, at 8 a.m. and 8 p.m.), each given for one week in a double-blind randomised sequence, according to a 3 x 3 latin-square design. A cycloergometric exercise test was performed at the end of each period of treatment, 4 and 10 hours after the application of the morning patch. In comparison with placebo, both schedules of the active treatment induced a significant increase in both the ischemic (duration of exercise to 1 mm ST segment depression) and the angina threshold (duration of exercise to mild angina) at the 4th and at the 10th hours after-dosing. A significant difference was also found between continuous and intermittent treatment at the same times of observation, in favour of the intermittent schedule. The limited number of anginal attacks recorded during placebo prevented any clinical evaluation of the treatments. This study shows that the efficacy of transdermal nitroglycerin is more pronounced when it is given following an intermittent schedule.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Protocol biopsies were performed to define the histologic response to tacrolimus therapy in patients with refractory acute renal allograft rejection. Renal allograft biopsies were performed at defined intervals after initiation of tacrolimus therapy. Protocol biopsies were performed before tacrolimus therapy (within 48 hr of initiation of therapy) and after 1 week of therapy. If the 1-week biopsy did not show rejection reversal, repeat protocol biopsies were obtained at 1- to 2-week intervals, until histologic reversal was observed. Additional biopsies were obtained at 4 weeks and at 8-12 weeks after initiation of tacrolimus therapy. Indicated biopsies were also performed to evaluate increases in serum creatinine. A total of 92 biopsies were performed in 23 patients (average 4.0 biopsies/ patient). Biopsies were performed in each patient immediately before starting tacrolimus therapy (23 biopsies), and 69 biopsies (3.0 biopsies/patient) were performed during tacrolimus therapy. Rejection diagnosis was based on strict Banff criteria. Pretacrolimus biopsies demonstrated mild acute rejection in 64% of patients and moderate acute rejection in 36%. One week after initiation of tacrolimus therapy, protocol biopsies revealed the following: no rejection (60%), improvement (13%), no change (20%), and worsening rejection (7%). Histologic changes at 1 week did not correlate with changes in renal function, as 63% of patients that showed histologic improvement or reversal during the first 2 weeks of therapy did not show improvement in serum creatinine. A lack of histologic improvement (or worsening) at 1 week was demonstrated in a significant proportion of patients (27%); increased tacrolimus dosing provided rejection reversal or improvement in 1-2 weeks in each of these patients. Recurrent rejection was diagnosed on eight biopsies in seven patients, however six episodes were diagnosed by protocol biopsies alone (i.e., in the absence of an elevation in serum creatinine). Delayed improvement in renal function, despite histologic reversal, was likely due to physiologic effects of tacrolimus (i.e., afferent arteriolar vasoconstriction), as histologic evidence of tacrolimus toxicity was not observed during the first 2 weeks of therapy. Histologic evidence of tacrolimus nephrotoxicity (nodular arteriolar hyalinosis) was found in 21% (15 of 69) of biopsies in 39% of patients (9 of 23) at a median time of 60 days (range 12-150 days). Tacrolimus dose and blood levels (by IMx assay) did not correlate with development of clinically silent or clinically evident nephrotoxicity.
1) protocol biopsies provide information that allows individualization of tacrolimus rejection therapy, 2) histologic resolution of rejection often precedes biochemical improvement, 3) histologic evidence of tacrolimus nephrotoxicity is seldom observed in the first 2 weeks of therapy, and 4) clinically silent recurrent rejection and clinically silent tacrolimus nephrotoxicity are observed with significant frequency during tacrolimus therapy for refractory renal allograft rejection.
Wilson disease (WD), an inherited disorder affecting copper metabolism, is characterized by hepatic cirrhosis and neuronal degeneration, which result from toxic levels of copper that accumulate in the liver and brain, respectively. We reported previously that the approximately 1.3-kb promoter of the WD gene contains four metal response elements (MREs). Among the four MREs, MREa plays the most important role in the transcriptional activation of the WD promoter. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSAs) using synthetic MREa and an oligonucleotide containing the binding site for transcription factor Sp1 revealed the presence of nuclear factors that bind specifically to MREa. Two MREa-binding proteins of 70 and 82 kDa were purified using avidin-biotin affinity chromatography. Amino acid sequences of peptides from each protein were found to be highly homologous to the Ku proteins. Immunoblot analysis and EMSAs showed that the MREa-binding proteins are immunologically related to the Ku proteins. To study further the functional significance of these Ku-related proteins in transcriptional regulation of the WD gene, we performed RNA interference (RNAi) assays using a Ku-80 inverted-repeat gene to inhibit expression of the Ku-80 gene in vivo. Results of the RNAi assays showed that expression of the Ku-80 protein was suppressed in transfected cells, which in turn led to the suppression of the WD gene. In addition, a truncated Ku-80 (DeltaKu-80) mutant inhibited WD promoter activity in HepG2 cells in a dominant-negative manner. We also found that WD promoter activity was decreased in Xrs5 cells, which, unlike the CHO-K1 cells, are defective in the Ku-80 protein. When Ku-80 cDNA was transfected into Xrs5 and CHO cells, WD promoter activity was recovered only in Xrs5 cells. Taken together, our findings suggest that the Ku-80 subunit is required for constitutive expression of the WD gene.
To ascertain the frequency with which paramedics follow protocols for the administration of aspirin to patients to whom an ambulance is called for chest pain associated with suspected ischaemic heart disease.
Ambulance services in England and Wales who had conducted a recent aspirin administration audit were identified through the National Clinical Effectiveness Programme for the Ambulance Service Association. Data were requested from each of these services with a 100% return rate.
Nine services out of a total of 35 had collected appropriate data. The proportion of patients who were given aspirin by a paramedic varied from 11% to 74%. The range of proportions of patients receiving pre-hospital aspirin increased after adding those patients who had already received aspirin from an alternative health provider, to 19% to 78%. It is estimated that at least 15% to 74% of patients who should have been given aspirin by the various ambulance services did not receive it. The proportion of patients for whom aspirin was judged to be inappropriate ranged from 4% to 35%. The reason for these widely varying and generally poor levels of compliance is not known. However, the range of indications and contraindications to the administration of aspirin varied considerably by ambulance service. This also made the comparison of data from different sources difficult.
Aspirin has been shown to be beneficial after a myocardial infarction and for other acute coronary syndromes. However, variances in the proportion of patients with suspected ischaemic heart disease given aspirin in different ambulance services indicates the need for a re-emphasis on the importance of this treatment. A standard protocol for all UK ambulance services should be devised that minimises the number of contraindications to aspirin and otherwise requires its administration to all patients with acute coronary syndromes or suspected myocardial infarction. Regular, standardised audits of compliance should also be conducted and their results widely disseminated.
Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is an aggressive chemotherapy-resistant cancer. Up-regulation of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) plays an important role in MPM development and EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) may represent novel therapeutic options. We tested the effects of the EGFR TKIs gefitinib and erlotinib and TKIs targeted to other growth factors (VEGFR and PDGFR), in comparison to standard antineoplastic agents, in two human MPM cell lines, IST-Mes2 and ZL55. All drugs showed IC(50) values in the micromolar range: TKIs induced cytostatic effects at concentrations up to the IC(50,) while conventional drug growth-inhibitory activity was mainly cytotoxic. Moreover, the treatment of IST-Mes2 with TKIs (gefitinib and imatinib mesylate) in combination with cisplatin and gemcitabine did not show additivity. Focusing on the molecular mechanisms underlying the antiproliferative and pro-apoptotic effects of EGFR-TKIs, we observed that gefitinib induced the formation and stabilization of inactive EGFR homodimers, even in absence of EGF, as demonstrated by EGFR B(max) and number of sites/cell. The analysis of downstream effectors of EGFR signaling demonstrated that EGF-induced proliferation, reverted by gefitinib, involved ERK1/2 activation, independently from Akt pathway. Gefitinib inhibits MPM cell growth and survival, preventing EGF-dependent activation of ERK1/2 pathway by blocking EGFR-TK phosphorylation and stabilizing inactive EGFR dimers. Along with the molecular definition of TKIs pharmacological efficacy in vitro, these results may contribute to delve deep into the promising but still controversial role for targeted and conventional drugs in the therapy of MPM.
The discovery and development of gallium(III) complexes capable of inhibiting tumor growth is an emerging area of anticancer drug research. A range of novel gallium coordination compounds with established cytotoxic efficacy have been characterized in terms of desirable chemical and biochemical properties and compared with tris(8-quinolinolato)gallium(III) (KP46), a lead anticancer gallium-based candidate that successfully finished phase I clinical trials (under the name FFC11), showing activity against renal cell cancer. In view of probable oral administration, drug-like parameters, such as solubility in water, saline and 0.5% dimethyl sulfoxide, stability against hydrolysis, measured as the rate constant of hydrolytic degradation in water or physiological buffer using a capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE) assay, and the octanol-water partition coefficient (logP) providing a rational estimate of a drug's lipophilicity, have been evaluated and compared. The differences in bioavailability characteristics between different complexes were discussed within the formalism of structure-activity relationships. The reactivity toward major serum transport proteins, albumin and transferrin, was also assayed in order to elucidate the drug's distribution pathway after intestinal absorption. According to the values of apparent binding rate constants determined by CZE, both KP46 and bis(2-acetylpyridine-4,4-dimethyl-3-thiosemicarbazonato-N,N,S)gallium(III) tetrachlorogallate(III) (KP1089) bind to transferrin faster than to albumin. This implies that transferrin would rather mediate the accumulation of gallium antineoplastic agents in solid tumors. A tendency of being faster converted into the protein-bound form found for KP1089 (due possibly to non-covalent binding) seems complementary to its greater in vitro antiproliferative activity.
In the Netherlands, the prescription of beta-blockers to patients older than 70 years has increased sharply in recent years. The neuropsychiatric adverse reactions associated with the use of beta-blockers are relatively uncommon and they are mostly seen with poisoning or overdose. We describe an 81-year-old man who developed sleep disorders, nightmares, depression and anxiety as probable adverse effect of low-dose metoprolol (25 mg/day). This case illustrates not only the neuropsychiatric adverse reactions of beta-blockers, but also that diagnosis of these reactions can be easily missed in elderly patients.
Gender differences may significantly influence the toxicity of cocaine in mammals. In this study, the influence of gender on the toxicity of norcocaine, a pharmacologically active metabolite of cocaine, was compared with its parent compound in adult male and female rats. In addition, the plasma and tissue norcocaine concentrations were evaluated after the administration of norcocaine and cocaine. Norcocaine or cocaine was administered intravenously at a rate of 2 mg/kg/min until circulatory collapse. Arterial blood samples as well as heart, liver, and brain tissues were obtained at circulatory collapse for the measurement of concentrations of norcocaine as well as cocaine and its major metabolites. There were no gender-related differences in the doses of norcocaine required to produce circulatory collapse; however, there were significant gender-related differences in the norcocaine tissue-to-plasma concentration ratios (T:P ratios). After the administration of norcocaine, T:P ratios for heart, liver, and brain tissue were significantly greater in males. Furthermore, after cocaine administration, the hepatic norcocaine T:P ratio was approximately 3-fold greater in the male rats than in the female rats. In contrast, female rats had a greater percentage of norcocaine in the plasma at circulatory collapse after acute cocaine administration. Although no gender differences in the lethality of norcocaine were observed, it remains to be seen whether the gender differences in the distribution and uptake of norcocaine play a role in the hepatotoxicity of the drug, particularly after chronic exposure.
Chinese herbal medicine preparations are widely available and often regarded by the public as natural and safe remedies for a variety of medical conditions. Nephropathy caused by Chinese herbs has previously been reported, usually involving the use of aristolochic acids. We report a 23-year-old woman who developed acute renal failure following prolonged use of a proprietary Chinese herbal slimming pill that contained anthraquinone derivatives, extracted from Rhizoma Rhei (rhubarb). The renal injury was probably aggravated by the concomitant intake of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, diclofenac. Renal pathology was that of hypocellular interstitial fibrosis. Spontaneous renal recovery occurred upon cessation of the slimming pills, but mild interstitial fibrosis and tubular atrophy was still evident histologically 4 months later. Although a causal relationship between the use of an anthraquinone-containing herbal agent and renal injury remains to be proven, phytotherapy-associated interstitial nephropathy should be considered in patients who present with unexplained renal failure.
Typically, 3% to 5% of patients experience sensations of heaviness, pressure, and tightness in the chest after administration of sumatriptan, but there is little ECG evidence of ischemia. The serious cardiovascular incidents after consuming sumatriptan have been associated mostly with the subcutaneous dosage form of this drug and with patients with underlying cardiovascular risk factors. We report a case of fatal cardiac arrhythmia in an otherwise perfectly healthy patient with migraine after consuming a single 100-mg dose of oral sumatriptan.
A 63-year old woman with breast carcinoma developed leucoencephalopathy and local brain necrosis after intraparenchymal infusion of methotrexate. This iatrogenic condition was caused by drain disconnection of the Ommaya device (bore hole type). The diagnosis of this rare complication of an Ommaya device was based on multiplanar MR-imaging. The case is discussed with regard to the complications of intraventricular chemotherapy by means of an Ommaya reservoir.
To evaluate whether patients with positive or negative heparin antibodies who received heparin preoperatively by continuous infusion developed cardiovascular changes upon heparin administration prior to cardiopulmonary bypass.
Clinical trial.
Single institution, academic hospital.
Eighty (80) patients with good ventricular function on low-dose heparin infusion prior to surgery.
Patients were divided into 2 equal groups: group A had negative heparin antibodies (% ratio < 0.26), group B had positive heparin antibodies (% ratio > 1.2). All patients received heparin, 400 units/kg, prior to institution of cardiopulmonary bypass. Cardiovascular changes, activated coagulation time (ACT), and histamine levels were measured before and 5 minutes after administration of heparin. Platelets also were counted before and 6 hours after surgery.
Significant hypotension and decreased cardiac index occurred in patients with positive heparin antibodies who received heparin prior to cardiac surgery. Histamine levels increased significantly 5 minutes after heparin administration. Significant thrombocytopenia occurred 6 hours after surgery in group B patients. There was a good correlation between heparin antibodies, histamine levels, thrombocytopenia and cardiovascular changes. Group B patients also had heparin resistance as manifested by a lower ACT after the loading doses of heparin.
Patients with positive heparin antibodies pretreated with heparin prior to surgery developed a type of immune-mediated cardiovascular changes and postoperative thrombocytopenia.
The use of chronic intrathecal morphine for the treatment of intractable, nonmalignant pain is becoming more prevalent. A rare but devastating complication of this therapy is the development of spinal cord compression secondary to the formation of intrathecal granulomas.
We report three cases of intrathecal granuloma formation in the thoracic subarachnoid space, associated with intrathecal morphine pumps. These three patients were receiving high doses of morphine to control their pain (25 mg/d, 28 mg/d, and 45 mg/d, respectively) when they presented with signs and symptoms of thoracic spinal cord compression. Myelography and postmyelographic computed tomography of the spine revealed masses causing spinal cord compression.
Two patients underwent thoracic laminectomies for resection of these masses, and the other patient had the intrathecal catheter removed. A pathological examination revealed sterile granulomas in the resected masses.
Intrathecal granulomas are likely to occur with increasing frequency as the use of chronic intrathecal morphine delivery increases in patients with nonmalignant pain. The cause of intrathecal granulomas is unknown, although it is likely that morphine plays a major role in their formation. We think that those patients receiving high doses of morphine are at greater risk for developing this complication.
We report the first case of polyneuropathy induced by levetiracetam, an anti-epileptic medication. Follow up electrodiagnostic studies showed significant improvement after discontinuation of the medication.
Anticholinergic aerosols provide effective bronchodilation in some patients with obstructive lung disease. Glycopyrrolate is a quaternary ammonium anticholinergic compound that is poorly absorbed from mucus membranes, thus reducing anticholinergic side effects. In 20 adult patients with asthma, we evaluated bronchodilation to a single administration of metered-dose glycopyrrolate aerosol (GA) to ascertain its onset and duration of action along with evaluation of safety. In this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, single-dose, crossover trial, bronchodilation was evaluated on five separate occasions to either placebo or a GA dose of 80, 240, 480, or 960 micrograms. Baseline spirometry for each patient on each visit was similar (mean FEV1 +/- SD of 62.2 +/- 13.6% predicted). After aerosol dosing, spirometry was measured at 30 minutes and then at hourly intervals up to 12 hours. Compared to placebo, metered-dose aerosols of 240, 480 and 960 micrograms elicited significantly greater bronchodilation at each test time. Furthermore, significant bronchodilation was noted within 30 minutes of dosing and was sustained for at least 12 hours. Bronchodilation with the 480 and 960 micrograms dose was equal, and both were greater than 240 micrograms. A subset of four asthma patients with baseline FEV1 values less than 50% predicted did not have a bronchodilating response with GA. No notable side effects occurred. Thus, a single aerosol dose of GA provides clinically significant, safe 12-hour bronchodilation in patients with asthma without severe airway obstruction (i.e., FEV1 greater than 50% predicted).
Long-Evans Cinnamon (LEC) rats exhibit a genetic defect in Atp7b gene, which is homologous to the human Wilson's disease gene, resulting in an inability to mobilize copper from the liver. This study was undertaken to gain insight into the relationship between liver copper accumulation and plasma lipid profile, circulating lipoprotein composition, hepatic sterol metabolism and biliary lipid secretion rates in 12-week-old LEC rats compared to control Long-Evans rats. Concomitant with hepatic copper deposition, LEC rats displayed increased content of triglycerides (TGs), free cholesterol (FC) and cholesteryl ester (CE) in the liver. Hepatic concentrations of malondialdehyde (MDA), an index of lipid peroxidation were also significantly elevated in LEC rats (50%). This steatosis was associated with aberrant microsomal apolipoprotein (apo) B-100 and microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTP) content, hypotriglyceridemia, hypocholesterolemia and abnormalities in both circulating lipoprotein composition and size. Atypical hepatobiliary sterol metabolism was established by the assessment of the activity of key intracellular enzymes for cholesterol homeostasis, which demonstrated, with respect to controls, a 40% reduction in 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase, a 30% reduction in cholesterol 7alpha-hydroxylase, and a 54% reduction in acyl CoA:cholesterol acyltransferase. During a 6-h biliary drainage, a decline in the bile acid output was recorded and might be linked to the low protein expression of the bile salt export pump (BSEP or ABCB11). Our data emphasize the crucial role of copper balance in hepatic sterol homeostasis and lipoprotein metabolism in LEC rats. Additional studies are needed to delineate the mechanisms of these disorders.
The aim of this study was to determine whether a relationship exists between gastric and oral Helicobacter pylori and oral hygiene in patients with vitamin B12 deficiency.
One hundred eight patients with vitamin B12 deficiency who were H pylori -positive in their gastric mucosa were enrolled in the study. These patients were divided into 3 groups determined by Oral Hygiene Index (OHI) scores of good, fair, or poor. H pylori was detected in the dental plaque with camphylobacter-like organism test gels. All patients were treated with a combination regimen to eradicate H pylori.
H pylori positivity in dental plaque was correlated with OHI scores; the positivity was 28.5%, 90.2%, or 100% in patients with good, fair, or poor OHI scores, respectively. The eradication of H pylori was associated with recovery from anemia and increased serum vitamin B12 level (P <.0001 and P <.0001). The patients with poor OHI scores had the most frequent gastric recurrence of H pylori (58.3%) compared with those with fair OHI scores (41.2%) and good OHI scores (4.8%).
H pylori seems to be an etiologic factor in vitamin B12 deficiency, since anemia was cured and the level of vitamin B12 in the serum increased as a result of its eradication. However, eradication of H pylori from gastric mucosa alone is not enough to prevent gastric recurrence of the bacteria. Proper oral hygiene must be established to eliminate H pylori in dental plaque. Therefore, we suggest that control of H pylori in dental plaque is necessary to control recurrence of H pylori.
Trigeminal sensory neuropathy is an important finding, often indicative of trauma but sometimes related to neoplasia, infections, demyelinating conditions, connective tissue disorders, other disorders, or, occasionally, drugs. This paper reports on a patient with sudden-onset trigeminal sensory neuropathy of the lip that proved to be drug-induced, secondary to the antimalarial drug mefloquine. This appears to be the first report of sensory impairment in the orofacial region from exposure to mefloquine.
GT 1061 is a novel therapeutic agent that is in Phase 1 clinical studies for Alzheimer's disease. GT 1061 is one of a family of novel nitrates that have demonstrated neuroprotective properties and cognition- and memory-enhancing properties in animal models. The prototype of this family, GT 715, has been reported effectively to dissociate the neuromodulatory and the systemic hypotensive effects of nitrates, the latter seriously limiting the therapeutic use of classical nitrates. Further data on the novel nitrates, GT 715 and GT 061, are presented in (a) the malonate-lesion rat model of excitotoxic neurodegeneration, and (b) the reversal of a scopolamine-induced cognition deficit in the Morris water task which tests spatial memory. These data exemplify and reinforce the combined neuroprotective and cognition enhancing properties observed in this family of NO mimetic therapeutic agents. NO mimetics, that mimic the biological activity of NO, will bypass cholinergic receptor activation and are anticipated to provide multiple pathways of treating and circumventing dementia. NO mimetic activation of soluble guanylyl cyclase and cGMP formation in the brain represents one element of an effective neuroprotective strategy. Substantial evidence suggests that NO mimetics may display cGMP-dependent and cGMP-independent activity and may operate via multiple biochemical signaling pathways, both to ensure the survival of neurons subjected to stress and also to provide cognition-enabling pathways to circumvent dementia, providing a combined neuroprotective and cognition-enabling approach to anti-neurodegenerative therapy.
Methylated promoter CpG islands (CGIs) can be used to find novel tumor-suppressor genes and disease markers. In this study, to identify promoter CGIs aberrantly methylated in human ovarian cancers, we performed a genome-wide screening for differentially methylated DNA fragments using methylation-sensitive-representational difference analysis (MS-RDA). MS-RDA isolated 185 DNA fragments specifically methylated in an ovarian cancer cell line (ES-2), compared with a normal human ovarian surface epithelial cell line (HOSE6-3), and 33 of them were derived from putative promoter CGIs. Ten ovarian cancer cell lines were analyzed by methylation-specific PCR, and seven (GPR150, LOC222171, PRTFDC1, LOC339210, ITGA8, C9orf64 and HOXD11) of the 33 CGIs were methylated in one or more of the cell lines. Their downstream genes were barely expressed in cell lines without unmethylated DNA molecules by quantitative reverse-transcription-PCR. Demethylation of methylated cell lines with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine restored expression of two genes (PRTFDC1 and C9orf64). In primary ovarian cancers, CGIs of GPR150 (in 4 of 15 cancers), ITGA8 (2/15), PRTFDC1 (1/15), and HOXD11 (1/15) were methylated. Silencing of PRTFDC1 was revealed here for the first time, and aberrant methylation of GPR150, ITGA8 and HOXD11 could be candidate tumor markers.
Drug-induced QT-prolongation, often based on hERG K+ current inhibition, has become a major safety concern during drug development. Hence, regulatory guidelines require combined in vitro and in vivo assays to assess the potential of new chemical entities to delay ventricular repolarization. Here, results of a pharmacological validation study with the torsadogenic compound sotalol are presented.
Alteration of ECG parameters was investigated in both conscious and anesthetized Beagle dogs (cumulative infusions of D,L-sotalol; n=6). The repolarization reserve of the latter was reduced by neurolept anesthesia using the hERG blocker droperidol (0.25 mg/kg/h yielding mean plasma concentrations of 0.5 microM). Furthermore, hERG K+ current and action potentials (AP; rabbit Purkinje fibers) were measured in vitro.
The Fridericia corrected QT interval, QTcF, in conscious dogs (control: 254+/-15 ms), was dose-dependently prolonged by D,L-sotalol (+42 ms at plasma levels of 261 microM; dose 30 mg/kg). In anesthetized dogs, baseline QTcF (337+/-35 ms) was already prolonged compared to conscious dogs. In addition, QTcF-increase (+90 ms) was more pronounced at lower D,L-sotalol plasma levels (181 microM; dose 10 mg/kg), and proarrhythmic markers Tpeak-Tend and short term variability of QT were increased. These in vivo findings are supported by in vitro data. The hERG K+ current was blocked by D,L-sotalol (IC50 approximately 1.2 mM, IC20 approximately 250 microM) and droperidol (IC50 approximately 0.1 microM, IC20 approximately 0.02 microM). Purkinje fiber APs were concentration-dependently prolonged by D,L-sotalol (APD90:+60% at 30 microM) and droperidol (APD90:+55% at 1 microM). Low droperidol concentrations increased the sensitivity of Purkinje fibers towards D,L-sotalol-mediated AP prolongation.
In conclusion, the higher sensitivity of anesthetized dogs towards sotalol-induced QT-prolongation is due to a reduced cardiac repolarization reserve caused by the hERG blocker droperidol. Hence, the droperidol-/fentanyl-/N2O-anesthetized dog is a particularly sensitive animal model for the detection of drug-induced QT-prolongation in safety pharmacology studies.
In this present study, we aimed to investigate the extracellular glutamate level and memory function-related gene expression in the mouse olfactory bulb after exposure of the animals to nanoparticle-rich diesel exhaust (NRDE) with or without bacterial cell wall component. Lipoteichoic acid (LTA), a cell wall component derived from Staphylococcus aureus, was used to induce systemic inflammation. Male BALB/c mice were exposed to clean air (particle concentration, 4.58 microg/m(3)) or NRDE (148.86 microg/m(3)) 5 h per day on 5 consecutive days of the week for 4 wk with or without weekly intraperitoneal injection of LTA. We examined the extracellular glutamate levels in the olfactory bulb using in vivo microdialysis and high-performance liquid chromatography assay. Then, we collected the olfactory bulb to examine the expression of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunits (NR1, NR2A, and NR2B) and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase (CaMK) IV and cyclic AMP response element binding protein (CREB)-1 using real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). NRDE and/or LTA caused significantly increased extracellular glutamate levels in the olfactory bulb of mice. Moreover, the exposure of mice to NRDE upregulates NR1, NR2A, NR2B, and CaMKIV mRNAs in the olfactory bulb, while LTA upregulates only NR2B and CREB1 mRNAs. These findings suggest that NRDE and LTA cause glutamate-induced neurotoxicity separately and accompanied by changes in the expression of NMDA receptor subunits and related kinase and transcription factor in the mouse olfactory bulb. This is the first study to show the correlation between glutamate toxicity and memory function-related gene expressions in the mouse olfactory bulb following exposure to NRDE.
Leptin, a product of the ob gene controlling food intake, has recently been detected in the stomach and shown to be released by cholecystokinin (CCK) and to induce gastroprotection against various noxious agents, but it is not known whether centrally applied leptin influences gastric secretion and mucosal integrity.
In this study we compared the effects of leptin and CCK-8 applied intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) on gastric secretion and gastric mucosal lesions induced by topical application of 75% ethanol.
Several major series of Wistar rats were used in this study. The effects of leptin or CCK applied i.c.v. on gastric secretion were examined using conscious rats with gastric fistulas. For the studies on gastroprotection the following series of rats were used to determine the effects of: (A) leptin and CCK applied centrally on this protection and the blockade of CCK(A) with loxiglumide (30 mg/kg i.p.) and CCK(B) receptors with RPR 102681 (30 mg/kg i.p.); (B) cutting of vagal nerves; (C) inactivation of sensory nerves by capsaicin (125 mg/kg s.c.); (D) inhibition of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptors with CGRP(8-37) (100 microg/kg i.p.), and (E) suppression of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) with N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) (5 mg/kg i.v. ) on ethanol-induced gastric lesions in rats with or without the i.c.v. pretreatment with leptin or CCK-8. Rats were anesthetized 1 h after ethanol administration to measure the gastric blood flow (GBF) and then to determine the area of gastric lesions by planimetry. Blood was withdrawn for the measurement of plasma leptin and gastrin levels by radioimmunoassay and gastric biopsy samples were collected for the determination of cNOS and iNOS mRNA by RT-PCR.
Leptin and CCK-8 (0.01-5 microg/kg i.c.v.) dose dependently attenuated gastric lesions induced by 75% ethanol; the doses reducing these lesions by 50% (ED(50)) were 0.8 and 1.2 microg/kg, respectively. The protective effects of leptin and CCK-8 applied i.c. v. were accompanied by a significant rise in plasma leptin level and an increase in GBF. Blockade of CCK(A) receptors with loxiglumide abolished the protective and hyperemic effects of CCK but not those of leptin, while RPR 10268, a specific antagonist of CCK(B) receptors, counteracted leptin-induced protection and the rise in the GBF but failed to influence those afforded by CCK-8. For comparison, pretreatment with peripheral CCK-8 or leptin (10 microg/kg i.p.) causing a similar rise in the plasma leptin level also significantly reduced gastric lesions induced by 75% ethanol. The protective and hyperemic effects of centrally administered leptin were abolished by vagotomy, producing a fall in plasma leptin levels, and significantly attenuated by sensory denervation with capsaicin, by pretreatment with the CGRP antagonist, CGRP(8-37), or with L-NAME. A strong signal for iNOS mRNA was recorded in the gastric mucosa of leptin- and CCK-8-treated animals, whereas cNOS mRNA was unaffected.
(1) Central leptin exerts a potent gastroprotective action at a dose that has no influence on gastric secretion; (2) this protection depends upon CCK(B) receptors, vagal activity and sensory nerves, and involves hyperemia probably mediated by NO, and (3) leptin mimics the gastroprotective effect of CCK and may be implicated in the protective and hyperemic actions of this peptide on the rat stomach.
The molecular mechanism for noncholinergic toxicity of phosphamidon, an extensively used organophosphate pesticide, is still not clear. The aim of the present study is to find the possible molecular mechanism of this pesticide to induce apoptosis and the role of different drugs for attenuation of such effects. Human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) were incubated with increasing concentrations of phosphamidon (0-20 μM) for 6-24 h. The MTT assay reveals that phosphamidon induces cytotoxicity in a dose-dependent manner. Cellular glutathione (GSH) is depleted in a dose-dependent manner from 55% to 70% at concentrations between 10 and 20 μM. The percentage of cells that bind to Annexin-V, which is a representative of cells either undergoing apoptosis or necrosis during 24 h incubation, increases in a dose-dependent manner. Above 5 μM, significant necrosis of cells was observed. DNA fragmentation assay revealed that at low concentration of phosphamidon (1 μM), no appreciable change in DNA fragmentation was seen; however, distinct fragmentation was observed beyond 2.5 μM. Phosphamidon was found to cause significant depletion of GSH, which correlates well with the percentage of cells undergoing apoptosis. An increasing trend in levels of cytochrome c was observed with increasing concentration of phosphamidon, indicating that the apoptotic effect of phosphamidon is mediated through cytochrome c release. Coadministration of the antioxidants N-acetylcysteine and curcumin attenuated phosphamidon-induced apoptosis. This further supports our hypothesis that oxidative stress, as indicated by GSH depletion, results in the induction of apoptosis by release of cytochrome c.
This study characterized the electrophysiological and neuropathological changes in rat brains caused by pilocarpine (PILO)-induced status epilepticus (SE) of different duration. SE induced by PILO (375 mg/kg, i.p. adm.) were terminated with a bolus dose of diazepam (10 mg/kg, i.v. adm.) injected 7.5, 15, 30, 60 or 120 min after initiation of the secondary generalization of the SE. Three weeks later, the gain in body weight was significantly reduced in the rats exposed to PILO-induced SE lasting 30 min or more, when compared to controls. Spontaneous seizures were not detected in rats with PILO-induced SE of 7.5 min duration whereas 50 and 25% of the rats exposed to seizure durations of 30 and 120 min expressed motor seizures. Significant alterations reflecting hyperexcitability (increased number of population spikes (PSs)) and reduced paired-pulse inhibition were observed in recordings of hippocampal field potentials from rats with PILO-induced SE of at least 30 min duration. This was substantiated by brain lesions (necrosis in olfactory cortex, hippocampus, amygdala and thalamus) in all rats manifesting a SE of at least 30 min duration. Thus, the results of the present study demonstrate that rats exposed to PILO-induced SE of at least 30 min duration manifest an epileptogenic process, revealed 3 weeks later by several parameters. Among these, hippocampal field potentials appear to represent the most sensitive marker, potentially useful for pharmacological evaluation of drugs with putative antiepileptogenic properties.
A severely handicapped boy had been treated with phenytoin and his seizures were controlled well. At 10 years of age, a pharmacy gave about 1000 mg of phenytoin instead of the prescribed 100 mg of the drug per day. Several hours after the initial administration, the patient became drowsy and his hands and feet turned dark purple with marked swelling. Four days later, his mother stopped administering the phenytoin to him and took him to hospital. After fluid therapy was started, the swelling and discoloration of both his hands and feet improved gradually and disappeared 11 days after drug discontinuation. Purple glove syndrome is defined as the edema, discoloration, and pain occurring in the distal limb where intravenous phenytoin has been administered. This might be the first report of purple glove syndrome caused by the oral administration of a large quantity of phenytoin.
