Depression is a serious and widespread emotional disorder among the elderly. This study compared the efficacy and safety of bupropion sustained release (SR) with the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor paroxetine in the treatment of major depression in elderly outpatients.
Elderly (> or = 60 years) outpatients with major depressive disorder (DSM-IV criteria) were evaluated in this 6-week multicenter, randomized, double-blind study comparing bupropion SR, 100-300 mg/day, and paroxetine, 10-40 mg/day. Efficacy was assessed by changes in scores on the Hamilton Rating Scales for Depression (HAM-D) and Anxiety (HAM-A) and the Clinical Global Impressions-Severity of Illness and -Improvement scales. Safety was assessed by monitoring adverse events, vital signs, and body weight.
A total of 100 patients ranging in age from 60 to 88 years were randomly assigned to treatment with bupropion SR (N = 48) or paroxetine (N = 52). Measurements of efficacy were similar between the 2 treatment groups, with both groups showing improved scores on all depression rating scales. Headache, insomnia, dry mouth, agitation, dizziness, and nausea occurred in > 10% of patients in both groups; somnolence, diarrhea, constipation, and anorexia occurred in > 10% of patients in the paroxetine group. No statistically significant differences between groups in vital signs or weight were found.
Both bupropion SR and paroxetine were safe and effective for the treatment of depression in the elderly. Because of its favorable side effect profile, bupropion SR may provide a safe and effective nonserotonergic treatment alternative that is well suited as an antidepressant for the elderly.
Natural exogenous progesterone has been shown to affect the functioning of the central nervous system in man, inducing dizziness and sedation by unknown mechanisms. Seven postclimacteric women known to suffer from dizziness during natural progesterone therapy were treated with a single oral dose of 200 mg of natural progesterone on 2 occasions, with and without preceding administration of indomethacin. Cardiovascular responses, vasoactive prostanoids and catecholamines in the blood, and excretion of prostanoids in the urine were measured. Serum progesterone concentrations increased in each subject, and all the women experienced dizziness or tiredness after progesterone intake. Blood pressure and heart rate did not change. Urine excretion of immunoreactive prostaglandin E2 and 6-keto-prostaglandin1 alpha decreased significantly in the experiment without pretreatment with indomethacin, whereas indomethacin pretreatment reduced the basal excretion of prostanoids and abolished the progesterone-induced decrease in their excretion. The plasma concentrations of prostanoids and catecholamines did not change. The results confirm that natural progesterone can cause dizziness and tiredness in man. The appearance of these symptoms is not related to peripheral vasodilation or to changes in plasma prostanoid or catecholamine levels. Neither are the symptoms related to the alteration in the urinary excretion of prostanoids, since the women still suffered from tiredness and dizziness after pretreatment with indomethacin.
We have been extensively investigating the mechanisms by which neuropeptides regulate feeding behavior by using a goldfish (Carassius auratus) model. In this species, the anorexigenic action of melanocortin peptide is centrally mediated via the corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH)/CRH receptor neuronal system, whereas sulfated cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8s) is involved in the appetite regulation as a peripheral anorexigenic factor. The aim of the present study was to identify the mechanism of the anorexigenic effect of peripherally injected CCK-8s, which has not yet been identified in goldfish. Co-administration of capsaicin, a neurotoxin that destroys primary sensory afferents, at 100 nmol/g BW, blocked the anorexigenic action of intraperitoneally injected CCK-8s (100 pmol/g BW), whereas the anorexigenic action of intracerebroventricularly injected CCK-8s (5 pmol/g BW) was not blocked by co-administration of capsaicin. Pre-treatment with a specific CRH receptor antagonist, α-helical CRH((9-41)), attenuated the anorexigenic action of CCK-8s. The expression level of CRH mRNA in the diencephalic tissue of the CCK-8s-injected group was not changed, but the level of proopiomelanocortin mRNA was significantly increased at 1h after treatment. Therefore, we have identified for the first time that the reduction of appetite induced by peripherally injected CCK-8s in goldfish appears to be mediated by the vagal afferent and subsequently through the melanocortin- and corticotropin-releasing hormone-signaling pathways.
The Blotchy mouse has an X-linked trait that leads to aortic aneurysms and subsequent fatal rupture in nearly all affected male mice. Heterozygous female mice occasionally develop aneurysms, but they rarely rupture. Ten heterozygous female mice received 0.45 mg/mL of hydrocortisone acetate in drinking water. Within 2 weeks, 9 of 10 mice were dead (6 with proved aortic rupture, 3 with presumed rupture). The 10th mouse was documented to have an aortic aneurysm. A dose-response curve was generated. Hydrocortisone's effect was shown to be dose-dependent. In another experiment, normal female mice received 0.10 mg/mL of hydrocortisone acetate for 14 days. Two mice developed aneurysms, and the others developed aortic ectasia. These experiments establish the role of hydrocortisone in the induction of aortic rupture in a mouse with genetic susceptibility and the induction of aneurysms and ectasia in normal mice.
The Danshen Injection has been proved good for decreasing platelet malonaldehyde (MDA) levels in pulmonary thromboembolism induced by collagen and adrenaline in mice, as well as increasing the activity of superoxide desmutase (SOD) in platelets, thus providing protection against pulmonary thromboembolism and inhibition of platelet aggregation.
Primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) frequently accompanies inflammatory bowel diseases. In an attempt to increase our understanding of the pathogenesis of PSC, we studied bile duct changes in rats with colitis which had been given N-formyl L-methionine L-leucine L-tyrosine (fMLT) rectally; fMLT is one of the chemotactic peptides produced by Escherichia coli, and is secreted into the bile by hepatocytes after it enters the portal blood. Transrectal administration of fMLT induced a marked inflammation in the portal triad and mild hepatocyte necrosis on the 4th day. The infiltrating leukocytes in the portal tract were mostly mononuclear cells, which densely infiltrated around the bile ducts. These mononuclear cells appeared to attach to bile duct epithelial cells, and they were more numerous in the smaller bile ducts. Electron microscopy revealed that lymphocytes were in direct contact with bile duct lining cells and that some epithelial cells had degenerated or collapsed. These results suggest that this E. coli-derived peptide may induce cholangitis in the small bile duct through cell-mediated mechanisms. Since these pathologic changes resemble those of the bile duct observed in the early stage of PSC, it can be concluded that bacterial chemotactic peptides may play a role in the pathogenesis of small-duct PSC.
We present a case of a 76-year-old Japanese man with hypertension and multiple myeloma (MM) presented with syncope and sinus bradycardia. Thalidomide therapy for MM was added to longstanding atenolol therapy one month prior to presentation. His heart rate (HR) was around 70 beats per minute (bpm) before addition of Thalidomide. His HR on presentation was less than 30 bpm. He was treated with intravenous atropine followed by temporary pacemaker and taken off atenolol. His HR returned to around 70 bpm few days after discontinuation of atenolol, even though he was still taking thalidomide, permitting outpatient management without a pacemaker. Both thalidomide and atenolol have been reported to cause bradycardia. Neither agent caused bradycardia when used alone in this patient, but simultaneous use caused symptomatic bradycardia. As thalidomide is prescribed more frequently, clinicians should be aware of the possibility of drug-induced sinus bradycardia due to the interaction of thalidomide and beta-blockers.
We studied the effects of intravenous administration of 20 mg/kg caffeine citrate on glucose homeostasis, cardiorespiratory status, and urinary excretion of catecholamines and electrolytes in 12 premature infants with recurrent apnea. Six infants received intravenous dextrose (5% or 10% in 0.225% saline) during the study, and six were fed formula every 3-4 hours. In the intravenously fed infants, the plasma glucose concentration postcaffeine did not vary significantly from the precaffeine level of 73 +/- 3.2 mg/dl (mean +/- SEM) at 0.5, 1, and 1.5 hours. However, in the formula-fed infants, there was a consistent fall in plasma glucose levels after caffeine administration. This decrease from a precaffeine level of 99 +/- 12 mg/dl (mean +/- SEM) approached statistical significance at 0.5 hours (P = 0.07), and was significantly lower at 1 and 1.5 hours (P less than 0.02). In five infants, cardiorespiratory status and urinary excretion of catecholamines and electrolytes were evaluated for 12-hour periods before and after caffeine administration. There was a significant reduction in the number of apneic episodes following caffeine administration; however, caffeine did not appear to affect mean heart rate or urinary excretion of sodium, potassium, epinephrine, norepinephrine, or dopamine. Our data suggest that the effects of caffeine on glucose homeostasis may vary with the nature and/or route of substrate administration.
Previous studies have shown that cytochrome P-450-mediated metabolism of naphthalene results in dose-dependent bronchiolar necrosis in mice and in the formation of reactive metabolites which deplete reduced glutathione and become bound covalently to tissue macromolecules. The finding that pulmonary glutathione levels were nearly totally depleted after large doses of naphthalene suggested that hepatic formation of reactive metabolites may contribute substantially to glutathione depletion and covalent binding in extrahepatic tissues. This possibility has been supported by several new lines of evidence: 1) similar levels of covalent binding were observed in lung, liver and kidney in vivo, yet the rate of kidney microsomal metabolic activation of naphthalene was much lower than in liver or lung; 2) phenobarbital pretreatment markedly increased in vivo covalent binding in lung, liver and kidney and increased hepatic but decreased pulmonary microsomal covalent binding; 3) 3-methylcholanthrene pretreatment resulted in slightly increased levels of covalent binding in lung, liver and kidney yet decreased pulmonary microsomal covalent binding; 4) administration of p-xylene, at doses which selectively decreased pulmonary microsomal metabolism of biphenyl (4-hydroxylation) and naphthalene (to reactive metabolites), decreased in vivo covalent binding in liver and kidney to the same extent as lung after [14C]naphthalene; and 5) pretreatment with buthionine sulfoximine preferentially depleted hepatic and renal but not pulmonary glutathione levels and markedly increased covalent binding in all three tissues. The severity of naphthalene-induced bronchiolar damage was unaffected by pretreatment with phenobarbital, 3-methylcholanthrene or p-xylene but was increased by prior administration of buthionine sulfoximine. These studies suggest that a portion of the reactive metabolites which deplete glutathione and bind covalently in extrahepatic tissues originate in the liver. Whether these circulating metabolites play a role in naphthalene-induced pulmonary bronchiolar damage is not clear.
The implantation of mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) has been reported as a new technique to restore renal tubular structure and improve renal function in acute kidney injury (AKI). Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) plays an important role in the renoprotective function of MSC. Whether upregulation of VEGF by a combination of MSC and VEGF gene transfer could enhance the protective effect of MSC in AKI is not clear. We investigated the effects of VEGF-modified human embryonic MSC (VEGF-hMSC) in healing cisplatin-injured renal tubular epithelial cells (TCMK-1) with a coculture system. We found that TCMK-1 viability declined 3 days after cisplatin pretreatment and that coculture with VEGF-hMSC enhanced cell protection via mitogenic and antiapoptotic actions. In addition, administration of VEGF-hMSC in a nude mouse model of cisplatin-induced kidney injury offered better protective effects on renal function, tubular structure, and survival as represented by increased cell proliferation, decreased cellular apoptosis, and improved peritubular capillary density. These data suggest that VEGF-modified hMSC implantation could provide advanced benefits in the protection against AKI by increasing antiapoptosis effects and improving microcirculation and cell proliferation.
Daunorubicin has been in clinical trials in the United States for the past 15 years. In 1966, Dr. David Karnofsky was the first investigator to report congestive heart failure in patients who had received high doses of daunorubicin. This early report was followed by a study by Halazun et al, colleagues who carried out a randomized controlled trial of vincristine plus prednisone versus vincristine plus prednisone plus daunorubicin. They reported a 0% incidence of congestive heart failure in the two-drug regimen and a 9.99% incidence in the three-drug regimen containing daunorubicin. Since that report there have been a large number of reports in the literature documenting that congestive heart failure can occur with administration of daunorubicin. Unfortunately, even though the drug-induced cardiotoxicity is a well-documented phenomenon, there has been very little information available as regards its incidence or risk factors for its development. This is in contrast to Adriamycin, where both the incidence of and risk factors for the development of cardiotoxicity are better studied. Because of this paucity of information we began a large retrospective study in 1976 to determine the incidence of and risk factors for the development of daunorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity. The incidence data have been reported previously. This communication will review the incidence data and report new findings on the risk factors.
A 47-yr-old man with history of complex regional pain syndrome type 1 underwent an IV Bier block with a mixture of lidocaine and clonidine. The tourniquet was deflated after 60 min, and approximately 10 min later he presented with complex partial seizures. The possible mechanisms for this are discussed, and the effects of clonidine, lidocaine, and the mixture of both are reviewed, as are four additional published cases reporting seizures after the administration of clonidine.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the role of trans-resveratrol on Staphylococcus aureus-induced keratitis. Rabbit corneas (intact corneas, abraded corneas and abraded corneas exposed to inactivated S. aureus strains) were placed in an ex vivo culture model. The abraded corneas exposed to S. aureus were divided into two 1-h-treatment sub-groups: corneas treated with trans-resveratrol and corneas treated with vehicle. The tissues were examined by immunohistochemical analyses and quantitative real-time RT-PCR to determine whether resveratrol could reduce TLR2-mediated recognition of S. aureus on epithelial cells and, if so, whether this reduction repressed the expression of inflammatory cytokines. The results demonstrated that resveratrol treatment effectively downregulated cell surface TLR2 on cells stimulated by S. aureus and reduced the expression of interleukin-8 gene. In addition, the corneal culture model tested, which is simple and reproducible, could be an alternative to in vivo animal testing for the development of novel specific therapies.
We studied intracranial damage in patients with mild head injuries who were taking warfarin. Of the 215,785 individuals who visited the Mount Auburn and Beth Israel accident and emergency departments during our study, we identified records for 144 patients by anticoagulation status and computed tomography (CT) imaging. We retrospectively reviewed these patients and ten (7%, 95% CI 3-11) with clinically important injuries on cranial CT. Our findings suggest that patients with head injuries who receive anticoagulants have a similar or greater risk of intracranlal injury to those falling into a previously defined moderate-risk category, invalidating a previous conclusion that CT scanning is unnecessary in such patients.
In osteoarthritis (OA) the balance between cartilage degeneration and repair is disturbed. The aim of this pilot clinical study was to examine the effects of a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug, nimesulide, on the synthesis of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) which are important enzymes in cartilage proteolysis. Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein (COMP), a component of the extracellular matrix, was used as an indicator of accelerated joint erosion. Radiologically proven painful OA of the knee or hip was treated with 100 mg nimesulide twice daily for 3 weeks. MMP-1, -3 and -8 and COMP were measured by immunoassays, and clinical investigations were made on pain, and on disease intensity using the WOMAC scale. During treatment with nimesulide, in addition to clinical improvement and less pain, serum levels of MMP-3, MMP-8 and COMP fell indicating a beneficial effect on cartilage catabolism.
The association between isotretinoin therapy and depressive symptoms in acne patients has generated much recent interest but has not been systematically explored. A 17-year-old man with acne vulgaris developed symptoms of acute depression two weeks after beginning isotretinoin therapy. The depressive symptoms improved with reduction of isotretnoin dose and treatment with sertraline. Of note, however, is that when the isotretinoin dose was again increased, the depressive symptoms recurred despite clearing of the skin, leading to an unsuccessful suicide attempt. Isotretinoin was finally discontinued and the depression rapidly resolved. Although the effects of hypervitaminosis A may be involved aetiologically, the predictive factors of drug-related depression remain unclear. Significant depressive symptoms that develop during the course of treatment need close monitoring and may necessitate both antidepressant therapy and discontinuation of the drug. Given the uncertain causal relationship between isotretinoin and depression, versus the potential psychological benefits of effective acne treatment, systematic studies exploring the impact of isotretinoin on mood are needed.
Hyperproliferative cell growth due to cyclin D1/cdk4, marker of cellular proliferation, is considered to be regulated by the expression of estrogen receptors (ERs). We investigated the immunohistochemical expression of cyclin D1/cdk4 and ERs in N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG)-induced rat gastric carcinogenesis. The gastric cancer incidence and expression of cyclin D1/ckd4 in gastric carcinogenesis were significantly higher in males than females. Although the ERα expression index was similar in both sexes, the ERβ expression in preneoplastic hyperplastic lesions as well as gastric cancers was significantly higher in females than in males. The present study revealed a gender difference in MNNG-induced rat gastric carcinogenesis that seemed to involve the sex difference in cyclin D1/cdk4 expression, and ERβ expression became evident at the preneoplastic promotion stage in gastric carcinogenesis.
The ability of 3,4-diaminopyridine (3,4-DAP) to antagonize muscle paralysis following local injection of botulinum neurotoxin A (BoNT/A) complex was evaluated in the in situ rat extensor digitorum longus (EDL) preparation. The minipumps were implanted 6 h prior to BoNT/A administration and delivered their contents over a 7-day period producing a steady plasma 3,4-DAP concentration of 27-29 microM. In the absence of 3,4-DAP, a local injection of five mouse LD(50) units of BoNT/A led to total paralysis of EDL muscles within 24 h of application. Recovery from paralysis was slow, remaining at <30% of control 14 days after toxin injection. 3,4-DAP delivery by osmotic minipumps antagonized the actions of BoNT/A on neuromuscular transmission. Seven days after the onset of 3,4-DAP infusion, indirectly elicited twitch and tetanic tensions in BoNT/A-injected EDL muscles were 72.4 and 46.9% of control, respectively. In the absence of 3,4-DAP, twitch and tetanic tensions were only 5.4 and 15. 1% of control. The benefits conferred by 3,4-DAP treatment were not maintained after minipumps were removed. Seven days after cessation of 3,4-DAP infusion, twitch and tetanic tensions were not significantly different from those observed in muscles receiving BoNT/A alone. It is concluded that 3,4-DAP may be useful for treatment of BoNT/A-induced muscle paralysis, but sustained delivery of the drug would be required for the entire period of BoNT intoxication to maintain muscle function.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid-induced ion transport changes in the retinal pigment epithelium are described. Valproate acts as an inhibitor of gamma-aminobutyric acid transaminase. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether early visual impairment is related to valproate in patients with and without visual symptoms. Thirty-two patients, presenting with a history of seizures currently being treated with valproate, were included in the study. A complete clinical neuroophthalmologic examination was performed, including electroretinogram and visual field test. The electroretinogram parameters of epileptic patients were compared with those of 28 age- and sex-matched healthy volunteers. There was no significant difference in ERG parameters between the two groups. The visual field and visual acuity of all patients were within normal limits. When valproate is not used in conjunction with other antiepileptic drugs and serum levels are within therapeutic levels, it does not cause electrophysiologically detectable retinal dysfunction or any functional defect in visual perception that can be determined clinically.
The possible protective effect of captopril, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, vs. telmisartan, an angiotensin II-receptor antagonist, was investigated in rats with testicular injury induced by a single i.p. injection of cadmium chloride (2 mg/kg). Captopril (60 mg/kg/day, p.o.) and telmisartan (10 mg/kg/day, p.o.) were given for five consecutive days, starting 3 days before cadmium administration. Both agents significantly increased serum testosterone level, which was reduced by cadmium, suppressed lipid peroxidation, restored the depleted reduced glutathione, decreased the elevations of nitric oxide, tumor necrosis factor-α, and cadmium ion levels, and attenuated the reductions of selenium and zinc ions in testicular tissue resulted from cadmium administration. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that both captopril and telmisartan significantly reduced the cadmium-induced expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase, nuclear factor-κB, Fas ligand, and caspase-3 in testicular tissue. The differences between the results obtained with captopril and telmisartan were insignificant, suggesting that both drugs equally protected the testicular tissue from the detrimental effects of cadmium.
Skeletal myopathy is a common complication of endogenous and exogenous glucocorticoid excess, yet its pathogenetic mechanisms remain unclear. There is accumulating evidence that mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress are involved in this process. To explore the glucocorticoid-induced transcriptional adaptations that may affect mitochondrial function in skeletal muscle, we studied gene expression profiles in dexamethasone-treated primary human skeletal myocytes using a cDNA microarray, which contains 501 mitochondria-related genes. We found that monoamine oxidase A (MAO-A) was the most significantly up-regulated gene. MAO-A is the primary enzyme metabolizing catecholamines and dietary amines, and its role in skeletal muscle remains largely unexplored. Dexamethasone induced dose- and time-dependent increases of MAO-A gene and protein expression, while its effects on MAO-B were minimal. Both the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and the Sp1 transcription factor were required for dexamethasone-induced MAO-A mRNA expression, as blockade of the GR with RU 486 or ablation of Sp1 binding with mithramycin abrogated MAO-A mRNA induction. The observed dexamethasone effect was biologically functional, as this steroid significantly increased MAO-mediated hydrogen peroxide production. We suggest that MAO-A-mediated oxidative stress can lead to cell damage, representing a novel pathogenetic mechanism for glucocorticoid-induced myopathy and a potential target for therapeutic intervention.
The onset, depth and recovery from paralysis produced by gallamine triethiodide were studied using the tibialis anterior muscle/sciatic nerve preparation in mongrel dogs, during changes in blood flow to this muscle. A roller pump was used to effect the blood flow changes via an aorto-femoral shunt. The onset and depth of paralysis were related directly to muscle blood flow. There was no correlation between the rate of recovery from paralysis and the blood flow to the muscle.
Chlorothalonil is a broad spectrum fungicide widely used in agricultural and urban environments, yet little is known regarding its effects on amphibians. We examined effects of chlorothalonil on growth, malformations, and mortality in embryos and larvae of Xenopus laevis and Spea multiplicata, and assessed variation in sensitivity among aquatic organisms using a species sensitivity distribution (SSD). Chlorothalonil induced gut malformations in X. laevis embryos and inhibited growth. Tail degeneration was observed in larvae of both species and reduced tail length to total length ratios occurred at environmentally relevant concentrations (5.9 and 11.0 μg/L). The mechanism of tail degeneration is unclear, but alteration in the expression of genes involved in tail resorption is a hypothesized mechanism. Larval amphibians were more sensitive than invertebrates and fish. Based on our results and the range of reported environmental concentrations, chlorothalonil may pose a risk to larval amphibians in certain habitats and scenarios.
Hydroxyzine hydrochloride may produce abnormal ventricular repolarization when given in substratial doses or to susceptible individuals. Phenothiazines, such as thioridazine, tricyclic antidepressants, or antiparkinson drugs, any of which may be given concurrently to psychiatric patients, may augment this effect as well as atropine, quinidine or procainamide. Such EKG abnormalities may increase the likelihood of dysrhythmias and sudden death.
Acyclovir-induced neurotoxicity is a rare adverse effect, found especially in adults with pre-existing renal failure. We report a case of neurotoxicity of acyclovir in a six-month-old liver transplant recipient. Case report and review of literature are discussed.
We report three recent cases of severe acute cerebral accident which occurred in the puerperium in women who received bromocriptine for milk suppression. Two patients experienced mild pregnancy-induced hypertension antepartum. Marked blood pressure elevation, above that which had prevailed previously, occurred postpartum in each case. The cerebral accidents manifested between the 6th and 14th days of the puerperium, the typical time for the occurrence of severe side effects from bromocriptine. These complications entailed lasting neurological sequelae in the three mothers who, based on their age, medical history and general state of health, were not significantly predisposed to cerebral accidents.
