To evaluate the protective effect of ambroxol, a muco-active drug, on acute hydrochloric acid-induced lung injury in rats.
Thirty pathogen-free SD rats were randomly divided into three groups: group A (n=10) and group B (n=10) were injected normal saline (NS) intraperitoneally (6.7 ml/kg), and group C with ambroxol (50 mg/kg), once a day for 3 consecutive days. Then animals received in tracheal instillation of NS (group A, pH 5.3, 1.2 ml/kg) or hydrochloric acid/NS (group B and C, pH 1.25, 1.2 ml/kg). Five hours after instillation of the injury vehicle, the arterial gas was determined, and the extent of lung injury was assessed by measuring the ratio of wet to dry weight (W/D) and evaluation of pathological change in lung tissue.
(1)Partial pressure of oxygen in arterial blood (PaO(2)) was significantly lower in group B than in groups A and C, although pH and partial pressure of carbon dioxide in arterial blood (PaCO(2)) in three groups showed little difference (all P<0.01). (2)The W/D was the highest in group B and the lowest in group A. (3)Severe acute lung injuries were detected in group B by pathological examination, the extent of injury was less in group C than in group B, but more severe than in group A (group A vs. B and B vs. C in mean pathologic score, P<0.01 and P<0.05, respectively).
Hydrochloric-acid aspiration may induce an acute and diffuse lung injury, with manifestations of hyperpnea, lower PaO(2) and severe pathological changes in lung tissues. Ambroxol may have a protective effect against lung injury induced by hydrochloric acid.
Symptoms resembling mania following withdrawal of diazepam in a mentally handicapped woman are described. The importance of considering benzodiazepine withdrawal in the assessment of acute behavioural disorders of the mentally handicapped is emphasized. Attention is also drawn to the paucity of research regarding the use of antianxiety drugs in the mentally handicapped.
Dexamethasone was evaluated for the treatment of intracerebral hemorrhage using a rat model of cerebral hematoma induced by intracerebral injection of collagenase. The treatment group consisted of hematoma rats receiving dexamethasone 1 mg/kg intraperitoneal (i.p.) at 1 and 24 h following surgery. Controls included hematoma rats receiving saline i.p. and sham-operated animals receiving saline i.p. Each animal was evaluated neurologically prior to, as well as 24 and 48 h following surgery. After the last neurological evaluation, animals were deeply anesthetized and the brain was removed following perfusion for microscopic examination and glial fibrillary acidic protein immunohistochemistry. Behavioral scores were significantly improved in the treated group (P < 0.0001). The hematoma volume was significantly smaller (P < 0.02). Neutrophils and astrocytes were less numerous in the hematoma of dexamethasone-treated animals (P < 0.001), however the number of necrotic neurons in the penumbra was not changed by the treatment. The number of necrotic neurons in the cerebral cortex was less in treated than in nontreated animals (P < 0.01). Controls had many vascular changes including necrotic endothelium and fibrin deposits compared with treated animals. In conclusion, dexamethasone administered shortly after an intracerebral hematoma appears beneficial for the treatment of this condition.
A 10-year-old black girl had an episode of diphenylhydantoin(DPH)-induced exfoliative dermatitis, lymphadenopathy, hepatitis, peripheral eosinophilia, and transient renal failure. The findings of specific lymphocyte sensitization of DPH, a clinically typical delayed hypersensitivity reaction, multinucleated histiocytes in the renal interstitium, and negative renal immunofluorescence studies for immune reactants indicate that the child's renal injury was at least partially cell-mediated.
To study the effects of N-acetylcysteine (NAC, C(5)H(9)-NO(3)S) on high-sucrose diet-induced obesity and its effects on energy metabolism and cardiac oxidative stress, male Wistar 24 rats were divided into four groups (n=6): (C) given standard chow and water; (N) receiving standard chow and 2g/l N-acetylcysteine in its drinking water; (HS) given standard chow and 30% sucrose in its drinking water, and (HS-N) receiving standard chow, 30% sucrose and N-acetylcysteine in its drinking water. After 30 days of the treatment, obesity was evidenced in HS rats from enhanced body weight, respiratory quotient, hypertriglyceridemia. As well depressed resting metabolic rate, and oxygen consumption per surface area. HS rats had triacylglycerol accumulation, oxidative stress and metabolic shifting in cardiac tissue. NAC enhanced fat oxidation and energy expenditure, normalizing these adverse effects, comparing HS-N and HS rats. The beta-hydroxyacyl coenzymne-A dehydrogenase activity was higher in HS-N animals, indicating higher heart fatty acid degradation than in HS. NAC normalized myocardial glycogen and lactate dehydrogenase activity, comparing HS-N and HS rats, but had no effects on calorimetric and biochemical parameters in standard-fed rats, comparing N and C groups. In conclusion, N-acetylcysteine offers promising therapeutic value in prevention of high-sucrose induced-obesity and its effect on cardiac tissue. N-acetylcysteine reduced the oxidative stress and prevented the metabolic shifting in cardiac tissue, enhancing fatty acid oxidation and reducing anaerobic metabolism in high-sucrose-fed conditions. The application of this agent in food system via exogenous addition may be feasible and beneficial for antioxidant protection and energy metabolism in cardiac tissue.
The present study sought to determine whether social phobics, like patients with panic disorder, have increased sensitivity to the panicogenic effects of pentagastrin. Intravenous pentagastrin and placebo were administered in a double-blind fashion to 19 social phobics, 11 patients with panic disorder, and 19 healthy controls while they participated in a structured social interaction task. Behavioral, cardiovascular, and neuroendocrine responses were obtained. Pentagastrin led to panic attacks in 47% of the social phobics, 64% of the panic disorder patients, and 11% of the healthy controls. The social interaction itself increased anxiety, blood pressure, and pulse in all three groups. These findings suggest that the panicogenic effects of pentagastrin are not limited to patients with panic disorder and provide further evidence for shared neurobiology in social phobia and panic disorder.
A variety of medications have been assessed for their potential efficacy for the treatment of methamphetamine dependence. We conducted this study in an attempt to evaluate the potential of a novel class of medications, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, as treatments for methamphetamine dependence. All participants met the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, fourth edition, third revision (DSM-IV-TR) criteria for methamphetamine abuse or dependence and were not seeking treatment at the time of study entry. The study was conducted using a double-blind design. Subjects received a baseline series of intravenous (IV) doses of methamphetamine (15 mg and 30 mg) and placebo. Subjects received a second identical series of methamphetamine doses 3 and 5 days after initiation of once-daily oral placebo or perindopril treatment. The dose of perindopril was 2 mg, 4mg, or 8 mg administered in the morning. Perindopril treatment was tolerated well. There were no main effects of perindopril on methamphetamine-induced changes in cardiovascular or subjective effects. There were significant perindoprilmethamphetamine interactions for diastolic blood pressure and for ratings of "Any Drug Effect", indicating inverted U dose-effect functions for these indices.
Anthracyclines confer an increased risk of cardiotoxicity. The authors evaluated left ventricular (LV) performance in patients treated with epirubicin. Sixty-eight patients with malignancies (study group), treated with epirubicin < or = 450 mg/m2, and a matched control group of 68 cancer patients who had not started chemotherapy were evaluated by Doppler echocardiography. The authors assessed LV diastolic function by measuring the transmitral flow: the maximal velocity of the E and A waves, the Emax/Amax ratio, the pressure half time of E wave (PHT), and the isovolumic relaxation time (IVRT). Global LV ejection fraction (LVEF) was estimated to determine the systolic performance. The authors documented alterations of the LV diastolic performance in the study group by finding a significant decrease in Emax, whereas Amax was significantly increased. Prolonged PHT and IVRT were also certified in the epirubicin-treated group compared with controls. No significant variation in LVEF between the 2 groups was detected.
Synchronized preimplantation embryo development and passage through the oviduct into the uterus are prerequisites for implantation, dysregulation of which often leads to pregnancy failure in women. Cannabinoid/endocannabinoid signaling via cannabinoid receptor CB1 is known to influence early pregnancy. Here we provide evidence that a critical balance between anandamide synthesis by N-acylphosphatidylethanolamine-selective phospholipase D (NAPE-PLD) and its degradation by fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) in mouse embryos and oviducts creates locally an appropriate "anandamide tone" for normal development of embryos and their oviductal transport. FAAH inactivation yielding higher anandamide or experimentally induced higher cannabinoid [(-)-Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol] levels constrain preimplantation embryo development with aberrant expression of Cdx2, Nanog, and Oct3/4, genes known to direct lineage specification. Defective oviductal embryo transport arising from aberrant endocannabinoid signaling also led to deferred on-time implantation and poor pregnancy outcome. Intercrossing between wild-type and Faah-/- mice rescued developmental defects, not oviductal transport, implying that embryonic and maternal FAAH plays differential roles in these processes. The results suggest that FAAH is a key metabolic gatekeeper, regulating on-site anandamide tone to direct preimplantation events that determine the fate of pregnancy. This study uncovers what we believe to be a novel regulation of preimplantation processes, which could be clinically relevant for fertility regulation in women.
We investigated the utility of branched-chain amino acids (BCAA) in dexamethasone-induced muscle atrophy. Dexamethasone (600 microg/kg, intraperitoneally) and/or BCAA (600 mg/kg, orally) were administered for 5 days in rats, and the effect of BCAA on dexamethasone-induced muscle atrophy was evaluated. Dexamethasone decreased total protein concentration of rat soleus muscles. Concomitant administration of BCAA reversed the decrease. Dexamethasone decreased mean cross-sectional area of soleus muscle fibers, which was reversed by BCAA. Dexamethasone increased atrogin-1 expression, which has been reported to play a pivotal role in muscle atrophy. The increased expression of atrogin-1 mRNA was significantly attenuated by BCAA. Furthermore, dexamethasone-induced conversion from microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 (LC3)-I to LC3-II, which is an indicator of autophagy, was blocked by BCAA. These findings suggest that BCAA decreased protein breakdown to prevent muscle atrophy. BCAA administration appears to be useful for prevention of steroid myopathy.
This study examined the association between T1198C polymorphism of the angiotensinogen (AGT) gene and the blood pressure response to ACE inhibitors in a Chinese hypertensive cohort. After a 2-week single-blind placebo run-in period, benazepril (10-20 mg/day) or imidapril (5-10 mg/day) was administered for 6 weeks to 509 patients with mild-to-moderate essential hypertension. Polymerase chain reaction combined with restriction enzyme digestion was used to detect the polymorphism, and the patients were classified as having the TT, TC, or CC genotype. The achieved changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure (SBP and DBP) were analyzed to determine their association with genotypes at the AGT gene locus. In the total 509 patients, the TT genotype was observed in 44 patients (8.7%), the TC genotype in 214 patients (42.0%), and the CC genotype in 251 patients (49.3%). The SBP reductions in patients with the TT genotype, TC genotype, and CC genotype were -15.3+/-12.7 mmHg, -14.0+/-12.7 mmHg, and -14.4+/-12.4 mmHg, respectively (p=0.809). The DBP reductions in patients with the TT genotype, TC genotype, and CC genotype were -8.5+/-8.1 mmHg, -8.3+/-7.5 mmHg, and -8.9+/-6.6 mmHg, respectively (p=0.638). There were no significant differences in the changes in SBP or DBP after treatment among the three genotype groups. In conclusion, these results suggest that the AGT genotype does not predict the blood pressure-lowering response to antihypertensive treatment with ACE inhibitors in Chinese hypertensive patients.
We report eight cases of liver injury related to amoxycillin-clavulanate. Liver biopsy performed in seven patients revealed varying degrees of injury to interlobular bile ducts in all cases. Lesions included irregularity of the nuclei, vacuolization of the cytoplasm, lymphocytic infiltration, destruction and endothelialization of the bile duct epithelium. Ductopenia was not observed. In two patients liver injury was accompanied by prominent extrahepatic manifestations (acute interstitial nephritis in one and acute lacrimal gland inflammation and sialadenitis with prolonged xerostomia in the other). We conclude that interlobular bile-duct lesions of varying severity are a common feature in liver injury related to amoxycillin-clavulanate. Side effects of the drug include acute interstitial nephritis and sialadenitis.
The pathogenesis of chronic hepatitis C (CHC) is associated to severe oxidative stress that leads to necro-inflammation and progression of fibrosis. Previous trials suggested that antioxidative therapy may have a beneficial effect. We evaluated the efficacy and safety of Viusid in combination with interferon alpha-2b (IFN alpha-2b) and ribavirin in patients with CHC.
We randomly assigned 100 patients, between October 2002 and December 2004, in two arms: IFN alpha-2b (5 MU on alternate days), ribavirin at a dose of 13 mg/kg daily and Viusid (three sachets daily) vs. IFN alpha-2b (5 MU on alternate days) and ribavirin at a dose of 13 mg/kg daily. Subjects were treated for 48 weeks and then followed for an additional 24 weeks. The primary end point was the histologic response (reduction of at least two points without fibrosis worsening in the total score on the Histological Activity Index).
A significantly high proportion of patients who received combined therapy plus Viusid had a histologic response better than those patients who received IFN alpha-2b and ribavirin (57% vs. 37%, P=0.03). The patients with virologic response achieved the highest percentages of histologic response, irrespective of assigned treatment. Among non-responders, the highest reduction in the mean change from baseline score for necro-inflammatory activity (NA) and fibrosis (F) was reported in patients treated with Viusid [NA, -1.50 (Viusid), -1.20 (without Viusid); F, -0.31 (Viusid), 0.00 (without Viusid)]. Sustained normalization of serum alanine aminotransferase concentration was highest in the Viusid group compared with standard therapy (67% vs. 41%, P=0.009). The overall safety profile was similar in both groups, but interestingly, the anemia was less intense in the group with Viusid (P=0.04).
Our results suggest that triple therapy with Viusid, IFN alpha-2b and ribavirin was well tolerated and may have a beneficial effect on histologic and biochemical variables. The intensity of anemia is reduced in patients treated with Viusid.
Alprazolam, a benzodiazepine derivative, stimulates specific gamma-aminobutyric acidA receptors and has been found to inhibit CRH activity in the brain. This study examined the effect of alprazolam on serum cortisol and LH pulsatility in six women in the early follicular phase (EFP), six women in the midluteal phase (MLP), and six women with stress-related anovulation (SRA) of normal weight, but with a previous history of anorexia nervosa. Subjects were given alprazolam (2 mg, orally) or an identical placebo capsule at 0900 h, and blood samples were collected through an indwelling venous catheter every 10 min for 8 h in the SRA women and 10 h in EFP and MLP women. Women with SRA were also given clomiphene (100 mg/day) for 5 days before a further 8-h blood sampling session. As expected, there was a diurnal decline in serum levels of cortisol, which was significantly less in women with SRA (55 +/- 4%) than those in both EFP (76 +/- 4%) and MLP women (75 +/- 3%; P < 0.005). The food-related rise of cortisol that follows lunch in normal women was absent in women with SRA. Alprazolam accentuated the decline in serum cortisol, and in all three groups, the mean serum cortisol level after alprazolam treatment was significantly less (P < 0.05) than that after placebo. In SRA women, alprazolam restored visible LH pulses in all women and increased the mean LH pulse frequency (P < 0.02) and pulse amplitude (P < 0.05). This was associated with an increase in mean serum LH from 1.3 +/- 0.3 to 3.0 +/- 0.06 IU/L (P < 0.02). In EFP women, alprazolam reduced the frequency of LH pulsatility from a mean of 5.8 +/- 0.7 to 3.2 +/- 0.5 pulses/10 h (P < 0.02) and increased the mean pulse amplitude from 2.4 +/- 0.5 to 5.0 +/- 1.1 IU/L (P < 0.0005). Alprazolam had no significant effect on LH pulsatility or amplitude in MLP women. To explain this variation in response to alprazolam, we propose that alprazolam accelerates the GnRH pacemaker in SRA women by inhibiting excessive CRH activity, which blocks the GnRH pacemaker in these women. In normal women, we hypothesize that tonic inhibition of the GnRH pacemaker by CRH is minimal, and the reduced pulsatility of LH after alprazolam treatment in EFP women results from inhibition of stimulatory noradrenergic neurons. In MLP women, we propose that preexisting opioid inhibition of noradrenergic neurons by progesterone blocks this effect of alprazolam.
A major limitation in the use of amphotericin B is its potential to cause nephrotoxicity. In animals, increased dietary sodium reduces renal toxicity. Experience with five patients in whom impaired renal function developed early during amphotericin B therapy is reported. In four of the patients, there was evidence of sodium depletion due to low sodium intake, diuretic administration, or vomiting. In all five patients, sodium loading was associated with improved renal function, which permitted amphotericin B therapy to be continued in fully effective doses to the completion of elective courses of treatment without evidence of residual impaired renal function. These observations are consistent with the hypothesis that intrarenal regulatory mechanisms contribute to changes in renal function due to amphotericin B therapy.
Morphometric data of normal and neoplastic urinary bladder epithelia have been collected from the Fischer rat FANFT model. Sequential measurements of volumes, surface areas, and numerical densities of organelles, and where pertinent, cellular compartments have been made during FANFT carcinogenesis, utilizing standard point and intersection counting methods. The data show that neoplastic transformation of rat bladder epithelium, and progression of FANFT tumors are associated with increasing volume densities of cells, nuclei, microvilli, rough endoplasmic reticulum, and mitochondria, as well as with decreasing volume densities of the cytoplasmic matrix, fusiform vesicles, Golgi complex, and lysosomes. Surface densities of the plasma membrane (microvillar), nuclei, rough endoplasmic reticulum, as well as mitochondrial outer and inner membranes progressively increase while surface densities of non-microvillar plasma membrane, fusiform vesicles, and Golgi complex decrease with time. Smooth endoplasmic reticulum reaches its maximum volume and surface densities in tumors present 26 weeks after the initiation of FANFT feedings (26-F tumors). This may reflect the function of smooth endoplasmic reticulum as the site of detoxification of the carcinogen, noting that FANFT is metabolized by microsomal enzymes, and in this experiment is fed only for 26 weeks. The nuclear/cytoplasmic ratio is 1:4 in normal Fischer rat urothelium, 1:3 in 26-F and 43-F tumors, which are noninvasive, and 1:2 in 61-F, which are invasive tumors. The quantitative data correlate well with the changes in degree of differentiation of the tumors and with their biological behavior.
Proteinuria is an important risk factor for cardiovascular and renal morbidity and mortality. The effect of nicorandil on proteinuria in hypertensive patients well controlled by antihypertensive agents containing a low dose of valsartan has not been studied.
A total of 136 proteinuric (300-3000 mg/day), valsartan-treated hypertensive patients with blood pressure less than 140/90 mmHg were randomized into three groups to receive placebo, isosorbide dinitrate (30 mg/day), or nicorandil (15 mg/day) for 6 months.
The average dose of valsartan given to the patients was similar in the three groups. Creatinine clearance remained stable throughout the study in the three groups. Nicorandil, but not isosorbide dinitrate, significantly reduced proteinuria by 44% after 6 months (P < 0.0001). Urinary endothelin-1 levels significantly decreased after administration of nicorandil (P = 0.002), whereas placebo and isosorbide dinitrate had no effect. Urinary excretion of endothelin-1 was significantly correlated with improvement in urinary protein excretion in nicorandil-treated patients (r = 0.69, P < 0.0001). The urinary excretion of retinol-binding protein decreased after nicorandil administration, probably reflecting an improvement in tubular function. In contrast, the urinary excretion of immunoglobulin G did not change significantly throughout the study in the three groups. Multivariate analysis revealed that proteinuria was only significantly correlated with the use of nicorandil (model adjusted r = 0.35, P < 0.0001).
The addition of nicorandil to treatment for patients with well controlled hypertension may have an additive effect on reducing proteinuria independent of hemodynamics and nitric oxide effects, possibly through inhibiting renal endothelin-1 synthesis and improving tubular function.
Caveolae are omega-shaped organelles of the cell surface. The protein caveolin-3, a structural component of cardiac caveolae, is associated with cellular signaling. To investigate the effect of adenovirus-mediated overexpression of caveolin-3 on hypertrophic responses in cardiomyocytes, we constructed an adenovirus that encoded human wild-type caveolin-3 (Ad.Cav-3), mutant caveolin-3 (Ad.Cav-3Delta), or bacterial beta-galactosidase (Ad.LacZ). This mutant has been reported to cause human limb-girdle muscular dystrophy. It lacks 9 nucleotides in the caveolin scaffolding domain and behaves in a dominant-negative fashion. Rat neonatal cardiomyocytes were infected with the virus and then harvested 36 hours after infection. In noninfected cells, phenylephrine (PE) and endothelin-1 (ET) increased cell size and [3H]leucine incorporation, along with the induction of sarcomeric reorganization and the reexpression of beta-myosin heavy chain, indicating myocyte hypertrophy. Infection with Ad.LacZ had no effect on those parameters. Ad.Cav-3 prevented the PE- and ET-induced increases in cell size, leucine incorporation, sarcomeric reorganization, and reexpression of beta-myosin heavy chain. Ad.Cav-3 also blocked the PE- and ET-induced phosphorylations of extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs) but did not affect c-Jun amino-terminal kinase and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase activities. In contrast, Ad.Cav-3Delta significantly augmented hypertrophic responses to ET, which were associated with increased ET-induced phosphorylation of ERK1/2. These results suggest that caveolin-3 behaves as a negative regulator of hypertrophic responses, probably through suppression of ERK1/2 activity.
Diabetes is associated with endothelial dysfunction and platelet activation, both of which contribute to increased cardiovascular risk. We investigated whether the selective mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) antagonist eplerenone improves endothelial dysfunction and reduces platelet activation in diabetic rats. Male Wistar-rats were injected with streptozotocin (50 mg/kg i.v.) to induce insulin-deficient diabetes. After 2 weeks, treatment with eplerenone (100 mg/kg/day) or vehicle was initiated for 2 weeks. Aortic superoxide production determined by lucigenin-enhanced chemiluminescence and 2-hydroxyethidium formation was significantly increased in rats with diabetes and reduced by treatment with eplerenone (chemiluminescence: control 2045+/-227, STZ-placebo 3977+/-340, p<0.05 vs. control, STZ-eplerenone 1762+/-307, p<0.05 vs. STZ-placebo). Endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation was significantly attenuated in diabetic rats and was normalized by eplerenone (maximum relaxation in % of precontraction: control 95+/-3, STZ-placebo 82+/-3, p<0.01 vs. control, STZ-eplerenone 99+/-1, p<0.01 vs. STZ-placebo). Treatment with the selective MR antagonist significantly reduced fibrinogen-binding on activated GPIIb/IIIa (immunofluorescence: control 161+/-7, STZ-placebo 208+/-16, p<0.05 vs. control, STZ-eplerenone 173+/-6, p<0.05 vs. STZ-placebo). Eplerenone improves endothelial function by reducing superoxide formation and increasing NO bioavailability in diabetic rats. Platelet activation was significantly reduced by eplerenone. Selective MR blockade may constitute a useful therapeutic approach for treatment of vascular dysfunction in diabetes.
Recently, clinical reports have suggested a relationship between the occurrence of hyperalgesia, allodynia and/or myoclonus and treatment with high doses of morphine in humans. Although few clinical descriptions of these phenomena are available, experimental work supports the notion that high doses of morphine may play a pathogenetic role in the observed behavioural syndrome.
Six patients, four with malignant and two with chronic, non-malignant pain conditions, treated with moderate to high doses of oral, continuous intravenous infusion or intrathecal morphine developed hyperalgesia, allodynia and/or myoclonus. When the side-effects occurred, blood or CSF samples were taken and analyzed for contents of morphine, morphine-6-glucuronide (M-6-G) and morphine-3-glucuronide (M-3-G).
When comparing the plasma and CSF concentrations from these patients with data from available literature obtained from patients not suffering from these side-effects, it was demonstrated that the values deviated in five patients. In all six patients, the side-effects disappeared after substituting morphine with other opioid agonists or after lowering the daily dose of morphine.
These results may indicate that elevated concentrations of M-3-G in plasma as well as the plasma and CSF M-3-G/M-6-G ratios may play a pathogenetic role in the development of hyperalgesia, allodynia and myoclonus.
Amicar (epsilon-aminocaproic acid) has been used in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage to promote clotting. However, cerebral thrombosis has been reported in various vascular compartments following its use. The authors describe 2 patients who had cerebral angiography after Amicar therapy and demonstrated thrombosis unrelated to vascular spasm or technical complications of angiography. Careful screening is needed in patients treated with Amicar to determine if an increased risk of thrombosis exists.
Welding results in a unique and complex occupational exposure. Recent epidemiological studies have shown an increased risk of cardiovascular disease following welding fume exposure. In this study, we compared the induction of pulmonary and systemic inflammation following exposure to multiple types of welding fumes. Mice were exposed to 340μg of manual metal arc stainless steel (MMA-SS), gas metal arc-SS (GMA-SS) or GMA-mild steel (GMA-MS) by pharyngeal aspiration. Mice were sacrificed at 4 and 24h post-exposure to evaluate various parameters of pulmonary and systemic inflammation. Alterations in pulmonary gene expression by a custom designed TaqMan array showed minimal differences between the fumes at 4h. Conversely at 24h, gene expression changes were further increased by SS but not GMA-MS exposure. These findings were associated with the surrogate marker of systemic inflammation, liver acute phase gene induction. Interestingly, stress response genes in cardiovascular tissues were only increased following MMA-SS exposure. These effects were related to the initial level of pulmonary cytotoxicity, as measured by lactate dehydrogenase activity, which was greatest following MMA-SS exposure. In conclusion, varying types of welding fumes elicit quantitatively different systemic inflammatory and/or stress responses.
We report a case of 40-year-old with chloroquine- and mefloquine-resistant Plasmodium falciparum. He had a single grand mal seizure 37 days following retreatment with quinine intravenously, which resulted in rapid clearance of fever and parasitemia, in addition to mefloquine. He had a long history of seizures, which were well controlled by phenytoin. Because he has never had such a seizure before and computerized tomographic scanning of the brain after admission showed no abnormal findings which caused convulsions, it seemed to be an adverse reaction caused by antimalarial drugs. It is possible that a double or triple combination treatment for the emergence of multiresistant falciparum malaria might more frequently produce severe side effects, such as psychiatric reactions and convulsions. This case suggests that physicians must have a long follow-up period for chronic toxicity of antimalarial drugs, especially after using drug combinations for falciparum malaria.
The aim of this study was to investigate the monoamine content in post-mortem brain samples of control, apomorphine-aggressive, and apomorphine-non-aggressive adult male Wistar rats. The repeated apomorphine (1.0 mg/kg, (s.c.) once daily during 2 weeks) gradually induced aggressive behaviour in 18 animals out of 24. No unidirectional changes in the brain monoamine contents in four regions (frontal cortex, striatum, hippocampus, and hypothalamus) were detected as measured by high pressure liquid chromatography-electrochemical detection. In conclusion, our present experiment demonstrates that the development and intensity of apomorphine-induced aggressive behaviour do not correlate with the brain post-mortem monoamine content.
Treatment of a 55-year-old woman with Raynaud's phenomenon and orthostatic hypotension secondary to lumbar sympathectomy performed for Raynaud's phenomenon is described. Indomethacin increased the blood pressure but caused severe gastrointestinal bleeding. It was possible to treat the symptoms of Raynaud's phenomenon with drugs generally used to treat hypertension without causing an undue decrease in blood pressure and, at the same time, to combat orthostatic hypotension with drugs to increase blood pressure.
