A case of "spontaneous" acute subdural hematoma caused by cocaine abuse is described. As an isolated cerebrovascular event, related to cocaine abuse, this is the first report in the literature. It also represents a new differential diagnosis for nontraumatic acute subdural haematomas. The putative pathophysiology of the lesion is discussed.
The effect of various antipsychotics during pregnancy has repeatedly been studied, but for most atypical antipsychotics, only little information is available. We identified from the Swedish Medical Birth Register 2908 women who had reported the use of any antipsychotic or lithium in early pregnancy and studied malformation rates with data also from the Register of Congenital Malformations and the Hospital Discharge Register. Comparisons were made with all births (n = 958,729) after adjustment for some confounders. Risks were expressed as odds ratios (ORs). Most women had used dixyrazine or prochlorperazine mainly because of nausea and vomiting in early pregnancy. Seventy-nine women had used lithium, and these outcomes are reported separately. Hence, the main analysis was restricted to 570 women (576 infants) using other antipsychotics. There was a statistically significant increase in the risk for a congenital malformation-after exclusion of some common and minor conditions, the OR was 1.52 (95% confidence interval, 1.05-2.19). Exclusion of infants exposed to anticonvulsants reduced the OR only slightly. Most of the increased risk was caused by cardiovascular defects, mainly atrium or ventricular septum defect. No certain drug specificity was found. Except for an increased risk for congenital malformations, a nearly doubling of the risk for gestational diabetes and a 40% increased risk for cesarean delivery was noted. Because there seems to be little drug specificity, it is possible that underlying pathology or unidentified confounding explains the excess risk.
A 74-year-old woman with a history of cerebrovascular disease developed profound central nervous system (CNS) and respiratory depression, generalized hypotonia, sinus bradycardia, and urinary retention following an increase in dose of baclofen, an antispasticity agent. Before receiving baclofen therapy the patient had had minor urinary dysfunction associated with a remote cerebrovascular accident but no urinary retention. Cessation of baclofen therapy and the relief of the urinary obstruction improved mental status and normalized motor function within 24 hours. A withdrawal syndrome of agitation, hallucinosis, and convulsive activity persisted for eight days following discontinuation of the baclofen. Our experience suggests that patients with various forms of CNS disease states may be at risk of serious CNS depression with even small therapeutic doses of baclofen.
Hyperprolactinemia is a common adverse effect that occurs as a result of antipsychotic therapies, which often results in discontinuation. Empirical evidence has shown that some herbal medicines have suppressive effects on prolactin (PRL) hyperactivities. This study was designed to compare the herbal preparation called Peony-Glycyrrhiza Decoction (PGD) with bromocriptine (BMT), a dopamine agonist widely used for PRL-secreting disorders, in the treatment of risperidone-induced hyperprolactinemia. Twenty schizophrenic women who were under risperidone maintenance treatment, diagnosed with hyperprolactinemia (serum PRL levels >50 mug/L), and currently experiencing oligomenorrhea or amenorrhea were selected for the study. Subjects were randomized to additional treatment with PGD (45 g/d) followed by BMT (5 mg/d) or BMT followed by PGD at the same doses for 4 weeks each, with an interval of 4-week washout period between 2 treatment sessions. The severity of psychotic symptoms, adverse events, serum PRL, estradiol, testosterone, and progesterone levels were examined at baseline and end point. Peony-Glycyrrhiza Decoction treatment produced a significant baseline-end point decrease in serum PRL levels, without exacerbating psychosis and changing other hormones, and the decreased amplitudes were similar to those of BMT (24% vs 21%-38%). Moreover, there was a significantly greater proportion of patients during PGD treatment than BMT treatment showing improvements on adverse effects associated with hyperprolactinemia (56% vs 17%, P = 0.037). These results suggest that the herbal therapy can yield additional benefits while having comparable efficacy in treating antipsychotic-induced hyperprolactinemia in individuals with schizophrenia.
Type 1 Gaucher disease (GD1) is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder associated with abnormal accumulation of glucocerebrosides. Plasma total cholesterol (TC), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-c), and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-c) are decreased in GD1 patients. The effects of substrate reduction therapy (SRT) with miglustat on plasma lipids and atherogenic factors have not yet been examined. Here, we report plasma atherogenic profile data from GD1 patients undergoing long-term SRT.
Plasma was analysed in 26 GD1 patients treated with miglustat for up to 36 months. Ten patients were therapy-naïve and 16 had switched from enzyme replacement therapy (ERT); the interval between stopping ERT and starting SRT was 2-6 weeks. Plasma TC, triglycerides (TG), LDL-c, HDL-c, apolipoproteins (apoA-I, apoB, and Lp[a]), C-reactive protein (CRP) concentrations, and chitotriosidase activity were measured before SRT (baseline) and at 12, 24, and 36 months follow up.
In therapy-naïve patients, miglustat significantly increased plasma HDL-c and apoA-I, and slightly increased TC; while TG, CRP concentrations, and TC/HDL-c ratios decreased significantly after 24 months. In contrast, there were no changes in HDL-c and apoA-I, or in the TC/HDL-c ratio in switch patients. However, a decrease in CRP was observed after 12 months. LDL-c and apoB were not significantly altered in either patient group.
Miglustat appears to have beneficial effects on plasma lipid, lipoprotein, and CRP concentrations in therapy-naïve GD1 patients, resulting in an improved atherogenic lipid profile. Further studies are required to determine the effect of miglustat on coronary heart disease risk.
The impact of hyperprolactinaemia on endometrial function, along with embryo implantation, has been the subject of discussion. This article examines whether experimental hyperprolactinaemia can affect mouse ovarian function, endometrial pinopodes and embryo implantation.
For pinopode analysis, 60 female mice were randomly divided into two groups: control (vehicle) and experimental [metoclopramide (MCP) 200 microg per day]. Injections were given subcutaneously for 50 days, and then, normally cycling females were housed with male mice for copulation during proestrus. The animals were killed on the fifth day following coitus when the antimesometrium portions of the uterine horns were removed for endometrial analysis. Blood was collected for prolactin (PRL) determination. In the second experiment, 60 female mice were used to evaluate the ovarian function by measuring estrogen and progesterone levels and counting luteal bodies and oocytes in the oviduct and uterus during estrus.
The highest pregnancy rates and the largest population of pinopodes were both found in the vehicle group (P<0.01). Estrogen and progesterone levels in MCP-treated mice were lower than those in control mice (P<0.05). Also, the number of implantations was significantly lower in the MCP-treated group compared with the vehicle group after embryo transfer (P<0.001).
PRL seems to have suppressive effects on ovarian function and the number of pinopodes; conceivably, hyperprolactinaemia has a negative effect on mouse embryo implantation.
Tamoxifen use has been associated with increased risk of thromboembolic events (TEs) in women with breast cancer and women at high risk for the disease. Factor V Leiden (FVL) is the most common inherited clotting factor mutation and also confers increased thrombosis risk. We investigated whether FVL was associated with TE risk in women with early-stage breast cancer who took adjuvant tamoxifen.
A case-control study was conducted among 34 Cancer and Leukemia Group B (CALGB) institutions. We matched each of 124 women who had experienced a documented TE while taking adjuvant tamoxifen for breast cancer (but who were not necessarily on a CALGB treatment trial) to two control subjects (women who took adjuvant tamoxifen but did not experience TE) by age at diagnosis (+/-5 years). DNA from blood was analyzed for FVL mutations. Conditional logistic regression was used to estimate odds ratios (ORs) and to evaluate other potential factors associated with TE and tamoxifen use. All P values are based on two-sided tests.
FVL mutations were identified in 23 (18.5%) case and 12 (4.8%) control subjects (OR = 4.66, 95% confidence interval = 2.14 to 10.14, P < .001). In the multivariable model, FVL mutation was associated with TE (OR = 4.73, 95% confidence interval = 2.10 to 10.68, P < .001). Other statistically significant factors associated with TE risk were personal history of TE and smoking.
Among women taking adjuvant tamoxifen for early-stage breast cancer, those who had a TE were nearly five times more likely to carry a FVL mutation than those who did not have a TE. Postmenopausal women should be evaluated for the FVL mutation before prescription of adjuvant tamoxifen if a positive test would alter therapeutic decision making.
A 40-year-old man developed an acute state of manic exultation when given carbamazepine for complex partial seizures. The symptoms subsided when carbamazepine was discontinued, but recurred when the drug was inadvertently given again. This observation does not accord with previous evidence of a beneficial psychotropic effect for carbamazepine in some epileptic patients and of some effect in the treatment of mania. Carbamazepine has been shown to have complex actions on multiple neurotransmitter and neuromodulator systems, and it is possible that paradoxical effects of this nature may occur in susceptible individuals, as has been found with other sedative and anticonvulsant agents. The patient recalled brief euphoric periods after seizures, which may suggest that carbamazepine exacerbated or prolonged preexisting cerebral dysfunction.
We assessed the effectiveness of a 5-microm filter in reducing propofol-induced pain and determined whether any reduction is due to removal of contaminants or an alteration in flow characteristics. A total of 120 unpremedicated women (ASA 1-3, aged 18-70 yr) were randomly allocated to one of three equal-sized groups. In group A, propofol was drawn up and injected through an unfiltered plastic cannula. In group B, propofol was drawn up through a 5-microm filter needle and injected through an unfiltered plastic cannula. In group C, propofol was drawn up and injected through a 5-microm filter needle. Unmodified propofol from a 20-ml rubber topped vial at room temperature was used. A 22-g cannula was inserted into the largest visible vein on the dorsum of the non-dominant hand. Propofol was administered at 0.5 ml.s-1 and patients were asked about pain every 10 s until unresponsive, by a blinded observer. The pain score for the patient was the taken as the most severe pain documented. The frequency and severity of pain were similar among groups. We conclude that a 5-microm filter does not reduce pain associated with injection of propofol drawn from a vial with a rubber bung.
It has been reported that mu-opioid receptor activation leads to a sustained increase in glutamate synaptic effectiveness at the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor level, a system associated with central hypersensitivity to pain. One hypothesis is that postoperative pain may result partly from the activation of NMDA pain facilitatory processes induced by opiate treatment per se. The authors tested here the effectiveness of the opiate analgesic fentanyl for eliciting a delayed enhancement in pain sensitivity.
The consequences of four bolus injections (every 15 min) of fentanyl (20-100 microg/kg per injection, subcutaneously) on immediate (for several hours) and long-term (for several days) sensitivity to nociceptive stimuli in the rat (paw-pressure vocalization test) were evaluated. The effects of the combination of the NMDA-receptor antagonist ketamine (10 mg/kg, subcutaneously) with fentanyl also were assessed.
Fentanyl administration exhibited a biphasic time-dependent effect: first, an early response (for 2-5 h) associated with a marked increase in nociceptive threshold (analgesia), and second, a later response associated with sustained lowering of the nociceptive threshold (5 days for the longest effect) below the basal value (30% of decrease for the maximal effect) indicative of hyperalgesia. The higher the fentanyl dose used, the more pronounced was the fentanyl-induced hyperalgesia. Ketamine pretreatment, which had no analgesic effect on its own, enhanced the earlier response (analgesia) and prevented the development of long-lasting hyperalgesia.
Fentanyl activates NMDA pain facilitatory processes, which oppose analgesia and lead to long-lasting enhancement in pain sensitivity.
Comparisons were made of the toxic effects produced in the heart, kidney and small intestine of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) by the administration of 12 consecutive weekly doses of doxorubicin (1 mg/kg), and high, intermediate and low doses of piroxantrone (3, 1.5 and 0.75 mg/kg) and losoxantrone (1, 0.5 and 0.25 mg/kg). Animals receiving saline were used as controls. The toxicities of the three drugs were evaluated by clinical chemistry and hematological determinations, light microscopy and transmission electron microscopy. The severity of the histologic alterations in heart, kidney and small intestine was assessed semiquantitatively. Biochemical and molecular modeling studies were made to evaluate the formation of complexes of Fe(III) with piroxantrone and losoxantrone. The cardiac (myofibrillar loss and dilatation of the sarcoplasmic reticulum) and renal (glomerular vacuolization, tubular damage and laboratory evidence of a nephrotic syndrome) lesions induced by all three agents had similar features. However, the cardiac lesions induced by losoxantrone and doxorubicin were significantly more severe (Billingham scores) than those produced by piroxantrone. The renal lesions induced by piroxantrone and losoxantrone were less severe than those produced by doxorubicin. Similarly losoxantrone and piroxantrone-induced intestinal alterations (denudation of epithelial layer and inflammatory cellular infiltration) were less severe than those occurring after treatment with doxorubicin. Both losoxantrone and piroxantrone were shown to form Fe(III): drug complexes that may cause oxidative damage to various tissues.
To report a case of possible levofloxacin-induced acute fulminant hepatic failure.
An unconscious 55-year-old woman was hospitalized with the diagnosis of hepatic encephalopathy. The patient had received levofloxacin 500 mg daily for 10 days because of an upper respiratory infection. Her past medical history revealed hepatitis B surface antigen positivity as an asymptomatic hepatitis B virus carrier for 10 years. After hospitalization, treatment included plasmapheresis and supportive care. The patient's consciousness improved on the second day of treatment. Other etiologies of fulminant hepatic failure were ruled out, suggesting levofloxacin-induced fulminant hepatic failure. Although the patient received supportive treatment, her condition gradually deteriorated and she died 12 weeks after admission to our hospital. An objective causality assessment revealed that the adverse event was possibly related to levofloxacin.
Levofloxacin is widely used because of its broad spectrum of antimicrobial activity. As of August 9, 2005, to our knowledge, only one case of fulminant hepatic failure in relation to levofloxacin has previously been published. We believe that, in our patient, the relationship between levofloxacin and her illness is clear because of the negative results in the etiological studies, the short time between the drug's administration and the development of disease, and the pathologic findings suggestive of drug-induced hepatitis.
Clinicians should be aware of the possibility of severe hepatic injury associated with levofloxacin when prescribing this drug.
Little is known about the impact of in utero exposure to antidepressants on children's long-term mental health. This study analyzed the impact of exposure to antidepressants during pregnancy on the risk of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in the offspring.
Claims-based data from 38,074 families were used to identify deliveries, parental mental health diagnoses, maternal exposure to antidepressants, and diagnosis or treatment for ADHD in the children. Multiple logistic regressions were performed using the presence of ADHD in the child by the age of 5 years as the dependent variable.
A diagnosis of ADHD in the mother or the father was associated with higher rates of ADHD in the children (OR = 4.15, p <.001 and OR = 3.54, p <.001, respectively). A diagnosis of bipolar disorder (OR = 5.08, p <.001), psychotic disorders (OR = 4.05, p =.02), or depressive disorders (OR = 2.58, p <.001) in the mother, but not in the father, increased the risk of ADHD in their children. Exposure to bupropion during pregnancy (OR = 3.63, p =.02), especially during the second trimester (OR = 14.66, p <.001), was strongly associated with increased risk of ADHD, whereas exposure to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors was not (OR = 0.91, p =.74).
Children of mothers treated with bupropion during pregnancy have an increased risk of being diagnosed with ADHD; a possible causal effect needs to be further studied. Assessing the mental health of caregivers should be considered as part of the evaluation and treatment of children with ADHD.
Thalidomide is approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for erythema nodosum leprosum, but has been used in many other dermatological conditions that are refractory to standard therapy.
The medical records of 48 patients treated with thalidomide at Baylor College of Medicine (Houston, TX) were retrospectively reviewed to determine the conditions treated with thalidomide, dosing, efficacy, treatment duration, side effects, adverse events, and reason for discontinuing therapy.
Forty-eight patients (men = 18, women = 30) with a mean age of 49.6 years (range: 20-79) were included in this study. Patients were treated for prurigo nodularis, discoid lupus erythematosus, tumid lupus erythematosus, subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus, systemic lupus erythematosus, lichen planus, lichen planopilaris, cutaneous sarcoidosis, and prurigo nodularis. All conditions were refractory to standard therapy. Patients were treated for a mean of 7.5 months (range: 3 days to 70 months). In most of the disorders, a majority of patients experienced clinical improvement. The most common reason for discontinuation of therapy was side effects, the most frequent being peripheral neuropathy.
This study was limited by being retrospective in nature.
Thalidomide effectively treats some dermatologic conditions that are refractory to standard medications. There are inconveniences associated with obtaining the medication and it is expensive. Physicians must be vigilant for possible side effects, especially peripheral neuropathy.
To report a case of rhabdomyolysis resulting from concurrent use of cerivastatin and gemfibrozil. CASE SUMMARY An 82-year-old white man presented to the emergency department with severe muscle weakness and inability to walk approximately one month after starting cerivastatin. He had been taking gemfibrozil for several years without any known adverse effects. Both medications were discontinued and the patient recovered. He was discharged with a diagnosis of rhabdomyolysis secondary to his medications.
Four previous reports describing rhabdomyolysis in patients on concomitant cerivastatin and gemfibrozil have been cited. Although monotherapy with cerivastatin is well tolerated and has a low frequency of adverse events, the combination with nicotinic acid (i.e., niacin) or a fibric-acid derivative (i.e., gemfibrozil, fenofibrate) may result in severe skeletal muscle toxicity and rhabdomyolysis.
According to the Naranjo scale, a probable relationship exists between the concomitant use of gemfibrozil and cerivastatin with the resulting development of rhabdomyolysis. Concurrent use of gemfibrozil and cerivastatin is therefore contraindicated.
Indium-111-antimyosin (111In-antimyosin) scans were performed in 20 women with advanced breast cancer after 10 cycles of chemotherapy consisting of cyclophosphamide, 5-fluorouracil and doxorubicin (total cumulative dose of doxorubicin of 500 mg/m2). Antimyosin uptake in the myocardium was quantified by means of a heart-to-lung ratio (HLR). Antimyosin uptake in the myocardium was observed in 17/20 (85%) patients, and HLR after chemotherapy was 1.86 +/- 0.25. Left ventricular ejection fraction (EF) was determined before and after chemotherapy. Patients with decreased EF (8/20, 40%) presented with more intense antimyosin uptake (HLR of 2.11 +/- 0.10 versus 1.70 +/- 0.16 (p = 0.01]. HLR values correlated with EF values after chemotherapy (r = -0.47, p less than 0.05). Positive antimyosin studies after chemotherapy including doxorubicin, indicate the presence of myocardial damage in these patients. Antimyosin studies are a sensitive method to detect myocyte damage in patients after doxorubicin therapy.
The present microdialysis study evaluated the anticonvulsant activity of extracellular hippocampal dopamine (DA) and serotonin (5-HT) with concomitant assessment of the possible mutual interactions between these monoamines. The anticonvulsant effects of intrahippocampally applied DA and 5-HT concentrations were evaluated against pilocarpine-induced seizures in conscious rats. DA or 5-HT perfusions protected the rats from limbic seizures as long as extracellular DA or 5-HT concentrations ranged, respectively, between 70-400% and 80-350% increases compared with the baseline levels. Co-perfusion with the selective D(2) blocker remoxipride or the selective 5-HT(1A) blocker WAY-100635 clearly abolished all anticonvulsant effects. These anticonvulsant effects were mediated independently since no mutual 5-HT and DA interactions were observed as long as extracellular DA and 5-HT levels remained within these protective ranges. Simultaneous D(2) and 5-HT(1A) receptor blockade significantly aggravated pilocarpine-induced seizures. High extracellular DA (> 1000% increases) or 5-HT (> 900% increases) concentrations also worsened seizure outcome. The latter proconvulsive effects were associated with significant increases in extracellular glutamate (Glu) and mutual increases in extracellular monoamines. Our results suggest that, within a certain concentration range, DA and 5-HT contribute independently to the prevention of hippocampal epileptogenesis via, respectively, D(2) and 5-HT(1A) receptor activation.
The authors relate a case of spasm occurring during cisplatin and 6-fluorouracil combination chemotherapy. The cardiotoxicity of 5-F.U., and namely the risk of coronary spasm, has been known since 1969. However, few cases have been reported in France. Referring themselves to the case of interest and to literature sources, the authors review current pathogenic hypotheses and specify the precautions commanded by the prescription of any protocol that includes 5-F.U.
Patients previously infected with hepatitis B virus (HBV) undergoing an allograft and recipients from HBV carrier donors are at risk of posttransplant viral reactivation. The role of prophylaxis with lamivudine remains unclear. One hundred seventeen patients, with a median age of 52 years (20-67 years), with various hematologic malignancies transplanted between 1999 and 2007 entered the study. Eighty-seven recipients negative for HBV surface antigen (HBsAg), antihepatitis B core antigen antibodies (anti-HBc), and HBV-DNA with HBsAg and HBV-DNA negative donors were defined as at low risk of HBV reactivation, whereas all the remaining 30 patients were defined as at high risk. Patients at high risk transplanted in 2005 or after received lamivudine to prevent HBV reactivation as per the Italian guidelines by the Associazione Italiana per lo Studio del Fegato (AISF). Patients at low risk did not experience HBV reactivation/hepatitis. Among the recipients at high risk, 11 of 25 anti-HBc positive, those HBsAg positive (2 of 2) or negative but transplanted from HBsAg positive donors (3 of 3) were treated with lamivudine. None of these developed HBV reactivation/hepatitis after a median follow-up of 40 months (17-55 months). Hepatitis developed in 3 anti-HBc positive untreated patients conditioned with a reduced-intensity regimen. Hepatitis B was not observed in recipients at low risk, transplanted from HBsAg negative/anti-HBc positive or negative donors. Lamivudine was effective in controlling reactivation in: HBsAg positive recipients, in patients transplanted from HBsAg positive donors and in HBsAg negative/antiHBc positive recipients, who showed a significant risk of reactivation if not given prophylaxis (NCT 00876148).
Administration of an opiate antagonist following acute morphine exposure elevates the startle response in rodents, a phenomenon that may reflect the anxiogenic effects of withdrawal. Previous acute dependence studies have demonstrated escalated withdrawal severity following multiple withdrawal episodes.
To examine the effects of prior opiate exposure on the magnitude of withdrawal-potentiated startle and an additional measure of acute dependence, withdrawal-induced hyperalgesia.
The effects of repeated naloxone-precipitated morphine withdrawals on acoustic startle responding were evaluated in experiments that varied either the dose of the opiate antagonist (8-day, repeated measures procedure) or agonist (3-day procedure). Additional experiments examined withdrawal-induced hyperalgesia utilizing either a single-day dependence paradigm or the same 3-day procedure as in the startle experiment.
Repeated naloxone-precipitated withdrawals from acute morphine exacerbated withdrawal severity in both startle procedures, although this effect varied biphasically (inverted-U function) with morphine dose in the 3-day dependence paradigm. Withdrawal from a single morphine exposure also induced hyperalgesia, and this effect was intensified by prior withdrawal episodes.
These data demonstrate that repeated withdrawals from acute morphine exacerbate the severity of potentiated startle and hyperalgesia. These paradigms may be useful in examining the neural plasticity underlying the development of opiate dependence.
To investigate the occurrence of an inappropriate antidiuretic state in a long-term psychiatric inpatient population, 690 patients underwent serum sodium determination. Forty-four patients (6.4%) had levels less than 133 mmol/l. Fifteen of these patients could be investigated further and the biochemical findings in all were consistent with an inappropriate antidiuretic state. Evidence of previous episodes of water intoxication was found in 80% of these patients. Although more than one possible cause was present in most patients, the two factors most strongly incriminated in the pathogenesis of the inappropriate antidiuretic state were the drugs carbamazepine and hydrochlorothiazide.
Prolonged apnoea occurs occasionally after the routine use of suxamethonium chloride (Scoline). A case history is presented where the use of stabilised human serum (SHS) resulted in a dramatic reversal of this problem. Guidelines for the management of this condition with special reference to the use of SHS are discussed.
Using an antibody that recognizes the products of all known members of the fos family of immediate early genes, it was demonstrated that destruction of the nigrostriatal pathway by 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions of the medial forebrain bundle produces a prolonged (>3 months) elevation of Fos-like immunoreactivity in the striatum. Using retrograde tract tracing techniques, we have previously shown that this increase in Fos-like immunoreactivity is located predominantly in striatal neurons that project to the globus pallidus. In the present study, Western blots were performed on nuclear extracts from the intact and denervated striatum of 6-OHDA-lesioned rats to determine the nature of Fos-immunoreactive protein(s) responsible for this increase. Approximately 6 weeks after the 6-OHDA lesion, expression of two Fos-related antigens with apparent molecular masses of 43 and 45 kDa was enhanced in the denervated striatum. Chronic haloperidol administration also selectively elevated expression of these Fos-related antigens, suggesting that their induction after dopaminergic denervation is mediated by reduced activation of D2-like dopamine receptors. Western blot immunostaining using an antibody which recognizes the N-terminus of FosB indicated that the 43 and 45 kDa Fos-related antigens induced by dopaminergic denervation and chronic haloperidol administration may be related to a truncated form of FosB known as deltaFosB. Consistent with this proposal, retrograde tracing experiments confirmed that deltaFosB-like immunoreactivity in the deafferented striatum was located predominantly in striatopallidal neurons. Gel shift experiments demonstrated that elevated AP-1 binding activity in denervated striata contained FosB-like protein(s), suggesting that enhanced deltaFosB levels may mediate some of the effects of prolonged dopamine depletion on AP-1-regulated genes in striatopallidal neurons. In contrast, chronic administration of the D1-like receptor agonist CY 208243 to 6-OHDA-lesioned rats dramatically enhanced deltaFosB-like immunoreactivity in striatal neurons projecting to the substantia nigra. Western blot immunostaining revealed that deltaFosB and, to a lesser extent, FosB are elevated by chronic D1-like agonist administration. Both the quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and the ribonuclease protection assay demonstrated that deltafosB mRNA levels were substantially enhanced in the denervated striatum by chronic D1-like agonist administration. Lastly, we examined the effects of chronic administration ofD1-like and D2-like dopamine receptor agonists on striatal deltaFosB expression in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) primate model of Parkinson's disease. In monkeys rendered Parkinsonian by MPTP, there was a modest increase in deltaFosB-like protein(s), while the development of dyskinesia produced by chronic D1-like agonist administration was accompanied by large increases in DeltaFosB-like protein(s). In contrast, administration of the long-acting D2-like agonist cabergoline, which alleviated Parkinsonian symptoms without producing dyskinesia reduced deltaFosB levels to near normal. Taken together, these results demonstrate that chronic alterations in dopaminergic neurotransmission produce a persistent elevation of deltaFosB-like protein(s) in both the rodent and primate striatum.
We report three cases of neurotoxicity in patients with renal failure, treated with Zelitrex (valacyclovir).
The patients are two women and a man, aged 76 +/- 4.6 years, who presented acute mental confusion during a treatment with valacyclovir. In two cases, the patients previously had altered renal function and were under peritoneal dialysis. In the last case, the patient had simultaneous neurotoxicity and acute renal failure. After the discontinuation of the drug, the outcome was favourable in all cases.
Our cases focus attention on the possible neurotoxicity of valacyclovir, which is an amino acid ester prodrug of acyclovir, rapidly and almost completely hydrolysed to acyclovir prior to systemic exposure. The bioavailability of valacyclovir is 54% compared to approximately 20% for oral acyclovir and may account for unexpected overdoses, which may lead to serious neurological toxicity.
This study investigated endogenous mediators involved in mosquito allergy-associated itching in mice. An intradermal injection of an extract of mosquito salivary gland elicited marked scratching in sensitized mice. The 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor zileuton (100 mg/kg), the 5-lipoxygenase activating peptide inhibitor MK-886 (10 mg/kg), and the glucocorticoid betamethasone 17-valerate (3 mg/kg) inhibited the scratching. The scratching was not affected by the cyclooxygenase inhibitors indomethacin and ketoprofen, the TP prostanoid receptor antagonist SQ-29548, the leukotriene B(4) antagonist ONO-4057, the cysteinyl leukotriene antagonist pranlucast, the leukotriene D(4) antagonist MK-571, the platelet-activating factor antagonist CV-3988, the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, the H(2) histamine-receptor antagonist cimetidine, the H(1) histamine-receptor antagonist terfenadine plus cimetidine, and cypoheptadine that blocks the 5-HT(1/2) serotonin receptors. Zileuton (100 mg/kg) inhibited the increased activity of the cutaneous nerve branch induced by an intradermal injection of the extract, suggesting the peripheral action. Zileuton and MK-886 (10 and 100 microM) did not affect high K(+)-induced increase in intracellular Ca(2+) concentration in cultured dorsal root ganglion neurons. The results suggest that 5-lipoxygenase metabolite(s) other than leukotriene B(4) and cysteinyl leukotrienes are involved in mosquito allergy-associated itching.
In previous studies, large-dose fentanyl produced electrographic seizure activity and histologically evident brain damage. We assessed whether fentanyl-induced brain damage is attenuated by using anticonvulsant drugs. Using halothane/nitrous oxide anesthesia, 40 Sprague-Dawley rats underwent tracheal intubation, arterial and venous cannulation, and insertion of biparietal electroencephalogram electrodes and a rectal temperature probe. Halothane was discontinued. The dose of IV fentanyl shown previously to cause maximal brain damage was given to all animals and N(2)O was discontinued. Control rats were given fentanyl only. Rats in the three study groups also received midazolam, phenytoin, or N(2)O/naloxone. After characteristic seizure activity began with fentanyl loading the study drug was started. After a 2-h infusion, wounds were closed, and animals recovered overnight and underwent cerebral perfusion-fixation. Neuropathologic alterations were ranked on a scale of 0-5 for both neuronal death (0 = normal, 5 = more than 75% neuronal death) and for malacia. Significantly fewer rats in the N(2)O/Naloxone, Phenytoin, and Midazolam Groups sustained any brain damage compared with controls. Protection against opioid neurotoxicity is achieved with midazolam, naloxone, and phenytoin. If opioid neurotoxicity is clinically relevant, a small change in anesthetic practice might reduce any potential neurologic morbidity.
Narcotics in large doses can cause brain damage in rats. This brain damage is attenuated by a narcotic antagonist, a sedative, and an antiepileptic drug.
High intake of phytoestrogens through soybeans and their products is thought to be associated with low incidences of prostate and / or breast cancer in Asian countries. Possible chemopreventive effects of genistin or daidzin on rat prostate carcinogenesis were therefore investigated. Male F344 rats were given 10 biweekly subcutaneous injections of 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB) and then either genistin or daidzin in the diet at a concentration of 0.1% for 40 weeks. Other groups of rats given DMAB were treated with genistin or daidzin together with a high dose of testosterone propionate (TP). Both genistin and daidzin reduced the numbers of ventral prostate carcinomas (P < 0.05), with a tendency for decrease in incidence. Invasive carcinomas which developed in the anterior prostate and seminal vesicles with TP were, however, not influenced by the two isoflavones. Thus, the present data suggest that genistin and daidzin possess anti-cancer effects at relatively early stages of prostate cancer development, providing experimental support for epidemiological findings.
