Chromium deficiency may cause insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia, impaired glucose tolerance, and hyperlipidemia, recovered by chromium supplementation. The effect of chromium supplementation on serum lipids and glucose tolerance was tested in a double-blind 12-wk study of 23 healthy adult men aged 31 to 60 yr. Either 200 micrograms trivalent chromium in 5 ml water (Cr) or 5 ml plain water (W) was ingested daily 5 days each week. Half the subjects volunteered for glucose tolerance tests with insulin levels. At 12 wk high-density lipoprotein cholesterol increased in the Cr group from 35 to 39 mg/dl (p less than 0.05) but did not change in the water group (34 mg/dl). The largest increase in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and decreases in insulin and glucose were found in those subjects having normal glucose levels together with elevated insulin levels at base-line. The data are thus consistent with the hypothesis that Cr supplementation raises high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and improves insulin sensitivity in those with evidence of insulin resistance but normal glucose tolerance.
Nuclear receptors and pioneer factors drive the development and progression of prostate cancer. In this disease, aggressive disease phenotypes and hormone therapy failures result from resurgent activity of androgen receptor (AR) and the upregulation of coactivator protein p300 and pioneer factors (e.g., GATA2 and FOXA1). Thus, a major emphasis in the field is to identify mechanisms by which castrate-resistant AR activity and pioneer factor function can be combinatorially suppressed. Here we show that the turmeric spice isoflavone curcumin suppresses p300 and CBP occupancy at sites of AR function. Curcumin reduced the association of histone acetylation and pioneer factors, thereby suppressing AR residence and downstream target gene expression. Histone deacetylase inhibitors reversed the effects of curcumin on AR activity, further underscoring the impact of curcumin on altering the chromatin landscape. These functions precluded pioneer factor occupancy, leading ultimately to a suppression of ligand-dependent and ligand-independent AR residence on chromatin. Moreover, these functions were conserved even in cells with heightened pioneer factor activity, thus identifying a potential strategy to manage this subclass of tumors. Biological relevance was further identified using in vivo xenograft models mimicking disease progression. Curcumin cooperated in vivo with androgen deprivation as indicated by a reduction in tumor growth and delay to the onset of castrate-resistant disease. Together, our results show the combinatorial impact of targeting AR and histone modification in prostate cancer, thus setting the stage for further development of curcumin as a novel agent to target AR signaling.
The objective of this study was to determine the toxicities and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of a dose-dense schedule with a fixed dose of cisplatin and escalating doses of paclitaxel in patients with metastatic or irresectable squamous cell-, adeno-, or undifferentiated carcinoma of the oesophagus. Patients received paclitaxel over 3 h followed by a 3-h infusion of a fixed dose of cisplatin of 70 mg/m(2) on days 1, 8, 15, 29, 36 and 43. The starting dose of paclitaxel was 80 mg/m(2). Patients were re-treated if white blood cell count (WBC) was >/=1 x 10(9) cells/l, except for day 29 when the WBC had to be >/=3 x 10(9) cells/l. Six patients were treated at each dose level. The dose of paclitaxel was increased by 10 mg/m(2) per level. Of the 24 patients enrolled, 13 had adenocarcinoma, 10 had squamous cell carcinoma and one had an undifferentiated carcinoma. All patients were evaluable for toxicity and 22 of 24 patients were evaluable for response. The paclitaxel dose could be escalated to 110 mg/m(2). At this dose, 3 out of 6 patients developed dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) including neutropenic enterocolitis with sepsis, vomiting and diarrhoea. Diarrhoea grades 3 and 4 was seen in 4 (17%) patients. Two of these patients died of neutropenic enterocolitis. Neutropenia grades 3 or 4 was seen in 20 (83%) patients, but apart from the two patients with neutropenic enterocolitis no other infectious complications were seen. Mild to moderate sensory neurotoxicity was seen in 11 (46%) patients (grade 1 in 8 patients and grade 2 in 3 patients). Other toxicities were mild and easily manageable. Of the 22 evaluable patients, 11 (50%) patients achieved a partial or complete response with a median duration of 13 months. Ten patients with either locally advanced disease or supraclavicular or celiac lymph nodes received additional local treatment after response to chemotherapy, seven patients are still without evidence of disease after a median follow-up of 32 months. Paclitaxel at a dose 100 mg/m(2) infused over 3 h followed by a 3-h infusion of 70 mg/m(2) cisplatin can be recommended for further studies in patients with metastatic or unresectable oesophageal cancer. Occurring diarrhoea should be handled with caution because it may be a sign of neutropenic enterocolitis. The response rate of this dose-dense schedule seems encouraging.
The interfering effect of sulphinpyrazone, a uricosuric agent which reduces the activity of cyclo-oxygenase, with the antihypertensive activity of oxprenolol, a non-cardioselective beta-blocker with sympathomimetic activity, has been evaluated. Ten patients with primary arterial hypertension of mild to moderate degree entered a randomized double-blind cross-over study versus placebo. They were given oxprenolol + placebo or oxprenolol + sulphinpyrazone for 15 days, and then the treatments were crossed-over for a further 15 days. Oxprenolol significantly reduced blood pressure (161 +/- 3/101 +/- 1 vs 149 +/- 4/96 +/- 2 mmHg) and heart rate (72 +/- 3 vs 66 +/- 3 beats/min). During administration of the combination with sulphinpyrazone the blood pressure increased to its pretreatment level (156 +/- 5/101 +/- 2 mmHg). The effect of oxprenolol on heart rate was not influenced by the combined treatment (67 +/- 6 beats/min). The results may be explained by 1) sulphinpyrazone-induced inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, which could interfere with the antihypertensive activity of oxprenolol, or 2) sulphinpyrazone-induced acceleration of the metabolism of oxprenolol.
The present study aimed to investigate the protective effects of melatonin, ethanol and temperature changes on methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity in both sexes of mice. Mice exhibited a similar degree of striatal dopamine depletion when methamphetamine was administered during the light and dark cycles. Moreover, 10 mg/kg, but not 5 mg/kg, of methamphetamine, significantly increased body temperature even though dopamine depletions were observed following both doses. Melatonin (80 mg/kg) dissolved in 30% (v/v) ethanol and 30% ethanol alone exerted a moderate to full protection against methamphetamine-induced dopamine depletions in both sexes of mice, whereas the same dose of melatonin in 3% ethanol exerted no protective effect. Furthermore, ethanol attenuated methamphetamine-induced dopamine depletions in a dose-dependent manner with the exception of high efficacy of ethanol at low doses. Finally, the protective effects of ethanol were not blocked by bicuculline. Together, we conclude that ethanol may protect mice against methamphetamine-induced dopamine depletion probably via non-GABAA receptor activation.
Chronic hyperglycemia is the hallmark of diabetes and its complication. High glucose-induced excessive reactive oxygen species (ROS) production has been considered to play an important role in the development of diabetes. However, the influence of high glucose on the liver remains to be clarified. Rosiglitazone (RSG) is a member of thiazolidinediones (TDZs) family, which is the ligand of the of nuclear transcription factor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ (PPARγ), being used clinically for the treatment of type 2 diabetic patients through their insulin-sensitizing effect. In the present study, we investigated the cytotoxicity of high glucose in QZG hepatocytes and evaluated the protective effect of RSG. The results showed that high glucose significantly reduced cell viability through generation of ROS via activation of PKC, which was inhibited by RSG. On the one hand, RSG notably inhibited the activation of PKC induced by high glucose independent of PPARγ, leading to the decrease of ROS generation. On the other hand, RSG notably increased the expression of key antioxidant transcription factor Nrf2 and antioxidant enzyme HO-1 in a PPARγ-dependent manner, leading to the elimination of excessive ROS. In addition, RSG also inhibited the decrease of COX-2 expression induced by high glucose through activating PPARγ. Furthermore, the activation of Akt and MAPKs was involved in the effect of RSG on Nrf2, HO-1 and COX-2. In summary, our study supports the hypothesis that RSG protect hepatocytes from high glucose-induced toxicity through PPARγ-dependent and PPARγ-independent pathways.
The antiamnesic activity of nerve growth factor (NGF) in various medicinal forms [aqueous NGF solution with and without polysorbate-80 (PS-80) additives, NGF adsorbed on poly(butyl) cyanoacrylate (PBCA) nanoparticles with and without PS-80 coating] has been studied in rats with model amnesia induced by scopolamine (2 mg/kg, s.c.). The antiamnesic activity was evaluated by the ability of subsequently introduced drugs (5 microg NGF per animal, i.p.) to inhibit the amnesic action of scopolamine as manifested by retrieval of the passive avoidance reflex (PAR) learned using the Lafayette Instruments USP system 30 min after drug injection. The PAR memory trace was evaluated as an increase in the latent time before visiting the dark compartment 24 h after drug injection. In the untreated amnesia control group, the scopolamine amnesia was manifested by the absence of any increase in the PAR latent time. In the form of an aqueous solution, NGF did not inhibit the scopolamine-induced amnesia. NGF adsorbed on uncoated PBCA and in the form of solution with PS-80 produced an antiamnesic action manifested by a reliable increase in the PAR latent time as compared to that in the untreated control group. NGF adsorbed on PBCA nanoparticles coated with PS-80 not only exhibited a significant antiamnesic effect, but even stimulated the cognitive function and increased the PAR latent time above the value in the learned control group.
We have demonstrated the effects of estrogen on modulation of ATP-sensitive K(+) channels; however, the subcellular location of these channels is unknown. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the role of the sarcolemmal and mitochondrial ATP-sensitive K(+) channels in a canine model of myocardial infarction after stimulation with 17 beta-estradiol. Anesthetized dogs were subjected to 60 min of the left anterior descending coronary artery occlusion followed by 3 h of reperfusion. Infarct size was markedly reduced in estradiol-treated dogs compared with controls (14 +/- 6 versus 42 +/- 6%, P < 0.0001), indicating the effective dose of estradiol administrated. Pretreatment with the mitochondrial ATP-sensitive K(+) channel antagonist 5-hydroxydecanoate completely abolished estradiol-induced cardioprotection. The sarcolemmal ATP-sensitive K(+) channel antagonist 1-15-12-(5-chloro-o-anisamido)ethyl-methoxyphenyl)sulfonyl-3-methylthiourea (HMR 1098) did not significantly attenuate estradiol-induced infarct size limitation. In addition, estradiol administration significantly reduced the incidence and duration of reperfusion-induced ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation. Although 5-hydroxydecanoate alone caused no significant effect on the incidence of reperfusion arrhythmias in the presence or absence of estradiol, the administration of HMR 1098 abolished estrogen-induced improvement of reperfusion arrhythmias. Pretreatment with the estrogen-receptor antagonist faslodex (ICI 182,780) did not alter estrogen-induced infarct-limiting and antiarrhythmic effects. These results demonstrate that estrogen is cardioprotective against infarct sizes and fatal reperfusion arrhythmias by different ATP-sensitive K(+) channels for an estrogen receptor-independent mechanism. The infarct size-limiting and antiarrhythmic effects of estrogen were abolished by 5-hydroxydecanoate and HMR 1098, suggesting that the effects may result from activation of the mitochondrial and sarcolemmal ATP-sensitive K(+) channels, respectively.
Pesticides are potential risk factors for respiratory disease among farmers, but farmers are also exposed to other respiratory toxicants. To explore the association of pesticides with wheeze in a population without other farming exposures, the authors analyzed data from 2,255 Iowa commercial pesticide applicators enrolled in the Agricultural Health Study. Controlling for age, smoking status, asthma and atopy history, and body mass index, the authors calculated odds ratios for the relationship between wheeze and 36 individual pesticides participants had used during the year before enrollment (1993-1997). Eight of 16 herbicides were associated with wheeze in single-agent models; however, the risk was almost exclusively associated with the herbicide chlorimuron-ethyl (odds ratio (OR) = 1.62, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.25, 2.10). Inclusion of chlorimuron-ethyl in models for the other herbicides virtually eliminated the associations. The odds ratios for four organophosphate insecticides (terbufos, fonofos, chlorpyrifos, and phorate) were elevated when these chemicals were modeled individually and remained elevated, though attenuated somewhat, when chlorimuron-ethyl was included. The association for dichlorvos, another organophosphate insecticide, was not attenuated by chlorimuron-ethyl (OR = 2.48, 95% CI: 1.08, 5.66). Dose-response trends were observed for chlorimuron-ethyl, chlorpyrifos, and phorate; the strongest odds ratio was for applying chlorpyrifos on more than 40 days per year (OR = 2.40, 95% CI: 1.24, 4.65). These results add to the emerging literature linking organophosphate insecticides and respiratory health and suggest a role for chlorimuron-ethyl.
Brain injury is responsible for significant morbidity and mortality in trauma patients, but controversy still exists over therapeutic management for these patients. The objective of this study was to analyze the effect of phototherapy with low intensity lasers on local and systemic immunomodulation following cryogenic brain injury. Laser phototherapy was applied (or not-controls) immediately after cryogenic brain injury performed in 51 adult male Wistar rats. The animals were irradiated twice (3 h interval), with continuous diode laser (gallium-aluminum-arsenide (GaAlAs), 780 nm, or indium-gallium-aluminum-phosphide (InGaAlP), 660 nm) in two points and contact mode, 40 mW, spot size 0.042 cm(2), 3 J/cm(2) and 5 J/cm(2) (3 s and 5 s, respectively). The experimental groups were: Control (non-irradiated), RL3 (visible red laser/ 3 J/cm(2)), RL5 (visible red laser/5 J/cm(2)), IRL3 (infrared laser/3 J/cm(2)), IRL5 (infrared laser/5 J/cm(2)). The production of interleukin-1IL-1beta (IL-1beta), interleukin6 (IL-6), interleukin-10 (IL-10), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) was analyzed by enzyme immunoassay technique (ELISA) test in brain and blood samples. The IL-1beta concentration in brain of the control group was significantly reduced in 24 h (p<0.01). This reduction was also observed in the RL5 and IRL3 groups. The TNF-alpha and IL-6 concentrations increased significantly (p<0.01 and p<0.05, respectively) in the blood of all groups, except by the IRL3 group. The IL-6 levels in RL3 group were significantly smaller than in control group in both experimental times. IL-10 concentration was maintained stable in all groups in brain and blood. Under the conditions of this study, it is possible to conclude that the laser phototherapy can affect TNF-alpha, IL-1beta and IL-6 levels in the brain and in circulation in the first 24 h following cryogenic brain injury.
Contrast nephropathy (CN) is a common cause of renal dysfunction that may be prevented by saline hydration and by drugs such as theophylline or furosemide. Whether oral saline hydration is as efficient as intravenous saline hydration is unknown. The preventive efficacy of theophylline and furosemide for CN remains controversial. The purpose of the current study was to evaluate the efficacy of oral saline hydration and of intravenous saline hydration plus theophylline or furosemide for the prevention of CN.
We prospectively studied 312 patients with chronic renal failure (serum creatinine 201+/-81 micromol/l, Cockcroft clearance 37+/-12 ml/min/1.73 m(2)), who were undergoing various radiological procedures with a non-ionic, low osmolality contrast agent. Patients were randomly assigned to four arms. In arm A, patients received 1 g/10 kg of body weight/day of sodium chloride per os for 2 days before the procedure. In arm B, patients received 0.9% saline intravenously at a rate of 15 ml/kg for 6 h before the procedure. In arm C, patients received the same saline hydration as in arm B plus 5 mg/kg theophylline per os in one dose 1 h before the procedure. In arm D, patients received the same saline hydration as in arm B plus 3 mg/kg of furosemide intravenously just after the procedure.
Patients were well-matched with no significant differences at baseline in any measured parameters. Acute renal failure, defined as an increase in serum creatinine of 44 micromol/l (0.5 mg/dl), occurred in 27 out of 312 patients (8.7%). There was no significant difference between the rate of renal failure in the different arms of the study: five out of 76 (6.6%) in arm A, four out of 77 (5.2%) in arm B, six out of 80 (7.5%) in arm C and 12 out of 79 (15.2%) in arm D. No patient had fluid overload or a significant increase in blood pressure in the 2 days following the radiological procedure. The independent predictors of CN were diabetes mellitus, high baseline serum creatinine and high systolic blood pressure.
Oral saline hydration was as efficient as intravenous saline hydration for the prevention of CN in patients with stage 3 renal diseases. Furosemide and theophylline were not protective.
Iodide organification defects are associated with mutations in the dual oxidase 2 (DUOX2) gene and are characterized by a positive perchlorate discharge test. These mutations produce a congenital goitrous hypothyroidism, usually transmitted in an autosomal recessive mode.
We studied the complete coding sequence of the human DUOX2 gene by single-strand conformational polymorphism (SSCP) analysis of DNA from 17 unrelated patients with iodide organification defects. Samples showing an aberrant pattern were directly sequenced. All mutations were validated by SSCP analysis. Finally, the effect of a splicing mutation was studied by construction of minigenes.
Genomic DNA sequencing revealed 3 novel mutations [c.108G>C (p.Q36H), c.1253delG (p.G418fsX482), and g.IVS19-2A>C] and 1 previously reported mutation [c.2895-2898delGTTC (p.S965fsX994)] in 2 families with 1 (family 1) and 2 (family 2) affected members. This implies the inheritance of 2 compound heterozygous mutations, p.Q36H and p.S965fsX994 in family 1 and p.G418fsX482 and g.IVS19-2A>C in family 2. The c.1253delG mutation was associated with a c.1254C>A transversion. In vitro transcription analysis showed that exon 20 is skipped entirely when the g.IVS19-2A>C mutation is present. The wild-type glutamine residue at position 36 is strictly conserved.
Two previously unknown compound heterozygous mutations in the DUOX2 gene, p.Q36H/p.S965fsX994 and p.G418fsX482/g.IVS19-2A>C, are responsible for iodide organification defects in 2 unrelated families. Identification of the molecular basis of this disorder might be helpful for understanding the pathophysiology of this congenital hypothyroidism.
Granisetron, a potent and selective 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor (5-HT3) antagonist was reported to be an effective antiemetic agent both in animal studies and in patients given highly emetogenic chemotherapy. A sample of 43 patients with breast cancer was accrued from September to November 1992 in a phase II study to assess the efficacy of granisetron in patients receiving FEC (5-FU, epirubicin, cyclophosphamide). Each patient received 3 mg intravenous granisetron as a single dose just prior to chemotherapy. Oral metoclopromide was prescribed to each patient as a rescue anti-emetic. The emetic episodes and degree of nausea were evaluated on a daily basis. Good control of emesis (0-2 episodes of vomiting) and nausea (mild or no nausea) was in the range 77%-98% and 77%-93% respectively. There was a complete response (no emetic episodes throughout the 6-day period) in 16 patients (37.2%). Onset of emesis tends to occur on day 1 and tend to subside after day 3; 85% of patients had onset of emesis in the first 2 days after chemotherapy. Control of emesis and nausea tends to improve after day 3, which could be the result of the reduced emetogenicity of the combination FEC with time. Altogether, 77% had good control of acute emesis; control of delayed emesis was better with 84% achieving a major response on day 2 after chemotherapy, which improved to more than 90% after day 4. Granisetron was generally tolerated with headache being the most common side-effect followed by constipation and flushing. This study suggests that granisetron is an effective and well-tolerated anti-emetic agent, which deserves randomised trials to elucidate its efficacy further.
In this double-blind study, the efficacy and safety of a single intravenous dose of a novel antiemetic, granisetron, was assessed at two dose levels (40 micrograms/kg and 160 micrograms/kg). A group of 355 patients were given prophylactic granisetron prior to receiving high-dose cisplatin chemotherapy. In the first 24 h, 57% and 59% of patients, respectively, experienced no vomiting and no more than mild nausea. Two further doses of granisetron (40 micrograms/kg) were permitted in the first 24 h to treat any emergent symptoms of nausea and vomiting; 66 patients (39%) in the 40-micrograms/kg treatment group and 56 patients (34%) in the 160-micrograms/kg group received at least one additional dose. Additional treatment with granisetron resulted in resolution or improvement of symptoms in at least 73% of these patients. Over the 7-day study period, 52% of patients in the lower-dose group and 48% in the higher required no further conventional antiemetic therapy. The two different dose levels were equal both in terms in efficacy and safety. Granisetron was well tolerated throughout the dose range of the study [40-240 micrograms kg-1 (24 h)-1]. The commonest adverse event was headache, seen in 14%-16% of patients. In all but one case this resolved spontaneously or responded to simple treatment.
Occupational exposure to organophosphate pesticides is becoming a common and increasingly alarming world-wide phenomenon. The present study is designed to investigate the preventive effect of N-acetylcysteine on malathion-induced hepatic injury and inflammation in rats.
Adult male Wistar rats of body weight 200-230 g were used for the study. Malathion (200mg/kg b.w./day) was administered to rats by oral intubation and N-acetylcysteine (2g/l) in drinking water for 28 days. Rats were sacrificed on the 28th day, 2h after the last administration. Markers of liver injury (aspartate transaminase, alanine transaminase, alkaline phosphatase and lactate desyhdogenase), inflammation (leukocyte counts, myeloperoxidase, immunophenotyping of CD4(+) and CD8(+), interleukin-1β, interleukin-6 and interferon-γ expression) and oxidative stress (lipid peroxidation, reduced glutathione and antioxidant status) were assessed.
Malathion induced an increase in activities of hepatocellular enzymes in plasma, lipid peroxidation index, CD3(+)/CD4(+) and CD3(+)/CD4(+) percent and pro-inflammatory cytokines, when decreased antioxidant status in liver was noted. When malathion-treated rats were compared to NAC supplemented rats, leukocytosis, T cell count and IL-1β, IL-6, INF-γ expression were reduced. Furthermore, NAC restored liver enzyme activities and oxidative stress markers.
Malathion induces hepatotoxicity, oxidative stress and liver inflammation. N-acetylcysteine showed therapeutic effects against malathion toxicity.
The purpose of these experiments was to test the hypothesis that dietary phytoestrogens would diminish experimental aortic aneurysm formation.
Six-wk-old C57BL/6 mice were divided into groups, fed either a diet with minimal phytoestrogen content or a regular commercial rodent diet with high phytoestrogen content for 2 wk. At the age of 8 wk, aortic aneurysms were induced by infusing the isolated infrarenal abdominal aorta with 0.4% elastase for 5 min. Mice were recovered and the diameter of the infused aorta was measured at postoperative days 3, 7, and 14. Abdominal aorta samples were collected for histology, cytokine array, and gelatin zymography after aortic diameter measurement. Blood samples were also collected to determine serum phytoestrogens and estradiol levels. Multiple-group comparisons were done using an analysis of variance with post hoc Tukey tests.
Compared with mice on a minimal phytoestrogen diet, mice on a regular rodent diet had higher levels of serum phytoestrogens (male, 1138 ± 846 ng/dL; female, 310 ± 295 ng/dL). These serum phytoestrogen levels were also much higher than their own endogenous estradiol levels (109-fold higher for males and 35.5-fold higher for females). Although aortic diameters of female mice were unaffected by the phytoestrogen concentration in the diets, male mice on the regular rodent diet (M+ group) developed smaller aortic aneurysms than male mice on the minimal phytoestrogen diet (M- group) on postoperative day 14 (M+ 54.8 ± 8.8% versus M- 109.3 ± 37.6%; P < 0.001). During aneurysm development (postoperative days 3 and 7), there were fewer neutrophils, macrophages, and lymphocytes in the aorta from the M+ group than from the M- group. Concentrations of multiple proinflammatory cytokines (matrix metalloproteinases [MMPs]; interleukin 1β [IL-1β]; IL-6; IL-17; IL-23; monocyte chemoattractant protein-1; regulated on activation, normal T cell expressed and secreted; interferon γ; and tumor necrosis factor α) from aortas of the M+ group were also lower than those from the aortas of the M- group. Zymography also demonstrated that the M+ group had lower levels of aortic MMP-9s than the M- group on postoperative day 14 (P < 0.001 for pro-MMP-9, P < 0.001 for active MMP-9).
These results suggest that dietary phytoestrogens inhibit experimental aortic aneurysm formation in male mice via a reduction of the inflammatory response in the aorta wall. The protective effect of dietary phytoestrogens on aneurysm formation warrants further investigation.
Methamphetamine (METH) abuse is often characterized by a repeated pattern of frequent drug administrations (binge) followed by a period of abstinence. The effect of this pattern of METH use on cardiovascular function has not been characterized. Radiotelemetry was used to record the cardiovascular responses elicited during three successive METH binges (3 mg/kg, b.i.d. for 4 days) in conscious rats. Each binge was followed by a 10-day METH-free period. The effects of METH administration on vascular reactivity, Bezold-Jarisch reflex function, and cardiac morphology were also evaluated. The pressor responses elicited by the first three doses of METH in the second and third binges were significantly larger than those elicited by the corresponding doses in the first binge. The heart rate (HR) responses elicited by METH were similar within and among the three binges. Ten days after the last binge, the depressor responses elicited by the i.v. injection of sodium nitroprusside, isoproterenol, and acetylcholine were significantly smaller than those elicited before each binge. The arterial pressure and HR responses elicited by phenylephrine were unchanged. Bezold-Jarisch reflex function evoked by i.v. serotonin (10 microg/kg) was significantly altered. The hearts from treated rats showed focal inflammatory infiltrates with abundant monocytes and occasional necrotic foci. These results indicate that this binge pattern of METH administration can significantly alter cardiovascular function and cardiovascular reflex function and produce serious cardiac pathology.
Lithium salts are used in psychiatry for the treatment of bipolar depression. An overdose is potentially serious, sometimes fatal, and the clinical signs are variable. The authors report the case of a 70 year old man. He had a recent history of a transient ischaemic attack and was admitted to the coronary care unit for bradycardia at 35-40 BPM and episodes of sino-atrial block with a clinical presentation suggestive of a stroke. The diagnosis of lithium intoxication was made accounting for the present hospital admission and for the previous neurological event which had been diagnosed as a transient ischaemic attack. The difficulty of diagnosis of this condition is discussed.
Increasing emissions of anthropogenic mercury represents a growing concern to the health of high trophic level marine mammals. In its organic form, this metal bioaccumulates, and can be toxic to several physiological endpoints, including the immune system. In this study, we (1) evaluated the effects of inorganic mercury (mercuric chloride, HgCl2) and organic mercury (methylmercuric chloride, MeHgCl) on the in vitro function of lymphocytes isolated from the peripheral blood of beluga whales (Delphinapterus leucas); (2) characterized the potential protective effects of sodium selenite (Na2SeO3) on cell proliferation of HgCl2 or MeHgCl-treated beluga whale lymphocytes; and (3) compared these dose-dependent effects to measurements of blood Hg in samples collected from traditionally harvested beluga whales in the western Canadian Arctic. Lymphocyte proliferative responses were reduced following exposure to 1 μM of HgCl2 and 0.33 μM of MeHgCl. Decreased intracellular thiol levels were observed at 10 μM of HgCl2 and 0.33 μM of MeHgCl. Metallothionein induction was noted at 0.33 μM of MeHgCl. Concurrent exposure of Se provided a degree of protection against the highest concentrations of inorganic Hg (3.33 and 10 μM) or organic Hg (10 μM) for T-lymphocytes. This in vitro protection of Se against Hg toxicity to lymphocytes may contribute to the in vivo protection in beluga whales exposed to high Hg concentrations. Current Hg levels in free-ranging beluga whales from the Arctic fall into the range of exposures which elicited effects on lymphocytes in our study, highlighting the potential for effects on host resistance to disease. The implications of a changing Arctic climate on Hg fate in beluga food webs and the consequences for the health of beluga whales remain pressing research needs.
Energy conservation and calcium homeostasis contribute to myocardial protection provided by hyperkalemic cardioplegia during ischemia. Complimenting these established mechanisms of protection, previous work suggested that activation of cytoprotective signaling pathways also contributes to reduced injury with cardioplegia. We proposed that cardioplegia would recruit cytoprotective pathways and investigated the transcriptional response of the heart after cardioplegia-protected ischemia compared with that after ischemia alone.
Isolated perfused rat hearts underwent 40 minutes of global ischemia alone or with St Thomas cardioplegia, followed by 120 minutes of reperfusion. The expression profiles of isolated RNA were determined by using Affymetrix microarrays and assessed by comparing cardioplegia-protected hearts and hearts undergoing unprotected ischemia with time-matched control hearts. The content of selected proteins was assessed by means of immunoblotting.
Cardioplegia preserved the expression of multiple genes involved in carbohydrate and fatty acid metabolism, glycolysis, and electron transport compared with ischemia alone. The expression of the sodium-calcium exchanger and ryanodine receptor was preserved in line with the ability of cardioplegia to decrease calcium overload. The expression of multiple cytoprotective molecules, including protein-tyrosine kinase, calcineurin B, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase, voltage-dependent anion channel, protein kinase C , heat shock protein 70, and manganese superoxide dismutase all showed decreased expression in ischemia but were preserved to near nonischemic levels by cardioplegia.
Cardioplegia during ischemia maintained an expression profile similar to that seen in nonischemic hearts for genes involved in energy conservation, calcium homeostasis, and cytoprotective pathways, whereas ischemia alone did not. Exposing the transcriptional differences in cytoprotective genes during untreated and cardioplegia-treated ischemia provides valuable insight into an additional mechanism of cardioprotection induced by cardioplegia.
The present study examined the effect of denervating the coerulospinal noradrenergic pathway on the muscular rigidity elicited by fentanyl in Sprague-Dawley rats anesthetized with ketamine. We demonstrated that the dopamine-beta-hydroxylase-positive nerve terminals arborizing on spinal motoneurons that innervate the sacrococcygeus dorsi lateralis (SCDL) muscle were significantly eliminated by DSP4 treatment. Unilateral microinjection of fentanyl (2.5 micrograms/50 nl) into the locus coeruleus of these animals also failed to evoke discernible increase in the electromyographic activity recorded from the SCDL muscle. These results lend further support for our previous finding that the coerulospinal noradrenergic neurotransmission is critically involved in fentanyl-induced muscular rigidity.
Whether the primary mechanisms of migraine are vascular or neurogenic is, as yet, unresolved. In humans it is still unclear whether sumatriptan acts via constriction of dilated arteries or through other mechanisms. Doppler sonography is a non-invasive method for measuring blood flow velocities (BFV), an indirect marker of vessel diameter. This double-blind crossover placebo-controlled trial investigated changes in BFV in extra- and intracranial arteries in 132 migraine attacks (66 patients) before and after treatment with either 6 mg sumatriptan s.c. or placebo. Significant increases in BFV were observed only in the middle cerebral artery (MCA) and the basilar artery (BA) after administration of sumatriptan. However, the majority of the patients showed no change in BFV following sumatriptan. No difference in BFV could be detected between headache and non-headache side or between migraine and headache free periods. Despite a slight increase in BFV in intracerebral arteries, this study does not support the concept that vasoconstriction is sumatriptan's principal mechanism in pain relief.
Clinical diagnoses of complex diseases may often encompass multiple genetically heterogeneous disorders. One way of dissecting this heterogeneity is to apply latent class (LC) analysis to measurements related to the diagnosis, such as detailed symptoms, to define more homogeneous disease sub-types, influenced by a smaller number of genes that will thus be more easily detectable. We have previously developed a LC model allowing dependence between the latent disease class status of relatives within families. We have also proposed a strategy to incorporate the posterior probability of class membership of each subject in parametric linkage analysis, which is not directly transferable to genetic association methods. Under the framework of family-based association tests (FBAT), we now propose to make the contribution of an affected subject to the FBAT statistic proportional to his or her posterior class membership probability. Simulations showed a modest but robust power advantage compared to simply assigning each subject to his or her most probable class, and important power gains over the analysis of the disease diagnosis without LC modeling under certain scenarios. The use of LC analysis with FBAT is illustrated using autism spectrum disorder (ASD) symptoms on families from the Autism Genetics Research Exchange, where we examined eight regions previously associated to autism in this sample. The analysis using the posterior probability of membership to an LC detected an association in the JARID2 gene as significant as that for ASD (P = 3 × 10(-5)) but with a larger effect size (odds ratio = 2.17 vs. 1.55).
