To compare the frequency of seizures and status epilepticus and their response to first-line drugs in patients with idiopathic generalized epilepsies receiving carbamazepine or phenytoin to those receiving other drugs or no treatment.
We performed a retrospective chart review of all cases of idiopathic generalized epilepsies treated by the authors between 1985 and 1994. We compared seizure frequency and mean intravenous benzodiazepine dose required to control absence status epilepticus, intraindividually in subjects on carbamazepine or phenytoin before and after discontinuation of these compounds, and interindividually to subjects without treatment or receiving other drugs.
Bouts of absence or tonic-clonic status epilepticus and seizures in subjects treated with phenytoin or carbamazepine at therapeutic concentrations were considerably more frequent and proved intractable to treatment with valproic acid or benzodiazepines, compared with a cohort of subjects also with idiopathic generalized epilepsies, but naive to, or receiving subtherapeutic or therapeutic doses of other agents.
Our observations strongly suggest that therapeutic concentrations of phenytoin and carbamazepine exacerbate idiopathic generalized epilepsies. Subjects in whom absence is one of the seizure types seem at a particularly high risk for responding paradoxically. These findings underscore the value of accurate classification of seizures and particularly the syndromic approach to diagnosis and point to the potential for iatrogenic complications with indiscriminate use of antiseizure drugs.
Glomerulosclerosis and tubulointerstitial fibrosis are the main structural changes found in the later stages of diabetic nephropathy, which is clinically characterized by proteinuria, and progressive renal insufficiency. Heat shock protein (HSP) 47, a collagen-binding stress protein, has a specific role in the intracellular processing of procollagen molecules during collagen synthesis. It is implicated in the pathogenesis of various fibrotic diseases. However, the expression and significance of HSP47 in acute and chronic phases of diabetic nephropathy is not yet known. In this study, we studied the expression of HSP47 in the kidneys obtained from streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats, in both short- and long-term diabetes. To determine the renal expression of HSP47, and collagens (type III and IV) in acute (days 1, 3 and 14) and chronic (weeks 4, 12 and 24) diabetes, we have performed a time-course study using streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. The expression pattern of alpha-smooth muscle actin (to identify mesangial cell damage), vimentin (to identify tubular epithelial cell damage), and desmin (to identify glomerular epithelial cell damage) was also determined in kidneys of these diabetic rats. Antibodies specific for HSP47, type III and type IV collagens, alpha-smooth muscle actin, vimentin, and desmin were used to assess the relative expression of their proteins in paraffin-embedded kidney sections by immunohistochemistry. Compared to control rat kidneys, no significant changes in the expression of HSP47 was found in the kidneys of acute diabetic rats. However a significant increase in the expression of HSP47 was noted in the kidneys of chronic diabetic rats; increased expression of HSP47 correlated with an increased renal deposition of types III and IV collagens. Similarly, compared to kidneys of control and acute diabetic rats, an increased expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin (in mesangial cells), vimentin (in tubular epithelial cells), and desmin (in glomerular epithelial cells) was detected in the kidneys of chronic diabetic rats; by dual immunostaining, these phenotypically-altered renal cells in kidneys of chronic diabetic rats were found to be HSP47-producing cells. Importantly, HSP47 up-regulation coincided with the initiation and progression of renal fibrosis, as determined by the expression and deposition of collagens. Our results strongly support a pathological role for HSP47 in the later stages (sclerotic phase) of streptozotocin-induced diabetic nephropathy, which is associated with glomerulosclerosis and tubulointerstitial fibrosis.
To examine a patient with valproic acid (VPA)-induced hyperammonemic encephalopathy accompanied by triphasic waves.
A 61-year-old male patient with epilepsy experienced disturbance of consciousness after VPA dose was increased because of poor seizure control. The electroencephalogram (EEG) taken on admission revealed triphasic waves and high-amplitude delta-activity with frontal predominance. Although serum hepatic enzymes, such as AST and ALT, were normal, serum ammonium level was high at 96 microg/dl (normal range, 3-47 microg/dl). Serum amino acid analysis showed multiple minor abnormalities. Administration of VPA was discontinued immediately after admission, while other anticonvulsants were continued.
The patient's condition was improved on the fourth day of admission. An EEG, serum ammonium level, and amino acid profile were normal on the eighth day. Based on VPA administration, serum ammonium levels, and results of amino acid analysis, this patient had VPA-induced hyperammonemic encephalopathy.
Our case indicates that caution is required if triphasic waves appear in VPA-induced hyperammonemic encephalopathy.
Approximately 20-30% of patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) who are treated with all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) and an anthracycline develop recurrent disease. It has been reported that arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) is effective in this setting. The authors report the experience of The M. D. Anderson Cancer Center with As(2)O(3) in the treatment of patients with recurrent APL.
Twelve patients who developed recurrent APL after treatment with ATRA were included. Patients received intravenous As(2)O(3) 0.15 mg/kg per day until they achieved a complete remission (CR) or up to a maximum of 60 days. Their median age was 44 years (range, 26-72 years), and the median duration of first remission was 52 weeks (range, 23-292 weeks).
All 12 patients achieved a CR. The median time to achieve CR was 52 days (range, 27-75 days). Seven of 10 evaluable patients achieved a molecular remission (i.e., polymerase chain reaction [PCR] analysis was negative for the gene encoding fusion of the nuclear receptor for retinoic acid to the PML gene at the time of CR; 70% of patients; 95% confidence interval, 0.35-0.93), and all other patients had negative PCR results after they received post-remission therapy. All patients received subsequent therapy: Four patients received As(2)O(3) alone, six patients received As(2)O(3) with other chemotherapeutic agents, and two patients received idarubicin plus ATRA without As(2)O(3). Eight patients continued in CR after a median follow-up of 24 months (range, 9-45 months). Side effects were mild, except for two patients who developed Grade 2 and 3 peripheral neuropathy, respectively; one of those patients required discontinuation of therapy.
As(2)O(3) is effective and well tolerated therapy for patients with recurrent APL. Molecular remission may be achieved at the time of CR in the majority of patients, and remissions are durable.
One of a pair of preterm twins treated with theophylline (2 mg/kg per day) for apnoea developed episodes of hyperglycaemia in glycosuria.
The preset study examined the hypothesis that an increase of brain neuropeptide Y (NPY), an orexigenic peptide, might decrease the action of amphetamine (AMPH), a well-known anorectic agent. Transgenic mice overexpressing the NPY gene were used to compare with the wild-type control. AMPH-induced anorexia is documented to mediate through the release of dopamine (DA), via an activation of D(1)- and D(2)-subtype receptors, to affect the hypothalamic NPY. Thus, co-administration of D(1)/D(2) agonists was also performed to mimic the action of AMPH. The mice of NPY-overexpressing (NPY-OX) and wild-type groups were administered with AMPH or a combination of D(1)/D(2) agonists repeatedly for 5 days. We found that repeated AMPH administration-induced anorexia in wild-type mice was longer (at the initial 3 days) than that in NPY-OX mice (only at the first day). Moreover, repeated co-administration of D(1)/D(2) agonists significantly exerted a continuous anorectic effect in wild-type mice, but exerted a significant effect only at the first day in NPY-OX mice. These results indicated that the anorectic effect of AMPH decayed faster in NPY-OX mice and suggested that NPY expression by the stimuli could counteract the anorectic effect of AMPH. Thus, NPY can be considered to play a functional role in the regulation of AMPH-induced anorexia in mice.
Molecular mechanisms underlying C-fiber stimulation-induced ERK (extracellular signal-regulated kinase) activation in dorsal horn neurons and its contribution to central sensitization have been investigated. In adult rat spinal slice preparations, activation of C-fiber primary afferents by a brief exposure of capsaicin produces an eightfold to 10-fold increase in ERK phosphorylation (pERK) in superficial dorsal horn neurons. The pERK induction is reduced by blockade of NMDA, AMPA/kainate, group I metabotropic glutamate receptor, neurokinin-1, and tyrosine receptor kinase receptors. The ERK activation produced by capsaicin is totally suppressed by inhibition of either protein kinase A (PKA) or PKC. PKA or PKC activators either alone or more effectively together induce pERK in superficial dorsal horn neurons. Inhibition of calcium calmodulin-dependent kinase (CaMK) has no effect, but pERK is reduced by inhibition of the tyrosine kinase Src. The induction of cAMP response element binding protein phosphorylation (pCREB) in spinal cord slices in response to C-fiber stimulation is suppressed by preventing ERK activation with the MAP kinase kinase inhibitor 2-(2-diamino-3-methoxyphenyl-4H-1-benzopyran-4-one (PD98059) and by PKA, PKC, and CaMK inhibitors. Similar signaling contributes to pERK induction after electrical stimulation of dorsal root C-fibers. Intraplantar injection of capsaicin in an intact animal increases expression of pCREB, c-Fos, and prodynorphin in the superficial dorsal horn, changes that are prevented by intrathecal injection of PD98059. Intrathecal PD98059 also attenuates capsaicin-induced secondary mechanical allodynia, a pain behavior reflecting hypersensitivity of dorsal horn neurons (central sensitization). We postulate that activation of ionotropic and metabotropic receptors by C-fiber nociceptor afferents activates ERK via both PKA and PKC, and that this contributes to central sensitization through post-translational and CREB-mediated transcriptional regulation in dorsal horn neurons.
In some cases diabetes insipidus may be induced by taking medications. In this article we report the case of a 58-year-old man with manifest polyuria induced by colchicine administered because of a gout attack. Interestingly, similar symptoms were observed 6 years earlier after treatment with gentamycin. In the described state of the examined patient early detection of the disease, colchicine withdrawal and temporary amiloride (and indometacin) administration led to a full normalisation of the patient's clinical status. A similar reaction to two different drugs responsible for only a small percentage of iatrogenic diabetes insipidus suggests that some patients may exhibit a general "hypersensitivity" to the development of a drug-induced vasopressin resistance and that patients with the history of iatrogenic diabetes insipidus should not be treated or should be treated cautiously with other drugs known to induce vasopressin-resistant polyuria.
We investigated the effects of seabuckthorn (SBT) oil in isoproterenol (ISO)-induced cardiotoxicity with reference to hemodynamic, antioxidant, histopathological, and ultrastructural parameters. Rats were administered SBT oil (5, 10, and 20 mL/kg per d) or vehicle orally for 30 days along with ISO (85 mg/kg, subcutaneously, at 24-hour interval) on 29th and 30th day. On 31st day, ISO control rats showed cardiac dysfunction, increased lipid peroxidation, depletion of cardiac injury marker enzymes, and antioxidant activities. Myocardial necrosis, edema, and inflammation were evident from the light microscopic and ultrastructural changes. Seabuckthorn oil at the dose of 20 mL/kg per d significantly modulates hemodynamic and antioxidant derangements. The preventive role of SBT oil on ISO-induced cardiotoxicity was reconfirmed by histopathological and ultrastructural examinations. Thus, the present study reveals that SBT oil mitigates myocardial damage in ISO-induced cardiac injury in rats by maintaining hemodynamic, biochemical, histopathological, and ultrastructural perturbations owing to its free radical scavenging and antioxidant activities.
Of 82 patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) who were treated with all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), 35 developed leukocytosis and 22 fatal side-effects(15 with retinoic acid syndrome and 7 intracranial bleeding). There was a high mortality in the patient with fatal side-effects. The relationship between leukocytosis and fatal side-effects was analyzed and the effect of therapeutic interventions on the development and prognosis of the fatal side-effects was investigated. The results showed that leukocytosis was a risk factor of the development of fatal side-effects in APL treated with ATRA. ATRA combined with small dose of harringtonin in treating APL can reduce the incidence of intracranial bleeding resulted from leukocytosis and corticosteroid can decrease the mortality of retinoic acid syndrome.
Glucocorticoid-induced hypertension in rats has been studied using long-term, low-dose dexamethasone treatment. Dose-related increases in systolic blood pressure were achieved, without loss in body weight, with subcutaneous continuous infusions of 1, 2 and 5 micrograms dexamethasone per day, respectively, for 4 weeks. Rats treated with 10 micrograms dexamethasone per day lost weight at a rate of 10 g per week. Lower doses caused a significant reduction in weight gain compared with controls. Renin, aldosterone, plasma sodium and potassium concentrations were unaffected by dexamethasone treatment. Plasma atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) concentrations were decreased by 40-50% by dexamethasone. These decreases were negatively correlated with increases in systolic blood pressure and haematocrit. Glucocorticoid-induced decreases in ANP contrast with ANP increases in response to mineralocorticoid treatment in rats with deoxycorticosterone-induced hypertension. Plasma concentrations of the endogenous glucocorticoid, corticosterone, were suppressed to the same very low levels by 5 and 10 micrograms dexamethasone per day; 1 and 2 micrograms doses were less effective. Unlike mineralocorticoid-induced hypertension, the pressor effects of dexamethasone were ameliorated but not abolished by dietary sodium restriction and were unaffected by sodium loading. Two micrograms of dexamethasone reduced plasma ANP in rats on either high- or low-sodium diets by 29 and 34%, respectively. We conclude that low-dose infusions (less than 5 micrograms/day) of dexamethasone are suitable for studying glucocorticoid-induced hypertension without the complications of weight loss that have been reported by others or of the mineralocorticoid-like side effects which endogenous glucocorticoids may exhibit.
Doxorubicin (Adriamycin) is an effective antitumour drug. Its major side-effect, cardiotoxicity, is markedly reduced by giving it as a continuous infusion, as illustrated by a case history and review of the literature.
Acute interstitial nephritis is uncommon in children and has very rarely been described with naproxen treatment. We report the occurrence of severe acute renal failure in a 10-year-old girl with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis after 1 month of naproxen therapy. Renal biopsy showed severe acute interstitial nephritis. The patient recovered completely after discontinuation of naproxen and administration of methylprednisolone. A review of the literature regarding non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug-associated acute interstitial nephritis is provided.
In an era of increasing popularity of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs for use in children, paediatricians should be aware of the potential renal complications of this class of drugs.
Long-term administration of hepatitis B immune globulin is effective as prophylaxis for hepatitis B virus (HBV) reinfection but is limited by cost, side effects, availability and a failure rate of 20%. Famciclovir has been shown to be effective in the treatment of hepatitis B in the immunocompetent patient. Fewer data exist in the liver transplant setting, particularly regarding its efficacy in de novo HBV infection. The aims of this pilot study were to determine the effectiveness and safety of long-term administration of famciclovir in recurrent (n = 3) and de novo (n = 3) HBV infection after liver transplantation.
Six patients with postransplant HBV infection (positivity of serum HBsAg and HBV DNA), four of whom were HBeAg positive, were treated with famciclovir (500 mg, 3 times a day) with a minimum follow-up period of 12 months. Biochemical, serological, virological (HBV DNA by hybridization assays and polymerase chain reaction), and histological (including HBV immunostaining) endpoints were evaluated.
None of the patients had a complete biochemical response, with a near complete normalization of ALT levels being observed in 3/6 patients. There was a lack of correlation between virological and biochemical responses. None of the patients seroconverted to anti-HBs or anti-HBe. A virological clearance was observed in only two patients, whereas a moderate reduction in HBV DNA levels was present in one. HBV DNA levels were higher than levels during pretreatment in the three remaining patients. Histological improvement was only observed in one patient.
Famciclovir alone appears of limited efficacy in the treatment of HBV infection after liver transplantation.
Second-generation antipsychotics (SGAs) are thought to have a lower likelihood of inducing extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) than are first-generation antipsychotics (FGAs). Clinical observations suggest that younger patients may be more sensitive to SGA-associated EPS than are adults and require therapy with anticholinergic agents.
To determine the proportion of patients 5-18 years of age who received anticholinergic therapy during the initial stages of antipsychotic treatment, as well as to compare anticholinergic utilization across patients receiving aripiprazole, risperidone, and quetiapine, SGAs previously identified as the most commonly prescribed at the academic institution studied.
Patients 5-18 years of age who were initiating a course of an antipsychotic between January 1, 2005, and September 1, 2008, were identified in a retrospective review of prescription and medical records. Data on demographic characteristics, antipsychotic and anticholinergic utilization, indications, diagnoses, and concomitant medications were collected from the medical record. Only the first therapeutic course of an antipsychotic identified was analyzed. Anticholinergic utilization at antipsychotic initiation and after 30 days was assessed.
A total of 235 antipsychotic treatment courses were identified. Of these, 152 patients met our inclusion criteria. Anticholinergic utilization at any time during the first 30 days of treatment was identified in 32 patients (21%), while EPS was documented for 12 patients (8%). FGA or polypharmacy (simultaneous use of >or=2 scheduled antipsychotic) use versus SGA use (OR 18.98; 95% CI 4.74 to 75.95) was the primary characteristic significantly associated with anticholinergic utilization within 30 days after initiation. Of the most commonly used SGAs, risperidone was the drug with which anticholinergics were most frequently prescribed (p = 0.03).
Anticholinergic prescribing exceeded the incidence of EPS, as documented in the medical record (21% vs 8%), and differed across individual medications and antipsychotic class. Utilization of FGAs or polypharmacy was a key predictor of anticholinergic use.
Aggression is associated with numerous psychiatric disorders. Evidence suggests that lithium decreases aggression in humans and rats. The effects of lithium on aggression related behavior, and in particular shock-induced aggression, has not been as thoroughly explored in mice. Male mice were treated with lithium and tested in the shock-induced aggression and dominance tube tests. Mice treated with lithium were also assessed for thermal pain and shock sensitivity in the hot plate and jump-flinch tests. In the shock-induced aggression paradigm chronic lithium significantly decreased both the frequency and duration of attacks, without affecting social interaction or behavior in the dominance tube. Acute lithium significantly decreased the total duration of attacks and social interaction but did not affect behavior in the dominance tube test. Neither treatment regimen had an effect on temperature sensitivity in the hot plate test or on activity levels in the open field. However, chronic lithium modified the response of mice to shock in the jump-flinch test, but not at the shock level used in the aggression test. The results of this study indicate that lithium decreases shock-induced aggression in mice, but effects on baseline response to shock confound interpretation of this behavioral effect of lithium.
Doxycycline is a commonly prescribed medication for the management of acne vulgaris. Severe adverse reactions to this medication are uncommon. We describe an unusual case of a 20-year-old female who experienced a life-threatening hypersensitivity reaction, including fever, lymphadenopathy, hepatitis, nephritis and severe pneumonitis with respiratory failure following oral administration of doxycycline for facial acne.
Vitamin D2 (40,000 IU) per 100 g body weight was administered daily in male albino rats. The levels of calcium and inorganic phosphate were determined in serum and lens. Lens calcium was elevated in the treated rats by 40%.
490 women who used Stediril (.5 mg norgestrel and .05 mg ethinyl estradiol, combined) for a total of 5600 cycles or 466 woman-years over a 3 year period are presented. They all took the pills primairly for contraception; most were 20-30 years old, and took Stediril 3-6 months. Some other indications were 119 cases of menstrual irregularity, 15 of spaniomenorrhea, 14 of premenstrual syndrome and 3 of acne, all relieved. 46 of 50 cases of menorrhagia, 83 of 89 of dysmenorrhea and 32 of 34 with pelvic pain were relieved. Withdrawal bleeding was usually less than before and tended to diminish with time. There were 46 women with nausea, 3 of whom stopped Stediril. Migraines sometimes a ppeared, sometimes disappeared, but often occurred regularly on the first day between pill cycles. 52 women complained of breast congestion for the first time. Weight rose in 2301, fell in 98 and stayed constant in 134 after 3 months: weight was easily controlled with diet and appetite supressant drugs. No hypertension was observed. There were 19 single cycles of amenorrhea, several cases of persistant amenorrhea and 4 cases of amenorrhea after stopping. 2-3% of cycles were marked by metrorrhagia; 63 women had spotting, 8 had significant metrorrhagia; 7 had metrorrhagia followed by withdrawal bleeding in that cycle. 1 woman had a thromboembolism of the left leg after 2 pill cycles during which she gained 3 kg. There was 1 pregnancy due to irregular pill use.
We describe the hemodynamic response to initiation and withdrawal of inhaled nitric oxide (NO) in infants with pulmonary hypertension after surgical repair of total anomalous pulmonary venous connection.
Between January 1, 1992, and January 1, 1995, 20 patients underwent repair of total anomalous pulmonary venous connection. Nine patients had postoperative pulmonary hypertension and received a 15-minute trial of inhaled NO at 80 parts per million. Five of these patients received prolonged treatment with NO at 20 parts per million or less.
Mean pulmonary artery pressure decreased from 35.6 +/- 2.4 to 23.7 +/- 2.0 mm Hg (mean +/- standard error of the mean) (p = 0.008), and pulmonary vascular resistance decreased from 11.5 +/- 2.0 to 6.4 +/- 1.0 U.m2 (p = 0.03). After prolonged treatment with NO, pulmonary artery pressure increased transiently in all patients when NO was discontinued.
After operative repair of total anomalous pulmonary venous connection, inhaled NO selectively vasodilated all patients with pulmonary hypertension. Withdrawal of NO after prolonged inhalation was associated with transient rebound pulmonary hypertension that dissipated within 60 minutes. Appreciation of rebound pulmonary hypertension may have important implications for patients with pulmonary hypertensive disorders when interruption of NO inhalation is necessary or when withdrawal of NO is planned.
The purpose of this study was to compare the side effect +profiles of clozapine and risperidone.
The subjects were 20 outpatients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder who were clinically stable on a regimen of clozapine at the time of screening. They underwent a randomized-order crossover comparison of 6 weeks of risperidone treatment and 6 weeks of clozapine treatment. Clinical and neurocognitive variables were assessed by raters blind to medication status, and severity of side effects was determined from patients' self-reports.
Side effect measures, but not clinical ratings, were significantly different after 6 weeks of treatment with the two drugs. Patients required more benztropine for motor effects and complained of more insomnia with risperidone and more sedation with clozapine. Body weight was higher at the end of clozapine treatment than at the end of risperidone treatment.
In this exploratory study, the side effect profiles of clozapine and risperidone were consistent with the different pharmacodynamic profiles of the two drugs.
We administered ketamine to schizophrenic individuals in a double-blind, placebo-controlled design using a range of subanesthetic doses (0.1, 0.3, and 0.5 mg/kg) to evaluate the nature, dose characteristics, time course, and neuroleptic modulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist action on mental status in schizophrenia. Ketamine induced a dose-related, short (< 30 minutes) worsening in mental status in the haloperidol-treated condition, reflected by a significant increase in BPRS total score for the 0.3 mg/kg (p = .005) and 0.5 mg/kg (p = .01) challenges. Positive symptoms (hallucinations, delusions, thought disorder), not negative symptoms accounted for these changes. These ketamine-induced psychotic symptoms were strikingly reminiscent of the subject's symptoms during active episodes of their illness. Results from six patients who were retested in the same design after being neuroleptic-free for 4 weeks failed to indicate that haloperidol blocks ketamine-induced psychosis. Several subjects evidenced delayed or prolonged (8-24 hours) psychotomimetic effects such as worsening of psychosis with visual hallucinations. These data suggest that antagonism of NMDA-sensitive glutamatergic transmission in brain exacerbates symptoms of schizophrenia.
Growth/differentiation factor-15(GDF-15) is a divergent TGF-beta family member that is expressed following liver injury and carcinogen exposure. GDF-15 expression is highly associated with gastrointestinal cancer stage, size, and metastasis and has been implicated in inhibition of tumor growth and increased tumor invasiveness. The current study sought to determine the effect of GDF-15 ablation on the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in vivo.
Male mice genetically deleted for the gene encoding GDF-15 (Gdf15 (-/-) mice) and wild-type controls were exposed to the hepatocarcinogen diethylnitrosamine (DEN). Mice were killed at 6 months of age and their livers dissected and processed for histology. Tumor number and size relative to total liver area examined were determined.
At 6 months of age, tumors were identified in 16 of 20 (80%) Gdf15 (-/-) mice and 16 of 19 wild-type mice (84%). No significant difference in tumor-occupied area was observed in Gdf15 (-/-) mice versus wild-type mice. In addition, no difference in invasiveness was observed in HCC arising in Gdf15 (-/-) as compared to wild-type mice. In wild type mice strong immunohistochemical staining for GDF-15 was noted on small HCC foci, whereas a loss of GDF-15 expression was found in a number of advanced HCC tumors.
Although highly expressed in association with multiple gastrointestinal cancers, and lost in some advanced HCC, genetic ablation of GDF-15 has no apparent effect on HCC tumor formation rate, growth rate or invasiveness in diethylnitrosamine-induced HCC in vivo.
The purpose of this randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled study was to compare the efficacy and safety of fluoxetine plus group psychotherapy versus group psychotherapy alone in HIV-seropositive men (based on 1986 CDC classes II, III, and IV.C.2) who had been diagnosed with major depressive disorder (DSM-III-R).
During a 7-week trial, patients were treated with fluoxetine 20-60 mg or placebo 1-3 capsules per day and were seen in weekly supportive group psychotherapy. In addition, subjects were rated on the 17-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D-17), Clinical Global Impressions scales for Improvement (CGI-I) and Severity of Illness (CGI-S), and the short version of the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI-13). Of the 47 patients enrolled in the study, 25 were administered fluoxetine and 22 were given placebo.
Subjects who received fluoxetine began to show significantly more improvement than patients who received placebo on both self- and observer-rated scales by the end of the first week of treatment. By endpoint, patients treated with fluoxetine experienced greater mean changes from baseline compared with placebo-treated patients on the HAM-D-17 (12.1 vs. 6.6; F = 6.53, df = 1,45; p < .05) and BDI-13 (5.9 vs. 1.2; F = 5.73, df = 1,45; p < .05), and a greater percentage of fluoxetine-treated patients experienced a > or = 50% in HAM-D-17 scores (64% vs. 23%; chi2= 8.60, df = 1, p < .01). Differences were particularly apparent in subjects whose initial depressive episodes were rated as severe (i.e., HAM-D-17 score > or = 24). Severely depressed patients treated with fluoxetine had an endpoint CGI-I of 1.4 compared with an endpoint CGI-I of 2.7 for patients treated with placebo (F = 6.02, df = 1,11; p < .05). Further, side effects were generally mild and transient. The most frequently noted effects reported by subjects treated with fluoxetine were nausea, dry mouth, headache, and diarrhea, in decreasing order of frequency.
This study supports the efficacy and safety of fluoxetine over and above group psychotherapy for the treatment of HIV-associated major depression.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) are nuclear hormone receptors that are expressed in a variety of cells, including keratinocytes and cells of the immune system. The gamma subtype, activated by the antidiabetic thiazolidinediones, was originally identified as a regulator of adipogenesis and glucose homeostasis. Recent data, however, have linked PPAR-gamma to several genes involved in inflammation. Among others, these pathways reduce certain inflammatory mediators in the skin and regulate epidermal barrier homeostasis, alterations of which contribute to the inflammation associated with atopic dermatitis (AD). To our knowledge, the addition of rosiglitazone maleate to the standard treatment of AD has not been evaluated.
Severe adverse events were not observed, although 1 patient experienced weight gain. All patients responded to rosiglitazone therapy with decreased total body surface area involvement, severity of lesions, and number of flares.
Rosiglitazone, a drug that has an excellent safety profile, may offer a well tolerated systemic treatment option for AD. However, its role should be further assessed in controlled trials to establish its efficacy and safety in this disease.
