alpha 2-Adrenergic agonists are thought to produce analgesia, in part, by activating spinal acetylcholine release. The purpose of the current study was to examine the interaction between intrathecal neostigmine and epidural clonidine for analgesia and side effects in humans.
A total of 58 volunteers received an intrathecal injection of 5% dextrose in normal saline (D5NS) or neostigmine (50, 100, or 200 micrograms in D5NS), followed in 1 h by epidural saline or clonidine (computer-controlled infusion targeted to 50, 100, 200, or 400 ng/ml in cerebrospinal fluid) using an isobolographic design. Visual analog scale pain to a noxious cold stimulus, nausea, weakness, sedation, and other safety variables was measured before and at specified intervals after drug administration.
The first 21 volunteers randomized to receive intrathecal hyperbaric neostigmine rather than D5NS received the drug while in the sitting position, and had none-to-minimal analgesia 1 h later. The remaining volunteers received the drug while in the lateral position, and demonstrated dose-dependent analgesia in the foot 1 h later. Epidural clonidine also caused dose-dependent analgesia. The combination of neostigmine and clonidine resulted in an additive enhancement for analgesia, but no enhancement of each drug's side effects, and a reduction in clonidine-induced hypotension. Neostigmine injected into subjects in the lateral position diminished clonidine-induced reductions in blood pressure and plasma norepinephrine.
These results support enhancement of alpha 2-adrenergic analgesia by intrathecal neostigmine, but do not demonstrate synergy, as observed in animals. Lack of enhancement of side effects suggests this combination may be clinically useful.
Low-dose ketamine has been shown to exert analgesic effects. Whether ketamine-induced pain relief may be quantitated by somatosensory evoked cerebral potentials has not been established.
Thirty healthy volunteers were assigned randomly to one of three groups. Subjects of group 1 (n = 10, control) were given saline as placebo. In groups 2 (n = 10) and 3 (n = 10), intravenous ketamine (0.25 mg. kg-1 and 0.50 mg. kg-1, respectively) was administered. The following variables were recorded at baseline and for 50 min after drug administration: electroencephalographic (EEG) data, somatosensory-evoked late cortical responses (SEP) elicited by intracutaneous stimulation of the fingertip (2-3 fold pain threshold), heart rate, mean arterial blood pressure, and end-tidal PETCO2 via a tight-fitting mask. Electroencephalographic spectral power in selected frequency bands and frequency percentiles were calculated from the spontaneous EEG segment preceding each somatosensory stimulus. Somatosensory-evoked late cortical response parameters were calculated from the respective poststimulus EEG segments. After recording of each EEG response, subjects were asked to rate the individual pain sensation.
In group 1, all variables did not change over time. Ketamine administration resulted in dose-dependent decreases in alpha-activity and increases in theta power (group 2: 190%, group 3: 440%). Electroencephalographic changes were not related to changes in pain perception. For the first 30 min after ketamine injection, a dose-dependent decrease of the long-latency N150-P250 somatosensory-evoked late cortical response component was observed (group 2: 15-20%; group 3: 25-30%). Subjective pain ratings were also different between groups, with a higher degree of pain relief in group 3 for the first 30 min. At the end of the observation period, pain relief and the N150-P250 amplitude were comparable in both ketamine groups.
These data indicate that pain relief induced by low-dose ketamine is dose-dependent for the first 30 min after bolus injection. Changes in pain perception may be quantitated by somatosensory-evoked cortical responses. Also, EEG changes are not specific for changes in nociception, but the increase in theta power may reflect the hypnotic effect of low-dose ketamine.
Biotin-responsive basal ganglia disease (BBGD) is a recessive disorder with childhood onset that presents as a subacute encephalopathy, with confusion, dysarthria, and dysphagia, and that progresses to severe cogwheel rigidity, dystonia, quadriparesis, and eventual death, if left untreated. BBGD symptoms disappear within a few days with the administration of high doses of biotin (5-10 mg/kg/d). On brain magnetic resonance imaging examination, patients display central bilateral necrosis in the head of the caudate, with complete or partial involvement of the putamen. All patients diagnosed to date are of Saudi, Syrian, or Yemeni ancestry, and all have consanguineous parents. Using linkage analysis in four families, we mapped the genetic defect near marker D2S2158 in 2q36.3 (LOD=5.9; theta=0.0) to a minimum candidate region (approximately 2 Mb) between D2S2354 and D2S1256, on the basis of complete homozygosity. In this segment, each family displayed one of two different missense mutations that altered the coding sequence of SLC19A3, the gene for a transporter related to the reduced-folate (encoded by SLC19A1) and thiamin (encoded by SLC19A2) transporters.
Despite identification of the genes responsible for autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (PKD) and autosomal recessive PKD (ARPKD), the precise functions of their cystoprotein products remain unknown. Recent data suggested that multimeric cystoprotein complexes initiate aberrant signaling cascades in PKD, and common components of these signaling pathways may be therapeutic targets. This study identified c-Src (pp60(c-Src)) as one such common signaling intermediate and sought to determine whether Src activity plays a role in cyst formation. With the use of the nonorthologous BPK murine model and the orthologous PCK rat model of ARPKD, greater Src activity was found to correlate with disease progression. Inhibition of Src activity with the pharmacologic inhibitor SKI-606 resulted in amelioration of renal cyst formation and biliary ductal abnormalities in both models. Furthermore, the effects of Src inhibition in PCK kidneys suggest that the ErbB2 and B-Raf/MEK/ERK pathways are involved in Src-mediated signaling in ARPKD and that this occurs without reducing elevated cAMP. These data suggest that Src inhibition may provide therapeutic benefit in PKD.
The vasodilator effects of nitroglycerin (NTG) are mediated via activation of guanylate cyclase; this process is believed to require the availability of free sulfhydryl groups. Previous studies in man have shown that the sulfhydryl donor N-acetylcysteine (NAC) potentiates the systemic and coronary vasodilator effects of NTG. Furthermore, interaction of NTG and NAC may lead to the formation of S-nitroso-NAC, which strongly inhibits platelet aggregation. The effects of intravenous NTG combined with intravenous NAC (5 g 6 hourly) were compared with those of intravenous NTG alone in a double-blind trial in 46 patients with severe unstable angina pectoris unresponsive to conventional treatment, which included calcium antagonists and cutaneous nitrates in all but one patient. Treatment with NTG/NAC (24 patients) and that with NTG alone (22 patients) was associated with a similar frequency of episodes of chest pain and of increments in NTG infusion rate for pain control (10 vs 17; p = NS). The NTG/NAC group had a significantly lower incidence of acute myocardial infarction than the NTG/placebo group (three vs 10 patients; p = .013). Symptomatic hypotension occurred frequently in the NTG/NAC group (seven vs 0 patients; p = .006). Lactate-pyruvate ratios and venous NTG concentrations were not significantly affected by NAC. Subsequently, another 20 consecutive patients were treated with intravenous NTG and continuously infused NAC (10 g/day). Seven remained pain free during the first 24 hr of NTG infusion; 11 required increments in NTG infusion rate for pain control. Acute myocardial infarction occurred in one patient, while none developed symptomatic hypotension.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Each year, approximately 20% of asthmatics in the United States experience acute symptom exacerbations, which commonly result from pulmonary viral infections. The majority of asthma exacerbations in very young children follow infection with respiratory syncytial virus (RSV). However, pathogenic mechanisms underlying induction of asthma exacerbations by RSV are not well understood. We therefore investigated the effect of post-sensitization RSV infection on lung function in ovalbumin (OVA)-sensitized BALB/c mice as a model of RSV asthma exacerbations. OVA sensitization of uninfected female BALB/c mice increased bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) eosinophil levels and induced airway hyperresponsiveness to the muscarinic agonist methacholine, as measured by the forced-oscillation technique. In contrast, intranasal infection with replication-competent RSV strain A2 for 2-8 days reduced BALF eosinophil counts and reversed airway hyperresponsiveness in a pertussis toxin-sensitive manner. BALF levels of the chemokine keratinocyte cytokine (KC; a murine homolog of interleukin-8) were elevated in OVA-sensitized, RSV-infected mice and reversal of methacholine hyperresponsiveness in these animals was rapidly inhibited by KC neutralization. Hyporesponsiveness could be induced in OVA-sensitized, uninfected mice by recombinant KC or the Gαi agonist melittin. These data suggest that respiratory syncytial virus induces KC-mediated activation of Gαi, resulting in cross-inhibition of Gαq-mediated M(3)-muscarinic receptor signaling and reversal of airway hyperresponsiveness. As in unsensitized mice, KC therefore appears to play a significant role in induction of airway dysfunction by respiratory syncytial virus. Hence, interleukin-8 may be a promising therapeutic target to normalize lung function in both asthmatics and non-asthmatics with bronchiolitis. However, the OVA-sensitized, RSV-infected mouse may not be an appropriate model for investigating the pathogenesis of viral asthma exacerbations.
Antenatal intracranial hemorrhage is a rare cause of intrauterine fetal death, with an incidence of 4.6-5.1% in autopsy studies of stillborn fetuses. Warfarin-associated fetal bleeding is also a rare problem, with an incidence of 4.3% in the literature. We present a case of warfarin-induced subdural hematoma occurring in the second trimester.
The effects of a reversible activator of adenylate cyclase sclareol glycol (SG), a semisynthetic diterpene of the labdane family, on the aggressive behavior induced by a high dose of clonidine in mice were studied. SG was applied at doses well below the lethal dose. Aggressive behavior induced by clonidine at a dose of 30 mg/kg IP was decreased in a dose-dependent manner by SG (1, 5, 25 mg/kg IP). The aggressive responses were abolished by doses of 50 and 100 mg/kg. It is suggested that the inhibitory effects of SG on clonidine-induced aggressive behavior are realized mainly via its effect on adenylate cyclase and perhaps involving synaptic transmitter action.
In this study, we have looked in detail at the effects of aging on neurotransmission in isolated atria and intact heart in anesthetized rats, examining adult and aged animals. There was a diminished ability of the norepinephrine reuptake blocker cocaine to increase stimulation-evoked release of norepinephrine in aged rats and in terms of increasing the norepinephrine-evoked tachycardia in anesthetized rats, suggesting that the function of the reuptake process is diminished by aging. The ability of the alpha 2 adrenergic receptor agonist xylazine to inhibit release of norepinephrine neurotransmitter was also diminished in aged rats both in isolated tissues and in vivo in anesthetized animals. In further studies, the ability of the beta-adrenergic receptor agonists isoproterenol (beta 1 and beta 2 agonist) and procaterol (selective beta 2 agonist) to increase stimulation-evoked release of norepinephrine was examined. Both agonists produced a concentration-dependent facilitation of norepinephrine release in rats atria. Although isoproterenol and procaterol increased release in tissues from young and old animals, the magnitude of the increase was significantly reduced in tissues from old rats, so that beta-adrenergic receptor mediated facilitation was diminished. In summary, aging is associated with a decline in prejunctional modulation of neurotransmission, in terms of diminished norepinephrine reuptake, diminished prejunctional alpha 2 adrenergic receptor mediated inhibition and diminished prejunctional beta 2 adrenergic receptor mediated facilitation. TABLE 2 summarizes the possible effects of aging on noradrenergic neurotransmission. Overall, neurotransmission at rest may be little changed by aging, given that postjunctional responsiveness may fall, but scope for modulation may be diminished.
Nicotine patches are commonly used by people who try to quit smoking. Because high doses of nicotine may increase heart rate and potentiate cardiac arrhythmia or ischemia, its use in patients with coronary artery disease was investigated. The objective was to assess the cardiovascular safety of nicotine patches in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) who try to quit smoking. The study was conducted in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized fashion over a 2-week period. One hundred and six patients with CAD who wished to stop smoking and were taking part in a smoking cessation program were included. Fifty-two patients received nicotine patches (Nicotinell) and 54 received placebo patches. The cardiovascular effects of nicotine patches were assessed by repeated ambulatory ECG monitoring (AEM) and exercise testing. There were no changes in the resting heart rate and in the systolic or diastolic blood pressure between the screening and the two phases of the study in both the Nicotinell and placebo groups. Repeated 48-hour AEM revealed that there were no significant changes in the number and duration of ischemic episodes in both groups. There was no change in the frequency of atrial or ventricular arrhythmias. Exercise duration and time to 1-mm ST-segment depression increased in both groups during the double-blind treatment phase. More patients in the Nicotinell group claimed tobacco abstinence compared with the placebo group (27% vs. 13%). The use of nicotine patches did not cause aggravation of myocardial ischemia or arrhythmia in coronary patients and therefore can be used as a method to promote smoking cessation in this high-risk group.
Cytoglobin (Cygb), a member of the hexacoordinate globin superfamily (hxHb), is expressed in fibroblasts from a broad range of tissues. The physiological functions of hxHb are still unclear, but biochemical studies reveal that they can scavenge toxic species, such as nitric oxide, peroxynitrite, and hydrogen peroxide. We demonstrate that the overexpression of Cygb in rat hepatic stellate cells, both in vitro and in vivo, protects against oxidative stress, inhibiting their differentiation into a myofibroblast-like phenotype. Accordingly, the overexpression of Cygb reduces extracellular matrix deposition in both toxic and cholestatic models of liver injury. The overexpression of Cygb also promotes recovery from previously initiated damage-induced fibrogenesis. By inhibiting free radical-induced activation of hepatic stellate cells, Cygb plays an important role in controlling tissue fibrosis. Therefore, the normal upregulation of Cygb during tissue injury has a homeostatic effect, inhibiting free radical-induced fibroblast activation and tissue fibrosis.
Additive combination studies of an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, captopril, and a renin inhibitor, ditekiren (U-71038), were carried out in conscious sodium-depleted and sodium replete cynomolgus monkeys. The agents elicited dose-additive hypotensive responses regardless of the order of drug administration in sodium-depleted monkeys. A dose-additive blood pressure response was also observed when the administration of captopril was preceded by ditekiren in conscious sodium replete monkeys. None of the animals in these groups exhibited significant alterations of heart rate. An apparent over-additive hypotensive response, accompanied by tachycardia, occurred in sodium replete monkeys when ditekiren was administered after captopril. It was proposed that the captopril-induced hyperreninemia may have allowed the blood pressure to become partially renin-dependent and therefore susceptible to the inhibitory action of ditekiren. The results of these studies suggested that both ditekiren and captopril elicited cardiovascular effects in conscious cynomolgus monkeys via a decreased formation of angiotensin II.
Tamoxifen (TAM) is a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) that is widely used as adjuvant therapy in breast cancer patients; however, it is also associated with undesirable side effects. The goal of this study was to investigate TAM-related side effects, and determine profiles of side effects by race and by smoking status.
A secondary data analysis was conducted using cross-sectional study data from 138 African American and Caucasian women with breast cancer taking TAM 20mg daily for at least 30 days prior to enrollment. Participants completed questionnaires that obtained information about demographic characteristics, reproductive history, health and lifestyle characteristics, TAM use and its related side effects. Logistic regression was used to estimate odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals.
Compared to never smokers, a significantly greater percentage of current smokers reported ever experiencing TAM-related nausea (28.0% versus 5.0%, P=0.007), depression (40.0% versus 7.1%, P=0.001) and migraines (19.2% versus 1.7%, P=0.02). These differences remained statistically significant after controlling for race, age, obesity, tumor stage, and duration of TAM treatment. No significant differences by race were noted in women reporting TAM side effects.
The findings from this study suggest that current smokers with breast cancer should be informed of the increased probability of reporting TAM-related side effects such as nausea, depression and migraines, and counseled about smoking cessation which may reduce the incidence of these side effects.
It is controversial whether the non-steroidal inflammatory drug nimesulide is associated with severe hepatotoxicity. Our objective was to determine whether nimesulide is associated with fulminant hepatic failure.
Retrospective cohort study in the Irish national liver transplant unit. All patients who received a liver transplant for fulminant hepatic failure of unknown cause, between January 1994 and March 2007, were evaluated. New medications started within 6 months prior to transplant were identified. Likelihood of association assessed using the Naranjo and Roussel UCLAF Causality Assessment Method (RUCAM) scoring systems.
Thirty-two patients with sero-negative, non-paracetamol fulminant hepatic failure, who received an emergency liver transplant, were identified. Nimesulide had been started within 6 months in 6 patients. Five of the six were middle aged females. Nimesulide was assessed as probably associated with liver injury in all six cases.
Nimesulide was associated with fulminant hepatic failure requiring liver transplant in 6/32 cases of unknown origin. This association requires further investigation.
Clozapine is an atypical antipsychotic drug with minimal extrapyramidal toxicity recently approved by the Food and Drug Administration for hard-to-treat schizophrenic patients. We reviewed information on 1,418 patients treated with clozapine in the United States between 1972 and 1988. Forty-one of 1,418 (2.8%) patients had generalized tonic-clonic seizures during treatment with clozapine. Life-table analysis predicts a cumulative 10% risk of seizures after 3.8 years of treatment. Clozapine-related seizures appear to be dose-related. High-dose therapy (greater than or equal to 600 mg/day) was associated with a greater risk of seizures (4.4%) than medium (300 to 600 mg/day; 2.7%) or low doses (less than 300 mg/day; 1.0%). Also, rapid upward titration may increase seizure risk. Thirty-one of 41 patients were successfully continued on clozapine despite seizure occurrence, either with reduction of dose or addition of an antiepileptic medication. Recognition and treatment of clozapine-related seizures will become increasingly important as its use grows in the 1990s.
Agents that antagonize the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor, such as phencyclidine and ketamine, produce an acute psychotic state in normal individuals that resembles some symptoms of schizophrenia. The aim of this study was to determine which brain regions are involved in NMDA receptor-mediated psychosis.
Positron emission tomography with [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose was used to determine cerebral metabolic activity in 17 healthy volunteers while an acute psychotic state was induced simultaneously by the administration of subanesthetic doses of ketamine.
Ketamine produced focal increases in metabolic activity in the prefrontal cortex and an acute psychotic state. A change in one psychotic symptom, conceptual disorganization, was significantly related to prefrontal activation.
These data suggest that the prefrontal cortex may be involved in mediating NMDA receptor-induced psychosis.
Because uncontrolled echocardiographic surveys suggested that up to 30% to 38% of users of fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine had valvular disease, these drugs were withdrawn from the market.
To determine the risk for new or worsening valvular abnormalities among users of fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine who underwent echocardiography before they began to take these medications.
Cohort study.
Academic primary care practices.
46 patients who used fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine for 14 days or more and had echocardiograms obtained before therapy.
Follow-up echocardiography. The primary outcome was new or worsening valvulopathy, defined as progression of either aortic or mitral regurgitation by at least one degree of severity and disease that met U.S. Food and Drug Administration criteria (at least mild aortic regurgitation or moderate mitral regurgitation).
Two patients (4.3% [95% CI, 0.6% to 14.8%]) receiving fenfluramine-phentermine developed valvular heart disease. One had baseline bicuspid aortic valve and mild aortic regurgitation that progressed to moderate regurgitation. The second patient developed new moderate aortic insufficiency.
Users of diet medications are at risk for valvular heart disease. However, the incidence may be lower than that reported previously.
Twenty common migraine patients received a one sided frontotemporal application of nitroglycerin (10 patients) or placebo ointment (10 patients) in a double blind study. Early onset migraine attacks were induced by nitroglycerin in seven out of 10 patients versus no patient in the placebo group. Subsequently 20 migraine patients, who developed an early onset attack with frontotemporal nitroglycerin, received the drug in a second induction test at other body areas. No early onset migraine was observed. Thus the migraine-inducing effect of nitroglycerin seems to depend on direct stimulation of the habitual site of pain, suggesting that the frontotemporal region is of crucial importance in the development of a migraine crisis. This is not consistent with a CNS origin of migraine attack.
A 35-year-old male presented with chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMMoL) after 6.5 years of alkylating agent therapy for IgG-kappa type multiple myeloma. The total dose of melphalan was 0.648 g. CMMoL was stable with weekly injection of alpha-interferon for one year. Thereafter, monocytosis and thrombocytopenia aggravated, and the patient died of disseminating intravascular coagulation. Prolonged drug therapy can induce CMMoL, as well as other myelodysplastic syndromes.
Pregnant mice and rats were treated daily with 5-iododeoxyuridine (IUDR) or cytosine arabinoside (CA) on 3 consecutive days, beginning on day 16 and 18 of pregnancy, respectively. Offspring were killed at 10 and 20 days of age and the cerebellum, eye, and kidney examined histologically. All offspring of mice treated with 400 mg/kg IUDR were stillborn or died within the first 48 h of life, and deaths occurred at other dosages in both species. In IUDR-exposed mice and rats there was persistence of granule cells in the external granular layer, and scattered foci of microcystic tubular change in the renal cortices. In both species CA produced segmental cerebellar hypoplasia and focal microcystic renal cortical dysplasia. Retinal dysplasia occurred in rats exposed to 50 mg/kg. Lesions were concentrated in the central retina, corresponding with the stage of development at the time of administration of CA. The teratogenic effects of IUDR were minimal and were induced by dosages much higher than normally used in human medicine. On the other hand, lesions were more extensive in mice and rats exposed to CA. Thus, in addition to other known causes of congenital retinal dysplasia, defective development may be drug induced, in this case by the prenatal administration of CA.
After 21 days of treatment with diazepam (2 mg/kg/day IP) rats were tested 24 h after the last injection in the social interaction and elevated plus-maze tests of anxiety. Compared with control-treated rats, they showed significant decreases in social interaction, in the % numbers of entries onto open arms of the plus-maze and in the % of time spent on the open arms, indicating an anxiogenic response on withdrawal from diazepam. Buspirone (200 micrograms/kg SC) significantly increased social interaction in diazepam withdrawn rats and in the plus-maze also this dose significantly reversed the anxiogenic effects of diazepam withdrawal. Buspirone (400 micrograms/kg SC) was without effect in the plus-maze, but buspirone (800 micrograms/kg SC) significantly decreased the % of time spent on open arms in control-treated rats, indicating an anxiogenic effect. In the social interaction test buspirone (800 micrograms/kg SC) was without significant effect. The contrasting effects of the 200 and 800 micrograms/kg doses are discussed in terms of the pre- and post-synaptic actions of buspirone. The findings are consistent with earlier proposals that the increased anxiety during benzodiazepine withdrawal is at least partly caused by an increased release of hippocampal 5-HT.
Patients with fulminant hepatic failure (FHF) die with brain edema, exhibiting an increased cerebral blood flow (CBF) at the time of cerebral swelling. Mild hypothermia prevents brain edema in experimental models and in humans with FHF, an effect associated with normalization of CBF. To study the effects of alterations of CBF on the development of brain edema, we administered intravenous (IV) indomethacin to rats receiving an ammonia infusion after portacaval anastomosis. This model predictably develops brain edema and a marked increase in CBF at 3 hours of infusion. Brain water was measured with the gravimetry technique; CBF was monitored with both laser Doppler flowmetry and radioactive microspheres, whereas intracranial pressure (ICP) was monitored with a cisterna magna catheter. Coadministration of indomethacin prevented the increase in CBF seen with ammonia alone (110 +/- 19% vs. -2 +/- 9%) as well as the increase in brain water (80.86 +/- 0.12% vs. 80.18 +/- 0.06%) and the increase in ICP. Plasma ammonia and brain glutamine levels were markedly elevated in the ammonia-infused group and unaffected by indomethacin. However, ammonia uptake by the brain was significantly reduced by indomethacin. Levels of 6-keto-PGF(1alpha), a stable metabolite of prostacyclin, were reduced in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of indomethacin-treated animals. As with mild hypothermia, avoiding cerebral vasodilatation with indomethacin will prevent the development of brain edema in this hyperammonemic model. Cerebral vasoconstriction reduces cerebral ammonia uptake and, if selective to the brain, may be of benefit in FHF.
Cases of dysgeusia or ageusia have been reported in patients treated with angiotensin II receptor antagonist such as losartan (5 cases), valsartan (1 case), eprosartan (1 case). This is the first case-report of ageusia following candesartan. A 46-year-old-male patient, with a medical history of renal chronic reject allograft disease, started candesartan 4 mg once daily to treat high blood pressure. Six months later, a progressive ageusia occurred with a burning mouth syndrome. He also developed aphthous ulcers of the mouth, stomatitis and perleche, which led him to lose 8 kilos within 13 months. Thirteen months after the beginning of the treatment candesartan was stopped. The symptoms and lesions required 2 to 3 weeks to disappear. Subsequently, appetite was found again as well as the sense of taste. The temporal sequence of events suggests a causal relationship between ageusia and candesartan.
The range of defects and disabilities in thalidomide children is very much wider than is generally realized. The defects of 154 children are described and classified. Their disabilities range from incapacitating to negligible.
Consumptive coagulopathy (CC) remains a challenge in pig-to-primate organ xenotransplantation (Tx). This study investigated the role of tissue factor (TF) expression on circulating platelets and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Baboons (n = 9) received a kidney graft from pigs that were either wild-type (n = 2), alpha1,3-galactosyltransferase gene-knockout (GT-KO; n = 1) or GT-KO and transgenic for the complement-regulatory protein, CD46 (GT-KO/CD46, n = 6). In the baboon where the graft developed hyperacute rejection (n = 1), the platelets and PBMCs expressed TF within 4 h of Tx. In the remaining baboons, TF was detected on platelets on post-Tx day 1. Subsequently, platelet-leukocyte aggregation developed with formation of thrombin. In the six baboons with CC, TF was not detected on baboon PBMCs until CC was beginning to develop. Graft histopathology showed fibrin deposition and platelet aggregation (n = 6), but with only minor or no features indicating a humoral immune response (n = 3), and no macrophage, B or T cell infiltration (n = 6). Activation of platelets to express TF was associated with the initiation of CC, whereas TF expression on PBMCs was concomitant with the onset of CC, often in the relative absence of features of acute humoral xenograft rejection. Prevention of recipient platelet activation may be crucial for successful pig-to-primate kidney Tx.
Cancer cells typically demonstrate altered morphology during the various stages of disease progression as well as metastasis. While much is known about how altered cell morphology in cancer is a result of genetic regulation, less is known about how changes in cell morphology affect cell function by influencing gene expression. In this study, we altered cell morphology in different types of cancer cells by disrupting the actin cytoskeleton or by modulating attachment and observed a rapid up-regulation of growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF15), a member of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) super-family. Strikingly, this up-regulation was sustained as long as the cell morphology remained altered but was reversed upon allowing cell morphology to return to its typical configuration. The potential significance of these findings was examined in vivo using a mouse model: a small number of cancer cells grown in diffusion chambers that altered morphology increased mouse serum GDF15. Taken together, we propose that during the process of metastasis, cancer cells experience changes in cell morphology, resulting in the increased production and secretion of GDF15 into the surrounding environment. This indicates a possible relationship between serum GDF15 levels and circulating tumor cells may exist. Further investigation into the exact nature of this relationship is warranted.
