Three male patients are described in whom anorgasmia developed during treatment with fluoxetine for depression. During attempts to treat the anorgasmia with cyproheptadine, all three patients suffered a relapse of depressive symptoms. The possible mechanism of this effect is discussed in relation to serotonergic systems.
Fluoroquinolone toxicity on cartilages and tendons has been well known since 1983. Tendon inflammation or rupture has been described. Achilles tendon rupture is the most frequent complication but many other sites of tendon injuries have been reported. This article presents a case of rupture of extensor tendons of the hand in an elderly woman treated by fluoroquinolones. As far as we know, this site of tendon lesion has never been previously described. Histological examination of tendon injuries was possible after surgical treatment. Histological structures were similar to the classical description but had specific features. Like other authors, we think that the mechanism of the disease involves vascular disorders as well as direct toxicity. The histological lesions seem to be different in chronic and acute forms.
Nicotine potentiates the catalepsy produced by haloperidol. Furthermore, nicotine as an adjunct to haloperidol produces a remarkable improvement in motor tics in Tourette's syndrome (TS) patients. The present experiments (1) compared the ability of nicotine to potentiate the catalepsy produced by haloperidol or the selective D1 dopamine receptor antagonist SCH 23390 and (2) examined the effects of various doses of nicotine (0.1, 0.2, or 0.3 mg/kg) on haloperidol-induced (0.1, 0.2, or 0.4 mg/kg) catalepsy and locomotor hypoactivity. In the first experiment, nicotine produced a five-fold increase in catalepsy following haloperidol but had no effect on the catalepsy produced by SCH 23390. In the second experiment, nicotine potentiated the cataleptic effects of both the 0.2 and 0.4 but not the 0.1 mg/kg dose of haloperidol. Haloperidol (0.1 and 0.4 mg/kg) also produced a dose-related decrease in locomotion that was significantly potentiated by nicotine (0.1 mg/kg). Nicotine alone did not produce catalepsy or any significant changes in locomotion. These results indicated that nicotine's potentiation of haloperidol-induced catalepsy is likely related to striatal D2 receptor mechanisms. Nicotine potentiated the locomotor effects of doses of haloperidol that were previously found to be subcataleptic, indicating that catalepsy testing may actually underestimate the behavioral interaction between haloperidol and nicotine. Nicotine may prove useful for treating neuroleptic responsive disorders such as TS, schizophrenia, and Huntington's disease.
We studied the effects of the infusion of lithocholate and lithocholate-3-sulfate and 3-glucuronide in rats (0.29 mumol/min per 100 g body weight for 40 min) on bile flow, together with their biliary excretion and metabolism. Lithocholate-glucuronide had a higher cholestatic effect than lithocholate, whereas lithocholate-sulfate had almost no effect on bile flow. Lithocholate was mainly converted to taurine or glucuronide conjugates in the bile, serum and liver and hydroxylation of the tauro-conjugate proceeded. Lithocholate-sulfate was almost completely excreted in the bile, mainly as tauro-conjugate. Lithocholate-glucuronide was excreted in bile almost without conjugation, while some taurine conjugation occurred in the serum and liver. These results suggest that the poor biotransformation of lithocholate-glucuronide is related to its higher cholestatic potency than lithocholate.
Hand-foot syndrome (HFS) is a well-known adverse event associated with capecitabine, a prodrug of 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU). HFS manifests as acral erythema, with swelling and dysesthesia of the palms and plantar aspects of the feet, which in the absence of dosage reduction or drug cessation, progresses to moist desquamation and ulceration, resulting in serious infections and loss of function. We report a case of HFS, with scleroderma-like changes, apparently induced by capecitabine. In our case, capecitabine, given in the recommended dosage was observed to lead to hyperpigmentation of the palms and soles, followed by a distinct keratoderma-like thickening unfamiliar to usual cases of HFS. This case may provide important clues for revising the definition of HFS, and allow the formation of effective preventive strategies for this side effect of chemotherapy.
Obese leptin deficient (ob/ob) mice are a model of adiposity that displays increased levels of fat, glucose, and liver lipids. Our hypothesis is that HO-1 overexpression ameliorates fatty liver development.
Obese mice were administered cobalt protoporphyrin (CoPP) and stannic mesoporphyrin (SnMP) for 6 weeks. Heme, HO-1, HO activity, PGC1α, FGF21, glycogen content, and lipogenesis were assessed.
CoPP administration increased hepatic HO-1 protein levels and HO activity, decreased hepatic heme, body weight gain, glucose levels, and resulted in decreased steatosis. Increased levels of HO-1 produced a decrease in lipid droplet size, Fatty acid synthase (FAS) levels involving recruitment of FGF21, PPARα, and Glut 1. These beneficial effects were reversed by inhibition of HO activity.
Increased levels of HO-1 and HO activity reduced the levels of obesity by reducing hepatic heme and lipid accumulation. These changes were manifested by decreases in cellular heme, increases in FGF21, glycogen content, and fatty liver. The beneficial effect of HO-1 induction results from an increase in PPARα and FGF21 levels and a decrease in PGC1α, levels they were reversed by SnMP. Low levels of HO-1 and HO activity are responsible for fatty liver.
The 39-year-old male in this report was a victim of C4 spinal cord injury for 7 years. He was regularly followed up at our pain clinic and psychiatric out-patient department (OPD) for treatment of his chronic pain with morphine, anticonvulsant and sedatives. At the night of December 15, 1997, he took approximately 0.1 gm of morphine and a certain number of flurazepam pills. On the next day, he experienced numbness and paresis in both legs in association with painful swelling of both thighs. Then he sought medical advice at our hospital and was admitted for investigation on December 20, 1997. Laboratory examination revealed elevated creatine kinase activity, increased urine myoglobin concentration and raised plasma creatinine, signifying the development of acute muscle damage. The excreted urine morphine concentration was as high as 6,384 ng/mL. Increased PYP uptake in the proximal portion of both thighs was noted on muscle scan. These abnormalities were resolved gradually over two weeks under conservative treatment. Morphine-induced rhabdomyolysis complicated by acute renal failure was highly suspected.
Trimetrexate (TMTX) biochemically modulates 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and leucovorin (LCV). Two phase II trials demonstrated promising activity for TMTX/5-FU/LCV in patients with untreated advanced colorectal cancer (ACC). This trial was designed to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of TMTX/5-FU/LCV as first-line treatment in ACC.
Eligible patients with ACC were randomized in double-blind fashion to receive placebo or TMTX (110 mg/m2) intravenously (i.v.) followed 24 h later by i.v. LCV 200 mg/m2, and 5-FU 500 mg/m2 plus oral LCV rescue. Both schedules were given weekly for 6 weeks every 8 weeks. Patients were evaluated for progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), tumor response, quality of life (QoL) and toxicity.
A total of 382 eligible patients were randomized. Significant toxicities were noted more frequently with TMTX/5-FU/LCV. Diarrhea was the most common grade 3 or 4 side-effect (41% and 28% on the TMTX and placebo arms, respectively). QoL scores and response rates did not differ between treatment arms. PFS was 5.3 months and 4.4 months in the TMTX and placebo arms, respectively (P = 0.77; Wilcoxon). OS was 15.8 months and 16.8 months, respectively (P = 0.73; Wilcoxon).
The addition of TMTX to a weekly regimen of 5-FU/LCV worsened grade 3 or 4 diarrhea. The inclusion of TMTX did not yield any significant improvements in response rate, PFS or OS.
Five-sixths-nephrectomized rats present renal functional and histological abnormalities which are attenuated by enalapril treatment. c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), a mitogen-activated protein kinase, and nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) pathways can be activated by angiotensin II which has been implicated in renal injury. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of enalapril on the expression of NF-kappaB and JNK in renal cortices of five-sixths-nephrectomized rats.
Of the 65 rats studied, 25 underwent five-sixths nephrectomy and received no treatment, 15 underwent five-sixths nephrectomy and received enalapril, 15 were sham operated and received no treatment, and 10 were sham operated and received enalapril. On postoperative days 15 and 90, systolic blood pressure, glomerular filtration rate, and albumin excretion were determined. The rats were then killed and the kidneys removed for histology and immunohistochemistry.
In five-sixths-nephrectomized rats, we observed functional and structural renal alterations, as well as greater NF-kappaB/JNK expression and higher macrophage counts. Enalapril treatment reduced all of these changes.
The protective effect of enalapril on the kidney of five-sixths-nephrectomized rats might be related to the inhibition of NF-kappaB and JNK activation.
Although treatment has been well defined for childhood lead poisoning and for industrial lead exposure, the treatment of lead nephropathy has been poorly studied. The available chelating agents are reviewed and the results of treatment in 17 cases of lead nephropathy are shown. It is concluded that lead nephropathy should be recognized early and treated energetically, as this may stabilize or improve renal function. Since EDTA is excreted much like creatinine, the dosage must be reduced proportionately in response to elevated serum creatinine levels in the patient with renal failure.
The nephropathy associated with methicillin sodium therapy is considered to be rare, but its prevalence is unknown. We reviewed the antibiotic therapy of 81 cases of Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia to establish the frequency and determinants of methicillin nephropathy in that disease. Fifty-two patients received methicillin; nine (17%) experienced the characteristic clinical signs previously associated with drug-induced acute interstitial nephritis. This nephropathy uniformly subsided after methicillin was withdrawn, and did not always include deterioration of renal function. Factors that correlated with methicillin nephropathy were endocarditis and prolonged treatment, but not intravenous drug abuse. There was only one adverse reaction among 29 patients treated with a cephalosporin. It was similar to the nephropathic reactions to methicillin. Thus, reversible renal abnormalities are prevalent during methicillin therapy, particularly among patients with staphylococcal infections such as endocarditis. When prolonged therapy with methicillin is required, the urinary sediment and renal excretory function should be monitored.
Although calcium antagonists form a mainstay of therapy in patients with angina pectoris, the currently available agents have significant limitations. Nifedipine, diltiazem, and verapamil are all high-clearance agents with significant hepatic extraction and rapid clearance, leading to limited and short-lived bioavailability necessitating frequent daily administration. In contrast, amlodipine, a dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, has a long half-life of 35-50 h (compared with 3 to 4 h elimination half-life of diltiazem, verapamil, and nifedipine). After oral doses, the relative bioavailability of amlodipine is high (64%) and absorption is smooth, with peak plasma levels being achieved 6-12 h postdose. Bioavailability is not affected by the consumption of food. In common with other dihydropyridine calcium antagonists, amlodipine is eliminated mainly by metabolism. None of the metabolites of amlodipine has significant calcium antagonist effects in humans. In contrast to verapamil or diltiazem, amlodipine has no effect on sinus or atrioventricular node and little or no effect on the resting heart rate. Amlodipine does not have any appreciable negative inotropic effect with the relevant clinical dose. Other clinical studies have shown amlodipine to be effective when used once-daily in chronic stable angina and vasospastic angina. Comparative studies indicate that the antianginal efficacy of amlodipine is comparable to the beta blocker nadolol and the benzothiazepine calcium antagonist diltiazem. Amlodipine has also been found to provide improved antianginal effects when combined to treatment with beta blockers and/or long-acting nitrates. Treatment with amlodipine either as monotherapy or combined with other antianginal therapy for up to 26 weeks shows that efficacy is maintained, with no evidence of tolerance.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Evidence for a role of phospholipase D (PLD) in cellular proliferation and differentiation is accumulating. We studied PLD activity and expression in normal and hypertrophic rat and human hearts. In rat heart, abdominal aortic banding (constriction to 50% of original lumen) caused hypertrophy in the left ventricle (as shown by weight index and ANP expression) by about 15% after 30 days without histological evidence of fibrosis or signs of decompensation and in the right ventricle after 100 days. The hypertrophy was accompanied by small increases of basal PLD activity and strong potentiation of stimulated PLD activity caused by 4beta-phorbol-12beta,13alpha-dibutyrate (PDB) and by phenylephrine. The mRNA expressions of both PLD1 and PLD2 determined by semiquantitative competitive RT-PCR were markedly enhanced after aortic banding. In the caveolar fraction of the rat heart, PLD2 protein determined by Western blot analysis was upregulated in parallel with the expression of caveolin-3. A similar induction of PLD mRNA and protein expression was observed in hypertrophied human hearts of individuals (39-45-year-old) who had died from non-cardiac causes. In conclusion, PLD1 and PLD2 expressions were strongly enhanced both in rat and human heart hypertrophy, which may be responsible for the coincident potentiation of the PLD activation by alpha-adrenoceptor and protein kinase C stimulation. These results are compatible with a significant role of PLD activation in cell signaling of ventricular pressure-overload hypertrophy.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are a group of commonly occurring, highly-heritable developmental disabilities. Human genes c3orf58 or Deleted In Autism-1 (DIA1) and cXorf36 or Deleted in Autism-1 Related (DIA1R) are implicated in ASD and mental retardation. Both gene products encode signal peptides for targeting to the secretory pathway. As evolutionary medicine has emerged as a key tool for understanding increasing numbers of human diseases, we have used an evolutionary approach to study DIA1 and DIA1R. We found DIA1 conserved from cnidarians to humans, indicating DIA1 evolution coincided with the development of the first primitive synapses. Nematodes lack a DIA1 homologue, indicating Caenorhabditis elegans is not suitable for studying all aspects of ASD etiology, while zebrafish encode two DIA1 paralogues. By contrast to DIA1, DIA1R was found exclusively in vertebrates, with an origin coinciding with the whole-genome duplication events occurring early in the vertebrate lineage, and the evolution of the more complex vertebrate nervous system. Strikingly, DIA1R was present in schooling fish but absent in fish that have adopted a more solitary lifestyle. An additional DIA1-related gene we named DIA1-Like (DIA1L), lacks a signal peptide and is restricted to the genomes of the echinoderm Strongylocentrotus purpuratus and cephalochordate Branchiostoma floridae. Evidence for remarkable DIA1L gene expansion was found in B. floridae. Amino acid alignments of DIA1 family gene products revealed a potential Golgi-retention motif and a number of conserved motifs with unknown function. Furthermore, a glycine and three cysteine residues were absolutely conserved in all DIA1-family proteins, indicating a critical role in protein structure and/or function. We have therefore identified a new metazoan protein family, the DIA1-family, and understanding the biological roles of DIA1-family members will have implications for our understanding of autism and mental retardation.
Out of 938 parasitologically confirmed patients with visceral leishmaniasis treated with amphotericin B (1 mg/kg bodyweight daily infused in 2 h for 20 days), 935 were cured clinically, 933 parasitologically and 931 ultimately (no relapse within 6 months). Two parasitologically 'not cured' and 4 relapsed patients were cured with 25 infusions, and 1 with double relapse with 30 infusions. The treatment was started only when serum haemoglobin reached 5 g/dL, serum electrolyte imbalance was corrected and sodium stibogluconate-induced myocardial damage stabilized after 10 days' rest. Bronchopneumonia, cardiac failure and acute renal failure caused the death of 1 patient each. Nightblindness, angular stomatitis, neuritis, and petechial haemorrhages improved with appropriate treatment; 2 patients were given blood transfusion for post-treatment anaemia. Nausea and anorexia, and changes in serum creatinine and potassium, became normal in 2 weeks. Immediate withdrawal of the drug and restart after 10 days cured 2 patients who developed acute renal failure. Infusion-related toxicities--shivering, rigor and fever--were minimized but not eliminated by prior administration of hydrocortisone. Tuberculosis and visceral leishmaniasis were treated concurrently. Four pregnant patients were successfully treated without harmful effects on mother and child. It was concluded that the dosage of amphotericin B used was an effective and well-tolerated regimen and achieved 99% cure. Toxicity could be minimized with some precautions. All unresponsive and relapsed patients responded to more amphotericin and no resistance to the drug was seen.
Antituberculosis therapy (ATT)-associated acute liver failure (ATT-ALF) is the commonest drug-induced ALF in South Asia. Prospective studies on ATT-ALF are lacking. The current study prospectively evaluated the magnitude, clinical course, outcome, and prognostic factors in ATT-ALF. From January 1986 to January 2009, 1223 consecutive ALF patients were evaluated: ATT alone was the cause in 70 (5.7%) patients. Another 15 (1.2%) had ATT and simultaneous hepatitis virus infection. In 44 (62.8%) patients, ATT was prescribed empirically without definitive evidence of tuberculosis. ATT-ALF patients were younger (32.87 [+/-15.8] years), and 49 (70%) of them were women. Most had hyperacute presentation; the median icterus encephalopathy interval was 4.5 (0-30) days. The median duration of ATT before ALF was 30 (7-350) days. At presentation, advanced encephalopathy and cerebral edema were present in 51 (76%) and 29 (41.4%) patients, respectively. Gastrointestinal bleed, seizures, infection, and acute renal failure were documented in seven (10%), five (7.1%), 26 (37.1%), and seven (10%) patients, respectively. Compared with hepatitis E virus (HEV) and non-A non-E-induced ALF, ATT-ALF patients had nearly similar presentations except for older age and less elevation of liver enzymes. The mortality rate among patients with ATT-ALF was high (67.1%, n = 47), and only 23 (32.9%) patients recovered with medical treatment. In multivariate analysis, three factors independently predicted mortality: serum bilirubin (>or=10.8 mg/dL), prothrombin time (PT) prolongation (>or=26 seconds), and grade III/IV encephalopathy at presentation.
ATT-ALF constituted 5.7% of ALF at our center and had a high mortality rate. Because the mortality rate is so high, determining which factors are predictors is less important. A high proportion of patients had consumed ATT empirically, which could have been prevented.
Systemic capillary leak syndrome (SCLS) is a condition that's caused by the shift of fluid and protein from the intravascular space to the interstitial space as a result of repetitive episodes of capillary hyperpermeability. The pathogenesis of SCLS is still unclear, but there's recently been a report showing this syndrome in association with monoclonal gammopathy. This syndrome can be a fatal disease because cardiovascular collapse can occur in the initial capillary leak phase. Although theophylline, diuretics, terbutaline, steroids, calcium antagonist, Ginkgo biloba extracts and plasmapheresis have been suggested as medication, none of them have been proven to be effective. Considering that this disease is self-limiting, conservative treatment in the acute phase is believed to be very important. Because hypoalbuminemia is very a common manifestation of SCLS, Pentastarch, which has a higher molecular weight than albumin, could be efficient to prevent cardiovascular collapse. We used 10% Pentastarch during the acute SCLS attacks of 2 patients and the patients both showed a dramatic response. Pentastarch may be helpful to treat SCLS in its initial capillary leak phase by the elevating blood pressure, and this might contribute to somewhat decreasing the acute mortality of SCLS.
Systemic administration of diazepam (5 mg/kg, i.p.) produced a prompt anticonvulsant effect in pilocarpine-induced seizures in freely moving rats. The anticonvulsant effect was associated with significant attenuation of pilocarpine-evoked increases in extracellular hippocampal glutamate levels to below the baseline levels. The purpose of the present microdialysis study, therefore, was to investigate if the effect of diazepam on glutamate release was mediated at the level of the benzodiazepine gamma-aminobutyric acid(A) (GABA(A)) receptor complex to preclude any non-GABAergic mechanisms. Systemic administration of the specific benzodiazepine-receptor antagonist flumazenil (10 mg/kg, i.p. )-elicited complete reversal of diazepam-evoked anticonvulsant action and concomitant attenuation of extracellular glutamate efflux below the baseline levels. This provides evidence that under the given experimental conditions, diazepam-evoked alterations in glutamate overflow associated with the anticonvulsant action were indeed mediated at the level of benzodiazepine-GABA(A) receptor complex, possibly involving the modulation of both pre- and post-synaptic sites of the receptor complex.
We describe a case of acute hepatitis after a loading dose of intravenous amiodarone. An 83-year-old woman was admitted in emergency for recent-onset atrial fibrillation associated with left ventricular failure. Twenty-four hours after having started parenteral amiodarone, she developed biochemical alterations indicative of severe hepatic cytolysis associated with impairment of the synthetic capacity which rapidly reverted after suspension of the drug. No clinical sign or symptom of hepatopathy was noted except for mild icterus. A review of the literature regarding amiodarone-related hepatotoxicity is reported.
Cadmium ion (Cd2+) is a ubiquitous environmental contaminant, and it is a potent teratogen in mice. An intraperitoneal dose of 4 mg/kg of CdCl2 at gestational day 9 causes forelimb ectrodactyly in the C57BL/6N mouse strain, but the SWV/Fnn strain is resistant. The objective of this study was to identify differentially displayed proteins in two target tissues for cadmium teratogenesis, and to derive hypotheses regarding the mechanisms involved in the murine strain difference in Cd-induced forelimb ectrodactyly.
The global proteomics strategy used two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis for protein separation, and MALDI-TOF-MS and LC-MS/MS for protein identification, to compare and identify proteins in forelimb buds and yolk sacs from the two mouse strains following Cd administration.
More than 1,000 protein spots were detected by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in day 10.0 mouse forelimb buds and yolk sacs. Thirty-eight proteins had identifiable differences in abundance levels in Cd-treated forelimb buds between the two strains. Of those 38 proteins, 14 could be associated with the unfolded protein response process and seven are associated with actin polymerization. The proteins that were found to be differentially abundant between the strains in yolk sacs that were exposed to CdCl2 were predominantly different than the proteins detected differentially in the limb buds of the two strains with an overlap of approximately 20%.
These patterns of differentially displayed proteins rationalize a hypothesis that the differential murine strain response to cadmium-induced forelimb ectrodactyly is due to differences in their pathways for the unfolded protein response and/or actin polymerization.
Although beta-blockers are highly effective in the treatment of heart failure (HF), many patients with HF receiving a beta-blocker continue to become decompensated and require hospitalization for worsening HF. Levosimendan and dobutamine are used to manage decompensated HF, but their comparative effects on left ventricular (LV) function in patients prescribed beta-blockers are unknown.
The aim of this study was to compare the effects of dobutamine and levosimendan on LV systolic and diastolic functions in chronic HF patients treated chronically with carvedilol. Forty patients with chronic HF who had NYHA class III to IV symptoms, a LV ejection fraction (LVEF) <40%, and ongoing treatment with carvedilol were enrolled in this randomized (1:1), dobutamine controlled, open-label study. Before and 24 h after treatment, LVEF, mitral inflow peak E and A wave velocity, E/A ratio, the deceleration time of the E wave (DT), isovolumic relaxation time (IVRT), peak systolic (Sm) and early diastolic (Em) mitral annular velocity, and systolic pulmonary artery pressure (SPAP) were measured by echocardiography.
Levosimendan produced a statistically significant increase in LVEF (28+/-5% vs. 33+/-3%), Sm (6.5+/-1.2 cm/s vs. 7.4+/-0.9 cm/s), DT (120+/-10 ms vs. 140+/-15 ms), and Em (7.5+/-0.4 cm/s vs. 8.1+/-0.5 cm/s) and significant decrease in E/A ratio (2.1+/-0.3 vs. 1.7+/-0.4) and SPAP (55+/-5 mmHg vs. 40+/-7 mmHg). No significant change occurred in LV systolic and diastolic function parameters, or SPAP with dobutamine treatment. Levosimendan did not significantly alter the heart rate (72+/-4 bpm vs. 70+/-3 bpm), systolic (105+/-5 mmHg vs. 102+/-4 mmHg), or diastolic blood pressure (85+/-5 mmHg vs. 83+/-5 mmHg) whereas with dobutamine treatment, all these parameters significantly increased.
Dobutamine and levosimendan have different effects on LV functions in patients treated chronically with carvedilol. These differences should be considered when selecting inotropic therapy for decompensated HF receiving long-term carvedilol.
Adjunctive use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs has become increasingly popular in the perioperative period because of their opioid-sparing effects. This randomized, controlled, double-dummy study was designed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of using oral rofecoxib as an alternative to intravenous ketoprofen for pain management in patients undergoing urologic surgery.
Seventy patients were randomly assigned to receive either a placebo (Control) or rofecoxib 50 mg po (Rofecoxib) 1 h prior to surgery. After a standardized spinal anesthetic, patients in the Control group received ketoprofen 100 mg IV q 8 h for 24 h, while the Rofecoxib group received an equivolume of saline at 8-h intervals for 24 h. Both groups were allowed to self-administer morphine (1 mg IV boluses) using a PCA delivery system. The need for 'rescue' analgesic medication, as well as pain scores [using an 11-point verbal rating scale (VRS) (0 = none to 10-severe)], were recorded at 1, 2, 6, 12, and 24-h intervals after surgery. In addition, the incidences of side-effects were recorded at the end of the study period.
Total amount of morphine required in the initial 24-h postoperative period was nonsignificantly reduced in the Rofecoxib group (29 +/- 2 vs. 37 +/- 4 mg). More importantly, the percentage of patients reporting moderate-to-severe pain (VRS score > or =4) during the study period was lower in the Rofecoxib group (12 vs. 22%, P < 0.05). The daily cost of rofecoxib (USD 1.14 for 50-mg dose) was also significantly less than ketoprofen (USD 3.06 for three 100-mg doses).
Premedication with oral rofecoxib (50 mg) is a cost-effective alternative to the parenteral nonselective NSAID, ketoprofen (100 mg q 8 h), when used as an adjuvant to PCA morphine for pain management after urologic surgery.
Airborne particles have been linked to pulmonary oxidative stress and inflammation. Because these effects may be particularly great for traffic-related particles, we examined associations between particle exposures and exhaled nitric oxide (FE(NO)) in a study of 44 senior citizens, which involved repeated trips aboard a diesel bus.
Samples of FE(NO) collected before and after the trips were regressed against microenvironmental and ambient particle concentrations using mixed models controlling for subject, day, trip, vitamins, collection device, mold, pollen, room air nitric oxide, apparent temperature, and time to analysis. Although ambient concentrations were collected at a fixed location, continuous group-level personal samples characterized microenvironmental exposures throughout facility and trip periods.
In pre-trip samples, both microenvironmental and ambient exposures to fine particles were positively associated with FE(NO). For example, an interquartile increase of 4 microg/m(3) in the daily microenvironmental PM(2.5) concentration was associated with a 13% [95% confidence interval (CI), 2-24%) increase in FE(NO). After the trips, however, FE(NO) concentrations were associated pre-dominantly with microenvironmental exposures, with significant associations for concentrations measured throughout the whole day. Associations with exposures during the trip also were strong and statistically significant with a 24% (95% CI, 15-34%) increase in FE(NO) predicted per interquartile increase of 9 microg/m(3) in PM(2.5). Although pre-trip findings were generally robust, our post-trip findings were sensitive to several influential days.
Fine particle exposures resulted in increased levels of FE(NO) in elderly adults, suggestive of increased airway inflammation. These associations were best assessed by microenvironmental exposure measurements during periods of high personal particle exposures.
The pharmacokinetic properties of the short-acting micro opioid receptor-agonist remifentanil makes it possible to give cardiac surgical patients a deep intraoperative anesthesia without experiencing postoperative respiratory depression and a prolonged stay in the intensive care unit (ICU). However, previous investigations have shown that patients who received remifentanil required additional analgesia during the early postoperative period as compared to patients who received fentanyl. The aim of the present study therefore was to investigate the effects of supplementing remifentanil to a standard fentanyl-based anesthesia in coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG).
The study was prospective, randomized, double-blind, and placebo-controlled. Twenty male patients aged 55-70 years were included. All patients received a standard fentanyl and isoflurane-based anesthesia. In addition, the patients were randomized to receive either remifentanil 0.5 micro g kg(-1) min(-1) or placebo during surgery. Hemodynamic recordings and measurements of blood glucose and plasma adrenaline and noradrenaline were performed intra- and postoperatively.
Remifentanil reduced the hemodynamic and metabolic response to surgical stress compared to the standard fentanyl-based anesthetic regimen. However, the patients in the remifentanil group had a lower cardiac output (CO), left ventricular stroke work index (LVSWI), and mixed venous oxygen saturation (SvO(2)), and a higher central venous pressure (CVP) than the patients in the placebo group during the early postoperative phase, indicating a postoperative cardiac depression in the remifentanil group.
In CABG, remifentanil reduces the hemodynamic and metabolic responses during surgery but seems to give a cardiac depression in the early postoperative phase.
