A bioassay of technical-grade hydrazobenzene for possible carcinogenicity was conducted using Fischer 344 rats and B6C3F1 mice. Hydrazobenzene was administered in the feed, at either of two concentrations, to groups of 50 male and 47 to 50 females animals of each species. The time-weighted average dietary concentrations used in the rat bioassay were 0.008, 0.03, 0.004, and 0.01 percent for low dose males, high dose males, low dose females, and high dose females, respectively. The time-weighted average dietary concentrations used in the mouse bioassay were 0.008, 0.04, 0.004, and 0.04 percent for low dose males, high dose males, low dose females, and high dose females, respectively. After a 78-week period of compound administration, observation of the rats continued for an additional 28 to 30 weeks and observation of the mice continued for an additional 17 or 18 weeks. For each species, 47 to 50 animals of each sex were placed on test as controls. In both, species, adequate numbers of animals in all groups survived sufficiently long to be at risk from late-appearing tumors. The incidence of hepatocellular carcinomas was significantly increased in dosed male rats and the incidence of neoplastic nodules of the liver was significantly increased in dosed female rats. A significant increase in the combined incidence of squamous-cell carcinomas or squamous-cell papillomas of the Zymbal's gland, the ear canal, or the skin of the ear was observed among high dose male rats. A significant increase in mammary adenocarcinomas was observed among dosed female rats. The incidence of hepatocellular carcinomas was significantly increased among female mice, but no significant increase in liver tumors was observed among male mice. Under the conditions of this bioassay, hydrazobenzene was carcinogenic to Fischer 344 rats of both sexes, causing increased incidences of hepatocellular carcinoma and Zymbal's gland squamous-cell neoplasms in male rats, neoplastic nodules of the liver in female rats, and mammary adenocarcinomas in female rats. Hydrazobenzene was also carcinogenic to female B6C3F1 mice, causing an increased incidence of hepatocellular carcinomas. The compound was not carcinogenic to male B6C3F1 mice.
We report 11 patients with leishmaniasis from different endemic areas, treated in the UK with intravenous aminosidine alone or in combination with other drugs. Clinical and parasitological cures were achieved in all 7 patients from the Mediterranean zone who had visceral disease, with one relapse. Two of 4 patients with cutaneous or mucosal disease were cured; the other 2, from Iraq and Iran, did not respond. Toxic effects were high-tone deafness in 2 patients, one of whom had pre-existing renal impairment, and transient, mild elevation of serum creatinine in 3. Aminosidine is an effective, tolerable and relatively non-toxic alternative to existing antileishmanial drugs for the treatment of visceral leishmaniasis. Further studies will be needed to assess its place in cutaneous and mucosal disease.
Identifying genes involved in social behavior is important for autism research. Williams-Beuren syndrome (WBS) is a developmental syndrome with unique neurocognitive features, including low IQ, deficits in visuospatial and visual-motor abilities, hypersensitivity to sounds, hypersociability, and increased general anxiety. The syndrome is caused by a recurrent hemizygous deletion of the 7q11.23 region, containing about 28 genes. One of genes in the region, GTF2I, has been implicated in the hypersociability and visuospatial deficits of WBS based on genotype-phenotype correlation studies of patients with atypical deletions. In order to clarify the involvement of GTF2I in neurocognitive function, especially social behavior, we have developed and characterized Gtf2i-deficient mice. We found that homozygous deletion of Gtf2i causes lethality during embryonic development with neural tube closure defects and exencephaly, consistent with other reports. Gtf2i heterozygous animals show no gross changes in brain structure or development. Furthermore, heterozygous animals show no alterations in learning and memory, including spatial memory as assessed by the Morris water maze, but show alterations in the recognition of novel objects. Interestingly, they show increased social interaction with unfamiliar mice and do not show typical social habituation processes, reminiscent of the hypersociability observed in WBS patients. The mice do not appear to show increased anxiety, supporting a specific effect of Gtf2i on defined domains of the WBS phenotype. These data indicate that Gtf2i is involved in several aspects of embryonic development and the development of social neurocircuitry and that GTF2I haploinsufficiency could be a contributor to the hypersociability in WBS patients.
Clinically scored levodopa-induced dyskinesias were correlated with plasma dopa and O-methyl-dopa levels determined every hour during one day in 30 Parkinsonian-treated patients. In patients treated with a combination of L-dopa and a peripheral decarboxylase inhibitor (PDI), those with dyskinesias have very high plasma O-methyl-dopa levels compared with those who have no dyskinesias. In contrast, no significantly different plasma dopa levels are found in these two subgroups of patients, leaving open the question of the possible involvement of such elevated plasma O-methyl-dopa levels in favouring dyskinesias.
Disulfiram is widely used for aversive treatment of alcoholism. Although it is well tolerated in most patients, one in 15,000 patients will develop peripheral neuropathy every year, which is frequently misdiagnosed as alcoholic neuropathy. Disulfiram neuropathy can be mild or severe, depending on diverse factors such as time of exposure and the dosage. Most patients will present with a motor-sensory neuropathy of the lower limbs, which tends to improve as disulfiram administration ceases, however some cases may remain with permanent sequelae. We report the clinical, laboratory and electrophysiological features of three patients who developed disulfiram neuropathy during treatment of alcoholism. Recovery was incomplete at 8 weeks after treatment cessation in all of them. No other findings justified the clinical features described in these patients. Considering the incidence of alcoholism and the wide use of disulfiram treatment in Chile, we suggest that disulfiram neuropathy is being underdiagnosed. We also stress the fact that disulfiram neuropathy could be avoided by using lower doses.
Three experiments were performed to determine whether apparently minimal disturbances of dams and litters would influence haloperidol-induced akinesia. In Experiment I, Long-Evans hooded rats (a) were left unmanipulated, (b) received nestcage relocation and observation, (c) received nestcage relocation/observation and maternal separation, or (d) received nestcage relocation/observation and pup handling. The male adult offspring received open-field testing and later received forepaw-on-dowel catalepsy testing following saline, morphine (20 mg/kg), or haloperidol (2 mg/kg). In Experiment II, hooded rats received (a) no manipulation, (b) nestcage relocation, (c) maternal separation, or (d) pup handling. At weaning, dams were tested in the open-field. Activity wheel locomotion of the offspring was assessed following saline or haloperidol for 3 days/week for 3 weeks; then, 5 and 7 days later, rats received haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg) and catalepsy testing. In both experiments, manipulations involving the dam reduced the offsprings' haloperidol-induced catalepsy, but, in Experiment II, a history of haloperidol administration distinguished between the effects of nestcage relocation and maternal separation. In Experiment III, Swiss albino mice received (a) no treatment, (b) nestcage relocation and maternal separation, (c) relocation/separation and mild cold stress of pups, (d) relocation/separation and pup handling, or (e) relocation/separation and severe cold stress of pups. Adult male mice received saline or haloperidol (2.5 mg/kg) and inclined grid catalepsy testing. Mice receiving relocation/separation and mice receiving relocation/separation and severe cold stress showed enhanced catalepsy versus control mice. Thus, it was concluded that seemingly innocuous events in infancy can influence the intensity of extrapyramidal side effects of neuroleptics in adulthood.
To test the hypothesis that a reduced dose of bolus recombinant human tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) (0.6 mg/kg/15 min, maximum of 50 mg) would result in fewer bleeding complications than standard 100 mg of rt-PA administered as a continuous infusion over 2 h among hemodynamically stable patients with pulmonary embolism (PE). Subsidiary objectives were to compare the two rt-PA regimens with respect to the following: (1) the rate of other adverse clinical events; (2) the magnitude of change from baseline on perfusion lung scans, pulmonary angiograms, or echocardiograms; and (3) the differences in coagulation parameters over time.
A double-blind, double-dummy, randomized, controlled trial.
Twenty-eight participating hospitals in the United States, Italy, and Canada.
Patients could be included if they had symptoms or signs of PE within 14 days of presentation as well as high-probability lung scans and/or pulmonary angiograms demonstrating PE.
Randomization was undertaken with a 2:1 allocation ratio to rt-PA 0.6 mg/kg/15 min (maximum of 50 mg) or to 100 mg/2 h. Ninety patients were randomized, and 87 patients were treated: 60 with bolus rt-PA and 27 with 2-h rt-PA. All patients underwent baseline and 20- to 28-h follow-up perfusion lung scintigraphy. Patients at angiogram centers underwent baseline and 2-h follow-up angiography, while patients at echocardiogram centers underwent baseline, 3-h, and 20- to 28-h echocardiography. Forty-eight patients also participated in an ancillary study of serial fibrinogen and fibrin degradation product levels.
In the first 14 days after randomization, there were six deaths: five (8.3 percent) in the bolus group vs one death (3.7 percent) in the 2-h group (p = 0.66). There were two clinically suspected nonfatal recurrent PEs during the first 14 days after therapy, one in each treatment group. Overall, 14 patients suffered major or other important bleeding: 8 in the bolus group and 6 in the 2-h group (p = 0.35). Changes in efficacy parameters (scans, angiograms, or echocardiograms) were similar in the two treatment groups. After initiation of therapy, patients who had received bolus rt-PA had less depression of fibrinogen levels (p = 0.007) and smaller increases in fibrinogen degradation products (p = 0.013) than patients who had received 100 mg of rt-PA over 2 h.
No significant differences were detected between the bolus rt-PA and 2-h rt-PA with respect to bleeding complications, adverse clinical events, or imaging studies. There was less fibrinogenolysis with the bolus dosing regimen.
As the most widely used pesticides in the world, fatal incidence of suicidal poisoning by organophosphate compounds is high and is often associated with cardiovascular toxicity. Using the pesticide mevinphos as our tool, we investigated the roles of oxidative stress and nitrosative stress at the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM), the brain stem site that maintains arterial pressure (AP) and sympathetic vasomotor tone, in the cardiovascular depressive effects of organophosphate poisons. Microinjection of mevinphos (10 nmol) into the RVLM of anesthetized Sprague-Dawley rats induced progressive hypotension that was accompanied by an increase (phase I), followed by a decrease (phase II) of an experimental index of baroreflex-mediated sympathetic vasomotor tone, with a fatality rate of 35%. During phase I, there was a preferential upregulation of angiotensin type I receptor (AT1R) messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein that leads to activation of NADPH oxidase (Nox) and increase in superoxide at the RVLM. Pharmacological antagonism of these signals exacerbated fatality and shorted survival time by eliminating baroreflex-mediated sympathetic vasomotor tone, AP, and heart rate. During phase II, there was a progressive upregulation of angiotensin type II receptor (AT2R) mRNA and protein that leads to increase in peroxynitrite in the RVLM, blockade of both sustained brain stem cardiovascular regulation and improved survival. We further found that AT1R and AT2R cross-interacted at transcriptional and signaling levels in the RVLM. We conclude that a transition from AT1R-mediated oxidative stress to AT2R-mediated nitrosative stress in the RVLM underlies the shift from sustained to impaired brain stem cardiovascular regulation that underpins cardiovascular fatality during mevinphos intoxication.
Carvedilol is a non-selective vasodilating beta-blocker with weak alpha1 receptor antagonism. Recent studies have demonstrated its potential as a portal hypotensive agent.
To assess the haemodynamic effects and patient tolerability of the acute and chronic administration of low-dose carvedilol.
Haemodynamic measurements were performed in ten cirrhotic patients before and 1 h after the administration of 12.5 mg oral carvedilol. The study was repeated 4 weeks after daily administration of 12.5 mg carvedilol.
After acute administration of carvedilol, there was a 23% reduction in the hepatic venous pressure gradient from 16.37 +/- 2.14 to 12.56 +/- 3.91 mmHg (P < 0.05), with significant falls in the heart rate, mean arterial pressure and cardiac output. Chronic administration resulted in a further fall in the hepatic venous pressure gradient from a baseline of 16.37 +/- 0.71 to 9.27 +/- 1.40 mmHg (P < 0.001) with the mean arterial pressure being unaffected. The drug was well tolerated with only one patient experiencing asymptomatic hypotension.
The results show that low-dose carvedilol is an extremely potent portal hypotensive pharmacological agent, and is worthy of further investigation in large randomized trials to assess its effect in preventing variceal haemorrhage.
1. We determined (1) the inhibitory potency of zoniporide against the native Na(+)/H(+) exchanger isoform 1 (NHE1) that is expressed in adult rat ventricular myocytes and platelets, and (2) the cardioprotective efficacy of zoniporide in isolated, blood-perfused adult rat hearts subjected to cardioplegic arrest, hypothermic ischaemia (150 min at 25 degrees C) and normothermic reperfusion (60 min at 37 degrees C). 2. In isolated myocytes, in which NHE1 activity was determined directly by measurement of H(+) efflux rate following intracellular acidification, zoniporide produced a dose-dependent inhibition of such activity (IC(50) 73 nm at 25 degrees C). A comparable NHE1-inhibitory potency was retained at 37 degrees C. 3. In platelets, in which the rate of cell swelling was used as a surrogate index of NHE1 activity, this was again inhibited by zoniporide (IC(50) 67 nm at 25 degrees C). 4. In the isolated heart model, administration of zoniporide (loading bolus of 1 mg kg(-1) i.v. plus continuous infusion at 1.98 mg kg(-1) h(-1) i.v.) to the support animal achieved a free plasma drug concentration of >/=1 microm. At this dose, zoniporide afforded significant cardioprotective benefit relative to vehicle treatment, with improved preservation of left ventricular end-diastolic and developed pressures and coronary perfusion pressure during reperfusion. Myocardial myeloperoxidase activity was also attenuated by zoniporide treatment, indicating reduced neutrophil accumulation. 5. These data show that zoniporide (1) is a potent inhibitor of native NHE1 activity in ventricular myocytes and platelets, and (2) affords significant cardioprotective benefit during ischaemia and reperfusion in an experimental model that mimics several distinctive features of human cardioplegic arrest with cardiopulmonary bypass.
Angioedema is a localized swelling of sudden onset, often associated with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor use, that most commonly occurs in the face and neck. We present the case of a patient on long-term ACE inhibitor therapy for hypertension, who developed postoperative angioedema after carotid endarterectomy (CEA). The patient was initially misdiagnosed with an expanding cervical hematoma and underwent a surgical wound reexploration. Angioedema is a rare cause of neck swelling and upper airway distress occurring after CEA in patients treated with ACE inhibitors and should be considered in the differential diagnosis.
A 67-year-old man who was treated with oxacillin for one week because of Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia, developed renal failure and diffuse, symmetric, palpable purpuric lesions on his feet. Necrotic blisters were noted on his fingers. Skin biopsies showed findings diagnostic of leucocytoclastic vasculitis. Oxacillin was discontinued and patient was treated with corticosteroids. The rash disappeared after three weeks and renal function returned to normal. Leucocytoclastic vasculitis presents as palpable purpura of the lower extremities often accompanied by abdominal pain, arthralgia, and renal involvement. Etiologic factors or associated disorders include infections, medications, collagen vascular disease and neoplasia. However, in half of the cases no etiologic factor is identified. Usually it is a self-limited disorder, but corticosteroid therapy may be needed in life-threatening cases since early treatment with corticosteroids in severe cases can prevent complications. Oxacillin should be included among the drugs that can cause leucocytoclastic vasculitis.
Preliminary data in animals and humans suggest that epidurally administered clonidine produces antinociception and is not neurotoxic. However, clonidine can produce vasoconstriction, and epidurally administered clonidine decreases spinal cord blood flow in anesthetized pigs. To examine the effect of epidurally administered clonidine on spinal cord blood flow in awake animals, the authors inserted lumbar epidural, femoral arterial and venous, pulmonary arterial, and left ventricular catheters in 13 adult sheep. Following a 24-h recovery, the authors injected saline (N = 6) or clonidine, 750 micrograms (17-25 micrograms/kg; N = 7) epidurally, and measured arterial blood gas tensions; temperature; heart rate; systemic and pulmonary arterial, right atrial, and pulmonary capillary wedge pressures; and spinal cord and renal blood flows (by radioactive microsphere injection) before and at 45 min and 4 h following injection. Epidural saline injection did not affect measured variables. Heart rate decreased from 112 +/- 9 to 86 +/- 4 beats/min (mean +/- SE; P = .003) and arterial PO2 decreased from 99 +/- 3 to 78 +/- 6 mmHg (P = .04) 45 min following clonidine injection. Temperature increased from 39.1 +/- .2 to 40.6 +/- 1 degree C (P = .0001) 4 h following clonidine injection. Epidural clonidine administration did not affect cardiac output, pulmonary and systemic pressures, or renal or spinal cord blood flows, except for an increase in mid-thoracic spinal cord blood flow 45 min following injection. The authors conclude that, in sheep, epidural clonidine does not produce dangerous cardiovascular depression or global spinal cord ischemia.
Cocaine is a widely abused drug without a U.S. Food and Drug Administration-approved medication. There is a recognized, promising anticocaine medication to accelerate cocaine metabolism, producing biologically inactive metabolites via a route similar to the primary cocaine-metabolizing pathway [i.e., cocaine hydrolysis catalyzed by butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) in plasma]. An ideal, therapeutically valuable mutant of human BChE should have not only a significantly improved catalytic activity against (-)-cocaine but also certain selectivity for (-)-cocaine over neurotransmitter acetylcholine (ACh), such that one would not expect systemic administration of the BChE mutant to interrupt cholinergic transmission. The present study accounting for the mutation-caused changes of the catalytic activities of BChE against both (-)-cocaine and ACh by means of molecular modeling and site-directed mutagenesis has led to identification of three BChE mutants that have not only a considerably improved catalytic efficiency against (-)-cocaine but also the desirable selectivity for (-)-cocaine over ACh. Two representative BChE mutants have been confirmed to be potent in actual protection of mice from acute toxicity (convulsion and lethality) of a lethal dose of cocaine (180 mg/kg). Pretreatment with the BChE mutant (i.e., 1 min before cocaine administration) dose-dependently protected mice against cocaine-induced convulsions and lethality. In particular, all mice pretreated with the mutant (e.g., 0.02 mg or more of A199S/F227A/S287G/A328W/E441D BChE) survived. The in vivo data reveal the primary factor (i.e., the relative catalytic efficiency), determining the efficacy in practical protection of mice from the acute cocaine toxicity and future direction for further improving the efficacy of the enzyme in the cocaine overdose treatment.
Mass administration of azithromycin to eliminate blindness due to trachoma has raised concerns regarding the emergence of antimicrobial resistance. During 2000, we compared the antimicrobial resistance of nasopharyngeal pneumococcal isolates recovered from and the prevalence of impetigo, respiratory symptoms, and diarrhea among 458 children in Nepal before and after mass administration of azithromycin. No azithromycin-resistant pneumococci were isolated except from 4.3% of children who had received azithromycin during 2 previous mass treatments (P<.001). There were decreases in the prevalence of impetigo (from 14% to 6% of subjects; adjusted odds ratio [OR], 0.41; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.21-0.80) and diarrhea (from 32% to 11%; adjusted OR, 0.26; 95% CI, 0.14-0.43) 10 days after azithromycin treatment. The absence of macrolide-resistant isolates after 1 mass treatment with azithromycin is encouraging, although the recovery of azithromycin-resistant isolates after 2 mass treatments suggests the need for resistance monitoring when multiple rounds of antimicrobial treatment are given.
In an unanesthetized chronic rat model involving the placement of one catheter in the bladder for cystometrography and one catheter in the intrathecal (IT) space for drug injections, 10 micrograms morphine sulfate injected intrathecally (it) produced long-lasting inhibition of the volume-evoked micturition reflex. During inhibition of the micturition reflex, intravesical pressure rose with infusion until a continuous emission of urine (dribbling) was observed. Such a level of intravesical pressure (overflow pressure) was significantly greater than the premorphine bladder opening pressure (+56%). During dribbling, no periodic vesical contractions were observed, and the effects of a variety of agents on bladder tone were assessed. Significant (P less than 0.05) increases in vesical pressure over that produced by morphine were observed after intraperitoneal (ip) injection of carbachol (+86%), bethanechol (+55%), norepinephrine (+53%), methoxamine (+88%), and ST-91, an alpha 2-adrenergic agonist (+70%). The increased vesical pressure was not accompanied by an increase in the rate of urine expression. Intraperitoneal injection of serotonin produced no effects on intravesical pressure or urine expression. Significant decreases in the otherwise elevated intravesical pressure were observed after ip injection of isoproterenol (-30%) and phentolamine (-21%), with no change in the rate of urine expression. In contrast, ip injection of apomorphine (dopamine agonist) resulted in significant decreases in vesical pressure (-49%) and near maximal emptying of the bladder. Apomorphine produced no effects on it morphine-induced antinociception as assessed by the tail flick response. Regarding potential treatments of spinal morphine-induced urinary retention, the present study suggests that: 1) cholinomimetic and alpha-adrenergic agonist agents might be harmful; 2) beta-adrenergic agonist and alpha-adrenergic blocking agents might be useful; and 3) dopaminergic agonist agents might be the drugs of choice.
The clinical polysomnographic (PSG) reports of 2,650 consecutive adults studied during 41 months were reviewed retrospectively to identify all patients treated with fluoxetine or tricyclic antidepressants. The PSG reports of four other adult groups were also reviewed: periodic limb movement (PLM) disorder (n = 28); sleep terror/sleepwalking (ST/SW) (n = 54); rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavior disorder (RBD) (n = 70); patients with clinically unremarkable sleep during two consecutive PSG studies (n = 30). Standard PSG recording and scoring methods were employed. A total of 1.5% (n = 41) and 2.0% (n = 52) of patients were receiving fluoxetine or tricyclics (amitriptyline or nortriptyline, n = 31; imipramine or desipramine, n = 16; protriptyline or trimipramine, n = 5). A selective association between fluoxetine and extensive, prominent eye movements in nonrapid eye movement (NREM) sleep was detected, utilizing Fisher's exact one-tailed statistic (p less than 0.00001 for each comparison). The detection rates were fluoxetine, 48.8% (20/41); tricyclics, 5.8% (3/52); RBD, 4.3% (3/70); objectively normal sleepers, 3.3% (1/30); PLM, ST/SW, 0% (0/82). These groups had similar mean ages (31.5-45.4 years) and gender distributions (50.0-60.7% male), apart from RBD. The effect of fluoxetine, a potent and specific serotonin reuptake inhibitor, on NREM eye movements is postulated to derive from potentiation of serotonergic neurons that inhibit brainstem "omnipause neurons", which, in turn, inhibit saccadic eye movements, thus resulting in disinhibited release of saccades. In addition, a 31-year-old man with obsessive-compulsive disorder developed RBD soon after starting fluoxetine therapy, which persisted at PSG study 19 months after fluoxetine discontinuation.
We studied the effects of topical phenylephrine eyedrops on systemic blood pressure in 298 patients about to undergo ocular surgical procedures by comparing their blood pressure on admission to the hospital with that measured immediately before surgery. The patients were divided into three groups. Group 1 consisted of 230 patients who had neither history of insulin-dependent diabetes nor prior teatment with reserpine or guanethidine. Group 2 included 41 insulin-dependent diabetic patients. Group 3 contained 27 hypertensive patients who had been taking reserpine or guanethidine. Patients in each group were divided into two subgroups (A and B). The 202 patients in the three A subgroups received preoperative phenylephrine eyedrops, whereas the 96 patients in the three B subgroups did not. All three B subgroups and Group 1A (176 patients) did not show significant increases in blood pressure. There was a statistically significant increase in both systolic and diastolic pressures in Group 2A (14 patients) and in Group 3A (12 patients). From this study, we concluded that administration of preoperative phenylephrine eyedrops can be hazardous in patients with long-standing insulin-dependent diabetes or in hypertensive patients receiving reserpine or guanethidine.
Massive urinary protein excretion has been observed after conversion from calcineurin inhibitors to mammalian target of rapamycin (mToR) inhibitors, especially sirolimus, in renal transplant recipients with chronic allograft nephropathy. Because proteinuria is a major predictive factor of poor transplantation outcome, many studies focused on this adverse event during the past years. Whether proteinuria was due to sirolimus or only a consequence of calcineurin inhibitors withdrawal remained unsolved until high range proteinuria has been observed during sirolimus therapy in islet transplantation and in patients who received sirolimus de novo. Podocyte injury and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis have been related to mToR inhibition in some patients, but the pathways underlying these lesions remain hypothetic. We discuss herein the possible mechanisms and the significance of mToR blockade-induced proteinuria.
Treatment of liver fibrosis and cirrhosis remains a challenging field. Hepatocyte injury and the activation of hepatic stellate cells are the 2 major events in the development of liver fibrosis and cirrhosis. It is known that several Chinese herbs have significant beneficial effects on the liver; therefore, the purpose of the present study was to investigate the therapeutic effect of saikosaponin-d (SSd) on liver fibrosis and cirrhosis. A rat model of liver fibrosis was established using the dimethylnitrosamine method. Liver tissue and serum were used to examine the effect of SSd on liver fibrosis. A hepatocyte culture was also used to investigate how SSd can protect hepatocytes from oxidative injury induced by carbon tetrachloride. The results showed that SSd significantly reduced collagen I deposition in the liver and alanine aminotransferase level in the serum. Moreover, SSd decreased the content of TGF-beta1 in the liver, which was significantly elevated after dimethylnitrosamine induced liver fibrosis. Furthermore, SSd was able to alleviate hepatocyte injury from oxidative stress. In conclusion, SSd could postpone the development of liver fibrosis by attenuating hepatocyte injury.
To find out about the long-term safety and efficacy of nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs) within the central nervous system (CNS) in the context of reports suggesting a higher incidence of severe neuropsychiatric disorders resulting from HIV treatment with efavirenz (EFV).
Retrospective analysis of a large cohort with regular neuropsychiatric follow-up. We compared 414 patients on EFV and 320 on nevirapine (NVP) with regard to CD4 cell count, HIV plasma viral burden, CNS dysfunction described by psychomotor speed, HIV dementia scale, neuropsychological tests assessing memory and attention, self-reported psychiatric and somatic complaints, depression, and psychosis.
No significant differences between both types of NNRTI treatment regimens were found with regard to duration of therapy and reasons for withdrawal: virological failure, neurological failure, and neuropsychiatric side effects including the manifestation of depression, psychosis, insomnia, or other self-reported complaints.
The present data do not provide evidence for a higher incidence of light and/or severe neuropsychiatric side effects associated with NNRTI treatment.
A series of 4-nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl prodrug derivatives of O(6)-benzylguanine (O(6)-BG), conceived as prodrugs of O(6)-BG, an inhibitor of the resistance protein O(6)-alkylguanine-DNA alkyltransferase (AGT), were synthesized and evaluated for their ability to undergo bioreductive activation by reductase enzymes under oxygen deficiency. Three agents of this class, 4-nitrobenzyl (6-(benzyloxy)-9H-purin-2-yl)carbamate (1) and its monomethyl (2) and gem-dimethyl analogues (3), were tested for activation by reductase enzyme systems under oxygen deficient conditions. Compound 3, the most water-soluble of these agents, gave the highest yield of O(6)-BG following reduction of the nitro group trigger. Compound 3 was also evaluated for its ability to sensitize 1,2-bis(methylsulfonyl)-1-(2-chloroethyl)-2-[(methylamino)carbonyl]hydrazine (laromustine)-resistant DU145 human prostate carcinoma cells, which express high levels of AGT, to the cytotoxic effects of this agent under normoxic and oxygen deficient conditions. While 3 had little or no effect on laromustine cytotoxicity under aerobic conditions, significant enhancement occurred under oxygen deficiency, providing evidence for the preferential release of the AGT inhibitor O(6)-BG under hypoxia.
We describe seven infants who developed renal calcification and bone demineralization following furosemide therapy with average daily doses of as little as 0.75 mg/kg per day. Renal calcifications were present in all seven cases and were more readily detected with ultrasonography than with plain films. Renal calculi were seen in four patients, sonographically demonstrated as echogenic foci in the dependent portion of the collecting system, usually accompanied by acoustic shadowing. One patient developed nephrocalcinosis, sonographically observed as echogenic medullary pyramids plus punctate, shadowing parenchymal calcifications. In two patients the location of the calcification could not be determined.
