Developing and adult Sprague-Dawley rats were tested after acute or repeated haloperidol administration. Although 8-day-old rat pups showed a form of immobility in response to a single injection of haloperidol (1 mg/kg), 14-day-old rats did not show any behavioral response to the neuroleptic. By 21 days of age, an acute dose of haloperidol induced a cataleptic response similar to that described for adult animals. Following 7 days of repeated haloperidol administration, the cataleptogenic effects of haloperidol were attenuated in animals aged 21 days and older, but not in 8- and 14-day-old rats. Subjects were sacrificed 70 min after the injection of the test dose of haloperidol or saline and the corpus striatum and olfactory tubercles were dissected for HPLC determination of dopamine (DA) and its metabolites, homovanillic acid (HVA) and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC). In the corpus striatum, an area believed to be important for DA-related catalepsy, acute and repeated haloperidol induced a slight increase in concentrations of HVA in 8-day-old rats, and an increase in both DOPAC and HVA concentrations in animals aged 14 days and older. Tolerance after repeated haloperidol administration, in the form of an attenuation of the haloperidol-induced increase in DA metabolites, was not apparent until 35 days of age. These data contrast with the behavioral data, which indicate that the ability to develop a tolerance to the cataleptogenic effects of haloperidol matures by 21 days of age. The pattern of responses in the olfactory tubercles differed from those observed in the striatum. Following acute haloperidol, subjects did not show any increase in HVA until 14 days of age, and in both HVA and DOPAC until 21 days of age. At no age, including adults, was one week of repeated administration of haloperidol sufficient to induce tolerance to the effects of haloperidol on DA metabolites in the olfactory tubercles. In addition to providing information about the development of certain aspects of DA systems in rats, these studies suggest that an attenuation of the haloperidol-induced increase in DA metabolites is not necessary for the development of tolerance to haloperidol-induced catalepsy.
Ninety-six patients with life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias refractory to two or more conventional agents were treated with amiodarone and followed for 6 to 40 months (mean, 15 months). Currently, 75 are alive and well. Seven patients died from nonarrhythmic and five from arrhythmic causes. Nonfatal arrhythmias recurred in four patients, one with early and three with late onset. Intolerable side effects occurred in five patients but heart failure was not aggravated by the drug. On 24-hour Holter recordings done before and serially during therapy in 72 patients, amiodarone eliminated episodes of ventricular tachycardia and complex ectopy and reduced total ectopic beat counts by 90% or more in all but 4 patients. In contrast, ventricular tachycardia inducible by programmed electrical stimulation was suppressed in only 50% of patients, but failure of such suppression did not compromise an excellent clinical outcome. Thus, amiodarone is highly effective in the prophylaxis of recurrent refractory life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias.
Diabetes is a major independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease and stroke; however, the molecular and cellular mechanisms by which diabetes contributes to the development of vascular disease are not fully understood. Our previous studies demonstrated that endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress-inducing agents, including homocysteine, promote lipid accumulation and activate inflammatory pathways-the hallmark features of atherosclerosis. We hypothesize that the accumulation of intracellular glucosamine observed in diabetes may also promote atherogenesis via a mechanism that involves ER stress. In support of this theory, we demonstrate that glucosamine can induce ER stress in cell types relevant to the development of atherosclerosis, including human aortic smooth muscle cells, monocytes, and hepatocytes. Furthermore, we show that glucosamine-induced ER stress dysregulates lipid metabolism, leading to the accumulation of cholesterol in cultured cells. To examine the relevance of the ER stress pathway in vivo, we used a streptozotocin-induced hyperglycemic apolipoprotein E-deficient mouse model of atherosclerosis. Using molecular biological and histological techniques, we show that hyperglycemia is associated with tissue-specific ER stress, hepatic steatosis, and accelerated atherosclerosis. This novel mechanism may not only explain how diabetes and hyperglycemia promote atherosclerosis, but also provide a potential new target for therapeutic intervention.
Individual differences in cocaine-taking behavior and liability to develop abuse are clearly observed, but underlying mechanisms are still poorly understood. A role for gene-environment interactions has been proposed but remains hypothetical.
We investigated whether gene-environment interactions influence intravenous cocaine self-administration (SA) in mice. We tested the effect of a past short group housing experience on cocaine SA in two inbred strains of mice, the C57BL/6J (C57) and DBA/2J (DBA).
Adult C57 and DBA mice were individually housed upon arrival in the laboratory. After 3 weeks, half of the animals of each strain were group housed for 19 days. One week after the end of group housing, cocaine SA or measurement of brain cocaine levels took place.
Individually and ex-group-housed C57 mice did not differ for cocaine SA. On the contrary, the ex-group-housed DBA mice showed an upward shift in the dose-response curve as compared to individually housed DBA. Differences in brain cocaine levels could not account for the observed behavioral differences.
These results demonstrate that vulnerability to cocaine reinforcing effects can be affected by gene-environment interactions. We propose a mouse model for the characterization of gene-environment interactions in the vulnerability to cocaine-taking behavior.
Human studies suggest that chromium picolinate (CrPic) decreases insulin levels and improves glucose disposal in obese and type 2 diabetic populations. To evaluate whether CrPic may aid in treatment of the insulin resistance syndrome, we assessed its effects in JCR:LA-corpulent rats, a model of this syndrome. Male lean and obese hyperinsulinemic rats were randomly assigned to receive oral CrPic [80 microg/(kg. d); n = 5 or 6, respectively) in water or to control conditions (water, n = 5). After 3 mo, a 120-min intraperitoneal glucose tolerance test (IPGTT) and a 30-min insulin tolerance test were performed. Obese rats administered CrPic had significantly lower fasting insulin levels (1848 +/- 102 vs. 2688 +/- 234 pmol/L; P < 0.001; mean +/- SEM) and significantly improved glucose disappearance (P < 0.001) compared with obese controls. Glucose and insulin areas under the curve for IPGTT were significantly less for obese CrPic-treated rats than in obese controls (P < 0.001). Obese CrPic-treated rats had lower plasma total cholesterol (3.57 +/- 0.28 vs. 4.11 +/- 0.47 mmol/L, P < 0.05) and higher HDL cholesterol levels (1.92 +/- 0.09 vs. 1.37 +/- 0.36 mmol/L, P < 0.01) than obese controls. CrPic did not alter plasma glucose or cholesterol levels in lean rats. Total skeletal muscle glucose transporter (Glut)-4 did not differ among groups; however, CrPic significantly enhanced membrane-associated Glut-4 in obese rats after insulin stimulation. Thus, CrPic supplementation enhances insulin sensitivity and glucose disappearance, and improves lipids in male obese hyperinsulinemic JCR:LA-corpulent rats.
Lipodermatosclerosis (LDS) is a prototypic ischemic dermopathy that is most commonly associated with venous insufficiency. There have been no prior reports describing LDS as a form of radiation recall dermatitis (RRD). We present a case of a 47-year-old female affected by squamous cell carcinoma of the anus who underwent irradiation and subsequent chemotherapy with 5-fluorouracil and cisplatin. She then developed tender, erythematous, indurated plaques on skin of the buttocks, corresponding closely to one of the previous radiotherapy fields. As histopathological studies were compatible with LDS and the skin eruption coincided with drug intake 3 months after radiotherapy, the diagnosis of RRD with LDS features was rendered. This is the first case providing evidence of the causative role of 5-fluorouracil and cisplatin in potentially inducing RRD.
1. The ability of three putative polyamine antagonists to antagonize behavioural changes induced by spermine was assessed. 2. Injection of an excitotoxic dose of spermine (100 microg, i.c.v.) in mice results in the development of a characteristic behavioural profile, which has two temporally distinct phases. The early events include clonic convulsions, and the later, more general excitation, includes tremor and culminates in the development of a fatal tonic convulsion. 3. Co-administration of arcaine (25 microg, i.c.v.) potentiated the early phase effects after spermine injection, but antagonized the development of spermine-induced tonic convulsions. A larger dose of arcaine (50 microg, i.c.v.) given alone resulted in the development of spermine-like body tremor and convulsions. It therefore appears that arcaine is not a pure polyamine antagonist in vivo, but may be a partial agonist. 4. Similarly, 1,10-diaminodecane appeared to act as a partial agonist in vivo, although it was less potent than arcaine. 5. In contrast, diethylenetriamine (DET) effectively inhibited the development of the early effects of spermine, but was ineffective against the spermine-induced CNS excitation and tonic convulsions. 6. It is concluded that none of the putative polyamine antagonists tested behaved as effective polyamine antagonists in vivo, although each produced some antagonism.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-α (PPARα) is a dietary lipid sensor, whose activation results in hypolipidemic effects. In this study, we investigated whether PPARα activation affects energy metabolism in white adipose tissue (WAT). Activation of PPARα by its agonist (bezafibrate) markedly reduced adiposity in KK mice fed a high-fat diet. In 3T3-L1 adipocytes, addition of GW7647, a highly specific PPARα agonist, during adipocyte differentiation enhanced glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase activity, insulin-stimulated glucose uptake, and adipogenic gene expression. However, triglyceride accumulation was not increased by PPARα activation. PPARα activation induced expression of target genes involved in FA oxidation and stimulated FA oxidation. In WAT of KK mice treated with bezafibrate, both adipogenic and FA oxidation-related genes were significantly upregulated. These changes in mRNA expression were not observed in PPARα-deficient mice. Bezafibrate treatment enhanced FA oxidation in isolated adipocytes, suppressing adipocyte hypertrophy. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay revealed that PPARα was recruited to promoter regions of both adipogenic and FA oxidation-related genes in the presence of GW7647 in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. These findings indicate that the activation of PPARα affects energy metabolism in adipocytes, and PPARα activation in WAT may contribute to the clinical effects of fibrate drugs.
To compare the therapeutic effects and reactions of intra venous arsenic trioxide and all-trans retinoic acid in treating patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL).
75 cases of APL were randomized either to arsenic trioxide (37) or to all-trans retinoic acid (38). The rates of complete remission (CR), disease free survival (DFS) and side effects were observed.
In the two groups of patients with APL, the rate of CR was 86.4% and 84.2%. There was also no significant difference in the rate of DSF phase of CR (P > 0.05). The side effects of these two medications in therapeutic dose were mild and there was no cross resistance between them.
Arsenic trioxide can lead to apoptosis of leukemic cells and might be a new promising drug to induce differentiation.
1 Clostridium perfringens beta-toxin causes dermonecrosis and oedema in the dorsal skin of animals. In the present study, we investigated the mechanisms of oedema induced by the toxin. 2 The toxin induced plasma extravasation in the dorsal skin of Balb/c mice. 3 The extravasation was significantly inhibited by diphenhydramine, a histamine 1 receptor antagonist. However, the toxin did not cause the release of histamine from mouse mastocytoma cells. 4 Tachykinin NK(1) receptor antagonists, [D-Pro(2), D-Trp(7,9)]-SP, [D-Pro(4), D-Trp(7,9)]-SP and spantide, inhibited the toxin-induced leakage in a dose-dependent manner. Furthermore, the non-peptide tachykinin NK(1) receptor antagonist, SR140333, markedly inhibited the toxin-induced leakage. 5 The leakage induced by the toxin was markedly reduced in capsaicin-pretreated mouse skin but the leakage was not affected by systemic pretreatment with a calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor antagonist (CGRP(8-37)). 6 The toxin-induced leakage was significantly inhibited by the N-type Ca(2+) channel blocker, omega-conotoxin MVIIA, and the bradykinin B(2) receptor antagonist, HOE140 (D-Arg-[Hyp(3), Thi(5), D-Tic(7), Oic(8)]-bradykinin), but was not affected by the selective L-type Ca(2+) channel blocker, verapamil, the P-type Ca(2+) channel blocker, omega-agatoxin IVA, tetrodotoxin (TTX), the TTX-resistant Na(+) channel blocker, carbamazepine, or the sensory nerve conduction blocker, lignocaine. 7 These results suggest that plasma extravasation induced by beta-toxin in mouse skin is mediated via a mechanism involving tachykinin NK(1) receptors.
Childhood absence epilepsy is an idiopathic, generalized, nonconvulsive epilepsy with a multifactorial genetic etiology. The KCNK9 gene coding for the TASK3 (Twik-like acid-sensitive K</U)+) channel is present on chromosome 8 at position 8q24, a locus that has shown positive linkage to the human absence epilepsy phenotype. Sequencing of the KCNK9 gene in the genetic absence epilepsy rats from Strasbourg (GAERS), a well established genetic model of this disease, reveals an additional alanine residue in a polyalanine tract within the C-terminal intracellular domain. This additional alanine is absent in the inbred nonepileptic control (NEC) strain, Wistar, and Wistar albino Glaxo strain bred in Rijswijk, another inbred rat model of absence epilepsy. Expression of the mutant channel in CHO cells produces a K+ current that is blocked by acidic pH and millimolar concentrations of barium or ruthenium red and is not different from the wild-type channel. In brain slices, thalamic neurons display a prominent pH-sensitive tonic K+ current, but no difference was observed between GAERS and NEC or Wistar rats. Ruthenium red had no effect in cortical, reticular thalamic, or sensory thalamic neurons in either GAERS or NEC, indicating that the TASK3 homodimer is not present in these structures. Twik-like acid-sensitive K+(TASK3) channels, therefore, are probably associated with TASK1 to form ruthenium red-insensitive heterodimers in these neurons. Finally, no difference was found between GAERS and NEC rats in the modulation of the leak K+ current following activation of muscarinic receptors. These studies describe the first mutation found in a genetic model of absence epilepsy. Although our experiments showed no difference in the leak K+ current between GAERS and NEC rats, further work is needed to ascertain whether this mutation contributes to the generation of absence seizures, possibly by mechanisms related to the expansion of the polyalanine run.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the neurologic consequences of deliberate subarachnoid injection of large volumes of 2-chloroprocaine-CE in experimental animals. The possible role of low pH as well as total volume as potential factors in causing neurotoxicity was evaluated. The 65 dogs in the study received injections in the subarachnoid space as follows: 6 to 8 ml of bupivacaine (N = 15), 2-chloroprocaine-CE (N = 20), low pH normal saline (pH 3.0) (N = 20), or normal saline (N = 10). Of the 20 animals that received subarachnoid injection of 2-chloroprocaine-CE seven (35%) developed hind-limb paralysis. None of the animals that received bupivacaine, normal saline, or normal saline titrated to a pH 3.0 developed hind-limb paralysis. Of the 15 spinal cords of the animals that received 2-chloroprocaine-CE, 13 showed subpial necrosis; the nerve roots and subarachnoid vessels were normal. The spinal cords of the animals that received bupivacaine, low pH normal saline (pH 3.0), or normal saline did not show abnormal findings.
This study investigated the effects of long-term treatment with glibenclamide (GLIB) on the susceptibility of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic heart to ischemia/reperfusion insults. Starting 4 weeks after the injection of STZ, rats were treated with GLIB (0.1 mg/kg, ip, three times a week, STZ-GLIB group) or vehicle (STZ-VEH group) for 8 weeks. The recovery of cardiac performance, released creatine kinase (CK), and incidence of ventricular arrhythmias were studied during the reperfusion period in isolated hearts from rats in STZ-GLIB (n = 14) and in STZ-VEH groups (n = 13) and from age-matched control rats (CNT group, n = 14). Each heart was subjected to 5 min of global low-flow ischemia followed by 25 min of no-flow ischemia, with a subsequent 30 min of reperfusion. Plasma glucose level was not significantly different between the STZ-GLIB and STZ-VEH groups. The recovery of cardiac performance and the released CK during reperfusion period were significantly lower in both STZ-VEH and STZ-GLIB groups than in the CNT group (P < 0.01 and P < 0.05, respectively). Reperfusion resulted in an incidence of ventricular fibrillation in 23% and 21% in STZ-VEH and STZ-GLIB groups, respectively (P = ns). These values were significantly lower than that of the CNT group (100%, P < 0.001 for both). More importantly, the incidence of ventricular tachycardia in the STZ-GLIB group was significantly higher than that in the STZ-VEH group (93% vs 54%, P < 0.05) and was not significantly different from that in the CNT group (93% vs 100%, P = ns). The results suggest that STZ-induced protection against reperfusion-induced ventricular arrhythmias in diabetic heart may be partially abrogated by long-term treatment with GLIB.
The influence of (+)- and (-)-oxaprotiline (OXA) given repeatedly on the behavioural effects mediated by alpha 1- and alpha 2-adrenoceptors as well as on the binding to brain alpha 1-adrenoceptors was studied. (+)-OXA given repeatedly for 14 days (but not 3 or 7 days) enhanced exploratory hyperactivity of rats induced by methoxamine injected intracerebroventricularly; (-)-OXA given for 3, but not 7 or 14 days, increased the methoxamine-induced exploration in rats. The locomotor hyperactivity induced in mice by d,1-threo-3,4-dihydroxyphenylserine was increased by repeated (14 days) (-)-OXA but not (+)-OXA. Neither OXA enantiomers given repeatedly modified the clonidine-induced locomotor hypoactivity in mice. Both enantiomers given repeatedly did not change the binding of [3H] prazosin to alpha 1-adrenoceptors (Bmax, KD) in the thalamus and hippocampus. Repeated (+)-OXA increased the affinity of alpha 1-adrenoceptors for phenylephrine in the cortex, thalamus and hippocampus. A similar effect of (-)-OXA was observed in the hippocampus only. The results indicate that both OXA enantiomers are able to enhance the responsiveness of brain alpha 1-adrenergic system, probably via the increase in the affinity of alpha 1-adrenoceptors for their agonists.
Previous work has shown that niacin deficiency in rats increases the severity of ethylnitrosourea (ENU)-induced anemia and leukopenia and the long-term development of cancer. The current study was initially designed to characterize changes in bone marrow cell populations during ENU treatment in this model. Weanling Long-Evans rats were fed diets containing 0 or 30 mg/kg of added niacin for a period of 2-3 wk. ENU treatment started after 1 wk of feeding and consisted of either 4 or 8 doses of ENU delivered by gavage, every other day. Niacin deficiency (ND) alone caused a significant depression in nucleated red blood cells (30%), and a sporadic effect on granulocytes (+23% after 4 doses of vehicle, -29% after 8 doses of vehicle). ENU treatment, after only 4 doses, caused a large decline in the numbers of bone marrow cells, and this effect was enhanced by ND (ENU decreased lymphocytes by 66% in pair-fed (PF) and 86% in ND, granulocytes by 41% in PF and 64% in ND, and nucleated red blood cells by 63% in PF and 71% in ND). Cell cycle distribution suggested that bone marrow cells in niacin-adequate rats, but not ND rats, mounted a compensatory proliferative response during chronic ENU exposure. ND alone caused an 80% decrease in bone marrow NAD+ levels at all time points. Surprisingly, chronic exposure to ENU (which should cause DNA damage and NAD+ utilization) led to a 2.8-fold increase in NAD+ content in ND marrow cells. This finding led to a second study in which ND and niacin-adequate PF control rats received 7 doses of ENU or vehicle (CON), after which all rats received 1 dose of ENU. In this study, modestly enhanced bone marrow NAD+ in chronically treated PF rats was used to synthesize 2-fold greater amounts of poly(ADP-ribose) than seen after one acute dose of ENU, while this did not occur in chronically treated ND rats, in spite of a 2.8-fold increase in bone marrow NAD+. This study has shown that bone marrow cell populations are sensitized to ENU treatment by ND, that NAD+ pools are regulated in response to DNA damage, and that NAD+ localization and/or utilization in the nucleus is altered during ND and chronic DNA damage.
The clinical usefulness of naftopidil was evaluated in 122 patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia for urinary tract symptoms and signs, focused in particular on nocturia.
A total of 122 patients with BPH whose symptoms did not improve after 6 weeks of tamsulosin administration were enrolled. After the treatment was followed by a washout period with placebo, patients were prescribed 75 mg of naftopidil to be taken after dinner for 6 weeks, and the efficacy was re-evaluated. All the drugs used were unidentified, and attention was given to not have the patients recognize the change in the drug given. The primary purpose of this study was the improvement of nocturia in patients with a poor response to tamsulosin. The clinical efficacy of naftopidil was defined as significant improvement in International Prostate Symptom Score, quality-of-life index, and maximal urinary flow rate.
After 6 weeks of naftopidil administration, significant improvements in daytime and nighttime frequency, International Prostate Symptom Score, quality-of-life index, maximal flow rate, average flow rate, and bladder compliance were examined. On the International Prostate Symptom Score questionnaire, improvement in the sensation of the bladder not emptying and a reduction in nighttime frequency stood out. Moreover, detrusor overactivity was observed in 40 patients before the start of treatment and was eliminated in 31. The effective rate of this study was 69.7% (85/122).
Naftopidil has novel effects in patients with BPH whose main complaints are storage and voiding symptoms, especially that of nocturia of >or=3 times, as well as in patients with a low compliance bladder and detrusor overactivity, who did not respond to tamsulosin.
The prevalence of major depressive disorder in patients with acute coronary syndromes (ACSs) is high and associated with worse cardiovascular outcomes and higher health care costs. Sertraline is the only treatment for major depressive disorder studied in a placebo-controlled trial of patients with ACS and found to be safe and effective. The cost implications of providing antidepressant treatment in this population have not yet been examined. The objective was to evaluate from a payer perspective the potential reduction in costs and psychiatric and cardiovascular events and procedures following sertraline versus placebo treatment of major depressive disorder in patients hospitalized for ACS.
Data were analyzed from a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled 24-week trial (Sertraline Antidepressant Heart Attack Randomized Trial) of sertraline treatment for major depressive disorder in patients hospitalized for ACS. Main outcome measures included frequency and costs (derived from Medicare diagnosis-related group fee schedules) of psychiatric and cardiovascular events occurring during the treatment period.
There was a trend toward significantly fewer psychiatric or cardiovascular hospitalizations in the sertraline compared with the placebo group (55/186 vs. 76/183; p = .054). The mean per patient cost associated with psychiatric and medical events over the course of treatment was 2733 US dollars for sertraline and 3326 US dollars for placebo, but the difference was not statistically significant (p = .32). After including the costs of the sertra-line (360 US dollars over 24 weeks), there was no increase in treatment costs for sertraline compared with placebo.
Sertraline treatment of major depressive disorder following hospitalization for a recent myocardial infarction or unstable angina appears to be a cost-effective strategy.
Postoperative analgesia and the side effects of epidurally injected morphine were investigated in a double-blind study. Following lumbar epidural anesthesia for orthopedic operations, 174 patients received, in a randomized, double-blind fashion, either 0.1 mg/kg of morphine epidurally, 0.1 mg/kg of morphine intramuscularly, or saline epidurally at the end of surgery. Following epidural morphine, postoperative pain was les frequent, less intense and of shorter duration, use of analgesics and sedative was less frequent; and the postoperative feeling of well-being rated better than after systemic morphine or epidural saline. These effects were more frequent when bupivacaine was used for operative epidural anesthesia than when mepivacaine was used. The results were age independent. Side effects following epidural morphine included pruritus and disturbances of micturition. Nausea, vomiting, fatigue, and headache were of comparable frequency in the three groups.
Beta-adrenoceptor blockade is established therapy for cardiovascular conditions including hypertension and angina pectoris. The important qualities of a beta-adrenoceptor antagonist relate to cardioselectivity, hydrophilicity, peripheral vasodilation, ideal pharmacokinetics and maintenance of the quality of life. Celiprolol, with its known cardioselectivity, hydrophilicity and peripheral vasodilator capacity, measures well by several of these criteria; more data on pharmacokinetics are required. Further testing is indicated, particularly in relation to effects on epinephrine-induced hypokalemia, blood lipid profiles, clinical vasodilatory properties and effects on the quality of life, especially in geriatric patients.
Omi/HtrA2 is a novel protein that contributes to the regulation of mitochondrial apoptosis after a variety of cell death stimuli in vitro and is thought to negatively control the inhibitor-of-apoptosis protein (IAP) family. However, the Omi/HtrA2 pathway remains unknown in apoptotic neuronal cell death in vivo. To examine the role of the Omi/HtrA2 pathway and its relationship to oxidative stress after reperfusion following cerebral ischemia, we used a transient focal cerebral ischemia (tFCI) model in copper/zinc-superoxide dismutase (SOD1) transgenic mice and wild-type mice. We evaluated the link between the Omi/HtrA2 pathway and the caspase cascade reaction after tFCI by administration of a pan-caspase inhibitor, Z-VAD-FMK. We observed the time-dependent expression of Omi/HtrA2 and its binding to X-chromosome-linked IAP (Omi/XIAP) by immunohistochemistry, Western blotting and coimmunoprecipitation. Translocation of Omi/HtrA2 into the cytosolic space was detected during the early period after tFCI and was not affected by Z-VAD-FMK administration, but it was prevented by SOD1 overexpression. Coimmunoprecipitation revealed that Omi/XIAP transiently increased and that it was prevented by SOD1 overexpression. These results suggest that the Omi/HtrA2 pathway may play an important role in the progress of apoptotic neuronal cell death and that overexpression of SOD1 may attenuate this apoptotic cell death by preventing the Omi/HtrA2 cell signaling pathway.
Despite the importance of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)(2C) (serotonin) receptors in the control of depressive states, actions of antidepressants at these receptors remain poorly characterized. This issue was addressed both in human embryonic kidney (HEK)-293 cells coexpressing unedited human 5-HT(2CINI) receptors and Galpha(q) protein and in cultured mouse cortical neurons. Indicative of constitutive activity, the inverse agonist SB206,553 decreased basal inositol phosphate (IP) production in HEK-293 cells. The tetracyclic antidepressants mirtazapine and mianserin likewise suppressed basal IP formation. Conversely, the tricyclics amitriptyline and clomipramine, the m-chlorophenylpiperazine derivatives trazodone and nefazodone, and the 5-HT reuptake inhibitors fluoxetine and citalopram were inactive alone, although they blocked 5-HT-induced IP production. Inverse agonist actions of 5-methyl-1-(3-pyridylcarbamoyl)-1,2,3,5-tetrahydropyrrolo[2,3-f]indole (SB206,553) and mirtazapine were abolished by the neutral antagonist 6-chloro-5-methyl-1-[6-(2-methylpyridin-3-yloxy)pyridin-3-ylcarbamoyl]indoline (SB242,084), which was inactive alone. As assessed by confocal microscopy and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, prolonged treatment of HEK-293 cells with SB206,553, mirtazapine, or mianserin, but not the other antidepressants, enhanced cell surface expression of 5-HT(2C) receptors: 5-HT-induced IP production was also increased, and both these actions were blocked by SB242,084. Cortical neurons were shown by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction to predominantly express constitutively active 5-HT(2C) receptor isoforms. Prolonged pretreatment with SB206,553 or mirtazapine triggered an otherwise absent 5-HT-induced elevation in cytosolic Ca(2+) concentrations. SB242,084, which was inactive alone, abolished these effects of SB206,553 and mirtazapine. In conclusion, the tetracyclic antidepressants mirtazapine and mianserin, but not other clinically established antidepressants, suppress constitutive activity at recombinant and native 5-HT(2C) receptors. The clinical significance of inverse agonist versus neutral antagonist properties both during and after drug administration will be of interest to elucidate.
Activating mutations of the calcium-sensing receptor (CaR) can cause isolated hypoparathyroidism. Treatment of hypocalcemia in these patients remains to be optimized, because the use of 1-hydroxylated vitamin D3 derivatives can cause hypercalciuria and nephrocalcinosis. We identified activating CaR mutations in 8 (42%) of 19 unrelated probands with isolated hypoparathyroidism. The severity of hypocalcemic symptoms at diagnosis was independent of age, mutation type, or mode of inheritance but was related to the degree of hypocalcemia; serum Ca was 1.97 +/- 0.08, 1.82 +/- 0.14, and 1.54 +/- 0.22 mmol/liter, respectively, in asymptomatic (n = 7), mildly symptomatic (n = 8), and severely symptomatic patients (n = 6). Hypocalcemia segregated with the CaR mutation, but no phenotype-genotype relationships were identified. Fourteen patients received regular 1-hydroxylated vitamin D3 treatment (mean duration, 7.2 +/- 4.9 yr). Nine had hypercalciuric episodes, which were associated with nephrocalcinosis in eight cases. Serum Ca during treatment predicted hypercalciuria and nephrocalcinosis poorly, because either or both of the latter could develop in hypocalcemic patients. Thus, mutational analysis of the CaR gene should be considered early in the work-up of isolated hypoparathyroidism. Treatment options should be weighed carefully in patients with serum Ca below 1.95 mmol/liter. The risk of nephrocalcinosis during treatment can be minimized by carefully monitoring urinary Ca excretion.
Olanzapine is a second-generation atypical antipsychotic drug (AAPD). Major side effects of olanzapine are weight gain and development of diabetes mellitus, which are risk factors of cardiovascular diseases. The possible causes of metabolic adverse effects are known as poor satiety and increased food intake due to blockade of receptors such as 5-HT(2C) in CNS. In this study, we examine the effect of olanzapine on peripheral adipogenesis using cultured 3T3-L1 cell model. Olanzapine increased triacylglyceride (TG) accumulation during 3T3-L1 preadipocyte differentiation to mature adipocyte phenotype. TG accumulation was accompanied by overexpression of fatty acid synthase and adiponectin that are the downstream genes of sterol regulatory element binding protein-1 (SREBP-1), one of the key transcription factors in lipid homeostasis. We further consisted that mostly SREBP-1 and at a lesser extent peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR-gamma), but not CCAAT/enhancer binding protein-alpha (C/EBP-alpha), were overexpressed and activated in 3T3-L1 adipocytes exposed to olanzapine. Furthermore, we showed that olanzapine enhanced the activity of SRE-1-containing LDLR promoter in transfected 3T3-L1 adipocytes and HepG2 cells. Taken together, olanzapine may cause body weight gain not only through influencing CNS receptors, but also affecting the peripheral adipogenesis regulated by SREBP-1.
Resveratrol, a polyphenol mainly present in grapes and red wine, demonstrated varied pharmacological activities. The protective effects of resveratrol on acute lung injury (ALI) induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) have remained elusive. The present study investigated whether the protective effect of resveratrol on ALI induced by LPS was via inhibiting the myeloid differentiation primary response gene (myd88)‑dependent toll‑like receptor (TLR)4 signaling pathway. Mice were pretreated with 5 or 45 mg/kg resveratrol for three days prior to bronchial perfusion with 25 mg/kg LPS. At 12 h after surgery, the ratio of the wet to the dry (w/d) lung was calculated to assess tissue edema. Histological changes of the lungs were detected using hematoxylin and eosin staining and the protein expression levels of TLR4, myd88 and nuclear factor kappa‑light‑chain‑enhancer of activated B cells (NF‑κB) were measured by western blot analysis. The concentration of interleukin (IL)‑6 and cyclooxygenase (COX)‑2 in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid were detected by ELISA. The results showed that resveratrol can suppress the edema, inﬂammatory cell inﬁltration and alveolar structure damage of lungs in mice with ALI and decrease the lung w/d ratio. Additionally, resveratrol markedly decreased the expression of TLR4, myd88 and NF‑κB and decreased the concentration of inﬂammatory cytokines, including IL‑6 and COX‑2. Therefore, it can be concluded that resveratrol has a protective effect against ALI induced by LPS, at least in part by inhibiting the myd88‑dependent TLR4 signaling pathway. In conclusion, resveratrol pretreatment has a protective effect against LPS‑induced ALI in mice, which indicates that resveratrol may serve as a potential therapeutic agent for treating ALI in the clinic.
