Halofuginone, an inhibitor of collagen synthesis, prevented and caused resolution of established hepatic fibrosis. A genomic approach in vivo was used to search for additional genes responsible for halofuginone mode of action.
Fibrosis was induced in rats by thioacetamide (TAA) and evaluated by collagen type I gene expression and the levels of collagen, tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases-2 and smooth-muscle actin. Halofuginone was given in the diet. cDNA from liver biopsies was hybridized on Atlas arrays comprising of 588 genes. The results were confirmed by Northern blots and in situ hybridization.
Insulin-like growth factor binding protein-1 (IGFBP-1) was one of the 13 genes differentially expressed in the fibrotic liver after halofuginone treatment. After 2 and 4 weeks, halofuginone prevented the TAA-induced down-regulation of IGFBP-1 gene expression. Halofuginone also prevented the TAA-dependent changes in IGFBP-3 gene expression. Halofuginone affected IGFBP-1 synthesis in rat hepatocytes and cells of hepatocyte origin and caused time- and dose-dependent increases in the IGFBP-1 gene expression and synthesis by HepG2 cells. The IGFBP-1 secreted by HepG2-inhibited stellate cell motility.
Halofuginone is an anti-fibrotic drug that inhibits collagen synthesis by stellate cells and preventing alteration in the synthesis of IGFBPs by hepatic cells.
Estimates of human risk for developmental toxicity of methanol (MeOH) are based on studies in rodents, which unlike humans use catalase to metabolize MeOH. Rabbits, like humans, may largely use alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH), and more accurately than rodents reflect primate MeOH and formic acid (FA) pharmacokinetic profiles. Here we show that New Zealand white rabbits and one strain of mouse (C3H) are resistant to MeOH teratogenicity, whereas C57BL/6J mice are susceptible. Neither rabbits nor mice were susceptible to the acute MeOH toxicity observed in humans. The strain-dependent teratological susceptibility in mice could not be explained by differences in MeOH or FA disposition, nor could the resistance of rabbits, which exhibited more prolonged FA accumulation, suggesting that different mechanisms underlie MeOH teratogenesis and the FA-mediated acute toxicity in humans. It is not clear if the human risk for MeOH developmental toxicity can be accurately estimated using sensitive rodent strains.
An 18-year old woman admitted for tonsillectomy developed prolonged post-operative paralysis after anaesthesia with mivacurium. Investigation revealed a decreased cholinesterase activity because of a homozygous atypical and heterozygous K variant of the cholinesterase gene. Transfusion of fresh frozen plasma was associated with reversal of the respiratory paralysis and complete recovery.
The carcinogenic and cocarcinogenic action of phenobarbital sodium was investigated in adult BALB/c mice of both sexes when administered alone at a concentration of 0.05% in drinking water for life or after the animals had been treated with a single hydrazine sulphate dose of 5.65 mg. The results demonstrated that phenobarbital sodium is not carcinogenic in this strain of mice, but, since a single dose of hydrazine sulphate was carcinogenic, does not clarify whether it is a cocarcinogen in the lung.
An absent response to the niacin skin test has been reported to occur in about 80% of schizophrenic patients, as compared to 20% of healthy individuals. Niacin provokes redness in skin caused by a capillary vasodilatation mediated by prostaglandins. The metabolism of prostaglandins is regulated by the enzyme phospholipase A2 (PLA2). Several studies have reported increased PLA2 activity in schizophrenia. In this study we investigated the relationship between niacin response and PLA2 activity in 38 drug-free schizophrenic patients and in 28 healthy controls. Twenty-two of these patients were reevaluated after 8 weeks under treatment with new generation antipsychotic drugs. Niacin response was absent in 23% of the schizophrenic patients and in 14% in controls (n.s.). PLA2 activity was higher in schizophrenics than in controls (344+/-115 vs. 290+/-71 pmol/ml/min; p=0.03). Patients with absent response to niacin had the highest PLA2 activity as compared to those with positive response (426+/-155 vs. 319+/-111; p=0.02). After 8 weeks on antipsychotic treatment, PLA2 activity was reduced (355+/-115 before, 267+/-39 after, p=0.001) and 4 out of 13 patients with absent response to niacin converted to positive. The reduction of PLA2 activity in these patients was higher than in patients who remained with absent response (36% vs. 23%). Our data support the findings that absent response to niacin is more frequent in schizophrenic than in healthy individuals although the magnitude of the difference was smaller than that reported in the literature. The relationship between absent response to niacin in schizophrenia and increased PLA2 activity suggests further that the skin test may be useful to easily identify a subgroup of patients with a disordered phospholipid metabolism.
Cigarette smoking leads to female infertility and a decreased incidence of endometriosis. Bone marrow derived stem cells are recruited to uterine endometrium and endometriosis. The effect of cigarette smoking on stem cell recruitment to any organ is uncharacterized. We hypothesized that bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cell recruitment to the uterus and differentiation would be diminished by cigarette smoke. We used human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSC) in vitro and a mouse model of cigarette smoke exposure. After myeloablation female C57BL/6J received bone marrow cells from males. Mice were exposed to room air or smoke from unfiltered cigarettes. Immunofluorescence and Y-FISH was performed on uterine sections. In vitro hMSCs were treated with 8-Br-cAMP to induce endometrial cell differentiation with or without cigarette smoke extract (CSE) and decidualization assessed morphologically and by prolactin expression. After 4 weeks the total number of Y-chromosome cells in the uterus was reduced by 68% in the smoke exposed mice. Both leukocytes and bone marrow derived endometrial cells were reduced by 60% and 73%, respectively. Differentiation of bone marrow derived cell to endometrial epithelial cells was reduced by 84%. hMSC treated with CSE failed to show cytological characteristics of decidualization. mRNA levels of the decidualization marker prolactin were decreased by 90% in CSE treated cells. Smoking inhibits both recruitment of bone marrow derived stem cells to uterus and stem cell differentiation. Inhibition of stem cells recruitment may be a general mechanism by which smoking leads to long term organ damage through inability to repair or regenerate multiple tissues.
Arsenic trioxide (As2O3) is a novel anticancer agent, which has been found to induce remission in acute promyelocytic leukaemic patients following daily intravenous administration. The therapeutic value of As2O3 in other cancers is still largely unknown. Cytotoxic tests in a panel of cancer cell lines showed that bladder cancer, acute promyelocytic leukaemic and gastrointestinal cancer cells were the most sensitive to As2O3 among 17 cell lines tested. Cellular glutathione (GSH) system plays an important role in arsenic detoxification in mammalian cells. Cancer cells that were intrinsically sensitive to As2O3 contained lower levels of GSH, whereas resistant cancer cells contained higher levels of GSH. On the other hand, there was no association of glutathione-S-transferase-pi or multidrug resistance-associated protein 1 levels with arsenic sensitivity in these cancer cells. Multidrug-resistant cancer cells that were cross-resistant to arsenic contained higher levels of GSH or multidrug-resistance-associated protein 1 than their drug-sensitive parental cells. Cancer cells become more sensitive to arsenic after depletion of cellular GSH with L-buthionine sulphoximine. We concluded that cellular GSH level is the most important determinant of arsenic sensitivity in cancer cells. Cellular GSH level and its modulation by buthionine sulphoximine should be considered in designing clinical trials using arsenic in solid tumours.
Effective topical antimicrobial agents decrease infection and mortality in burn patients. Chlorhexidine phosphanilate (CHP), a new broad-spectrum antimicrobial agent, has been evaluated as a topical burn wound dressing in cream form, but preliminary clinical trials reported that it was painful upon application. This study compared various concentrations of CHP to determine if a tolerable concentration could be identified with retention of antimicrobial efficacy. Twenty-nine burn patients, each with two similar burns which could be separately treated, were given pairs of treatments at successive 12-h intervals over a 3-day period. One burn site was treated with each of four different CHP concentrations, from 0.25 per cent to 2 per cent, their vehicle, and 1 per cent silver sulphadiazine (AgSD) cream, an antimicrobial agent frequently used for topical treatment of burn wounds. The other site was always treated with AgSD cream. There was a direct relationship between CHP concentration and patients' ratings of pain on an analogue scale. The 0.25 per cent CHP cream was closest to AgSD in pain tolerance; however, none of the treatments differed statistically from AgSD or from each other. In addition, ease of application of CHP creams was less satisfactory than that of AgSD. It was concluded that formulations at or below 0.5 per cent CHP may prove acceptable for wound care, but the vehicle system needs pharmaceutical improvement to render it more tolerable and easier to use.
Ion transporters of the Slc30A- (ZnT-) family regulate zinc fluxes into sub-cellular compartments. beta-cells depend on zinc for both insulin crystallization and regulation of cell mass.
This study examined: the effect of glucose and zinc chelation on ZnT gene and protein levels and apoptosis in beta-cells and pancreatic islets, the effects of ZnT-3 knock-down on insulin secretion in a beta-cell line and ZnT-3 knock-out on glucose metabolism in mice during streptozotocin-induced beta-cell stress. In INS-1E cells 2 mM glucose down-regulated ZnT-3 and up-regulated ZnT-5 expression relative to 5 mM. 16 mM glucose increased ZnT-3 and decreased ZnT-8 expression. Zinc chelation by DEDTC lowered INS-1E insulin content and insulin expression. Furthermore, zinc depletion increased ZnT-3- and decreased ZnT-8 gene expression whereas the amount of ZnT-3 protein in the cells was decreased. Zinc depletion and high glucose induced apoptosis and necrosis in INS-1E cells. The most responsive zinc transporter, ZnT-3, was investigated further; by immunohistochemistry and western blotting ZnT-3 was demonstrated in INS-1E cells. 44% knock-down of ZnT-3 by siRNA transfection in INS-1E cells decreased insulin expression and secretion. Streptozotocin-treated mice had higher glucose levels after ZnT-3 knock-out, particularly in overt diabetic animals.
Zinc transporting proteins in beta-cells respond to variations in glucose and zinc levels. ZnT-3, which is pivotal in the development of cellular changes as also seen in type 2 diabetes (e.g. amyloidosis in Alzheimer's disease) but not previously described in beta-cells, is present in this cell type, up-regulated by glucose in a concentration dependent manner and up-regulated by zinc depletion which by contrast decreased ZnT-3 protein levels. Knock-down of the ZnT-3 gene lowers insulin secretion in vitro and affects in vivo glucose metabolism after streptozotocin treatment.
In this study we investigated the effects of N-hexacosanol on streptozotocin-induced rat diabetic nephropathy. Diabetes was induced in 8-week-old male Sprague-Dawley rats by administering an intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin (50 mg/kg). The rats were divided into four groups and maintained for 8 weeks: control rats, diabetic rats without treatment with N-hexacosanol, and diabetic rats treated with N-hexacosanol (2 mg/kg and 8 mg/kg i.p. every day). Although N-hexacosanol failed to modify the diabetic status, increases in serum creatinine as well as in kidney weight were significantly reduced. The malonaldehyde and transforming growth factor beta-1 (TGF-beta1) concentrations as well as the protein kinase C (PKC) activities in the diabetic kidney were significantly higher than those of the control, which were decreased by treatment with N-hexacosanol. Histological examinations revealed that N-hexacosanol significantly ameliorated diabetic-induced tubulointerstitial pathological changes. Our data suggest that N-hexacosanol could prevent increases in the malonaldehyde and TGF-beta1 concentrations and PKC activities in the kidney, and ameliorate diabetic-induced nephropathy.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) induced gastric mucosal injury occurs through subsequent events following free radical production derived from activated neutrophils. In this study, we hypothesized that rebamipide, a novel anti-ulcer agent, exerts a protective effect on NSAID-induced gastric injury through its antioxidant properties. The protective effect of rebamipide in a mouse model of indomethacin-induced gastric injury and mechanisms for this effect were investigated. Pre-treatment with rebamipide significantly inhibited indomethacin-induced gastric mucosal injury in mice. Gastric thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) levels and myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity substantially increased 3 hr after indomethacin administration. These increases were significantly inhibited by pre-treatment with rebamipide. Furthermore, rebamipide pre-treatment notably decreased intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) expression that was up-regulated in gastric tissue treated with indomethacin. Therefore, rebamipide may reduce indomethacin-induced gastric mucosal injuries through its antioxidant effect, which inhibits the neutrophil activation step following up-regulation of ICAM-1 expression on endothelial cells.
Mast cell histamine (HA) and cysteinyl leukotrienes (CysLT) account for most of the early phase bronchospasm in asthma. However, activation of the smooth muscle CysLT1-receptor plays a major role in asthmatic bronchospasms. CysLT-receptor antagonists or CysLT-synthesis inhibitors are efficacious in asthma but do not completely abolish asthmatic bronchospasms. A recent clinical study showed that combined antagonists loratadine (H1) and zafirlukast (CysLT1) were more effective against allergic bronchospasms than either drug alone. We examined the combined efficacy of H1- and CysLT1-receptor antagonists in allergic human bronchus. The H1- and CysLT1-receptor antagonists chlorpheniramine (CTM; 1 microM) and MK-571 (0.03 microM), were tested alone and in combination, against anti-human IgE antibody (Ab)-induced contractions of passively sensitized isolated human bronchus. Ab-induced allergic contractions were reduced 15% and 36% by CTM (1 microM) and MK-571 (0.03 microM), respectively. Combined CTM (1 microM) and MK-571 (0.03 microM) significantly inhibited the Ab response by 87%. Mechanistic investigations in isolated human bronchus and cultured human cord blood mast cells suggest that H1- and CysLT-receptor interactions likely occur at the airway smooth muscle level. CTM and MK-571 synergistically inhibited human allergic bronchospasm in the present in vitro model. The mechanism underlying this synergistic activity requires further investigation.
Irinotecan hydrochloride (CPT-11) is a potent anti-cancer drug with suppressive effects against gastric and colorectal cancers. However, no evaluation of CPT-11 for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma has been performed in vivo. In this study, we examined the tumor suppressive effects of CPT-11 on N-nitrosomethylbenzylamine (NMBA)-induced rat esophageal tumorigenesis. One hundred and fourteen rats were divided into six groups. Rats in groups 1-5 were treated with subcutaneous injection of NMBA at a dose of 0.5 mg/kg 3 times per week for 5 weeks. Rats in group 6 served as a control. Rats in groups 2 and 3 were treated with intragastric (i.g.) administration of CPT-11 at doses of 20 and 40 mg/kg, respectively, once a week simultaneously with NMBA-initiation up to the end of the experiment. Rats in groups 4 and 5 were treated with i.g. administration of CPT-11 at doses of 20 and 40 mg/kg, respectively, once a week after the NMBA-initiation period up to the end of the experiment. The incidence of papilloma and hyperplasia in the esophagus showed no difference between NMBA-treated groups. However, the multiplicity of hyperplasia was significantly reduced in all CPT-11 administration groups. Immunohistochemically, expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) was decreased on carcinogen-exposed squamous epithelium and preneoplastic lesions, although no significant differences were detected in the expression of single-strand DNA (ssDNA) and p53. These data suggest that CPT-11 has suppressive effects for esophageal tumors in the early step of the multistep process of carcinogenesis through antiproliferative mechanism.
Inosine triphosphate pyrophosphohydrolase (ITPase) deficiency is a common inherited condition characterized by the abnormal accumulation of inosine triphosphate (ITP) in erythrocytes. The genetic basis and pathological consequences of ITPase deficiency are unknown. We have characterized the genomic structure of the ITPA gene, showing that it has eight exons. Five single nucleotide polymorphisms were identified, three silent (138G-->A, 561G-->A, 708G-->A) and two associated with ITPase deficiency (94C-->A, IVS2+21A-->C). Homozygotes for the 94C-->A missense mutation (Pro32 to Thr) had zero erythrocyte ITPase activity, whereas 94C-->A heterozygotes averaged 22.5% of the control mean, a level of activity consistent with impaired subunit association of a dimeric enzyme. ITPase activity of IVS2+21A-->C homozygotes averaged 60% of the control mean. In order to explore further the relationship between mutations and enzyme activity, we examined the association between genotype and ITPase activity in 100 healthy controls. Ten subjects were heterozygous for 94C-->A (allele frequency: 0.06), 24 were heterozygotes for IVS2+21A-->C (allele frequency: 0.13) and two were compound heterozygous for these mutations. The activities of IVS2+21A-->C heterozygotes and 94C-->A/IVS2+21A-->C compound heterozygotes were 60% and 10%, respectively, of the normal control mean, suggesting that the intron mutation affects enzyme activity. In all cases when ITPase activity was below the normal range, one or both mutations were found. The ITPA genotype did not correspond to any identifiable red cell phenotype. A possible relationship between ITPase deficiency and increased drug toxicity of purine analogue drugs is proposed.
Dehydroevodiamine has been reported to have anticholinesterase activity and an anti-amnesic effect. This study examined the effects of dehydroevodiamine on scopolamine- and beta-amyloid peptide-(25--35)-induced amnesia in mice, using a step-through passive avoidance test. Similarly to the cholinesterase inhibitor, physostigmine (0.03--0.3 mg/kg, i.p.), dehydroevodiamine (0.75--12.0 mg/kg, i.p.) administered 30 min before the training trial, immediately after the training trial, and 30 min before the retention test significantly improved scopolamine- and beta-amyloid peptide-(25--35)-induced amnesia. In beta-amyloid peptide-(25--35)-induced amnesia, the rank order of anti-amnesic potency in these three administration schedules for dehydroevodiamine was different from that for physostigmine. Furthermore, dehydroevodiamine was more potent to improve beta-amyloid peptide-(25--35)-induced amnesia than scopolamine-induced amnesia when administered before the training trial. These results suggested that dehydroevodiamine may have an action other than that of an anticholinesterase and may be a novel and effective ligand for improvement of beta-amyloid type amnesia.
The purpose of this work was to assess the effects of DPH on a developed epileptogenic focus in cats with split cerebral hemispheres. The investigations were carried out on 12 cats with a chronic epileptogenic focus produced by means of aluminum method in the right motor area. In all cats the epileptogenic focus was found in EEG. All animals received DPH in daily doses of 8-15 mg/kg. In 2 cats they appeared before beginning of treatment. One of these cats died after 3 days from status epilepticus, the other survived status epilepticus and died after 42 days of DPH administration with signs of intoxication. In 3 cats clinical seizures developed during DPH treatment after 30.84 and 210 days. DPH was given during from 171 to 314 days. Clinical seizures appeared in these cats only sporadically and the animals were sacrificed after completion of investigations. In 7 out of 12 cats clinical seizures failed to develop despite presence of bioelectrically active epileptogenic seizures in the right motor area. Administration of DPH in cats with developed epileptogenic focus failed to prevent clinical seizures. In cats with seizures their control was limited by drug toxicity. In all animals toxic effects were observed although the serum DPH level was in the range 8-20 mug/ml.
An angiogenic factor, platelet-derived endothelial cell growth factor/thymidine phosphorylase (PD-ECGF/TP), stimulates the chemotaxis of endothelial cells and confers resistance to apoptosis induced by hypoxia. 2-Deoxy-D-ribose, a degradation product of thymidine generated by TP, partially prevents hypoxia-induced apoptosis. TP is expressed at higher levels in tumor tissues compared to the adjacent non-neoplastic tissues in a variety of human carcinomas. High expression of TP is associated with an unfavorable prognosis. To investigate the effect of TP on cisplatin-induced apoptosis, human leukemia Jurkat cells were transfected with wild-type or mutant (L148R) TP cDNA. TP inhibited a number of steps in the cisplatin-induced apoptotic pathway, activation of caspases 3 and 9 and mitochondrial cytochrome c release. These findings suggest a mechanism by which TP confers resistance to apoptosis induced by cisplatin. Moreover, mutant TP that has no enzymatic activity also suppressed cisplatin-induced apoptosis. These findings indicate that TP has cytoprotective functions against cytotoxic agents which are independent of its enzymatic activity.
Hyperalimentation solutions have been shown to increase aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity in rats and rabbits. Lysine is a major constituent of hyperalimentation solutions and is known to inhibit tubular reabsorption of protein. To test the effects of lysine on renal function and structure and on aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity, three groups of rats were prepared. Groups 1 and 2 were infused with lysine (55 mumol/kg/min, 1.9 gm/kg total) for 4 hours. In group 2, gentamicin (60 mg/kg) was also infused during the third hour. In group 3, dextrose was given instead of lysine, and gentamicin was given as in group 2. In group 1 (lysine-saline solution), there was a decrease in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and an increase in 125I-albumin clearance factored by GFR. In group 2 (lysine-gentamicin), the same effects were seen, but the reduction in GFR was significantly greater. Group 3 (dextrose-gentamicin) showed no change in GFR over the 4-hour period, but did show an increase in 125I-albumin clearance factored by GFR. Fractional excretion of sodium rose in group 2 but not in groups 1 and 3. A gradual mild (20%) and nonsignificant fall in renal blood flow followed the combined administration of lysine and gentamicin. In separate 20-hour studies, lysine (1.9 gm/kg intraperitoneally) or gentamicin or tobramycin (60 mg/kg subcutaneously) produced mild renal failure, but the combination of lysine and an aminoglycoside produced substantially greater renal failure. Serum creatinine in experimental groups was significantly correlated with medullary cast formation and tubular necrosis (p less than 0.001). Giant lysosomes with crystalloid inclusions in proximal tubular cells, individual cell necrosis in the pars recta, and casts in the thin limb of the loop of Henle were seen in rats given lysine. We conclude that lysine alone and single large doses of aminoglycosides alone are nephrotoxic, and when the two are combined, toxicity is additive. The nephrotoxicity of lysine may be related to direct tubular toxicity and to tubular obstruction.
Glomerular basement membrane (GBM) were isolated from the kidneys of rats suffering from daunomycin nephrosis or nephrotoxic serum nephritis. The GBM from daunomycin nephrotic rats contained significantly less hydroxyproline, hydroxylysine and glycine than that of control rats. There was an increase in glucosamine content in the membrane. No significant change was found in the neutral sugar content. In nephrotoxic serum nephritis, the relative amounts of hydroxyproline, glycine and half-cystine were decreased, whereas the relative amounts of aspartic acid, alanine, lysine and hydroxylysine were increased. The ratio of hydroxyproline to proline and the ratio of hydroxylysine to lysine were decreased. An increase in sialic acid content and a decrease in fucose and hexosamine content and glucosyl-galactosyl-hydroxylysine content were noted in nephrotoxic nephritic GBM. These chemical structural alterations could accounted for the functional disorders of diseased GBM.
Aluminum (Al)-induced neurotoxicity is well known and different salts of aluminum have been reported to accelerate oxidative damage to biomolecules. The present study has examined whether silicon consumed in the form of silicic acid or beer could potentially inhibit aluminum toxicity in the brain. Male mice were administered with Al(NO(3))(3) orally at a dose of 450 mg/kg/day in drinking water for 3 month. Experimental mice were given Al(NO(3))(3) along with 50 mg/L of silicic acid or with 0.5 ml/day of beer. Al brain levels in the Al group were four times higher than those of control mice while silicic acid and beer group values were 40% lower than those of the Al group. We have observed that beer prevented accumulation of lipid damage significantly, which resulted from aluminum intake. Decline in the expression of mRNA of endogenous antioxidant enzymes associated with aluminum administration was also inhibited by beer and silicic acid. The tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) RNA expression was normalized in silicic acid and beer groups. Very high and significant correlations were found for the different parameters tested suggesting that moderate consumption of beer, due to its silicon content, effectively protects against the neurotoxic effects of aluminum.
There is current interest in understanding the molecular mechanisms of tumor-induced bone pain. Accumulated evidence shows that endogenous formaldehyde concentrations are elevated in the blood or urine of patients with breast, prostate or bladder cancer. These cancers are frequently associated with cancer pain especially after bone metastasis. It is well known that transient receptor potential vanilloid receptor 1 (TRPV1) participates in cancer pain. The present study aims to demonstrate that the tumor tissue-derived endogenous formaldehyde induces bone cancer pain via TRPV1 activation under tumor acidic environment.
Endogenous formaldehyde concentration increased significantly in the cultured breast cancer cell lines in vitro, in the bone marrow of breast MRMT-1 bone cancer pain model in rats and in tissues from breast cancer and lung cancer patients in vivo. Low concentrations (1 approximately 5 mM) of formaldehyde induced pain responses in rat via TRPV1 and this pain response could be significantly enhanced by pH 6.0 (mimicking the acidic tumor microenvironment). Formaldehyde at low concentrations (1 mM to 100 mM) induced a concentration-dependent increase of [Ca(2+)]i in the freshly isolated rat dorsal root ganglion neurons and TRPV1-transfected CHO cells. Furthermore, electrophysiological experiments showed that low concentration formaldehyde-elicited TRPV1 currents could be significantly potentiated by low pH (6.0). TRPV1 antagonists and formaldehyde scavengers attenuated bone cancer pain responses.
Our data suggest that cancer tissues directly secrete endogenous formaldehyde, and this formaldehyde at low concentration induces metastatic bone cancer pain through TRPV1 activation especially under tumor acidic environment.
Lapatinib and bortezomib are highly active against breast cancer cells. Breast cancer patients who initially respond to lapatinib may eventually manifest acquired resistance to this treatment. Thus, the identification of novel agents that may prevent or delay the development of acquired resistance to lapatinib is critical. In the current study, we show that the combination of lapatinib and bortezomib results in a synergistic growth inhibition in human epidermal receptor 2 (HER2)-overexpressing breast cancer cells and that the combination enhances apoptosis of SK-BR-3 cells. Importantly, we found that the combination of lapatinib plus bortezomib more effectively blocked activation of the HER2 pathway in SK-BR-3 cells, compared with monotherapy. In addition, we established a model of acquired resistance to lapatinib by chronically challenging SK-BR-3 breast cancer cells with increasing concentrations of lapatinib. Here, we showed that bortezomib notably induced apoptosis of lapatinib-resistant SK-BR-3 pools and further inhibited HER2 signaling in the resistant cells. Taken together, the current data indicate a synergistic interaction between lapatinib and bortezomib in HER2-overexpressing breast cancer cells and provide the rationale for the clinical evaluation of these two noncross-resistant targeted therapies. The combination of lapatinib and bortezomib may be a potentially novel approach to prevent or delay the onset of acquired resistance to lapatinib in HER2-overxpressing/estrogen receptor (ER)-negative breast cancers.
Oxidative stress has been implicated to play an important role in the pathogenesis of diabetic neuropathy, which is the most common complication of diabetes mellitus affecting more than 50% of diabetic patients. In the present study, we have investigated the effect of U83836E [(-)-2-((4-(2,6-Di-1-pyrrolidinyl-4-pyrimidinyl)-1-piperazinyl)methyl)-3,4-dihydro-2,3,7,8-tetramethyl-2H-1-benzopyran-6-ol, 2HCl], a potent free radical scavenger in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic neuropathy in rats. STZ-induced diabetic rats showed significant deficit in motor nerve conduction velocity (MNCV), nerve blood flow (NBF) and thermal hyperalgesia after 8 weeks of diabetes induction, indicating development of diabetic neuropathy. Antioxidant enzyme (superoxide dismutase and catalase) levels were reduced and malondialdehyde (MDA) levels were significantly increased in diabetic rats as compared to the age-matched control rats, this indicates the involvement of oxidative stress in diabetic neuropathy. The 2-week treatment with U83836E (3 and 9 mg/kg, i.p.) started 6 weeks after diabetes induction significantly ameliorated the alterations in MNCV, NBF, hyperalgesia, MDA levels and antioxidant enzymes in diabetic rats. Results of the present study suggest the potential of U83836E in treatment of diabetic neuropathy.
Preventing and reversing opioid dependence continues to be a clinical challenge and underlying mechanisms of opioid actions remain elusive. We report that matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) in the spinal cord contributes to development of physical dependence on morphine. Chronic morphine exposure and naloxone-precipitated withdrawal increase activity of spinal MMP-9. Spinal inhibition or targeted mutation of MMP-9 suppresses behavioral signs of morphine withdrawal and the associated neurochemical alterations. The increased MMP-9 activity is mainly distributed in the superficial dorsal horn and colocalized primarily with neurons and small numbers of astrocytes and microglia. Morphine exposure and withdrawal increase phosphorylation of NR1 and NR2B receptors, ERK1/2, calmodulin-dependent kinase II, and cAMP response element binding proteins; and such phosphorylation is suppressed by either spinal inhibition or targeted mutation of MMP-9. Further, spinal administration of exogenous MMP-9 induces morphine withdrawal-like behavioral signs and mechanical allodynia, activates NR1 and NR2 receptors, and downregulates integrin-beta1, while a function-neutralizing antibody against integrin-beta1 suppresses MMP-9-induced phosphorylation of NR1 and NR2B. Morphine withdrawal-induced MMP-9 activity is also reduced by an nNOS inhibitor. Thus, we hypothesize that spinal MMP-9 may contribute to the development of morphine dependence primarily through neuronal activation and interaction with NR1 and NR2B receptors via integrin-beta1 and NO pathways. The other gelatinase, MMP-2, is not involved in morphine dependence. Inhibiting spinal MMP-9 or MMP-2 reduces chronic and/or acute morphine tolerance. This study suggests a novel therapeutic approach for preventing, minimizing, or reversing opioid dependence and tolerance.
Lindane is widely used as an insecticide and scabicide in mammals. High doses in chronic exposures caused hyperexcitability and convulsions and impaired motor activity involving GABA-ergic mechanism. To investigate the role of GABA/Benzodiazepine mechanism in the neurotoxicity of low doses of lindane, rats were administered 2, 3, or 5 mg/kg orally for 90 days and behavioural, electrophysiological, and neurochemical studies were conducted. The animals exposed to lindane exhibited increased geotaxis and decreased spontaneous drug-induced locomotor activity (which further potentiated by phenobarbitone and increased after leptazol). The EEG of the treated rats showed high voltage slow-wave activity (HVSA) patterns with occasional spindles (9-10 HZ-amplitude of 100 uv). A significant increase (p < 0.01) in GABA levels in cerebellum and significant increase in benzodiazepine receptors in cerebellar membrane measured by (3H)flunitrazepam binding were observed in the animals exposed to 3 and 5 mg lindane. The study suggests that low dose chronic exposure of lindane causes neurobehavioral, neurochemical, and electrophysiological effects involving GABA-ergic mechanism(s).
The kinetics of intravenous (i.v.) infusion of diltiazem was studied in spontaneous hypertensive rats (SHR) at three dose levels (1, 2 and 4 mg/kg/30 min). Apparent clearance values (Cle) were obtained from the decline of diltiazem hypotensive effect through a model based on the relationship R vs. log dose. For each dose level there were no significant differences between apparent Cle values and real Cl values obtained from plasmatic concentrations at 25 min after infusion (Cl25). However, for both groups of data, Cl values increased with dose. For each level of perfused dose, Cl25 values were significantly higher than clearance values obtained after i.v. bolus administration of 3 mg/kg (Cliv).
Epidemiological studies indicate that Asian women have a lower incidence of breast cancer compared with their counterparts in the West, and soya consumption has been suggested as a contributory factor. Clinical and animal studies have revealed that cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression is associated with a risk of breast cancer. In the present study, we investigated the effect of soya isoflavones on the expression of COX-2 in the breast cell line MCF-7. Genistein, daidzein and equol were found to inhibit COX-2 expression induced by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA). Similar findings were observed in the COX-2 protein analysis. In order to study transcriptional control, a fragment of the 5'-flanking region of the hCOX-2 gene was amplified and inserted into a firefly luciferase reporter plasmid. The reporter assay indicated that the transactivation of the hCOX-2 promoter was induced by PMA, and activity was inhibited with the co-administration of genistein, daidzein or equol. An activator protein-1 (AP-1)/cyclic AMP response element binding protein (CREB) binding site (-59/-53) was identified in hCOX-2 promoter, and this could be critical in PMA-induced COX-2 expression. Truncation reporter plasmids with (-70/-36) and without (-51/-36) AP-1/CREB were constructed for subsequent analysis. The results revealed that the hCOX-2 promoter transactivation suppressed by isoflavone could be dependent on AP-1/CREB binding. Nonetheless, this study illustrated that the soya isoflavones reduced COX-2 expression, which could be important in the post-initiation events of breast carcinogenesis.
