The steroid hydroxylase CYP3A4 is the most abundant P-450 enzyme in the human liver, and CYP3A enzymes metabolize more than 50% of prescription drugs. The CYP3A4 gene is expressed in the liver, gut, colon, prostate, and breast. Individual variation in CYP3A4 may play a role in breast and prostate carcinogenesis through modulation of sex hormone metabolite levels. Alternatively, CYP3A4 can metabolically activate exogenous carcinogens. CYP3A4 activity varies widely in humans, and more than 78 DNA sequence polymorphisms are known. These observations prompted the hypothesis that variant CYP3A4 may be involved in breast and prostate cancer. Two epidemiologic studies of breast cancer and five of prostate cancer examined CYP3A4 genotypes. A US study showed that inheritance of CYP3A4*1B correlates with early menarche, a breast cancer risk factor. However, an Australian breast cancer case-control study found no association with CYP3A4*1B. Two Scottish prospective studies showed CYP3A4*1B to be a risk factor for prostate cancer among men with benign prostatic hyperplasia. Three other studies were undertaken in the United States: two were case-only studies and the other was a case-sibling control study. Although results for African Americans were inconsistent, these studies suggested that CYP3A4*1B was associated with markers of advanced disease. These observations support the notion that development of robust, conventional molecular epidemiologic case-control studies to address these questions, including gene-gene and gene-environment interactions, will be timely.
Longitudinal studies of cardiac function in long-term childhood cancer survivors are scarce and frequently concern a median follow-up shorter than 13 years.
Cardiac assessment was performed in 22 doxorubicin-treated long-term survivors of a malignant bone tumour at median 22 years (range 15-27.5) post-treatment. Age at follow-up was 39 years (range 27-59) and cumulative dose of doxorubicin was 360 mg/m(2) (range 225-550). Cardiac function was assessed by echocardiography and (24-h) ECG. The results were compared with those of earlier assessments at 9 years (1992) and 14 years (1997) post-treatment.
Systolic dysfunction was found in 27% (9% in 1997; P = 0.02) and diastolic dysfunction in 45% (18% in 1997; P = 0.02). Heart rate variability showed further deterioration compared with earlier results.
Twenty-two years after doxorubicin-treatment, bone tumour survivors showed progressive cardiac dysfunction.
After observing that expression of two NR4A orphan nuclear receptors, NR4A3 and NR4A1, was altered by insulin in cDNA microarray analyses of human skeletal muscle, we studied whether these receptors could modulate insulin sensitivity. We found that both NR4A3 and NR4A1 were induced by insulin and by thiazolidinedione drugs (pioglitazone and troglitazone) in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. Furthermore, gene expression of NR4A3 and NR4A1 was reduced in skeletal muscles and adipose tissues from multiple rodent models of insulin resistance. To determine whether NR4A3 could modulate insulin sensitivity, 3T3-L1 adipocytes were stably transduced with NR4A3 or LacZ (control) lentiviral vectors. Compared with LacZ expressing cells, hyperexpression of NR4A3 increased the ability of insulin to augment glucose transport activity, and the mechanism involved increased recruitment of GLUT4 glucose transporters to the plasma membrane. NR4A3 hyperexpression also led to an increase in insulin-mediated tyrosine phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate-1 as well as Akt phosphorylation. Suppression of NR4A3 using lentiviral short hairpin RNA constructs reduced the ability of insulin to stimulate glucose transport and phosphorylate Insulin receptor substrate-1 and Akt. Thus, NR4A3 and NR4A1 are attractive novel therapeutic targets for potential amelioration of insulin resistance, and treatment and prevention of type 2 diabetes and the metabolic syndrome.
The effects of erythrosine (Red 3), rose bengal B (Red 105) and thyroidectomy on the development of thyroid tumor were examined in male Wistar rats treated with N-bis(2-hydroxypropyl)nitrosamine (DHPN). Red 3 and Red 105 were used at 4% in the basal diet and were administered for 19 weeks from week 2 to 20. Thyroidectomy was performed by resection of the left lobe at week 4. Single injection of DHPN was performed intraperitoneally at 280 mg per 100 g body weight at the beginning of the experiment. Red 3 and Red 105 significantly promoted the development of thyroid tumors in thyroidectomized rats given DHPN, but had no significant effect in non-thyroidectomized rats. The incidence of thyroid tumors was 91% in rats with partial thyroidectomy, Red 3 and DHPN, 100% in rats with partial thyroidectomy, Red 105 and DHPN, and 64% in rats with partial thyroidectomy and DHPN. Serum TSH was 5.5 +/- 3.1 ng/ml in rats with partial thyroidectomy, Red 3 and DHPN, 2.1 +/- 2.2 ng/ml in rats with partial thyroidectomy, Red 105 and DHPN, and 1.5 +/- 0.5 ng/ml in rats with partial thyroidectomy and DHPN.
Currently, resistance and relapse are still major problems in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) cases. Thus, new agents that override the resistance are crucial to the development of curative therapies for APL. In this study, we investigated the effects of berbamine on the proliferation of APL cell line NB4 and its possible mechanisms.
NB4 cells were treated with berbamine at different concentrations (0-64 microg/ml) for 72 hours. MTT assay was used to determine proliferation inhibition of NB4 cells. Cell apoptosis was evaluated by both flow cytometry (FCM) and morphological examination. PML/RAR-alpha and survivin mRNAs were measured by nested-RT-PCR and RT-PCR, respectively. Activated-caspase 3 was determined by FCM.
Berbamine greatly inhibited the proliferation of NB4 cells in dose- and time-dependent manners, and its IC50 value was 3.86 microg/ml at 48 hours. Both morphological observations and FCM results showed that berbamine induced apoptosis of NB4 cells with concomitant increase of activated caspase-3 and decrease of survivin mRNA. After treatment with berbamine at 8 microg/ml for 48 hours, the percentage of apoptotic cells increased from 2.83% to 58.44% (P<0.01), and the percentage of cells with activated-caspase 3 elevated from 2.06% to 70.89% (P<0.01), whereas, level of survivin mRNA was reduced to 38.24% of control (P<0.01). However, no significant change was observed in PML/RAR-alpha mRNA.
Berbamine induces caspase-3-dependent apoptosis of leukemia NB4 cells via survivin-mediated pathway, suggesting that berbamine may be a novel potential agent against APL with a mechanism distinct from that of all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) and arsenic trioxide (ATO).
Peliosis hepatis, a condition characterized by the presence of blood-filled lacunar spaces in the liver, has been described primarily in patients on androgenic steroid medication and patients with tuberculosis. It has never been reported as a complication of the use of oral contraceptives, except in association with and localized in contraceptive-induced hepatic tumors. The present report concerns a 43-yr-old woman with generalized peliosis hepatis that developed during long-term use of oral contraceptives. Extensive examination did not reveal a hepatic tumor. Liver cirrhosis and portal hypertension developed, although the oral contraceptives had been withdrawn. She finally underwent successfully an orthotopic liver transplantation.
A case report is presented of a 43-year-old woman with generalized peliosis hepatitis that developed during longterm use of oral contraceptives (OCs). The patient had been in good health until the last 2 years when she began to experience vague epigastric pains and a feeling of abdominal distension. Several months prior to admission, she had started to complain of itching and fatigue. There was no history of dark urine, white stools, or hepatitis. On physical examination, no jaundice or cutaneous stigmata of chronic liver disease were observed. Laboratory studies showed a normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate and hematological blood count. A radionuclide study of the liver showed hepatomegaly; especially the left lobe was enlarged. A computerized tomographic scan of the liver showed multiple areas of decreased density in both of the enlarged lobes. There was no evidence of a tumor. Selective transfemoral angiography of the celiac artery also showed hepatic enlargement but no signs of a space-occupying lesion. At laparoscopy, the liver was grossly enlarged and had a lumpy appearance, but again there were no signs of a tumor. No evidence of veno-occlusive disease or hepatocellular adenoma was found. The diagnosis was peliosis hepatitis. The OCs were withdrawn, and the patient was discharged. Regular follow-up in the outpatient department showed no decrease in the size of the liver. The alkaline phosphatase level rose. The fatigue became worse, and cholestyramine was prescribed for progressive itching. In September 1980, the patient was admitted for reevaluation. A repeated CT scan and angiography of the liver again yielded no evidence of a tumor. Esophagoscopy showed the presence of varices grade 2. The liver at laparoscopy had the same appearance as it had in 1976. Histological examination of a biopsy specimen showed occasional dilated sinusoids and locally marked periportal and intralobular fibrosis. No regeneration nodules were found. The diagnosis was liver fibrosis. The patient's condition deteriorated gradually in the following years. She experienced increasing fatigue. Steatorrhea developed, and the patient lost weight. She needed increasing doses of cholestyramine and oral supplementation of vitamins A, D, and K. She was admitted for a 3rd time in February 1985. Esophagoscopy revealed varices grade 4. A CT scan of the liver showed no change. The patient successfully underwent an orthotopic liver transplantation in January 1987. The diagnosis of peliosis hepatis was well documented in this patient.
It has been previously known that low-dose atropine (LDA) enhances vagal outflow to the heart. To demonstrate the importance of vagal cardiac modulation in arterial blood pressure (ABP) stability, we evaluated the effect of vagal cardiac stimulation with administration of LDA on ABP fluctuation during dynamic hypertensive and hypotensive stimuli. We assessed changes in RR interval (RRI), ABP, power spectral densities of heart rate variability (HRV) and ABP variability, and spontaneous baroreflex sensitivity (BRS) in 16 healthy volunteers before and after administration of LDA (2 microg/kg). Transient hypertension was induced by phenylephrine (2 microg/kg), whereas hypotension was induced by bilateral thigh cuff deflation after a 3-min suprasystolic occlusion. LDA elicited bradycardia and significantly increased high-frequency (HF, 0.15-0.4 Hz) power of HRV and spontaneous BRS, as determined by transfer function analysis. The increase in systolic blood pressure (SBP) after phenylephrine administration was significantly attenuated by LDA (16+/-2 to 11+/-3 mmHg, P<0.005) and was associated with the augmented reflex bradycardia, whereas the decrease in SBP after cuff deflation was not affected (14+/-5 to 13+/-5 mmHg) with the augmented reflex tachycardia. Increases of HF HRV were correlated significantly and negatively with the increased SBP induced by phenylephrine before and after LDA (r=-0.502, P<0.05). These data suggest that the increased vagal cardiac function induced by LDA augments HR buffering effects, and is important in minimizing arterial pressure fluctuation during dynamic hypertensive stimuli.
To investigate the changes in drug sensitivity of Bcl-2 siRNA transfected HepG2 cells. Bcl-2 siRNA and negative siRNA expression vector were constructed and stably transfected into HepG2 cells. RT-PCR and Immunofluorescence were used to detect the target gene expression. Western Blotting was used to detect Bcl-2, Bax and caspase-3 protein expressiom. Drug sensitivity of the cells to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and 10-hydroxycamptothecin (HCPT) were analyzed with MTT and flow cytometry. Results were following: (1) the mRNA and protein expression level of Bcl-2 in Bcl-2 siRNA stable transfectants were reduced compared with negative siRNA transfected or untreated cells. Accordingly, Bax protein expression had no change and caspase-3 protein expression showed significantly be up regulated; (2) MTT results showed that Bcl-2 siRNA transfectants had higher cell inhibitory rates after treated with 5-FU or HCPT; (3) flow cytometry results demonstrated that sub G1 population increased in Bcl-2 siRNA transfected cells compared with negative siRNA or untreated cells. After addition 5-FU (1300 mg/l) and HCPT (0.72 mg/l), Bcl-2 siRNA cells showed higher sub G1 population than negative siRNA or untreated cells. siRNA targeting Bcl-2 gene can specifically down-regulate Bcl-2 expression, increased Bax/Bcl-2 ratio expression and caspase-3 activity in HepG2 cells, which lead to increase cells spontaneous apoptosis and sensitize cells to 5-FU or HCPT. Bcl-2 siRNA may be a potential therapy agent against human hepatoblastoma.
Hypoxia and hypoxia-reoxygenation (H-R) are pathogenic factors in many liver diseases that lead to hepatocyte death as a result of reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation. The tumor necrosis factor super-family member CD154 can also induce hepatocyte apoptosis via activation of its receptor CD40 and induction of autocrine/paracrine Fas Ligand/CD178 but the relationship between CD40 activation, ROS generation and apoptosis is poorly understood. We hypothesised that CD40 activation and ROS accumulation act synergistically to drive human hepatocyte apoptosis.
Human hepatocytes were isolated from liver tissue and exposed to an in vitro model of hypoxia and H-R in the presence or absence of CD154 and/or various inhibitors. Hepatocyte ROS production, apoptosis and necrosis were determined by labelling cells with 2',7'-dichlorofluorescin, Annexin-V and 7-AAD respectively in a three-colour reporter flow cytometry assay.
Exposure of human hepatocytes to recombinant CD154 or platelet-derived soluble CD154 augments ROS accumulation during H-R resulting in NADPH oxidase-dependent apoptosis and necrosis. The inhibition of c-Jun N-terminal Kinase and p38 attenuated CD154-mediated apoptosis but not necrosis.
CD154-mediated apoptosis of hepatocytes involves ROS generation that is amplified during hypoxia-reoxygenation. This finding provides a molecular mechanism to explain the role of platelets in hepatocyte death during ischemia-reperfusion injury.
A 42-yr-old man with ulcerative colitis was admitted for investigation of prolonged fever associated with cholestatic liver tests. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography demonstrated a normal biliary tree, and liver biopsy showed granulomata. A clinical diagnosis of drug-induced granulomatous hepatitis was established as the symptoms disappeared after cessation of mesalamine therapy and recurred on rechallenge. Although the differential diagnosis of fever and hepatitis in patients with inflammatory bowel disease is wide, in this case mesalamine is the most likely cause.
Analysis of the overt hepatic disease that developed in 114 patients while taking isoniazid for chemoprophylaxis of tuberculosis showed it to be mainly hepatocellular. The severity of the hepatic injury was manifested by the 13 fatalities (12.3%) and by the histological demonstration of submassive necrosis in 9 and massive necrosis in 4 patients. The 20 other patients from whom hepatic tissue was available for study included 16 with moderately severe acute hepatocellular injury (4 had a mixed hepatocellular-cholestatic pattern), and 4 with chronic hepatic diseases (1 had cirrhosis). Clinical manifestations of hepatic disease prior to the onset of jaundice included vague digestive complaints in 55% of the group and "viral' disease-like complaints in 35%, some with and some without gastrointestinal symptoms. Jaundice was the presenting complaint in 10% of patients. Fever and rash were reported in very few patients (less than 4%) and eosinophilia of modest degree was noted in approximately 10%. Hepatic injury was recognized during the 1st month of isoniazid administration in 15% and during the 2nd month in an additional 31%. In the remaining 54% of patients, the drug had been administered for periods of 2 to 11 months before hepatic injury was noted. Analyses of variables suggested that hepatic injury which presented after 2 months, especially with bilirubin levels that exceeded 20 mg per 100 ml, was more likely to have a fatal outcome than disease that presented during the first 2 months even with higher bilirubin levels. The case fatality rate was significantly higher in black females than in black males or in whites of either sex. The observations of the present study offer no support for the view that isoniazid-induced hepatic disease results from hypersensitivity to the drug. Other data that support the view that hepatotoxic metabolites of isoniazid may be responsible for the injury are considered.
Biallelic germline mutations in the mismatch repair genes MLH1, MSH2, MSH6 or PMS2 cause a recessive childhood cancer syndrome characterised by early-onset malignancies and signs reminiscent of neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1). Alluding to the underlying genetic defect, we refer to this syndrome as constitutional mismatch repair-deficiency (CMMR-D) syndrome. The tumour spectrum of CMMR-D syndrome includes haematological neoplasias, brain tumours and Lynch syndrome-associated tumours. Other tumours, such as neuroblastoma, Wilm tumour, ovarian neuroectodermal tumour or infantile myofibromatosis, have so far been found only in individual cases.
We analysed two consanguineous families that had members with suspected CMMR-D syndrome who developed rhabdomyosarcoma among other neoplasias. In the first family, we identified a pathogenic PMS2 mutation for which the affected patient was homozygous. In family 2, immunohistochemistry analysis showed isolated loss of PMS2 expression in all tumours in the affected patients, including rhabdomyosarcoma itself and the surrounding normal tissue. Together with the family history and microsatellite instability observed in one tumour this strongly suggests an underlying PMS2 alteration in family 2 also.
Together, these two new cases show that rhabdomyosarcoma and possibly other embryonic tumours, such as neuroblastoma and Wilm tumour, belong to the tumour spectrum of CMMR-D syndrome. Given the clinical overlap of CMMR-D syndrome with NF1, we suggest careful examination of the family history in patients with embryonic tumours and signs of NF1 as well as analysis of the tumours for loss of one of the mismatch repair genes and microsatellite instability. Subsequent mutation analysis will lead to a definitive diagnosis of the underlying disorder.
Sodium nitroprusside (SNP) has been commonly used as a vasodilator agent for deliberate hypotension with general anesthesia. The purpose of this study was to observe whether cerebral blood flow (CBF) was significantly reduced when SNP infusion was accomplished to decrease peripheral blood flows with systemic hypotension. We conducted the experiments in 15 pentobarbital-anesthetized dogs. CBF was measured in 7 dogs using a venous outflow method. Hindlimb blood flow (HBF) serving as a representative of the peripheral circulations was obtained by flow measurement in the femoral artery in 8 dogs. The systemic arteral pressure (SAP) was decreased stepwise (approximately 5 mmHg for each step) by adjusting the SNP infusion rate. During the systemic hypotension, the CBF remained fairly constant despite a marked decline in the mean SAP to 40 mmHg. The calculated cerebral vascular resistance was progressively decreased with the systemic hypotension. On the contrary, a reduction in the HBF was observed accompanying the fall in SAP. When the mean SAP was decreased to 50 mmHg, the HBF was only 46.3 +/- 7.6% of the control value. The calculated hindlimb vascular resistance was slightly elevated during the whole course of SNP-induced hypotension. The results reveal the disparity between the brain and hindlimb in the resistance and flow responses to SNP-induced hypotension. The constancy of CBF subserves adequate brain perfusion when deliberate hypotension is conducted for surgery in the peripheral organs.
Progressive thrombocytopenia may develop in as many as 5% of patients receiving heparin anticoagulation. In these patients, the risk of thromboembolic complications as well as continued thrombocytopenia necessitates discontinuation of heparin and initiation of an alternative anticoagulant when indicated. The heparinoid Lomoparan (Org 10172) is a mixture of several non-heparin low molecular weight glycosaminoglycans with proven anticoagulant efficacy that is generally non-reactive with platelets in the presence of plasma from patients with heparin induced thrombocytopenia, whereas standard heparin will induce platelet aggregation. We evaluated the role of heparinoid as a potential alternative anticoagulant in patients with heparin induced thrombocytopenia. During a 6 month period, we identified six patients with heparin induced thrombocytopenia who required an alternative parenteral anticoagulant, four as primary treatment for specific medical problem, and two as anticoagulation during a necessary surgical procedure. Heparinoid was used successfully in both medical and surgical patients requiring parenteral anticoagulation. In no case was there an exacerbation of the thrombocytopenia nor thromboembolic complications while on heparinoid therapy. Three of our patients sustained hemorrhagic complications, predominantly in the post-surgical setting in association with elevated anti-factor Xa levels and additional anticoagulant agents. We feel that these results confirm the utility of heparinoid anticoagulation in a select subset of patients with heparin induced thrombocytopenia who require continued parenteral anticoagulation.
We report a case of a patient with a history of heart conduction disease, symptom-free and without treatment in the last years, who experienced a severe cardiac complication associated with in vitro fertilization (IVF) with vaginal oocyte retrieval (VOR). Eighty-five minutes after the VOR a severe bradycardia and bradypnea occurred, requiring an emergency application of a pacemaker. Presumably the condition occurred because of a toxic effect of the 400 mg of mepivacaine administered paracervically. It is concluded that in the paracervical anesthesia in the IVF cycles the therapeutic range should be scrupulously followed in patients with heart condition.
Genome-wide analyses of human lung adenocarcinoma have identified regions of consistent copy-number gain or loss, but in many cases the oncogenes and tumor suppressors presumed to reside in these loci remain to be determined. Here we identify the downstream of tyrosine kinase (Dok) family members Dok1, Dok2 and Dok3 as lung tumor suppressors. Single, double or triple compound loss of these genes in mice results in lung cancer, with penetrance and latency dependent on the number of lost Dok alleles. Cancer development is preceded by an aberrant expansion and signaling profile of alveolar type II cells and bronchioalveolar stem cells. In human lung adenocarcinoma, we identify DOK2 as a target of copy-number loss and mRNA downregulation and find that DOK2 suppresses lung cancer cell proliferation in vitro and in vivo. Given the genomic localization of DOK2, we propose it as an 8p21.3 haploinsufficient human lung tumor suppressor.
Parkinsonism can be a side effect of antipsychotic drugs, and has recently been reported with peripherally acting drugs such as calcium channel blockers, antiarrhythmic agents and so on. In this study, we examined the quantitative prediction of drug-induced catalepsy by amoxapine, cinnarizine and cyclophosphamide, which have been reported to induce parkinsonism. Dose-dependent catalepsy was induced by these drugs in mice. In vivo dopamine D(1), D(2) and muscarinic acetylcholine (mACh) receptor occupancies by these drugs in the striatum were also examined. The in vitro binding affinities (K(i) values) of amoxapine and cinnarizine to dopamine D(1), D(2) and mACh receptors in rat striatal synaptic membrane were 200 and 2900 nM, 58.4 and 76.4 nM and 379 and 290 nM, respectively. Cyclophosphamide did not bind to these receptors at concentrations up to 100 microM. Twenty drugs, including those mentioned above, showed a significant correlation between the observed intensity of catalepsy and the values predicted with a pharmacodynamic model (Haraguchi K, Ito K, Kotaki H, Sawada Y, Iga T. Prediction of drug-induced catalepsy based on dopamine D(1), D(2), and muscarinic acetylcholine receptor occupancies. Drug Metab Disp 1997; 25: 675-684) based on in vivo occupancy of dopamine D(1), D(2) and mACh receptors. We conclude that occupancy of dopamine D(1) and D(2) receptors contributes to catalepsy induction by amoxapine and cinnarizine.
Cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis alters micturition function and produces reorganization of the micturition reflex. This reorganization may involve cytokine expression in the urinary bladder. These studies have determined candidate cytokines in the bladder that may contribute to the reorganization process. An RNase protection assay was used to measure changes in rat bladder cytokine mRNA [interferon-gamma (IFN)-gamma, interleukin-1alpha/beta (IL-1alpha/beta), IL-2, IL-3, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-10, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha/beta (TNF-alpha/beta)] after acute (4 h), intermediate (48 h), or chronic (10 day) cystitis. The correlation between bladder cytokine mRNA and protein expression was also determined by immunoassay. Although at each time point after cystitis significant changes in bladder cytokine mRNA were observed, the magnitude differed (acute > intermediate > chronic). Acute cystitis demonstrated the most robust changes (P </= 0.005; IL-1beta, 330-fold increase; IL-2, 20-fold increase; IL-4, 8-fold increase; IL-6, 80-fold increase) in cytokine mRNA expression and TNF-alpha or TNF-beta mRNA were only increased (2-10-fold) after acute cystitis. More modest increases in cytokine mRNA expression were observed after 48-h or 10-day cystitis. Cytokine protein expression generally paralleled that of mRNA. Increased cytokine expression after CYP-induced cystitis, alone or in combination with other inflammatory mediators or growth factors, may contribute to altered lower urinary tract function after cystitis.
The neurotoxicity of a combination of broxyquinoline and brobenzoxaldine (Intestopan Forte, containing 500 mg and 100 mg of the drugs respectively per capsule) was investigated by prospective clinical and electrophysiological studies in patients and volunteer subjects given the drugs in therapeutic doses (two capsules three times a day for 5 days). Of 16 patients with intestinal amoebiasis given the drugs (study A), 13 (81.25%) were cured. Adverse effects were mild and did not affect treatment. No neurological adverse effect was reported. Neurological examinations revealed no abnormality in any patient after treatment. Seven volunteer subjects underwent medical, neurological and ophthalmological examinations, and electrophysiological studies of ulnar and peroneal nerve conduction before and after treatment with the drugs in therapeutic doses (study B). Transient paresthesias were reported by one subject on the fourth day of treatment. No medical, neurological or ophthalmological abnormality was detected in any subject after treatment. There was no significant change in motor nerve conduction velocities. There was a significant (P less than 0.001) increase in the stimulus strength for distal ulnar stimulation and a significant (P less than 0.01) decrease in stimulus duration for proximal and distal ulnar stimulation. No significant changes were seen in the peroneal nerves in these parameters. No qualitative abnormality was seen in the oscilloscopic patterns of nerve conduction after treatment. Literature on the neurotoxicity of the halogenated hydroxyquinolines is reviewed. It is concluded that broxyquinoline and brobenzoxaldine (and probably other halogenated hydroxyquinolines as well) are safe and effective in therapeutic doses; neurotoxicity is unlikely to occur when these drugs are used according to therapeutic recommendations.
Thirty-eight chronically ill psychotic patients were treated with clozapine for indications of tardive dyskinesia, severe extrapyramidal side effects caused by other neuroleptics, or treatment-resistant psychosis. Fifty-five percent of all patients and 40% of schizophrenics improved with clozapine. Abnormal involuntary movements were suppressed during treatment and, with 1 exception, returned to baseline levels after clozapine was discontinued. Our results support the conclusion that clozapine's efficacy in refractory cases and its lack of neurological side effects make it a unique neuroleptic with advantages over conventional antipsychotic agents. The drug appears to be safe when treatment is accompanied by frequent clinical and hematologic monitoring.
Lung carcinogenesis is a multistep process whose molecular alterations can be studied in mouse models. Urethane, a specific lung tumor carcinogen, can induce adenomas in mice. Mouse lung alveolar cells reportedly generate lung neoplasms, and express connexins 26, 32, 43 and 46. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the expression of connexins in urethane-induced lung adenomas. Fifteen-day-old CD1 male mice received 2 i.p. injections of urethane (1.5 g/kg bw). The mice were euthanized 25 weeks after urethane injection, and lung adenomas were quantified. Lung tissue and lung adenomas were harvested and the RNA was extracted. The expression of connexins 26, 32, 43 and 46 was evaluated by Real-Time PCR, and these proteins were identified by Western blot. Immunohistochemistry revealed the distribution pattern of these connexins in lung tissue and adenomas. The treatment with urethane was associated with the downregulation of Cx26, 32 and 46 expressions, and with the upregulation of Cx43 expression in lung tissue. Surprisingly, in lung adenomas Cx32 and Cx43 expressions were not detected, although the expression of connexins 26 and 46 was present. Western blot and immunohistochemistry corroborated the RT-PCR data. These results may indicate a role of Cx32 and Cx43 in urethane-induced lung carcinogenesis, since their absence may contribute to the development of urethane induced lung tumors. The role of Cx26 and Cx46 is yet to be determined.
The commercial bifenthrin (BF) contains two cis isomers. In the present study, a dose of 15mg/kg of 1R-cis-BF or 1S-cis-BF was orally administered for 3 weeks to female mice before or during pregnancy. Then, the expression of steroidogenesis related genes which were considered as effective biomarkers of endocrine disruption were analyzed in the male offspring. Maternal exposure to 1S-cis-BF during pregnancy significantly reduced the mRNA levels of peripheral benzodiazepine receptor (PBR) and steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR) in the testes of 3- or 6-week old male offspring. In addition, a significant decrease of cytochrome P450 17α-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (P450-17α) was also observed in the testes of 6-week old male offspring when dams were treated with 1S-cis-BF during pregnancy but not before pregnancy. Moreover, the scavenger receptor class B type 1 (SRB1) and cytochrome P450 cholesterol side-chain cleavage enzyme (P450scc) decreased significantly in the testes of 6-week old male offspring when dams were treated with 1S-cis-BF during and before pregnancy. Thus, oral administration of the maternal mice to cis-BF for 3 weeks, particularly during pregnancy, resulted in endocrine disruption in the male offspring, with the 1S-cis-BF causing more significant alterations than the 1R-cis-BF form.
Isocyanide is a potential antifouling compound in marine environments. In this study, we investigated its mode of action in three aquatic organisms. Two of them, the bryozoan Bugula neritina and the barnacle Balanus amphitrite, are major marine fouling invertebrates, and the other organism is the non-target species zebrafish Danio rerio. In the swimming larvae of B. neritina, isocyanide did not affect the total attachment rate (≤50 µg ml(-1)), but it did change the attachment site by increasing the percentage of attachment on the bottom of the container rather than on the wall or air-water inter-surface. Isocyanide binds several proteins in B. neritina as identified via SDS-PAGE-LC-MS/MS: 1) a 30 kD protein band containing two proteins similar to voltage dependent anion channels (VDAC), which control the direct coupling of the mitochondrial matrix to the energy maintenance of the cytosol and the release of apoptogenic factors from mitochondria of mammalian cells; and 2) an unknown 39 kD protein. In B. amphitrite cyprids, the isocyanide binding protein were 1) a protein similar to NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase, which is the "entry enzyme" of oxidative phosphorylation in mitochondria; and 2) cytochrome P450. In Danio rerio embryos, isocyanide caused "wavy" notochords, hydrocephalus, pericardial edema, poor blood circulation, and defects in pigmentation and hematopoiesis, which phenocopied copper deficiency. This is the first report on isocyanide binding proteins in fouling organisms, as well as the first description of its phenotype and potential toxicology in zebrafish.
The cardiovascular effects of OPC-13340, a newly developed 1,4-dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker, were examined in several canine preparations. In conscious normotensive and DOCA-salt hypertensive dogs, OPC-13340, at doses of 10 to 30 micrograms/kg, i.v., and 0.3 to 3 mg/kg, p.o., exerted an hypotensive action in a dose-dependent manner. The hypotensive action of OPC-13340 was longer lasting and more potent than that of nicardipine and nifedipine. In conscious, normotensive instrumented dogs, OPC-13340, at doses of 1 and 3 mg/kg, p.o., dose-dependently decreased total peripheral resistance and mean blood pressure and increased heart rate, cardiac output and left ventricular contractility. In anesthetized open-chest dogs, OPC-13340, at doses of 1 to 30 micrograms/kg, i.v., increased coronary blood flow and decreased mean blood pressure, heart rate, coronary vascular resistance, arteriovenous oxygen difference and myocardial oxygen consumption. In contrast to OPC-13340, nicardipine did not change the myocardial oxygen consumption. From these results it was concluded that OPC-13340 lowered blood pressure and improved coronary circulation in dogs and that the duration of these actions was longer lasting than that of nifedipine and nicardipine. These actions of OPC-13340 may be useful in the treatment of hypertension and angina pectoris.
To evaluate the usefulness of pirenzepine for diagnostic double-contrast barium enema study of the large bowel, pirenzepine and scopolamine methyl bromide (SMB) were compared in a single, blind, randomized trial. Sixty consecutive patients were enrolled in the study. Quantitative analysis of bowel distention was done by measuring the maximum diameter of the transverse colon before and after drug administration. Four independent observers blindly evaluated distention and mucosal coating of the large bowel and global quality of the images. No differences were found in the diagnostic performance between the two drugs. However, pirenzepine induced a slight but significantly larger distention of the large bowel (68 +/- 12 vs. 65 +/- 8 mm, p = 0.02). Heart rate and rhythm during the study were recorded by ECG. SMB induced tachycardia in all patients (from 72 +/- 15 to 98 +/- 24 beats/min, p < 0.01), whereas pirenzepine did not (from 76 +/- 13 to 78 +/- 20, p = NS). After SMB, one-patient exhibited faintness, and some patients complained of visual accommodation defects, dryness of the mouth, and dizziness. Pirenzepine had a diagnostic performance similar to SMB in avoiding adverse effects elicited by SMB.
Exercise tolerance test gives important diagnostic, prognostic and therapeutic information in hypertensive patients. One hundred essential hypertensive patients were treated with enalapril: 10 mg/day, ketanserin: 40 mg/day and associated enalapril: 5mg/day + ketanserin: 20 mg/day for three different periods of three months for each one, with a wash-out period of 15 days after each therapeutic cycle. We used ACE and ketanserin because they have a hypotensive effect without developing tolerance, metabolic effects, rebound events in case of sudden interruption. These pharmacologic agents, which are active by themselves, can also be used in association with other hypotensive agents. Two exercise tolerance tests were carried out on each patient before and after each therapeutic period. Clinostatic systolic time intervals were assessed before and after treatment. Enalapril and ketanserin reduced systolic and diastolic pressure in basal condition and after exercise tolerance test, without any interference on heart rate. The association of the two hypotensive agents resulted more active, even with a halved dose. The improving of the double product and the systolic time intervals confirm the efficacy of these treatments. Side effects were mild.
Lithium carbonate is a commonly used psychiatric medication with a number of toxic renal effects, which include nephrotic-range proteinuria. A review of the literature concerning lithium-induced proteinuria is presented and three cases of nephrotic-range proteinuria are described in association with lithium therapy. The pathology in these three cases was focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, a finding not previously described.
