The three purgative Cheng-Chi-Tang decoctions (CCTDs) including Ta-Cheng-Chi-Tang (TCCT), Xiao-Chen-Chi-Tang (XCCT), and Tiao-Wei-Chen-Chi-Tang (TWCCT) are used for treating gastrointestinal disorders, including liver diseases in traditional Chinese medicine. However, the underlying mechanisms as liver disease remedies are far from fully clarified. The objective of the study is to investigate and compare the antioxidant activity of the three purgative CCTDs in order to delineate their hepatic protective potential and mechanism. Antioxidant activity measured with the 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging test indicated XCCT as the most potent preparation (IC(50) 8.94 microg/ml). In tert-butylhydroperoxide (TBH, 50mM)-induced lipid peroxidation in ICR mice liver homogenates, XCCT also showed stronger and dose-dependent inhibitory activity against TBH-induced malondialdehyde (MDA, a marker of lipid peroxidation) production (IC(50) 53.66 microg/ml). In addition, XCCT showed dose-dependent protective effect against TBH-induced cytotoxicity in normal human Chung liver cells Furthermore, in carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4))-induced acute liver injury model, mice pretreated with 0.2g/kg and 0.4 g/kg of XCCT extracts showed a decrease of 59.8 and 43.1% in serum glutamic oxaloactetic transaminase (GOT) level, 51.4 and 52% in glutamic pyruvate transaminase (GPT) level, along with a reduction of 31 and 15% in MDA level, respectively, similar to the effects exerted by silymarin. XCCT pretreated mice also showed milder necrotic changes in the microscopic picture of the liver. The results suggest that XCCT has significant antioxidant activity and hepatic protection potential.
Microcystin-LR (MCLR) is the most toxic and most frequently encountered hepatotoxin in the aquatic environment. This study investigated the protein profiles of zebrafish (Danio rerio) livers chronically exposed to MCLR concentrations (2 or 20 microg/l) using the proteomic approach as well as cell ultrastructure, protein phosphatase (PP) activity, protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) abundance, and toxin content analysis of the hepatic tissue. The results showed that, after 30-day exposure, the presence of MCLR strikingly enhanced toxin accumulation and the PP activity in zebrafish livers. However, the PP2A amounts were independent of toxin treatments. MCLR caused a noticeable damage to liver ultrastructure, a widespread swelling in the rough endoplasmatic reticulum and mitochondria was observed in the MCLR-exposed hepatocytes, and a honeycomb-like structure was formed in the treated nucleoli. Comparison of two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) protein profiles of MCLR-exposed and nonexposed zebrafish livers revealed that the abundance of 22 proteins, measured by 2-DE, was remarkably altered in response to toxin exposure. These proteins were involved in cytoskeleton assembly, macromolecule metabolism, oxidative stress, and signal transduction, indicating that MCLR toxicity in fish liver is complex and diverse. Thus, proteomics provides a new insight into MCLR toxicity, that chronic toxicity of MCLR is different from acute toxicity, and we speculate that the reactive oxygen species pathway might be the main toxic pathway instead of the PP one. Moreover, even a low concentration of MCLR in water could significantly interrupt cellular processes, and more care should be taken in determining the criterion for MCLR content in drinking water.
The efficacy and safety of bimatoprost, a member of a new class of pharmacological agents called prostamides, were compared with the efficacy and safety of timolol in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension. Pooled 6-month results from two ongoing, multicenter, randomized, double-masked, clinical trials were analyzed. Patients were randomized in a 2:2:1 ratio to treatment with bimatoprost 0.03% once a day ([QD] n = 474), bimatoprost 0.03% twice a day ([BID] n = 483), or timolol 0.5% BID (n = 241). Scheduled visits were at prestudy, baseline, week 2, week 6, month 3, and month 6. The primary outcome measure was in diurnal intraocular pressure ([IOP] 8 AM, 10 AM, 4 PM, 8 PM). Bimatoprost QD provided significantly greater mean IOP reductions from baseline than timolol at every time of the day and at each study visit (p </=.05). BID dosing of bimatoprost also provided significantly greater mean IOP reductions than timolol at most timepoints, but was not as effective as QD dosing. The IOP lowering provided by bimatoprost QD was sustained for 6 months. At month 6, the mean IOP reduction from baseline at 10 AM was 8.1 mm Hg (33%) with bimatoprost QD, 6.3 mm Hg (26%) with bimatoprost BID, and 5.6 mm Hg (23%) with timolol. Low target pressures were achieved by a significantly higher percentage of patients in the bimatoprost QD group than in the timolol group. At 10 AM (peak timolol effect) at month 6, IOP </= 17 mm Hg was achieved by 63.9% of bimatoprost QD patients, compared with 37.3% of timolol patients (p <.001). Bimatoprost was safe and well-tolerated, with few discontinuations due to adverse events. The most frequent side effect was trace-to-mild conjunctival hyperemia. Changes in iris pigmentation were reported in 1.1% of bimatoprost patients. There were no other significant findings in slit lamp examinations, ophthalmoscopy, visual acuity, or visual fields, and systemic safety parameters were also unaffected. Together these results indicate that bimatoprost QD is statistically and clinically superior to timolol in lowering IOP, and is safe and well-tolerated in patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
Twenty-four patients who underwent elective cholecystectomy received double-blind increments of either pethidine 30 mg or a mixture of pethidine 30 mg and doxapram 45 mg delivered on a patient-controlled basis. A loading dose of doxapram 100 mg or saline was administered. There was no difference in respiratory depression as indicated by respiratory frequency and end tidal carbon dioxide concentration. The incidence of respiratory apnoea was similar in the two groups but apnoea was of shorter duration in patients who received doxapram, although the difference was not significant. Patients who received doxapram assessed overall pain as worse on a linear analogue scale (p less than 0.05) but demanded similar amounts of pethidine. There was no difference in pain on movement.
The objective of this study was to test a developmental model of neurobehavioral dysregulation relating prenatal substance exposure to behavior problems at age 7.
The sample included 360 cocaine-exposed and 480 unexposed children from lower to lower middle class families of which 78% were black. Structural equation modeling was used to test models whereby prenatal exposure to cocaine and other substances would result in neurobehavioral dysregulation in infancy, which would predict externalizing and internalizing behavior problems in early childhood. Structural equation models were developed for individual and combined parent and teacher report for externalizing, internalizing, and total problem scores on the Child Behavior Checklist.
The goodness-of-fit statistics indicated that all of the models met criteria for adequate fit with 7 of the 9 models explaining 18% to 60% of the variance in behavior problems at age 7. The paths in the models indicate that there are direct effects of prenatal substance exposure on 7-year behavior problems as well as indirect effects, including neurobehavioral dysregulation.
Prenatal substance exposure affects behavior problems at age 7 through 2 mechanisms. The direct pathway is consistent with a teratogenic effect. Indirect pathways suggest cascading effects whereby prenatal substance exposure results in neurobehavioral dysregulation manifesting as deviations in later behavioral expression. Developmental models provide an understanding of pathways that describe how prenatal substance exposure affects child outcome and have significant implications for early identification and prevention.
We analyzed six different tissue DNA samples from a leukemic individual who received an injection of Thorotrast for alterations in proto-oncogene or tumor-suppressor gene structure. Our examination of the DNA indicated an alteration of the c-fms gene in the blood sample from this individual. This locus showed a deletion in which the 3' end of the deleted region maps between exons 11 and 12. In this particular case, the type of leukemia is unknown but myeloid leukemia is a neoplasm associated with individuals injected with Thorotrast. It is possible that the alteration in the c-fms gene of this individual is a consequence of the radiation exposure. No apparent alterations in the c-mos gene were observed in any of the tissues from the individual. This is in contrast to previous studies that described alterations in methylation patterns associated with the c-mos locus in radium-exposed individuals. A number of the individuals exposed to radium also had alterations of the retinoblastoma gene while no such alterations were observed in any tissue DNA samples from this Thorotrast case. It is possible that our inability to detect alterations of the c-mos and retinoblastoma gene may be attributable to the nature of alpha-emitting radionuclides or their distribution, or to the limited set of tissues available for analysis.
Amrinone-a phosphodiesterase III inhibitor-is used in the treatment of acute heart failure. In addition to its hemodynamic effects, amrinone has been shown to inhibit thromboxane synthesis in vitro. We investigated the effects of amrinone on thromboxane, prostaglandin, and leukotriene synthesis in humans. Eight healthy male volunteers took part in this single-blind study in which either amrinone (a 1.5-mg/kg bolus in 30 min and after that 10 microg/kg/min for 1 h 30 min) or placebo (0.9% NaCl) were infused. Amrinone infusion increased systolic blood pressure but had no significant effect on diastolic blood pressure or heart rate. Amrinone did not modulate thromboxane B2 synthesis stimulated by either spontaneous clotting or calcium-ionophore A23187 in whole blood. Amrinone had no effects on prostaglandin E2 or leukotriene E4 production in A23187-stimulated whole blood, nor did it affect urinary excretion of 11-dehydrothromboxane B2 or 2,3-dinor-6-keto-prostaglandin F1alpha, the index metabolites of thromboxane A2 and prostacyclin productions, respectively. We conclude that amrinone has no effects on eicosanoid production in humans at the dose level used in this study, and that the hemodynamic effects noticed are not mediated via cyclooxygenase or lipoxygenase products of arachidonic acid metabolism.
Hypotension may be expected to produce less perturbation of metabolism in the brain when cerebral metabolic rate is lowered by deep anesthesia. Male Wistar rats having unilateral carotidartery ligation were exposed to mean arterial pressure (MAP) of 40 torr for 22 min by an intravenous infusion of trimethaphan during anesthesia with halothane, 0.6 or 2 per cent, in oxygen. Cortical tissue metabolite levels on the side of the ligated carotid artery were more abnormal in rats receiving halothane, 0.6 per cent, than in those receiving halothane, 2 per cent. Values at halothane, 0.6 per cent, were adenosine triphosphate (ATP), 1.71 +/- 0.05 (+/-SEM) mumol/g, phosphocreatine (PCr) 1.97 +/- 0.07 mumol/g. and lactate 16.5 +/- 5.1 mumol/g; corresponding values at halothane, 2 per cent, were ATP 2.27 +/- 0.02, PCr 4.02 +/- 0.23, and lactate 4.75 +/- 0.9 mumol/g. ATP and PCr values were significiantly lower (P less than 0.05) and the lactate value was significantly higher with halothane, 0.6 per cent, than with halothane 2 per cent. Cerebral oxygen consumption decreased 47 per cent in rats anesthetized with halothane, 2 per cent. Preservation of cortical metabolite levels in deeply anesthetized animals suggests a protective effect of cerebral metabolic depression.
Fasting increases the synthesis and metabolism of cerebral 5-hydroxytryptamine and modifies dopamine turnover in the striatum. We studied the effect of a 24 h fast on the motor hyperactivity induced by amphetamine or by apomorphine. Locomotion was evaluated in photocell cages and stereotypy by direct observation and the use of rating scales. Amphetamine, 2.0 mg/kg, induced and increase in locomotion with a maximum between 20 and 30 min of its injection. After 40 min there was a decay in the amphetamine effect but the reduction was significantly smaller in the fasted than in the fed rats. Haloperidol, 0.025 mg/kg, abolished the decay of the amphetamine effect mentioned above and also eliminated the difference between fasted and fed rats. The stereotypy effect of amphetamine was of similar intensity in both groups during the first 30 min after the injection. After 40 min however, fasted rats developed a less intense stereotypy effect than did fed rats. Haloperidol induced a pronounced reduction of stereotypy in both groups and abolished the difference between fasted and fed rats. The stereotypy effect of apomorphine was unaffected by fasting. We suggest that food deprivation reduces the stereotypy effect of amphetamine by acting at a presynaptic dopaminergic level in the striatum.
Nelfinavir, one of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) specific protease inhibitors(PIs), is widely used for the treatment of HIV infection. Nelfinavir, which is metabolized with the cytochrome p450 isoforms, elevate the phenytoin level theoretically because nelfinavir acts as an inhibitor of phenytoin metabolism through the enzyme. However, we encountered a case of seizure recurrence caused by a lowered phenytoin level after initiation of nelfinavir. We should be aware of the change in the phenytoin level in concomitant use of nelfinavir.
Ovarian hormone depletion in ovariectomized experimental animals is a useful model with which to study the physiopathological consequences of menopause in women. It has been suggested that menopause is a risk factor for the induction of several cardiovascular disorders. In the present study we analyzed the effects of ovarian hormone depletion by ovariectomy (OVX) in a model of oxidative stress and cardiopathy induced by adriamycin (AD). To evaluate these effects, we measured parameters related to cardiac damage (creatinine kinase, lactate dehydrogenase, aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase) and oxidative stress (malondialdehyde, catalase, superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, reduced glutathione, nitric oxide and carbonyl proteins) in cardiac tissue and erythrocytes. OVX was found to alter all markers of oxidative stress and cell damage in cardiac tissue. Similarly, the OVX-derived loss of ovarian hormones enhanced cardiac damage and oxidative stress induced by AD. Our results suggest that antioxidant status in cardiac tissue and erythrocytes is seriously compromised by OVX during the cardiomyopathy induced by AD in experimental animals. In conclusion, the absence of hormones caused by OVX or menopause may induce or accelerate pre-existing cardiovascular dysfunctions.
Epigenetic therapy with hypomethylating drugs is now the standard of care in myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). Response rates remain low, and mechanism-based dose optimization has not been reported. We investigated the clinical and pharmacodynamic results of different dose schedules of decitabine. Adults with advanced MDS or chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML) were randomized to 1 of 3 decitabine schedules: (1) 20 mg/m2 intravenously daily for 5 days; (2) 20 mg/m2 subcutaneously daily for 5 days; and (3) 10 mg/m2 intravenously daily for 10 days. Randomization followed a Bayesian adaptive design. Ninety-five patients were treated (77 with MDS, and 18 with CMML). Overall, 32 patients (34%) achieved a complete response (CR), and 69 (73%) had an objective response by the new modified International Working Group criteria. The 5-day intravenous schedule, which had the highest dose-intensity, was selected as optimal; the CR rate in that arm was 39%, compared with 21% in the 5-day subcutaneous arm and 24% in the 10-day intravenous arm (P < .05). The high dose-intensity arm was also superior at inducing hypomethylation at day 5 and at activating P15 expression at days 12 or 28 after therapy. We conclude that a low-dose, dose-intensity schedule of decitabine optimizes epigenetic modulation and clinical responses in MDS.
The authors examined the relation between 50 widely used agricultural pesticides and lung cancer incidence in the Agricultural Health Study, a prospective cohort study of 57,284 pesticide applicators and 32,333 spouses of farmer applicators with no prior history of lung cancer. Self-administered questionnaires were completed at enrollment (1993-1997). Cancer incidence was determined through population-based cancer registries from enrollment through December 31, 2001. A lung cancer standardized incidence ratio of 0.44 (95% confidence interval: 0.39, 0.49) was observed overall, due in large part to a low cigarette smoking prevalence. Two widely used herbicides, metolachlor and pendimethalin (for low-exposed groups to four higher exposure categories: odds ratio (OR) = 1.0, 1.6, 1.2, 5.0; p(trend) = 0.0002; and OR = 1.0, 1.6, 2.1, 4.4; p(trend) = 0.003, respectively), and two widely used insecticides, chlorpyrifos and diazinon (OR = 1.0, 1.1, 1.7, 1.9; p(trend) = 0.03; and OR = 1.0, 1.6, 2.7, 3.7; p(trend) = 0.04, respectively), showed some evidence of exposure response for lung cancer. These excesses could not be explained by previously identified lung cancer risk factors. The usage levels in this cohort are considerably higher than those typically experienced by the general population. An excess risk among spouses directly exposed to pesticides could not be evaluated at this time.
In a 27-year-old patient with a severe obstructive sleep apnea syndrome documented by a polysomnographic study, an oral dose of 15 mg midazolam caused life-threatening obstructive apnea and excessive sedation. Therapy with nasal CPAP eliminated the pharyngeal obstruction, but marked central hypoventilation persisted. Benzodiazepines are known to aggravate the obstructive sleep apnea syndrome. Dangerous central hypoventilation occurring after this medication during treatment with nasal CPAP has not yet been reported. Excessive susceptibility to depression of chemoresponsiveness to pCO2 is suspected. The potentially dangerous and life-threatening side effects of sedatives in patients with obstructive sleep apnea syndrome are discussed.
Thirteen psoriatic patients with hypertension during the course of cyclosporin A therapy were treated for 25 months with a calcium channel blocker, sustained-release nifedipine, to study the clinical antihypertensive effects and adverse events during treatment with both drugs. Seven of the 13 patients had exhibited a subclinical hypertensive state before cyclosporin A therapy. Both systolic and diastolic blood pressures of these 13 patients were decreased significantly after 4 weeks of nifedipine therapy, and blood pressure was maintained within the normal range thereafter for 25 months. The adverse events during combined therapy with cyclosporin A and nifedipine included an increase in blood urea nitrogen levels in 9 of the 13 patients and development of gingival hyperplasia in 2 of the 13 patients. Our findings indicate that sustained-release nifedipine is useful for hypertensive psoriatic patients under long-term treatment with cyclosporin A, but that these patients should be monitored for gingival hyperplasia.
The effect of pretreatment with PK 11195, a ligand of the 'peripheral-type' benzodiazepine receptor (PBR), on convulsions induced by lindane (gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane, gamma-HCH) in rats was examined, to determine whether the mechanism of this convulsant activity may be mediated through the PBR. PK 11195 elicited a protective effect against the convulsant activity of orally administered lindane. It reduced the frequency of animals exhibiting convulsions and delayed the time to onset of these seizures. The concentration of lindane in the brain was found to be significantly lower in PK 11195 pretreated rats and a high correlation between blood and brain lindane concentrations was obtained. When similar experiments were repeated with alpha-HCH, a non-convulsant isomer of HCH, brain and blood concentrations were again found to be significantly reduced in PK 11195 pretreated animals. We conclude that the 'anticonvulsant' action of PK 11195 was not due to an interaction of PK 11195 and lindane on common CNS target sites, but by an action of PK 11195 on the gastrointestinal tract of the animal, delaying the absorption of lindane into the bloodstream.
Local anesthetics exert central nervous system (CNS) toxicity by inhibiting intracerebral neuronal activity, while epinephrine augments the CNS toxicity of intravenously administered local anesthetics. Viewed together, increases of extracellular concentrations of local anesthetics in the brain may be directly associated with increased CNS toxicity. The authors examined the hypothesis that epinephrine enhances the CNS toxicity of lidocaine by increasing the extracellular concentration in the brain.
An awake, spontaneously breathing rat model was used. Twenty male Sprague-Dawley rats received an intravenous infusion of lidocaine (3 mg x kg x min; group C) or lidocaine with epinephrine (3 mg x kg x min and 2 microg x kg x min, respectively; group E) for 10 min (n = 10 in each group). Effects of epinephrine on the convulsive dose and concentrations of total (protein-bound and unbound) and unbound lidocaine in plasma were examined. Concentrations of extracellular lidocaine in the cerebral nucleus accumbens were quantitatively determined by a microdialysis method.
The convulsive dose of lidocaine was significantly lower in group E than in group C (22.4 +/- 5.5 vs. 27.9 +/- 3.1 mg/kg, respectively; P < 0.05). Overall concentrations and area under the plasma concentration-versus-time curve of unbound lidocaine in group E were significantly higher than those in group C. Concentrations of extracellular lidocaine in the nucleus accumbens in group E were comparable to those of unbound fraction in plasma and were also significantly higher than those in group C.
Concomitant administration of epinephrine significantly enhanced the CNS toxicity of intravenously administered lidocaine. Increased extracellular concentration in the brain would be related to this mechanism.
Risperidone is a novel antipsychotic agent that blocks both dopaminergic and serotonergic receptors. In several reports, clinically significant hyperprolactinemia has been reported in patients on this agent. However, the optimal management of risperidone-induced hyperprolactinemia has not been clarified. We reviewed the records of 5 patients with psychotic disorders who were evaluated for risperidone-induced hyperprolactinemia. There were 4 females and 1 male patient, aged 30-45 yr. All patients had significant hyperprolactinemia, with prolactin (PRL) levels ranging from 65.5 to 209 microg/l. All but 1 of these patients had manifestations of hypogonadism. In these 4 patients, risperidone therapy was continued and the dopamine agonists bromocriptine or cabergoline were added. In 3 out of 4 patients, such additional therapy reduced the PRL level and alleviated hypogonadism. None of the patients treated with these agents had a worsening of psychosis. We conclude that risperidone can cause clinically significant hyperprolactinemia in patients treated with this drug. If risperidone therapy must be continued in such patients, addition of the dopamine agonists bromocriptine or cabergoline may successfully alleviate hyperprolactinemia and the associated manifestations without worsening psychotic symptoms.
Assessment of preprocedural fasting is considered essential in minimizing the risks of procedural sedation and analgesia. Established fasting guidelines are difficult to follow in the emergency department (ED). We characterize the fasting status of patients receiving procedural sedation and analgesia in a pediatric ED and assess the relationship between fasting status and adverse events.
A prospective case series was conducted in a children's hospital ED during an 11-month period. All consecutive patients requiring procedural sedation and analgesia were included. Preprocedural fasting state and adverse events were recorded. The percentage of patients undergoing procedural sedation and analgesia who did not meet fasting guidelines was determined. Adverse events were analyzed in relation to fasting status.
One thousand fourteen patients underwent procedural sedation and analgesia, and data on fasting status were available for 905 (89%) patients. Of these 905 patients, 509 (56%; 95% confidence interval [CI] 53% to 60%) did not meet fasting guidelines. Seventy-seven adverse events occurred in 68 (6.7%; 95% CI 5.2% to 8.4%) of the 1,014 patients. All adverse events were minor and successfully treated. Adverse events occurred in 32 (8.1%; 95% CI 5.6% to 11.2%) of 396 patients who met and 35 (6.9%; 95% CI 4.8% to 9.4%) of 509 patients who did not meet fasting guidelines. There was no significant difference in median fasting duration between patients with and without adverse events and between patients with and without emesis. Emesis occurred in 15 (1.5%) patients. There were no episodes of aspiration (1-sided 97.5% CI 0% to 0.4%).
Fifty-six percent of children undergoing ED procedural sedation and analgesia were not fasted in accordance with established guidelines. There was no association between preprocedural fasting state and adverse events.
This chapter traces the history of nitroglycerin from the initial nitration of glycerol to its widespread clinical use. The pharmacologic differences between nitroglycerin and nitric oxide are described, as well as their similar mechanisms of action. The vasoactivity of nitroglycerin requires a biochemical transformation, the nature of which remains incompletely understood. This poorly defined mechanism probably also relates to the phenomenon of nitroglycerin tolerance. By increasing the distensibility of muscular arteries, nitroglycerin slows pulse wave velocity, reduces wave reflections and alters the shape of the aortic pulse. This alteration reduces the systolic blood pressure and left ventricular after load and helps to explain the usefulness of nitroglycerin in angina pectoris, congestive heart failure and isolated systolic hypertension.
The roles of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) and aldosterone in the pathogenesis of nephrotic syndrome were investigated with rats following subcutaneous injections of puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) for 7 d. Prominent reduction in plasma renin activity (PRA) was observed at day-15 after the initial treatment with PAN preceded by the onset of the nephrosis and there was no significant difference in plasma aldosterone concentration (PAC) between the nephrosis and normal control groups despite the higher levels obtained in the nephrosis animals. Although we could not elucidate the precise mechanism of reduction in PRA, it was suggested that neither the RAS nor aldosterone secretion played a primary role in the pathogenesis of the nephrosis. PAN-induced nephrosis is interesting in studying the pathophysiological mechanism of the lowered activity of plasma renin in some patients with nephrotic syndrome.
Adverse environmental stimuli increase the synthesis of a class of proteins referred to as stress proteins. The effect of mercuric chloride, a model nephrotoxin, on protein synthesis in male rat kidney has been evaluated. Renal slices from exposed rats were incubated with [35S]methionine for 1 hr and subjected to SDS-PAGE, after which 35S-labeled proteins were detected by autoradiography. Enhanced de novo synthesis of 70- and 90-kDa relative molecular mass (M(r)) proteins were detected 2 hr after exposure to 1 mg Hg/kg, with maximum activity occurring at 4-8 hr. By 16 hr postinjection, synthesis of these two proteins had decreased. Dose-related increases in synthesis of these proteins, and of a 110-kDa protein, were observed 4 hr after i.v. injection of 0.25, 0.5, and 1.0 mg Hg/kg, with concomitant inhibition of synthesis of proteins of M(r) 38 and 68 kDa. At a dose of 1 mg/kg, kidney proximal tubules exhibited progressive degenerative changes from 4 to 24 hr. A functional deficit, decreased uptake of [para-3H]aminohippurate into renal slices, was not observed until 16 hr after i.v. injection of 1 mg/kg. No significant histopathologic changes were observed in kidneys 4 hr after treatment with 0.25 or 0.5 mg Hg/kg, iv. No changes in liver protein synthesis were apparent until 16-24 hr, where an increase in the 70- and 90-kDa proteins was observed. A concomitant increase in plasma sorbitol dehydrogenase activity occurred at 16-24 hr; however, there was no histopathological evidence of liver injury. The 72-kDa inducible member of the 70-kDa stress protein family and the 88-kDa member of the 90-kDa protein family were detected by immunoblotting techniques using monoclonal antibodies. The data demonstrate that Hg induces alterations in the expression of renal gene products in vivo as evidenced by enhanced stress protein synthesis and inhibition of synthesis of constitutive proteins. These changes in renal protein synthesis preceded overt renal injury, occurring in the early stages of nephropathy. Altered patterns of stress protein synthesis appeared to be target organ specific. The data suggest that altered protein synthesis patterns may serve as biomarkers of renal injury.
A 61-year-old woman developed hypokalemia, atrioventricular block and ventricular tachycardia with syncope after habitual drinking 2 to 3 liters of oolong tea per day. She had been suffering from rheumatoid arthritis and Sjögren's syndrome and her serum albumin was decreased (2.9 g/dl). Oolong tea contains caffeine at approximately 20 mg/dl. Great quantities of caffeine can induce hypokalemia. The serum protein binding caffeine is albumin. Accordingly, in patients with hypoalbuminemia, caffeine is apt to induce hypokalemia. This case suggested that great quantities of oolong tea, one of the so-called "healthy" drinks, result in serious symptoms for patients with hypoalbuminemia.
Metoclopramide (Primperan), a benzamide antiemetic drug, is frequently used in gastrointestinal disorders. Because of its central dopamine antagonist property, it can be a potent stimulant of prolactin release and cause extrapyramidal movement disorders. The case presented is an aged male who developed impotence and akathisia after long-term use of metoclopramide. Akathisia disappeared within 24 hours after withdrawal of metoclopramide. One month after cessation of this drug, his sexual function returned to normal and, in the subsequent five months, he continued to have normal erection. Prolactin level mildly elevated during metoclopramide treatment. It decreased a little two weeks after stopping metoclopramide but elevated again two months later. The characters of these adverse effects of metoclopramide and the prolactin levels of long-term metoclopramide treatment will be discussed. Since metoclopramide is widely used in patients with gastric problems and in cancer patients as antiemetic. It is suggested that long-term use of metoclopramide should be avoided and patients should be carefully observed for potential adverse effects.
To evaluate the effect of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) withdrawal on renal function in patients with chronic gout after proper control of hyperuricemia and gouty symptoms.
Patients with chronic gout, who regularly used NSAIDs to control gouty symptoms prior to urate-lowering therapy, were prospectively followed up in an observational study. Risk factors for renal function impairment were recorded, and the clearance of creatinine (Ccr) was initially measured while on colchinine therapy to prevent gouty bouts. Therapy with urate-lowering drugs was started in order to keep serum urate levels under 6.0 mg/dl (275 micromol/l), and the Ccr was monitored during the follow-up period. Final assessment of the renal function was made after 1 year free from gouty bouts and without NSAID therapy during this period.
87 patients completed a 1-year period of NSAID withdrawal. Low initial Ccr was related to age, hypertension, hypertriglyceridemia and the presence of previous renal diseases. After proper control of gout and NSAID withdrawal during 1 year, the mean Ccr significantly raised from 94 to 104 ml/min. The improvement was especially significant in patients whose initial Ccr was under 80 ml/min. Their mean Ccr rose from 60 to 78 ml/min, and 12 of 29 patients achieved normal Ccr at the end of the study. No risk factor correlated with improvement of the renal function.
Renal function impairment in patients with chronic gout is mainly related to vascular risk factors, but improvement of the renal function was observed after proper control of hyperuricemia and NSAID withdrawal. Optimal control of hyperuricemia and, therefore, of symptoms of gout should be especially considered in patients with vascular risk factors in order to avoid renal function loss due to NSAID use.
