Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) has various biological properties, including antifibrogenic activity. In the present study, we tested the efficacy of HGF gene therapy using naked plasmid DNA in dimethylnitrosamine (DMN)-induced liver fibrosis in a rat model.
Naked plasmid DNA encoding human HGF was injected once, together with a hypertonic solution, into the hepatic artery after DMN treatment on three consecutive days per week for 3 weeks. Naked plasmid DNA encoding beta-galactosidase was injected similarly in the DMN-treated control rats. DMN treatment was continued once weekly after gene transfer for additional 3 weeks.
The human HGF protein expression was detected in livers transfected with human HGF naked plasmid DNA, gradually decreasing by day 21. The expression of the endogenous rat HGF protein was also upregulated after human HGF gene transfer. Phosphorylation of c-Met, a HGF receptor, was detected only in livers transfected with human HGF plasmid DNA. Fibrosis was attenuated significantly in livers transfected with the human HGF plasmid. Attenuation wasaccompanied by decreased expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin. Increased portal vein pressure after treatment with DMN was suppressed significantly by HGF gene transfer. The upregulated hepatic protein expression of transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) in response to DMN was markedly attenuated by HGF gene transfer accompanied by the increased protein expression for matrix metalloproteinases (MMP)-3 and -13.
The hepatic arterial injection of human naked plasmid HGF DNA was effective in suppressing liver fibrosis induced in rats by DMN. The mechanisms by which HGF expression attenuated liver fibrosis may include the suppression of hepatic TGF-beta expression and the induction of MMP expression.
Acetaminophen (paracetamol) overdose (AOD) has recently emerged as the leading cause of acute liver failure (ALF) in the United States, with an incidence approaching that seen in the United Kingdom. We describe a new way to treat AOD ALF patients fulfilling King's College criteria for "super-urgent" liver transplantation.
Beginning in June 1998, we have been piloting a clinical program of subtotal hepatectomy and auxiliary orthotopic liver transplantation (ALT) for AOD ALF. Our technique is based on the following principles: (1) subtotal hepatectomy; (2) auxiliary transplantation of a whole liver graft; (3) gradual withdrawal of immunosuppression after recovery. Results were compared with patients who had undergone an orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) for AOD ALF in the same period. Quality of life comparisons were made using the SF36 questionnaire.
Thirteen patients underwent this procedure between June 1998 and March 2005. Median survival is 68 months (range, 0-102 m). Actual survival data show that 9 of 13 patients are alive (69%) compared with 7 of 13 OLT patients (54%). One ALT patient required a retransplantation with an OLT due to hepatic vein thrombosis, and immunosuppression is therefore maintained. The other 8 surviving ALT patients are off immunosuppression. These 8 ALT patients have normal liver function and have a better quality of life compared with the 7 surviving OLT patients.
Our results with this new technique are encouraging: 69% actual survival, no long-term immunosuppression requirement, and improved quality of life in the 62% successful cases.
The effects of trinitrin and propranolol on left ventricular function were compared with those of saphenous bypass grafting in patients with ischaemic heart disease. Simultaneous echocardiograms, apexcardiograms and phonocardiograms were recorded and digitized before and after drug administration or operation. As expected, trinitrin caused a reduction in left ventricular cavity size, an increase in peak VCF and an increase in heart rate, while propranolol consistently reduced heart rate and peak VCF. Asynchronous onset of wall movement was unaffected by propranolol or trinitrin, but when present preoperatively, consistently improved after saphenous bypass grafting. Abnormalities of relaxation, usually due to asynchronous termination of contraction, were aggravated by trinitrin or propranolol in those patients in whom contraction was initially incoordinate, but after operation, they tended to improve along with systolic abnormalities. The time interval, Q to minimum LV cavity dimension is frequently reduced in patients with ischaemic heart disease, and treatment with propranolol increases the frequency of this abnormality. Saphenous bypass grafting, however, was associated with a consistent return towards normal, regardless of changes in heart rate. Thus although trinitrin, propranolol and saphenous bypass grafting all relieve angina, their effects on left ventricular function are significantly different.
Troglitazone (Tro) is a thiazolidinedione antidiabetic drug that was withdrawn from the market due to its association with idiosyncratic severe liver injury. Tro has never induced liver injury in experimental animals in vivo. It was assumed that the species differences between human and experimental animals in the pharmaco- or toxicokinetics of Tro might be associated with these observations. In this study, we investigated whether a chimeric mouse with a humanized liver that we previously established, whose replacement index with human hepatocytes is up to 92% can reproduce Tro-induced liver injury. When the chimeric mice were orally administered Tro for 14 or 23 days (1000mg/kg/day), serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) was significantly increased by 2.1- and 3.6-fold, respectively. Co-administration of l-buthionine sulfoximine (10mM in drinking water), an inhibitor of glutathione (GSH) synthesis, unexpectedly prevented the Tro-dependent increase of ALT, which suggests that the GSH scavenging pathway will not be involved in Tro-induced liver injury. To elucidate the mechanism of the onset of liver injury, hepatic GSH content, the level of oxidative stress markers and phase I and phase II drug metabolizing enzymes were determined. However, these factors were not associated with Tro-induced liver injury. An immune-mediated reaction may be associated with Tro-induced liver toxicity in vivo, because the chimeric mouse is derived from an immunodeficient SCID mouse. In conclusion, we successfully reproduced Tro-induced liver injury using chimeric mice with a humanized liver, which provides a new animal model for studying idiosyncratic drug-induced liver injury.
To investigate the effect of pharmacotherapy and phototherapy on the concentration of hormones of the somatotrophin axis [growth hormone (GH), insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) and insulin-like growth factor binding protein-3 (IGFBP-3)] in the serum of patients with psoriasis in exacerbation and remission.
GH and IGFBP-3 in serum were determined by immunoradiometric assay (IRMA), and IGF-I concentrations - by radioimmunological assay (RIA). The dermatological state was assessed by the psoriasis area and severity index (PASI).
There was no significant difference in the GH concentrations in patients both in exacerbation and remission, irrespective of therapy applied. However, in the group treated by phototherapy a significant increase in IGFBP-3 secretion was observed, whereas in the group treated with cyclosporin A - a significant increase in IGF-I secretion was observed in remission.
Different methods of treatment have different effects on the secretion of somatotrophin axis hormones, but generally the hormone concentrations do not return to the values observed in healthy people. The therapeutic actions of the drugs concerned are not fully known and require further investigations.
The parenchymal damage of the liver after estrogen therapy for prostatic cancer, mainly treated with diethylstilbestrol diphosphate (DES-DP), was studied in the six autopsied cases, herein. The parenchymal disorder of the liver was "nonalcoholic steatohepatitis", reported by Ludwig et al., and its degree of disorder was dependent upon the administered dose of estrogen. The acceptable total dose of DES-DP was supposed to be about 150 g at maximum, according to the various degrees of damage examined histopathologically in the six cases who were administered at total doses of DES-DP from 12.6 g to 619 g. Comparison of the histopathologic damage to the liver function tests performed within 10 days before death revealed that only the serum levels of cholinesterase (ChE) were abnormally decreased, suggesting its importance to predict the degree of "nonalcoholic steatohepatitis" by monitoring of ChE.
ABT-089 [2-methyl-3-(2-(S)-pyrrolidinylmethoxy)pyridine dihydrochloride], a novel ligand at neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors with reduced adverse effects and improved oral bioavailability relative to (-)-nicotine, was tested in a variety of cognitive tests in rats and monkeys. Administered acutely, ABT-089 only marginally improved the spatial discrimination water maze performance of septal-lesioned rats. However, more robust improvement (45% error reduction on the last training day) was observed when ABT-089 was administered continuously via subcutaneous osmotic pumps (minimum effective dose: 1.3 micromol/kg/day). Continuous infusion of (-)-nicotine produced comparable improvement in the spatial discrimination water maze performance of septal-lesioned rats, but a 40-fold higher dose of (-)-nicotine was required (62 micromol/kg/day). Continuous infusion of ABT-089 to aged rats enhanced spatial learning in a standard Morris water maze, as indexed by spatial bias exhibited during a probe trial conducted after 4 days of training, but not when they were subsequently trained in a two-platform spatial discrimination water maze. The compound induced a small impairment in young rats on the standard water maze, but not on the two-platform task. A probe trial conducted after additional training in the standard water maze revealed no age or drug effects. ABT-089 did not affect performance of either the aged or young rats during inhibitory (passive) avoidance training. Also, continuous infusion of ABT-089 did not affect responses to acoustic startle or prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle in young, aged or septal-lesioned rats and did not affect locomotor activity in either sham-lesioned or septal-lesioned rats. In monkeys, acute administration of ABT-089 modestly improved the delayed matching-to-sample performance of mature, adult monkeys and more robustly improved performance in aged monkeys. Improved performance in the aged monkeys was restricted to the longest delay intervals and was not accompanied by changes in response latencies.
In hepatitis C virus (HCV)-infected patients receiving pegylated interferon (PEG-IFN)/ribavirin (RBV) combination therapy, anemia is a well-known side effect. The purpose of this study was to describe the time course and extent of hemoglobin (Hb) changes and the erythropoietic response to PEG-IFN/RBV-induced anemia.
In this multicenter, observational, 8-wk study, laboratory parameters were measured weekly for 8 wk or until early withdrawal. Primary endpoints included changes in Hb and serum erythropoietin (sEPO) from baseline to week 8; other measures were changes in reticulocytes and RBV dose. The predictive value of baseline factors for maximum Hb decline was assessed.
In the 97 evaluable patients, mean Hb decreased from 14.4 +/- 1.4 g/dl (baseline) to 11.9 +/- 1.3 g/dl (week 8). Twenty-one percent of patients withdrew before week 8. The estimated erythropoietic response was lower than that seen in two historic control populations of iron deficiency anemia patients. Mean RBV dose decreased from 986 +/- 190 mg/day (baseline) to 913 +/- 228 mg/day (week 8). Fifty-seven out of 77 (74%) patients who completed the study maintained their initial prescribed RBV dose. Patients maintained on the initial dose of RBV who had a higher baseline Hb and viral load showed a trend toward larger Hb declines. Platelets and white blood cells (WBCs) also declined during the study.
HCV-infected patients receiving PEG-IFN/RBV therapy have reductions in Hb, platelets, and WBCs, possibly due to bone marrow suppression. They also have diminished endogenous sEPO production for their degree of anemia.
We report a patient who died as a result of heparin induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) and arterial thromboses following cardiac surgery. The onset was three days after exposure to low molecular weight heparin on the eighth postoperative day. The patient was heterozygous for the factor V Leiden mutation. We have reviewed 15 patients previously diagnosed as HIT on clinical and laboratory criteria and found an incidence of 6.7% (1/15) activated protein C resistance. This second patient had a pulmonary embolus and HIT after only three days exposure to low molecular weight heparin. We postulate that factor V Leiden hastens the onset and magnifies the severity of HIT.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) injected into the cerebral ventricles of small mammals induces EEG limbic seizures, behavioral excitability, stereotyped behavior, and tardive enhancement of hippocampal theta voltage and frequency. Because we addressed this phenomenon when we explained the pathogenesis of infantile spasms in children, we wished to study the interference exerted by some gamma-endorphin fragments on EEG epileptiform and behavioral symptoms induced by CRF in the rabbit. Animals were implanted intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) with semichronic cortical and hippocampal electrodes, together with a cannula into the left lateral ventricle. When some gamma-endorphin derivatives (DT gamma E, DE gamma E) were injected intravenously (i.v.) for 4 days (or hydrocortisone once), they prevented the EEG ictal seizures induced in the hippocampus of rabbits by CRF injected i.c.v. Hydrocortisone and DE gamma E also prevented the appearance of scattered spiking and partially prevented tardive enhancement of theta voltage in the hippocampal EEG. Finally, DE gamma E also prevented stereotyped behavior and excitability induced by CRF. These results confirm the regulatory role exerted by CRF in limbic structure excitability and suggest that the above peptides may be involved in a regulatory feedback mechanism of CRF metabolism or activity. The possibility that these peptides may also have interesting antiepileptogenic properties should be considered.
The acute toxicity of a number of chlorinated benzenes, ranging from monosubstituted to pentasubstituted benzenes, was studied in rats. Toxic effects on the liver, the kidneys, and the thyroid were monitored after a single ip administration of 1, 2, or 4 mmol/kg monochlorobenzene (MCB), 1,2-dichlorobenzene (1,2-DICB), 1,4-dichlorobenzene (1,4-DICB), 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TRCB), and pentachlorobenzene (PECB). Due to its low solubility, 1,2,4,5-tetrachlorobenzene (1,2,4,5-TECB) was tested at a highest dose of 0.8 mmol/kg. 1,2-DICB and 1,2,4-TRCB produced the most severe hepatotoxic effects when compared with an equimolar dose of the other chlorinated benzenes, as determined by plasma ALT profile and histopathological changes after 72 hr. MCB was considerably less hepatotoxic. Severe degenerative damage to the kidney was only observed in a few rats treated with 1,2,4-TRCB. However, protein droplets in the tubular epithelial cells were observed at 72 hr after administration of 1,4-DICB, 1,2,4-TRCB, 1,2,4,5-TECB, and PECB. In the latter two groups, these protein droplets were still observed 9 days after administration. All chlorinated benzenes tested excluding MCB induced a reduction in plasma thyroxine levels. The extent of decrease in plasma thyroxine was more severe in rats treated with 1,2,4-TRCB or PECB and correlated well with the relative binding affinities of the phenolic metabolites to the plasma transport protein for thyroxine, i.e., transthyretin. The present study indicates that the establishment of a structure-activity relationship with regard to toxicity depends on the sensitivity of the respective target organs. In the series of (poly)chlorinated benzenes studied, ranging from mono- to pentachlorobenzene, the most severe effects on liver, kidney, and thyroid were observed for 1,2,4-substitution.
Doxorubicin (Adriamycin) has shown impressive activity in the treatment of a broad spectrum of malignant tumours. Chronic irreversible cardiac myopathy is the usual cumulative dose-limiting toxicity with this anthracycline antibiotic. In this study acute cardiac reactions following doxorubicin infusions (60 mg/m2) were registered by means of ECG Holter monitoring and measurement of systolic time intervals. The PEPI as well as the PEP/LVET ratio were found to be significantly increased, with a peak at 6 hours following drug infusion (p less than 0.001). This observation proves the occurrence of transient myocardial dysfunction during doxorubicin treatment. Pharmacokinetic data showed good correlation between the electrocardiographic changes and the tissue distribution of the drug. Doxorubicin-related ventricular arrhythmias were observed in only 2 out of 6 cases. Repeated acute myocardial damage by doxorubicin infusions is considered to be the cause of chronic cardiomyopathy with long-term administration.
Human amylin-derived oligomers and aggregates are believed to play an important role in the pathogenesis of type II diabetes mellitus (T2DM). In addition to amylin-evoked cell attrition, T2DM is often accompanied by elevated serum copper levels. Although previous studies have shown that human amylin, in the course of its aggregation, produces hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) in solution, and that this process is exacerbated in the presence of copper(ii) ions (Cu(2+)), very little is known about the mechanism of interaction between Cu(2+) and amylin in pancreatic β-cells, including its pathological significance. Hence, in this study we investigated the mechanism by which Cu(2+) and human amylin catalyze formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in cells and in vitro, and examined the modulatory effect of Cu(2+) on amylin aggregation and toxicity in pancreatic rat insulinoma (RIN-m5F) β-cells. Our results indicate that Cu(2+) interacts with human and rat amylin to form metalo-peptide complexes with low aggregative and oxidative properties. Human and non-amyloidogenic rat amylin produced minute (nM) amounts of H2O2, the accumulation of which was slightly enhanced in the presence of Cu(2+). In a marked contrast to human and rat amylin, and in the presence of the reducing agents glutathione and ascorbate, Cu(2+) produced μM concentrations of H2O2 surpassing the amylin effect by several fold. The current study shows that human and rat amylin not only produce but also quench H2O2, and that human but not rat amylin significantly decreases the amount of H2O2 in solution produced by Cu(2+) and glutathione. Similarly, human amylin was found to also decrease hydroxyl radical formation elicited by Cu(2+) and glutathione. Furthermore, Cu(2+) mitigated the toxic effect of human amylin by inhibiting activation of pro-apoptotic caspase-3 and stress-kinase signaling pathways in rat pancreatic insulinoma cells in part by stabilizing human amylin in its native conformational state. This sacrificial quenching of metal-catalyzed ROS by human amylin and copper's anti-aggregative and anti-apoptotic properties suggest a novel and protective role for the copper-amylin complex.
Intragastric injection of the insecticide DDT produces a stimulus-sensitive myoclonus in mice and rats. Unilateral stereotaxic infusions of DDT into rat medullary reticular formation also induced generalized myoclonus, identical to that produced by systemic administration. Similar myoclonus, but of lesser intensity, occurred when DDT was injected into cerebellar nuclei, red nucleus, and the inferior olive. Multiple other regions of the brain were resistant to the myoclonic action of locally infused DDT. Direct infusions into the medullary reticular formation of allethrin, which has a similar action on neuronal membranes as DDT, or the glycine receptor antagonist, strychnine, also elicited myoclonus.
To determine the efficacy of substituting moclobemide, a reversible monoamine oxidase-A inhibitor, for fluoxetine to reverse fluoxetine-induced sexual dysfunction in patients with depression.
Prospective open trial.
Outpatient treatment.
Five patients with depressive disorder who experienced sexual side effects during treatment with standard doses of fluoxetine (20 to 40 mg per day).
Discontinuation of fluoxetine and replacement with moclobemide (300 to 600 mg per day) after a 2-week washout period.
Libido, orgasmic function (in women) or erectile and ejaculatory function (in men), and overall improvement in sexual function during a follow-up period of 2 months to 3 years.
Among patients receiving fluoxetine questioned about sexual side effects, 4 (1 man and 3 women) had treatment-related diminished libido with poor orgasmic response or partial erectile failure, and 1 female patient had enhanced sexual desire with intense clitoral stimulation. In all patients, sexual disturbances resolved completely after a 2-week washout period and a switch to treatment with moclobemide. Moclobemide was well tolerated. The antidepressant effect of moclobemide was comparable to that of fluoxetine.
Moclobemide may be preferred as a treatment for depression in patients with fluoxetine-induced sexual dysfunction.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are rarely associated with side-effects affecting the central nervous system. A case of NSAID-induced recurrent aseptic meningitis is presented. Seven episodes of aseptic meningitis were documented in the patient's life-time (up to the age of 30). General practitioners' records available for the latest four episodes showed that a NSAID (naproxen, piroxicam or diclofenac) was prescribed in the month prior to admission on each occasion. The patient was symptom free for a 3-year period during which no NSAID was prescribed. Clinicians should always elicit a careful drug history (including over-the-counter medications) in patients with aseptic meningitis and be aware of this unusual side-effect of NSAIDs.
The aim of the study was to evaluate the effects of epoetin-beta on anemia and sustained viral response in patients with chronic hepatitis C receiving treatment with pegylated interferon and ribavirin. Forty-two Caucasian patients with chronic hepatitis C infection, treated with pegylated interferon alpha-2a or alpha-2b plus ribavirin, who experienced at least a 2 log decline in HCV-RNA in the first month of therapy and a > or =2.5 g/dl hemoglobin drop from baseline, were recruited. They were divided into two groups: 22 patients received epoetin-beta 30,000 U administered s.c. q.w. (group A) and 20 patients received a reduced ribavirin dose of 600 mg daily (group B). The end-of-treatment response was 95.4% (21/22) in group A and 80% (16/20) (P = 0.2) in group B. Sustained viral response in group A was 81.8% (18/22), statistically higher than in group B (45%, 9/20) (P = 0.03). Mean corpuscular volume of erythrocytes was statistically lower in group A than in group B 4 weeks after starting epoetin-beta or reduced ribavirin dose (P < 0.001), end-of-treatment (P < 0.001) and after 6 months follow-up (P < 0.001). A negative correlation between the levels of ferritin serum was found in group A at the baseline and mean corpuscular volume value after 1 month of combination antiviral therapy (r = -0.45; P = 0.35), 4 weeks after starting epoetin-beta (r = -0.43; P = 0.04) and after 6 months follow-up (r = -0.45; P = 0.03). Administration of epoetin-beta increases sustained viral response rates among patients developing anemia, because the standard dose of ribavirin is maintained, thereby reducing the side-effects of antiviral treatment.
Two cases of penicillamine-induced myasthenia gravis in rheumatoid polyarthritis are reported. A complete recovery was obtained in both cases. The authors discuss the clinical presentation and the pathogenetic mechanisms of that drug-induced myasthenia gravis. The presence in both cases of both the HLA antigens DR1 and BW35 is emphasized.
Carbon tetrachloride, chloroform, dimethylnitrosamine, thioacetamide or acetaminophen was each administered to rats in a single hepatotoxic dose. Nifedipine, verapamil or chlorpromazine was administered in association with the hepatotoxic agents to determine if calcium channel blocking agents would prevent an increase in liver cell calcium associated with hepatotoxicity and to determine if these agents would protect against the development of centrilobular necrosis. Following a latent period different for each toxic agent, a 4- to 18-fold increase in liver cell calcium content had occurred by 24 hr. The calcium increase and the centrilobular necrosis (mean histologic score) were correlated. A relatively high calcium to necrosis ratio was obtained with dimethylnitrosamine, thioacetamide and acetaminophen. A lesser calcium to necrosis ratio was obtained with chloroform and carbon tetrachloride, the two toxic agents that destroyed the intracellular calcium sequestration activity of the liver endoplasmic reticulum. Nifedipine or chlorpromazine, administered prior to and 7 hr after the toxic agent, completely prevented the centrilobular necrosis caused by thioacetamide, carbon tetrachloride and acetaminophen; almost completely prevented necrosis with dimethylnitrosamine; and provided partial protection against chloroform toxicity. Two doses of verapamil provided partial protection against necrosis when carbon tetrachloride was the toxic agent and provided almost complete protection with dimethylnitrosamine. A reduction in liver cell calcium was associated with the protective action of the three calcium channel blocking agents. These findings are compared with earlier studies of the protective effects of calcium channel blocking agents in cardiac ischemia.
The administration of verapamil during the reperfusion phase of acute myocardial infarction can reduce the extent and severity of microvessel damage and limit myocardial dysfunction. We aimed at investigating the effect of early verapamil administration on left ventricular remodeling and the clinical evolution after myocardial infarction.
Eighty-eight patients with first acute anterior myocardial infarction thrombolysed < 4 hours from symptom onset were enrolled in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, controlled study of verapamil administration (5 mg i.v. + 2 microg/kg/min over 24 hours). Echocardiographic end-diastolic (EDV) and end-systolic (ESV) left ventricular volumes were assessed by biplane Simpson's rule.
At 90 days, EDV in the verapamil and placebo groups was respectively 88.9 +/- 27.8 and 95.8 +/- 30.7 ml (p = 0.11), ESV was 52.6 +/- 22.7 and 57.7 +/- 25.4 ml (p = 0.18). There was no change over time in the verapamil group (day 3 vs day 90: EDV 85.0 +/- 17.7 vs 88.9 +/- 27.8 ml, p = NS; ESV 48.7 +/- 14.1 vs 52.6 +/- 22.7 ml, p = NS) while left ventricular volume increased in the placebo group (day 3 vs day 90: EDV 87.6 +/- 21.1 vs 95.8 +/- 30.7 ml, p = 0.03; ESV 52.0 +/- 16.9 vs 57.7 +/- 25.4 ml, p = 0.08). NYHA functional classes were differently distributed at 30 and 90 days (chi2 = 0.009 and 0.07), with a lower prevalence of classes II and III in the verapamil group (p = 0.03).
The early intravenous administration of verapamil in thrombolysed patients can reduce left ventricular remodeling and NYHA functional class after acute anterior myocardial infarction.
CI-1033 (N-[4-[N-(3-chloro-4-fluorophenyl)amino-7-[3-(4-morpholynyl)propoxy]quinazolin-6-yl]acrylamide, PD 0183805-mesylate salt) was identified as a potent, selective inhibitor of erbB family tyrosine kinases, which are overexpressed in a number of solid tumors and have been shown to be involved in tumor progression. Because objective response of clinical patients to erbB-targeted therapies like CI-1033 has been observed only in a subset of cancer patients that exhibit the intended molecular targets, much emphasis has been placed on the identification of biomarkers of antitumor efficacy. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and interleukin-8 (IL-8) were considered as potential biomarkers for CI-1033 due to ease of detection in patient plasma and showed roles in angiogenesis and cancer progression and positive regulation by the erbB receptor family. In the present studies, mice bearing established xenografts (A431 epidermoid carcinoma, H125 non-small cell lung carcinoma, SF767 glioblastoma, and MDA-MB-468 mammary carcinoma) were treated with efficacious and subefficacious doses of CI-1033, and plasma levels and xenograft gene expression of VEGF and IL-8 were evaluated. Oral administration of CI-1033 to tumor-bearing mice at efficacious doses resulted in markedly decreased levels of VEGF and/or IL-8 plasma levels and tumor mRNA levels relative to vehicle-treated control mice in xenograft models that exhibited evaluable levels of these markers. In contrast, subefficacious doses of CI-1033 did not significantly affect VEGF or IL-8 levels in any of the xenograft models. These studies indicate that plasma VEGF and IL-8 may have use as biomarkers of antitumor efficacy for epidermal growth factor receptor/erbB-targeted therapies such as CI-1033 and suggest that further clinical study of these markers in cancer patients are warranted.
Mandibuloacral dysplasia type A (MADA; OMIM 248370), a rare disorder caused by mutation in the LMNA gene, is characterized by post-natal growth retardation, craniofacial and skeletal anomalies (mandibular and clavicular hypoplasia, acroosteolysis, delayed closure of cranial sutures, low bone mass and joint contractures), cutaneous changes and partial lipodystrophy. Little is known about the molecular mechanisms by which LMNA mutations produce bone alterations. An altered bone extracellular matrix (ECM) remodelling could play a pivotal role in this disorder and influence part of the typical bone phenotype observed in patients. Therefore, we have focused our investigation on matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), which are degradative enzymes involved in ECM degradation and ECM remodelling, thus likely contributing to the altered bone mineral density and bone metabolism values seen in five MADA patients. We evaluated the serum levels of several MMPs involved in bone development, remodelling and homeostasis, such as MMP-9, -2, -3, -8 and -13, and found that only the 82 kDa active enzyme forms of MMP-9 are significantly higher in MADA sera compared with healthy controls (n = 16). The serum level of MMP-3 was instead lower in all patients. No significant differences were observed between controls and MADA patients for the serum levels of MMP-2, -8 and -13 and of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 2, a natural inhibitor of MMP-9. Similarly, normal serum levels of tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-1beta were detected. These data suggest a possible involvement of MMP-9 in MADA disease, underlying the potential use in diagnosis and therapy.
We report three observations of Diltiazem intoxication at therapeutic doses with occurence of sino auricular block. The situation evolute favorably for two patients while the third die. The electro systolic stimulate seems to be justified in case of Diltiazem intoxication.
Fifty evaluable patients with advanced lung cancer (28 small cell and 22 non-small cell carcinomas), mainly pretreated by chemotherapy, received 4'-epi-doxorubicin 90 mg/m2 every 3 weeks. Two partial responses were obtained in small cell lung cancer patients, which lasted 153 and 168 days. Leukopenia, emesis and alopecia were the most frequent side effects. Two patients who previously received anthracyclines died suddenly of cardiac failure, another patient had severe congestive heart failure, and four others had minor cardiac dysfunctions. 4'-epi-doxorubicin has a modest activity in advanced lung cancer, mainly pretreated by chemotherapy and is not devoid of significant cardiotoxicity in this patient population.
Evidence has been gathered to suggest that trace amounts of copper induce neurotoxicity by interaction with elevated cholesterol in diet. Copper treatment alone showed no significant learning and memory impairments in behavioral tasks. However, copper-induced neurotoxicity was significantly increased in mice given elevated-cholesterol diet. Trace amounts of copper decreased the activity of SOD and increased the level of malondialdehyde (MDA) in the brain of cholesterol-fed mouse. Copper also caused an increase in amyloid precursor protein (APP) mRNA level and the activation of caspase-3 in the brain of cholesterol-fed mice. The apoptosis-induced nuclear DNA fragmentation was detected in the brain of those mice by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)-mediated dUTP nick-end-labeling staining. These findings suggest that trace amounts of copper induce neurotoxicity in cholesterol-fed mice through apoptosis caused by oxidative stress.
The inhibitor of apoptosis protein (IAP) survivin is overexpressed in many tumors but is absent in most normal adult tissues. We report high levels of survivin expression in small cell lung cancer (SCLC), and describe the role of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt pathway in survivin upregulation. Moreover, the cytoprotective function of survivin in response to the anti-cancer agent cisplatin (CDDP) was investigated. Negative modulation of PI3K/Akt using pharmacological inhibitors or dominant negative Akt (DN-Akt) decreased Akt kinase activity and resulted in decreased survivin expression and phosphorylation on Thr34, whereas transfection of constitutively active Akt (CA-Akt) increased survivin expression and phosphorylation. Interestingly, we found that treatment of SCLC cells with CDDP further increased survivin expression in a cell cycle independent manner by activation of Akt. CA-Akt or lentiviral survivin also inhibited apoptosis induced by CDDP, whereas DN-Akt or survivin-specific RNA interference sensitized cells to CDDP. We identified survivin as an anti-apoptotic protein in SCLC cells that is regulated by Akt, and demonstrate that treatment with the DNA damaging agent CDDP activates the PI3K/Akt/survivin pathway that in part protects cells from drug-induced apoptosis.
