Catecholamine treatment for hypotension is common practice in neonatal intensive care units. In the presence of left ventricular hypertrophy, the positive inotropic action of catecholamines with mainly beta-receptor specificity can lead to excessive hypercontractility and paradoxical hypotension. This reports presents two cases of hypercontractile heart failure during beta-agonist treatment in very low birthweight (VLBW) infants. Both patients (27 wk, 5 d; and 26 wk, 6 d of gestation) underwent surgical arterial duct ligation and coarctation repair. After operation they developed arterial hypotension that failed to respond to epinephrine (adrenaline) or dobutamine treatment. Echocardiography demonstrated a complete systolic obliteration of the left ventricular cavity. Epinephrine and dobutamine were stopped, and norepinephrine (noradrenaline) was successfully used to control the hypotension.
Treatment of hypotension with beta-agonists in VLBW infants with left ventricular hypertrophy can lead to hypercontractility and left ventricular obliteration with paradoxical hypotension. Careful echocardiographic monitoring is indicated in such cases.
There is a common polymorphism in the promoter sequence of the human stromelysin-1 gene, with one allele having a run of six adenosines (6A) and the other five adenosines (5A). We have previously reported, in a 3-year follow-up study of patients with coronary atherosclerosis, that those patients who are homozygous for the 6A allele show a more rapid progression of the disease. In this study, we have investigated whether the 5A/6A promoter polymorphism plays a role in the regulation of stromelysin-1 gene expression. In transient transfection experiments, a stromelysin-1 promoter construct with 6A at the polymorphic site was found to express less of the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene than a construct containing 5A. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay and DNase I footprinting revealed the interaction of one or more nuclear protein(s) with the DNA sequence at the 5A/6A polymorphic site. The binding of one of the nucleoprotein factors was more readily detectable with an oligonucleotide probe corresponding to the 6A allele as compared with a probe corresponding to the 5A allele. Replacing the core binding sequence with a random DNA sequence abolished the interaction between the nuclear protein(s) and the probe and also increased reporter gene expression in transiently transfected cells. Thus, the common 5A/6A polymorphism of the human stromelysin-1 promoter appears to play an important role in regulating stromelysin-1 gene expression and may be involved in the progression of coronary heart disease.
Although minocycline has been generally thought to have neuroprotective properties, the neuroprotective role of minocycline has not been investigated in the animal model of epilepsy. In this study, we investigated whether minocycline is neuroprotective against kainic acid (KA)-induced cell death through the caspase-dependent or -independent mitochondrial apoptotic pathways. Adult male ICR mice were subjected to seizures by intrahippocampal KA injection with vehicle or with minocycline. For cell death analysis, TdT-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling and cresyl-violet staining were performed. Western blot analysis and immunofluorescent staining for cytochrome c and apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) were performed. Cell death was reduced in minocycline-treated mice. Cytosolic translocation of cytochrome c and subsequent activation of caspase-3 were diminished by minocycline treatment. AIF nuclear translocation and subsequent large-scale DNA fragmentation were also reduced in minocycline-treated mice. Thus, this study suggests that minocycline inhibits both caspase-dependent and -independent apoptotic pathways and may be neuroprotective against hippocampal damage after KA treatment.
The effect of excitatory amino acid receptor antagonists, (5R,10S)-(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclo-hepten-5, 10-imine hydrogen maleate ((+)-MK-801), (+/-)-3-(2-carboxy-piperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP), 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) and (+/-)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutanoic acid (AP-4), on penile erection and yawning induced by subcutaneous apomorphine (80 micrograms/kg), intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) oxytocin (30 ng) and adrenocorticotropin (ACTH)-(1-24) (10 micrograms) was studied in male rats. Intraperitoneal (0.1-0.4 mg/kg) and i.c.v. (10-50 micrograms) (+)-MK-801 prevented dose dependently the penile erection and yawning induced by the three drugs. The (+)-MK-801 effect coincided with the appearance of head weaving, body rolling, hyperlocomotion and ataxia. Haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg i.p.) antagonized the prevention by (+)-MK-801 of oxytocin responses. Penile erection but not yawning was also prevented by high, but not low doses of CPP and CNQX, which impaired motor performance, AP-4 was ineffective at all doses tested. The above compounds were ineffective when injected into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, the brain area where apomorphine and oxytocin act to induce penile erection and yawning. The results suggest that excitatory amino acid transmission is not involved in the expression of penile erection and yawning induced by the above compounds.
Fructose is a commonly used sweetener associated with diets that increase the prevalence of metabolic syndrome. Thiazide diuretics are frequently used in these patients for treatment of hypertension, but they also exacerbate metabolic syndrome. Rats on high-fructose diets that are given thiazides exhibit potassium depletion and hyperuricemia. Potassium supplementation improves their insulin resistance and hypertension, whereas allopurinol reduces serum levels of uric acid and ameliorates hypertension, hypertriglyceridemia, hyperglycemia, and insulin resistance. Both potassium supplementation and treatment with allopurinol also increase urinary nitric oxide excretion. We suggest that potassium depletion and hyperuricemia in rats exacerbates endothelial dysfunction and lowers the bioavailability of nitric oxide, which blocks insulin activity and causes insulin resistance during thiazide usage. Addition of potassium supplements and allopurinol with thiazides might be helpful in the management of metabolic syndrome.
Previous studies have demonstrated that patients with halothane-induced hepatitis have serum antibodies that are directed against novel liver microsomal neoantigens and have suggested that these neoantigens may play an immunopathological role in development of the patients' liver damage. These investigations have further revealed that the antibodies are directed against distinct polypeptide fractions (100 kDa, 76 kDa, 59 kDa, 57 kDa, 54 kDa) that have been covalently modified by the reactive trifluoroacetyl halide metabolite of halothane. In this paper, the trifluoroacetylated (TFA) 59-kDa neoantigen (59-kDa-TFA) recognized by the patients' antibodies was isolated from liver microsomes of halothane-treated rats by chromatography on an immunoaffinity column of anti-TFA IgG. Antibodies were raised against the 59-kDa-TFA protein and were used to purify the native protein from liver microsomes of untreated rats. Based upon its apparent monomeric molecular mass, NH2-terminal amino acid sequence, catalytic activity, and other physical properties, the protein has been identified as a previously characterized microsomal carboxylesterase (EC 3.1.1.1). A similar strategy may be used to purify and characterized neoantigens associated with other drug toxicities that are believed to have an immunopathological basis.
In the last 20 years, acute and chronic cocaine addiction has increased among young and adult people. The effects of cocaine on brain vasculature of young animals have not been histologically studied in depth. In the present study, we report the lesions of brain capillaries, including the choroid plexus, produced by chronic cocaine administration, in adult Wistar rats receiving i.p., 30 mg/kg/day of aqueous cocaine hydrochloride solution. Rats were sacrificed after several days of treatment. Histopathological examination of capillaries from different brain regions and cerebellum was performed using light microscopy. At 7 days, there were initial signs of dilatation, rupture and thrombosis of capillaries. At 15 days of treatment small interstitial oedema and hemorrhages by rupture of the basal membrane of the capillaries was found. At 30 days of treatment, many capillaries from different areas showed fibroid endothelial thickening, and wall fibrosis become evident after 60 days of daily cocaine. In numerous places (cortex, gray nucleus: thalamus, caudate, hippocampus and cerebellum) we observed capillaries with an occluded lumen probably due to fibrosis or thrombi after 90 days of treatment. In the latter treatment, capillaries from the choroid plexuses had their lumen dilated and the epithelial cells vacuolated or necrotic. We hypothesize that the chronic administration of cocaine in rats induced brain lesions in part as a result of capillary disruption and subsequent extravasation of erythrocytes to brain parenchyma.
This study was undertaken to investigate the dynamics of blood-brain barrier breakdown in an in vivo rat model of selective CNS vulnerability. 1,3-Dinitrobenzene was used to induce rapid glial degeneration in highly defined areas of the brainstem. Leakage of fluorescent dextran was used to demonstrate the breakdown of the blood-brain barrier, and antibodies to glial and neuronal specific proteins to assess the accompanying cell changes. Beginning 18 h after a toxic dose of dinitrobenzene and before loss of glial ensheathment, a sub-population of blood vessels became permeable to fluorescent dextrans below 500,000 mol. wt in size. By 24h most macroglial cells had been lost from within susceptible areas and vascular leakage had reached peak levels. Macrophage invasion was detected three days following dinitrobenzene. Vessels continued to leak up to four days after the lesion was formed, but by six days blood-brain barrier integrity was largely re-established. Multiple tracer injections over time demonstrated that a single sub-population of vessels was leaking during the experimental period. From these findings we conclude that blood-brain barrier breakdown in this model system is highly selective, graded in extent and molecular weight specificity and not a direct consequence of astrocyte degeneration or microglial activation. This system could be useful in modeling human CNS pathological processes with a vascular component and for understanding in vivo glial blood-brain barrier interactions.
We have examined the effect of alpha G-Rutin and luteolin on doxorubicin (DOX) toxicity in mice. In the heart, the lipid peroxide level, increased to 1.5 times of the normal level induced by DOX, decreased to the normal level after treatment with alpha G-Rutin or luteolin (i.p.). Glutathione peroxidase (GSHpx) activity, decreased to 73% of normal activity after DOX treatment, was shown to recover by the combined flavonoids. The lipid peroxide level in bone marrow cells increased to 5.9 times of the normal level by DOX treatment, whereas this level in the extra bone marrow cells did not change by treatment with DOX. The combination of alpha G-Rutin and luteolin with DOX significantly inhibited the DOX induced-increment of the lipid peroxide level in bone marrow cells. Flavonoids have also reduced the effect of DOX toxicity by oral administration. It is suggested that it is possible to reduce DOX toxicity by the intake of food including flavonoids. In NADPH-dependent lipid peroxidation, alpha G-Rutin and luteolin showed concentration-dependent inhibition. Therefore, we considered that the reduction effect of DOX toxicity by flavonoids was caused by antioxidative action and other effect of the flavonoids.
Sera from 40 patients with a clinical diagnosis of halothane-associated hepatitis were tested for the presence of antibodies to the trifluoroacetate (TFA) halothane metabolite hapten using an ELISA assay, with TFA-albumin as the antigen. Positive results were obtained in 30% of cases of which 3/4 with encephalopathy were positive and 9/36 non-fulminant cases were positive. Antibody specificity to the TFA hapten was confirmed in each positive result by a 'hapten inhibition' experiment in which TFA albumin binding was blocked by preincubation of serum with TFA-lysine. Most probably this assay detects a relatively low affinity cross-reaction with the TFA hapten of antibodies in the patients' sera which are directed against specific TFA-labelled liver proteins. Anti-TFA-albumin antibodies were not detected in 28 normal subjects, 5 subjects with fulminant hepatic failure secondary to other causes, 6 subjects with a history of 2 or more exposures to halothane but with no evidence of liver disease and 28 patients with a variety of chronic liver diseases. It is concluded that ELISA testing using trifluoroacetylated rabbit serum albumin (TFA-RSA) as antigen is a quick and convenient assay for the confirmation of halothane-associated hepatitis in fulminant hepatic failure secondary to halothane, but is less sensitive when the illness follows a milder course.
To evaluate the frequency of venous thromboembolism (VTE) in patients with advanced androgen-independent prostate cancer who were treated with docetaxel alone or in combination with thalidomide.
Retrospective analysis of a randomized phase II trial.
National Institutes of Health clinical research center.
Seventy men, aged 50-80 years, with advanced androgen-independent prostate cancer.
Each patient received either intravenous docetaxel 30 mg/m2/week for 3 consecutive weeks, followed by 1 week off, or the combination of continuous oral thalidomide 200 mg every evening plus the same docetaxel regimen. This 4-week cycle was repeated until there was evidence of excessive toxicity or disease progression.
None of 23 patients who received docetaxel alone developed VTE, whereas 9 of 47 patients (19%) who received docetaxel plus thalidomide developed VTE (p=0.025).
The addition of thalidomide to docetaxel in the treatment of prostate cancer significantly increases the frequency of VTE. Clinicians should be aware of this potential complication when adding thalidomide to chemotherapeutic regimens.
Insulin-like-growth factor II (IGF II) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of neoplasm of different tissues, including liver of rats and men. This growth factor is believed to exert its effect during cellular proliferation. During the process of development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), different hepatic altered foci appear. They are believed to be the putative precursors of HCC in rats and in men. Thus, to study the role of the gene in a defined model of hepatocarcinogenesis was the target to elucidate its role in various cancer phenotypes during the entire development stage of cancer, right from earlier preneoplastic lesions to HCC.
Antisense in situ hybridization technique was used here to characterize the type(s) of foci in which IGF II mRNA had expressed during the development of hepatocarcinogenesis-induced by diethylnitrosamine and promoted by phenobarbital in rats. Various focal lesions have been categorized depending on the stages and sizes along with IGF II expression patterns in them. Immunohistochemical detection for proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) was made to detect the role of the gene in preneoplastic and neoplastic cellular proliferation.
IGF II expression was located in the glycogen-storage acidophilic cell foci maximally followed by mixed cell lesions and the least in basophilic lesions. The expression of IGF II was found to be predominant in the HCC. The expression of gene was also located at the peripheral cells of spongiosis hepatis which are believed to be the precursor of ito cell carcinoma. It was noted that there is a direct correlation between IGF II expression and immunohistochemical detection for PCNA.
It may be concluded that IGF II gene expression plays an important role during the development of neoplasia and the gene expresses in the sequence of events leading from glycogen-rich-acidophilic lesions to glycogen poor basophilic lesions to HCC with an expression pattern of "high-low-high" in terms of degree of expression. Moreover, the essential role of the gene at the immediate initiation stage of carcinogenesis (first few weeks) and during HCC development cannot be ignored. Thus this expression can be used as a suitable marker for very early detection of the cancerous process and can save numbers of future cancer victims by very early detection of this disease.
Poisoning by nerve agents via the percutaneous (p.c.) route is an issue because the slow absorption of agent could result in poisoning which outlasts the protection provided by conventional pharmacological therapy. The bioscavenger approach is based on the concept of binding nerve agent in the bloodstream, thus preventing nerve agent from reaching the target tissues and inhibiting acetylcholinesterase activity. One bioscavenger that has been extensively studied is human butyrylcholinesterase (huBuChE). Protexia® is a pegylated form of recombinant huBuChE. We used a guinea-pig model of p.c. nerve agent poisoning, using an implanted telemetry system to collect physiological data. Guinea-pigs were poisoned with the nerve agent VX (0.74 mg/kg) (∼2.5 × LD₅₀). Two hours following VX exposure, Protexia (72 mg/kg) or saline control was administered intramuscularly. All guinea-pigs treated with Protexia (n=8) survived, compared to no survivors in a saline-treated control group (n=8). Survival following VX and Protexia treatment was associated with minimal incapacitation and observable signs of poisoning, and the mitigation or prevention of the detrimental physiological changes (e.g. seizure, bradycardia and hypothermia) observed in control animals. The opportunity for post-exposure treatment may have utility in both civilian and military scenarios, and this is a promising indication for the use of a bioscavenger.
To understand effects of Bisphenol-A (BPA) exposure on the reproductive organ across generations, we analyzed morphology of the uterus and ovary, and the methylation pattern of HOXA10 gene of the 2(nd) generation. Pregnant mice (F0) were treated with sc injection of BPA in sesame oil at various doses of 0-1,000 mg/kg Bwt on days 12-16 of gestation. Their offspring (F1) were bred by foster mice, and the offspring (F2) from F1 mice were prepared. That is, F1 mice experienced in utero BPA exposure during the developmental period of reproductive organs, while F2 mice did not at all. Using these F2 mice, the present study was carried out. Comparing to the control, the body weights in BPA exposure groups were significantly increased. Correlating with the increase of body weight, the relative weights of the ovary and uterus in each group were decreased. The histological analysis revealed expansion or emphraxis of the uterine lumen and partial loss of the uterine epithelium. Unmethylation of HOXA10 gene in the uterus was observed in the intron region. The present study suggested that BPA exposure to F0 mice could affect reproductive organ of F2 mice who were not exposed to BPA.
Cerebral blood flow (CBF) in the rat was monitored by a venous outflow technique with an extracorporeal circulation, which allows for the continuous recording of CBF over several hours. Morphine and the opiate antagonist, naloxone, were tested for their effects on the reactive hyperemia that follows a brief anoxic challenge. Morphine (5.0 mg/kg) significantly reduced the peak increase in flow during the hyperemia and, at both of the doses used (1.0 and 5.0 mg/kg), caused a small, nonsignificant increase in the duration of the reactive hyperemia. Naloxone (0.1 and 1.0 mg/kg) enhanced basal CBF rates and significantly prolonged the duration of the reactive hyperemia. These effects of naloxone may account for its beneficial effects in the treatment of cerebral ischemia.
In order to study neurotransmitter receptor regulation in the basal ganglia involved in the functional changes underlying levodopa-induced motor complications, quantitative autoradiography was used to observe receptor bindings of dopamine D1 and D2, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) and amino butyric acid (GABA) in the basal ganglia of rats that had unilateral nigrostriatal lesions and had been chronically treated with levodopa until motor complications developed. The rats were randomly assigned to three groups: normal, denervated and treatment-complicated groups. The results showed that response duration to levodopa became progressively shorter and abnormal involuntary movement (AIM) score was progressively increased during the course of levodopa treatment. Chronic treatment augmented D1 receptors more than denervation, and reduced D2 receptors that were also increased by dopamine denervation. Striatal NMDA receptors were substantially up-regulated in the treatment-complicated group. Levodopa treatment did not change receptors of nigral AMPA, pallidal GABA, and subthalamic GABA, which remained the same as that in denervation group. However, chronic treatment reversed the increase of nigral GABA receptors caused by the lesion. It was concluded that a shortening of response duration and AIM mimicked levodopa-induced motor complications of Parkinson's patients. These data suggested that up-regulation of dopamine D1 and NMDA receptors in the striatum leads to an imbalance of stimulation through the striatal output pathways, which is associated with levodopa-induced motor complications.
Current data concerning the effects of maternal epileptic phenomena on newborns are limited. In clinical practice, therefore, it is difficult to suggest proper guidelines on this issue. This study was carried out to investigate the morphological changes in the hippocampus of newborn pups of rats subjected to experimental epilepsy during pregnancy.
Eighteen Swiss Albino rats were randomly divided into three groups (n=6): experimental group, saline-injected sham surgery group, and intact control group. In the experimental group of rats, an acute grand mal epileptic seizure was induced by 400 IU penicillin-G administration into their intra-hippocampal CA3 region with a stereotaxic device during the 13th day of their pregnancy. On the first neonatal day, pups were perfused with intracardiac fixative solution under anesthesia, and newborn hippocampi were dissected surgically for light and electron microscopic examinations. In an immunohistochemical study using Rat-401 mono-clonal antibody and peroxidase, nestin expression was analyzed in the developing hippocampal tissue.
Histologically, normal migration and hippocampal maturation were determined in the newborn rat hippocampus in the control and the sham-operated groups. It was observed that the morphological structure of hippocampus in the experimental group corresponded to the early embryonal period. Most importantly, it was found that nestin (+)cell density was increased in the experimental epilepsy group in contrast to the control and sham groups.
It has been concluded that epileptic seizures during embryonic life may cause impaired hippocampal neurogenesis and maturation,explaining the potentially harmful effects of epileptic seizures on the embryo at the early stage of neuronal differentiation. This is the first report regarding the alterations in nestin expression in newborn rat hippocampus. In the light of such findings, it will also be necessary to evaluate the functional consequences of a va-riety of epileptic seizures on learning and memory in neonates.
Temazepam, 7.5 mg was evaluated in the sleep laboratory in 8 elderly insomniacs, using a 14-night protocol (4 placebo-baseline nights, 7 drug nights, and 3 placebo-withdrawal nights). With short-term use temazepam was found to be effective, producing a significant improvement in total wake time from baseline (100 vs. 145 min). With continued drug administration, total wake time remained below baseline but not significantly so (125 vs. 145 min). During drug administration, there were no major CNS and behavioral adverse effects reported such as daytime sedation, memory impairment or hyperexcitability (daytime anxiety). Following drug withdrawal, there was no significant increase in wakefulness, i.e., no rebound insomnia (150 vs. 145 min). In summary, temazepam, 7.5 mg is effective in elderly subjects with short-term use and has a minimum of adverse effects. Use of hypnotic drugs is an adjunctive therapy which should be for a short-term period with subsequent short-term intermittent use as needed. Because of its low propensity for producing rebound insomnia, temazepam can be effectively used in this manner.
Regulation of gene expression is known to contribute to the long-term adaptations taking place in response to drugs of abuse. Recent studies highlighted the regulation of gene transcription in neurons by chromatin remodeling, a process in which posttranslational modifications of histones play a major role. To test the involvement of epigenetic regulation on drug-reinforcing properties, we submitted rats to the cocaine operant self-administration paradigm. Using the fixed ratio 1 schedule, we found that the histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors trichostatin A and phenylbutyrate dose-dependently reduced cocaine self-administration. Under the progressive ratio schedule, both trichostatin A and depudecin significantly reduced the breaking point, indicating that HDAC inhibition attenuated the motivation of rats for cocaine. Conversely, HDAC inhibition did not decrease self-administration for the natural reinforcer sucrose. This observation was correlated with measurements of HDAC activity in the frontal cortex, which was inhibited in response to cocaine, but not to sucrose self-administration. Control experiments showed that the decrease in the motivation for the drug was not attributable to a general motivational dysfunction because trichostatin A had no adverse effect on locomotion during the habituation session or on cocaine-induced hyperlocomotion. It was not attributable to anhedonia because the inhibitor had no effect on the sucrose preference test. In contrast, trichostatin A completely blocked the cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization. Together, the data show that epigenetic regulation of gene transcription in adult brain is able to influence a motivated behavior and suggest that HDAC inhibition may counteract the neural sensitization leading to drug dependence.
To evaluate the conservative management of pain after systemic methotrexate therapy for ectopic pregnancy; identify prognostic factors for success; and compare hCG resolution time for patients with and without pain.
A retrospective review of patients with ectopic pregnancy requiring evaluation for pain after receiving single-dose methotrexate therapy is performed. Results of hematocrits, ultrasound findings, hCG levels, time for hCG levels to reach less than 15 mIU/mL, and outcome were noted.
Fifty-three patients with 64 episodes of pain were identified. Seven hospitalized patients required surgery during admission. Two previously hospitalized and one outpatient also ultimately underwent surgery. For hospitalized patients, there were no statistical differences between patients who did or did not undergo surgery during admission for any variable studied, including the presence of free peritoneal blood or rebound tenderness. However, comparison of hospitalized and nonhospitalized patients showed those with rebound tenderness were more likely to be admitted. Hospitalized patients not requiring surgery had shorter resolution time than nonhospitalized patients. For hospitalized and nonhospitalized patients, the median time from treatment to presentation for pain was 8 days.
The occurrence of pain following methotrexate therapy for ectopic pregnancy should not be the sole indication for surgical intervention. The majority of stable patients with pain after methotrexate therapy, even with rebound or free peritoneal fluid, can be treated successfully without surgery, either in hospital with close observation for severe pain or as outpatients for patients with less severe pain.
The authors report the case of an 77-year-old woman with no evidence of previous cardiac disease who developed a non-Q-wave myocardial infarction after beta2-mimetic treatment for the exacerbation of her chronic bronchial asthma. After the five dose of salbutamol spray she developed chest pain. The electrogram showed ST segment elevation in leads I-aVL-V4-6. Urgent coronary angiography showed only non significant left anterior coronary artery stenosis (20%). A subsequent echocardiogram also revealed anterolateral hypokinesia and acute reversible left ventricular dysfunction (LVEF:30%). Both troponin T concentration and creatine kinase rose. Next day in the lateral leads negative T-waves developed with QT-prolongation and without pathologic Q-waves. Although myocardial infarction and acute reversible left ventricular dysfunction is a rare complication following beta2 mimetic treatment one should use high-dose beta2-agonists with caution.
Caffeine and other methylxanthines induce behavioral activation and anxiety responses in mice via antagonist action at A2A adenosine receptors. When combined with the opioid antagonist naloxone, methylxanthines produce a characteristic quasi-morphine withdrawal syndrome (QMWS) in opiate-naive animals.
The aim of this study was to establish the role of A2A receptors in the quasi-morphine withdrawal syndrome induced by co-administration of caffeine and naloxone and in the behavioral effects of caffeine.
We have used A2A receptor knockout (A(2A)R(-/-)) mice in comparison with their wild-type and heterozygous littermates to measure locomotor activity in the open field and withdrawal symptoms induced by caffeine and naloxone. Naïve wild-type and knockout mice were also examined for enkephalin and dynorphin mRNA expression by in situ hybridization and for mu-opiate receptor by ligand binding autoradiography to check for possible opiate receptor changes induced by A2A receptor inactivation.
Caffeine increases locomotion and anxiety in wild-type animals, but it has no psychomotor effects in A(2A)R(-/-) mice. Co-administration of caffeine (20 mg/kg) and naloxone (2 mg/kg) resulted in a severe quasi-morphine withdrawal syndrome in wild-type mice that was almost completely abolished in A(2A)R(-/-) mice. Heterozygous animals exhibited a 40% reduction in withdrawal symptoms, suggesting that there is no genetic/developmental compensation for the inactivation of one of the A(2A)R alleles. A(2A)R(-/-) and wild-type mice have similar levels of striatal mu-opioid receptors, thus the effect is not due to altered opioid receptor expression.
Our results demonstrate that A2A receptors are required for the induction of quasi-morphine withdrawal syndrome by co-administration of caffeine and naloxone and implicate striatal A2A receptors and mu-opiate receptors in tonic inhibition of motor activity in the striatum.
A common feature of temporal lobe epilepsy and of animal models of epilepsy is the growth of hippocampal mossy fibers into the dentate molecular layer, where at least some of them innervate granule cells. Because the mossy fibers are axons of granule cells, the recurrent mossy fiber pathway provides monosynaptic excitatory feedback to these neurons that could facilitate seizure discharge. We used the pilocarpine model of temporal lobe epilepsy to study the synaptic responses evoked by activating this pathway. Whole cell patch-clamp recording demonstrated that antidromic stimulation of the mossy fibers evoked an excitatory postsynaptic current (EPSC) in approximately 74% of granule cells from rats that had survived >10 wk after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. Recurrent mossy fiber growth was demonstrated with the Timm stain in all instances. In contrast, antidromic stimulation of the mossy fibers evoked an EPSC in only 5% of granule cells studied 4-6 days after status epilepticus, before recurrent mossy fiber growth became detectable. Notably, antidromic mossy fiber stimulation also evoked an EPSC in many granule cells from control rats. Clusters of mossy fiber-like Timm staining normally were present in the inner third of the dentate molecular layer at the level of the hippocampal formation from which slices were prepared, and several considerations suggested that the recorded EPSCs depended mainly on activation of recurrent mossy fibers rather than associational fibers. In both status epilepticus and control groups, the antidromically evoked EPSC was glutamatergic and involved the activation of both AMPA/kainate and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. EPSCs recorded in granule cells from rats with recurrent mossy fiber growth differed in three respects from those recorded in control granule cells: they were much more frequently evoked, a number of them were unusually large, and the NMDA component of the response was generally much more prominent. In contrast to the antidromically evoked EPSC, the EPSC evoked by stimulation of the perforant path appeared to be unaffected by a prior episode of status epilepticus. These results support the hypothesis that recurrent mossy fiber growth and synapse formation increases the excitatory drive to dentate granule cells and thus facilitates repetitive synchronous discharge. Activation of NMDA receptors in the recurrent pathway may contribute to seizure propagation under depolarizing conditions. Mossy fiber-granule cell synapses also are present in normal rats, where they may contribute to repetitive granule cell discharge in regions of the dentate gyrus where their numbers are significant.
One hundred and seventy-eight patients underwent surgical therapy for oral and cervical cancers from 1964 to 1975. About 25 percent of the patients underwent neck dissection and/or "pull-through" procedures. However, majority of patients required a spectrum of reconstructive techniques extending from marginal mandibulectomy with or without skin flaps (39), partial mandibulectomy with immediate prosthetic mandible reconstruction (36), to extended resections with skin flaps or staged reconstructive procedures (48). The advantages and disadvantages of each reconstructive procedure have been observed and a scheme of graded management has been developed. The therapeutic goal is to maximize functional oral reconstruction without compromising tumor cure. There were two operative deaths--one from myocardial infarction after operation and one from halothane hepatitis. The tumors were grouped according to TNM classification. In the follow-up of the 178 patients, 47 per cent are known to be alive and free of tumor. The better results (greater than 70% free of tumor) are in the group with smaller tumors (less than 2 cm.) and no node involvement, and there are less favorable rates for those patients with larger tumors and nodal metastasis or invasion of adjacent structures. There was a 49 percent 2 year survival rate and 12 of the deaths were from nontumor causes. Ninety percent of these patients smoked more than one pack of cigarettes per day, accounting for the high rate of synchronous or subsequent oroairway cancers (7 percent). Seventy-five percent were considered to be "heavy alcoholics" with evidence of cirrhotic liver disease. These two factors significantly decreased the survival from rate 54 to 47 percent. The series shows that planned primary reconstructive surgery can be done at a low risk, that it can enhance resectability of head and neck cancers, and that it does improve oral function after operation.
Rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata (RCDP) is a genetically heterogeneous, autosomal recessive disorder of peroxisomal metabolism that is clinically characterized by symmetrical shortening of the proximal long bones, cataracts, periarticular calcifications, multiple joint contractures, and psychomotor retardation. Most patients with RCDP have mutations in the PEX7 gene encoding peroxin 7, the cytosolic PTS2-receptor protein required for targeting a subset of enzymes to peroxisomes. These enzymes are deficient in cells of patients with RCDP, because of their mislocalization to the cytoplasm. We report the mutational spectrum in the PEX7 gene of 78 patients (including five pairs of sibs) clinically and biochemically diagnosed with RCDP type I. We found 22 different mutations, including 18 novel ones. Furthermore, we show by functional analysis that disease severity correlates with PEX7 allele activity: expression of eight different alleles from patients with severe RCDP failed to restore the targeting defect in RCDP fibroblasts, whereas two alleles found only in patients with mild disease complemented the targeting defect upon overexpression. Surprisingly, one of the mild alleles comprises a duplication of nucleotides 45-52, which is predicted to lead to a frameshift at codon 17 and an absence of functional peroxin 7. The ability of this allele to complement the targeting defect in RCDP cells suggests that frame restoration occurs, resulting in full-length functional peroxin 7, which leads to amelioration of the predicted severe phenotype. This was confirmed in vitro by expression of the eight-nucleotide duplication-containing sequence fused in different reading frames to the coding sequence of firefly luciferase in COS cells.
We reviewed 42 cases of cefepime-induced neurotoxicity and 12 cases of ceftazidime-induced neurotoxicity from the literature and our institution. Clinical characteristics and timing of diagnosis were examined. Common findings were confusion with temporospatial disorientation (96% of patients), myoclonus (33%), and seizures (13%). These neurologic disorders frequently are encountered in uremic and elderly patients, who often are in a confused state when they visit their physician. The risk of delayed diagnosis was greater with cefepime than ceftazidime neurotoxicity. The median interval between symptom onset and diagnosis of cefepime versus ceftazidime neurotoxicity was 5 and 3 days, respectively (p=0.005). Delayed diagnosis of cefepime neurotoxicity may be due to lack of awareness of the adverse effect. Data gathered since these two broad-spectrum antibiotics were first marketed underscore the potential for neurologic adverse events secondary to their administration. Thus, clinicians' awareness must be increased so that the time between symptom onset and diagnosis can be reduced.
Valproic acid, a widely used anticonvulsant drug, is a potent teratogen resulting in various congenital abnormalities. However, the mechanisms underlying valproic acid induced teratogenesis are nor clear. Recent studies indicate that histone deacetylase is a direct target of valproic acid.
In the present study, we have used histological analysis and RT-PCR assays to examine the cardiac abnormalities in mice treated with sodium valproate (NaVP) and determined the effects of NaVP on histone deacetylase activity and the expression of heart development-related genes in mouse myocardial cells.
The experimental data show that NaVP can induce cardiac abnormalities in fetal mice in a dose-dependent manner. NaVP causes a dose-dependent inhibition of hitone deacetylase (HDAC) activity in mouse myocardial cells. However, the expression levels of HDAC (both HDAC1 and HDAC2) are not significantly changed in fetal mouse hearts after administration of NaVP in pregnant mice. The transcriptional levels of other heart development-related genes, such as CHF1, Tbx5 and MEF2, are significantly increased in fetal mouse hearts treated with NaVP.
The study indicates that administration of NaVP in pregnant mice can result in various cardiac abnormalities in fetal hearts, which is associated with an inhibition of histone deacetylase without altering the transcription of this enzyme.
Topographical distribution of the propagation of seizure activity in the basal ganglia was studied during focal motor seizures from the focus in the face-hand area of Area 4 in the monkey, using the [14C]deoxyglucose autoradiography method. The focal seizures were induced by injecting potassium penicillin G into the face-hand area in the right motor cortex. The propagation of seizure activity in the basal ganglia was localized in the ventral and caudal parts of the ipsilateral putamen and globus pallidus lateral and medial segments, and in part of the reticular portion of substantia nigra. These areas in the basal ganglia seem to be functionally linked to the face-hand area of the motor cortex.
