Our aim was to evaluate the relationship of pain reduction, after intradiskal lidocaine administration during provocation lumbar diskography, to the presence of contrast leakage on postdiskographic imaging.
Intradiskal lidocaine was injected at 182 significantly painful disk levels in 111 patients. The clinical records and imaging studies were reviewed for response to the lidocaine injection and for the presence/absence of diskographic contrast leakage on postdiskographic images and CT. Pain response was assigned the following grades: 1) complete or substantial improvement, 2) partial improvement, or 3) no significant improvement after lidocaine administration. Fluoroscopic imaging and postdiskographic CT were evaluated for the presence or absence of contrast leakage.
Eighty-two (45%) significantly painful treated disks were contained, and 100 (55%) demonstrated contrast leakage. In leaking disks, 74 (74%) demonstrated complete or near-complete pain reduction after lidocaine administration, 15 (15%) demonstrated partial improvement, and 11 (11%) demonstrated no pain relief. In contained disks, 56 disks (69%) demonstrated no improvement after lidocaine administration, 9 (11%) demonstrating partial relief, and 17 (20%) demonstrated complete or substantial improvement. Results comparing leaking disks versus contained disks and complete versus no improvement were statistically significant (P<.001).
Painful disks exhibiting diskographic leakage tend to be highly responsive to intradiskal lidocaine administration, whereas painful disks without diskographic leakage tend not to improve. This observation has implications with respect to targeting the origin of a patient's back pain and may have specific implications with respect to choice of treatment.
Combination chemotherapy is increasingly practiced for the treatment of malignant prostate cancers. The aim of this study was to evaluate the in vivo efficacy of combined tamoxifen and quercetin in prostate tumor xenografts. Severe combined immune deficient (SCID) mice inoculated with CWR22 prostate tumor cells were treated with either tamoxifen (10 mg/kg/week), quercetin (200 mg/kg/day) or combined tamoxifen-quercetin for 28 days. Tamoxifen or quercetin alone exhibited a moderate antitumor activity. Tamoxifen decreased the Ki-67 index by 52.4%, reduced the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) 121 and VEGF165 mRNA by 18.6 and 21.8%, respectively, and suppressed the blood vessel formation, while quercetin modulated the expression and phosphorylation of cdc-2 and cyclin B1, and inhibited the Ki-67 index by 66.0%. Combined tamoxifen-quercetin effectively delayed the appearance of tumors, inhibited the final tumor volume by 73.3% and reduced the endpoint tumor weight by 67.1% (p<0.05). The Ki-67 index, VEGF121, VEGF165 mRNA and microvessel density (MVD) were decreased by 66.9, 22.1, 40.1 and 59.0%, respectively, by the combined treatment. These findings indicate that tamoxifen inhibits CWR22 prostate tumor by modulating the angiogenesis and its antineoplastic effects can be potentiated by combined use with quercetin.
Mottled yellow Avy/A and agouti A/a (C3H x VY) F-1 hybrid male mice were fed untreated control diet or diet with a target dose of 500 p.p.m. sodium phenobarbital (PB) for 17-19 months. No differences in prevalence of hepatocellular adenomas or carcinomas were found between untreated yellow and agouti mice. PB treatment increased prevalence of adenomas but decreased prevalence of carcinomas. No difference in enhancement of adenoma formation by PB was observed between yellow and agouti mice bearing single adenomas. However, the proportion of PB-treated yellow mice bearing multiple adenomas (66%) was much greater than the proportion of analogous agouti mice (18%). Fatty changes in the periportal area of the liver and focal cytoplasmic vacuolization were induced to a much greater extent in PB-treated yellow mice than among treated agoutis. PB increased the prevalence and severity of focal areas of chronic inflammation in the liver considerably more in agouti than in yellow mice. The possible relation of this finding to the altered immune responses of obese yellow mice remains to be determined. The results of this study suggest that the use of yellow Avy/A and agouti A/a (C3H x VY) F-1 hybrid mice in carcinogenicity assays make make it possible to differentiate between weak and strong promoters as well as between promoters and complete carcinogens. Weak promoters should induce hepatocellular adenomas in yellow mice even if they fail to do so in agouti mice. Promoting substances which act similarly to PB may be identified in this system by simultaneously increasing adenoma prevalence and decreasing carcinoma prevalence. Complete carcinogens should increase carcinoma prevalence in the yellow mice even at low dose levels.
IL-17-producing T lymphocytes play a crucial role in inflammation, but their possible implication in fibrosis remains to be explored. In this study, we examined the involvement of these cells in a mouse model of lung inflammation and fibrosis induced by silica particles. Upregulation of IL-17A was associated with the development of experimental silicosis, but this response was markedly reduced in athymic, gammadelta T cell-deficient or CD4(+) T cell-depleted mice. In addition, gammadelta T lymphocytes and CD4(+) T cells, but not macrophages, neutrophils, NK cells or CD8 T cells, purified from the lungs of silicotic mice markedly expressed IL-17A. Depletion of alveolar macrophages or neutralization of IL-23 reduced upregulation of IL-17A in the lung of silicotic mice. IL-17R-deficient animals (IL-17R(-/-)) or IL-17A Ab neutralization, but not IL-22(-/-) mice, developed reduced neutrophil influx and injury during the early lung response to silica. However, chronic inflammation, fibrosis, and TGF-beta expression induced by silica were not attenuated in the absence of IL-17R or -22 or after IL-17A Ab blockade. In conclusion, a rapid lung recruitment of IL-17A-producing T cells, mediated by macrophage-derived IL-23, is associated with experimental silicosis in mice. Although the acute alveolitis induced by silica is IL-17A dependent, this cytokine appears dispensable for the development of the late inflammatory and fibrotic lung responses to silica.
Endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) mediates attenuation of the L-type calcium channel and modulates myocyte contractility. Arrhythmogenic afterdepolarizations are seen in vitro in ouabain-treated isolated myocytes from eNOS-deficient mice. The aim of these studies was to characterize the baseline electrophysiologic (EP) phenotype of eNOS-deficient mice and their potential susceptibility to cardiac conduction abnormalities and inducible arrhythmias.
Surface ECG and in vivo intracardiac EP studies were performed in 27 mice lacking the eNOS gene and 21 wild-type littermate control mice. Baseline studies were performed in 10 eNOS-deficient mice and 10 wild-type controls. Subsequently, 17 eNOS-deficient mice and 11 wild-type controls were pretreated with digoxin, and ECG and EP testing were repeated. Data analysis revealed no significant differences in ECG intervals or cardiac conduction parameters, except sinus cycle length was higher in eNOS-deficient mice than wild-type mice (P < 0.01). After digoxin pretreatment, 7 of 17 eNOS-deficient mice had inducible ventricular tachycardia and 2 others had frequent ventricular premature beats, compared with only 3 of 11 wild-type mice with inducible ventricular tachycardia. In addition, 2 digoxin-treated eNOS-deficient mice and 1 wild-type mouse had inducible nonsustained atrial fibrillation.
Mice with a homozygous targeted disruption of the eNOS gene have slower heart rates but no other distinguishable EP characteristics under basal sedated conditions. Partial inhibition of the Na+/K+ ATPase pump with digoxin administration increases ventricular ectopic activity in eNOS-/- mice, a phenotype analogous to afterdepolarizations seen in vitro in this eNOS-deficient mouse model.
Prolactin (PRL) is a neuroendocrine hormone that influences immune and hematopoietic development. The mechanism of action of this hormone in vivo remains unclear; therefore, we assessed the effects of PRL on hematopoiesis in vivo and in vitro. Normal resting mice were treated with 0, 1, 10, or 100 microg of recombinant human prolactin (rhPRL) for 4 consecutive days and euthanized on the fifth day for analysis of myeloid and erythroid progenitors in the bone marrow and spleen. Both frequencies and absolute numbers of splenic colony-forming unit granulocyte-macrophage (CFU-GM) and burst-forming unit-erythroid (BFU-e) were significantly increased in mice receiving rhPRL compared to the controls that had received saline only. Bone marrow cellularities were not significantly affected by any dose of rhPRL, but the absolute numbers and frequencies of bone marrow CFU-GM and BFU-e were augmented by rhPRL. These results suggest that rhPRL can promote hematopoiesis in vivo. Because rhPRL augments myeloid development in vivo, we examined the potential of the hormone to reverse the anemia and myelosuppression induced by azidothymidine (AZT). Mice were given rhPRL injections concurrent with 2.5 mg/mL AZT in drinking water. rhPRL partially restored hematocrits in the animals after 2 weeks of treatment and increased CFU-GM and BFU-e in both spleens and bone marrow. The experiments with AZT and rhPRL support the conclusion that the hormone increases myeloid and erythroid progenitor numbers in vivo, and they suggest that the hormone is clinically useful in reversing myelosuppression induced by AZT or other myeloablative therapies.
Buprenorphine, a synthetic molecule derived from thebaine, has been commercialized in France since 1987 as a substitute treatment for pharmacodependence on opiates. Hepatotoxicity is poorly documented, since only few cases of hepatic injury have been reported.
We report seven cases of acute cytolytic hepatitis due to buprenorphine. All patients were former drug addicts by the parenteral route and had been receiving withdrawal therapy with buprenorphine for an average of 91 days at a daily dosage ranging from 2 to 12 mg. Liver tests, complete viral screening and an abdominal computerized tomography scan were performed in each patient.
Five out of seven subjects presented with acute icteric hepatitis without abdominal pain or fever. Average alanine aminotransferase levels were 39 times the normal rate. There was no sign of liver failure. All patients had anti-hepatitis C virus-positive serology and two had positive hepatitis C virus-RNA. Although no specific treatment was administered, buprenorphine doses were reduced whenever possible. Cytolysis and jaundice resolved rapidly in all cases, although treatment was continued at the same doses in four cases and the dosage was reduced by 50% in three other cases.
Although buprenorphine hepatitis is uncommon and has spontaneously good evolution, we suggest better monitoring of hepatic profiles in patients whose mitochondrial function is already impaired by viral infections or other toxic factors.
A patient with acute interstitial nephritis secondary to ingestion of a Chinese herbal medicine adulterated with mefenamic acid is presented. Following hemodialysis and cessation of the medication the patient's renal function returned to normal.
The effect of deliberate hypotension on brain function measured by neuropsychological tests was studied in 41 adult patients. Twenty-four patients were anaesthetized for middle-ear surgery with deliberate hypotension induced by labetalol with isoflurane (hypotensive group). Seventeen patients without hypotension served as a control group. The mean arterial pressure was 77 +/- 2 mmHg (10.3 +/- 0.3 kPa) before hypotension and 50 +/- 0 mmHg (6.7 +/- 0.0 kPa) during hypotension in the hypotensive group, and 86 +/- 2 mmHg (11.5 +/- 0.3 kPa) during anaesthesia in the control group. The following psychological tests were performed: four subtests of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (similarities, digit span, vocabulary and digit symbol), Trail-Making tests A and B, Zung tests (self-rating anxiety scale and self-rating depression scale) and two-part memory test battery with immediate and delayed recall. The tests were performed preoperatively and 2 days postoperatively. There were no statistically significant differences between the groups in any of the tests in the changes from preoperative value to postoperative value. The results indicate that hypotension induced by labetalol with isoflurane has no significant harmful effects on mental functions compared to normotensive anaesthesia.
Hypotrichosis simplex is a group of nonsyndromic human alopecias. We mapped an autosomal recessive form of this disorder to chromosome 13q14.11-13q21.33, and identified homozygous truncating mutations in P2RY5, which encodes an orphan G protein-coupled receptor. Furthermore, we identified oleoyl-L-alpha-lysophosphatidic acid (LPA), a bioactive lipid, as a ligand for P2Y5 in reporter gene and radioligand binding experiments. Homology and studies of signaling transduction pathways suggest that P2Y5 is a member of a subgroup of LPA receptors, which also includes LPA4 and LPA5. Our study is the first to implicate a G protein-coupled receptor as essential for and specific to the maintenance of human hair growth. This finding may provide opportunities for new therapeutic approaches to the treatment of hair loss in humans.
A post-mortem histological examination of the eyes of a case of primary hyperoxaluria revealed the presence of crystals in the ciliary processes and at the level of the retinal pigment epithelium. The crystallography study demonstrated that it consisted of wewhellite. The ocular lesions are compared with those found by other authors in primary hyperoxaluria, after prolonged methoxyflurane anaesthesia, after experimental administration of dibutyloxalic acid or naphthalene, and in the human retina in longstanding detachments. Most of the factors which give rise to the presence in the eye of oxalate and its selective precipitation in the midst of certain ocular tissues remain hypothetical. The retinal lesions observed in primary hyperoxaluria appear to be pathognomonic for hyperoxalaemia.
Levofloxacin-induced-neurological adverse events such as convulsion, involuntary movement (tremor, myoclonus and chorea-like) and visual hallucination in two elderly patients are reported. A 67-year-old man with minor alcoholism and a past-history of gastrectomy and cholecystectomy was given 300 mg/day of oral levofloxacin and fulfenamic acid for an upper respiratory infection. On the 4th day, he reported gradual exacerbation of hand tremor which resembled chorea-like involuntary movement and gait disturbance. He also experienced visual hallucinations. On the 7th day, he suffered generalized convulsions and was admitted. Serum concentration of levofloxacin at this time (3 hours after last administration of a 100 mg tablet of levofloxacin) was 3.6 micrograms/ml. Cessation of the agents promoted complete recovery of these neurological adverse effects within a week. Another 85-year-old man with chronic bronchitis and slight renal impairment received long term administration of 200 mg/day of levofloxacin. On the 68th day of administration, gradual exacerbation of gait disturbance, dysarthria and chorea-like involuntary movement occurred. On the day of admission, 76 days after the start of administration, the serum level of levofloxacin was 2.55 micrograms/ml and that of spinal fluid was 1.12 micrograms/ml (3 hours after the last administration of a 100 mg tablet of levofloxacin). Cessation of the agents promoted complete recovery of these neurological adverse effects within the next two weeks. Both patients had no apparent neurological disorders except age-related brain atrophy. Age-related renal and brain impairment might have contributed to the neurological adverse effects of levofloxacin.
Gefitinib was demonstrated to be synergistic with cisplatin and radiotherapy (RT) in in vitro studies. Biomarkers predictive of response to gefitinib in squamous cell head and neck cancer is still lacking.
Thirty-one patients with locally advanced and easily accessible primary tumor sites for biopsies were recruited. Gefitinib was started 3 weeks before the start of cisplatin/concurrent radiotherapy (CTRT) and continued during the CTRT phase and thereafter for 4 months as consolidation phase. Two baselines and a repeat tumor sample were taken after 2 weeks of gefitinib alone to study its impact on tumor gene expression. Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) protein expression, FISH and mutational status, and matrix metallopeptidase 11 (MMP11) protein expression were correlated with response and survival outcome.
The overall response rate to gefitinib alone was 9.7%. The survival outcome is as follows: median disease free 1.3 years, median survival time 2.4 years, 3-year disease free 42.9%, and 3-year overall survival 48.4%. EGFR FISH, protein expression, and mutational status did not predict for response nor survival outcome of patients. Although MMP11 overexpression did not predict for response, it predicted significantly for a poorer survival outcome.
Gefitinib can be combined safely with cisplatin/RT. More studies are needed to uncover predictive biomarkers of benefit to gefitinib.
There have been a few reports of patients with Byler disease and the best medical treatment is not known. The aim of the present study is to show the effect of ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) on clinical, laboratory and histologic findings in children with Byler disease.
Nine children aged between 1.5 and 9 years with Byler disease were administered UDCA orally at doses of 15-20 mg/kg per day. They were followed for at least 12 months. Clinical, laboratory and histologic outcomes were evaluated after 12 months of treatment.
Seven children presented in the first 6 months of life with itching and/or jaundice. Gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase and cholesterol levels were normal in all patients, despite severe cholestasis. With UDCA therapy, pruritus disappeared/diminished in four (44.4%) patients. The mean serum concentrations of alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase (AST), total and conjugated bilirubin decreased, although it was significant only for AST (P = 0.01). Before treatment, all biopsy materials showed cellular/canalicular cholestasis and fibrosis. After UDCA therapy cholestasis was ameliorated. Two patients died during follow up.
The results suggest that administration of UDCA leads to clinical and biochemical improvement in children with Byler disease. The UDCA ameliorates symptoms partially, improves the life quality of patients and may be given for as long as the disease continues.
Metformin-associated lactate acidosis is a rare, but life-threatening complication of a widely prescribed medication. We describe here a case of metformin-associated lactate acidosis that rapidly deteriorated probably as a consequence of concomitant glucose infusion that was initiated to correct sulphonylurea-induced hypoglycemia.
To elucidate predisposing factors for enlargement of intracerebral hematoma (ICH) during warfarin therapy, we reviewed 47 patients on warfarin who developed acute ICH and determined relationships among ICH enlargement, INR reversal and clinical data. Among 36 patients treated to counteract the effects of warfarin within 24 h of onset, ICH increased in 10 patients (enlarged group), but remained unchanged in the remaining 26 (unchanged group), while ICH remained unchanged in another 11 patients in whom the effect of warfarin was reversed after 24 h. The international normalized ratio (INR) was counteracted immediately in 11 patients treated with prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC) but gradually in the other 36 treated by reducing the dose of warfarin, or by administering vitamin K or fresh frozen plasma. Multivariate analysis with a logistic regression model showed an INR value <2.0 at admission or for 24 h after immediate INR correction with PCC prevented ICH enlargement (OR 0.069, 95%CI 0.006-0.789, p = 0.031). An INR value of >2.0 within 24 h of ICH seems an important predisposing factor for ICH enlargement.
Administration of selective and nonselective cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 inhibitors to rheumatoid arthritis patients taking low doses of acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) for cardiovascular prevention associates with increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding. The present study was undertaken to investigate whether administration of HCT-3012 [(S)-6-methoxy-alpha-methyl-2-naphthaleneacetic acid 4-(nitrooxy)butyl ester], a nitric oxide (NO)-releasing derivative of naproxen, exacerbates gastric mucosal injury in arthritic rats administered low doses of ASA. Our results demonstrated that while treating arthritic rats with a dose of 30 mg/kg/day ASA causes detectable mucosal injury, but had no effect on arthritis score and interleukin-6 plasma levels, coadministration of naproxen (10 mg/kg/day) and celecoxib (30 mg/kg/day), in combination with ASA from day 7 to day 21, attenuates arthritis development (P <0.01 versus arthritis alone), but markedly enhanced gastric mucosal damage caused by ASA (P <0.01 versus ASA alone). In contrast, coadministration of HCT-3012 (15 mg/kg/day) significantly attenuated arthritis development, because HCT-3012 was equally or more effective than naproxen and celecoxib in attenuating local and systemic inflammation (P >0.001 versus arthritis) without exacerbating gastric mucosal injury caused by ASA. Arthritis development associates with gastric COX-2 induction, mRNA and protein, and enhanced gastric prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) synthesis (P <0.01 versus control rats). Although all treatments, including celecoxib, were effective in reducing gastric PGE2 synthesis, administering arthritic rats with ASA resulted in a significant increase in gastric content of aspirin-triggered lipoxin (ATL), a COX-2-derived lipid mediator that regulates proinflammatory responses at the neutrophils/endothelial interface. Administering arthritic rats with naproxen and celecoxib abrogates ATL formation induced by ASA although enhanced neutrophils accumulate into the gastric mucosa (P <0.01 versus ASA alone). In contrast, whereas HCT-3012 inhibited ATL formation, it did not increase neutrophil recruitment into the gastric microcirculation. Collectively, these data indicate that HCT-3012 derived from NO has the potential to compensate for inhibition of PGE2 and ATL and to protect the gastric mucosa by limiting the recruitment of neutrophils. These data suggest that HCT-3012 might be a safer alternative to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and coxibs in rheumatic patients that take low doses of ASA.
Diabetes mellitus induces many pathophysiologic changes in the skin. Even so, dermatologists still lack an animal model of diabetes that enables the direct evaluation of the various functional properties of the skin. Our group induced two types of an experimental type 1 diabetes model in hairless mice by administering either streptozotocin or alloxan, in order to examine the properties of the stratum corneum and epidermis of these animals. The plasma glucose concentrations of the mice at 3 wk after their i.v. injection were significantly higher than those of control mice (streptozotocin, 3.2-fold; alloxan, 3.7-fold). The stratum corneum water content was significantly reduced in both types of diabetic mice, whereas the transepidermal water loss remained unchanged. The amino acid content with normal epidermal profilaggrin processing was either normal or elevated in the stratum corneum of the streptozotocin-treated mice. In contrast, the stratum corneum triglyceride content in the streptozotocin-treated mice was significantly lower than the control level, even though the levels of ceramides, cholesterols, and fatty acids in the stratum corneum were all higher than the control levels. The streptozotocin-treated group also exhibited decreases in basal cell proliferation and epidermal DNA content linked with an increase in the number of corneocyte layers in the stratum corneum, suggesting that the rates of epidermal and stratum corneum turnover were slower in the streptozotocin-treated animals than in the normal controls. In contrast, there were no remarkable changes in any of the epidermal differentiation marker proteins examined. This finding in diabetic mice, namely, reduction in both the epidermal proliferation and stratum corneum water content without any accompanying impairment in the stratum corneum barrier function, is similar to that found in aged human skin. Our new animal model of diabetes will be useful for the study of diabetic dermopathy as well as the mechanisms of stratum corneum moisturization.
To report the magnitude of the problem and to evaluate the outcome of maternal illicit drug use in Thai parturients.
Retrospective case-control study.
Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Faculty of Medicine Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol University.
The subjects were 44,640 parturients who had deliveries at Siriraj Hospital from January 1998 to December 2001 and were divided into two groups. The study group consisted of 66 parturients with a history of illicit drug use and the control group consisted of 44,574 parturients without a history of illicit drug use.
Medical records of 66 parturients with a history of illicit drug use were reviewed. Obstetric statistics of the department were retrieved from the computerized database in the Division of Obstetric and Gynecologic Registry. The data were analyzed using descriptive statistics.
Characteristics of parturients, pregnancy outcome, type and incidence of illicit drug.
Within the study period, 66 cases of maternal illicit drug use were identifiable during the intrapartum period; 65 cases used amphetamine or derivatives and 1 case used an opioid derivative. The number had risen from 1 case in 1998 to 58 cases in 2001. Mean age of the patients was 23.30 +/- 6.04 years. Compared to the control group which included 44,574 parturients, the patients had a lower incidence of antenatal care (ANC rate = 21.21% vs 94.35%; RR = 0.23, 95% CI = 0.14-0.26), a higher incidence of HIV infection (10% vs 2%; RR = 6.09, 95% CI = 2.83-13.12), a higher incidence of birth before arrival (BBA rate = 9.09% vs 1.06%; RR = 8.59, 95% CI = 3.98-18.51), and a lower cesarean section rate (10.60% vs 26.36%; RR = 0.40, 95% CI = 0.20-0.81). There were no serious intrapartum, immediate postpartum and neonatal complication. Fetal outcome included a higher incidence of low birth weight infants (22.73% vs 10.23%; RR = 2.22, 95% CI = 1.42-3.46) and a smaller head circumference than the normal range of Thai fetal biometry (31.85 +/- 1.47 cm).
There is an increasing trend of illicit drug use in Thai parturients. Although the present case series of drug abuse in Thai parturients cannot give the whole picture of maternal drug abuse in the Thai population, the dramatic increase in the identifiable cases during the past 4 years is very alarming. Currently, the outcome of pregnancy in case detected during intrapartum is not much different from that in the general population. However, there are potential risks for the patients and their babies. All medical staffs should be aware of this condition. Careful clinical data gathering and laboratory testing are suggested for prevention of complications and the potential hazards of this problem.
Levosimendan, a pyridazinone-dinitrile derivative, is a calcium sensitiser with additional action on adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-sensitive potassium channels. It is used intravenously (IV) for the treatment of decompensated cardiac failure. At therapeutic doses, levosimendan exhibits enhanced contractility with no increase in oxygen demands. It also produces antistunning effects without increasing myocardial intracellular calcium concentrations or prolonging myocardial relaxation. Levosimendan also causes coronary and systemic vasodilation. In patients with decompensated congestive heart failure (CHF), IV levosimendan significantly reduced the incidence of worsening CHF or death. IV levosimendan significantly increased cardiac output or cardiac index and decreased filling pressure in the acute treatment of stable or decompensated CHF in large, double-blind, randomised trials and after cardiac surgery in smaller trials. Levosimendan is well tolerated, with the most common adverse events (headache, hypotension, nausea) being secondary to vasodilation. It has not been shown to be arrhythmogenic. Levosimendan has shown no clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions with captopril, felodipine, beta-blockers, digoxin, warfarin, isosorbide-5-mononitrate, carvedilol, alcohol (ethanol) or itraconazole.
Sixty patients undergoing day-case dental surgery were either given sublingual buprenorphine 0.2 mg or 0.4 mg or a buffered placebo 1 hour prior to general anaesthesia. Pre-operative anxiety was not allayed and there was no significant analgesia afforded by buprenorphine in the immediate postoperative period. The synthetic opiate depressed psychomotor function and both 0.2 mg and 0.4 mg buprenorphine yielded a significantly higher incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting.
To determine prescribing patterns and clinical outcomes of enoxaparin for anticoagulation of atrial fibrillation.
Retrospective analysis.
A 650-bed, tertiary care, community teaching hospital.
Two hundred thirteen patients who received enoxaparin for thromboprophylaxis during an episode of atrial fibrillation. Intervention. Data collection on demographics, antithrombotic usage, and thrombotic and bleeding episodes from January-June 2001.
Patients were characterized as having acute (51.6%) or chronic (48.4%) atrial fibrillation and were categorized according to stroke risk. Three enoxaparin dosing strategies had been prescribed: therapeutic, prophylactic, or adjusted. Prescribed regimens did not reflect stroke risk or type of atrial fibrillation but did reflect the degree of renal impairment. No episodes of stroke occurred with therapeutic enoxaparin dosages, but five strokes occurred among patients receiving prophylactic or adjusted dosages. Bleeding was similar with all dosing strategies in patients with adequate renal function and appeared to be more frequent in those with renal impairment.
At a single hospital, wide variation in enoxaparin prescribing patterns existed. Further study is necessary to elucidate more fully the appropriate dosing strategy for this agent in the treatment of atrial fibrillation.
To evaluate the efficacy of sleep hygiene and melatonin treatment for initial insomnia in children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
Twenty-seven stimulant-treated children (6-14 years of age) with ADHD and initial insomnia (>60 minutes) received sleep hygiene intervention. Nonresponders were randomized to a 30-day double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial of 5-mg pharmaceutical-grade melatonin provided by the study's sponsor.
Sleep hygiene reduced initial insomnia to <60 minutes in 5 cases, with an overall effect size in the group as a whole of 0.67. Analysis of the trial data able to be evaluated showed a significant reduction in initial insomnia of 16 minutes with melatonin relative to placebo, with an effect size of 0.6. Adverse events were generally mild and not different from those recorded with placebo treatment. The effect size of the combined sleep hygiene and melatonin intervention from baseline to 90 days' posttrial was 1.7, with a mean decrease in initial insomnia of 60 minutes. Improved sleep had no demonstrable effect on ADHD symptoms.
Combined sleep hygiene and melatonin was a safe and effective treatment for initial insomnia in children with ADHD taking stimulant medication.
The vasopressor and bradycardia responses to an intravenous dose of epinephrine were assessed in saline-controlled, 5-hydroxytryptamine-(5-HT) depleted, and 5-HT-potentiated rats. Regardless of the previous treatment epinephrine produced an insignificant change in the basal levels of mean arterial pressure and heart rate. However, brain serotonin alteration did produce some influences on the reflex bradycardia in response to an elevation in arterial pressure. Elevating 5-HT contents in brain with 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP) after peripheral decarboxylase inhibition with Ro 4-4602 produced a significant reduction in reflex bradycardia compared to the controls. In contrast, depleting 5-HT contents in brain with either p-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA) or 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT) led to an enhancement of epinephrine-induced bradycardia. Moreover, the enhanced reflex bradycardia induced by PCPA treatment was readily blocked by the replacement of the depleted brain 5-HT with 5-HTP and Ro 4-4602. The results suggest that serotoninergic systems play a role in the elaboration or modulation of reflex bradycardia. Specifically, 5-HT appears to inhibit reflex bradycardia since its depletion facilitated and its elevation inhibited reflex bradycardia.
To observe the effects of subchronic benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P) exposure on the neurobehavior and hippocampal acetylcholine (Ach) level, acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity, and mRNA and protein expression of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor α7 subtype (nAChR α7) in rats, and to investigate the neurotoxic mechanism of B[a]P.
Sixty healthy male SD rats were randomly divided into blank control group, solvent control group, and B [a]P exposure groups. Each rat in the exposure groups was intraperitoneally injected with B[a]P at 1.0, 2.5, or 6.25 mg/kg once every other day for 90 days. The learning and memory ability of the rats was examined by Morris water maze test and step-down test; the hippocampal Ach level was measured by alkaline hydroxylamine method; the AChE activity was measured by DNTB method; the mRNA and protein expression levels of hippocampal nAChR α7 were measured by quantitative PCR and Western blot.
The 2.5 and 6.25 mg/kg B[a]P exposure groups showed significantly lower learning and memory abilities than the blank control group and solvent control group (P < 0.05); also, the two groups had significantly lower hippocampal Ach levels than the blank control group, solvent control group, and 1.0 mg/kg B[a]P exposure group (P < 0.05). The 6.25 mg/kg B[a]P exposure group showed significantly lower hippocampal AChE activity than the blank control group, solvent control group, and 1.0 mg/kg B[a]P exposure group (P < 0.05). There were no significant differences in the mRNA and protein expression levels of nAChR α7 among all groups (P > 0.05). The hippocampal Ach level was negatively correlated with the mean escape latency period and total distance travelled (r = -0.567, P < 0.01; r = -0.503, P < 0.01) but positively correlated with the time in platform quadrant (r = 0.800, P < 0.01).
Subchronic B[a]P exposure may impair the learning and memory ability in rats, which is related to the downregulation of hippocampal Ach level.
A patient was treated with low-dose methotrexate because of psoriasis that did not respond to conventional therapy. During treatment, visual symptoms occurred; optic disc swelling was found, and later slight optic disc atrophy. Moreover, paracentral relative visual field defects showed fluctuations parallel to methotrexate dose changes. It seems likely that methotrexate affected optic nerve function.
A patient, with a history of cretinism, who developed suxamethonium apnoea as a consequence of a reduction in plasma cholinesterase activity secondary to the concurrence of pregnancy and liver dysfunction associated with pre-eclampsia is reported. The patient had a normal phenotype for plasma cholinesterase.
Small intestine permeability is frequently altered in inflammatory bowel disease and may be caused by the translocation of intestinal toxins through leaky small intestine tight junctions (TJs) and adherence. Recently, it has been shown that 5-lipoxygenase (5-LO) plays an important role in the development of various inflammatory conditions like inflammatory bowel disease. In the present study, by comparing the responses in wild-type mice (5-LOWT) with those of mice lacking the 5-lipoxygenase (5-LOKO), we investigated the role played by this enzyme in the permeability and structure of small intestine TJs in an animal model of experimental colitis. To address this question, we used an experimental model of colitis, induced by dinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (DNBS). Four days after colitis induction by DNBS, the ileal TJs were studied by means of transmission electron microscopy using lanthanum nitrate and immunohistochemistry of occludin and ZO-1. When compared with DNBS-treated 5-LOWT mice, DNBS-treated 5-LOKO mice experienced a reduced rate of the extent and severity of the histological signs of colon injury. After administration of DNBS, 5-LOWT mice showed a significant increase of ileal permeability (88.3% +/- 1.2%) compared with sham (5.6% +/- 0.5%). In colitis, the percentage of "leaky" junctions in terminal ilea correlated positively with the macroscopic colon damage score. Distal colitis in 5-LOWT mice induces an increase of TJ permeability throughout the entire small intestine, and the extent of alterations correlates with colonic damage. On the contrary, a significant reduction of (1) the degree of colon injury, (2) the alteration of ZO-1 and occludin localization (immunohistochemistry), and (3) ileal permeability (8.1% +/- 0.7%) caused by DNBS in the colon was observed in 5-LOKO mice. Similarly, the treatment of 5-LOWT with zileuton (50 mg/kg per oral gavage twice a day), a 5-LO inhibitor, resulted in a significant reduction of all the previously described parameters. Taken together, our results clearly demonstrate that 5-LO modulates small intestinal permeability in experimental colitis through the regulation of TJ protein.
