1. The concentration of total, active and inactive renin was analysed in plasma, urine and kidney from control (C), pair-fed (PF) and nephrotic (NS) rats, as well as renin mRNA levels in kidney, liver and brain. 2. Nephrotic syndrome were induced by a single subcutaneous injection of puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) and determinations were made 6 days after PAN injection. 3. Plasma total renin did not change, active renin increased in NS rats with respect to PF and C groups and in PF rats with respect to C. In contrast, the inactive renin percentage decreased in NS rats with respect to PF and C groups and in PF animals with respect to C. Total, active and inactive renal renin content did not change and active and inactive renin were significantly excreted by urine with no changes in the prorenin percentage with respect to C and PF groups. 4. In both NS and PF groups, renin mRNA levels did not change in any of the tissues studied. In another group of rats, kidney renin mRNA levels were measured on days 1, 3, 5 and 7 after PAN injection and no time-course changes in its expression were found. 5. These results suggest that renin gene expression is not altered in acute nephrotic syndrome and that plasma renin concentration is regulated at the translational or post-translational level in this experimental model.
To investigate the effects of all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), acitretin and tazarotene on apoptosis and Bax/Bcl-2 protein expressions of human melanoma A375 cells.
The effects of retinoids on apoptosis and Bax/Bcl-2 protein expressions of A375 cells in vitro were examined. Apoptosis analysis with double staining with annexin V-FITC and PI was performed using flow cytometer. SABC immunocytochemistry was employed for detection of Bax/Bcl-2 protein expressions.
At the concentration of 1 x 10(-5) mol/L, ATRA, acitretin and tazarotene all induced apoptosis of A375 cells with apoptosis ratio of 5.03% (P<0.05), 13.42% (P<0.05) and 2.88% (P>0.05), respectively, and acitretin induced more significant apoptosis than the other two agents (P<0.05). In addition, all the three agents significantly increased the number of cells positive for Bax expression and decreased the number of cells expressing Bcl-2 (P<0.05), among which acitretin had the strongest effects.
ATRA, acitretin and tazarotene mediate apoptosis of A375 cells possibly through, at least partially, the mitochondrial pathway. Acitretin may be utilized as a valuable alternative for treating melanoma.
The most frequent complication during heparin treatment is hemorrhage from overdosage. Heparin-induced thrombopenia is more rarely observed but is a more serious disorder. Six such cases are reported, of which three were complicated by gangrene of the limbs. Clinical findings are described, together with the methods of detecting the presence of heparin-induced antiplatelet antibodies. The affection becomes evident on the 9th day of treatment by the presence of a thrombopenia and accompanying clinical signs. These may be those of a hemorrhagic syndrome directly related to the thrombopenia, or manifestations of thrombotic lesions. The latter can cause worsening of the condition for which heparin was prescribed, arterial thrombosis of a large vessel, venous thromboses disappearing after interruption of heparin treatment, of distal thrombosis of the microcirculation with a rapidly irreversible onset of gangrene requiring amputation. The lesions are provoked by an immune mechanism and heparin has to be discontinued.
The aim of this study was to determine the effectiveness and tolerability of aripiprazole for irritability in pervasive developmental disorder not otherwise specified (PDD-NOS) and Asperger's disorder.
This is a 14-week, prospective, open-label investigation of aripiprazole in 25 children and adolescents diagnosed with PDD-NOS or Asperger's disorder. Primary outcome measures included the Clinical Global Impressions-Improvement (CGI-I) scale and the Irritability subscale of the Aberrant Behavior Checklist (ABC-I).
Twenty-five subjects, ages 5-17 years (mean 8.6 years) received a mean final aripiprazole dosage of 7.8 mg/day (range 2.5-15 mg/day). Full-scale intelligence quotient (IQ) scores ranged from 48 to 122 (mean 84). Twenty-two (88%) of 25 subjects were responders in regard to interfering symptoms of irritability, including aggression, self-injury, and tantrums, with a final CGI-I of 1 or 2 (very much or much improved) and a 25% or greater improvement on the ABC-I. The final mean CGI-I was 1.6 (p <or= 0.0001). ABC-I scores ranged from 18 to 43 (mean 29) at baseline, whereas scores at week 14 ranged from 0 to 27 (mean 8.1) (p <or= 0.001). Aripiprazole was well tolerated. Mild extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) were reported in 9 subjects. Age- and sex-normed body mass index (BMI) increased from a mean value of 20.3 at baseline to 21.1 at end point (p <or= 0.04). Prolactin significantly decreased from a mean value of 9.3 at baseline to 2.9 at end point (p <or= 0.0001). No subject exited the study due to a drug-related adverse event.
These preliminary data suggest that aripiprazole may be effective and well tolerated for severe irritability in pediatric patients with PDD-NOS or Asperger's disorder. Larger-scale placebo-controlled studies are needed to elucidate the efficacy and tolerability of aripiprazole in this understudied population.
Drug-induced liver injury is a major safety concern in drug development and clinical pharmacotherapy; however, advances in the understanding of the mechanisms of drug-induced liver injury are hampered by the lack of animal models. Carbamazepine (CBZ) is a widely used antiepileptic agent. Although the drug is generally well tolerated, only a small number of patients prescribed CBZ develop severe hepatitis. In the present study, we developed a mouse model of CBZ-induced liver injury and elucidated the mechanisms accounting for the hepatotoxicity of CBZ. Male BALB/c mice were orally administered CBZ for 5 days. The plasma levels of alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase were prominently increased, and severe liver damage was observed via histological evaluation. The analysis of the plasma concentration of CBZ and its metabolites demonstrated that 3-hydroxy CBZ may be relevant in CBZ-induced liver injury. The hepatic glutathione levels were significantly decreased, and oxidative stress markers were significantly altered. Mechanistic investigations found that hepatic mRNA levels of toll-like receptor 4, receptor for advanced glycation end products, and their ligands were significantly increased. Moreover, the plasma concentrations of proinflammatory cytokines were also increased. Prostaglandin E(1) administration ameliorated the hepatic injury caused by CBZ. In conclusion, metabolic activation followed by the stimulation of immune responses was demonstrated to be involved in CBZ-induced liver injury in mice.
Glutamate excitotoxicity plays a key role in the etiology of a variety of neurological, psychiatric, and neurodegenerative disorders. The goal of this study was to investigate spatiotemporal distribution in the brain and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase-1 (UCH-L1), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), αII-spectrin breakdown products (SBDP150, SBDP145, and SBDP120), and their relationship to neuropathology in an animal model of kainic acid (KA) excitotoxicity. Triple fluorescent labeling and Fluoro-Jade C staining revealed a reactive gliosis in brain and specific localization of degenerating neurons in hippocampus and entorhinal cortex of KA-treated rats. Immunohistochemistry showed upregulation of GFAP expression in hippocampus and cortex beginning 24h post KA injection and peaking at 48h. At these time points concurrent with extensive neurodegeneration all SBDPs were observed throughout the brain. At 24h post KA injection, a loss of structural integrity was observed in cellular distribution of UCH-L1 that correlated with an increase in immunopositive material in the extracellular matrix. CSF levels of UCH-L1, GFAP, and SBDPs were significantly increased in KA-treated animals compared with controls. The temporal increase in CSF biomarkers correlated with brain tissue distribution and neurodegeneration. This study provided evidence supporting the use of CSF levels of glial and neuronal protein biomarkers to assess neurotoxic damage in preclinical animal models that could prove potentially translational to the clinic. The molecular nature of these biomarkers can provide critical information on the underlying mechanisms of neurotoxicity that might facilitate the development of novel drugs and allow physicians to monitor drug safety.
SSR149744C (SSR, 2-butyl-3-[4-[3-(dibutylamino)pro-pyl]benzoyl]-1-benzofuran-5-carboxylate isopropyl fumarate), is a new non-iodinated benzofuran derivative. The aim of this study was to evaluate in vivo its electrophysiological, hemodynamic, and anti-adrenergic properties and to determine its mechanism of action using in vitro studies. In chloralose-anesthetized dogs, SSR149744C (1-10 mg/kg i.v.) prolonged the sinus cycle length, A-H interval, Wenckebach cycle length, atrial effective refractory period (ERP), and atrio-ventricular node ERP in a dose-dependent manner without change of ventricular ERP and HV, QRS, or QTc intervals. Arterial blood pressure and ventricular inotropism were slightly decreased. SSR149744C, which has no or low affinity for alpha 1 and beta 1 adrenergic and angiotensin II AT1 receptors, reduced isoproterenol-induced tachycardia and phenylephrine- or angiotensin II-induced hypertension in anaesthetized dogs. In guinea pig papillary muscle, SSR149744C did not modify the resting potential, action potential amplitude and duration, but reduced the dV/dt max of the depolarization phase in a frequency-dependent manner. In isolated guinea pig cardiomyocytes and transfected CHO cells, SSR149744C (0.01-30 microM) inhibited several potassium currents: IKr (IC50 approximately 10 microM), IKs (IC50 approximately 30 microM), IK(ACh) (IC50 = 0.09 microM), and IKv1.5 (IC50 = 2.7 microM), the L-type calcium current: ICa(L) (IC50 approximately 5 microM) and also the amplitude of [Ca2+]i transient and cell shortening. Therefore, SSR149744C appears to have a multifactorial mechanism of action, which combines the blockade of several ion channels with the inhibition of responses of alpha 1 and beta 1 adrenergic as well as AT1 receptor stimulation. Like amiodarone, SSR149744C possesses the pharmacological effects of class I, II, III, and IV antiarrhythmic agents, which may confer upon this new drug a strong antiarrhythmic potential without ventricular proarrhythmia and iodine-related amiodarone-like side-effects.
High-dose buprenorphine (HDB) treatment began in France in 1996 according to relatively unrestricted prescription rules. Continued heroin injection by patients on HDB maintenance treatment and even HDB injection remain underestimated and may lead to a variety of infectious diseases.
Description of infectious complications occurring in patients receiving HDB maintenance treatment.
Retrospective study of drug addicts receiving HDB maintenance treatment, injecting (or highly suspected of injecting) it, and hospitalized for infections (other than HIV or viral hepatitis) in the department of infectious and tropical diseases in Nancy University Hospital. Data collection covered 1998 through 2003.
We identified 21 case reports, 9 concerning infectious endocarditis, 8 cutaneous abscesses, 2 osteoarticular infections, 1 meningitis and 1 Candida retinitis. The sex-ratio was of 1 woman for 2 men, and the patients' mean age was 29.8 years. Globally 13 patients had systemic infections. Nine patients admitted having injected HDB (and no other drugs) (including the case of Candida retinitis), while in the other 12 cases, the patients continued injecting heroin as well. The role of misused HDB was strongly suspected in those 12 infections, but was not clearly confirmed. All patients recovered from the infections. The long-term psychosocial outcome remains unknown.
The cases analyzed illustrate the dual reality that HDB is often ineffective as a maintenance treatment, since some patients continue to inject heroin, and that its misuse can have infectious consequences. The results of HDB maintenance treatment substitution are mixed. The individual benefit/risk ratio must be improved. Networking is crucial, notably between physician and pharmacist, and the monitoring system must be reinforced.
To determine the factors affecting the virological response to adefovir dipivoxil (ADV) among patients with lamivudine resistant chronic hepatitis B.
Chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infected patients, who had virological relapse to lamivudine, were switched to ADV monotherapy.
Twenty-six patients were treated by ADV for 23 (12-41) months. At baseline, the median log HBV DNA was 7.70 (4.88-9.01) copies/mL. Six (23%) and 8 (31%) of patients had HBV DNA suppressed to below 1000 copies/mL at month 12 and the last follow-up, respectively. On linear regression, patients who had higher HBV DNA at baseline and month 6 have higher HBV DNA at month 12. On Cox proportional hazard model, the hazard ratio for each log step increase in HBV DNA at baseline and month 6 for HBV DNA <1000 copies/mL at the last visit was 0.39 (P = 0.010) and 0.47 (P = 0.027), respectively. Alanine aminotransferase, HBV genotype, rtL80 M mutation and log HBsAg did not affect the HBV DNA response.
The response of lamivudine-resistant patients to ADV is suboptimal. Treatment with ADV when HBV DNA is low, and rapid viral suppression at month 6 increases the chance of maintained viral suppression.
We previously reported that imidazoline receptors in the central nervous system are involved in modulation of halothane-epinephrine arrhythmias. These receptors have been subclassified as I1 and I2 subtypes, but it is not known which receptor subtype is involved in halothane-epinephrine-induced arrhythmias. We designed the present study to clarify the involvement of central imidazoline receptor subtype in the modulation of halothane-epinephrine-induced arrhythmias. Rats were anesthetized with halothane and monitored continuously for systemic arterial blood pressure and premature ventricular contractions. The arrhythmogenic dose of epinephrine was defined as the smallest dose that produces three or more premature ventricular contractions within a 15-s period. Intracisternal moxonidine dose-dependently inhibited the epinephrine-induced arrhythmias during halothane anesthesia. Intracisternal efaroxan, a selective I1 antagonist with little affinity for I2 subtype, but not rauwolscine, an alpha2 antagonist without affinity for imidazoline receptors, blocked the antiarrhythmic effect of moxonidine. Intracisternal BU 224 and 2-BFI, selective I2 ligands, also inhibited the epinephrine-induced arrhythmias dose-dependently; however, these effects were abolished by efaroxan. We conclude that central I1, but not I2, receptors play an important role in inhibition of halothane-epinephrine arrhythmia.
The peroxyl radical-scavenging activity of vitamin A has been exploited to obtain protection against peroxidative damages induced in rat heart by administration of an acute dose of doxorubicin (10 mg/kg, in vein). Peroxidative lesions were evaluated by both biochemical and histological assays, 48 hr after the injection of doxorubicin. Heart tissue from rats receiving doxorubicin showed a marked increase of protein carbonyl levels, and of membrane conjugated dienes, as well as a decrease of membrane protein thiols. Abnormal chemistries, including a large increase of the activity of serum lactate dehydrogenase and creatine phosphokinase, an index of the myocardial damage caused by doxorubicin, were also observed. Pretreatment of rats with 25 I.U./kg b.wt. of vitamin A, once a day for 2 days, before injecting doxorubicin, substantially reduced the peroxidative damage to heart lipids and proteins, and markedly lowered the serum values of lactate dehydrogenase and creatine phosphokinase to values close to those of control rats. The significant prevention of doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy by vitamin A was evident from the histopathological pattern observed after light microscopy. The dosage of vitamin A useful to obtain the protective effect appears safe and does not injure the liver, as indicated by light microscopy of the tissue. A survival study, carried out by injecting rats with a single injection of 10 mg/kg of doxorubicin, showed that pretreatment with 25 I.U. of vitamin A per kg significantly increased survival rate of the animals.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In the treatment of heart failure, the effects of therapeutic agents on life prognosis remains unclear. We investigated the effects of long-term oral administration of a nonpeptide, selective, vasopressin V2 receptor antagonist, OPC-31260, on Sprague-Dawley rats that were treated with adriamycin to induce progressive water retention.
Intraperitoneal saline was administered to 14 rats as a control (Group 1). A total cumulative dose of 15 mg/kg of adriamycin was administered intraperitoneally in six equal doses over a period of 2 weeks to another 52 rats. Adriamycin-treated rats were further divided into Group 2, which received saline (p.o.), and Group 3, which received 50 mg/kg (p.o.) of V2 antagonist. Oral administration continued every day for 6 weeks. Group 1 rats also received saline (p.o.) for 6 weeks.
The V2 antagonist decreased urine osmolality and increased diuresis of rats in Group 3. Urinary excretion of electrolytes was not increased by the V2 antagonist in Group 3. Serum osmolality was likewise unchanged by the V2 antagonist in Group 3. Plasma concentrations of vasopressin were significantly higher in Group 3 than in the other groups (Group 1, 4.0+/-1.1 pg/ml; Group 2, 4.2+/-1.5 pg/ml; Group 3, 8.5+/-1.0 pg/ml; p<0.05). During the experimental period, survival rate was higher in Group 3 than in Group 2 (Group 1, 100%; Group 2, 59%; Group 3, 83%).
Our data show that administration of orally active V2 antagonist did not reduce the survival of adriamycin-treated rats through continuous aquaretic action, despite elevated plasma levels of vasopressin.
We describe an elderly man, with pre-existing renal failure and atheromatous renal artery stenosis, who developed persistent anuria due to renal artery thrombosis after acute hypotension following captopril administration. Caution should be used when captopril is first administered to patients with impaired renal function in whom renal artery stenosis is known or suspected.
We studied patients with rheumatoid arthritis who have been treated with aurothioglucose (Au) and subsequently with D-penicillamine (DP), and who developed drug-induced proteinuria, over a 10-year period. Twelve patients developed Au-induced and 19 DP-induced proteinuria. Of the 12 patients with Au-induced proteinuria, only 2 (17%) developed DP-induced proteinuria, indicating a slightly increased risk as compared with the overall incidence (9.3%) of this reaction in 168 DP-treated patients. In addition, only a minority (2 out of 19, 10.6%) of patients with DP-induced proteinuria had previous Au-induced proteinuria. These data may indicate that different mechanisms are operative in Au and DP-induced proteinuria, as is also suggested by the finding that HLA-DR3 was present more frequently in the latter (50%) than in the former (21%). A history of previous Au-induced proteinuria is insufficient reason to deny these patients the benefits of subsequent treatment with DP.
Fos immunoreactivity was observed in astrocytes identified by immunoreactivity to glial fibrillary acidic protein, 1.5 h following intravenous pentobarbitone anesthesia (20-30 mg/kg). Fos-positive astrocytes were seen only in the hilus of the hippocampus. Pentobarbitone administered after picrotoxin but without seizures resulted in an increase in both the intensity of Fos labeling and areal distribution of Fos-positive hilar astrocytes. Pentobarbitone administered after single picrotoxin-induced seizures resulted in an increased number of Fos immunoreactive astrocytes in the hilus and other hippocampal regions and their presence in the upper layers of Fr1, Fr2, cingulate, visual, and perirhinal cortex. Our observations that Fos is expressed in astrocytes following pentobarbitone, provides support for the current view that glial cell processes can be activated by pentobarbitone stimulation of GABAa receptor-chloride channels.
The tobacco-specific nitrosamine, 4-(N-methyl-N-nitrosoamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK), is a potent lung cancer inducer. However, how NNK induces lung cancer is still largely unknown. Haem oxygenase (HO)-1 was evaluated in 30 pairs of lung cancer tumour samples and matched nontumour tissues from patients with a history of cigarette smoking. Expression of HO-1, p21(Cip1/Waf1/Cid1) (p21), B-cell lymphoma (Bcl)-2 family members, mitogen-activated protein kinase and nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB was also studied in lung cancer cells treated with NNK. The levels of HO-1 and p21 were significantly increased in lung tumour tissues. There was a positive relationship between these two proteins in the tumour. NNK stimulated lung cell proliferation and elevated the levels of HO-1, p21, inhibitor of apoptosis protein (c-IAP)2 and Bcl-2, but downregulated Bad. These effects of NNK were blocked by zinc protoporphyrin-XII, an HO-1 inhibitor. The NNK-mediated expression of HO-1 was governed by NF-kappaB and extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2, since blocking either of these prevented the stimulatory effect of NNK on HO-1, as well as molecules downstream of HO-1, such as p21, c-IAP2, Bcl-2 and Bad. In conclusion, haem oxygenase-1 plays a central role in NNK-mediated cell proliferation by promoting the expression of p21(Cip1/Waf1/Cid1), inhibitor of apoptosis protein 2 and B-cell lymphoma-2 but inhibiting the activity of Bad. Nuclear factor-kappaB and extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 function upstream of haem oxygenase-1. Therefore, haem oxygenase-1 is likely to be a potential target in the treatment of smoking-related lung cancer.
A young epileptic presented with spasticity as well as ataxia, diplopia and nystagmus; his serum phenytoin level was very high. All the abnormal signs disappeared after withdrawal of phenytoin. Spasticity, hyperreflexia, and clonus are features of phenytoin intoxication, present in this case, which are not commonly seen, and which have rarely been mentioned previously in the literature.
The hemodynamic and humoral effects of enalapril, an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, and nifedipine, a calcium-entry blocker, were evaluated in conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). Rats received enalapril (5 mg/kg, po) or vehicle, followed in one hour by nifedipine (2.5 mg/kg, ip) or its vehicle. After treatment with enalapril alone, systolic blood pressure (BP) declined over a 3 hour period from 204 +/- 4 (mean +/- SE) to 168 +/- 6 mm Hg and remained suppressed for an additional 4 hours. Heart rate (HR) did not change. Plasma renin activity (PRA) increased approximately 9-fold and serum ACE was maximally inhibited. BP response to nifedipine was more rapid, greater in magnitude (-59 +/- 6 mm Hg) and shorter in duration; heart rate increased and remained elevated for 2.5 hours. PRA only rose two-fold. After the drugs in combination, BP declined as rapidly and to the same degree as after nifedipine and remained reduced for a longer duration. Treatment with enalapril attenuated the reflex tachycardia observed after nifedipine. These data suggest that coadministration of an ACE inhibitor and calcium-entry blocker may provide better blood pressure control than either drug class alone and at the same time prevent the reflex tachycardia frequently observed after nifedipine.
Apomorphine was the first dopaminergic drug ever used to treat symptoms of Parkinson's disease. While powerful antiparkinsonian effects had been observed as early as 1951, the potential of treating fluctuating Parkinson's disease by subcutaneous administration of apomorphine has only recently become the subject of systematic study. A number of small scale clinical trials have unequivocally shown that intermittent subcutaneous apomorphine injections produce antiparkinsonian benefit close if not identical to that seen with levodopa and that apomorphine rescue injections can reliably revert off-periods even in patients with complex on-off motor swings. Continuous subcutaneous apomorphine infusions can reduce daily off-time by more than 50% in this group of patients, which appears to be a stronger effect than that generally seen with add-on therapy with oral dopamine agonists or COMT inhibitors. Extended follow-up studies of up to 8 years have demonstrated long-term persistence of apomorphine efficacy. In addition, there is convincing clinical evidence that monotherapy with continuous subcutaneous apomorphine infusions is associated with marked reductions of preexisting levodopa-induced dyskinesias. The main side effects of subcutaneous apomorphine treatment are related to cutaneous tolerability problems, whereas sedation and psychiatric complications play a lesser role. Given the marked degree of efficacy of subcutaneous apomorphine treatment in fluctuating Parkinson's disease, this approach seems to deserve more widespread clinical use.
Although cognitive dysfunction manifested by severe memory and attention deficits has been reported in up to 70% of cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy, the mechanisms of this serious side effect have not been defined. In particular, it has not been decisively resolved whether the dysfunction is attributable to the chemotherapy or to the malignancy itself. In the present study we tested whether cognitive dysfunction can be induced in an experimental setting by the administration of commonly used chemotherapeutics to rats. Female 10 month old Sprague-Dawley rats were injected intraperitoneally with a combination of 2.5 mg/kg of adriamycin (ADR) and 25 mg/kg of cytoxan (CTX). A total of four doses were given at weekly intervals. The control group was treated with saline only. No mortality and no apparent morbidity were observed in either group. However, the chemotherapeutic treatment severely impaired memory function of rats as measured by a passive avoidance test. This memory deficiency was fully prevented by the administration of an antioxidant, N-acetyl cysteine (NAC) injected subcutaneously three times a week at 200 mg/kg in the course of chemotherapeutic treatment. These results indicate that chemotherapeutic agents alone, i.e., in the absence of malignancy, damage the brain resulting in memory dysfunction. Moreover, the results strongly indicate that the damaging effect is mediated by oxidative stress, as memory dysfunction is preventable by the co-administration of NAC.
Heparin is a commonly used drug in critical care. In this case study we describe a relatively unknown and unforeseen event whereby the administration of heparin to prevent thrombus formation paradoxically resulted in clot formation. Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis syndrome developed in a 36-year-old woman initially admitted to the coronary care unit with complaints of chest pain. We explore the theoretic basis of this syndrome as an immune-mediated response, along with the mechanisms leading to this syndrome as an immune-mediated response, along with the mechanisms leading to the clinical features and the difficulties associated with diagnosis treatment. In view of the frequent use of heparin and nurses' responsibility for recognizing the untoward effects of medications they administer, this case study is useful in gaining insight into a relatively unknown phenomenon.
Ammonia is a key factor in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy (HE), which is a major complication in acute and chronic liver failure and other hyperammonemic states. The molecular mechanisms underlying ammonia neurotoxicity and the functional consequences of ammonia on gene expression in astrocytes are incompletely understood. Using cDNA array hybridization technique we identified ammonia as a trigger of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) mRNA levels in cultured rat astrocytes. As shown by Northern and Western blot analysis, HO-1 mRNA levels were upregulated by ammonia (0.1-5 mmol/L) after 24 h and protein expression after 72 h in astrocytes. These ammonia effects on HO-1 are probably triggered to a minor extent by ammonia-induced glutamine synthesis or by astrocyte swelling, because HO-1 expression was not inhibited by the glutamine synthetase inhibitor methionine sulfoximine (which abrogated ammonia-induced cell swelling in cultured astrocytes), and ammonia-induced HO-1 expression could only partly be mimicked by hypoosmotic astrocyte swelling. Hypoosmotic (205 mOsm/L) exposure of astrocytes led even to a decrease in HO-1 mRNA levels within 4 h, whereas hyperosmotic (405 mOsm/L) exposure increased HO-1 mRNA expression. After 24 h, hypoosmolarity slightly raised HO-1 mRNA expression. Taurine and melatonin diminished ammonia-induced HO-1 mRNA or protein expression, whereas other antioxidants (dimethylthiourea, butylated hydroxytoluene, N-acetylcysteine, and reduced glutathione) increased HO-1 mRNA levels under ammonia-free conditions. An in vivo relevance is suggested by the finding that increased HO-1 expression occurs in the brain cortex from acutely ammonia-intoxicated rats. It is concluded that ammonia-induced HO-1 expression may contribute to cerebral hyperemia in hyperammonic states.
This case report illustrates the use of continuous high-dose intracoronary nitroglycerin infusion through a 6 French coronary guiding catheter in the treatment of a patient with cocaine-induced refractory coronary vasospasm.
Mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) may be involved in the pathogenesis of acute renal failure. This study investigated the expression of p-p38 MAPK and nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) in the renal cortex of rats treated with gentamicin. Twenty rats were injected with gentamicin, 40 mg/kg, i.m., twice a day for 9 days, 20 with gentamicin + pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC, an NF-kappaB inhibitor), 14 with 0.15 M NaCl, i.m., twice a day for 9 days, and 14 with 0.15 M NaCl , i.m., twice a day for 9 days and PDTC, 50 mg kg(-1) day(-1), i.p., twice a day for 15 days. The animals were killed 5 and 30 days after the last of the injections and the kidneys were removed for histological, immunohistochemical and Western blot analysis and for nitrate determination. The results of the immunohistochemical study were evaluated by counting the p-p38 MAPK-positive cells per area of renal cortex measuring 0.05 mm2. Creatinine was measured by the Jaffé method in blood samples collected 5 and 30 days after the end of the treatments. Gentamicin-treated rats presented a transitory increase in plasma creatinine levels. In addition, animals killed 5 days after the end of gentamicin treatment presented acute tubular necrosis and increased nitrate levels in the renal cortex. Increased expression of p-p38 MAPK and NF-kappaB was also observed in the kidneys from these animals. The animals killed 30 days after gentamicin treatment showed residual areas of interstitial fibrosis in the renal cortex, although the expression of p-p38 MAPK in their kidneys did not differ from control. Treatment with PDTC reduced the functional and structural changes induced by gentamicin as well as the expression of p-p38 MAPK and NF-kappaB. The increased expression of p-p38 MAPK and NF-kappaB observed in these rats suggests that these signaling molecules may be involved in the pathogenesis of tubulointerstitial nephritis induced by gentamicin.
A high unit dose (15 grain/975 mg) enteric coated aspirin preparation was studied in normal individuals and patients with arthritis to determine how readily well tolerated, therapeutic (150-300 micrograms/ml) salicylate (SA) levels could be achieved using a twice daily dosing regimen. Of 36 participants enrolled, 33 (92%) achieved this goal (mean SA = 224 micrograms/ml), while in the remaining 3 an initially toxic level fell below the therapeutic range after reducing the dose by one tablet/day. Although the relationship between dose (mg/kg) and steady state SA levels was roughly linear (r = 0.74), in some subjects there was a striking incremental change in the SA level when the dose was adjusted. Over 90% of subjects taking a starting dose between 45-60 mg/kg/day achieved a therapeutic level. Thus, antiinflammatory therapy using 15 grain/975 mg enteric coated aspirin given twice daily appears to be feasible.
Cardiovascular damage is common in young cocaine addicts, and similar atherosclerotic lesions seem likely in the kidneys. To confirm this hypothesis, we performed histological examination of 40 kidney autopsy specimens classified as "cocaine-related deaths"; as controls, kidney specimens of 40 road accident victims were examined. Semiquantitative analysis showed that the ratio of the number of glomeruli affected by hyalinosis to the total number of glomeruli was 0.09 +/- 0.13 in addicts and 0.005 +/- 0.01 in controls; the difference was highly significant. The degree of periglomerular fibrosis was significantly higher in cocaine addicts than in accident victims. The ratio of glomeruli to tubular casts was 0.15 +/- 0.17 in cocaine addicts and 0.17 +/- 0.18 in controls (not significant). The degree of interstitial cellular infiltration was significantly higher in addicts than controls. A monunuclear cell infiltrate was observed prevalently in the medullary region. Arteriolar sclerosis was significantly higher in addicts than controls. Medial thickening, luminal narrowing and vessel obstruction were absent in the control group. Quantitative morphometric analysis of arterial structure showed significantly greater lumen circumference, intima circumference, media circumference, intima area, media area, intima thickness and media thickness in cocaine addicts than in controls.
We have examined the prevalence of the C677T and A1298C single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene in healthy Tamilians and in patients with acute myocardial infarction and related this polymorphism to plasma homocysteine concentrations, serum folate, serum cobalamin and riboflavin status. The SNPs in the MTHFR gene were determined by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis. Plasma homocysteine, serum folate and serum cobalamin concentrations were analyzed using an automated chemiluminescence method and riboflavin status was assessed by measuring the erythrocyte glutathione reductase activity using spectrophotometric method. Out of the 200 young and middle-aged (<48 years) individuals included in the study, 100 were acute myocardial infarction (AMI) patients and 100 were healthy individuals with no documented history of heart diseases. There was a significant increase in homocysteine levels among the AMI patients as compared to the healthy controls (p<0.001). The results of this study indicate that hyperhomocystinemia is more prevalent in Tamilian AMI patients and that the MTHFR C677T and A1298C SNPs are not associated with hyperhomocystinemia. Folate status was found to be within normal range in all the study subjects. There was no correlation between homocysteine and different biochemical variables including cobalamin, folate and riboflavin. However, serum cobalamin was found to be significantly decreased in AMI patients when compared to controls (p<0.001). The simultaneous presence of decreased serum cobalamin status, hyperhomocystinemia and mutant genotype for both the SNPs might lead to an increased risk for the occurrence of AMI. Further intervention trials including the supplementation of cobalamin may prove whether homocysteine level decrease in response to the supplementation of cobalamin in individuals with hyperhomocystinemia and mutant genotype for both the above mentioned SNPs.
