Two patients with bipolar disorder had been treated for years with lithium without any complications but began to develop symptoms of rigidity and an altered gait, namely symptoms compatible with a diagnosis of Parkinsonism with an action tremor. In both patients lithium levels were within the therapeutic range. Medication-induced Parkinsonism occurs frequently in patients using antipsychotic medication, but is a rare complication in patients receiving long term treatment with lithium. The lithium dosage was reduced gradually and within a few months all neurological symptoms subsided completely.
The aim of the study is to evaluate the differences of protein binding of NAMI-A, a new ruthenium drug endowed with selective antimetastatic properties, and of cisplatin and to ascertain the possibility to use two drugs based on heavy metals in combination to treat solid tumour metastases. For this purpose, we have developed a technique that allows the proteins, to which metal drugs bind, to be identified from real protein mixtures. Following incubation with the drugs, the bands containing platinum and/or ruthenium are separated by native PAGE, SDS-PAGE and 2D gel electrophoresis, and identified using laser ablation inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry. Both drugs interact with essentially the same proteins which, characterised by proteomics, are human serum albumin precursor, macroglobulin alpha2 and human serotransferrin precursor. The interactions of NAMI-A are largely reversible whereas cisplatin forms stronger interactions that are less reversible. These data correlate well with the MCa mammary carcinoma model on which full doses of NAMI-A combined with cisplatin show additive effects as compared to each treatment taken alone, independently of whether NAMI-A precedes or follows cisplatin. Furthermore, the implication from this study is that the significantly lower toxicity of NAMI-A, compared to cisplatin, could be a consequence of differences in the mode of binding to plasma proteins, involving weaker interactions compared to cisplatin.
Ebastine and its active metabolite carebastine show potent antagonism of histamine H1-mediated phenomena in a wide variety of in vitro and in vivo non-clinical experimental models. By contrast, activity is not seen against histamine H2- or H3-mediated, nor acetylcholine- or serotonin-mediated phenomena, and both compounds are virtually without effect in models measuring pharmacological effects on the central nervous system (CNS). Explanation of these observations is found in their high selectivity for the histamine H1 receptor and in their low in vivo potency in displacing [3H]-mepyramine from central histamine H1 receptors, indicating that they do not readily pass the blood-brain barrier. These findings have been mirrored in clinical experimental models where oral doses of ebastine (1-30 mg) showed clear dose-related inhibition of intradermal histamine-induced weal and flare responses, whereas doses of 90 mg were without anticholinergic effects on salivary flow, cardiovascular reflexes or pilocarpine-induced miosis. Furthermore, in an extensive series of controlled studies in specific clinical models for measuring objective effects on the CNS, ebastine in single doses of 10-90 mg and repeated doses of 10-30 mg once daily, had no clinically relevant effects on cognitive performance and visual co-ordination tests, nor on simulated car-tracking tests and real car-driving tests. Nor was their any interaction with ethanol or diazepam. On subjective test parameters (questionnaires and visual analogue scales) there were only a few isolated and random incidences of minor increases in some indices of sedation at the highest doses. Not surprisingly, therefore, the clear therapeutic benefit seen during the extensive and international use of ebastine (5-20 mg once daily) in the treatment of seasonal and perennial rhinitis and chronic idiopathic urticaria, has not been accompanied by signs of drug-induced anticholinergic effects (dry mouth, disturbances of visual accommodation) or sedation, making it an effective and well-tolerated first-line treatment alternative to other second-generation antihistamines.
Paraquat-induced nephrotoxicity involves severe renal cell damage caused by reactive oxygen species (ROS), specifically via increasing concentrations of superoxide anions in the kidney. Recently, superoxide dismutase (SOD) mimetics (SODm) have been developed that display safe SOD activities but which also possess additional antioxidant enzyme (e.g., catalase) or ROS-scavenging activities. The aim of this study was to compare the effects of two such SODm, specifically, EUK-134, a SODm with catalase activity, and tempol, a SODm with ROS-scavenging properties, on paraquat-induced nephrotoxicity of renal NRK-52E cells. Incubation with paraquat (1 mM) for 24 h reduced cell viability and increased necrosis significantly. Paraquat also generated significant quantities of superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals. Both EUK-134 (10-300 microM) and tempol (0.3-1.0 mM) were able to improve cell viability and reduced paraquat-induced cell death significantly via dismutation or scavenging of superoxide anions and reduced hydroxyl radical generation. The data presented here suggest that SODm such as EUK-134 and tempol, which possess additional catalase and/or ROS-scavenging activities, can significantly reduce renal cell damage caused by paraquat. These effects were evident at concentrations which avoid the pro-oxidant activities associated with higher concentrations of SOD. Such SODm could therefore prove to be beneficial as therapies for paraquat nephrotoxicity.
To assess, in clinical practice, the (i) incidence, (ii) within-patient consistency, and (iii) clinical spectrum of chest symptoms (chest symptoms) after subcutaneous (sc) and oral sumatriptan, and (iv) to identify risk factors for chest symptoms.
Two-year retrospective survey with mailed self-administered questionnaire.
Neurology outpatient clinic of university hospital.
Migraine patients with or without aura (n = 869).
Incidence, within-patient consistency and characteristics of chest symptoms; demographic and clinical characteristics of patients.
There were 735 (85%) respondents. Sumatriptan was used by 453 patients, during 25 months (median), for 28000 attacks (median: 33 attacks/patient). Of sumatriptan users, 41% (sc) and 24% (oral) had chest symptoms in all attacks, 39% (sc) and 58% (oral) in none, and the remaining in some attacks. Because of chest symptoms, 10% discontinued sumatriptan. Chest symptoms mostly consisted of heavy arms and chest pressure, started within 5 (sc) to 30 (oral) min, and lasted 30 (sc) to 60 (oral) min. Compared with patients without chest symptoms, patients with chest symptoms more often were females and younger, and went to rest immediately after sumatriptan administration (all p < 0.001); they also tended to have lower body mass indices, more severe attacks and less efficacy of sumatriptan (all 0.001 < p < 0.05). Patients with chest symptoms had no higher incidence of cardiovascular symptoms or risk factors.
Chest symptoms are frequent, within-patients consistent, but rarely important, adverse events of (notably sc) sumatriptan. The risk of chest symptoms is patient-dependent and not related, even opposite, to cardiovascular disease. This contradicts the hypothesis that chest symptoms after sumatriptan are caused by cardiac ischemia. Patient acceptance of chest symptoms is improved by pre-advising on the risk and nature of chest symptoms.
The present study was designed to investigate the ameliorative potential of spironolactone in chronic constriction injury and vincristine-induced neuropathic pain in rats. The chronic constriction injury was induced by placing four loose ligatures around the sciatic nerve, while vincristine (50 μg/kg) was administered for 10 days to induce chemotherapy-induced neuropathic pain. Acetone drop, pin-prick, hot plate and paint brush tests were performed to assess cold allodynia; mechanical and heat hyperalgesia; dynamic mechanical allodynia, respectively. The spontaneous pain and postural index in terms of foot deformity was also assessed. The levels of TNF-α were measured in the sciatic nerve as an index of inflammation. Chronic constriction injury led to significant development of cold allodynia; mechanical and heat hyperalgesia; dynamic mechanical allodynia; spontaneous pain and foot deformity along with rise in the levels of TNF-α. Administration of vincristine was associated with the development of allodynia and hyperalgesia without spontaneous pain, foot deformity and elevation in the levels of TNF-α. Administration of spironolactone (10 and 20 mg/kg) significantly attenuated chronic constriction injury-induced pain related behaviour and foot deformity along with attenuation of TNF-α levels, without modulating vincristine-induced neuropathic pain. The attenuating effect of spironolactone in chronic constriction injury may be due to its anti-inflammatory properties and ability to decrease pro-inflammatory cytokines, while involvement of non-inflammatory mechanisms in the pathogenesis of vincristine-induced pain may probably explain its lack of beneficial effect in chemotherapy associated pain.
Toothpaste flavors are fragrance mixtures. Oil of peppermint and spearmint, carvone and anethole are ingredients with a low sensitizing potential, but they are used in almost every brand of toothpaste and caused seven cases of contact allergy in a 6-year period at Gentofte Hospital. Toothpaste reactions are rare due to several reasons; local factors in the mouth, the low sensitizing potential of the flavors generally used, and the lack of recognition. It is emphasized that the toothpaste battery for patch testing has to be relevant and changed according to the consumers' and manufacturers' taste and fashion.
Contact allergy (CA) to topical corticosteroids (CS) is relatively rare; however, current data from Germany are not available. Furthermore, valid risk assessment needs to take into account of the actual exposure to CS in the population.
The reaction profile of 9 CS included in a "CS test battery" of the German Contact Dermatitis Research Group (DKG) in patients seen in German clinics belonging to the Information Network of Departments of Dermatology (IVDK; http://www.ivdk.org) between 01/1995 and 12/2004 was analyzed. Applying the "Clinical Epidemiology/Drug Utilization Research" approach, annual incidences of CA to CS in Germany were extrapolated. These estimates were used as numerator for a relative incidence (RI) estimate which used exposure in terms of "defined daily doses" (DDD) to the respective CS as denominator, the latter information collected by the AOK Research Institute (WIdO).
On average, 7.4% of all patients were patch tested with the CS series, mostly yielding < 1% positive reactions. Exceptions included hydrocortisone 17-butyrate (1.5%), amcinonide (1.6%) and budesonide (2.6%). With a RI of 10.7, 23.6 and 4.9 per 100,000 DDD, respectively, the three CS mentioned classify as moderate topical drug allergens. Clobetasol 17-propionate and triamcinolone acetonide both yielded a RI of 1.4/100,000 DDD, indicating low sensitization risk. For hydrocortisone, betamethasone, prednisolone and dexamethasone (RI < 1/100,000 DDD) the risk of sensitization appears minute.
The results support and extend previous evidence on the CA risk of CS, adding to a therapeutic index and risk assessment.
Few epidemiological studies that have assessed the relation between water disinfection by-products (DBPs) and the risk of stillbirth provide inconsistent results. The objective was to assess the relation between exposure to water disinfection by-products and the risk of stillbirth.
We conducted a population-based case-control study of 3,289 cases of stillbirth and a random sample of 32,890 control subjects from 396,049 Taiwanese newborns in 2001-2003 using information from the Birth Registry and Waterworks Registry in Taiwan. We compared the risk of stillbirth in four disinfection by-product exposure categories based on the levels of total trihalomethanes (TTHMs) representing high (TTHMs 20+ µg/L), medium (TTHMs 10-19 µg/L), low exposure (TTHMs 5-9 µg/L), and 0-4 µg/L as the reference category. In addition, we conducted a meta-analysis of the results from the present and 5 previous studies focusing on stillbirth.
In logistic regression analysis adjusting for gender, maternal age, plurality, conception of season and population density of the municipality where the mother lived during pregnancy, the odds ratio (OR) for stillbirth was 1.10 (95% CI 1.00-1.21) for medium exposure and 1.06 (95% 0.96-1.17) for high exposure compared to reference category. In the meta-analysis, the summary odds ratio for stillbirth (1.11, 95% CI: 1.03, 1.19) was consistently elevated.
The present study is consistent with the hypothesis that the risk of stillbirth is related to prenatal exposure to disinfection by-products. This finding on stillbirth is consistent with previous epidemiologic studies, which strengthens the weight of evidence.
The antinociceptive effect of the methanolic extract (ME) and two triterpenes isolated from E. mosenii (Orchidaceae) has been investigated in chemical and thermal models of nociception in mice. The ME of E. mosenii (0.3-30 mg kg(-1), i.p. or 50-400 mg kg(-1), p.o.) produced dose-related, significant and long-lasting (4 to 6 h) inhibition of acetic acid-induced abdominal constriction, with ID50 values of 3.9 and 137.0 mg kg(-1), respectively. Pholidotin and 24-methylenecycloartenol isolated from E. mosenii (0.1-3.0 mg kg(-1), i.p.) also produced marked and dose-related inhibition of acetic acid-induced pain, with ID50 values of 0.9 and 1.1 mg kg(-1). However, these compounds and the ME were about 3- to 13-fold more potent at the level of ID50 than diclofenac when assessed in acetic acid-induced abdominal constriction. The ME of E. mosenii in the same range of doses produced dose-related inhibition of both phases of formalin-induced licking, with mean ID50 values for the first and the second phases of 0.9, 122.0 mg kg(-1) and 0.7, 258.0 mg kg(-1), respectively by i.p. or p.o. routes. In addition, the ME (0.3-30 mg kg(-1), i.p., or 50-400 mg kg(-1), p.o.) also caused dose-related inhibition of capsaicin-induced neurogenic pain with mean ID50 values of 5.2 and 130.0 mg kg(-1), respectively. Treatment of animals with naloxone (5 mg kg(-1), i.p.) completely reversed the antinociceptive effect caused by morphine (5 mg kg(-1), s.c.) and that caused by ME of E. mosenii (1 mg kg(-1), i.p.) when assessed against either phase of the formalin-induced pain. Furthermore, when assessed in the hot-plate test, ME (100 mg kg(-1), i.p.) and morphine (10 mg kg(-1), s.c.) caused significant increase in response latency. However, ME given daily for to 7 consecutive days did not develop tolerance to itself nor did it induce cross-tolerance to morphine. Taken together these data demonstrate that the ME of E. mosenii elicited pronounced antinociception, when assessed by i.p. or p.o. routes, against several models of pain. Its actions involve, at least in part, an interaction with opioid system, seeming no to be related with a non-specific peripheral or central depressant actions. Finally, the active principle(s) responsible for the antinociceptive action of E. mosenii is likely related to the presence of the triterpenes.
Side effects of sodium valproate during long-term treatment have been evaluated retrospectively in 55 patients suffering from refactory epilepsy. The side effects discovered in the study were slight and transient. In three of the 55 patients CNS side effects were noticed. Gastrointestinal symptoms were uncommon. One patient suffered from loss of hair which could have been attributed to sodium valproate. Severe side effects such as abnormal blood counts or organ damage were not discovered. The frequency of side effects was similar to those already reported in the literature except for gastrointestinal symptoms which were more infrequent than previously reported. No direct correlation could be established between the serum concentration of sodium valproate and the side effects.
The addition of diethylstilbestrol to docetaxel modified tubulin composition and improved the response of prostate cancer to chemotherapy in preclinical models. An attempt was made to recapitulate the observations in a clinical trial.
Twenty-nine patients with progressive, metastatic, chemotherapy-naive androgen-independent prostate cancer were treated with diethylstilbestrol 1 mg daily and 5 mg on the day before docetaxel and docetaxel 36 mg/m(2) intravenously weekly for 3 weeks of a 4-week cycle. Prophylactic anticoagulation was used in all patients. Patients were assessed by prostate-specific antigen (PSA) monthly and computed tomography (CT) and bone scans every 3 cycles. The Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria and PSA decline by >50% maintained for 4 weeks were used to assess activity.
The median age was 68 years (range, 56-84 years), Southwest Oncology Group performance status 0 (score range, 0-2), alkaline phosphatase 120 U/L (range, 49-523), hemoglobin (Hgb) 12.6 g/dL (range, 9.2-16.3), PSA 66 ng/dL (range, 4-1962). The median number of cycles administered was 6. Soft tissue metastases were present in 51% of patients and bone metastases in 93%. Twenty-nine patients are evaluable for response. Of these, 20 patients (69%, 95% confidence interval [CI], 49%-85%) had a PSA decline of >50% and the PSA declined by >90% in 12 patients (41%, 95% CI, 23.1%-58.9%). Of 15 patients with measurable disease, 6 (40%, 95% CI, 23.5%-61%) had a partial response. Median time to progression was 6 months (range, 3-19 months). Fifteen patients (51%) suffered grade 3/4 toxicity. Two patients died of causes unrelated to therapy and another died from a steroid-induced ulcer. Six patients developed thrombosis and of those tested 75% had Factor V mutations. Pretreatment PSA, performance status, Hgb, and alkaline phosphatase had no impact on the likelihood of response.
The combination of diethylstilbestrol and docetaxel produces a significant level of activity, measured by PSA decline and measurable disease response rate, and except for venous thrombosis the toxicity appears similar to that seen with docetaxel plus prednisone. These results suggest that tubulin modulation with diethylstilbestrol may improve the therapeutic efficacy of docetaxel and the combination is worthy of further study.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) is a key inducible enzyme involved in the production of prostaglandins that has been shown to induce apoptosis in various cancer cells. Several anticancer agents also mediate apoptosis and may share the common intracellular pathways leading to apoptosis. Since over expression of COX-2 has been demonstrated in bladder cancer, we reasoned that combination treatment with a COX-2 inhibitor and anticancer agents in bladder cancer cells may result in synergistic apoptosis. We examined whether the selective COX-2 inhibitor JTE-522 induces apoptosis in bladder cancer cells and whether JTE-522 may act synergistically with anticancer agents to achieve cytotoxicity and apoptosis in these cells.
Cytotoxicity was determined by microculture tetrazolium dye assay. Synergy was assessed by isobolographic analysis.
COX-2 mRNA expression was observed in the HT1197 bladder cancer cell line. JTE-522 was cytotoxic in HT1197 cells. Treating HT1197 cells with JTE-522 combined with doxorubicin or mitomycin C did not show synergistic cytotoxicity. However, combination treatment of HT1197 cells with JTE-522 and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) resulted in a synergistic cytotoxic effect. Synergy was also achieved in the T24 bladder cancer line. Synergistic cytotoxicity was noted irrespective of treatment sequence but the highest percent cytotoxicity was obtained when HT1197 cells were treated with JTE-522 and 5-FU simultaneously. The synergy achieved in cytotoxicity with JTE-522 and 5-FU was shown to be due to apoptosis. The mechanisms responsible for synergistic cytotoxicity and apoptosis was examined. Treating HT1197 cells with 5-FU enhanced expression of the pro-apoptotic molecule Bax, while JTE-522 treatment reduced expression of the anti-apoptotic molecule Bcl-XL, resulting in a significantly higher ratio of Bax-to-Bcl-XL.
This study shows that combination treatment of bladder cancer cells with the selective COX-2 inhibitor JTE-522 and 5-FU results in synergistic cytotoxicity and apoptosis due to the enhanced Bax-to-Bcl-XL expression ratio. These findings support the in vivo potential application of a combination of JTE-522 and 5-FU for bladder cancer.
2015 subjects were interviewed at musical events and raves in Northern Italy: average age 25.1, 42% female, 67% work, 42% study, 61% have higher certificate of education. 3.8% used drugs for the first time in the last year, and 60% have been using drugs for over 5 years, age of first use 16.3. In the last year, 26% have tried a mix of drugs, 52% alcohol and drugs, 48% have driven after drinking; drug consumption was: marijuana 58%, hashish 55%, cocaine 24%, popper 12%, hallucinogenic mushrooms 13%, ecstasy 13%, amphetamines 13%, Salvia divinorum 11%, LSD 9%, opium 9%, ketamine 7%, heroin 5%. In the last year, 27% subjects had depression, 25.7% anxiety, 23.7% sleep disorders, 15% financial problems, 13% road accidents, 9% addiction, 6% judicial problems. All problems were correlated to CAGE (Cut, Annoyed, Guilty, Eye-opener) test, drug use and mix drug use; psychological problems were higher for females: anxiety for cocaine, memory and psychosomatic for opium, sleeping disorders for crack, anxiety for popper, hallucinations for LSD and hallucinogenic mushrooms.
A randomized double-blind controlled study was conducted on two groups of 45 parturients to evaluate the importance of the timing of epidural morphine administration for the relief of postepisiotomy pain. Both groups had preemptive analgesia by continuous lumbar epidural bupivacaine blockade. Upon completion of the episiotomy repair and before the onset of pain, the patients received epidural injections of 3 ml saline with or without 2 mg morphine in groups A and B respectively. When pain appeared, group A patients received an epidural injection of 3 ml saline while group B patients received 2 mg morphine in 3 ml saline. Postepisiotomy pain level was evaluated by a visual analogue scale.
The incidence of pain in group B women following epidural morphine administration was 68.6%. This was significantly higher than that of group A at 15.6% (p < 0.01). Furthermore, group B showed that the rate of effective pain relief after 2 mg epidural morphine significantly decreases as the level of pain intensity rises (p < 0.01).
Epidural morphine for postepisiotomy pain is much more effective if administered before the onset of pain.
Brainstem catecholaminergic neurons have been implicated as mediating adaptive autonomic and neuroendocrine responses to cardiovascular challenges. To clarify the nature of this involvement, immuno- and hybridization histochemical methods were used to follow c-fos expression in these neurons in response to acute stimuli that differentially affect blood pressure and volume. From low basal levels, hypotensive hemorrhage (15%) provoked a progressive increase in the number and distribution of Fos-immunoreactive (ir) nuclei in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), the A1 and C1 cell groups of the ventrolateral medulla, and in the pontine A5, locus coeruleus, and lateral parabrachial cell groups peaking at 2.0-2.5 hours after the challenge. Fos-ir ventrolateral medullary neurons, subsets of which were identified as projecting to the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus or spinal cord, were predominantly aminergic, whereas most of those in the NTS were not. Infusion of an angiotensin II antagonist blunted hemorrhage-induced Fos expression in the area postrema, and attenuated that seen elsewhere in the medulla and pons. Nitroprusside-induced isovolemic hypotension yielded a pattern of c-fos induction similar to that seen following hemorrhage, except in the area postrema and the A1 cell group, where the response was muted or lacking. Phenylephrine-induced hypertension stimulated a restricted pattern of c-fos expression, largely limited to induced hypertension stimulated a restricted pattern of c-fos expression, largely limited to non-aminergic neurons, whose distribution in the NTS conformed to the termination patterns of primary baroreceptor afferents, and in the ventrolateral medulla overlapped in part with those of vagal cardiomotor and depressor neurons. These findings underscore the importance of brainstem catecholaminergic neurons in effecting integrated homeostatic responses to cardiovascular challenges and their ability to responding strategically to specific modalities of cardiovascular information. They also foster testable predictions as to effector neuron populations that might be recruited to respond to perturbations in individual circulatory parameters.
To describe rare side effects of treatment with isoniazid.
Descriptive case report.
Medical intensive care unit in a university medical center.
A 14-yr old previously healthy girl receiving preventive isoniazid therapy who suddenly developed generalized tonic-clonic seizures and coma.
Patient was sedated and mechanically ventilated. She also received pyridoxine intravenously.
An isoniazid overdose was not confirmed. Computed tomography of the brain and electroencephalogram revealed nothing abnormal. Seizures gradually disappeared within 2 hrs after sedation and treatment with pyridoxine. The patient was discharged on day 14 without consequences and has been well for 10 mos. No seizures reappeared after isoniazid was discontinued.
We caution against possible isoniazid neurotoxicity in healthy individuals using recommended preventive doses.
8:2 fluorotelomer alcohol (8:2 FTOH) inhalation exposure was investigated to (1) compare plasma metabolites to oral data, (2) conduct a route-to-route extrapolation (oral to inhalation), (3) develop a human equivalent air concentration (HEC) from a 90-day oral sub-chronic study in rats using BMD analysis, and (4) calculate a margin of exposure (MOE) between the HEC and measured air concentrations. Male and female rats were exposed nose-only for 6h at 3 or 30mg/m(3). Blood was collected at 1, 3 and 6h during exposure and 6 and 18h post exposure. Alcohol, perfluorocarboxylic acid and polyfluorinated acid metabolites were determined in plasma by LC-MS/MS. 8:2 FTOH was <LOQ (32nM) at the low exposure and quantifiable (37-69nM) at the high exposure. The quantifiable metabolites in plasma were dose proportional and comprised mainly of 8:2 FTCA, 7:3 Acid, and PFOA. By kinetic modeling, the yields of the terminal products 7:3 Acid (1.6-2.1 and 0.9mol%) and PFOA (1.0-1.2 and 0.3mol%) of the inhaled dose were low for male and female rats, respectively. The kinetic yield of PFOA after oral dosing was similar (1.1-1.7-fold) for male rats and greater (8-9-fold) for female rats relative to inhalation exposure, an observation confirmed by non-compartmental analysis. A BMDL10% (3.7mg/kg/day) was derived for mild hepatic necrosis observed in male rats following a 90-day oral dose study with 8:2 FTOH. The corresponding HECs were 1.8 and 3.7mg/m(3), which gave MOE values ranging from 1.8×10(4) to 6.1×10(6) based on reported ambient air concentrations of 0.3-209ng/m(3). These findings demonstrate rapid 8:2 FTOH uptake and clearance by the inhalation route and a consistent metabolite profile between inhalation and oral exposures in rats. No toxicity is expected in humans from typical ambient 8:2 FTOH air exposures.
Exposure of esophageal mucosa to hydrochloric acid (HCl) is a crucial factor in the pathogenesis of reflux disease. We examined supernatant of HCl-exposed rabbit mucosa for inflammatory mediators enhancing migration of leukocytes and production of H(2)O(2) as an indicator of leukocyte activation. A tubular segment of rabbit esophageal mucosa was tied at both ends to form a sac, which was filled with HCl-acidified Krebs buffer at pH 5 (or plain Krebs buffer as control) and kept oxygenated at 37 degrees C. The medium around the sac (supernatant) was collected after 3 h. Rabbit peripheral blood leukocytes (PBL) were isolated, and sac supernatant was used to investigate PBL migration and H(2)O(2) production. HCl-exposed esophageal mucosa released substance P (SP), CGRP, platelet-activating factor (PAF), and IL-8 into the supernatant. PBL migration increased in response to IL-8 or to supernatant of the HCl-filled mucosal sac. Supernatant-induced PBL migration was inhibited by IL-8 antibodies and by antagonists for PAF (CV3988) or neurokinin 1 (i.e., SP), but not by a CGRP antagonist. Supernatant of the HCl-filled mucosal sac increased H(2)O(2) release by PBL that was significantly reduced by CV3988 and by a SP antagonist but was not affected by IL-8 antibodies or by a CGRP antagonist. We conclude that IL-8, PAF, and SP are important inflammatory mediators released by esophageal mucosa in response to acid that promote PBL migration. In addition, PAF and SP induce production of H(2)O(2) by PBL. These findings provide a direct link between acid exposure and recruitment and activation of immune cells in esophageal mucosa.
Assess the use of N terminal pro brain natriuretic peptide (NT-pro BNP) to early diagnose ventricular dysfunction in doxorubicin-administered children.
Fifty-five cancer patients who received accumulative dose of doxorubicin <300 mg/m2 (group 1), 49 cases with accumulative dose > or = 300 mg/m2 (group 2) and 52 cases as a control group (group 3) were included in the study. Electrocardiogram, chest roentgenogram, echocardiogram, and serum NT-pro BNP were studied.
At age 1-10 years, there were significantly higher NT-pro BNP in group 2 than group 1 (384 +/- 291 vs. 92.2 +/- 89 pg/ml; p = 0.001), and than group 3 (79 +/- 92 pg/ml; p = 0.001). Patients with NT-pro BNP level > 1 SD of the control group were more likely to have abnormal > or = 2 echocardiographic parameters of left ventricular diastolic dysfunction than patients with NT-pro BNP < or = 1 SD (OR = 3.8, 95% CI 1.18-12.5). Patients in group 2 were more likely to have abnormal > or = 2 parameters of left ventricular diastolic dysfunction than patients in group 1 (OR = 2.8, 95% CI 1.07-7.7) and more likely to have NT-pro BNP >1 SD than group 1 (OR = 8, 95% CI 1.96-38.4). There were association of NT-pro BNP > 1 SD, accumulative dose of doxorubicin > or = 300 mg/m2, and early left ventricular diastolic dysfunction by echocardiogram.
Serum NT-pro BNP > 1 SD has a high probability to diagnose early doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy in patient 1-10 years old.
Amisulpride is a dopamine D2/D3-selective antipsychotic drug with potent antipsychotic efficacy in acute exacerbations of schizophrenia. It also possesses substantial efficacy in chronic schizophrenic patients with enduring predominant negative symptoms. This unique property has been demonstrated in a series of short (6 weeks) and medium-/long-term (6-12 months) double-blind placebo-controlled studies. The patients in these studies were carefully selected and assessed to avoid confounding results with non-specific changes in other symptom domains. The results not only show effects on negative symptoms at the optimal dose of 100 mg/day, but also significant improvement in global functioning. The effect observed in short-term studies was maintained over longer treatment periods (6-12 months). Amisulpride was well tolerated with a safety profile similar to placebo. These results open a new therapeutic approach for negative symptoms, one of the most disabling aspects of schizophrenia.
Morbidity and mortality are high in children with refractory status epilepticus (RSE). Here, we assess the efficacy of midazolam for RSE in children.
This was a retrospective analysis of 29 children admitted to the Lille University Hospital pediatric intensive care unit (PICU) for RSE between May 2006 and July 2008. The onset of the study corresponded with a new therapeutic protocol applied in the PICU for RSE where midazolam was proposed as the first-line treatment (bolus ten continuous infusion until control) to be replaced by thiopenthal in case of failure.
We recorded 29 patients with RSE during the study period: 26 were treated with midazolam, including two where midazolam replaced thiopenthal because of hypotension. Midazolam successfully controlled RSE in 58% of patients. Mean delay to cessation of RSE was 48+/-65 minutes. Hypotension was observed in 8% of midazolam-treated patients and 71% of thiopenthal-treated patients. Overall mortality was 15% (4/26). Two deaths occurred long after the cessation of RSE. None of the deaths occurred in midazolam-treated patients.
Midazolam is an efficient treatment for RSE in children. Morbidity and mortality appear to be lower with midazolam compared with other antiepileptic drugs used for the treatment of RSE.
The pathophysiology of restless legs syndrome (RLS) is complex and remains to be fully elucidated. The condition is predominantly a disorder of the central rather than the peripheral, nervous system, and dopaminergic dysfunction in subcortical systems appears to play a central role. Conditions associated with secondary RLS, such as pregnancy or end-stage renal disease, are characterized by iron deficiency, which suggests that disturbed iron homeostasis may also play a role in the development of the condition. Although most patients with RLS have normal serum ferritin levels, concentrations of ferritin and transferrin in the cerebrospinal fluid are reduced, suggesting iron deficiency within the central nervous system. Although iron is necessary for the activity of tyrosine hydroxylase, the rate-limiting step in dopamine synthesis, it is unclear whether this relationship plays a role in the aetiology of RLS. There also appears to be a genetic component, particularly when the condition develops before the age of 45 years. Candidate genetic loci have been located on chromosomes 9p, 12q and 14q, but the genes involved have yet to be identified. How these three identified aetiological factors, namely dopaminergic dysfunction, impaired iron homeostasis and genetic disposition, are inter-related in the genesis of RLS remains unclear.
Recent genome-wide association (GWA) analyses have identified common single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that are associated with obesity. However, the reported genetic variation in obesity explains only a minor fraction of the total genetic variation expected to be present in the population. Thus many genetic variants controlling obesity remain to be identified. The aim of this study was to use GWA followed by multiple stepwise validations to identify additional genes associated with obesity.
We performed a GWA analysis in 164 morbidly obese subjects (BMI:body mass index>40 kg/m2) and 163 Swedish subjects (>45 years) who had always been lean. The 700 SNPs displaying the strongest association with obesity in the GWA were analyzed in a second cohort comprising 460 morbidly obese subjects and 247 consistently lean Swedish adults. 23 SNPs remained significantly associated with obesity (nominal P<0.05) and were in a step-wise manner followed up in five additional cohorts from Sweden, France, and Germany together comprising 4214 obese and 5417 lean or population-based control individuals. Three samples, n=4133, were used to investigate the population-based associations with BMI. Gene expression in abdominal subcutaneous adipose tissue in relation to obesity was investigated for14 adults.
Potassium channel, calcium activated, large conductance, subfamily M, alpha member (KCNMA1) rs2116830*G and BDNF rs988712*G were associated with obesity in five of six investigated case-control cohorts. In meta-analysis of 4838 obese and 5827 control subjects we obtained genome-wide significant allelic association with obesity for KCNMA1 rs2116830*G with P=2.82×10(-10) and an odds ratio (OR) based on cases vs controls of 1.26 [95% C.I. 1.12-1.41] and for BDNF rs988712*G with P=5.2×10(-17) and an OR of 1.36 [95% C.I. 1.20-1.55]. KCNMA1 rs2116830*G was not associated with BMI in the population-based samples. Adipose tissue (P=0.0001) and fat cell (P=0.04) expression of KCNMA1 was increased in obesity.
We have identified KCNMA1 as a new susceptibility locus for obesity, and confirmed the association of the BDNF locus at the genome-wide significant level.
The antinociception caused by the hydroalcoholic extract of Siphocampylus verticillatus (Campanulaceae) has been investigated in chemical and thermal models of nociception in mice. We have also assessed some of the mechanisms underlying the antinociceptive effect of the extract. The hydroalcoholic extract of S. verticillatus (60-1000 mg kg-1, i.p. or p.o.) produced dose-related, significant and long-lasting (6 to 8 h) inhibition of acetic acid-induced abdominal constriction in mice, with ID50 values of 204 and approximately 1000 mg kg-1, respectively. In the formalin test, the extract (100-1000 mg kg-1), given either intraperitoneally or orally, resulted in graded inhibition of both phases of formalin-induced pain, being about 2- to 4-fold more potent in attenuating the second phase of the pain. The calculated mean ID50 (mg kg-1) values for the earlier and the later phases were: 491 and 186 and 640 and 441, respectively. In addition, the extract (60-1000 mg kg-1, i.p. or p.o.) caused marked and dose-related inhibition of capsaicin-induced neurogenic pain with mean ID50 values of 420 and 485 mg kg-1, respectively. The hydroalcoholic extract, at the same doses, did not significantly affect the performance of animals in the rota-rod test, nor did it have any analgesic effect in the tail-flick or hot-plate tests. The treatment of animals with naloxone (5 mg kg-1, s.c.) significantly reversed the analgesic effect of both morphine (5 mg kg-1, s.c.) and the extract (300 mg kg-1, i.p.) when assessed against acetic acid-induced abdominal constrictions. The treatment of animals with L-arginine (600 mg kg-1, i.p.) significantly attenuated the antinociceptive effects of NG-nitro-L-arginine (L-NOARG) (75 mg kg-1, i.p.), of the hydroalcoholic extract (600 mg kg-1, i.p.) or of morphine (5 mg kg-1, s.c.), when analysed against the formalin test. In addition, adrenalectomy of animals 7 days before the tests significantly reversed the antinociception caused by the hydroalcoholic extract (300 mg kg-1, i.p.) in the formalin-induced pain. These data show that the hydroalcoholic extract of S. verticillatus has significant and long-lasting oral antinociception when assessed against both neurogenic and inflammatory models of nociception in mice. The precise mechanism responsible for the analgesic effect of the extract still remains unclear, but a great part of this effect seems to be partly related to an opioid-like action and involvement of the L-arginine-nitric oxide pathway. Finally, the antinociception caused by the hydroalcoholic extract of S. verticillatus is modulated by adrenal hormones.
The extrapulmonary effects of slow-release theophylline and an inhaled beta 2-agonist (albuterol) were examined separately and in combination among 18 adults and adolescents with asthma during a 3-month randomized, double-blind, crossover trial. Although neither global impressions nor daily diaries revealed differences in adverse effects, a structured questionnaire completed at the end of each regimen suggested a small but statistically significant increase in nausea and depressive and caffeine-like symptoms during the theophylline-containing regimens. Theophylline was also associated with improved verbal learning but decreased motor steadiness. Metabolic effects associated with theophylline included lower serum bicarbonate, greater urinary calcium excretion, and higher serum calcium, uric acid, and creatinine. Albuterol was associated with lower neutrophil counts and lower serum theophylline concentrations. There were no drug-induced effects on cardiac rhythm.
