To investigate the role of opioids in the acquired immune dysfunctional state that occurs after burns or trauma, plasma beta-endorphin levels were measured serially in nine severely burned patients, and the effect of four different opioids on normal neutrophil and lymphocyte function was quantitated. The rationale for these studies is that the neuroendocrine system appears capable of interacting with and modulating immune function. The plasma levels of beta-endorphin increased to higher than normal during the first 36 hours after burn (15 versus 3.4 pmol/L, p less than 0.05) but quickly returned toward normal. Morphine had the most profound effect on in vitro neutrophil function; it decreased neutrophil chemotaxis but increased neutrophil bactericidal activity for Staphylococcus aureus, as well as resting and zymosan-stimulated oxygen consumption. Other opioids (naloxone, met-enkephalin, and beta-endorphin) had no direct effect on neutrophil chemotaxis or bactericidal activity. Both naloxone and met-enkephalin increased neutrophil oxygen consumption in a dose-dependent fashion, whereas beta-endorphin impaired neutrophil oxygen consumption. None of the opioids altered resting lymphocyte blastogenesis. The only opioid that impaired the ability of normal lymphocytes to respond to mitogen stimulation at physiologically relevant doses was beta-endorphin. These results, documenting that beta-endorphin levels are altered after thermal injury and that opioids can modulate normal neutrophil and lymphocyte function in vitro, support the concept that changes in neuroendocrine activity may occur and potentially alter immune function.
1. Using in vivo voltammetry, this study relates catecholamine metabolism within the rat rostral ventrolateral medulla to the level of mean arterial pressure (MAP) under halothane anaesthesia. 2. A vasopressor region was circumscribed with electrical stimulations in an area located 1000-1700 microns rostral to the obex. A catechol signal was then ascertained within this area. The recording site was surrounded with phenyl-N-methyl-ethanolamine transferase immuno-positive cell bodies. 3. Three levels of decrease of arterial pressure were induced with nitroprusside infusion: -15, -35 and -55 mmHg (n = 5 in each group) from baseline for 30 min. This led to increases in the catechol signal which were inversely related to the degree of hypotension (P < 10(-4) vs. saline for the 35 and 55 mmHg groups, P < 0.05 for the 35 mmHg group as compared to the 15 and 55 mmHg groups following recovery from hypotension). 4. Following sino-aortic deafferentation, nitroprusside-induced hypotension (-35 mmHg) did not lead to any change in the catechol signal in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (n = 5). Furthermore, controlled hypotension induced in intact rats did not evoke any change in the catechol signal recorded in a dopaminergic area of the midbrain, the ventral tegmental area (A10 area; n = 5). 5. An infusion of phenylephrine increased MAP by 35 mmHg from a baseline pressure of 105 mmHg for 30 min and evoked a non-significant decrease in the catechol signal (n = 5). In another group of rats a lower baseline pressure (80 mmHg) was stabilized (n = 5) with a higher concentration of halothane. An identical increment in pressure was then produced by a phenylephrine infusion and led to a significant reduction in the catechol signal (P < 0.05 vs. saline under similar conditions; n = 5). 6. The new findings of this study are that the level of activity of the metabolism of catecholamine in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (i) is continuously related to the level of arterial pressure, (ii) functions close to its resting level under baseline conditions and is primarily engaged during hypotension and (iii) is baroreflex linked. 7. Given the lack of direct evidence for a link between unit activity and catechol metabolism, these changes in catechol activity, recorded continuously in vivo next to adrenergic cell bodies, may represent the biochemical-specific counterpart of changes in the level of electrical unitary activity of presumed adrenergic cardiovascular medullospinal sympathoexcitatory neurons. Therefore, it provides evidence that adrenaline-synthesizing neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla respond to baroreceptor inputs.
Cardiac adverse effects of intravenous pulse methylprednisolone administration are well known, but there is little information about the cardiac side effects of oral methylprednisolone in the literature. We present a 41 year-old man with membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis in whom developed atrial fibrillation after oral methylprednisolone therapy.
Both hyperammonemia and blood-brain barrier (BBB) breakdown have been implicated in the evolution of hepatic encephalopathy. To define a possible relationship, Swiss Albino mice were subjected to sublethal encephalopathic doses of ammonium acetate; the integrity of the BBB was determined grossly with Evans blue and quantitatively with [14C]-alpha-aminoisobutyrate (AIB). Some animals were injected with a dose of ammonium acetate sufficient to maintain coma for 1 hr (AC group). One group, termed stuporous (AS), received only enough ammonium acetate to interfere with grooming and exploratory activity; this dosage was insufficient to completely block the righting response, which was absent in the AC group. When compared to that of controls (CON) receiving normal saline instead of ammonium acetate, cerebral tissue from the AC group was stained blue and contained nearly double the amount of AIB; AS group brain tissue was unstained and the AIB content did not differ significantly from normal. Some of the AC group were pretreated with drugs known to retard BBB breakdown; one set received dexamethasone (AC-DXMN), another the ornithine decarboxylase inhibitor difluoromethyl ornithine (AC-DFMO), and a third L-ornithine (AC-ORN). Brain tissue from the AC-ORN group stained blue and AIB content did not differ significantly from that of the untreated AC group. Cerebral tissue of the AC-DXMN pretreatment group stained light blue; AIB content was significantly lower than in the AC group and greater than the CON group. The AC-DFMO brains were unstained and AIB content was significantly lower than in the AC group but did not differ significantly from CON. These results indicate that hyperammonemia may induce BBB breakdown but that the disruption of barrier integrity is not antecedent to the development of coma, although it seems to coincide with coma in time.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Three cases of coma after vincristine therapy are described. One patient had hyponatraemia and other features of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone. The effects were temporary, and full recovery occurred in all three patients.
Caspase-3 expression was determined in the hippocampus of electrically kindled rats with and without topiramate treatment. Bipolar electrotrodes were implanted for chronic stimulation of the basolateral amygdala (BLA) to achieve a kindled state. Seizure and behavioral responses were observed, and video-electroencephalograms were recorded during and after kindling. After topiramate treatment (80 mg/kg, p.o.), the hippocampi were extracted and caspase-3 mRNA analyzed by semiquantitative RT-PCR. Caspase-3 immunoreactivity was determined with immunohistochemical staining. Topiramate treatment resulted in a significant decrease in the mean duration of seizures from 52 s in kindled rats to 13 s. The after-discharge duration was significantly decreased by 70% after topiramate treatment. Significant upregulations of both caspase-3 mRNA and caspase-3 immunoreactivity were observed in the kindled rats. These kindling-mediated increases in caspase-3 were prevented by topiramate treatment, and these levels were not different from those of sham-operated controls. In BLA-kindled rats, mRNA and immunoreactivity for caspase-3 were increased. Treatment with topiramate prevented the kindling-associated increases in caspase-3 as well as the increases in seizure duration and after-discharge duration. These data suggest that topiramate may have a neuroprotective role in addition to its action as an anticonvulsant.
Among the aldehydes derived from lipid peroxidation, there have been several reports concerning the toxicity of 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (4-HNE), whereas little information is available about 4-oxo-2-nonenal (4-ONE). In the present study, we examined the effects of 4-HNE and 4-ONE on the cell viability of primary rat hepatocyte cultures. At concentrations of 5, 10, and 20 μM, 4-HNE had no significant effect on the cell viability of primary rat hepatocytes cultures, whereas 4-ONE potently decreased the cell viability in a dose-dependent manner (5-20 μM, 23-69% inhibition). The TUNEL assay showed that 4-ONE causes apoptosis in the cells. 4-ONE also increased 2',7'-dichlorofluorescein-fluorescence intensity from 2',7'-dichlorodihydrofluorescein, an indicator of reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation. Allopurinol, a xanthine oxidase (XO) inhibitor, diminished the 4-ONE-induced increase in the 2',7'-dichlorofluorescein-fluorescence intensity and the decrease in viability, indicating the role of XO in mediating 4-ONE-induced cell death. These observations suggest that 4-ONE has the potential to induce liver cell death via XO-derived ROS generation.
2-Amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) and 2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline (MeIQx) are two of the most common heterocyclic aromatic amines (HAA) produced during cooking of meat, fish and poultry. Both HAA produce different tumor profiles in rodents and are suspected to be carcinogenic in humans. In order to better understand the molecular basis of HAA toxicity, we have analyzed gene expression profiles in the metabolically competent human HepaRG cells using pangenomic oligonucleotide microarrays, after either a single (24-h) or a repeated (28-day) exposure to 10 μM PhIP or MeIQx. The most responsive genes to both HAA were downstream targets of the arylhydrocarbon receptor (AhR): CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 after both time points and CYP1B1 and ALDH3A1 after 28 days. Accordingly, CYP1A1/1A2 induction in HAA-treated HepaRG cells was prevented by chemical inhibition or small interference RNA-mediated down-regulation of the AhR. Consistently, HAA induced activity of the CYP1A1 promoter, which contains a consensus AhR-related xenobiotic-responsive element (XRE). In addition, several other genes exhibited both time-dependent and compound-specific expression changes with, however, a smaller magnitude than previously reported for the prototypical AhR target genes. These changes concerned genes mainly related to cell growth and proliferation, apoptosis, and cancer. In conclusion, these results identify the AhR gene battery as the preferential target of PhIP and MeIQx in HepaRG cells and further support the hypothesis that intake of HAA in diet might increase human cancer risk.
The principal effects of Pb(2+) exposure in children are attention, memory and learning deficits that persist into adulthood. The application of the conventional chelators in children is somewhat prohibited by adverse health effects and is not effective in reversing learning deficits once they have occurred. In this study, we applied the nutrients, methionine and choline, to prevent Pb(2+)-induced cognitive impairment. Male weanling Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into five groups. Three groups of rats were exposed to Pb(2+) in drinking water containing 400mg/L Pb(2+) acetate, of which two groups were concurrently administered by oral gavage once a day, 6 days per week, with low or high doses of methionine and choline for 60 days. The normal control group received distilled water alone, and the reagent control received methionine choline chloride alone. Methionine choline treatment reversed long-term deficits in spatial learning and memory caused by Pb(2+) exposure in rats. Enhanced learning performance of Pb(2+)-exposed rats was associated with recovery of deficits in N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) subunit 1 (NR1) mRNA and protein expression in the hippocampus. The effect of methionine choline on NR1 gene and protein expression was somewhat specific to Pb(2+)-exposed rats and did not affect the NR2A and NR2B subunits of the NMDAR measured in the same animals. Moreover, methionine choline treatment did not lower brain Pb(2+) content in Pb(2+)-exposed rats, although it reduced blood and bone Pb(2+) content. Methionine and choline reversed cognitive and NR1 deficits induced by Pb(2+) exposure, a beneficial effect that has significant clinical implications for the treatment of childhood Pb(2+) intoxication.
The effects of clonidine were assessed on conditioned avoidance responses (CAR) in control, 6-hydroxy-dopamine (6-OHDA)- and vehicle-treated rats, using a shuttle box device. Clonidine (100--400 micrograms/kg) produced a significant decrease of CAR in control and vehicle-treated animals. On the other hand, avoidance responding was only slightly inhibited in the 6-OHDA-lesioned rats. Pretreatment with the alpha-adrenergic blocking drugs yohimbine or phentolamine (1--8 mg/kg) prevented the CAR disrupting effects of clonidine. When animals were pretreated with the beta-adrenergic blocking agent propranolol (1--8 mg/kg) the ensuing injection of clonidine caused a greater CAR depression. Our results further support the hypothesis relating the conditioned performance depression observed after clonidine to the activation of a presynaptic negative feedback mechanism mediated by alpha-adrenoceptors. It is also suggested that propranolol increases the clonidine inhibition through the blockade of a positive feedback mechanism dependent on the activation of presynaptic beta-receptors.
Although the toxic effect of local anaesthetics on the activity of cerebral cortex has been extensively studied, little is known about their toxic effect on brainstem. Accordingly, the influence of procaine on brainstem auditory evoked potentials (BAEPs) and on the electroencephalogram (EEG) was observed in 15 dogs. After the administration of procaine (15 mg.kg-1, i.v.), the amplitudes of wave I (1.88 +/- 0.56 vs 2.06 +/- 0.61 microV, mean +/- SD) and wave II (1.91 +/- 0.41 vs 2.06 +/- 0.46 microV) in BAEPs increased (P less than 0.05), while the amplitudes of wave III (0.97 +/- 0.27 vs 0.81 +/- 0.24 microV), wave IV (1.15 +/- 0.43 vs 0.85 +/- 0.29 microV) and wave V (1.04 +/- 0.46 vs 0.92 +/- 0.41 microV) were decreased (P less than 0.05), and both the I-III inter-peak latency (1.57 +/- 0.04 vs 1.70 +/- 0.07 msec) and III-V inter-peak latency (2.15 +/- 0.09 vs 2.35 +/- 0.12 msec) were prolonged (P less than 0.01). The EEG changed from an awake pattern to seizure activity. These results suggest that the electrical activity of the brainstem auditory pathway is suppressed even when the cerebral cortex is in an excitatory state at the convulsive stage of procaine toxicity.
Levo-tetrahydropalmatine (l-THP) is an alkaloid found in many traditional Chinese herbal preparations and has a unique pharmacological profile that includes dopamine receptor antagonism. Previously we demonstrated that l-THP attenuates fixed-ratio (FR) cocaine self-administration (SA) and cocaine-induced reinstatement in rats at doses that do not alter food-reinforced responding. This study examined the effects of l-THP on cocaine and food SA under progressive-ratio (PR) schedules of reinforcement and the discriminative stimulus effects of cocaine. In adult male Sprague-Dawley rats self-administering cocaine (0.5 or 1.0mg/kg/inf), l-THP significantly reduced breaking points at the 1.875, 3.75 and 7.5mg/kg doses. l-THP also reduced the breaking point and response rate for PR SA of sucrose-sweetened food pellets, although the decrease was significant only at the 7.5mg/kg l-THP dose. In rats trained to discriminate cocaine (10mg/kg, ip) from saline, l-THP (1.875, 3.75 and 7.5mg/kg) produced a rightward shift in the dose-response curve for cocaine generalization. During generalization testing, l-THP reduced response rate, but only at the 7.5mg/kg dose. l-THP also prevented substitution of the dopamine D2/D3 receptor agonist, (±) 7-OH-DPAT, for cocaine suggesting a potential role for antagonism of D2 and/or D3 receptors in the effects of l-THP. These data further demonstrate that l-THP attenuates the reinforcing and subjective effects of cocaine at doses that do not produce marked motor effects and provide additional evidence that l-THP may have utility for the management of cocaine addiction.
With the rapid spread of carbon nanotubes (CNTs) applications, the respiratory toxicity of these compounds has attracted the attention of many scientists. Several studies have reported that after lung administration, CNTs could induce granuloma, fibrosis, or inflammation. By comparison with the mechanisms involved with other toxic particles such as asbestos, this effect could be attributed to an increase of oxidative stress. The aim of the present work was to test this hypothesis in vivo. Mice were intranasally instilled with 1.5mg/kg of double walled carbon nanotubes (DWCNTs). Six, 24, or 48h after administration, inflammation and localisation of DWCNTs in lungs were microscopically observed. Local oxidative perturbations were investigated using ESR spin trapping experiments, and systemic inflammation was assessed by measuring the plasma concentration of cytokines TNF-alpha, IL-1alpha, IL-1beta, IL-6, IGF-1, Leptin, G-CSF, and VEGF. Examination of lungs and the elevation of proinflammatory cytokines in the plasma (Leptin and IL-6 at 6h) confirmed the induction of an inflammatory reaction. This inflammatory reaction was accompanied by a decrease in the local oxidative stress. This effect could be attributed to the scavenger capability of pure CNTs.
Thirty-two adult Nigerians with mild-to-moderate essential hypertension were included in a double-blind placebo-controlled trial matching nifedipine 20 mg twice daily with placebo for 6 weeks. Nifedipine caused very significant reductions of both systolic and diastolic blood pressures in all patients. Blood pressure fell from a mean of 181.3 (SE 3.9)/114.7 (SE 2.4) to 122.8 (SE 1.9)/79.4 (SE 1.6). Mean arterial pressure fell from a mean of 136.75 (SE -2.2) to 94.19 (SE -1.39). Polyuria was a common side effect in six of the 16 patients who received nifedipine. One additional patient developed transient occipital headache. Nifedipine monotherapy would appear to be an effective first-line drug in the management of essential hypertension in adult blacks.
Resveratrol (trans-3,4',5-trihydroxystilbene), a natural polyphenolic compound detected in grapes, berries, and peanuts, possesses a wide spectrum of pharmacological properties, including anti-tumor metastasis activities. However, the underlying mechanisms through which resveratrol inhibits the metastasis of pancreatic cancer are still not fully elucidated. As epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is a key player for metastasis in tumor, the aim of this study is to determine whether resveratrol affects EMT in pancreatic cancer cells and the related mechanism. The results showed that resveratrol not only inhibited cell proliferation, migration, and invasion in a dose-dependent manner, but also mediated the expression of EMT-related genes (E-cadherin, N-cadherin, vimentin, MMP-2, and MMP-9) which are important for cancer cellular motility, invasiveness and metastasis during tumorigenesis. In addition, the levels of phospho-Akt and phospho- NF-κB in BxPC-3 and Panc-1 cells were reduced by both resveratrol and LY294002 (a PI3-K inhibitor). Furthermore, transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β)-induced alterations in cell morphology that are characteristic of EMT as well as increased cell invasive ability could also be reversed by resveratrol. Taken together, these data indicate that resveratrol suppresses pancreatic cancer migration and invasion through the inhibition of the PI-3K/Akt/NF-κB signaling pathway. This study suggests that resveratrol may be a potential anticancer agent for pancreatic cancer.
Prior activation of the kappa opioid system by repeated stress or agonist administration has been previously shown to potentiate the rewarding properties of subsequently administered cocaine. In the present study, intermittent and uncontrollable footshock, a single session of forced swim, or acute administration of the kappa agonist U50,488 (5 mg/kg) were found to reinstate place preference in mice previously conditioned with cocaine (15 mg/kg) and subsequently extinguished by repeated training sessions without drug.
Stress-induced reinstatement did not occur for mice pretreated with the kappa opioid receptor antagonist norbinaltorphimine (10 mg/kg) and did not occur in mice lacking either kappa opioid receptors (KOR -/-) or prodynorphin (Dyn -/-). In contrast, the initial cocaine conditioning and extinction rates were not significantly affected by disruption of the kappa opioid system. Cocaine-injection also reinstated conditioned place preference in extinguished mice; however, cocaine-primed reinstatement was not blocked by kappa opioid system disruption.
The results suggest that stress-induced drug craving in mice may require activation of the dynorphin/kappa opioid system.
Agonists of the GABA-A receptor are neuroprotective after experimental stroke, but studies of GABA-B agonists have contradicted each other. To further investigate whether GABA-B agonists may be neuroprotective, we devised a quantal bioassay using the intraluminal occlusion method of inducing reversible cerebral ischemia. Subjects underwent middle cerebral artery occlusion for varying amounts of time, ranging from 5 to 90 min. Behavioral outcome was measured 48 h later with a quantal observational scale: score of abnormal given for any one of asymmetric forepaw flexion on tail lift, asymmetric grip, circling, reduced exploration, seizures, or death. To the grouped response data the logistic equation was used to find the ED50, the duration of occlusion that caused one-half of the subjects to be abnormal. To find the potency ratio for each drug, we divided the ED50 for treatment by that for vehicle. We administered baclofen, a GABA-B agonist, intraperitoneally 5 min after the onset ofischemia. Baclofen (20 mg/kg) was neuroprotective (potency ratio of 3.0, P < 0.05), but a lower dose (10 mg/kg) was not. However, both doses of baclofen caused significantly more intracerebral hemorrhages than control. In awake animals, both baclofen doses caused significant increases in mean arterial pressure, but no changes in other cardiorespiratory variables. The glutamate antagonist MK-801, the GABA-A agonist muscimol, and hypothermia were all protective using the bioassay (potency ratios ranging from 1.5 to 3.0). We conclude that although baclofen (20 mg/kg) may be neuroprotective, its utility is complicated by postischemic hypertension and cerebral hemorrhages.
The purpose of this study was the feasibility, safety and analysis of the ischemic nature of the association of an injection of dipyridamole and an exercise test at low level exertion on an exercise bicycle for 4 minutes. The ischemic nature of this combination was assessed on the basis of three criteria: the onset of angina-type pain, electrical changes and scintigraphic abnormalities. The test could be carried out by all patients and the most common adverse events were headache (6.5%) and heartburn (3.5%). The 17 patients in this study who had one or more stenoses in excess of 70% presented with angina-type pain (3/17); electrical abnormalities (9/17) and scintigraphic abnormalities in all cases. Of the six patients who had lesions between 50 and 70%, 1 presented with angina symptoms, 2 with electrical abnormalities and 5 with scintigraphic abnormalities. Seven patients in this study showed no significant lesions when subjected to coronary artery angiography. However, angina-type pain and electrical signs were observed in 2 cases and one false positive result by scintigraphy. This study shows that it is possible to combine the injection of dipyridamole with an exercise test involving a low level of exertion on an exercise bicycle which gives a good diagnostic value to the CT scan. The frequency of clinical and electrical signs of ischemia makes it necessary to take the same precautions as for a peak exercise test.
The effect on the liver carcinogenicity in rats of sequential administration of either phenobarbital (PB) or diethylnitrosamine (DEN) given either before or after N-2-fluorenylacetamide (FAA) was studied. DEN given in the drinking water either before or after dietary FAA enhanced liver carcinogenicity over that produced by FAA alone. In contrast, dietary PB produced enhancement only when given after FAA. Thus, the effects of DEN summate with those of FAA, whereas PB produces a promoting, but not syncarcinogenic, effect. The usefulness of reverse sequence protocols for distinguishing between initiation-promotion and syncarcinogenesis by sequentially administered chemicals is demonstrated.
We have reviewed our data from 391 patients entered into three prospective, double-blind studies of aminoglycosides and evaluated 127 cases to determine whether aminoglycoside-induced auditory toxicity and nephrotoxicity are independent events. The cases selected for evaluation included all patients treated for greater than 3 days (mean, 7.7 days) who had serial creatinine determinations and were able to cooperate with serial bedside audiograms (250 to 8,000 Hz). Patients received either gentamicin, tobramycin, or amikacin. Drug dosage was altered to keep serum levels 1 h after administration between 5 and 10 mug/ml (gentamicin or tobramycin) or 20 and 40 mug/ml (amikacin). The investigators evaluating auditory toxicity and nephrotoxicity were blind to the aminoglycoside being administered. The incidence of auditory toxicity in the nephrotoxic group (18.2%) was not significantly different from that in the nonnephrotoxic group (15.2%) (P = 0.75; Fisher exact test). There was no statistical difference between the nephrotoxic and auditory toxic groups in patient age, total dose of aminoglycoside, initial creatinine level, duration of therapy, or concurrent use of furosemide or cephalothin. We conclude that aminoglycoside-induced auditory toxicity and nephrotoxicity are independent events when the drug is administered for approximately 7 days and when aminoglycoside levels are maintained within a predefined range.
The purpose of this study is to determine the efficacy and safety of sedation/analgesia using a mixture of propofol, alfentanil, and lidocaine.
A retrospective case review was undertaken.
This study took place at a university medical center.
Eighty-nine American Society of Anesthesiologists physical status 1, 2, and 3 adult patients undergoing ophthalmic surgery with regional block and monitored anesthesia care were studied.
Six milliliters of propofol, 2 mL of alfentanil, and 2 mL of 2% lidocaine (6-2-2 mixture) were freshly mixed. The bolus dose was determined based on the patients' age: 5 microg/kg of alfentanil (and 0.3 mg/kg of propofol) for patients older than 75 years; the dose increased 1 mug/kg per 10-year decrease in age; and up to 9 microg/kg of alfentanil (0.54 mg/kg of propofol) for patients younger than 45 years. Regional block was performed at 1 minute after bolus completion. Blood pressure (BP), Sa(O2), electrocardiogram, capnography, clinical signs of sedation, responses to block, need for airway support, nausea and vomiting (N/V), pain due to propofol infusion, recall, and patient and surgeon satisfaction were recorded.
Seventy-eight percent of patients achieved analgesia and sedation without adverse response to the block. Twelve percent achieved good analgesia and sedation with only eyebrow movement upon needle insertion. Twenty-seven percent had respiratory depression but were able to follow commands and maintain adequate ventilation. Two percent had brief apnea alleviated by chin lift or jaw thrust. None had pain because of propofol infusion or N/V. Before sedation, average systolic BP was significantly increased (P < 0.0001) compared with baseline. After sedation and block, systolic BP decreased 6% from baseline (P < 0.005).
Adjusted for age and weight, the dose of the 6-2-2 mixture met the sedation requirements for most patients. With a low incidence of need for airway support, no pain during infusion, and no N/V, this novel mixture of propofol, alfentanil, and lidocaine provided adequate analgesia and sedation as well as hemodynamic stability for ophthalmic surgery under regional block.
Seven beef cattle from a herd accidentally exposed to acrylamide and N-methylolacrylamide while grazing were observed for eight months. They showed clinical signs of impaired nerve function, mainly in the hindlegs, with varying degrees of weakness and ataxia. The animals were irritable, nervous and hypersensitive to touch. Both pupils of the most badly affected animal were dilated and it had poor pupillary light responses; it also showed signs of axonal neuropathy. Selected haematological and clinical chemistry variables were normal. The severity of the neurological signs was correlated with the concentrations of haemoglobin adducts of acrylamides. The animals recovered substantially after their exposure. The gestations of four of the animals which were in calf proceeded normally.
The effects of amiloride, a potassium-sparing diuretic, and of acetazolamide, a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, were compared to those of triamterene, a potent prostaglandin stimulator which may result in acute renal failure after indomethacin pretreatment. Eighteen normal subjects on a constant sodium diet were given triamterene 200 mg/d, or amiloride 15 mg/d, or acetazolamide 750 mg/d for 3 days. Plasma potassium rose after triamterene and amiloride, and fell after acetazolamide. Natriuresis was increased after amiloride and acetazolamide, but not after triamterene. Plasma renin activity and urinary aldosterone were stimulated by the three diuretics. Triamterene induced a 4-fold increase in urinary prostaglandins E2 and F2 alpha and acetazolamide a 2-fold increase in prostaglandin E2 only, whereas amiloride showed no effect. No relationship was found between plasma or urinary electrolytes and urinary prostaglandins. Renal function was preserved in all cases. These results which show that amiloride, unlike triamterene, does not stimulate prostaglandins, suggest that nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID) which unmask triamterene nephrotoxicity may not constitute a hazard in association with amiloride. The prostaglandin response to acetazolamide may be indicative of adverse reactions during concomitant NSAID administration.
A fatal syndrome characterized by progressive clinical deterioration with unexplained thrombocytopenia, renal dysfunction, cholestasis, and ascites developed in certain infants throughout the United States who had received E-Ferol, an intravenous vitamin E supplement. We reviewed the clinical course of all 36 infants from one (index) nursery who had received E-Ferol, which contains 25 units per milliliter of dl-alpha-tocopheryl acetate solubilized with 9% polysorbate 80 and 1% polysorbate 20. The syndrome was recognized in eight of the 36 infants; affected infants had a lower birth weight (less than 1,200 g) and had received a higher total dose of E-Ferol for longer periods than the unaffected cases. We reviewed autopsy-derived tissue from 20 infants (six from the index nursery and 14 from three other collaborating nurseries) who had received the intravenous vitamin E preparation in a reported dose of 25 to 137 units/kg/day for six to 45 days between October 1983 and March 1984. The hepatic histology in the affected cases indicated a progressive injury characterized initially by Kupffer cell exfoliation, central lobular accumulation of cellular debris, and centrally accentuated panlobular congestion. Prolonged exposure to E-Ferol was associated with progressive intralobular cholestasis, inflammation of hepatic venules, and extensive sinusoidal veno-occlusion by fibrosis. We propose that vasculocentric hepatotoxicity is the basis for the observed clinical syndrome that represents the cumulative effect of one or more of the constituents of E-Ferol.
1,1,1-Trichloro-2,2-bis(2-chlorophenyl-4-chlorophenyl)ethane (o,p'-DDT) is an organochlorine pesticide and endocrine disruptor known to activate the estrogen receptor. Comprehensive ligand- and species-comparative dose- and time-dependent studies were conducted to systematically assess the uterine physiological, morphological and gene expression responses elicited by o,p'-DDT and ethynyl estradiol (EE) in immature ovariectomized C57BL/6 mice and Sprague-Dawley rats. Custom cDNA microarrays were used to identify conserved and divergent differential gene expression responses. A total of 1256 genes were differentially expressed by both ligands in both species, 559 of which exhibited similar temporal expression profiles suggesting that o,p'-DDT elicits estrogenic effects at high doses when compared to EE. However, 51 genes exhibited species-specific uterine expression elicited by o,p'-DDT. For example, carbonic anhydrase 2 exhibited species- and ligand-divergent expression as confirmed by quantitative real-time PCR. The identification of comparable temporal phenotypic responses linked to gene expression demonstrates that systematic comparative gene expression assessments are valuable for elucidating conserved and divergent estrogen signaling mechanisms in rodent uterotrophy.
Metoclopramide is a dopamine antagonist that is widely used in gastroesophageal disease and chemotherapy-induced emesis in the paediatric population. It is also prescribed in nausea and vomiting caused by respiratory tract infections and enteritis in practice. The primary side-effect of the drug is extrapyramidal reactions with incidences as high as 25% in children. We report two cases, one of which was referred to our emergency department as encephalitis and the other as tetany, but which were just acute dystonic reactions caused by metaclopramide, even though the patients had used the drug in the recommended dosages. The adverse effects of the drug can be seen at normal doses. These dystonic reactions caused by metaclopramide can easily be confused with other diseases, because dystonia is not seen frequently in paediatric practice whatever the cause.
The aim of the study was to compare the effect of pretreatment with remifentanil 1 microg/kg and the effect of gender on the incidence of myoclonus after anesthesia induction with etomidate.
This was a randomized, double-blind study.
The study was conducted at a university hospital.
Sixty patients were pretreated in a randomized double-blinded fashion with remifentanil 1 microg/kg or placebo. Two minutes after remifentanil or placebo injection, etomidate 0.3 mg/kg was given.
Myoclonus was recorded with a scale of 0 to 3. The grade of sedation (none, mild, moderate, severe), nausea, pruritus, and apnea were recorded after injection of both drugs.
The incidence of myoclonus was significantly lower in the remifentanil group (6.7%) than in the placebo group (70%) (P < 0.001). None of the patients experienced sedation, apnea, nausea, or pruritus after injection of both drugs. In the placebo group, male patients were associated with significantly increased incidence of myoclonus after etomidate administration.
Pretreatment with remifentanil 1 microg/kg reduced myoclonus after etomidate induction without side effects such as sedation, apnea, nausea, or pruritus. Men experience increased incidence of myoclonus than women after etomidate administration.
The authors report a case of wave-burst arrhythmia which occurred during combined treatment with terfenadine and troleandomycin. After the treatment had been stopped and the QT interval returned to normal, terfenadine treatment was reintroduced with no major change in repolarization. However, as soon as troleandomycin was associated, there was a significant and progressive prolongation of QT. Normal repolarization was restored again with troleandomycin alone. These findings suggest drug interaction between terfenadine and troleandomycin. Although it is not possible to carry out serum assays of terfenadine, one possible physiopathological hypothesis would be an overdose of terfenadine. Terfenadine undergoes hepatic oxidative metabolism involving the cytochrome P450 pathway and troleandomycin inhibits cytochrome P450. In the literature, a case has already been described of wave-burst arrhythmia related to terfenadine overdose when associated with a cytochrome P450 inhibitor.
Several adverse effects of vancomycin have been reported. The aim of this study was to assess the incidence of adverse responses to antibiotic prophylaxis with vancomycin in cardiac surgical patients. Prospectively, 116 consecutive patients (106 adults and 10 children) undergoing cardiac surgical procedures in this institution from January to June 1990 were studied. After the anesthetic induction, vancomycin, 1 g in adults and 10 mg/kg in children, was intravenously administered over 30 minutes. The infusion rate was slowed if any adverse effect was observed. As a control group, 10 similar patients were evaluated during the same period of 30 minutes after anesthetic induction but prior to vancomycin administration and surgical stimulation. Thirty-one patients (26.72%) developed an adverse effect, mainly hypotension (29 patients, 25%), which was considered severe in 15 patients (12.93%). Seven patients (6.03%) developed a maculopapular erythema that was associated with hypotension (Red-Man's syndrome) in 5 patients and with bronchospasm in 1 patient. The incidence of adverse reactions in children (20%) was similar to the overall incidence. Only 1 patient in the control group (10%) developed hypotension during the period studied. The incidence of adverse reactions was not related to age, body weight, vancomycin dose administered per kilogram body weight, type of surgical procedure, or associated disease. Mean duration of the infusion was similar in patients with and without adverse responses (34.60 +/- 12.41 minutes and 37.38 +/- 14.55 minutes, respectively). It is concluded that perioperative prophylaxis with vancomycin in cardiac surgery produces a high and unpredictable risk of significant hypotension.
