4-Vinylcyclohexene diepoxide (VCD), an occupational chemical that targets ovarian follicles and accelerates ovarian failure in rodents, was used to test the effect of early-onset reproductive senescence on mammary fibroadenoma formation. One-month female Sprague Dawley rats were dosed with VCD (80 mg/kg or 160 mg/kg) and monitored for 22 months for persistent estrus and tumor development. Only high-dose VCD treatment accelerated the onset of persistent estrus relative to controls. However, both doses of VCD accelerated mammary tumor onset by 5 months, increasing incidence to 84% (vs. 38% in controls). Tumor development was independent of time in persistent estrus, 17 β-estradiol, androstenedione and prolactin. Delay in VCD administration until after completion of mammary epithelial differentiation (3 months) did not alter tumor formation despite acceleration of ovarian senescence. VCD administration to 1-month rats acutely decreased mammary alveolar bud number and expression of β-casein, suggesting that VCD's tumorigenic effect requires exposure during mammary epithelial differentiation.
We tested the hypothesis that treatment of rats with curcumin prevents sepsis-induced muscle protein degradation. In addition, we determined the influence of curcumin on different proteolytic pathways that are activated in septic muscle (i.e., ubiquitin-proteasome-, calpain-, and cathepsin L-dependent proteolysis) and examined the role of NF-kappaB and p38/MAP kinase inactivation in curcumin-induced inhibition of muscle protein breakdown. Rats were made septic by cecal ligation and puncture or were sham-operated. Groups of rats were treated with three intraperitoneal doses (600 mg/kg) of curcumin or corresponding volumes of solvent. Protein breakdown rates were measured as release of tyrosine from incubated extensor digitorum longus muscles. Treatment with curcumin prevented sepsis-induced increase in muscle protein breakdown. Surprisingly, the upregulated expression of the ubiquitin ligases atrogin-1 and MuRF1 was not influenced by curcumin. When muscles from septic rats were treated with curcumin in vitro, proteasome-, calpain-, and cathepsin L-dependent protein breakdown rates were reduced, and nuclear NF-kappaB/p65 expression and activity as well as levels of phosphorylated (activated) p38 were decreased. Results suggest that sepsis-induced muscle proteolysis can be blocked by curcumin and that this effect may, at least in part, be caused by inhibited NF-kappaB and p38 activities. The results also suggest that there is not an absolute correlation between changes in muscle protein breakdown rates and changes in atrogin-1 and MuRF1 expression during treatment of muscle wasting.
The ginsenosides Rb1 and Rg1, the major components of ginseng saponin, inhibited not only methamphetamine-induced hyperactivity but also conditioned place preference (CPP) in mice following a single or repeated administration. Dopamine (DA) receptor supersensitivity, which developed in methamphetamine-induced CPP mice, was also inhibited by both Rb1 and Rg1. Therefore, the present results suggest that Rb1 and Rg1 may be the active components of ginseng saponin in the modulation of methamphetamine-induced dopaminergic behaviors such as hyperactivity and CPP, supporting our previous conclusion that ginseng saponin might modulate methamphetamine-induced dysfunction at both the pre- and postsynaptic DA receptors.
Previous studies have shown that a high proportion (5/6) of human liver angiosarcomas (ASL) associated with exposure to vinyl chloride (VC) contains a GC-->AT mutation at the Ki-ras codon 13. This mutation, however, has not been found in 5 ASL or 2 hepatocellular carcinomas (HCC) induced in rats by VC. These 2 HCC did contain a mutation at codon 61 of the Ha-ras gene. In order to extend this study and further explore the mechanisms of tumour induction, an additional 6 ASL and 6 HCC induced in rats by VC were analysed for ras gene point mutations, as well as 10 rat and 10 murine ASL induced by vinyl fluoride (VF), and 5 ASL, 6 Kupffer cell sarcomas, 4 HCC and 2 cholangiocellular carcinomas induced by Thorotrast in rats. Tumour DNA was analysed by PCR-SSCP and direct sequencing. None of the rodent ASL contained a mutation at codon 13 of the Ki-ras gene showing that the ras gene mutational pattern is species-specific. The CAA-->CTA mutation, previously found at codon 61 of the Ha-ras gene in rat HCC, was observed in 5 further VC-induced HCC but was not detected in the Thorotrast-induced HCC, suggesting carcinogen-specificity. This mutation was also absent in VC-induced ASL, which supports the cell-specificity of the ras mutational pattern in chemically induced tumours. No predominant mutation was detected in VF- and Thorotrast-induced tumours. Thus, a given mutation in a tumour may be carcinogen-specific but also depend on the species and the cell type.
Environmental contamination with hexavalent chromium (CrVI) has been increasing in the drinking water of the USA and developing countries. CrVI causes various health problems including menstrual disorders and infertility. Recently, we reported that CrVI causes granulosa cell apoptosis through the intrinsic apoptotic pathway. Our previous studies showed that postnatal exposure to CrVI arrests follicle development. In order to explore the underlying mechanism, primary and immortalized granulosa cells from rats were treated with 10 μM potassium dichromate and analyses of the cell cycle, and cell cycle regulatory proteins were performed. CrVI decreased cell proliferation as a result of cell cycle arrest and down-regulated cyclin-dependent kinases (CDK), cyclins, and PCNA while up-regulating CDK-inhibitors and down-regulating FSH receptor and ERβ. Vitamin C mitigated the effects of CrVI. This study shows that CrVI causes cell cycle arrest in granulosa cells by altering cell cycle regulatory proteins with potential intervention by vitamin C.
The nephrotoxic and cytoproliferative side effects observed in a patient with Streptozotocin-treated, multiple hormone-secreting, pancreatic islet cell carcinoma are described. Streptozotocin induced prolonged partial remission of the patient's multiendocrine syndrome but resulted in progressive azotemia, which was controlled by temporary hemodialysis. A renal biopsy, the first to be reported in detail in such a condition, demonstrated a tubulo-interstitial nephritis and a glomerular alteration consisting of cellular nodules. At autopsy there were numerous bilateral renal cortical spindle cell "tumors" and cellular aggregates in glomeruli. These findings suggest that the tumorigenic effects of Streptozotocin demonstrated in animals may also occur in man.
Notch receptors play a role in skeletal development and homeostasis, and Notch activation in undifferentiated and mature osteoblasts causes osteopenia. In contrast, Notch activation in osteocytes increases bone mass, but the mechanisms involved and exact functions of Notch are not known. In this study, Notch1 and -2 were inactivated preferentially in osteocytes by mating Notch1/2 conditional mice, where Notch alleles are flanked by loxP sequences, with transgenics expressing Cre directed by the Dmp1 (dentin matrix protein 1) promoter. Notch1/2 conditional null male and female mice exhibited an increase in trabecular bone volume due to an increase in osteoblasts and decrease in osteoclasts. In male null mice, this was followed by an increase in osteoclast number and normalization of bone volume. To activate Notch preferentially in osteocytes, Dmp1-Cre transgenics were crossed with Rosa(Notch) mice, where a loxP-flanked STOP cassette is placed between the Rosa26 promoter and Notch1 intracellular domain sequences. Dmp1-Cre(+/-);Rosa(Notch) mice exhibited an increase in trabecular bone volume due to decreased bone resorption and an increase in cortical bone due to increased bone formation. Biomechanical and chemical properties were not affected. Osteoprotegerin mRNA was increased, sclerostin and dickkopf1 mRNA were decreased, and Wnt signaling was enhanced in Dmp1-Cre(+/-);Rosa(Notch) femurs. Botulinum toxin A-induced muscle paralysis caused pronounced osteopenia in control mice, but bone mass was preserved in mice harboring the Notch activation in osteocytes. In conclusion, Notch plays a unique role in osteocytes, up-regulates osteoprotegerin and Wnt signaling, and differentially regulates trabecular and cortical bone homeostasis.
The classical pathway for estrogen receptor (ER) signaling is mediated by ER binding to an estrogen response element (ERE) in DNA. ERalpha can also act via a nonclassical pathway by altering the activities of other transcription factors (e.g., Sp1, AP-1, or NF-kappaB) at their cognate sites on DNA. We previously generated a mutant form of ERalpha (E207A/G208A) that does not bind to EREs, and therefore lacks signaling via the classical pathway but retains signaling via the nonclassical pathway. In the current study, we introduce this mutant ERalpha into MDA-MB231 ERalpha-negative breast carcinoma cells to identify nonclassical pathway genes that respond to 17beta-estradiol (E2), selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) tamoxifen (TAM) or raloxifene (RAL), or the estrogen antagonist ICI 182,780 (ICI). Consistent with a role for nonclassical signaling in SERM action, microarray analyses identify 268 responsive nonclassical ERalpha pathway target genes. ICI elicits the largest number of nonclassical genes, followed by RAL, TAM, and E2. Custom microarrays containing identified nonclassical ERalpha responsive genes are used to compare gene expression in human breast tumor (n = 34) and normal mammary epithelial cell (n = 9) samples. A subset of nonclassical genes (n = 32) are differentially expressed in breast tumors. In summary, we show that nonclassical ERalpha pathway target genes exhibit a range of transcriptional responses to SERMs and identify targets of this pathway as potentially relevant to breast cancer. The identification of nonclassical ERalpha target genes offers new insight into estrogen receptor signaling and cross talk with pathways that mediate breast tumor response to SERM therapy.
To investigate the potential use of a bcl-2 antisense oligonucleotide for therapy against hepatocellular carcinoma, we examined the effects of the electroporetic transfer of a bcl-2 antisense oligonucleotide on rat hepatocarcinogenesis induced by N-nitrosomorpholine (NNM). Sprague-Dawley rats were given water containing 175 mg/l NNM for 8 weeks and received intraperitoneal injections of a bcl-2 antisense phosphorothioate oligonucleotide, a sense oligonucleotide or a scrambled sequence oligonucleotide encapsulated in empty liposomes, at a dose of 150 microg oligonucleotide/kg body weight, every 4 weeks. One hour after injection, in vivo electroporation was performed on the liver to achieve selective transfer of the oligonucleotides. By week 16, the rats that had received the bcl-2 antisense oligonucleotide had significantly fewer and smaller precancerous liver lesions positive for glutathione-S-transferase (placental type), and a significantly lower incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma in the electroporation zone than rats that had received the sense or the scrambled oligonucleotides. Moreover, the bcl-2 antisense oligonucleotide significantly increased the apoptotic indices in foci, neoplastic nodules and in hepatocellular carcinomas. The expression of bcl-2 mRNA also decreased, and 3'-fragments of bcl-2mRNA produced by cleavage at the antisense target site were detected in rat liver. Mean cellular fluorescence in the liver increased with higher doses of fluorescein-isothiocyanate-labeled antisense or sense oligonucleotides. Our results show that the electroporetic transfer of bcl-2 antisense oligonucleotide can inhibit rat hepatocarcinogenesis.
In order to verify the hypothesis of a strict relationship between clinical improvement and extrapyramidal side-effects, especially micrographia, twenty-two acutely ill schizophrenics were treated with perphenazine in a controlled prospective 28-day trial. During the study period, psychopathometric data, prolactin plasma levels, and handwriting samples were collected. According to the remission criteria fixed before the study began (both BPRS less than or equal to 25 and GAS greater than or equal to 80 points), 45.5% (10/22) of the total patient sample were classified as treatment responders. Handwriting tests were quantified in 21 patients. "Positive" handwriting results, i.e., a reduction of at least 13% in the overall area of 50% or more of the handwriting samples collected during the trial, were demonstrable in three of nine responders (33%) and nine of twelve nonresponders (75%). These results show that there is no positive correlation between clinical response and reduction in handwriting area. Consequently, the handwriting test is unable to predict clinical response. It is only one of a number of parameters with which to monitor the neurological side-effects of neuroleptic treatment. Outcome parameters show that psychopathological remission can be achieved with low neuroleptic dosages and few or virtually no extrapyramidal side-effects.
Thirty-six patients with subarachnoid and intraventricular cysticercosis were randomly assigned to receive albendazole at 15 or 30 mg/kg/day plus dexamethasone for 8 days. Results favored a higher dose, with larger cyst reduction on MRI at 90 and 180 days and higher albendazole sulfoxide levels in plasma. An albendazole course at 30 mg/kg/day combined with corticosteroids is safe and more effective than the usual dose. A single treatment was insufficient in intraventricular and giant cysts.
The anti-inflammatory properties of inhaled formoterol and ipratropium bromide, alone or in combination, were investigated in a rat model of chronic pulmonary inflammation with airspace enlargement induced by cadmium inhalation. At the end of the protocol, cadmium-induced increase of airway resistance was prevented by formoterol (4 mg/30 ml) or ipratropium (0.20 mg/20 ml). Formoterol elicited a significant decrease in total cell and neutrophil counts in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid as well as on the activity of gelatinase B (MMP-9), an enzyme strongly expressed in alveolar macrophages and epithelial cells. Additionally, a significant attenuation of the lung lesions characterized by inflammatory cell infiltration within the alveoli and the interstitium and a decrease in mean linear intercept were observed. Although ipratropium alone had no effects on the cadmium-induced pulmonary inflammation and emphysema, its combination with an inefficient concentration of formoterol (1 mg/30 ml) showed a synergistic inhibitory effect on neutrophil and total cell counts as well as on the mean linear intercept associated with a synergistic inhibition on the MMP-9 activity. Gelatinase A (MMP-2) activity was not influenced by drug pretreatments. Neither macrophage metalloelastase (MMP-12) activity nor levels of cytokines IL-1β, TNF-α and GM-CSF in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid were modified in rats chronically exposed to cadmium. No desensitization of β(2)-adrenoceptors or cholinergic receptors on airway smooth muscles and inflammatory cells during the protocol was observed. In conclusion, formoterol alone or combined with ipratropium bromide partially protects the lungs against the chronic inflammation and airspace enlargement by reducing neutrophilic infiltration possibly via the inhibition of MMP-9 activity.
Botulinum toxin (Botox) injections into the thyroarytenoid muscles are the current standard of care for adductor spasmodic dysphonia (ADSD). Reported adverse effects include a period of breathiness, throat pain, and difficulty with swallowing liquids. Here we report multiple cases of bilateral abductor paralysis following Botox injections for ADSD, a complication previously unreported.
Retrospective case series.
Patients that received Botox injections for spasmodic dysphonia between January 2000 and October 2009 were evaluated. Patients with ADSD were identified. The number of treatments received and adverse effects were noted. For patients with bilateral abductor paralysis, age, sex, paralytic Botox dose, prior Botox dose, and course following paralysis were noted.
From a database of 452 patients receiving Botox, 352 patients had been diagnosed with ADSD. Of these 352 patients, eight patients suffered bilateral abductor paralysis, and two suffered this complication twice. All affected patients were females over the age of 50 years. Most patients had received treatments prior to abductor paralysis and continued receiving after paralysis. Seven patients recovered after a brief period of activity restrictions, and one underwent a tracheotomy. The incidence of abductor paralysis after Botox injection for ADSD was 0.34%.
Bilateral abductor paralysis is a rare complication of Botox injections for ADSD, causing difficulty with breathing upon exertion. The likely mechanism of paralysis is diffusion of Botox around the muscular process of the arytenoid to the posterior cricoarytenoid muscles. The paralysis is temporary, and watchful waiting with restriction of activity is the recommended management.
This report describes the case of a 75-year-old male type 2 diabetic Caucasian who was admitted to the clinical ward because of acute pain and cramps in both calf muscles.
Neuromuscular function was assessed by electromyography and electroneurography of the right leg. An open biopsy was taken from the left vastus lateralis muscle for histological and histochemical analyses. Southern blotting was performed to detect defects in mitochondrial DNA and tRNA. Cytochrome P450 (CYP-P450) polymorphisms were analysed in blood cells.
Fifteen weeks before admission, the patient's lipid-lowering medication was switched from simvastatin to fenofibrate because of predominant hypertriglyceridaemia; this did not affect creatine kinase levels. Three weeks before admission, rosiglitazone was added to his existing metformin therapy because of worsening metabolic control. Upon admission, serum enzymes indicating myopathy were elevated (creatine kinase 6897 U/l, myoglobin 902 ng/ml) and kidney function was impaired (creatinine 0.116 mmol/l, blood urea nitrogen 2.3 mmol/l). Electrophysiology revealed myopathy and sensory polyneuropathy. Histology showed multiple damage of the myofibrillar architecture. There was no evidence of defects in mitochondrial DNA or tRNA. Furthermore, no functional limitations in CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP2D6 were detected. Following withdrawal of the oral medication and intravenous hydration, clinical symptoms and laboratory parameters gradually decreased.
Until more data from controlled trials are available, we recommend that combination therapy with fibrates and thiazolidinediones should be monitored frequently by measurements of serum creatine kinase and creatinine, specifically in patients with pre-existing nephropathy and polyneuropathy.
This study aimed to clarify the relationship between TRPV1 activation-induced visceral pain and the serotonin pathway in the colon of rats. The effects of para-chlorophenylalanine (pCPA) on visceral pain threshold pressure were assessed in capsaicin -induced visceral pain of rats. The expression of TRPV1 in the colon was examined by immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis, and TRPV1 excitability in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons was examined by whole-cell patch-clamp recording in pCPA-treated rats. Calcineurin and Ca(2+)-calmodulin-dependent kinase II (CaMKII), the important proteins in maintaining TRPV1 function in the colon, were also tested by Western blot analysis and immunofluorescence staining. Results showed that pCPA significantly increased the capsaicin-induced visceral pain threshold by 2.3-fold, and the enhanced visceral pain threshold corresponded with decreased 5-HT content (58% depleted) and enterochromaffin cell number (80% reduced). The reduced excitability of TRPV1 in DRG neurons, instead of changed TRPV1 expression, is responsible for the enhanced visceral pain threshold in 5-HT-depleted rats, and the mechanism may be related to the decreased expression of pCaMKII. These results indicate that visceral hypersensitivity induced by TRPV1 activation is modulated through 5-HT pathways and the attenuated function of TRPV1 and decreased protein expression of pCaMKII may play an important role in capsaicin-induced TRPV1 desensitization under 5-HT-depleted condition. The important role of TRPV1 and 5-HT in generating and maintaining visceral hypersensitivity may provide insights for the treatment of visceral hypersensitivity.
Docetaxel (Taxotere), a semisynthetic analogue of the antitumor agent paclitaxel, inhibits tubulin depolymerization. Paclitaxel produces a peripheral neuropathy. This study delineates clinically and electrophysiologically the characteristics of a peripheral neuropathy due to docetaxel. In 186 patients receiving docetaxel in phase I and phase II protocols, we performed serial neurologic exams. As patients became symptomatic, quantitative sensory testing and nerve conduction studies were done. Twenty-one patients developed mild to moderate sensory neuropathy on taxotere at a wide range of cumulative doses (50 to 750 mg/m2) and dose levels (10 to 115 mg/m2). Ten of these patients also developed weakness of varying degree in proximal and distal extremities. Nine of the 21 patients had received neurotoxic chemotherapy before; 16 were treated with docetaxel at a dose level of 100 to 115 mg/m2. In summary, docetaxel produced a sensorimotor peripheral neuropathy in 11% of our patient population.
Docetaxel, a new semisynthetic taxoid used as an antineoplastic agent, induced a predominantly sensory neuropathy in 20 of 41 patients. We assessed neurotoxicity in all patients participating in four phase II trials conducted in our institution. The neuropathy was evaluated by a clinical sum-score for symptoms and signs and by measurement of the Vibration Perception Threshold (VPT). The severity of neuropathy was graded according to the National Cancer Institute's Common Toxicity Criteria. Neuropathic symptoms were mild in most patients. However, at cumulative doses above 600 mg/m2, 3 of 15 patients developed a moderate and 1 of 15 patients a severe neuropathy. There was a significant correlation between the cumulative dose of docetaxel and the post-treatment sum-score (p = 0.002). We found no correlation between post-treatment VPT and clinical sum-score or between post-treatment VPT and the cumulative dose of docetaxel. We conclude that docetaxel produced a mild and predominantly sensory neuropathy in a high proportion of treated patients. This neurotoxicity appeared to be dose dependent and may be severe and disabling at higher dose levels. Determination of the VPT is not a reliable method to monitor docetaxel-induced neuropathy.
Dobutamine is commonly administered as a pharmacologic stressor in patients with limitations precluding exercise testing. The case report presented is one of transient complete heart block resulting from dobutamine sestamibi stress testing. Shortly after initiating the dobutamine infusion, the patient became pale and presyncopal, with hypotension and a heart rate of 50 beats per minute. Subsequently, third-degree heart block developed which lasted transiently and resolved. Subsequent cardiac evaluation of the patient revealed no cardiac etiology for her symptoms. Though bradycardia is infrequently noted in patients receiving dobutamine during stress electrocardiogram, complete heart block is a possibility during dobutamine-induced stress echocardiography and must be recognized as a potential risk.
Anaphylactoid reactions have been observed in patients treated with AN69 dialysers and ACE inhibitors. Recently, it has been shown in vitro that AN69 membranes induce the release of high amounts of bradykinin in plasma. To verify the possible role of bradykinin in these shock-like reactions, six sheep were dialysed in a random fashion using AN69 or the new SPAN membrane with and without pretreatment with captopril. All animals were dialysed for 60 min via double-lumen Shaldon catheters. Blood samples were drawn at 0, 5, 10, 15, 30, and 60 min from the venous line. A total of 24 haemodialysis procedures was carried out: group A (n = 6), AN69 without captopril; group B (n = 6), SPAN without captopril; group C (n = 6), AN69 with captopril; group D (n = 6), SPAN with captopril. A significant bradykinin release was observed only in groups A and C, reaching peak values already after 5 min. Animals in group C showed the highest bradykinin values. In four of six animals in group C anaphylactoid reactions with severe hypotension were noted. From this animal model we conclude that dialysis with the AN69 membrane is associated with bradykinin release. Pretreatment with ACE inhibitors results in further increasing bradykinin levels, which lead to anaphylactoid reactions. In contrast, the new SPAN membrane was well tolerated without detectable changes in bradykinin concentrations.
The effect of streptozocin diabetes on the distribution of adrenergic and peptidergic nerves in the submucous plexus of rat ileum was investigated and compared with the changes in the myenteric plexus of the same region of ileum. There was an increase in the intensity of immunoreactivity in vasoactive intestinal polypeptide- and neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactive nerve fibers and neurons and a decrease in calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity but no change in substance P- and dopamine beta-hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity in the nerve fibers and neurons of the submucous plexus of both 8- and 16-wk streptozocin-diabetic rat ileum. However, in the myenteric plexus of the diabetic rat ileum, there was enlargement of varicosities and an increase followed by a slight decrease in the intensity of immunoreactivity of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide- and dopamine beta-hydroxylase-like immunoreactive nerve fibers and neurons, increased substance P-like immunoreactivity in diabetes at 16 wk, and an initial decrease (at 8 wk) followed by a recovery of calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity at 16 wk, but no change in neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity. The markedly different changes in peptidergic and adrenergic nerves between the two enteric plexuses show that diabetic neuropathy induced by streptozocin is not selective and involves factors other than neurotransmitter types.
This investigation was undertaken to characterize the vasoconstrictor responsiveness in aortas isolated from a rat model of arteriosclerosis induced by vitamin D2 (VD) administration followed by feeding with a high-cholesterol diet. Cumulative contractile responses to KCl, noradrenaline and serotonin in thoracic aortic strips isolated from arteriosclerotic rats were slightly augmented in concentrations lower than the EC50 value of each agent and rather attenuated in their higher concentrations as compared with those from normal rats. Maximum contractions to the agonists were markedly attenuated in arteriosclerotic aortas; the degree of attenuation was greater in rats treated with a combination of VD and cholesterol than in those treated with VD alone. There was a significant negative correlation between the maximum contraction to KCl, noradrenaline or serotonin and the content of calcium or cholesterol ester in aortas. Removal of endothelium markedly enhanced sensitivity and contractility to the agonists in aortic strips from normal rats, whereas the same procedure only slightly enhanced them in aortic strips from arteriosclerotic rats. These results indicate that in arteriosclerotic rat aortas, contractile responsiveness to agonists of vascular smooth muscle cells is impaired with deposition of calcium and cholesterol, and they suggest that augmentation of contractile responses to the agonists in lower concentrations is due to impairment of endothelial function.
A Phase II trial was conducted in patients with advanced malignant melanoma with intravenous Paclitaxel and Dacarbazine (DTIC). The initial starting dose for Paclitaxel was 135 mg/m2 followed by DTIC 800 mg/m2. Due to the lack of myelosuppression and other toxicities, the starting dose for Paclitaxel was escalated to 250 mg/m2 and the dose for DTIC escalated to 1000 mg/m2. Twenty-five patients were enrolled in this study. Among the 25 patients assessable for response, three patients had a partial response with a response rate of 12% (CI 3-31%) and one patient had stable disease. Three additional patients showed evidence of anti-tumor activity with minor responses. For patients who had no prior chemotherapy or biochemotherapy, the response rate was 20%. Toxicity was generally tolerable and included mainly neurotoxicity from Paclitaxel. At the doses and schedule used, the combination of Paclitaxel and DTIC did not appear to increase the response rate compared to each agent used singly.
4-Chlorotetrazolo[1,5-a]quinoxaline is a quinoxaline derivative. We aimed to study the effects of 4-chlorotetrazolo[1,5-a]quinoxaline on activation of mast cells in vitro and in mice. 4-Chlorotetrazolo[1,5-a]quinoxaline reversibly inhibited degranulation of mast cells in a dose-dependent manner, and also suppressed the expression and secretion of TNF-α and IL-4 in mast cells. Mechanistically, 4-chlorotetrazolo[1,5-a]quinoxaline inhibited activating phosphorylation of Syk and LAT, which are crucial for early FcεRI-mediated signaling events, as well as Akt and MAP kinases, which play essential roles in the production of various pro-inflammatory cytokines in mast cells. Notably, although 4-chlorotetrazolo[1,5-a]quinoxaline inhibited the activation of Fyn and Syk, minimal inhibition was observed in mast cells in the case of Lyn. Furthermore, consistent with its in vitro activity, 4-chlorotetrazolo[1,5-a]quinoxaline significantly suppressed mast cell-mediated passive cutaneous anaphylaxis in mice. In summary, the results from this study demonstrate that 4-chlorotetrazolo[1,5-a]quinoxaline shows an inhibitory effect on mast cells in vitro and in vivo, and that this is mediated by inhibiting the activation of Syk in mast cells. Therefore, 4-chlorotetrazolo[1,5-a]quinoxaline could be useful in the treatment of mast cell-mediated allergic diseases.
Lisuride hydrogen maleate induced stereotyped behaviour in normal as well as in reserpinized mice. It antagonized the motor depression and hypothermia induced by reserpine. On i.p. administration the compound was about as effective as apomorphine and D-amphetamine. As with apomorphine and in contrast to D-amphetamine the effects of lisuride hydrogen maleate in reserpinized mice were not impaired by additional treatment with alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine methylester. In untreated mice, the substance was very potent in lowering body temperature with significant hypothermia measured after dosages as low as 0.10 mg/kg i.p. Occurrence of stereotyped behaviour and hypothermia could be prevented by the dopaminergic antagonist haloperidol. From these data it is concluded that lisuride hydrogen maleate in addition to its interaction with serotoninergic systems is a potent dopaminergic agonist with a probably direct action on dopaminergic receptors. Further arguments in support of such an action of lisuride hydrogen maleate are, in addition to biochemical data, its serum prolactin lowering effect in rats, its strong emetic action in dogs and its effects on rat behaviour.
When prescribing mannitol to decrease intraocular pressure, the physician must be alert to potential complications. A 72-year-old woman suffered obtundation, intractable pulmonary edema, acidemia, and irreversible renal insufficiency despite vigorous hemodialysis. When renal function is compromised, careful monitoring of electrolyte levels, daily urine output, and renal function is necessary with mannitol therapy.
We describe four patients who developed an encephalopathic syndrome characterized by obtundation or stupor, myoclonic jerks, and asterixis in association with cefuroxime therapy. Three patients had renal failure. These cases suggest that cefuroxime in overdose or in conventional doses in patients with renal failure can cause a reversible encephalopathy. This syndrome may have been unrecognized because it usually occurs in severely ill patients with additional causes for encephalopathy.
