We present a case of a 29 months old previously healthy child who experienced apnea resulting in brain injury following a dose of acetaminophen and codeine 2 days after an uneventful anesthetic for tonsillectomy. A genetic polymorphism leading to ultra-rapid metabolism of codeine into morphine resulted in narcosis and apnea. This paper discusses the use of codeine for pain relief, obstructive sleep apnea, the alteration of the CYP2D6 gene and the resulting effect on drug metabolism.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder is increasingly recognized in patients of different age groups. Serotonergic agents, such as clomipramine, have been recently found to be useful in the management of this condition. However, unexpected side effects, such as dysphoria, aggressiveness, and paranoid ideation, may occur with therapeutic doses of this compound, as evidenced in the cases of two male adolescents presented here. Possible pathogenetic factors, involving serotonin and serotonin-receptor abnormalities are discussed. Management of these side effects is based on adequate dose reduction and monitorization.
Tamoxifen (TAM), the antiestrogenic drug most widely prescribed in the chemotherapy of breast cancer, induces changes in normal discoid shape of erythrocytes and hemolytic anemia. This work evaluates the effects of TAM on isolated human erythrocytes, attempting to identify the underlying mechanisms on TAM-induced hemolytic anemia and the involvement of biomembranes in its cytostatic action mechanisms. TAM induces hemolysis of erythrocytes as a function of concentration. The extension of hemolysis is variable with erythrocyte samples, but 12.5 microM TAM induces total hemolysis of all tested suspensions. Despite inducing extensive erythrocyte lysis, TAM does not shift the osmotic fragility curves of erythrocytes. The hemolytic effect of TAM is prevented by low concentrations of alpha-tocopherol (alpha-T) and alpha-tocopherol acetate (alpha-TAc) (inactivated functional hydroxyl) indicating that TAM-induced hemolysis is not related to oxidative membrane damage. This was further evidenced by absence of oxygen consumption and hemoglobin oxidation both determined in parallel with TAM-induced hemolysis. Furthermore, it was observed that TAM inhibits the peroxidation of human erythrocytes induced by AAPH, thus ruling out TAM-induced cell oxidative stress. Hemolysis caused by TAM was not preceded by the leakage of K(+) from the cells, also excluding a colloid-osmotic type mechanism of hemolysis, according to the effects on osmotic fragility curves. However, TAM induces release of peripheral proteins of membrane-cytoskeleton and cytosol proteins essentially bound to band 3. Either alpha-T or alpha-TAc increases membrane packing and prevents TAM partition into model membranes. These effects suggest that the protection from hemolysis by tocopherols is related to a decreased TAM incorporation in condensed membranes and the structural damage of the erythrocyte membrane is consequently avoided. Therefore, TAM-induced hemolysis results from a structural perturbation of red cell membrane, leading to changes in the framework of the erythrocyte membrane and its cytoskeleton caused by its high partition in the membrane. These defects explain the abnormal erythrocyte shape and decreased mechanical stability promoted by TAM, resulting in hemolytic anemia. Additionally, since membrane leakage is a final stage of cytotoxicity, the disruption of the structural characteristics of biomembranes by TAM may contribute to the multiple mechanisms of its anticancer action.
Clozapine is known to cause cardiac side effects, including myocarditis, pericarditis, and cardiomyopathy. Prompted by a case of clozapine-related pericarditis in an adolescent, we undertook a retrospective chart review to discover whether any unrecognized cases of myocarditis, pericarditis, or cardiomyopathy were among the children, adolescents, and young adults we had treated with clozapine. The sample comprised a total of 36 patients, who were monitored regularly over a period ranging from 2.5 to 79 months. The average observation period was 7.5 months. Patients were assessed for potential indicators of myocarditis, pericarditis, or cardiomyopathy. In more than 66% of all patients, at least one of several parameters potentially indicative of pericarditis, myocarditis, or cardiomyopathy was abnormal in at least one instance during the observation period. In all cases in which abnormalities were discovered, the abnormalities were found to be unspecific for myocarditis, pericarditis, or cardiomyopathy. With the exception of the case which prompted our study, none of the patients were found to have developed any such disorder in the course of further treatment with clozapine.
The inhibitory effects of nitroglycerin (NTG) on platelet function and the mechanisms of inhibition have been studied in vitro, but not in vivo. Therefore, we have investigated the effects of NTG on platelet function in eight patients undergoing orthopaedic surgery. Simultaneous measurements of platelet aggregation and change in intracellular calcium concentrations were performed in Fura-2 loaded platelets using thrombin as a stimulator. Intraplatelet concentrations of cyclic 3',5'-guanine monophosphate (cGMP) were measured by radioimmunoassay, and the concentration of nitrite ion was also measured. Continuous i.v. infusion of NTG 4-8 micrograms kg-1 min-1 significantly inhibited platelet aggregation and the increase in intracellular Ca2+ concentration (first phase, mean 439.9 (SEM 68.7) vs 210.6 (38.7) nmol litre-1; second phase, 154.4 (19.8) vs 106.7 (18.0) nmol litre-1). The concentration of cGMP (from 0.633 (0.098) to 1.764 (0.578) pmol/10(9) platelets) and the concentration of nitrite ion (from 532.6 (17.6) to 724.4 (34.8) nmol litre-1) also increased significantly after infusion of NTG. The NTG concentration in plasma was of the order of 10(-8) mol litre-1. We have demonstrated that in vivo, NTG increased intraplatelet cGMP concentrations and inhibited platelet function; one mechanisms of this effect is likely to be related to nitric oxide liberation from NTG bioconversion.
In a series of earlier studies, an oral dose of 0.5 mg/kg d-amphetamine was administered to 81 patients with schizophrenia and eight normal control subjects. Seven more subjects with schizophrenia received placebo. Blood pressure and pulse rate were monitored before and 3 hours after drug administration. Blood pressure increased in both amphetamine groups, whereas placebo had no effect. However, pulse rate did not change in the schizophrenic group and only increased after 3 hours in normal control subjects as blood pressure began to decrease. Significant negative correlations between systolic blood pressure and pulse rate occurred at 2 and 3 hours, suggesting that the early cardiovascular response to amphetamine is an increase in blood pressure that recruits reflex control of heart rate. Eighteen of these subjects had hypertensive responses. Six subjects received 5 mg haloperidol intramuscularly, and 12 others had their blood pressure monitored until normalization. Haloperidol led to a more rapid decline of some but not all indices of blood pressure, suggesting that amphetamine-induced hypertension may have a dopaminergic component.
The aim of this study was to study risperidone use in pediatric patients with comorbid epilepsy and psychiatric disorders.
We retrospectively reviewed the outpatient psychopharmacology medical records of patients with epilepsy, aged 19 and younger, who received risperidone for psychiatric disorders.
Twenty-one (21) youths (mean age, 12.0 +/- 4.2 years) met our criteria for review. Mean risperidone dosage was 2.4 +/- 3.5 mg/day. Target symptoms included severe aggression, severe agitation, psychosis, and self-injurious behavior. Diagnoses included attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), learning disorder, and impulse control disorder. Seizure type was partial complex in 12 patients, generalized in 6 patients, neonatal in 1 patient, myoclonic in 1 patient, and unclassified in 1 patient. The average number of previous psychotropic trials was 3.5 +/- 3.0. Using a definition of response of a Clinical Global Impressions (CGI) improvement score of 2 or less, 15 patients (71%) were considered responders. Adverse effects were none to slight in 16 patients, moderate in 4 patients, and severe in 1 patient. Seizures did not worsen in any patient.
Risperidone was associated with a clinically significant global improvement, without seizure exacerbation in youths with epilepsy and psychiatric disorders. Despite the limitations of the study design, the 71% responder rate is noteworthy in this treatment-refractory group.
A case report describes an adolescent girl with a treatment-resistant bipolar disorder, who developed pericarditis and polyserositis while being treated with clozapine. The sparse literature about this rare, severe side effect of clozapine is discussed. Clinical recommendations with regard to monitoring are given. If myocarditis/polyserositis occurs, clozapine has to be discontinued immediately.
The aim of this study was to test a hypothesis that ascorbate depletion could enhance carcinogenicity and acute toxicity of nickel. Homozygous L-gulono-<gamma>-lactone oxidase gene knock-out mice (Gulo-/- mice) unable to produce ascorbate and wild-type C57BL mice (WT mice) were injected intramuscularly with carcinogenic nickel subsulfide (Ni₃S₂), and observed for the development of injection site tumors for 57 weeks. Small pieces of one of the induced tumors were transplanted subcutaneously into separate groups of Gulo-/- and WT mice and the growth of these tumors was measured for up to 3 months. The two strains of mice differed significantly with regard to (1) Ni₃S₂ carcinogenesis: Gulo-/- mice were 40% more susceptible than WT mice; and (2) transplanted tumors development: Gulo-/- mice were more receptive to tumor growth than WT mice, but only in terms of a much shorter tumor latency; later in the exponential phase of growth, the growth rates were the same. And, with adequate ascorbate supplementation, the two strains were equally susceptible to acute toxicity of Ni₃S₂. Statistically significant effects of dietary ascorbate dosing levels were the following: (1) reduction in ascorbate supplementation increased acute toxicity of Ni₃S₂ in Gulo-/- mice; (2) ascorbate supplementation extended the latency of transplanted tumors in WT mice. In conclusion, the lack of endogenous ascorbate synthesis makes Gulo-/- mice more susceptible to Ni₃S₂ carcinogenesis. Dietary ascorbate tends to attenuate acute toxicity of Ni₃S₂ and to extend the latency of transplanted tumors. The latter effects may be of practical importance to humans and thus deserve further studies.
Prenatal exposure to antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) increases the risk of major congenital malformations (MCM) in the fetus. AED-related abnormalities include heart and neural tube defects, cleft palate, and urogenital abnormalities. Among the various congenital anomalies of the kidney and urinary tract (CAKUT), multicystic dysplastic kidney (MCDK) disease is one of the most severe expressions. Although prenatal ultrasound (US) examination has increased the prenatal diagnosis of MCDK, the pathogenesis is still unclear. We report on four cases of MCDK in infants of epileptic women treated with AEDs during pregnancy. From October 2003 to June 2006, we observed four infants with unilateral MCDK born to epileptic women. Three patients were considered to have typical features of multicystic dysplastic kidney, and one infant was operated because of a cystic pelvic mass in the absence of a kidney in the left flank. The macroscopic appearance of this mass showed an ectopic multicystic kidney confirmed by histological findings. All patients have been studied by US scans, voiding cystourethrogram (VCUG), and radionuclide screening isotope imaging. The prenatal exposure to AEDs increases the risk of major congenital malformations from the background risk of 1-2% to 4-9%. AEDs may determine a defect in apoptosis regulation that could lead to abnormal nephrogenesis, causing MCDK. Carbamazepine (CBZ) and phenobarbital (PHB) during pregnancy should be used at the lowest dosage compatible with maternal disease. The reduction, or even suspension, of drug dosage should be achieved from the periconceptional period to the first 8 weeks of gestation to avoid any interference with organogenesis.
Vincristine-induced crystalloid inclusions were examined in the neurons and neuronal processes of young rats by the electron microscope (EM) equipped with a tilting stage. Using a computer system that reproduces three-dimensional organization, an optical transformation method was applied to the microtubules and neurofilaments in an attempt to clarify the morphological appearance and internal pattern of crystalloid inclusions. The dimensional models obtained were compared with actual EM photographs, and the characteristic ultrastructural component and morphology were drawn out. Basically, a crystalloid inclusion is composed of four strands of intermediate 10 nm neurofilaments connected to one another by four side-arms producing a circular profile on a transverse section. These four side-arms seemed to arise from nodules within the filaments at regular intervals simulating a bead-like appearance. These data did not significantly differ from those obtained from EM images. Characteristically, these crystalloid inclusions began to appear 6 h after the administration of 10(-3) M vincristine sulfate and persisted up to a period of 6 days. Beyond that, however, these inclusions were no longer demonstrable suggesting a transient state. This was in contrast to neurofibrillary tangles which appeared to be permanent changes.
The objective of this study was to establish the maximum tolerated dose of the low affinity non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist remacemide in patients who have Parkinson's disease with response fluctuations or dyskinesias, or both. A total of 33 patients were randomly assigned in a 3-to-1 ratio to receive remacemide or placebo. Remacemide was administered orally at 150 mg twice daily, increasing incrementally by 100 mg (50 mg twice daily) at 2-week intervals to a final daily regimen of 400 mg twice daily or until a maximum tolerated dose was identified. The maximum total treatment period was 12 weeks. Of the 23 patients randomly selected to receive remacemide, four completed the study at the maximum permitted dose, compared with four of the 10 patients given placebo. The median maximum tolerated dose of remacemide was 450 mg/d. There was no clinically relevant change in percentage of "on" time between baseline and maximum tolerated dose in either group. At the maximum tolerated dose of remacemide for each patient, the mean Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) motor examination score (part III) decreased from 33 (SD = 18) to 26 (SD = 13) compared with a decrease from 28 (SD = 12) to 27 (SD = 8) in the placebo group. There was a decrease in the mean UPDRS "complications of therapy" score (part IV) in the remacemide group from 8 (SD = 4) to 6 (SD = 4), and the placebo group remained unchanged at 6 (SD = 4). The most common adverse events associated with remacemide were nausea, vomiting, dizziness, headache, abnormal vision, and hypokinesia. Remacemide was well tolerated at a dose level of 400 mg/d. There was a trend suggesting that remacemide was effective in improving symptoms at patients' individual maximum tolerated doses. These improvements occurred without exacerbating levodopa-induced dyskinesias.
The objectives of this study were to evaluate the effects of an ACE inhibitor (fosinopril) and a calcium antagonist (amlodipine) on the urinary albumin and transferrin excretion and their relationship to the blood pressure in essential hypertension. Twenty-four never-treated patients (mean age, 46.4 +/- 8.9 years) with a diastolic blood pressure between 90 and 114 mm Hg and normal renal function, randomly received amlodipine or fosinopril and, if the diastolic blood pressure was not normalized, doxazosin was added to the therapy. Twenty-four-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring and 24-h urine collection for albumin and transferrin measurements were performed before and after 3 and 6 months of therapy. Diastolic blood pressure was normalized in 23 patients (96%). Before treatment, microalbuminuria was present in 50% of patients. In the amlodipine and fosinopril group, antihypertensive therapy significantly decreased blood pressure and, only in the fosinopril group, albuminuria. Transferrinuria did not change significantly in both groups. Fosinopril lowered albuminuria in all patients, whereas amlodipine only in half of patients. Albuminuria, but not transferrinuria, was significantly correlated to the ambulatory blood pressure. This correlation was more pronounced for systolic than for diastolic pressure. In essential hypertensive patients with normal renal function, a high prevalence of microalbuminuria can be observed. Albuminuria appears to correlate with ambulatory blood pressure, particularly with systolic pressure. Intrarenal hemodynamic changes seem to play a more important role than systemic blood pressure decrease in the reduction of albuminuria. Transferrinuria does not seem a useful marker to follow-up nondiabetic hypertensive patients with early signs of glomerular dysfunction.
To investigate the effects of a low bisphenol A (BPA) concentration on male reproduction, adult rats were administered a concentration of BPA that was less than the no observable adverse effect level (0.0005-5 mg/kg/bw) for 8 weeks. General toxicity, reproductive hormones, and spermatogenesis were then determined. The expression of genes related to hormone synthesis and spermatogenesis was also analyzed. These BPA concentrations generated no general toxicity and no significant changes on serum hormones. However, the testicular testosterone, hormone synthesis-related genes StAR and Cyp450scc increased, whereas 3β-HSD, 17β-HSD, and Cyp450arom decreased. Additionally, BPA significantly decreased the epithelial height and round spermatids in seminiferous tubules, sperm count, androgen receptor expression, and the expression of the spermatogenesis-related genes outer dense fiber protein 1 (ODF1) and transition protein 1. Our results indicate that a low BPA concentration can induce spermatogenesis disorders mainly through decreasing androgen receptor expression. The present results may bring attention to the risk of environmental BPA exposure.
Transferrin receptor (CD71) is involved in the cellular uptake of iron and is expressed on cells with high proliferation. It may be implicated in promoting the growth of endocrine resistant phenotypes within ER+/luminal-like breast cancer. We used a panel of in vitro cell models of acquired resistance to tamoxifen (TAMR), Faslodex (FASR) or severe oestrogen deprivation (MCF-7X) and the ER+ luminal MCF-7 parental line to determine CD71 mRNA expression and to study transferrin (Tf) effects on in vitro tumour growth and its inhibition. Furthermore, CD71 protein expression was assessed in a well-characterized series of patients with invasive breast carcinoma using tissue microarrays. Our results demonstrated a striking elevation of CD71 in all cell models of acquired resistance. Exogenous Tf significantly promoted growth in MCF-7-X and MCF-7 cells but more so in MCF-7-X; this growth was significantly reduced by Faslodex (FAS) or a phosphoinositide-3 kinase inhibitor (LY294002). Increased CD71 expression was associated with poor NPI score, tumour proliferation, basal CKs, p53, EGFR, HER2, steroid receptor negativity and shortened breast cancer specific survival (P < 0.001). On multivariate analysis, CD71 was found to be an independent prognostic factor in the ER+ cohort of patients. In conclusion, therapies of current interest in breast cancer (e.g. FAS, PI3K-inhibitors) appear able to partially impact on transferrin/CD71-promoted growth, but further investigation of this important mitogenic mechanism may assist in designing new therapeutic strategies to target highly proliferative, endocrine resistant breast cancers. CD71 appears to be a candidate marker of a subgroup of ER+/luminal-like breast cancer characterised by poor outcome and resistance to tamoxifen.
Gestational and genetic factors can contribute to autism during infancy and early childhood through their effects on fetal brain development. Previous twin studies have shown strong genetic components for the development of autism, a disorder that can have multiple causes. We investigated the effects of prenatal overstimulation of the beta2-adrenergic receptor in dizygotic twins who were exposed to terbutaline, a selective beta2-adrenergic receptor agonist used to treat premature labor, as a gestational factor. As a possible genetic mechanism, we studied two beta2-adrenergic receptor polymorphisms in twins from whom DNA was available: glycine substitution at codon 16 (16G) and glutamic acid substitution at codon 27 (27E), which show diminished desensitization in vivo compared with the wild-type receptor. Continuous terbutaline exposure for 2 weeks or longer was associated with increased concordance for autism spectrum disorders in dizygotic twins (relative risk = 2.0), with a further increase in the risk for male twins with no other affected siblings (relative risk = 4.4). A significant association was found between the presence of 16G and 27E polymorphisms in autistic patients compared with population controls (P = .006). Prenatal overstimulation of the beta2-adrenergic receptor by terbutaline or by increased signaling of genetic polymorphisms of the beta2-adrenergic receptor that have diminished desensitization can affect cellular responses and developmental programs in the fetal brain, leading to autism.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of ongoing methylphenidate (MPH) on ADHD-related and autistic symptoms in Pervasive Developmental Disorders (PDD) in children who did not present any adverse effects to an initial acute dose administered at the clinic.
Participants included 13 subjects (12 males, with a mean age of 7.9 years) with PDD and moderate to severe hyperactivity/impulsivity. The severity of the symptoms assessment was based on Clinical Global Impression (CGI), Childhood Autism, Child Psychiatric and Conners Parent and Teacher Rating Scales (CPRS). Scores at baseline, and after 1 and 3 months of treatment, were compared to intent-to-treat analyses.
One (1) hour after a single MPH dose (0.4 mg/kg), 5 subjects exhibited increased hyperactivity, stereotypes, dysphoria, or motor tics and were rated as minimally or much worse on the CGI Global Improvement Scale. They received no further treatment with MPH. Four (4) of the remaining subjects were rated as improved, and four as unchanged; they proceeded to a 12-week open trial of MPH. Two children remained unchanged: they discontinued treatment after 1 week on maximally tolerated doses. However, in group analyses, behavioral measures of hyperactivity and impulsivity improved significantly, while autism core symptom measures were unaffected. No significant adverse effects were observed in any of the 8 subjects.
Administering a single MPH test dose may be useful in identifying children with PDD who may benefit from prolonged therapy.
To assess the effects of olanzapine and risperidone on metabolic factors in children and adolescents admitted to an inpatient psychiatric hospital.
The study was a retrospective chart review of hospitalized patients younger than 18 years of age treated with olanzapine or risperidone. Data collected from medical charts were analyzed to assess weight gain, lipid profiles, blood pressure, and glucose levels in patients prescribed olanzapine or risperidone.
A total of 49 patients (25 receiving olanzapine and 24 receiving risperidone) with a mean age of 13 years were included in the study; the mean duration of treatment was 27 days. A significant increase in body mass index (BMI) from baseline to endpoint in both treatment groups was found (P<0.001); however, the change in BMI was not significantly different between the olanzapine and risperidone groups (P=0.425). Seven new cases (28%) in the olanzapine group and 4 new cases (17%) in the risperidone group met criteria for being overweight or at risk for being overweight. A significant increase in mean systolic blood pressure was found in subjects receiving olanzapine compared with those receiving risperidone (+5.4 mm Hg vs. -3.2 mm Hg; P=0.044), while diastolic blood pressure did not differ between the treatment groups. A significant increase in risk factors for diabetes mellitus (P=0.008) and in overall risk factors for metabolic syndrome (P=0.013) was found in the olanzapine group over the course of treatment, whereas no significant effect on risk factors for diabetes or metabolic syndrome was found in the risperidone group.
Inpatient treatment with both olanzapine and risperidone was correlated with a significant increase in BMI. Olanzapine also resulted in increased risk factors for diabetes and metabolic syndrome.
The patient, a 16-year-old female, was suffering from an acutely painful right leg and thigh. Tests revealed deep vein thrombosis with pulmonary embolism, resulting from oral contraceptives. She was placed on anticoagulant therapy for a period of time and was discharged from the hospital 9 days after admission.
This study investigates the effects of parkinsonism and dopamine replacement therapy (levodopa) on centrally initiated postural activity preceding rising onto the toes. The electromyographic (EMG) and force magnitude, scaling, sequencing, and postural stabilization were compared when rising-to-toes under two conditions, slow/low versus fast/high, for parkinsonian patients and elderly control subjects. Parkinsonian subjects were tested after withholding their levodopa medication for 12-16 h and again 1 h after taking their medication when parkinsonian signs were diminished. Parkinsonian subjects showed reduced magnitudes and delayed timing of the postural and voluntary components of the rise-to-toes task, as if they had difficulty turning off the postural, tibialis anterior (TIB) component and initiating the voluntary, gastrocnemius (GAS) component. Dopamine improved the relative timing, as well as the magnitude of both postural and voluntary components of rise-to-toes. Although the magnitude of dorsiflexion torque was smaller for parkinsonian subjects ON and OFF than for healthy elderly controls, the parkinsonian subjects showed intact scaling of the magnitude of postural activity. Parkinsonian subjects do not perform the rise-to-toes task like normal subjects who are instructed to rise slowly; the relative timing of TIB and GAS activation was different even at comparable speeds of performance. Parkinsonian subjects, both ON and OFF, exhibited greater risk of falling than elderly control subjects when rising to toes. This increased risk of falling was reflected in a smaller safety margin between the peak center of mass (CoM) and peak center of pressure (CoP) during the task. The magnitude of mean postural dorsiflexion torque in the rise-to-toes task was highly correlated with a clinical rating scale of gait and balance, suggesting that force control is a critical factor influencing postural control in patients with Parkinson's disease.
This study delineates the role of peroxiredoxin 3 (Prx3) in hair cell death induced by several etiologies of acquired hearing loss (noise trauma, aminoglycoside treatment, age). In vivo, Prx3 transiently increased in mouse cochlear hair cells after traumatic noise exposure, kanamycin treatment, or with progressing age before any cell loss occurred; when Prx3 declined, hair cell loss began. Maintenance of high Prx3 levels via treatment with the radical scavenger 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate prevented kanamycin-induced hair cell death. Conversely, reducing Prx3 levels with Prx3 siRNA increased the severity of noise-induced trauma. In mouse organ of Corti explants, reactive oxygen species and levels of Prx3 mRNA and protein increased concomitantly at early times of drug challenge. When Prx3 levels declined after prolonged treatment, hair cells began to die. The radical scavenger p-phenylenediamine maintained Prx3 levels and attenuated gentamicin-induced hair cell death. Our results suggest that Prx3 is up-regulated in response to oxidative stress and that maintenance of Prx3 levels in hair cells is a critical factor in their susceptibility to acquired hearing loss.
The purpose is to provide an overview of the molecular and clinical impact of tiazofurin.
The biochemical and clinical techniques were reported (1, 2).
IMP DH activity increased in various animal and human tumors and was particularly high in leukemic blast cells. The increased activity was due to an elevation in the mRNA concentration of type II isozyme. Tiazofurin, a C-nucleoside, was converted in sensitive cells to the active metabolite, TAD, which tightly bound at the NADH site inhibited IMP DH activity. The inhibition led to decreased GTP concentration, down-regulation of ras and myc oncogenes and induced maturation of blast cells. New evidence shows that tiazofurin injection downregulated signal transduction activity due to a reduction of the activities of PI and PIP kinases leading to a decrease in the concentration of the second messenger, IP3. In patients; tiazofurin infusion and allopurinol administration led to reduction of IMP DH activity and GTP concentration. Allopurinol inhibited xanthine oxidase activity leading to a marked rise in hypoxanthine concentration which inhibited the increased guanine salvage pathway. In the clinic, the increase in serum hypoxanthine concentration is essential for the success of tiazofurin treatment. Tiazofurin showed additivity or synergism with ribavirin, retinoic acid, taxol, quercetin, gemcitabin, dipyridamole and brefeldin. Ribavirin which inhibits IMP DH at the IMP site has been shown to prolong the IMP depressing action of tiazofurin in rat bone marrow cells.
Tiazofurin and allopurinol achieve reduction of GTP concentration in leukemic blast cells through inhibition of IMP DH and GPRT activities. As a result, induced maturation occurs with down-regulation of ras and myc oncogenes and probably reduced signal transduction capacity. Tiazofurin in leukemic patients provides over 75% therapeutic responses and patients can be treated with this combination for many months with good quality of life. These clinical and biochemical results were recently confirmed independently (3).
Female rats display higher sensitivity to cocaine relative to males under a variety of conditions. Time-dependent increases in cocaine-seeking behavior (as measured by nonreinforced operant responses) during cocaine withdrawal have been reported in male, but not female, rats.
The present study determines sex and estrous cycle influences on time-dependent changes in cocaine-seeking behavior.
Male and female Sprague-Dawley rats were reinforced for "active lever" responses by a cocaine infusion (0.50 mg/kg/infusion, i.v., fixed ratio schedule of reinforcement, FR1) followed by a 20-s time-out when reinforcement was not delivered. Infusions were paired with a light + tone conditioned stimulus. Next, rats underwent cocaine withdrawal for 1, 14, 60, or 180 days before testing cocaine-seeking behavior. Each rat was tested for extinction of operant responding, conditioned-cued reinstatement, and cocaine-primed (10 mg/kg, i.p.) reinstatement.
Both males and females displayed a time-dependent increase in cocaine-seeking behavior (active lever presses) under extinction of operant responding and conditioned-cued reinstatement conditions after 60 days of cocaine withdrawal. Moreover, cocaine-seeking behavior during extinction of operant responding in females, but not males, remained elevated at 180 days of cocaine withdrawal. Furthermore, females tested during estrus exhibited higher cocaine-seeking behavior under both extinction of operant responding and cocaine-primed reinstatement conditions relative to other rats independent of the duration of cocaine withdrawal.
The effects of reproductive cycle and withdrawal duration on cocaine-seeking behavior are additive and time-dependent increases in cocaine-seeking behavior are more enduring in females than in male rats.
The authors report the case of a severely retarded, 19-year-old female (treated with primidone 250 mg tid since age 12) who was admitted with visual and auditory hallucinations. After four days of continuing hallucinations, she went into classic catatonic schizophrenia. Upon examination, her primidone serum level was found to be well above the normal therapeutic range. The primidone dosage was decreased, and symptoms subsided as serum levels returned to normal.
The incidence of asbestos-induced human cancers is increasing worldwide, and considerable evidence suggests that reactive oxygen species (ROS) are important mediators of these diseases. Our previous studies suggested that mitochondria might be involved in the initiation of oxidative stress in asbestos-exposed mammalian cells.
We investigated whether mitochondria are a potential cytoplasmic target of asbestos using a mitochondrial DNA-depleted (ρ(0)) human small airway epithelial (SAE) cell model: ρ(0) SAE cells lack the capacity to produce mitochondrial ROS.
We examined nuclear DNA damage, micronuclei (MN), intracellular ROS production, and the expression of inflammation-related nuclear genes in both parental and ρ(0) SAE cells in response to asbestos treatment.
Asbestos induced a dose-dependent increase in nuclear DNA oxidative damage and MN in SAE cells. Furthermore, there was a significant increase in intracellular oxidant production and activation of genes involved in nuclear factor κB and proinflammatory signaling pathways in SAE cells. In contrast, the effects of asbestos were minimal in ρ(0) SAE cells.
Mitochondria are a major cytoplasmic target of asbestos. Asbestos may initiate mitochondria-associated ROS, which mediate asbestos-induced nuclear mutagenic events and inflammatory signaling pathways in exposed cells. These data provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms of asbestos-induced genotoxicity.
Coronary spasm was observed in two sisters. Neither of them had significant atheromatous stenosis in the coronary arteries. The 41-year-old elder sister presented with resting morning angina. The stress electrocardiogram showed marked depression of the ST-segment in precordial leads. Diffuse vasospasm in the left anterior descending artery was induced by the intracoronary administration of acetylcholine. The 38-year-old younger sister suffered from acute inferior myocardial infarction after taking methylergonovine following an abortion. Emergent coronary angiography disclosed a thrombus in the proximal right coronary artery which was dissolved with intracoronary administration of urokinase. There was no residual stenosis in the culprit vessel. Although the sisters do have risk factors for coronary spasm, an inherited factor may contribute to the mechanism of the spasm.
Doxorubicin (Dox) is a potent chemotherapeutic agent associated with severe cardiotoxicity. Erythropoietin (Epo) has recently been shown to exhibit proangiogenic properties related to endothelial progenitor cell (EPC) mobilization. We tested the hypothesis that EPC are compromised in rats with Dox-induced cardiotoxicity and correction of this functional impairment by treatment with Epo could result in attenuation of myocardial dysfunction.
Wistar rats were either treated with two different doses of Epo (20U or 200U) or PBS (n = 40 in each group) for four consecutive weeks, followed by Dox administration. In a second study, EPC obtained from healthy rats were transfused intravenously (n = 20/group) prior to induction of Dox cardiomyopathy. EPC from healthy subjects were evaluated for their proliferative and migratory properties in the presence or absence of Dox and Epo pre-treatment. Echocardiography demonstrated an improvement in fractional shortening (FS) in Epo-treated rats. Epo treatment was associated with a reduced mortality in both Epo-treated groups. Circulating EPC numbers were three times higher in Epo-treated compared with non-treated animals. Adhesive properties, migration, and tube formation capacity in matrigel of EPCs from both Epo-treated groups as compared with controls were significantly enhanced. EPC transfer to Dox-treated rats led to functional myocardial improvement equivalent to the protection afforded by treatment with Epo. In EPC obtained from humans, pre-incubation with Epo significantly attenuated the anti-proliferative and anti-migratory effects of treatment with Dox.
Epo treatment is potentially protective against myocardial dysfunction induced by Dox. These effects are partially mediated by enhancement in the number of EPC and their functional properties.
The present study was designed to examine whether resveratrol, a potent antioxidant, protects against renal ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury.
Wistar albino rats were unilaterally nephrectomized and subjected to 45 min of renal pedicle occlusion followed by 6 h of reperfusion. Resveratrol (RVT, 30 mg/kg, i.p.) or vehicle was administered twice, at 30 min prior to ischemia and immediately before the reperfusion period. At the end of the reperfusion period, rats were decapitated and kidney samples were taken for histological examination or determination of levels of renal malondialdehyde (MDA), an end product of lipid peroxidation; glutathione (GSH), a key antioxidant; and myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity, an index of tissue neutrophil infiltration. Formation of reactive oxygen species in hepatic tissue samples was monitored by using chemiluminescence (CL) technique with luminol and lucigenin probes. Renal tissue collagen content as a fibrosis marker was also determined, while serum creatinine and urea concentrations were measured for the evaluation of renal function. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha ) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) were also assayed in serum samples.
Ischemia/reperfusion caused a significant decrease in tissue GSH level, which was accompanied by significant increases in the renal luminol and lucigenin CL values, MDA level, MPO activity and collagen content. Similarly, serum creatinine and BUN levels, as well as LDH and TNF-alpha, were elevated in the I/R group as compared to control group. On the other hand, resveratrol treatment reversed all these biochemical indices, as well as histopathological alterations that were induced by I/R.
Findings of the present study suggest that resveratrol exerts renoprotective effects via its radical scavenging and antioxidant activities, which appear to involve the inhibition of tissue neutrophil infiltration.
The purpose of this investigation was to determine whether fatty acid synthase (FAS) is a potential molecular target for the chemoprevention of breast cancer by evaluating the effect of the FAS inhibitor triclosan on rat mammary carcinogenesis. At 50 days of age, 60 female Sprague-Dawley rats received 50 mg/kg methylnitrosourea (MNU) i.p. to initiate mammary carcinogenesis. One week later, half of the rats were fed triclosan at a level of 1000 p.p.m. in an AIN-93G diet for the remainder of the experiment. The other 30 control rats were fed an AIN-93G diet without triclosan. Twelve weeks after MNU treatment, 70% of control rats had mammary adenocarcinomas compared with only 43.3% of the triclosan group (P < 0.05). The control rats had an average of 2.7 +/- 0.3 tumors/rat compared with 1.8 +/- 0.3 in the triclosan group (P < 0.05). Western analysis showed that the tumors in the control rats expressed high levels of FAS. Immunohistochemistry showed that sections of tumors that stained strongly for FAS also showed strong staining for proliferating cell nuclear antigen. Furthermore, at biologically relevant dose levels, triclosan inhibited the activity of FAS in mammary tumor homogenates. These results indicate that triclosan suppresses rat mammary carcinogenesis by inhibiting FAS and suggest that FAS is a promising molecular target for breast cancer chemoprevention.
