Nephrogenic systemic fibrosis (NSF) is an acquired, idiopathic disorder. Most of the cases are observed in patients with end stage renal disease (ESRD). The objective of this nonclinical animal study was to test the hypothesis that gadolinium (Gd) deposits play a role in the induction of NSF lesions. In addition, we evaluated whether an acute response to Gd exposure can initiate a process that results in fibrosis of the skin.
Han-Wistar rats were administered 3 intravenous injections of Gd-DTPA-BMA formulated without Gd-free excess ligand (Gadodiamide without Caldiamide) at a dose of 2.5 mmol/kg of body weight (b.w.) per injection given at 24-hour or 14-, 28-, or 56-day intervals. The occurrence and development of NSF-like fibrosing dermopathy lesions were followed. The Gd concentration was determined by Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometry in skin biopsies taken during the study and organ samples taken at the end of the study.In a separate study, after injection of a single intravenous dose of 2.5 mmol/kg b.w. Gd-DTPA-BMA administered to Han-Wistar rats, the expression of cytokines and signaling molecules in serum and skin tissue was determined by quantitative RT-PCR and Luminex technology 6 hours or 14, 28, or 56 days.
The occurrence of NSF-like macroscopic skin lesions differed between the injection groups. Shorter injection intervals resulted in more severe skin reactions. In contrast, the injection interval did not influence the long-term presence and level of accumulation of Gd concentration in tissue. The single injection of Gd-DTPA-BMA was followed by a rapid and transient induction of signaling molecules in the serum (MCP1, MCP3, IL1, IP-10, Osteopontine SCF and Timp1) as well as in the skin (MCP1 and TGFb).
The presence of NSF-like fibrosing dermopathy in rats was found to be dependent on the injection interval and not on the amount of Gd in tissue. Our findings suggest the possibility of a more acute intrinsic reaction on administration of Gd-DTPA-BMA that triggers events leading to the development of skin lesions. The finding that single injections of Gd-DTPA-BMA were accompanied by a fast and transient induction of signaling molecules that are known to be involved in several fibrotic events provides additional support for this hypothesis. The study findings, however, do not support the theory that the long-term presence of Gd plays a relevant role in the development of NSF.
We present here the case of a young drug-addicted patient, who showed a cardio-respiratory arrest attributed to a torsade de pointe-type ventricular arrhythmia. After excluding the usual causes of such arrhythmia, we concluded that it was consecutive to high-dose methadone intake. Methadone can induce torsade de pointe through two mechanisms: a QT interval prolongation secondary to a bradycardia or a prolongation of the myocardial action potential. When prescribing methadone, one should avoid association with other CYP3A4 inhibiting drugs and, if higher doses are necessary, perform regular EKG screening.
N-Acetyl-2,6-dimethyl-p-benzoquinone imine and N-acetyl-3,5-dimethyl-p-benzoquinone imine were prepared from 2,6-dimethylacetaminophen and 3,5-dimethylacetaminophen by oxidation with lead tetraacetate. Reaction of N-acetyl-2,6-dimethyl-p-benzoquinone imine with hydrochloric acid gave 3'-chloro-2',6'-dimethyl-4'-hydroxyacetanilide, whereas ethanethiol, aniline, and ethanol gave tetrahedral adducts resulting from addition to the imine carbon. Water gave 2,6-dimethyl-p-benzoquinone. With N-acetyl-3,5-dimethyl-p-benzoquinone imine, water and aniline gave substitution on the imine carbon, yielding 2,6-dimethyl-p-benzoquinone and 3,5-dimethyl-N-phenyl-p-benzoquinone imine, respectively. Ethanethiol gave 3'.5'-dimethyl-2'-(ethylthio)-4'-hydroxyacetanilide. The toxicity of 2,6-dimethylacetaminophen and 3,5-dimethylacetaminophen was examined histologically in mice and rats. 3,5-Dimethylacetaminophen was slightly more nephrotoxic but showed a similar hepatotoxicity to acetaminophen. 2,6-Dimethylacetaminophen, like N-methylacetaminophen, showed very little tissue damage.
Prolonged weakness after the use of neuromuscular blocking agents is an increasingly recognized iatrogenic complication of critical care. Vecuronium and pancuronium have been associated with this syndrome, but few cases of atracurium-associated prolonged paresis have heretofore been reported. Many practitioners have thus chosen to use atracurium instead of longer-acting neuromuscular blockers when muscle relaxation is required in the supportive management of critically ill patients. We here report a case of prolonged paresis after the administration of atracurium.
The role of anterior hypothalamic angiotensin-(1-7) (Ang-(1-7)) on blood pressure regulation was studied in sinoaortic denervated (SAD) rats. Since angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors increase endogenous levels of Ang-(1-7), we addressed the involvement of Ang-(1-7) in the hypotensive effect induced by captopril in SAD rats. Wistar rats 7 days after SAD or sham operation (SO) were anaesthetized and the carotid artery was cannulated for monitoring mean arterial pressure (MAP). A needle was inserted into the anterior hypothalamus for drug administration. Intrahypothalamic administration of Ang-(1-7) (5 pmol) was without effect in SO rats but reduced MAP in SAD rats by 15.5+/-3.2 mm Hg and this effect was blocked by 250 pmol [D-Ala(7)]-Ang-(1-7), a Mas receptor antagonist. Angiotensin II (Ang II) induced an increase in MAP in both groups being the effect greater in SAD rats (DeltaMAP=15.8+/-1.4 mm Hg) than in SO rats (DeltaMAP=9.6+/-1.0 mm Hg). Ang-(1-7) partially abolished the pressor response caused by Ang II in SAD rats. Whilst the captopril intrahypothalamic injection did not affect MAP in SO animals, it significantly reduced MAP in SAD rats (DeltaMAP=-13.3+/-1.9 mm Hg). Either [D-Ala(7)]-Ang-(1-7) or an anti-Ang-(1-7) polyclonal antibody partially blocked the MAP reduction caused by captopril. In conclusion, whilst Ang-(1-7) does not contribute to hypothalamic blood pressure regulation in SO normotensive animals, in SAD rats the heptapeptide induces a reduction of blood pressure mediated by Mas receptor activation. Although Ang-(1-7) is not formed in enough amount in the AHA of SAD animals to exert cardiovascular effects in normal conditions, our results suggest that enhancement of hypothalamic Ang-(1-7) levels by administration of captopril is partially involved in the hypotensive effect of the ACE inhibitor.
This cohort study was conducted to report on the incidence, timing and risk factors for stavudine (d4T)- and nevirapine (NVP)-related severe drug toxicity (requiring substitution) with a generic fixed-dose combination under program conditions in Kigali, Rwanda. Probability of 'time to first toxicity-related drug substitution' was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and Cox-proportional hazards modeling was used to identify risk factors. Out of 2190 adults (median follow-up: 1.5 years), d4T was replaced in 175 patients (8.0%) for neuropathy, 69 (3.1%) for lactic acidosis and 157 (7.2%) for lipoatrophy, which was the most frequent toxicity by 3 years of antiretroviral treatment (ART). NVP was substituted in 4.9 and 1.3% of patients for skin rash and hepatotoxicity, respectively. Use of d4T 40 mg was associated with increased risk of lipoatrophy and early (<6 months) neuropathy. Significant risk factors associated with lactic acidosis and late neuropathy included higher baseline body weight. Older age and advanced HIV disease increased the risk of neuropathy. Elevated baseline liver tests and older age were identified as risk factors for NVP-related hepatotoxicity. d4T is associated with significant long-term toxicity. d4T-dose reduction, increased access to safer ART in low-income countries and close monitoring for those at risk are all relevant strategies.
Extrapyramidal symptoms, including oculogyric crisis, are well recognised side-effects of clopenthixol medication, but precipitation of prolonged oculogyric crisis on addition of nifedipine to an ongoing clopenthixol regime has not so far been reported.
The ability of 125I-BMIPP in assessing myocardial mitochondrial function was investigated in rats treated with adriamycin (ADR). Intraperitoneal administration of ADR (4 mg/kg) for 6 days significantly decreased a ratio of heart/body weight as compared with the control rats. The light and electron microscopic analysis showed that ADR produced histological damages mainly in the mitochondria with minimal changes in the myofibril and nucleus. In the study of mitochondrial respiratory function, oxygen consumption with adding ADP, respiratory control ratio and ADP/O ratio were significantly lower in ADR rats than control rats. While myocardial uptake of 201TlCl was not different between the two groups, the uptake of 125I-BMIPP corrected by blood counts was significantly reduced in ADR rats (3.1 +/- 0.4 vs. 2.3 +/- 0.8, p less than 0.05) and the reduction was mainly observed in the mitochondrial fraction. These results suggest that impairment of mitochondrial function by ADR produced a reduction in mitochondrial and consequently myocardial uptakes of 125I-BMIPP. The observation suggests that 125I-BMIPP myocardial scintigraphy could be a useful method for determining mitochondrial function in patients with myocardial diseases.
Organic vanadium compounds offer several advantages in the treatment of diabetes, yet they are impractical to use because of known side effects. In order to ameliorate the side effects of vanadium, we conjugated it with quercetin to form bis(quercetinato)oxovanadium IV (BQOV). This study evaluates the effect of BQOV treatment on carbohydrate metabolism and overall oxidative stress in streptozotocin-induced (STZ) diabetic mice. Administration of BQOV orally to diabetic mice for 3 weeks led to a reduction of blood glucose levels and the animals exhibited normal glucose tolerance at the end of the study period. The increase in glucose uptake by skeletal muscle and liver as well as the normalization of mRNA levels of G-6-Pase and glucokinase in the liver after BQOV treatment pointed to improvements in carbohydrate metabolism. The analysis of the antioxidant status of serum, liver and pancreas revealed reduced oxidative stress in BQOV-treated animals compared to untreated diabetic controls. Serum analyses for kidney and liver function showed that BQOV treatment provoked total protection of the kidney and partial protection of the liver from diabetogenic insults. The number of insulin-positive cells and the amount of pancreatic insulin in treated mice (1.2038 +/- 0.34 ng/mg tissue) did not account for pancreatic regeneration but suggested an insulin-mimetic action on the part of BQOV. Moreover, administration of BQOV for 3 weeks did not show any visible side-effects. This data indicate that BQOV is a safe and potent agent for diabetes treatment, because it is able to improve carbohydrate metabolism and to reduce overall oxidative stress.
Maternal diabetes increases the risks for embryo malformations. Matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) and MMP-9 are two relevant MMPs for embryo development. Here, we addressed whether changes in these MMPs and in tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase-1 (TIMP-1) and TIMP-2 are altered in embryos and decidua from type 1 diabetic rats during early organogenesis. Our results demonstrate MMP-2 and MMP-9 overactivities and overexpression, together with increases in lipid peroxidation and nitric oxide production in embryos and decidua from diabetic animals. There is a concomitant increase in the inhibitory activity of TIMP-1 and TIMP-2 in embryos and decidua, and an increase in protein expression of embryonic TIMP-1 and TIMP-2. In situ zymography demonstrated MMPs overactivities despite increased TIMPs in embryos and decidua in maternal diabetes during early organogenesis. This study reveals that maternal diabetes leads to profound alterations in MMPs/TIMPs balance during embryo organogenesis, the gestational period during which most malformations are induced.
Connective tissue growth factor (CTGF), a potent profibrotic mediator, acts downstream and in concert with transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta to drive fibrogenesis. Significant upregulation of CTGF has been reported in fibrogenic diseases, including idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), and is partly responsible for associated excessive fibroblast proliferation and extracellular matrix deposition, but no effective therapy exists for averting such fibrogeneic events. Simvastatin has reported putative antifibrotic actions in renal fibroblasts; this study explores such actions on human IPF-derived and normal lung fibroblasts and examines associated driving mechanisms. Simvastatin reduces basal CTGF gene and protein expression in all fibroblast lines, overriding TGF-beta induction through inhibition of the cholesterol synthesis pathway. Signaling pathways driving simvastatin's effects on CTGF/TGF-beta interaction were evaluated using transient reporter transfection of a CTGF promoter construct. Inhibition of CTGF promoter activity by simvastatin was most marked at 10 muM concentration, reducing activity by 76.2 and 51.8% over TGF-beta-stimulated cultures in IPF and normal fibroblasts, respectively. We also show that geranylgeranylpyrophosphate (GGPP), but not farnesylpyrophosphate, induces CTGF promoter activity following simvastatin inhibition by 55.3 and 31.1% over GGPP-negative cultures in IMR90 and IPF-derived fibroblasts, respectively, implicating small GTPase Rho involvement rather than Ras in these effects. Indeed, the specific Rho inhibitor C3 exotoxin significantly (P < 0.05) suppressed TGF-beta-induced CTGF promoter activity in transfected lung fibroblasts, a finding further supported by transfection of dominant-negative and constitutively active RhoA constructs, thus demonstrating that simvastatin through a Rho signaling mechanism in lung fibroblasts can modulate CTGF expression and interaction with TGF-beta.
We investigated the expression of specific extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins in cardiac hypertrophy induced by isoproterenol in TGR(A1-7)3292 rats. Additionally, changes in circulating and tissue renin-angiotensin system (RAS) were analyzed. Left ventricles (LV) were used for quantification of collagen type I, III, and fibronectin using immunofluorescence-labeling techniques. Angiotensin (Ang) II levels were measured by radioimmunoassay. Expression of RAS components was assessed by semi-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) or real-time PCR. Isoproterenol treatment induced an increase in the expression of collagen I, III, and fibronectin in normal rats. Collagen I and fibronectin expression were decreased in TGR(A1-7)3292 at basal conditions and both proteins increased by isoproterenol treatment; however, the levels achieved were still significantly lower than those observed in treated normal rats. The increase in collagen III observed in normal rats was completely blunted in TGR(A1-7)3292. Moreover, TGR(A1-7)3292 presented lower Ang II levels and angiotensinogen expression and a higher angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) expression in LV. Isoproterenol treatment increased cardiac Ang II concentration only in normal rats, which was associated with an increase in ACE2 and a decrease in Mas expression. These observations suggest that Ang-(1-7) specifically modulates the expression of RAS components and ECM proteins in LV.
The purpose of this study was to determine the optimal of three concentrations of bupivacaine (0.0%, 0.05%, 0.10%) to add to an epidural infusion of meperidine (1 mg.ml-1) for postoperative pain relief.
In this prospective, double blind study, 60 patients undergoing abdominal surgery with general anaesthesia were randomized into three groups to receive for postoperative epidural analgesia: 1) 1 mg.ml-1 meperidine (0% group), 2) bupivacaine 0.05% and 1 mg.ml-1 meperidine (0.05% group), 3) bupivacaine 0.10% and 1 mg.ml-1 meperidine (0.10% group). Postoperatively, the epidural infusion rate was titrated to produce adequate analgesia and pain was assessed at rest and on movement.
There were no differences in demographic data, average pain scores or side effects among the three groups. However, there was improvement of pain relief at rest over time in the three groups (P < 0.05). Postoperative epidural analgesic infusion rates increased over time for the three groups (P < 0.05) and were lower in the 0.10% group (mean of 10.0 ml.hr-1) than in the 0% group (mean of 12.6 ml.hr-1) (P < 0.05). More than half of the 0% group had serum meperidine concentrations > 400 g.L-1 to control moderate postoperative pain.
Although analgesia was identical among groups, the lower serum concentrations of meperidine support the addition of bupivacaine 0.10% to meperidine when administered as a continuous infusion following abdominal surgery.
The present study aimed to assess the efficacy and tolerance of amlodipine (Norvasc-Pfizer) in the treatment of 152 patients with mild and moderate essential hypertension. This study was a multicenter and open trial and lasted 24 weeks. During 7 visits arterial blood pressure, heart rate, body weight and side effects of amlodipine were registered. The dosage of amlodipine was 5 to 10 mg/day. 59 patients received also other antihypertensive drugs in doses used before starting amlodipine treatment. 57 patients needed changes in amlodipine dosing from 5 to 10 mg/day. During the study no significant changes in body weight or heart rate were noticed. Mean arterial blood pressure dropped significantly from 123.9 +/- 0.6 at the beginning of the study to 102.3 +/- 0.8 mm Hg at the end of this study. During this study a total of 26 dropouts were noticed. The reasons of these dropouts were the following: side effects--6 patients, noncompliance--7 patients, insufficient hypotensive effect--7 patients, unknown reason--5 patients, hypertensive crisis--1 patient. The following side effects were observed ocdemata of the legs in 10.5%, headaches in 2% of patients. One patient complained of increased susceptibility to weather changes, 1 patient had nausea and dizziness and 1 had headaches, pains in the legs and chest and nausea. All these side effects were mild and transient.
Results obtained in this trial suggest, that amlodipine is an efficient and well tolerated antihypertensive drug in patients with mild and moderate essential
We treated a patient with lung cancer in whom a hypercoagulopathy was induced acutely by chemotherapy. He received systemic chemotherapy twice and in both instances developed disseminated intravascular coagulopathy (DIC), accompanied by acute decrements of the peripheral platelet count and plasma fibrinogen, an increment of the fibrin degradation products (FDP), and bleeding tendency with the appearance of skin purpura. In each instance, the plasma thrombosis-inducing activity (TIA) appeared one to three days after chemotherapy and subsided subsequently.
McCune-Albright syndrome (MAS) is characterized by polyostotic fibrous dysplasia, café-au-lait lesions, and a variety of endocrine disorders, including precocious puberty, hyperthyroidism, hypercortisolism, growth hormone excess, and hyperprolactinemia. The diverse metabolic abnormalities seen in MAS share the involvement of cells that respond to extracellular signals through activation of the hormone-sensitive adenylyl cyclase system (EC 4.6.1.1). Mutations that lead to constitutive activation of Gs alpha, the guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory protein that stimulates adenylyl cyclase activity, have been identified in a subset of human growth hormone-secreting pituitary tumors and human thyroid tumors. We report here the identification of a mutation in the gene encoding Gs alpha in a patient with MAS. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis was used to analyze amplified DNA fragments including exon 8 or exon 9 of the Gs alpha gene. In one subject with MAS a G-to-A transition was found in exon 8 of one of the two alleles encoding Gs alpha. This single-base substitution results in the replacement of arginine by histidine at position 201 of the mature Gs alpha protein. Semiquantitative analysis of amplified DNA indicated that the mutant allele was less prevalent than the wild-type allele in peripheral leukocytes and was present in very low levels in skin. These findings support the previous contention that the segmental distribution and variable expression of the cutaneous, skeletal, and endocrine manifestations of MAS reflect an underlying somatic mosaicism. Further, these results suggest that the molecular basis of MAS is a postzygotic mutation in Gs alpha that causes constitutive activation of adenylyl cyclase.
Labetalol is used to treat hypertensive crisis in women with preeclampsia. Glucagon was used as a nonselective beta-adrenergic agonist to treat a preterm infant with symptomatic beta-blockade caused by maternal labetalol therapy.
Data from 60 patients treated with amikacin were analyzed for factors associated with nephrotoxicity. In 42 of these patients, data were examined for factors associated with clinical outcome. Variables evaluated included patient weight, age, sex, serum creatinine level, creatinine clearance, duration of therapy, total dose, mean daily dose, organism minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC), mean peak levels, mean trough levels, mean area under the serum concentration-time curve (AUC), total AUC, mean AUC greater than MIC, total AUC greater than MIC, mean Schumacher's intensity factor (IF), total IF, In (mean maximum concentration [Cmax]/MIC). Model-dependent pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated by computer based on a one-compartment model. When the parameters were examined individually, duration of therapy and total AUC correlated significantly (P less than .05) with nephrotoxicity. In contrast, a stepwise discriminant function analysis identified only duration of therapy (P less than .001) as an important factor. Based on this model and on Bayes' theorem, the predictive accuracy of identifying "nephrotoxic" patients increased from 0.17 to 0.39. When examined individually, mean IF, MIC, total dose, mean daily dose, and ln (mean Cmax/MIC) correlated significantly (P less than .05) with cure. In contrast, a simultaneous multivariable analysis identified IF, MIC, and total dose according to one model and ln (mean Cmax/MIC) according to a second statistical model of parameters selected to have the greatest prospective value. Based on Bayes' theorem and the first model, the predictive accuracy of identifying patients not cured increased from 0.19 to 0.83. For the second model, the predictive accuracy increased from 0.19 to 0.50.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Breast enlargement is an unusual complication of D-penicillamine therapy for rheumatoid arthritis. We observed breast enlargement and hyperprolactinemia in a woman receiving D-penicillamine for systemic sclerosis. Treatment with danazol was associated with a reduction in both the breast size and the prolactin level.
For neuroprotective therapy of neurodegenerative diseases creatine treatment has gained special interest because creatine has been shown to cross the blood-brain barrier, accumulate in the human brain in vivo and cause delayed neuronal cell death in a large number of animal models. Here, we used the pilocarpine model of temporal lobe epilepsy to determine whether creatine administration is able to attenuate the epilepsy-associated decrease in hippocampal N-acetyl aspartate (NAA) concentrations, impairment of mitochondrial function and neuronal cell loss. In vivo1H-NMR spectroscopy showed, in epileptic rats after creatine administration, higher hippocampal NAA concentrations, suggesting improved neuronal survival. However, in vitro observation of hippocampal slices from creatine-treated epileptic rats revealed a more pronounced loss of pyramidal neurons and decrease in activity of mitochondrial enzymes in hippocampal subfields. This indicates that NAA concentrations measured by in vivo1H-NMR spectroscopy reflect alterations of metabolism rather than neuronal cell densities. Our data indicate an adverse effect of creatine on neuronal survival under conditions of enhanced neuronal activity.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a complex neurodegenerative disease whose pathogenesis involves genetic and environmental risk factors leading to an aberrant, neuroantigen-specific, CD4+ T cell-mediated autoimmune response. In support of the hypothesis that vitamin D3 may reduce MS risk and severity, we found that vitamin D3 and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25-(OH)2D3) inhibited induction of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an MS model. To investigate how 1,25-(OH)2D3 could carry out anti-inflammatory functions, we administered 1,25-(OH)2D3 or a placebo to mice with EAE, and subsequently analyzed clinical disease, chemokines, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), and recruitment of dye-labeled monocytes. The 1,25-(OH)2D3 treatment significantly reduced clinical EAE severity within 3 days. Sharp declines in chemokines, inducible iNOS, and CD11b+ monocyte recruitment into the central nervous system (CNS) preceded this clinical disease abatement in the 1,25-(OH)2D3-treated animals. The 1,25-(OH)2D3 did not directly and rapidly inhibit chemokine synthesis in vivo or in vitro. Rather, the 1,25-(OH)2D3 rapidly stimulated activated CD4+ T cell apoptosis in the CNS and spleen. Collectively, these results support a model wherein inflammation stimulates a natural anti-inflammatory feedback loop. The activated inflammatory cells produce 1,25-(OH)2D3, and this hormone subsequently enhances the apoptotic death of inflammatory CD4+ T cells, removing the driving force for continued inflammation. In this way, the sunlight-derived hormone could reduce the risk of chronic CNS inflammation and autoimmune-mediated neurodegenerative disease.
To develop a novel and effective drug that could enhance cognitive function and neuroprotection, we newly synthesized maltolyl p-coumarate by the esterification of maltol and p-coumaric acid. In the present study, we investigated whether maltolyl p-coumarate could improve cognitive decline in scopolamine-injected rats and in amyloid beta peptide(1-42)-infused rats. Maltolyl p-coumarate was found to attenuate cognitive deficits in both rat models using passive avoidance test and to reduce apoptotic cell death observed in the hippocampus of the amyloid beta peptide(1-42)-infused rats. We also examined the neuroprotective effects of maltolyl p-coumarate in vitro using SH-SY5Y cells. Cells were pretreated with maltolyl p-coumarate, before exposed to amyloid beta peptide(1-42), glutamate or H2O2. We found that maltolyl p-coumarate significantly decreased apoptotic cell death and reduced reactive oxygen species, cytochrome c release, and caspase 3 activation. Taking these in vitro and in vivo results together, our study suggests that maltolyl p-coumarate is a potentially effective candidate against Alzheimer's disease that is characterized by wide spread neuronal death and progressive decline of cognitive function.
This study examined the effects of deafness and intracochlear electrical stimulation on the anatomy of the cochlear nucleus (CN) after a brief period of normal auditory development early in life. Kittens were deafened by systemic ototoxic drug injections either as neonates or starting at postnatal day 30. Total CN volume, individual CN subdivision volumes, and cross-sectional areas of spherical cell somata in the anteroventral CN (AVCN) were compared in neonatally deafened and 30-day deafened groups at 8 weeks of age and in young adults after approximately 6 months of electrical stimulation initiated at 8 weeks of age. Both neonatal and early acquired hearing loss resulted in a reduction in CN volume as compared to normal hearing cats. Comparison of 8- and 32-week old groups indicated that the CN continued to grow in both deafened groups despite the absence of auditory input. Preserving normal auditory input for 30 days resulted in a significant increase in both total CN volume and cross-sectional areas of spherical cell somata, as compared to neonatally deafened animals. Restoring auditory input in these developing animals by unilateral intracochlear electrical stimulation did not elicit any difference in CN volume between the two sides, but resulted in 7% larger spherical cell size on the stimulated side. Overall, the brief period of normal auditory development and subsequent electrical stimulation maintained CN volume at 80% of normal and spherical cell size at 86% of normal ipsilateral to the implant as compared to 67% and 74%, respectively, in the neonatally deafened group.
Three groups of schizophrenic patients were treated with haloperidol, with a low dose of piribedil (a dopamine agonist), and with a combination of the two treatments, respectively. After a few days, all 7 patients treated with the drug combination showed marked rigidity and akinesia, while patients treated with haloperidol alone (4) and piribedil alone (4) showed either mild or no symptoms of parkinsonism. The drug combination induced mainly an akinetic-hypertonic syndrome, while tremors were absent or mild. The results suggest that low doses of the DA-agonist potentiate the extrapyramidal side effects of haloperidol by acting on self-inhibitory DA receptors, thereby blocking the compensatory increase in dopaminergic firing elicited by the neuroleptic agent.
