A link between fructose drinking and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has been demonstrated in human and rodent animals. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress is mediated in the development of fructose-induced NAFLD. Female CD-1 mice were fed with 30% fructose solution for eight weeks. Hepatic lipid accumulation was assessed. Hepatic nuclear sterol regulatory element-binding protein (SREBP)-1c was measured. Results showed that hepatic SREBP-1c was activated in mice fed with fructose solution. Fatty acid synthase (fas) and acetyl-CoA carboxylase (acc), two target genes of SREBP-1c, were up-regulated. Fructose-evoked hepatic SREBP-1c activation seemed to be associated with insulin-induced gene (Insig)-1 depletion. An ER stress and unfolded protein response (UPR), as determined by an increased glucose-regulated protein (GRP78) expression and an increased eIF2α and PERK phosphorylation, were observed in liver of mice fed with fructose solution. Phenylbutyric acid (PBA), an ER chemical chaperone, not only significantly attenuated ER stress, but also alleviated fructose-induced hepatic Insig-1 depletion. PBA inhibited fructose-evoked hepatic SREBP-1c activation and the expression of SREBP-1c target genes, and protected against hepatic lipid accumulation. In conclusion, ER stress contributes, at least in part, to hepatic SREBP-1c activation and lipid accumulation in fructose-evoked NAFLD.
Opioid-induced hyperalgesia can develop rapidly after opioid exposure. Neuropathic pain and opioid-induced hyperalgesia share common pathophysiologic mechanisms. Gabapentin is effective for the management of neuropathic pain and may therefore prevent opioid-induced hyperalgesia. This study tested the effectiveness of gabapentin for prevention of long-lasting hyperalgesia induced by acute systemic fentanyl in uninjured rats. Involvement of the alpha2delta auxiliary subunits of voltage-gated calcium channels in the prevention of opioid-induced hyperalgesia by gabapentin also was assessed.
Hyperalgesia was induced in male Sprague-Dawley rats with subcutaneous fentanyl (four injections, 20, 60, or 100 microg/kg per injection at 15-min intervals). Intraperitoneal (30, 75, 150, or 300 mg/kg) or intrathecal (300 microg) gabapentin was administered 30 min before or 300 min after (intraperitoneal 150 mg/kg) the first fentanyl injection. Sensitivity to nociceptive stimuli (paw-pressure test) was assessed on the day of the experiment and for several days after injections. The effects combining gabapentin with intrathecal ruthenium red (20 ng) also were assessed.
Fentanyl administration was followed by an early increase (analgesia) and by a later and sustained decrease (hyperalgesia) in nociceptive thresholds. Gabapentin did not significantly modify the early analgesic component but dose-dependently prevented the delayed decrease in nociceptive threshold. Ruthenium red partially, but significantly, opposed the prevention of opioid-induced hyperalgesia by gabapentin.
Intraperitoneal and intrathecal gabapentin prevents the development of hyperalgesia induced by acute systemic exposure to opioids. This prevention may result, at least in part, from binding of gabapentin to the alpha2delta auxiliary subunits of voltage-gated calcium channels.
We determined the complete nucleotide sequence of the 5' noncoding region and the first 74 amino acids of the nonfunctional beta-globin mRNA in a patient with homozygous beta 0 thalassemia. We identified the molecular defect as a single nucleotide substitution in the coding region of the mRNA. At the position corresponding to amino acid 17, replacement of an adenine by a uracil changes the triplet AAG, which codes for lysine in the normal beta chain, to an amber termination codon, UAG. This type of beta 0 thalassemia represents an example of a nonsense mutation in man.
Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors have been associated with the onset of angioedema in a small subset of treated patients. The angioedema commonly involves the face and oropharyngeal tissues and may result in life-threatening airway compromise. The mechanism by which ACE inhibitors precipitate angioedema has not been well-defined, and retrospective analysis of reported cases has failed to identify a group of patients at high risk. We report four cases of ACE inhibitor-related angioedema that required immediate medical intervention. All four cases occurred in patients with a prior history of idiopathic angioedema, an otherwise uncommon clinical entity. These observations suggest that patients with a history of idiopathic angioedema are at increased risk for the development of ACE inhibitor-related angioedema and should be treated cautiously with this class of drugs.
The locus for autosomal dominant congenital stationary night blindness (adCSNB) has recently been assigned to distal chromosome 4p by linkage analysis in a large Danish family. Within the candidate gene encoding the beta-subunit of rod photoreceptor cGMP-specific phosphodiesterase (beta PDE), we have identified a heterozygous C to A transversion in exon 4, predicting a His258Asp change in the polypeptide. We found a perfect cosegregation (Zmax = 22.6 at theta = 0.00) of this mutation with the disease phenotype suggesting that this missense mutation is responsible for the disease in this pedigree. Homozygous nonsense mutations in the beta PDE gene have been found recently in patients with autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa, a common hereditary photoreceptor dystrophy.
Most human melanomas express Fas receptor on the cell surface, and treatment with exogenous Fas Ligand (FasL) efficiently induces apoptosis of these cells. In contrast, endogenous surface expression of FasL is suppressed in Fas-positive melanomas. We report here the use of a combination of sodium arsenite, an inhibitor of NF-kappaB activation, and NS398, a cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor, for restoration of the surface FasL expression. We observed a large increase of Fas-mediated apoptosis in Fas-positive melanomas. This was due to induction of FasL surface expression and increased susceptibility to Fas death signaling after arsenite and NS398 treatment. Furthermore, silencing COX-2 expression by specific RNAi also effectively increased surface FasL expression following arsenite treatment. Upregulation of the surface FasL levels was based on an increase in the efficiency of translocation to the cell surface and stabilization of FasL protein on the cell surface, rather than on acceleration of the FasL gene transcription. Data obtained demonstrate that the combination of arsenite with inhibitors of COX-2 may affect the target cancer cells via induction of FasL-mediated death signaling.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of polymorphisms in 2 genes in the glutathione S-transferase (GST) family and the mutagen-sensitivity phenotype on the risk of second primary tumors (SPTs) in patients with previously diagnosed early-stage head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. Data were available for 303 patients who were enrolled in a placebo-controlled chemoprevention trial of low-dose 13-cis-retinoic acid to reduce the occurrence of SPTs.
A Cox proportional hazards model and survival tree analysis were used to evaluate the association between specified genetic variations and the development of SPTs. The average number of bleomycin-induced chromatid breaks per cell was used to quantify mutagen sensitivity as an individual patient's degree of sensitivity to genotoxicity.
The GST-M1 null genotype was associated with an increased risk for any SPTs (hazard ratio [HR], 1.99; 95% confidence interval [95% CI], 1.11-3.56) and for tobacco-related SPTs (HR, 2.16; 95% CI, 1.01-4.62) after adjusting for covariates. The GST-T1 null genotype and bleomycin-induced chromatid breaks were not associated with a statistically significant increased risk for SPTs or tobacco-related SPTs after similar adjustment. Simultaneous nonnull status for both GST genotypes was associated with a decreased risk for any SPTs (HR, 0.52; 95% CI, 0.28-0.96) and tobacco-related SPTs (HR, 0.50; 95% CI, 0.22-1.11) compared with null status for GST-M1 accompanied by nonnull status for GST-T1.
An association was observed between the development of SPTs and the GST-M1 null genotype after successful treatment for early-stage head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. The GST-T1 null genotype and bleomycin-induced chromatid breaks were not associated with an increased risk, and no significant interactions were identified.
Gold compounds are used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. NF-kappa B is a transcription factor implicated in the expression of many inflammatory genes. NF-kappa B is activated by signal-induced phosphorylation and subsequent degradation of inhibitory I kappa B (inhibitory protein that dissociates from NF-kappa B) proteins, and a multisubunit I kappa B kinase (IKK) has been identified previously. We tested the effect of various gold compounds on the activation of NF-kappa B and IKK in LPS-stimulated RAW 264.7 mouse macrophages. A lipophilic gold compound, auranofin, suppressed the LPS-induced increase of nuclear kappa B-binding activity, degradation of I kappa B proteins, and IKK activation. Auranofin also blocked IKK activation induced by TNF and PMA/ionomycin, suggesting that the target of auranofin action is common among these diverse signal pathways. In vitro IKK activity was suppressed by addition of hydrophilic gold compounds, such as aurothiomalate, aurothioglucose, and AuCl3. Other thiol-reactive metal ions such as zinc and copper also inhibited IKK activity in vitro, and induction of IKK in LPS-stimulated macrophages. In vitro IKK activity required the presence of reducing agent and was blocked by addition of thiol group-reactive agents. Two catalytic subunits of IKK complex, IKK alpha and IKK beta, were both inhibited by these thiol-modifying agents, suggesting the presence of a cysteine sulfhydryl group in these subunits, which is critical for enzyme activity. The antiinflammatory activity of gold compounds in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis may depend on modification of this thiol group by gold.
To evaluate the antihypertensive efficacy of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) benazepril in combination with AT1 receptor antagonist valsartan and their effect on left ventricular hypertrophy, renin angiotensin aldosterone system (RAAS) and endoxin in spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR).
WKY control group (n = 6) and other 4 groups consisted of 24 SHR (14-week-old, male, n = 6): SHR control group, benazepril group, valsartan group, and combination drug therapy group. Systolic blood pressure (SBP) of SHR was measured at the beginning and at the end of 2, 4, 6, and 8 wk of drug intervention. Morphometric determination, renin activities, angiotensin II (Ang II), endoxin, and ATPase activity analysis were performed at the end of 8 week of drug intervention.
SBP, ratio of left ventricular mass (LVM), body weight (BW) (LVM/BW), and transverse diameter of myocardial cell (TDM) of SHR were remarkably decreased after drug intervention, and this decrease was most remarkable in the combination drug therapy group. Renin activities of plasma and myocardium were remarkably increased in drug intervention groups. The levels of Ang II in plasma and myocardium were remarkably increased in valsartan group, decreased in benazepril group and combination drug therapy group. Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase activities in myocardium were remarkably increased and the level of endoxin in myocardium were remarkably decreased as SBP decreased after drug intervention.
Both benazepril and valsartan can decrease SBP of SHR, and cause regression of ventricular hypertrophy. The efficacy of combination drug therapy group is most remarkable among all groups and avoids the side effects of induction of high Ang II levels in plasma and myocardium caused by long-term use of valsartan alone.
Ablation of isthmus-dependent atrial flutter in patients previously medicated with antiarrhythmic drugs may cause functional isthmus block during ablation, and subsequent discontinuation of therapy may lead to incomplete isthmus block (and recurrence). This may be particularly important if the drugs previously used have long plasma half-lives (and washout periods). The objective of this study was to evaluate whether the recurrence rate of isthmus-dependent atrial flutter was greater in patients previously medicated with antiarrhythmic drugs and whether there were differences in recurrence rate with different types of antiarrhythmic drugs. During a mean follow-up of 20 +/- 7 months, we observed 57 patients with previous successful ablation of isthmus-dependent atrial flutter. This population of patients was divided into three groups according to the type or absence of previous antiarrhythmic drugs: Group 1--n = 18, patients previously medicated with amiodarone; Group 2--n = 27, patients previously medicated with drugs with short plasma half-lives (propafenone; flecainide; beta-blockers); Group 3--patients without previous antiarrhythmic medication. In all 57 patients bidirectional isthmus block was achieved after the ablation procedure; 8 mm non-irrigated tip catheters were used. During follow-up a recurrence rate of 33% was observed in Group 1 (6 recurrences in 18 patients; p < 0.05 in comparison with Groups 2 and 3); 3.7% in Group 2 (1 in 27 patients) and 0% recurrence rate in Group 3. We conclude that in our study the patients previously medicated with amiodarone had a higher recurrence rate of the arrhythmia compared to patients not previously medicated with antiarrhythmic drugs or medicated with antiarrhythmics with short plasma half-lives.
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) is a proinflammatory cytokine that has been implicated in the pathogenesis of heart failure. Prolongation of the action potential duration and downregulation of several K(+) currents might participate in the genesis of arrhythmias associated with chronic heart failure. Little information is available related to the mechanism by which TNF-alpha modulates cardiac K(+) channels. The present study analyzes the effect of TNF-alpha on the transient outward K(+) current (I(to)) in rat ventricular myocytes, using the whole cell patch-clamp technique. We found that TNF-alpha is able to induce a significant reduction of I(to) density, modifies its inactivation, and downregulates the Kv4.2 protein expression, while calcium current density is not affected. We have also demonstrated that the reduction of I(to) density induced by TNF-alpha was prevented by the selective inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) inhibitor 1400-W, the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide, the antioxidant tocopherol, and the superoxide dismutase mimetic manganese(III) tetrakis (4-benzoic acid) porphyrin. In addition, a reduced I(to) density was recorded in ventricular myocytes exposed to peroxynitrite, supporting a possible participation of this oxidant in the effects of TNF-alpha on I(to). We conclude that TNF-alpha exposure, through iNOS induction and generation of oxidant species, promotes electrophysiological changes (decreased I(to) and action potential duration prolongation) in rat ventricular myocytes, providing new insights into how cytokines modulate K(+) channels in the heart.
The aim of this study is to examine the role of autophagy in cell death by using a well-established system in which zVAD, a pan-caspase inhibitor, induces necrotic cell death in L929 murine fibrosarcoma cells. First, we observed the presence of autophagic hallmarks, including an increased number of autophagosomes and the accumulation of LC3-II in zVAD-treated L929 cells. Since the presence of such autophagic hallmarks could be the result of either increased flux of autophagy or blockage of autophagosome maturation (lysosomal fusion and degradation), we next tested the effect of rapamycin, a specific inhibitor for mTOR, and chloroquine, a lysosomal enzyme inhibitor, on zVAD-induced cell death. To our surprise, rapamycin, known to be an autophagy inducer, blocked zVAD-induced cell death, whereas chloroquine greatly sensitized zVAD-induced cell death in L929 cells. Moreover, similar results with rapamycin and chloroquine were also observed in U937 cells when challenged with zVAD. Consistently, induction of autophagy by serum starvation offered significant protection against zVAD-induced cell death, whereas knockdown of Atg5, Atg7 or Beclin 1 markedly sensitized zVAD-induced cell death in L929 cells. More importantly, Atg genes knockdown completely abolished the protective effect of serum starvation on zVAD-induced cell death. Finally, we demonstrated that zVAD was able to inhibit lysosomal enzyme cathepsin B activity, and subsequently blocked autophagosome maturation. Taken together, in contrast to the previous conception that zVAD induces autophagic cell death, here we provide compelling evidence suggesting that autophagy serves as a cell survival mechanism and suppression of autophagy via inhibition of lysosomal function contributes to zVAD-induced necrotic cell death.
The article is a case presentation of Fanconi syndrome in a patient treated with high doses of ifosfamide. ifosfamide nephrotoxicity relates to glomerular and tubular disfunction. Tubular disfunction type 2 (Fanconi Syndrome) is observed most often. In this syndrome hypophosphatemia, hyperphosphaturia, glucosuria, polyuria, aminoaciduria, hypokalemia and tubular acidosis are present. The treatment consists of electrolyte supplementation and acidosis reduction. Nephrotoxicity risk factors are: total ifosfamide doses and age under 3 years. Early diagnosis is possible by estimating b2 microglobulin and retinal binding protein. Normally used parameters of renal function are insufficient.
case report - N. W - 13-year-old patient with a skin's tumour was treated in our clinic. Euro Ewing-99 protocol with 100.8 g/m2 of ifosfamide was applied for 18 months. During treatment serum electrolytes, urea, creatinine and creatinine clearance were normal. 6 months after treatment a metastasis in the lung was detected.
Fanconi Syndrome symptoms were noticed before introduction of chemotherapy. After treatment with small doses of ifosfamide (4.5 g/m2) the disorders became severe. For this reason, nephrotoxic cytostatics were excluded from further treatment, decreasing its efficiency.
1. Renal complications of ifosfamide may appear after treatment completion. Monitoring of renal function parameters is necessary during and after treatment. 2. When protocols with cyclophosphamide (less nephrotoxic than ifosfamide) prove to be of similar efficiency, this treatment could be an alternative for patients' with renal disfunction. 3. Patients with completed ifosfamide treatment shall be qualified for repeated chemotherapy carefully due to high-risk of renal disfunction.
We prospectively evaluated the adverse reactions of apraclonidine in 20 normal volunteers by instilling a single drop of 1% apraclonidine in their right eyes. Examinations, including blood pressure, pulse rate, conjunctiva and cornea, intraocular pressure (IOP), pupil diameter, basal tear secretion and margin reflex distance of both upper and lower eyelids, were performed prior to entry and at 1, 3, 5 and 7 hours after instillation. The ocular hypotensive effects were statistically significant for apraclonidine-treated eyes throughout the study and also statistically significant for contralateral eyes from three hours after topical administration of 1% apraclonidine. Decreases in systolic blood pressure were statistically, but not clinically, significant. No significant changes in diastolic blood pressure, pulse rate and basal tear secretion were noted. Conjunctival blanching and mydriasis were commonly found. Upper lid retraction was frequently noted. While the elevations of the upper lid margin in most subjects were not more than 2 mm and did not cause noticeable change in appearance, one subject suffered from mechanical entropion and marked corneal abrasion 3 hours after instillation of the medication. This may well be a particularly notable finding in Asian people.
To investigate the role of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) in methamphetamine (METH)-induced dopaminergic neurotoxicity, we compared the changes in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and dopamine transporter (DAT) levels in the striatum after repetitive treatment of METH at 4 mg/kg among wild-type, tPA-deficient (tPA-/-), and protease activated receptor-1-deficient (PAR-1-/-) mice. METH treatment caused a marked decrease in TH and DAT levels in the striatum of those mice with a similar magnitude. No difference in METH-induced abnormal behavior and hyperthermia was observed among the three types of mice. These results suggest that neither tPA nor PAR-1 is involved in METH-induced dopaminergic neurotoxicity in vivo.
In the present study, effects of intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injections of dopaminergic and cholinergic agents on morphine-induced amnesia in morphine-sensitized mice were investigated by using a one-trial passive avoidance task. Amnesia induced by pre-training morphine was significantly reversed in morphine-sensitized mice, which had previously received once daily injections of morphine (20 and 30 mg/kg, s.c.) for 3 days. Three daily injections of SKF 38393 (1, 2 and 4 g/mouse, i.c.v.) or SCH 23390 (0.25, 0.5, 0.75 and 1 g/mouse, i.c.v.) before morphine, and during morphine-sensitization, decreased and increased the amnesia induced by pre-training morphine respectively. Three daily injections of quinpirole (0.3, 1 and 3 g/mouse, i.c.v.) or sulpiride (0.03, 0.1, 0.3 and 1 g/mouse, i.c.v.) before morphine, also decreased and increased the amnesia induced by pre-training morphine respectively. Morphine-sensitized mice received similar injections of cholinergic agents. Three daily injections of physostigmine (1, 3 and 5 g/mouse, i.c.v.) or atropine (1, 4 and 7 g/mouse, i.c.v.) before morphine, and during morphine-sensitization, decreased and increased the amnesia induced by pre-training morphine respectively. Three daily injections of nicotine (0.75, 1 and 2 g/mouse, i.c.v.) or mecamylamine (1, 3 and 6 g/mouse, i.c.v.) before morphine, also decreased and increased the amnesia induced by pre-training morphine respectively. The results suggest that morphine sensitization affects the impairment of memory formation and thus it is postulated that central dopaminergic and cholinergic systems may play an important role in this effect.
To determine the time course and the cellular sources of interleukin (IL)-6 in the bladder during experimental cystitis, the expression of the IL-6 gene and IL-6 protein was examined in the bladder during cyclophosphamide (CP)-induced cystitis.
Mice were killed at 0, 1, 2, 6, 12 and 48 h after the intraperitoneal administration of 0.9% saline containing either CP (200 mg/kg) or saline. The expression of IL-6 gene and IL-6 protein were detected using in situ hybridization histochemistry and immunocytochemistry, respectively.
In situ hybridization histochemistry showed that IL-6 gene expression was significantly up-regulated in the bladder at 1 h in comparison to that at 0 h after CP administration. The levels of IL-6 gene expression peaked at 6 h after CP administration and then declined thereafter. In contrast, only a few IL-6 transcripts were expressed in the bladder but they remained unchanged following the administration of saline at all time points examined. The IL-6 transcripts were predominantly distributed in the perivascular area of the submucosal layers during CP-induced cystitis. Immunocytochemistry demonstrated IL-6 immunoreactivity in the spindle-shaped cells located in the vicinity of the dilated vessels of the submucosal layers during CP-induced cystitis.
IL-6 gene expression was up-regulated in the submucosal layer of the bladder and peaked at 6 h after CP administration, suggesting that the primary source of IL-6 may be fibroblasts in the bladder during CP-induced cystitis.
Epicardial antiarrhythmic drug administration was studied as a therapeutic approach for experimental ventricular tachycardia (VT) in an open-chest dog model. Lidocaine-polyurethane matrices (28%, w/w) were formulated as a model system. Matrices were placed on the left ventricular epicardium in each of 23 anesthetized open-chest dogs with ouabain-induced VT, to evaluate effectiveness in restoring sinus rhythm. Conversion occurred in all animals treated with matrices containing 300 mg or more of lidocaine after 1.5 to 7.0 min. The matrix lidocaine content correlated linearly with the time required for conversion to sinus rhythm (r = 0.75, P = 0.0002); irrespective of matrix size the myocardial/plasma lidocaine ratio was 20.1 +/- 4.2 (mean +/- SD) at the time of conversion. In a separate series of five dogs without ventricular tachycardia, systolic wall thickening measured with sonomicrometers after 5 min of controlled-release lidocaine administration (500- to 1000-mg matrix lidocaine content, 7.48 +/- 3.49-mg/kg dose) was only minimally diminished (-14.1%) and this effect was observed only at the site of matrix placement on the anterior-apical epicardium. In contrast, intracoronary injection of 0.3 or 1.0 mg/kg of lidocaine-HCl resulted in complete elimination of wall thickening or replacement by systolic thinning. Thus epicardial administration of lidocaine from polyurethane matrices was an effective means of treating ouabain-induced ventricular tachycardia. Regional myocardial function in the vicinity of the matrices was modified to a very limited degree, supporting the view that the matrices can be used safely, without serious risk to ventricular contractile performance.
Repro34 is an N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU)-induced mutation in mice showing male-specific infertility caused by defective spermatogenesis. In the present study, we investigated pathogenesis and molecular lesions in relation to spermatogenesis in the repro34/repro34 homozygous mouse. Histological examination of the testis showed that the seminiferous epithelium of the repro34/repro34 mouse contained spermatogonia and spermatocytes but no round and elongating spermatids. Instead of these haploid cells, multinucleated giant cells occupied the niche of the seminiferous tubules. Immunohistochemical staining for Hsc70t, an elongating spermatid specific protein, confirmed the absence of elongating spermatids. Furthermore, RT-PCR showed that there were significantly reduced expressions of the marker genes specifically expressed in the spermatid and that there was no difference in the expressions of the spermatocyte specific marker genes. These findings indicated interruption of the spermatogenesis during transition from the spermatocyte to spermatid in the repro34/repro34 mouse. The repro34 locus has been mapped on a 7.0-Mb region of mouse chromosome 5 containing the Syntaxin 2/Epimorphin (Stx2/Epim) gene, and targeted disruption of this gene has been reported to cause defective spermatogenesis. We therefore sequenced the entire coding region of the Stx2/Epim gene and found a nucleotide substitution that results in a nonsense mutation of this gene. The expression pattern of the Stx2/Epim gene during the first wave of spermatogenesis, increased expression at later stages of spermatogenesis, was in agreement with the affected phase of spermatogenesis in the adult repro34/repro34 testis. We therefore concluded that the male infertility of the repro34/repro34 mouse is caused by the interruption of spermatogenesis during transition from the spermatocyte to spermatid and that the nonsense mutation of the Stx2/Epim gene is responsible for the interruption of spermatogenesis.
Infant rats with bacteremia and meningitis induced by ampicillin-resistant Haemophilus influenzae type b were treated with ampicillin and nafcillin, alone or in combination. Neither ampicillin alone (in 19 animals) nor nafcillin alone (in 20 animals) sterilized the blood or cerebrospinal fluid of any treated infant rat. When the combination of ampicillin and nafcillin was used, blood cultures were negative in 18 of 19 infant rats, and cerebrospinal fluid cultures were sterile in 15 of 19 when cultured 30 h after initiation of treatment. In vitro results demonstrated definite synergism between ampicillin and nafcillin against ampicillin-resistant H. influenzae type b. The study suggests that such synergism also exists in vivo.
Targeting drugs to the heart by intrapericardial (i.p.c.) delivery may be a promising strategy to obtain higher drug efficiencies with lesser side effects. We examined whether i.p.c. delivery of sotalol and atenolol in rats offers advantages over intravenous (i.v.) application. Following sustained IPC infusion of sotalol or atenolol, pericardial fluid levels exceeded plasma levels 97 and 134 times respectively (P < 0.01) resulting in 3.8 and 4.7 times higher overall left ventricular tissue drug levels (P < 0.05). In a second experiment, the effects of the i.p.c. or i.v. beta-blocker infusions on nitroprusside-induced tachycardia were studied in conscious rats. For both drugs, i.p.c. infusion of 0.03 mg/kg.h produced similar antitachycardiac effects as the 1 mg/kg.h i.v. dose. In a third set of studies, dP/dt max challenged by dobutamine infusion was assessed to study ventricular contractile function after i.v. and i.p.c. sotalol in anesthetized rats. i.p.c. sotalol infusion attenuated the dobutamine response curve to a greater extent than i.v. (P < 0.01). In conclusion, i.p.c. infusion of sotalol and atenolol results in high cardiac tissue concentrations with low systemic drug levels. Similar antitachycardiac effects can be obtained at a 10- to 30-fold lower dose compared with i.v. delivery. Also, depression of ventricular contractility is acquired at a substantially lower i.p.c. sotalol dose. Thus, beta-blocking properties of sotalol and atenolol can be greatly enhanced by applying them i.p.c.
Besides being an invaluable marker of clonal disease in chronic myeloproliferative disorders (CMPDs), the JAK2 V617F mutation and the mutated allele burden have an impact on disease phenotype and may provide information on prognosis. Recently, hydroxyurea (HU) has been shown to induce a rapid decline in the JAK2 V617F allele burden. The aim of the present study was to assess the dynamics of the JAK2 V617F allele burden during long-term treatment with HU in a series of patients with CMPDs. The JAK2 V617F allele burden was determined by quantitative PCR in 24 patients of whom 17 received HU, four received anagrelide and three were followed without any cytoreductive therapy. During a median follow-up of 24.2 months, no significant reductions in the JAK2 V617F allele burden were seen in patients treated with HU. We conclude that HU has only a limited effect on the JAK2 V617F allele burden in CMPD.
To observe the role of interleukin (IL)-6 in the development of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE).
DA rats were immunized by injecting bovine myelin basic protein (MBP). mRNA of cytokines, such as IL-6, IL-10, TNF-alpha, TGF-beta 1, IFN-gamma, and iNOS, were detected by RT-PCR. MBP was injected into ear to induce delayed type cutaneous hypersensitivity response (DTH). Histological studies were performed on the spinal cord with HE staining. Nitric oxide (NO) production from cultured murine macrophage clones was stimulated with LPS plus IFN-gamma.
DA rats developed EAE disease with a peak of severity on d 13 and d 14. Am-80 (1.0, 3.0 mg/kg), a selective IL-6 inhibitor, inhibited the symptoms in terms of deterioration as observed by the clinical score, body weight and histological findings, in a dose-related manner. A high dose of Am-80 (3.0 mg/kg for 12 d) did not completely inhibit the disease, but delayed the symptoms and enhanced the delayed response. By prolonging the duration of treatment (18 d), Am-80 inhibited the onset of EAE during administration, but the symptoms of EAE appeared after the administration was stopped. Am-80 administerd for 12 d inhibited the DTH response on d 11 but not on d 22. RT-PCR studies demonstrated a strong expression of IFN-gamma, IL-6, IL-10, TGF-beta 1, TNF-alpha, and iNOS mRNA in spinal cord 13 d after immunization. However IFN-gamma, IL-10, TNF-alpha, and iNOS mRNA expression (on d 13) was suppressed by Am-80, except in the case of IL-6, hence the effect of Am-80 on the expression of IL-6 mRNA was examined in additional experiments. After Am-80 was administered for 12 d or 18 d, the expression of IL-6 mRNA was inhibited on d 12 or d 18, but increased on d 13 or d 19, respectively.
These findings suggest that inhibition of EAE by Am-80 is initiated by inhibition of IL-6 production.
Hyperlipidemia is a major risk factor for coronary heart disease and has emerged as an important public health problem. Lipidomics is a powerful technology for assessment of global lipid metabolites in a biological system and for biomarker discovery. In the present study, hyperlipidemia was induced by feeding rats a high fat diet. A sensitive ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled with quadrupole time-of-flight synapt high-definition mass spectrometry method was used for the analysis of plasma lipids. Orthogonal partial least squares-discriminant analysis, correlation analysis and heatmap analysis were performed to investigate the metabolic changes in rats with diet-induced hyperlipidemia. Potential biomarkers were detected using S-plot and were identified by accurate mass data, isotopic pattern and MS(E) fragments information. Significantly increased total cholesterol, triglycerides and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol as well as decreased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol were observed in diet-induced hyperlipidemic rats. Combined with standard serum biochemical results, significant differences in plasma lipid compounds including eleven glycerophospholipids, six fatty acids, two sphingolipids, one eicosanoid, one sterol lipid and one glycerolipid were observed, highlighting the perturbation of lipid metabolism in diet-induced hyperlipidemia. These findings provide further insights into the lipid profile across a wide range of biochemical pathways in diet-induced hyperlipidemia.
This study was performed (1) to assess the efficacy and safety of verapamil in patients with variant angina, and (2) to compare verapamil and nifedipine in patients with this clinical syndrome. In 27 patients, placebo and verapamil were administered in a long-term randomized, and double-blind study of 9 months' duration. In comparison to placebo, verapamil reduced the frequency of angina, nitroglycerin usage, transient episodes of electrocardiographic S-T segment deviation (as assessed by 2-channel Holter monitoring), and hospitalizations required for clinical instability. Subsequently, 23 patients were treated with nifedipine in a nonblind fashion for 2 months, and this agent exerted a beneficial effect similar to that of verapamil. Finally, gated equilibrium blood pool scintigraphy, performed in 10 patients at rest and during exercise during treatment with placebo, verapamil, and nifedipine, demonstrated that neither calcium antagonist caused a deterioration of left ventricular performance. Thus, (1) long-term oral verapamil and nifedipine are each superior to placebo and are of similar efficacy in patients with variant angina, and (2) neither agent adversely influences left ventricular performance in patients with relatively normal left ventricular function.
British HIV Association (BHIVA) guidelines are updated on a regular basis with emergence of new clinical evidence. In June 2003, the BHIVA guidelines recommended that stavudine (D4T)-containing regimens are less preferred if other viable options are available. A retrospective analysis was conducted to establish whether local prescribing practice reflects national guidance offered by BHIVA. This study identifies 28 patients on D4T combinations, which represents 2% of the total treated group in our clinic population. In all, 89% (25/28) of patients had a viral load of <50 copies/mL and CD4 counts ranged from 122 to 1016 cells/mm(3). In this study, 12/28 patients had documented lipodystrophy. Seventeen out of 28 patients had no clear documented reasons for remaining on D4T, eight patients preferred to continue and three patients continued because of genotypic findings. This study shows that a small proportion of patients are still on D4T-containing regimen for the following reason - patient's choice, side-effects, toxicities and interaction. The majority of patients remaining on D4T had documented lipodystrophy changes. Therefore, clinicians continuing to prescribe D4T should document the precise reason for its continued use. If patients prefer to continue D4T, this should be well documented to circumvent any medicolegal consequences, should toxicity develop later.
We present a case of oral ulceration in a patient with essential thrombocythaemia, that proved to be secondary to treatment with hydroxyurea. This complication has not yet been reported in the ENT literature. Hydroxyurea should be considered as a possible cause of persistent oral ulceration in patients with haematological conditions. It should be noted that the onset of this complication is not related to the dose and duration of therapy.
