Vitamin D has gained attention for its pleiotropic effects in areas other than bone metabolism, and the effects of vitamin D in preventing respiratory infections have been reported as one of its immunomodulating properties. This study assessed the preventive effect of vitamin D receptor activator (VDRA) on respiratory infections in dialysis patients.
Maintained Japanese hemodialysis patients (n = 508) were observed for 5 years, and the incidence of hospitalization during this period because of acute respiratory infection (ARI) was recorded.
Of the 508 patients, 212 had taken oral VDRA at the start of the study, whereas 296 patients had not received it. During the 5-year follow-up period, 57 patients were hospitalized because of ARIs. Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed that the incidence of hospitalization because of respiratory infection was significantly lower in patients who had been treated with VDRA compared with patients who had not (log rank test; P = 0.02). The multivariate Cox proportional hazards model demonstrated that the patients who had taken oral VDRA were at a significantly lower risk of hospitalization because of respiratory disease (hazard ratio 0.47, 95% confidence interval 0.25 to 0.90).
The findings of this study suggest that the administration of oral VDRA has a preventive effect on the incidence of ARIs in dialysis patients.
The clinical use of doxorubicin, an anthracycline chemotherapeutic agent, is limited by cardiotoxicity, particularly when combined with herceptin, an antibody that blocks the HER2 receptor. Doxorubicin induces cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) activity in rat neonatal cardiomyocytes. This expression of COX-2 limits doxorubicin-induced cardiac cell injury, raising the possibility that the administration of a prostaglandin may protect the heart during the in vivo administration of doxorubicin. Doxorubicin (15 mg/kg) administered to adult male Sprague Dawley rats induced COX-2 expression and activity in cardiac tissue. Prostacyclin generation measured as the excretion of 2,3-dinor-6-keto-PGF(1alpha) also increased, and this was blocked by a COX-2 inhibitor, SC236. In contrast, administration of a COX-1 inhibitor SC560 at a dose that reduced serum thromboxane B2 by more than 80% did not prevent the doxorubicin-induced increase in prostacyclin generation. Doxorubicin increased cardiac injury, detected as a rise in plasma cardiac troponin T, serum lactate dehydrogenase, and cardiomyocyte apoptosis; this was aggravated by coadministration of SC236 but not SC560. The degree of injury in animals treated with a combination of doxorubicin and SC236 was attenuated by prior administration of the prostacyclin analogue iloprost. These data raise the possibility of protecting the heart during the administration of doxorubicin by prior administration of prostacyclin.
The ultrastructural examination of liver biopsies from five male cocaine users showed hepatocytes presenting diverse alterations in rough and smooth endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondria, nuclei and microvilli. Lipid deposition and an increase of autophagic vacuoles were also observed. This study demonstrates that the hepatocyte is an important target cell for cocaine toxic effects in some patients.
Gene therapy has become an important tool for understanding several cardiovascular diseases. In the present study we investigated the effects of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) overexpression on renovascular hypertension. Experiments were carried out in C57BL/6 mice randomly assigned to either a two-kidney one-clip (2K1C) hypertension group or a sham-operated group. At the same time surgery was carried out, both 2K1C and sham mice received an intravenous injection of recombinant adenovirus expressing the functional gene eNOS or the reporter gene beta-galactosidase (beta-gal). Fourteen days later, arterial pressure, baroreflex sensitivity, and cardiac sympathetic and parasympathetic tone were evaluated in conscious mice. Measurement of mean arterial pressure showed arterial hypertension in 2K1C-betagal mice compared with sham-betagal mice (121 +/- 3 vs. 96 +/- 2 mm Hg, p < 0.01), which was prevented by eNOS overexpression (2K1C-eNOS 100 +/- 4 vs. sham-eNOS 99 +/- 3 mm Hg). Linear regression analysis of the reflex tachycardia response to sodium nitroprusside-induced hypotension showed that baroreflex sensitivity was significantly attenuated in 2K1C-betagal mice (5.8 +/- 0.5 vs. sham-betagal 8.0 +/- 0.8 beats.min-1 x mm Hg-1, p < 0.05), but this decrease was not prevented by eNOS overexpression (2K1C-eNOS 7.2 +/- 0.5 vs. sham-eNOS 8.8 +/- 0.7 beats x min-1 x mm Hg-1, p < 0.05). The cardiac sympathetic tone was augmented and the vagal tone was reduced in 2K1C-betagal (152 +/- 17 and 45 +/- 12 beats.min-1, respectively) compared with sham-betagal mice (112 +/- 6 and 89 +/- 7 beats.min-1, respectively), and similar results were observed in 2K1C-eNOS mice compared with sham-eNOS. The data indicate that eNOS overexpression was able to prevent the development of 2K1C renovascular hypertension in mice, without affecting other characteristic cardiovascular dysfunctions.
To study patient compliance in hypertensive outpatients amlodipine (5 mg once daily) and slow release nifedipine (20 mg twice daily) were compared in an open, crossover study in general practices. Four methods of assessment for patient compliance (pill count, taking compliance, days with correct dosing, timing compliance) were used in both study arms. For the latter three assessment a special device, the medication event monitoring system, was used to record the time and date of each opening and closure of the container. The compliance of the 320 hypertensive patients with once-daily amlodipine was markedly superior to twice-daily slow release nifedipine. Therapeutic coverage was also significantly better for amlodipine in the hypertensive patients. Amlodipine was better tolerated than nifedipine slow release. Patient compliance and therapeutic coverage with the calcium antagonist amlodipine given once daily was superior to slow release nifedipine b.d. in hypertensive outpatients recruited in general practice.
This study was conducted to assess the safety and tolerability of the alternative formulation vehicles polysorbate 80 (PS80), propylene glycol (PG), and hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin (HPβCD) in general toxicology studies in the mouse, rat, dog, and monkey. Twenty (20) mg/kg of hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (MC, control), 10 mg/kg PS80, 1000 mg/kg PG, 500 mg/kg HPβCD, or 1000 mg/kg HPβCD were administered by oral gavage to mice, rats, dogs, and cynomolgus monkeys for approximately 90 days. The effects of these formulations on clinical observations, body weight and food consumption parameters, clinical pathology, and histopathology were evaluated across all species. The suitability of formulations containing up to 20 mg/kg MC, 10 mg/kg PS80, and 1000 mg/kg PG for use in preclinical safety studies was confirmed by a lack of effects on all parameters examined. However, formulations containing HPβCD produced elevated transaminase (aspartate and alanine aminotransferase) levels in rats and mice and fecal changes (loose and soft stool) in large animals. Although the etiology and toxicological significance of the transaminase elevations in rats and mice is uncertain, this finding could represent a significant liability for a preclinical formulation because of the critical importance of these biomarkers in the risk assessment of novel therapeutic agents. Based on these data, PS80 and PG are considered to be practical alternatives to MC in preclinical toxicology studies. However, formulations containing HPβCD should be used with caution because of the elevations in rodent transaminase levels.
Many volatile organic compounds (VOCs) are found in indoor environment as products of microbial metabolism. In damp indoor environments, fungi are associated with poor air quality. Some epidemiological studies have suggested that microbial VOCs have a negative impact on human health. Our study was designed to provide a reductionist approach toward studying fungal VOC-mediated toxicity using the inexpensive model organism, Drosophila melanogaster, and pure chemical standards of several important fungal VOCs. Low concentrations of the following known fungal VOCs, 0.1% of 1-octen-3-ol and 0.5% of 2-octanone; 2,5 dimethylfuran; 3-octanol; and trans-2-octenal, caused locomotory defects and changes in green fluorescent protein (GFP)- and antigen-labeled dopaminergic neurons in adult D. melanogaster. Locomotory defects could be partially rescued with L-DOPA. Ingestion of the antioxidant, vitamin E, improved the survival span and delayed the VOC-mediated changes in dopaminergic neurons, indicating that the VOC-mediated toxicity was due, in part, to generation of reactive oxygen species.
A follow-up study was made on 200 children (115 boys, 85 girls) who had had infantile spasms, in order to compare their present condition over the age of six years with various prognostic factors. 48 of the children (30 males and 18 females) had died, and all the rest were aged six years or older at the time of final follow-up. 139 of the children had received ACTH therapy: at final follow-up, spasms had ceased in 43.5 per cent, and about the same proportion showed normal physical development; 23 per cent had normal mental development and 15.4 per cent were attending ordinary schools. Complete recovery (normal mental and physical development and attending ordinary schools) was achieved in only 19 cases (9.5 per cent). Of the cryptogenic cases, 44.4 per cent had made a full recovery. The poor prognostic factors for continuing seizures were evolution into other types of fits, relapse of seizures after ACTH therapy, seizures concomitant with spasms, and convulsions before the onset of spasms. Poor prognostic factors for physical development were delayed development before the onset of spasms, neurological abnormalities, PEG abnormality, symptomatic aetiology, neonatal convulsions, low birthweight, perinatal asphyxia and being female. Poor prognostic factors for mental development were delayed development before the onset of spasms, neurological abnormalities, PEG abnormality, prenatal and perinatal aetiology, relapse after initial ACTH therapy, laughing attacks, and evolution into other types of fits. Only in the cryptogenic cases was there significant correlation between the delay in treatment and the long-term prognosis for mental development. Poor prognostic factors for educability were very similar to those for mental development. In spite of conflicting views as to the long-term effects of ACTH, prompt treatment seems to be mandatory, at least in cryptogenic cases of infantile spasms.
Clozapine is the first choice antipsychotic medication for treatment-refractory schizophrenia; however, there are some disadvantages in using clozapine. A few reports have appeared concerning switching from clozapine to other antipsychotics for treatment-refractory schizophrenia. This report describes the case of a 58-year-old female patient with treatment-refractory schizophrenia who was successfully switched from clozapine 300 mg/day to aripiprazole 20 mg/day because of changes in consciousness. After the switch to aripiprazole, the patient's psychotic condition improved. As expected, we identified few successful cases of switches from clozapine in our search of the literature. Although controlled clinical trial data support use of clozapine in treatment-refractory schizophrenia, some patients cannot tolerate this agent or it may increase the risk of physical problems for some patients. In such situations, clinicians may want to consider prescribing a different antipsychotic or adding another antipsychotic and decreasing the dosage of clozapine.
Inhibitor-of-apoptosis (IAP) proteins suppress apoptosis and are overexpressed in a variety of cancers. Small-molecule IAP antagonists are currently being tested in clinical trials as novel cancer therapeutics. GDC-0152 is a small-molecule drug that triggers tumor cell apoptosis by selectively antagonizing IAPs. GDC-0152 induces NF-κB transcriptional activity leading to expression of several chemokines and cytokines, of which tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) is the most important for single-agent tumor activity. TNF-α is a pleiotropic cytokine that drives a variety of cellular responses, comprising inflammation, proliferation, and cell survival or death depending on the cellular context. As malignant and normal cells produce TNF-α upon IAP antagonism, increased TNF-α could drive both efficacy and toxicity. The toxicity profile of GDC-0152 in dogs and rats was characterized after iv dose administration once every 2 weeks for four doses. Findings in both species consisted of a dose-related, acute, systemic inflammatory response, and hepatic injury. Laboratory findings included elevated plasma cytokines, an inflammatory leukogram, and increased liver transaminases with histopathological findings of inflammatory infiltrates and apoptosis/necrosis in multiple tissues; a toxicology profile consistent with TNF-α-mediated toxicity. Dogs exhibited more severe findings than rats, and humans did not exhibit these findings, at comparable exposures across species. Furthermore, elevations in blood neutrophil count, serum monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, and other markers of inflammation corresponded to GDC-0152 exposure and toxicity and thus may have utility as safety biomarkers.
Levodopa is recommended as a therapeutic approach for patients with the hypokinetic-rigid, Westphal variant of Huntington's disease, but no guidelines are available for the case of nonrespondence to levodopa. In this study, however, we report a 34-year-old woman with this rare variant who showed a clear-cut improvement in motor function and depressive symptoms after treatment with pramipexole, a new dopamine agonist.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma), a member of the nuclear receptor superfamily, has been detected in several human leukemia cells. Recent studies reported that PPARgamma ligands inhibit cell proliferation and induce apoptosis in both normal and malignant B-lineage cells. We investigated the expression of PPARgamma and the effects of PPARgamma ligands on UTree-O2, Bay91 and 380, three B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) cell lines with t(14;18), which show a poor prognosis, accompanying c-myc abnormality. Western blot analysis identified expression of PPARgamma protein and real-time PCR that of PPARgamma mRNA on the three cell lines. Troglitazone (TGZ), a synthetic PPARgamma ligand, inhibited cell growth in these cell lines in a dose-dependent manner, which was associated with G(1) cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. We also found this effect PPARgamma independent since PPARgamma antagonists failed to reverse this effect. We assessed the expression of c-myc, an apoptosis-regulatory gene, since c-myc abnormality was detected in most B-ALL cells with t(14;18). TGZ was found to dose-dependently downregulate the expression of c-myc mRNA and c-myc protein in the three cell lines. These results suggest that TGZ inhibits cell growth via induction of G(1) cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in these cell lines and that TGZ-induced apoptosis, at least in part, may be related to the downregulation of c-myc expression. Moreover, the downregulation of c-myc expression by TGZ may depend on a PPARgamma-independent mechanism. Further studies indicate that PPARgamma ligands may serve as a therapeutic agent in B-ALL with t(14;18).
Erlotinib (Tarceva) is a potent epidermal growth factor receptor (HER1) inhibitor. Infusional 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), leucovorin, and oxaliplatin (FOLFOX) is a standard therapy for colorectal cancer. This trial assessed the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), safety, preliminary efficacy, and pharmacokinetics of erlotinib combined with FOLFOX.
Patients with advanced solid tumors were sequentially enrolled into three cohorts (cohort 1: 100 mg/d erlotinib, 65 mg/m(2) oxaliplatin, 200 mg/m(2) leucovorin, 400 mg/m(2) bolus 5-FU, and 400 mg/m(2) continuous infusion 5-FU; cohort 2: oxaliplatin increased to 85 mg/m(2) and 5-FU infusion increased to 600 mg/m(2); and cohort 3: erlotinib increased to 150 mg/d).
Thirty-two patients were enrolled (23 with colorectal cancer): no dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) were observed in cohort 1. In cohort 2, two of nine patients experienced a DLT (both diarrhea). In cohort 3, two of nine patients had a DLT (diarrhea and staphylococcal septicemia). Cohort 3 determined the MTD cohort and expanded to 17 patients in total. The most common adverse events were diarrhea, nausea, stomatitis, and rash (primarily mild/moderate). No pharmacokinetics interactions were observed. One patient (colorectal cancer) had a complete response, seven patients had a partial response, and nine had stable disease.
The MTD was defined as follows: 150 mg/d erlotinib, 85 mg/m(2) oxaliplatin; 200 mg/m(2) leucovorin, 400 mg/m(2) bolus 5-FU, and 600 mg/m(2) infusion 5-FU. At the MTD, the combination was well tolerated and showed antitumor activity, warranting further investigation in patients with advanced colorectal cancer and other solid tumors.
A human immunodeficiency virus-positive patient receiving indinavir therapy developed a slowly progressive paraparesis. Magnetic resonance imaging findings were consistent with epidural lipomatosis. On discontinuing indinavir, symptoms gradually remitted. Although indinavir, a protease inhibitor, is known to cause abnormal fat accumulation, to the best of our knowledge this is the first report of epidural lipomatosis.
The effect of acute and chronic treatment of rats with IPF C-45 on the following biochemical and pharmacological parameters was tested: catecholamine concentration in brain, heart and adrenals, 3H-noradrenaline uptake by cardiac muscle, the action on catecholamine synthesis following treatment with alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine, reactivity of cardiovascular system to catecholamines and isoproterenol-induced tachycardia. Given chronically, IPF C-45 does not affect noradrenaline uptake by the cardiac muscle. Both chronic and acute administration of the drug decelerates catecholamine biosynthesis by inhibition of tyrosine hydroxylase activity. It seems that the action of IPF C-45, a benzonaphthyridone derivative, affects catecholamine metabolism in a manner distinctly different from that of tricyclic antidepressant drugs.
Albuterol is an effective treatment for hyperkalemia through beta-adrenergic induction of potassium (K+) uptake. Levalbuterol, the R-enantiomer of racemic albuterol, is used for the treatment of asthma and 0.63 mg of levalbuterol has the same therapeutic efficacy as 2.5 mg of albuterol but with a decreased adverse effects profile. We hypothesized that levalbuterol can reduce serum K+ levels similarly to albuterol when used in equipotent doses. In a randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled prospective study, we compared the K+-lowering effects of nebulized saline and equipotent bronchodilatory doses of albuterol (10 mg) and levalbuterol (2.5 mg) in healthy adult volunteers. Nine subjects entered each of the three study groups. Serum K+ was measured at baseline, at 30 min (immediately after treatment), at 60 min, and at 90 min. All adverse effects were recorded. The three groups had similar baseline K+ values. Immediately after nebulization, only levalbuterol showed a significant decrease in potassium level (p = 0.024). At 30 and 60 min after treatment, both albuterol and levalbuterol groups had significantly lower K+ values compared to placebo. No significant difference occurred between the albuterol and levalbuterol groups. Levalbuterol caused fewer reported adverse effects compared to albuterol.
Molecularly engineered mice are extensively used as models of cardiovascular diseases, yet little is known about sex differences in the electrophysiology of mouse hearts.
This study investigated the influence of sex on drug-induced polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (PVT) in Langendorff-perfused male and female mice hearts (n=54) by injecting a bolus of halothane (1.75 mmol/L) in the perfusate while recording ECGs or optical action potentials (APs). There were no statistically significant differences between male and female hearts (n=54) with respect to mean RR (193+/-5 ms), PR (47+/-1 ms), QT intervals (101+/-3 ms), optical AP durations (APD(75)=23.11+/-4.2 ms), dispersion of refractory periods, and conduction velocities (n=5 male and 5 female). Halothane induced PVTs lasting a mean duration of 90 seconds; in female hearts, 55% of PVTs lasted longer than the median, whereas in male hearts 17% exceeded the mean (P<0.05). The total duration of PVTs exposed a marked sex difference, 378+/-144 seconds in female versus 27+/-10 seconds in male hearts (P<0.05). In optically mapped male hearts, halothane reduced APD(75) (17.61+/-1.6 ms) and then elicited VTs (n=6 of 6), but in female hearts, halothane elicited PVTs (n=1 of 6) or arrested the hearts (n=5 of 6). Except for KCNE1, Northern blots (KCNQ1, MERG, Kv1.5, connexins 40 and 43, TREK1, and TASK1) did not detect sex differences.
This mouse model reveals sex difference in response to a pharmacological challenge yet does not display sex differences in standard electrophysiological parameters. Differences in KCNE1 may contribute to sex differences uncovered by halothane.
In chronic renal failure (CRF), phosphate (Pi) retention may lead to secondary hyperparathyroidism and progression to end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Dietary phosphorus restriction or phosphate binders can slow progression in experimental CRF. Conversely, diets high in phosphorus can accelerate the progression toward ESRD. Phosphate binders reduce intestinal Pi absorption but have no effect on its renal excretion. Phosphonoformic acid (PFA, foscarnet) is a specific inhibitor of both intestinal and renal brush border Na(+)-Pi cotransport. It causes phosphaturia when administered parenterally or orally to rats. To determine the effect of oral PFA on renal function and on phosphate excretion in renal insufficiency, PFA was administered in drinking water to rats with CRF produced by 5/6th nephrectomy. Blood and 24-h urine collections were performed every 2 weeks for determination of plasma Pi and creatinine concentrations, urinary protein excretion, and urinary creatinine and Pi clearances. PFA, administered for 8 weeks, did not exert any adverse effects on any of the measured parameters. The slopes of the reciprocal of plasma creatinine versus time were not different between control and PFA-treated rats. Although PFA increased Pi excretion over the baseline, it had no persistent effect on plasma Pi concentrations under these experimental conditions.
Prenatal arsenic exposure accelerates atherosclerosis in ApoE(-/-) mice by unknown mechanism. Arsenic is a hepatotoxicant, and liver disease increases atherosclerosis risk. Prenatal arsenic exposure may predispose to liver disease by priming for susceptibility to other environmental insults. Earlier microarray analyses showed prenatal arsenic exposure increased Hsc70 (HspA8) and Hsp70 (HspA1a) mRNAs in livers of 10-week-old mice. We determined effects of prenatal arsenic exposure on hepatic Hsp70 and Hsc70 expression by Western blot and on DNA methylation by methyl acceptance assay during prenatal and postnatal development. Pregnant ApoE(-/-) mice were given drinking water containing 85 mg/l NaAsO(2) (49 ppm arsenic) from gestation day (GD) 8 to 18. Hsp70 and Hsc70 expression and DNA methylation were determined in GD18 fetuses and 3-, 10-, and 24-week-old mice. Hsc70 expression was unchanged at all ages. Hsp70 induction was observed at 3 and 10 weeks, but was unchanged in GD18 fetuses and 24-week livers of mice. Global DNA methylation increased with age; arsenic had no effects. Bisulfite sequencing of DNA from livers of 10-week-old mice showed Hsp70 promoter region methylation was unchanged, but methylation was increased within the transcribed region. Hsf1 and Nrf2 nuclear translocation were investigated as potential mechanisms of Hsp70 induction and found unaltered. Putative binding sites were identified in HSP70 for in utero arsenic exposure-suppressed microRNAs suggesting a possible mechanism. Thus, prenatal arsenic exposure causes delayed temporal hepatic Hsp70 induction, suggesting a transient state of stress in livers which can predispose the mice to developing liver disease.
Three anatase titanium dioxide (TiO(2)) nanoparticles (NPs) were prepared; nanospheres (NSs), short nanobelts (NB1), and long nanobelts (NB2). These NPs were used to investigate the effect of NP shape and length on lung toxicity. Mice were exposed (0-30 µg per mouse) by pharyngeal aspiration and pulmonary toxicity was assessed over a 112-day time course. Whole lung lavage data indicated that NB1- and NB2-exposed mice, but not NS-exposed mice, had significant dose- and time-dependent pulmonary inflammation and damage. Histopathological analyses at 112 days postexposure determined no interstitial fibrosis in any NS-exposed mice, an increased incidence in 30 µg NB1-exposed mice, and significant interstitial fibrosis in 30 µg NB2-exposed mice. At 112 days postexposure, lung burden of NS was decreased by 96.4% and NB2 by 80.5% from initial deposition levels. At 112 days postexposure, enhanced dark field microscopy determined that alveolar macro- phages were the dominant deposition site, but a fraction of NB1 and NB2 was observed in the alveolar interstitial spaces. For the 30 µg exposure groups at 112 days postexposure, confocal micro- scopy and immunofluorescent staining demonstrated that retained NB2 but not NS were present in the interstitium subjacent to the terminal bronchiole near the normal location of the smallest lymphatic capillaries in the lung. These lymphatic capillaries play a critical role in particle clearance, and the accumulation of NB2, but not NS, suggests possible impaired lymphatic clearance by the high aspect ratio particles. In summary, our data indicate that TiO(2) NP shape alters pulmonary responses, with severity of responses being ranked as NS < NB1 < NB2.
Cholestasis has limited therapeutic options and is associated with high morbidity and mortality. The A(1) adenosine receptor (A(1)AR) was postulated to participate in the pathogenesis of hepatic fibrosis induced by experimental extrahepatic cholestasis; however, the contribution of A(1)AR to intrahepatic cholestatic liver injury remains unknown. Here, we found that mice lacking A(1)AR were resistant to alpha-naphthyl isothiocyanate (ANIT)-induced liver injury, as evidenced by lower serum liver enzyme levels and reduced extent of histological necrosis. Bile acid accumulation in liver and serum was markedly diminished in A(1)AR(-/-) mice compared with wild-type (WT) mice. However, biliary and urinary outputs of bile acids were significantly enhanced in A(1)AR(-/-) mice. In the liver, mRNA expression of genes related to bile acid transport (Bsep and Mdr2) and hydroxylation (Cyp3a11) was increased in A(1)AR(-/-) mice. In the kidney, A(1)AR deficiency prevented the decrease of glomerular filtration rate caused by ANIT. Treatment of WT mice with A(1)AR antagonist DPCPX also protected against ANIT hepatotoxicity. Our results indicated that lack of A(1)AR gene protects mice from ANIT-induced cholestasis by enhancing toxic biliary constituents efflux through biliary excretory route and renal elimination system and suggested a potential role of A(1)AR as therapeutic target for the treatment of intrahepatic cholestasis.
The aim of the study was to find out whether the reserpine-induced rigidity is similar to that seen in parkinsonism. Simultaneous measurements of the muscle resistance of the hind foot to passive bending and stretching in the ankle joint, as well as of the electromyographic (EMG) activity of the gastrocnemius and tibialis anterior muscles of rats were carried out. Reserpine was injected in a dose of 10 mg/kg alone or with alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine (250 mg/kg) 1, 4 and 27.5 h before the measurements. Reserpine increased the muscle resistance of the rat's hind leg to passive movements. That effect was the strongest at 1-2 h after the injections, and diminished markedly afterwards. The rigidity was accompanied with an increase in the resting, as well as in the stretch-induced short- and long-latency EMG activity in the gastrocnemius muscle. However, the intensity of the latter symptom did not change for a long period of time, which seems to correlate with the striatal dopamine depletion. The results suggest that the reserpine-increased EMG activity is a good model of parkinsonian rigidity.
We present an unusual case of extreme metabolic alkalosis resulting from severe hypokalaemia caused by unmonitored fludrocortisone therapy. Biochemical aspects of the disorder are discussed, as is the successful treatment with diuretics and potassium replacement. Some dangers of this therapy and necessary precautions are emphasized.
Repetitive exposure to psychostimulants elicits behavioral sensitization. Accumulating evidence have shown that the central GABAergic system is involved in psychostimulants sensitization. Valproate, a clinically widely used anticonvulsant mood-stabilizing agent, can modulate central GABAergic neurotransmission. Herein, the effects of valproate on the development and expression of behavioral sensitization to methamphetamine (METH) and cocaine was studied in mice. Behavioral sensitization of METH and cocaine was rendered by injection of METH (2.0mg/kg) or cocaine (20mg/kg) once daily for seven days. Locomotor activity was measured by an ambulometer. Single or multiple administration of valproate (37.5, 75, 150 mg/kg) could not decrease acute METH- and cocaine-induced hyperactivity. Co-administration of valproate with METH or cocaine dose-dependently inhibited the development of behavioral sensitization. Single administration of valproate (37.5, 75, 150 mg/kg) did not affect the expression of behavioral sensitization induced by METH and cocaine. Multiple administration of valproate (37.5, 75, 150 mg/kg) dose-dependently inhibited the expression of behavioral sensitization to METH, but not to cocaine. The present results supported that METH- and cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization possesses distinct neural mechanisms, which implies that valproate may have different modulatory effect on METH and cocaine addiction in humans.
