Matrix metalloproteinases 2 and 9 (MMP-2 and MMP-9) are increased in the brain after experimental ischemic stroke in rats. These two proteases are involved with the degradation of the basal lamina and loss of stability of the blood brain barrier that occurs after ischemia and that is associated with thrombolytic therapy in ischemic stroke. Minocycline is a lipophilic tetracycline and is neuroprotective in several models of brain injury. Minocycline inhibits inflammation, apoptosis and extracellular matrix degradation. In this study we investigated whether delayed minocycline inhibits brain MMPs activated by ischemia in a model of temporary occlusion in Wistar rats.
Both MMP-2 and MMP-9 were elevated in the ischemic tissue as compared to the contra-lateral hemisphere after 3 hours occlusion and 21 hours survival (p < 0.0001 for MMP-9). Intraperitoneal minocycline at 45 mg/kg concentration twice a day (first dose immediately after the onset of reperfusion) significantly reduced gelatinolytic activity of ischemia-elevated MMP-2 and MMP-9 (p < 0.0003). Treatment also reduced protein concentration of both enzymes (p < 0.038 for MMP-9 and p < 0.018 for MMP-2). In vitro incubation of minocycline in concentrations as low as 0.1 mug/ml with recombinant MMP-2 and MMP-9 impaired enzymatic activity and MMP-9 was more sensitive at lower minocycline concentrations (p < 0.05).
Minocycline inhibits enzymatic activity of gelatin proteases activated by ischemia after experimental stroke and is likely to be selective for MMP-9 at low doses. Minocycline is a potential new therapeutic agent to acute treatment of ischemic stroke.
Hydroxyzine is a first generation antihistamine widely used in the paediatric population for a variety of conditions. A nine-year-old girl presented with supraventricular tachycardia while on clinical doses of hydroxyzine for pruritus. On arrival at the hospital, she was diaphoretic, with cool peripheries, poor peripheral pulses and a heart rate of 250/minute. There was a history of three palpitation episodes with chest tightness during the five months she was taking hydroxyzine. The supraventricular tachycardia eventually reverted to sinus rhythm with intravenous verapamil. Relevant cardiac examination and investigations had not shown any cardiac abnormalities. After discontinuing hydroxyzine, she had no further episodes of supraventricular tachycardia. To our knowledge, this is the first report of hydroxyzine induced-supraventricular tachycardia in the medical literature.
Dimethylnitrosamine administration induces a rapid increase in collagen deposition with concomitant proliferation of hepatic stellate cells in rats. Here, we investigated the pathophysiological profiles of acute and chronic hepatic fibrosis states and attempted to determine the possible role of Kruppel-like factor-5 (KLF5) in this model. In acute study using a single drug injection, we observed a rapid transient increase of ALT and mRNA levels of KLF5 followed by increases in fibrosis-related genes. Repeated administration of dimethylnitrosamine once a week caused early damage with severe fibrosis and sustained hepatocyte injury, while intermittent injections at 2-week intervals induced only modest fibrosis from 3 weeks. Weekly administration also induced profound upregulation of collagen I, alpha-smooth muscle actin, and KLF5 mRNA. In contrast, such continued augmentation was not observed after intermittent injections; KLF5 increased only after 3 weeks. These results suggested that dimethylnitrosamine induced a rapid hepatic fibrogenic response with a possible participation of KLF5.
This study was designed to (a) estimate the contribution of tacrolimus nephrotoxicity to episodes of renal allograft dysfunction investigated by needle biopsy, (b) describe the temporal evolution of nephrotoxicity and its response to therapy, and (c) ascertain how often renal dysfunction is associated with concurrent extra-renal toxicity. Patients were selected based on a rising serum creatinine, normal ultrasound, and biopsy findings leading to a reduction in the dose of tacrolimus and a fall in serum creatinine. Twenty two (17%) cases of nephrotoxicity were identified amongst 128 consecutive kidney transplant biopsies with sufficient clinical data for analysis. There were 13 males and 9 females, 17-75 yr in age. Tacrolimus was administered initially as a 0.075-0.1 mg/kg/d IV continuous infusion followed by an oral dose of 0.15 mg/kg twice daily. The onset of nephrotoxicity in this study occurred 1-156 wk post-operatively. The mean baseline creatinine was 212.2 +/- 168.0 mumol/l (range 88.4-875.2) and rose 40.6% +/- 14.2% (range 11-66) during episodes of nephrotoxicity (p < 0.001). The highest recorded plasma and whole-blood tacrolimus levels during the toxic episodes were respectively 2.7 +/- 0.8 ng/ml (range 1.1-3.5) and 31.6 +/- 10.6 ng/ml (range 14.5-50.5). The drug levels were considered to be beyond the therapeutic range in 18/22 (82%) patients. The highest tacrolimus level preceeded the rise in serum creatinine in 20 cases by an interval of 1.6 +/- 1.8 d. A mean reduction in tacrolimus dosage of 41% +/- 21% (range 11-89) led to a 86% +/- 18% (range 45-100) fall in the serum creatinine within 1-14 d (p < 0.001). Interactions between tacrolimus and clarithromycin, diltiazem, or itraconazole modified the pharmakokinetic parameters in three cases. Serum potassium > 5.0 mequiv/l was recorded in 9/22 (41%) cases. Three or more elevations in blood glucose > 7.7 mmol/l (140 mg/dl) were recorded in 4/11 (36%) non-diabetic patients. Hand tremors were seen in two (9%) cases and elevated diastolic blood pressure > 90 mmHg in seven (32%) patients. In conclusion, tacrolimus nephrotoxicity accounted for 17% of graft dysfunction episodes investigated by biopsy. Concurrent hyperglycemia, hyperkalemia, or tremors were noted in several patients. Nephrotoxicity responded well to reduction in the drug dosage.
A report is presented of a female patient who developed an extensive bladder carcinoma with severe hemorrhaging after many years of treatment with cyclophosphamide for multiple myeloma. The severe hemorrhage could only be controlled by drainage of the urine. The possible causes of the development of a second neoplasia, particularly of urinary bladder carcinoma following long-term therapy with cyclophosphamide, are discussed.
Very little is known concerning the toxicity of antimony, despite its commercial use as a flame retardant and medical use as a treatment for parasitic infections. Our previous studies show that antimony trioxide (Sb(2)O(3)) induces growth inhibition in patient-derived acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) cell lines, a disease in which a related metal, arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)), is used clinically. However, signaling pathways initiated by Sb(2)O(3) treatment remain undefined. Here, we show that Sb(2)O(3) treatment of APL cells is associated with increased apoptosis as well as differentiation markers. Sb(2)O(3)-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) correlated with increased apoptosis. In addition, when we decreased the buffering capacity of the cell by depleting glutathione, ROS production and apoptosis was enhanced. Arsenic-resistant APL cells with increased glutathione levels exhibited increased cross-resistance to Sb(2)O(3). Based on studies implicating c-jun kinase (JNK) in the mediation of the response to As(2)O(3), we investigated the role for JNK in Sb(2)O(3)-induced apoptosis. Sb(2)O(3) activates JNK and its downstream target, AP-1. In fibroblasts with a genetic deletion in SEK1, an upstream regulator of JNK, Sb(2)O(3)-induced growth inhibition as well as JNK activation was decreased. These data suggest roles for ROS and the SEK1/JNK pathway in the cytotoxicity associated with Sb(2)O(3) exposure.
A prospective study was undertaken on 374 out-patients receiving depot fluphenazine or depot flupenthixol to determine the incidence of tardive dyskinesia. In three years the percentage showing the bucco-linguo-masticatory syndrome rose from 8 per cent to 22 per cent, though patients had received various neuroleptics for a mean of 13 years previously. Fluphenazine and flupenthixol were equally involved though 75 per cent of affected patients had the condition in mild degree. Six additional cases of generalized chorea were all receiving flupenthixol. Reduction of dose or the substitution of pimozide produced marked improvement, but results suggest that it is unlikely that this will be permanent. Substitution of depot fluspirilene also produced favourable results. Careful monitoring, minimal neuroleptic dosage, and periods of neuroleptic abstinence are recommended.
We report a patient with epilepsy who presented with acute onset of left hemiparesis associated with phenytoin intoxication due to interaction with clobazam. Magnetic resonance angiography of the head revealed stenosis of the M2 segment of the right middle cerebral artery, whereas an erythrocyte sedimentation rate and cerebrospinal fluid analysis were normal, being consistent with a diagnosis of benign angiopathy of the central nervous system. The patient exhibited an elevated plasma level of thrombin-antithrombin III complex along with a marginally increased plasma concentration of soluble E-selectin. The present case suggests that phenytoin intoxication can cause cerebral vasospasm, which may be associated with some inflammatory endothelial injury accompanied by activated intravascular coagulation.
We have compared iontophoretically and locally applied lidocaine for relief of pain on propofol injection. Pain was assessed on insertion of a 20-gauge i.v. cannula and at 10-s intervals for 30 s after injection of propofol. Pain scores on cannulation were significantly less in the iontophoresis group (median 1.1) than in the sham (control) group (median 2.8) (P < 0.005). Pain after injection of propofol was significantly reduced at 10 (P < 0.002), 20 (P < 0.001) and 30 s (P < 0.001). We conclude that iontophoretically applied lidocaine decreased the pain of cannulation and propofol injection.
Chagas disease, caused by Trypanosoma cruzi, is a major public health problem in Latin America. According to the World Health Organization, around 20 million people are infected and another 40 million are at risk of acquiring the disease. One of the drugs most frequently used for the treatment of Chagas disease is benznidazole (BZL). It is practically insoluble in water (0.4 mg/ml), which precludes the preparation of liquid dosage forms, in particular, parenteral formulations. Thus, the aim of this work was to investigate the solubilization of BZL at two pH values using various cosolvents such as ethyl alcohol, propylene glycol, polyethylene glycol 400, benzyl alcohol, diethylene glycol monoethyl ether (Transcutol) and surfactants such as polysorbates (Tween) 40 and 80, and sodium dioctyl sulfosuccinate (AOT). Solvent systems based on PEG 400, with the addition ethyl alcohol and/or potassium biphthalate buffer solution, increased the BZL solubility up to 10 mg/ml. These alcoholic vehicles showed no toxicity against parasite when assayed at 1%. Physical and chemical stability studies showed that the formulations were stable for at least 1.5 years. In agreement with the biological activity results, the selected formulations are suitable for further clinical studies. Moreover, increasing the aqueous solubility of BZL reduced the problems in vitro testing techniques and bioassays leading to more reliable results and/or reproducibility.
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is one of the most common cancers in China. The lower survival rate of ESCC is attributed to late diagnosis and poor therapeutic efficacy; therefore, the identification of tumor-associated proteins as biomarkers for early diagnosis, and the discovery of novel targets for therapeutic intervention, seems very important for increasing the survival rate of ESCC. To identify tumor-associated proteins as biomarkers in ESCC, we have analyzed ESCC tissues and adjacent normal tissues by two-dimensional electrophoresis (2DE) and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) analysis. The results showed that a total of 104 protein spots with different expression levels were found on 2DE, and 47 proteins were eventually identified by MALDI-TOF MS. Among these identified proteins, 33 proteins including keratin 17 (KRT17), biliverdin reductase B (BLVRB), proteasome activator subunit 1 (PSME1), manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), high-mobility group box-1(HMGB1), heat shock protein 70 (HSP70), peroxiredoxin (PRDX1), keratin 13 (KRT13), and so on were overexpressed, and 14 proteins including cystatin B (CSTB), tropomyosin 2 (TPM2), annexin 1 (ANX1), transgelin (TAGLN), keratin 19 (KRT19), stratifin (SFN), and so on were down-expressed in ESCC. Biological functions of these proteins are associated with cell proliferation, cell motility, protein folding, oxidative stress, and signal transduction. In the subsequent study using immunoassay on ESCC serum samples and tissue-array slides, two representative proteins, HSP70 and HMGB1, were selected as examples for the purpose of validation. The results showed that both HSP70 and HMGB1 can induce autoantibody response in ESCC sera and have higher expression in ESCC tissues. Especially, the frequency of antibodies to HSP70 in ESCC sera was significantly higher than that in normal human sera. The preliminary results suggest that some of these identified proteins might contribute to esophageal cell differentiation and carcinogenesis, certain proteins could be used as tumor-associated antigen (TAA) biomarkers in cancer diagnosis, and further studies on these identified proteins should provide more evidence of how these proteins are involved in carcinogenesis of ESCC.
Our previous studies have demonstrated that prenatal caffeine ingestion induces an increased susceptibility to metabolic syndrome with alterations of glucose and lipid metabolic phenotypes in adult first generation (F1) of intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR) rats, and the underlying mechanism is originated from a hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis-associated neuroendocrine metabolic programming alteration in utero. This study aims to investigate the transgenerational effects of this programming alteration in adult second generation (F2). Pregnant Wistar rats were administered with caffeine (120mg/kg·d) from gestational day 11 until delivery. Four groups in F2 were set according to the cross-mating between control and caffeine-induced IUGR rats. F2 were subjected to a fortnight ice water swimming stimulus on postnatal month 4, and blood samples were collected before and after stress. Results showed that the majority of the activities of HPA axis and phenotypes of glucose and lipid metabolism were altered in F2. Particularly, comparing with the control group, caffeine groups had an enhanced corticosterone levels after chronic stress. Compared with before stress, the serum glucose levels were increased in some groups whereas the triglyceride levels were decreased. Furthermore, total cholesterol gain rates were enhanced but the high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol gain rates were decreased in most caffeine groups after stress. These transgenerational effects were characterized partially with gender and parental differences. Taken together, these results indicate that the reproductive and developmental toxicities and the neuroendocrine metabolic programming mechanism by prenatal caffeine ingestion have transgenerational effects in rats, which may help to explain the susceptibility to metabolic syndrome and associated diseases in F2.
Chlorambucil (CHL) was used in combination with prednisolone in the treatment of nine children with frequently relapsing nephrotic syndrome. Serial electroencephalograms were obtained to evaluate CHL central nervous toxicity, before, during and after treatment with this agent. EEG abnormalities were observed in two of the nine children during chlorambucil therapy. EEG changes were diffuse spike and wave complexes and disappeared after discontinuation of therapy. There were no other neurological abnormalities and more particularly, no seizures or myocloni were observed. According to the literature, chlorambucil central nervous toxicity is found almost exclusively in childhood nephrotic syndrome. Strict neurological supervision of patients treated with chlorambucil is recommended.
To determine the effectiveness and tolerability of adding ezetimibe, 10 mg daily, to niacin-based regimens for dyslipidemia.
We conducted a retrospective review of medical records of 53 patients in 2 lipid clinics who received ezetimibe as add-on therapy to stable doses of niacin and other lipid medications. Mean percentage changes of lipoprotein cholesterol and triglyceride levels were determined. Safety and tolerability measures included adverse events, serum hepatic transaminases, and hemoglobin A1c (in patients with diabetes).
Most study subjects (81%) had established atherosclerotic disease. The niacin formulation was extended-release in 31 patients (58%), immediate-release in 17 (32%), and slow-release in 5 (9%). Most patients (75%) were also taking a statin. Add-on ezetimibe therapy yielded mean reductions of 18% for total cholesterol (P<0.001), 25% for low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol (P<0.001), and 17% for triglycerides (P<0.001). High-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol did not change significantly (+2%). Only 7 patients (13%) met Adult Treatment Panel III (ATP III) LDL cholesterol goals before the addition of ezetimibe, but 24 (45%; P<0.001 compared with baseline) attained these goals after addition of ezetimibe to the therapeutic regimen. Ezetimibe effectiveness did not correlate with the baseline dose of niacin or the dose/efficacy of the statin used. The addition of ezetimibe to niacin-based therapy for dyslipidemia was well tolerated. No patient had clinically significant elevations in hepatic enzyme or hemoglobin A1c levels or discontinued the ezetimibe therapy permanently.
In our study, the addition of ezetimibe to niacin-based regimens lowered the LDL cholesterol level by 25% and did not change the level of HDL cholesterol. This combination can be useful in multidrug regimens for high-risk patients with dyslipidemia who are not achieving ATP III treatment goals.
Two patients developed symptomatic methemoglobinemia and hemolytic anemia after treatment with phenazopyridine. Methemoglobinemia appears to be a rare occurrence after commonly used doses of phenazopyridine; phenazopyridine-associated hemolytic anemia has been reported both after overdose and after usual doses. The presentation of methemoglobinemia in the first patient and the response to treatment with methylene blue in the second patient were unusual, suggesting that the patients had a red cell defect or were exposed to other oxidizing substances. One of the major metabolites of phenazopyridine is aniline, a known cause of methemoglobinemia. Aniline-induced methemoglobinemia is less responsive to treatment with methylene blue than nitrate- or nitrite-induced methemoglobinemia. This may explain, in part, the poor response to methylene blue by one of our patients.
The complications of isoniazid (INH) were studied in 1033 patients, who had received INH for at least 18 months, with or without other drugs. Hepatitis developed in 25 patients; this was attributed to rifampicin, (15 cases); infectious hepatitis (three cases); INH alone, (three cases); IHN possibly exacerbating chronic liver disease, (two cases); and multiple drug treatment, (two cases). Central nervous system disorders (mainly peripheral neuropathy) due to INH occurred in 12 patients, all of whom were over the age of 40 years. Hypersensitivity to INH developed in 12 patients. Some difficulties in distinguishing hepatitis due to rifampicin from that due to INH are discussed. When the risk of hepatitis was compared with the risks of developing, or dying from, tuberculosis, it was found that the benefits of INH chemoprophylaxis outweighed the risks, particularly in patients who were less than 50 years of age.
A 21-year-old woman with acute lymphoblastic leukemia underwent bone marrow transplantation (BMT). The conditioning regimen consisted of an association of busulfan (BU) and cyclophosphamide (Cy). The day after starting BU, she suffered a generalized tonic-clonic seizure. Electroencephalography (EEG) performed the day after the seizure showed diffuse polyspikes and spike-and-wave discharges. EEG on the following days showed persistent abnormalities (slowing of background activity intermixed with diffuse slow waves and isolated delta and theta bursts). These abnormalities persisted for about 20 days with complete normalization one month after the seizure. We suggest that BU is implicated in these abnormalities and emphasize the importance of EEG recording before and after bone marrow transplantation to disclose BU neurotoxicity.
Previous studies have shown that global left ventricular function is depressed after myocardial infarction. However, little is known about the effects of myocardial infarction on contractility and the passive-elastic properties of residual myocardium.
We evaluated isometric function and passive myocardial stiffness in isolated, noninfarcted left ventricular papillary muscle from rats 6 weeks after sham operation or myocardial infarction. Maximal developed tension and peak rate of tension rise (+dT/dt) were significantly decreased in untreated rats with large myocardial infarction compared with controls (3.3 +/- 1.1 versus 4.3 +/- 0.6 g/mm2 and 49.5 +/- 17.5 versus 72.5 +/- 10.5 g/mm2/sec, respectively). Time to peak tension was prolonged (120 +/- 8 versus 102 +/- 4 msec) and myocardial stiffness was increased in untreated myocardial infarction rats compared with controls (35.2 +/- 4.9 versus 24.2 +/- 3.7). Rats with smaller myocardial infarctions differed from controls only with respect to a prolongation of time to peak tension. Papillary muscle myocyte cross-sectional area was increased by 44% (p less than 0.05), and myocardial hydroxyproline content was increased by 160% (p less than 0.05) in rats with large myocardial infarctions compared with controls. To determine whether treatment that improves left ventricular function after myocardial infarction also improves myocardial function, rats were treated with captopril beginning 3 weeks after myocardial infarction and continuing for 3 weeks. Treatment with captopril attenuated the prolongation in time to peak tension in the myocardial infarction rats; however, developed tension, +dT/dt, and muscle stiffness remained abnormal. Compared with untreated myocardial infarction rats, captopril-treated myocardial infarction rats had a 9% decrease in myocyte cross-sectional area (p = 0.1) but a persistent increase in myocardial collagen content. In summary, large myocardial infarction in rats causes contractile dysfunction, increased stiffness, myocyte hypertrophy, and increased collagen content in the residual noninfarcted myocardium. Treatment with captopril alters the process of cardiac remodeling and hypertrophy and improves one parameter of contractility in noninfarcted myocardium; however, myocardial collagen content and myocardial stiffness remain abnormal.
These findings suggest that angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition in the rat infarct model of heart failure improves global cardiac performance via combined effects on myocardial function and the peripheral circulation.
Many of children with autism have hyperacusia, an increased sensation to sound. It can lead to their avoidance from some sounds or they may cover their ears. There was not found any published report about possible effect of any medication for improving hyperacusia in children with autism.
The patient is a 5 and half year old girl with autism and hyperacusia. According to her mother's report, severity of hyperacusia was improved after taking risperidone.
Hyperacusia was improved after initiation of risperidone and disappeared after discontinuation of risperidone. It re-happened in the re-challenge test. This supports the possible role of risperidone. To the author's knowledge, this is the first report of possible risperidone effect on hyperacusia in the literature.
A patient with diffuse large cell lymphoma who had a complete response lasting 35 years following a 3-day course of uracil mustard stimulated a recall review of patients treated with this oral alkylating agent.
Records of patients treated with uracil mustard between 1958 and 1970 were reviewed. A current histologic review according to the International Formulation was performed when possible. Total doses of uracil mustard were similar to those of mechlorethamine, although there were variations in the dose schedule.
Employing criteria used over 25 years ago to evaluate patients' responses, the overall regression rate for 94 non-Hodgkin lymphoma patients was 69.2% (complete response [CR] 23.4%). Of 62 patients with Hodgkin disease, 69.4% responded (CR 9.7%). For 39 patients with chronic lymphatic leukemia, the combined complete and partial response rate was 74% (CR 7.7%). Thrombocytopenia was the primary toxicity.
Uracil mustard is an unmarketed, inexpensive oral alkylating agent that has been effective in the treatment of patients with lymphoma, chronic lymphatic leukemia, and thrombocythemia. Perhaps it should be reevaluated.
Medical problems related to cocaine consumption are not rare in our environment; however, to this respect, descriptions in the spanish literature are scarce. We present three cases of intracerebral hemorrhage which occurred after cocaine consumption (intranasal route in two cases and intravenous route in one case). In the three cases, another associated risk factor was observed (alcohol in one case, hypertension in other case, arteriovenous malformation in the third case). We comment on the pathophysiological theories of the cause of bleeding, high-lighting the routine search of this association.
Melatonin has clear acute and delayed effects on sleep and circadian rhythms. Decrements in core temperature and alertness have been found at different times of day following low pharmacological and physiological doses of melatonin. When correctly timed, melatonin induces both phase advances and phase delays of the circadian system in humans. When timed to advance, the decrement in temperature and alertness and the degree of shift are closely related to dose. In both simulation and field studies, correctly timed melatonin can alleviate some of the problems of shiftwork and jet lag, notably enhancing sleep and alertness and hastening adaptation of rhythms to the imposed schedule. Performance effects and changes in sleep architecture need to be fully evaluated. The optimization of dose and formulation is also an area that requires further work. Whether or not recently developed melatonin analogs (72) will prove more or less useful than melatonin in adapting to phase shift remains to be seen. If incorrectly timed, melatonin has the potential to induce deleterious effects. While short-term studies indicate that it has very low toxicity, there are no long-term safety data. All of the studies reported here concern healthy adult volunteers and the use of a preparation licensed for human experimental use and available on a named patient basis on prescription. There are no data on uncontrolled preparations available over the counter in some countries. Its effects in pregnancy, interaction with other medications, and many other considerations remain to be addressed. Thus, while melatonin is useful in well-controlled conditions, the indiscriminate use of unlicensed preparations is not advisable.
Acetaminophen (AAP) is widely prescribed for treatment of mild pain and fever in western countries. It is generally considered a safe drug and the most frequently reported adverse effect associated with acetaminophen is hepatotoxicity, which generally occurs after acute overdose. During AAP overdose, encephalopathy might develop and contribute to morbidity and mortality. Our hypothesis is that AAP causes direct neuronal toxicity contributing to the general AAP toxicity syndrome.
We report that AAP causes direct toxicity on rat cortical neurons both in vitro and in vivo as measured by LDH release. We have found that AAP causes concentration-dependent neuronal death in vitro at concentrations (1 and 2 mM) that are reached in human plasma during AAP overdose, and that are also reached in the cerebrospinal fluid of rats for 3 hours following i.p injection of AAP doses (250 and 500 mg/kg) that are below those required to induce acute hepatic failure in rats. AAP also increases both neuronal cytochrome P450 isoform CYP2E1 enzymatic activity and protein levels as determined by Western blot, leading to neuronal death through mitochondrial-mediated mechanisms that involve cytochrome c release and caspase 3 activation. In addition, in vivo experiments show that i.p. AAP (250 and 500 mg/kg) injection induces neuronal death in the rat cortex as measured by TUNEL, validating the in vitro data.
The data presented here establish, for the first time, a direct neurotoxic action by AAP both in vivo and in vitro in rats at doses below those required to produce hepatotoxicity and suggest that this neurotoxicity might be involved in the general toxic syndrome observed during patient APP overdose and, possibly, also when AAP doses in the upper dosing schedule are used, especially if other risk factors (moderate drinking, fasting, nutritional impairment) are present.
In order to investigate the role of neostriatal dopamine receptors in muscular rigidity we have studied catalepsy and spontaneous muscle tone in rats receiving haloperidol injections into various parts of the neostriatum. It was found that low doses of haloperidol (250-750 ng/0.5 microliter) induced a tonic activity in the EMG of the gastrocnemius-soleus muscle when injected into the most rostral part of the neostriatum (A 8620-9650). This tonic EMG activity was found to be both dose-dependent and dopamine-specific: the haloperidol effect of 500 ng could be inhibited by 500 ng apomorphine. No muscular rigidity could be observed when haloperidol (500 ng/0.5 microliter) was injected further caudally into the neostriatum or into the medial part of the nucleus accumbens. With regard to the haloperidol-induced catalepsy as measured by means of the bar test, a similar distribution of effective and ineffective injection sites was observed; however, higher doses of haloperidol (1.5-2.5 micrograms/0.5 microliter) were required. Thus catalepsy and muscular rigidity were found to be closely related phenomena within the neostriatum. Finally, it is discussed how information relevant to tonic EMG activity is transmitted from the substantia nigra pars compacta to the superior colliculus and the ventromedial thalamus via the neostriatum and the substrate nigra pars reticulata.
Seizures and antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) are the main causes for cognitive impairment in persons with epilepsy. It is still a matter of debate whether carbamazepine (CBZ) improves cognition because of its own psychotropic effects or because it is more effective to treat temporal epilepsy. Our objective was to analyze the performance of CBZ-treated or nontreated pilocarpine epileptic rats in an object-recognition test.
Twelve chronic pilocarpine-induced epileptic rats were treated with CBZ, 40 mg/kg, or saline, t.i.d. for 8 days. Twenty-one nonepileptic controls were treated with CBZ or saline. On day 8 of treatment, all rats were tested with an object-recognition paradigm.
No locomotor impairment was detected in chronic epilepsy or CBZ treatment, as exploration during training was not affected. Exploratory behaviors during the choice session were not decreased in rats treated with CBZ; therefore CBZ does not compromise procedural memory. Epileptic rats showed a nonsignificant change in the discrimination performance, and prolonged treatment with CBZ in epileptic rats induced a significant increase in object discrimination during the choice session.
Even though pilocarpine-induced epileptic animals do not show compromised performance in the spontaneous object-recognition test, prolonged CBZ treatment has a positive effect on a simple object-discrimination task. These results may be associated with the psychotropic effects of CBZ.
The 70 kD heat shock protein (HSP70) plays essential cellular roles in mediating intracellular protein folding and protecting cells from proteotoxic stress. This study has examined the role of HSP70 in the expression of apoptosis in prostate carcinoma cells. Apoptosis was negatively correlated with HSP70 expression in PC-3 cells heat shocked in vivo. Further experiments carried out on an in vitro reconstituted system with isolated nuclei and cytoplasm from PC-3 cells showed that purified HSP70 directly inhibits apoptosis in a dose-dependant manner. Therefore, the potential role of depletion of intracellular HSP70 was examined as a means of inducing apoptosis in PC-3 cancer cells. Depletion of HSP70 by two independent strategies, either with anti-sense oligonucleotides directed against HSP70 mRNA or with the bioflavinoid drug quercetin, led to apoptosis in the absence of stress. In addition, quercetin pre-treatment synergistically enhanced apoptosis in combination with heat shock. Thus, HSP70 plays a physiological role in tumour cells as an inhibitor of apoptosis occurring both spontaneously and after stress and is a potential target for apoptosis-based cancer therapy.
To evaluate the off-treatment durability of response in HBeAg-negative chronic hepatitis B patients who achieved a protocol-defined 'Response' (HBV-DNA<0.7MEq/mL and ALT<1.25xULN) with entecavir at 48 weeks and the efficacy of entecavir in patients treated beyond one year.
Entecavir-treated and lamivudine-treated patients who achieved a protocol-defined 'Response' were evaluated off-treatment for HBV-DNA<300copies/mL and ALT normalisation. Entecavir- and lamivudine-treated patients who achieved a protocol-defined 'Virological Response' (HBV-DNA<0.7MEq/mL but ALT1.25xULN) at 48 weeks, continued blinded treatment until they achieved Response or 96 weeks, whichever came first.
Among 'Responders' who discontinued treatment after 48 weeks, 7/257 (3%) entecavir-treated and 10/201 (5%) lamivudine-treated patients sustained HBV-DNA below 300copies/mL at 24-weeks off-treatment. Among the 54 patients who continued blinded treatment in the second year, 7/26 (27%) entecavir-treated and 6/28 (21%) lamivudine-treated patients normalised ALT and 22/26 (85%) entecavir-treated and 16/28 (57%) lamivudine-treated patients maintained HBV-DNA<300copies/mL at end-of-dosing. The safety profiles of both drugs remained comparable through a second year of treatment.
The majority of protocol-defined Responders relapsed after 1 year when treatment was discontinued. Treatment with entecavir beyond 1 year provided continued virological and biochemical benefit.
In 1998, Horvath et al. (1998) observed a marked improvement in speech, eye contact, and attention in autistic children five weeks after treatment with secretin, which ocurred in the course of an endoscopic investigation. Since autism is hypothesized to be a hypoglutamatergic disorder we investigated the in vivo effects of secretin on extracellular amino acids in the rat brain. Studies were carried out on freely moving rats with microdialysis probes in the hippocampus. Amino acids were examined using tandem mass spectroscopy and HPLC/fluorometric detection. Following secretin injection (8.7 microg/kg i.p.), considerable increases in microdialysate glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) levels were observed; other amino acids were not affected. The observed increased microdialysate concentrations of glutamate and GABA following secretin application may explain the results of the Horvath study.
