This report presents a 46-year-old man who was treated for hypertension with the angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitor enalapril. After 3 years of continuous treatment he presented with jaundice and progressive liver failure that continued despite withdrawal of the medication. The patient was taking no other medication. All known causes of acute liver failure could be excluded indicating a drug-induced liver damage after long-term treatment with enalapril. Analysis of liver biopsies revealed a pathomorphological pattern comparable to than observed in severe halothane hepatitis. Serological studies including T-cell stimulation with enalapril and a broad spectrum of tests for autoimmunity including autoantibodies against calreticulin, the major Ca2+ and Zn2+ binding protein of the endoplasmic reticulum and suggested to be involved in the pathogenesis of halothane hepatitis were negative. Thus, the mechanism of enalapril-induced liver injury remains obscure. Liver failure progressed and finally led to orthotopic liver transplantation. To our knowledge, this is the longest duration of chronic treatment with an ACE inhibitor before liver failure occurred. In addition, liver failure progressed despite withdrawal of the medication. It is concluded that even after long-term treatment with an ACE inhibitor liver failure may be induced. Therefore, regular monitoring of liver enzymes should be considered.
Invasive surgical procedures will be avoided by recognition of veno-occlusive disease (VOD) as a clinical syndrome which sometimes leads to serious complications in children receiving Actinomycin D for Wilms' tumor. In order to document the unusually frequent occurrence of VOD far beyond the observations of others, a prospective study was undertaken in 13 consecutive Actinomycin D-treated children. There were 9 children experiencing 27 events of mostly mild VOD. Six of them were below 3 years of age having in 5 cases a unilateral kidney tumor on the right side. The criteria used for VOD were painful hepatomegaly and abdominal distension accompanied by weight gain, ascites, hemoglobin and platelet drop, with or without elevated bilirubin level found in all patients developing VOD. Supportive management of these patients should attempt to preserve respiratory and renal function, generally resulting in a favorable outcome.
Using homologous recombination, we generated mice lacking phosphodiesterase-mediated (PDE1B) cyclic nucleotide-hydrolyzing activity. PDE1B(-/-) mice showed exaggerated hyperactivity after acute D-methamphetamine administration. Striatal slices from PDE1B(-/-) mice exhibited increased levels of phospho-Thr34 DARPP-32 and phospho-Ser845 GluR1 after dopamine D1 receptor agonist or forskolin stimulation. PDE1B(-/-) and PDE1B(+/-) mice demonstrated Morris maze spatial-learning deficits. These results indicate that enhancement of cyclic nucleotide signaling by inactivation of PDE1B-mediated cyclic nucleotide hydrolysis plays a significant role in dopaminergic function through the DARPP-32 and related transduction pathways.
Mutations of the PTEN gene are associated with hamartoma-neoplasia syndromes. While germline mutations at this chromosome 10q22-23 locus have been observed in patients with Cowden syndrome (CS) and Bannayan-Riley-Ruvalcaba syndrome (BRR), both of which phenotypes are associated with hamartomata and neoplasia, somatic mutation of PTEN has been established in a wide variety of sporadically occurring neoplasia. CS and BRR share some clinical features, specifically hamartomata and lipomatosis. Investigation of other clinically distinct syndromes associated with lipomatosis and overgrowth has established germline and germline mosaic PTEN mutations in several patients with Proteus syndrome. To this expanding array of clinically distinct phenotypes associated with PTEN mutations, we now report a novel heterozygous germline mutation, H61D, in a patient with features of VATER association with macrocephaly and ventriculomegaly.
Pimozide was used in a pilot study to treat 10 patients with frank symptoms of acute schizophrenia. Eight patients appeared to respond favourably to doses ranging from 12 to 40 mg daily. Two of the patients responded within 1 week and all 8 within 5 weeks. It was possible to discharge all 8 patients from hospital within this time period. It is concluded that oral pimozide is an effective treatment for the whole range of symptoms accompanying acute schizophrenia. Brief representative case histories are presented, and dosage recommendations for the effective treatment of acute schizophrenia with pimozide are discussed.
Reflex heart block was studied in 20 dogs anesthetized with sodium pentobarbital and in 5 trained unanesthetized dogs. Three different vagal reflexes were produced: the Marey response during hypertension caused by administering methoxamine, a cardiogenic hypertensive chemoreflex activated by injection of serotonin into the left atrium and the Hering-Breuer reflex observed during normal respiration of unanesthetized dogs. In every dog during any of the three reflexes heart block was consistently observed after the normal slowing response of the sinus node had been selectively eliminated by the direct perfusion of 10 microgram of atropine into the sinus node artery. This was a uniform response despite its being variously produced by a pressor reflex, a chemoreflex or an extracardiac bronchopulmonary reflex. Transient heart block is therefore to be anticipated during reflexes with vagal efferent components if for any reason the sinus node is incapable of slowing suitably. The possible clinical relevance of these experimental observations is discussed.
The antitumor activity of zeniplatin, a third-generation, water-soluble platinum compound that has shown broad preclinical antitumor activity and no significant nephrotoxicity in phase I trials, was tested in patients with advanced malignant melanoma and advanced renal cancer. Patients who had not previously been treated, except with local limb perfusion and immunotherapy, were given zeniplatin as bolus injections at 125 mg/m2 every 3 weeks. The main hematological toxicity was leukopenia (7/30 patients, WHO grade > or = 3) and the main nonhematological toxicity was nausea and vomiting (21/30 patients, WHO grade > or = 2). Serious nephrotoxicity was observed early in the renal cancer study and, later, also in the melanoma study. Hyperhydration did not prevent the nephrotoxicity, and the studies were stopped after 6 renal cancer patients and 24 malignant melanoma patients had been included. Zeniplatin gave objective responses in 3 of the 21 evaluable malignant melanoma patients [2 complete responses (CRs) in patients with lymph-node metastases lasted 5 and 14 months, respectively; 1 partial response (PR) in a patient with lymph-node and liver metastases lasted 6 months]. In the renal cancer study, only four patients were evaluable for response and none responded. The results show that zeniplatin has some activity (14%) in patients with advanced malignant melanoma, but no conclusion can be drawn regarding the activity of zeniplatin in renal cancer as the number of patients was too low. The main toxicities were leukopenia and nausea and vomiting. Unexpected and serious nephrotoxicity was observed, and for this reason the studies were terminated before the planned number of patients had been included. A possible explanation for the nephrotoxicity may be drug interactions, but no firm conclusion can yet be drawn.
The authors developed and applied a method to optimize the combination of bupivacaine, fentanyl, and clonidine for continuous postoperative lumbar epidural analgesia.
One hundred eighteen patients undergoing knee or hip surgery participated in the study. Postoperative epidural analgesia during 48 h after surgery was optimized under restrictions dictated by side effects. Initially, eight combinations of bupivacaine, fentanyl, and clonidine (expressed as drug concentration in the solution administered) were empirically chosen and investigated. To determine subsequent combinations, an optimization model was applied until three consecutive steps showed no decrease in pain score. For the first time in a clinical investigation, a regression model was applied when the optimization procedure led to combinations associated with unacceptable side effects.
The authors analyzed 12 combinations with an allowed bupivacaine concentration range of 0-2.5 mg/ml, a fentanyl concentration range of 0-5 microg/ml, and a clonidine concentration range of 0-5 microg/ml. The best combinations of bupivacaine, fentanyl, and clonidine concentrations were 1.0 mg/ml-1.4 microg/ml-0.5 microg/ml, 0.9 mg/ml-3.0 microg/ml-0.3 microg/ml, 0.6 mg/ml-2.5 microg/ml-0.8 microg/ml, and 1.0 mg/ml-2.4 microg/ml-1.0 microg/ml, respectively, all producing a similarly low pain score. The incidence of side effects was low. The application of the regression model to combinations associated with high incidence of motor block successfully directed the optimization procedure to combinations within the therapeutic range.
The results support further study of the combinations of bupivacaine, fentanyl, and clonidine mentioned above for postoperative analgesia after knee and hip surgery. This novel optimization method may be useful in clinical research.
The effect of hyperprolactinemia on the prostate has not been well investigated. Since androgens play an important role in prostate development, growth and function, the goal of the present study was to estimate the influence of hyperprolactinemia on expression of the androgen receptor (AR) in rat epithelial cells of prostate dorsal lobe and on morphology of these cells. Studies were performed on sexually mature male Wistar rats. The experimental group rats received metoclopramide (MCP) intraperitoneally to provoke hyperprolactinemia. The control group animals were given saline in the same way. For light and electron microscopy the prostate dorsal lobes were obtained routinely. To evaluate the intensity of immunohistochemical reaction for AR in epithelial cells, the optical density was measured and computer-assisted image analysis system was used. Morphological observations of the dorsal lobe epithelial cells were carried out in transmission electron microscope. MCP caused over twofold increase in prolactin (PRL) serum levels. In rats with hyperprolactinemia, the testosterone levels (T) were twofold decreased. The intensity of immunohistochemical reaction for AR in epithelial cells of dorsal lobe in the experimental group was significantly lower than in the control group. In the dorsal lobe epithelial cells of experimental group animals, the transmission electron microscopy (TEM) revealed highly dilated RER cisternae and reduced number of microvilli on the cellular surface when compared to the control group. The results show that hyperprolactinemia in male rats causes morphological abnormalities in the dorsal lobe of prostate. The abnormalities are caused by elevated prolactin either directly or indirectly through decreased level of testosterone. Decreased expression of AR in epithelial cells of prostate dorsal lobe is likely to be caused by decreased testosterone level.
To investigate toxicity and neoplastic potential from chronic exposure to perfluorooctanesulfonate (PFOS), a two-year toxicity and cancer bioassay was conducted with potassium PFOS (K⁺ PFOS) in male and female Sprague Dawley rats via dietary exposure at nominal K⁺ PFOS concentrations of 0, 0.5, 2, 5, and 20 μg/g (ppm) diet for up to 104 weeks. Additional groups were fed 20 ppm for the first 52 weeks, after which they were fed control diet through study termination (20 ppm Recovery groups). Scheduled interim sacrifices occurred on Weeks 4, 14, and 53, with terminal sacrifice between Weeks 103 and 106. K⁺ PFOS appeared to be well-tolerated, with some reductions in body weight occurring in treated rats relative to controls over certain study periods. Male rats experienced a statistically significant decreased trend in mortality with significantly increased survival to term at the two highest treatment levels. Decreased serum total cholesterol, especially in males, and increased serum urea nitrogen were consistent clinical chemistry observations that were clearly related to treatment. The principal non-neoplastic effect associated with K⁺ PFOS exposure was in livers of males and females and included hepatocellular hypertrophy, with proliferation of endoplasmic reticulum, vacuolation, and increased eosinophilic granulation of the cytoplasm. Statistically significant increases in hepatocellular adenoma were observed in males (p=0.046) and females (p=0.039) of the 20 ppm treatment group, and all of these tumors were observed in rats surviving to terminal sacrifice. The only hepatocellular carcinoma observed was in a 20 ppm dose group female. There were no treatment-related findings for thyroid tissue in rats fed K⁺ PFOS through study termination; however, male rats in the 20 ppm Recovery group had statistically significantly increased thyroid follicular cell adenoma, which was considered spurious. There was no evidence of kidney or bladder effects. In rats, the dietary dose estimated as the lower 95% confidence limit of the benchmark dose for a 10% increase in hepatic tumors was 8 ppm for both sexes. Recent mechanistic studies suggest a PPARα/CAR/PXR-mediated mode of action for the liver tumors observed in the present two-year study.
We have analysed the dynamics of HBV variants related to Lamivudine resistance in 22 chronically infected patients during and after the end of Lamivudine therapy. Thirteen patients had a confirmed methionine mutation in the YMDD region of the reverse transcriptase domain determined by sequence analysis. They responded to therapy having a mean reduction of HBV DNA of 4.55 log (range 2.93-8.91). Nine patients partly responded to therapy, with a small decline of HBV DNA (mean reduction of 3.39 log, range 1.72-5.12) and no indication for an YMDD variant. Samples were re-analysed with a HBV Drug Resistance Line Probe assay (InnoLipa HBV-DR), which detected as low as 10% of a variant HBV population. With this assay, changes in the YMDD region were detected with a mean of 2 weeks (range -8 to 10) earlier than by an increase of HBV DNA levels. Increase of ALT was observed with a mean of 31 weeks (range 29-51) later than the methionine changes in the YMDD motif. Indications for a methionine into valine change could be determined in only one of the partial responders. An unexpected observation was the predominant presence of variant virus populations after end of therapy. In ten patients, we detected the wild type virus with a mean of 14 weeks after end of therapy (range 1-42 weeks). In three patients, no variant virus population could be detected at 25, 36 and 37 weeks, respectively, after cessation of treatment. This observation is important for the inclusion of the so-called naive patients in clinical trials.
Microangiopathic haemolytic anaemia (MAHA) describes intravascular haemolysis due to mechanical destruction of red cells as a result of pathological changes in small blood vessels. It is well recognized as a complication of cyclosporin A therapy in solid organ transplantation but has been uncommonly reported in association with tacrolimus therapy and never before in the setting of lung transplantation. Discussed is a 54-year-old female recipient of a left single lung transplant who developed anaemia, thrombocytopenia and red blood cell fragmentation consistent with MAHA following lung volume reduction surgery (VRS) of the native right lung in the setting of high serum tacrolimus levels. Treatment with fresh frozen plasma and plasmapharesis plus supportive therapy with blood and platelet transfusions resulted in successful resolution of the haemolytic process. Cyclosporin A was substituted for tacrolimus and 18 months later there has been no evidence of recurrence. Tacrolimus therapy is a rare cause of MAHA in solid organ transplants but the diagnosis should be considered if there is an unexplained fall in haemoglobin and/or platelet count in the context of high serum tacrolimus levels.
Using a rat lung slice model, this study compared the stress responses induced by cigarette whole smoke (WS) to that induced by the vapor phase (VP) of the smoke. Following a 3-day exposure, lung slices exposed to 4, 10 and 20% WS retained 85, 42 and 16% relative survival respectively in comparison to the air-exposed ones. Consistently, histological observations revealed concentration-related alveolar damages in the lung slices. Expression of 5 stress-response genes was examined following a single 30 min exposure to 4% WS or VP. WS exposure resulted in 4, 11 and 50-fold induction of IL-1β, kinin type I receptor (B₁R) and CYP1A1 genes, respectively, while CYP1B1 and TNF-α genes expression was found only two times higher in comparison to VP group. Since cigarette WS consists of particulate and vapor phases, these results highlight the preferential or synergistic role of the particulate phase in the induction of IL-1β, B₁R and CYP1A1 genes and that VP did not have comparable effects on expression of these genes. However, both phases fairly contributed to the induction of CYP1B1 and TNF-α genes. VP was the fraction responsible for the toxic effect since WS did not produce further toxicity. The 4% whole smoke deposited about 7.1 μg/cm² of total particulate matter (TPM) to the exposure chamber which may account for observed differential stress responses in the lung slices.
X-linked ichthyosis (XLI) is an inherited skin disorder due to deficiency of steroid sulfatase (STS) activity. XLI has been diagnosed by assaying STS activity in placenta or lymphocytes of patients after birth. Most patients have a large deletion of the STS gene, generated by inaccurate recombination at the STS locus. However, point mutations in the STS gene have been reported in some patients with complete STS deficiency. In a new case of STS deficiency, we identified an STS missense mutation, Glu560Pro or E560P. This new point mutation suggests that the C-terminal region of the STS enzyme is important for STS enzymatic function. Hum Mutat 15:296, 2000.
We demonstrated previously that disruption of the germ cell-specific lactate dehydrogenase C gene (Ldhc) led to male infertility due to defects in sperm function, including a rapid decline in sperm ATP levels, a decrease in progressive motility, and a failure to develop hyperactivated motility. We hypothesized that lack of LDHC disrupts glycolysis by feedback inhibition, either by causing a defect in renewal of the NAD(+) cofactor essential for activity of glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase, sperm (GAPDHS), or an accumulation of pyruvate. To test these hypotheses, nuclear magnetic resonance analysis was used to follow the utilization of labeled substrates in real time. We found that in sperm lacking LDHC, glucose consumption was disrupted, but the NAD:NADH ratio and pyruvate levels were unchanged, and pyruvate was rapidly metabolized to lactate. Moreover, the metabolic disorder induced by treatment with the lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) inhibitor sodium oxamate was different from that caused by lack of LDHC. This supported our earlier conclusion that LDHA, an LDH isozyme present in the principal piece of the flagellum, is responsible for the residual LDH activity in sperm lacking LDHC, but suggested that LDHC has an additional role in the maintenance of energy metabolism in sperm. By coimmunoprecipitation coupled with mass spectrometry, we identified 27 proteins associated with LDHC. A majority of these proteins are implicated in ATP synthesis, utilization, transport, and/or sequestration. This led us to hypothesize that in addition to its role in glycolysis, LDHC is part of a complex involved in ATP homeostasis that is disrupted in sperm lacking LDHC.
IGF-I deficiency may result from impairment of GH secretion or action, or from defects in IGF-I synthesis, transport, or action. Complete deficiency of the acid-labile subunit (ALS), previously described in two male patients, the only known inherited alteration in IGF-I transport, is characterized by severe circulating IGF-I and IGF binding protein (IGFBP)-3 deficiency with only mild growth retardation.
Our objective was to study the characterization, at biochemical and molecular levels, of the cause for severe circulating IGF-I and IGFBP-3 deficiency in a male patient with mild growth retardation.
We report an adolescent male with delayed growth and pubertal development (Tanner stage I, -2.00 sd score for height at the age of 15.3 yr), profound circulating IGF-I and IGFBP-3 deficiency, and poor response to GH treatment.
The index case, as well as one of his brothers, and his sister were found to be compound heterozygotes for two novel IGFALS gene mutations: C540R, a missense point mutation; and S195_197Rdup, a 9-bp duplication. The parents and youngest brother were found to be carriers for one of these two mutations. The three affected siblings had marked reduction of IGF-I and IGFBP-3 levels, undetectable serum levels of ALS, inability to form ternary complexes, and moderate insulin resistance. All of them attained a normal near-adult height (between -1.0 and -0.5 sd score), which was nonetheless lower than that of their heterozygous brother. The IGF system was only modestly affected in the heterozygous carriers.
This study confirms the critical role of ALS in forming ternary complexes and the maintenance of normal levels of IGF-I and IGFBP-3. Insulin resistance, pubertal delay in male patients, and poor GH responsiveness seem to be frequent findings in ALS deficiency. However, haploinsufficiency of the IGFALS gene has no discernible clinical effects with only modest impact on the IGF system.
The binding of sweet-tasting compounds in a human (Mcg) Bence-Jones dimer has been characterized by x-ray crystallography. Aspartame binding in this immunoglobulin fragment is remarkable. Unexpected pain relief noted by A.B.E., a crystallographer with diagnosed osteoarthritis, suggested that the accommodation of aspartame in the active site of the dimer may represent surrogate binding by other proteins, with analgesia as the outcome.
X-ray analysis of the complex of aspartame and the Bence-Jones dimer was conducted with crystalline Mcg protein and pure aspartame. A single-blind (n = 1) study to confirm analgesia was completed by administration of aspartame to A.B.E. A controlled double-blind trial was performed in patients with x-ray-documented osteoarthritis. Pain and performance changes were evaluated with use of two doses of placebo and two doses of aspartame. Effects on bleeding time were then evaluated by determination of template bleeding times in 34 normal volunteers. Finally, antipyretic effects were studied in Sprague-Dawley rats given intramuscular turpentine injections.
Aspartame binding in the Bence-Jones dimer was verified by x-ray crystallography. Improvements in performance and pain relief were observed in A.B.E. at p < 0.001. Decreased pain and improved performance were also observed in patients with osteoarthritis (p < 0.001). Mild antihemostatic responses were observed in bleeding times after aspartame treatment. Modified template bleeding times increased at p < 0.01. Aspartame blocked the turpentine-mediated febrile responses in the treated rats (p < 0.01).
L-Aspartyl-L-phenylalanine methyl ester is biologically active and appears to relieve pain, induce mild antithrombotic effects in humans, and decrease fever in animals.
A comprehensive study of an urban methadone clinic with supervised urine analyses for illicit drugs was conducted over an 18 month period for a 133 patient cohort as they entered or remained in methadone maintenance for narcotic addiction. Overall retention during the study was 85%, with significantly (p < .05) higher daily methadone doses (mean 67.1 mg +/- 2.1) in those patients still in treatment at the end of the study. Predictably, illicit opioid use was dramatically reduced, to 10% as measured by urine toxicology in the last month of treatment. Moreover, significantly more patients stopped regular cocaine abuse (69%) than started using cocaine (10%, Fisher's exact test, p = .02). Thus, with effective methadone maintenance using adequate dosages, the majority of patients remain in treatment and reduce cocaine abuse as well as illicit opioid use, with implications for public health by reducing the spread of infectious diseases including hepatitis B, C, D and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1).
Previous data have suggested that the genetic variability in the sensitivity to haloperidol-induced catalepsy is associated with the number of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra zona compacta (SNZc). To further investigate this relationship, neuroleptic responsive (NR) and neuroleptic nonresponsive (NNR) lines were selected from the new heterogeneous stock/Northport (Np). At the fourth selected generation (S4), the NR/Np and NNR/Np lines differed more than 5-fold in their haloperidol ED50, but showed no difference in their ED50 to SCH 23390. Confirming the previous results, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive cell number in the SNZc was significantly higher in the NNR/Np as compared to the NR/Np line. The difference was most pronounced in the rostral SNZc, where TH cell number was increased 23%. Cell number also was increased significantly (38%) in the caudal ventral tegmental area (VTA). Fifty-two C57BL/6J:DBA/2J (B6D2)F2 hybrids were phenotyped for haloperidol response before determination of TH cell number. Paralleling the results in the selected lines, TH cell number in the SNZc was significantly (range, 10-28%) higher in the most nonresponsive F2 hybrids. TH cell number was determined in the SNZc and VTA of 10 standard inbred mouse strains for which the ED50 for haloperidol-induced catalepsy was known. TH cell number showed significant differences among inbred strains, with the largest difference (88%) noted between the 129/J and P/J strains in the rostral SNZc. In the VTA, differences as large as 95% were noted (AKR/crl vs. P/J). Among the inbred strains, there was no significant relationship between cell number and response except in the medial SNZc, where the most responsive strains had the highest cell number.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The aim of this study was to evaluate the long-term effects of combination chemotherapy treatment for girls with Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) on gonadal function using anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) and inhibin B as ovarian reserve parameters.
LH, FSH, inhibin B, and AMH were measured in 32 women treated from 1974 to 1998 for pediatric HL with chemotherapy, with the intention to avoid radiotherapy. All patients [median age 25.0 yr (range 19.2-40.4 yr)] were in complete remission with a median follow-up time of 14.0 yr (range 5.7-24.5 yr) after therapy. All patients were treated with combination chemotherapy doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine and dacarbazine (ABVD) or EBVD with or without mechlorethamine, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone (MOPP). Because of incomplete remission or relapse, involved field radiotherapy was needed in seven of 32 women. Results were compared with a healthy control group.
Patients treated with six or more cycles of MOPP combination chemotherapy had significantly higher levels of FSH and lower serum levels of inhibin B and AMH, compared with healthy women [FSH, 17.0 vs. 6.0 U/liter (P < 0.05); inhibin B, 23.0 vs. 112.5 ng/liter (P < 0.01); AMH, 0.39 vs. 2.10 microg/liter (P < 0.01)]. AMH was also significantly lower, compared with women treated without MOPP (median 0.39 vs. 1.40 microg/liter; P = 0.01).
Women treated during childhood for HL with MOPP seem to have a distinctly lower ovarian reserve as measured by lower AMH values at early adulthood, compared with healthy women. Moreover, AMH seems to be the only predictor that is sufficiently sensitive to detect this decrease in ovarian reserve.
Periventricular leukomalacia is a form of hypoxic-ischemic cerebral white matter injury seen most commonly in premature infants and is the major antecedent of cerebral palsy. Glutamate receptor-mediated excitotoxicity is a predominant mechanism of hypoxic-ischemic injury to developing cerebral white matter. We have demonstrated previously the protective effect of AMPA-kainate-type glutamate receptor blockade in a rodent model of periventricular leukomalacia. The present study explores the therapeutic potential of glutamate receptor blockade for hypoxic-ischemic white matter injury. We demonstrate that AMPA receptors are expressed on developing human oligodendrocytes that populate fetal white matter at 23-32 weeks gestation, the period of highest risk for periventricular leukomalacia. We show that the clinically available anticonvulsant topiramate, when administered post-insult in vivo, is protective against selective hypoxic-ischemic white matter injury and decreases the subsequent neuromotor deficits. We further demonstrate that topiramate attenuates AMPA-kainate receptor-mediated cell death and calcium influx, as well as kainate-evoked currents in developing oligodendrocytes, similar to the AMPA-kainate receptor antagonist 6-nitro-7-sulfamoylbenzo-(f)quinoxaline-2,3-dione (NBQX). Notably, protective doses of NBQX and topiramate do not affect normal maturation and proliferation of oligodendrocytes either in vivo or in vitro. Taken together, these results suggest that AMPA-kainate receptor blockade may have potential for translation as a therapeutic strategy for periventricular leukomalacia and that the mechanism of protective efficacy of topiramate is caused at least in part by attenuation of excitotoxic injury to premyelinating oligodendrocytes in developing white matter.
Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) is a key enzyme involved in folate metabolism, DNA methylation and synthesis. We investigated the association between MTHFR polymorphisms and the risks of acute and chronic leukaemias. MTHFR C677T and A1298C were genotyped in 396 Korean individuals using multiplex polymerase chain reaction/restriction fragment-length polymorphism. They were acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL, n = 89), acute myeloid leukaemia (AML, n = 55), biphenotypic acute leukaemia (n = 12), chronic myelogenous leukaemia (CML, n = 40), and normal controls (n = 200). C677T genotypes were not associated with the risk of each disease. A1298C variants, however, significantly decreased the risks of ALL and CML compared with 1298AA. Odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals of 1298AC and 1298AC + CC were 0.53 (0.31-0.93) and 0.54 (0.31-0.93) in ALL, and 0.34 (0.14-0.80) and 0.40 (0.18-0.89) in CML, respectively, compared with 1298AA. These findings demonstrate that the development of ALL and CML is more dependent on folate status, and more susceptible to DNA instability than that of AML. In addition, A1298C rather than C677T may be a more important genetic risk modifier in leukaemogenesis at least in the Korean population.
Gene expression profiling was performed via DNA microarrays in leukocytes from critically ill trauma patients nonseptic upon admission to the ICU, who subsequently developed either sepsis (n = 2) or severe sepsis and acute respiratory distress syndrome (n = 3). By comparing our results with published expression profiling studies in animal models of sepsis and lung injury, we found aquaporin-1 to be differentially expressed across all studies. Our aim was to determine how the water channel aquaporin-1 is involved in regulating the immune response in critically ill patients during infection acquired in the ICU.
Following the results of the initial genetic screening study, we prospectively followed aquaporin-1 leukocyte expression patterns in patients with ICU-acquired sepsis who subsequently developed septic shock (n = 16) versus critically ill patients who were discharged without developing sepsis (n = 13). We additionally determined aquaporin-1 expression upon lipopolysaccharide (LPS) exposure and explored functional effects of aquaporin-1 induction in polymorphonuclear granulocytes (PMNs).
Leukocyte aquaporin-1 expression was induced at the onset of sepsis (median 1.71-fold increase; interquartile range: 0.99 to 2.42, P = 0.012 from baseline) and was further increased upon septic shock (median 3.00-fold increase; interquartile range: 1.20 to 5.40, P = 0.023 from sepsis, Wilcoxon signed-rank test); no difference was observed between baseline and discharge in patients who did not develop sepsis. Stimulation of PMNs by LPS led to increased expression of aquaporin-1 in vitro, which could be abrogated by the NF-κB inhibitor EF-24. PMN hypotonic challenge resulted in a transient increase of the relative cell volume, which returned to baseline after 600 seconds, while incubation in the presence of LPS resulted in persistently increased cell volume. The latter could be abolished by blocking aquaporin-1 with mercury and restored by incubation in β-mercaptoethanol, which abrogated the action of mercury inhibition.
Aquaporin-1 is induced in leukocytes of patients with ICU-acquired sepsis and exhibits higher expression in septic shock. This phenomenon may be due to LPS-triggered NF-κB activation that can also lead to alterations in plasma membrane permeability.
Cardiac toxicity is an uncommon side-effect of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) treatment, consisting mainly of chest pain episodes with or without electrocardiographic changes and dysrhythmias. Here, we describe the case of a 56-year-old male patient with a diagnosis of advanced colorectal cancer who developed an acute myocardial infarction during 5-FU infusion. The patient was not affected by prior heart disease and did not show any classic risk factors for coronary heart disease. Coronary angiography examination revealed no evidence of coronary stenosis, supporting the hypothesis of a coronary artery spasm related to 5-FU infusion. Given the great number of cancer patients receiving 5-FU containing chemotherapeutic regimens, this rare but severe cardiac side-effect may be observed in both cardiologic and oncologic clinical practice. We suggest a tight clinical monitoring of all patients receiving 5-FU infusions, even in those without a prior history of heart disease.
While low doses of cocaine have been shown to decrease locomotor activity, and moderate doses produce marked increases in locomotor activity, high doses commonly produce seizures and, eventually, death. However, the biological mechanisms associated with cocaine-related death, as well as the contribution of seizure activity to death are poorly understood. This study examined the effects of a broad range of cocaine doses on acute occurrence of seizures and death in LS/Ibg (LS) and SS/Ibg (SS) mice. Large differences in sensitivity to cocaine-induced seizures were seen, with ED50 values being 41.7 and 80.9 mg/kg for the SS and LS mice, respectively. Conversely, no significant differences in cocaine LD50 values were found, being 100.7 and 107.2 mg/kg for the SS and LS mice, respectively. That these lines of mice differ substantially in convulsant responses to cocaine, but show no difference in lethal response to this drug, supports the conclusion that cocaine causes death by mechanisms distinct from those which contribute to seizures. The distinction between cocaine-induced seizures and lethality in these lines may prove useful in elucidating the underlying mechanisms of these traits. In a subsequent study, the incidence of seizures in F1 and F2 generation mice from hybrid matings of LS and SS parents was not consistent with a single gene hypothesis, suggesting that multiple genes and receptors mediate seizurgenic responses to cocaine. Further, albino mice from the F2 generation did not show a significantly different incidence of seizures than non-albino mice, indicating that of the genes contributing to seizures following cocaine, none appear to be closely associated with the albino locus on mouse chromosome seven.
