Peripheral polyneuropathy due to vitamin B1 deficiency was encountered after total gastrectomy for gastric signet cell carcinoma in a patient with a history of breast-conserving surgery for breast cancer. She had greatly reduced her intake of animal foods, believing that would be effective for the prevention of re-occurrence of cancer. Her daily intake of vitamin B1 was less than half of the usual daily requirement. Patients with malignancy tend to adopt unusual diets, and proper advice about food intake is important for such patients, especially those with gastrectomy.
Exposure of humans to benzene present in environment may lead to adverse chronic effects-even at the genetic level. However, the mechanism of its genotoxicity is not well understood. In the present study, in vitro genotoxicity of benzene (BZ) and its major metabolites [p-benzoquinone (BQ), hydroquinone (HQ), catechol (CT), 1,2,4-benzenetriol (BT) and trans-trans muconic acid (MA)] at concentrations 0.5-50 microM, was assessed in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells employing the alkaline Comet assay, cytokinesis blocked micronucleus (CBMN) assay, flow cytometric analysis of micronucleus (flow MN) and chromosome aberration (CA) test. The data revealed significant (P<0.05) concentration-dependent response in all end points. HQ was found to be the most potent DNA damaging metabolite in the Comet assay followed by BQ>BT>CT>BZ>MA. Both CBMN and flow MN assays revealed a good correlation in their results, where BQ and MA exhibited maximum and minimum micronucleus induction respectively. Significant chromosomal aberrations were induced mainly by BQ, BT and HQ, with moderate response shown by CT and BZ and least by MA. The results demonstrated the utility of sensitive techniques like Comet assay and flow cytometry for determination of MN, to quantify in vitro genotoxicity at low levels and also suggested that partly non-repaired DNA damage could cause adverse health effects in human population exposed to benzene. In silico studies using different endpoints of genotoxicity and molecular docking studies with human topoisomerase-II alpha, a major DNA repair enzyme were also conducted. These corroborated the results obtained from the in vitro data, pointing to a direct relationship of the observed genotoxicity with the structural properties and various interactions of metabolites with the enzyme. This comprehensive study demonstrated that genotoxicity of benzene in mammalian cells is mainly due to the inhibition of topoisomerase by the metabolites.
In order to establish the degree of renal malfunction necessary for colchicine toxicity in patients receiving it daily for the prevention of recurrent acute gout, we obtained serum creatinine levels and measured or estimated creatinine clearances in a consecutive series of 17 patients with demonstrated colchicine myotoxicity. An estimate of creatinine clearance, based on ideal body weight and age, was nearly always 50 ml/min or less, and was the most practical predictor of the risk of toxicity. By comparison, patients with gout from the same clinical data base, but without myotoxicity, had normal renal function. The data yield clear guidelines for safe use of colchicine chronically.
ABT-888 is a potent, orally bioavailable PARP-1/2 inhibitor shown to potentiate DNA damaging agents. The ability to potentiate temozolomide (TMZ) and develop a biological marker for PARP inhibition was evaluated in vivo. Doses/schedules that achieve TMZ potentiation in the B16F10 syngeneic melanoma model were utilized to develop an ELISA to detect a pharmacodynamic marker, ADP ribose polymers (pADPr), after ABT 888 treatment. ABT-888 enhanced TMZ antitumor activity, in a dose-proportional manner with no observed toxicity (44-75% tumor growth inhibition vs. TMZ monotherapy), but did not show single agent activity. Extended ABT-888 dosing schedules showed no advantage compared to simultaneous TMZ administration. Efficacy correlated with plasma/tumor drug concentrations. Intratumor drug levels correlated with a dose-proportional/time-dependent reduction in pADPr. Potentiation of TMZ activity by ABT-888 correlated with drug levels and inhibition of PARP activity in vivo. ABT-888 is in Phase 1 trials using a validated ELISA based on the assay developed here to assess pharmacological effect.
The effects of indapamide and captopril on office and ambulatory blood pressure control and on general well-being were investigated in 30 active, randomly selected patients from 25 to 68 years old, with mild to moderate essential hypertension (diastolic blood pressure, 92 to 114 mm Hg). Twenty-four-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring using an ICR model 5200 portable recorder and evaluation of general well-being were performed prior to and at the end of three months of therapy with indapamide 2.5 mg given once daily, or captopril 12.5 to 50 mg given twice daily. Indapamide and captopril were equally effective in controlling blood pressures in clinic and during 24-hour activities. Although general well-being and subjective symptomatology improved with both treatments, the only significant difference between the two drugs was improvement in the sleep dysfunction scale with indapamide (p less than 0.02). The results shown in this study suggest that both indapamide (2.5 mg) once daily and captopril (12.5 to 50 mg) twice daily are suitable drugs for initial therapy of active patients with mild to moderate hypertension. A fixed once-daily dosage of an antihypertensive agent may, however, increase patient compliance and convenience.
A drug addict with staphylococcal endocarditis treated with methicillin, who developed massive proteinuria and acute nephritic syndrome is described. Discontinuation of methicillin therapy and appropriate antibiotic treatment of endocarditis led to clinical improvement, emphasizing the need to promptly discontinue potential nephrotoxic agents when abnormalities in renal function appear. The clinical course and results of renal biopsy studies suggest multiple causes of the renal lesions in this patient.
Milrinone is a potent positive inotropic and vascular smooth muscle-relaxing agent in vitro, and therefore, it is not known to what extent each of these actions contributes to the drug's hemodynamic effects in patients with heart failure. In 11 patients with New York Heart Association class III or IV congestive heart failure, incremental intravenous doses of milrinone were administered to determine the dose-response relationships for heart rate, systemic vascular resistance, and inotropic state, the latter measured by peak positive left ventricular derivative of pressure with respect to time (dP/dt). To clarify further the role of a positive inotropic action, the relative effects of milrinone and nitroprusside on left ventricular stroke work and dP/dt were compared in each patient at doses matched to cause equivalent reductions in mean arterial pressure or systemic vascular resistance, indices of left ventricular afterload. Milrinone caused heart rate, stroke volume, and dP/dt to increase, and systemic vascular resistance to decrease in a concentration-related manner. At the two lowest milrinone doses resulting in serum concentrations of 63 +/- 4 and 156 +/- 5 ng/ml, respectively, milrinone caused significant increases in stroke volume and dP/dt, but no changes in systemic vascular resistance or heart rate. At the maximum milrinone dose administered (mean serum concentration, 427 +/- 11 ng/ml), heart rate increased from 92 +/- 4 to 99 +/- 4 bpm (P less than 0.01), mean aortic pressure fell from 82 +/- 3 to 71 +/- 3 mmHg (P less than 0.01), right atrial pressure fell from 15 +/- 2 to 7 +/- 1 mmHg (P less than 0.005), left ventricular end-diastolic pressure fell from 26 +/- 3 to 18 +/- 3 (P less than 0.005), stroke volume index increased from 20 +/- 2 to 30 +/- 2 ml/m2 (P less than 0.005), stroke work index increased from 14 +/- 2 to 21 +/- 2 g X m/m2 (P less than 0.01), and dP/dt increased from 858 +/- 54 to 1,130 +/- 108 mmHg/s (P less than 0.005). When compared with nitroprusside for a matched reduction in mean aortic pressure or systemic vascular resistance, milrinone caused a significantly greater increase in stroke work index at the same or lower left ventricular end-diastolic pressure. Milrinone caused a concentration-related increase in dP/dt (32% increase at maximum milrinone dose), whereas nitroprusside had no effect. These data in patients with severe heart failure indicate that in addition to a vasodilating effect, milrinone exerts a concentration-related positive inotropic action that contributes significantly to the drug's overall hemodynamic effects. The positive inotropic action occurs at drug levels that do not exert significant chronotropic or vasodilator effects.
Leptin, a product of ob gene controlling food intake, has recently been detected in the stomach and shown to be released by CCK and implicated in gastroprotection against various noxious agents but it is unknown whether centrally applied leptin influences ischemia-reperfusion (I/R)-induced gastric erosions that progress into deeper gastric ulcerations. In this study we compared the effects of leptin and CCK-8 applied intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) or intraperitoneally (i.p.) on gastric mucosal lesions induced by I/R and topical application of 75% ethanol. Several major series of Wistar rats were used to examine the effects of leptin and CCK applied centrally on gastroprotection against I/R and ethanol in rats with A) vagotomy by cutting of vagal nerves, B) suppression of NO-synthase with L-NNA (20 mg/kg i.p.), C) inactivation of sensory nerves by capsaicin (125 mg/kg s.c.) and D) inhibition of CGRP receptors with CGR(8-37) (100 microg/kg i.p.) applied with or without the i.c.v. pretreatment with leptin or CCK-8. Rats were anesthetized 1 h after ethanol administration or at 3 h and 3 days upon the end of ischemia to measure the gastric blood flow (GBF) and then to determine the area of gastric lesions by planimetry. Blood was withdrawn for the measurement of plasma leptin and gastrin levels by radioimmunoassay (RIA). Leptin (0.1-20 microg/kg i.p.) dose-dependently attenuated gastric lesions induced by 75% ethanol and I/R; the dose reducing these lesions by 50% (ED50) was 8 microg/kg and 6 microg/kg, respectively and this protective effect was similar to that obtained with CCK-8 applied in a standard dose of 10 microg/kg i.p. This protective effect of leptin was accompanied by a significant increase in GBF and plasma gastrin levels whereas CCK-8 increased plasma leptin levels but failed to affect plasma gastrin levels. Leptin and CCK-8 applied i.c.v. in a dose of 625 ng/rat reduced significantly the area of I/R induced gastric lesions and raised the GBF and plasma leptin levels with the extent similar to those achieved with peripheral administration of leptin or CCK-8 (10 microg/kg i.p.). The protective and hyperemic effects of centrally administered leptin or CCK-8 (625 ng/rat i.c.v.) were completely abolished by vagotomy and significantly attenuated by sensory denervation with capsaicin or by CGRP antagonist, CGRP(8-37). The pretreatment with L-NNA to inhibit NO-synthase activity attenuated significantly the protective and hyperemic effects of CCK but not those of leptin while capsaicin denervation counteracted leptin-induced protection and rise in the GBF but attenuated significantly those of CCK. We conclude that: 1) central leptin exerts a potent gastroprotective activity against I/R-induced gastric erosions that progress into deeper gastric lesions and this protection depends upon vagal activity and sensory nerves and involves hyperemia probably mediated by NO and 2) leptin mimics the gastroprotective effect of CCK and may be implicated in the protective and hyperemic actions of this peptide against mucosal damage evoked by I/R.
Succinylcholine should be avoided in any patient with known myotonia because of the possibility of an abnormal rigid response. In addition, the possibility of undiagnosed myotonia should be considered in any myopathic patient. While not all myotonic responses are associated with malignant hyperthermia, the anesthetic should be discontinued immediately and the patient should be closely observed for elevation of temperature.
The aim of our study is to report upon the presentation of two patients with life-threatening acute liver failure (ALF) due to amoxicillin and amoxicillin/clavulanate. A 59-year-old, Caucasian male presented with ALF 34 days after receiving amoxicillin/clavulanate. Despite aggressive supportive care, he died on hospital day 10. A 42-year-old, Caucasian female presented with ALF 21 days after receiving amoxicillin. She underwent successful liver transplantation on hospital day 19. In both cases, all competing causes of ALF had been excluded, liver pathology was consistent with drug-induced hepatitis, and cases were deemed "definite/highly probable" using causality assessment. Amongst 14 prior ALF/death cases due to amoxicillin/clavulanate, the mean age (62 years), male predominance (57%), and mean delay from drug cessation to presentation (17 days) is similar to what has been reported in patients with self-limited cholestatic hepatitis. Acute liver failure is a rare manifestation of amoxicillin and amoxicillin/clavulanate hepatotoxicity with no obvious clinical features at presentation portending a poor prognosis. Early transfer of patients with severe drug-induced hepatotoxicity (i.e., encephalopathy or coagulopathy) to a transplant center is recommended due to their poor likelihood of recovery.
The renin activity and gluco- and mineralocorticoid adrenalocortical function were studied in 22 patients operated mainly on abdominal organs under the conditions of ketamine anesthesia. As noted, the ketamine injection followed with hypertension and tachicardia does not give rise to the renin activity and to the 11-OKS and aldosterone blood levels, as well. An evident trend to the increase of the concentration of the adrenocortical hormones, together with the occurrence of hypokemia and progressive hyperglycemia have been traced throughout the anesthesia and operation.
Hirschsprung disease (HSCR) is a congenital disorder characterized by the absence of intramural ganglion cells along with variable lengths of the gastrointestinal tract. Recent studies have indicated the potential function of neuregulin-1 (NRG1) in HSCR, which encodes the heregulins and other mitogenic ligands for the ErbB family. The purpose of this study was to further clarify the role of NRG1 in the pathogenesis of HSCR.
We examined the NRG1 messenger RNA (messenger RNA) and protein expression levels in gut tissues of 63 patients with sporadic HSCR (both stenotic and dilated gut tissues) and 35 controls. Moreover, using the methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction, we examined the methylation pattern of exon 1 of the NRG1 gene.
The mRNA expression levels of NRG1 were significantly higher in tissues of HSCR than those in controls, and the increased NRG1 protein levels in HSCR were consistent with the mRNA levels. However, no methylation pattern change was observed in exon 1 of the gene among different groups.
Our study demonstrates that the aberrant expression of NRG1 may play an important role in the pathology of HSCR. DNA methylation of the gene seems not to be involved in the mechanism of such aberrant expression, and other factors should be explored.
We evaluated the risk of Wilms' tumor in the offspring of women taking various medications during pregnancy in a case, control study conducted in Brazil. The study accrued 109 cases and 218 age- and gender-matched hospital controls. After adjustment for known confounders, we found a strong association with ingestion of dipyrone (odds ratio = 10.9; 95% confidence interval = 2.4-50) particularly in women from low-income families. Although dipyrone-containing analgesics are banned in Europe and North America, they are widely prescribed in Brazil and are given as free samples in neighborhood clinics providing free health care. The strong effect specific to low-income women may result from higher individual consumption compared with women at higher income levels.
1) Should dexrazoxane be used routinely in patients with advanced or metastatic cancer who are at risk of developing cardio toxicity when receiving chemotherapy containing doxorubicin or epirubicin? 2) Do the available data support the use of dexrazoxane when anthracyclines are being used in the adjuvant setting for patients at risk of developing cardiotoxicity?
To make recommendations regarding the use of dexrazoxane to prevent cardiotoxicity in patients with nonhematological malignancies who are receiving anthracycline- containing chemotherapy.
Clinical and subclinical cardiotoxicity, noncardiac toxicity and impact on efficacy outcomes such as response and overall survival are considered.
Evidence was selected, reviewed and synthesized by 2 members of Cancer Care Ontario's Systemic Treatment Disease Site Group (STDSG), formerly the Systemic Treatment Program Committee. Drafts of this document have been circulated and reviewed by members of the STDSG. The STDSG comprises medical oncologists, pharmacists, supportive care personnel and administrators. Community representatives did not participate in the development of this guideline, but they will be included in future guidelines.
Seven randomized controlled trials (RCTs), 2 with placebo control, were available for analysis.
Data for clinical cardiotoxicity from 6 trials were pooled (n = 1070). The meta-analysis indicated that the risk of experiencing clinical cardiotoxicity was significantly reduced by dexrazoxane (risk ratio 0.24; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.11 to 0.52; p = 0.00031). There was no significant benefit shown in individual trials for objective response or survival.
One of the RCTs revealed a significantly lower objective response rate in the dexrazoxane arm. However, a meta-analysis of objective response across 5 trials of breast cancer patients (n = 818) did not confirm this effect (odds ratio 0.85; 95% CI 0.61 to 1.18; p = 0.33). The use of dexrazoxane increased the incidence of myelosuppression and other noncardiac toxicities, but these were generally mild.
The evidence supports the use of dexrazoxane to provide protection against the cardiotoxicity associated with conventional-dose doxorubicin in patients with advanced but anthracycline-sensitive cancer, in whom the continued use of anthracycline-containing chemotherapy is indicated in the opinion of the treating physician and who have received 300 mg/m2 or more of doxorubicin. The evidence supports the use dexrazoxane to provide protection against the cardiotoxicity associated with conventional-dose epirubicin in patients with advanced but anthracycline-sensitive cancer, in whom the continued use of anthracycline-containing chemotherapy is indicated in the opinion of the treating physicians. There are no data indicating the optimal cumulative dose of epirubicin at which dexrazoxane should be instituted. For doxorubicin, use of dexrazoxane is recommended after the cumulative dose reaches 300 mg/m2 (i.e., 55% of the recommended maximum). A similar formula could be used for epirubicin, that is, institution of dexrazoxane when the cumulative dose of epirubicin reaches 550 mg/m2, as the recommended maximum cumulative dose in Canada is 1000 mg/m2. Preclinical studies did not show any cardioprotectant effect for dexrazoxane when used with mitoxantrone, and no clinical studies have been done. Therefore, dexrazoxane is not recommended for use with mitoxantrone. There is no evidence for or against the use of dexrazoxane in the adjuvant setting for any tumour type. Because of concerns that dexrazoxane may reduce the efficacy of anthracyclines, and because data are not yet available on long-term toxicities, further studies should be performed before the drug is used in this setting.
The human disorders of peroxisome biogenesis (PBDs) are subdivided into 12 complementation groups (CGs). CG8 is one of the more common of these and is associated with varying phenotypes, ranging from the most severe, Zellweger syndrome (ZS), to the milder neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy (NALD) and infantile Refsum disease (IRD). PEX26, encoding the 305-amino-acid membrane peroxin, has been shown to be deficient in CG8. We studied the PEX26 genotype in fibroblasts of eight CG8 patients--four with the ZS phenotype, two with NALD, and two with IRD. Catalase was mostly cytosolic in all these cell lines, but import of the proteins that contained PTS1, the SKL peroxisome targeting sequence, was normal. Expression of PEX26 reestablished peroxisomes in all eight cell lines, confirming that PEX26 defects are pathogenic in CG8 patients. When cells were cultured at 30 degrees C, catalase import was restored in the cell lines from patients with the NALD and IRD phenotypes, but to a much lesser extent in those with the ZS phenotype, indicating that temperature sensitivity varied inversely with the severity of the clinical phenotype. Several types of mutations were identified, including homozygous G89R mutations in two patients with ZS. Expression of these PEX26 mutations in pex26 Chinese hamster ovary cells resulted in cell phenotypes similar to those in the human cell lines. These findings confirm that the degree of temperature sensitivity in pex26 cell lines is predictive of the clinical phenotype in patients with PEX26 deficiency.
A phase II, open, nonrandomized trial was carried out in a group of epirubicin-treated cancer patients with the aim of detecting early preclinical changes that are predictive of the risk for heart failure. Thirty-one patients (male/female ratio, 8/23; mean age +/- standard deviation, 59 +/- 14 years) with tumors at different sites and scheduled to be treated with an epirubicin-based chemotherapy regimen, were enrolled. We prospectively evaluated the acute (1 week after) and late (3, 6, 12, and 18 months of follow-up) effects of epirubicin administration. A significant impairment in systolic left ventricular (LV) function was observed at a cumulative epirubicin dose of 200 mg/m(2). This was shown by a reduction in the strain rate (SR) peak in comparison with baseline and persisted throughout the treatment and follow-up, up to 18 months; strain (Sigma) remained unchanged. The Sm wave showed a progressive reduction that became significant only at the 18-month follow-up. On TDI the E(m)/A(m) ratio declined at the 200-mg/m(2) cumulative epirubicin dose versus baseline and persisted throughout the treatment and up to the 18-month follow-up. On conventional echocardiography the E/A ratio declined significantly only at the 300-mg/m(2) cumulative epirubicin dose. Interleukin (IL)-6, soluble IL-6 receptor, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) increased significantly at the 200-mg/m(2) dose, and IL-6 was persistently high at the 300- and 400-mg/m(2) doses, returning to within baseline values during follow-up. ROS, after the peak reached at the 200-mg/m(2) dose, returned to within baseline values. A significant inverse correlation between DeltaSR and the increase in both IL-6 and ROS was observed. A multiple regression analysis showed that both the IL-6 and ROS variables were independent and strongly predictive of DeltaSR. The clinical meaningfulness of our findings warrants further investigations on a larger number of patients for a longer period of follow-up.
An early study showed that a naloxone infusion decreased the incidence of morphine-related side effects from intravenous patient-controlled analgesia. The authors tested the hypothesis that a more convenient combination of morphine and naloxone via patient-controlled analgesia would decrease the incidence of side effects compared to morphine alone.
Patients scheduled for hysterectomy under general anaesthesia were enrolled in a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial. Patients received a standardized general anesthetic and postoperative patient-controlled analgesia. They were randomized to receive 60 mg patient-controlled analgesia morphine in 30 ml saline or 60 mg morphine in 30 ml saline with naloxone 0.8 mg. Parameters for patient-controlled analgesia were a 1-mg bolus of morphine with a 5-min lockout and no background infusion. Patient recall of nausea, vomiting, itching, and pain (at rest and with movement) were assessed at 6 and 24 h postoperatively by verbal rating score. Pain was also assessed by a 0- to 100-mm visual analog score, and sedation was assessed by an observer. The amount of morphine used and the requirements for symptomatic treatment were also recorded.
Ninety-two patients completed the study, with no significant differences in outcomes between groups. At 24 h, the incidence of nausea was 84.8% in each group; the incidence of pruritus was 56.5% in the naloxone group and 58.7% in the placebo group. There were also no differences in symptomatic treatment requirements, pain scores, morphine use, or sedation between groups. The median dose of naloxone received equated to 0.38 microg x kg-1 x h-1 over 24 h.
There was no benefit from administering naloxone combined with morphine via patient-controlled analgesia.
There is little known on the involvement of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) in the metastatic cascade of human prostate cancer, that is, cell proliferation, cell-cell adhesion, extracellular-matrix degradation, and migration/invasion. Here we evaluated the expression of related biomarker proteins (cyclin D1, metalloproteinases MMP-2 and MMP-9, and E-cadherin) in human androgen-dependent (LNCaP) and independent (PC3) prostate cancer cells.
Reverse transcriptase (RT)-polymerase chain reaction (PCR), gelatin zymography, Western blotting, confocal immunofluorescence microscopy, and assays on cell proliferation, adhesion, wound-healing, migration and random homing were performed.
VIP increased cell proliferation and cyclin D1 expression whereas it decreased cell adhesion and E-cadherin expression in LNCaP and PC3 cells. VIP enhanced the gelatinolytic activity of MMP-2 and MMP-9. Semiquantitative RT-PCR assays showed that VIP stimulated mRNA levels of these MMPs and suppressed mRNA levels of its inhibitory protein RECK. VIP promoted cell invasion and migration, and the responses were faster according to the most aggressive status in cancer progression (androgen-independence). The involvement of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) was demonstrated since the anti-inflammatory agent curcumin blocked VIP effects on the above biomarkers in both cell lines.
Taken together, these results and the presence of kappaB sites on gene promoter of cyclin D1, MMPs and, possibly, E-cadherin suggest that VIP may act as a cytokine in an early metastatic stage of human prostate cancer through the NF-kappaB/MMPs-RECK/E-cadherin system. Our findings may help to define novel targets and agents with potential usefulness in prostate cancer therapy.
Drugs that inhibit brain dopamine transporters (DAT) have been developed as potential agonist medications for cocaine abuse and dependence. Because the mechanism of action of such drugs is similar to cocaine, one concern regarding their use is the abuse potential of the medications themselves. The present study compared the reinforcing strength of cocaine (0.003-0.3mg/kg) and two 3-phenyltropane analogs of cocaine, RTI-336 (3beta-(4-chlorophenyl)-2beta-[3-(4'-methylphenyl)isoxazol-5-yl]tropane hydrochloride; 0.003-0.1mg/kg) and RTI-177 (3beta-(4-chlorophenyl)-2beta-[3-phenylisoxazol-5-yl]tropane hydrochloride; 0.003-0.1mg/kg), using a progressive-ratio (PR) schedule in rhesus monkeys (n=4). PR schedules of reinforcement are frequently used to measure reinforcing strength of drugs. Earlier research using limited-access conditions reported that cocaine was a stronger reinforcer than either RTI-336 or RTI-177. Because the 3-phenyltropanes have longer durations of action, one purpose of the present study was to examine reinforcing strength using longer experimental sessions. Under these conditions, cocaine functioned as a reinforcer in all monkeys, and RTI-336 and RTI-177 functioned as a reinforcer in three of four subjects. Consistent with their documented slower onset of neurochemical and pharmacological effects, RTI-336 and RTI-177 were weaker reinforcers, resulting in fewer injections than cocaine. On average, the potencies of the two RTI compounds were not different than that of cocaine. These results support the view that slow-onset DA-selective uptake inhibitors have lower abuse liability than cocaine. In addition, the present findings suggest that changes in PR session length can influence potency comparisons between drugs, but not measures of reinforcing strength.
Selenium may affect prostate cancer risk via its plasma carrier selenoprotein P which shows dramatically reduced expression in prostate cancer tumors and cell lines. The selenoprotein P (SEPP1) Ala234 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) allele is associated with lower plasma selenoprotein P in men, reducing the concentration/activity of other antioxidant selenoproteins. Selenium status also modifies the effect of the mitochondrial superoxide dismutase (SOD2) SNP Ala16Val on prostate cancer risk. We investigated the relationship of these SNPs with prostate cancer risk. DNA from 2,975 cases and 1,896 age-matched controls from the population-based Prostate Cancer in Sweden study were genotyped using TaqMan assays. Cases were designated aggressive or nonaggressive prostate cancers at diagnosis by clinical criteria. Association with prostate cancer was investigated by logistic regression; gene-gene interaction using a general linear model. The mean plasma selenium concentration measured in 169 controls was relatively low (76.0 +/- 17.2 microg/L). SNP genotype distributions were in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. SOD2-Ala16+ men were at a greater risk of prostate cancer [odds ratios (OR), 1.19; 95% confidence intervals (CI), 1.03-1.37] compared with SOD2-Val16 homozygotes. Men homozygous for SEPP1-Ala234 who were also SOD2-Ala16+ had a higher risk of prostate cancer (OR, 1.43; 95% CI, 1.17-1.76) and aggressive prostate cancer (OR, 1.60; 95% CI, 1.22-2.09) than those who were SOD2-Val16 homozygotes (interaction, prostate cancer P = 0.05; aggressive prostate cancer P = 0.01). This interaction was stronger in ever-smokers: SOD2-Ala16+ men homozygous for SEPP1-Ala234 had an almost doubled risk of prostate cancer (OR, 1.97; 95% CI, 1.33-2.91; interaction P = 0.001). In a low-selenium population, SOD2-Ala16+ men homozygous for SEPP1-Ala234 are at an increased risk of prostate cancer/aggressive prostate cancer especially if ever-smokers, because they are likely to produce more mitochondrial H(2)O(2) that they cannot remove, thereby promoting prostate tumor cell proliferation and migration.
Halogenated agonists for the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR), such as 3,3',4,4',5-pentachlorobiphenyl (PCB126) and 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD), cause developmental toxicity in fish. AHR dependence of these effects is known for TCDD but only presumed for PCB126, and the AHR-regulated genes involved are known only in part. We defined the role of AHR in regulation of four cytochrome P450 1 (CYP1) genes and the effect of PCB126 on cell cycle genes (i.e., PCNA and cyclin E) in zebra fish (Danio rerio) embryos. Basal and PCB126-induced expression of CYP1A, CYP1B1, CYP1C1, and CYP1C2 was examined over time as well as in relation to cell cycle gene expression and morphological effects of PCB126 in developing zebra fish. The four CYP1 genes differed in the time for maximal basal and induced expression, i.e., CYP1B1 peaked within 2 days postfertilization (dpf), the CYP1Cs around hatching (3 dpf), and CYP1A after hatching (14-21 dpf). These results indicate developmental periods when the CYP1s may play physiological roles. PCB126 (0.3-100nM) caused concentration-dependent CYP1 gene induction (EC50: 1.4-2.7nM, Lowest observed effect concentration [LOEC]: 0.3-1nM) and pericardial edema (EC50: 4.4nM, LOEC: 3nM) in 3-dpf embryos. Blockage of AHR2 translation significantly inhibited these effects of PCB126 and TCDD. PCNA gene expression was reduced by PCB126 in a concentration-dependent manner, suggesting that PCB126 could suppress cell proliferation. Our results indicate that the four CYP1 genes examined are regulated by AHR2 and that the effect of PCB126 on morphology in zebra fish embryos is AHR2 dependent. Moreover, the developmental patterns of expression and induction suggest that CYP1 enzymes could function in normal development and in developmental toxicity of PCB126 in fish embryos.
The mechanism by which stimulation of somatodendritic and/or postsynaptic 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT, serotonin)-1A receptor could attenuate acute Parkinsonian-like effects of typical antipsychotics is investigated by comparing the anticataleptic and neurochemical effects of 8-hydroxy-2-di-n-propylaminotetralin (8-OH-DPAT) and buspirone in rats injected with haloperidol. Cataleptic effects of a submaximal dose (1 mg/kg) of haloperidol were attenuated more by prior administration of 8-OH-DPAT (0.25 mg/kg) than buspirone (1 mg/kg). Striatal 5-HT metabolism decreased more in buspirone- than 8-OH-DPAT-injected animals. Administration of haloperidol did not alter 5-HT metabolism in saline-, 8-OH-DPAT- or buspirone-injected animals. Dopamine decreased and its metabolite homovanillic acid (HVA) increased in the striatum of rats injected with buspirone. Effects of 8-OH-DPAT on dopamine metabolism were not significant. Haloperidol-induced increases of dopamine metabolites were attenuated by prior administration of 8-OH-DPAT, but not buspirone. The mechanism by which stimulation of somatodendritic as well as postsynaptic 5-HT-1A receptors could attenuate haloperidol-induced catalepsy is discussed. The findings have potential implications in the treatment of schizophrenia and motor behavior.
To assess whether six courses of paclitaxel are effective as consolidation treatment in patients with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer who are in complete response after first-line paclitaxel/platinum-based chemotherapy.
Patients with stages IIb to IV disease in clinical or pathologic complete response after six courses of paclitaxel/platinum-based chemotherapy were randomly allocated to either observation (ie, control) or six courses of paclitaxel 175 mg/m(2) every 3 weeks (ie, maintenance).
Two hundred patients were randomly assigned from March 1999 to July 2006. Because of the low accrual rate, an unplanned interim analysis of futility according to the Bayesian approach was performed. Grade 2 or greater motor neurotoxicity and sensory neurotoxicity were reported in 11.3% and 28.0% of the paclitaxel-arm patients, respectively. After a median follow-up of 43.5 months, 107 patients (53%) had experienced relapse, and 48 patients (24%) had died. Two-year progression-free survival rates were 54% (95% CI, 43% to 64%) and 59% (95% CI, 49% to 69%; P = not significant) in the control and maintenance arms, respectively. Corresponding 2-year overall survival rates were 90% (95% CI, 84% to 97%) and 87% (95% CI, 80% to 94%; P = not significant), respectively. The Cox model showed that residual disease after initial surgery (macroscopic v no macroscopic residuum; hazard ratio [HR], 1.91; 95%CI, 1.21 to 3.03) and stage (IIIc to IV v others; HR, 3.10; 95% CI, 1.13 to 8.48) were independent prognostic factors for progression-free survival, whereas the treatment arm (maintenance v control) had no prognostic relevance.
A consolidation treatment with six cycles of paclitaxel does not prolong progression-free survival or overall survival in patients in complete response after first-line paclitaxel/platinum-based regimens.
The aim of this study was to assess the effects of Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE) inhibition on cardiac systolic and diastolic parameters and left ventricular muscle mass in hypertensive patients. For this purpose 30 patients (22 female and eight male) with mild to moderate essential hypertension, aged 47 +/- 2 years, were treated with enalapril maleate (MK 421, an ACE inhibitor) for six weeks. They underwent M-mode and Doppler echocardiography and radionuclide ventriculography at the beginning and after six weeks of enalapril treatment. In this study all patients treated with the ACE inhibitor enalapril responded with a significant decrease in mean arterial pressure (p < 0.001). A significant reduction in left ventricle and mass index were shown after six weeks of treatment with enalapril (p < 0.01). Total peripheral resistance and end-systolic stress decreased in the same time course (p < 0.001). Ejection fraction increased in both examinations after six weeks of therapy with enalapril, but this increase was not statistically significant. In radionuclide examinations, time to peak filling rate decreased significantly after six weeks of enalapril therapy (p < 0.02). Despite these improvements in cardiac systolic and diastolic parameters, cardiac output and stroke volume decreased slightly after enalapril treatment. We concluded that enalapril improves diastolic and systolic parameters in LV function but causes slight decreases in cardiac output and stroke volume in addition to lowering blood pressure.
A 36-year-old woman presented at our clinic with symmetrical, tender, palpable purpuric lesions on her lower legs and buttocks after restarting PTU therapy for relapsing Graves' disease. PTU-induced vasculitis was diagnosed with remarkable ANCA anti-MPO and anti-PR3 antibody positivity. The purpuric skin lesions resolved immediately after discontinuation of the drug and the ANCA titres lowered. In the presence of activated neutrophils, PTU could induce a high cytotoxity and injure the vessel walls. Treatment of choice is discontinuation of the drug. Sometimes more aggressive therapy as cyclophosphamide or plasmapheresis is warranted.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of sublingual nitroglycerin as a tocolytic agent for external cephalic version in parous women.
A double-blinded randomized controlled trial was performed. Patients with parity of >or=1 at 36 to 40 weeks of gestation who were eligible for external cephalic version were included. Patients were randomized to receive either two sublingual sprays of 400 mug of nitroglycerin or two sprays of placebo 3 minutes before the trial of external cephalic version. Rates of successful external cephalic version and side effects were compared between groups.
Of 99 patients in the study, 50 patients received sublingual nitroglycerin, and 49 patients received placebo. There were no differences in maternal age, gestational age, estimated fetal weight, amniotic fluid index, and placental location between the two groups. The success rate of external cephalic version was 48% in the nitroglycerin group compared with 63% in the placebo group (P=.13). There was a higher incidence of headaches in the nitroglycerin group (42% vs 4%, P<.001).
Sublingual nitroglycerin was associated with a higher rate of headache and did not improve the rate of successful external cephalic version.
Behçet's disease is an inflammatory disease characterized by recurrent oral and genital ulcers and significant organ involvement. Localizing the genetic association between HLA-B*51 and Behçet's disease and exploring additional susceptibility loci in the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) region are complicated by the strong linkage disequilibrium in this region. We genotyped 8,572 variants in the extended HLA locus and carried out imputation and meta-analysis of 24,834 variants in 2 independent Behçet's disease cohorts from 2 ancestry groups. Genotyped SNPs were used to infer classical HLA alleles in the HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C, HLA-DQA1, HLA-DQB1 and HLA-DRB1 loci. Our data suggest that the robust HLA-B*51 association in Behçet's disease is explained by a variant located between the HLA-B and MICA genes (rs116799036: odds ratio (OR) = 3.88, P = 9.42 × 10(-50)). Three additional independent genetic associations within PSORS1C1 (rs12525170: OR = 3.01, P = 3.01 × 10(-26)), upstream of HLA-F-AS1 (rs114854070: OR = 1.95, P = 7.84 × 10(-14)) and with HLA-Cw*1602 (OR = 5.38, P = 6.07 × 10(-18)) were also identified and replicated.
In the last few years delayed reactions several hours after the injection of radiographic and contrast materials (PRC) have been described with increasing frequency. The authors report two observations on patients with delayed reactions in whom intradermoreactions (IDR) and patch tests to a series of ionic and non ionic PRC were studied. After angiography by the venous route in patient n degree 1 a biphasic reaction with an immediate reaction (dyspnea, loss of consciousness) and delayed macro-papular rash appeared, whilst patient n degree 2 developed a generalised sensation of heat, persistent pain at the site of injection immediately and a generalised macro-papular reaction after 24 hours. The skin tests revealed positive delayed reactions of 24 hours and 48 hours by IDR and patch tests to only some PRC with common chains in their structures. The positive skin tests are in favour of immunological reactions and may help in diagnosis of allergy in the patients.
