A large group of patients with suspected allergic reactions to beta-lactam antibiotics was evaluated. A detailed clinical history, together with skin tests, RAST (radioallergosorbent test), and controlled challenge tests, was used to establish whether patients allergic to beta-lactam antibiotics had selective immediate allergic responses to amoxicillin (AX) or were cross-reacting with other penicillin derivatives. Skin tests were performed with benzylpenicilloyl-poly-L-lysine (BPO-PLL), benzylpenicilloate, benzylpenicillin (PG), ampicillin (AMP), and AX. RAST for BPO-PLL and AX-PLL was done. When both skin test and RAST for BPO were negative, single-blind, placebo-controlled challenge tests were done to ensure tolerance of PG or sensitivity to AX. A total of 177 patients were diagnosed as allergic to beta-lactam antibiotics. We selected the 54 (30.5%) cases of immediate AX allergy with good tolerance of PG. Anaphylaxis was seen in 37 patients (69%), the other 17 (31%) having urticaria and/or angioedema. All the patients were skin test negative to BPO; 49 of 51 (96%) were also negative to MDM, and 44 of 46 (96%) to PG. Skin tests with AX were positive in 34 (63%) patients. RAST was positive for AX in 22 patients (41%) and to BPO in just 5 (9%). None of the sera with negative RAST for AX were positive to BPO. Challenge tests with AX were performed in 23 subjects (43%) to establish the diagnosis of immediate allergic reaction to AX, and in 15 cases (28%) both skin test and RAST for AX were negative. PG was well tolerated by all 54 patients. We describe the largest group of AX-allergic patients who have tolerated PG reported so far. Diagnosis of these patients can be achieved only if specific AX-related reagents are employed. Further studies are necessary to determine the exact extent of this problem and to improve the efficacy of diagnostic methods.
Several antihypertensive medications affect lower urinary tract function and may cause urinary incontinence.
A 59-year-old woman on doxazosin mesylate for control of her hypertension presented with stress urinary incontinence. Because this drug is known to cause loss of urethral tone leading to stress incontinence in some patients, she was switched to enalapril maleate, an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor. Her incontinence improved on the new medication, but she developed a persistent dry cough that continued to cause episodic stress incontinence. Because a persistent cough is a known side effect of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, her medication was changed to a calcium channel blocker, amlodipine besylate. Her cough resolved, and her stress incontinence was no longer a clinical problem.
Gynecologists should be aware of the unexpected side effects of medications on the lower urinary tract.
In order to determine the effects of intermittent hormonal manipulation on the promotion stage of rat prostate carcinogenesis, testosterone and/or estrogen were administered to F344 rats for 40 weeks after 20-weeks treatment with the prostate carcinogen, 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl. For this purpose testosterone propionate (TP) and diethylstilbestrol (DES) were introduced into silastic tubes, 2- and 0.5-cm long, respectively, and implanted into the subcutis for seven repeated cycles of 30 days treatment and 10 days withdrawal. Intermittent administration of TP resulted in suppression of ventral prostate adenocarcinoma development and slight but non-significant increases in the incidences of invasive carcinomas of the lateral prostate and seminal vesicles. Intermittent administration of DES completely suppressed tumorigenesis in all sites and the combination of TP and DES generally inhibited prostate tumor development. Thus, under the present experimental conditions, no strong enhancing effects of cyclic hormonal manipulation were observed on rat prostate carcinogenesis. Indeed, the opposite appeared to be the case.
This study was carried out to see the hepatobiliary clearance of 99m Tc-Mebrofenin radiopharmaceutical in D-galactosamine induced hepatic rats. Furthermore, protective effect of turmeric extract has been studied in these hepatitis rats. Hepatitis was induced with intraperitoneal injection of D-galactosamine (400 mg/kg b. wt) in these rats. 1% turmeric extract was given along with their normal diet for 15 days. Turmeric extract treatment significantly increased the hepatic uptake of radioactivity and accelerated the excretion of 99m Tc-Mebrofenin as compared to control rats. (P < 0.001). In D-galactosamine administered rats, a significant delay was observed in 99m Tc-Mebrofenin excretion as compared to controls. However, D-galactosamine administered rats, pretreated with turmeric extract or concurrently treated with turmeric extract showed a near normal pattern of 99m Tc-Mebrofenin excretion. Hence, it can be suggested that turmeric extract may improve the liver function by detoxification.
1. BAY 41-2272 is a potent activator of the nitric oxide-independent site of soluble guanylate cyclase and has been recently introduced as a new therapeutic agent to treat chronic pulmonary hypertension (PH) in neonatal sheep. Because the in vivo heparin-protamine interaction may lead to severe PH, the aim of the present study was to evaluate the effects of BAY 41-2272 in the PH induced by heparin-protamine interaction in anaesthetized dogs. 2. Sixteen male dogs (10 mongrel dogs and six Beagles) were anaesthetized and instrumented for acquisition of mean arterial blood pressure (MABP), mean pulmonary arterial pressure (MPAP), heart rate (HR), pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP), cardiac index (CI) and indices of systemic and pulmonary vascular resistance (ISVR and IPVR, respectively). Plasma cGMP levels and S(p)o(2) were evaluated. 3. Intravenous administration of heparin (500 IU/kg) followed 3 min later by protamine (10 mg/kg) caused marked PH, as evaluated by the increase in MPAP, PCWP and IPVR. This was accompanied by a significant fall in MABP and a transient increase in HR. Infusion of BAY 41-2272 (10 microg/kg per h, starting 10 min before heparin administration) augmented plasma cGMP levels and slightly and significantly increased HR and CI, without affecting the other cardiovascular parameters. The elevation in IPVR, MPAP and PCWP triggered by the heparin-protamine interaction was significantly reduced in animals exposed to BAY 41-2272. 4. In vehicle-treated dogs, the S(p)o(2) values decreased significantly at the peak of the PH and this was significantly attenuated by treatment with BAY 41-2272. In addition, BAY 41-2272 (10 micromol/L) had no effect on the activated partial thromboplastin time of citrated plasma after the addition of heparin-protamine. 5. In conclusion, BAY 41-2272 was effective in reducing canine PH induced in vivo by the heparin-protamine interaction, thus indicating its potential in the treatment of this type of disorder.
64 of 910 hospital patients taking digoxin had a ventricular rate of less than 60 beats/min. In only 6 out of 57 of those investigated further could a diagnosis of digoxin toxicity be made on clinical, electrocardiographic, and biochemical grounds. No reason for the slow heart-rate could be found in 42 patients. Excessive vagal effects of digoxin in resting subjects may cause the bradycardia found in these in patients in the absence of digitalis toxicity.
Menkes disease (MD) is an X-linked recessive disorder characterized by copper deficiency resulting in a diminished function of copper-dependent enzymes. Most MD patients die in early childhood, although mild forms of MD have also been described. A diversity of mutations in the gene encoding of the Golgi-resident copper-transporting P(1B)-type ATPase ATP7A underlies MD. To elucidate the molecular consequences of the ATP7A mutations, various mutations in ATP7A associated with distinct phenotypes of MD (L873R, C1000R, N1304S, and A1362D) were analyzed in detail. All mutants studied displayed changes in protein expression and intracellular localization parallel to a dramatic decline in their copper-transporting capacity compared to ATP7A the wild-type. We restored these observed defects in ATP7A mutant proteins by culturing the cells at 30°C, which improves the quality of protein folding, similar to that which as has recently has been demonstrated for misfolded ATP7B, a copper transporter homologous to ATP7A. Further, the effect of the canine copper toxicosis protein COMMD1 on ATP7A function was examined as COMMD1 has been shown to regulate the proteolysis of ATP7B proteins. Interestingly, in addition to adjusted growth temperature, binding of COMMD1 partially restored the expression, subcellular localization, and copper-exporting activities of the ATP7A mutants. However, no effect of pharmacological chaperones was observed. Together, the presented data might provide a new direction for developing therapies to improve the residual exporting activity of unstable ATP7A mutant proteins, and suggests a potential role for COMMD1 in this process.
Theophylline toxicity has been recognized since its introduction into clinical medicine. Clarithromycin is a new oral macrolide antibiotic with excellent antibacterial activity and rare adverse effect. Patients with upper respiratory infection are often treated with theophylline and clarithromycin concurrently. We report a case of acute renal failure due to acute rhabdomyolysis caused by the interaction of theophylline and clarithromycin. A 72-year-old man visited our hospital because of coughing and a sore throat continuing for 1 week. He was diagnosed as having the common cold with a bronchial asthmatic symptom and was prescribed 200 mg/day of sustained-release theophylline for the treatment of asthma for 7 days. One week later, he visited our hospital again. Radiographic study of the chest revealed mild interstitial pneumonia and 200 mg/day of sustained-release theophylline and 400 mg/day of clarithromycin were administrated concomitantly. Five days after the second visit, the patient was admitted to our hospital because of generalized twitching, muscular weakness, high fever and serious general condition. He experienced generalized muscular twitching and tremor. Blood urea nitrogen was 106.1 mg/dl, serum creatinine was 7.4 mg/dl, serum creatinine kinase (CK) was 36,000 IU/l (normal 15-130 IU/l), CK isozyme revealed the following ratio: BB 0%, MB 1% and MM 99%. He was diagnosed as having acute renal failure with rhabdomyolysis caused by the interaction of theophylline and clarithromycin. Hemodialysis therapy was started. After 5 weeks, his serum creatinine was markedly decreased. It is well-known that clarithromycin enhances the serum concentration of theophylline by inhibition of the cytochrome P450-dependent pathway in hepatocytes. Theophylline toxicity may be enhanced when clarithromycin is administrated concomitantly, especially to elderly patients with dehydration.
The utility of procainamide, up to 10 mg/kg IV, as a provocative test for intermittent high degree atrioventricular (AV) block was evaluated in a total of 89 patients. Forty two patients had resting 1:1 AV conduction but had bifascicular block and a history of syncope. High degree AV block had not been documented in anyone. Before procainamide, the HV interval was greater than 60 ms in 17 of the 42 patients but no patient developed infra-Hisian block with fixed rate atrial pacing or following programmed atrial extrastimuli. Procainamide administration lengthened the mean HV interval by 11.9 ms and in seven (14%) the HV increment was marked, 15-75 ms. Furthermore, four (9.5%) of these 42 patients developed second or third degree infra-Hisian block and in two of these four patients, the HV prior to procainamide administration was normal or only mildly prolonged (less than 60 ms). The findings were compared to those in three "control" groups. Among four patients with bifascicular block, previously documented transient AV block but 1:1 AV conduction at the time of study, three developed high degree AV block following procainamide. Among five patients with bifascicular block but without syncope nor documented high degree AV block, the mean HV interval lengthened by 18.8 ms and in three the HV increment was 24-30 ms. In another 38 patients with neither syncope nor an intraventricular conduction defect, the mean HV interval lengthened by 5.3 ms and in two cases by 20-25 ms. Most importantly, high degree AV block was never observed in the latter two groups. During follow-up of up to 10 years (mean 46 months), three of the seven patients in whom procainamide provoked high degree AV block have subsequently progressed to fixed complete AV block. Although the incidence of provocation of AV block was relatively low, it was concluded that, among patients with possible intermittent AV block, administration of procainamide as a test of distal conduction has limited value but is still useful, and may provide information additional to that obtained from mere assessment of the HV interval.
Elucidation of the mechanisms of neuronal damage is an important task of modem neuroscience and is of paramount importance for medicine. Present work compares two models of excitotoxic neuronal damage induced by kainic acid and pilocarpine, in which inbred C57BL/6J (C57BL) and FVB/NJ (FVB) mice were used. Both models produced higher neuronal damage in FVB although mortality was higher in C57BL. No significant differences between two strains of mice were found in seizures severity. Kainic acid demonstrated greater tropism to hippocampus in comparison with pilocarpine. Hsp-70 and Egr-1 expression was not significantly different in C57BL and FVB. Analysis of the isolated mitochondrial fraction has shown different degree of free radical production in the strains studied, that could be one of the reasons for unequal susceptibility of their neurons to excitotoxic cell death.
Chronic continuous infusion of norepinephrine in rats causes alterations in biochemical and physiologic responses of the cardiovascular system and in cardiovascular adrenoceptor number. The response of cardiac and aortic ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity to stimulation by norepinephrine was decreased in rats receiving norepinephrine infusion. These responses are due to stimulation of beta- and alpha-adrenergic receptors, respectively. Additionally, there was reduced stimulation of aortic ODC activity by angiotensin II and vasopressin. The cardiac ODC response to angiotensin II was decreased, but the response to vasopressin was not affected. The decreased ODC response is accompanied by decreased pressor responses to the alpha-adrenergic agonist phenylephrine. Decreased numbers of alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor binding sites (as measured by the binding of [3H]prazosin and [125I]pindolol) might mediate, in part, the altered responses to adrenergic agonists. The decreased cardiovascular responsiveness measured in these animals after several days of norepinephrine infusion hypertension contrasts with the increased responses found in most other forms of hypertension. This provides a useful model in which to examine the consequences of prolonged adrenergic receptor stimulation.
The role of opiate mechanisms in the development of tolerance and altered susceptibility to seizures after repeated injections of picrotoxin was investigated. Independent groups of rats were pretreated with naloxone (0.3, 1.0, 3.0, and 10.0 mg/kg) or the saline vehicle and then tested for seizures induced by picrotoxin. The procedure was performed on 3 days at 1-week intervals, for a total of 3 testing days. Latencies to different types of seizures, the duration of postseizure immobility, and the number of focal seizure episodes were scored. In the vehicle-treated group, repeated picrotoxin injections led to an increased susceptibility to myoclonic and focal seizures and to decreased duration of postseizure immobility. Naloxone pretreatment significantly decreased the duration of the postseizure akinetic periods in the 1.0- and 10.0-mg/kg groups across all days, suggesting that endogenous opiates are involved in postseizure immobility and that there are interactions between opiate and picrotoxin mechanisms in some seizure-related behaviors. Naloxone did not alter the development of tolerance or sensitivity, indicating that naloxone-insensitive opiate mechanisms or nonopiate mechanisms may be involved in these processes.
We report the frequency of parkinsonism and cognitive decline (P/CD) in patients treated with valproate (VPA) after 1 year of treatment and at least 1 year of follow-up.
Three hundred sixty-four patients with various epileptic syndromes and seizure types were treated with VPA mono- or polytherapy for more than 1 year.
We found five cases of P/CD (1.37%; 95% CI, 0.18-2.56%). Among 140 patients with different adverse effects (AEs) of VPA, P/CD were among the rarest in frequency but significant in terms of drug discontinuation (five of 17).
Early identification of this type of AE and discontinuation of the drug led to complete recovery in affected patients.
The development of atherosclerosis is clearly linked to the level of blood pressure. This is illustrated by the difference of atheroma formation in arteries as compared to veins, the development of atherosclerosis in veins transplanted to the arterial circulation or the finding of atherosclerosis also in the pulmonary circulation as an effect of pulmonary hypertension. Several experimental studies have also illuminated the strong link between high blood pressure and the development of atherosclerosis. From a therapeutic point of view it is worth noting that the lowering of blood pressure per se has a positive effect on the development of atherosclerosis. In particular, calcium antagonists have been shown, in numerous experimental studies, to have an antiatherosclerotic effect. The positive results in animal studies led to studies in man, the first of which was the MIDAS Study. The Multicentre Isradipine Diuretic Atherosclerosis (MIDAS) Study was a comparison between the dihydropyridine-derived calcium antagonist isradipine and hydrochlorothiazide in 883 hypertensive patients. B-mode ultrasonography of the carotid artery was used in order to evaluate changes in wall thickness and the development of atherosclerotic plaques during a 3-year period. The final publication has yet to appear in a medical journal. However, the study and its main findings have been presented at several international scientific meetings. In brief, isradipine was significantly more effective than hydrochlorothiazide in preventing an increase in intima-media thickness at several points of measurement in the carotid artery in spite of the fact that systolic blood pressure was not lowered as effectively by isradipine as by the diuretic therapy. There are numerous lessons to be learnt from MIDAS for future studies of this kind. A good example of this is the European Lacidipine Study of Atherosclerosis (ELSA) which is currently in progress in several European countries. By careful analysis of MIDAS an improved study design has been created, which should result in a definitive and irrefutable answer to the issue of the clinical importance of calcium antagonist treatment in the prevention of atherosclerosis.
Post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) is a common complication following kala-azar (visceral leishmaniasis). In a prospective study in a village in the endemic area for kala-azar in the Sudan, 105 of 183 (57%) kala-azar patients developed PKDL. There was a significantly higher PKDL rate (69%) in those who received inadequate and irregular treatment of kala-azar than in those who were treated with stibogluconate 20 mg kg-1 daily for 15 days (35%). The group of patients who developed PKDL did not differ from those who did not develop PKDL with regard to age and sex distribution, reduction in spleen size, and conversion in the leishmanin skin test (LST). In a clinical study, 416 PKDL patients were analysed and divided according to grade of severity. Severe PKDL was more frequent in younger age groups (P < 0.001); there was an inverse correlation between grade and conversion in the LST (P < 0.01). In 16% of patients tested, parasites were demonstrated in inguinal lymph node or bone marrow aspirates, indicating still visceral disease (para-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis); there was no correlation between the presence of parasites and grade of severity. Conversion rates in the LST were lower than in those who did not have demonstrable parasites (11% and 37%, respectively; P < 0.01). In the absence of reliable and practical diagnostic tests, PKDL may be diagnosed on clinical grounds and differentiated from other conditions, of which miliaria rubra was the most common. Differentiation from leprosy was most difficult.
Cynomolgus monkeys are used in in vivo models of safety pharmacological studies to evaluate the effects of drug candidates on the cardiovascular system. Models using halothane-anesthetized animals have been used for the detection of drug-induced QT interval prolongation, but few studies with anesthetized monkeys have been reported.
The electrophysiological changes induced by dl-sotalol, a representative class III antiarrhythmic drug, were assessed in halothane-anesthetized monkeys (n = 4) or conscious and unrestrained monkeys (n = 4).
In terms of basal characteristics, the QT interval was longer and the heart rate (HR) was lower under anesthesia than those under conscious conditions. Intravenous administration of 0.1 to 3 mg/kg dl-sotalol to anesthetized monkeys decreased the HR and prolonged the QT interval, monophasic action potential (MAP) duration and ventricular effective refractory period in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, reverse use-dependent prolongation of MAP duration was detected by electrical pacing, whereas the terminal repolarization period was hardly affected at any dose. Oral administration of 3 to 30 mg/kg dl-sotalol to conscious monkeys also decreased the HR and prolonged the QT interval in a dose-dependent manner. When compared at similar plasma concentrations of sotalol, the extent of QT interval prolongation under halothane anesthesia was equal to or greater than that under conscious conditions.
The sensitivity for detection of drug-induced QT prolongation under halothane anesthesia may be satisfactory compared with that under conscious conditions. The present examinations indicated the usefulness of a model using halothane-anesthetized monkeys for evaluation of drug-induced QT interval prolongation.
Neutrophils are recruited into the liver after acetaminophen (AAP) overdose but the pathophysiological relevance of this acute inflammatory response remains unclear. To address this question, we compared the time course of liver injury, hepatic neutrophil accumulation and inflammatory gene mRNA expression for up to 24 h after treatment with 300 mg/kg AAP in C3Heb/FeJ and C57BL/6 mice. Although there was no relevant difference in liver injury (assessed by the increase of plasma alanine aminotransferase activities and the areas of necrosis), the number of neutrophils and the expression of several pro-inflammatory genes (e.g., tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1beta and macrophage inflammatory protein-2) was higher in C3Heb/FeJ than in C57BL/6 mice. In contrast, the expression of the anti-inflammatory genes interleukin-10 and heme oxygenase-1 was higher in C57BL/6 mice. Despite substantial hepatic neutrophil accumulation, none of the liver sections from both strains stained positive for hypochlorite-modified proteins, a specific marker for a neutrophil-induced oxidant stress. In addition, treatment with the NADPH oxidase inhibitors diphenyleneiodonium chloride or apocynin or the anti-neutrophil antibody Gr-1 did not protect against AAP hepatotoxicity. Furthermore, although intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) was previously shown to be important for neutrophil extravasation and tissue injury in several models, ICAM-1-deficient mice were not protected against AAP-mediated liver injury. Together, these data do not support the hypothesis that neutrophils aggravate liver injury induced by AAP overdose.
Digital clubbing, recognized by Hippocrates in the fifth century BC, is the outward hallmark of pulmonary hypertrophic osteoarthropathy, a clinical constellation that develops secondary to various acquired diseases, especially intrathoracic neoplasm. The pathogenesis of clubbing and hypertrophic osteoarthropathy has hitherto been poorly understood, but a clinically indistinguishable primary (idiopathic) form of hypertrophic osteoarthropathy (PHO) is recognized. This familial disorder can cause diagnostic confusion, as well as significant disability. By autozygosity methods, we mapped PHO to chromosome 4q33-q34 and identified mutations in HPGD, encoding 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase, the main enzyme of prostaglandin degradation. Homozygous individuals develop PHO secondary to chronically elevated prostaglandin E(2) levels. Heterozygous relatives also show milder biochemical and clinical manifestations. These findings not only suggest therapies for PHO, but also imply that clubbing secondary to other pathologies may be prostaglandin mediated. Testing for HPGD mutations and biochemical testing for HPGD deficiency in patients with unexplained clubbing might help to obviate extensive searches for occult pathology.
Ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T) is a human autosomal recessive disease characterised by immunodeficiency, extreme sensitivity to ionising radiation and progressive cerebellar ataxia. The defective gene has recently been cloned and is a member of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase family. We have investigated the possibility that the neurodegeneration in A-T might be induced by an endogenously formed mutagen causing radiation-like damage. Nitric oxide is known to be formed in the cerebellum and we present evidence that A-T fibroblasts are hypersensitive to killing by the nitric oxide donor S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO), as are fibroblasts from a radiosensitive individual without ataxia. Killing was determined as loss of colony forming ability. GSNO induces dose-dependent DNA strand breakage, but to no greater extent in A-T fibroblasts. Breakdown of GSNO to nitrite and nitrate appears to occur to the same extent in both normal and A-T fibroblasts. Cell killing by GSNO appears to be associated in both types of cell with formation of nitrite, rather than nitrate, as the ultimate oxidation product of nitric oxide.
In an open multi-center study on 1,286 patients aged 60 years and more, we tested the efficacy and compatibility of prednicarbate (Dermatop) in various vehicles. The eczemas and erythematosquamous dermatoses of 857 patients (66.6%) disappeared within three weeks treatment. In 142 patients (11%), it took more than 3 weeks (62 day at the most) to achieve a complete healing. A very good or good tolerance was observed in 97.1% of the patients. Only in 1.5% the study had to be broken off because of a change for the worse. Prednicarbate, therefore, is especially suitable in the treatment of eczemas and chronic erythematosquamous dermatoses of aged skin.
The effects of prenatal exposure to phenobarbital (PB) on the cardiovascular system were examined in rat fetuses and pups. PB was administered at a dose of 80 or 120 mg/kg/day by gavage to Sprague Dawley (SD) rats on two consecutive gestational days (GD): 7-8, 8-9, 9-10, or 10-11. Fetuses were examined for cardiovascular malformations on GD 20. In addition, pups were examined for PB-induced cardiovascular malformations. Incidences of ventricular septal defect (VSD), overriding aorta, double outlet right ventricle and transposition of great arteries were significantly increased in the fetuses whose dams were administered PB at 120 mg/kg on GD 8-9, 9-10 or 10-11. GD 8-11 was the critical period for the cardiovascular malformations associated with administration of PB in rats. Various types of cardiovascular malformations were detected in pups from the PB-administered dam. Severe cardiovascular malformations induced by PB caused deaths on early postnatal days. However, slight malformations such as isolated VSD persisted until weaning, and did not affect postnatal viability.
Alcohol is an important risk factor for upper aerodigestive cancers and is principally metabolized by alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) enzymes. We have investigated six ADH genetic variants in over 3,800 aerodigestive cancer cases and 5,200 controls from three individual studies. Gene variants rs1229984 (ADH1B) and rs1573496 (ADH7) were significantly protective against aerodigestive cancer in each individual study and overall (P = 10(-10) and 10(-9), respectively). These effects became more apparent with increasing alcohol consumption (P for trend = 0.0002 and 0.065, respectively). Both gene effects were independent of each other, implying that multiple ADH genes may be involved in upper aerodigestive cancer etiology.
An association between traffic air pollution and respiratory symptoms among children has been reported. However, the effects of traffic air pollution on asthma and wheeze have been very sparsely studied in areas with low traffic intensity in cold climate with poor dispersion. We evaluated the impact of vehicle traffic on childhood asthma and wheeze by objective exposure assessment.
As a part of the Obstructive Lung Disease in Northern Sweden (OLIN) studies, a questionnaire was sent to the families of all children attending first or second grade in Luleå (72,000 inhabitants) in Northern Sweden in 2006. The age of the children was 7-8 years and the participation rate was 98% (n = 1357). Skin prick tests were performed in 1224 (89%) children. The home addresses were given geographical coordinates and traffic counts were obtained from the local traffic authorities. A proximity model of average daily traffic and average daily heavy vehicle traffic within 200 meters from each participant's home address was used. The associations between traffic exposure and asthma and wheeze, respectively, were analysed in an adjusted multiple logistic regression model.
Exposure to high traffic flows was uncommon in the study area; only 15% of the children lived within 200 meters from a road with a traffic flow of ≥8000 vehicles per day. Living closer than 200 meters from a road with ≥500 heavy vehicles daily was associated with current wheeze, odds ratio 1.7 (confidence interval 1.0-2.7). A dose-response relation was indicated. An increased risk of asthma was also seen, however not significant, odds ratio 1.5 (confidence interval 0.8-2.9). Stratified analyses revealed that the effect of traffic exposure was restricted to the non-sensitized phenotype of asthma and wheeze. The agreement between self-reported traffic exposure and objective measurements of exposure was moderate.
This study showed that already at low levels of exposure, vehicle traffic is related to an increased risk of wheeze among children. Thus, the global burden of traffic air pollution may be underestimated.
Proteinuria, one of the main manifestations of nephrotic syndrome, is an important risk factor for the progression of renal diseases. Podocyte foot processes (FPs) injury induces proteinuria in most renal diseases. The podocyte cytoskeleton plays important roles in maintaining the normal morphology of FPs. However, the underlying cytoskeletal component that initiates and regulates the dynamic changes of FPs is still unclear. Here, the involved podocyte cytoskeletal molecules were explored on different days in puromycin aminonucleoside nephropathy rats.
Microarray analysis of isolated glomeruli was performed at Day 2, Day 10 and Day 15 in puromycin aminonucleoside nephropathy rats. Cytoskeletal genebank was established by sorting with the keyword 'cytoskeleton' from PUBMED genebank to identify the differential cytoskeleton genes. Microarray results were further confirmed by real-time PCR, western blot and double immunolabelling to validate their localizations.
Nine different cytoskeletal genes were found to be involved in the dynamic changes of FPs in puromycin aminonucleoside nephropathy rats, including six up-regulated (Tagln, Actr2, Dnm3, Arc, Vcl and Birc5) and three down-regulated (Krt2-7, Nebl and Tnnc1). The differential expression of transgelin, survivin, arp2, cytokeratin7 and vinculin was verified by real-time PCR and western blot. Double immunolabelling revealed that five cytoskeletal proteins indeed colocalized with podocyte specific markers synaptopodin or alpha-actinin-4. In addition, similar expression and distribution changes were detected in patients with proteinuric renal diseases and puromycin aminonucleoside-treated podocytes.
We identified five novel podocyte cytoskeletal proteins and found that they were associated with the dynamic changes of FPs in podocyte injury.
In most published studies women are more sensitive to experimental pain than men. Enhanced central pain processing in women has been suggested, but psychosocial factors might also have affected the findings. Data from five completed healthy volunteer studies were analyzed to investigate gender differences in development of secondary hyperalgesia. Cutaneous hyperalgesia was induced with the heat/capsaicin sensitization model. Outcome measures were areas of secondary hyperalgesia to brush and von Frey hair stimulation after heat and capsaicin sensitization, rating of pain during heat/capsaicin sensitization, and heat pain detection thresholds. There was a trend toward smaller areas of secondary hyperalgesia in women. After adjusting for estimated gender differences in forearm surface area, areas to brush but not von Frey hair stimulation after capsaicin sensitization were larger in women. Peak pain, but not total pain, during prolonged noxious thermal stimulation was higher in women. There was no gender difference in pain ratings during capsaicin sensitization or in heat pain detection thresholds. The results provided only limited support to the hypothesis that gender differences in clinical pain syndromes can be explained by enhanced central sensitization in women.
Our findings suggest that gender differences in nociceptive transmission and neuronal sensitization are small and provide only limited support to the hypothesis that gender differences in acute and chronic pain syndromes can be explained by enhanced central sensitization in women.
1. Alterations in myocardial energy metabolism accompany pressure overload-induced hypertrophy. We previously described a novel model of catecholamine-induced hypertrophy in which A/J mice exhibit more robust cardiac hypertrophy than B6 mice. Accordingly, we assessed the influence of mouse strain on the activities of key myocardial metabolic enzymes and whether there are strain-related metabolic adaptations to short-term, high-dose isoproterenol (ISO) administration. 2. Thirty-nine male mice (19 A/J mice, 20 B6 mice), aged 12-15 weeks, were randomly assigned to receive either ISO (100 mg/kg, s.c.) or vehicle (sterile water) daily for 5 days. On Day 6, all hearts were excised, weighed, freeze clamped and assayed for pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH), medium chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase, carnitine palmitoyl transferase I and citrate synthase activities. Plasma fatty acids (FA) were also measured. 3. The ISO-treated A/J mice demonstrated greater percentage increases in gravimetric heart weight/bodyweight ratio than ISO-treated B6 mice (24 vs 3%, respectively; P < 0.001). All enzyme activities were significantly greater in vehicle-treated B6 mice than in A/J mice, illustrating a greater capacity for aerobic metabolism in B6 mice. Administration of ISO reduced PDHa (active form) activity in B6 mice by 47% (P < 0.001), with no significant change seen in A/J mice. Free FA levels were not significantly different between groups; thus, the differences in PDHa were not due to changes in FA. 4. The basal activity of myocardial metabolic enzymes is greater in B6 mice than in A/J mice and ISO alters myocardial PDH activity in a mouse strain-dependent manner. Compared with A/J mice, B6 mice demonstrate less ISO-induced cardiac hypertrophy, but greater activity of key enzymes regulating FA and carbohydrate oxidation, which may protect against the development of hypertrophy. The metabolic adaptations associated with ISO-induced hypertrophy differ from those reported with pressure overload hypertrophy.
