As a treatment for dyslipidemia, oral doses of 1-3 grams of nicotinic acid per day lower serum triglycerides, raise high density lipoprotein cholesterol, and reduce mortality from coronary heart disease (Tavintharan, S., and Kashyap, M. L. (2001) Curr. Atheroscler. Rep. 3, 74-82). These benefits likely result from the ability of nicotinic acid to inhibit lipolysis in adipocytes and thereby reduce serum non-esterified fatty acid levels (Carlson, L. A. (1963) Acta Med. Scand. 173, 719-722). In mice, nicotinic acid inhibits lipolysis via PUMA-G, a Gi/o-coupled seven-transmembrane receptor expressed in adipocytes and activated macrophages (Tunaru, S., Kero, J., Schaub, A., Wufka, C., Blaukat, A., Pfeffer, K., and Offermanns, S. (2003) Nat. Med. 9, 352-355). The human ortholog HM74a is also a nicotinic acid receptor and likely has a similar role in anti-lipolysis. Endogenous levels of nicotinic acid are too low to significantly impact receptor activity, hence the natural ligands(s) of HM74a/PUMA-G remain to be elucidated. Here we show that the fatty acid-derived ketone body (D)-beta-hydroxybutyrate ((D)-beta-OHB) specifically activates PUMA-G/HM74a at concentrations observed in serum during fasting. Like nicotinic acid, (D)-beta-OHB inhibits mouse adipocyte lipolysis in a PUMA-G-dependent manner and is thus the first endogenous ligand described for this orphan receptor. These findings suggests a homeostatic mechanism for surviving starvation in which (D)-beta-OHB negatively regulates its own production, thereby preventing ketoacidosis and promoting efficient use of fat stores.
Eighteen patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer were treated with a combination of intravenous vinorelbine (Navelbine; Burroughs Wellcome Co, Research Triangle Park, NC; Pierre Fabre Medicament, Paris, France) 25 mg/m2 on days 1 and 8 and intravenous paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 on day 2 every 3 weeks. All patients were given granulocyte colony-stimulating factor 5 micrograms/kg/d subcutaneously on days 3 through 7 and 9 through 17 or until the absolute neutrophil count reached 10 x 10(9)/L or higher. One patient was enrolled in this study too recently to be assessed. The mean age of the remaining 17 patients was 59 years (age range, 33 to 75 years); all but one patient had refractory disease, mostly to cisplatin-containing regimens. Four patients were ineligible (two because of poor performance status and two because of previous exposure to vinblastine). Three partial responses were observed, with durations of 46, 64, and 140+ days. Four patients had stable disease and four had progressive disease. The most common side effect was neutropenia (five grade 4 and one grade 3); two patients died of leukopenic sepsis in the first cycle. Peripheral neuropathy was also common (four grade 1 and one grade 2 sensory neuropathy). Other toxic effects were anemia and nausea and vomiting. The median survival was 153 days in all patients and 179 days in eligible patients. The preliminary results in this ongoing study of combination vinorelbine and paclitaxel as second-line therapy for metastatic non-small cell lung cancer are promising, and using this regimen as first-line therapy is warranted.
Apraclonidine 1.0% has been shown to reverse the potential intraocular pressure (IOP) increase after pupil dilation IOP increases in patients with chronic open-angle glaucoma. However, it is only approved for preventing IOP spikes after laser surgery. The purpose of this study is to determine the effectiveness of 0.5% apraclonidine in reversing IOP increases after pupillary dilation in patients with chronic open-angle glaucoma.
Twenty-two patients with chronic open-angle glaucoma were found to have an increase in post-dilation IOP of at least 4 mmHg from pre-dilated levels (baseline) in both eyes. IOP was measured 1 hour after dilation, after which two drops of 0.5% apraclonidine were instilled in one eye and the IOP was remeasured 15 minutes later in both eyes. Instillation of 0.5% apraclonidine in one eye was continued every 15 minutes and IOP was measured 15 minutes after each instillation, until the pressure returned to baseline levels.
The IOP of the initially treated eye of all 22 patients returned to within levels clinically insignificant from baseline IOP within 90 minutes. By comparison, the IOP of the control group (untreated eye) remained elevated. Once the initial treatment eye returned to baseline levels, the control group was then treated with 0.5% apraclonidine, resulting in a lowering effect of the IOP in similar fashion to the initial treated group.
Apraclonidine 0.5% appears to be effective in reduction of post-dilated IOP increases in patients with chronic open-angle glaucoma.
A series of 102 hypertensive patients were assessed for the frequency of symptoms of Raynaud's phenomenon and absent peripheral pulses. Out of 21 patients receiving methyldopa alone only one had cold hands and feet whereas among patients on beta-blockers the incidence was 50%. The frequency of both symptoms and absent pulses was highest in patients taking propranolol compared with those taking atenolol or oxprenolol. Patients without a foot pulse were much more likely to have cold hands. A change from propranolol to oxprenolol in some symptomatic patients resulted in improvement. In two patients the skin temperature fell after an 80-mg dose of propranolol. The mechanism by which beta-blockers induce Raynaud's phenomenon is still not clear.
Cocaine is an alkaloid prepared from the leaves of the Erythroxylon coca plant. It is widely recognized as one of the most dangerous illicit drugs in use today. The U.S. Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration estimates that 23.5 million Americans have used cocaine at some time in their life. Corneal defects from crack cocaine were first described in 1989 and later named crack eye syndrome in 1993.
A 40-year-old man reported to the eye clinic reporting vigorous eye rubbing after repeated exposure to and use of crack cocaine. A corneal infiltrate with an overlying epithelial defect developed and the man was treated with ciprofloxacin, homatropine, and diclofenac. This case presents background information concerning the systemic and ocular manifestations of cocaine, as well as the clinical presentations of crack eye syndrome, with recommendations on treatment.
A thorough social history should be elicited when patients who have unilateral or bilateral corneal defects of unknown origin are examined, or when treating persons with no other known risk factors for corneal disruption. Prompt recognition and treatment are the main factors in successful management of crack eye syndrome.
To determine the duration of time to the recurrence of pain attributable to endometriosis after the discontinuation of treatment with danazol or a GnRH agonist (GnRH-a) in patients who have had a satisfactory response to the treatment.
Retrospective study.
Nine academic medical centers in three countries.
Three hundred twenty-seven women with diagnosed and staged endometriosis who were treated with at least 6 months of danazol or a GnRH-a and who experienced significant pain relief with therapy.
None.
Duration of pain relief after completion of treatment as determined by a patient-initiated report of pain recurrence or increase in pain severity requiring intervention.
The median time to the recurrence of pain was 6.1 months for patients treated with danazol and 5.2 months for patients treated with a GnRH-a.
Although there was a lack of uniformity in treatment effects across sites, the analyses have taken into account major covariant effects. The time to the recurrence of endometriosis-associated pain after danazol treatment was slightly longer than that after GnRH-a treatment.
Morphine is responsible for severe poisonings in chronically treated patients. We hypothesize that toxicity could be related to the development of weaker tolerance for morphine-induced deleterious respiratory effects in comparison to analgesic effects. Our objectives were to compare tolerance to both effects in mice and investigate possible mechanisms for such possible differences. Tolerance to morphine-induced analgesia and respiratory effects was assessed using hot plate response latencies and plethysmography, respectively. Mechanisms of tolerance were investigated using binding studies to mu-opioid receptors (MOR) and adenylate cyclase (AC) activity measurement in homogenates of cell membranes from the periaqueductal gray region (PAG) and brainstem. Morphine (2.5 mg/kg) was responsible for analgesia with significant increase in inspiratory time. Acute tolerance to analgesia (p<0.01) and effects on respiratory frequency (p<0.05) was observed in mice pre-treated with 100 mg/kg morphine in comparison to saline. Following repetitive administration (2.5 mg/kg/day during 10 days), we observed a 13-fold increase in the effective dose-50% (ED₅₀) of morphine-induced analgesia in comparison to a 2- or 4-fold increase in the ED₅₀ of its related increase in inspiratory time determined in air and 4% CO₂, respectively. No significant alteration in MOR expression was observed in either PAG or brainstem following repeated morphine administration. However, in PAG, in contrast to brainstem, superactivation of AC was observed in morphine-treated mice in comparison to controls (p<0.05). In conclusion, tolerance to morphine-induced respiratory effects is much more limited than tolerance to its analgesic effects in repeatedly morphine-treated mice. The difference in morphine-induced AC activation between the brainstem and the PAG contributes to the observed difference in tolerance between both morphine effects.
Temporal lobe epilepsy is the most common form of epilepsy in humans. Oxidative stress is a mechanism of cell death induced by seizures. Buspirone presents anxyolitic and antidepressant effects due to their ability to stimulate 5-HT(1A) receptor. We studied the buspirone effects on oxidative stress in rat hippocampus after seizures and status epilepticus (SE) induced by pilocarpine. In pilocarpine group there was a significant increase in lipid peroxidation and nitrite levels. However, no alteration was observed in superoxide dismutase and catalase activities. Buspirone pretreatment produces significantly reduction of the lipid peroxidation level (60%) and nitrite content (44%) as well as increased the superoxide dismutase (47%) and catalase (40%) activities in rat hippocampus after seizures, when compared with the pilocarpine group. The intraperitoneal injection of buspirone prior to pilocarpine suppressed the behavioral seizure occurrence. According to our results, the oxidative stress is present during seizures. Buspirone exerted anticonvulsant effects associated with the inhibition of the development of oxidative stress. These results suggest a therapeutic use potential of buspirone in epilepsy treatment.
The pathologic mechanisms of Alzheimer's disease (AD) have not been fully uncovered. Acrolein, a ubiquitous dietary pollutant and by-product of oxidative stress, can induce cytotoxicity in neurons, which might play an important role in the etiology of AD. Here, we examined the effects of Acrolein on the AD pathologies in vitro and in vivo. We found Acrolein induced HT22 cells death in concentration- and time-dependent manners. Interestingly, Acrolein increased proteins' levels of amyloid precursor protein (APP), β-secretase (BACE-1) and the amyloid β-peptide transporter receptor for advanced glycation end products, and decreased A-disintegrin and metalloprotease (ADAM) 10 levels. In vivo, chronic oral exposure to Acrolein (2.5 mg/kg/day by intragastric gavage for 8 weeks) induced mild cognitive declination and pyknosis/atrophy of hippocampal neurons. The activity of superoxide dismutase was down-regulated while the level of malondialdehyde was up-regulated in rat brain. Moreover, Acrolein resulted in activation of astrocytes, up-regulation of BACE-1 in cortex and down-regulation of ADAM-10 in hippocampus and cortex. Taken together, our findings suggest that exposure to Acrolein induces AD-like pathology in vitro and in vivo. Scavenging Acrolein might be beneficial for the therapy of AD.
To investigate the role of adrenergic receptor activity in dietary calcium-induced alterations in blood pressure, weanling spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) were placed on either high-calcium (2.0%) or low-calcium (0.1%) diets for 1-2 wk. Baseline blood pressure was higher and pressor responses to exogenous norepinephrine (NE) were greater in the SHR on low-calcium diets than high-calcium diets. There was no difference between diet groups in circulating NE or in the pressor response to angiotensin II. The difference in basal blood pressure was eliminated by the alpha 1-adrenergic receptor blockers phentolamine and prazosin but was not altered by alpha 2-, beta 1-, or beta 2-adrenergic receptor blockade (idazoxan, metoprolol, and butoxamine, respectively). Furthermore, hypotension produced by either calcitonin gene-related peptide, captopril, or nitroprusside failed to eliminate the diet-induced difference in blood pressure. The results suggest the possibility that diet-induced differences in alpha 1-adrenergic activity may be responsible, in part, for variations in blood pressure on different calcium diets.
A 74-year-old woman experienced an apparent psychotic reaction several hours after administration of iv midazolam as a premedicant for gastroscopy. The reaction included confusion, hallucinations, and hostility and required administration of haloperidol to calm her. The woman subsequently underwent colonoscopy with meperidine as a premedication and experienced no behavioral changes. Although other causes cannot be completely ruled out, the evidence points strongly to midazolam as the precipitating agent for the psychotic reaction.
A 11-year-old girl was admitted for Ewing's sarcoma within the right pelvis. Hematological and biochemical indices were normal. Since this was considered a difficult case for operation, radiotherapy and chemotherapy were performed. Intra-arterial chemotherapy with cisplatin 130 mg, doxorubicin 33 mg and caffeine 1,600 mg was started. Then, 38 hours after the administration of drugs, the girl became drowsy and seizures appeared. Laboratory studies revealed serum sodium 113 mEq/l, urine sodium 125 mEq/l and plasma osmolality of 238 mOsm/kg H2O. The diagnosis was SIADH secondary to cisplatin, and the treatment was fluid restriction. Her serum sodium level rose to 134 mEq/l, and her consciousness became clear. Concurrent administration of cisplatin aimed to prevent renal dysfunction, but hyponatremia developed due to massive fluid administration. Especially for this case, caffeine was administered. In conclusion, early recognition of SIADH is imperative to effectively correct the fluid and electrolyte imbalance.
The t(3;21)(q26;q22) translocation is associated with myeloid leukemias and results in a chimeric oncoprotein containing AML1/RUNX1 variably fused to EAP, MDS1, and/or EVI1.
The current study describes what to the authors' knowledge is the first large case series reported to date of 26 t(3;21)(q26;q22)-associated leukemias, in which 24 cases arose after chemotherapy. Conventional G-band karyotyping and flow cytometry immunophenotyping were performed. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was performed to detect fusion transcripts between AML1 and EAP, MDS1, or EVI1, followed by DNA sequencing.
In all 16 patients with chronic myeloproliferative disorders, including 14 with chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), the occurrence of t(3;21) heralded myeloid blast transformation. Fifteen (93%) patients had been previously treated with hydroxyurea. Eight patients with chronic myeloproliferative disorders (CMPD) were found to have t(3;21) with t(9;22) as the sole cytogenetic abnormality; in 5 other patients this was accompanied by trisomy 8. Among 10 cases of t(3;21)-associated acute myeloid leukemia, 8 were secondary tumors after chemotherapy for other neoplasms that had been treated with regimens including fludarabine and 5-fluorouracil in 3 patients each and etoposide in 2 patients. The immunophenotype of the blasts in all 22 tested cases was similar, with uniform expression of myeloid markers and CD34 and variable expression of CD7 and CD9, but minimal morphological myeloid maturation. Dysplastic micromegakaryocytes and bone marrow fibrosis were observed predominantly in CMPD cases. RT-PCR followed by DNA sequencing showed that the AML1-/MDS1-/EVI1 (AME) fusion transcript was detected in all 5 cases assessed. Among the patients with CMPD, 8 died of disease (at a median of 6.5 mos) and 5 achieved disease remission with bone marrow transplantation. Among patients with acute myeloid leukemia/myelodysplastic syndrome, 7 died of disease (at a median of 2 mos) and 2 had persistent leukemia with short follow-up.
Activation of AME through t(3;21) defines a highly aggressive, therapy-related leukemic blast syndrome. Prior treatment with hydroxyurea or other antimetabolites is implicated as a contributory cause.
Flap necrosis is one of the major complications of reconstructive surgery and sildenafil citrate has been shown to decrease flap necrosis in preclinical animal models. However, the mechanisms underlying sildenafil's therapeutic efficacy are not known. As with other phosphodiesterase 5 selective inhibitors, sildenafil causes vasodilation and enhanced blood flow. In addition, sildenafil can also alter gene expression. This study is designed to test the hypothesis that increased expression of angiogenic growth factors may be responsible for therapeutic efficacy of sildenafil. A modified McFarlane flap measuring 3 x 10 cm was created on the dorsal skin of male Sprague-Dawley rats. For growth factor expression experiment, rats were administered either vehicle or sildenafil 10 mg/Kg intraperitoneal (IP). Ribonucleic acid (RNA) extracted from skin flap was analyzed to assess the messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) levels of different angiogenic growth factors. For skin flap viability experiment, fibrin film impregnated with vehicle, fibroblast growth factor (FGF) (5.0 microg) or vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) (2.0 microg) was applied to the wound. The skin flap was then returned to its native position and stapled in place. Total affected area (area of necrosis and blood flow stasis) of each rat on postoperative day 14 was analyzed with orthogonal polarization spectral imaging. Daily systemic treatment with sildenafil significantly (P < 0.05) increased the expression of FGF1 and FGF Receptor 3 on postoperative day 3 by 5.08- and 4.78-fold, respectively. In addition, sildenafil increased the expression of VEGF-A, VEGF-B, and VEGF-C by 2.66-, 2.02-, and 2.00-fold, respectively. Subcutaneous treatment with FGF but not VEGF-A tended to decrease total affected area in rats. These data demonstrate that sildenafil altered the expression of FGF and VEGF. Altered expression of growth factors may be, at least partly, responsible for the beneficial effects of sildenafil citrate on skin viability.
This double-blind, placebo-controlled study investigated the efficacy and safety of intramuscular (IM) aripiprazole and IM haloperidol for the treatment of acute agitation in patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder.
Four-hundred and forty-eight patients were randomized (2:2:1 ratio) to IM aripiprazole 9.75 mg, IM haloperidol 6.5 mg, or IM placebo. Patients could receive up to three injections over the first 24 h, with second and third injections administered > or =2 and > or =4 h, respectively, after the first if deemed clinically necessary. Primary efficacy measure was mean change in Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale Excited Component (PEC) score from baseline to 2 h.
Mean improvement in PEC at 2 h was significantly greater for IM aripiprazole (-7.27) vs placebo (-4.78; p<0.001); IM aripiprazole was noninferior to IM haloperidol (-7.75) on PEC. All secondary efficacy measures showed significantly greater improvements at 2 h for IM aripiprazole and IM haloperidol over placebo. Mean number of injections/patient and percentage of patients requiring benzodiazepines were significantly lower for IM aripiprazole vs placebo (p<0.01). IM aripiprazole was well tolerated. Extrapyramidal symptom-related adverse events were similar for aripiprazole (1.7%) and placebo (2.3%) and lower than with haloperidol (12.6%).
These results show that IM aripiprazole is an effective treatment, comparable to IM haloperidol, and well-tolerated for acute agitation in patients with schizophrenia.
The biologically active form of vitamin D3, calcitriol, is effective in the treatment of psoriasis but can alter calcium metabolism. Calcipotriene is an analog of calcitriol that has low calcemic activity and aids in clearing psoriasis.
The purpose of this study was to determine the safety of topical therapy with calcipotriene particularly in relation to calcium and bone metabolism.
In a double-blind, randomized, parallel, vehicle-controlled trial, 78 adults with plaque psoriasis were treated twice daily with topical calcipotriene ointment (50 microgram/gm, maximum usage, 120 gm per week) or vehicle for 8 weeks. After a screening visit, patients were admitted to the hospital at weeks 0 (baseline), 1,2,4, and 8. Blood and urine chemistry analysis included parathyroid hormone, serum calcium, bone-specific alkaline phosphatase, urinary hydroxyproline, and 24 hour urinary calcium excretion. Bone densitometry measures were performed at baseline and week 8.
No incidences of calcipotriene treatment-related hypercalcemia, calcium mobilization from bone, or clinically significant changes in bone density wer noted during this study.
Topical application of up to 120 gm per week of calcipotriene ointment for 8 weeks is safe and effective for plaque psoriasis. There were no adverse effects on calcium and bone metabolism during this 8 week study.
The chemical nature of urinary stone protein is poorly understood. We have sequenced a cDNA of urinary calcium oxalate stone protein extracted with EDTA. cDNA sequences showed complete identity between urinary stone protein and human osteopontin. Osteopontin protein was detected by staining with Stains-All, which specifically stains phosphoproteins, and by digestion with the highly specific protease thrombin, demonstrating that urinary calcium oxalate stones consist of osteopontin protein. We used a technique of in situ hybridization to detect osteopontin mRNA in the kidney. In control rats, distal tubular cells were sporadically positive, and proximal tubular cells and glomeruli were negative for osteopontin mRNA. A rat model of stone formation was induced with glyoxylic acid. In stone-forming rats, staining of distal tubular cells was remarkably increased, but proximal tubular cells and glomeruli were still negative. Immunostaining for the osteopontin protein also revealed that epithelial cells of distal tubules were weakly positive in control rats and significantly increased in stone-forming rats, although proximal tubular cells and glomeruli were negative. Northern blot analysis showed a significant increase of osteopontin mRNA in stone-forming rats in proportion to the dosage and the duration of the stone-inducing drugs. These results show that osteopontin in the kidney is presumably involved in urinary stone formation as the stone matrix.
To investigate whether combined-modality treatment (CMT) with two cycles of doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (ABVD) followed by extended-field radiotherapy (EF-RT) is superior to EF-RT alone in patients with early favorable Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL).
Between 1993 and 1998, 650 patients with newly diagnosed, histology-proven HL in clinical stages IA to IIB without risk factors were enrolled onto this multicenter study and randomly assigned to receive 30 Gy EF-RT plus 10 Gy to the involved field (arm A) or two cycles of ABVD followed by the same radiotherapy (arm B). Results At a median observation time of 87 months, there was no difference between treatment arms in terms of complete response rate (arm A, 95%; arm B, 94%) and overall survival (at 7 years: arm A, 92%; arm B, 94%; P = .43). However, freedom from treatment failure was significantly different, with 7-year rates of 67% in arm A (95% CI, 61% to 73%) and 88% in arm B (95% CI, 84% to 92%; P <or= .0001). This was due mainly to significantly more relapses after EF-RT only (arm A, 22%; arm B, 3%). No patient treated with CMT experienced relapse before year 3. Relapses were treated mainly with bleomycin, etoposide, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone, or with the combination cyclophosphamide, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone/ABVD; treatment of relapse was significantly more successful in arm A than in arm B (P = .017). In total, there were 39 second malignancies, with 21 in arm A and 18 in arm B, respectively. The incidence was approximately 0.8% per year during years 2 to 9 and was highest in older patients (P < .0001) and those with "B" symptoms (P = .012).
CMT consisting of two cycles of ABVD plus EF-RT is more effective than EF-RT alone.
Malathion is an organophosphate widely used as an insecticide in agriculture and in public health programs, causing risk to human health. As was recently reported, malathion induces depressant-like behavior and oxidative damage to the brain of rodents. Given the relevance of searching for neuroprotective agents against such damage, this study was therefore undertaken to investigate the neuroprotective potential of zinc in dealing with malathion-related toxicity. Female Wistar rats were exposed to malathion (50 and 100 mg/kg, ip) and/or zinc chloride (ZnCl2; 5 mg/kg, ip) for 3 days. Malathion produced a depressant-like effect, observed by the increased immobility time in the forced swimming test (FST), without affecting total locomotor activity and rearing in the open-field. However, malathion administered at 50 mg/kg reduced the central time in the arena and at the dose of 100 mg/kg reduced the central locomotion. These effects were completely reversed by ZnCl2. Exposure to malathion (50 mg/kg, ip) and/or ZnCl2 did not affect AChE activity in the hippocampus, cerebral cortex, and blood. Malathion (50 mg/kg, ip) alone caused some harmful effects, such as (1) an increase in lipid peroxidation and a reduction of glutathione peroxidase activity in the cerebral cortex, (2) reduction of glutathione reductase activity in the hippocampus, and (3) changes in the structure of chromatin in the dentate gyrus, all effects attenuated by ZnCl2. In conclusion, these results clearly show that zinc administration is able to attenuate some neurochemical, morphological, and behavioral effects induced by malathion, notably the malathion-induced depressant-like effect in the FST.
Topical application of the vitamin D analogue calcipotriol has been found to be of clinical value in the treatment of dermatological disorders. This is considered to be safe with respect to alterations in calcium homeostasis. We report a 17-year-old female patient who developed hypercalcaemic crisis after excessive use of calcipotriol for ichthyosis. The clinical condition and serum calcium improved after cessation of calciprotiol treatment and rehydration with intravenous fluids and electrolytes. The case emphasizes the importance of limiting the topical use of calcipotriol as recommended by the manufacturer.
Field studies (n=6) were completed on evaluation of activity of ivermectin (200 microg/kg) paste formulation against small strongyles in horses (foals, yearlings, and older animals) on a farm (Farm MC) in Central Kentucky in late 2006 and during 2007. A girth tape was used to estimate body weights which were then used to calculate the proper dose rate of ivermectin. The foals, yearlings, and some of the older horses were born and raised on the farm. However, most of the older horses which were not raised on the farm had been there for several years. The horse herd was given ivermectin exclusively, usually four times a year, since 1990. An exception was that during the foal's period of life fenbendazole, pyrantel pamoate, and oxibendazole were given occasionally besides ivermectin. Efficacy of drug activity was determined by pretreatment and posttreatment counts of strongyle eggs per gram of feces (EPGs). Culture of strongyle eggs in feces from some of the horses showed that only small strongyle larvae were present. The research included two studies (A and B) in foals (n=24) and four studies (C, D, E, and F) in yearlings (n=13) alone or with older horses (n=10). For each of the studies (B through F), there was a treated and a nontreated group. These groups were switched for each treatment, i.e., the treated group in one study was the nontreated group in the next study and vice versa. Eggs per gram of feces counts were determined at 1- or 2-week posttreatment intervals for 4 weeks for study A and 6 weeks for studies B through F. Also, for studies B, E, and F, counts of EPGs were done either two or three times during the third week posttreatment. The studies showed a similar posttreatment pattern of strongyle EPG counts beginning to return at about 4 weeks and increasing at 5 and 6 weeks posttreatment. Two horses in study E and one in study F had low EPG values toward the end of the third week posttreatment. The results of this ivermectin investigation showed that the strongyle EPG counts started returning about twice as quickly post-ivermectin-treatment of horses than when the drug was first marketed in the early 1980s.
The alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonistic potency of midaglizole was evaluated and compared with that of the selective alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonists yohimbine and idazoxan. Intravenously administered midaglizole, like yohimbine and idazoxan, reversed the clonidine-induced inhibition of the tachycardic response to cardiac nerve stimulation in pithed rats. Midaglizole, yohimbine and idazoxan inhibited the pressor responses to B-HT 920 (alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist), in a dose-related manner, to a greater extent than the response to methoxamine (alpha 1-adrenoceptor agonist). Conversely, prazosin produced a highly selective antagonism of the methoxamine-evoked response in this preparation. Midaglizole failed to antagonize centrally mediated hypotension and bradycardia induced by intravenous clonidine, whereas the other alpha 2-antagonists attenuated the clonidine-induced cardiovascular responses in intact rats. These results suggest that midaglizole is a selective alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist and, unlike yohimbine and idazoxan, is characterized by its ability to block peripheral but not central alpha 2-adrenoreceptors when administered systemically.
To correlate optical density and percent inhibition of a two-step heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) antigen assay with thrombosis; the assay utilizes reaction inhibition characteristics of a high heparin concentration.
Patients with more than 50% decrease in platelet count or thrombocytopenia (<150 x 10(9)/L) after exposure to heparin, who had a positive two-step antigen assay [optical density (OD) >0.4 and >50 inhibition with high concentration of heparin] were included in the study.
Forty of 94 HIT patients had thrombosis at diagnosis; 54/94 had isolated-HIT without thrombosis. Eight of the isolated-HIT patients developed thrombosis within the next 30 d; thus, a total of 48 patients had thrombosis at day 30. At diagnosis there was no significant difference in OD between HIT patients with thrombosis and those with isolated-HIT. However, OD was significantly higher in all patients with thrombosis (n = 48, 1.34 +/- 0.89), including isolated-HIT patients who later developed thrombosis within 30 d (n = 8, 1.84 +/- 0.64) as compared to isolated-HIT patients who did not develop thrombosis (0.96 +/- 0.75; P = 0.011 and P = 0.008). The Receiver Operative Characteristic Curve showed that OD >1.27 in the isolated-HIT group had a significantly higher chance of developing thrombosis by day 30. None of these groups showed significant difference in percent inhibition. Multivariate analysis showed a 2.8-fold increased risk of thrombosis in females. Similarly, thrombotic risk increased with age and OD values.
Higher OD is associated with significant risk of subsequent thrombosis in patients with isolated-HIT; percent inhibition, however, was not predictive.
Short term cultures of golden hamster embryo cells were exposed to X-irradiation and/or to 3-amino-1-methyl-5H-pyrido[4,3,-b]indole (Trp-P-2), a pyrolysis product of GL-tryptophan. Oncogenic transformation was scored following treatment with radiation and the pyrolysate, alone or in combination. Pre-treatment of the cells with 50 rad or 150 rad and subsequent exposure to 0.5 microgram/ml Trp-P-2, resulted in a higher transformation frequency as compared to that observed following exposure to the single agents. The enhanced frequency was related to the absorbed dose of radiation. The data suggest a synergistic interaction between X-rays and the pyrolysis product in their oncogenic action.
Sotalol is a potent antiarrhythmic often used in patients with atrial fibrillation. However, it has been associated with a risk of provoking other potentially dangerous arrhythmias, especially if used in high doses and in patients with uncorrected electrolyte imbalance or impaired renal and cardiac function.
We present 4 patients with atrial fibrillation treated with sotalol who developed torsade de pointes due to marked prolongation of the QT interval. While 1 patient had renal failure, all had normal left ventricular function. One patient had been treated with sotalol for more than 10 months before developing torsade de pointes precipitated by hypokalaemia, while another had tolerated sotalol for a 3-month period before the drug was discontinued, and only developed torsade de pointes when the drug was restarted 2 years later. Significantly, the doses used in all patients were relatively low, in contrast to most other reported cases where higher doses were used.
As with all antiarrhythmic therapy, these cases illustrate the need for close follow-up of patients treated with sotalol, even if relatively low doses are used. In addition, patients who had previously tolerated the drug well are still susceptible to its proarrhythmic effects.
Use of aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) has been associated with a decrease in the risk of several cancers, including breast cancer. NSAIDs inhibit cyclooxygenase activity and thereby reduce prostaglandin synthesis; prostaglandins stimulate aromatase gene expression and thereby stimulate estrogen biosynthesis. Given the importance of estrogen in the pathogenesis of breast cancer, the ability of aspirin and other NSAIDs to protect against breast cancer could vary according to hormone receptor status.
To determine the association between the frequency and duration of use of aspirin and other NSAIDs and breast cancer risk and to investigate whether any observed association is more pronounced for women with hormone receptor-positive breast cancers.
Population-based case-control study of women with breast cancer, including in-person interviews conducted on Long Island, NY, during 1996-1997 (1442 cases and 1420 controls).
Incident invasive and in situ breast cancer by aspirin and NSAID use and hormone receptor status.
Ever use of aspirin or other NSAIDs at least once per week for 6 months or longer was reported in 301 cases (20.9%) and 345 controls (24.3%) (odds ratio [OR], 0.80; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.66-0.97 for ever vs nonusers). The inverse association was most pronounced among frequent users (> or =7 tablets per week) (OR, 0.72; 95% CI, 0.58-0.90). The results for ibuprofen, which was used by fewer women on a regular basis, were generally weaker (OR, 0.78; 95% CI, 0.55-1.10 for <3 times per week vs OR, 0.92; 95% CI, 0.70-1.22 for > or =3 times per week). Use of acetaminophen, an analgesic that does not inhibit prostaglandin synthesis, was not associated with a reduction in the incidence of breast cancer. The reduction in risk with aspirin use was seen among those with hormone receptor-positive tumors (OR, 0.74; 95% CI, 0.60-0.93) but not for women with hormone receptor-negative tumors (OR, 0.97; 95% CI, 0.67-1.40).
These data add to the growing evidence that supports the regular use of aspirin and other NSAIDs (which may operate through inhibition of estrogen biosynthesis) as effective chemopreventive agents for breast cancer.
Temozolomide (TMZ) is the most widely used drug to treat glioblastoma (GBM), which is the most common and aggressive primary tumor of the Central Nervous System and one of the hardest challenges in oncotherapy. TMZ is an alkylating agent that induces autophagy, apoptosis and senescence in GBM cells. However, therapy with TMZ increases survival after diagnosis only from 12 to 14.4 months, making the development of combined therapies to treat GBM fundamental. One candidate for GBM therapy is Resveratrol (Rsv), which has additive toxicity with TMZ in several glioma cells in vitro and in vivo. However, the mechanism of Rsv and TMZ additive toxicity, which is the aim of the present work, is not clear, especially concerning cell cycle dynamics and long term effects.
Glioma cell lines were treated with Rsv and TMZ, alone or in combinations, and the induction and the role of autophagy, apoptosis, cell cycle dynamics, protein expression and phosphorylation status were measured. We further evaluated the long term senescence induction and clonogenic capacity.
As expected, temozolomide caused a G2 cell cycle arrest and extensive DNA damage response. Rsv did not reduced this response, even increasing pATM, pChk2 and gammaH2Ax levels, but abrogated the temozolomide-induced G2 arrest, increasing levels of cyclin B and pRb(S807/811) and reducing levels of pWee1(S642) and pCdk1(Y15). This suggests a cellular state of forced passage through G2 checkpoint despite large DNA damage, a scenario that may produce mitotic catastrophe. Indeed, the proportion of cells with high nuclear irregularity increased from 6 to 26% in 48 h after cotreatment. At a long term, a reduction in clonogenic capacity was observed, accompanied by a large induction of senescence.
The presence of Rsv forces cells treated with TMZ through mitosis leading to mitotic catastrophe and senescence, reducing the clonogenic capacity of glioma cells and increasing the chronic effects of temozolomide.
