Inorganic arsenic (arsenate and arsenite) is a known human carcinogen, inducing tumors of the skin, urinary bladder, and lung. Understanding the mechanism of inorganic arsenic carcinogenesis has been hampered by a lack of animal models. To define the urothelial effects of inorganic arsenic, we administered arsenate and arsenite in the diet or drinking water to rats and mice in several short-term experiments (2-10 weeks). Treatment with arsenate or arsenite in the drinking water or diet induced cytotoxicity and necrosis of the urothelial superficial layer and hyperplasia in rats and mice. Arsenate-induced changes occurred later in mice compared with arsenite-induced changes, but not in the rat. Hyperplasia in rats was evident by light microscopy at an earlier time point (2 weeks) than previously observed after treatment with dimethylarsinic acid (DMA(V)). The bromodeoxyuridine labeling index was increased in treated rats. We were unable to determine the bromodeoxyuridine labeling index in mice. The effects of inorganic arsenicals on the bladder were greater when administered in the drinking water than in the diet in rats and mice, but so was the overall toxicity to the animal. The female rat appeared more sensitive to the effects of inorganic arsenic than the male rat, but effects were similar in female and male mice. The mode of action of inorganic arsenic in rats and mice appears to involve urothelial cytotoxicity, increased cell proliferation and ultimately tumors. Cytotoxicity is likely due to the generation of reactive trivalent arsenicals excreted in the urine.
The effects of lovastatin, a potent inhibitor of hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase, were studied in a mouse model of metastatic mammary cancer carrying a p53 mutation. Mice bearing mammary tumors, induced by inoculation of syngeneic BALB/c mice with BJMC3879 cells, were treated with lovastatin at 0, 25 and 50 mg/kg three times a week. Tumor volumes were significantly reduced in a dose-dependent manner throughout the 6 week study and were associated with both a decrease in DNA synthesis and an increase in apoptosis. The high dose of lovastatin also inhibited lung metastasis. In a corollary in vitro study, flow cytometric analyses of lovastatin-treated mammary cancer cells additionally showed cell cycle arrest at G1 phase and decreases in S and G2/M phases. Laser scanning cytometric analyses further demonstrated that cancer cells in S and G2/M were particularly susceptible to the effects of lovastatin. Transmission electron microscopic evaluation of TUNEL-confirmed apoptotic bodies in lovastatin-treated mammary carcinoma cells revealed many free 3'-OH ends of DNA in condensed chromatin within fragmented nuclei that occasionally assumed a characteristic half-moon shape. Consistent with initiation of apoptosis, cellular caspase-8, caspase-9 and caspase-3 activities were elevated in lovastatin-treated cells. The mitochondrial membrane potential was also decreased, with subsequent release of cytochrome c. However, lovastatin-induced cell death was significantly reduced by the broad spectrum caspase inhibitor z-VAD-fmk, as well as the caspase-9 inhibitor z-LEHD-fmk and the caspase-3 inhibitor z-DEVD-fmk, but not by the specific caspase-8 inhibitor z-IETD-fmk. Since immunoelectron microscopy showed translocation of Bax to the mitochondria in lovastatin-treated cells, lovastatin-induced apoptosis may, therefore, be ultimately dependent on Bax induction of cytochrome c release. These results suggest that lovastatin may be useful as an adjuvant therapy in breast cancers containing p53 mutations due to its ability to both suppress DNA synthesis and induce p53-independent mitochondria-mediated apoptosis.
We have shown previously that chronic low-dose arsenic exposure induces malignant transformation of human skin keratinocyte HaCaT cells. In this study, we found that several isoforms of aldo-keto reductase 1C (AKR1C) were overexpressed in arsenic-exposed HaCaT cells. The AKR1C family of proteins are phase I drug-metabolizing enzymes involved in maintenance of steroid homeostasis, prostaglandin metabolism and metabolic activation of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. To explore the oncogenic potential of AKR1C isoforms, we established mouse NIH3T3 cell lines ectopically and stably expressing human AKR1C1, AKR1C2 or AKR1C3. Our results showed that ectopic expression of human AKR1C1 and AKR1C2, but not AKR1C3, significantly enhanced foci formation. Following subcutaneous injection of these stable cell lines into nude mice, fibrosarcoma were formed from all three cell lines. However, the number and size of tumors formed by the AKR1C3-expressing cell line was fewer and smaller, respectively, than those formed by AKR1C1- and AKR1C2-expressing cells. Inhibitors of AKR1C, genistein and ursodeoxycholic acid, decreased foci formation in AKR1C1- and AKR1C2-expressing NIH3T3 cells in a dose-dependent manner, implying the association of enzymatic activity and oncogenic potential of AKR1C. The requirement of enzymatic ability for neoplastic transformation was confirmed by establishing a NIH3T3 cell line stably expressing a mutant AKR1C1 lacking enzymatic activity, which did not form foci in culture or tumors in nude mice. Our present study reveals that AKR1C enzymatic activity plays crucial roles on induction of neoplastic transformation of mouse NIH3T3 cells.
Imidazobenzodiazepine (Ro 15-1788, 5 mg/kg) similarly to a lose dose of apomorphine (0.1 mg/kg) decreased the intensity of footshock aggression in male rats. Ro 15-1788 significantly potentiated the antiaggressive action of apomorphine. Pirenperone (0.01 mg/kg) potentiated the effect of both drugs, whereas haloperidol (0.01 mg/kg) had an opposite action. After long-term treatment with apomorphine and Ro 15-1788 the tolerance to their antiaggressive action developed. This change was in agreement with increased serotonin metabolism in the forebrain. Unlike the action on aggressive behavior, Ro 15-1788 similarly to haloperidol (0.05 mg/kg) decreased the motor depressant effect of apomorphine (0.01 mg/kg) in mice. This effect correlated with the lowered serotonin metabolism after Ro 15-1788 administration. Unlike apomorphine, Ro 15-1788 reversed catalepsy induced by haloperidol (0.25 mg/kg). Administration of pirenperone (0.03 mg/kg) and destruction of serotoninergic terminals by p-chloroamphetamine (2 X 15 mg/kg) significantly potentiated the sedative action of apomorphine. It appears that different action of Ro 15-1788 on behavioral effects of apomorphine is related to different influence of Ro-1788 on serotoninergic processes in the striatum and limbic structures.
Brain serotonin [5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)] systems substantially influence the effects of cocaine; however, the contributions of individual 5-HT receptor subtypes to the regulation of cocaine responses are unclear. A line of mutant mice devoid of 5-HT2C receptors was used to examine the contribution of this receptor subtype to the serotonergic modulation of cocaine responses. Mutants display enhanced exploration of a novel environment and increased sensitivity to the locomotor stimulant effects of cocaine. In an operant intravenous self-administration model under a progressive ratio schedule of reinforcement, mutants display elevated levels of lever pressing for cocaine injections, indicating that the drug is more reinforcing in these mice. Moreover, mutants exhibit enhanced cocaine-induced elevations of dopamine (DA) levels in the nucleus accumbens, a brain region implicated in the stimulant and rewarding properties of cocaine. In contrast, phenotypic differences in dorsal striatal DA levels were not produced by cocaine treatment. These findings strongly implicate 5-HT2C receptors in the serotonergic suppression of DA-mediated behavioral responses to cocaine and as a potential therapeutic target for cocaine abuse.
The kinin B(1) receptor (B(1)R) is upregulated by pro-inflammatory cytokines and oxydative stress, which are enhanced by transient receptor potential vanilloid subtype 1 (TRPV1) activation. To examine the link between TRPV1 and B(1)R in inflammatory pain, this study aimed to determine the ability of TRPV1 to regulate microglial B(1)R expression in the spinal cord dorsal horn, and the underlying mechanism.
B(1)R expression (mRNA, protein and binding sites) was measured in cervical, thoracic and lumbar spinal cord in response to TRPV1 activation by systemic capsaicin (1-50 mg/kg, s.c) in rats pre-treated with TRPV1 antagonists (capsazepine or SB-366791), the antioxidant N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC), or vehicle. B(1)R function was assessed using a tail-flick test after intrathecal (i.t.) injection of a selective B(1)R agonist (des-Arg(9)-BK), and its microglial localization was investigated by confocal microscopy with the selective fluorescent B(1)R agonist, [Nα-bodipy]-des-Arg(9)-BK. The effect of i.t. capsaicin (1 μg/site) was also investigated.
Capsaicin (10 to 50 mg/kg, s.c.) enhanced time-dependently (0-24h) B(1)R mRNA levels in the lumbar spinal cord; this effect was prevented by capsazepine (10 mg/kg, i.p.; 10 μg/site, i.t.) and SB-366791 (1 mg/kg, i.p.; 30 μg/site, i.t.). Increases of B(1)R mRNA were correlated with IL-1β mRNA levels, and they were significantly less in cervical and thoracic spinal cord. Intrathecal capsaicin (1 μg/site) also enhanced B(1)R mRNA in lumbar spinal cord. NAC (1 g/kg/d × 7 days) prevented B(1)R up-regulation, superoxide anion production and NF-kB activation induced by capsaicin (15 mg/kg). Des-Arg(9)-BK (9.6 nmol/site, i.t.) decreased by 25-30% the nociceptive threshold at 1 min post-injection in capsaicin-treated rats (10-50 mg/kg) while it was without effect in control rats. Des-Arg(9)-BK-induced thermal hyperalgesia was blocked by capsazepine, SB-366791 and by antagonists/inhibitors of B(1)R (SSR240612, 10 mg/kg, p.o.), glutamate NMDA receptor (DL-AP5, 10 μg/site, i.t.), substance P NK-1 receptor (RP-67580, 10 μg/site, i.t.) and nitric oxide synthase (L-NNA, 10 μg/site, i.t.). The B(1)R fluorescent agonist was co-localized with an immunomarker of microglia (Iba-1) in spinal cord dorsal horn of capsaicin-treated rats.
This study highlights a new mechanism for B(1)R induction via TRPV1 activation and establishes a link between these two pro-nociceptive receptors in inflammatory pain.
To determine the one-year mortality and incidence of myocardial infarction (MI) post-hospital discharge or ED release for patients with cocaine-associated chest pain.
A prospective, observational study of an inception cohort of consecutive patients who presented to one of four municipal hospital EDs with cocaine-associated chest pain. Patients were followed for one year from the end of the enrollment period. Main outcome parameters were the one-year actuarial survival and the frequency of nonfatal MI.
Mortality data were available for all 203 patients at a mean of 408 days. Additional clinical information was available for 185 patients (91%). There were six deaths (one-year actuarial survival 98%; 95% CI, 95-100%); none from MI. Nonfatal MI occurred in two patients (1%; 95% CI, 0-2%). Continued cocaine use was common (60%; 95% CI, 52-68%) and was associated with recurrent chest pain (75% vs 31%, p < 0.0001). No MI or death was reported for patients who claimed to have ceased cocaine use.
Patients who presented with cocaine-associated chest pain commonly continued to use cocaine after discharge. Urgent evaluation of coronary anatomy or cardiac stress tests may not be necessary for patients for whom MI is ruled out and who do not have recurrent potentially ischemic pain. The subsequent risk for MI and death in this group appears to be low. Intervention strategies should emphasize cessation of cocaine use.
Neurological complications were examined in a multicentre, randomized, parallel-group study of 545 patients undergoing primary liver transplantation to compare the efficacy and safety of FK 506- and cyclosporin A-based immunosuppressive regimens (CBIR). In an additional analysis, patients were divided into early and late randomized cohorts to detect the influence of protocol amendements that allowed for FK 506 dose reductions. Initial follow-up was for 6 months. Tremor, headache and insomnia were the most frequently reported adverse events involving the neurological system. Whereas these neurological symptoms were observed significantly more often in FK 506-treated patients (P < 0.05 vs. CsA for the overall population), this was no longer the case for the late FK 506 and CBIR cohorts. The risk of FK 506-treated patients developing tremor was related to the initial i.v. dose, the rate of administration of the i.v. dose and the daily dose (P < 0.01). Headache was significantly correlated with the FK 506 dose (P < 0.05), and insomnia was not related to any dosing variable. Major neurological symptoms, including psychosis, convulsion, coma, aphasia and intracranial haemorrhage, were reported with a low frequency (0.4-5.2%), and differences between both treatment groups were neither significant for the overall population nor for the early and late cohorts of FK 506 and CBIR. Data from the late cohorts showed no differences in the overall incidence of neurological adverse events between FK 506- and CBIR-treated patients.
It has been established that alpha-tocopherol prevented rat thymocytes apoptotic death induced by low concentration (250 nM) of calcium ionophore A23187. When necrotic cell death was induced high concentration (10 microM) of calcium ionophore A23187 alpha-tocopherol was able to alter necrosis to apoptosis. It was proposed that such effect can be explained by the ability of alpha-tocopherol to prevent the mitochondrial permeability transition--a key event in apoptosis and necrosis induction.
In a trimodality treatment approach for Stage III nonsmall cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC), the prognostic impact of the ras mutation status in resection specimens was evaluated.
Forty patients with Stage III NSCLC underwent tumor resection after neoadjuvant treatment with two cycles of chemotherapy (ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide) and subsequent twice-daily radiotherapy (45 grays [Gy]; 2 x 1.5 Gy/day) with concurrent carboplatin and vindesine. Assessment of K-ras codon 12 mutation status was performed in the paraffin embedded resection specimens by a two-step polymerase chain reaction followed by restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis.
K-ras mutation status could be assessed in 28 cases. A K-ras codon 12 point mutation was found in 13 of 28 resection specimens (46%). The mutation was found independently of gender, age, tumor stage, and clinical response status and occurred more frequently in adenocarcinomas. Even after complete resection, the presence of a K-ras mutation was a significant predictor for a poor progression free survival (P = 0.005).
These data suggest that further evaluation of the K-ras codon 12 mutation status in trials on neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy is warranted. This may contribute to the identification of stratification variables for future treatment approaches.
Coronary haemodynamic and metabolic effects of propranolol and glyceryl trinitrate were studied in 12 patients with coronary artery disease and 5 without coronary heart disease, at rest and during tachycardia stress. Propranolol-associated reductions in indices of myocardial oxygen demand, left ventricle work, tension time, and left ventricle oxygen utilisation (LVVO2) were reversed when heart rate was controlled by atrial pacing. Adding glyceryl trinitrate at rest also restored heart rate but decreased the left ventricular work index and tension time index as coronary resistance declined paradoxically. Tachycardia-related increases in tension time index and LVVO2 were unchanged after propranolol, and ischaemia (angina, ST depression, and reduced lactate extraction) was not altered in most of the patients. During tachycardia, the addition of glyceryl trinitrate decreased the tension time index and LVVO2; angina recurred in only 4 patients, and ST depression and lactate extraction improved. Similar haemodynamic changes occurred in the patients with normal coronary arteries. In contrast with propranolol administered alone, propranolol plus glyceryl trinitrate enhances tachycardia tolerance and prevents tachycardia-induced manifestations of ischaemia. This action is attributed to glyceryl trinitrate-associated improvement in the adequacy of myocardial perfusion.
A case of sudden fetal stress after accidental administration of ergotamine tartrate (2 mg) suppository is reported. Caesarean section was performed because of unexplained fetal stress. In retrospect, we conclude that it is likely that sudden fetal stress was caused by the severe vasoconstrictive effect of ergotamine. The side effects of ergot derivatives during pregnancy are discussed.
It has been suggested, based on rodent studies, that levodopa (L-dopa) induced dyskinesia is associated with a disrupted blood-brain barrier (BBB). We have investigated BBB integrity with in vivo neuroimaging techniques in six 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) lesioned primates exhibiting L-dopa-induced dyskinesia. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) performed before and after injection of Gadolinium-diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid (Gd-DTPA) revealed an intact BBB in the basal ganglia showing that l-dopa-induced dyskinesia is not associated with a disrupted BBB in this model.
Cluster headache is the most severe primary headache disorder known. Ten to 20% of cases are medically intractable. DBS of the posterior hypothalamic area has shown effectiveness for alleviation of cluster headache in many but not all of the 46 reported cases from European centers and the eight cases studied at the University of California, San Francisco. This surgical strategy was based on the finding of increased blood flow in the posterior hypothalamic area on H(2)(15)O PET scanning during spontaneous and nitroglycerin-induced cluster headache attacks. The target point used, 4-5 mm posterior to the mamillothalamic tract, is in the border zone between posterior hypothalamus, anterior periventricular gray matter, and inferior thalamus. Recently, occipital nerve stimulation has shown efficacy, calling in question the use of DBS as a first line surgical therapy. In this report, we review the indications, techniques, and outcomes of DBS for cluster headache.
The pathogenic mechanism of acetyl salicylic acid (ASA)-induced urticaria (AIU) is not fully understood. We compared the levels of neutrophil activation and related cytokines in patients with ASA-intolerant acute urticaria (AIAU) and ASA-intolerant chronic urticaria (AICU). A total of 51 patients with AIAU, 88 patients with AICU, and 102 normal controls (NC) were enrolled in this study. The serum levels of myeloperoxidase (MPO), interleukin-8 (IL-8), and IL-18 were compared among the three groups. The serum levels of MPO were highest in the AIAU group, followed by the AICU and NC groups, and the serum levels of IL-18 were significantly higher in the AIAU and AICU groups than in NC group. Within the AIU groups, significant correlations were noted between the levels of MPO and IL-8, and IL-8 and IL-18. In conclusion, neutrophil activation, which was associated with the levels of IL-8 and IL-18 in the AIAU group, may be involved in the pathogenic mechanism of AIU. A role for IL-18 in the pathogenesis of AIU is also suggested.
Fenofibrate, a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα) agonist and lipid-lowering agent, has been used worldwide for treatment of hyperlipidemia. The clinical trials demonstrate that fenofibrate possesses multiple pharmacological activities, including antitumor effects. However, the precise mechanisms in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) remain unclear. In this study, we investigated the anticancer effects of fenofibrate on the migration and invasion of human oral cancer CAL 27 cells. Fenofibrate inhibited the cell migration and invasion of CAL 27 cells by the wound healing and Boyden chamber transwell assays, respectively. In addition, fenofibrate reduced the protein expressions of MMP-1, MMP-2, MMP-7, and MMP-9 by Western blotting and inhibited enzyme activities of MMP-2/-9 using gelatin zymography assay. Results from immunoblotting analysis showed that the proteins of p-LKB1 (Ser428), LKB1, p-AMPKα (Thr172), p-AMPKα1/α2 (Ser425/Ser491), p-AMPKβ1 (Ser108), and AMPKγ1 were upregulated by fenofibrate; the levels of p-IKKα/β (Ser176) and p-IκBα were reduced in fenofibrate-treated cells. Also, fenofibrate suppressed the expressions of nuclear NF-κB p65 and p50 by immunoblotting and NF-κB DNA binding activity by EMSA assay. The anti-invasive effect of fenofibrate was attenuated by compound C [an adenosine 5'-monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) inhibitor] or dominant negative form of AMPK (DN-AMPKα1). Thus, fenofibrate considerably inhibited metastatic behaviors of CAL 27 cells might be mediated through blocking NF-κB signaling, resulting in the inhibition of MMPs; these effects were AMPK-dependent rather than PPARα signaling. Our findings provide a molecular rationale, whereby fenofibrate exerts anticancer effects and additional beneficial effects for the treatment of cancer patients. © 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Environ Toxicol, 2014.
Human hepatocarcinoma-intestine-pancreas/pancreatic-associated protein HIP/PAP is a secreted C-type lectin belonging to group VII, according to Drickamer's classification. HIP/PAP is overexpressed in liver carcinoma; however, its functional role remains unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that HIP/PAP is a paracrine hepatic growth factor promoting both proliferation and viability of liver cells in vivo. First, a low number of implanted hepatocytes deriving from HIP/PAP-transgenic mice (<1:1,000) was sufficient to stimulate overall recipient severe combined immunodeficiency liver regeneration after partial hepatectomy. After a single injection of HIP/PAP protein, the percentages of bromodeoxyuridine-positive nuclei and mitosis were statistically higher than after saline injection, indicating that HIP/PAP acts as a paracrine mitogenic growth factor for the liver. Comparison of the early events posthepatectomy in control and transgenic mice indicated that HIP/PAP accelerates the accumulation/degradation of nuclear phospho-signal transducer activator transcription factor 3 and tumor necrosis factor alpha level, thus reflecting that HIP/PAP accelerates liver regeneration. Second, we showed that 80% of the HIP/PAP-transgenic mice versus 25% of the control mice were protected against lethal acetaminophen-induced fulminate hepatitis. A single injection of recombinant HIP/PAP induced a similar cytoprotective effect, demonstrating the antiapoptotic effect of HIP/PAP. Comparison of Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase activity and glutathione reductase-like effects in control and transgenic liver mice indicated that HIP/PAP exerts an antioxidant activity and prevents reactive oxygen species-induced mitochondrial damage by acetaminophen overdose. In conclusion, the present data offer new insights into the biological functions of C-type lectins. In addition, HIP/PAP is a promising candidate for the prevention and treatment of liver failure.
Tamoxifen is an antioestrogen drug used widely in the management of oestrogen-dependent metastatic breast carcinoma. A number of ocular complications have been described secondary to tamoxifen therapy. We report two patients, one of whom had superior ophthalmic vein thrombosis and the other who had painful proptosis and acute angle-closure glaucoma with choroidal detachment secondary to tamoxifen therapy, both of which have not been reported earlier. In both patients the signs and symptoms resolved rapidly after the discontinuation of tamoxifen therapy. Awareness of the ocular toxicity of tamoxifen is essential as prompt withdrawal can result in resolution of most of the complications.
Using adult Long-Evans male rats, this experiment compared spontaneous (assessed 15 days and 4.5 months after surgery) and amphetamine-induced (assessed from 4.5 months after surgery onwards; 1 mg/kg, i.p., ten injections, 48 h apart) locomotor activity following N-methyl-D-aspartate lesions of the entorhinal cortex, electrolytic lesions of the fimbria-fornix, or ibotenate lesions of the hippocampus. Sham-operated rats were used as controls. Hippocampal and fimbria-fornix lesions, but not entorhinal-cortex lesions induced diurnal and nocturnal hyperactivity, which was attenuated over time, but only in rats with fimbria-fornix lesions. Amphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion was assessed in a familiar environment. Lesions of the entorhinal cortex potentiated the locomotor effects of amphetamine, but not lesions of the hippocampus or interruption of the axons in the fimbria-fornix pathway. Sensitization appeared to be decreased by fimbria-fornix lesions and to be prevented by hippocampal lesions. Rats with entorhinal-cortex lesions behaved as if they had already been sensitized by the lesion. These results clearly show that lesions of the fimbria-fornix, the hippocampus, and of the entorhinal cortex have different effects on spontaneous and amphetamine-induced hyperactivity, as they also have on learning and memory tasks.
A case of timolol-associated heart failure in a 73-year old white man is reported. The patient, with a history of cardiovascular disease and glaucoma, was admitted to the hospital because of complaints of shortness of breath, orthopnea, and reduced exercise tolerance. Chest roentgenogram showed interstitial congestive failure, and an EKG demonstrated sinus bradycardia. The patient's medications before admission included quinidine, isosorbide dinitrate, dipyridamole, aspirin, pilocarpine eyedrops 4%, timolol eyedrops 0.5%, and nitroglycerin ointment and sublingual tablets. On the second day of hospitalization, it was noted that the patient's dyspnea and sinus bradycardia could be related to a recent increase in his timolol dosage. The timolol was discontinued, and the patient's heart rate increased. As the patient's pulse rate increased, the symptoms of congestive heart failure disappeared. This case demonstrated the importance of obtaining complete drug histories from patients. The potential for adverse system reactions resulting from topical medications should be considered.
To investigate the anticancer activity and mode of action of butyroyloxymethyl-diethyl phosphate (AN-7), a prodrug of butyric acid and formaldehyde, as a single agent and in combination with doxorubicin in human carcinoma MCF-7 and the multidrug resistant MCF-7 Dx cell lines.
The anti-cancer activity of AN-7 as a single agent or in combination with doxorubicin was measured by the Hoechst cell viability and colony forming assays as well as by FACS analyses of cells stained with propidium iodide and annexin V-FITC. Modulations of protein expression and acetylation were measured by Western blot analyses. The number of doxorubicin-DNA adducts formed was evaluated using (14)C-labeled doxorubicin.
The AN-7 and homologous prodrugs exhibited similar growth inhibition effects against drug resistant and sensitive cells, and elicited their anticancer effect partially by inhibition of HDAC. The AN-7 transiently augmented histone acetylation and increase of p21 expression. Synergy between AN-7 and doxorubicin was demonstrated in the sensitive and the resistant cell lines by viability and colony formation assays and was further confirmed by FACS analysis showing an increase in cell mortality. The number of doxorubicin-DNA adducts in total genomic DNA isolated from cells treated with (14)C-labeled doxorubicin and AN-7 increased substantially compared to treatment with doxorubicin only. Treatment with AN-7 or doxorubicin increased p53 acetylation that was further potentiated by their combination.
The AN-7 combined with doxorubicin overcame drug resistance; at least in part by the intracellularly releasable formaldehyde that augmented formation of doxorubicin-DNA adducts and butyric acid that induced histone and p53 acetylation. Since the use of doxorubicin is limited by toxicity, the combination could offer an effective treatment modality with lower toxicity for breast cancer.
Two patients with severe, intravascular haemolysis due to drug-dependent antibodies are described. The antibodies were directed against presumptive metabolites of buthiazide (International Non-proprietary Name, butizide) and nomifensine. Their detection was possible only in the presence of ex vivo antigens (i.e. fresh serum of volunteers after ingestion of the drugs) while in vitro antigen preparations yielded inconclusive results. Both antibodies lysed normal red cells in the presence of ex vivo antigens and complement. The buthiazide-related antibody was IgG (subclass IgG1), the nomifensine-related antibody was IgM. We conclude that the use of ex vivo antigens is of great importance in the serological evaluation of cases with suspected drug-dependent immune haemolysis.
5-Azacytidine, a DNA methyl transferase inhibitor, is effective in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). Whether responses to 5-Azacytidine are achieved by demethylation of key genes or by cytotoxicity is unclear. Of 34 patients with MDS or acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) treated with 5-Azacytidine, 7 achieved complete remissions (CR) (21%) and 6 achieved haematological improvement. All six had less than 5% bone marrow (BM) blasts at the time of haematological improvements (HI) (2 had pre-existing refractory anaemia (RA), 4 had refractory anaemia with excess blasts (RAEB)). A further patient with RAEB had blast reduction to less than 5% without HI. Five of the seven (71%) complete responders had chromosome 7 abnormalities. BM CR predicted longer overall survival (OS) (median 23 versus 9 months, P=0.015). Bisulphite genomic sequencing (BGS) of the CDKN2B (p15(INK4b)) promoter showed low level, heterogeneous pretreatment methylation (mean 12.2%) in 14/17 (82%) patients analysed. Lower baseline methylation occurred in responders (9.8% versus 16.2% in non-responders P=0.07). No response was seen in patients with >24% methylation, in whom p15(INK4b) mRNA was not expressed. 5-Azacytidine reduced CDKN2B methylation by mean 6.8% in 8/17 (47%) patients, but this did not correlate with response. At 75 mg/m(2), cell death (reduced BM cellularity (P=0.001) and increased apoptosis (P=0.02)) rather than demethylation of CDKN2B correlates with response. Patients with >24% methylation may benefit from alternative dosing or combination strategies.
The present study was designed to investigate the relationship between proteinuria, focal sclerosis, and tubulo-interstitial changes in the evolution of renal damage in experimental nephrosis. We utilized an accelerated unilateral model of adriamycin (ADR) nephrosis characterized by morphological changes more severe than in the classical model. The first events in ADR-induced glomerulopathy were epithelial cell damage and proteinuria. Subsequently, tubular casts were formed at the distal level. The cast formation preceded the development of interstitial damage, which was determined by tubular obstruction and breaking of tubular basement membrane (TBM), which in turn promoted an interstitial inflammatory reaction. Despite the severity of tubulo-interstitial damage observed after a long period of heavy proteinuria, the incidence of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSG) was very low. The results of the present study indicate that chronic proteinuria is not necessarily accompanied by the development of focal sclerosis. Tubulo-interstitial lesions appear to be the most important determinant for the progression of renal damage in this model.
Six patients with persistent phenothiazine dyskinesia were treated in a double-blind controlled trial with tetrabenazine 100 mg in divided dosage. In three patients the abnormal movements were abolished and in two others there was some improvement, but this was no greater than that achieved with the diazepam control. Tetrabenazine may be useful in the treatment of some patients with persistent phenothiazine dyskinesia.
The authors investigated the influence of two monophasic oral contraceptives with 30 and 20 microg ethynilestradiol (EE) with combination with 75 microg gestodene (GSD) upon the system of natural inhibitors of coagulation.
The study is prospective for a period of 12 months and was conducted upon 105 clinically healthy women, who use 30 microg EE/75 microg GSD (n = 35), 20 microg EE/75 microg GSD (n = 35) and a control group (n = 35).
The continuous use of the contraceptive combination with 20 g EE/75 g GSD leads to statistically significant elevation of protein C (PrC), total protein S (TPrS) and Heparin Cofactor II (HCII). The use of the contraceptive combination with 30 microg EE/75 microg GSD is associated with statistically significant increase of Pr C and HC II. There were no statistically significant changes in the other variables.
The use of both oral contraceptive combinations is associated with increased anticoagulant activity, which status prevents from thrombosis.
In-stent restenosis is a hyperproliferative disease which can be successfully treated by drug-eluting stents releasing compounds that exhibit cell-cycle inhibitory properties to inhibit coronary smooth muscle cell (CASMC) proliferation and migration, resembling the key pathomechanisms of in-stent restenosis. Cyclin-dependent kinases (CDK) are key regulators of the eukaryotic cell cycle. CDK activity may be blocked by novel compounds such as flavopiridol. Therefore, CDK inhibitors are attractive drugs to be used for the local prevention of in-stent restenosis. In this study, we demonstrate that flavopiridol leads to potent inhibition of CASMC proliferation and migration. Molecular effects on cell-cycle regulatory mechanisms and distribution were evaluated by post-transcriptional assessment of distinct cyclins and cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor (CKI) levels and flow cytometry. Cellular necrosis and apoptosis was assessed in CASMC and coronary endothelial cells. Flavopiridol induced a potent antiproliferative effect by cell-cycle inhibition in G1 and G2/M and led to increased protein levels of CKIs p21cip1 and p27kip1 as well as p53 in CASMC. Hyperphosphorylation of retinoblastoma protein was abrogated and mitogen-mediated smooth muscle cell migration significantly reduced. No accelerated cytotoxicity or increased apoptosis was detectable. Flavopiridol-coated stents, implanted in rat carotid arteries, led to significant decrease of neointima formation. As proof of principle, our results demonstrate that stents eluting CDK inhibitors such as flavopiridol effectively inhibit neointima formation. Therefore, this new class of therapeutics may be suitable for further clinical investigations on drug-eluting stents to prevent in-stent restenosis.
Direct comparison of the efficacy of cochlear implant designs has been difficult for several reasons. There have been wide variations in patients implanted and many differences in testing protocols for each device. In most instances, even a single patient may have unequal degrees of pathology and duration of deafness in the two ears. Implantation of a 3M/House device in the left ear and a Nucleus 22 device in the right ear of a 55-year-old woman, deafened to a similar degree and simultaneously in both ears by streptomycin, allows an opportunity to compare function under presumably similar circumstances. The Nucleus 22 cochlear implant was superior in this case in providing speech discrimination. Perhaps of greater interest, however, is evidence of a binaural effect. Presumably, central integration of sensory stimuli presented through two dissimilar processing strategies resulted in enhanced function on certain measures.
Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is a common condition, and acid-suppressing agents are the mainstays of treatment. For the acute medical management of GERD, two different strategies can be proposed: either the most effective therapy, i.e., proton-pump inhibitors (PPIs), can be given first, or histamine H2-receptor antagonists (H2RAs) can be attempted first (the "step-up" approach).
A clinical decision analysis comparing the PPI-first strategy and the H2RA-first "step-up" strategy for the acute treatment of reflux esophagitis in Japan was performed, using a Markov chain approach.
The PPI-first strategy was consistently superior to the step-up strategy with regard to clinical outcomes for the patient and with regard to cost-effectiveness (direct cost per patient to achieve clinical success). This superiority was robust within the plausible range of probabilities according to the sensitivity analyses.
The PPI-first strategy is superior to the H2RA-first "step-up" strategy with regard to both efficacy and cost-effectiveness and therefore, the PPI-first strategy is the preferred therapeutic approach for the acute medical treatment of reflux esophagitis.
