Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCL) represent a group of common progressive encephalopathies of children which have a global incidence of 1 in 12,500. These severe brain diseases are divided into three autosomal recessive subtypes, assigned to different chromosomal loci. The infantile subtype of NCL (INCL), linked to chromosome 1p32, is characterized by early visual loss and rapidly progressing mental deterioration, resulting in a flat electroencephalogram by 3 years of age; death occurs at 8 to 11 years, and characteristic storage bodies are found in brain and other tissues at autopsy. The molecular pathogenesis underlying the selective loss of neurons of neocortical origin has remained unknown. Here we report the identification, by positional candidate methods, of defects in the palmitoyl-protein thioesterase gene in all 42 Finnish INCL patients and several non-Finnish patients. The most common mutation results in intracellular accumulation of the polypeptide and undetectable enzyme activity in the brain of patients.
In a double-blind parallel study, 20 elderly hypertensive subjects (mean age 85 years) were treated either by nicardipine or by nifedipine in slow-release form for 7 days. Blood pressure was measured by ambulatory, non-invasive daytime monitoring. Efficacy of both drugs was similar on the seventh day of treatment. However, the hypotensive effect induced by nifedipine was maximal on the first day of treatment, in contrast to the progressive effect induced by nicardipine. In 2 cases, marked hypotension was observed after the first tablet of nifedipine.
Evidence suggests that cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) increases tumorigenic potential by promoting resistance to apoptosis. Because B chronic lymphoid leukemia (B-CLL) cells exhibit a defective apoptotic response, we analyzed CD19(+) B lymphocytes purified from the peripheral blood of B-CLL patients. Microarray analysis showed a variable (up to 38-fold) increase in the steady-state mRNA levels of COX-2 in B-CLL lymphocytes compared with normal CD19(+) B lymphocytes. The up-regulation of COX-2 in B-CLL cells was confirmed by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and Western blot analyses. Moreover, immunohistochemical analysis of B-CLL bone marrow infiltrates confirmed clear expression of COX-2 in leukemic cells. Ex vivo treatment with the COX-2 inhibitor NS-398 significantly decreased the survival of leukemic cells by increasing the rate of spontaneous apoptosis in 13 of 16 B-CLL samples examined, but it did not affect the survival of normal lymphocytes. Pretreatment with NS-398 significantly potentiated the cytotoxicity induced by chlorambucil in 8 of 16 B-CLL samples examined. Moreover, although recombinant tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis inducing ligand (TRAIL)/Apo2L showed little cytotoxic effect in most B-CLL samples examined, pretreatment with NS-398 sensitized 8 of 16 B-CLL samples to TRAIL-induced apoptosis. Taken together, our data indicate that COX-2 overexpression likely represents an additional mechanism of resistance to apoptosis in B-CLL and that pharmacological suppression of COX-2 might enhance chemotherapy-mediated apoptosis.
The available literature is still controversial and shows that surgical (parathyroidectomy, PTX) or medical (calcitriol) treatment actually improved or even corrected the rhEPO-resistant anemia of ESRD patients with severe SHP. The aims of this study were to 1) assess the influence of SHP on hematological parameters in ESRD patients, 2) evaluate whether or not calcitriol could improve anemia and reduce the need of erythropoietin in dialysis patients, and 3) investigate the longitudinal effect of a parathyroidectomy for 6 months on regarding any improvements in calcitriol-refractory ESRD patients.
37 chronic hemodialysis patients in Chang Gung Memorial Hospital Dialysis Unit were divided into two groups: patients with SHP (iPTH>300 pg/mL) and patients without SHP (ipTH<300 pg/mL) before calcitriol therapy was applied. Sixteen patients remain with a status of hyperparathyroidism and were considered candidates for calcitriol therapy. Furthermore, we divided the patients according to the response of HPT to calcitriol into responding patients and nonresponding patients. Among nonresponder groups, three patients agreed to accept surgical intervention to treat their hyperparathyroidism status.
The phosphate levels and serum alkaline phosphatase levels in patients with SHP were significantly higher when compared with those without SHP (P<0.05). As for the hematological data, hematocrit for patients with SHP was significantly higher than those without SHP (10.5 +/- 0.6 vs. 8.9 +/- 0.8, p<0.05). Other hematological parameters such as transferrin saturation and serum ferritin were not significantly different. We found a significant difference in alkaline phosphate levels in responding and nonresponding patients at 6 months on calcitriol therapy. Concomitantly, the hematocrit level is significantly higher in responding group when compared to those in nonresponding group (10.63 +/- 0.72 vs. 8.96 +/- 1.21, p<0.01). As for the dose of EPO requirement, significant difference between groups was also found after 6-month treatment (3617 +/- 2011 vs. 5416 +/- 1947, p<0.05). As for rhEPO dose requirement, positive effects of PTX were significantly found. The rhEPO doses needed to maintain patients in the hematocrit target range of 30-33% decreased gradually by 29% from 5323 +/- 1326 micro to 3774 +/- 2145 micro per week. The hematocrit level showed a significant increase at 3 months after PTX (p<0.05). This effect lasted until 6 months after PTX. The serum ferritin level was constantly around 350 to 400 pg/mL. While the transferrin saturation decreased 3 months after PTX (p<0.05) and recovered at 6 months.
ESRD patients with SHP, usually associated with more severe anemia show resistance to rhEPO. In this case, investigation of SHP is strongly recommended with measurement of serum PTH, phosphate and alkaline phosphatase level. Treatment of calcitriol has a beneficial effect on renal anemia in ESRD patients with SHP. In addition, PTX could also provide another choosing therapy in improving renal anemia when medical treatment fails.
Fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine are appetite suppressants that were in widespread use in the United States. On July 8, 1997, 24 cases of valvular heart disease in women who had been treated with fenfluramine and phentermine were publicly reported. Although valvular lesions were observed on both sides of the heart, a left-sided valve was affected in all cases. The histopathologic features were similar to those observed in carcinoid-induced valvular disease, a serotonin-related syndrome. Based on these data, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued a public health advisory on July 8, followed by letters from FDA to 700,000 U.S. health-care practitioners and institutions requesting information about any additional similar patients. Subsequently, reports of fenfluramine- or dexfenfluramine-associated valvulopathy increased. This report summarizes the data used by FDA in its decision to request voluntary withdrawal of these drugs from the market and presents interim public health recommendations for persons exposed to these drugs.
Acetaminophen (APAP) overdose induces apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF)-dependent necroptosis, but the mechanism remains obscure. The present study investigated the role of receptor interacting protein (RIP)1, a critical mediator of necroptosis, on AIF-dependent necroptosis during APAP-induced acute liver failure. Mice were intraperitoneally injected with APAP (300 mg/kg). As expected, hepatic RIP1 was activated as early as 1 h after APAP, which is earlier than APAP-induced hepatic RIP3 upregulation. APAP-evoked RIP1 activation is associated with hepatic glutathione (GSH) depletion. Either pretreatment or post-treatment with Nec-1, a selective inhibitor of RIP1, significantly alleviated APAP-induced acute liver failure. Moreover, Nec-1 improved the survival and prevented APAP-induced necroptosis, as determined by TdT-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling (TUNEL) assay. Further analysis showed that Nec-1 significantly inhibited APAP-induced hepatic c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) phosphorylation and mitochondrial Bax translocation. In addition, Nec-1 blocked APAP-induced translocation of AIF from the mitochondria to the nucleus. Of interest, no changes were induced by Nec-1 on hepatic CYP2E1 expression. In addition, Nec-1 had little effect on APAP-induced hepatic GSH depletion at early stage. Taken together, these results suggest that RIP1 is involved in APAP-induced necroptosis. Nec-1 is an effective antidote for APAP-induced acute liver failure.
Minocycline, a tetracycline derivative, disrupts inflammatory processes within the CNS and reduces demyelination in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Several recent studies indicate that components of the inflammatory response to demyelination may be beneficial for the regenerative process of remyelination. In this study we examined the effects of minocycline on remyelination independent of its effects in limiting immune-mediated white matter damage using a toxin model of demyelination. Demyelinating lesions were induced by injection of ethidium bromide into caudal cerebellar peduncles of adult rats. Minocycline or PBS was administered by twice daily injections from day 1 prior to lesion-induction to post lesion day 3. Remyelination was assessed, blinded to grouping, using standard morphological criteria. The microglia activation within the lesion was assessed by examining the expression of OX-42 and major histocompatibility class II immunoreactivity. The oligodendrocyte progenitor cell (OPC) response was quantified by in situ hybridization using probes for OPC-expressed mRNAs, platelet-derived growth factor receptor-alpha and Olig-1. Minocycline treatment strongly inhibited microglia/macrophage activation at day 1 and day 3 post-lesion induction, and suppressed the OPC response to demyelination. We also found a significant decrease in the extent of oligodendrocyte but not Schwann cell remyelination in the minocycline-treated animals as compared with controls at 3 weeks post-lesion induction. These results indicate that microglia/macrophage activation is an important process for remyelination and further support the concept that suppression of inflammatory response may impair remyelination.
To study the effects of podocyte injury on glomerular maturation and underlying mechanisms of such effects, puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) was given to neonatal mice at 1 d post partum (1 dpp). Mice with PAN injection had smaller kidney weight (KW) and body weight (BW) at all times and smaller KW/BW at 4, 8, and 12 dpp versus normal saline (NS) controls. Electron microscopy (EM) revealed nearly complete podocyte foot process effacement and segmental microvillous transformation as early as 2 dpp, preceding proteinuria. PAN-injected kidneys showed significantly fewer glomerular capillary loops and decreased glomerular maturation index, as well as less CD31+ endothelium in cortical glomeruli at 12 dpp versus NS controls. Glomerular mesangial injury and glomerulosclerosis along with proteinuria were noted in PAN-injected kidneys starting from 30 dpp. Systolic blood pressure was increased significantly by 60 dpp in PAN mice. PAN mice also had significantly decreased Flk-1 and Tie2 mRNA expression and increased angiopoitein-1 (Ang-1) expression, without change in vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) at 2 dpp versus NS. Our study shows that podocyte injury in neonatal mice kidneys alters the expression of key capillary growth modulators in glomeruli, leading to abnormal development of glomerular capillaries, with subsequent development of proteinuria, hypertension, and glomerulosclerosis.
The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of dopamine and a new phosphodiesterase (PDE)-3 inhibitor, olprinone, on hemodynamics and myocardial energetics in dogs with acute myocardial depression.
Prospective, randomized, crossover study.
University animal laboratory.
Mongrel dogs.
Eight open-chest, barbiturate-anesthetized dogs with instruments for measurement of left ventricular pressure and volume were exposed to 2 MAC (minimum alveolar concentration) of sevoflurane to induce acute myocardial depression. Each dog was randomly assigned for either infusion of dopamine (5 microg/kg/min) for 15 minutes or bolus of olprinone (10 microg/kg), followed by an infusion (0.3 microg/kg/min) for 30 minutes. Treatment was crossed over after a washout period of 90 minutes.
For analysis of ventricular energetics, ventriculoarterial coupling was assessed using the ratio of arterial elastance to end-systolic pressure-volume relation and mechanical efficiency was calculated using the ratio of external work to pressure-volume area. Measurements were performed prior to sevoflurane administration, and before and after treatment. Two MAC of sevoflurane significantly impaired ventriculoarterial coupling and mechanical efficiency. Both olprinone and dopamine improved ventriculoarterial coupling and mechanical efficiency to similar degrees, but by different mechanisms. Olprinone improved ventricular energetics at a lower energy expenditure, probably because of olprinone's vasodilating effect, which augments energy transfer from the ventricle into the systemic circulation.
Although both dopamine and olprinone improve sevoflurane-induced impairment of ventricular energetics, olprinone accomplishes this with lower ventricular energy expenditure.
Mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative damage are highly involved in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). Some mitochondrial antioxidants/nutrients that can improve mitochondrial function and/or attenuate oxidative damage have been implicated in PD therapy. However, few studies have evaluated the preventative effects of a combination of mitochondrial antioxidants/nutrients against PD, and even fewer have sought to optimize the doses of the combined agents. The present study examined the preventative effects of two mitochondrial antioxidant/nutrients, R-alpha-lipoic acid (LA) and acetyl-L-carnitine (ALC), in a chronic rotenone-induced cellular model of PD. We demonstrated that 4-week pretreatment with LA and/or ALC effectively protected SK-N-MC human neuroblastoma cells against rotenone-induced mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative damage and accumulation of alpha-synuclein and ubiquitin. Most notably, we found that when combined, LA and ALC worked at 100-1000-fold lower concentrations than they did individually. We also found that pretreatment with combined LA and ALC increased mitochondrial biogenesis and decreased production of reactive oxygen species through the up-regulation of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator 1alpha as a possible underlying mechanism. This study provides important evidence that combining mitochondrial antioxidant/nutrients at optimal doses might be an effective and safe prevention strategy for PD.
Bezafibrate is a fibric acid derivative which has been widely used in the past 15 years. Recent studies have elucidated much of its mechanism of action, which mainly results in reduction of VLDL and triglyceride levels and in elevation of HDL. The drug is relatively safe and its side-effects well known, mild, and reversible. The most severe side-effect is myositis, varying from mild flu-like symptoms to rhabdomyolysis, which is extremely rare. The underlying situations most frequently associated with bezafibrate-induced myositis are renal insufficiency and concomitant treatment with certain other drugs. We describe 2 women who developed severe myositis with bezafibrate treatment. 1, aged 43, who had moderate diabetes but no renal insufficiency, was treated with metformin and warfarin, which can interact with bezafibrate and affect its metabolism. The other, aged 54, had renal insufficiency and was on home peritoneal dialysis. Her bezafibrate dose had been increased because of very high triglyceride levels. The aim of the study is to call attention to this significant side-effect of benzafibrate and to ways of preventing it.
Prevention of ototoxicity after the administration of aminoglycoside antibiotics has been notably difficult, in particular in patients with chronic kidney disease. Feldman et al. report that oral administration of 600 mg N-acetylcysteine twice daily significantly ameliorates gentamicin-induced ototoxicity in hemodialysis patients. That approach may help to prevent aminoglycoside-induced hearing loss in these high-risk patients in daily practice.
Erectile function was assessed 6 weeks following uni- and bilateral injections of 6-hydroxydopamine in the substantia nigra nucleus of the brain. Behavioral apomorphine-induced penile erections were reduced (5/8) and increased (3/8) in uni- and bilateral lesioned animals. Intracavernous pressures, following electrical stimulation of the cavernous nerve, decreased in lesioned animals. Lesions of the substantia nigra were confirmed by histology. Concentration of dopamine and its metabolites were decreased in the striatum of substantia nigra lesioned rats. Lesions of the substantia nigra are therefore associated with erectile dysfunction in rats and may serve as a model to study erectile dysfunction in Parkinson's disease.
Disulfiram has been studied as a treatment for cocaine dependence. We report results of a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, within-subject study to examine the interaction of disulfiram with intravenous cocaine.
Non-treatment-seeking, cocaine-dependent, volunteers participated in serial experiments in which they received disulfiram placebo, 62.5 or 250 mg/day on days 1-6. On days 4-6, participants received a morning disulfiram dose 2 h prior to a scheduled session in which they were administered intravenous cocaine placebo, 0.25 mg/kg (n=9) or 0.5 mg/kg (n=3) over 1 min. Blood, cardiovascular and subjective measures were collected. Seven days of washout occurred between disulfiram conditions.
Following active disulfiram treatments and cocaine 0.25 mg/kg administration, plasma cocaine AUC (0-480 min) was increased (p=0.003 and 0.001) and cocaine clearance decreased (p<0.001). Disulfiram treatments also decreased cocaine clearance for the 0.5 mg/kg cocaine dose (p=0.002 and<0.001). Neither disulfiram dose with cocaine altered cardiovascular responses relative to cocaine alone. Following cocaine 0.25 mg/kg, 'any high' (p=0.021 and 0.019), 'cocaine high' (p=0.017 and 0.018) and 'rush' (p=0.013 and 0.047) significantly decreased with either disulfiram dose.
Disulfiram decreased cocaine clearance without toxicity. Cocaine 'high' and 'rush' were diminished. Disulfiram may be a promising pharmacotherapy in selected cocaine dependent individuals.
d-Amphetamine (20 mg) was administered intravenously in a double-blind design to 17 schizophrenic patients with and without concurrent 3-week lithium carbonate pretreatment to evaluate the lithium attenuation of d-amphetamine effects which we had observed in affective disorder patients. Lithium significantly attenuated the acute d-amphetamine-induced changes in an activation-euphoria cluster and in the mannerisms and posturing item of the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale. Because the psychosis-increasing effects of d-amphetamine were not significantly decreased, it is conceivable that the d-amphetamine-induced changes in activation and euphoria and in psychosis are regulated by different dopamine mechanisms. The small clinical effects seen at 3 weeks of lithium treatment in schizophrenic patients could be mediated by dopamine.
A 72-year-old man, presenting with hypernephroma and infraclinic adrenal adenoma, developed severe hypokalaemia in the course of treatment for colonic perforation. Amikacin-induced hyperkaliuric hypokalaemia was suspected, and confirmed by withdrawal of the drug as well as observation of an unnoticed similar episode in the medical record of the patient.
Three hypertensive patients with chronic renal failure treated with slow-release verapamil at the recommended doses for high blood pressure experienced acute deleterious effects shortly after treatment (6 h to 3 days). Patients developed slow cardiac rhythms (junctional bradycardia or atrial fibrillation), hypotension and hyperkalemia. Consequently they also had oliguria and worsening of the renal function. Inotropic support, fluid therapy and potassium-lowering measures were able to restore the renal function and sinus rhythm after 10-12 h. Only 7 similar cases have been described so far. It is suggested that slow-release formulations of verapamil must be used with caution in hypertensive patients with impaired renal function.
Long-established systems of traditional medicine have evolved from systematic recordings of human experience over several millennia. Although not strictly based on concepts of modern science, they nevertheless are founded on a corpus of organised knowledge written in documents, and the evident conclusion is that the alleged "trial and error" methodology has provided useful drugs for humans. Herbal medicine should be investigated as a potential regimen for diabetic neuropathy for the following reasons: (1) diabetic neuropathy remains an important clinical problem affecting a significant proportion of diabetic subjects without satisfactory treatment; (2) there are multiple pathogenetic mechanisms in diabetic neuropathy; and (3) herbal medicine which is a combination prescription has unique synergistic and synthetic effects that result from interactions between individual herbal components, and may induce a wide range of therapeutic potential and utility. Gosha-jinki-gan (GJK), consisting of 10 herbs, has been widely used for a regimen of diabetic complications, including neuropathy, in Japan. However, the effect of GJK on experimental diabetic neuropathy has never been previously evaluated. We examined nerve conduction velocity (NCV) and nerve glucose, sorbitol, fructose and myo-inositol levels in streptozocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats that were treated with GJK. After 1 week of the STZ injection in 7-9-week-old rats, GJK treatment (100 mg/100 g body weight/day) was started orally. At 16 weeks after the STZ injection, the sciatic NCV of GJK-treated diabetic rats improved significantly when compared to non-treated diabetic rats, although they were not yet normalised.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Eotaxin-1/CCL11 and its receptor CCR3 are involved in recruitment of eosinophils to diverse tissues, but their role in eosinophil recruitment in pulmonary fibrosis is unclear. The present study examined the pulmonary expression of CCL11 and CCR3 during bleomycin (blm)-induced lung injury and determined their importance in the recruitment of inflammatory cells and the development of lung fibrosis. In mice, blm induced a marked pulmonary expression of CCL11 and CCR3. Immunostaining for CCR3 revealed that this receptor was not only expressed by eosinophils but also by neutrophils. CCL11-deficient (CCL11(-/-)) mice developed significantly reduced pulmonary fibrosis. Expression of profibrotic cytokines such as transforming growth factor-beta1 was diminished in the absence of CCL11. Furthermore, increased lung expression of CCL11 significantly enhanced blm-induced lung fibrosis and production of profibrotic cytokines. These effects were also associated with an increase of eosinophil and neutrophil pulmonary infiltration. In contrast, mice treated with neutralizing CCR3 antibodies developed significantly reduced pulmonary fibrosis, eosinophilia, neutrophilia, and expression of profibrotic cytokines. Together, these data suggest that CCL11 and CCR3 are important in the pulmonary recruitment of granulocytes and play significant pathogenic roles in blm-induced lung fibrosis.
Use of fenfluramines for weight loss has been associated with the development of characteristic plaques on cardiac valves causing regurgitation. However, previously published studies of exposure to fenfluramines have been limited by relatively small sample size, short duration of follow-up, and the lack of any estimate of the frequency of subsequent valvular surgery. We performed an observational study of 5743 users of fenfluramines examined by echocardiography between July 1997 and February 2004 in a single large cardiology clinic.
The prevalence of at least mild aortic regurgitation (AR) or moderate mitral regurgitation (MR) was 19.6% in women and 11.8% in men (p < 0.0001 for gender difference). Duration of use was strongly predictive of mild or greater AR (p < 0.0001 for trend), MR (p = 0.002), and tricuspid regurgitation (TR) (p < 0.0001), as was earlier scan date (p < 0.0001 for those scanned prior to 1 January 2000 versus later). Increasing age was also independently associated with increased risk of AR and MR (both p < 0.0001). With mean follow-up of 30.3 months, AR worsened in 15.2%, remained the same in 63.1%, and improved in 21.7%. Corresponding values for MR were 24.8%, 47.4% and 27.9%. Pulmonary hypertension was strongly associated with MR but not AR. Valve surgery was performed on 38 patients (0.66% of 5743), 25 (0.44%) with clear evidence of fenfluramine-related etiology.
Regurgitant valvulopathy was common in individuals exposed to fenfluramines, more frequent in females, and associated with duration of use in all valves assessed. Valve surgery was performed as frequently for aortic as mitral valves and some tricuspid valve surgeries were also performed. The incidence of surgery appeared to be substantially increased compared with limited general population data.
"Rubral" tremor is a rare movement disorder that occurs typically with midbrain damage. It is defined by its presence at rest, with sustained posture, and with movement. Whether it is a single-tremor disorder or a combination of two distinct tremors is debated. This report chronicles a severe neuroleptic induced "rubral" tremor in a patient who had had a stable posttraumatic ataxia. The dramatic response to benztropine and bromocriptine is illustrated in the videotape.
Asthma is a chronic lung disease characterized by local inflammation that can result in structural alterations termed airway remodeling. One component of airway remodeling involves fibroblast accumulation and activation, resulting in deposition of collagen I around small bronchi. Prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) is the main eicosanoid lipid mediator produced by lung fibroblasts, and it exerts diverse anti-fibrotic actions. Dysregulation of the PGE(2) synthesis/response axis has been identified in human pulmonary fibrotic diseases and implicated in the pathogenesis of animal models of lung parenchymal fibrosis. Here we investigated the relationship between the fibroblast PGE(2) axis and airway fibrosis in an animal model of chronic allergic asthma. Airway fibrosis increased progressively as the number of airway challenges with antigen increased from 3 to 7 to 12. Compared with cells from control lungs, fibroblasts grown from the lungs of asthmatic animals, regardless of challenge number, exhibited no defect in the ability of PGE(2) or its analogs to inhibit cellular proliferation and collagen I expression. This correlated with intact expression of the EP(2) receptor, which is pivotal for PGE(2) responsiveness. However, cytokine-induced upregulation of PGE(2) biosynthesis as well as expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and microsomal PGE synthase-1 declined with increasing numbers of antigen challenges. In addition, treatment with the COX-2-selective inhibitor nimesulide potentiated the degree of airway fibrosis following repeated allergen challenge. Because endogenous COX-2-derived PGE(2) acts as a brake on airway fibrosis, the inability of fibroblasts to upregulate PGE(2) generation in the inflammatory milieu presented by repeated allergen exposure could contribute to the airway remodeling and fibrosis observed in chronic asthma.
There is evidence that continuous infusion allows the delivery of higher doses of a drug while reducing the incidence of neurologic and renal toxicity. To verify prior to phase II testing the feasibility of ambulatory treatment with high-dose ifosfamide/mesna by continuous infusion in adult solid tumours, the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and the non-haematological dose-limiting toxicities for the achievement of 2 courses of therapy were determined.
Thirty-two patients with advanced solid tumours were given continuous-infusion ifosfamide, from 9 to 16 g/m2, over 4 consecutive days, with equidose mesna uroprotection and granulocyte colony-stimulating-factor support; courses were repeated every 3 weeks. Total dose/course was escalated by 1 g/m2, in cohorts of 3 to 5 patients until the MTD was determined.
At 16 g/m2, the dose-limiting toxicity was renal, with 2 of the 5 patients treated developing renal failure. Haematological toxicity was dose-related and significant at higher dosages, but generally surmountable. Ifosfamide at 15 g/m2/course with mesna uroprotection was identified as the MTD.
The present study shows that high-dose continuous-infusion ifosfamide, administered by portable infusion pumps, is feasible in an ambulatory regimen, with acceptable non-haematological toxicity and good patient compliance.
Exposure to opioids can induce a state of "latent sensitization" characterized by long-lasting enhanced responses to subsequent cutaneous injury. Here, we explored the possibility that prior treatment with morphine could induce a state of latent sensitization to visceral pain conditions. Following butyrate enemas to induce non-inflammatory visceral pain, acute morphine administration produced dose-related inhibition of referred viscerosomatic hypersensitivity. Treatment with morphine for a period of six days resulted in a persistent hyperalgesia that resolved many days after termination of drug administration. In morphine pre-exposed rats, butyrate-induced referred hypersensitivity was enhanced and extended in duration. No differences were observed in the morphine dose-response curve in suppression of acute nociception (i.e., the hot-plate assay) when morphine pre-exposed rats were compared to naïve rats indicating that opioid antinociceptive tolerance was not present. However, the morphine dose-response curve to suppress evoked viscerosomatic hypersensitivity was displaced to the right by approximately 4-fold in morphine pre-exposed rats. Induction of viscerosomatic hypersensitivity resulted in an increased labeling of CGRP-, but not substance P-positive cells in the lumbar dorsal root ganglia; increased labeling was not affected by prior exposure to morphine. The data indicate that a period of morphine exposure can induce a state of "latent sensitization" to subsequent visceral pain characterized by extended duration of hypersensitivity. This condition likely reflects enhanced visceral "pain" intensity as a consequence of persistent pronociceptive adaptive changes.
The hypothesis that differences in drug effects of risperidone and haloperidol on negative symptoms in schizophrenia are secondary to effects on positive, extrapyramidal, and depressive symptoms was investigated by means of an analysis of the data from the USA-Canada risperidone double-blind randomized clinical trial of 523 chronic schizophrenic patients. Regression analyses in the total sample and within treatment groups confirmed a strong relationship between changes in negative symptoms and the other variables studied (R2 = 0.50-0.51, p < 0.001). Only depressive symptoms did not contribute significantly to these results (p > 0.10). Path analysis showed that the greater mean change (p < 0.05) of negative symptoms with risperidone compared to haloperidol could not be fully explained by correlations with favourable effects on positive and extrapyramidal symptoms. The relationship between shift in extrapyramidal symptoms and shift in negative symptoms failed to reach statistical significance; however, there was a clear tendency in the expected direction in both treatment groups.
