Topiramate, a new anticonvulsant, has been reported to possess neuroprotective effects in both in vivo and in vitro experiments. In the present study, the effect of topiramate (40 and 80 mg/kg ip) on the fully developed kainate-induced status epilepticus was evaluated in the rat. Injection of kainate (15 mg/kg ip) evoked recurrent limbic seizures which lasted several hours. Topiramate injected 1.5 h after kainate administration had no effect on the seizures and mortality of the animals. Biochemical study revealed that at 80 mg/kg ip, topiramate significantly attenuated the kainate-induced lipid peroxidation in the piriform cortex and showed similar tendency in the frontal cortex. Besides the central nervous system, the kainate-induced seizures evoked significant changes in immunoreactivity, such as reduction in thymus weight and the proliferative activity of splenocytes, and the splenocyte-increased production of interleukin-10, but not interferon-gamma. Topiramate did not affect the kainate-induced reduction in thymus weight, but attenuated changes in the proliferative activity of splenocytes. It is concluded that topiramate, when given during the fully developed kainate-induced status epilepticus in rats, has no effect on seizures, but attenuates lipid peroxidation in piriform cortex and prevents certain changes in immunoactivity.
To investigate the activity and tolerance of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin in combination with vinorelbine in pretreated patients with metastatic breast cancer.
Thirty-six women with metastatic breast cancer were enrolled. The median age was 64 years, 80% of the patients had a performance status of 0-1, 30 (83%) had visceral disease and 83% had received prior taxanes while 50% anthracyclines. Treatment consisted of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (40 mg/m2 on day 1) and vinorelbine (25 mg/m2 on days 1 and 15) every 4 weeks.
In an intention-to-treat analysis 2 (6%) complete and 12 (33%) partial responses were observed (overall response rate 39%; 95% CI: 23-54.8%); 8 (22%) and 14 (39%) patients experienced stable and progressive disease, respectively. The median TTP was 6.5 months and the median survival time 14.2 months. The 1-year survival rate was 54.1%. Grade 3 and 4 neutropenia occurred in 21 (58%) patients, grade 3-4 anemia in four (11%) and grade 4 thrombocytopenia in one (3%). Two (6%) patients developed febrile neutropenia. Non-hematologic toxicity was mild and easily manageable. There was no clinically important cardiac toxicity or treatment-related deaths.
The combination of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin and vinorelbine is an active and well tolerated salvage regimen in patients with metastatic breast cancer which merits further evaluation.
The incidence of a drug-induced pancreatitis is rare and so far more than 85 different drugs have been reported to have induced pancreatitis. Some case reports consider a relationship between propofol and acute pancreatitis. However, in these cases a number of different drugs were coadministered, thus preventing a clear causal link being established. We report a case of a drug-induced acute pancreatitis that was most likely triggered by a single dosage of propofol. It occurred in a young girl who underwent elective magnetic resonance imaging. She developed pancreatitis within hours after exposure to propofol. Other possible triggers, e.g. gallstones or infection were ruled out. Physicians should consider pancreatitis as a potentially life-threatening adverse event associated with propofol sedation, which is nowadays extensively used.
All-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA), chemotherapy, and arsenic trioxide (As2O3) have been found to be effective in the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). Here we present a single institutional retrospective study with long-term follow-up to better define the prognostic factors and a rationale for the use of ATRA, chemotherapy, and As2O3 in the treatment of newly diagnosed and relapsed APL patients.
Newly diagnosed patients with APL entering complete remission were followed up for 3 to 95 months (n = 120). Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed to identify potential prognostic factors, including age and sex; initial white blood cell (WBC) count and peak WBC level of hyperleukocytosis during induction therapy; dose of ATRA in induction; days from induction therapy to remission; postremission therapy; type of PML-RAR alpha isoform; and follow-up of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
The median relapse-free survival (RFS) was 26 months, and median overall survival (OS) was still not reached. The estimated 5-year RFS and OS were 34.0% +/- 6.0% and 52.5% +/- 7.9%, respectively. Initial WBC count (> or = 20 x 10(9)/l), peak level of WBC during induction, and type of postremission therapy were significantly related to survival. Our multivariate study showed that only peak level of WBC count during induction therapy and type of postremission therapy were associated with RFS and that initial WBC count was associated with OS. In relapsed patients, As2O3 was very effective and remained as the most important factor for their entering remission and survival after relapse.
Through this retrospective study with long-term follow-up, some conclusions can be drawn: 1) Low-dose ATRA is as effective as the standard dose in terms of survival; 2) Initial and peak levels of WBC count during induction therapy are associated with survival; 3) A combination of chemotherapy and ATRA is better than chemotherapy or ATRA alone as postremission therapy; 4) Patients with the long form of PML-RAR alpha tend to have a more favorable OS but not RFS when compared with patients with the short form; 5) Persistent negative RT-PCR in remission is associated with favorable RFS and OS; 6) As2O3 is an effective agent for relapsed patients.
Our previous studies repeatedly demonstrated that prenatal methamphetamine (MA) exposure alters seizure susceptibility in adult rats. Both the inhibitory GABA system and the excitatory NMDA system play a role in the effect of MA on epileptic seizures. On the basis of our previous behavioral results, the effect of cross-fostering on seizure susceptibility in adult female rats was examined in the present study. Bicuculline (GABA(A) receptor antagonist) and NMDA (NMDA receptor agonist) were used to induce seizures in adult female offspring exposed to MA in the prenatal and/or preweaning periods. Female dams were injected with MA (5mg/kg daily) or physiological saline (S) for approximately 9 weeks [about 3 weeks prior to impregnation, for the entire gestation period (22 days), and in the preweaning period (21 days)]. Absolute controls (C) did not receive any injections. On postnatal day 1, pups were cross-fostered so that each mother received pups from all three treatments. Thus, nine groups (based on the prenatal and postnatal drug exposures) of adult female rats were tested in each seizure test: C/C, C/S, C/MA, S/C, S/S, S/MA, MA/C, MA/S, MA/MA. The present study demonstrated that both the excitatory NMDA system and the inhibitory GABA system are involved in the proconvulsive effect of MA during prenatal and partially also postnatal development in female rats. However, because our results did not show any improvement in seizure susceptibility in prenatally MA-exposed animals that were fostered by control mothers (MA/C) relative to their siblings fostered by MA-treated mothers (MA/MA), our hypothesis of the cross-fostering effect seems to be incorrect in contrast to our behavioral studies.
A study was made of the effects of acute and chronic treatment with monoamine-oxidase (MAO) inhibitors on the peripheral and central cardiovascular response induced by clonidine in anaesthetized normotensive rats. Clonidine (30 nmoles X kg-1 i.v.) produced a biphasic change in mean blood pressure; an initial transient increase was followed by a prolonged hypotensive effect, coinciding with the maximal bradycardia. Twenty-four hours after acute (single) or chronic (daily for 7 days) administration of MAO inhibitors (pargyline 10 mg X kg-1 SC or clorgyline 0.3 mg X kg-1 SC) there was no effect either on the basal cardiovascular parameters or on the initial pressor response induced by clonidine. Chronic but not acute treatment with clorgyline, an inhibitor of type A MAO, greatly decreased the hypotension and bradycardia induced by clonidine for as long as 5 days after its discontinuation. On the other hand, after chronic administration of pargyline (10 mg X kg-1), a preferential type B MAO inhibitor, the hypotension and bradycardia caused by clonidine were differently affected. There was a reduction in the bradycardia up to the third day following the discontinuation of pargyline, whereas the hypotensive response induced by clonidine was only attenuated for 24 h and unaffected with a lower dose of pargyline (0.3 mg X kg-1). It is concluded that chronic administration of the type A MAO inhibitor, clorgyline, attenuates the central responses to clonidine through the reduction in sensitivity of brain alpha-adrenoceptors. Pargyline, that preferentially inhibits type B MAO, reduces only the bradycardia induced by clonidine. This result may indicate a different modulation of the receptors involved in this response to clonidine.
The changes in endothelium-derived vascular regulatory factors during dobutamine (DOB)-induced myocardial ischemia (MI) were investigated in 21 patients with Kawasaki disease aged from 11 months to 18 years. They were classified into an ischemia group (8 patients) and a non-ischemia group (13 patients) based on the results of 99mTc myocardial scintigraphy and DOB stress 99mTc myocardial scintigraphy. In the ischemia group, MI was relatively mild, because there were ischemic changes on the electrocardiogram and no significant symptoms during DOB stress. Catheters were positioned near the orifice of the coronary artery (Ao) and at the coronary sinus (CS). Hemodynamics and the blood concentrations of lactic acid and endothelin-1, as well as NO3-, 6-keto-prostaglandin F1alpha, and thromboxane B2, (which are inactive metabolites of nitric oxide, prostaglandin I2 and thromboxane A2, respectively), were measured at rest and after DOB stress (maximum dose: 30 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1)). The CS/Ao ratio was determined for all parameters. The rate-pressure product, an index of work load, and the cardiac index were significantly increased by DOB stress in both groups. Coronary angiography showed no vasospasm of the epicardial coronary arteries before or after DOB stress in either group. The plasma concentrations of endothelin-1 and 6-keto-prostaglandin F1alpha were significantly increased after DOB stress in the ischemia group, but the serum concentration of NO did not increase. The lack of an increase in NO production during DOB stress may have contributed to the worsening of MI in patients with Kawasaki disease.
This open-label study examined the efficacy and tolerability of risperidone in the treatment of aggression, agitation, and psychotic symptoms in dementia. The influence of risperidone on cognitive function was also assessed under conditions reflecting normal, daily clinical care.
A total of 34 hospital inpatients and outpatients (mean age = 76 years) with DSM-IV dementia disorders were treated with flexible doses of risperidone (0.5-2 mg/day) for 8 weeks. Assessments, conducted at baseline and after weeks 4 and 8, included the Clinical Global Impressions scale (CGI) and Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI) ratings. Cognitive function assessments included the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and specific measures of cognition (Age Concentration Test [AKT] and Brief Syndrome Test [SKT]). Frequency of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) was measured according to the Extrapyramidal Symptom Rating Scale (ESRS).
At the end of the study, 50% of patients (N = 17) were receiving risperidone, 1 mg/day. 18% (N = 6) were receiving 0.5 mg/day, and 32% (N = 11) received > 1 mg/day (mean dose at endpoint = 1.1 mg/day). An improvement in symptoms, as measured by the CGI-Global Impression of Change scale, was reported for 82% of patients (N = 28) (59% [N = 20] much or very much improved). The frequency and severity of delusions, hallucinations, agitation/aggression, and irritability decreased as measured by the NPI. Multiplication of frequency and severity scores revealed a significant decline during the course of treatment (p < .001, end of study vs. baseline). Caregiver responses on the NPI also showed an improvement, with the mean +/- SD total score decreasing from 24.2 +/- 7.3 at baseline to 21.2 +/- 6.3 at study end (p = .002). MMSE, AKT, and SKT results indicated that there was no decrease in cognitive function during the study. Risperidone treatment was well tolerated, and no clinically relevant changes in EPS. vital signs, or weight were detected.
During treatment with low-dose risperidone, behavioral and psychological symptoms improved overall in 34 patients with dementia, and cognitive function was maintained throughout the treatment period.
The effect of isoniazid on levodopa-induced dyskinesias has been evaluated in 20 patients with Parkinson's disease, following a serendipitous observation that choreic dyskinesias induced by levodopa in one parkinsonian patient were markedly reduced during treatment with isoniazid for tuberculous infection. A mean average isoniazid dose of 290 mg was given without any change in current antiparkinsonian treatment. "Benefit of dose" choreic dyskinesias were markedly reduced in 18 patients within the first few weeks of treatment. This effect was accompanied by an intolerable worsening of parkinsonian signs. All patients returned to their basal situation after isoniazid interferes with the therapeutic action of levodopa and dopamine agonists. The precise mechanism by which this action occurred is not known, but several possible explanations are discussed.
The present study was designed to examine the effects of the donor of nitric oxide (NO), NaNO(2) and the inhibitor of NO synthase, N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA), on the development of dimethylnitrosamine (DMNA)-induced chronic hepatitis in rats. L-NNA decreased rat survival and enhanced the severity of hepatic encephalopathy in the DMNA-treated animals. The aggravation of the morphological signs of hepatitis, the activation of serum alanine aminotransferase and cytosolic superoxide dismutase activities and the increase in the liver malondialdehyde content were observed in this group. The treatment with NaNO(2) improved liver morphology, decreased serum marker enzyme activities, lowered the activities of alpha-D-mannosidase and N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase compared to the DMNA-treated group. The results of the morphological and biochemical studies suggest that L-NNA increased DMNA-induced liver damage, whereas NaNO(2) partially prevented the development of chronic hepatitis. It is proposed that the opposite effects of L-NNA and NaNO(2) are partially explained by a modulation of the free radical-dependent processes in the liver.
Four studies published since December, 1995, reported that the incidence of venous thromboembolism (VTE) was higher in women who used oral contraceptives (OCs) containing the third-generation progestagens gestodene or desogestrel than in users of OCs containing second-generation progestagens. However, confounding and bias in the design of these studies may have affected the findings. The aim of our study was to re-examine the association between risk of VTE and OC use with a different study design and analysis to avoid some of the bias and confounding of the earlier studies.
We used computer records of patients from 143 general practices in the UK. The study was based on the medical records of about 540,000 women born between 1941 and 1981. All women who had a recorded diagnosis of deep-vein thrombosis, venous thrombosis not otherwise specified, or pulmonary embolus during the study period, and who had been treated with an anticoagulant were identified as potential cases of VTE. We did a cohort analysis to estimate and compare incidence of VTE in users of the main OC preparations, and a nested case-control study to calculate the odds ratios of VTE associated with use of different types of OC, after adjustment for potential confounding factors. In the case-control study, we matched cases to controls by exact year of birth, practice, and current use of OCs. We used a multiple logistic regression model that included body-mass index, number of cycles, change in type of OC prescribed within 3 months of the event, previous pregnancy, and concurrent disease.
85 women met the inclusion criteria for VTE, two of whom were users of progestagen-only OCs. Of the 83 cases of VTE associated with use of combined OCs, 43 were recorded as deep-vein thrombosis, 35 as pulmonary thrombosis, and five as venous thrombosis not otherwise specified. The crude rate of VTE per 10,000 woman-years was 4.10 in current users of any OC, 3.10 in users of second-generation OCs, and 4.96 in users of third-generation preparations. After adjustment for age, the rate ratio of VTE in users of third-generation relative to second-generation OCs was 1.68 (95% CI 1.04-2.75). Logistic regression showed no significant difference in the risk of VTE between users of third-generation and second-generation OCs. Among users of third-generation progestagens, the risk of VTE was higher in users of desogestrel with 20 g ethinyloestradiol than in users of gestodene or desogestrel with 30 g ethinyloestradiol. With all second-generation OCs as the reference, the odds ratios for VTE were 3.49 (1.21-10.12) for desogestrel plus 20 g ethinyloestradiol and 1.18 (0.66-2.17) for the other third-generation progestagens.
The previously reported increase in odds ratio associated with third-generation OCs when compared with second-generation products is likely to have been the result of residual confounding by age. The increased odds ratio associated with products containing 20 micrograms ethinyloestradiol and desogestrel compared with the 30 micrograms product is biologically implausible, and is likely to be the result of preferential prescribing and, thus, confounding.
Four studies published since December 1995 have reported an increased risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) in women using oral contraceptives (OCs) containing the third-generation progestogens gestodene and desogestrel compared to users of OCs containing second-generation progestogens. The results of these studies could have been compromised, however, by bias and confounding. To reassess this association with a more rigorous study design, computerized medical records from 143 general practices in the UK of about 540,000 women born from 1941 to 1981 were reviewed and 83 cases of deep-vein thrombosis, venous thrombosis not otherwise specified, and pulmonary embolus (all treated with an anticoagulant) were identified. Two women were using a progestogen-only OC. Of the 83 VTE cases associated with combined OC use, 43 were diagnosed as deep-vein thrombosis, 35 as pulmonary thrombosis, and 5 as venous thrombosis not otherwise specified. The crude rate of VTE per 10,000 woman-years was 4.10 in current users of any OC, 3.10 in users of second-generation OCs, and 4.96 in users of third-generation OCs. After exact age matching of cases and controls, the odds ratio of VTE in users of third-generation compared to second-generation OCs was 1.68 (95%, confidence interval, 1.04-2.75). Logistic regression revealed no significant difference in VTE risk between users of the 2 groups of OCs. Using all second-generation OCs as the reference, the VTE risk was higher for third-generation OCs containing desogestrel and 20 grams of ethinyl estradiol than for those containing desogestrel or gestodene and 30 grams of ethinyl estradiol--an implausible finding presumed to reflect preferential prescribing of the former OCs to older women. The previously reported increased VTE risk associated with third-generation OCs likely reflects residual confounding by age. Exact age-matching is recommended for all future studies to ensure that controls are representative of the population from which cases are drawn.
Anorexigens such as aminorex fumarate and dexfenfluramine are associated with the development of severe pulmonary hypertension (PH), which clinically and histopathologically is considered indistinguishable from idiopathic or primary pulmonary hypertension (PPH). For the current study, we asked whether anorexigen-associated PH is characterized by monoclonal pulmonary endothelial cell proliferation (such as in PPH) or, alternatively, is associated with a polyclonal endothelial cell proliferation as found in secondary PH. Analysis of clonality by the human androgen receptor assay was performed in microdissected endothelial cells of plexiform lesions of two patients with anorexigen-associated PH. The four plexiform lesions of Patient 1 and the six of Patient 2 with anorexigen-associated PH exhibited a monoclonal expansion of pulmonary endothelial cells, with a mean clonality ratio of 0.03 +/- 0.01 SE. Our results indicate that appetite suppressant-associated PH is identical to PPH not only in clinical and histopathologic features but also, at a molecular level, in terms of the monoclonal nature of the endothelial cell proliferation. The anorexigens may accelerate the growth of pulmonary endothelial cells in patients with predisposition to develop PPH.
Infants born to carrier mothers positive for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) and hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) received 5 micrograms of hepatitis B virus (HBV) vaccine on four occasions. Group 1 received vaccine only, group 2 received vaccine plus hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) at birth, and group 3 received vaccine plus HBIG at birth and at one month. Infants born to HBeAg-positive mothers (group 4) received a reduced dose of vaccine (2.5 micrograms) on three occasions as well as HBIG at birth. As compared with 78.4% of the control group (infants whose parents refused vaccination) who became chronic HBV carriers at the age of 14 months, the protective efficacy rate of vaccination was 75.3% in group 1,85.5% in group 2,89.7% in group 3, and 87.2% in group 4. HBV vaccine (5 micrograms) was also given to infants born to HBsAg-positive, HBeAg-negative mothers on four on four occasions. The antibody response to HBsAg in vaccine recipients was 12% after the first dose, 44% after the second dose, and 75% and 100% at six months and 1.5 years of age, respectively.
The objective of this investigation was to test the hypothesis that naloxone directly activates alpha-2 adrenoceptors to cause depression of neurogenic tachycardia as suggested in an earlier investigation (Naloxone-Induced Bradycardia in Pithed Rats: Evidence for an Interaction with the Peripheral Sympathetic Nervous System and Alpha-2 Adrenoceptors. J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther. 296: 916-926, 1992). Bolus doses of naloxone in a range of 10-1000 micrograms/kg i.v., administered in the presence of sustained neurogenic tachycardia (108 +/- 10 beats per min), resulted in a dose-dependent inhibition of neurogenic tachycardia with a maximum inhibitory response of 21% and an ED50 of 55 +/- 2.3 micrograms/kg. The inhibition of the naloxone-induced inhibition of neurogenic tachycardia was antagonized by phentolamine (5 mg/kg i.v.) and rauwolscine (0.5 mg/kg i.v.), but not prazosin (0.1 mg/kg i.v.). In the absence of sympathetic nerve activity, low doses of naloxone (10-300 micrograms/kg i.v.) had no effect on heart rate. These data suggest that naloxone in lower doses (10-1000 micrograms/kg i.v.) is a partial agonist at prejunctional alpha-2 adrenoceptors. In the presence of a steady-state maximum response (21% inhibition of neurogenic tachycardia) caused by naloxone infusion (100 and 1000 micrograms/kg/min i.v.), the ED50 of the preferential alpha-2 adrenoceptor agonist, UK14304-18, was not shifted to the right, but instead shifted to the left. This suggests that naloxone-induced depression of the neurogenic tachycardia does not involve the direct activation of alpha-2 adrenoceptors, but involves the potentiation of alpha-2 adrenoceptor-mediated inhibition of heart rate through an unknown mechanism.
To study the post-operative cognitive and psychomotor recovery from midazolam conscious sedation, after reversal with the benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil over a prolonged recovery period.
A prospective, double-blind, randomised, crossover trial.
Out-patient Sedation Department, Newcastle Dental Hospital and School
Eighteen patients, ASA I or II, received midazolam on two separate occasions to undergo equivalent dental treatment. Following treatment patients were reversed with intravenous flumazenil or saline (placebo) at alternate appointments. Assessment of mood and cognitive function was undertaken using a highly sensitive and specific computerised battery of cognitive tests administered by telephone. Cognitive and psychomotor tests were administered prior to sedation and every hour for 6 hours post reversal.
Results indicated no significant effect of flumazenil on simple reaction time and choice reaction time but did show a trend of reversing the effects of midazolam on numeric working memory and word recognition.
The cognitive and psychomotor effects of the sedation were not fully reversed by flumazenil. Cognitive impairments were still present up to 6 hours post-reversal, despite patients appearing clinically more alert. This has important implications for treatment protocols and discharge instructions.
Wilson's disease is an hereditary recessive autosomal disorder which affects around five people per million inhabitants. The primary defect is localized in the liver and the disease is manifested by the accumulation of copper in tissues. The diminution of ceruloplasmin, which until a few years ago was mistakenly thought to be the pathogenetic cause of Wilson's disease, is an epiphenomenon of the underlying metabolic defect characterized by defective copper biliary excretion. There are four stages in the natural history of the disease: 1) an asymptomatic stage of hepatic copper accumulation; 2) dismission and redistribution of copper leading to hepatocellular necrosis and hemolysis; 3) extrahepatic accumulation of copper leading to the onset of cirrhosis and neurological damage; 4) stage of homeostasis following treatment but with possible irreversible neurological damage. Treatment of Wilson's disease takes the form of pharmacological, dietary and surgical therapy. Through the formation of copper and protein metal complexes D-penicillamine impoverishes copper deposits causing the reduction or disappearance of hepatic and neurological symptoms; a small percentage of patients treated develops a nephrotic syndrome requiring the compulsory suspension of the drug. In this case a valid alternative is triethylenetetramine dichlorohydrate (TETA) which provokes increased blood copper during copper diuresis. The response to pharmacological treatment is better the earlier treatment is started and the more regular its administration. Dietary intake of copper must be reduced in parallel avoiding foods with a high copper content. Liver transplant obviously leads to the "resolution" of the underlying metabolic problem in patients who develop fulminating hepatitis with hypercupremia and hemolysis and, of course, in cases of uncompensated cirrhosis which do not respond to chelating therapy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Isoliquiritigenin (ISL) suppresses cocaine-induced extracellular dopamine levels and has a neuroprotective effect in cocaine-treated rat brain. Here, we examine the effect of ISL on methamphetamine-induced striatal neurotoxicity. Repeated injections of methamphetamine cause the loss of striatal dopamine transporter (DAT) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Intraperitoneal injection of ISL prior to methamphetamine injection significantly prevented methamphetamine-induced reduction of DAT and TH. ISL also suppressed methamphetamine-induced activation of glial cells. Moreover, ISL impeded the expression of nitric oxide synthase and the activation of NF-kappaB through blockage of its phosphorylation. Our results suggest that ISL protects against methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity by inhibition of NF-kappaB activation.
Mesothelioma is a highly malignant tumor that is primarily caused by occupational or environmental exposure to asbestos fibers. Despite worldwide restrictions on asbestos usage, further cases are expected as diagnosis is typically 20-40 years after exposure. Once diagnosed there is a very poor prognosis with a median survival rate of 9 months. Considering this the development of early pre clinical diagnostic markers may help improve clinical outcomes.
Microarray expression arrays on mesothelium and other tissues dissected from mice were used to identify candidate mesothelial lineage markers. Candidates were further tested by qRTPCR and in-situ hybridization across a mouse tissue panel. Two candidate biomarkers with the potential for secretion, uroplakin 3B (UPK3B), and leucine rich repeat neuronal 4 (LRRN4) and one commercialized mesothelioma marker, mesothelin (MSLN) were then chosen for validation across a panel of normal human primary cells, 16 established mesothelioma cell lines, 10 lung cancer lines, and a further set of 8 unrelated cancer cell lines.
Within the primary cell panel, LRRN4 was only detected in primary mesothelial cells, but MSLN and UPK3B were also detected in other cell types. MSLN was detected in bronchial epithelial cells and alveolar epithelial cells and UPK3B was detected in retinal pigment epithelial cells and urothelial cells. Testing the cell line panel, MSLN was detected in 15 of the 16 mesothelioma cells lines, whereas LRRN4 was only detected in 8 and UPK3B in 6. Interestingly MSLN levels appear to be upregulated in the mesothelioma lines compared to the primary mesothelial cells, while LRRN4 and UPK3B, are either lost or down-regulated. Despite the higher fraction of mesothelioma lines positive for MSLN, it was also detected at high levels in 2 lung cancer lines and 3 other unrelated cancer lines derived from papillotubular adenocarcinoma, signet ring carcinoma and transitional cell carcinoma.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been used in conjunction with dipyridamole induced wall motion abnormalities for the noninvasive detection of coronary artery disease (CAD). To assess the clinical usefulness of dipyridamole-MRI for the localization of CAD and to evaluate the relation between dipyridamole induced wall motion abnormalities and myocardial perfusion 33 patients with severe CAD (> 70% diameter reduction) underwent MRI at rest and after dipyridamole infusion (0.75 mg dipyridamole/kg over a period of 10 minutes). All patients performed exercise stress testing and 20 patients of the study group additionally had rest and exercise stress 99mTc-methoxyisobutyl-isonitrile-SPECT (MIBI-SPECT). Two patients (6%) could not be evaluated due to severe motion artifacts during dipyridamole MRI. Segmental wall motion and perfusion of corresponding short axis planes were related to the major coronary arteries using a standardized segmental coronary artery perfusion pattern. Detection of wall motion abnormalities or perfusion defects by 2 blinded observers in consensus was the criterion for grading a segment normal or pathologic. For localization of CAD, segmental gradings were related to the presumed coronary artery territories. Stress-ECG was pathologic in 19/31 patients yielding a sensitivity of 61% and dipyridamole induced angina was present in 68% (21/31) of patients. Dipyridamole-MRI detected coronary artery disease with a sensitivity of 84% (26/31 patients) and all patients with new wall motion abnormalities also had dipyridamole induced angina. For the subgroup of 20 patients with MIBI-SPECT images, CAD was detected by both MIBI-SPECT and Dipyridamole-MRI in 90% (18/20) of patients. Dipyridamole-MRI and MIBI-SPECT gradings agreed in 55/60 (92%) coronary artery perfusion territories. There were no significant differences with respect to the sensitivities of Dipyridamole-MRI/MIBI-SPECT for the localization of individual coronary artery stenoses yielding 81%/78% for left anterior descending, 80%/80% for left circumflex and 92%/89% for right coronary artery stenoses. However, specificity of Dipyridamole-MRI (89%) for the detection of RCA stenoses was slightly better than for MIBI-SPECT (80%).
The Pit-1 gene encodes the POU-domain transcription factor Pit-1 which is important for the differentiation of the anterior pituitary and regulation of the PRL, GH and TSH genes. As a member of the POU domain transcription factors, Pit-1 contains a DNA-binding region, consisting of a POU-specific domain and a POU homeodomain. Mutation of the Pit-1 gene causes hypoplasia of the pituitary gland and deficiencies of GH, PRL and TSH. In a DNA sample from a 3-month-old girl with severe growth deficiency from birth, single stranded conformational polymorphism analysis of the Pit-1 gene identified a gel shift in exon 6. DNA-sequencing disclosed a single base mutation in codon 271 (CGG to TGG) that changes arginine to tryptophan (R271W) in the POU homeodomain. The patient presented distinct facial features with prominent forehead, marked mid-facial hypoplasia with depressed nasal bridge, deep-set eyes and a short nose with anteverted nostrils. MRI examination showed a hypoplastic pituitary gland. Low serum GH did not respond to insulin-arginine provocation or GHRH tests. PRL levels below the detection limit did not increase in response to a TRH test. T4 and free T4 was below detection limit (< 20 nmol/l and < 4 pmol/l). TSH was 2.0 mU/l and showed a blunt response to 6.0 mU/l following TRH test. TBG was normal. In spite of inappropriately low TSH and very low T4, T3 was in the low normal range (1.4-1.6 nmol/l) and she was clinically euthyroid. The thyroid function tests are consistent with increased monodeiodination activity and increased conversion of T4 to T3, possibly related to the Pit-1 gene mutation. GH and T4 treatment resulted in catch-up growth continued during 5 years of therapy.
Reports of nine other cases of R271W mutations of different populations as well as the present Norwegian patient suggest codon 271 of exon 6 to be a "hot spot" for Pit-1 mutations. To enable rapid and simple detection of this type of de novo mutation we have designed a specific amplification-created-restriction-site assay to check for the R271W mutation in patients suspected to have this rare form of genetic defect in growth hormone production.
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) causes thymic atrophy as well as alterations in thymocyte maturity in mice. Multiple mechanisms for thymic hypocellularity have been suggested, and include an increase in thymocyte apoptosis, a maturation arrest of thymocyte development, inhibited thymocyte proliferation, and a diminution of seeding of the thymus by the hematopoietic progenitors in the fetal liver or adult bone marrow. Fetal mice are highly sensitive to hypocellularity induction by TCDD when the chemical is administered during the window of thymic development, between days 10 and 18 of gestation. Treatment of pregnant C57Bl/6 mice in the present experiments with doses of 5 or 10 mu g/kg TCDD by oral gavage on gestation days 14 and 16 severely depressed day 18 thymic cellularity. Histopathologic evaluation of day 18 fetal thymi showed disruption of the normal organ architecture with loss of clear distinction between cortical and medullary regions after TCDD. A decrease in thymocyte density was noted in all regions, and was most dramatic in the cortical zones where pyknotic cells were increased by TCDD treatment. Using day 18 thymocyte suspensions and flow cytometry, the marker 7-AAD showed a decrease in viable thymocytes from TCDD-treated fetal mice, and a concomitant and dose-related increase of thymocytes in early apoptosis. Specifically, relative to control, thymocytes from the 5 and 10 mug/kg TCDD exposure groups displayed 1.9% and 5.3% respective increases in early apoptotic cells. When thymocytes were co-identified by CD4 and CD8 cell surface antigen expression, the enhanced apoptosis occurred in the CD4(+)CD8(+) phenotype with no significant apoptosis seen in the CD4(-)CD8(-), CD4(+)CD8(-), or CD4(-)CD8(+) thymocytes. Given the rapid clearance of apoptotic cells from the thymus, these histopathologic and cytometric data suggest increased thymocyte apoptosis contributes to fetal thymic atrophy after TCDD exposure.
Eleven cases of acetazolamide-associated aplastic anaemia were reported in Sweden during a 17-year period. There were six women and five men with a median age of 71 years (range 63-85 years). The median dose of acetazolamide was 500 mg, and the median duration of treatment was 3 months (range 2-71 months). Ten of the eleven patients died, all within 8 weeks after detection of their aplastic anaemia. The relative risk of developing aplastic anaemia when taking acetazolamide was 13.3 (95% confidence limits (CL); 6.8-25.3). The estimated incidence of reported acetazolamide-associated aplastic anaemia is approximately one in 18,000 patient years. The results strongly indicate that acetazolamide treatment is associated with a substantial increase in the risk of developing aplastic anaemia.
One hundred fourteen patients with definite or classic rheumatoid arthritis were followed prospectively between January 1976 and April 1981 to monitor their toxicity pattern to D-penicillamine. The influence of previous sodium aurothiomalate therapy on the toxicity pattern of D-penicillamine is described. There was no significant difference in overall outcome of the patients treated with D-penicillamine with respect to adverse effects, whether they had previous gold toxicity, previous gold therapy but no toxicity, or no previous gold therapy. The time from gold toxicity to the start of D-penicillamine therapy was greater in those who did not develop D-penicillamine toxicity compared with those who did. This difference just reached statistical significance. Total gold salt received had no effect on eventual outcome of D-penicillamine treatment, and the toxicity pattern of D-penicillamine in those patients who had previous gold therapy was similar to those patients who had never received gold therapy.
A case of dapsone-induced severe haemolytic anaemia and agranulocytosis is described. A possible common pathogenic mechanism for the simultaneous occurrence of these side effects of dapsone therapy in a patient with normal glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase activity is proposed.
