To describe a potentially fatal adverse drug event after administration of morphine to a term neonate.
A 2-day-old term neonate experienced generalized muscle rigidity and laryngeal spasm resulting in acute respiratory failure on 2 separate occasions after morphine administration. The first occasion was after administration of bolus doses of fentanyl and morphine 100 microg/kg in the operating theater; administration of intravenous propofol 2 mg/kg resulted in relief of muscle rigidity. The second occasion occurred a few hours later, when the patient received a continuous infusion of morphine 4.4 microg/kg/h in the intensive care unit and experienced generalized muscle rigidity with respiratory compromise. The opioid antagonist naloxone 30 microg/kg was administered intravenously, which immediately resulted in a patent airway and spontaneous breathing. An objective causality assessment using the Naranjo probability scale revealed that the likelihood of morphine causing the patient's muscle rigidity on the second occasion was highly probable to definite. It is not clear whether the first occurrence of muscle rigidity was morphine-induced.
We searched PubMed and EMBASE (through August 2009) for previous reports of morphine-related muscle rigidity and/or laryngeal spasm, using the search terms (muscle rigidity OR chest rigidity OR laryngeal spasm) AND (morphine OR fentanyl OR opioid). Sudden onset of muscle rigidity and laryngeal spasm is described in the literature as a rare but serious adverse event after infusion of fentanyl and similar opioids in both adults and young infants. However, there are no reports of this potentially fatal adverse event after administration of morphine. To our knowledge this is the first case reported of life-threatening muscle rigidity and laryngeal spasm after therapeutic doses of morphine in humans.
A serious adverse event consisting of generalized muscle rigidity and laryngospasm can occur after bolus administration of morphine as well as during continuous infusion. Clinicians should be aware of this possibility.
The effects of diltiazem, a calcium channel blocker, and methyldopa, an adrenergic blocker, on left ventricular hypertrophy and left ventricular function were assessed in spontaneously hypertensive rats and Wistar-Kyoto controls. Diltiazem (30 mg.kg-1/day), methyldopa (400 mg.kg-1/day), or placebo were given with water for six months. Left ventricular function was studied in 12 month old animals using an isovolumetrically contracting heart preparation by measuring maximum developed pressure and myocardial oxygen consumption. Systolic blood pressure was reduced by both drugs but more so by methyldopa. Despite its lesser antihypertensive effect, diltiazem reduced heart to body weight ratios in the spontaneously hypertensive rat to a similar degree as methyldopa (3.4(0.2) and 3.4(0.1) compared with placebo 3.7(0.2), p less than 0.05). Maximum developed pressure increased with methyldopa and diltiazem compared with placebo (188(11) and 200(11) vs 166(11) mmHg, p less than 0.05). Myocardial oxygen consumption was lower in the spontaneously hypertensive rat receiving placebo than in the controls (22.8(3.2) vs 28.3(3.8) ml.min-1.100 g-1, p less than 0.05) and was significantly increased by diltiazem but not by methyldopa (27.9(0.4) vs 24.5(0.6) ml.min-1.100 g-1, p less than 0.05 and NS respectively vs the spontaneously hypertensive rat receiving placebo). Diltiazem and methyldopa normalised the isomyosin composition in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. Myocardial concentrations of energy related metabolites obtained at maximum developed pressure were not different between spontaneously hypertensive rats receiving placebo and controls. However, both diltiazem and methyldopa treated spontaneously hypertensive rats showed a significant reduction in adenosine triphosphate and phosphocreatine and a rise in inorganic phosphate.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Neonatal exposure to anesthetics that block N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors and/or hyperactivate gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor has been shown to cause neuronal degeneration in the developing brain, leading to functional deficits later in adulthood. The authors investigated whether exposure of neonatal mice to inhaled sevoflurane causes deficits in social behavior as well as learning disabilities.
Six-day-old C57BL/6 mice were exposed to 3% sevoflurane for 6 h. Activated cleaved caspase-3 immunohistochemical staining was used for detection of apoptosis. Cognitive functions were tested by pavlovian conditioned fear test. Social behavior was tested by social recognition and interaction tests.
Neonatal exposure to sevoflurane significantly increased the number of apoptotic cells in the brain immediately after anesthesia. It caused persistent learning deficits later in adulthood as evidenced by decreased freezing response in both contextual and cued fear conditioning. The social recognition test demonstrated that mice with neonatal exposure to sevoflurane did not develop social memory. Furthermore, these mice showed decreased interactions with a social target compared with controls in the social interaction test, indicating a social interaction deficit. The authors did not attribute these abnormalities in social behavior to impairments of general interest in novelty or olfactory sensation, because they did not detect significant differences in the test for novel inanimate object interaction or for olfaction.
This study shows that exposure of neonatal mice to inhaled sevoflurane could cause not only learning deficits but also abnormal social behaviors resembling autism spectrum disorder.
Absorption of a photon by an opsin pigment causes isomerization of the chromophore from 11-cis-retinaldehyde to all-trans-retinaldehyde. Regeneration of visual chromophore following light exposure is dependent on an enzyme pathway called the retinoid or visual cycle. Our understanding of this pathway has been greatly facilitated by the identification of disease-causing mutations in the genes coding for visual cycle enzymes. Defects in nearly every step of this pathway are responsible for human-inherited retinal dystrophies. These retinal dystrophies can be divided into two etiologic groups. One involves the impaired synthesis of visual chromophore. The second involves accumulation of cytotoxic products derived from all-trans-retinaldehyde. Gene therapy has been successfully used in animal models of these diseases to rescue the function of enzymes involved in chromophore regeneration, restoring vision. Dystrophies resulting from impaired chromophore synthesis can also be treated by supplementation with a chromophore analog. Dystrophies resulting from the accumulation of toxic pigments can be treated pharmacologically by inhibiting the visual cycle, or limiting the supply of vitamin A to the eyes. Recent progress in both areas provides hope that multiple inherited retinal diseases will soon be treated by pharmaceutical intervention.
The ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) gene is located on chromosome 11q and loss of this region is common in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Our aim was to determine if CLL tumors with a chromosome 11q deletion might be divided into two subgroups based on the status of the remaining ATM allele.
The sequence of the residual ATM allele was determined in 72 CLLs with an 11q deletion. This was related to the cellular response to irradiation or cytotoxic drug exposure in vitro and clinical outcome.
We show that the residual ATM allele is mutated in 36% of CLLs with an 11q deletion and that these leukemias demonstrate an impaired cellular response to irradiation or cytotoxic drug exposure in vitro. Inactivation of the second ATM allele was associated with a reduction in patient survival beyond that already dictated by the presence of an 11q deletion (P = .0283). Furthermore, we demonstrate that ATM mutations may arise during the evolution of an 11q deleted subclone and are associated with its expansion.
CLL with 11q deletion can be divided into two subgroups based on the integrity of the residual ATM allele. Patients with complete loss of ATM function, due to biallelic ATM defects, have defective responses to cytotoxic chemotherapeutics in vitro and a poorer clinical outcome. ATM mutant subclones can develop during an individual's disease course and give rise to additional expansion of the 11q deleted subclone.
An enzyme immunoassay (EIA) was developed using unlabelled and peroxidase-labelled rabbit antibodies to assess urinary rat beta 2-microglobulin (beta 2-m) excretion. It consisted in the adsorption of rabbit anti-rat beta 2-m immunoglobulin to a polystyrene surface, the addition of beta 2-m samples or standard and the addition of peroxidase-labelled rabbit anti-rat beta 2-m immunoglobulin. After addition of hydrogen peroxide and o-phenylenediamine, the enzyme activity of the solid phase was measured photometrically at 490 nm. Analytical recovery of pure beta 2-m in urine was 102%. From determinations made on normal female and male rats, the ranges of 24-h urine beta 2-m individually excreted were found to be 0.84-4.77 and 3.7-17.3 micrograms, respectively. The means +/- SEM were 2.49 +/- 0.17 and 10.2 +/- 0.55 micrograms. EIA was of value in evidencing the tubule-damaging properties of sodium chromate and hexachloro-1,3-butadiene in rats.
The aim of this study was to find out the intracellular signaling transduction pathways involved in cobalt oxide nanoparticles (CoO NPs) mediated oxidative stress in vitro and in vivo system. Cobalt oxide nanoparticles released excess Co++ ions which could activated the NADPH oxidase and helps in generating the reactive oxygen species (ROS). Our results showed that CoO NPs elicited a significant (p<0.05) amount of ROS in lymphocytes. In vitro pretreatment with N-acetylene cystine had a protective role on lymphocytes death induced by CoO NPs. In vitro and in vivo results showed the elevated level of TNF-α after CoO NPs treatment. This TNF-α phosphorylated the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase followed by activation of caspase 8 and caspase 3 which could induce cell death. This study showed that CoO NPs induced oxidative stress and activated the signaling pathway of TNF-α-caspase-8-p38-caspase-3 to primary immune cells. This study suggested that bare CoO NPs are a toxic for primary human immune cells that deals directly with human health. Surface modification or surface functionalization may open the gateway for further use of CoO NPs in different industrial use or in biomedical sciences.
The promoting activities of phenobarbital (PB) on the development of gamma-glutamyl-transpeptidase-positive (gamma-GT+) foci in rat liver with three different initiating agents were compared in a short-term system (8 weeks). Male F344 rats were initiated by a single application of 200 mg/kg of diethylnitrosamine (DEN), 30 mg/kg of N-hydroxy-2-acetylaminofluorene (N-OH-AAF), 1.0 or 0.5 mg/kg of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) or the vehicles alone. Two weeks after the initiation, animals were placed on a 0.05% PB diet for 6 weeks. Partial hepatectomy was performed at the end of the third week of the experiment. As a positive control, some animals were fed diet containing 0.06% 3'-methyl-4-dimethylaminoazobenzene (3'-Me-DAB) after the initiation. The number and area of gamma-GT+ foci in the liver were quantified. All three initiators showed a summation effect with 3'-Me-DAB on the appearance of gamma-GT+ foci. Promotion by PB, however, was observed only in DEN-initiated rats and not in N-OH-AAF- or AFB1-initiated rats. It is apparent from the present experimental data that the promoting potential of PB on liver carcinogenesis depends on the initiating agent.
Alterations in DNA ploidy accompany hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, changes in DNA content are also seen in regenerating liver and with increasing age. Thus, to investigate the role of DNA ploidy changes in development of HCC, flow cytometric DNA content determinations were done in a rat model system of peroxisome proliferator-induced HCC. Paraffin blocks of liver isolated from 18 Fisher 344 male rats fed ciprofibrate for 20 weeks (4), 40 weeks (4) or 20 months (10) were examined. Livers from age-matched control rats were also examined. From the 20 month ciprofibrate group, nine neoplastic nodules (NNs), 27 HCCs and four non-tumorous surrounding tissue controls (NTCs) were examined. Significant DNA tetraploid populations were seen in both the NNs and NTCs. A significant increase in the percentage of DNA diploid cells was observed in the NN samples. No significant difference in the percentage S-phase cells was seen. Emergence of cell populations with new DNA ploidy classes (8c or DNA aneuploid) as compared with NTCs was only seen in HCCs (7 of 27), and five of these seven were DNA aneuploid, as distinct from DNA tetraploid, populations. A total of 16 of 24 HCC samples that were adequate for cell cycle analysis had average percent S-phase greater than the mean of the NTCs plus three standard deviations. Although a direct role cannot be inferred, these results support the hypothesis that increases in the fraction of diploid cells is an important early event in the development of rat HCC and that further alterations in DNA ploidy and increased proliferative fraction accompany the development of HCC.
The goal of this study was to investigate whether sub-chronic anti-oxidant treatment with ascorbic acid (Vit C) is able to protect the heart against myocardial infarction. The effects of Vit C treatment on the histopatological changes and immunohistochemistry for p53, COX-2 and iNOS were evaluated in rats submitted to acute myocardial infarction induced by isoproterenol (ISO). Male Wistar rats (n = 32) were divided into four groups: group 1, control; group 2, ISO treated; group 3, Vit C treated; group 4, ISO + Vit C treated. An amount of 150 mg/kg of isoproterenol was administered for two consecutive days. The rats were treated with Vit C once a day (150 mg/kg, orally) for seven consecutive days. In the day 5 and 6 the rats from group ISO + Vit C were submitted to acute administration of ISO third minutes after Vit C treatment. The results pointed out that treatment with Vit C showed mild degenerative changes of myocardial tissue in ISO group. Also, the antioxidant was able to decrease the iNOS expression in rats treated with Vit C. Taken together, our results suggest that chronic Vit C administration was able to prevent the myocardial infarction induced by ISO as a result of iNOS downregulation. Certainly, this finding offers new insights into the mechanisms underlying the relation between oxidative stress and cardiac mortality after myocardial infarction.
To investigate the short term effects of corticosteroid pulse treatment (CPT) on disease activity, functional ability, and psychological wellbeing of patients with active rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
Of 66 consecutive patients with active RA admitted for CPT, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, C reactive protein level, haemoglobin concentration, platelet count, duration of early morning stiffness, a joint score, and grip strength were assessed before and after CPT. Additionally, a health status questionnaire was administered. Effects of CPT were expressed as before to after intervention effect sizes and, to place them in perspective, compared with the (long term) effect sizes of disease modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) treatment in a historical contrast group of patients with early RA.
Statistically significant improvement from baseline in disease activity, physical functioning, and psychological wellbeing after CPT was seen, with moderate to large effect sizes, resembling the effects seen after DMARD treatment. Neither depression nor psychosis occurred during and after CPT.
Qualitatively and quantitatively the short term effects of CPT in patients with active established RA on various dimensions of health status resemble the long term effects of conventional DMARD treatment in patients with early RA. Psychological disorders do not seem to be common short term side effects of CPT in patients with active RA.
A 9-yr and 3-mo-old captive female coati (Nasua nasua) was implanted with melengestrol acetate for contraception for 4.5 yr prior to presentation. During her annual examination, purulent vaginal discharge and a palpably prominent uterus were identified. Ancillary diagnostic tests including hematology, cystocentesis, radiographs, and abdominal ultrasound were consistent with pyometra. An ovariohysterectomy was performed and histologic examination revealed pyometra and uterine adenocarcinoma, similar to pathology that has been associated with melengestrol acetate contraception in felids, canids, and primates. Given the potential association between melengestrol acetate and uterine pathology in this case, we recommend caution with melengestrol acetate use in procyonids.
The controlled clinical trials of thrombolytic agents in the United States have been carried out in two phases, under the auspices of the National Heart and Lung Institute. Phase I was devoted to the comparison of 12-hour Urokinase (12h-UK) followed by heparin (H) with heparin alone in patients with acute pulmonary embolism (Walsh et al. 1969). The results showed that pateints treated with UK had more rapid and gretaer resolution of pulmonary thromboemboli in the first twenty-four hours of therapy than patients treated with H alone, as assessed by serial pulmonary angiography, hemodynamics and lung scanning (The Urokinase Pulmonary Embolism Trial, 1970, 1973; Hyers et al. 1970). Because of the ralatively small size of the Trial and the low mor tality of treated pulmonary embolism, mortality differences were not sought-nor was one found. Although there was early difference in amount of clot resolution, patients treated with H alone showed similar improvement by two weeks. The phase II Urokinase-Streptokinase Pulmonary Embolism Trial (USPET) was begun to assess the comparative results of UK and Streptokinase (SK) therapy. Because of favorable results obtained with SK in other countries, it was deemed necessary to make this comparison (Browse and James, 1964; Hirsh et al. 1968; Miller et al. 1969, 1971; Chesterman et al. 1969). A third group, 12-hour UK, was added to relate this study (24-hour UK and SK) with the Phase I results which employed only a 12-hour infusion of UK. This Phase II Trial represents the first controlled, randomized study of UK and SK in thromboembolic disorders.
To test the hypothesis that the fall in haemoglobin following total hip arthroplasty is reduced by tranexamic acid administration.
A cohort of 64 patients were studied, 32 received tranexamic acid 20 mg/kg on induction. Surgery was performed by the senior author in a standardised fashion. Haemoglobin levels were measured 2 weeks pre- and 3 days postoperatively. Any complications were noted. The study group was matched using the bone and joint research database for age, sex, procedure, disease and pre-operative haemoglobin level.
In the group receiving no tranexamic acid, the mean fall in haemoglobin was 3.8 g/dl (CI of mean 3.4-4.3) and in the group treated with tranexamic acid 2.8 g/dl (CI of mean 2.5-3.2) P < 0.05. Complications included one non-fatal pulmonary embolus in the tranexamic acid group.
The administration of 20 mg/kg of tranexamic acid on induction of surgery is an effective method of reducing the haemoglobin fall following hip arthroplasty.
Dermatomyositis (DM) is an autoimmune disorder that occurs more often in women than men and causes highly symptomatic and inflammatory cutaneous and proximal muscle disease. Corticosteroids have been the treatment of choice for myositis in DM, and antimalarial agents for the skin disease of DM, with methotrexate sodium, azathioprine, mycophenolate mofetil, cyclosporine, and intravenous immunoglobulin used as steroid-sparing agents. Recently, reports supporting a role for anti-tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) therapy in the treatment of DM have emerged.
We describe 2 women who experienced an improvement in their DM-associated skin eruptions while taking antiestrogen medication. The first patient was taking tamoxifen, a selective estrogen receptor modulator that has been found to have anti-TNF-alpha properties. The second was taking anastrozole, an aromatase inhibitor. When tamoxifen therapy was discontinued after 4 years of use in the first patient, her DM rash worsened and remained difficult to control with conventional immunosuppressant medication.
With the limited number of therapies available to manage DM skin eruptions, the discovery of novel agents effective in treating this disease is vital. Using antiestrogen medication in women with DM may result in a significant improvement in their rash, possibly via the inhibition of TNF-alpha production by immune or other cells. Further investigation into the use of antiestrogen therapy in DM is merited to evaluate long-term risks and benefits.
A six month-old female infant developed dyspnea when she was treated with valproate sodium (VPA) and zonisamide (ZNS) for epileptic spasms. Two weeks after its onset, her dyspnea was exacerbated by respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection. We diagnosed interstitial pneumonitis (IP) based on her chest CT and high serum concentrations of KL-6 and surfactant protein D. Her dyspnea improved with the treatment which included steroids, neutrophil elastase inhibitor and discontinuation of VPA and ZNS. An allergic reaction probably explains the IP in our patient because steroids were effective. Her IP might have been exacerbated by several factors including the use of two anticonvulsants (VPA, ZNS), RSV infection, and physiological low serum IgA level of infants. Drug-induced interstitial lung disease should be remembered as a possible complication of anticonvulsant treatment, such as VPA and ZNS.
NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1), is a cytosolic flavoenzyme that catalyzes the two-electron reduction of quinones into hydroquinones. A polymorphism (NQO1*2) alters enzymatic activity of NQO1 resulting in diminished NQO1 activity. Malignancies with NQO1*2 may be resistant to radiation and chemotherapy with resulting poorer survival. NQO1 allele was evaluated in subjects enrolled in ECOG 3590, a randomized comparison of radiation (RT) vs radiation and chemotherapy with cisplatin/etoposide (RCT) in patients with completely resected stages II and IIIa NSCLC. Overall survival was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and compared via the log-rank test. Cox models were used to assess the impact of covariates on outcomes. Among 152 patients with assessable samples, 24 (16%) had NQO1*2. Median follow-up was 139 months. The presence of NQO1*2/*2 was associated with decreased overall survival (OS) (median in the heterozygote/wild-type group 42.3 vs. 33.5 months in the variant group, p=0.04). In a multivariable Cox model, variant NQO1 (HR = 1.58, p = 0.05), age <60 (HR = 0.67, p = 0.04), PS 1 (HR = 1.47, p = 0.05), cardiovascular disease (HR = 1.93, p = 0.003) and alkaline phosphatase <100 mg/ml (HR = 0.59, p = 0.005) were all significant predictors of OS. NQO1*2/*2 may be an independent predictor of poor overall survival in individuals with resected stages II and IIIa NSCLC. Although the basis for the NQO1 association with decreased survival requires additional evaluation, NQO1 may represent a biomarker for guiding individualized therapy.
A severe generalized multisystem allergic reaction occurred in a 16-month-old infant following the use of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. Acute interstitial nephritis developed three weeks following the onset of this reaction and resolved after three months. This is the first description of this renal toxicity with TMP-SMX in a child.
Phenobarbital has been shown to offer effective prophylaxis against childhood febrile convulsions. However, a high percentage of children do not tolerate phenobarbital, mainly due to behavioral changes. Valproate, due to its low toxicity, appears to be an attractive alternative to phenobarbital treatment. Ninety children admitted with their first febrile convulsion were offered prophylactic treatment with either phenobarbital 3-5 mg/kg/day or valproate 20-30 mt/kg/day. Twenty-five children whose parents refused prophylactic treatment make up an untreated control group. Serum levels of the appropriate drug were measured at each follow-up visit. The three groups appear to be comparable. Twenty-one per cent of the phenobarbital treated children required discontinuation of the drug due to side effects. All the children tolerated valproate therapy. Twelve out of 25 untreated children suffered recurrences. Eight out of 33 children treated with phenobarbital suffered recurrences. Four out of 32 children on valproate therapy had recurrences. The difference between valproate treatment and no therapy at all is highly significant (p less than 0.001). Phenobarbital did not reduce the risk of recurrence. We now recommend prophylactic treatment with valproate to children with febrile seizures.
The circulatory consequences of concurrent slow-calcium channel (nicardipine) and cardioselective beta blockade (metoprolol) were evaluated in 20 patients with angiographically proven coronary artery disease. The rest and exercise haemodynamic impact of intravenous nicardipine (10 mg) or metoprolol (10 mg) alone was determined by randomly allocating 10 patients to each drug; finally all patients were assessed on combination therapy. The plasma levels of nicardipine (17 +/- 3 to 53 +/- 6 ng ml-1) and metoprolol (36 +/- 5 to 97 +/- 16 ng ml-1) achieved at the time of each study were in the established therapeutic range. At rest nicardipine reduced systemic mean arterial pressure and systemic vascular resistance index; cardiac and stroke volume indices increased without change in pulmonary artery occluded pressure. Metoprolol alone reduced systemic blood pressure, heart rate and cardiac index, and increased systemic vascular resistance index. Combination therapy reduced systemic arterial blood pressure and heart rate with relatively modest effects on cardiac index, systemic vascular resistance index and pulmonary artery occluded pressure. During dynamic exercise nicardipine reduced systemic mean and diastolic arterial pressure and stroke work index without change in other haemodynamic variables. Metoprolol reduced exercise systemic arterial pressures, heart rate and cardiac index, and increased systemic vascular resistance index and pulmonary artery occluded pressure. Combination therapy produced changes similar to those at rest; at peak nicardipine pharmacodynamic activity, the cardiac depressant actions of metoprolol were largely offset by the induced reduction in left ventricular afterload.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A quantification of different forms of acute myocardial necrosis, myocardial leukocytic infiltrates and myocardial fibrosis was accomplished in 26 chronic cocaine abusers who died of cocaine intoxication and compared to 45 normal subjects who died from head trauma and 38 who died of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. The findings were: absence of infarct necrosis, a similar frequency and extent of coagulative myocytolysis (contraction band necrosis) and leukocytic infiltrates in cocaine abusers and normal controls, and an absence of myocardial fibrosis in cocaine abusers. These findings question both the acute and chronic cardiotoxicity of cocaine. The infarct-like pattern in some predisposed subjects may be due to an excess of catecholamine release induced by the drug resulting in coagulative myocytolysis and platelet thrombi.
Delirium is characterized by disturbances of consciousness, attention, cognition, and perception and is the most common reason for acute cognitive dysfunction in hospitalized elderly patients. Causes of delirium can be multifactorial, and a careful medical and medication history can help determine the underlying cause of behavioral disturbances. A 65-year-old patient with a history of chronic pain, insomnia, and multiple medical problems, who presented with altered mental status and aggressive behavior, is described. The patient had taken an overdose of zolpidem prior to admission, and she required chemical and physical restraints and one-on-one care for safety. With time and washout of the zolpidem, the patient's behavior did not improve. On the second day of admission, medication reconciliation of this patient's medication profile helped to reveal a medication cause for this patient's delirium. A pharmacist should be included early in the process of obtaining a medication history. Recommendations for the management of chronic pain and insomnia in the elderly are presented.
Class I and II histone deacetylases (HDACs) play vital roles in regulating cardiac development, morphogenesis, and hypertrophic responses. Although the roles of Hdac1 and Hdac2, class I HDACs, in cardiac hyperplasia, growth, and hypertrophic responsiveness have been reported, the role in the heart of Hdac3, another class I HDAC, has been less well explored. Here we report that myocyte-specific overexpression of Hdac3 in mice results in cardiac abnormalities at birth. Hdac3 overexpression produces thickening of ventricular myocardium, especially the interventricular septum, and reduction of both ventricular cavities in newborn hearts. Our data suggest that increased thickness of myocardium in Hdac3-transgenic (Hdac3-Tg) mice is due to increased cardiomyocyte hyperplasia without hypertrophy. Hdac3 overexpression inhibits several cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors, including Cdkn1a, Cdkn1b, Cdkn1c, Cdkn2b, and Cdkn2c. Hdac3-Tg mice did not develop cardiac hypertrophy at 3 months of age, unlike previously reported Hdac2-Tg mice. Further, Hdac3 overexpression did not augment isoproterenol-induced cardiac hypertrophy when compared with wild-type littermates. These findings identify Hdac3 as a novel regulator of cardiac myocyte proliferation during cardiac development.
Carvedilol treatment reduces the mortality rate in patients with congestive heart failure. It is not known whether carvedilol treatment is effective in heart failure patients with substantial cardiac sympathetic nerve dysfunction. The goal of this study was to determine the effect of chronic carvedilol treatment in patients with cardiac sympathetic nerve dysfunction of varying severity.
In 22 congestive heart failure patients with idiopathic cardiomyopathy, sympathetic nerve function was assessed before and after 7.2 +/- 2.7 months of carvedilol treatment with the use of iodine 123 metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) imaging, radionuclide ventriculography, and transmyocardial norepinephrine sampling. Patients with relatively advanced impairment of cardiac sympathetic nerve function, as manifested by a baseline I-123 MIBG ratio lower than 1.40, had a statistically significant improvement in I-123 heart-mediastinum ratio with carvedilol treatment, from 1.26 +/- 0.12 to 1.39 +/- 0.20 (P =.004). Of 10 patients with a baseline I-123 MIBG ratio lower than 1.40, 9 had an increase in the heart-mediastinum ratio with carvedilol treatment. Left ventricular ejection fraction increased from 25.4% +/- 7.8% to 37.3% +/- 14.7% (P <.001), with no difference between patients with relatively advanced versus relatively preserved cardiac sympathetic nerve function.
Most patients with congestive heart failure show a favorable response in left ventricular function to carvedilol treatment, regardless of the baseline level of cardiac sympathetic nervous system function, as assessed by neuronal imaging with I-123 MIBG. Patients with relatively advanced impairment of baseline I-123 MIBG uptake are most likely to show evidence of improved cardiac sympathetic nervous system function in response to carvedilol therapy.
We report the case of a patient with mild non-obstructive coronary artery disease who sustained an inferior wall myocardial infarction shortly after taking zolmitriptan as abortive therapy for migraine headaches. A Medline search was performed to review all reported cases of myocardial infarction related to migraine therapy with zolmitriptan and related medications. Zolmitriptan may cause myocardial infarction (MI) even in the absence of significant coronary artery disease.
Using an ovine model of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), (pregnant ewes injected with testosterone propionate (TP) (100 mg twice weekly) from day (d)62 to d102 of d147 gestation (maternal injection - MI-TP)), we previously reported female offspring with normal glucose tolerance but hyperinsulinemia. We therefore examined insulin signalling and pancreatic morphology in these offspring using quantitative (Q) RT-PCR and western blotting. In addition the fetal pancreatic responses to MI-TP, and androgenic and estrogenic contributions to such responses (direct fetal injection (FI) of TP (20 mg) or diethylstilbestrol (DES) (20 mg) at d62 and d82 gestation) were assessed at d90 gestation. Fetal plasma was assayed for insulin, testosterone and estradiol, pancreatic tissue was cultured, and expression of key β-cell developmental genes was assessed by QRT-PCR. In female d62MI-TP offspring insulin signalling was unaltered but there was a pancreatic phenotype with increased numbers of β-cells (P<0.05). The fetal pancreas expressed androgen receptors in islets and genes involved in β-cell development and function (PDX1, IGF1R, INSR and INS) were up-regulated in female fetuses after d62MI-TP treatment (P<0.05-0.01). In addition the d62MI-TP pancreas showed increased insulin secretion under euglycaemic conditions (P<0.05) in vitro. The same effects were not seen in the male fetal pancreas or when MI-TP was started at d30, before the male programming window. As d62MI-TP increased both fetal plasma testosterone (P<0.05) and estradiol concentrations (P<0.05) we assessed the relative contribution of androgens and estrogens. FI-TP (commencing d62) (not FI-DES treatment) caused elevated basal insulin secretion in vitro and the genes altered by d62MI-TP treatment were similarly altered by FI-TP but not FI-DES. In conclusion, androgen over-exposure alters fetal pancreatic development and β-cell numbers in offspring. These data suggest that that there may be a primary pancreatic phenotype in models of PCOS, and that there may be a distinct male and female pancreas.
Intravenous injection of BCG in rats induces protection against liver cell necrosis produced by CCl4. Impairment of hepatic mixed function oxidases by cytokines produced by activated Kupffer cells is the mechanism proposed to explain that protection. To verify the function of hepatic mixed function oxidases after Kupffer activation, the sleeping time after sodium pentobarbital anesthesia was evaluated in rats after intravenous injection of BCG. Male adult albino rats received BCG (50 micrograms, intravenous) and 48 h or 6 days after were anestethized with sodium pentobarbital (33 or 66 mg/g i.p.). The sleeping time was measured from the beginning of sleep until the animal started having spontaneous movement and stand up on the forepaws. The results showed that the animals treated with BCG presented a significative increase in the sleeping time, indicating reduced inactivation of the pentobarbital, an indirect evidence of inhibition of mixed function oxidase system. BCG treated rats showed hepatic and splenomegaly, both 48 and 6 days after treatment. Histology showed an increase in number of mononuclear cells in the sinusoids in the liver and in the red pulp of the spleen 48 h after injection. Small epitheliod granulomas scattered in the hepatic lobules and in the red pulp were observed in rats killed six days after the BCG injection. Hepatocyte injury, induced by activated macrophages, would be not responsible for the reduced pentobarbital inactivation, because at six days there were several granulomas scattered in lobules, but the increase of sleep time in this group was similar to that observed in rats 48 h after injection of BCG. These results demonstrate that activation of Kupffer cells with BCG induces impairment of mixed function oxidase system soon as 48 h after injection of activator, probably due to production of IL-1, IL-6 and TNF alpha by activated Kupffer cells and other mononuclear cells migrated to the liver.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether equipotent solutions of lidocaine, bupivacaine, or a mixture of these compounds infused at a fixed rate in anesthetized rats resulted in equivalent lethal cardiorespiratory toxicity and to establish whether the lethality of the individual drugs was additive. This was assessed by comparing the time to respiratory and circulatory arrest, determining the lethal doses of administered local anesthetic in each group, and ascertaining the concentration of lidocaine or bupivacaine, or both, at the time of circulatory arrest. The times to respiratory and circulatory arrest were similar in rats receiving either lidocaine (2%) or bupivacaine (0.5%) or a mixture of 1% lidocaine and 0.25% bupivacaine. The mean lidocaine-to-bupivacaine cumulative lethal dose ratio (3.36) and concentration ratio (2.33) were determined and used to calculate lidocaine equivalent values for bupivacaine data. Lidocaine equivalent cumulative lethal doses and plasma concentrations were similar in all three groups studied. This work suggests that the lethal cardiorespiratory toxicity of lidocaine and bupivacaine associated with intravenous infusion is additively toxic in rats.
