A 63-year-old male had undergone combination chemotherapy including adriamycin, cisplatin, mitomycin C, 5-fluorouracil and vindesine for six months for double cancer of esophagus and stomach. He complained of lassitude during therapy, and laboratory examinations revealed microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia and hyperbilirubinemia. Despite administration of prednisolone, dipyridamole and fresh frozen plasma, the patient died six days later. Postmortem examination disclosed multiple microthrombi in the liver, kidney and pancreas. It was presumed that MMC had caused the illness.
Drug-induced stuttering has been described in association with several drugs, in particular antidepressants and low-potency neuroleptics. Here we describe a case series of stuttering induced by the atypical neuroleptics olanzapine and clozapine. Patients receiving neuroleptic treatment were carefully screened for stuttering as a possible side effect. We have studied all patients in the outpatient department (800 per year) as well as most inpatients (1300 per year) within 3 years. Seven cases of drug-induced stuttering were observed. Six patients suffered from stuttering in association with olanzapine treatment, and one received clozapine. Stuttering arose on average 2-21 days after initiation of treatment and ceased 2-5 days after discontinuation. Most patients suffered from additional diseases, such as brain pathology due to cortical atrophy or celiac disease, or received concomitant medication (i.e. intrathecal morphine pump). Our case series suggests that the atypical neuroleptic olanzapine can induce stuttering in the absence of a history of stuttering without accompanying akathisia or general decline of function. It appears that preexisting brain pathology or concomitant anti-depressant medication might predispose some patients to this side effect.
The four homoeopathic drugs, Gelsemium, Cannabis Indica, Graphites and Agaricus Muscarius, administered orally in 30th and 200th potencies on white rats, enhanced restraint-induced catalepsy in a similar manner to the two standard drugs pilocarpine and haloperidol (IP injection at 5 mg/kg). All the drugs tested differed from each other in the duration of cataleptogenic effect, which was more prolonged with Cannabis, Graphites and Agaricus than with Gelsemium and the two non-homoeopathic drugs used. The 200th potency of any homoeopathic drug tested acted longer than its 30th potency.
There are a number of chemically different tetracycline homologues. The older group of tetracyclines, which was introduced in the 1950-60s, includes tetracycline, oxytetracycline, chlortetracycline and demeclocycline. The newer group of tetracyclines includes doxycycline, methacycline and minocycline.
Elevated concentration of tetracycline in gingival fluid with respect to blood levels was an unexpected phenomenon. Patients given 250 mg every 6 hours had average crevicular fluid concentrations between 4 to 8 g/ml and blood concentrations between 2 to 2.5 g/ml after 48 hours. The levels in crevicular fluid and blood of volunteers who received 250 mg every 12 hours were 2 to 4 g/ml and 0.3 to 1.4 g/ml respectively after 48 hours. The concentration of doxycycline in gingival fluid after administration of 200 mg/1st day and then 100 mg/day achieved average level of 6 g/ml. Minocycline, a semisynthetic derivate of tetracycline, has shown to yield gingival fluid levels 5 times as high as serum levels after administration of 100 mg every 12 hours.
Tetracycline and its derivates demonstrate high in vitro activity against most periodontal bacteria, including Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans, Porphyromonas gingivalis, Prevotella intermedia, Eikenella corrodens, Wolinella recta and Fusobacterium nucleatum. The study of in vitro susceptibility of these 6 bacterial strains showed that, in regard to blood level, minimal inhibitory concentration is higher and it is the concentration of the drug that can be expected in gingival fluid following oral administration of 100 mg per day (doxycycline) (Table 1). The anti-inflammatory effect of tetracyclines was demonstrated histologically not only by reducing the size of the infiltrated connective tissue, but qualitative changes were also observed. Golub and associates have presented evidence that tetracyclines inhibit collagenase activity in gingival fluid and in tissue cultures. Therapeutic concentrations of tetracycline inhibit chemotaxis, phagocytosis and random migration of neutrophils in vitro.
Great amounts of tetracyclines cause gastrointestinal disorders, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea. Tetracyclines suppress activity of the enzymes in the bowel and pancreas. During longlasting administration they can damage the liver and kidneys. Tetracyclines can cause photo-sensibilization. They make deposits with calcium in bones, specially during prenatal period and during growth, so they can cause permanent teeth discoloration and hypoplasia.
The most important interaction is with penicillin. These two kinds of antibiotics antagonize and decrease the therapeutic effect of each other, so their administration at the same time should be avoided. A significant interaction occurs between tetracyclines and metal ions. This interaction often has been observed in conjunction with use of various antacids. Tetracyclines can also influence the production and absorption of vitamin K. Nephrotoxicity has been reported when tetracyclines have been administrated in conjunction with methoxyflurane.
Doxycycline, due to its advantages over tetracycline (Table 2), is indicated in treating destructive periodontal diseases including: juvenile periodontitis and refractory marginal periodontitis. Doxycycline therapy may be used for acute periodontal abscess and if the conditions are accompanied by general symptoms. Prophylactic application is recommended for implant placement procedures including membranes in guided tissue regeneration.
ORAL APPLICATION: In spite of great number of published investigations this paper presents only the results of placebo-controlled, double-blind studies. There is evidence that therapy in localized juvenile periodontitis should eliminate Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans, since 95% of patients harbored this bacteria. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
We report three cases of severe hepatotoxicity related to benzarone, a benzofuran derivative. Our cases include a 35-year-old woman with (sub)fulminant hepatitis, a 67-year-old woman with macronodular cirrhosis, and a 68-year-old man with severe chronic active hepatitis and cirrhosis, with positivity of anti-smooth muscle antibodies. Two patients died. We stress the potential of benzarone to cause hepatotoxicity, which usually resembles severe chronic active hepatitis. Our cases constitute the most severe cases of benzarone hepatotoxicity reported so far, and comprise the first cases of (sub)fulminant hepatitis and cirrhosis related to benzarone.
The occurrence of diethylstilbestrol- (DES)-related clear cell adenocarcinoma of the vagina in a pregnant patient who carried the pregnancy to term is reported. The tumor, observed directly over an extended period, did not appear to be influenced by elevated plasma estrogen levels during pregnancy. Problems of diagnosis, histopathologic finding, and management are discussed.
We wished to determine whether pretreatment with captopril, an angiotension-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, modified the myocardial and haemodynamic consequences of chronic administration of norepinephrine (NE) in rats. Administration of NE (0.15 mg kg(-1) h(-1) by an osmotic minipump implanted subcutaneously for 28 days) resulted in left but not right ventricular hypertrophy. Captopril (250 but not 52 mu g kg(-1) h(1) administered for 28 days) significantly attenuated the development of left ventricular hypertrophy (weight of left ventricle to body weight ratio was 0.46 +/- 0.01 0.57 +/- 0.02, 0.53 +/- 0.02, and 0.51 +/- 0.01 for vehicle, NE, and NE plus low and high dose of captopril, respectively). Chronic administration of NE caused significant increases in systolic arterial blood pressure (BP: 194 +/- 11 vs. 130 +/- 6 mm Hg), systolic left ventricular pressure, heart rate (HR: 458 +/- 13 vs. 389 +/- 15 beats/min) and dP dt(-1)(max) P(-1), an index of myocardial contractility (202 +/- 29 vs. 91 +/- 3 s(-1)). Captopril (250 mu g kg(-1) h(-1) for 28 days) significantly reduced diastolic arterial BP (from 86 +/- 6 to 53 +/- 3 mm Hg). Concomitant administration of this dose of captopril together with NE prevented the NE-induced increase in systolic arterial BP but did not modify the increases in HR or dP dt(-1) max P(-1) (261 +/- 41 and 202 +/- 29 s(-1) in captopril and NE vs. NE-alone groups). Acute administration of NE (0.1-10 mu g kg(-1) intravenously, i.v.) produced less marked increases in cardiac contractility and in arterial BP in rats chronically pretreated with NE or NE plus captopril than in animals receiving vehicle or captopril alone. Chronic administration of NE and/or captopril did not significantly modify the haemodynamic effects of the acute administration of calcium chloride. We conclude that administration of captopril at 250 but not 52 mu g kg(-1) h(-1) for 28 days attenuates NE-induced cardiac hypertrophy and that this effect is associated with a decrease in systolic arterial BP. Captopril did not modify the reduced effects of acutely administered NE in rats treated with NE for a prolonged period.
Adult T-cell leukemia (ATL) is an aggressive malignancy of peripheral T cells infected with human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1). The prognosis of patients with aggressive ATL remains poor because ATL cells acquire resistance to conventional cytotoxic agents. Therefore, development of novel agents is urgently needed. We examined the effects of resveratrol, a well-known polyphenolic compound, on cell proliferation and survival of HTLV-1-infected T-cell lines, MT-2 and HUT-102. We found that resveratrol suppressed cell proliferation and induced cell death of MT-2 and HUT-102 cells. Immunoblot analysis showed inhibition of myeloid cell leukemia sequence (Mcl)-1 and cellular inhibitor of apoptosis protein (cIAP)-2 expression as well as signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) 3 phosphorylation at Tyr(705) and Ser(727) in resveratrol-treated cells. We also observed cleavage of caspase-3 and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase in resveratrol-treated cells, indicating that resveratrol induces caspase-dependent apoptosis in MT-2 and HUT-102 cells. In addition, the STAT3 inhibitor S3I-201 not only induced cell growth arrest and cell death but also activated caspase-3 in MT-2 and HUT-102 cells, indicating that STAT3 may be a therapeutic target for ATL. These results suggest that resveratrol presents a potent anti-proliferative effect in part via the suppression of STAT3 phosphorylation and Mcl-1 and cIAP-2 expression in HTLV-1-infected T cells. Resveratrol merits further investigation as a potential chemotherapeutic agent for ATL.
The effect of chemically-induced diabetes on the hepatic microsomal mixed-function oxidase system and the activation of chemical carcinogens was investigated in animals treated with streptozotocin (STZ). In order to distinguish between the effects of the diabetogenic chemical per se and that of the diabetic state, groups of STZ-treated animals received either nicotinamide simultaneously with STZ to prevent the onset of diabetes, or daily treatment with insulin in order to reverse the effects of diabetes. STZ-treated animals exhibited higher pentoxyresorufin O-dealkylase, ethoxy-resorufin O-deethylase, ethoxycoumarin O-deethylase, aniline p-hydroxylase and NADPH-cytochrome c reductase activities; similarly, increases were seen in cytochrome P-450 and b5 levels. All of these effects were prevented by nicotinamide and, at least partly, antagonised by insulin therapy. Treatment of animals with STZ markedly increased the activation, by liver microsomes in vitro, of Trp-P-1 and Trp-P-2 to mutagens, the effect being totally preventable by nicotinamide and successfully antagonised with insulin therapy. The diabetic animals were similarly more efficient in activating MeIQ but the effect was not preventable by nicotinamide or reversed by insulin. In contrast no changes were seen in the activation of IQ and only a modest increase in the case of MeIQx. It is concluded that diabetes may modulate the metabolic activation of some chemical carcinogens, presumably by changing the ratio of the various cytochrome P-450 isoenzymes.
Dopaminergic brain systems have been documented to have a major role in drug reward, thus making genes involved in these circuits plausible candidates for susceptibility to substance use disorders. The catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) is involved in the degradation of catecholamines and a functional polymorphism (Val158Met) has been suggested to influence enzyme activity. In this study we hypothesize that genetic variation in the COMT gene contributes to increased risk for cocaine dependence. Cocaine-dependent individuals (n=330) and screened unaffected normal controls (n=255) were genotyped for three SNPs in the COMT gene (rs737865, rs4680 (Val158Met), rs165599). All cases and controls were of African descent. Genotype and allele frequencies differed significantly for the Val158Met polymorphism between cases (f(Met)=35%) and controls (f(Met)=27%) (p=0.004; corrected p=0.014; OR 1.44; 95% CI 1.12-1.86). Haplotype analysis showed a significant association for a two-marker haplotype rs737865-Val158Met (p=0.005). Results suggest that variation in COMT increases risk for cocaine dependence. The low enzyme activity 158Met allele or haplotypes containing this variant might have functional effects on dopamine-derived reward processes and cortical functions resulting in increased susceptibility for cocaine dependence. Additional studies are required to elucidate the role of COMT in the pathophysiology of substance use disorders.
Infectious diseases have influenced population genetics and the evolution of the structure of the human genome in part by selecting for host susceptibility alleles that modify pathogenesis. Norovirus infection is associated with approximately 90% of epidemic non-bacterial acute gastroenteritis worldwide. Here, we show that resistance to Norwalk virus infection is multifactorial. Using a human challenge model, we showed that 29% of our study population was homozygous recessive for the alpha(1,2)fucosyltransferase gene (FUT2) in the ABH histo-blood group family and did not express the H type-1 oligosaccharide ligand required for Norwalk virus binding. The FUT2 susceptibility allele was fully penetrant against Norwalk virus infection as none of these individuals developed an infection after challenge, regardless of dose. Of the susceptible population that encoded a functional FUT2 gene, a portion was resistant to infection, suggesting that a memory immune response or some other unidentified factor also affords protection from Norwalk virus infection.
Fourteen patients with hereditary angioneurotic oedema (Quincke' oedema) treated for an average period of 6 years (ranging from 15 months to 8 years) with tranexamic acid was given an ophthalmological examination in order to reveal any possible toxic damages caused by the treatment. As large doses of tranexamic acid given to animals have been shown to result in retinal degeneration, the examination was focused on checking the retinal function. A complete ophthalmic examination revealed no toxic effects in the eyes of any of the patients. No retinal damages were found that could have been caused by the tranexamic acid. The central corneal thickness was normal.
Extrapyramidal symptoms are well-documented complications of therapy with haloperidol, even when small doses are used. Dysphagia, though uncommon, can be quite debilitating and can mimic a paraneoplastic syndrome. It is important to always review the medications the patient is taking and consider them as etiological culprits in any new symptom complex. This report highlights a case of drug-induced dysphagia in a patient receiving haloperidol for obsessive nocturnal thoughts and auditory disturbances.
Chemotherapeutic drugs are the most common toxic agents for peripheral nerves. Vincristine is a vinca alkaloid drug that is used for the treatment of several malignancies in combination with other chemotherapeutic agents. Treatment with intravenous (IV) vincristine at doses above 5 mg leads to a dose-dependent neuropathy with sensory symptoms but higher cumulative doses at around 30 to 50 mg are needed for the development of motor symptoms. The standard maximum adult IV vincristine dose is 2 mg IV per dose given at weekly intervals. However, administration of a single 2-mg dose IV vincristine may rarely result in the development of peripheral neuropathy. Few case reports have been presented on vincristine-associated severe paralysis in patients with preexisting hereditary neuropathy like Charcot-Marie Tooth (CMT) disease, who received doses even lower than 2 mg. Herein, we reported a Hodgkin lymphoma patient who developed severe polyneuropathy after receiving 2 mg vincristine treatment and was subsequently found to carry the CMT1A duplication responsible for CMT disease.
In alcoholic hepatitis, a severe form of alcohol-induced toxic liver injury, as well as in experimental intoxication of mice with the porphyrinogenic drugs griseofulvin and 3,5-diethoxycarbonyl-1, 4-dihydrocollidine, hepatocytes form cytoplasmic protein aggregates (Mallory bodies; MBs) containing cytokeratins (CKs) and non-CK components. Here we report that mice lacking the CK8 gene and hence CK intermediate filaments in hepatocytes, but still expressing the type I partner, ie, the CK18 gene, do not form MBs but suffer from extensive porphyria and progressive toxic liver damage, leading to the death of a considerable number of animals (7 of 12 during 12 weeks of intoxication). Our observations show that 1) in the absence of CK8 as well as in the situation of a relative excess of CK18 over CK8 no MBs are formed; 2) the loss of CK8 is not compensated by other type II CKs; and 3) porphyria and toxic liver damage are drastically enhanced in the absence of CK8. Our results point to a protective role of CKs in certain types of toxic liver injury and suggest that MBs by themselves are not harmful to hepatocytes but may be considered as a product of a novel defense mechanism in hepatocytes.
Pulmonary hypoplasia associated with congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) remains a major therapeutic problem. Moreover, the pathogenesis of pulmonary hypoplasia in case of CDH is controversial. In particular, little is known about early lung development in this anomaly. To investigate lung development separate from diaphragm development we used an in vitro modification of the 2, 4-dichlorophenyl-p-nitrophenylether (Nitrofen) animal model for CDH. This enabled us to investigate the direct effects of Nitrofen on early lung development and branching morphogenesis in an organotypic explant system without the influence of impaired diaphragm development. Epithelial cell differentiation of the lung explants was assessed using surfactant protein-C and Clara cell secretory protein-10 mRNA expression as markers. Furthermore, cell proliferation and apoptosis were investigated. Our results indicate that Nitrofen negatively influences branching morphogenesis of the lung. Initial lung anlage formation is not affected. In addition, epithelial cell differentiation and cell proliferation are attenuated in lungs exposed to Nitrofen. These data indicate that Nitrofen interferes with early lung development before and separate from (aberrant) diaphragm development. Therefore, we postulate the dual-hit hypothesis, which explains pulmonary hypoplasia in CDH by two insults, one affecting both lungs before diaphragm development and one affecting the ipsilateral lung after defective diaphragm development.
Isofon given in a dose of 800 mg daily for 1.5-2 months contributed to clinical and X-ray involution of a process in 16 of the 19 patients with acutely progressive destructive forms of tuberculosis. The drug proved to be effective in patients who isolated drug-resistant Mycobacteria tuberculosis, including those to a combination of isoniazide and rifampicin. When used in patients with significant immunodeficiency, isofon provided an immunomodulating effect. It caused relatively a great deal of adverse reactions as fever in 11 patients, weakness, dizziness in 5, and cardiac arrhythmia in 1. The findings show it necessary to perform further clinical trials of the drug.
Pretreatment of rats with hydantoin (75 mg/kg, PO, an anticonvulsant), trihexyphenidyl (10 mg/kg, SC, a muscarinic cholinergic antagonist), or piperonyl butoxide (500 mg/kg, PO, a metabolic inhibitor) had no effect on the whole blood or brain tissue levels of orally administered DDT (75 mg/kg) or its metabolites DDD and DDE. Hydantoin and piperonyl butoxide decreased DDT-induced tremor and hyperthermia due to DDT when measured 12 h after DDT exposure, while trihexyphenidyl augmented some components of DDT-induced tremor. Additional experiments found that pretreatment with piperonyl butoxide increased tremor due to permethrin exposure (120 mg/kg, PO), while having no effect on tremor due to chlordecone administration (60 mg/kg, IP). Pretreatment with ellipticine (30 mg/kg, IP, a metabolic inhibitor) also decreased tremor 12 h after DDT exposure. The effects of piperonyl butoxide and ellipticine on DDT-induced tremor are postulated to occur through direct actions of these compounds on nerve or muscle tissue. Hydantoin-induced attenuation of DDT-induced neurotoxicity may be due to the ability of hydantoin to block repetitive firing of nerves by binding to the inactivation gates of sodium.
Adriamycin nephropathy (AN) is a widely used nonimmune-mediated rat model of proteinuric chronic glomerular disease and is usually induced by a single intravenous injection of doxorubicin hydrochloride (DX) into the tail vein. However, this route can be associated with local skin necrosis and variability in disease induction and poses an occupational hazard to the investigator. Here we describe a simple technique of administering DX (1.7 mg) to ketamine:xylazine-sedated adult male Wistar rats (mean +/- 1 standard deviation, 238 +/- 8 g; n = 28) by using a single substernal intracardiac injection. The procedure was associated with minimal morbidity and mortality (1 death related to anesthesia). By day 21, severe nephrotic syndrome with effacement of glomerular epithelial cell foot processes and diffuse cortical tubulointerstitial injury was induced in all animals. Therefore, intracardiac injection of DX is a safe and consistent method of inducing AN in the rat and provides an alternative to the tail-vein route.
In a series of five experiments, the modulating role of naloxone on a scopolamine-induced retention deficit in a passive avoidance paradigm was investigated in mice. Scopolamine, but not methyl scopolamine (1 and 3 mg/kg), induced an amnesia as measured by latency and duration parameters. Naloxone (0.3, 1, 3, and 10 mg/kg) injected prior to training attenuated the retention deficit with a peak of activity at 3 mg/kg. The effect of naloxone could be antagonized with morphine (1, 3, and 10 mg/kg), demonstrating the opioid specificity of the naloxone effect. Post-training administration of naloxone (3 mg/kg) as a single or as a split dose also attenuated the scopolamine-induced amnesia. Control experiments indicated that neither an increase in pain sensitivity (pre-training naloxone) nor an induced aversive state (post-training naloxone) appear to be responsible for the influence of naloxone on the scopolamine-induced retention deficit. These results extend previous findings implicating a cholinergic-opioid interaction in memory processes. A possible mechanism for this interaction involving the septo-hippocampal cholinergic pathway is discussed.
We report 3 cases of myoclonus associated with etomidate during ED procedural sedation and analgesia (PSA). EPs should be familiar with myoclonus associated with etomidate. Clinicians using this drug for PSA should be prepared to offer the brief period of support, and occasionally, respiratory assistance, required when etomidate-associated myoclonus is encountered.
Two patients had phenylbutazone-induced systemic vasculitis syndrome. Both presented with acute oliguric renal failure, and renal biopsies showed severe crescentic glomerulonephritis with marked interstitial inflammatory cell infiltration. Withdrawal of phenylbutazone and treatment with immunosuppressives and plasma exchange led to recovery of renal function in one case.
We have previously reported that the exposure of pregnant female rats to delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) during the perinatal period affected the gene expression and the activity of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in the brain of their male offspring. Those studies were done in animals perinatally exposed to THC but tested at peripubertal and adult ages. In the present work, we explored whether these effects also appear during early fetal brain development, when TH expression plays an important role in neuronal development. To this end, TH-mRNA concentrations were measured by Northern blot analysis with a specific TH probe in the brain of fetuses at gestational days 14 and 16 which had been prenatally exposed to THC or vehicle from day 5 of gestation. In parallel, measurements of TH activity and catecholamine contents by HPLC were also done. The results obtained were as follows. The prenatal exposure to THC markedly affected the expression of the TH gene in the brain of fetuses at gestational day 14. Thus, the amounts of TH-mRNA at this age were higher (2-fold) in THC-exposed fetuses than in controls. This corresponded with a marked increase in the activity of this enzyme (3-fold) at this age. Normalization was found in both parameters at gestational day 16. In summary, the prenatal exposure to THC affected the expression of the TH gene and the activity of this enzyme in brain catecholaminergic neurons during early fetal brain development. These results support the notion that cannabinoids are able to act at the level of the gene expression of specific key proteins for brain development.
Compared with placebo, adding betaxolol 20 mg every day to nifedipine (up to 60 mg/day in divided doses) or diltiazem (up to 360 mg/day in divided doses) for a 3-week treatment period in 135 patients with stable angina pectoris significantly (p < 0.05) lengthened the time to onset of moderate angina during exercise tolerance tests at all treatment time points. The median increases in the time to onset of moderate angina at the final exercise tolerance test (end point) compared with baseline were 1.08 and 0.53 minutes for betaxolol and placebo groups, respectively (p = 0.002, betaxolol and placebo groups, respectively (p = 0.002, betaxolol vs placebo). The time to onset of 1 mm ST-segment depression increased significantly (p < 0.05) with betaxolol compared with placebo at all but 1 treatment time point (median increase [p = 0.001] 1.77 and 0.37 minutes, respectively, at end point). Duration of exercise also was increased significantly (p < 0.05) after the third week of treatment and at end point (median 0.62 and 0.50 minutes, respectively; p = 0.03). Generally comparable results were found within the diltiazem (n = 128) and nifedipine (n = 25) subgroups, although the nifedipine group was too small to detect statistically significant differences between betaxolol and placebo treatment. Resting systolic blood pressure, heart rate and the rate-pressure product, measured both when angina occurred and at the end of exercise, also were influenced significantly (p < 0.05) by the betaxolol addition. The only serious adverse effect associated with betaxolol treatment was syncope, seen in 2 patients.
Influence of the single injection of iphosphomid on kidney function during 24 hours after injection under functional loading (water and saline) was investigated. It was established that the single injection of iphosphomid to white rats led to changes of renal function manifested by decrease of creatinine clearence as well as tubular transport. It was shown that saline loading resulted in weakening of renal functional reserve accompanied by significant proteinuria, glucoseuria and disturbances of osmoregulation.
Hypotony with choroidal detachment is a rare complication of glaucoma medication. In this study, we report on a case which supports the hypothesis that has been proposed to explain this phenomenon.
This study was designed as an observational case report.
A woman with chronic glaucoma underwent trabeculectomy on both eyes. Low intraocular pressure (IOP) developed in 1 eye only, with no visual change for many years. After cataract surgery, the IOP increased, necessitating treatment with topical timolol 0.5% and dorzolamide 2%. She developed monocular hypotony and choroidal detachment 3 months later. This complication occurred in the eye that had previously had a low IOP and resolved completely when topical medication was stopped. The choroidal detachment recurred when rechallenged with the same medication.
Topical aqueous suppression therapy can result in hypotony and choroidal detachment in an eye in which relatively low IOP has been maintained for many years after glaucoma filtration surgery. The problem resolves on stopping the medication.
We report a case of severe pustular vasculitis most probably due to losartan (Cozaar) which is an antihypertensive drug inhibiting the receptors for angiotensin II.
A 64-year-old woman, suffering from hypertension, developed a widespread and rapidly evolving bullous and pustular eruption without any other clinical sign. Leucocytoclastic vasculitis and junctional blisters were present with deposits of both IgA and IgG at these sites. Withdrawal of losartan, which was the only drug taken by the patient, and tapered corticotherapy cleared the lesions. The rash left a prominent mottled hyperpigmentation. It did not recur during the following months despite the presence of antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies.
So far only a few cutaneous side effects have been reported following losartan intake. This drug was the likely culprit in the present case. Vasculitis was extremely severe and polymorphous.
