Oxidative stress is a critical mediator of various injuries following ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) associated with organ transplantation. Although oral bioavailability of cyclosporine A (CsA) was decreased by increased first-pass metabolism through CYP3A and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) specifically in the upper small intestine after liver I/R, the mechanism responsible for them remained to be clarified. In the present study, the effect of Trolox (an α-tocopherol analogue) on the decreased oral absorption of CsA through elevated intestinal CYP3A and P-gp after liver I/R and their regulations were investigated. Rats were subjected to 60 min of liver ischemia followed by 12h of reperfusion. Trolox was administered intravenously 5 min before reperfusion. Trolox diminished the increased malondialdehyde and total glutathione levels in plasma by liver I/R and concomitantly prevented the decreased area under the blood concentration-time curve of orally administered CsA as well as initial absorption rate of CsA from upper small intestine. The elevated CYP3A mRNA and activity in the upper small intestine as well as expression levels of P-gp in upper, middle, and lower small intestines after liver I/R were attenuated by Trolox administration. The elevations of CYP3A levels specifically in the upper small intestine of I/R rats were correlated with the lithocholic acid levels in the bile. These results demonstrate that Trolox ameliorates the decreased oral absorption of CsA through elevated intestinal CYP3A and P-gp by preventing oxidative stress, where the biliary lithocholic acid may be responsible for the elevated transcription of CYP3A specifically in the upper small intestine after liver I/R.
A study was undertaken in order to compare the effects of Diltiazem, Nifedipine and Verapamil on 11 male adults (aged 44 to 70 yrs: mean age 60 yrs) affected by effort angina with a stable exercise threshold. The study was carried out according to a 4 week double-blind randomized protocol. Diltiazem (300 mg/die), Nifedipine (50 mg/die), Verapamil (400 mg/die) and placebo were administered each for 7 day periods. An ergometric test was performed on the last of each therapeutic cycle in order to evaluate the effects of the treatments. The three active drugs globally provoked an increased tolerance to physical effort with respect to placebo (p less than 0.01); no significant differences, as regards physical performance, could be detected among the three drugs. Treatment with Nifedipine significantly increased heart rate at rest (p less than 0.05), under submaximal (p less than 0.05) and maximal load (p less than 0.05), with respect to treatment with Diltiazem and Verapamil. Systolic and diastolic arterial blood pressure did not vary significantly with any of the three drugs. Rate pressure product under submaximal load (p less than 0.05) and at the end of the exercise (p less than 0.05) was higher with Nifedipine than with the other two drugs. These results show that patient response to Nifedipine is different from that to Verapamil and Diltiazem and suggest that the three drugs exert their anti ischemic effect through different mechanisms. The evaluation of individual response revealed that only one patient showed no increased tolerance to physical effort with any of the drugs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Tumor cell expression of COX-2 has been implicated in the progression of murine and human lung cancer. Inhibition of COX-2 by nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs reduces the risk of cancer development in humans and suppresses tumor growth in animal models. However, the underlying mechanisms for this beneficial effect are not fully understood. Here we explore the potential link between the anticancer effects of COX-2 inhibitors and the expression of the integrin alpha5beta1. Expression of this integrin in carcinoma cells is associated with invasiveness and malignant progression. This, together with our studies showing that fibronectin, the ligand of alpha5beta1, stimulates the growth of human lung carcinoma cells, and that this effect is mediated through alpha5beta1-dependent signals, has prompted us to examine the effects of COX-2 inhibitors on alpha5beta1 expression in human non small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) cells. We found that the selective COX-2 inhibitors NS398 and Nimesulide decreased mRNA expression and protein production of the integrin alpha5 subunit. This effect was associated with inhibition of NSCLC cell adhesion to fibronectin. The COX-2 inhibitors triggered the phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (Erk) in a time-dependent manner, and the inhibitor of Mek-1/Erk PD98095 prevented their inhibitory effects on integrin alpha5 expression. Transient transfection assays showed that the COX-2 inhibitors affected integrin alpha5 gene transcription by acting between -92 to -41 bp of the human integrin alpha5 gene promoter. Gel mobility shift assays showed that the COX-2 inhibitors increased Sp1 DNA binding, but decreased that of AP-1. These effects were accompanied by an increase in Sp1 protein and a decrease in c-Jun protein expression, as well as inhibition of SAPK/JNK phosphorylation. The Sp1 inhibitor, Mithramycin A, also blocked the inhibitory effect of the COX-2 inhibitors on alpha5 expression and promoter activity. Overall, these findings suggest that COX-2 inhibitors suppress alpha5beta1 integrin expression in NSCLC through effects on integrin alpha5 gene transcription mediated by Erk activation, increased Sp1, decreased AP-1 DNA binding and inactivation of SAPK/JNK signals. Our observations unveil a new mechanism of action against NSCLC for COX-2 inhibitors that relates to regulation of integrin alpha5 gene expression and, consequently, recognition of extracellular matrices (i.e., fibronectin) by tumor cells. (c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Myoclonic movements are a common problem in unpremedicated patients during induction of anesthesia with etomidate.
In a double-blind fashion, 40 patients (ASA physical status III-IV) scheduled for elective cardioversion were randomly assigned to receive either 0.015 mg/kg midazolam or placebo 90 s before the injection of 0.3 mg/kg etomidate. Myoclonic movements and sedation were recorded on a scale between 0 and 3. Pulse oximetry, noninvasive arterial blood pressure, and heart rate were recorded during the study period.
Two patients (10%) in the midazolam group had myoclonic movements after the administration of etomidate, whereas 10 of the 20 patients (50%) receiving placebo experienced such movements (P = 0.006). No other differences were found between the groups; in particular, there was no difference in recovery 5 min after the administration of etomidate.
IV midazolam 0.015 mg/kg administered 90 s before induction of anesthesia with etomidate is effective in reducing myoclonic movements and does not prolong recovery in unpremedicated patients after short procedures.
The analgesic effects of single and repeated applications of a eutectic mixture of local anaesthetics (EMLA) cream on both spontaneous and evoked pains were evaluated in 11 patients with post-herpetic neuralgia (PHN). Detection thresholds, pain thresholds and the responses to suprathreshold mechanical and thermal stimuli were quantitatively determined at baseline, 30 min after the first application and after a series of daily applications over six consecutive days (duration of application: 5 h/day). In the acute situation, EMLA produced an overall anaesthetic effect without significantly reducing spontaneous ongoing pain and mechanical allodynia. Repeated applications significantly reduced paroxysmal pain and both the dynamic and static subtypes of mechanical hyperalgesia. The effects on spontaneous ongoing pain were more variable. They were inversely correlated to the magnitude of the thermal deficit at baseline, and were significant only in patients with dynamic mechano-allodynia. Pathophysiological implications of these results are discussed.
Primaquine-induced hemolytic anemia is a toxic side effect that is due to premature splenic sequestration of intact erythrocytes. Previous studies have suggested that a phenolic metabolite, 5-hydroxyprimaquine (5-HPQ), mediates primaquine hemotoxicity by generating reactive oxygen species (ROS) within erythrocytes that overwhelm antioxidant defenses. However, the nature of the oxidative stress is not understood, and the molecular targets, whether protein and/or lipid, are unknown. To investigate the mechanism underlying the hemolytic activity of 5-HPQ, we have examined the effect of hemolytic concentrations of 5-HPQ on ROS formation within rat erythrocytes using the cellular ROS probe, 2',7'-dichlorodihydrofluoresein diacetate. In addition, we examined the effect of 5-HPQ on membrane lipids and cytoskeletal proteins. The data indicate that 5-HPQ causes a prolonged, concentration-dependent generation of ROS within erythrocytes. Interestingly, 5-HPQ-generated ROS was not associated with the onset of lipid peroxidation or an alteration in phosphatidylserine asymmetry. Instead, 5-HPQ induced oxidative injury to the erythrocyte cytoskeleton, as evidenced by changes in the normal electrophoretic pattern of membrane ghost proteins. Immunoblotting with an anti-hemoglobin antibody revealed that these changes were due primarily to the formation of disulfide-linked hemoglobin-skeletal protein adducts. The data suggest that cytoskeletal protein damage, rather than membrane lipid peroxidation or loss of phosphatidylserine asymmetry, underlies the process of removal of erythrocytes exposed to 5-HPQ.
Food additive butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) (CAS: 128-37-0; 2,6-di-tert-butyl-p-cresol) can modulate the formation of lung adenomas in mice treated with the carcinogen urethan (CAS: 51-79-6; ethyl ester carbamic acid). An ip injection of BHT administered 6 hours before a single urethan injection decreased the number of tumors formed, whereas six weekly BHT injections following a single urethan dose increased tumor multiplicity. Biotransformation of BHT was apparently required for both prophylaxis and enhancement. Pretreatment of mice with cedrene, which perturbs drug metabolism, prevented both of these BHT activities. Analogues of BHT with different substitutions at position 6 of the phenol ring also affected tumor formation. 2-tert-Butyl-4-methylphenol inhibited, not enhanced, adenoma formation. 2-tert-Butyl-4,6-dimethylphenol (BDMP) (CAS: 1879-09-0; 6-tert-butyl-2,4-xylenol); increased tumor number in A/J but not in the BALB/cByJ mouse strain; its prophylactic activity could not be measured since urethan injection following BDMP treatment was lethal. Thus the presence of an alkyl group at this site on the phenol ring was not required for prophylaxis but was necessary for tumor enhancement. These results were consistent with the possibility that different BHT metabolites were responsible for each effect. Adenoma formation was enhanced by BHT in four strains of mice with a U+ phenotype (susceptible to urethan-induced lung adenomas); these strains were A, BALB/cBy, SWR/J, and RIIIS/J. BHT had no such effect, however, in the U+ strain 129/J. A U+ B- phenotype (urethan inducible but unresponsive to BHT enhancement) also was found among the recombinant inbred lines originally derived from a cross between U+B+ BALB/-cByJ and U-/B- C57BL/6ByJ progenitor strains. This finding showed that the genes determining sensitivity to urethan and to BHT had recombined independently of each other. An inability to metabolize BHT was probably not involved in the B- phenotype, since BHT caused reversible lung damage in the 2 U+B- recombinant inbred lines and strain 129, and biotransformation was required for this effect. These U+B- mice thus can be used to characterize the lung toxic effects of BHT in the absence of its tumor-enhancing activity and will serve as valuable controls in studies on mechanisms of tumor enhancement.
The treatment of myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) remains a challenge to the clinician despite recent advances. Many patients will either not respond or will have only limited and/or brief responses to single-agent therapy. Eventually, 30% of patients with MDS will progress and develop acute myeloid leukemia (AML). New strategies are needed for these patients.
5-Azacytidine (AZA) and thalidomide were administered to 40 patients with MDS or AML. AZA was given at a dose of 75 mg/m2 subcutaneously for 5 of 28 days together with thalidomide starting at a dose of 50 mg per day and increasing to 100 mg per. Six patients had refractory anemia (RA), 2 patients had RA with ringed sideroblasts, 10 patients had RA with excess blasts (RAEB), 1 patient had RAEB in transformation, 4 patients had chronic myelomonocytic leukemia, 1 patient had chronic idiopathic myelofibrosis, and 16 patients had AML. Thirty-six patients were evaluable for outcome.
A hematologic improvement (HI) was observed in 15 of 36 patients (42%), stable disease was observed in 5 of 36 patients (14%), and 10 of 36 patients (28%) had disease progression. Six patients experienced complete remission (CR), 2 patients experienced an erythroid HI (HI-E), 1 patient experience an absolute neutrophil count HI (HI-ANC), 5 patients experienced a platelet HI (HI-P), and 7 patients had bilineage HI (HI-P and HI-ANC or an HI-E and HI-ANC). It was noteworthy that 9 of 14 patients with AML had a history of prior MDS, 2 of 9 patients achieved a CR, 4 of 9 patients had HI (HI-E and bilineage HI), and 1 patient had stable disease and was continuing treatment. DNA microarray analysis of 8 responders and 4 nonresponders revealed that the genes associated with cellular proliferation had higher expression levels in nonresponders.
The current findings indicated that a combination of low-dose AZA and thalidomide was well tolerated and was effective therapy for the treatment of patients with MDS and AML arising from prior MDS.
Dietary administration of the fungicide folpet, N-(trichloromethylthio) phthalimide, to B6C3F1 mice at dose levels of 1,000, 5,000 and 10,000 ppm induced a dose-related appearance of duodenal atypical hyperplasia, adenomas and adenocarcinomas. The appearance in some of these animals of gastric papillomas and gastric squamous cell carcinomas was correlated in many instances to the presence of duodenal obstructions. It is suggested that the gastric lesions appeared subsequent to, and as an indirect result of, these partial lumenal duodenal obstructions. We suggest that the presence of duodenal obstructions is consistent with the notion that reflux of folpet, bile acids and pancreatic enzymes into the stomach may have acted to irritate and consequently stimulate local neoplastic proliferation. In addition, the duodenal obstructions may have resulted in delayed emptying time of the stomach contents with consequential stagnation. This would cause high concentrations of folpet to act locally on the gastric mucosa.
Resveratrol (RSV) is the most studied natural compound that activates sirtuins, which produce beneficial metabolic effects on lipid and glucose metabolism. The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of resveratrol in preventing nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and expression of liver inflammatory markers in mice treated with a high-fat diet.
Eighteen male mice were divided into three groups and fed for 60 d with a standard diet (ST), high-fat diet (HFD), or high-fat diet plus resveratrol (HFD + RSV, 30 mg/kg/d). Body weight, food intake, and serum total cholesterol, triacylglycerol, insulin, alanine transaminase (ALT), and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) were evaluated. Liver histology was analyzed. Expression of ACC, PPAR-γ, ChREBP, SREBP-1 c, CPT-1, tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α), interleukin 6 (IL-6), NF-κB, interleukin 1 β (IL-1 β), and SIRT1 were evaluated by quantitative real-time reverse transcriptase PCR (qRT-PCR).
The major finding of the present study was that RSV reduced body fat, total cholesterol, triacylglycerol, transaminases, and insulin plasma level. These results were accompanied with a significant reduction in TNF-α, IL-6, and NF-κB mRNA expression in the liver. Analyses of liver adipogenesis related genes indicated that ACC, PPAR-γ, and SREBP-1 mRNA expression were significantly suppressed in HFD + RSV mice. In addition, we observed increased expression of SIRT1 in the HFD + RSV group.
We observed that treatment with resveratrol improved lipid metabolism, and decreased NAFLD and pro-inflammatory profile in liver of mice with obesity-inducible diets. These data suggest an important clinical application of RSV in preventing liver diseases.
To test the hypothesis that rosiglitazone combined with metformin provides a greater reduction in microalbuminuria and blood pressure than metformin and glyburide at comparable levels of glycemic control.
In a double-blind, parallel-group design 389 participants with type 2 diabetes were followed for 32 weeks.
Urinary albumin: creatinine ratio was significantly reduced at 32 weeks compared with baseline in the rosiglitazone plus metformin group (-22.7%; P < 0.01) but not in the glyburide plus metformin comparator group (-7.1%; P = 0.32). Patients who completed the study (81.5%) demonstrated a treatment difference of -19.5% (P = 0.03), favoring the rosiglitazone group. Rosiglitazone plus metformin reduced both mean 24-h systolic (-3.4 mmHg; P = 0.01) and diastolic (-2.5 mmHg; P < 0.01) ambulatory blood pressure compared with glyburide plus metformin. Addition of rosiglitazone to metformin also reduced levels of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 antigen and activity, C-reactive protein, von Willebrand factor and fibrinogen compared with addition of glyburide.
Rosiglitazone added to background therapy with metformin provides greater reductions in microalbuminuria and blood pressure as compared with glyburide. These additional improvements in microalbuminuria, blood pressure and cardiovascular biomarkers were observed despite comparable improvements in glycemic control in both groups and may be related to the anti-inflammatory properties of rosiglitazone.
This paper describes the results of the application of X-ray fluorescence microscopy to the qualitative, topographic and quantitative elemental analysis of nervous tissue from rats with neocortical brain injury. The tissue samples were analyzed with a 15 μm beam defined by the size of the polycapillary focus. Raster scanning of the samples generated 2D cartographies, revealing the distributions of elements such as P, S, Cl, K, Ca, Fe, Cu, and Zn. Special emphasis was placed on the analysis of the areas neighboring the lesion site and the hippocampal formation tissue. The results obtained for rats with mechanical brain injuries were compared with those recorded for controls and animals with pilocarpine-induced seizures. There were no significant differences in the elemental compositions of gray and white matter between injured and uninjured brain hemispheres. A higher level of Ca was observed in the gray matter of both of the hemispheres in brains with neocortical injuries. A similar relation was noticed for Fe in the white matter. A comparative study of hippocampal formation tissue showed a statistically significant decrease in the mass per unit area of P in the dentate gyrus (DG) and the hilus (H) of DG for animals with brain lesions in comparison with the control group. Analogous relations were found for Cu in the DG and Zn in sector 3 of Ammon's horn (CA3) and the DG. It is important to note that identical changes in the same areas were observed for animals with pilocarpine-induced seizures in our previous study.
Peroxisome biogenesis disorders (PBD), such as Zellweger syndrome, are autosomal recessive diseases caused by a deficiency in peroxisome assembly as well as a malfunction of the peroxisomes, where at least 10 genotypes have been reported. We have isolated a human PEX10 cDNA (HsPEX10) by an expressed sequence tag homology search on a human DNA database using yeast PEX10 from Hansenula polymorpha, followed by screening of a human liver cDNA library. This cDNA encodes a peroxisomal protein (a peroxin Pex10p) comprising 326 amino acids, with two putative transmembrane segments and a C3HC4zinc finger RING motif. Both the N- and C-terminal regions of Pex10p are exposed to the cytosol, as assessed by an expression study of epitope-tagged Pex10p. HsPEX10 expression morphologically and biochemically restored peroxisome biogenesis in fibroblasts from Zellweger patients of complementation group B in Japan (complementation group VII in the USA). One patient (PBDB-01) possessed a homozygous, inactivating mutation, a 2 bp deletion immediately upstream of the RING motif, which resulted in a frameshift, altering 65 amino acids from the normal. This implies that the C-terminal part, including the RING finger, is required for biological function of Pex10p. PEX10 cDNA derived from patient PBDB-01 was defective in peroxisome-restoring activity when expressed in patient fibroblasts. These results demonstrate that mutation in PEX10 is the genetic cause of complementation group B PBD.
Catecholamine-induced cardiomyopathy due to chronic excess of endogenous catecholamines has been recognized for decades as a clinical phenomenon. In contrast, reports of myocardial dysfunction due to acute iatrogenic overdose are rare. A 35-year-old woman whose cervix uteri was inadvertently injected with 8 mg of epinephrine developed myocardial stunning that was characterized by severe hemodynamic compromise, profound, albeit transient, left ventricular systolic and diastolic dysfunction, and only modestly elevated biochemical markers of myocardial necrosis. Our case illustrates the serious consequences of medical errors that can be avoided through improved medication labeling and staff supervision.
Genomic duplications spanning Xq28 are associated with a spectrum of phenotypes, including anxiety and autism. The minimal region shared among affected individuals includes MECP2 and IRAK1, although it is unclear which gene when overexpressed causes anxiety and social behavior deficits. We report that doubling MECP2 levels causes heightened anxiety and autism-like features in mice and alters the expression of genes that influence anxiety and social behavior, such as Crh and Oprm1. To test the hypothesis that alterations in these two genes contribute to heightened anxiety and social behavior deficits, we analyzed MECP2 duplication mice (MECP2-TG1) that have reduced Crh and Oprm1 expression. In MECP2-TG1 animals, reducing the levels of Crh or its receptor, Crhr1, suppressed anxiety-like behavior; in contrast, reducing Oprm1 expression improved abnormal social behavior. These data indicate that increased MeCP2 levels affect molecular pathways underlying anxiety and social behavior and provide new insight into potential therapies for MECP2-related disorders.
The prevalence of and morbidity associated with treatment-resistant depression has motivated the exploration of treatment alternatives. In this study, quetiapine was compared with lithium in the augmentation of treatment-resistant depression.
Open-label, comparative study in 20 patients with major depression who had failed to respond after 4 weeks of treatment with an antidepressant at the maximal recommended dose. Patients were randomised to either lithium or quetiapine in addition to the maximally dosed antidepressant and any other concurrent medications. Lithium was initiated at 600 mg/day; quetiapine was titrated to 400 mg by day 7.
Depression, measured by the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D), significantly improved from baseline in both quetiapine (F(1,90) = 25.11, p < 0.0001) and lithium (F(1,90) = 34.54, p < 0.0001). The difference in improvement between the two groups began at day 14 and was seen at all timepoints thereafter (p < 0.05), with the quetiapine group showing greater improvement than the lithium group. In the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) analysis, the difference between the quetiapine and lithium group was significant from day 28 onwards (p < 0.05), with subjects improving more in the quetiapine group than the lithium group. The treatment by week interaction showed a significant difference overall between the two groups (p < 0.0001). The severity of psychomotor retardation showed a significant decrease in the Widlocher Psychomotor Retardation Scale scores in the quetiapine (p < 0.0001) and lithium (p < 0.0001) groups.
In this pilot study, quetiapine was an effective augmenting agent in treatment-resistant depression.
This study was set up to evaluate the effects of desloratadine 7.5 mg daily, with and without alcohol, on sedation and psychomotor performance.
In a double-blind, placebo-controlled, four-way crossover trial, 25 adult patients were randomized to desloratadine 7.5 mg, desloratadine 7.5 mg plus alcohol, placebo, or placebo plus alcohol. Alcohol was weight adjusted to an average blood alcohol concentration of 0.1%. Assessments included the modified Romberg test, Stanford Sleepiness Scale, Digit Symbol Substitution Test, Serial Add Subtract Reaction Time Test, and the Psychomotor Vigilance Test. The primary variable was the mean score of each of the five tests averaged over the treatment period, expressed as the mean percent change from baseline.
Across these assessments, differences between desloratadine alone or with alcohol versus placebo alone or without alcohol, were not significant, whereas most differences between desloratadine and placebo alone versus desloratadine and placebo with alcohol were significant (p < 0.01). Thus, with or without alcohol, desloratadine 7.5 mg does not increase sedation or impair psychomotor performance. Most adverse events (AEs) were mild-to-moderate in severity, with the most frequently reported individual AEs being headache, fatigue, nausea, vomiting, and dry mouth. The study does have potential limitations. The measures used are restricted to a particular profile of the known effects of alcohol only, and the relatively high doses of alcohol used alone demonstrate effects on psychomotor function and attention.
A single dose of desloratadine does not potentiate alcohol-mediated CNS impairment. Desloratadine alone or in combination with alcohol was safe and well tolerated.
1. We investigated the acute effects of adrenaline infusion on plasma lipid levels in vehicle- and adriamycin-treated rabbits. Lipids were measured before and 30 and 60 min after the commencement of continuous intravenous administration of adrenaline (0.06 microgram/kg per min) or saline in pentobarbital-anaesthetized rabbits. 2. Adrenaline infusion significantly increased plasma free fatty acid (P < 0.05) and noradrenaline (NA) levels (P < 0.05) in vehicle-treated control rabbits, but not in adriamycin-treated rabbits. However, adrenaline had no effect on plasma total cholesterol, free cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol, triglyceride or phospholipid levels. 3. Pretreatment with propranolol almost completely inhibited increased plasma free fatty acid and NA levels associated with adrenaline infusion, suggesting that adrenaline increases plasma free fatty acid and NA levels via the stimulation of beta-adrenoceptors in vehicle-treated rabbits. 4. It is suggested that both the production of plasma free fatty acids and the release of NA via the activation of beta-adrenoceptors is reduced in rabbits with adriamycin-induced cardiomyopathy. This may be related to the down-regulation of beta-adrenoceptors caused by elevated plasma NA levels induced by cardiac failure.
The involvement of bradykinin, 5-hydroxytryptamine, substance P and prostanoids in the hyperalgesia elicited by collagenase in rat paw was investigated. Collagenase (100 micrograms) induced a slight hyperalgesia in kininogen deficient rats in comparison with the behavioural response obtained in normal rats. Lisinopril (10(-5) M), and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, increased the duration of the hyperalgesia elicited in normal rats. Ondansetron (0.5 to 5 mumol/kg), a 5-HT3 antagonist, suppressed the hyperalgesia as did methysergide (1.1 to 11 mumol/kg), a mixed 5-HT1 and 5-HT2 receptor antagonist. However, the hyperalgesia was not modified by RP 67580 (1.8 to 18 mumol/kg), a NK1 receptor antagonist, and was only slightly delayed by indomethacin (2 mg/kg), a cyclo-oxygenase inhibitor. The oedema-promoting effect of 5-HT (6 nmol) was inhibited by methysergide but not by ondansetron. The swelling induced by collagenase in rat paw was reduced by methysergide but not by ondansetron. We conclude that the behavioural response induced by collagenase depends on an interactions between bradykinin and 5-HT. Prostanoids play a minor role in the beginning of the reaction whereas substance P is not significantly involved in this hyperalgesia.
The effects of nicotinic and beta-adrenergic receptor antagonists on tail-tremor induced by repeated nicotine administration were investigated in rats. The daily administration of nicotine (0.5 mg/kg/day, s.c.) for 8 days resulted in an augmentation of tail-tremor. However, repeated administration of dimethyl phenyl piperazinium iodide (1 mg/kg/day, s.c.) for 8 days did not cause tail-tremor. Mecamylamine (0.5 mg/kg, i.p), administered before the nicotine injection on each day, abolished the tail-tremor. After discontinuation of the mecamylamine treatment, nicotine injections caused tail-tremor augmentation. Propranolol (20 mg/kg, i.p.), administered before the nicotine on each day, suppressed the appearance of tail-tremor. After the discontinuation of propranolol treatment, the degree of tail-tremor induced by a single injection of nicotine on day 9 was much greater in the propranolol-treated group than in the saline-treated control group. Neither carteolol (20 mg/kg, i.p.) nor metoprolol (20 mg/kg, i.p.) treatment showed such effects. Intraspinal injection of 6-hydroxydopamine markedly enhanced the tail-tremor induced on the first day of nicotine injection. This effect became more intense on subsequent administration of nicotine. The enhanced tail-tremor following 6-hydroxydopamine treatment was abolished by mecamylamine (0.5 and 1 mg/kg, i.p.), and was suppressed by propranolol (5-20 mg/kg, s.c.) in a dose-dependent manner. These results suggest that central nicotinic receptors are essential for the onset and for the further development of tail-tremor induced by the repeated administration of nicotine, and that beta 2-adrenoceptors are associated with the tremor mechanism. Moreover, spinal noradrenergic mechanisms may be involved in the manifestation of this phenomenon.
An excess of androgen is believed to contribute to development of acne in some patients. Because oral contraceptives (OCs) may reduce the active androgen level, hormonal therapy with OCs has been used successfully to treat patients with acne, although this treatment has previously not been studied in placebo-controlled trials.
Our purpose was to evaluate the efficacy of a triphasic, combination OC (ORTHO TRI-CYCLEN [Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical, Raritan, N.J.], norgestimate/ethinyl estradiol) compared with placebo in the treatment of moderate acne vulgaris.
Two hundred fifty-seven healthy female subjects, 15 to 49 years of age with moderate acne vulgaris, were enrolled in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial. Each month for 6 months, subjects received either 3 consecutive weeks of the OC (i.e., tablets containing a fixed dose of ethinyl estradiol [0.035 mg] and increasing doses of norgestimate [0.180 mg, 0.215 mg, 0.250 mg]) followed by 7 days of inactive drug or placebo (color-matched tablets). Efficacy was assessed by facial acne lesion counts, an investigator's global assessment, a subject's self-assessment, and an analysis of within-cycle variation (cycle 6) in lesion counts.
Of the 160 subjects in whom efficacy could be evaluated, the OC group showed a statistically significantly greater improvement than the placebo group for all primary efficacy measures. The mean decrease in inflammatory lesion count from baseline to cycle 6 was 11.8 (62.0%) versus 7.6 (38.6%) (p = 0.0001), and the mean decrease in total lesion count was 29.1 (53.1%) versus 14.1 (26.8%) (p = 0.0001) in the OC and placebo groups, respectively. In the investigator's global assessment, 93.7% of the active treatment group versus 65.4% of the placebo group were rated as improved at the end of the study (p < 0.001). Six of the seven secondary efficacy measures (total comedones, open comedones, closed comedones, papules, pustules, and the subject's self-assessment of study treatment) were also significantly more favorable in the OC group compared with the placebo group.
An OC containing 0.035 mg of ethinyl estradiol combined with the triphasic regimen of norgestimate is a safe and effective treatment of moderate acne vulgaris in women with no known contraindication to OC therapy.
To evaluate the efficacy of a triphasic combined oral contraceptive (OC) in the treatment of moderate acne vulgaris, 231 healthy US volunteers 15-49 years of age with this dermatologic condition were enrolled in a phase III, multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial. Each month for 6 months, subjects (n = 110) received either 3 consecutive weeks of Ortho Tri-Cyclen (containing a fixed dose of 0.035 mg of ethinyl estradiol and 0.180, 0.215, and 0.250 mg of norgestimate) followed by 7 days of inactive drug or placebo. The OC group showed significantly greater improvement than controls on all efficacy measures. The mean decrease in inflammatory lesion count from baseline to the sixth cycle was 11.8 (62.0%) among cases and 7.6 (38.6%) in controls, while the mean decrease in total lesion count was 29.1 (53.1%) versus 14.1 (26.8%) in the OC and placebo groups, respectively. In the investigator's global assessment, 93.7% of women in the treatment group and 65.4% of controls were rated as improved at the end of the study. Similarly, more cases than controls considered their acne "improved" at the study's end and expressed a preference for this therapy over other forms of acne treatment. These findings indicate that treatment of moderate acne vulgaris with a low-dose triphasic OC is safe and effective in women with no contraindications to OC use.
Cocaine dependence follows a different disease course in men and women, possibly as a consequence of sex-specific neurobiologic responses to chronic cocaine use. We have previously reported that male cocaine-dependent subjects demonstrate a significantly different limbic response to the limbic-stimulus procaine, as measured by regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF), compared with male controls. In this study, we assessed the limbic rCBF response to procaine in female cocaine-addicted subjects (n=10) and female controls (n=10).
Subjects were administered 1.38 mg/kg procaine or saline intravenously in two separate sessions. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) was used to compare the rCBF response to procaine.
Female cocaine-dependent subjects demonstrate a markedly muted, and distinctly different, limbic response to procaine compared with matched healthy controls.
The rCBF response to procaine in female cocaine-dependent subjects suggests significant CNS differences compared with non-addicted female controls. Coupled with findings previously observed in male cocaine-dependent subjects, these biologic differences suggest that both male and female subjects experience alterations in limbic responsiveness following the chronic use of cocaine.
We studied the effects of octreotide and ursodiol on the gallbladders of patients with acromegaly.
We performed gallbladder sonography in patients with acromegaly at various intervals during treatment. Group I (18 patients) was treated with subcutaneous injections of the somatostatin analogue octreotide. Group II (10 patients) was treated with ursodiol while receiving octreotide therapy.
Seventy-eight percent of patients receiving octreotide developed gallbladder abnormalities: sludge in 72% (13/18) and calculi in 39% (7/18). Ursodiol reversed the gallbladder abnormalities in 7 of 10 patients.
A majority of patients receiving octreotide develop gallbladder abnormalities. Ursodiol appears to reverse the abnormalities in most cases.
Heart failure is the leading cause of hospitalization. Obesity is increasingly common and is a major public health problem. The aim of this study is to assess whether obese patients with heart failure can benefit from losing weight via an orlistat-assisted diet. This randomized clinical trial included obese patients with ejection fractions < or =40%. Orlistat and diet counseling were compared with diet counseling alone. Twenty-one consecutive obese patients with heart failure were recruited. Significant improvement in 6-minute walk test (45.8 m; 95% confidence interval, 5.2-86.4 m; p=0.031), functional class (-0.6+/-0.5, p=0.014), weight loss (-8.55 kg; 95% confidence interval, -13.0 to -4.1 kg; p<0.001) and also significant decreases in total cholesterol (p=0.017), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (p=0.03), and triglycerides (p=0.036) were observed in the orlistat group. Orlistat can promote significant weight loss and symptoms of relief in obese patients with heart failure, as measured by 6-minute walk test and functional capacity. The lipid profile improved. Orlistat was safe and well tolerated.
2-Methyl-c-5-[4-[5-methyl-2-(4-methylphenyl)-4-oxazolyl]butyl]-1,3-dioxane-r-2-carboxylic acid (NS-220) was newly synthesized and demonstrated to be a novel potent peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha) agonist with high subtype selectivity. In cell-based reporter gene assays, the EC(50) values of NS-220 for human PPARalpha, PPARgamma, and PPARdelta were 1.9 x 10(-8), 9.6 x 10(-6), and >10(-4) M, respectively, and for mouse PPARalpha, PPARgamma, and PPARdelta were 5.5 x 10(-8), 3.3 x 10(-5), and >10(-4) M, respectively. In addition, [(3)H]NS-220 bound to the ligand-binding domain of human PPARalpha with a K(D) value of 1.85 x 10(-7) M. Fenofibric acid and bezafibrate showed weak agonist activity for PPARalpha (EC(50), 2-8 x 10(-5) M), with poor subtype selectivity. NS-220 (0.1-3 mg/kg p.o.) decreased plasma triglyceride levels in ddY mice in a dose-dependent manner, but its hypolipidemic activity was abolished in PPARalpha-deficient mice. In KK-A(y) mice, an animal model of type-2 diabetes, NS-220 (0.3-1 mg/kg p.o.; 4 days) and fenofibrate (100-300 mg/kg p.o.; 4 days) decreased plasma triglyceride and glucose levels in a dose-dependent manner. In a 2-week repeated administration test, NS-220 (0.3-1 mg/kg p.o.) decreased plasma glucose levels markedly without increasing in plasma insulin levels. Furthermore, NS-220 increased high-density lipoprotein levels and decreased triglyceride-rich lipoprotein levels. In conclusion, a newly synthesized dioxanecarboxylic acid derivative, NS-220, is a potent and highly selective PPARalpha agonist that ameliorates metabolic disorders in diabetic mice. These results strongly suggest that it will be a promising drug for the treatment of hyperlipidemia or metabolic disorders in type-2 diabetes.
The dopamine transporter (DAT) is a critical recognition site for cocaine and contributes to its significant abuse liability. Accordingly, the development of compounds that target the DAT represents a logical approach in the pharmacological treatment of cocaine abuse. The present study characterized the effects of DAT inhibitors as pretreatments in rhesus monkeys trained to self-administer cocaine under a second-order schedule of i.v. drug delivery. The drugs also were substituted for cocaine to characterize their effectiveness in maintaining drug self-administration. Positron emission tomography neuroimaging with [(18)F]8-(2-[(18)F]fluoroethyl)-2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-(4-chlorophenyl) nortropane established the DAT occupancy associated with behaviorally relevant doses of each drug. The drugs studied included a selective DAT inhibitor, [1-(2[bis(4-fluorophenyl-) methoxy]ethyl)-4-(3-phenylpropyl)piperazine] bimesylate hydrate (GBR 12909); an inhibitor with equal potency at dopamine and norepinephrine transporters, [3beta-(4-chlorophenyl)tropane-2beta-(3-phenylisoxazol-5-yl)] HCl (RTI-177); and a nonselective inhibitor of dopamine, norepinephrinem and serotonin transporters, [(-)-3beta-(3'-methyl-4-chlorophenyl)tropane-2beta-carboxylic acid methyl ester] tartrate (RTI-112). All drugs produced dose-related reductions in cocaine self-administration. Doses of GBR 12909 and RTI-177 that reduced responding by 50% (ED(50)) resulted in DAT occupancies of 67 +/- 5 and 73 +/- 5%, respectively. In contrast, DAT occupancy was below the limit of detection for the ED(50) dose of RTI-112. Both GBR 12909 and RTI-177 reliably maintained drug self-administration, and DAT occupancies at doses that maintained peak rates of responding were 57 +/- 1 and 92 +/- 7%, respectively. In contrast, RTI-112 failed to maintain robust drug self-administration in any subject. The results indicate that selective DAT inhibitors may require high DAT occupancy to reduce cocaine self-administration and maintain drug self-administration. Moreover, the behavioral profile of DAT inhibitors may be influenced by actions at other monoamine transporters.
Propofol is an anesthetic agent commonly used for ambulatory surgery because is associated with rapid recovery and a benign side effect profile. In electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), its use is limited because of its seizure-shortening effects, and is recommended only for patients with preexisting cardiac conditions requiring attenuated hemodynamic response during treatment. We have identified two additional significant indications for propofol: to induce shorter seizures in patients with prolonged seizures and to minimize post-ictal nausea and vomiting.
We reviewed the records of 340 patients treated with ECT. We identified 28 patients who were switched from methohexital to propofol anesthesia due to adverse effects or to avoid prolonged seizures.
Twenty-two patients were switched from methohexital anesthesia to propofol because they had already experienced long seizures. Nine patients had seizures longer than 180 seconds requiring termination with a benzodiazepine. The switch resulted in an average shortening of the EEG recorded seizures by 38.7%. Eight of the 22 (36.4%) patients were adolescents. These 8 comprised 53% of the total of 15 adolescents treated with ECT in our service. Five of the 15 (33%) had seizures longer than 180 seconds. Finally, 7 of the 28 patients were switched to propofol because of nausea and vomiting, which was significantly reduced. No side effects were noted, and none of these patients needed to switch back to methohexital.
Propofol may be a useful alternative to methohexital for the treatment of patients who have excessively long seizures and/or severe nausea and vomiting after ECT. Such seizures are more common among adolescents.
Uremia accelerates atherosclerosis in apolipoprotein E-deficient (apoE-/-) mice. We examined whether this effect may be preventable by pharmacological blockade of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS).
Uremia was induced in apoE-/- mice by 5/6 nephrectomy (NX). Treatment with the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril (2 or 12 mg/kg/d) from week 4 to 36 after NX reduced the aortic plaque area fraction from 0.23+/-0.02 (n=20) in untreated mice to 0.11+/-0.01 (n=21) and 0.08+/-0.01 (n=23), respectively (P<0.0001); the aortic plaque area fraction was 0.09+/-0.01 (n=22) in sham-operated controls. Enalapril from week 20 to 44 after NX also retarded the progression of atherosclerosis. Plasma levels of soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (sICAM-1) and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (sVCAM-1) and concentrations of IgM antibodies against oxidized low density lipoprotein (OxLDL) increased after NX (P<0.01). Enalapril (12 mg/kg/d) attenuated these increases (P<0.05) and reduced aortic expression of vascular cell adhesion molecule (VCAM)-1 mRNA (P<0.05). Atherosclerosis in NX mice was also reduced by losartan (an angiotensin II receptor-blocker), but not when blood pressure was lowered with hydralazine (a non-RAS-dependent vasodilator).
The results suggest that inhibition of RAS abolishes the proatherogenic effect of uremia independent of its blood pressure-lowering effect, possibly because of antiinflammatory and antioxidative mechanisms.
