We measured the effect of two weight adjusted i.v. doses (0.2 mg per 70 kg and 0.4 mg per 70 kg) of the potent opioid buprenorphine on analgesia and respiratory depression in healthy volunteers. The aim of the study was to compare buprenorphine's behaviour with respect to the occurrence of ceiling (or apparent maximum) in these typical micro-opioid protein-(MOP) receptor effects.
Ten subjects (5 males) received 0.2 mg per 70 kg, 10 others (5 males) 0.4 mg per 70 kg i.v. buprenorphine. Steady-state inspired minute ventilation at a fixed end-tidal Pco(2) of 7 kPa was measured before drug infusion and at regular intervals after drug infusion. Experimental pain was induced using transcutaneous electrical stimulation and a gradually increasing current. Pain tolerance was measured at regular intervals before and after drug infusion. The studies lasted 8 h.
After infusion of the drug ventilation showed a rapid decline and reached peak depression between 150 and 180 min after drug administration. This effect was dose-independent with respect to timing and magnitude. At peak respiratory depression minute ventilation was 13.1 (sd 1.8) litre min(-1) in the 0.2 mg group vs 12.0 (sd 1.3) litre min(-1) in the 0.4 mg group (n.s.). At buprenorphine 0.2 mg a small short-lived analgesic effect was observed with a maximum increase in pain tolerance current of 6.7 (sd 2.8) mA occurring at 75 min after drug administration. Peak analgesic effect was 29% above baseline current. In contrast, buprenorphine 0.4 mg caused a large and long-lived analgesic effect with a maximum increase in pain tolerance current of 23.8 (sd 7.4) mA occurring at 130 min after drug administration. Peak analgesic effect was 160% above baseline current (0.4 vs 0.2 mg, P<0.01).
While buprenorphine's analgesic effect increased significantly, respiratory depression was similar in magnitude and timing for the two doses tested. We conclude that over the dose range tested buprenorphine displays ceiling in respiratory effect but none in analgesic effect.
Hepatic stellate cell (HSC) proliferation is a key event in liver fibrosis; therefore, pharmacological intervention with antiproliferative drugs may result in antifibrotic effects. In this article, the antiproliferative effect of three cytostatic drugs was tested in cultured rat HSC. Subsequently, the antifibrotic potential of the most potent drug was evaluated in vivo. As a strategy to overcome drug-related toxicity, we additionally studied how to deliver this drug specifically to HSC by conjugating it to the HSC-selective drug carrier mannose-6-phosphate-modified human serum albumin (M6PHSA). We investigated the effect of cisplatin, chlorambucil, and doxorubicin (DOX) on 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine incorporation in cultured HSC and found DOX to be the most potent drug. Treatment of bile duct-ligated (BDL) rats with daily i.v. injections of 0.35 mg/kg DOX from day 3 to 10 after BDL reduced alpha-smooth muscle actin-stained area in liver sections from 8.5 +/- 0.8 to 5.1 +/- 0.9% (P < 0.01) and collagen-stained area from 13.1 +/- 1.3 to 8.9 +/- 1.5% (P < 0.05). DOX was coupled to M6PHSA, and the organ distribution of this construct (M6PHSA-DOX) was investigated. Twenty minutes after i.v. administration, 50 +/- 6% of the dose was present in the livers, and colocalization of M6PHSA-DOX with HSC markers was observed. In addition, in vitro studies showed selective binding of M6PHSA-DOX to activated HSC. Moreover, M6PHSA-DOX strongly attenuated HSC proliferation in vitro, indicating that active drug is released after uptake of the conjugate. DOX inhibits liver fibrosis in BDL rats, and HSC-selective targeting of this drug is possible. This may offer perspectives for the application of antiproliferative drugs for antifibrotic purposes.
A 53-yr-old man sequentially developed aplastic anemia from phenytoin and carbamazepine. Both compounds undergo metabolism to potentially toxic arene oxide intermediates. We tested the hypothesis that the patient's adverse reactions were due to a defect in detoxification of such metabolites by challenging his peripheral lymphocytes with drug metabolites generated by a murine hepatic microsomal system in vitro. The patient's cell viability was normal in the absence of drugs. However, his cells showed greater toxicity from both phenytoin and carbamazepine metabolites than did controls. Toxicity was dependent on microsomes and NADPH. Intermediate toxicity was noted in cells from the patient's mother. The results provide the first evidence for a role of arene oxide drug metabolites in aplastic anemia in humans and suggest that enhanced susceptibility to toxicity may be based on an inherited abnormality in metabolite detoxification.
Prevention of ventricular fibrillation after aortic unclamping using lidocaine hydrochloride as an additive to cold potassium blood cardioplegia was studied prospectively in 46 patients undergoing elective myocardial revascularization. Patients were similar with respect to age, ventricular function, severity of coronary artery disease, cross-clamp time, completeness of revascularization, frequency of internal thoracic artery grafting, systemic temperature at the time of cross-clamp removal, and mean infusate volume and temperature. Patients receiving lidocaine blood cardioplegia (group 1, 23 patients) had a significant reduction in the incidence of ventricular fibrillation (22% versus 74%; p less than 0.0005) and in the mean number of cardioversion attempts required to defibrillate the heart (0.5 +/- 1.3 versus 1.9 +/- 0.97; p less than 0.0005) after cross-clamp removal compared with controls (group 2, 23 patients). There were no differences between the two groups postoperatively with regard to cardiac enzyme release, hemodynamic measurements, or clinical outcome. Patients receiving lidocaine blood cardioplegia tended to have a lower incidence of new postoperative atrial fibrillation (9% versus 26%). Ventricular function was preserved equally in both groups. We conclude that lidocaine is a safe additive to potassium blood cardioplegia and significantly reduces the incidence of ventricular fibrillation after aortic unclamping.
Among a range of cognitive deficits, human cocaine addicts display increased impulsivity and decreased performance monitoring. In order to establish an animal model that can be used to study the underlying neurobiology of these deficits associated with addiction, we have developed a touch screen based Stop Signal Response Task for rhesus monkeys. This task is essentially identical to the clinically used Stop Signal Task employed for diagnostic and research purposes. In this task, impulsivity is reflected in the amount of time needed to inhibit a response after it has been initiated, the Stop Signal Response Time (SSRT). Performance monitoring is reflected by the slowing of response times following Stop trials (Post-Stop Slowing, PSS). Herein we report on the task structure, the staged methods for training animals to perform the task, and a comparison of performance values for control and cocaine experienced animals. Relative to controls, monkeys that had self-administered cocaine, followed by 18 months abstinence, displayed increased impulsivity (increased SSRT values), and decreased performance monitoring (decreased PSS values). Our results are consistent with human data, and thereby establish an ideal animal model for studying the etiology and underlying neurobiology of cocaine-induced impulse control and performance monitoring deficits.
Inorganic lead and mercury are widely spread xenobiotic neurotoxicants threatening public health. The exposure to inorganic lead and mercury results in adverse effects of poisoning including IQ deficit and peripheral neuropathy. Additionally, inorganic neurotoxicants have even more serious impact on earlier stages of embryonic development. This study was therefore initiated in order to determine the cytotoxic effects of lead and mercury in earlier developmental stages of chick embryo. Administration of inorganic lead and mercury into the chick embryo resulted in the prolonged accumulation of inorganics in the neonatal brain, with detrimental cytotoxicity on neuronal cells. Subsequent studies demonstrated that exposure of chick embryo to inorganic lead and mercury resulted in the reorganization of cytoskeletal proteins in the neonatal brain. These results therefore suggest that inorganics-mediated cytoskeletal reorganization of the structural proteins, resulting in neurocytotoxicity, is one of the underlying mechanisms by which inorganics transfer deleterious effects on central nervous system.
Methylphenidate is used for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). OROS (methylphenidate HCl) is an osmotic controlled-release delivery system designed for once-daily oral dosing. The pharmacokinetics of OROS (methylphenidate HCl) 18 mg qd, sustained-release (SR) methylphenidate 20 mg qd, and the immediate-release (IR) formulation given as three 5 mg doses every 4 hours (tid) were compared in adults. In addition, the single- and multiple-dose pharmacokinetics of the OROS formulation were studied. Following OROS (methylphenidate HCl), there was a gradual increase in the mean methylphenidate plasma concentrations with peak concentrations noted at 6 to 8 hours. With the SR formulation, peak plasma concentrations were noted at approximately 4 hours. Following the IR regimen, methylphenidate plasma concentrations fluctuated in tandem with oral dosing; peak concentrations were noted at 6.5 hours. The terminal half-life of methylphenidate was similar for the three formulations. The dose-normalized methylphenidate Cmax for OROS (methylphenidate HCl) was significantly lower than for IR and SR methylphenidate. The bioavailability of methylphenidate and PPA from OROS (methylphenidate HCl) relative to the IR and SR formulations was complete. Mean methylphenidate AUC and terminal half-life were similar after single (32.9 ng.h/mL and 3.9 hours) and multiple doses (35.2 ng.h/mL and 3.9 hours) of OROS (methylphenidate HCl).
Periventricular and intraventricular intracerebral hemorrhages occur frequently in premature newborns and are markers for, or contribute significantly to, neurologic morbidity in survivors. Hemorrhages are hypothesized to result from rapid fluctuations in cerebral perfusion pressure and/or cerebral blood flow. Phenobarbital sodium has been given to premature infants in anticonvulsant dosages in attempts to prevent hemorrhages, but its efficacy in clinical studies has been disputed. In this study, in the 24 to 72-hour-old newborn beagle, an animal model for periventricular and intraventricular intracerebral hemorrhage, phenobarbital sodium was administered to obtain anticonvulsant serum levels prior to phenylephrine-induced hypertensive insult. None of the animals was hypoxic or hypercarbic. Resulting hypertensive systemic mean arterial BPs were 99 +/- 8 mm Hg in the 15 control pups and 93 +/- 15 mm Hg in the 15 phenobarbital sodium-treated pups (not statistically significantly different). The duration of the hypertension was the same in both groups. Phenobarbital caused a significant decrease in mean arterial BP in the treated group just after its administration (P less than .05). Six of the 15 control pups (40%) and one of the 15 treated pups (7%) demonstrated macroscopic and microscopic periventricular and intraventricular hemorrhage (P less than .05, chi 2, Yates correction). Thus, in nonasphyxiated newborn beagles, phenobarbital sodium significantly reduced the incidence of hemorrhage after hypertensive insult.
This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study compared the time to onset of analgesia and the analgesic efficacy of two formulations of acetaminophen 1000 mg--an effervescent solution and tablet--in 242 patients with moderate or severe pain following dental surgery. Onset of analgesia was determined using a two-stopwatch procedure. Analgesia was assessed over a 4-hour period. Treatments were compared using standard indexes of pain intensity and pain relief and summary measures. Both acetaminophen formulations were significantly more effective than their corresponding placebo for all efficacy assessments. The median time to onset of analgesia was significantly shorter with effervescent acetaminophen (20 minutes) compared to tablet acetaminophen (45 minutes). During the first 45 minutes after administration, effervescent acetaminophen was significantly more effective at each scheduled assessment time than tablet acetaminophen. The median time to meaningful pain relief was significantly shorter with effervescent acetaminophen (45 minutes) compared to tablet acetaminophen (60 minutes). At 4 hours after administration, the pain relief was significantly better with tablet acetaminophen than with effervescent acetaminophen. No other significant differences were observed between the active treatments. In conclusion, effervescent acetaminophen produces a significantly faster onset of analgesia than tablet acetaminophen.
Roles of GABA(B) transmission were explored in the action of amphetamine (Amph) on the brain. Adult male wild type (WT) and monoamine oxidase B-knocked out (MAOBKO) mice received i.p. injections of saline, d-Amph (5 mg/kg), plus baclofen (GABA(B) receptor agonist, 10 mg/kg), or baclofen and Amph, twice daily for 3 days and single treatments on day 4, followed by immuno-cyclic-AMP (cAMP) and immunoblotting assays on the brain tissue. The WT mice responded with higher levels of behavioral responses than the KO to the daily Amph injection; however, baclofen blocked the Amph-induced behavioral hyperactivity of both WT and KO mice. After the last treatment, levels of cAMP and phosphorylated (p) cyclic-AMP response element binding protein (CREB) were up-regulated in the striatum and somatosensory cortex of Amph-treated WT mice, while similar to the saline-controls in the baclofen+Amph-treated group, indicating the blockade by baclofen to Amph. Baclofen similarly suppressed the Amph-induced increases in pCREB levels of WT hippocampus and amygdala, and decreases of olfactory bulb and thalamus. For MAOBKO mice, baclofen hindered the Amph-generated increases in motor cortical cAMP and pCREB, and amygdaloid pCREB, and the decrease in olfactory bulb pCREB, whereas did not affect the Amph-raised hippocampal pCREB. Furthermore, the levels of CREB were variably modified in distinct regions by the drug exposures. The data reveal that the GABA(B)-mediated intracellular signaling differentially participates in mechanisms underlying Amph perturbation to various regions, and may thereby contribute explanations to the behavioral consequences. Moreover, MAOB is region-dependently involved in responses of the brain to Amph and baclofen, supporting interactions between GABA and monoamines.
Postoperative muscle pain occurred in 17.2% of patients given diazepam intravenously 5 minutes prior to suxamethonium. The incidence of muscle pain was 48% in those patients who were not given diazepam before suxamethonium. The difference is statistically significant (p less than 0.01). Five mg diazepam reduced the incidence of pain but not significantly (p = 0.30); 10 mg diazepam significantly reduced the incidence (p less than 0.05); while 15 and 20 mg diazepam showed better effects (p less than 0.01). Diazepam pretreatment also reduced the severity, frequency and duration of muscle pain. The incidence of fasciculations was significantly reduced but there was no correlation between the incidence of fasciculations and the occurrence of muscle pains.
We have recently reported that the Ca2+-binding protein S100beta was induced in rat heart after infarction and forced expression of S100beta in neonatal rat cardiac myocyte cultures inhibited alpha1-adrenergic induction of beta myosin heavy chain (MHC) and skeletal alpha-actin (skACT). We now extend this work by showing that S100beta is induced in hearts of human subjects after myocardial infarction. Furthermore, to determine whether overexpression of S100beta was sufficient to inhibit in vivo hypertrophy, transgenic mice containing multiple copies of the human gene under the control of its own promoter, and CD1 control mice were treated with norepinephrine (NE) (1.5 mg/kg) or vehicle, intraperitoneally twice daily for 15 d. In CD1, NE produced an increase in left ventricular/body weight ratio, ventricular wall thickness, induction of skACT, atrial natriuretic factor, betaMHC, and downregulation of alphaMHC. In transgenic mice, NE induced S100beta transgene mRNA and protein, but provoked neither hypertrophy nor regulated cardiac-specific gene expression. NE induced hypertrophy in cultured CD1 but not S100beta transgenic myocytes, confirming that the effects of S100beta on cardiac mass reflected myocyte-specific responses. These transgenic studies complement in vitro data and support the hypothesis that S100beta acts as an intrinsic negative regulator of the myocardial hypertrophic response.
Current acetaminophen (APAP) formulations approved for antipyretic use in children require up to five doses/day, which compromise compliance and risk breakthrough fever over 4 hours after dosing. A total of 112 evaluable febrile children received oral APAP-equivalent doses of either one dose of APAP controlled release (CR) as sprinkles on applesauce or one dose q 4 hours x 2 of APAP immediate-release (IR) elixir in an 8-hour, double-blind, double-dummy, randomized, multicenter study. Prior or concurrent antibiotic use did not significantly affect either the magnitude or the pattern of temperature reduction during the 8-hour observation period. Significantly greater aural temperature reductions were found with APAP-CR than with APAP-IR at 4 and 5 hours. However, the 8-hour AUCs of temperature reduction were not significantly different between treatments. Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic modeling of APAP was performed in 8 patients with values in both treatments similar to previous results, except for expected differences in AUC0-infinity. Similar 8-hour temperature reduction for APAP-CR (one dose) and APAP-IR (two doses) demonstrates the efficacy of APAP-CR as an antipyretic in children 2 to 11 years of age. A decrease in the number of APAP daily doses and the prolonged antipyretic effect of APAP-CR may assist those who care for febrile children at home.
Transcriptome analysis using microarray technology represents a powerful unbiased approach for delineating pathogenic mechanisms in disease. Here molecular mechanisms of renal tubulointerstitial fibrosis (TIF) were probed by monitoring changes in the renal transcriptome in a glomerular disease-dependent model of TIF (adriamycin nephropathy) using Affymetrix (mu74av2) microarray coupled with sequential primary biological function-focused and secondary "baited"-global cluster analysis of gene expression profiles. Primary cluster analysis focused on mRNAs encoding matrix proteins and modulators of matrix turnover as classified by Onto-Compare and Gene Ontology and identified both molecules and pathways already implicated in the pathogenesis of TIF (e.g. transforming growth factor beta1-CTGF-fibronectin-1 pathway) and novel TIF-associated genes (e.g. SPARC and Matrilin-2). Specific gene expression patterns identified by primary extracellular matrix-focused cluster analysis were then used as bioinformatic bait in secondary global clustering, with which to search the renal transcriptome for novel modulators of TIF. Among the genes clustering with ECM proteins in the latter analysis were endoglin, clusterin, and gelsolin. In several notable cases (e.g. claudin-1 and meprin-1beta) the pattern of gene expression identified in adriamycin nephropathy in vivo was replicated during transdifferentiation of renal tubule epithelial cells to a fibroblast-like phenotype in vitro on exposure to transforming growth factor-beta and epidermal growth factor suggesting a role in fibrogenesis. The further exploration of these complex gene networks should shed light on the core molecular pathways that underpin TIF in renal disease.
The effect of fentanyl, administered immediately before propofol, when pain is experienced at the site of propofol injection was studied in 28 children undergoing elective surgery. The intravenous administration of fentanyl (2 micrograms/kg) significantly reduced such pain compared with a control group receiving saline. The results suggest that the administration of fentanyl may be a valid procedure in relieving pain on injection of propofol.
Thirty eight patients with essential hypertension and 20 healthy volunteers were subjected to treadmill exercise test. The hypertensives were then controlled with atenolol or captopril by randomly forming two groups of 19 patients each, and treadmill evaluation was repeated. The resting rate-pressure product (RPP) and myocardial oxygen consumption (MVO2), as well as peak RPP and MVO2 and recovery time, were increased and exercise duration decreased significantly in uncontrolled hypertensives (p less than 0.001). Control of hypertension resulted in significant improvement of exercise performance in both the groups. Atenolol, when compared to captopril, resulted in better exercise conditioning with considerable lowering of resting and peak RPP and MVO2 (p less than 0.001), though the difference in exercise duration, maximum work load and recovery time were not significant (p greater than 0.05). Thus, where myocardial oxygen consumption is an important consideration while treating hypertension, atenolol offers a better choice.
Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase (NOX) is well known as a major source for superoxide radical generation in leukocytes. Superoxide radicals play a significant role in brain ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury. Recent data have also shown expression of NOX in the brain. However, the manner by which NOX is involved in pathologic processes after cerebral ischemia remains unknown. Therefore, we subjected mice deficient in the NOX subunit, gp91(phox) (gp91(phox)-/-), those treated with the NOX inhibitor, apocynin, and wild-type (WT) mice to 75 mins of focal ischemia followed by reperfusion. At 24 h of reperfusion, the gp91(phox)-/- and apocynin-treated mice showed 50% less brain infarction and 70% less cleaved spectrin compared with WT mice. The levels of 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal, malondialdehyde, and 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine increased significantly after I/R, indicating oxidative brain injury. NADPH oxidase inhibition reduced biomarker generation. Furthermore, NOX was involved in postischemic inflammation in the brains, as less intercellular adhesion molecule-1 upregulation and less neutrophil infiltration were found in the NOX-inhibited mice after I/R. Moreover, gp91(phox) expression increased after ischemia, and was further aggravated by genetic copper/zinc-superoxide dismutase (SOD1) ablation, but ameliorated in SOD1-overexpressing mice. This study suggests that NOX plays a role in oxidative stress and inflammation, thus contributing to ischemic brain injury.
Reported here is the case of a 72-year-old man who was diagnosed with Candida glabrata prosthetic mitral valve endocarditis and treated successfully with fluconazole plus caspofungin after he refused and was determined unfit for surgery. Initial treatment with intravenous amphotericin B resulted in acute renal impairment. Despite 8 days of intravenous fluconazole therapy, he remained fungemic. Caspofungin was added to the treatment regimen with subsequent sterilisation of blood culture. The patient was treated for 34 days with caspofungin and 41 days with fluconazole. He continued oral fluconazole after hospital discharge and remained well at follow-up 11 months later. The role of fluconazole and caspofungin in the treatment of Candida endocarditis is discussed.
The behavioral consequences of metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) activation were investigated following intracerebral administration of the mGluR selective agonists (RS)3,5-dihydroxyphenyl-glycine (3,5-DHPG), (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylate (1S,3R-ACPD), (1R,3S)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylate (1R,3S-ACPD), L-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate (L-AP4), L-serine-O-phosphate (L-SOP) and (2S,3S,4S)alpha-(carboxycyclopropyl)glycine (L-CCGI) into the thalamus in mice. Injections of 3,5-DHPG, 1S,3R-ACPD and L-CCGI produced dose-dependent increases in limbic seizures with a potency order of 3,5-DHPG = 1S,3R-ACPD > L-CCGI. This effect of 1S,3R-ACPD was stereoselective, since the inactive isomer (1R,3S-ACPD) did not elicit seizure activity. Limbic seizures induced by the phosphoinositide-coupled mGluR subtype selective agonist 3,5-DHPG were attenuated by the mGluR antagonist L-2-amino-3-phosphonopropanoic acid (L-AP3) and dantrolene, inhibitors of mGluR-mediated intracellular calcium mobilization. Interestingly, L-AP4, L-SOP and low doses of L-CCGI also protected against 3,5-DHPG seizures. These data indicate that mGluR agonist-induced limbic seizures in mice are mediated by activation of phosphoinositide-coupled mGluRs. Furthermore, these seizures can be protected against by activation of mGluRs that are negatively-linked to cAMP formation.
This study examined the relationship between the myocardial washout rate (WR) of thallium-201 (201Tl) in dipyridamole scintigraphy and both coronary flow reserve (CFR) and myocardial lactate extraction rate (LER) after dipyridamole infusion in 31 patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) without myocardial infarction and 16 control patients. Patients with CAD demonstrated significantly lower WR (21 +/- 17 vs 43 +/- 10%, p < 0.001), lower CFR (128 +/- 82 vs 242 +/- 89%, p < 0.001) and lower LER (-2 +/- 20 vs 10 +/- 10%, p < 0.05) than did the control patients. WR was significantly correlated with CFR (r = 0.50, p < 0.001) and LER (r = 0.41, p < 0.01) in all of the patients. CAD patients with dipyridamole-induced chest pain demonstrated significantly lower WR (14 +/- 20 vs 27 +/- 12%, p < 0.05), lower CFR (97 +/- 71 vs 162 +/- 82%, p < 0.05) and lower LER (-13 +/- 21 vs 11 +/- 9%, p < 0.001) than did CAD patients without chest pain. CAD patients with dipyridamole-induced ST depression demonstrated significantly lower WR (14 +/- 20 vs 29 +/- 8%, p < 0.05), lower CFR (105 +/- 79 vs 170 +/- 73%, p < 0.05) and lower LER (-8 +/- 21 vs 11 +/- 10%, p < 0.01) than did CAD patients without ST depression. These results suggest that the myocardial washout rate of 201Tl after dipyridamole infusion reflects the severity of coronary artery disease as assessed by coronary hemodynamics, myocardial metabolism, symptoms and electrocardiography.
In this study we addressed the role of the nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB1/p50 subunit in chronic injury of the liver by determining the inflammatory and fibrotic responses of nfkappab1-null mice in an experimental model that mimics chronic liver disease. Mice received repeated hepatic injuries throughout 12 weeks by intraperitoneal injection of the hepatotoxin carbon tetrachloride. In response nfkappab1(-/-) mice developed more severe neutrophilic inflammation and fibrosis compared to nfkappab1(+/+) mice. This phenotype was associated with elevated hepatic expression of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, which was localized to regions of the liver associated with inflammation and fibrosis. Hepatic stellate cells are important regulators of hepatic inflammatory and fibrogenic events but normally do not express TNF-alpha. Hepatic stellate cells derived from nfkappab1(-/-) mice expressed TNF-alpha promoter activity, mRNA, and protein. By contrast the expression of other NF-kappaB-responsive genes (ICAM1 and interleukin-6) was similar between nfkappab1(-/-) and nfkappab1(+/+) cells. We provide experimental evidence that the inappropriate expression of TNF-alpha by nfkappab1(-/-) cells is because of lack of a p50-dependent histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1)-mediated repression of TNF-alpha gene transcription. Taken together these data indicate that the p50 NF-kappaB subunit plays a critical protective role in the injured liver by limiting the expression of TNF-alpha and its recruitment of inflammatory cells.
Pancytopenia in a seven-month-old baby is described and attributed to sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim therapy. Plasma cells and histiocytes were prominent in the initial bone marrow examination and quite unlike the fatty hypocellular marrow usually seen in aplastic anemia.
The Netherlands Pharmacovigilance Centre Lareb received four cases of severe symptomatic hyponatraemia or syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) in association with valproic acid use, in which a causal relationship was suspected. This study describes these cases and gives support for this association from Vigibase, the adverse drug reaction (ADR) database of the WHO Collaborating Centre for International Drug Monitoring, the Uppsala Monitoring Centre. Cases of hyponatraemia in valproic acid users are described. In a case/non-case analysis, the strength of the association between reported cases of hyponatraemia and the use of valproic acid in Vigibase was established by calculating a reporting odds ratio, adjusted for possible confounding by concomitant medication. Four females aged 57, 67, 71 and 88 years developed symptomatic hyponatraemia or SIADH after starting valproic acid. Despite concomitant medication or co-morbidity, a causal relationship was plausible. In Vigibase, valproic acid is disproportionally associated with hyponatraemia and SIADH (corrected reporting odds ratio 1.83 [95% CI 1.61, 2.08]). Based on the described cases and the reports from Vigibase, a causal relationship between valproic acid use and hyponatraemia or SIADH can be suspected. The mechanism by which valproic acid could cause hyponatraemia or SIADH has not been fully elucidated. Valproic acid use could lead to reduced sensitivity of hypothalamic osmoreceptors. It also might directly affect tubular cell function, thereby leading to SIADH. It might be expected that a combination of effects on the osmoreceptors and a lack of compensation of the salt-water unbalance by the nephrons causes SIADH in some patients using valproic acid. It could be a dose- or concentration-related adverse effect. In this report, severe symptomatic hyponatraemia and SIADH have been associated with the use of valproic acid. With this study, not only is the number of published cases doubled, but also the data from Vigibase strongly support the association. Since hyponatraemia and SIADH have a high morbidity, health professionals should be aware of this potential ADR.
Danggui buxue tang (DBT), a preparation containing Angelica sinensis (danggui) and Astragalus membranaceus (huangqi) at a ratio of 1 : 5, is used widely in China for stimulating red blood cell production and enhancing cardiovascular function. The present study was undertaken to characterize the effects of this preparation on diabetic nephropathy using streptozotocin-diabetic rats as a model. Streptozotocin-dependent alterations in renal weight/body weight ratio, urinary albumin and beta (2)-microglobulin concentrations, urinary albumin excretion rate, and creatinine clearance were ameliorated after eight weeks of treatment with either DBT or the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, benazepril. DBT, but not benazepril, partially attenuated the increases in blood glucose, triglycerides and cholesterol in STZ-diabetic rats. Additionally, the increased expression of transforming growth factor-beta (1) mRNA in the renal cortex due to streptozotocin-induced diabetes was modestly attenuated by these treatments. However, eight weeks of treatment with DBT failed to modify the concentration of angiotensin II in plasma or kidney, indicating that the ability of the preparation to retard the progression of kidney disease was not attributable to inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system. We propose that DBT alleviates renal alterations in diabetes and slows the progression of diabetic nephropathy by suppressing transforming growth factor-beta (1) mRNA expression. The preparation may therefore be useful as an adjuvant therapy for controlling diabetes and its complications.
