Thiazides, recommended as first-line antihypertensive therapy, are associated with an increased risk of diabetes. Thiazides also lower serum potassium. To determine whether thiazide-induced diabetes is mediated by changes in potassium, we analyzed data from 3790 nondiabetic participants in the Systolic Hypertension in Elderly Program, a randomized clinical trial of isolated systolic hypertension in individuals aged >or=60 years treated with chlorthalidone or placebo. Incident diabetes was defined by self-report, antidiabetic medication use, fasting glucose >or=126 mg/dL, or random glucose >or=200 mg/dL. The mediating variable was change in serum potassium during year 1. Of the 459 incident cases of diabetes during follow-up, 42% occurred during year 1. In year 1, the unadjusted incidence rates of diabetes per 100 person-years were 6.1 and 3.0 in the chlorthalidone and placebo groups, respectively. In year 1, the adjusted diabetes risk (hazard ratio) with chlorthalidone was 2.07 (95% CI: 1.51 to 2.83; P<0.001). After adjustment for change in serum potassium, the risk was significantly reduced (hazard ratio: 1.54; 95% CI: 1.09 to 2.17; P=0.01); the extent of risk attenuation (41%; 95% CI: 34% to 49%) was consistent with a mediating effect. Each 0.5-mEq/L decrease in serum potassium was independently associated with a 45% higher adjusted diabetes risk (95% CI: 24% to 70%; P<0.001). After year 1, chlorthalidone use was not associated with increased diabetes risk. In conclusion, thiazide-induced diabetes occurs early after initiating treatment and appears to be mediated by changes in serum potassium. Potassium supplementation might prevent thiazide-induced diabetes. This hypothesis can and should be tested in a randomized trial.
Treatment with angiotensin II receptor blockers is associated with lower risk for the development of type 2 diabetes mellitus compared with thiazide diuretics. The Mechanisms for the Diabetes Preventing Effect of Candesartan Study addressed insulin action and secretion and body fat distribution after treatment with candesartan, hydrochlorothiazide, and placebo. Twenty-six nondiabetic, abdominally obese, hypertensive patients were included in a multicenter 3-way crossover trial, and 22 completers (by predefined criteria; 10 men and 12 women) were included in the analyses. They underwent 12-week treatment periods with candesartan (C; 16 to 32 mg), hydrochlorothiazide (H; 25 to 50 mg), and placebo (P), respectively, and the treatment order was randomly assigned and double blinded. Intravenous glucose tolerance tests and euglycemic hyperinsulinemic (56 mU/m(2) per minute) clamps were performed. Intrahepatic and intramyocellular and extramyocellular lipid content and subcutaneous and visceral abdominal adipose tissue were measured using proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy and MRI. Insulin sensitivity (M-value) was reduced following H versus C and P (6.07+/-2.05, 6.63+/-2.04, and 6.90+/-2.10 mg/kg of body weight per minute, mean+/-SD; P<or=0.01). Liver fat content was higher (P<0.05) following H than both P and C. The subcutaneous to visceral abdominal adipose tissue ratio was reduced following H versus C and P (P<0.01). Glycosylated hemoglobin, alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein levels were higher (P<0.05) after H, but not C, versus P. There were no changes in body fat, intramyocellular lipid, extramyocellular lipid, or first-phase insulin secretion. Blood pressure was reduced similarly by C and H versus P. In conclusion, visceral fat redistribution, liver fat accumulation, low-grade inflammation, and aggravated insulin resistance were demonstrated after hydrochlorothiazide but not candesartan treatment. These findings can partly explain the diabetogenic potential of thiazides.
To investigate whether magnetic resonance imaging (NMR) can detect alterations in LV contractility during myocardial ischemia, ten patients aged 32-72 with coronary artery disease underwent ECG gated NMR performed at 0.5 Tesla after intravenous infusion of high dose dipyridamole (DP) (0.7 mg/Kg) over 5 minutes. LV contraction in planes similar to echo short axis projection was imaged under condition, 3' and 15-20' after infusion of DP by fast multiphasic imaging (FMI), multiple angulated cine-NMR sequence with a temporal resolution of 50 m/sec. Entity and size of perfusion defects after DP were determined by Tc 99m MIBI myocardial scintigraphy. In all patients changes in LV contractility appeared at NMR in the same site of perfusion impairments revealed with MIBI. In 8 patients the alterations lasted even more than 20' after the first NMR scan. NMR provides the opportunity of performing long-lasting assessment of ventricular wall contractility and enables to exactly localize the site and extension of kinetic changes as well as their time of onset and time duration.
The human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER) family, Ki-67 and p53 are important biomarkers for several malignancies. However, few studies have examined the role of these in prognosis and therapeutic sensitivity of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). The efficacy of triple-drug combination therapy with docetaxel, fluorouracil and cisplatin has recently been expected for ESCC.
Subjects comprised 142 patients with ESCC who underwent operation (OP group, n = 54), neoadjuvant chemotherapy with docetaxel, fluorouracil, and cisplatin (DFP therapy) followed by operation (NAC group, n = 37) or initial systemic DFP therapy (CT group, n = 51) between January 2004 and December 2010. Immunohistochemical expressions of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), HER2, HER3, Ki-67, and p53 were evaluated and compared with prognosis and sensitivity to DFP therapy.
Positive correlations existed between EGFR, HER2, and HER3 expressions. In the OP group, EGFR was independently associated with postoperative recurrence in multivariate analysis (P = .036). In the NAC group, EGFR correlated with pathological response to DFP therapy (P = .004). In the CT group, EGFR, HER2, and HER3 correlated with clinical response to DFP therapy and EGFR was independently associated with favorable prognosis in multivariate analysis (P = .022).
EGFR represents a predictor of postoperative recurrence and sensitivity to triple-drug combination therapy including a taxane. EGFR-positive patients may show improved prognosis with taxane combination chemotherapy and molecular targeted therapy for HER family members.
The production of oxygen free radicals during anthracycline therapy has been proposed as a determinant of the toxicity of anthracyclines. Oxygen radical generation might specifically affect the myocardium because of the low antioxidant defense systems in cardiac tissue. The aim of the present investigations was to evaluate the potential cardioprotective effect of superoxide dismutase (SOD) against the delayed cardiomyopathy induced by doxorubicin (DXR) in a rat model. Female Sprague Dawley rats received 3 mg/kg of DXR intravenously weekly for 4 weeks. SOD was administered intravenously at the dose of 10,000 U/Kg one minute before and 30 minutes after each DXR administration. Cardiac toxicity was monitored in vivo by means of electrocardiography (QaT interval), by determining the contractile properties of isolated atria, and by light and electron microscopy evaluation of left ventricle fragments excised 5 weeks after the last DXR administration. The degree of morphologic lesions was quantitated according to the score system proposed by E. Billingham. DXR treated rats showed, in comparison with control animals treated with saline a decrease of body weight gain, a progressive and irreversible prolongation of QaT, decrease of contractility of isolated atria, and significant morphologic lesions consisting in myocyte vacuolization and myofibrillar loss. SOD significantly prevented the impairment of body weight gain, QaT prolongation and the impairment of myocardial contractility. Moreover morphologic lesions were significantly reduced in rats receiving DXR + SOD. The present data indicate that SOD could represent an important issue in myocardial protection against DXR cardiotoxicity.
Sulfasalazine was devised by Swedish physician in the late 1930s in an attempt to treat "rheumatic polyarthritis." It is still a widely used anti-inflammatory agent especially in the treatment of rheumatologic disorders and inflammatory bowel diseases. Most of its side effects are benign, tolerable, and dose dependent, but less common severe systemic reactions have also been revealed.
A 42-year-old woman diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis was admitted to emergency service because of status epilepticus. Hepatitis and myelotoxicity were also present after laboratory investigations. The patient was on sulfasalazine treatment for 3 weeks with a daily dose of 2g. Cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed bilateral periventricular and subcortical lesions in the white matter of especially temporal and occipital regions. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) examination showed very high protein level (564 mg/L). After discontinuation of treatment, the clinical, CSF, and MRI findings regressed rapidly.
Side effects of sulfasalazine include neurotoxicity such as status epilepticus, cranial MRI lesions, and CSF abnormalities that were diagnosed in our patient after excluding other etiologic factors causing encephalitis.
The antiepileptic agent topiramate has proved its efficacy in a variety of other conditions as well, including several kinds of tremor and migraine prophylaxis. We report on the case of a 42-year-old depressive female patient with comorbid migraine attacks, whereby the adjunction of topiramate as an antimigraine agent at the dosage of 50 mg/d to her antidepressive treatment with fluvoxamine at 300 mg/d triggered--the prima facie paradoxical for topiramate--side effects of tremor and myoclonus. Topiramate was immediately discontinued, and patient's abnormal movements subsided completely within 24 to 72 hours. Topiramate was possibly the cause of patient's abnormal movements enhanced by fluvoxamine's potential to induce also tremor and myoclonus. Therefore, clinicians should be aware of the potentially severe adverse reactions that might occur during concomitant treatment with fluvoxamine and topiramate.
Since the total flavonoid extract (TFE) of Epimedium herb was found to prevent osteoporosis induced by ovariectomy in rats, we have been attempting to identify the exact compound responsible for the bone-strengthening activity. In this experiment, four flavonoid extracts were obtained from Epimedium sagittatum (Siebold & Zucc.) Maxim, which contained 25.3%, 51.2%, 82.3% and 99.2% icariin respectively. They were separately supplemented into the culture media of newborn rat calvarial osteoblasts (ROB) or primary rat bone marrow stroma cells (rMSCs) at 0.1, 1, 10 and 100 microg/ml respectively, in order to observe their effects on the cells. Not any appreciable effect was found on the differentiation of ROB, but an enhancing effect on the osteogenic differentiation of rMSCs was found, and the enhancing degree was icariin-dependent, that is, a higher concentration of icariin in the extract caused more mineralized bone nodules and higher calcium deposition levels. The gene expressions involved in osteogenesis were also improved which was revealed by RT-PCR, including alkaline phosphatase, bone matrix protein (osteocalcin, osteopontin, bone sialoprotein) and cytokines (TGF-beta1 and IGF-I). The effect of icariin on cell proliferation was assayed by the reduction of 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT). Icariin inhibited the proliferation of rMSCs and ROB when its concentration was higher than 10(-5) microM (6.7 microg/ml), no stimulative effect was found. The above results indicated that icariin may exert bone-strengthening activity by enhancing the osteogenic differentiation of MSCs, which partially explains the anti-osteoporosis action of Epimedium herb.
Despite the utility of cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibition as an antiinflammatory strategy, prostaglandin (PG) products of COX-1 and -2 provide important regulatory functions in some pathophysiological states. Scattered reports suggest that COX inhibition may also promote adverse drug events. Here we demonstrate a protective role for endogenous COX-derived products in a murine model of acetaminophen (APAP)-induced acute liver injury. A single hepatotoxic dose caused the selective induction of COX-2 mRNA and increased PGD2 and PGE2 levels within the livers of COX(+/+) male mice suggesting a role for COX-2 in this model of liver injury. APAP-induced hepatotoxicity and lethality were markedly greater in COX-2(-/-) and (-/+) mice in which normal PG responsiveness is altered. The significantly increased toxicity linked to COX-2 deficiency could be mimicked using the selective COX-2 inhibitory drug, celecoxib, in COX(+/+) mice and was not due to alterations in drug-protein adduct formation, a surrogate for bioactivation and toxicity. Microarray analyses indicated that increased injury associated with COX-2 deficiency coincided, most notably, with a profoundly impaired induction of heat shock proteins in COX-2(-/+) mice suggesting that PGs may act as critical endogenous stress signals following drug insult. These findings suggest that COX-2-derived mediators serve an important hepato-protective function and that COX inhibition may contribute to the risk of drug-induced liver injury, possibly through both nonimmunological and immunological pathways.
The Pediatric Perioperative Cardiac Arrest (POCA) Registry was formed in 1994 in an attempt to determine the clinical factors and outcomes associated with cardiac arrest in anesthetized children.
Institutions that provide anesthesia for children are voluntarily enrolled in the POCA Registry. A representative from each institution provides annual institutional demographic information and submits anonymously a standardized data form for each cardiac arrest (defined as the need for chest compressions or as death) in anesthetized children 18 yr of age or younger. Causes and factors associated with cardiac arrest are analyzed.
In the first 4 yr of the POCA Registry, 63 institutions enrolled and submitted 289 cases of cardiac arrest. Of these, 150 arrests were judged to be related to anesthesia. Cardiac arrest related to anesthesia had an incidence of 1.4 +/- 0.45 (mean +/- SD) per 10,000 instances of anesthesia and a mortality rate of 26%. Medication-related (37%) and cardiovascular (32%) causes of cardiac arrest were most common, together accounting for 69% of all arrests. Cardiovascular depression from halothane, alone or in combination with other drugs, was responsible for two thirds of all medication-related arrests. Thirty-three percent of the patients were American Society of Anesthesiologists physical status 1-2; in this group, 64% of arrests were medication-related, compared with 23% in American Society of Anesthesiologists physical status 3-5 patients (P < 0.01). Infants younger than 1 yr of age accounted for 55% of all anesthesia-related arrests. Multivariate analysis demonstrated two predictors of mortality: American Society of Anesthesiologists physical status 3-5 (odds ratio, 12.99; 95% confidence interval, 2.9-57.7), and emergency status (odds ratio, 3. 88; 95% confidence interval, 1.6-9.6).
Anesthesia-related cardiac arrest occurred most often in patients younger than 1 yr of age and in patients with severe underlying disease. Patients in the latter group, as well as patients having emergency surgery, were most likely to have a fatal outcome. The identification of medication-related problems as the most frequent cause of anesthesia-related cardiac arrest has important implications for preventive strategies.
Phenylpropanolamine is widely used and freely available without a doctor's prescription in drug and grocery stores; it is the active ingredient in most diet aids and many cold preparations. Several cases of multiple cerebral hemorrhages associated with transient hypertension have recently been attributed to phenylpropanolamine in dosages equal to or less than that contained in two diet aids (i.e., 150 mg). Some evidence also exists on the additive effects of the co-ingestion of phenylpropanolamine and caffeine. We therefore undertook a study to demonstrate that a significant health risk can be caused by a double dose of a typical over-the-counter (OTC) diet aid (i.e., 150 mg phenylpropanolamine) and also when 75 mg phenylpropanolamine is taken with caffeine.
Five men and one woman, ranging in age from 20 to 30, participated in this study. The drug preparations were administered to each subject on different study days in a double-blind, randomized-crossover design. Identical capsules contained 75 mg sustained-release phenylpropanolamine, 400 mg of sustained-release caffeine, or placebo. Subjects ingested three capsules at the beginning of each study day. For 150 mg, two phenylpropanolamine-containing capsules and one placebo were taken; for 75 mg, one phenylpropanolamine capsule and two placebos; and for phenylpropanolamine plus caffeine, one 75 mg phenylpropanolamine capsule, one 400 mg caffeine capsule, and one placebo. Blood pressure and heart rate were monitored throughout the study.
Although 75 mg of phenylpropanolamine did not cause clinically relevant hypertension in our subjects, 150 mg of phenylpropanolamine and 75 mg of phenylpropanolamine plus 400 mg caffeine did result in significant blood pressure increases into the hypertensive range.
We believe that consumers often assume that double the recommended dosage of an OTC drug is safe and more effective. We suggest that requiring a physician's prescription or an additional, stronger warning label on phenylpropanolamine-containing products may prevent substantial mortality and morbidity.
ER-119884 and E5700, novel arylquinuclidine derivatives developed as cholesterol-lowering agents, were potent in vitro growth inhibitors of both proliferative stages of Leishmania amazonensis, the main causative agent of cutaneous leishmaniasis in South America, with the 50% inhibitory concentrations (IC(50)s) being in the low-nanomolar to subnanomolar range. The compounds were very potent noncompetitive inhibitors of native L. amazonensis squalene synthase (SQS), with inhibition constants also being in the nanomolar to subnanomolar range. Growth inhibition was strictly associated with the depletion of the parasite's main endogenous sterols and the concomitant accumulation of exogenous cholesterol. Using electron microscopy, we identified the intracellular structures affected by the compounds. A large number of lipid inclusions displaying different shapes and electron densities were observed after treatment with both SQS inhibitors, and these inclusions were associated with an intense disorganization of the membrane that surrounds the cell body and flagellum, as well as the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi complex. Cells treated with ER-119884 but not those treated with E5700 had an altered cytoskeleton organization due to an abnormal distribution of tubulin, and many were arrested at cytokinesis. A prominent contractile vacuole and a phenotype typical of programmed cell death were frequently found in drug-treated cells. The selectivity of the drugs was demonstrated with the JC-1 mitochondrial fluorescent label and by trypan blue exclusion tests with macrophages, which showed that the IC(50)s against the host cells were 4 to 5 orders of magnitude greater that those against the intracellular parasites. Taken together, our results show that ER-119884 and E5700 are unusually potent and selective inhibitors of the growth of Leishmania amazonensis, probably because of their inhibitory effects on de novo sterol biosynthesis at the level of SQS, but some of our observations indicate that ER-119884 may also interfere with other cellular processes.
Two reports from China have suggested that arsenic trioxide can induce complete remissions in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). We evaluated this drug in patients with APL in an attempt to elucidate its mechanism of action.
Twelve patients with APL who had relapsed after extensive prior therapy were treated with arsenic trioxide at doses ranging from 0.06 to 0.2 mg per kilogram of body weight per day until visible leukemic cells were eliminated from the bone marrow. Bone marrow mononuclear cells were serially monitored by flow cytometry for immunophenotype, fluorescence in situ hybridization, reverse-transcription-polymerase-chain-reaction (RT-PCR) assay for PML-RAR-alpha fusion transcripts, and Western blot analysis for expression of the apoptosis-associated proteins caspases 1, 2, and 3.
Of the 12 patients studied, 11 achieved complete remission after treatment that lasted from 12 to 39 days (range of cumulative doses, 160 to 495 mg). Adverse effects were relatively mild and included rash, lightheadedness, fatigue, and musculoskeletal pain. Cells that expressed both CD11b and CD33 (antigens characteristic of mature and immature cells, respectively), and which were found by fluorescence in situ hybridization to carry the t(15;17) translocation, increased progressively in number during treatment and persisted in the early phase of complete remission. Eight of 11 patients who initially tested positive for the PML-RAR-alpha fusion transcript by the RT-PCR assay later tested negative; 3 other patients, who persistently tested positive, relapsed early. Arsenic trioxide induced the expression of the proenzymes of caspase 2 and caspase 3 and activation of both caspase 1 and caspase 3.
Low doses of arsenic trioxide can induce complete remissions in patients with APL who have relapsed. The clinical response is associated with incomplete cytodifferentiation and the induction of apoptosis with caspase activation in leukemic cells.
Hygrophila auriculata (K. Schum.) Heine (Family: Acanthaceae) is a wild herb widely used in 'Ayurveda' as 'Rasayana' drug for treatment of various disorders. Treatment of diabetic rats with aerial parts of Hygrophila auriculata extract (HAEt, 100 and 250 mg/kg body weight) for 3 weeks showed significant reduction in blood glucose, thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and hydroperoxide in both liver and kidney. The treatment with HAEt significantly increased the glutathione (GSH), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione S-transferase (GST) and catalase (CAT) in the drug-treated group, which is comparable to the control group. HAEt and glibenclamide-treated rats also showed decreased lipid peroxidation that is associated with increased activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase. The ability of HAEt on tissue lipid peroxidation and antioxidant status in diabetic animals has not been studied before. The result of this study thus shows that HAEt possesses significant antidiabetic activity along with potent antioxidant potential in diabetic conditions.
A man presented with recurrent syncope, weakness and fatigue. His ECG showed marked QRS widening and he had gross hyponatraemia and hypokalaemia. His medications included bendroflumethiazide (long term) and flecainide (started 2 months previously). This presentation was consistent with flacainide cardiotoxicity exacerbated by electrolyte disturbance. The syncopal episodes probably represented life-threatening arrhythmias. The ECG and symptoms resolved completely once the electrolytes were corrected. Increased cardiotoxicity with hypokalaemia is documented, but not widely recognised. Hyponatraemia-induced flecainide cardiotoxicity has not been documented. The clinical effects of flecainide are due to use-dependent block of sodium channels. There are reports that support the use of hypertonic sodium salts to reverse flecainide toxicity via antagonism at the receptor. By this rationale, hyponatraemia would lead to Flecainide toxicity. Flecainide has been shown to reduce salt absorption in animal bowel. It is possible that in combination with bendroflumethiazide it acted synergistically to produce profound electrolyte disturbance. Flecainide cardiotoxicity has a significant mortality and can present non-specifically. Thus, early recognition is essential. This case demonstrates the importance of strict electrolyte control in patients who are on flecainide. We would discourage concomitant use of flecainide and bendroflumethiazide.
We describe brachial plexus neuropathy with high-dose cytarabine (Ara-C) therapy in a man who had acute monoblastic leukemia. Signs and symptoms of brachial plexus neuropathy appeared on two occasions within hours of exposure to high-dose Ara-C. Central nervous system complications have been described following systemic and intrathecal Ara-C. High-dose Ara-C has not been implicated previously as a cause of brachial plexus neuropathy.
The resting membrane potential (RMP) of skeletal muscle cells was investigated in a hyperdynamic animal model of sepsis. Reduced membrane potential is known to parallel the clinical course of sepsis and hemorrhagic shock in animal models. Pentoxifylline (PTF), a dimethyl xanthine derivative of the theophylline family, may improve the metabolic effects of sepsis. A cecal ligation and puncture (CL&P) sepsis model in Wistar rats was used in which RMP was measured with differing administration regimes of PTF. The RMP decreased less rapidly in our study when PTF was administered after CL&P and this effect was most noticeable after 18 hours. Administration of PTF before CL&P had little effect on membrane potential fall-off. These results suggest a potential role for PTF in the management of sepsis.
Morphine sulfate and naltrexone hydrochloride extended release capsules contain extended-release pellets of morphine with a sequestered naltrexone core (MS-sNT). Taken whole, as intended, morphine is released to provide pain relief; if tampered with by crushing, naltrexone is released to mitigate subjective effects of morphine.
This open-label study assessed long-term (12-month) safety of MS-sNT in patients with chronic, moderate to severe pain.
Safety assessments included determining adverse events (AEs), laboratory assessments, and the Clinical Opiate Withdrawal Scale (COWS). Analgesic efficacy was assessed (diary) as worst, least, average, and current pain using an 11-point numeric scale (0=none; 10=worst).
Of 465 patients receiving one or more doses, 160 completed the study. Most patients (81.3%) experienced one or more AEs, most commonly constipation (31.8%) or nausea (25.2%). Thirty-three patients (7.1%) reported serious AEs; one patient's severe gastrointestinal inflammation and colitis were considered possibly study drug-related. Most discontinuations (30%) occurred in the first month, most often because of AEs (23.7%). There were no clinically relevant changes in laboratory results or vital signs, and no clinically significant electrocardiogram changes deemed study drug-related. During each visit after Week 1, 5% or fewer patients had COWS scores indicating mild withdrawal symptoms (range, 0%-4.8%). Five patients, who did not take the study drug as instructed, had scores consistent with moderate withdrawal. MS-sNT yielded statistically significant improvements from baseline in mean scores for all pain diary items for all visits, except Week 1 for least pain.
In this study population, when MS-sNT was taken as directed for chronic, moderate to severe pain for up to 12 months, most AEs were typical opioid-related side effects. Mean COWS scores remained low, indicating lack of withdrawal symptoms and appropriate transition off the study drug at completion.
Inner ear pathology was studied in adult rats with lipoid nephrosis induced by puromycin aminonucleoside. Although no abnormality was observed in auditory brain-stem responses, significant changes were noted in the stria vascularis. The most striking observation was that intermediate cells were markedly swelled, there-by pressing adjacent marginal cells. Severely affected marginal cells have vacuoles and increased lysosomes and protruded toward the endolymphatic space. The organ of Corti remained virtually intact. Although the vestibular maculae were relatively normal, type I hair cells in the semicircular canal underwent a conspicuous vaculolization. These findings support a postulate that the inner ear is liable to damage in lipoid nephrosis.
The present study is aimed at evaluating the functional and neuroprotective effect of benzamide, a poly-(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor on delayed neuronal death (DND) in hippocampus CA1 region and memory impairment following global cerebral ischemia (GCI) in a mouse model. GCI was induced by bilateral common carotid artery occlusion (BCAo) for 20 min followed by reperfusion for 9 days. Postischemic continuous treatment with benzamide (160 mg/kg b w i.p. for 9 days) significantly reversed the GCI-induced anterograde memory impairment in passive avoidance step through and elevated plus maze tasks. The observed memory impairment in vehicle treated ischemia group was found to be well correlated with DND and downregulation of cholinergic muscarinic receptor-1 expression, which was possibly mediated by inflammation and apoptosis, as revealed from inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression and number of TUNEL positive neurons in hippocampus CA1 region. It is clear from the present experiment that benzamide treatment significantly decreases the iNOS expression and number of apoptotic neurons and thereby improves the neuronal survival and memory during GCI. Our present findings provide compelling evidence that multiple doses of benzamide treatment is a promising therapeutic approach for cerebrovascular and neurodegenerative diseases, which deserves further clinical evaluation.
Preclinical evaluation of delayed ventricular repolarization manifests electrocardiographically as QT interval prolongation and is routinely used as an indicator of potential risk for pro-arrhythmia (potential to cause Torsades de Pointes) of novel human pharmaceuticals. In accordance with ICH S7A and S7B guidelines we evaluated the sensitivity and validity of the beagle dog telemetry (Integrated Telemetry Services (ITS)) model as a preclinical predictor of QT interval prolongation in humans.
Cardiovascular monitoring was conducted for 2 h pre-dose and 24 h post-dosing with moxifloxacin (MOX), haloperidol (HAL), and MK-499, with a toxicokinetic (TK) evaluation in a separate group of dogs. In both cardiovascular and TK studies, MOX (0, 10, 30 and 100 mg/kg), HAL (0, 0.3, 1, 3 mg/kg) and MK-499 (0, 0.03, 0.3 and 3 mg/kg) were administered orally by gavage in 0.5% methylcellulose. Each dog received all 4 doses using a dose-escalation paradigm. Inherent variability of the model was assessed with administration of vehicle (0.5% methylcellulose) alone for 4 days.
Significant increases in QT(c) were evident with 10, 30 and 100 mg/kg of MOX (C(max)< or =40 microM), 0.3, 1 and 3 mg/kg of HAL (C(max)< or =0.36 microM) and 0.3 and 3 mg/kg of MK-499 (C(max)< or =825 nM) with peak increases of 45 (20%), 31 (13%), and 45 (19%) ms, respectively (p< or =0.05).
In conclusion, we have demonstrated that the ITS-telemetry beagle dog exhibits low inherent intra-animal variability and high sensitivity to detect small but significant increases in QT/QT(c) interval ( approximately 3-6%) with MOX, HAL and MK-499 in the same range of therapeutic plasma concentrations attained in humans. Therefore, this dog telemetry model should be considered an important preclinical predictor of QT prolongation of novel human pharmaceuticals.
Growing evidence suggests that tobacco can affect the responsiveness of cancer cells to treatment, particularly those of head and neck cancer. This article describes the effects of nicotine on the signaling of the death pathway, resulting in a decreased cytotoxicity of various anticancer agents such as cisplatin and gamma-radiation.
Colony-forming assays (CFA), using the head and neck cancer cell lines UMSCC10b and UMSCC5 and DNA fragmentation assays, were used to determine the effect of nicotine on cytotoxicity of various anticancer agents, whereas PCR and a JNK activity test were used to study the effect of nicotine on message expression levels and activity of the JNK signaling pathway.
Nicotine consistently reduced the cytotoxic effect of DNA-damaging agents, such as cisplatin, UV, and gamma radiation, in UMSCC10b cells, increasing their IC(50) values by twofold, 1.7-fold, and 1.8-fold, respectively. These results were confirmed in a second squamous cell carcinoma cell line (UMSCC5), demonstrating an increase in IC(50) values for cDDP by twofold and 1.9-fold in the UMSCC10b andUMSCC5, respectively. In addition, nicotine reduced the DNA fragmentation 48 h after cDDP exposure in UMSCC10b and UMSCC5 cell lines by 30% and 33%, respectively. The latter, however, was not the result of an effect of nicotine on either the uptake of cDDP or repair of the cDDP-DNA-adducts. To further substantiate the adverse effect of nicotine, the JNK and gadd153 signaling pathways were studied. JNK activity was decreased by 1.8-fold, as well as the expression of its downstream target c-jun (1.9-fold), when tumor cells were exposed to cisplatin in the presence of nicotine. In addition, the gadd153 message was affected and reduced by 1.8-fold.
Nicotine adversely affects the cytotoxicity of DNA-damaging agents. Nicotine does not interfere with the repair of the damage but directly affects the signaling of the death pathway, reducing the signaling of the JNK1 pathway. The latter results in a decrease in efficacy of the anticancer treatment in tumors exposed to nicotine.
We assessed the effect of acyclovir therapy on renal function during a course of therapy for herpesvirus disease. Renal function was assessed by measuring the clearances of inulin, albumin, and beta 2-microglobulin at the beginning and end of acyclovir therapy. Thirty-two patients had valid paired inulin clearances and 21 had valid paired albumin and beta 2-microglobulin clearances. No significant mean decrement of renal function was observed; however, 2 patients had a reversible renal dysfunction associated with acyclovir therapy which disappeared soon after discontinuation of the drug and was unassociated with a prior or recurrent renal dysfunction in short-term follow-up.
Arsenic trioxide (As2O3) is used to treat acute promyelocytic leukemia. However, the cardiotoxicity of long QT syndrome restricts its clinical application. Previous studies showed that As2O3 can damage the human ether-a-go-go-related gene (hERG) current via disturbing its trafficking to cellular membrane. This study aimed to investigate whether the As2O3-insulted hERG channel can be rescued by resveratrol, a recognized cardioprotective agent. The whole-cell patch clamp technique was used to record the hERG current and action potential duration. Co-immunoprecipitation and Western blot assay were applied to determine the function of hERG-Hsp70/Hsp90 chaperone complexes and the expression alteration of protein-folding-related proteins, respectively. Compared with treatment of As2O3 alone, co-treatment with resveratrol successfully restored the current and surface expression of hERG and obviously shortened action potential duration in guinea pig ventricular myocytes. Further experiments demonstrate that resveratrol relieved As2O3-caused endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress by restoring the function of hERG-Hsp70/Hsp90 chaperone complexes and downregulating the protein expression of ER chaperone proteins (calnexin and calreticulin) and activating transcription factor 6. In conclusion, resveratrol was able to rescue the trafficking deficiency and relieve the ER stress (ERS). Our findings suggest that resveratrol has a potential effect to alleviate the adverse effect of As2O3 on cardiotoxicity.
