In the present study, the effects of L-dopa treatment on cardiovascular variables and peripheral venous tone were assessed in 13 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) with Hoehn and Yahr stages 1-4. Patients were investigated once with their regular treatment and once after 12 h of interruption of L-dopa treatment. L-Dopa intake significantly reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart rate and plasma noradrenaline and adrenaline in both the supine and upright (60 degrees ) positions. A significant reduction in stroke volume and cardiac output was also seen with L-dopa. The vascular status of the legs was assessed through thigh compression during leg weighing, a new technique developed in our laboratory. Healthy subjects were used to demonstrate that this technique provided reproducible results, consistent with those provided by strain gauge plethysmography of the calf. When using this technique in patients with PD, L-dopa caused a significant lowering of vascular tone in the lower limbs as shown, in particular, by an increase in venous distensibility. Combined with the results of the orthostatic tilting, these findings support that the treatment-linked lowering of plasma noradrenaline in patients with PD was concomitant with a significant reduction in blood pressure, heart rate and vascular tone in the lower limbs. These pharmacological side-effects contributed to reduce venous return and arterial blood pressure which, together with a lowered heart rate, worsened the haemodynamic status.
Observations on the deleterious effects of a totally vegetarian diet in infancy are reported and the difficulties encountered in the prevention of nutritional deficiencies in a vegan religious community are discussed. Twenty-five infants of this community who were seen at the hospital showed evidence of protein-calorie malnutrition, iron- and vitamin B12-deficient anemia, rickets, zinc deficiency, and multiple recurrent infections. Evidence of growth retardation was also found in 47 infants seen at the local mother-child health (well-baby) clinic. Samples of breast milk showed low levels of carbohydrate (1.6 to 3.5 gm/100 ml), protein (0.8 to 1.4 gm/100 ml), and fat (2.4 to 4.1 gm/100 ml). The main constituent of the infants' diet after the age of 3 months (a "soya milk" prepared at the community's central kitchen) was extremely dilute with a very low calorific value (13.7 kcal/100 ml). Persistent attempts to find dietary modifications that would satisfy both the vegan philosophy and also the recommended dietary allowances failed. This problem represents a scientific and medicosocial challenge to pediatricians and nutritionists.
Clonidine is a central alpha adrenergic agonist which can be used to treat the opiate withdrawal syndrome. It has been used in many controlled trials and a substantial body of research evidence is available about its effectiveness in this role. This paper reviews the literature regarding its introduction in the Yale studies, its effectiveness relative to gradual methadone reduction treatments, its side effects, and touches briefly upon its use in conjunction with opiate antagonists. It is concluded that clonidine produces marked reduction of withdrawal symptoms but does not eliminate them; that the pattern of withdrawal symptoms differs from that associated with methadone reduction schemes; that there is some disagreement about the clinical significance of hypotensive and other side effects; and that the drug has interesting possibilities for rapid withdrawal programmes when combined with naltrexone.
Ibrutinib is a potent covalent kinase inhibitor that targets BTK. BTK, or Bruton's tyrosine kinase, is an obvious target for therapy of B cell diseases because inactivating mutations lead to B cell aplasia in humans and the disease X-linked agammaglobulinemia. Ibrutinib has modest cytotoxicity against CLL cells in vitro but also blocks trophic stimuli from the microenvironment. As with other inhibitors of the BCR pathway, ibrutinib causes rapid nodal reduction and response associated with rapid increase in lymphocytosis, which then returns to baseline over time. The ORR of ibrutinib in relapsed refractory CLL is 67 % with PFS 88 % at 15 months. In a cohort of untreated patients 65 years and over, the estimated 15 month PFS is 96 %. Registration trials have been initiated, and the difficult task that remains is to determine where in the course of CLL therapy this drug will have the greatest impact and benefit for patients.
The TLR4 (Toll-like receptor 4) signal plays an important role in immunity in CAD (coronary artery disease). miR-146a/b (where miR is microRNA) regulates the TLR4 downstream molecules IRAK1 (interleukin-1-receptor-associated kinase 1) and TRAF6 (tumour-necrosis-factor-receptor-associated factor 6). It has also been reported that statins and RAS (renin-angiotensin system) inhibition and have anti-atherosclerotic properties. In the present study, we have investigated whether miR-146a/b was expressed with the TLR4 signal in CAD patients, and whether combined treatment with a statin and RAS inhibition might affect these levels. A total of 66 patients with CAD and 33 subjects without CAD (non-CAD) were enrolled. Patients with CAD were randomized to 12 months of combined treatment with atorvastatin and telmisartan [an ARB (angiotensin II receptor blocker)] or atorvastatin and enalapril [an ACEI (angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor)]. PBMCs (peripheral blood mononuclear cells) were obtained from peripheral blood at baseline and after 12 months. Levels of miR-146a/b, IRAK1 mRNA, TRAF6 mRNA and TLR4 mRNA/TLR4 protein were significantly higher in the CAD group than in the non-CAD group (all P<0.01). Levels of miR-146a/b were positively correlated with IRAK1 mRNA and TRAF6 mRNA levels. After 12 months of treatment, these levels were markedly decreased in the ARB and ACEI groups, with the decrease in the ARB group being greater than that in the ACEI group (all P<0.05). In our 12-month follow-up study, high levels of miR-146a and TLR4 mRNA/TLR4 protein at baseline were independent predictors of cardiac events. The present study demonstrates that combined treatment with an ARB and a statin decreases miR-146a/b and the TLR4 signal in CAD patients, possibly contributing to the anti-atherogenic effects of ARBs and statins in this disorder.
Salmeterol, a long-acting beta2 -agonist, and zafirlukast, a leukotriene receptor antagonist, are both indicated for the treatment of asthma in adolescent and adult patients.
We sought to compare the effect of 4 weeks of treatment with inhaled salmeterol xinafoate versus oral zafirlukast in the treatment of persistent asthma.
This was a randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, parallel-group, multicenter clinical trial. Patients, over 80% of whom were on a concurrent inhaled corticosteroid regimen, were treated for 4 weeks with either inhaled salmeterol xinafoate 42 microgram twice daily administered by means of a metered-dose inhaler or oral zafirlukast 20 mg twice daily. The primary efficacy measure was morning peak expiratory flow (PEF); secondary efficacy measures included evening PEF, asthma symptom scores, supplemental albuterol use, nighttime awakenings, sleep symptoms, asthma exacerbations, and FEV1.
Both inhaled salmeterol and oral zafirlukast resulted in within-group improvements from baseline in measures of pulmonary function, asthma symptoms, and supplemental albuterol use. Salmeterol treatment resulted in significantly greater improvements from baseline compared with zafirlukast for most efficacy measurements, including morning PEF (29.6 vs 13.0 L/min; P </= .001), percentage of symptom-free days (22.4% vs 8.8%; P </= .001), and percentage of days and nights with no supplemental albuterol use (30.5% vs 11.3%; P </= .001). There were no differences in safety profiles as assessed by adverse event monitoring.
In patients with persistent asthma, most of whom were concurrently using inhaled corticosteroids, treatment with inhaled salmeterol provided significantly greater improvement than oral zafirlukast in overall asthma control over the 4-week treatment period.
Seizures produced in rats by systemically administered pilocarpine (PILO) provide a model for studying the generation and spread of convulsive activity in the forebrain. PILO, 380 mg/kg, induces a sequence of behavioral and electroencephalographic alterations indicative of motor limbic seizures and status epilepticus which is followed by widespread damage to the limbic forebrain resembling that occurring subsequent to prolonged intractable seizures in humans. The present study was undertaken to determine whether clinically utilized antiepileptic drugs share an ability to suppress seizures and brain damage elicited by PILO in rats. Clonazepam, ED50 0.35 mg/kg (0.25-0.49), phenobarbital, 23.4 mg/kg (18.5-29.6), and valproic acid, 286 mg/kg (202-405), prevented the buildup of limbic seizures and protected against seizure-related brain damage. Pretreatment with trimethadione, 179 mg/kg (116-277), resulted in a moderate protection against PILO-induced seizures, whereas carbamazepine, 10-50 mg/kg, and diphenylhydantoin, 10-200 mg/kg, blocked neither convulsions nor brain damage produced by the drug. Surprisingly, ethosuximide, 196 mg/kg (141-272), and acetazolamide, 505 mg/kg (332-766), both lowered the threshold for seizures induced by PILO and converted a non-convulsant dose of PILO, 200 mg/kg, into a convulsant one. These results indicate that only certain anticonvulsant drugs elevate the threshold for PILO-induced seizures and prevent the occurrence of epilepsy-related brain damage. The resistance of seizures produced by PILO in rats to antiepileptic drugs reaffirms the clinically obvious lack of effective treatments for limbic convulsions.
We studied the clinical effect of recombinant human erythropoietin (r-huEPO) on anemia induced by two courses of cisplatin-based chemotherapy in patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Seventy-two patients with NSCLC were randomized into three groups, receiving 100, or 200 IU/kg of r-huEPO, or placebo. The r-huEPO and placebo were administered subcutaneously three times a week for 6 weeks, starting 2 weeks after the initiation of chemotherapy.
In the 53 evaluable patients, hemoglobin (Hb) levels at the nadir after the second cycle of chemotherapy were significantly elevated compared with the nadir after the first cycle in both r-huEPO treated groups, while this level was decreased in the placebo group. Hb levels at the end of the second course of chemotherapy (week 8) in both r-huEPO groups were higher than that in the placebo groups. No adverse drug reaction attributable to r-huEPO was observed. Serum erythropoietin levels after the administration of r-huEPO were higher than those after placebo administration.
r-huEPO had an effect in preventing anemia in patients with NSCLC who had cisplatin-based chemotherapy.
We present a case of acute dystonia caused by administration of etoposide in an 11-year-old boy being treated for acute lymphoblastic leukemia. We believe this is the first report of this side effect.
Four patients who were rendered comatose or stuporous by drug intoxication, but who were not hypoxic, are described. Three patients received high doses of chlormethiazole for alcohol withdrawal symptoms, and one took a suicidal overdose of nitrazepam. The patient with nitrazepam overdose and two of those with chlormethiazole intoxication conformed to the criteria of 'alpha coma', showing non-reactive generalized or frontally predominant alpha activity in the EEG. The fourth patient who was unconscious after chlormethiazole administration exhibite generalized non-reactive activity in the slow beta range. All four recovered completely without neurological sequelae following the withdrawal of the offending agents. The similarities between the effects of structural lesions and pharmacological depression of the brain stem reticular formation are discussed. It is suggested that in both situations disturbed reticulo-thalamic interactions are important in the pathogenesis of alpha coma. It is concluded that when this electroencephalographic and behavioural picture is seen in drug intoxication, in the absence of significant hypoxaemia, a favourable outcome may be anticipated.
Seven patients had acute oliguric renal failure after intravenous urography (2), celiac arteriography (2), or cardiac angiography (3). Diatrizoate meglumine was the contrast media used in all of the cases. These patients had an average age of 63 years and six were 55 years of age or older. Diabetes mellitus, negative fluid balance before the procedure, underlying renal insufficiency, and hypertension were common, being present in three, four, five, and six of the patients respectively . Anuria or oliguria occurred within 24 hours of the procedure and persisted from 36 to 96 hours (72 hours average). The serum creatinine level rose significantly in all of the patients and reached a peak in two to seven days after the procedure. In six patients, recovery was complete by two to three weeks. The seventh patient experienced only partial recovery. These cases taken together with a mounting number of recent reports suggest that contrast media-induced oliguric renal failure is more common than generally believed. Diabetes mellitus, older age, and underlying renal insufficiency seem to be important predisposing factors.
The G protein-coupled estrogen receptor GPR30 contributes to the neuroprotective effects of 17β-estradiol (E2); however, the mechanisms associated with this protection have yet to be elucidated. Given that E2 increases astrocytic expression of glutamate transporter-1 (GLT-1), which would prevent excitotoxic-induced neuronal death, we proposed that GPR30 mediates E2 action on GLT-1 expression. To investigate this hypothesis, we examined the effects of G1, a selective agonist of GPR30, and GPR30 siRNA on astrocytic GLT-1 expression, as well as glutamate uptake in rat primary astrocytes, and explored potential signaling pathways linking GPR30 to GLT-1. G1 increased GLT-1 protein and mRNA levels, subject to regulation by both MAPK and PI3K signaling. Inhibition of TGF-α receptor suppressed the G1-induced increase in GLT-1 expression. Silencing GPR30 reduced the expression of both GLT-1 and TGF-α and abrogated the G1-induced increase in GLT-1 expression. Moreover, the G1-induced increase in GLT-1 protein expression was abolished by a protein kinase A inhibitor and an NF-κB inhibitor. G1 also enhanced cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB), as well as both NF-κB p50 and NF-κB p65 binding to the GLT-1 promoter. Finally, to model dysfunction of glutamate transporters, manganese was used, and G1 was found to attenuate manganese-induced impairment in GLT-1 protein expression and glutamate uptake. Taken together, the present data demonstrate that activation of GPR30 increases GLT-1 expression via multiple pathways, suggesting that GPR30 is worthwhile as a potential target to be explored for developing therapeutics of excitotoxic neuronal injury.
Twelve of 13 diabetics with azotemic nephropathy experienced exacerbation of renal failure and decreased insulin requirement after coronary angiography utilizing radiographic contrast material. The single patient who did not develop acute renal failure had no evidence of decreased insulin requirement. Eleven of 12 patients had decreased insulin requirement: mean decrement in insulin dose, 40%; mean decrement in fasting blood glucose level, 33%; mean decrement in peak blood glucose level, 42%. The 12th patient underwent peritoneal dialysis against hypertonic glucose without need of an increased insulin dose. Eight of 11 patients experienced a total of 19 insulin reactions; one patient was hypoglycemic continuously, despite infusion of glucose and discontinuation of insulin. The decrement of insulin requirement was not proportional to the rise in either serum creatinine or potassium concentrations. We suggest that when acute renal failure occurs in diabetics, decreased insulin requirement should be anticipated and the insulin dose lowered.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs delay ulcer healing and cause refractory peptic ulcers in humans.
To study the effects of growth factors on experimental duodenal ulcer healing in indomethacin-treated rats.
Duodenal ulcers were induced in male Wistar rats by the serosal application of 75% acetic acid for 10 s. Rats were then treated with indomethacin (2 mg/kg/day; s.c.), transforming growth factor beta (15 ng locally injected subserosally at the ulcer site) or famotidine (5 mg/kg/day; p.o.), vehicle or combinations of treatments. On day 5, 8 or 12, rats were sacrificed and the ulcer area planimetrically measured under a dissecting microscope. Macroscopic area, microscopic diameter, collagen content and mucosal regeneration were assessed in histological preparations. Gastric secretion was assessed also in the pylorus-ligated rat-model. Data expressed as median and ranges were analyzed by non-parametric test.
Indomethacin delayed ulcer healing but transforming growth factor-beta and famotidine improved ulcer healing and reversed the effects of indomethacin. Maximal differences were observed on day 8. Transforming growth factor-beta was associated with an increase in epithelial and granulation tissue cell proliferation. Famotidine induced a profound inhibition of gastric secretion and increased collagen secretion but it did not affect cell proliferation.
Transforming growth factor-beta and famotidine accelerate ulcer healing delayed by indomethacin.
To report a case of nightmares and sleep disorder associated with improper use of carvedilol, an alpha/beta-blocker, and to model the time course of receptor occupancy in this patient.
A 41-year-old man with panic disorder had been treated with alprazolam 1.2 mg/d (3 times daily), carvedilol 10 mg/d (once in the morning), and etizolam 0.5 mg (for anxiety attack). Although the physical and psychological symptoms gradually improved, he reported nightmares and panic attacks. An interview revealed that he had been taking carvedilol 5 mg twice a day after lunch and dinner on his own initiative, in addition to the prescribed dosage. The patient was asked to take carvedilol 10 mg only after breakfast, as had been advised. Consequently, the sleep disorder and nightmares disappeared.
We calculated the time courses of beta(2)-adrenoceptor binding occupancy in the central nervous system after oral administration of carvedilol with the ordinary and improper regimens by using pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic parameters obtained from the literature.
Compared with the ordinary dose of carvedilol 10 mg once a day, the improper regimen (10 mg after breakfast followed by 5 mg after lunch and dinner) increases the beta(2)-adrenoceptor binding occupancy at night (2300) to as high as the mean beta(2)-adrenoceptor binding occupancy after an ordinary dose of propranolol.
The sleep disorder and nightmares experienced by this patient had been induced by elevation of central beta(2)-adrenoceptor binding occupancy at night as the result of improper use of carvedilol.
Matrix-Gla Protein (MGP) is a vitamin K-dependent protein acting as a local inhibitor of vascular calcification. Vitamin K-antagonists (oral anticoagulant; OAC) inhibit the activation of MGP by blocking vitamin K-metabolism. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of long-term OAC treatment on circulating MGP levels in humans and on MGP expression in mice. Additionally, we tested the association between circulating inactive MGP (ucMGP) levels and the presence and severity of AVC in patients with aortic valve disease (AVD). We analysed circulating ucMGP levels in 191 consecutive patients with echocardiographically proven calcific AVD and 35 control subjects. The extent of AVC in the patients was assessed by multislice spiral computed tomography. Circulating ucMGP levels were significantly lower in patients with AVD (348.6 +/- 123.1 nM) compared to the control group (571.6 +/- 153.9 nM, p < 0.001). Testing the effect of coumarin in mice revealed that also the mRNA expression of MGP in the aorta was downregulated. Multifactorial analysis revealed a significant effect of glomerular filtration rate and long-term OAC therapy on circulating ucMGP levels in the patient group. Subsequently, patients on long-term OAC had significantly increased AVC scores. In conclusion, patients with calcific AVD had significantly lower levels of circulating ucMGP as compared to a reference population, free of coronary and valvular calcifications. In addition, our data suggest that OAC treatment may decrease local expression of MGP, resulting in decreased circulating MGP levels and subsequently increased aortic valve calcifications as an adverse side effect.
Hypoxia, as one suboptimal environmental condition, can affect the physiological state of shrimp during pond aquaculture. To better understand the mechanism of response to hypoxic stress in Chinese shrimp Fenneropenaeus chinensis, proteome research approach was utilized. Differentially expressed proteins of hepatopancreas in adult Chinese shrimp between the control and hypoxia-stressed groups were screened. By 2-DE analysis, 67 spots showed obvious changes after hypoxia. Using LC-ESI-MS/MS, 51 spots representing 33 proteins were identified including preamylase, arginine kinase, phosphopyruvate hydratase, citrate synthase, ATP synthase alpha subunit, chymotrypsin BI, chitinase, ferritin, C-type lectin receptors, transketolase, formylglutathione hydrolase, formyltetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase, aldehyde dehydrogenase, glutathione peroxidase, cytosolic manganese superoxide dismutase, protein disulfide isomerase, beta-actin, oncoprotein nm23, crustacyanin-C1 and so on. These proteins could be functionally classified into several groups such as proteins related to energy production, metabolism-related proteins, immune-related proteins, antioxidant proteins, chaperones, cytoskeleton proteins and ungrouped proteins. The transcription levels of ten selected genes encode the identified proteins were analyzed by real-time PCR at different sampling times of hypoxia. This study is the first analysis of differentially expressed proteins in the hepatopancreas of shrimp after hypoxia and provides a new insight for further study in hypoxic stress response of shrimp at the protein level.
Childhood bronchiolitis obliterans (CBO) is an infrequent but severe disease, characterized by persistent obstructive respiratory symptoms after an acute episode of bronchiolitis. Its etiology is mostly postviral, especially in developing countries. Pathologically, CBO is characterized as constrictive-type BO. The pathogenesis of this disease is poorly understood and there is no specific treatment. Animal models could help to better understand the sequence of events culminating in bronchiolar obliteration and serve as basis for experimental therapeutic research.
In this study, we adapted the nitric acid (NA) technique to develop a suitable model to study CBO in rats.
We have intratracheally instilled 0.5% NA or saline and studied the histological lesions on days 2, 7, 14 and 30. NA-instilled animals developed a sequence of bronchiolar lesions that included necrotizing bronchiolitis, proliferative (PROL) bronchiolar lesions and constrictive (CONS) bronchiolar lesions with bronchiectasis, mucostasis and macrophagic accumulation.
The frequency of PROL lesions decreased and that of the CONS lesions increased, with a statistically significant difference at the sacrifice days, except for day 7 (PROL vs. CONS lesions day 2: p = 0.001; PROL vs. CONS lesions day 7: p = 0.38; PROL vs. CONS lesions day 14: p < 0.001; PROL vs. CONS lesions day 30: p < 0.001).
We conclude that this model presents histological similarities with the histological picture of CBO, being suitable for further developmental and therapeutic experimental research in this field.
The alkylator-like agent ifosfamide, which has been found to be useful in the treatment of a number of solid tumors, can have severe central nervous system (CNS) side effects in addition to causing myelosuppression, nephrotoxicity, nausea and vomiting, pulmonary edema, and interstitial pneumonitis. This article, including a case study and a protocol, prepares nurses to do patient education and to observe, assess, and provide care for patients who may experience the CNS toxicity that ranges from mild changes to severe disturbances of mental state.
Children with autism are known to have larger head circumferences; whether they are above average in height and weight is less clear. Moreover, little is known about growth-related hormone levels in children with autism. We investigated whether children with autism were taller and heavier, and whether they had higher levels of growth-related hormones than control children did.
A case-control study design was employed.
Boys with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) or autism (n = 71) and age-matched control boys (n = 59) were evaluated at Cincinnati Children's Hospital.
Height, weight and head circumference were measured. Blood samples were assayed for IGF-1 and 2, IGFBP-3, growth hormone binding protein (GHBP) and for dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and DHEA sulphate (DHEAS).
Subjects with autism/ASD had significantly (P = 0.03) greater head circumferences (mean z-score 1.24, SD 1.35) than controls (mean z-score 0.78, SD 0.93). Subjects with autism also had significantly (P = 0.01) greater weights (mean z-score 0.91, SD 1.13) than controls (mean z-score 0.41, SD 1.11). Height did not differ significantly between groups (P = 0.65); subjects with autism/ASD had significantly (P = 0.003) higher body mass indices (BMI) (mean z-score 0.85, SD 1.19) than controls (mean z-score 0.24, SD 1.17). Levels of IGF-1, IGF-2, IGFBP-3 and GHBP in the group with autism/ASD were all significantly higher (all P < or = 0.0001) than in controls.
Children with autism/ASD had significantly higher levels of many growth-related hormones: IGF-1, IGF-2, IGFBP-3 and GHBP. These findings could help explain the significantly larger head circumferences and higher weights and BMIs seen in these subjects. Future studies should examine the potential role of growth-related hormones in the pathophysiology of autism.
Lipid-related oxidative stress, such as that caused by malondialdehyde (MDA), acrolein, and 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE), is involved in vascular injury in diabetes and hypertension. Olmesartan medoxomil, a blocker of angiotensin II type-I receptor, is an antihypertensive drug with antioxidant properties. In this study, we examined the involvement of oxidative lipids and the effect of olmesartan on lipid peroxidation in the progressive renal injury induced by renal mass reduction in rats.
Rats were treated with vehicle or olmesartan (0.5 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg) for up to 8 weeks after subtotal nephrectomy. The expression of oxidative lipids and the effect of olmesartan on lipid peroxidation were evaluated by Western blotting and immunostaining of renal tissue.
Immunohistochemical examination revealed that MDA, acrolein, and 4-HNE were scarcely detected in renal cortex in sham-operated rats. On the contrary, these oxidative lipids were observed in injured glomeruli and dilated renal tubules in the ablated kidneys. Western blotting of renal cortical tissue revealed that MDA- or acrolein-bound proteins were mainly detected in the range of 30-90 kDa. Treatment with olmesartan attenuated lipid peroxidation and glomerulosclerosis. The renoprotective and antioxidative effect was higher in rats that received a high dose of olmesartan than in rats in the low-dose group.
These results indicate that oxidative lipids reflect the progression of renal injury induced by subtotal nephrectomy in rats. Olmesartan may have a renoprotective effect, with attenuation of lipid peroxidation.
The use of animal models (particularly rats) in research for developing drugs for central nervous system diseases is well validated. However a range of strains are often utilised in these models. The Lister-Hooded (LH) strain is beginning to be increasingly used in preclinical investigations. Thus, the objective of the present study was to investigate the comparative behavioural pharmacology of this strain, with the two most widely used rat strains, namely the Sprague-Dawley (SD), and Wistar (W) strains. The tests used were the forced swim test (FST) for antidepressants, the amphetamine-locomotor activity test for antipsychotics, the elevated plus maze (EPM) for anxiolytics, as well as tests of general locomotor activity using home cage monitoring (HCM) and the open field test. Continuous HCM revealed a significantly higher daily activity and lower nocturnal activity for LH compared to the other strains; there were no strain-related differences in the open field test. In the FST, there were no strain differences in immobility time and a similar magnitude of desipramine-induced reduction in immobility across strains. In the locomotor activity test, control LH rats showed significantly higher activity whilst significant amphetamine-induced hyperactivity was seen only with the LH and W strains. In the EPM, control LH rats had a significantly larger percentage of open arm entries, whilst only the SD strain displayed a significant diazepam-induced increase in this parameter. These findings suggest that strain variation can cause markedly different results in behavioural pharmacological tests where locomotor activity plays a significant role, and should be taken into account when selecting a strain for evaluating the behavioural effects of psychotropic drugs. Such differences in locomotor activity in the LH strain could be accounted for by an altered diurnal pattern in this strain.
9-Methoxycamptothecin (MCPT) has been recently reported to have a strong anticancer activity. However, its detailed mechanism of action in human cancer cells has not been well clarified. The results showed that MCPT induced cytotoxicity in seven human cancer cell lines in a dose dependent manner after 72h, with A2780 and Hela cell lines more sensitive, so the two cell lines were chosen to do further studies. MCPT induced strong G2/M arrest in both A2780 cells and Hela cells after 24h, following by substantial sub-G1 arrest (indicating apoptosis). The apoptosis was verified by staining with Annexin V-FITC and propidium iodide. ROS generation increased significantly in MCPT-induced apoptosis. Meanwhile, the apoptosis appeared to be dependent on caspase-3, -8 and -9 in A2780 cells, and caspase-3 in Hela cells. In addition, MCPT induced up-regulation expression of most of seventeen genes in both cell lines. Western blot verified that changes of TNFα, Fas, P53 and P27 protein level were consistent with their gene expression changes. Taken together, MCPT plays an important role in tumor growth suppression by inducing apoptosis in both cell lines via extrinsic and intrinsic apoptotic pathways, and has the potential to be developed into an antitumor agent.
Stress responses during cocaine withdrawal likely contribute to drug relapse and may be intensified as a consequence of prior cocaine use. The present study examined changes in stressor-induced activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis during acute withdrawal from chronic cocaine administration. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats received daily administration of cocaine (30 mg/kg, i.p.) or saline for 14 days. Twenty-four hours after the last injection, rats in each group were sacrificed under stress-free conditions or following 30 min of immobilization. Plasma corticosterone (CORT) was measured in trunk-blood using radioimmunoassay, corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) mRNA levels in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus were measured using in situ hybridization and glucocorticoid receptor (GR) protein expression in the pituitary gland and dissected brain regions was measured using Western blot analysis. Basal CRH mRNA in the PVN was unaltered as a result of prior cocaine administration. However, a significant increase in CRH mRNA was observed 90 min following the termination of restraint in cocaine withdrawn, but not saline-treated, rats. Basal CORT was also unaffected by prior cocaine administration, but the CORT response measured immediately after restraint was significantly augmented in cocaine-withdrawn rats. Differences in GR protein expression in number of regions implicated in negative feedback regulation of HPA function, including the hypothalamus, were not observed. These findings indicate that the HPA response to stressors is intensified during early withdrawal from cocaine administration and may be independent of changes in GR-mediated negative feedback.
Research has shown a synergistic relationship between amphetamine sensitization and limbic system kindling. To explore the role of GABA and NMDA receptor activity in modulating the positive effects of amphetamine on epileptogenesis, alterations in GABA- and NMDA-related convulsions were examined after acute and chronic amphetamine administration. A single injection of d-amphetamine (7.5 mg/kg) significantly decreased latencies to generalized motor seizures induced 12 h later by the noncompetitive GABAA receptor antagonist picrotoxin (10 mg/kg). The increased sensitivity to clonus was specific to acute amphetamine treatment and was not evident following withdrawal from chronic drug exposure. Seizures induced by NMDLA (1,000 mg/kg), on the other hand, were not modified by acute amphetamine injection; however, the latency to clonus was reduced substantially after NMDLA injection to mice chronically preexposed to amphetamine. The short- and long-term amphetamine effects on GABA- and NMDA-associated convulsive activity were not paralleled by similar drug treatment schedules involving acute (20 mg/kg) and chronic administration of desipramine, zimelidine, and buproprion. These results suggest that amphetamine may be acting on inhibitory and excitatory amino acid systems independently of its monoaminergic properties. The implications of these findings were discussed in relation to amphetamine sensitization of mesolimbic functioning.
Pain is a well known complication of propofol injection. Many methods are described to reduce it but often empirical ways are used. In this study we attempt to determine the effects of premixing propofol with lidocaine or to preinjecting lidocaine in a hand vein in combination with using a tourniquet before we applicated propofol. Our study shows that both ways are able to reduce the injection pain but premixing with lidocaine 0.05% is less effective than giving a bolus of lidocaine before the propofol injection.
We have previously demonstrated that long-term metformin treatment prevents the development of hyperinsulinemia and hypertension in fructose-hypertensive (FH) rats; however, the exact nature of its antihypertensive effects remains elusive. Since hyperinsulinemia has been proposed to be a strong stimulus for norepinephrine (NE) release, the present study examined the effects of long-term metformin treatment (500 mg/kg/d for 10 weeks) on the reactivity of superior mesenteric arteries to NE in FH rats. Metformin treatment prevented the development of hyperinsulinemia and hypertension in FH rats. Mesenteric arteries from FH rats exhibited an increased cross-sectional area ([CSA] 0.45 +/- 0.07 mm2 v 0.32 +/- 0.05 in controls, P < .05), which was prevented by long-term metformin treatment (0.34 +/- 0.04 mm2, p > .05 v untreated FH). Interestingly, mesenteric arteries from metformin-treated fructose and control rats exhibited a reduction in maximum responsiveness to NE both with and without the endothelium. These data suggest that metformin directly reduces catecholamine constrictor responses in resistance arteries of rats, which may contribute to its antihypertensive effects in rats.
