Indomethacin is used commonly for the prevention of postoperatively heterotopic ossification. There have been 3 reports in the pharmacologic literature of indomethacin-induced psychosis. We describe a case of indomethacin-induced psychosis in a patient in whom indomethacin was used for the prevention of postoperative heterotopic ossification after bilateral uncemented total hip replacements.
This report is on a patient with a spondylarthropathy with peripheral joint involvement treated with sulphasalazine who developed severe hepatitis, disseminated intravascular coagulation, high spiking fever, a mononucleosis-like syndrome and a diffuse cutaneous rash. All these features resolved rapidly after drug withdrawal and intravenous N-acetylcysteine. Serious sulphasalazine-related adverse reactions are rare and their outcome is generally favourable within a few weeks after drug withdrawal. However, certain cases with life-threatening side effects may need additional treatment. The course in our patient suggests that N-acetylcysteine may be useful for treating sulphasalazine-induced side effects.
Data from a phase II trial combining chemoradiotherapy with IFN-alpha (CapRI scheme) for adjuvant treatment of pancreatic carcinoma are very encouraging. Therefore, a phase III trial comparing chemotherapy with the chemoradiotherapy with IFN-alpha scheme has been initiated in August 2004. Translational research with a focus on immunomodulation is performed in parallel to the study. Blood and serum samples are taken at various time points. Patients in arm A (chemoradioimmunotherapy) receive a single low-dose-Interferon injection before therapy to investigate the direct effect of IFN-alpha. So far samples from 44 patients have been investigated for surface molecule expression, cytokine levels, natural killer cell cytotoxicity, and antigen-specific Granzyme B release. Patients in arm A showed 1 day after IFN-alpha injection a significant increase in spontaneous cytotoxicity; this effect was fading after repeated injections. Furthermore, cells releasing Granzyme B after stimulation with CA 19.9 and MUC-1 protein increased under therapy. Five days after the first IFN-alpha injection, IL-12 and TNF-alpha serum levels peak. We observed significant increases of monocytes, peripheral dendritic cells, CD40 cells, central and effector memory T cells, and CD8 cells, CD4 cells decreased during therapy. All these effects were only observed in arm A patients and none of them in arm B patients. In conclusion, in a translational research project accompanying a challenging multimodality treatment trial including IFN-alpha, we observed an immediate activation of antigen-presenting cells and natural killer cells followed later on by antigen-specific activation. It will be most interesting if the immunologic data will show a correlation with the clinical course of the patients.
To investigate the proper anticoagulation intensity in patients after mechanical heart valve replacement in china.
The anticoagulation therapy intensity and the complications in 480 patients after mechanical heart valve replacement were studied.
The follow-up rate was 89.17%, the total patient-years (Pty) was 2,110.04 years, the mean oral import warfarin dosage was (2.81 +/- 0.95) mg/day, and native warfarin dosage (2.38 +/- 0.46) mg/day. The mean PTR value of 2 116 samples was 1.43 +/- 0.26, and the INR value of 1 195 samples was 1.63 +/- 0.49. The total hemorrhage rate was 4.60% Pty, and the hemorrhage death rate was 0.38% Pty. The PTR and INR values were higher in the hemorrhage group than in the no-hemorrhage group. (t = 1.816, P < 0.05; t = 2.407, P < 0.01). The thromboembolism rate was 0.66% Pty, and the thromboembolism death rate was 0.05% Pty. There were 15 pregnancies in 14 women patients and no malformed newborns were found.
The most important complication of anticoagulation therapy after mechanical heart valve replacement is hemorrhage in china; The proper anticoagulation intensities of this group are INR 1.5-2.0 and PTR 1.3-1.5. It is beneficial to adopt the low intensity anticoagulation therapy for decreasing the death rate from hemorrhage, protecting pregnant women and newborns from hemorrhage and malformation, and improving the life qualities of the patients.
Secreted frizzled-related protein 2 (sFRP2) is a negative modulator of the Wingless-type (Wnt) signaling pathway, and shown to be inactivated in renal cell carcinoma (RCC). However, the molecular mechanism of silencing of sFRP2 is not fully understood. Our study was designed to elucidate the silencing mechanism of sFRP2 in RCC. Expression of sFRP2 was examined in 20 pairs of primary cancers by immunohistochemistry. Kidney cell lines (HK-2, Caki-1, Caki-2, A-498 and ACHN) were analyzed for sFRP2 expression using real-time RT-PCR and Western blotting. The methylation status at 46 CpG sites of the 2 CpG islands in the sFRP2 promoter was characterized by bisulfite DNA sequencing. Histone modifications were assessed by chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay using antibodies against AcH3, AcH4, H3K4 and H3K9. sFRP2 was frequently repressed in primary cancers and in RCC cells. The majority of sFRP2 negative cells had a methylated promoter. Meanwhile, sFRP2 expression was repressed by a hypomethylated promoter in Caki-1 cells, and these cells had a repressive histone modification at the promoter. In Caki-1 cells, sFRP2 was reactivated by trichostatin A (TSA). Repressive histone modifications were also observed in RCC cells with hypermethylated promoters, but sFRP2 was reactivated only by 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (DAC) and not by TSA. However, the activation of the silenced sFRP2 gene could be achieved in all cells using a combination of DAC and TSA. This is the first report indicating that aberrant DNA methylation and histone modifications work together to silence the sFRP2 gene in RCC cells.
In this randomized, double-blind, crossover clinical trial, adult patients treated two migraine attacks: one with almotriptan 12.5 mg and the other with ergotamine 2 mg plus caffeine 200 mg. Treatment with almotriptan was associated with a significantly greater proportion of patients achieving 2-h pain free (20.9% vs. 13.7%; P < 0.05) and 2-h pain relief (57.7% vs. 44.5%; P < 0.01) compared with ergotamine plus caffeine therapy; significant differences were not seen at 1 h. Rates for sustained pain free and sustained pain free plus no adverse events (AEs) also were significantly greater after almotriptan treatment than after the use of ergotamine plus caffeine (P < 0.05). Almotriptan was associated with a significantly lower rate of photophobia at 90 min (P < 0.05), phonophobia at 60, 90, and 120 min (P < 0.05 to <0.01), and nausea and vomiting at 90 and 120 min (P < 0.01) compared with ergotamine plus caffeine. A significantly greater proportion of patients were more satisfied with almotriptan than with ergotamine plus caffeine (P < 0.05). Sixteen patients reported adverse events during almotriptan treatment and 27 patients reported AEs during the ergotamine plus caffeine therapy. Most AEs were mild-to-moderate and did not result in treatment-related discontinuations. In conclusion, almotriptan was associated with significantly greater efficacy for treating migraine compared with ergotamine plus caffeine, was generally well tolerated and was associated with greater rate of treatment satisfaction.
On the basis of the recently recognized potential of bone marrow (BM) cells to give rise to hepatocytes, we investigated the possibility that granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF)-mobilized BM cells could home to the injured liver and promote tissue repair. We also examined the origin of cells (endogenous or BM) reconstituting liver after damage.
Acute and chronic liver injury models were generated by injecting CCl4 in C57Bl6 mice and G-CSF was administered in hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) mobilization doses. After sex-mismatched BM transplantation into lethally irradiated recipients and treatment with CCl4 +/- G-CSF, sry (sex-determining region for Y chromosome) protein was detected by immunohistochemistry in liver sections. Double immunohistochemistry for sry and ki-67 protein was used to define the origin of proliferating cells reconstituting liver after injury.
In both acute and chronic liver injury model, G-CSF administration ameliorated the histological damage and accelerated the regeneration process. This was accompanied by a strong survival benefit in G-CSF-treated group vs CCl4 group. Quantitative analysis showed higher percentage of BM-origin hepatocytes in the CCl4+G-CSF group compared with the CCl4 group, although the liver engraftment rate still remained rather low. Double staining for ki-67 and sry demonstrated that the recovery acceleration after chemical injury and G-CSF treatment was mainly mediated by increased proliferation of host hepatocytes (ki-67(+)/sry(-)) with less support from BM-origin cells (ki-67(+)/sry(+)).
G-CSF treatment significantly improved survival and liver histology in chemically injured mice, predominantly by promoting endogenous repair mechanisms. Therefore, mobilization with G-CSF might offer a novel therapeutic approach for the treatment of acute and chronic liver diseases in humans.
DNA methylation, a key component of the epigenome involved in regulating gene expression, is initially acquired in the germ line at millions of sites across the genome. Altered sperm methylation patterns are associated with infertility and transgenerational effects in humans and rodents. Testicular cancer is the most common form of cancer among men of reproductive age and has a high cure rate associated with chemotherapy treatment with bleomycin, etoposide, and cis-platinum (BEP). Although these drugs result in improved survival, they also affect the number and quality of germ cells. Our goal was to assess germ cell methylation patterns in a rodent model emulating the BEP treatment regimens used in human testicular cancer treatment. Animals were treated with control, or 0.3× (low) or 0.6× (high) dose of BEP, where a 1× dose is equivalent to human treatment regimens. Both dose-dependent and germ cell-dependent DNA methylation alterations were found at numerous loci throughout the genome. Of about 3000 loci tested, 42 loci were affected by BEP at the round spermatid stage of germ cell development, whereas 101 loci were affected in spermatozoa; 15 loci were consistently altered in spermatozoa of all high dose-treated rats. Both hyper- and hypomethylation were detected, suggesting either an interference with normal methylation patterning or abnormal repair of damaged patterns during spermatogenesis. The results indicate that a combination chemotherapy regimen used for testicular cancer treatment can result in altered DNA methylation patterns in spermatozoa and that some loci are more susceptible to damage than others.
The efficacy of high dose furosemide as a continuous infusion was compared with a bolus injection of equal dose in patients with severe heart failure.
The delivery rate of furosemide into the nephron has been proved to be a determinant of diuretic efficacy in healthy volunteers.
In a randomized crossover study we compared the efficacy of a continuous infusion of high dose furosemide (mean daily dosage 690 mg, range 250 to 2,000) versus a single bolus injection of an equal dose in 20 patients with severe heart failure. The patients received an equal dosage, either as a single intravenous bolus injection or as an 8-h continuous infusion preceded by a loading dose (20% of total dosage).
Mean (+/- SEM) daily urinary volume (infusion 2,860 +/- 240 ml, bolus 2,260 +/- 150 ml, p = 0.0005) and sodium excretion (infusion 210 +/- 40 mmol, bolus 150 +/- 20 mmol, p = 0.0045) were significantly higher after treatment with continuous infusion than with bolus injection, despite significantly lower urinary furosemide excretion (infusion 310 +/- 60 mg every 24 h, bolus 330 +/- 60 mg every 24 h, p = 0.0195). The maximal plasma furosemide concentration was significantly higher after bolus injection than during continuous infusion (infusion 24 +/- 5 micrograms/ml, bolus 95 +/- 20 micrograms/ml, p < 0.0001). Short-term, completely reversible hearing loss was reported only after bolus injection in 5 patients.
We conclude that in patients with severe heart failure, high dose furosemide administered as a continuous infusion is more efficacious than bolus injection and causes less ototoxic side effects.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia/thrombosis (HIT) is a severe thrombotic disorder that occurs in approximately 1% of patients treated with heparin. Affected patients commonly develop antibodies that recognize PF4/heparin complexes that may form on the surface of activated platelets and on the endothelium. However, it has not been established that anti-PF4/heparin antibodies are responsible for the clinical manifestations of HIT. To address this issue, we employed a recently developed model of active immunity to study the effect of IgG anti-PF4/heparin antibody in vivo. In previous studies we have shown that it is possible to induce autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), anti-phospholipid syndrome (APS) or vasculitis in naive mice by active immunization with anti-DNA, anti-cardiolipin and anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies, respectively. Immunized animals develop anti-idiotypic antibodies (Ab2) and, after 2-4 months, anti-anti-idiotypic antibodies (Ab3). Ab3s generated in this manner often simulate the binding activity of Ab1 and their expression correlates with the development of specific clinical manifestations typical of the respective human disease. Based on this experience, naive BALB/c mice were immunized with IgG anti-PF4/heparin antibodies isolated from two patients with HIT. The actively immunized mice developed mouse anti-PF4/heparin antibody (Ab3). Administration of unfractionated heparin, but not low molecular weight heparin (LMWH), to the actively immunized animals induced thrombocytopenia by day 4 of drug exposure. There was no evidence of thrombosis. The results of this study support the importance of anti-PF4/heparin antibodies in the pathogenesis of HIT. Further, this model may help to elucidate the factors responsible for thrombosis as well as providing means to assess new treatment options for patients with this disorder.
Hemolytic anemia and methemoglobinemia are well-known adverse effects that follow ingestion of naphthalene mothballs. They are only rarely reported in association with ingestion of paradichlorobenzene mothballs. An asymptomatic boy presented to our pediatric emergency department after ingesting paradichlorobenzene mothballs. Three daysafter the ingestion, the boy returned with hemolysis and mild methemoglobinemia.
The growth and differentiation factor transforming growth factor-beta2 (TGFbeta2) is thought to play important roles in multiple developmental processes. Targeted disruption of the TGFbeta2 gene was undertaken to determine its essential role in vivo. TGFbeta2-null mice exhibit perinatal mortality and a wide range of developmental defects for a single gene disruption. These include cardiac, lung, craniofacial, limb, spinal column, eye, inner ear and urogenital defects. The developmental processes most commonly involved in the affected tissues include epithelial-mesenchymal interactions, cell growth, extracellular matrix production and tissue remodeling. In addition, many affected tissues have neural crest-derived components and simulate neural crest deficiencies. There is no phenotypic overlap with TGFbeta1- and TGFbeta3-null mice indicating numerous non-compensated functions between the TGFbeta isoforms.
A high dose of delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol, the main Cannabis sativa (cannabis) component, induces anxiety and psychotic-like symptoms in healthy volunteers. These effects of delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol are significantly reduced by cannabidiol (CBD), a cannabis constituent which is devoid of the typical effects of the plant. This observation led us to suspect that CBD could have anxiolytic and/or antipsychotic actions. Studies in animal models and in healthy volunteers clearly suggest an anxiolytic-like effect of CBD. The antipsychotic-like properties of CBD have been investigated in animal models using behavioral and neurochemical techniques which suggested that CBD has a pharmacological profile similar to that of atypical antipsychotic drugs. The results of two studies on healthy volunteers using perception of binocular depth inversion and ketamine-induced psychotic symptoms supported the proposal of the antipsychotic-like properties of CBD. In addition, open case reports of schizophrenic patients treated with CBD and a preliminary report of a controlled clinical trial comparing CBD with an atypical antipsychotic drug have confirmed that this cannabinoid can be a safe and well-tolerated alternative treatment for schizophrenia. Future studies of CBD in other psychotic conditions such as bipolar disorder and comparative studies of its antipsychotic effects with those produced by clozapine in schizophrenic patients are clearly indicated.
Studies in cell culture systems and tumor-bearing animals have demonstrated synergistic cytotoxicity of cytarabine (ara-C) and cisplatin. We have conducted a phase I trial to assess the toxic effects and tolerable doses of these drugs in patients with advanced cancer. Forty-five such patients were treated with varying dosages of ara-C infused continuously during Days 1-3 of a 28-day cycle. Cisplatin at a dose of 100 mg/m2 was administered on Day 2 of the cycle. Using this schedule, the maximally tolerated dose of ara-C in previously untreated patients was 60 mg/m2/day (180 mg/m2). Hematologic toxicity was dose-limiting with median wbc and granulocyte count nadirs of 1800 and 168/mm3, respectively. Reduction of the cisplatin dose while maintaining the ara-C dose at 60 mg/m2/day resulted in less myelosuppression, suggesting that these drugs may have synergistic effects on the bone marrow. Objective responses were seen in six of 41 evaluable patients, including five of 12 patients with non-small cell lung cancer. The severe bone marrow toxicity observed at relatively low drug doses and the 42% response rate in patients with non-small cell lung cancer suggest that the combination of ara-C and cisplatin has substantial clinical activity. Phase II trials are warranted in non-small cell lung cancer and other tumors.
β-Adrenergic receptor (AR) blockers provide substantial clinical benefits, including improving overall survival and left ventricular (LV) function following myocardial infarction (MI), though the mechanisms remain incompletely defined. The transverse-tubule (T-tubule) system of ventricular myocytes is an important determinant of cardiac excitation-contraction function. T-tubule remodeling occurs early during LV failure. We hypothesized that β-AR blockers prevent T-tubule remodeling and thereby provide therapeutic benefits. A murine model of MI was utilized to examine the effect of β-AR blockers on T-tubule remodeling following LV MI. We applied the in situ imaging of T-tubule structure from Langendorff-perfused intact hearts with laser scanning confocal microscopy. We found that MI caused remarkable T-tubule remodeling near the infarction border zone and moderate LV remodeling remote from the MI. Metoprolol and carvedilol administered 6 d after MI for 4 wk each increased the T-tubule integrity at the remote and border zones. At the molecular level, both β-AR blockers restored border and remote zone expression of junctophilin-2 (JP-2), which is involved in T-tubule organization and formation of the T-tubule/sarcoplasmic reticulum junctions. In contrast, β-AR blockers had no significant effects on caveolin-3 expression. In summary, our data show that β-AR antagonists can protect against T-tubule remodeling after MI, suggesting a novel therapeutic mechanism of action for this drug class. Preservation of JP-2 expression may contribute to the beneficial effects of metoprolol and carvedilol on T-tubule remodeling.
Thalidomide is reviving for its antiangiogenic effect on corneal neovascularization models. Recently, it has been employed in tumor research in several types of solid carcinomas. However, its effect on hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has not yet been clarified.
A total of 48 nude mice bearing human HCC with a high metastatic potential were randomly divided into 4 groups. Thalidomide (200 mg/kg), paclitaxel (13 mg/kg), or their combination, which was dissolved in 0.5% sodium carboxyl methyl cellulose (CMC) suspension, was intraperitoneally injected in each group since the second day of the establishment of animal model. The group simply administered with 0.5% CMC was set as placebo-control. The mice were sacrificed on the 30th day, for the measurement of tumor size, weight and metastasis in the lungs. The levels of CD34 and endothelial growth factor (VEGF) mRNA in tumor tissues were detected by immunohistochemistry and semiquantitative RT-PCR, respectively, and microvessel density (MVD) was evaluated.
No statistical difference was found in tumor weight and volume between the thalidomide group and control (P>0.05). Paclitaxel showed a growth-inhibiting effect on tumors (P<0.05). The value of MVD and VEGF mRNA and metastases to the lungs in each group were lower than those in the placebo-control group (P<0.05); such difference in the combination group was statistically significant (P<0.05).
Paclitaxel, but not thalidomide, has significant growth inhibitory effect on tumors, but both significantly inhibit angiogenesis and metastasis of human HCC in nude mice, such effects of paclitaxel can be amplified by thalidomide.
In only recent history, illicit use of methamphetamine, once isolated to urban areas on the West Coast, has spread into rural areas of the Midwest and southern United States. Although past and current methamphetamine legislation has increased penalties for methamphetamine manufacturers and tightened restrictions on sales of known precursors, the problem still persists. In fact, a 2004 survey indicates that an alarming 6.2% of high school seniors have tried methamphetamine. A number of biological, genetic, and environmental factors influence children's and adolescents' paths to substance abuse. Nurses should recognize the symptoms of methamphetamine abuse, which include agitation; aggressive behavior; rapid mood swings; hypertension; tachycardia; and eventually lesion-marked skin, clinical depression, and paranoid psychosis. Treatment for methamphetamine addiction includes behavioral therapy. Research on pharmacologic therapy is lacking. Educating youth on methamphetamine prevention appears to be the best approach to curb the spreading use of this addictive and deadly drug.
3'-methyl-4-dimethylaminoazobenzene (3'-MeDAB) is a potent hepatocarcinogen in rats and a weak carcinogen in mice, whereas o-aminoazotoluene (OAT) is a potent hepatocarcinogen in mice but weak hepatocarcinogen in rats. They significantly suppress glucocorticoid induction of tyrosine aminotransferase (TAT) in the liver of sensitive animals and have minor effect on the induction of this enzyme in the liver of resistant animals (3'-MeDAB-treated mice and OAT-treated rats). The inhibitory effect of these carcinogens is realized at the level of gene transcription (decreased accumulation of TAT mRNA). This effect is mediated via reduction of DNA-binding activity of transcription factor HNF3 (without decrease of its content) without any involvement of the glucocorticoid receptor. It was shown that carcinogens influence DNA-binding activity of HNF3 via an unknown nuclear factor.
Anthracyclines like daunorubicin (DNR) are important drugs in the treatment of acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). In vitro studies have shown that cellular metabolism of anthracyclines could play a role in drug resistance. Currently, it is not known what enzyme is responsible for anthracycline metabolism in leukemic cells.
To study C-13 reduction of DNR to daunorubicinol (DOL) in leukemic cells isolated from patients with AML and to determine the most important enzyme involved.
Mononuclear blood cells from 25 AML patients were isolated at diagnosis and used in a metabolic assay to determine the % DOL formed. mRNA and western blot analysis were performed on the 2 most likely candidates for anthracycline metabolism; carbonyl reductase 1 (CR1) and aldoketoreductase 1A1 (AKR1A1). DNR and DOL concentrations were determined by HPLC.
We found a large interindividual variation (up to 47-fold) in leukemic cell DNR metabolism. The specific CR1 inhibitor zeraleone analogue 5 significantly inhibited DNR metabolism with a mean inhibitory effect of 68 %. No correlation between mRNA levels of the enzymes and metabolism were found. Cellular DNR metabolism correlated significantly with CR1 protein expression, determined by western blot, (p < 0.05, R2 = 0,229) while no significant correlation was found with AKR1A1 protein expression.
DNR metabolism in AML cells shows a pronounced interindividual variability. Our results support that CR1 is the most important enzyme for conversion of DNR to DOL in AML cells. This information could in the future be used to genotype CR1 and possibly help to individualise dosing.
While central nervous system stimulants usually improve attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) associated with Tourette's syndrome, they often exacerbate tics and can produce other potentially serious complications. Because deprenyl may have a stimulatory effect and monoamine oxidase inhibitors have been shown to ameliorate hyperactive behavior, we studied this drug in children with the Tourette's syndrome-ADHD combination. Twenty-nine patients, 25 boys and four girls, with a mean age of 11.2 years (range, 6 to 18 years) and duration of symptoms for an average of 6.2 years (range, 1 to 13 years), were enrolled in this open trial after they became refractory to conventional treatments for ADHD. The average duration of treatment with deprenyl was 6.7 months (range, 3 to 15 months) and the average daily dose was 8.1 mg/d (range, 5 to 15 mg/dL). Twenty-six of all patients (90%) reported clinically meaningful improvement in their ADHD (score > or = 2 on a scale of 0 to 4), with the mean global improvement rated at 2.6. There were no serious adverse side effects and only two patients noted exacerbation of their tics. Deprenyl appears to be a safe and effective treatment of ADHD in patients with Tourette's syndrome.
Dopaminergic transmission has been suggested to be a primary mechanism mediating reinforcement, withdrawal and craving associated with psychostimulant addiction. Pyscho-stimulants attenuate dopamine transporter (DAT) clearance efficiency, resulting in a net increase in synaptic dopamine levels. Re-uptake rate is determined by the number of functional DAT molecules at the membrane surface. Previous in vivo imaging studies in humans and in vitro studies in post-mortem human brain have demonstrated that chronic cocaine abuse results in a neuroadaptive increase in DAT-binding site density in the limbic striatum. Whether this increase in DAT availability represents an increase in the functional activity of the transporter is unknown. Here, we present evidence that DAT function is elevated by chronic cocaine abuse. The effect of increasing post-mortem interval on the functional viability of synaptosomes was modeled in the baboon brain. Baboon brains sampled under conditions similar to human brain autopsies yielded synaptosomal preparations that were viable up to 24 h post-mortem. Dopamine (DA) uptake was elevated twofold in the ventral striatum from cocaine users as compared to age-matched drug-free control subjects. The levels of [3H]DA uptake were not elevated in victims of excited cocaine delirium, who experienced paranoia and marked agitation prior to death. In keeping with the increase in DAT function, [3H]WIN 35,428 binding was increased in the cocaine users, but not in the victims of excited delirium. These results demonstrate that DA uptake function assayed in cryopreserved human brain synaptosomes is a suitable approach for testing hypotheses of the mechanisms underlying human brain disorders and for studying the actions of addictive drugs in man.
In a previous study it was shown that nitroprusside-induced hypotension strongly enhances the release of dopamine (DA) in the prefrontal cortex (PFC). In the present study we have further investigated the mechanism involved in this effect. Glutamate receptor antagonists were infused into the ventral tegmental area (VTA) or PFC, while DA release was measured in the ipsilateral PFC and hypotension was applied by intravenous infusion of nitroprusside. Infusion into the VTA of neither a NMDA receptor antagonist (CPP), nor a non-NMDA antagonist (DNQX) affected the hypotension-induced increase of DA in the PFC. Intracortical infusion of CPP also failed to affect significantly, whereas local infusion of DNQX inhibited the hypotension-enhanced release of DA dose-dependently. The stimulation of DA release was relatively small in the VTA as well as in the nucleus accumbens when compared with the response in the PFC. It is concluded that DA released from mesocortical neurons can be modulated by two different mechanisms: first, by glutamate afferents to the VTA that modify the nerve-impulse flow of DA neurons; and, second, by glutamate afferents to the PFC that act at the level of the DA nerve terminals. The behaviour context (arousal or stress versus hypotension) determines which type of interaction predominates.
Although most children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) can be cured, a significant subset of survivors manifests focal deficits in cognitive function, even when the treatment regimen does not include cranial radiation. Intrathecal administration of the folate antagonist methotrexate (MTX) is necessary to prevent leukemic relapse within the central nervous system, but is suspected to contribute to treatment-induced cognitive dysfunction. To better elucidate the underlying pathophysiology, we sought to establish a rodent model of the cognitive and neurotoxic effects resulting from direct administration of MTX into the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). MTX or artificial CSF was injected via transcutaneous puncture at the level of the cisterna magna. Subsequent behavioral tests were designed to assess cognitive domains frequently impaired among children treated for ALL. MTX administration produced both recognition and spatial memory deficits, without altering general activity or motor coordination. In addition, MTX significantly reduced folate levels in both CSF and serum and increased CSF homocysteine. Thus, we have established an animal model that mimics the clinical effects of prophylactic intrathecal MTX on cognitive function. Using this model we can further study the pathophysiology of MTX-induced cognitive dysfunction and test protective interventions.
The lymphoid tyrosine phosphatase (Lyp, PTPN22) is a critical negative regulator of T cell antigen receptor (TCR) signaling. A single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the ptpn22 gene correlates with the incidence of various autoimmune diseases, including type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, and systemic lupus erythematosus. Since the disease-associated allele is a more potent inhibitor of TCR signaling, specific Lyp inhibitors may become valuable in treating autoimmunity. Using a structure-based approach, we synthesized a library of 34 compounds that inhibited Lyp with IC(50) values between 0.27 and 6.2 μM. A reporter assay was employed to screen for compounds that enhanced TCR signaling in cells, and several inhibitors displayed a dose-dependent, activating effect. Subsequent probing for Lyp's direct physiological targets by immunoblot analysis confirmed the ability of the compounds to inhibit Lyp in T cells. Selectivity profiling against closely related tyrosine phosphatases and in silico docking studies with the crystal structure of Lyp yielded valuable information for the design of Lyp-specific compounds.
There have been many studies of the effect of high-dose supplementation of vitamin B6 on children and adults with autism, with all but one reporting benefits.
The aim of this study was to investigate the biochemical basis for vitamin B6 therapy by measuring the level of total vitamin B6 in the plasma of unsupplemented children with autism spectrum disorder compared to unsupplemented control subjects.
Children with autism spectrum disorders (n = 35, age 3-9 years) and unrelated typical children (n = 11, age 6-9 years), all from Arizona, were studied. (This includes the data from 24 children with autism from our previous study.)
A microbiologic assay was used to measure the level of total vitamin B6 (including phosphorylated and unphosphorylated forms), in a blinded fashion.
Children with autism had a 75% higher level of total vitamin B6 than the controls (medians of 56 versus 32 ng/mL, respectively, p = 0.00002). Most of the autistic children (77%) had levels that were more than 2 standard deviations above the median value of the controls. The autistic girls (n = 5) also had elevated levels (mean of 54.6 ng/mL, median of 60 ng/mL).
These results are consistent with previous studies that found that: (1) pyridoxal kinase had a very low activity in children with autism and (2) pyridoxal 5 phosphate (PLP) levels are unusually low in children with autism. Thus, it appears that the low conversion of pyridoxal and pyridoxine to PLP results in low levels of PLP, which is the active cofactor for 113 known enzymatic reactions, including the formation of many key neurotransmitters.
Total vitamin B6 is abnormally high in autism, consistent with previous reports of an impaired pyridoxal kinase for the conversion of pyridoxine and pyridoxal to PLP. This may explain the many published studies of benefits of high-dose vitamin B6 supplementation in some children and adults with autism.
