Myasthenic reaction with partial neuromuscular block in the electromyogram and increased antibodies against acetylcholine-receptor protein developed during chloroquine administration over two months in a 52-year-old man known for eight years ot have rheumatoid arthritis. When the drug was discontinued and pyridostigmine administration begun, myasthenia improved within six weeks and had completely disappeared after three months. During the same period abnormal neuromuscular transmission regressed. Also, the significantly increased antibodies against acetylcholine-receptor protein became normal. It remains undecided whether this was a drug-induced myasthenia gravis or only a latent myasthenia manifested by the drug.
Arecoline, the most abundant areca alkaloid, has been reported to decrease interleukin-6 (IL-6) levels in epithelial cancer cells. Since IL-6 overexpression contributes to the tumorigenic potency of basal cell carcinoma (BCC), this study was designed to investigate whether arecoline altered IL-6 expression and its downstream regulation of apoptosis and the cell cycle in cultured BCC-1/KMC cells. BCC-1/KMC cells and a human keratinocyte cell line, HaCaT, were treated with arecoline at concentrations ranging from 10 to 100μg/ml, then IL-6 production and expression of apoptosis- and cell cycle progress-related factors were examined. After 24h exposure, arecoline inhibited BCC-1/KMC cell growth and decreased IL-6 production in terms of mRNA expression and protein secretion, but had no effect on HaCaT cells. Analysis of DNA fragmentation and chromatin condensation showed that arecoline induced apoptosis of BCC-1/KMC cells in a dose-dependent manner, activated caspase-3, and decreased expression of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2. In addition, arecoline induced progressive and sustained accumulation of BCC-1/KMC cells in G2/M phase as a result of reducing checkpoint Cdc2 activity by decreasing Cdc25C phosphatase levels and increasing p53 levels. Furthermore, subcutaneous injection of arecoline led to decreased BCC-1/KMC tumor growth in BALB/c mice by inducing apoptosis. This study demonstrates that arecoline has potential for preventing BCC tumorigenesis by reducing levels of the tumor cell survival factor IL-6, increasing levels of the tumor suppressor factor p53, and eliciting cell cycle arrest, followed by apoptosis.
Nephrogenic systemic fibrosis (NSF) has been associated with exposure to gadolinium-based contrast agent (GdCA) used in medical imaging.
We sought to quantify levels of gadolinium in affected skin of patients with NSF and correlate the levels to clinical and laboratory parameters.
Skin biopsy specimens were analyzed using inductively coupled plasma mass spectroscopy (ICP-MS) and the micrograms of gadolinium per gram (microg/g) of dry tissue were determined. Clinical and laboratory data were obtained through retrospective chart review. Pearson correlation coefficients were used to correlate tissue gadolinium levels with various parameters.
Six patients from a prior cohort were analyzed for gadolinium in affected skin. The mean amount of gadolinium in affected skin of NSF patients was 320.1 microg/g. No gadolinium was found in limited control tissue from patients unexposed to GdCA or in patients exposed to such agents, but without disease. Higher levels of gadolinium in skin correlated with younger age, lower body weight, lower corrected serum calcium levels, and lower erythropoietin dosing.
The study was limited by the small number of cases and by the retrospective nature of the data and skin samples.
Gadolinium is present in substantial amounts within the skin of patients with NSF. Quantification of gadolinium in tissue using ICP-MS may facilitate our understanding of the disease.
Animal models of copper toxicosis rarely exhibit neurological impairments and increased brain copper accumulation impeding the development of novel therapeutic approaches to treat neurodegenerative diseases having high brain Cu content. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of intraperitoneally injected copper lactate (0.15 mg Cu/100 g body weight) daily for 90 days on copper and zinc levels in the liver and hippocampus, on biochemical parameters, and on neurobehavioral functions (by Morris water maze) of male Wistar rats. Copper-administered animals exhibited significantly decreased serum acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity and impaired neuromuscular coordination and spatial memory compared to control rats. Copper-intoxicated rats showed significant increase in liver and hippocampus copper content (99.1 and 73 % increase, respectively), 40.7 % reduction in hepatic zinc content, and interestingly, 77.1 % increase in hippocampus zinc content with concomitant increase in copper and zinc levels in serum and urine compared to control rats. Massive grade 4 copper depositions and grade 1 copper-associated protein in hepatocytes of copper-intoxicated rats were substantiated by rhodanine and orcein stains, respectively. Copper-intoxicated rats demonstrated swelling and increase in the number of astrocytes and copper deposition in the choroid plexus, with degenerated neurons showing pyknotic nuclei and dense eosinophilic cytoplasm. In conclusion, the present study shows the first evidence in vivo that chronic copper toxicity causes impaired spatial memory and neuromuscular coordination, swelling of astrocytes, decreased serum AChE activity, copper deposition in the choroid plexus, neuronal degeneration, and augmented levels of copper and zinc in the hippocampus of male Wistar rats.
Rumen motility was recorded on an experimental cow by means of telemetric signal transfer from strain gauge force transducers fixed surgically on the peritoneal surface of the rumen wall in the left flank. The normocalcaemic cow was given a standard milk fever treatment with calcium borogluconate (400 ml with 14 mg Ca/ml) intravenously. Transient clinical signs were: decreased rumination, muscle ticks, salivation and a heart rate reduction of 20%. Rectal temperature remained unaltered. Frequency of rumen contractions was reduced up to 40% whereas amplitude of contractions did not deviate from baseline values. Hypocalcaemia was induced in a second experiment by iv infusion of Na2EDTA. At 0.60 mmol/l ionized blood calcium periods of no motility were recorded whereas inactivity of rumen activity was persistent at 0.55 mmol/l ionized blood calcium. The cow went down at 0.45-0.48 mmol/l ionized blood calcium at which point the heart rate was increased by 40%. The high sensitivity of the method employed allowed the conclusion that already at a concentration of ionized blood calcium at 1.0 mmol/l both frequency and amplitude of rumen contractions decreased rapidly although eating behaviour and rumination appeared unaffected during the short term observation periods. Implications of this finding towards health and production in transition cows are discussed.
IFN-γ is essential for idiopathic and murine mercury-induced systemic autoimmunity (mHgIA), and heterozygous IFN-γ(+/-) mice also exhibit reduced disease. This suggests that blocking specific IFN-γ-related pathways that may only partially inhibit IFN-γ production or function will also suppress autoimmunity. To test this hypothesis, mice deficient in genes regulating IFN-γ expression (Casp1, Nlrp3, Il12a, Il12b, Stat4) or function (Ifngr1, Irf1) were examined for mHgIA susceptibility. Absence of either Ifngr1 or Irf1 resulted in a striking reduction of disease, while deficiency of genes promoting IFN-γ expression had modest to no effect. Furthermore, both Irf1- and Ifng-deficiency only modestly reduced the expansion of CD44(hi) and CD44(hi)CD55(lo) CD4(+) T cells, indicating that they are not absolutely required for T cell activation. Thus, there is substantial redundancy in genes that regulate IFN-γ expression in contrast to those that mediate later signaling events. These findings have implications for the therapeutic targeting of IFN-γ pathways in systemic autoimmunity.
In a single-blind study of 100 children aged 1 to 10 years, the minimum effective dose of lignocaine required to prevent injection pain due to propofol was 0.2 mg.kg-1 when veins on the dorsum of the hand were used. This is more than twice the adult value. We concluded that injection pain should not limit the use of propofol in children if an adequate amount of lignocaine is mixed immediately prior to injection.
Unwanted effects of drugs on neurobehavioural and cardiovascular functions are normally assessed in separate studies and using different animals. A new model using dogs which allows for the integration of these assessments into a single study was established and validated, adopting the most sophisticated technologies for both monitoring behaviour by video recordings and cardiovascular parameters by telemetry.
Conscious male beagle dogs (n=4) were given single oral doses of vehicle, and D-amphetamine (0.25, 0.75, 1.5 mg/kg) or acepromazine (0.05, 0.3, 2 mg/kg) within two different studies. Blood pressure, heart rate, electrocardiogram (EKG), body temperature, motor activity and behaviour (by video) were monitored continuously for 24 h post-dose. Animals underwent a full neurobehavioural examination the day before dosing, at the time to the maximal plasma concentration (Tmax) and 24 h post-dose.
D-Amphetamine: a dose-dependent increase in arterial blood pressure was noted at all doses and was generally associated with an increase in the QA interval, an index of cardiac contractility. Heart rate also increased but only at the 1.5 mg/kg dose. A dose-dependent general excitatory state of the nervous system was observed, characterised mainly by hyper-reactivity, and stereotyped activities. Acepromazine: a decrease in systolic blood pressure was detected at 0.3 and 2 mg/kg generally associated with a decrease in pulse pressure reflecting a negative inotropic effect. A dose-related increase in heart rate accompanied this effect. Dose-dependent general depression of the nervous system was noted; mainly characterised by half-closed eyes, subdued behaviour and impaired posture. In both studies, all dogs completely recovered at approximately 16 h after treatment.
Cardiovascular and neurobehavioural changes expected from the pharmacology of test substances were accurately detected. No significant fluctuations of the telemetric parameters recorded were noted as a consequence of the handling associated with the direct neurobehavioural examination. These results confirm the validity of this combined model capable of providing a reliable neurobehavioural and cardiovascular assessment of drugs.
o-Quinone forming estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) have been associated with carcinogenesis. LY2066948, a novel SERM in development by Eli Lilly for the treatment of uterine fibroids and myomas, has structural similarity to the equine estrogen equilenin present in hormone replacement formulations; both contain a naphthol group susceptible to oxidative metabolism to o-quinones. LY2066948 was synthesized and assayed for antiestrogenic activity, and in cell culture was confirmed to be a more potent antiestrogen than the prototypical SERM, 4-hydroxytamoxifen. Oxidation of LY2066948 with 2-iodoxybenzoic acid gave an o-quinone (t(1/2)=3.9 ± 0.1h) which like 4-hydroxyequilenin-o-quinone (t(1/2)=2.5 ± 0.2 h) was observed to be exceptionally long-lived with the potential to cause cytotoxicity and/or genotoxicity. In model reactions with tyrosinase, the catechol metabolites of LY2066948 and equilenin were products; interestingly, in the presence of ascorbate to inhibit autoxidation, these catechols were formed quantitatively. Tyrosinase incubations in the presence of GSH gave the expected GSH conjugates resulting from trapping of the o-quinones, which were characterized by LC-MS/MS. Incubations of LY2066948 or equilenin with rat liver microsomes also gave detectable o-quinone trapped GSH conjugates; however, as observed with other SERMs, oxidative metabolism of LY2066948 mainly occurred on the amino side chain to yield the N-dealkylated metabolite. CYP1B1 is believed to be responsible for extra-hepatic generation of genotoxic estrogen quinones and o-quinone GSH conjugates were detected in equilenin incubations. However, in corresponding incubations with CYP1B1 supersomes, no o-quinone GSH conjugates of LY2066948 were detected. These studies suggest that although the naphthol group is susceptible to oxidative metabolism to long-lived o-quinones, the formation of these quinones by cytochrome P450 can be attenuated by the chemistry of the remainder of the molecule as in the case of LY2066948.
Methylphenidate is structurally and functionally similar to amphetamine. Cerebral vasculitis associated with amphetamine abuse is well documented, and in rare cases ischaemic stroke has been reported after methylphenidate intake in children. We report the case of a 63-year-old female who was treated with methylphenidate due to hyperactivity and suffered from multiple ischaemic strokes. We consider drug-induced cerebral vasculitis as the most likely cause of recurrent ischaemic strokes in the absence of any pathological findings during the diagnostic work-up. We conclude that methylphenidate mediated vasculitis should be considered in patients with neurological symptoms and a history of methylphenidate therapy. This potential side-effect, though very rare, represents one more reason to be very restrictive in the use of methylphenidate.
This project addresses the validation study design of a test system using a telemetered non-human primate model for cardiovascular safety pharmacology evaluation.
In addition to non-pharmacological validation including installation and operation qualifications, performance qualification (locomotor activity and cardiovascular evaluations) was completed on free-moving cynomolgus monkeys by quantifying the degree of cardiovascular response measured by the telemetric device to various positive control drugs following their intravenous administration. Remifentanil (0.0005, 0.001, 0.002, 0.004, 0.008 and 0.016 mg/kg) was given to induce bradycardia and hypotension. Medetomidine (0.04 mg/kg) was used to induce an initial phase of hypertension followed by hypotension and bradycardia. Esmolol (0.5, 1.0 and 2.0 mg/kg) was used to induce bradycardia. Dopamine (0.002, 0.008, 0.01, 0.02, 0.03 and 0.05 mg/kg/min) was infused over 30 min to induce an increase in arterial and pulse pressures and tachycardia. Amiodarone (0.4, 0.8 and 1.6 mg/kg/min) was infused over 10 min to induce QT interval prolongation. Potassium chloride (0.08 mEq/kg/min) was infused for periods of less than 30 min to induce electrocardiographic (EKG) changes characteristic of hyperkalemia. Reliability was evaluated over 60 days.
Monitoring with a reference methodology and the telemetry system was important in order to evaluate precision and accuracy of the test system. Positive control drugs produced a wide range of cardiovascular effects with different amplitudes, which were useful in identification of the limits of the test system.
Reference monitoring methods and selection of a battery of positive control drugs are important to ensure proper test system validation. Drugs inducing not only QT prolongation but also positive and negative chronotropic effects, positive and negative systemic arterial pressure changes and ECG morphology alterations were useful to identify test system limitations during performance qualification. ECG data processing at significantly elevated heart rates revealed that a trained observer should review all cardiac cycles evaluated by computer.
In light of the growing incidence of oral cancer in Taiwan, this study is aimed at investigating the antitumor activity of 3,3'-diindolylmethane (DIM), an active metabolite of the phytochemical indole-3-carbinol (I3C), in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). DIM exhibited substantially higher antiproliferative potency than I3C in three OSCC cell lines with IC(50) values in SCC2095, SCC9, and SCC15 cells, respectively, of 22 versus 168μM, 25 versus 176μM, and 29versus 300μM. Flow cytometric analysis and Comet assay indicated that DIM suppressed the viability of SCC2095 cells by inducing apoptosis and G2/M arrest. Western blot analysis of various signaling markers revealed the ability of DIM to target pathways mediated by Akt, mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases, nuclear factor (NF)-κB, and p53, of which the concerted action underlined its antitumor efficacy. The concomitant inactivation of Akt and MAP kinases in response to DIM facilitated the dephosphorylation of the proapoptotic protein Bad at Ser-136 and Ser-112, respectively. Through endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, DIM stimulated the activation of p53 via Ser-15 phosphorylation, leading to increased expression of the BH3-only proapoptotic Bcl-2 members Puma and Noxa. Together, these changes decreased the mitochondrial threshold for apoptosis. G2/M arrest might be attributable to the suppressive effect of DIM on the expression of cyclin B1 and cdc25c. As many downstream effectors of the Akt-NF-κB pathway, including glycogen synthase kinase 3β, IκB kinase α, and cyclooxygenase-2, have been shown to promote oral tumorigenesis, the ability of DIM to inhibit this signaling axis underscores its chemopreventive potential in oral cancer.
Ten healthy male volunteers received intravenous regional anaesthesia of the upper limb on two separate occasions using 40 ml of 0.5% prilocaine or 40 ml plain 0.5% chloroprocaine by random allocation. Using a double-blind method, the onset and recovery of sensory block was tested (pinprick) in the four main nerve areas. The onset and recovery of motor block was measured by squeezing a rubber balloon connected to a manometer. The symptoms after deflation of the tourniquet were recorded. Seven volunteers in both groups developed total anaesthesia in 20 min. Complete motor block occurred in 12.3 min with prilocaine and 11.3 min with chloroprocaine. Sensation recovered in all areas in 7.6 min with prilocaine and 10.0 min with chloroprocaine (ns). Motor function recovered in 8.4 and 12.0 min respectively (p less than 0.01). Six volunteers in the chloroprocaine group showed signs of venous irritation and/or antecubital urticaria in the test arm for 30-45 min after the deflation. Four volunteers in the chloroprocaine group had increased in heart rate (greater than 20%) and one of them short periods of junctional rhythm during the first 2 min after tourniquet deflation. Mild, short-lived CNS side effects occurred in both groups.
Topical glucocorticoids are commonly applied for treatment of atopic dermatitis, and are often administered over a long period. However, itching often occurs as a rebound phenomenon after cessation of long-term glucocorticoid application. The present study was an initial trial designed to establish an animal model of glucocorticoid-induced pruritus by topical application of dexamethasone over a long period in mice with contact dermatitis. BALB/c mice with chronic allergic contact dermatitis induced by 5 weeks of repeated application of 2,4,6-trinitro-1-chlorobenzene (TNCB) were treated topically with dexamethasone for 3 weeks from 2 weeks after the elicitation of dermatitis. The effects of dexamethasone on inflammation and pruritus were evaluated by measurement of ear-swelling and scratching behavior, respectively. Significant enhancement of pruritus was confirmed after chronic application of dexamethasone. The increased frequency of scratching behavior was reduced by withdrawal of dexamethasone. On the other hand, ear-swelling was markedly ameliorated by dexamethasone treatment, but rapidly relapsed after dexamethasone withdrawal. The level of interleukin (IL)-4 mRNA in ear skin and that of IgE in serum were increased in the mice with dermatitis and reduced by dexamethasone treatment. On the other hand, the level of nerve growth factor (NGF) mRNA was slightly increased by dexamethasone treatment and remained high even after its discontinuation. It is anticipated that this novel animal model of glucocorticoid-induced pruritus will be useful for clarifying the mechanisms of the rebound phenomenon induced by chronic treatment with topical glucocorticoids, and for developing a new form of therapy.
A patient receiving vancomycin for a serious staphylococcal infection had a lupus-like syndrome characterized by a malar rash, pain and erythema of the cartilage of both ears, and tender erythematous and hemorrhagic lesions of the finger tips. Biopsy and direct immunofluorescence study of the skin showed changes consistent with the diagnosis of lupus erythematosus. The possible development of a drug-induced vasculitis or lupus-like syndrome should be added to the list of rare toxic effects of vancomycin.
Bupropion, a novel antidepressant, has been reported to produce fewer adverse effects than the tricyclic antidepressants. It has relatively weak effects on norepinephrine and serotonin reuptake but possesses significant dopamine agonist and reuptake blocking effects.
The case histories of two geriatric patients treated with bupropion for major depression are presented.
Both patients experienced a previously unreported side effect--falling backward--associated with bupropion use. Orthostatic hypotension and vertigo are not consistent with the patients' histories. Both patients manifested other symptoms consistent with parkinsonian syndrome.
This side effect, apparently unique to bupropion among antidepressants, may be mediated through dopaminergic effects in the basal ganglia. Clinicians should be alert to these potential problems in the geriatric population.
This study identifies eight patients who during routine therapy with conventional doses of tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) experienced elevated plasma concentrations and suffered a grand mal seizure. We correlate the incidence of TCA-induced seizures with TCA plasma level and suggest that the incidence of TCA-induced seizures can be significantly reduced with the judicious use of therapeutic drug monitoring.
Seven of the eight cases of TCA-induced seizures during routine pharmacotherapy represent all the cases known to the authors during their careers. Histories were evaluated for factors that would predispose patients to suffer seizures. The following data were also recorded: (1) duration of treatment with the dose that was associated with the seizure, (2) the time between last dose and the seizure, (3) a plasma TCA level obtained at the time of seizure, and (4) presence or absence of other manifestations of TCA toxicity. In addition, a MEDLINE search was conducted using the key phrases "tricyclic antidepressants" and "seizures" to obtain all English language articles published since 1966 on the occurrence of TCA-induced seizures.
The mean +/- SD daily TCA dose was 250 +/- 80 mg/day. The mean +/- SD total plasma TCA concentration was 734 +/- 249 ng/mL (range, 438-1200 ng/mL). The only risk factor that emerged for experiencing seizures was an elevated plasma TCA concentration. Three patients presented with no other manifestations of TCA toxicity prior to seizure.
The incidence of TCA-induced seizures for our inpatient population in which therapeutic drug monitoring is routinely used is 0.4%. This incidence is less than that reported in earlier inpatient series (1% to 4%). Our finding is consistent with the conclusion that therapeutic drug monitoring reduces the incidence of TCA-induced seizures by allowing for rational dose adjustment.
Enflurane (ethrane; 2-chloro-1,2,2-trifluoroethyl difluoromethyl ether) has been widely used as an alternative general anesthetic agent to halothane over the past decade because halothane has been directly linked to hepatocellular damage. Several case reports have subsequently described a hepatitis after exposure to enflurane. We describe another case of enflurane hepatitis which supports earlier reports of this entity, discuss possible mechanisms of such hepatocellular damage, and review the pertinent literature.
Viral reactivation in hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) carriers undergoing immunosuppressive therapy is well documented. To evaluate the role of lamivudine prophylaxis in Hepatitis B virus (HBV) carriers treated with immunosuppression for nonhepatic disorders, we reviewed our experience between 1997 and 2000 at Hadassah University Hospital (Jerusalem, Israel). Controls were patients who were HBV carriers and who, between 1990 and 1995, were treated for hematological malignancies but were not treated with lamivudine. Eighteen HBsAg-positive patients were treated with immunosuppression. Fourteen were males, with a mean age of 48 years. Eleven patients had lymphoma; 2 had colonic adenocarcinoma; and 5 had cryoglobulinemia, enophthalmitis, vasculitis, malignant histocytosis, or ulcerative colitis. Fourteen patients were treated with chemotherapy, and 4 with prolonged high-dose corticosteroids. All patients were HBsAg-positive; 4 had hepatitis B e antigen, and 10 had HBV DNA by polymerase chain reaction. Lamivudine was administered to 13 patients in the treatment group 1 to 60 days (mean, 15 days) before immunosuppressive treatment and continued 0.5 to 24 months (mean, 7 months) following initiation of immunosuppression. Mean follow-up after lamivudine administration was 21 months. Three patients died of lymphoma complications and 10 (77%) survived. None of the patients had clinical or serological evidence of HBV reactivation during or after lamivudine prophylaxis. Of 6 patients who presented with liver function test disturbances, 5 improved during combined lamivudine and immunosuppression treatment. At the end of follow-up, HBV DNA became undetectable in 2 of 10 patients. In 2 patients, seroconversion from HBsAg to anti-HBs was observed. In contrast, 2 of 5 control patients had HBV reactivation. Lamivudine prophylaxis in HBsAg carriers receiving immunosuppressive therapy may prevent HBV reactivation and hepatic failure.
3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) are associated with adverse skeletal muscle toxicity, but the underlying mechanism remains unclear. To investigate the pathological mechanism of statin-induced myotoxicity, cerivastatin (20 ppm; corresponding to 2 mg/kg/day) was dietarily administered to young male F344 rats for 10 days, and time-course clinical observations, measurement of plasma creatine kinase activity, and light and electron microscopy of type I fiber-predominant skeletal muscle (soleus) or type II fiber-predominant skeletal muscles (extensor digitorum longus and tibialis anterior), were performed. Clinical symptoms including weakness of hind limbs, staggering gait and body weight loss, accompanied by marked plasma creatinine kinase elevation in rats fed cerivastatin at around Day 6 to 8. Interestingly, microscopic examination revealed that cerivastatin-induced muscle damages characterized by hypercontraction (opaque) and necrosis of the fibers were of particular abundance in the soleus muscle at Day 8, whereas these histological lesions in the extensor digitorum longus and tibialis anterior were negligible, even at Day 9. Prior to manifestation of muscle damage, swollen mitochondria and autophagic vacuoles in the soleus were observed as the earliest ultra structural changes at Day 6; then activated lysosomes, disarray of myofibril and dilated sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles became ubiquitous at Day 8. These results demonstrate that cerivastatin induces type I fiber-predominant muscles injury, which is associated with mitochondrial damage, in young male F344 rats. Since the rat exhibiting type I fiber-targeted injury is a unique animal model for statin-induced myotoxicity, it will be useful for gaining insight into mechanisms of statin-induced myotoxicity.
There are no published reports of an association between triphasic oral contraceptives and the development of panic disorder.
The authors describe two cases in which the use of triphasic oral contraceptives in women appear to have precipitated panic disorder. Treatment with the triphasic oral contraceptives was stopped and the patients were followed for 2 years.
Both subjects had rapid and total resolution of their panic disorder symptoms following cessation of triphasic oral contraceptive medications.
Triphasic oral contraceptives in some predisposed women may lead to precipitation of panic disorder.
Panic disorder, a severe anxiety disorder, affects 1-2% of the general population, mostly women 20-40 years old. A 29-year-old married white women with no children presented with an 18-month history of panic attacks. Episodes of abrupt anxiety lasted 5-20 minutes and occurred 3-4 times per week accompanied by rapid heart rate, shortness of breath, dizziness, and a fear of losing control. She was evaluated by a cardiologist several months earlier for episodic tachycardia, but the tests were normal. She was taking .5 mg of lorazepam po 2-3 times per month, which relieved her anxiety. Her only other medication was 1 tablet/day of Triphasal oral contraceptive (OC). She was started on treatment with desipramine 10 mg, and the dose gradually increased to 60 mg/day which she was unable to tolerate because of marked anorexia; lorazepam .5 mg bid and 10.5-mg tablet p.r.n. was continued to address excess activation secondary to the tricyclic depressant. She had changed from a constant dose OC (Lo/Ovral) to a triphasic preparation (Triphasil) 6 months prior to the onset of her panic attacks. The OC was halted, and she has experienced no subsequent panic attacks or avoidance behaviors during 2 years of follow-up. In the 2nd case a 39-year-old married white woman with 3 children presented with a 3-year history of panic attacks. She was given Ortho-Novum 7/7/7 1 tablet/day for about 8 months prior to her 1st panic attack, which occurred while she was driving. Her medications were clorazepate 3.75 mg b.i. d. and Ortho-Novum 7/7/7 1 tablet g.d. for 21 days of each month; she had been taking both since October 1984. Her father and brother had exhibited some driving avoidance behaviors. Because the triphasic OC preparation possible precipitated her panic disorder with agoraphobia, she was changed to Ortho-Novum 1/35 OC which has markedly improved her anxiety for 2 years now.
Rat hearts infused with the beta-adrenergic agonist isoproterenol were examined for the expression of several nuclear proto-oncogenes (c-fos, fosB, c-jun, junB, and junD) and the immediate early gene Egr-1. During the first 24 h after the start of infusion, a strong but transient expression of c-fos was observed. Expression of c-jun and junD were not elevated whereas junB was. By using specific antagonists to the alpha- (prazosin) and beta-adrenergic receptor (propranolol), a beta-adrenoceptor-specific blockade of the isoproterenol-mediated nuclear response was demonstrated. In situ hybridization localized c-fos expression to cardiac myocytes. Labelling was distributed focally in the left and right ventricles, and was strong and homogeneous in the atria. In contrast to beta-adrenergic stimulation, alpha-adrenoceptor stimulation with phenylephrine and norepinephrine caused the induction of c-jun and Egr-1 in addition to the proto-oncogenes induced by isoproterenol. Thus distinct programs of early response gene expression were expressed in response to alpha- versus beta-adrenergic stimulation.
A study was carried out to assess the field efficacy of ivermectin (IVM) and pyrantel pamoate (PYR) against Parascaris equorum. Seventy-three foals (3-18 months old) from 5 stud farms, not treated with anthelmintics in the previous 10 weeks and with individual faecal egg counts (FEC) >200, were included in the study. For each stud farm, 5-7 foals were included in the IVM-treatment group (IVM 0.2%, 200 mcg/kg body weight) or in the PYR-treatment group (PYR 38%, 13.2mg/kg body weight) and 3 were untreated as controls. For each foal, FECs were carried out before treatment (Day 0) and on Days 7 and 21. An individually based estimation of efficacy was assessed by a bootstrap simulation applied to different previously suggested formulae to evaluate the percent reduction of faecal egg counts (FECR). Two thousand bootstrap resamples were constructed from individual FECRs and the parasite population was considered susceptible for FECs >or=90 and 95% confidence interval (C.I.) >or=95%, suspected resistant for FECRs comprised between 80 and 90% and 95% C.I. <95% and resistant when FECR <or=80 and 95% C.I. <or=90%. IVM treatment was effective in foals from 2 farms, was equivocal at both study times in 1 farm and ineffective in 2 farms, while PYR was fully effective on all farms. This data shows that P. equorum-resistant populations are present also in Italy and the phenomenon is spreading in horses throughout Europe.
The effects on sexual behavior in patients with chronic hepatitis C treated with IFN alpha plus ribavirin is an understudied field. The aim of our study was to evaluate this treatment on sexual behavior. We enrolled 170 male patients affected by chronic hepatitis C that received three MIU intramuscular leukocyte Interferon alpha plus Ribavirin thrice a week for 12 months. We assessed IFN influence by using the responses to International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF). The baseline values of each IIEF score were compared to those obtained at the end of months 1, 3, 6, and 12 as well as at the end of the follow-up period. At the end of month 1, we detected a significant reduction of IIEF scores with respect to basal values, for all administered items. These values were similar to those found at the end of month 3 for almost all parameters, being increased in only the scores of erectile function. At the end of treatment, all scores appeared reincreased, but only mean score of erectile function appeared similar to pretreatment value. The organism adapts itself in someway to the action of cytokine. Psychological influence of IFN on the patients could justify the partial impairment of sensation linked to sexual behavior. Our study provided some more information in quantification and qualification of sexual disturbances related to IFN plus Ribavirin administration in the treatment of chronic hepatitis C.
Dyskinesias are a frequent adverse effect of long-term levodopa therapy. The relative contribution of dopamine D(1) and D(2) receptor function to the pathophysiology of levodopa-induced dyskinesias remains a matter of controversy.
To establish whether a selective D(1) dopamine agonist induces more or less dyskinesia than levodopa in primed dyskinetic patients with Parkinson disease.
We studied ABT-431, the prodrug of a fully selective D(1) agonist, in 20 subjects with advanced Parkinson disease and a fluctuating response to levodopa complicated by dyskinesias. Eight patients were studied in a double-blind, randomized design (French centers); 12, in an open, randomized design (US centers). We assessed and compared the antiparkinsonian (Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale) and dyskinetic (response induced by an acute challenge of a suprathreshold dose of levodopa and by 4 different ascending doses (5, 10, 20, and 40 mg) of ABT-431 during the 6 hours after the challenge.
The separate analysis of the double-blind and open data led to the same findings, ie, the antiparkinsonian and dyskinetic responses induced by ABT-431 were dose related. At the most effective doses (20 and 40 mg), ABT-431 exhibited similar antiparkinsonian benefit and produced similar dyskinesias as levodopa.
Dopamine D(1) agonists can induce a full antiparkinsonian response but do not support previous hypotheses suggesting that D(1) agonists are more or less likely to produce dyskinesias than levodopa.
Based on experimental data, HMG CoA reductase inhibitors are theoretically contraindicated in patients with porphyria. These new cholesterol lowering drugs are increasingly being prescribed. We report the first case of drug-related porphyria cutanea tarda due to HMG CoA reductase inhibitors.
Porphyria cutanea tarda was diagnosed in a patient with chronic alcoholism 18 months after beginning a treatment with simvastatin followed by pravastatin. These drugs were given under different trade names and reintroduced successively leading to acute episodes. Total withdrawal of HMG CoA reductase inhibitors was followed by clinical normalization.
This case confirmed the theoretical contraindication for the use of HMG CoA reductase inhibitors in patients with porphyria. The risk of revealing porphyria with this type of cholesterol lowering drugs is emphasized. Since these drugs are used very frequently, similar cases may well be reported soon.
