The forkhead box m1 (Foxm1 or Foxm1b) protein (previously called HFH-11B, Trident, Win or MPP2) is abundantly expressed in human non-small cell lung cancers where it transcriptionally induces expression of genes essential for proliferation of tumor cells. In this study, we used Rosa26-Foxm1 transgenic mice, in which the Rosa26 promoter drives ubiquitous expression of Foxm1 transgene, to identify new signaling pathways regulated by Foxm1. Lung tumors were induced in Rosa26-Foxm1 mice using the 3-methylcholanthrene (MCA)/butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) lung tumor initiation/promotion protocol. Tumors from MCA/BHT-treated Rosa26-Foxm1 mice displayed a significant increase in the number, size and DNA replication compared to wild-type mice. Elevated tumor formation in Rosa26-Foxm1 transgenic lungs was associated with persistent pulmonary inflammation, macrophage infiltration and increased expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (Cox-2), Cdc25C phosphatase, cyclin E2, chemokine ligands CXCL5, CXCL1 and CCL3, cathepsins and matrix metalloprotease-12. Cell culture experiments with A549 human lung adenocarcinoma cells demonstrated that depletion of Foxm1 by either short interfering RNA transfection or treatment with Foxm1-inhibiting ARF 26-44 peptide significantly reduced Cox-2 expression. In co-transfection experiments, Foxm1 protein-induced Cox-2 promoter activity and directly bound to the -2566/-2580 bp region of human Cox-2 promoter.
To investigate whether the paraventricular nucleus of hypothalamus (PVN) is involved in the central regulation of apomorphine-induced penile erection in the rat, and to decipher dopamine receptor subtypes in the PVN that are involved in apomorphine-induced penile erection.
Male adult Sprague-Dawley rats (200 to 300 gm.) anesthetized with pentobarbital sodium were used. The intracavernous pressure (ICP), recorded along with systemic and mean arterial pressure (SAP, MAP) as well as heart rate (HR), was measured via a 26-gauge needle inserted into one corpus cavernosum. The PVN was activated by stereotaxically delivered apomorphine hydrochloride (0.1 nmol./100 nl.). Injection of saline into PVN served as a vehicle control. To investigate the participation of dopamine receptor subtypes in the PVN on apomorphine-induced penile erection, D1 or D2 receptor antagonist, SCH-23390 (100 pmol./100 nl.) or sulpiride (100 pmol./100 nl.) respectively, was administered into the PVN prior to subcutaneous application of apomorphine (80 microg./kg.). The effects on ICP of microinjection of D1, D2 or D3 receptor agonist, SKF-38393 (200 pmol./100 nl.), lisuride (200 pmol./100 nl.) or 7-hydroxy-DPAT (200 pmol./100 nl.) respectively, into the PVN were also evaluated.
The mean resting ICP was 5.2+/-0.4 mm. Hg. Upon administration of apomorphine into the PVN, there was a significant increase in ICP that peaked at 50.7+/-5.3 mm. Hg and persisted for 45.2+/-18.0 minutes after an onset latency of 677.7+/-311.6 seconds. Yawning and teeth gnashing were also observed in most of animals during the period of ICP increase. There was no significant change in SAP, MAP or HR. In addition, there was no elevation in ICP after administration of saline to the PVN or direct injection of apomorphine into the cavernous tissue. Microinjection of D1 or D2 receptor antagonist into the PVN blocked the increase in ICP after subcutaneous administration ofapomorphine. Direct application of D2, but not D1 or D3 receptor agonist into the PVN, on the other hand, increased the ICP.
Our results demonstrate that application of apomorphine to the paraventricular nucleus of hypothalamus elicited penile erection in the rat. Such an increase in ICP to apomorphine was due mainly to activation of the D2 receptor subtype in the PVN. These observations indicate that PVN may be involved in the central regulation of apomorphine-induced penile erection in the rat.
Cyclophosphamide (CP)-induced cystitis is often used as an animal model of visceral pain. Various neuropeptides in the hypothalamic and amygdaloid nuclei are implicated in pain-induced responses. However, little information is available regarding the regulation of the neuropeptides in response to visceral pain. In the present study, we examined the effects of CP-induced cystitis on the levels of mRNAs encoding galanin, corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), substance P, and enkephalins in the hypothalamic and limbic nuclei using in situ hybridization histochemistry in mouse. Galanin mRNA levels in CP-treated group increased significantly in the arcuate nucleus and the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) but not in the medial preoptic area after the intraperitoneal administration of CP (200 mg/kg body weight) in comparison to those in saline-treated group. CRH mRNA levels in CP-treated group also increased significantly in the central amygdala as well as the PVN after the CP administration. In contrast, CP-induced cystitis failed to upregulate the preprotachykinin-A and preproenkephalin genes which encode substance P and enkephalins, respectively in the hypothalamic and limbic nuclei at any of the time points examined. These results suggest that visceral nociception may upregulate both galanin and CRH gene expression in the hypothalamic and limbic nuclei.
Diastolic and systolic left ventricular (LV) function may be affected early after the initiation of doxorubicin therapy. However, the role of mediastinal radiation and other cytotoxic agents in the production of these early cardiac effects is unclear. In this study LV diastolic and systolic function were assessed before and after doxorubicin (223+/-122 mg.m-2; range, 40-618) in 33 patients. After doxorubicin, LV ejection fraction declined (0.61+/-0.08 to 0.56+/-0.08, P=0.0008), peak filling rate decreased (3.38+/-1.10 to 2.82+/-0.62 end diastolic volumes/s, P=0.006), and time to peak filling rate increased (162+/-39 to 182+/-45 ms, P=0.04). The changes in LV systolic and diastolic function were not related to doxorubicin dose and the use of other cytotoxic agents; the decrease in LV ejection fraction with doxorubicin was more notable in men and in patients who received mediastinal irradiation concurrently with doxorubicin. It is concluded that the use of doxorubicin was associated with the simultaneous early development of LV systolic and diastolic dysfunction. Male gender and concurrent mediastinal irradiation were independent influences, but doxorubicin dose and the use of other cytotoxic agents were not associated with worse cardiac dysfunction.
Thirty-two consecutive patients scheduled for total hip replacement were randomly allocated to receive either neurolept anaesthesia or halothane anaesthesia. In the halothane group, systolic blood pressure was reduced to 10.69-13.33 kPa in normotensive patients, and to 13.33-16.0 kPa in hypertensive patients by adjusting the inspired halothane concentration and using supplementary fentanyl when necessary. In the neurolept group, no attempt was made to reduce blood pressure below the level achieved with adequate anaesthetic doses of fentanyl and droperidol. The average peroperative blood loss in the halothane group was 809 ml (range 250-1700 ml); this was significantly lower than in the neurolept anaesthesia group in which an average blood loss of 1909 ml (range 600-4900 ml) occurred. Moderate hypotensive halothane anaesthesia is recommended as an anaesthetic technique for total hip replacement.
Sphenoidal electrode (SE) insertion can cause pain, for which local anesthesia with lidocaine or intravenous administration of fentanyl has been advocated by different epilepsy treatment centers. Transient facial palsies have been observed after SE insertion. Their frequency of occurrence, distribution, and duration have not been well characterized, however. We hypothesized that this complication is due to the effect of local anesthesia on the peripheral branches of the seventh cranial nerve. To test this hypothesis, we compared the incidence and characteristics of facial palsy during SE insertions performed with either local anesthesia or after intravenous fentanyl administration.
We performed a retrospective study in two patient groups. Group A consisted of 25 patients aged 28 +/- 8.2 years who underwent a prolonged video-EEG (VEEG) monitoring study with SE after subcutaneous infusion of 1% lidocaine in the insertion area. Group B included 25 patients aged 30.1 +/- 8.9 years whose SE were inserted after intravenous administration of 100-200 micrograms fentanyl. Blood pressure (BP) was monitored every 3-5 min throughout the procedure.
Five patients (20%) from group A had a transient facial palsy; in 4, it was complete and in 1 it was partial; 1 patient had a bilateral facial palsy. Paresis lasted 1-7 min (mean 3.2 min). In all patients, the recovery was complete. None of the patients in group B had complications (p = 0.025, Fisher's exact test).
Transient facial palsy is a relatively frequent complication of SE insertion when SE are placed under local anesthesia; patients should be forewarned of its possible occurrence.
In this study, we investigated the potential protective effects of Valeriana officinalis (V. officinalis) against the toxicity induced by rotenone in Drosophila melanogaster (D. melanogaster). Adult wild-type flies were concomitantly exposed to rotenone (500 μM) and V. officinalis aqueous extract (10mg/mL) in the food during 7 days. Rotenone-fed flies had a worse performance in the negative geotaxis assay (i.e. climbing capability) and open-field test (i.e. mobility time) as well as a higher incidence of mortality when compared to control group. V. officinalis treatment offered protection against these detrimental effects of rotenone. In contrast, the decreased number of crossings observed in the flies exposed to rotenone was not modified by V. officinalis. Rotenone toxicity was also associated with a marked decrease on the total-thiol content in the homogenates and cell viability of flies, which were reduced by V. officinalis treatment. Indeed, rotenone exposure caused a significant increase in the mRNA expression of antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) and also in the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene. The expression of SOD and CAT mRNAs was normalized by V. officinalis treatment. Our results suggest that V. officinalis extract was effective in reducing the toxicity induced by rotenone in D. melanogaster as well as confirm the utility of this model to investigate potential therapeutic strategies on movement disorders, including Parkinson disease (PD).
NSAIDs, such as aspirin (ASA), cause widespread mucosal damage, but repeated ASA insults appear to induce mucosal tolerance (adaptation) to this injury. The mechanism of the gastric adaptation to the damage induced by ASA has not been fully explained.
To determine the role of the mucosal gene expression for spasmolitic peptide (SP) (a member of trefoil peptides) and transforming growth factor alpha (TGF alpha) as well as for cyclooxygenase (COX)-1 and COX-2 during gastric adaptation to ASA in rats.
Gastric lesions were produced by ASA (100 mg/kg in 1.5 mL of 0.2 M HCl) applied intragastrically (i.g.) as a single dose. every day for 5 days. Control rats were given 1.5 mL of vehicle (0.2 M HCl i.g.) as a single dose, during 5 consecutive days. Gastric blood flow (GBF) was measured by H2-gas clearance technique and gastric mucosal specimens were taken for the assessment of cell proliferation rate in gastric mucosa by bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) uptake, mucosal generation of prostaglandin E2 measured by radioimmunoassay, and for expression of SP, TGF alpha COX-1 and COX-2 mRNA as determined by RT-PCR. To quantify the relative amounts of mRNA for SP and TGF alpha, southern blotting analysis of the PCR products was performed and the intensity of PCR products was compared with that of beta-actin used as a standard.
ASA applied once produced numerous gastric erosions, but with repeated ASA doses the adaptation to this NSAID developed, the area of gastric lesions being reduced by 86% after six consecutive ASA insults. This adaptation to ASA was accompanied by approximately a 90% reduction in prostaglandin E2 biosynthesis, by a significant rise in BrdU uptake by glandular cells predominantly in the neck region of gastric glands and by expression of SP (SP/beta-actin ratio; 0.96 +/- 0.08 in ASA-adapted mucosa vs. 0.38 +/- 0.05 in the control mucosa) and TGF alpha (TGF alpha/beta-actin ratio: 0.97 +/- 0.07 in ASA-adapted mucosa vs. 0.77 +/- 0.06 in the control mucosa). COX-1 expression was detected in vehicle-control gastric mucosa and after single exposure to ASA or after six consecutive ASA insults, while COX-2 mRNA was not detected in vehicle-control gastric mucosa, but appeared after single ASA insult and was sustained after subsequent ASA doses.
(i) Gastric adaptation to aspirin injury involves enhanced cell proliferation which appears to be mediated by increased expression of SP and TGF alpha, and (ii) rapid upregulation of COX-2 expression following single and repeated ASA insults may represent a compensatory response to suppression of prostaglandin generation by this NSAID.
Traditional uses of Achillea millefolium L. (Asteraceae) include the treatment of cardiovascular diseases. In the present study, we used anesthetized rats to assess the hypotensive effect of a hydroethanolic extract (HEAM), and its dichloromethane (DCM), ethyl acetate (EA), butanolic (BT), and dichloromethane-2 (DCM-2) fractions, besides the flavonoid artemetin, isolated from A. millefolium. The oral administration of HEAM (100-300 mg/kg), DCM (20mg/kg), DCM-2 (10-30 mg/kg), but not EA (10 mg/kg) and BT (50 mg/kg) fractions significantly reduced the mean arterial pressure (MAP) of normotensive rats. The phytochemical analysis by NMR (1)H of DCM and DCM-2 fractions revealed high amounts of artemetin, that was isolated and administered by either oral (1.5 mg/kg) or intravenous (0.15-1.5 mg/kg) routes in rats. This flavonoid was able to dose-dependently reduce the MAP, up to 11.47 ± 1.5 mmHg (1.5 mg/kg, i.v.). To investigate if artemetin-induced hypotension was related to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition, we evaluated the influence of this flavonoid on the vascular effects of both angiotensin I and bradykinin. Intravenous injection of artemetin (0.75 mg/kg) significantly reduced the hypertensive response to angiotensin I while increased the average length of bradykinin-induced hypotension. Artemetin (1.5 mg/kg, p.o.) was also able to reduce plasma (about 37%) and vascular (up to 63%) ACE activity in vitro, compared to control group. On the other hand, artemetin did not change angiotensin II-induced hypertension. Our study is the first showing the hypotensive effects induced by the extract and fractions obtained from A. millefollium. In addition, our results disclosed that this effect may be, at least in part, associated with high levels of artemetin and its ability to decrease angiotensin II generation in vivo, by ACE inhibition.
A variety of stimuli are involved in the pathogenesis of parathyroid gland hyperplasia in renal failure. Recently, it was shown that blocking the signal from the endothelin-1 (ET-1) receptor (ET(A)R/ET(B)R) by a non-selective receptor antagonist, bosentan, reduced parathyroid cell proliferation, parathyroid gland hyperplasia and parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels in normal rats on a calcium deficient diet. Our goal was to determine whether in 5/6 nephrectomized (NPX) rats with developing or established hyperparathyroidism, the endothelin receptor blocker, bosentan, reduced the increase in parathyroid cell proliferation, parathyroid gland hyperplasia and PTH values.
High (HPD, 1.2%) or normal phosphorus diets (PD) (NPD, 0.6%) were given to 5/6 NPX rats for 15 days (NPX(15)). In each dietary group, one-half the rats were given bosentan (B) i.p. 100 mg/kg/day. The four groups of rats were: (1) NPX(15)-1.2% P; (2) NPX(15)-1.2% P+B; (3) NPX(15)-0.6% P; and (4) NPX(15)-0.6% P+B. In a second study in which hyperparathyroidism was already established in 5/6 NPX rats fed a HPD for 15 days, rats were divided into two groups in which one group was maintained on a HPD and the other group was changed to very low PD (VLPD, <0.05%) for an additional 15 days. In each dietary group, one-half the rats were given bosentan i.p. 100 mg/kg-day. The four groups of rats were: (1) NPX(30)-1.2% P; (2) NPX(30)-1.2% P+B; (3) NPX(30)-0.05% P and (4) NPX(30)-0.05% P+B. Parathyroid cell proliferation was measured by proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) staining and ET-1 expression by immunohistochemical techniques.
In the study of developing hyperparathyroidism, bosentan reduced ET-1 expression in the parathyroid glands of rats on the NPD and HPD (P<0.05). But only in rats on the NPD did bosentan result in a reduced increase in parathyroid gland weight (P<0.05). In the study of established hyperparathyroidism, in which 5/6 NPX rats were given a HPD for 15 days, bosentan started on day 15 reduced (P<0.05) ET-1 expression in rats maintained for 15 additional days on the HPD or the VLPD. On the VLPD, parathyroid gland weight was less (P<0.05) than that in rats on the HPD sacrificed at 15 or 30 days. Bosentan did not reduce parathyroid cell proliferation or parathyroid gland weight in rats maintained on the HPD or further reduce these parameters beyond that obtained with dietary phosphorus restriction. PTH values were lowest in the VLPD group, intermediate in the NPD group, and highest in the HPD group, but in none of the three groups did bosentan decrease PTH values.
In azotemic rats with developing hyperparathyroidism, bosentan resulted in a reduced increase in parathyroid gland weight when dietary phosphorus content was normal. Despite a reduction in ET-1 expression in rats on a HPD with developing or established hyperparathyroidism, bosentan did not reduce the increase in parathyroid cell proliferation, parathyroid gland growth or PTH values. Thus, ET-1 blockade with bosentan did not prevent parathyroid gland growth in the azotemic rat.
Indomethacin, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), has been reported to inhibit the growth of medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) cells in vitro. However, the mechanism of inhibition of MTC cell growth by indomethacin and its potency have yet to be revealed. We examined the effect of indomethacin on three different MTC cell lines (TT cells, DRO 81-1 cells and HRO 85-1 cells) and two non-MTC cells. The mechanism of indomethacin action in MTC cells was investigated by analyzing intracellular prostaglandin level, apoptosis, and cell cycle in TT cells. Indomethacin inhibited cell growth of all three MTC cell lines but not normal thyroid cells or anaplastic thyroid carcinoma cells. Indomethacin at 10 microM or greater showed a dose response inhibition of cell growth. Indomethacin at 25 muM, a putative therapeutic serum indomethacin level, showed potency similar to 100 to 200 nM sunitinib, a receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor. To examine whether prostaglandin depletion might determine the inhibition of MTC cell growth, we created different prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) levels in TT cells using three different NSAIDs. A profound PGE2 depletion by indomethacin-ester, a potent cyclooxygenase (COX) II inhibitor, showed the least inhibition of cell growth. Indomethacin did not increase apoptosis of TT cells. Indomethacin, but not naproxen or indomethacin-ester, reduced cell cycle progression into S phase; this was unrelated to the degree of PGE2 depletion. The expression of phosphorylated retinoblastoma (pRb) protein that shifts cells from G(1) to S phase was reduced after exposure to indomethacin. In conclusion, indomethacin has specific anti-tumor effect on MTC cells, probably by reducing cell cycle progression into S phase rather than by prostaglandin depletion. Since no drug therapy is currently available for MTC, indomethacin may be one of the therapeutic candidates.
A recent 2-year carcinogenicity study found that gavage administration of 3-chloro-2-methylpropene (CMP), containing 5% 1-chloro-2-methylpropene (dimethylvinyl chloride, DMVC), caused forestomach neoplasms in rats and mice. Similar chronic studies revealed that DMVC caused forestomach neoplasms in both rats and mice; neoplasms of the nasal and oral cavities were observed in rats but not in mice. In the current studies we have investigated the metabolic basis of these differences. Daily doses of 150 mg/kg of 2-[14C]DMVC or 2-[14C]CMP were administered to rats for 1, 2, or 4 consecutive days. One daily dose of 150 mg/kg of DMVC was administered to mice. Both DMVC and CMP were rapidly metabolized; however, CMP was cleared at a slightly lower rate. Rats exhaled approximately 25 and 10% of the DMVC and CMP as CO2, respectively. Mice exhaled 25% of the DMVC as CO2. Rats expired 30% of the administered DMVC unchanged in the 24 hr after dosing compared to only 7% of the administered CMP. Mice expired 5% of the administered DMVC in the same time period. This observation may explain the occurrence of tumors in the nasal and oral cavities of rats treated with DMVC but not in rats treated with CMP or in mice treated with DMVC in 2-year carcinogenicity studies. The 24-hr urinary excretion in rats was 35% of the administered DMVC compared to 58% of CMP. Mice excreted 47% of the administered DMVC in 24 hr in the urine. An unusual urinary metabolite of DMVC, 2-amino-6-methyl-4-thia-5-heptene-1,7-dioic acid, was identified.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Induction of hyperalgesia by leukotriene B4 (LTB4), a potent chemotactic factor for polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNLs), depends on the generation by cutaneous PMNLs of mediators that are probably derived from the 15-lipoxygenation of arachidonic acid. The capacity of dihydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (diHETE) products of the 15-lipoxygenation of arachidonic acid in PMNL to elicit hyperalgesia was evaluated by assessing the effects of intradermal injection of synthetic diHETEs on the pressure nociceptive threshold in rats. (8R,15S)-Dihydroxyeicosa-(5E-9,11,13Z)-tetraenoic acid [(8R,15S)-diHETE] produced a dose-dependent hyperalgesia, as measured by decrease in threshold for paw withdrawal. The isomer (8S,15S)-diHETE antagonized in a dose-dependent manner this hyperalgesia due to (8R,15S)-diHETE but did not suppress prostaglandin E2-induced hyperalgesia. (8S,15S)-DiHETE produced a dose-dependent hypoalgesia, as reflected by an increase in nociceptive threshold, suggesting a contribution of endogenous (8R,15S)-diHETE to normal nociceptive threshold. The hypoalgesic effect of (8S,15S)-diHETE was blocked by corticosteroids but not by the cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin. Neither (8R,15S)-dihydroxyeicosa-(5,15E-9,11Z)-tetraenoic acid nor (8R,15S)-dihydroxyeicosa-(5,11E-9,13Z)-tetraenoic acid exhibited any hyperalgesic or hypoalgesic activity. The stereospecificity of the effect of (8R,15S)-diHETE suggests that the induction of hyperalgesia is a receptor-dependent phenomenon and that (8S,15S)-diHETE may be an effective receptor-directed antagonist. The (8R,15S)-diHETE and (8S,15S)-diHETE from PMNL, keratinocytes, and other epithelial cells may modulate normal primary afferent function and contribute to inflammatory hyperalgesia.
The medial preoptic nucleus (MPN) is the major nucleus of the preoptic area (POA), a hypothalamic area involved in the regulation of body-temperature. Injection of capsaicin into this area causes hypothermia in vivo. Capsaicin also causes glutamate release from hypothalamic slices. However, no data are available on the effect of capsaicin on synaptic transmission within the MPN. Here, we have studied the effect of exogenously applied capsaicin on spontaneous synaptic activity in hypothalamic slices of the rat. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were made from visually identified neurons located in the MPN. In a subset of the studied neurons, capsaicin enhanced the frequency of spontaneous glutamatergic EPSCs. Remarkably, capsaicin also increased the frequency of GABAergic IPSCs, an effect that was sensitive to removal of extracellular calcium, but insensitive to tetrodotoxin. This suggests an action of capsaicin at presynaptic GABAergic terminals. In contrast to capsaicin, the TRPV4 agonist 4alpha-PDD did not affect GABAergic IPSCs. Our results show that capsaicin directly affects synaptic transmission in the MPN, likely through actions at presynaptic terminals as well as on projecting neurons. Our data add to the growing evidence that capsaicin receptors are not only expressed in primary afferent neurons, but also contribute to synaptic processing in some CNS regions.
There is much variability between individuals in the response to inhaled toxins, but it is not known why certain people develop disease when challenged with environmental agents and others remain healthy. To address this, we investigated whether TLR4 (encoding the toll-like receptor-4), which has been shown to affect lipopolysaccharide (LPS) responsiveness in mice, underlies the variability in airway responsiveness to inhaled LPS in humans. Here we show that common, co-segregating missense mutations (Asp299Gly and Thr399Ile) affecting the extracellular domain of the TLR4 receptor are associated with a blunted response to inhaled LPS in humans. Transfection of THP-1 cells demonstrates that the Asp299Gly mutation (but not the Thr399Ile mutation) interrupts TLR4-mediated LPS signalling. Moreover, the wild-type allele of TLR4 rescues the LPS hyporesponsive phenotype in either primary airway epithelial cells or alveolar macrophages obtained from individuals with the TLR4 mutations. Our findings provide the first genetic evidence that common mutations in TLR4 are associated with differences in LPS responsiveness in humans, and demonstrate that gene-sequence changes can alter the ability of the host to respond to environmental stress.
The aim of the present work was to analyze the effects of pinealectomy in the development of the epilepsy model induced by pilocarpine in adult male rats. Group I: Wistar male adult rats were submitted to pinealectomy, and 7 days after surgery, these animals received pilocarpine (350 mg/kg, i.p.) to induce three distinct behavioral phases: status epilepticus, seizure-free, and chronic phases. This late, as well as all control groups were continuously video-recorded for 60 days, to study behavior parameters. These animals were killed and the brain sections were processed for Nissl and neo-Timm. Group II: Another group, also submitted to pinealectomy, received several injections of melatonin (2.5 mg/kg): 20 min before, concomitantly with pilocarpine, 30 min, 1 h, and 2 h after pilocarpine administration. Some animals from group I and all from group II were sacrificed 48 h following status epilepticus onset to perform TUNEL assay. The latency for status epilepticus onset, status epilepticus length as well as mortality rate during status epilepticus were similar for pinealectomized and control groups. On the other hand, pinealectomized rats presented minor duration of the silent period, a higher number of spontaneous seizures during the chronic phase, increased number of TUNEL-positive cells (acute phase), increased neuronal loss, and marked supragranullar mossy fibers sprouting (chronic phase) in the hippocampal formation, when compared with control groups. Our data show that the pinealectomy facilitates the epileptogenic process that follows the long-lasting status epilepticus. This facilitation can be partially reverted by the simultaneous administration of melatonin.
We characterized the biologic effects of a novel small molecule STAT3 pathway inhibitor that is derived from the natural product curcumin. We hypothesized this lead compound would specifically inhibit the STAT3 signaling pathway to induce apoptosis in melanoma cells.
FLLL32 specifically reduced STAT3 phosphorylation at Tyr705 (pSTAT3) and induced apoptosis at micromolar amounts in human melanoma cell lines and primary melanoma cultures as determined by annexin V/propidium iodide staining and immunoblot analysis. FLLL32 treatment reduced expression of STAT3-target genes, induced caspase-dependent apoptosis, and reduced mitochondrial membrane potential. FLLL32 displayed specificity for STAT3 over other homologous STAT proteins. In contrast to other STAT3 pathway inhibitors (WP1066, JSI-124, Stattic), FLLL32 did not abrogate IFN-gamma-induced pSTAT1 or downstream STAT1-mediated gene expression as determined by Real Time PCR. In addition, FLLL32 did not adversely affect the function or viability of immune cells from normal donors. In peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), FLLL32 inhibited IL-6-induced pSTAT3 but did not reduce signaling in response to immunostimulatory cytokines (IFN-gamma, IL 2). Treatment of PBMCs or natural killer (NK) cells with FLLL32 also did not decrease viability or granzyme b and IFN-gamma production when cultured with K562 targets as compared to vehicle (DMSO).
These data suggest that FLLL32 represents a lead compound that could serve as a platform for further optimization to develop improved STAT3 specific inhibitors for melanoma therapy.
Cocaine abuse is on a rise in Hungary as well. It is known that cocaine users have a higher risk developing cardiovascular complications, for example aortic dissection. Almost all patients in Hungary suffering from type B aortic dissection are referred to our department for treatment.
We introduce the case of a regular cocaine user, who suffered an acute type B aortic dissection and was treated surgically. To our best knowledge this is the first similar case in our country to be published.
Case presentation.
We performed a successful operation: acute thoracoabdominal aortic refenestration, no complication was detected. The patient is doing well three months after the procedure, returned to his regular activities, he is normotensively receiving medical treatment, and he gave up cocaine.
Thoracoabdominal aortic refenestration can save the life of patients presenting with acute type B dissection. Good long-term result depends on adequate hypertension control and cocaine abstinence. As the frequency of cocaine abuse increases in Hungary, similar cases may be more often encountered.
Diclofenac is a frequently prescribed nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID). Significant hepatotoxicity related to diclofenac may be more common than previously recognized, as three patients with diclofenac-associated hepatitis were seen by one clinician in a single year. All patients were ANA positive during the hepatitis and had histologic features of chronic active hepatitis. Two had been inappropriately treated with corticosteroids. The third patient presented more acutely with jaundice and symptoms of hepatitis. Two of the patients developed the same hepatic reaction when rechallenged with diclofenac. The third patient was changed to tiaprofenic acid, a NSAID of the same family, and redeveloped evidence of hepatotoxicity. All three were subsequently able to take naproxen without liver dysfunction. Diclofenac-induced liver disease may be misdiagnosed. Twenty-six cases of significant hepatic reactions to diclofenac have been previously reported in the literature and are reviewed. Such hepatic reactions to diclofenac and related NSAIDs may be commoner than realized. Introduction of a NSAID of another class appears to be safe.
Silver could prove to be a valuable alternative raw material for antibiotics and disinfectants as it is relatively free of adverse effects. Nano-silver is now been put to practical use in commonly used items, such as, clothes, electric home appliances, and electronic industry, but has not been widely applied in the medical or pharmacological fields. This study was designed to investigate the effects of nano-silver on the production of cytokines by and on the proliferation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). In addition, we investigated the potential cytotoxic effects of nano-silver on PBMCs. PBMCs from healthy human volunteers were stimulated with 5 mug/ml phytohaemagglutinin (PHA) in the presence of varying concentrations of nano-silver. PBMC proliferations were measured using an aqueous cell proliferation assay kit and supernatants were analyzed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. Interleukin-5 (IL-5), interferon-gamma (INF-gamma), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) protein levels were measured to determine the activation state of PBMCs. At levels of over 15 ppm, nano-silver was found to have a significant cytotoxic effect on PBMCs, and PHA-induced cytokine productions were significantly inhibited by nano-silver (IL-5: at 10 ppm, INF-gamma and TNF-alpha at 3 ppm). Although nano-silver had a cytotoxic effect at high concentration, nano-silver modulated cytokine production in a concentration-dependent manner. These experimental data suggest that nano-silver could be used to treat immunologic and inflammatory diseases.
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is one of the most common manifestations of chronic liver disease worldwide. The aim of the present study was to assess the effect of resveratrol on liver fat accumulation, as well as on the activity of those enzymes involved in lipogenesis and fatty acid oxidation in fa/fa Zucker rats. A total of thirty rats were assigned to three experimental groups and orally treated with resveratrol for 6 weeks, or without resveratrol (C: control group; RSV15 group: 15 mg/kg body weight per d; RSV45 group: 45 mg/kg body weight per d). Liver histological analysis was performed by microscopy. Levels of hepatic carnitine palmitoyltransferase-Ia (CPT-Ia), acyl-coenzyme A oxidase (ACO), fatty acid synthase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase and malic enzyme were assessed by spectrophotometry, and acetyl-CoA carboxylase was assessed by radiometry. Commercial kits were used to determine serum TAG, NEFA, total HDL and non-HDL-cholesterol, glycerol, ketonic bodies, glucose, insulin, adiponectin, aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP), hepatic TAG, thiobarbituric acid reactive substrates, GSH (GSSG) and superoxide dismutase. Resveratrol reduced liver weight and TAG content. It did not modify the activity of lipogenic enzymes but it did increase CPT-Ia and ACO activities. NEFA and ALP were reduced in both resveratrol-treated groups. AST/GOT was reduced only by the lowest dose. ALT/GPT, TAG and adiponectin remained unchanged. Resveratrol reduced liver oxidative stress. This study demonstrates that resveratrol can protect the liver from NAFLD by reducing fatty acid availability. Moreover, resveratrol also protects liver from oxidative stress.
The effects of nitroprusside-induced hypotension on cerebral blood flow and cerebral oxygen consumption were investigated in nine patients scheduled for cerebral arterial aneurysm surgery. Anesthesia was maintained with nitrous oxide/oxygen and fentanyl; muscle relaxation was achieved with pancuronium; PaCO2 was maintained at 4.79-5.32 kPa. Mean arterial pressure was reduced to 50 mmHg by nitroprusside infusion after opening of the dura. Measurements were recorded and blood samples were taken 15 min before induction of hypotension, during stable hypotension and 15 min after termination of nitroprusside infusion. Measurements included: cerebral blood flow, using the argon-washin technique, cardiac output (thermodilution), mean arterial pressure and heart rate. Cerebral blood flow averaged 56 +/- 6 min . 100 g before hypotension. Nitroprusside produced hypotension but did not significantly alter cerebral blood flow (61 +/- 7 ml/min . 100 g). Cerebral blood flow remained virtually at preinfusion values upon cessation of infusion (53 +/- 6 ml/min . 100 g). Cerebral oxygen uptake averaged 3 +/- 0.2 ml/min . 100 g before hypotension and did not change significantly during hypotension (3.3 +/- 0.3 ml/min . 100 g) and after termination of hypotension (2.7 +/- -0.3 ml/min . 100 g). In two patients nitroprusside produced a 17 and 20% increase, respectively, in cerebral blood flow with no change in cerebral oxygen consumption, together with a marked increase in cardiac output and heart rate.
Animals treated with daily lidocaine (60 mg/kg, i.p.) develop progressive increases in pathological eating of nonnutritive substances, i.e. omniphagia. Bilateral amygdala lesions blocked the development of lidocaine-induced omniphagia. Following 32 daily injections of lidocaine, both lesioned and nonlesioned animals showed greater cocaine-induced hyperactivity than saline-pretreated controls. These data suggest cross-sensitization between the two local anesthetics lidocaine and cocaine, even though lidocaine does not possess the psychomotor stimulant effects of cocaine. Amygdala-lesioned animals showed greater cocaine-induced vertical rearing activity compared to controls. The lesion data suggest that the amygdala is differentially involved in the progressive behavioral sensitization to both chronic lidocaine and cocaine.
Recent clinical reports indicate that impaired glucose tolerance is a common phenomenon in primary aldosteronism. Aldosterone stimulates NF-kappaB and activating protein-1 (AP-1) to cause oxidative injury. Elevated oxidative stress impairs insulin signaling. We recently showed that the heme oxygenase (HO) system lowers blood pressure (BP) in deoxycorticosterone-acetate (DOCA)+salt hypertension, a model of primary aldosteronism. However, the effect of the HO system on insulin sensitivity in this model remains largely unclear. Here we report the effects of the HO-inducer hemin and the HO-blocker [chromium mesoporphyrin (CrMP)] on insulin sensitivity/glucose metabolism. Our experimental design included the following 10 groups: (A) controls [(i) surgery-free or normal Sprague-Dawley (SD), (ii) uninephrectomized (UnX)-sham, (iii) UnX+salt (0.9%NaCl+0.2%KCl) and (iv) UnX+DOCA]; (B) DOCA+salt; (C) hemin+DOCA+salt; (D) hemin+CrMP+DOCA+salt; (E) CrMP+DOCA+salt; (F) vehicle-treated rats and (G) normal SD+hemin. Hemin therapy lowered BP and increased plasma insulin and the insulin-sensitizing protein adiponectin with slight but significant reduction of glycemia, while CrMP abolished the hemin effects. Furthermore, hemin improved intraperitoneal glucose and insulin tolerance, suggesting that although DOCA+salt-hypertensive rats were normoglycemic, insulin signaling may be impaired. In contrast, the HO-inhibitor CrMP aggravated insulin resistance and exacerbated glucose and insulin tolerance. Interestingly, the enhanced insulin sensitization in hemin-treated animals was accompanied by reduced urinary/gastrocnemius muscle 8-iso-prostaglandin F(2alpha) (8-isoprostane), inflammatory/oxidative transcription factors like NF-kappaB, AP-1, JNK, and heme content, whereas HO-1, HO-activity, cGMP, and plasma/gastrocnemius muscle antioxidants including bilirubin, ferritin, SOD, catalase, and the total antioxidant capacity were increased. Similarly, hemin enhanced pancreatic HO, cGMP, and cAMP but suppressed 8-isoprostane and attenuated pancreatic histopathological lesions including fibrosis, interstitial edema, acinar cell necrosis, vacuolization, and mononuclear cell infiltration, with corresponding improvement of insulin production. Our results suggest that impaired insulin signaling may be a forerunner to hyperglycemia in aldosteronism. By preserving pancreatic morphology, potentiating insulin signaling, and lowering BP, the HO system may prevent metabolic and cardiovascular complications in aldosteronism.
Phenytoin has been associated with acute hepatotoxicity. Chronic liver enzyme abnormalities associated with phenytoin have been attributed to enzyme induction. There have been no reports of phenytoin-induced chronic hepatitis. We describe an asymptomatic 52-year-old woman who received phenytoin sodium for 11 years and was found to have elevated serum aminotransferases. Assays for hepatitis A, B, and C were negative. Liver biopsy was performed and showed chronic persistent hepatitis. This documentation of phenytoin-induced chronic persistent hepatitis was proven by histology and its etiology confirmed by drug withdrawal and by rechallenge. Although uncommon, this entity is important to recognize in the differential diagnosis of asymptomatic chronic hepatic enzyme dysfunction.
Abnormal dopamine (DA) transmission occurs in many pathological conditions, including drug addiction. Previously, we showed DA D2 receptor (D2R) activation results in pruning of the axonal arbour of DA neurones that innervate the dorsal striatum. Thus, we hypothesised that long-term D2R stimulation through drugs of addiction should cause arbour pruning of neurones that innervate the ventral striatum and thus reduce DA release and contribute to craving. If so, D2R blockade should return these arbours to normal size and may overcome craving. We show that long-term treatment with a D2R antagonist (haloperidol) reverses behavioural and anatomical effects of cocaine dependence in mice, including relapse. This change in arbour size reflects new synapse formation and our data suggest this must occur in the presence of increased DA activity to reverse cocaine-seeking behaviour. These findings hold significant implications for the understanding and treatment of cocaine addiction.
Inflammatory mediators in the exhaled breath are receiving growing medical interest as noninvasive disease markers. Volatile organic compounds have been investigated in this context, but clinical information and methodological standards are limited. The levels of ethane, propane, n-pentane, methanol, ethanol, 2-propanol, acetone, isoprene, benzene, toluene, dimethyl sulphide (DMS) and limonene were measured in repeated breath samples from 20 cystic fibrosis patients and 20 healthy controls (aged 8-29 yrs). Three end-exhaled and one ambient air sample were collected per person and analysed on a customised gas chromatography system. Intra-subject coefficients of variation ranged between 9 and 34%, and hydrocarbon breath levels were influenced by their inspired concentrations. The alveolar gradient for pentane was higher in cystic fibrosis patients than in healthy controls (0.36 versus 0.21 ppb) and inversely proportional to forced expiratory volume in one second; highest values were observed in patients with pulmonary exacerbations (0.73 versus 0.24 ppb). Cystic fibrosis patients also exhibited a lower output of DMS (3.9 versus 7.6 ppb). Group differences were not significant for ethane and the remaining substances. It was concluded that chemical breath analysis for volatile organic compounds is feasible and may hold potential for the noninvasive diagnosis and follow-up of inflammatory processes in cystic fibrosis lung disease.
Evidence of neurological, cognitive, and neuropsychological effects of manganese (Mn) exposure from drinking water (WMn) in children has generated widespread public health concern. At elevated exposures, Mn has been associated with increased levels of externalizing behaviors, including irritability, aggression, and impulsivity. Little is known about potential effects at lower exposures, especially in children. Moreover, little is known regarding potential interactions between exposure to Mn and other metals, especially arsenic (As).
We conducted a cross-sectional study of 201 children to investigate associations of Mn and As in tube well water with classroom behavior among elementary school children, 8-11 years of age, in Araihazar, Bangladesh.
Data on exposures and behavioral outcomes were collected from the participants at the baseline of an ongoing longitudinal study of child intelligence. Study children were rated by their school teachers on externalizing and internalizing items of classroom behavior using the standardized Child Behavior Checklist-Teacher's Report Form (CBCL-TRF).
Log-transformed WMn was positively and significantly associated with TRF internalizing [estimated β = 0.82; 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.08-1.56; p = 0.03], TRF externalizing (estimated β = 2.59; 95% CI, 0.81-4.37; p =0.004), and TRF total scores (estimated β = 3.35; 95% CI, 0.86-5.83; p = 0.008) in models that adjusted for log-transformed water arsenic (WAs) and sociodemographic covariates. We also observed a positive monotonic dose-response relationship between WMn and TRF externalizing and TRF total scores among the participants of the study. We did not find any significant associations between WAs and various scales of TRF scores.
These observations reinforce the growing concern regarding the neurotoxicologic effects of WMn in children.
