A variety of neuroendocrine and psychiatric dysfunctions have been demonstrated in humans maintained on opiates, but both have not previously been examined in the same population. We performed a series of neuroendocrine challenge tests in men participating in a methadone maintenance clinic and in normal controls. Psychiatric diagnoses were made with DSM-III Criteria, using the Diagnostic Interview Schedule, and subjects also completed the Symptom Checklist. Our results in the methadone group suggest (a) near-maximal stimulation of prolactin secretion, with a blunted prolactin response to insulin hypoglycemia, (b) mild suppression of cortisol levels, but an exaggerated cortisol response to stimulation, (c) a delayed and inhibited insulin response to food ingestion with resulting mild hyperglycemia, (d) low body weight, but elevated calorie ingestion, and (e) inability to concentrate urine when dehydrated, which was partially corrected by administration of arginine vasopressin. Phobic disorder was associated with a lower prolactin response to both inhibitory and stimulatory challenges. Depression did not appear to be related to the increased cortisol response to stimulation. These results suggest several potentially fruitful areas for future investigation, including the prolactin system and anxiety disorders, nutrient ingestion and metabolism, and posterior pituitary function.
Nicotinamide is the amide form of niacin and has anti-inflammatory properties that have led to its use in the treatment of several inflammatory dermatologic conditions, such as rosacea. Niacin has established its role in the prevention of coronary artery disease. Cutaneous flushing is a well-known and often dose-limiting side effect of niacin therapy, which does not occur with nicotinamide. We report a patient with rosacea who developed new onset flushing due to unauthorized substitution of niacin for nicotinamide. The anti-inflammatory mechanisms of nicotinamide and flushing mechanisms of niacin are discussed.
A life-threatening complication of the thrombembolism prophylaxis with heparin is heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) type II. HIT type II is based on immunological mechanisms. Even low, subcutaneously applied doses may produce HIT type II. In those patients, continued application may cause thromboembolic complications. The most important symptom of HIT type II is a decrease of platelets.
In a prospective study, we investigated the incidence of HIT type II within the period from 01.07.95 to 30.06.96 in orthopedic patients. We also evaluated the importance of the daily platelet count from the fifth postoperative day for the early diagnosis of HIT type II and a possible reduction of the thrombosis rate. The study included 307 patients after primary implantation of hip and knee endoprosthesis and after hip endoprosthesis replacement. All patients received 3 x 5000 IU/d of unfractionated heparin subcutaneously. Whenever there was a decrease of platelets of at least 50% in relation to the preoperative value or whenever thrombembolic complications occurred, serum was analyzed by the heparin-induced platelet activation test (HIPA).
20 patients developed HIT type II. This corresponds to an incidence of 6.5%. 10 of the HIT type II antibody positive patients (50%) developed thrombembolic complications. 3 patients (0.9%) of the group studied developed clinically symptomatic thrombembolic complications without evidence of heparin antibodies. The total risk of getting thrombembolic complications was 4.2% (13 patients). 3.3% (10 patients) of the entire group developed HIT type II antibody associated thrombembolic complications; 1 patient died. The lethality in the HIT type II antibody positive patient group amounted to 5%. The patients with HIT type II received LMW heparinoid Orgaran (AKZO-Organon, The Netherlands) or hirudin (as a clinical trial). The comparison group (retrospective study from 17.10.92 to 16.10.93) was composed of 262 patients with the same operations and equal thromboembolism prophylaxis. The platelet count was made only as part of routine diagnostic tests. 21 patients (8.0%) developed clinically symptomatic thrombembolic complications. The difference in the thrombosis rate between these two groups of patients is statistically significant. Unrecognized HIT type II is probably the reason for the high thrombembolic complication rate in the comparison group.
The daily platelet count from the fifth postoperative day and from the first day in case of reexposure to heparin is an important measure for the early diagnosis of HIT type II.
The case of a schizoaffective patient with a neurotoxic encephalopathy related to lithium-risperidon combination treatment is explored.
A case report and the relevant theoretical and clinical deliberations are described.
Neurotoxicity related to lithium-risperidon combination treatment is the result of an interaction of different ethiopathogenetic mechanisms. The EEG is the most important diagnostic parameter.
Ninety-five rheumatoid arthritis patients treated with aurothiomalate and/or D-penicillamine have been studied for possible associations between HLA-A, -B, -DR antigens and various toxic reactions to the above drugs. HLA-DR3 and -DRw6 had a higher frequency in patients with toxic reactions (all types) than in patients without toxic reactions (28.5 per cent vs 13.0 per cent and 26.5 per cent vs 4.3 per cent, chi 2 = 2.6 and 7.2, respectively). HLA-B8 was found at a higher frequency in patients with proteinuria and other types of renal involvement (20.0 per cent vs 7.4 per cent in controls), whereas skin manifestations were mainly associated with the presence of HLA-DRw6. The lowest frequency of side-effects was seen in patients with HLA-DR1 and DR2 (10.2 per cent vs 28.3 per cent and 28.5 per cent vs 54.3 per cent, chi 2 = 3.9 and 5.5, respectively). In addition, seropositive patients possessing HLA-DR1, showed toxic reactions less frequently.
Cleft palate, the most frequent congenital craniofacial birth defects in humans, arises from genetic or environmental perturbations in the multi-step process of palate development. Mutations in the MSX1 homeobox gene are associated with non-syndromic cleft palate and tooth agenesis in humans. We have used Msx1-deficient mice as a model system that exhibits severe craniofacial abnormalities, including cleft secondary palate and lack of teeth, to study the genetic regulation of mammalian palatogenesis. We found that Msx1 expression was restricted to the anterior of the first upper molar site in the palatal mesenchyme and that Msx1 was required for the expression of Bmp4 and Bmp2 in the mesenchyme and Shh in the medial edge epithelium (MEE) in the same region of developing palate. In vivo and in vitro analyses indicated that the cleft palate seen in Msx1 mutants resulted from a defect in cell proliferation in the anterior palatal mesenchyme rather than a failure in palatal fusion. Transgenic expression of human Bmp4 driven by the mouse Msx1 promoter in the Msx1(-/-) palatal mesenchyme rescued the cleft palate phenotype and neonatal lethality. Associated with the rescue of the cleft palate was a restoration of Shh and Bmp2 expression, as well as a return of cell proliferation to the normal levels. Ectopic Bmp4 appears to bypass the requirement for Msx1 and functions upstream of Shh and Bmp2 to support palatal development. Further in vitro assays indicated that Shh (normally expressed in the MEE) activates Bmp2 expression in the palatal mesenchyme which in turn acts as a mitogen to stimulate cell division. Msx1 thus controls a genetic hierarchy involving BMP and Shh signals that regulates the growth of the anterior region of palate during mammalian palatogenesis. Our findings provide insights into the cellular and molecular etiology of the non-syndromic clefting associated with Msx1 mutations.
The cardiovascular effects of ritodrine tocolytic therapy were assessed by noninvasive simultaneous recordings of indirect carotid pulse, electrocardiogram (ECG), phonocardiogram, and M-mode echocardiogram in 12 patients in preterm labor. The study was performed before and during infusion, and afterward when the patient was on oral drug therapy. Ritodrine therapy increased heart rate, left ventricular fractional shortening, pre-ejection period/left ventricular ejection time ratio, and cardiac index. A progressive rise in pulmonary capillary pressure was observed in all patients, exceeding 18 mmHg (the threshold for the development of pulmonary congestion) in six patients. Systolic arterial pressure, left ventricular end-diastolic dimension, and plasma protein oncotic pressure remained unchanged during therapy. Ritodrine therapy resulted in a significant drop in diastolic blood pressure and peripheral vascular resistance. This noninvasive means of measuring cardiovascular parameters, including pulmonary capillary pressure, may be useful in monitoring patients who develop significant cardiovascular side effects during tocolytic therapy.
Human epidemiologic studies suggest that low selenium status is associated with increased cancer risk and that selenium supplementation is associated with reduction in the incidence of several cancers, including colorectal cancer. Aromatic and heterocyclic amine carcinogens are thought to be important in the etiology of human colorectal cancer, but no information is available on the effects of selenium on aromatic amine-induced colon cancer. In order to investigate this effect, aberrant crypt foci (ACF), the putative preneoplastic lesions of colon cancer in humans and rodents, were used as a biomarker to test the hypothesis that selenium supplementation can reduce aromatic amine-induced colon carcinogenesis. Male weanling F344 inbred rats were fed a basal torula yeast selenium-deficient diet supplemented with 0, 0.1, or 2. 0 mg selenium/kg diet as selenite, selenate, or selenomethionine (SeMet). Animals were fed the diets for 4 weeks and then administered 1 sc injection/week for 2 weeks of 3, 2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMABP; 100 mg/kg) or vehicle (peanut oil). At 12 weeks, the rats were euthanized and the colon and rectum were removed, opened longitudinally, and fixed in 70% ethanol. Glutathione peroxidase activities in erythrocytes and liver cytosol and selenium concentrations in the colon/rectum and kidney increased significantly (p < 0.05) and in a dose-dependent manner with each of the three selenium diets. No ACF were identified in vehicle-treated rats. In DMABP-treated rats, ACF frequencies decreased significantly (p < 0.05) in groups supplemented with 0.1 or 2.0 mg selenium/kg diet as selenite and selenate but not SeMet. There were no significant differences in ACF and aberrant crypts between rats fed 0.1 vs 2.0 mg selenium/kg diet. These results suggest that dietary selenium, depending on chemical form, can reduce aromatic amine-induced colon carcinogenesis.
Colorectal cancer is the third most common malignancy and the second most common cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide. While surgery remains the mainstay of therapy, approximately 50% of patients who undergo resection develop parenchymal metastatic disease. Unfortunately, current therapeutic regimens offer little improvement to the survival of patients with parenchymal metastases in the liver and lung. In that context, there is a significant unrealized opportunity at the intersection of engineering and biology for the development of novel targeted therapeutic approaches to colorectal cancer metastases. This opportunity exploits the discovery that an intestinal receptor, guanylyl cyclase C, which mediates diarrhea induced by bacterial heat-stable enterotoxins (STs), is over-expressed by metastatic colorectal tumors only. Moreover, it leverages recent advances in the fabrication of metal nanoshells with defined thicknesses absorb near-infrared (NIR) light, resulting in resonance and transfer of thermal energies of more than 40 degrees C. Thus, the conjugation of ST to gold nanoshells, which can undergo resonance excitation by NIR light and emit heat, represents a previously unrecognized approach for the targeted therapy of parenchymal colorectal cancer metastases, specifically to the liver and lung. This article discusses the potential of ST-targeted nanoshells for NIR thermal ablation of metastatic colorectal tumors and highlights the significant challenges and solutions linked to the translation of this emerging technology to patient care.
We describe a case of amiodarone induced hyponatremia consistent with the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) that developed during amiodarone loading, similar to three prior reports. The hyponatremia improved after a lower maintenance dose was initiated. This episode was reported online to the FDA (http://www.fda.gov/medwatch), and future amiodarone labeling will include SIADH as a potential side effect (personal communication, Wyeth Medical Science). Clinicians should be aware of this rare but serious complication, especially in light of the neurological effect of profound hyponatremia. Amiodarone induced SIADH may develop during the loading phase, and may respond to dose reduction without termination of drug.
Tako-tsubo cardiomyopathy is characterized by a transient and reversible left ventricular dysfunction and shows clinical similarities with the acute coronary syndrome. Here, the authors report and discuss a case of a patient with tako-tsubo cardiomyopathy triggered by adrenaline injection after a wasp sting.
The clinical courses of four individuals with pure red cell aplasia associated with isoniazid use are described. Erythroblastopenia in these individuals resolved following cessation of this antituberculous therapy. A clonal assay system that quantitates erythroid precursor cells was used to investigate the pathogenesis of the red cell aplasia in three of the patients. Using this technique, however, we were unsuccessful in demonstrating an inhibitory effect of acute phase serum, isoniazid or a combination of the two on erythroid colony formation. We conclude that isoniazid usage alone appears to be associated with a readily reversible form of acquired pure red cell aplasia. In addition, the results of our in vitro studies emphasize the limitations of bone marrow culture systems when used to implicate offending drugs in the production of drug related cytopenias.
We investigated the effects of endothelin (ET) receptor activation in the bladder and the spinal cord on the micturition reflex in urethane anesthetized rats.
The effects of ET receptor activation on bladder activity were examined during continuous infusion cystometrograms. ET-1 was administered intrathecally or intravesically in normal rats or rats pretreated with capsaicin. The effects of intravenous injection of the selective ETA receptor antagonist ABT-627, or selective ETB receptor antagonist A-192621 (Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, Illinois) intrathecal injection of the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone hydrochloride on changes in bladder activity induced by intravesical or intrathecal ET-1 administration were investigated.
Intravesical injection of ET-1 (0.1 to 10 microM) induced detrusor overactivity, as evidenced by a decrease in intercontraction intervals, in a dose dependent manner. ET-1 induced detrusor overactivity was suppressed by intravenous application of ABT-627 (0.1 mg/kg) as well as capsaicin pretreatment but not by A-192621. In contrast, intrathecal injection of ET-1 (0.5 to 50 fmol) increased intercontraction intervals dose dependently and ET-1 at a higher dose (50 fmol) induced urinary retention. These inhibitory effects were antagonized by ABT-627 (10 mg/kg) and also by intrathecal application of naloxone but not by A-192621.
These results indicate that the activation of ETA receptors in capsaicin sensitive C-fiber afferents in the bladder can induce detrusor overactivity, while ETA receptor activation in the spinal cord can inhibit the micturition reflex via activation of a spinal opioid mechanism. Thus, targeting peripheral ETA receptors could be an effective treatment for bladder overactivity and/or painful conditions.
Since phenacetin was removed from the Drug Tariff in New Zealand in 1974 there has been a decrease in the number of patients with analgesic nephropathy entering dialysis-transplant programmes. Since then there has been an increase in the consumption of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents. Experimental work in animals has shown that these drugs can cause renal papillary necrosis. We report two men with sever osteoarthritis who regularly ingested anti-inflammatory agents and developed papillary necrosis with renal insufficiency and hypertension. One patient consumed 0.5 kg of indomethacin over 10 years and the other 3.5 kg of ibuprofen, 200 g of naproxen and an uncertain amount of ketoprofen over 13 years. The increased chronic usage of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs could bring about an upsurge in the incidence of papillary necrosis.
To study the incidence, clinical presentation, management, complications and outcome of tuberculosis in pediatric liver transplant recipients.
A retrospective review of the medical records of children who underwent liver transplantation between 1991 and 1998.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection occurred in 6 of 254 (2.4%) children undergoing liver transplantation between 1991 and 1998. Cough, pyrexia and poor appetite were common presentations; one-half had normal chest radiographs. The median time to confirmation of diagnosis was 8 months (range, 1 to 17 months). Tests contributing to diagnosis included: Ziehl-Neelsen (ZN) stain (2 patients), M. tuberculosis polymerase chain reaction (1 patient), Mantoux test (1 patient) and histopathology (4 patients). Family health screening was productive for 4 patients. Duration of treatment varied from 9 to 18 months. Isoniazid-induced hepatitis was observed in 2 patients but resolved with dose reduction. Two patients died while receiving treatment, one of Klebsiella spp. septicemia and the other of pulmonary hemorrhage.
Tuberculosis after liver transplantation has a significant morbidity and mortality. Pretransplantation a personal and family history of tuberculosis must be sought, and screening of patients and their families should be considered. Standard regimens incorporating isoniazid and rifampin are effective, but regular monitoring of liver function is essential to detect drug-induced hepatotoxicity.
Because of the role of TGFB1 in prostate cancer and progression, we hypothesized that polymorphisms of TGFB1 at C-509T may be associated with prostate cancer risk and/or more aggressive tumors.
This is a case-control study. Controls consisted of male volunteers 40 years old or older with a normal digital rectal examination and prostate specific antigen 2.5 ng/ml or less. Cases consisted of men with biopsy proven prostate cancer. High grade prostate cancer included all cancers of Gleason sum 7 or greater. Poor prognosis in cases was defined as any stage with Gleason sum 8-10, pT3A (if Gleason sum was greater than 7), pT3B or higher (all Gleason sums), any N1 or higher, any M1 or higher, or any documented PSA recurrence (biochemical failure). Single nucleotide polymorphisms were genotyped using allelic discrimination assays. Logistic regression models were used to estimate the OR with the corresponding 95% CI for individual racial/ethnic groups. Allelic frequency across ethnic/racial groups was compared using Pearson's chi-square test.
A total of 653 cases and 1,476 controls were genotyped at C-509T. The TT genotype showed a significant protective effect against high grade prostate cancer (OR 0.482, 95% CI 0.274-0.849). In addition, the TT genotype was associated with a decreased risk of poor prognosis prostate cancer (OR 0.488, 95% CI 0.236-1.009). Limiting analysis to nonHispanic white men showed that the TT genotype had an even more pronounced protective effect for poor prognosis prostate cancer (OR 0.297, 95% CI 0.100-0.887). Finally, there was a significant difference in the distribution of allelic frequency across racial/ethnic groups (p <0.0001).
We observed an association between single nucleotide polymorphisms of TGFB1 at C-509T and a decreased risk of aggressive prostate cancer. The TT genotype of TGFB1 at C-509T demonstrates a protective effect against high grade prostate cancer and cases with poor prognosis.
The purpose of this study was to determine effectiveness of 17 alpha-hydroxyprogesterone caproate (17 P) prophylaxis by gestational age (GA) at 17 P initiation.
Singleton gestations with > or = 1 preterm birth (PTB) treated with 17 P prophylaxis for recurrent preterm birth before 27 weeks were identified from a data base. Data were stratified by GA at 17 P initiation (16-20.9 [n = 599] weeks and 21-26.9 [n = 307] weeks) and number of PTB (1, 2, > 2). Outcome variables were PTB at < 37, < 35, and < 32 weeks.
No significant differences were found in gestational age at delivery or rates of recurrent PTB < 37, < 35, and < 32 weeks between those women initiating 17 P at 16-20.9 weeks or 21-26.9 weeks, or when stratified by number of prior preterm deliveries.
Initiation of 17 P prophylaxis at 21-26.9 weeks is as effective as initiation at 16-20.9 weeks of gestation.
p63 mutations have been associated with EEC syndrome (ectrodactyly, ectodermal dysplasia, and cleft lip/palate), as well as with nonsyndromic split hand-split foot malformation (SHFM). We performed p63 mutation analysis in a sample of 43 individuals and families affected with EEC syndrome, in 35 individuals affected with SHFM, and in three families with the EEC-like condition limb-mammary syndrome (LMS), which is characterized by ectrodactyly, cleft palate, and mammary-gland abnormalities. The results differed for these three conditions. p63 gene mutations were detected in almost all (40/43) individuals affected with EEC syndrome. Apart from a frameshift mutation in exon 13, all other EEC mutations were missense, predominantly involving codons 204, 227, 279, 280, and 304. In contrast, p63 mutations were detected in only a small proportion (4/35) of patients with isolated SHFM. p63 mutations in SHFM included three novel mutations: a missense mutation (K193E), a nonsense mutation (Q634X), and a mutation in the 3' splice site for exon 5. The fourth SHFM mutation (R280H) in this series was also found in a patient with classical EEC syndrome, suggesting partial overlap between the EEC and SHFM mutational spectra. The original family with LMS (van Bokhoven et al. 1999) had no detectable p63 mutation, although it clearly localizes to the p63 locus in 3q27. In two other small kindreds affected with LMS, frameshift mutations were detected in exons 13 and 14, respectively. The combined data show that p63 is the major gene for EEC syndrome, and that it makes a modest contribution to SHFM. There appears to be a genotype-phenotype correlation, in that there is a specific pattern of missense mutations in EEC syndrome that are not generally found in SHFM or LMS.
The aim of the study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of administered intravenously niferidil in doses 10, 20 and 30 mkg per kg in patients with persistent atrial fibrillation (AF) and flutter (AFL) for pharmacological cardioversion. The study included 30 patients (22 male) with persistent AF (n = 28) and AFL (n = 2) without structural heart diseases with median arrhythmia duration 6.1 +/- 4.8 months (2 weeks to 24 months). Niferidil was administered as 3 bolus injections (10 mkg per kg each) performed with the interval of 15 minutes. Antiarrhythmic efficacy of niferidil in dose of 10 mkg per kg was 60%, in dose of 20 mkg per kg it was 70%, and in dose of 30 mkg per kg reached 90% prespectively. The part of the patients, in whom QTc prolongation exceeded potentionally dangerous value of 500 mc, was 22.2% (6 of 27). None of the patients developed proarrhythmic side effect as torsade de pointes.
Methylsergide maleate, an effective anti-migraine medication, has a well-documented association with left-sided cardiac valve dysfunction. Prior reports have described cardiac valve dysfunction in patients using methylsergide chronically for a minimum of 6 years, with surgical intervention consisting of valve replacement for patients with intractable congestive heart failure. We report a 51-year-old woman who developed severe mitral and aortic valvular dysfunction after taking methylsergide maleate for migraine headaches for a period of 19 months, and who subsequently underwent aortic and mitral valve repair with excellent short-term results.
The role of endogenous tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA) on focal cerebral ischemic injury (FII) after middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion was studied by using tPA gene deficient (KO) mice and wild type (WT) mice. MCA was occluded by thrombosis induced by 3 different intensities of photochemical damage of MCA. FII size in KO mice was smaller than in WT mice in mild damage whereas it was larger in severe damage. These results suggested that endogenous tPA protected FII through its thrombolytic action on transient occlusion with mild damage, but deteriorated on persistent occlusion with severe damage. Cerebral hemorrhage associated with antithrombotic and thrombolytic therapy in acute stroke is a major clinical problem. We investigated the roles of endogenous tPA and MMPs in hemorrhagic cerebral infarction associated with heparin. We demonstrated that heparin administration caused cerebral hemorrhage in WT but not in KO. Heparin administration increased tPA activity and its mRNA expression in WT. We also observed an induction of MMP9 and its mRNA expression by heparin administration in WT but not in KO. Our findings suggest that endogenous tPA plays an important role in heparin-produced cerebral hemorrhage via MMP9 induction and activation.
Postnatal oxytocin treatment decreases blood pressure and increases body weight in adult normotensive rats. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of postnatally administered oxytocin on blood pressure, heart rate and body weight in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). For this purpose SHR male pups were given oxytocin (1 mg/kg) or saline subcutaneously once a day on days 10-14 after birth. Blood pressure and heart rate were measured at the age of 2 months. Weight was registered continuously. The postnatally oxytocin-treated male SHR had significantly lower systolic blood pressure as adults compared to the controls (158 vs. 169; p<0.05). They also had a tendency to lower diastolic blood pressure (119 vs. 128; p=0.10). Heart rate was equal in the two groups. The postnatally oxytocin-treated male SHR had a significantly lower body weight at the age of 5-8 weeks compared to the controls (ANOVA p=0.014).
Little is known about environmental causes and contributing factors for autism. Basic science and epidemiologic research suggest that oxidative stress and inflammation may play a role in disease development. Traffic-related air pollution, a common exposure with established effects on these pathways, contains substances found to have adverse prenatal effects.
We examined the association between autism and proximity of residence to freeways and major roadways during pregnancy and near the time of delivery, as a surrogate for air pollution exposure.
Data were from 304 autism cases and 259 typically developing controls enrolled in the Childhood Autism Risks from Genetics and the Environment (CHARGE) study. The mother's address recorded on the birth certificate and trimester-specific addresses derived from a residential history obtained by questionnaire were geocoded, and measures of distance to freeways and major roads were calculated using ArcGIS software. Logistic regression models compared residential proximity to freeways and major roads for autism cases and typically developing controls.
Adjusting for sociodemographic factors and maternal smoking, maternal residence at the time of delivery was more likely be near a freeway (≤ 309 m) for cases than for controls [odds ratio (OR)=1.86; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.04-3.45]. Autism was also associated with residential proximity to a freeway during the third trimester (OR=2.22; CI, 1.16-4.42). After adjustment for socioeconomic and sociodemographic characteristics, these associations were unchanged. Living near other major roads at birth was not associated with autism.
Living near a freeway was associated with autism. Examination of associations with measured air pollutants is needed.
In humans, persistent organic pollutants (POPs) are stored primarily in adipose tissue. Their total body burden and their contribution to obesity-associated diseases remain unclear.
We characterized POP total body burden and their redistribution in obese individuals before and after drastic weight loss and compared these values with a variety of molecular, biological, and clinical parameters.
Seventy-one obese subjects were enrolled and underwent bariatric surgery. Blood and adipose tissue samples were obtained at different times from these individuals as well as from 18 lean women.
POP content (17 dioxins/furans and 18 polychlorinated biphenyl congeners) in different adipose tissue territories was similar, allowing us to assess total POP body burden from a single biopsy. Total POP body burden was 2 to 3 times higher in obese than in lean individuals. We also found increased expression of some POP target genes in obese adipose tissue. Drastic weight loss led to increased serum POPs and, within 6-12 months, to a significant 15% decrease in total polychlorinated biphenyl body burden. Importantly, serum POP levels were positively correlated with liver toxicity markers and lipid parameters, independently of age and body mass index.
POP content in adipose tissue and serum correlate with biological markers of obesity-related dysfunctions. Drastic weight loss leads to a redistribution of POPs and to a moderate decrease of their total body burden.
Nicotine is the primary addictive component in tobacco, and at relatively low doses it affects cardiovascular responses, locomotor activity, thermoregulation, learning, memory, and attention. At higher doses nicotine produces seizures. The mechanisms underlying the convulsive effects of nicotine are not known, but studies conducted on a number of inbred strains of mice have indicated a positive correlation between the number of alpha-bungarotoxin (alpha-BTX) binding sites in the hippocampus and the sensitivity to nicotine-induced seizures. Because alpha7-containing neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) represent the major binding site for alpha-BTX, mice lacking the alpha7 nAChR subunit were predicted to be less sensitive to the convulsive effects of nicotine. To test this hypothesis, we injected nicotine intraperitoneally in alpha7 mutant mice and found that the dose-response curve for nicotine-induced seizures was similar in the alpha7 +/+, alpha7 +/- and alpha7 -/- mice. The retained sensitivity to the convulsant effects of nicotine could not be explained by the presence of cholinergic compensatory mechanisms such as increases in mRNA levels for other nAChR subunits, or changes in binding levels or affinity for nicotinic ligands such as epibatidine and nicotine. These findings indicate that alpha7 may not be necessary for the mechanisms underlying nicotine-induced seizures.
The few loci associated with multiple sclerosis (MS) are all related to immune function. We report a GWA study identifying a new locus replicated in 2,679 cases and 3,125 controls. An rs10492972[C] variant located in the KIF1B gene was associated with MS with an odds ratio of 1.35 (P = 2.5 x 10(-10)). KIF1B is a neuronally expressed gene plausibly implicated in the irreversible axonal loss characterizing MS in the long term.
Actinomycin-D (Act-D) is a rare cause of veno-occlusive disease (VOD). Between 1993 and 1998, we managed 6 patients, all male, median age 19 months (range 6-48 months) who received Act-D for Wilms' tumour (n=4), clear cell sarcoma (n=1) or rhabdomyosarcoma (n=1). VOD presented with a median platelet count of 12 x 10(9)/l, INR 3.8, fibrinogen 16 mg/l, fibrinogen degradation products (FDPs) > or =80 microg/l, aspartate aminotransferase (AST) 6922 IU/l, bilirubin 47 micromol/l. In 3 cases, transient liver dysfunction and thrombocytopenia without neutropenia had been observed after a previous course of Act-D. All six children developed encephalopathy, hepatomegaly, ascites, reversed portal flow and renal impairment. All received mechanical ventilation and two required haemofiltration. The treatment was supportive. Severe Adult Respiratory Distress Syndrome developed in 3 patients, all of whom died. 3 patients recovered. The outcome of VOD with multi-organ failure is poor. Intravascular coagulopathy precedes and characterises severe VOD during Act-D treatment.
