To induce deliberate hypotension during anesthesia, nicardipine was administered to patients undergoing total hip arthroplasty and was randomly compared with nitroprusside. Hemodynamic measurements were performed before and 10, 20, 30, and 60 min after starting to administer either nicardipine (n = 12) or nitroprusside (n = 12) (B, T1, T2, T3, and T4, respectively); at the end of drug infusion (T5); and 10, 20, and 60 min later (T6, T7, and T8, respectively). Plasma renin activity and catecholamine levels were measured at B, T1, T5, T6, and T7. In addition, plasma nicardipine concentration was measured in five patients at T1, T2, T5, T7, and T8. As with nitroprusside, nicardipine administration (1-3 micrograms.kg-1.min-1, after a titration dose of 4.7 +/- 1.5 mg) resulted in hypotension (up to -34% +/- 3%), a decrease in systemic vascular resistances (up to -49% +/- 4%), and increases in heart rate (up to +17% +/- 6%), cardiac index (up to +37% +/- 8%), plasma norepinephrine (up to +63% +/- 17%) and epinephrine (up to +232% +/- 68%) levels, and plasma renin activity (up to +336% +/- 207%). Ten and 20 minutes after discontinuation of the hypotensive drug, nicardipine led to persistent vasodilation and hypotension, which differed significantly from the hypertensive rebound observed after nitroprusside discontinuation, despite a similar increase in plasma renin activity and catecholamine levels. Our results indicate that after the infusion was terminated, the nicardipine-induced vasodilation was opposed to the vasoconstrictive effects of angiotensin II and catecholamines, thus avoiding hypertensive rebound.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A patient with acute changes suggesting acute hepatitis after parenteral amiodarone administration is described. A 77-year-old man with previous myocardial infarction was admitted with chronic left heart failure and atrial tachycardia. Initial hepatic function tests were strictly normal. After therapy with parenteral amiodarone (2300 mg in 3 days) and other measures, signs of congestive heart failure disappeared; subsequently the patient developed jaundice, marked increase in serum transaminase levels and fall in prothrombin time, and histologic changes of severe centrilobular necrosis were observed in hepatic biopsy. Clinical, laboratory (absence of others markers of hepatic disease), and histological findings seem to rule out common causes of hepatic disease. Therefore, parenteral amiodarone was implicated as the cause of acute hepatitis in this patient. In addition, there were findings suggesting a possibly immunologically mediated mechanism.
An excessive production of nitric oxide (NO) in response to cytokines has been shown to be the major cause of the destruction of islet beta-cells associated with type 1 (insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus. The NO-induced beta-cell death is the typical apoptosis. In the present study, we show evidence that supports a tight link between NO, Ca2+, protease and apoptosis in beta-cells. Three different NO donors, SNAP, NOR3 and NOC7, induced apoptosis in a beta-cell line, MIN6 cells, in a concentration-dependent manner. SNAP at 200 microM increased cytosolic Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) and induced apoptosis. The SNAP-induced apoptosis was blocked by a Ca2+ chelator, BAPTA-AM, and by an inhibitor of a Ca2+-dependent protease, calpain. In conclusion, an excessive NO production induces apoptosis, wherein an increase in [Ca2+]i and resultant activation of calpain play a key role.
Tri-ortho-cresyl phosphate (TOCP), an organophosphorus ester, can cause neurotoxicity such as organophosphorus ester-induced delayed neuropathy (OPIDN) in humans and sensitive animals. Moreover, it also affects the development of central nervous system and differentiation of neuronal cells. In this study, retinoic acid-induced differentiated human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells are utilized to investigate the effects of TOCP on neurite outgrowth and the underlying mechanisms. We found that low concentrations of TOCP induced autophagy and inhibited neurite outgrowth in a dose-dependent manner with no effect on cell viability. The protein levels of high molecular weight neurofilament (NF-H), low molecular weight neurofilament (NF-L) and β-tubulin also decreased. Pretreatment cells with 3-methyladenine (3-MA), an autophagy inhibitor, not only inhibited the TOCP-induced autophagy, but also reversed the inhibition of neurite outgrowth and the degradation of NF-H, NF-L, and β-tubulin by TOCP. Taken together, these results indicated that TOCP treatment induced autophagy in differentiated SH-SY5Y cells, which lead to degradation of cytoskeletal components and inhibition of neurite outgrowth.
Doxorubicin causes a chronic cardiomyopathy in which genetic and functional lesions of mitochondria accumulate in the long-term. A disrupted Ca2+ homeostasis is also implicated in doxorubicin cardiotoxicity. We investigated if the alterations in myocellular Ca2+ are primary or secondary to the respiratory chain dysfunction in chronic doxorubicin cardiomyopathy.
A "long-observation group" of rats was treated with intravenous doxorubicin (1 mg/kg per week) for 7 weeks, starting at 11 weeks of age. Controls received equivalents of saline. A "short-observation group" received seven injections of doxorubicin, starting at 41 weeks of age. All rats were euthanized at 48 weeks of age. Only the long-observation rats developed a significant clinical, macroscopic, histological, and ultrastructural cardiomyopathy. Their intramyocardial cytochrome c oxidase (COX) activity was lowest; they had the highest loss of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and its encoded respiratory chain subunit COX I, and the highest amount of ultrastructural and intracellular calcium accumulation resembling hydroxyapatite. The short-term-group hearts had fewer alterations of the cardiomyopathy score, COX-activity, and mtDNA-content than the long-observation group. Despite a measurable loss of mtDNA and its encoded respiratory chain activity, however, there was virtually no detectable calcium accumulation in the hearts of the short-term group.
mtDNA depletion and secondary respiratory chain dysfunction precedes the precipitation of mitochondrial calcium deposits in chronic doxorubicin cardiotoxicity.
We are presenting the case of a seventy-six year old male infected with Herpes zoster of the trigeminal nerve. He had no previous nephropathology, but developed acute renal failure following the administration of an intravenous bolus of Acyclovir. The existing literature was reviewed. Possible pathogenic mechanisms are discussed, and precautions against nephrotoxicity are emphasized.
The effect of treatment of rats with gentamicin (80 mg/kg/day for 6 days), oral doses of spironolacatone (20 mg/kg/day for 6 days), and the combined treatment (spironolactone + gentamicin) on renal histology and reduced glutathione (GSH) concentration, and some serum constituents indicative of kidney function were studied. The serum concentrations of creatinine and urea were not significantly affected by spironolactone treatment, but were significantly elevated (P<0.05) by gentamicin administration. The antibiotic treatment also reduced GSH concentration and caused a moderate renal cortical necrosis. However, rats exposed to spironolactone + gentamicin revealed drastic increases in the serum urea and creatinine concentrations amounting to about 1.8 and 2.1 times those of rats treated with gentamicin alone, respectively. The histological examination of slides of the renal cortex of rats exposed to the combined drugs exhibited more extensive necrosis in the tubules when compared to those treated with gentamicin alone. The reduction in GSH induced by gentamicin was unaffected by the concomitant treatment of gentamicin and spironolactone. The concentration of gentamicin accumulated in the renal cortex was significantly larger (twofold) in rats treated concomitantly with spironolactone + gentamicin than in rats treated with gentamicin alone. The present results indicate that spironolactone aggravates gentamicin-induced nephrotoxicity in the rat.
We described a patient with history of chronic hepatitis B in whom cholestatic hepatitis occurred after amoxicillin/clavulanic acid (Augmentin) therapy, which to our knowledge is the first case reported in Asia. An atypical serology profile of hepatitis B virus (HBV) markers, demonstrated by negative hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) associated with transient positivity of hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) and HBV DNA, was noted during the development of cholestasis.
Nicotinic acid has been used for several decades to treat dyslipidemia. In mice, the lipid-lowing effect of nicotinic acid is mediated by the Gi coupled receptor PUMA-G. In humans, high (GPR109A) and low (GPR109B) affinity nicotinic acid receptors have been characterized. Here we identify monomethylfumarate as a GPR109A agonist. Monomethylfumarate is the active metabolite of the psoriasis drug Fumaderm. We show that monomethylfumarate activates GPR109A in a calcium based aequorin assay, cAMP assay and demonstrate competitive binding with nicotinic acid. We show that GPR109A is highly expressed in neutrophils and epidermal keratinocytes, and that its expression is increased in human psoriatic lesions. Our findings provide evidence that GPR109A is a target for the drug Fumaderm and suggest that niacin should be investigated to treat psoriasis in addition to its role in treating lipid disorders.
An abnormality of serotonergic neurotransmission has been hypothesized in p,p'-DDT intoxication to explain myoclonus and the antimyoclonic properties of 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP). To study the role of serotonin (5-HT) receptors in myoclonus induced by p,p'-DDT in the rat, we performed time-course and dose-response studies of the effects of p,p'-DDT on behavior and regional 5-HT1 and 5-HT2 binding sites. At a time when low dose (80 mg/kg) p,p'-DDT elicited stimulus-sensitive and spontaneous myoclonus, there were no significant changes in Bmax or Kd of 5-HT1A, 5-HT1B, 5-HT1C sites in cortex, striatum, brainstem or spinal cord, agonist- or antagonist-labelled 5-HT2 sites in cortex, or 5-HT uptake sites. High dose p,p'-DDT (1000 but not 500 mg/kg), which also induced convulsions, only slightly increased 5-HT1 (unsubtyped) binding sites in cortex but not in brainstem or spinal cord and had no effect on antagonist-labelled 5-HT2 sites. In naive frontal cortex in vitro, 1 microM p,p'-DDT displaced neither [3H]5-HT or [3H]ketanserin specific binding. Lesions of central indoleamine neurons made with 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine significantly prolonged the latency and attenuated the severity of p,p'-DDT behavioral abnormalities, increasing the dose of p,p'-DDT which induced myoclonus (MD50) or convulsions (CD50) in 50 percent of the rats. This is the first report of 5,7-DHT-induced attenuation in the p,p'-DDT myoclonic model.
To explore the correlation between signs similar to schizophrenia in mice after ketamine administration and the expressions of NRG1 and ErbB4 mRNA in order to explain the possible pathogenesis of schizophrenia.
Fifty KM mice were randomly divided into 5 groups which were administered intraperitoneally with saline, clozapine and different dosages ketamine. The ketamine groups were administered intraperitoneally with low dosage (25 mg/kg), middle dosage (50 mg/kg) and high dosage (100 mg/kg) one time every day for 7 days. After administration of 100 mg/kg ketamine for 7 days, the clozapine group was introgastrically administered 20 mg/kg with clozapine one time every day for 7 days. The pathological changes of hippocampus neurons were observed by HE stain. The expressions of the NRG1 and ErbB4 mRNA in hippocampus were detected by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
In the group with high dosage of ketamine, the levels of NRG1 and ErbB4 mRNA were significantly lower than that of the group with saline.
Ketamine may induce signs similar to schizophrenia in KM mice. The mechanism may be involved in the reduction of NRG1 and ErbB4 mRNA expression.
Echocardiographically recognized resting function, myocardial viability (by low-dose dobutamine) and stress-induced ischemia (by high-dose dipyridamole) are potent predictors of subsequent events, but their relative value in patients evaluated very early after acute myocardial infarction remains to be established.
To assess the feasibility and usefulness of an integrated approach with resting and pharmacological stress echo for risk stratification in patients evaluated very early after myocardial infarction.
Sixty acute myocardial infarction patients without contraindications to stress testing, and who were being given thrombolytic therapy, underwent resting echo (16-segment model of left ventricle, each segment scored from 1 = normo-hyperkinetic to 4 = dyskinetic), high-dose dipyridamole (up to 0.84 mg/kg over 10') and low-dose dobutamine (up to 10 mcg/kg/min) echo on the third-fourth day after drug withdrawal. The response was "ischemic" with a dipyridamole-induced increase in the regional score > 1 in segments with a resting score < 3, and "viable" with a dobutamine-induced decrease in the regional score > 1 in segments with resting score > 1. All patients underwent coronary angiography on the tenth-twelfth day after the acute event, and all of them were followed up for 15 +/- 10.04 months.
Ischemia elicited by dipyridamole appeared in 29 patients (48%) and dobutamine-induced viability was observed in 28 (47%). Ischemic events occurred in 26 patients (43.4%), five of which during the early in-hospital period. There were three deaths (5%), one re-AMI (1.7%), 7 Canadian Class III-IV angina (12%) and 15 (25%) early revascularization procedures undertaken independently of stress echo results. Events occurred in 21 patients (72%) with dipyridamole-induced ischemia and in 5 (16%) without it (p < 0.001). Likewise, events occurred in 13 patients (46.4%) with dobutamine-induced inotropic recovery and in 13 (40.6%) without it (p = ns). Event-free survival occurred in 64% of dipyridamole-positive patients, as opposed to 90% of dipyridamole-negative patients (p = 0.025). Dipyridamole echocardiographic test sensitivity and specificity for events were 81 and 74%, respectively. Sensitivity and specificity for events of dobutamine viability were 46 and 55%, respectively. In a multivariate logistic analysis, dipyridamole-induced myocardial ischemia was the strongest predictor of subsequent events (p = 0.01). According to Cox analysis, dipyridamole positivity had a relative risk estimate of 4.
Pharmacological stress echo is feasible even very early after acute myocardial infarction via a useful approach based on low-dose dobutamine to assess myocardial viability, and high-dose dipyridamole to assess ischemia. For risk stratification purposes, stress-induced myocardial ischemia outperforms resting function and myocardial viability, and it is independent of angiographic data. Revascularization procedures do not seem to be effective when only viability is present.
Hirschsprung disease (HSCR, aganglionic megacolon) is a frequent congenital malformation regarded as a multigenic neurocristopathy. Four susceptibility genes have recently been identified in HSCR, namely the RET proto-oncogene, the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), the endothelin B receptor (EDNRB) and the endothelin-3 genes (EDN3). Homozygosity for EDN3 mutations has been previously shown to cause the Shah-Waardenburg syndrome, a combination of HSCR with features of the Waardenburg syndrome. Here, we report on heterozygous EDN3 missense mutations in isolatec HSCR. The present data give further support to the role of the endothelin signaling pathway in the development of neural crest-derived enteric neurons. They also suggest the possibility that either recessive or weakly penetrant dominant alleles could occur at the EDN3 locus, depending on the nature of the mutation.
Chloroacetaldehyde, one of the main products of hepatic ifosfamide metabolism, contributes to its nephrotoxicity. However, the pathophysiology of this toxicity is not fully understood. The present work examined the time and dose effects of clinically relevant concentrations of chloroacetaldehyde (25-75microM) on precision-cut rat renal cortical slices metabolizing a physiological concentration of lactate. Chloroacetaldehyde toxicity was demonstrated by the decrease in total glutathione and cellular ATP levels. The drop of cellular ATP was linked to the inhibition of oxidative phosphorylation at the level of complex I of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. The large decrease in glucose synthesis from lactate was explained by the inhibition of some gluconeogenic enzymes, mainly glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase. The decrease in lactate utilization was demonstrated not only by a defect of gluconeogenesis but also by the decrease in [(14)CO(2)] formation from [U-(14)C]-lactate. All the effects of chloroacetaldehyde were concentration and time-dependent. Finally, the chloroacetaldehyde-induced inhibition of glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase, which is also a glycolytic enzyme, suggests that, under conditions close to those found during ifosfamide therapy, the inhibition of glycolytic pathway by chloroacetaldehyde might be responsible, at least in part, for the therapeutic efficacy of ifosfamide.
Methamphetamine (METH) is well known for its ability to cause damage to dopamine (DA) nerve endings of the striatum. The mechanisms by which METH causes neurotoxicity are not fully understood, but likely candidates are increased oxidative and nitrosative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction. Microglial activation is also emerging as an important element of the METH neurotoxic cascade, and it appears that extensive cross-talk between these cells and DA nerve endings is an early event in this process. It may seem paradoxical, but DA itself is also thought to be an essential factor in the neuronal damaging effects of METH, but issues relating to its precise role in this regard remain unanswered. We present in this overview a summary of studies that tested how alterations in the disposition of presynaptic DA (injections of reserpine, L-DOPA, or clorgyline) modulate METH neurotoxicity. In all cases, these drugs significantly increased the magnitude of microglial activation as well as the severity of damage to striatal DA nerve endings caused by METH. The enhancement of METH effects in striatum by reserpine, L-DOPA, and clorgyline persisted for 14 days and showed no evidence of recovery. These data establish that subtle shifts in the newly synthesized pool of DA can cause substantial changes in the severity of METH-induced neurotoxicity. DA released into the synapse by METH is very likely the source of downstream reactants that provoke microglial activation and the ensuing damage to DA nerve endings.
Two cases are reported in which a transient tremor of the tongue followed treatment with thioridazine and flunarizine. The finding of this kyperkinesia as the only extrapyramidal side-effect of drug therapy is uncommon.
Decreased incidence of proteinuric hypertension after low-dose aspirin therapy is hypothesized to be a consequence of selective thromboxane A2 inhibition and sparing of prostacyclin. This study was designed to ascertain if low-dose aspirin therapy (81 mg/day for 1 week) alters vascular refractoriness to angiotensin II and the prostacyclin/thromboxane A2 ratio in pregnant women sensitive to angiotensin II (n = 17). Low-dose aspirin increased the effective pressor dose of angiotensin II from 5.9 +/- 2.4 to 10.2 +/- 5.5 ng/kg/min (p less than 0.01, mean +/- SD). Platelet-derived serum thromboxane B2 (a metabolite of thromboxane A2), a measure of therapy compliance, decreased from 1804 +/- 1771 to 132 +/- 206 pg/ml (p less than 0.01). Plasma thromboxane B2 decreased from 130 +/- 107 to 19 +/- 12 pg/ml (p less than 0.01). Inhibition was not selective because 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha (a metabolite of prostacyclin) also decreased from 243 +/- 90 to 163 +/- 90 pg/ml (p = 0.039) and prostaglandin E2 was reduced from 155 +/- 67 to 95 +/- 40 pg/ml (p = 0.014). Decreases in thromboxane B2, however, were significantly greater (75% +/- 19%) than decreases in 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha (21% +/- 33%) or prostaglandin E2 (29% +/- 36%); thus the 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha/thromboxane B2 ratio increased from 3.1 +/- 2.0 to 12.4 +/- 9.9 (p less than 0.01). Although low-dose aspirin increases the effective pressor dose of angiotensin II, it does not return to normal pregnancy values. This observation is consistent with the hypothesis that this represents only a partial selective prostaglandin inhibition.
Increased cerebrovascular permeability to protein is a well-documented finding in acute and chronic hypertension. In this study, we examined the effect of pretreatment with a calcium entry blocker, flunarizine, on the increased cerebrovascular permeability to protein that develops in norepinephrine-induced acute hypertension.
Protein transfer was assessed qualitatively with Evans blue dye and quantitatively with iodine-125-labeled serum albumin.
Brains of hypertensive rats showed increased permeability to both tracers. The number and size of the areas of Evans blue extravasation were smaller in the hypertensive groups pretreated with flunarizine intravenously. This was supported by the quantitative studies, which demonstrated a significant decrease in protein transfer in total brain of hypertensive rats pretreated with intravenous flunarizine, 1 mg/kg (p less than 0.005) and 2.5 mg/kg (p less than 0.001). Data from individual brain regions showed that pretreatment with flunarizine resulted in significant reduction of protein transfer in most brain regions.
These data support the hypothesis that calcium plays a role in increased cerebral endothelial permeability in hypertension.
The in vitro activity of pefloxacin, a new fluoroquinolone, was compared with that of 5 other quinolone compounds (nalidixic and pipemidic acids, norfloxacin, ciprofloxacin, and ofloxacin) against 416 strains of Proteae spp. isolated from urine specimens of hospitalized patients with acute urinary tract infections (UTI). Ciprofloxacin was the most active agent. Norfloxacin, ofloxacin, and pefloxacin were similarly active against Proteus strains (MIC90 = 0.39 microgram/ml). Against Providencia spp. pefloxacin and norfloxacin showed similar activity (MIC90 = 3.12 micrograms/ml). There is minimal discrepancy between minimum inhibitory concentrations and minimum bactericidal concentrations exhibited by the quinolones for all urinary tract pathogens tested. Our in vitro studies indicate that pefloxacin is an active antimicrobial agent and suggest that it will prove useful in the treatment of complicated urinary tract infections due to nalidixic acid-resistant Proteae spp.
Deguelin has shown promising chemopreventive and therapeutic activities in diverse types of cancers. However, the potential side effect of deguelin over a certain dose could be the substantial hurdle in the practical application of the drug. One of the successful strategies for the use of deguelin in clinical trials could be lung-specific delivery of the drug. The present study evaluates the efficacy of liposome-encapsulated deguelin with a dose of 0.4 mg/kg, which is 10 times less than the dose (4 mg/kg) for preventive and therapeutic activities validated in previous in vivo studies. Liposomal deguelin revealed cytotoxic activity in vitro in premalignant and malignant human bronchial epithelial cells and non-small cell lung cancer cells through the same mechanistic pathway previously reported for deguelin (i.e., suppression of the heat shock protein 90 chaperone function and induction of apoptosis). Delivery of liposomal deguelin at a dose of 0.4 mg/kg by intranasal instillation resulted in markedly increased drug partitioning to the lungs compared with that of 4 mg/kg deguelin or 0.4 mg/kg liposomal deguelin administered by oral gavage. Lung-specific delivery of deguelin (0.4 mg/kg) via nasal or intratracheal instillation in a liposomal formulation also showed significant chemopreventive and therapeutic activities in 4-(methylnitrosoamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone/benzo(a)pyrene-treated A/J mice and K-rasLAC57Bl6/129/sv F1 mice with no detectable toxicity. Our findings support the potential use of deguelin in a liposomal formulation via lung-specific delivery to improve efficacy and to reduce the potential side effects of the agent.
Abacavir sulfate/lamivudine (ABC/3TC) and tenofovir DF/emtricitabine (TDF/FTC) are widely used nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors for initial HIV-1 treatment. This is the first completed, randomized clinical trial to directly compare the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of these agents, each in combination with lopinavir/ritonavir in antiretroviral-naive patients.
Six hundred and eighty-eight antiretroviral-naive, HIV-1-infected patients were randomized in this double-blind, placebo-matched, multicenter, noninferiority study to receive a once-daily regimen of either ABC/3TC 600 mg/300 mg or TDF/FTC 300 mg/200 mg, both with lopinavir/ritonavir 800 mg/200 mg. Primary endpoints were the proportion of patients with HIV-1 RNA below 50 copies/ml at week 48 (missing = failure, switch included analysis) and the proportion of patients experiencing adverse events over 96 weeks.
At week 48, 68% in the ABC/3TC group vs. 67% in the TDF/FTC group achieved an HIV-1 RNA below 50 copies/ml (intent-to-treat exposed missing = failure, 95% confidence interval on the difference -6.63 to 7.40, P = 0.913), demonstrating the noninferiority of ABC/3TC to TDF/FTC at week 48. Noninferiority of the two regimens was sustained at week 96 (60% vs. 58%, respectively, 95% confidence interval -5.41 to 9.32, P = 0.603). In addition, efficacy of both regimens was similar in patients with baseline HIV-1 RNA >or= 100 000 copies/ml or CD4 cell counts below 50 cells/microl. Median CD4 recovery (ABC/3TC vs. TDF/FTC, cells/microl) was +250 vs. +247 by week 96. Premature study discontinuation due to adverse events occurred in 6% of patients in both groups. Protocol-defined virologic failure occurred in 14% of patients in both groups.
Both ABC/3TC and TDF/FTC provided comparable antiviral efficacy, safety, and tolerability when each was combined with lopinavir/ritonavir in treatment-naive patients.
We describe herein the design, synthesis and pharmacological evaluation of novel 3-arylamine-imidazo[1,2-a]pyridine derivatives structurally designed as novel symbiotic prototypes presenting analgesic and anti-inflammatory properties. The derivatives obtained were submitted to in vivo assays of nociception, hyperalgesia and inflammation, and to in vitro assays of human PGHS-2 inhibition. These assays allowed the identification of compound LASSBio-1135 (3a) as an anti-inflammatory and analgesic symbiotic prototype. This compound inhibited moderately the human PGHS-2 enzyme activity (IC(50)=18.5 microM) and reverted the capsaicin-induced thermal hyperalgesia (100 micromol/kg, po) similarly to p38 MAPK inhibitor SB-203580 (2). Additionally, LASSBio-1135 (3a) presented activity similar to celecoxib (1) regarding the reduction of the carrageenan-induced rat paw edema (33% of inhibition at 100 micromol/kg, po). We also discovered derivatives LASSBio-1140 (3c) and LASSBio-1141 (3e) as analgesic and anti-inflammatory prototypes, which were able to attenuate the capsaicin-induced thermal hyperalgesia (100 micromol/kg, po) and reduce the carrageenan-induced paw edema (ED(50)=11.5 micromol/kg (3.3mg/kg) and 14.5 micromol/kg (4.1mg/kg), respectively), being both more active than celecoxib (1), despite the fact that their effects involve a different mechanism of action. Additionally, derivative LASSBio-1145 (3j) showed remarkable analgesic (ED(50)=22.7 micromol/kg (8.9 mg/kg)) and anti-inflammatory (ED(50)=8.7 micromol/kg (3.4 mg/kg)) profile in vivo (100 micromol/kg; po), in AcOH-induced abdominal constrictions in mice and carrageenan-induced rat paw edema models, respectively, being a novel orally-active anti-inflammatory drug candidate that acts as a selective PGHS-2 inhibitor (IC(50)=2.8 microM).
A 61-year-old man with chronic hepatitis B was treated with interferon (IFN)-alpha for flare-up after the emergence of a lamivudine-induced YMDD motif mutant. The YMDD mutant emerged 13 months after the initiation of lamivudine therapy. Despite this, lamivudine therapy was continued. Acute exacerbation occurred 25 months after the emergence of the YMDD mutant. Treatment with IFN-alpha resulted in rapid loss of hepatitis, B virus DNA, resolution of hepatitis, and clinical recovery.
Niacin, a widely used antihyperlipidemic agent, can produce hepatic steatosis and clinical hepatic abnormalities that together simulate the presentation of hepatobiliary neoplasia. We describe a patient initially suspected of having hepatobiliary neoplasia for whom imaging studies played a pivotal role in reaching the correct diagnosis of niacin-induced hepatotoxicity. Radiologists should become knowledgeable of these niacin-related effects, add niacin effects to the differential diagnosis of hepatic steatosis, and understand the value of correlative imaging in distinguishing these effects from hepatobiliary neoplasia.
DOC-2/DAB2 interactive protein (DAB2IP) is a novel identified tumor suppressor gene that inhibits cell growth and facilitates cell apoptosis. One genetic variant in DAB2IP gene was reported to be associated with an increased risk of aggressive prostate cancer recently. Since DAB2IP involves in the development of lung cancer and low expression of DAB2IP are observed in lung cancer, we hypothesized that the variations in DAB2IP gene can increase the genetic susceptibility to lung cancer. In a case-control study of 1056 lung cancer cases and 1056 sex and age frequency-matched cancer-free controls, we investigated the association between two common polymorphisms in DAB2IP gene (-1420T>G, rs7042542; 97906C>A, rs1571801) and the risk of lung cancer. We found that compared with the 97906CC genotypes, carriers of variant genotypes (97906AC+AA) had a significant increased risk of lung cancer (adjusted odds ratio [OR] = 1.33, 95%CI = 1.04-1.70, P = 0.023) and the number of variant (risk) allele worked in a dose-response manner (P(trend) = 0.0158). Further stratification analysis showed that the risk association was more pronounced in subjects aged less than 60 years old, males, non-smokers, non-drinkers, overweight groups and in those with family cancer history in first or second-degree relatives, and the 97906A interacted with overweight on lung cancer risk. We further found the number of risk alleles (97906A allele) were negatively correlated with early diagnosis age of lung cancer in male patients (P = 0.003). However, no significant association was observed on the -1420T>G polymorphism. Our data suggested that the 97906A variant genotypes are associated with the increased risk and early onset of lung cancer, particularly in males.
Oxidative stress due to excessive production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and subsequent lipid peroxidation plays a critical role in renal ischemia/reperfusion (IR) injury. The purpose of current study is to demonstrate the effect of antecedent ethanol exposure on IR-induced renal injury by modulation of oxidative stress.
Bilateral renal warm IR was induced in male C57BL/6 mice after ethanol or saline administration. Blood ethanol concentration, kidney function, histological damage, inflammatory infiltration, cytokine production, oxidative stress, antioxidant capacity and Aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) enzymatic activity were assessed to evaluate the impact of antecedent ethanol exposure on IR-induced renal injury.
After bilateral kidney ischemia, mice preconditioned with physiological levels of ethanol displayed significantly preserved renal function along with less histological tubular damage as manifested by the reduced inflammatory infiltration and cytokine production. Mechanistic studies revealed that precondition of mice with physiological levels of ethanol 3 h before IR induction enhanced antioxidant capacity characterized by significantly higher superoxidase dismutase (SOD) activities. Our studies further demonstrated that ethanol pretreatment specifically increased ALDH2 activity, which then suppressed lipid peroxidation by promoting the detoxification of Malondialdehyde (MDA) and 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE).
Our results provide first line of evidence indicating that antecedent ethanol exposure can provide protection for kidneys against IR-induced injury by enhancing antioxidant capacity and preventing lipid peroxidation. Therefore, ethanol precondition and ectopic ALDH2 activation could be potential therapeutic approaches to prevent renal IR injury relevant to various clinical conditions.
