The adrenal androgen dehydroepiandrosterone-sulfate (DHEA-S) seems to be involved in the pathophysiology of depression, although its precise role in the etiology and remission of depression remains unclear. In the present study we intended to examine possible differential effects of venlafaxine and mirtazapine in a randomised open trial with regard to DHEA-S serum concentrations in patients suffering from major depressive episode compared to healthy controls.
We assessed DHEA-S concentrations both at baseline and after a 4-week treatment period in 70 depressed patients (n=33 for venlafaxine and n=37 for mirtazapine) and 33 matched healthy controls.
We describe the decrease of DHEA-S levels in depressive patients who remitted after treatment with both venlafaxine or mirtazapine. Patients without remission of depression did not show a significant decline in DHEA-S concentrations.
Our results suggest an effect of treatment outcome upon DHEA-S concentrations rather than a direct drug effect. The change of plasma DHEA-S levels as a marker of treatment-response of depression warrant further investigation.
Heart failure (HF) is the end-stage of cardiovascular disease and is associated with a high incidence of thrombotic events. Nitric oxide (NO) mediates vasodilation and prevents platelet activation, providing an important antithrombotic effect. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of aerobic training on survival, platelet L-arginine-NO pathway, and vasodilator properties in doxorubicin (DOX)-induced HF. Sprague Dawley rats were randomly assigned to saline/sedentary (SAL/SED), saline/exercise (SAL/EX), DOX/sedentary (DOX/SED), and DOX/exercise (DOX/EX) groups. Four weeks after intraperitoneal DOX injection (1mg/kg(-1)/d(-1); 10 days), shortening fraction in DOX/SED and DOX/EX was significantly reduced. Treadmill exercise was performed during 6 weeks, 5 days/week(-1), 30minutes/day(-1), 50% to 60% of maximum velocity. Survival was higher in DOX/EX (67%) than DOX/SED (33%). No differences were observed in intraplatelet L-arginine transport assessed by incubation with L- [(3)H]-arginine, nor in NOS activity measured by the conversion of L- [(3)H]-arginine into L- [(3)H]-citrulline among the groups. Vasodilation response to acetylcholine was impaired in DOX/SED and DOX/EX; in nitroglycerine, it was limited to DOX/SED. Aerobic training reduced mortality in DOX-induced HF animals and restored vascular smooth muscle relaxation properties. However, it did not ameliorate intraplatelet NO bioavailability and endothelial function during the period studied.
We describe the diagnosis, treatment, and follow-up of a group of 13 patients with hand pain traced to pathologic conditions of the second or third carpometacarpal joints. Missed diagnosis was universal. With suspicion raised by history of injury or repeated stress and point tenderness on examination, diagnosis was confirmed by complete pain relief after injection of 1% lidocaine locally. In management of patients with occult pain in the hand, attention should be directed to the second or third carpometacarpal joints. Arthrodesis with use of an inverted triangular graft from the base of the metacarpal provides predictable and lasting relief.
To study whether all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) combined with arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) treatment could further improve the clinical and molecular remission rate.
Thirty one newly-diagnosed APL patients of whom 15 were males, 16 females and median age 35.4 years entered into the study. They were treated with ATRA 25 mg x m(-2) x d(-1) combined with As(2)O(3) 0.16 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1) until complete remission (CR). The doses were adjusted according to white blood cell (WBC) counts, occurrence of RA syndrome and the status of liver function. CR rate, time of reaching clinical and molecular remission and side effects were observed.
Two patients died 2 approximately 3 days after the treatment due to intracranial hemorrhage, and 29 (93.5%) achieved CR. The average time for achieving CR was 25.1 +/- 3.9 days. Hyperleukocytosis emerged in 66.5% and hepatic damages in 65.5% of the patients, they were ameliorated within one week after reduction of the As(2)O(3) dose or its suspension. The PML/RAR alpha fusion gene that was positive in all 29 patients before treatment turned negative only in 3 cases (10.3%) after obtaining CR (CR1) and in 10/13 cases (77%) after consolidation treatment. Up to now (1-8 months follow-up), all 29 patients remain in CR1.
ATRA combined with As(2)O(3) in de novo APL treatment can yield a high CR rate without intolerable side effects. Long term effect needs further observation.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the relationship between early hemodynamic instability and myocardial ischemia and the effect of early intravenous enalapril therapy on this relationship. In patients with myocardial infarction (MI), early treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors is controversial. In hypotensive patients, initiation of treatment may exacerbate myocardial ischemia and thereby affect the clinical outcome. Therefore, in the CONSENSUS II study, a total of 60 patients randomly allocated to either intravenous enalapril or placebo treatment commenced within 24 h after the onset of MI were evaluated by repeated blood pressure measurements, ambulatory ST-segment monitoring before discharge and exercise testing. Significant ST-depression was present in 34 patients. Patients with ST-depression before discharge (residual ischemia) during either exercise testing or ambulatory monitoring or both had a decrease in initial mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) of 20 vs. 9 mm Hg in those without ST-depression (n = 24), (p < 0.00001). However, patients (n = 13) with long-lasting ST-depression during Holter monitoring, (> 60 min of ST-depression) presented with the most severe fall in MAP of 29 mm Hg (p < 0.00001) and a lower systolic blood pressure at inclusion (p < 0.01) compared to the remainder of patients. Furthermore, the number of recurrent acute ischemic events during follow-up was higher in these patients (7 vs. 1; p < 0.01). Ten of the patients treated with enalapril showed a long-lasting ST-depression versus only 3 in the placebo group (p = 0.08), and the average duration of all significant ST-depressions during Holter monitoring was significantly longer in the enalapril group compared to the placebo group (p < 0.05). Finally, 7 enalapril patients (20%) suffered an acute ischemic event in contrast to 1 patient (4%) in the placebo group (p = 0.07). In conclusion, early administration of enalapril had a potential proischemic effect in hypotension-prone patients mediated through exacerbation of the hemodynamic response, inasmuch as initial blood pressure fall after MI is related to residual myocardial ischemia and recurrent acute ischemic syndromes.
Occupational exposures have long been suspected to play a role in the incidence of renal cell carcinoma (RCC). Especially, the carcinogenicity of the industrial solvent trichloroethylene (TCE) has been controversially debated, both with respect to the epidemiological and the molecular studies. In order to further elucidate this issue, it appeared important to compare suitable RCC patient groups, i.e., TCE-exposed versus non-TCE-exposed patients. We evaluated RCC from a previous German study that had described differences in RCC risks between TCE-exposed (n=17) and non-exposed patients (n=21). We compared age at diagnosis and histopathologic parameters of tumors as well as somatic mutation characteristics in the kidney cancer causing VHL tumor suppressor gene. RCC did not differ with respect to histopathological characteristics in both patient groups. We noticed a younger age at diagnosis in TCE-exposed patients compared to non-exposed patients (P=0.01). Moreover, the non-TCE-exposed patients did not share the somatic VHL mutation characteristics of TCE-exposed patients such as the previously identified hot spot mutation 454 C > T P81S or multiple mutations. These data support the notion of a putative genotoxic effect of TCE leading to VHL gene damage and subsequent occurrence of RCC in highly exposed subjects.
Androgen-independent prostate carcinoma is characterized by a high proliferation rate and by a strong metastatic behavior. We have previously shown that GnRH agonists exert a direct and specific inhibitory action on the proliferation of androgen-independent prostate cancer cells (DU 145). These compounds mainly act by interfering with the mitogenic activity of growth factors, such as the insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I). The present experiments were performed to clarify whether GnRH agonists might also affect the migratory and the invasive behavior of androgen-independent prostate cancer cells and to define their mechanism of action. First we showed that the GnRH agonist Leuprolide reduces the migration of DU 145 cells towards a chemoattractant and their ability to invade a reconstituted basement membrane. Experiments were then performed to clarify whether the GnRH agonist might act by interfering with the pro-metastatic activity of IGF-I. We found that, in androgen-independent prostate cancer cells, Leuprolide: a) interferes with the IGF-I system (receptor protein expression and tyrosine-phosphorylation); b) abrogates the IGF-I-induced phosphorylation of Akt (a kinase previously shown by us to mediate the pro-metastatic activity of IGF-I in prostate cancer cells); c) counteracts the migration and the invasive activity of the cells stimulated by IGF-I; d) abolishes the effects of IGF-I on cell morphology, on actin cytoskeleton organization and on alphavbeta3 integrin expression/cellular localization. These data indicate that GnRH agonists, in addition to their well known antiproliferative effect, can also exert a significant inhibitory activity on the migratory and invasive behavior of androgen-independent prostate cancer cells, expressing the GnRH receptor. GnRH agonists act by interfering with the pro-metastatic activity of the growth factor IGF-I.
A 38-year-old man with a colonic carcinoma experienced cardiogenic shock during continuous intravenous treatment with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), without clinical or electrical signs of coronary insufficiency and with a normal coronary angiogram. His symptoms resolved after eight days of inotropic and vasodilator therapy. Because of the severity of the shock, rechallenge was not performed. This is the first case of acute cardiac failure without coronary ischemia, associated with 5-FU monotherapy. Experimental studies suggest that this adverse effect could be due to myocardial accumulation of 5-FU leading to depletion of high energy phosphate compounds. This might also explain the more frequently seen acute coronary insufficiency due to 5-FU.
25 Patients with metastatic non-seminomatous testicular neoplasms were treated by surgery and cytostatic therapy using a combination consisting of Velban, Bleomycin, Cis-Platinum and/or Ifosfamid. In 22 patients this procedure induced a persistant complete remission with a mean observation time of 23 months. 2 patients died because of post-surgical complications after a second-look-lymphadenectomy. They suffered from rapidly progressive tumor disease. One patient died in a septicemia during chemotherapy. Our experience is that morbidity of an effective chemotherapy should not be underestimated. Transient bone marrow suppression, anorexia, alopecia and hyperpigmentation are unavoidable. However, severe vomiting, disturbed electrolyte metabolism, hemorrhagic cystitis, anemia and septicemia can well be managed by respective supportive care. Septicemia, for instance, may be treated with appropriate antibiotics without inducing tubular necrosis. Supportive measures also will avoid severe chronic defects of ear and kidney function.
This report describes studies of anticonvulsants for the organophosphorus (OP) nerve agent soman: a basic research effort to understand how different pharmacological classes of compounds influence the expression of seizure produced by soman in rats, and a drug screening effort to determine whether clinically useful antiepileptics can modulate soman-induced seizures in rats. Electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings were used in these studies. Basic studies were conducted in rats pretreated with HI-6 and challenged with 1.6 x LD50 soman. Antimuscarinic compounds were extremely effective in blocking (pretreatment) or terminating soman seizures when given 5 min after seizure onset. However, significantly higher doses were required when treatment was delayed for more than 10 min, and some antimuscarinic compounds lost anticonvulsant efficacy when treatment was delayed for more than 40 min. Diazepam blocked seizure onset, yet seizures could recur after an initial period of anticonvulsant effect at doses </=2.5 mg/kg. Diazepam could terminate ongoing seizures when given 5 min after seizure onset, but doses up to 20 mg/kg were ineffective when treatment was delayed for 40 min. The GABA uptake inhibitor, tiagabine, was ineffective in blocking or terminating soman motor convulsions or seizures. The glutamate receptor antagonists, NBQX, GYKI 52466, and memantine, had weak or minimal antiseizure activity, even at doses that virtually eliminated signs of motor convulsions. The antinicotinic, mecamylamine, was ineffective in blocking or stopping seizure activity. Pretreatment with a narrow range of doses of alpha2-adrenergic agonist, clonidine, produced variable protection (40-60%) against seizure onset; treatment after seizure onset with clonidine was not effective. Screening studies in rats, using HI-6 pretreatment, showed that benzodiazepines (diazepam, midazolam and lorazepam) were quite effective when given 5 min after seizure onset, but lost their efficacy when given 40 min after onset. The barbiturate, pentobarbital, was modestly effective in terminating seizures when given 5 or 40 min after seizure onset, while other clinically effective antiepileptic drugs, trimethadione and valproic acid, were only slightly effective when given 5 min after onset. In contrast, phenytoin, carbamazepine, ethosuximide, magnesium sulfate, lamotrigine, primidone, felbamate, acetazolamide, and ketamine were ineffective.
There are a number of important drug interactions with amiodarone. This agent appears to have a marked effect on the kinetics of some commonly used cardiovascular drugs, such as warfarin, digoxin, quinidine, and procainamide, and has dynamic interactions with others, such as the beta blockers and some calcium antagonists. Bleeding has been reported, apparently caused by a potentiation of the anticoagulant effect of warfarin by amiodarone. Torsades de pointes has been observed when quinidine, propafenone, or mexiletine is given together with amiodarone. Furthermore, amiodarone may interact with beta-blocking agents and some of the calcium antagonists to produce symptomatic sinus bradycardia and sinus arrest, especially in a latent or overt sick sinus syndrome. During surgery, amiodarone may induce hypotension and an atropine-resistant bradycardia, possibly by interacting with anesthetic agents. A knowledge of the time of onset, extent, duration, and possible mechanisms of the interactions of amiodarone with other cardioactive drugs is still incomplete, but further studies are of great therapeutic importance.
Serotonin (5-HT) appears to play a modulatory role in the behavioral effects of cocaine, although the impact of 5-HT2C receptors in this control has not been fully established. The aim of the present study was to establish whether acute pretreatment with the selective 5-HT2C/2B antagonist SB 206553 (1, 2, and 4 mg/kg i.p.) altered hyperactivity induced by cocaine (15 mg/kg, i.p.) using an open field activity system which recorded central, peripheral, and rearing activity. Pretreatment with 1 and 2 mg/kg of SB 206553 attenuated cocaine-induced central and peripheral activity, respectively; rearing was also attenuated by the latter dose. However, the 4-mg/kg dose of SB 206553 significantly enhanced the effects of cocaine on peripheral activity. Based upon the present observations and an interpretation of previous research to implicate 5-HT2C receptor control of the dopamine (DA) mesoaccumbens pathways in behavior, a thorough and systematic analysis of the role of 5-HT2C (and 5-HT2B) receptors in psychostimulant-induced behaviors is warranted.
Doxorubicin (DOX), a widely used anticancer drug, has a dose-dependent cardiotoxicity, attributed mainly to free radical formation. The cardiomyocyte oxidative stress occurs rapidly after DOX treatment, resulting in harmful modifications to proteins, lipids, and DNA. Previous data showed that oral l-glutamine (Gln) prevented cardiac lipid peroxidation and maintained normal cardiac glutathione (GSH) levels in DOX-treated rats. Our aim in this study was to examine the effect of Gln on DOX-induced cardiac oxidative stress in a tumor-bearing host. Female Fisher344 rats with implanted MatBIII mammary tumors were randomized into 2 groups: a Gln group that received l-Gln (1 g.kg(-1).d(-1)) (n = 10) via a Gln-enriched diet and/or gavage with 50% Gln suspension during the whole experiment and a control group that was fed the same diet formulation without Gln and/or were gavaged with water. All rats received a single injection of 12 mg/kg DOX and were killed 3 d later. GSH levels of hearts, livers, tumors, and blood, as well as cardiac histological alterations, lipid peroxidation, peroxinitrite levels, and caspase-3 activation were determined. Cardiac physiologic alterations were assessed by ultrasound imaging before and 3 d after DOX administration. The Gln supplementation resulted in lower cardiac lipid peroxidation and peroxintrite levels and elevated cardiac catalase enzyme activity and GSH compared with the controls, without affecting those of the tumors. DOX-induced alterations of the echocardiographic parameters were significantly reduced in the Gln-supplemented rats. These data indicate that Gln is able to reduce the oxidative damage of cardiomyocytes that occurs soon after DOX administration and thus protects the heart of a tumor-bearing host from DOX-induced cardiomyopathy.
Rats were trained to respond with intravenous cocaine as the reinforcer under a fixed interval 15-min schedule, during which conditioned stimuli paired with cocaine were presented contingent on completion of a fixed ratio of 10 responses (i.e., second-order schedule of reinforcement). The effects of contingent and noncontingent cocaine were investigated. The results show that pretreatment with noncontingent (i.e., experimenter-administered) cocaine led to a satiation-like effect that was reflected in decreased numbers of responses and a tendency for an increased latency to initiate responding when the doses of cocaine administered were similar to or higher than the training/maintenance dose of cocaine. By contrast, noncontingent administration of cocaine doses lower than the training/maintenance dose, and response-contingent cocaine administration, led to increased drug-seeking behavior, as reflected in increased numbers of responses. The present data indicate that at least two factors determine whether administration of cocaine would lead to drug-seeking behavior: whether the cocaine administration is contingent or noncontingent, and the relative magnitude of the cocaine dose administered in relation to the training/maintenance dose of cocaine.
A multicenter US study of the combination of doxorubicin (50 mg/m2 day 1) and vinorelbine (Navelbine; Burroughs Wellcome Co, Research Triangle Park, NC; Pierre Fabre Médicament, Paris, France) (25 mg/m2 days 1 and 8) every 21 days examined the effects of this regimen as first-line chemotherapy in advanced breast cancer patients. Of the 62 patients enrolled in the study, 41 were completely evaluable for response and toxicity at the time of this analysis. The median patient age was 59 years. Prior therapy included hormone therapy (55%), adjuvant chemotherapy (40%), and radiotherapy (28%). Two hundred twelve courses of combined therapy were given. Toxicities included granulocytopenia (grade 4, 83%; grade 3, 12%), febrile neutropenia requiring hospitalization (three patients, 8%), septic death (one patient, 3%), thrombocytopenia (grade 3, 5%), stomatitis (grade 4, 5%), alopecia (grade 3, 15%), and nausea/vomiting (grade 3, 12%). One patient developed clinical congestive heart failure due to doxorubicin. The overall response rate for 58 patients evaluable for response was 57% (95% confidence interval: 45% to 69%): 16% of patients had complete responses (9 patients) and 41% had partial responses (24 patients). Twenty-seven percent of patients had stable disease (16 patients). This regimen was well tolerated and had excellent patient acceptance.
Seven patients (all men, mean age 32 years, range 17-47) with stroke following methamphetamine inhalation were collected during the last 2 years. Like oral or intravenous abusers, our patients had more hemorrhagic (n = 5) than ischemic strokes (n = 2). Cases of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) were lobar (n = 3), caudate (n = 1) or putaminal (n = 1), whereas the infarctions were both in the middle cerebral artery region. Each stroke event occurred within 3 days after drug use. Three patients had hypertension on admission. Though young in age, most patients had multiple stroke risk factors. In 3 patients with ICH, we also found small, low attenuated lesions on the brain computed tomography, however, without clinical correlations. Except for arteriovenous malformation in 1 patient, all angiograms failed to show vasculopathy or vasospasm. Contrary to what one might surmise from previously published reports, methamphetamine inhalation is at least as likely to produce ICH as it is to produce brain infarction.
Morphine, an analgesic with significant abuse potential, is considered addictive because of drug craving and psychological dependence. It is reported that repeated treatment of morphine can produce conditioned place preference (CPP) showing a reinforcing effect in mice. CPP is a useful method for the screening of morphine-induced psychological dependence. In the present study, we investigated the effect of the methanolic extract of Coptis japonica (MCJ) on morphine-induced CPP in mice. Furthermore, we examined c-fos expression in the parietal cortex, piriform cortex, striatum, nucleus accumbens, and hippocampus of the morphine-induced CPP mouse brain. Treatment of MCJ 100 mg/kg inhibited morphine-induced CPP. Expression of c-fos was increased in the cortex, striatum, nucleus accumbens, and hippocampus of the morphine-induced CPP mouse brain. These increases of expression were inhibited by treatment with MCJ 100 mg/kg, compared to the morphine control group. Taken together, these results suggest that MCJ inhibits morphine-induced CPP through the regulation of c-fos expression in the mouse brain.
To determine whether the coprescribing of two or more antipsychotics, a relatively frequent practice with little data to support its safety and efficacy, is associated with an increased prevalence of metabolic syndrome.
364 newly admitted adults treated with second-generation antipsychotics underwent assessments evaluating antipsychotic polytherapy, and of the presence of metabolic syndrome and triglycerides/high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ratio>3.5 (TG/HDL), a sensitive marker of insulin resistance. The correlates of antipsychotic polytherapy and associations with metabolic syndrome and TG/HDL were determined by univariate comparisons and multiple logistic regression analyses.
Antipsychotic polytherapy was present in 70 patients (19.2%) and was significantly more likely in patients with schizophrenia and those treated with clozapine, quetiapine or ziprasidone (p<0.0001). Compared with antipsychotic monotherapy, polytherapy was associated with elevated rates of metabolic syndrome (50.0% vs. 34.3%, p=0.015) and TG/HDL (50.7% vs. 35.0%, p=0.016). However, in logistic regression analyses, metabolic syndrome was significantly associated with higher body mass index (BMI), older age, a diagnosis of bipolar disorder or schizophrenia, and cotreatment with a first-generation antipsychotic (r(2): 0.25, p<0.0001). The TG/HDL marker of insulin resistance was associated with higher BMI, male sex, Caucasian race and absence of aripiprazole treatment (r(2): 0.14, p<0.0001). Antipsychotic polypharmacy dropped out of both multivariate models.
Compared with patients receiving antipsychotic monotherapy, patients on antipsychotic polytherapy have higher rates of metabolic syndrome and lipid markers of insulin resistance. However, antipsychotic polytherapy is not independently associated with the prevalence of these abnormalities, which are related to known demographic, clinical and anthropometric risk factors.
Prosthetic valves have been used extensively for severe cardiac valvular dysfunction for the past 3 decades. Prosthetic cardiac valves may be infected with organisms causing bacteremia, particularly gram-positive cocci. Staphylococcus epidermidis (coagulase negative staphylococci) and Staphylococcus aureus , both methicillin-susceptible S. aureus and methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) strains, are the most frequent pathogens causing prosthetic valve endocarditis (PVE). Vancomycin has been the cornerstone of therapy for serious MRSA infections including bacteremia and endocarditis. Clinicians have noted that MRSA bacteremias treated with vancomycin often fail to clear even with prolonged therapy. Persistent or prolonged MRSA bacteremia unresponsive to vancomycin therapy has led to the treatment of these infections by other agents, that is, quinupristin, dalfopristin, linezolid, or daptomycin. These antibiotics have been found particularly useful in treating MRSA bacteremias unresponsive to vancomycin therapy. We report a case of a patient who presented with MRSA PVE complicated by perivalvular aortic abscess with persistent MRSA bacteremia unresponsive to vancomycin therapy. The patient's MRSA bacteremia was cleared with daptomycin therapy (6 mg/kg/d). Because the patient refused surgery, daptomycin therapy was continued in hopes of curing the endocarditis and sterilizing the perivalvular aortic abscess. Transesophageal echocardiogram revealed a decrease in abscess in the aortic perivalvular abscess after 1 week of daptomycin therapy. The patient made an uneventful recovery. The cure of PVE and perivalvular abscesses usually requires removal of the prosthetic device and abscess drainage. In this case, in which surgery was not an option, medical therapy of PVE and a decrease in size of the aortic perivalvular abscess were accomplished with daptomycin therapy. Daptomycin is an alternative to vancomycin therapy in patients with prolonged or persistent MRSA bacteremia secondary to endocarditis or abscess.
Integrins are alphabeta-heterodimers that act as cell-extracellular matrix (ECM) and cell-cell adhesion molecules. During development, they are involved in axonal guidance, synaptogenesis, and in astrocytic maturation and migration. Here, we have examined the potential role of the integrin subunits alpha1-alpha5 and beta1-beta5 in axonal sprouting, synaptogenesis and reactive astrogliosis in the adult rat brain caused by pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE). Strong hippocampal immunoreactivity of alpha1-alpha5, beta1, beta3, beta4, and beta5 was observed in the pia mater, in vascular endothelia, and in astrocytes at the pial surface. beta2 immunoreactivity was found exclusively in vascular endothelia. Pyramidal cells and interneurons of CA3-CA1, as well as hilar neurons revealed moderate alpha5 labeling in their cell bodies. Mossy fibers were immunoreactive for alpha2, beta4, and beta5. After pilocarpine-induced SE, strong immunoreactivity for alpha1, alpha2, alpha4, alpha5, beta1, beta3, and beta4 was observed in reactive astrocytes. Our results show that members of the integrin family are differently distributed in cellular and subcellular compartments of the hippocampus and undergo specific patterns of regulation, which may be important for lesion-induced reactive changes in the adult brain.
The effects of MIF-1 administered into a lateral ventricle of the brain were studied on the behaviour of mice in the open field test and hole test, apomorphine-induced stereotypy, morphine-induced catalepsy, and reactivity on thermal painful stimuli in the hot plate test. The last test was compared with a similar test with morphine administration. It was demonstrated that MIF-1 exerted a depressing effect on the behaviour of mice, increased the intensity of apomorphine-induced stereotypy and weakened chlorpromazine-induced catalepsy. Moreover, an analgesic action of MIF-1 was demonstrated which was blocked with naloxone. The results of these investigations indicated a significant central action of MIF-1 in mice and a participation of dopaminergic receptors in certain effects of MIF-1 on the behaviour of experimental animals.
Seventy chemicals were tested for the ability to induce sex-linked recessive lethal (SLRL) mutations in postmeiotic and meiotic germ cells of male Drosophila melanogaster. As in the previous studies in this series, adult feeding was chosen as the first route of administration. If the compound failed to induce mutations by this route, injection exposure was used. Two chemicals, n-butane and propylene, were gaseous and therefore tested only by inhalation. One chemical (dimethylcarbamoyl chloride) was tested only by injection. Those chemicals that were mutagenic in the SLRL assay were further tested for the ability to induce reciprocal translocations. Sixteen of the 70 chemicals tested were mutagenic in the SLRL assay: 3-chloro-2-methylpropene, 3-(chloromethyl)pyridine HCl, dimethylcarbamoyl chloride, HC blue 1,3-iodo-1,2-propanediol, malaoxon, N,N'-methylene-bis-acrylamide, 4,4'-methylenedianiline 2HCl, ziram, cis-dichlorodiaminoplatinum II, 1,2-dibromoethane, dibromomannitol, 1,2-epoxypropane, glycidol, myleran, and toluene diisocyanate. The last seven also induced reciprocal translocations. A comparison of the results from the SLRL assay with other assays for mutagens and carcinogens suggests that the SLRL assay is highly specific, but poorly sensitive, both for mutagens and potential carcinogens.
Diesel exhaust particles are a major constituent of ambient particulate matter, and most particles emitted directly from diesel exhaust are smaller than 1microm in diameter. Recently, the toxicity of diesel engine-derived nanoparticles has come to be recognized as an emerging social issue. In the present study, we investigated spatial learning ability and memory function-related gene expressions in mouse hippocampus after the exposure of animals to nanoparticle-rich diesel exhaust (NRDE) with or without a bacterial cell wall component. Lipoteichoic acid (LTA), a cell wall component derived from Staphylococcus aureus, was used to induce systemic inflammation. Male BALB/c mice were exposed to clean air (particle concentration, 4.58microg/m(3)) or NRDE (148.86microg/m(3)) for 5h per day on 5 days of the week for 4 weeks in an exposure chamber, with or without the weekly intraperitoneal injection of LTA. On the day after the final day of exposure, we used a Morris water maze apparatus to examine the ability of the animals to perform a spatial learning task. After the completion of the test, the animals were sacrificed and the hippocampus was collected from each mouse; the expressions of NMDA receptor subunits (NR1, NR2A and NR2B), proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1beta and TNF-alpha) and the oxidative stress marker heme oxygenase 1 were then investigated using real-time RT-PCR. In the Morris water maze task, NRDE/LTA (+) group took a longer time to reach the hidden platform than clear air/LTA (-) group. However, NRDE exposure alone did not affect it. The relative mRNA levels of the NMDA receptor subunits and proinflammatory cytokines were higher in hippocampus of NRDE/LTA (+) group compared to clear air/LTA (-) group. These results indicate that co-exposure of NRDE and LTA could affect spatial learning and memory function-related gene expressions in mouse hippocampus.
The development of hypotension during various exercise stress tests has been correlated with the presence of multivessel coronary artery disease and impaired left ventricular contractility. Hypotension may also occur during dobutamine stress echocardiography; however, its anatomic and functional significance remains unknown. As part of an ongoing study of restenosis, dobutamine stress echocardiography and diagnostic cardiac catheterization were performed on the same day in 105 outpatients approximately 6 months after percutaneous coronary revascularization (balloon angioplasty or directional coronary atherectomy) to determine the anatomic and functional significance of dobutamine-induced hypotension. Dobutamine was infused in stepwise increments to a maximum rate of 30 micrograms/kg/min. Hypotension was defined as a reduction in systolic blood pressure of > or = 15 mm Hg. Anatomic abnormalities were defined by quantitative coronary angiography and functional abnormalities by digitized two-dimensional stress echocardiography. Clinical, angiographic, hemodynamic, and electrocardiographic data underwent multivariable regression analysis to determine their ability to predict independently the development of dobutamine-induced hypotension. Dobutamine-induced hypotension was not associated with the presence of severity of coronary artery disease or with echocardiographic wall motion abnormalities. Univariable predictors of stress-induced hypotension included high baseline systolic blood pressure, advanced age, and high left ventricular ejection fraction. Only a high baseline systolic blood pressure contributed independent predictive information in multivariable stepwise logistic regression analysis. Therefore, the development of hypotension during dobutamine stress echocardiography, unlike that during traditional exercise stress tests, is not associated with the presence of significant coronary artery disease or left ventricular dysfunction.
Lewy body disease (LBD) development is enhanced by mutations in the GBA gene coding for glucocerebrosidase (GCase). The mechanism of this association is thought to involve an abnormal lysosomal system and we therefore sought to evaluate if lysosomal changes contribute to the pathogenesis of idiopathic LBD. Analysis of post-mortem frontal cortex tissue from 7 GBA mutation carriers with LBD, 5 GBA mutation carriers with no signs of neurological disease and human neural stem cells exposed to a GCase inhibitor was used to determine how GBA mutation contributes to LBD. GBA mutation carriers demonstrated a significantly reduced level of GCase protein and enzyme activity and retention of glucocerebrosidase isoforms within the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). This was associated with enhanced expression of the lysosomal markers LAMP1 and LAMP2, though the expression of ATP13A2 and Cathepsin D was reduced, along with the decreased activity of Cathepsin D. The ER unfolded protein response (UPR) regulator BiP/GRP78 was reduced by GBA mutation and this was a general phenomenon in LBD. Despite elevation of GRP94 in LBD, individuals with GBA mutations showed reduced GRP94 expression, suggesting an inadequate UPR. Finally, human neural stem cell cultures showed that inhibition of GCase causes acute reduction of BiP, indicating that the UPR is affected by reduced glucocerebrosidase activity. The results indicate that mutation in GBA leads to additional lysosomal abnormalities, enhanced by an impaired UPR, potentially causing α-synuclein accumulation.
Loiasis in residents of endemic areas is generally manifested by microfilaremia, episodic angioedema, periocular migration of adult worms, modest eosinophilia, and variable antibody levels. In 20 temporary residents who acquired loiasis in West Africa, however, the clinical presentations were markedly different. Only three of the 20 had detectable microfilaremia. Furthermore, these patients often showed a state of marked immunological hyperresponsiveness manifested by very high titers of antibody to filariae, increased levels of serum IgE, and profound hypereosinophilia--to levels greater than 3,000/mm3 in 18 of the 20. These patients were also notable for the increased severity, frequency, and pruritic nature of their angioedema. Also, significant complications occurred in seven of the 20; one patient developed endomyocardial fibrosis and six, renal disease after treatment with diethylcarbamazine. Thirteen of the 20 developed subcutaneous nodules; adult parasites were recovered from three of five of these patients who underwent biopsy. All of the patients responded to therapy with diminution of their clinical symptoms and decreases in levels of eosinophils, IgE, and antibody to filariae.
