The efficacy and safety of paclitaxel (Taxol; Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, NJ) was studied as first-line treatment for 30 consecutive patients with metastatic breast cancer. All patients had received adjuvant/neoadjuvant chemotherapy, 22 had prior hormonal therapy, and 26 had received previous adjuvant radiotherapy. Paclitaxel 225 mg/m2 was given as a 3-hour infusion without colony-stimulating factor support at 3-week intervals without excessive dose reduction or delays. The most common nonhematologic toxicities were alopecia (grade 3 in 29 patients) and peripheral neuritis (grade 2 or 3 in 14 patients). The objective response rate was 60% and responses were seen in all disease sites. The median duration of overall response was 30 weeks (range, 15 to 75+ weeks) and the estimated median survival time for all patients was 56 weeks (range, 1 to 82+ weeks). The response rate and survival times seen with single-agent paclitaxel are encouraging. Future studies must explore paclitaxel in combination with other regimens, with the hope that results will improve further.
We have previously shown that continuous captopril administration prevents hypertension from developing in the two-kidney, one-clip (2K, 1C) rat. The present investigation was designed to determine the mechanism(s) producing the hypertension. In one series of experiments captopril prevented pressure from increasing during an 8-wk treatment period. Relative to the last day of treatment, mean arterial pressure and total peripheral resistance (TPR) were increased and cardiac output was unchanged at 3, 7, and 28 days after captopril cessation. Plasma renin activity (PRA) was unchanged 3, 7, and 14 days after captopril cessation but was elevated at 28, 49, and 56 days after captopril cessation only in 2K, 1C rats with severe hypertension (systolic blood pressure greater than 180 mmHg). Guanethidine (45 mg/kg po, bid) did not prevent the development of 2K, 1C hypertension but did prevent the hypertension from developing after cessation of captopril. Blockade of the prostaglandin system with indomethacin (5 mg/kg + 50 micrograms X kg-1 X min-1) and of the kallikrein-kinin system with aprotinin (25,000 KIU + 150 KIU X kg-1 X min-1) for 2 h had no effect on captopril's antihypertensive effect. Additionally, no change in sodium or water balance was observed after captopril cessation. Taken together these data demonstrate that hypertension after captopril cessation is due to an increase in TPR. Additionally, the rise in TPR is due to both the sympathetic nervous and the renin-angiotensin systems since both systems must be functional before pressure rises.
Drugs have occasionally been implicated in dermatomyositis (DM) onset.
We sought to review case reports of drug-induced DM.
Articles were gathered from MEDLINE and bibliographies of acquired reports. Causality was assessed using World Health Organization criteria. Clinical characteristics, management, and resolution were examined.
In 70 reported cases, 50% of patients were female and the median age was 57 years. Hydroxyurea was implicated in 51% of cases. All cases had pathognomonic (76%) or compatible (24%) cutaneous findings. Hydroxyurea cases lacked myositis, but myositis was described in 79.4% of nonhydroxyurea cases. Drug causality was probable (25.7%) or possible (74.3%), but not certain in any case. Most patients had underlying pathology associated with DM (44% had malignancy; 16% had rheumatoid arthritis). Of the sample, 84.3% had improvement of DM after discontinuation of the drug.
Case reports may emphasize unusual findings.
Further work is needed to differentiate drug effects from underlying, predisposing factors.
Vaginal adenosis and clear cell adenocarcinoma of the vagina occurred in a 44-year-old woman after treatment for condylomata acuminata. She had no known exposure to diethylstilbestrol (DES) in utero. Biopsy-proven vaginal adenosis appeared 8 months after intravaginal 5-fluorouracil application for recurrent urogenital condylomata acuminata. Forty months later, biopsies showed residual adenosis with foci of clear cell adenocarcinoma. Although clear cell adenocarcinoma is associated with vaginal adenosis and cervical ectropion in DES-exposed women, its occurrence in adenosis after 5-fluorouracil therapy has not been reported to the authors' knowledge. In this report, this rare but serious complication of treatment of condylomata acuminata is highlighted, and the literature regarding the development of non-DES-associated vaginal adenosis is discussed.
Twenty-two consecutive patients with high-grade, B-cell lymphomas related to the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) were accrued onto two sequential phase II studies, consisting of a standard regimen (M-BACOD, group no. 1, N = 13), or a novel, intensive regimen (group no. 2, N = 9), which included high-dose cytosine arabinoside (HD-Ara-C), and high-dose methotrexate (HD-MTX), in an attempt to prevent CNS relapse and improve response rates. Stage IV disease was present in 82%. Complete remission (CR) was achieved in seven of 13 patients (54%) in group no. 1, and in three of nine (33%) group no. 2 (P = NS). By multivariate analysis, the most significant factor in predicting response was a Karnofsky performance score (KPS) greater than 60 (P = .04). Three of the ten patients who achieved CR on either regimen have relapsed; in all, five of 13 patients (31%) in group no. 1 have achieved disease-free survival for more than 1 year, compared with one of nine (11%) in group no. 2. CNS progression occurred in six patients in group no. 2, and in two patients in group no. 1. Hematologic toxicity was significantly greater in group no. 2, and these patients had an increased risk of opportunistic infection (one in group no. 1 v seven in group no. 2; P less than .01). Survival was similar, with a median of 11 months in group no. 1 and 6 months in group no. 2. We conclude that the intensive regimen of combination chemotherapy described here is associated with significant risk of early death due to opportunistic infection in patients with AIDS-related lymphoma, and that progression in the CNS remains a major problem. Trials of combination chemotherapy of a less intensive nature, perhaps in combination with immunomodulators or antiretroviral agents should be explored.
The functional involvement of the endocannabinoid system in modulation of pancreatic inflammation, such as acute pancreatitis, has not been studied to date. Moreover, the therapeutic potential of cannabinoids in pancreatitis has not been addressed.
We quantified endocannabinoid levels and expression of cannabinoid receptors 1 and 2 (CB1 and CB2) in pancreas biopsies from patients and mice with acute pancreatitis. Functional studies were performed in mice using pharmacological interventions. Histological examination, serological, and molecular analyses (lipase, myeloperoxidase, cytokines, and chemokines) were performed to assess disease pathology and inflammation. Pain resulting from pancreatitis was studied as abdominal hypersensitivity to punctate von Frey stimuli. Behavioral analyses in the open-field, light-dark, and catalepsy tests were performed to judge cannabinoid-induced central side effects.
Patients with acute pancreatitis showed an up-regulation of cannabinoid receptors and elevated levels of endocannabinoids in the pancreas. HU210, a synthetic agonist at CB1 and CB2, abolished abdominal pain associated with pancreatitis and also reduced inflammation and decreased tissue pathology in mice without producing central, adverse effects. Antagonists at CB1- and CB2-receptors were effective in reversing HU210-induced antinociception, whereas a combination of CB1- and CB2-antagonists was required to block the anti-inflammatory effects of HU210 in pancreatitis.
In humans, acute pancreatitis is associated with up-regulation of ligands as well as receptors of the endocannabinoid system in the pancreas. Furthermore, our results suggest a therapeutic potential for cannabinoids in abolishing pain associated with acute pancreatitis and in partially reducing inflammation and disease pathology in the absence of adverse side effects.
The neurologic signs and symptoms of carbamazepine and phenytoin toxicity, such as ataxia, dysarthria, and nystagmus, are well known. The psychiatric manifestations of toxicity, such as psychosis and hallucinations, however, are less widely recognized. This study reports the case of a 9-year-old male with seizures who developed intermittent complex visual hallucinations after therapy with antiepileptic drugs was begun. This study considered seizures, migraine, underlying psychiatric diathesis, and drug toxicity as possible etiologies but after extensive investigation concluded that his symptoms were most likely a drug side effect.
A 27-year-old female student was hospitalized as an emergency because of gait and speech disorders which had developed over just a few hours. Conflicts with her partner and frequent alcohol abuse were reported. It was not possible to interview the patient herself. Consciousness was clouded by optical and acoustic hallucination. Body temperature was 38.1 degrees C: the skin was warm and dry, the tongue dry. Heart rate was 120/min, blood pressure 150/100 mm Hg. Neck and limb muscle tone was increased. Hallucinatory psychosis, encephalitis and alcohol withdrawal delirium were considered in the differential diagnosis.
There was hypokalaemia, slightly increased serum creatinine and metabolic alkalosis. The alcohol level was 0.18%. The ECG was normal except for sinus tachycardia.
In the meantime, two empty packets of 20 tablets each had been found in the patient's flat. They had contained Vivinox and Sediat (total of 1.5 g diphenhydramine), so that a central anticholinergic syndrome due to an overdose with this drug could be assumed. The diphenhydramine level was 2.8 micrograms/ml. After administration of altogether four times 2 mg physostigmine and 5 mg diazepam intravenously and normalization of electrolytes the symptoms regressed within 12 hours. The patient then admitted to having taken the drugs with suicidal intent. She was transferred to the psychiatric department because of the risk of further suicidal attempts.
To assess the efficacy of multiple treatment of phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor on autochthonous tumours in phosphatase and tensin homologue (Pten)-deficient genetically engineered mouse cancer models using a longitudinal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) protocol.
Using 3D MRI, B-cell follicular lymphoma growth was quantified in a Pten(+/-)Lkb1(+/hypo) mouse line, before, during and after repeated treatments with a PI3K inhibitor GDC-0941 (75 mg/kg).
Mean pre-treatment linear tumour growth rate was 16.5±12.8 mm(3)/week. Repeated 28-day GDC-0941 administration, with 21 days 'off-treatment', induced average tumour regression of 41±7%. Upon cessation of the second treatment (which was not permanently cytocidal), tumours re-grew with an average linear growth rate of 40.1±15.5 mm(3)/week. There was no evidence of chemoresistance.
This protocol can accommodate complex dosing schedules, as well as combine different cancer therapies. It reduces biological variability problems and resulted in a 10-fold reduction in mouse numbers compared with terminal assessment methods. It is ideal for preclinical efficacy studies and for phenotyping molecularly characterized mouse models when investigating gene function.
Despite abundant evidence that systemic administration of adrenergic drugs and hormones can produce retrograde memory enhancement, the literature contains no clear demonstration that postlearning systemic administration of adrenergic antagonists produces retrograde amnesia. Here we demonstrate retrograde amnesia for a stressful learning task (a spatial water maze) with systemic administration of the beta-adrenergic antagonist propranolol (5 mg/kg). The amnesic effect of the drug depended on the degree of learning in the subjects: Propranolol caused a robust retrograde amnesia in "good learners," but did not significantly affect memory in "poor learners." The findings provide critical additional support for the hypothesis that postlearning adrenergic activation modulates memory consolidation processes after emotionally stressful events and help explain previous failures to detect memory impairment after systemic administration of adrenergic blocking drugs.
Antidepressant drugs vary in their effects on sleep, day-time sedation and performance. Up to now, no data are available for either escitalopram (ESCIT) or amitriptyline (AMI), measuring these by an objective test, such as the MULTIPLE SLEEP LATENCY TEST (MSLT).
We therefore investigated the impact of a single evening dose of 10 mg ESCIT on polysomnographically recorded nocturnal sleep, day-time sleepiness and performance in comparison to 75 mg AMI and placebo (PLAC) in healthy male subjects.
Both antidepressants significantly suppressed REM sleep (p<0.001). Although polysomnographically measured sleep continuity was impaired after ESCIT (p=0.006), subjective estimates of sleep parameters did not differ. Periodic limb movements (PLMS) were increased after AMI (p<0.001) but not after ESCIT. Processing speed and performance were enhanced after ESCIT compared with AMI (p=0.011), but not with PLAC. Next-day alertness was significantly impaired by AMI (p=0.012), but not by ESCIT. Mean day-time sleep onset latencies increased significantly after evening ESCIT (p<0.001). In contrast, AMI led to a pronounced increase of day-time sleepiness (p=0.007).
This study demonstrates that single evening doses of either AMI or ESCIT exhibit different effects on next-day vigilance and alertness in terms of a slightly stimulating effect of ESCIT and a significant reduction after AMI.
Treatment of head and neck cancer often associates different therapeutic modalities, including surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy. In an attempt to optimize therapeutics, the identification of molecular markers linked to response to chemotherapy remains important. Recently, the involvement of metalloproteinases in resistance to chemotherapy was suggested through their interaction with the Fas/Fas ligand pathway. Indeed metalloproteinases enhance Fas ligand shedding modulating chemotherapy efficiency. On the basis of these findings, we tested the existence of a correlation between response to chemotherapy and four metalloproteinase polymorphisms in a prospective series of 148 head and neck cancer patients.
Patients were genotyped using automated fragment analysis and 5'-nuclease allelic discrimination assay. Response to chemotherapy was clinically assessed without knowledge of the genotype status.
A significant relation between the metalloproteinase type 3 (MMP3) -1612insA polymorphism and response to chemotherapy was identified. Indeed, patients with the 6A/6A genotype responded more frequently (86%) to treatment as compared with patients with the 5A/6A (65%) or 5A/5A (55%) genotypes (P = 0.04). A multivariate analysis, including tumor stage, gender, TP53 mutations, and MMP3 polymorphism, showed that the 6A/6A genotype was an independent factor of response to 5-fluorouracil-cisplatin chemotherapy in head and neck cancer patients with an odds ratio of 6.7 as compared with the 5A/5A genotype.
This work showed that genotyping the MMP3 gene enhancer polymorphism -1612insA could help predict chemosensitivity in head and neck cancer patients.
We performed a dose escalation study to evaluate the maximum tolerated dose of paclitaxel (Taxol; Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, NJ) given over 3 hours plus bolus epirubicin 90 mg/m2. The starting dose of paclitaxel, 135 mg/m2, was escalated by 20-mg/m2 increments in cohorts of three to six patients. Courses were repeated every 3 weeks. Filgrastim (5 micrograms/kg/d) was administered to shorten the duration of grade 4 neutropenia lasting longer than 72 hours. Twenty-nine patients have been treated, 86% of whom had failed adjuvant chemotherapy (with anthracyclines in 14 cases). One hundred forty-eight courses have been administered, and the paclitaxel dose has been escalated to 225 mg/m2 without reaching the maximum tolerated dose. The most frequent dose-related toxicity has been grade 4 neutropenia, which occurred in 59% of courses. The median duration of grade 4 neutropenia was 4 days, which was shortened with filgrastim only in patients treated with paclitaxel 225 mg/m2. Eleven episodes of febrile neutropenia (7% of courses) have been observed. Nonhematologic toxicities were mild or moderate: grade 1 or 2 peripheral neuropathy was reported by 41% and 10% of patients, respectively. The cardiac toxicities of this regimen were surprisingly low: median left ventricular ejection fraction was 57% at study entry and 56% after six courses. Only two patients showed a decrease of left ventricular ejection fraction below 50% after six courses, and no signs of anthracycline-induced congestive heart failure were noted. The activity of this novel combination is encouraging: the overall response rate is 80%, with 16% complete responses. We have demonstrated that the combination of epirubicin plus paclitaxel given over 3 hours is feasible with acceptable toxicities, does not appear to be associated with clinically relevant cardiotoxicity, and is active in a population of patients who have failed adjuvant chemotherapy.
The gastrin-releasing peptide receptor (GRPR) has been implicated in central nervous system (CNS) diseases, including neurodevelopmental disorders associated with autism. In the present study we examined the effects of GRPR blockade during the neonatal period on behavioral measures relevant to animal models of neurodevelopmental disorders. Male Wistar rats were given an intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of either saline (SAL) or the GRPR antagonist [D-Tpi(6), Leu(13) psi(CH(2)NH)-Leu(14)] bombesin (6-14) (RC-3095; 1 or 10mg/kg) twice daily for 10days from postnatal days (PN) 1 to 10. Animals treated with RC-3095 showed pronounced deficits in social interaction when tested at PN 30-35 and impaired 24-h retention of memory for both novel object recognition (NOR) and inhibitory avoidance (IA) tasks tested at PN 60-71. Neither short-term memory tested 1.5h posttraining nor open field behavior were affected by neonatal GRPR blockade. The implications of the findings for animal models of neurodevelopmental disorders are discussed.
Paclitaxel (Taxol; Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, NJ) is active against advanced breast cancer and anthracycline-resistant breast cancer. We assessed the efficacy and toxicity of doxorubicin followed by a 3-hour infusion of paclitaxel in women with advanced breast cancer. Participants could have received at most one prior adjuvant chemotherapy regimen, but no previous exposure to anthracyclines or taxanes was permitted. The patients were treated every 3 weeks with doxorubicin (50 or 60 mg/m2) followed 30 minutes later by paclitaxel (155, 175, or 200 mg/m2). After reaching the maximum cumulative doxorubicin dose, treatment could be continued with paclitaxel alone. Thirty women were included, of whom 29 were evaluable for response. The overall response rate was 83% (95% confidence interval, 64% to 94%), with 24% of patients attaining complete remission. Median response duration for complete responders was 8+ months (range, 4 to 13 months) and median time to progression was 9 months (range, 2 to 18 months). Main toxicities were neutropenia, paresthesia, nausea/vomiting, alopecia, myalgia, and cardiotoxicity. In 15 patients (50%), the left ventricular ejection fraction decreased to below normal levels; six patients (20%) developed congestive heart failure. In conclusion, the combination of doxorubicin and paclitaxel is highly active; dose-limiting toxicities are neutropenia, neuropathy, and cumulative cardiotoxicity.
Our objective was to evaluate whether P-glycoprotein inhibition after quinidine pretreatment results in modified central nervous effects of morphine.
Twelve healthy volunteers received 7.5 mg morphine as an intravenous infusion over a 3-hour period. In a randomized, double-blind, 2-way crossover fashion, subjects received either 800 mg quinidine or placebo 1 hour before the start of morphine administration. The miotic and respiratory depressive effects of morphine were assessed by means of pupillometry and the respiratory response to carbon dioxide rebreathing, respectively. Quinidine effects were assessed by electrocardiogram recordings. Plasma concentrations of morphine and its glucuronide metabolites were measured throughout the observation period of 5 hours.
Morphine significantly reduced both the respiratory response to carbon dioxide and the pupil diameter. Throughout the observation period, quinidine had significant effects on the corrected QT interval (QTc increase of >60 milliseconds), indicating clinically relevant quinidine action. However, quinidine pretreatment did not enhance the respiratory depressive effects of morphine, nor did it alter the miotic effects of morphine to a statistically significant or clinically relevant extent. Plasma concentrations of morphine and its glucuronides were not significantly changed by quinidine pretreatment.
Whereas morphine clearly produced miosis and respiratory depression, pretreatment with quinidine as an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein did not result in an enhancement of central nervous opioid effects in healthy volunteers.
Based on preclinical data, we designed a phase I/II clinical trial to determine the efficacy and toxicity of doxorubicin followed by paclitaxel (Taxol; Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, NJ) in the treatment of patients with advanced breast cancer (either untreated or relapsed after adjuvant therapy). In the phase I study, 19 enrolled patients received bolus doxorubicin (50 mg/m2) and, after a 16-hour interval, escalating doses of paclitaxel (from 130 to 250 mg/m2 in 30-mg/ m2 increments) by 3-hour infusion every 3 weeks for a maximum of eight cycles. Paclitaxel doses were increased if the maximum tolerated dose (MTD; defined by dose-limiting toxicities) had not been reached. Analysis of the 128 cycles assessable for toxicity demonstrated neutropenia (< 500/microL) in 20% of cycles with no significant clinical events. No relevant clinical cardiotoxicity was observed. Other toxicities included mild peripheral neuropathy and mild myalgia/arthralgia (In 37.5% and 30.4% of cycles, respectively). The maximum tolerated paclitaxel dose was not reached at the 250 mg/m2 dose level. In the second phase, 13 patients were treated with fixed doses of both drugs (doxorubicin 50 mg/m2 and paclitaxel 220 mg/m2, the dose level immediately preceding the highest paclitaxel dose used in phase I). Grade 4 neutropenia occurred in 36 of the 87 cycles but was complicated by fever in only eight cycles (9%); three patients needed granulocyte colony-stimulating factor. Peripheral neuropathy (grades 1 and 2 in 41.3% and 5.7% of cycles, respectively) and a myalgic syndrome (grades 1 and 2 in 24.1% and 17.2% of cycles, respectively) were observed. No significant clinical cardiotoxicity was observed in 12 of the 13 patients. One patient experienced a decrease in left ventricular ejection fraction (from 60% to 43%) at a cumulative doxorubicin dose of 400 mg/m2. Antitumor efficacy was evaluated in both phase I and phase II. Overall clinical responses included 10 complete (31.3%) and 15 partial (46.9%) responses, for an objective response rate of 78.1%. Six patients (18.8%) had stable disease. The median durations of objective and complete response were 9 and 7 months, respectively. The 78.9% objective response rate in the phase I trial (31.6% complete and 47.3% partial responses) suggests a dose response relationship: at paclitaxel dose > or = 190 mg/m2, all patients had an objective response (six complete and nine partial responses). These results confirm that doxorubicin followed by paclitaxel is active and should be tested as adjuvant treatment and in patients treated previously with anthracyclines.
Although metoprolol is used to treat hypertension, clinical responses are variable and unpredictable. Evidence suggests that adrenergic beta1 receptor (ADRB1, designated Adrb1 in rodents) gene polymorphisms influence the level of blood pressure response to this drug therapy, but their presence can not predict the response of the individual patient. The question exists whether epigenetic modifications, such as DNA methylation could cause changes in the gene's expression that are a determining factor in metoprolol's efficacy. The aim of this study was to verify whether DNA methylation could change the expression of the ADRB1 gene, and epigenetic modification could explain why individuals with identical ADRB1 gene polymorphisms have different antihypertensive responses to metoprolol. H9c2 rat myocardial cells in vitro were randomly divided into 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (decitabine)-treated (0.5 to 10.0 microM) and control groups. For the in vivo experiments, 45 spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) were divided into metoprolol-treated and control groups, and after a 4-week intervention myocardia were harvested. Genomic methylation-sensitive PCR was used to assess the methylation status of the Adrb1 promoter after DNA extraction from H9c2 cells and SHR myocardia. Real-time fluorescent quantitative RT-PCR was used to determine levels ofAdrb1 mRNA. In H9c2 cells, the least degree of methylation was observed in the 5.0 microM decitabine treated group. Prolonged exposure of cells to 5.0 microM decitabine resulted in downregulating methylation of the Adrb1 promoter. Increased levels of Adrb1 mRNA of the 5.0 microM group demonstrated that this concentration resulted in the highest expression. Accordingly, DNA methylation resulted in the downregulation of Adrb1 transcription. In vivo, the lower level of methylation of the Adrb1 promoter from SHR myocardial samples demonstrated a better antihypertensive effect by metoprolol. The expression of Adrb1 mRNA in the effective group of SHRs was significantly upregulated. In conclusion, as shown in both H9c2 cells and SHRs, downregulated methylation of the Adrb1 promoter is likely to improve the antihypertensive efficacy of metoprolol.
The experimental data previously reported on RK-28, a hypoxic cell sensitizer which is now being tested in a phase I clinical trial, are confusing. Some data indicate superiority of RK-28 over misonidazole (MISO), whereas others do not. This paper presents our experimental data on the efficacy, toxicity, and pharmacokinetics of RK-28, in comparison with those of MISO, and also summarizes the data of other investigators. In our experiments, RK-28 had a 1.5-2.5 times higher sensitizing activity in vitro on EMT6 and SCCVII cells than MISO, and the difference was larger when the pre-irradiation incubation time was longer. The latter was considered to be due to the time-dependent cellular uptake and reactivity of RK-28 with non-protein sulphydryls. In vivo, RK-28 was almost as efficient as or slightly inferior to MISO against SCCVII and EMT6 tumours when assayed with an in vivo/in vitro assay and a growth delay time assay. The LD50/7 by a single injection of RK-28 was half that of MISO, but when 60% of LD50/7 was injected into mice every day, the total dose that could be given was higher for RK-28 than for MISO. Pharmacokinetic studies using mice, rats, rabbits, and a dog showed that RK-28 was rapidly eliminated from the blood and various tissues. From our results it was concluded that the possible success of the clinical trial of RK-28 depends on its low cumulative toxicity.
Since the perioperative mortality of coronary artery bypass surgery is high in patients with cerebrovascular disease, it is crucial to assess a cerebrovascular risk before operation. Acetazolamide (ACZ) was applied to brain SPECT to evaluate the vascular reserve, and ACZ stress brain imaging was useful for predicting perioperative cerebrovascular events. We performed 201Tl myocardial and 99mTc-hexamethyl-propyleneamine oxime (HMPAO) brain SPECT with ACZ stress simultaneously to a patient with severe coronary artery disease and experienced the abnormality of 201Tl myocardial imaging with ACZ, as did that with dipyridamole. Technetium-99m-HMPAO brain SPECT showed no defect. Brain SPECT with ACZ demonstrated the region of poor coronary vascular reserve, which suggested myocardial ischemia induced by ACZ in a patient with severe coronary artery disease.
The possibility of tolerance development from chronic administration of felbamate (FBM) was investigated in mice and rats. Chronic administration (15 days) of FBM (150 mg/kg i.p.) in mice had no significant effect on either intravenous pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) seizure threshold or hexobarbital sleep time; however, hexobarbital sleep time was significantly increased after a single dose. Chronic administration (5-7 days) of FBM (48 or 95 mg/kg orally) in rats also had no significant effect on either maximal electroshock seizure activity or hexobarbital sleep time. Chronic administration of FBM at 238 mg/kg slightly decreased anti-subcutaneous PTZ activity in chronically treated rats (one of eight protected) as compared with those receiving only a single dose (three of eight protected), but there was no significant change in hexobarbital sleep time. Chronic treatment of rats for 7 days with 48 mg/kg had no significant effect on any hepatic parameters. However, 95 or 238 mg/kg of FBM significantly increased p-nitroanisole O-demethylase activity. It is concluded that the increased hexobarbital sleep time induced by an acute dose of FBM reflects the CNS-depressant effect of the substance. The increased p-nitroanisole O-demethylase activity observed after chronic administration may be indicative of some liver microsomal induction. Overall, FBM in doses ranging from 48 to 238 mg/kg appears to have minimal potential for tolerance development.
gamma-Hydroxybutyrate (GHB) is a drug of abuse with multiple mechanisms of action. Consistent with its ability to modulate dopaminergic systems, GHB reportedly shares behavioral effects with neuroleptics and interacts with them in a synergistic manner. Here, we examined the ability of GHB and haloperidol to induce catalepsy and to affect operant responding. When given alone, both compounds induced catalepsy and decreased response rate. When given together, however, they produced these effects in an additive manner. This is further evidence that GHB has neuroleptic-like effects, but suggests that GHB interacts additively, not synergistically, with neuroleptics. The mechanisms involved in GHB- and haloperidol-induced catalepsy are different because the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, dizocilpine (MK-801), attenuated the cataleptic effects of haloperidol, but enhanced those of GHB. The latter finding suggests that other NMDA receptor antagonists (e.g., the drugs of abuse--phencyclidine and ketamine) may also interact synergistically with GHB.
It is important that prophylactics used to protect military and emergency personnel against lethal doses of nerve agents do not by themselves produce impairment of cognitive capability. The purpose of the present study was to examine whether physostigmine, scopolamine, and various doses of procyclidine might reduce rats' innate preference for novelty. When these drugs were tested separately, the results showed that physostigmine (0.1 mg/kg) and procyclidine (3 mg/kg) did not affect preference for novelty, whereas scopolamine (0.15 mg/kg) and procyclidine in a higher dose (6 mg/kg) resulted in a preference deficit (Experiment 1). In Experiment 2, the combination of physostigmine and scopolamine or physostigmine and procyclidine (6 mg/kg) caused a marked deficit in preference for novelty. A much milder deficit was observed when physostigmine was combined with lower doses (1 or 3 mg/kg) of procyclidine. The latter combinations also had milder adverse impact on the animals' interest in the test environment and activity measures than the former combinations. By combining physostigmine with anticholinergics, a potentiation of adverse effects on behavior was seen. It is concluded that a slight cognitive impairment might be unavoidable with effective prophylactics.
Since 1971, 55 case-reports of rifampicin-induced ARF have been published, but systematic data on this condition are not available, in view of the disparate nature of the observations.
We retrospectively assessed prevalence, clinical and biochemical features, and prognostic factors of 60 consecutive cases (41 males/19 females, age 22-68 years), who were admitted to the Iasi Dialysis Centre from 1987 to 1995 for acute renal failure (ARF) following re-treatment with rifampicin.
The clinical appearance consisted mainly of gastrointestinal and 'flu-like' symptoms and clinical signs of intravascular haemolysis (the latter in 17% of cases). Frequent laboratory findings were anaemia (96% of cases), leukocytosis (63%), and thrombocytopenia (50%). Severe anaemia was associated with marked haemolysis (25% cases), thrombocytopenia, longer anuria, and slower rate of renal function recovery. Signs of hepatic injury were found in 25% of patients, but it did not seem to affect the outcome of renal function. Prognostic factors in post-rifampicin ARF proved to be the following: the duration of the anuric phase (correlated with the number of dialysis sessions and with the rate of decrease of azotaemia) and the severity of the immunological abnormalities and inflammatory syndrome (haemolysis, leukocytosis, hypergammaglobulinaemia). Post-rifampicin ARF accounted for 16.6% of all ARF cases hospitalized in our Centre during the studied period. Its clinical course was favourable; the mortality rate was only 1.6% (1 case), compared to a 20% general mortality rate among all ARF patients. Full recovery of renal function was achieved in 40% and 96% of patients, 30 and 90 days respectively from onset.
ARF after treatment with rifampicin is not an uncommon condition, especially when tuberculosis prevalence is high, but renal prognosis is usually favourable. Thrombocytopenia, immune haemolytic anaemia, and intravascular haemolysis are frequent complications which are associated with a more severe renal injury.
Mutations in the hepatitis B virus (HBV) genome may occur during therapy.
We report an asymptomatic HBV carrier who underwent transplantation for end-stage renal disease. She developed an HBV flare 6 months after transplantation and was placed on lamivudine. After initial rapid improvement, she relapsed clinically and virologically. She decompensated with jaundice, peripheral edema, ascites, encephalopathy, coagulopathy, and hepatorenal syndrome. A liver biopsy specimen revealed submassive necrosis.
Emergency liver transplantation was performed: lamivudine was discontinued. Hepatitis B immunoglobulin and adefovir dipivoxil were initiated. Sixteen months after orthotopic liver transplantation, she is HBV DNA seronegative with normal liver enzymes. Sequencing of HBV polymerase gene from preliver transplantation sera did not detect the usual lamivudine resistance mutations in the YMDD motif but instead two other mutations (F514-->L, L528-->M). Lamivudine resistance was demonstrated in vitro.
Asymptomatic HBV carriers may reactivate following renal transplantation after immunosuppression. Resistance to lamivudine may result in severe hepatic damage in immunocompromised patients.
The relation between phenol-induced tremor and brain acetylcholine levels, and the effects of cholinergic drugs on the tremor were investigated, using male ddY mice weighing 28-35 g. The magnitude of phenol-induced tremor was graded on a 4-point scale: 0, normal; 1, slight; 2, moderate; 3, severe, and acetylcholine levels were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. The magnitude of tremor and the decrease in acetylcholine levels in the striatum and cerebral cortex induced by s.c. injection of phenol (50, 100, 200 mg/kg) were dose-dependent, and both showed parallel time courses. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of phenol (100 micrograms/mouse) caused a decrease in acetylcholine levels in the striatum but did not induce tremor. Intraperitoneal injection of pentobarbital (10 mg/kg), which inhibits the release of acetylcholine, weakened both the magnitude of the tremor and the decrease in acetylcholine levels induced by phenol (200 mg/kg), whereas i.c.v. injection of pentobarbital (120 micrograms/mouse) attenuated the decrease in acetylcholine levels induced by phenol, but did not affect the magnitude of the tremor. Intraperitoneal (20 mg/kg) or i.c.v. (60 micrograms/mouse) injection of mecamylamine further strengthened the tremor. Intraperitoneal (0.3 mg/kg) injection of physostigmine strengthened the tremor, while i.c.v. injection (1 microgram/mouse) caused a reduction in its magnitude. These results suggest that the tremor is caused directly by the phenol-induced increase in acetylcholine release in the peripheral nervous system (motor nerve endings), that the decrease in brain acetylcholine levels may be due to phenol-induced increases in acetylcholine release within the central nervous system, and that the resultant reduction in brain acetylcholine levels indirectly suppresses the tremor.
Oxidative stress is involved in both the pathogenesis and complications of diabetes. ACE inhibitors can slow the progression of cardiac and renal impairments related to diabetes. The effect of enalapril treatment on oxidative stress and tissue injury was studied in hearts, kidneys, and livers from streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. Twenty-four rats were divided into the following groups: streptozotocin (65 mg/kg, single intraperitoneal dose), streptozotocin+enalapril (20 mg enalapril/L drinking water), and control (intraperitoneal saline). Seven months after streptozotocin injection, organs were studied by light microscopy and collagen III immunolabeling. Tissue lesions and collagen labeling were graded by a semiquantitative score (0 to 4). Total glutathione content, glutathione redox status (reduced/oxidized glutathione), antioxidant enzyme activities, protein-associated sulfhydryls, thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances, and fluorescent chromolipids were determined in tissue homogenates. Glycemia was higher in both the streptozotocin and streptozotocin+enalapril groups relative to the control group. In the streptozotocin group, creatinine clearance and body weight were lower, and systolic blood pressure and urinary albumin excretion were higher than in the streptozotocin+enalapril and control groups. Heart, kidney, and liver lesion/labeling scores were significantly higher in the streptozotocin group compared with the streptozotocin+enalapril and control groups. Kidney and liver total glutathione was lower in the streptozotocin group relative to the control group (P<0.05). Enalapril treatment significantly attenuated the reduction of total glutathione. In the heart, kidney, and liver, both glutathione and proteins were relatively more oxidized in the streptozotocin group relative to the control group (P<0.05). Protein and glutathione oxidation were attenuated in the streptozotocin+enalapril group in the 3 tissues studied (P<0.05). Enalapril treatment attenuated the oxidation of lipids in the heart and kidney (P<0.05). Tissue fibrosis scores were inversely correlated with (1) both total glutathione and reduced/oxidized glutathione in heart, kidney, and liver and (2) glutathione reductase activity in the kidney. These results suggest that in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats, the protective action of enalapril might be mediated, at least in part, by its effect on tissue oxidant/antioxidant status.
