Convulsive seizure with unconciousness is an adverse effect of new quinolone antibiotics including fleroxacin. A block of GABA receptor in CNS has been reported as pathomechanism. A 48-year-old female patient with Machado-Joseph disease (MJD) had encephalopathy induced by fleroxacin. She revealed unconsciousness after the administration of fleroxacin (200mg/day) for three days. Electroencephrogram (EEG) showed diffuse slow waves. The administration was discontinued and her consciousness became clear after a day. The abnormal findings on EEG disappeared gradually. The concentrations of fleroxacin were within normal limits in serum and cerebrospinal fluid. The patient with MJD might have a tendency to develop encephalopathy by fleroxacin, because the GABA-ergic nervous system could be involved in MJD.
Gender disparity in liver cancer due to sex differences in MyD88-dependent IL-6 production. Naugler WE, Sakurai T, Kim S, Maeda S, Kim K, Elsharkawy AM, Karin M. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), the most common liver cancer, occurs mainly in men. Similar gender disparity is seen in mice given a chemical carcinogen, diethylnitrosamine (DEN). DEN administration caused greater increases in serum interleukin-6 (IL-6) concentration in males than it did in females. Furthermore, ablation of IL-6 abolished the gender differences in hepatocarcinogenesis in mice. DEN exposure promoted production of IL-6 in Kupffer cells (KCs) in a manner dependent on the Toll-like receptor adaptor protein MyD88, ablation of which also protected male mice from DEN-induced hepatocarcinogenesis. Estrogen inhibited secretion of IL-6 from KCs exposed to necrotic hepatocytes and reduced circulating concentrations of IL-6 in DEN-treated male mice. We propose that estrogen-mediated inhibition of IL-6 production by KCs reduces liver cancer risk in females, and these findings may be used to prevent HCC in males. [Abstract reproduced by permission of Science 2007;317:121-124].
Iron accumulation is considered to be involved in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. To demonstrate the relationship between peripheral iron overload and dopaminergic neuron loss in rat substantia nigra (SN), in the present study we used fast cyclic voltammetry, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunohistochemistry, Perls' iron staining, and high performance liquid chromatography-electrochemical detection to study the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons and increased iron content in the SN of iron dextran overloaded animals. The findings showed that peripheral iron dextran overload increased the iron staining positive cells and reduced the number of TH-immunoreactive neurons in the SN. As a result, dopamine release and content, as well as its metabolites contents were decreased in caudate putamen. Even more dramatic changes were found in chronic overload group. These results suggest that peripheral iron dextran can increase the iron level in the SN, where excessive iron causes the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons. The chronic iron overload may be more destructive to dopaminergic neurons than the acute iron overload.
Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) is a heparin-binding growth factor known to cause cell proliferation, angiogenesis and neuroprotection. We have performed site-directed mutagenesis to identify the amino acids that are essential for heparin/growth factor interaction and for neuroprotection. Binding to heparin-acrylic beads was markedly reduced when lysine in position 134 of bFGF was replaced by alanine. Wildtype (wt)-bFGF was shown to protect rat primary cultures of embryonic hippocampal neurons against damage caused by staurosporine and to reduce the infarct size in mice after focal cerebral ischemia. These neuroprotective effects of wt-bFGF could not be shown for the mutant bFGF(K134A). Furthermore, phosphorylation of Akt and ERK1/2 was significantly reduced in cultured neurons treated with bFGF(K134A) indicating diminished intracellular signaling compared to neurons treated with wt-bFGF. In conclusion, lysine at position 134 of bFGF is essential for bFGF to bind heparin, then to interact with its receptor and, subsequently, to protect neurons against damage.
Clomipramine (a tricyclic antidepressant with significant serotonin activity) causes a high incidence of anorgasmia. The authors describe the successful treatment of clomipramine-induced anorgasmia with yohimbine (an enhancer of norepinephrine activity) in a patient with obsessive compulsive disorder and major depression. The significance of this finding for the clinical management of antidepressant-induced sexual dysfunction and the impact of serotonergic-noradrenergic interaction on male sexual functioning are discussed.
Only liver transplantation is currently available therapy for the patients with acute liver failure (ALF). This study was designed to determine whether administration of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) has therapeutic efficacy in animals with ALF. Female Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were intraperitoneally injected with a single dose of d-galactosamine (d-GalN, 1.4g/kg) to induce ALF. After 2h, the rats were randomized to receive G-CSF (50μg/kg/day), or saline vehicle injection for 5 days. Rats were observed for survival and assessed for liver injury by serum alanine transaminase (ALT) measurement and histological analysis. CD34+ cells in bone marrow were assessed by flow cytometry. CD34+ cells and Ki-67+ hepatocytes in liver tissue were evaluated by immunohistochemistry. In the ALF model, 5-day survival after d-GalN injection was 33.3% (10/30), while G-CSF administration following d-GalN resulted in 53.3% (16/30) survival (p=0.027). G-CSF treated rats had lower ALT level and less hepatic injury compared with saline vehicle rats. The increases of CD34+ cells in bone marrow and liver tissue and Ki-67+ cells in liver tissue in G-CSF treated rats were higher than those in saline rats. No correlation was observed between CD34+ cells and Ki-67+ hepatocytes in liver tissue in both G-CSF and vehicle rats. It is suggested that G-CSF increases survival rate, decreases liver injury and enhances hepatocyte proliferation in rats with d-GalN-induced ALF possibly through actions including but not limiting to CD34+ cell mobilization, and that G-CSF may be of potential value in treating ALF.
Of the first 60 patients treated at our clinic with the antidepressant fluoxetine, 5 (8.3%) developed treatment-emergent sexual dysfunction (anorgasmia and/or delayed orgasm). Three of those 5 patients had a history of treatment-emergent sexual dysfunction while receiving other antidepressant agents. Clinicians should be aware of this side effect of fluoxetine.
This article corresponds to the final paper accepted as passing as a requirement to accede to the level of 500 hours in the "IDER" Masters program "Methodology of Research and Investigation in Healthcare" as part of a correspondence course designed by the University of Alcalá with backing from the University of Antioquía in Colombia. The pain which occurs as a response to an intravenous injection of Propofol is one of the main obstacles to its use as an anesthetic. The wide range of uses of propofol increases the desire to minimize this inconvenience. This study compares the occurrences of pain and the injection of propofol in three groups: the first group was administered propofol without any additives; the second group was administered propofol along with 20 mg of lidocaine; the third group had 40 mg of lidocaine added to the calculated doses of propofol. This study concluded that the addition of lidocaine significantly reduced the pain felt in the circulatory tract selected for the injection of propofol. Administering 20 or 40 mg of lidocaine did not produce any differences in the analgesic effect of this anesthetic.
Phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K) signaling is constitutive in most human cancers. Selective inhibition of PI3Kδ (p110δ) by GS-1101 has emerged as a promising therapy in chronic lymphocytic leukemia and indolent lymphomas. In aggressive non-Hodgkin lymphomas such as mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), however, efficacy has been observed, but the extent and duration of tumor control is modest. To determine if tumor killing by GS-1101 is cell cycle-dependent, we show in primary MCL cells by whole-transcriptome sequencing that, despite aberrant expression and recurrent mutations in Cyclin D1, mutations are rare in coding regions of CDK4, RB1 and other genes that control G1-S cell cycle progression or PI3K/AKT signaling. PI3Kδ is the predominant PI3K catalytic subunit expressed, and inhibition by GS-1101 transiently inhibits AKT phosphorylation but not proliferation in MCL cells. Induction of prolonged early G1-arrest (pG1) by selective inhibition of CDK4/CDK6 with PD 0332991 amplifies and sustains PI3Kδ inhibition, which leads to robust apoptosis. Accordingly, inhibition of PI3Kδ induces apoptosis of primary MCL tumor cells once they have ceased to cycle ex vivo, and this killing is enhanced by PD 0332991 inhibition of CDK4/CDK6. PIK3IP1, a negative PI3K regulator, appears to mediate pG1 sensitization to PI3K inhibition; it is markedly reduced in MCL tumor cells compared with normal peripheral B cells, profoundly induced in pG1 and required for pG1 sensitization to GS-1101. Thus, the magnitude and duration of PI3K inhibition and tumor killing by GS-1101 is pG1-dependent, suggesting induction of pG1 by CDK4/CDK6 inhibition as a strategy to sensitize proliferating lymphoma cells to PI3K inhibition.
Isolated visceral angioedema is an extremely rare complication of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs). We report the first known case of ACEI-associated visceral angioedema occurring in a liver transplant recipient who presented with acute-onset abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, radiologic findings of small bowel edema, and ascites. Heightened awareness of the phenomenon of isolated ACEI-associated visceral angioedema is necessary given the increasing use of these medications for treating hypertension related to calcineurin inhibitors and the need to avoid unnecessary surgical or diagnostic interventions in solid-organ transplant recipients.
To determine the efficacy of pantoprazole therapy for daytime somnolence, psychomotor vigilance, and quality of life in patients with mild-moderate obstructive sleep disordered breathing (OSDB) and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD).
Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover trial.
Sixty patients with daytime sleepiness, mild-moderate OSDB and GERD were randomly assigned a 2-week treatment with pantoprazole 40 mg or placebo followed by a 2-week washout period and crossover respectively to 2-week treatment with placebo or pantoprazole. Outcomes included Epworth Sleepiness Score (ESS), sleep-related quality-of-life (FOSQ), and reaction time.
With pantoprazole, patients reported statistically significantly greater improvement of overall reflux symptoms (P = 0.0003) and in ESS (P = 0.04). A significant improvement was noted in FOSQ for both treatments with a trend toward greater improvement with pantoprazole (P = 0.058). No improvement in reaction times was observed.
Patients with coexistent GERD and OSDB noted significant improvement in daytime sleepiness after treatment with pantoprazole over placebo likely related to a reduction in nocturnal reflux-related arousals.
We studied the efficacy of valsartan (Val) to slow cardiovascular disease progression in asymptomatic high-risk prehypertensive or hypertensive patients with blood pressure (BP) controlled to <140/90 mm Hg and with evidence for functional or structural alterations in the cardiovascular system.
Identifying individuals with early markers for cardiovascular disease raises the possibility for pharmacotherapy to slow progression and delay or prevent future morbid events.
Seventy-six subjects with a Rasmussen Disease Score (RDS) of 6 or higher were randomized double-blind to receive placebo (Plac) or Val 160 mg once daily for 6 months followed by 6 months of single-blind Val in both groups. A panel of 10 tests, including large and small artery elasticity, resting and treadmill exercise BP, carotid intimal-media thickness, retinal vascular photography, micro-albuminuria, electrocardiography, echocardiography, and plasma B-type natriuretic peptide, was performed at baseline and after 6 and 12 months of treatment. Each test result was scored as normal (0), borderline (1), or abnormal (2), and the total RDS was calculated by adding all the scores of the individual tests.
Valsartan significantly reduced the RDS after 6 months versus Plac (p < 0.03) and at 12 months (either 12 or 6 months of Val, p < 0.0001). The major contribution in risk score reduction was due to an increase in small artery elasticity and a decrease in BP, and after 12 months there was a reduction in left ventricular mass index (p < 0.03).
Valsartan can slow progression and/or reverse early cardiovascular disease in asymptomatic high-risk patients with prehypertension or BP controlled to <140/90 mm Hg.
The narcoleptic syndrome is a life-long and sometimes familial disorder in which there is a disturbance of the rapid eye movement phase of sleep. Patients with periodic sleep in the daytime but no other symptoms seldom develop the narcoleptic syndrome and have a separate unrelated disorder. Twelve patients with the narcoleptic syndrome were treated separately with l(-) amphetamine and d(+) amphetamine. Both drugs abolished narcolepsy, d(+) amphetamine being slightly more potent than l(-) amphetamine. In equipotent doses, unwanted effects of nervousness and insomnia were equal in frequency. No tolerance to either preparation developed during a six month period. Cataplexy was not affected by amphetamine treatment, but was abolished in two patients when clomipramine was given together with either amphetamine.
A 52-year-old female patient is reported in whom after taking of about 20 g Clioquinol blindness and paralysis of extremities with urinary incontinence developed. Complete cure ensued.
Several studies have demonstrated that the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist MK-801 attenuates the development of morphine tolerance and withdrawal. These studies employed repeated morphine injections to induce tolerance, a procedure in which learning has been suggested to play a significant role in tolerance development. MK-801 has been reported to block some types of learning, and it is unclear, therefore, whether the effect of MK-801 on tolerance development is due to its antagonism of associative (learning) or non-associative factors. Moreover, previous studies have tested the effects of MK-801 on morphine tolerance only up to 48 h after its induction; yet morphine tolerance can persist for many months, and it is not known whether MK-801 can block long-lasting tolerance. In the present study, therefore, we adopted a model of morphine tolerance in which the involvement of learning is minimized by using a single injection of morphine in a sustained-release preparation, and we tested tolerance for up to 56 days. In the first experiment, simultaneously administering MK-801 (0.2 mg/kg, s.c.) and morphine (60 mg/kg, s.c.), each in a sustained-release preparation, abolished tolerance that lasted at least 12 days. Analgesia was measured in the hot-plate test following a test dose of morphine (15 mg/kg, i.p.). In the second experiment, delivering MK-801 and morphine as before, the duration of morphine-induced catalepsy and analgesia was prolonged. Nevertheless, 24 h later one symptom of naloxone-precipitated withdrawal was significantly attenuated in these same animals.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Regulation of the VEGF-VEGF receptor system was examined in the urinary bladder after acute (2-48 h) and chronic (10 days) cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis. ELISAs demonstrated significant (P < or = 0.01) upregulation of VEGF in whole urinary bladder with acute and chronic CYP-induced cystitis; however, the magnitude of increase was greater after acute (2-4 h) cystitis. Immunohistochemistry for VEGF immunoreactivity revealed a significant (P < or = 0.05) increase in VEGF immunoreactivity in the urothelium, suburothelial vasculature, and detrusor smooth muscle with acute (4 and 48 h) CYP treatment. RT-PCR identified the isoform VEGF-164, the VEGF receptor VEGFR-2, and the VEGF co-receptors neuropilin (Npn)-1 and Npn-2 in the urinary bladder. Quantitative PCR demonstrated upregulation of VEGF-164 transcript with acute and chronic CYP-induced cystitis, but VEGFR-2, Npn-1, and Npn-2 transcripts were upregulated (P < or = 0.01) in whole bladder only with chronic CYP-induced cystitis. Additional studies demonstrated regulation of VEGF transcript expression in the urinary bladder by nerve growth factor (NGF) in a novel line of NGF-overexpressing mice. These studies demonstrated that urinary bladder inflammation and NGF regulate the VEGF-VEGF receptor system in the urinary bladder. Functional role(s) for the VEGF-VEGF receptor system in urinary bladder inflammation remain to be determined.
Cocaine abuse has been associated with a variety of intracranial haemorrhagic disorders, such as intracerebral, subdural or subarachnoidal haemorrhage. Frequently, these patients harbour underlying vascular malformations, like cerebral aneurysms or arteriovenous malformations (AVM). To the best of our knowledge only two cases of tumoral haemorrhage induced by cocaine abuse have been previously reported. We describe a new case of intracerebral haemorrhage after cocaine inhalation, in which both the preoperative imaging studies and the pathological examination showed a brain tumour as the origin of the haemorrhage. We think that cocaine abuse may be considered as a new precipitating factor in intratumoral haemorrhage.
Auricular acupuncture is widely used to treat cocaine addiction in the United States and Europe. However, evidence from controlled studies regarding this treatment's effectiveness has been inconsistent.
To investigate the effectiveness of auricular acupuncture as a treatment for cocaine addiction.
Randomized, controlled, single-blind clinical trial conducted from November 1996 to April 1999.
Six community-based clinics in the United States: 3 hospital-affiliated clinics and 3 methadone maintenance programs.
Six hundred twenty cocaine-dependent adult patients (mean age, 38.8 years; 69.2% men); 412 used cocaine only and 208 used both opiates and cocaine and were receiving methadone maintenance.
Patients were randomly assigned to receive auricular acupuncture (n = 222), a needle-insertion control condition (n = 203), or a relaxation control condition (n = 195). Treatments were offered 5 times weekly for 8 weeks. Concurrent drug counseling was also offered to patients in all conditions.
Cocaine use during treatment and at the 3- and 6-month postrandomization follow-up based on urine toxicology screens; retention in treatment.
Intent-to-treat analysis of urine samples showed a significant overall reduction in cocaine use (odds ratio, 1.40; 95% confidence interval, 1.11-1.74; P =.002) but no differences by treatment condition (P =.90 for acupuncture vs both control conditions). There were also no differences between the conditions in treatment retention (44%-46% for the full 8 weeks). Counseling sessions in all 3 conditions were poorly attended.
Within the clinical context of this study, acupuncture was not more effective than a needle insertion or relaxation control in reducing cocaine use. Our study does not support the use of acupuncture as a stand-alone treatment for cocaine addiction or in contexts in which patients receive only minimal concurrent psychosocial treatment. Research will be needed to examine acupuncture's contribution to addiction treatment when provided in an ancillary role.
Diffuse hemangiomatosis of the liver became apparent in a 22-year-old woman while she was receiving medication with metoclopramide and experiencing the well-known adverse effect of the drug, hyperprolactinemia with secondary amenorrhea and galactorrhea. The hemangiomatosis was demonstrated by ultrasonography, computerized tomography, arteriography, and laparotomy with biopsy. When arteriovenous shunting became life-threatening and severe abdominal pain and cholestasis developed, the patient's name was placed on the waiting list for liver transplantation. However, after stopping the medication with metoclopramide, abdominal pain disappeared, cholestasis decreased, and the arteriovenous shunts in the liver closed completely. This course of disease represents either a spontaneous or a drug-induced activation and regression of hepatic hemangiomatosis. However, the long-term metoclopramide medication indicates a potential role of this drug in the promotion of hepatic angiogenesis. Hepatic angiomatosis in the adult seems to be neither a static nor a steadily progressive disorder but a process with active and regressive phases probably induced by a transient imbalance of angiogenic and angiostatic factors. Such a course should be kept in mind when major surgery or liver transplantation for hepatic hemangiomatosis is planned. It seems prudent to obtain a thorough drug history of all patients with hepatic hemangiomatosis. Whether hepatic hemangiomatosis can be drug induced or not, further investigation of the factors involved in hepatic angiogenesis is warranted.
Prolonged administration of isoniazid, protionamide and rifampicin to white rats is accompanied by marked depression of myocardial contractile function determined by the distress of membranous mechanisms of calcium transport because of excessive activation of lipid peroxidation in cardiomyocyte biomembranes. Administration of ionol coupled with antituberculous drugs prevents their cardiotoxic effects.
A pharmacodynamic study was run in 12 healthy volunteers (4 male, 8 female, mean age 33.3 years, mean body-weight 60.8 kg) to demonstrate a dose- and time-effectiveness dependency for a beta 2-mimetic drug (clenbuterol, Spiropent) versus salbutamol and placebo as reference. A newly developed 3-dimensional tremormeter was introduced in this randomised double-blind/6-way/cross-over study. The shape of the induced tremor effects (in amplitude) as well as the pulse frequency reflected highly significant dose relationships. Drug effects started 30 min after intake and lasted longer than 600 min. 10 micrograms of clenbuterol revealed no significant differences when compared to placebo, whereas the 20 micrograms dosage as usually administered in clinical routine demonstrated significant--but only slight--differences to placebo-baseline. All other dosages and the reference (salbutamol, 8 mg) could be discriminated distinctly against placebo.
Seizures in persons using dietary supplements (DS) have been reported through the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) MedWatch system, but not formally reviewed.
Sixty-five cases of DS-associated seizures reported to MedWatch from 1993 to 1999 were obtained through the Freedom of Information Act and independently evaluated by three reviewers for probability of causation based on temporal relationship, biological plausibility, and underlying risk factors. Our aims in this review were 1) to assess the probability of causation in each case; 2) to characterize the patterns of use and types of supplements involved in cases of seizures; and 3) to identify trends that may explain potential risks factors for dietary supplement-related seizures.
Twenty seizures were judged as probably related, 13 possibly related, and 10 as unrelated to DS use. Five cases were not seizures, and 17 cases contained insufficient information. In the 20 probably related cases, 19 involved ephedra, 14 involved herbal caffeine, and in one case, the supplement contained no herbal constituents but an array of elemental salts. Ephedra was also associated with 7 of the 13 possibly related cases, and caffeine was contained in 5 of these supplement products. Creatine, St. John's wort, and ginkgo biloba were other DS implicated in possibly related seizure events. Seizures were associated with hypoglycemia in 3 cases, and secondary to stroke in 2 cases and cardiac arrest in 2 cases. Weight loss (45%) and athletic performance enhancement (30%) were the most often cited reasons for supplement use. In most cases, DS use was within manufacturers' guidelines.
Ephedra was implicated in 27 of 33 DS-associated seizures reported to the FDA over a 7-year period, further underscoring that significant health risks are associated with use of this herbal product.
Zerumbone (ZER), a monosesquiterpene found in the subtropical ginger (Zingiber zerumbet Smith), possesses antiproliferative properties to several cancer cells lines, including the cervical, skin and colon cancers. In this study, the antitumourigenic effects of ZER were assessed in rats induced to develop liver cancer with a single intraperitoneal injection of diethylnitrosamine (DEN, 200 mg/kg) and dietary 2-acetylaminofluorene (AAF) (0.02%). The rats also received intraperitoneal ZER injections at 15, 30 or 60 mg/kg body wt. twice a week for 11 weeks, beginning week four post-DEN injection. The hepatocytes of positive control (DEN/AAF) rats were smaller with larger hyperchromatic nuclei than normal, showing cytoplasmic granulation and intracytoplasmic violaceous material, which were characteristics of hepatocarcinogenesis. Histopathological evaluations showed that ZER protects the rat liver from the carcinogenic effects of DEN and AAF. Serum alanine transaminase (ALT), aspartate transaminase (AST), alkaline phosphatase (AP) and alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) were significantly lower (P<0.05) in ZER-treated than untreated rats with liver cancer. The liver malondialdehyde (MDA) concentrations significantly (P<0.05) increased in the untreated DEN/AAF rats indicating hepatic lipid peroxidation. There was also significant (P<0.05) reduction in the hepatic tissue glutathione (GSH) concentrations. The liver sections of untreated DEN/AAF rats also showed abundant proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), while in ZER-treated rats the expression of this antigen was significantly (P<0.05) lowered. By the TUNEL assay, there were significantly (P<0.05) higher numbers of apoptotic cells in DEN/AAF rats treated with ZER than those untreated. Zerumbone treatment had also increased Bax and decreased Bcl-2 protein expression in the livers of DEN/AAF rats, which suggested increased apoptosis. Even after 11 weeks of ZER treatment, there was no evidence of abnormality in the liver of normal rats. This study suggests that ZER reduces oxidative stress, inhibits proliferation, induces mitochondria-regulated apoptosis, thus minimising DEN/AAF-induced carcinogenesis in rat liver. Therefore, ZER has great potential in the treatment of liver cancers.
Renal insufficiency is less common than liver failure in acetaminophen overdose but renal tubular damage occurs even in the absence of hepatotoxicity. Data published on this topic are rare consisting mostly of case reports or reports in a small number of patients. Presently, a larger number of patients with renal insufficiency associated with acetaminophen overdose should be analyzed using a multicenter approach.
Retrospective analysis of patients with acetaminophen-related nephrotoxicity reported to a poison center network from 1995 to 2003. Renal insufficiency was defined as elevated serum creatinine of more than double of the normal range (>2.4 mg/dL [212 micromol/L]). Patients were classified into 4 groups (A: creatinine 2.4-5.0 mg/dL, B: creatinine>5.0 mg/dL requiring no dialysis, C: creatinine>5.0 mg/dL requiring dialysis, D: creatinine>5.0 mg/dL with fatal outcome).
Seventeen patients were included (8 female, 9 male, average age 31.7 +/- 21.1 yrs) with 6 patients in group A (B: 7, C: 2, D: 2). In 5 patients renal insufficiency occurred without elevation of liver enzymes. Regarding possible risk factors 5 patients concomitantly ingested nephrotoxic substances, 4 presented with dehydration due to vomiting, 4 with chronic excessive dosing (overdose) of acetaminophen, 3 showed pre-existing renal insufficiency, 2 pre-existing liver disease and 2 died with multiple organ failure.
Renal insufficiency in acetaminophen overdose mostly resolved without dialysis and occurred isolated without hepatotoxicity in less than one-third of the investigated patients. Conditions which might play a role as influencing factors for renal complications included concomitant ingestion of nephrotoxic drugs, dehydration, chronic excessive dosing (overdose) of acetaminophen, pre-existing renal or liver disease and multiple organ failure. Renal function should be monitored in acetaminophen overdose particularly in patients showing the latter comorbidity.
Glutathione (GSH) is the major non-protein thiol in cells that plays a critical role against damage from electrophilic agents such as alkylating drugs. Selective therapeutic GSH elevation in normal but not in tumour cells has been suggested as a means of protecting host tissues against more intense doses of chemotherapy. The present study investigated the response of B16 melanoma to treatment with the cysteine pro-drug L-2-oxothiazolidine-4-carboxylate (OTZ), alone and in combination with cyclophosphamide (CY). We found that OTZ decreased the GSH levels and proliferation rate of B16 melanoma cells in vitro, sensitizing them to the cytotoxic action of the activated metabolite of CY, acrolein (AC). In contrast to OTZ, the cysteine deliverer N-acetylcysteine (NAC) enhanced B16 melanoma cell proliferation by increasing GSH levels, and markedly decreased the sensitivity of these tumour cells to AC. In vivo studies showed the antitumoral activity of OTZ in B16 melanoma liver metastasis-induced mice, increasing their life span. We also observed that, whereas with CY treatment the GSH levels in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were reduced and a dose-dependent leukopenia was produced, OTZ significantly increased PBMC GSH content, reducing toxicity and enhancing the survival of mice bearing established melanoma liver metastases treated with lethal dose CY. These results suggest a critical role for OTZ in protecting against alkylator agent-induced immunosuppression, which may allow the dose escalation of these cytostatic drugs to improve their therapeutic benefit in the treatment of malignant melanoma.
