Oral prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) is now widely used in conjunction with amniotomy for induction of labor, especially in the parous patient and the primigravida with a favorable cervix. It has been highly successful and the oral tablets now on trial seem to have a low incidence of side effects. The main concern in using a swallowed drink or a tablet was the possible development of uterine hyperstimulation after the longacting dose of uterine stimulant had been given. However, only a few cases have been reported with a wide variety of regimens of PGE2; thus this complication seems rare except with higher intravenous doses. The following case is reported wherein severe uterine hypertonus after induction of labor with low-dose oral PGE2 tablets developed. A 32 year old woman, para 2 had had 2 previous spontaneous vertex deliveries of healthy infants weighing 7 pounds (3.2 kg) and 8 pounds 4 ounces (3.6 kg), after 7 hours and 5 hours of labor. The pregnancy had been uneventful and induction of labor was carried to term plus 9 days by low amniotomy and oral PGE2. The cervix was given an inducibility rating of 6. Within the 1st hour a high baseline intraamniotic pressure was noted (up to 30 mmHg) but this fell spontaneously to under 15 mm. The 4th hourly dose was omitted since the patient was in very good labor and a rise in baseline pressure to 25 mm had again occurred with 80 mm contractions every 2 minutes. 80 minutes after the 3rd dose the patient began to have increasing abdominal pain and prolonged contractions. An intraamniotic baseline pressure showed a rise to over 60 mm for periods of 4, 4, 8, and 10 minutes, with only brief falls to 30 mm in between. The patient was in continuous severe pain unrelieved by 50 mg intravenous pethidine and nursing on her side. The fetal heart fell progressively from a baseline of 125/minute to 60 just prior to delivery. The cervical dilatation was only 5 cm with the vertex 1 cm above the ischial spines 20 minutes before delivery. Labor was clearly progressing rapidly. When the head had entered the pelvic region, preparations were made to expedite delivery with the ventouse, but full dilatation was reached quickly and delivery was achieved with Haig Ferguson forceps. A healthy male child weighing 7 pounds, 4 ounces (3.3 kg) was delivered with an Apgar of 5 but he rapidly responded to simple resuscitation with mucus extraction and oxygen. In spite of the total low dose of PG and the rarity of significant hypertonus reported with PGs, it is clear that the severe hypertonus was due to PG stimulation. It is also unusual since the condition occurred long after the last PG administration. In such a severe case, it might be wise to consider a rapid intravenous infusion of ethyl alcohol.
To investigate the dynamic expression of placenta growth factor (PLGF) in the lungs with paraquat (PQ)-induced pulmonary fibrosis.
Forty-two adult healthy female Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were randomly divided into two groups: the control group and the PQ group. Each group was divided into three subgroups, seven animals each. The rats in PQ group were treated intragastrically (ig) with PQ (40 mg/kg) and the rats in control group were treated with the same volume of saline at the beginning of the experiment. The animals of model and control group were sacrificed and lungs were harvested on the 7(th), 14(th) and 28th days respectively. A semiquantitative assay of histological examination and hydroxyproline in lung tissues were used to determine the severity of alveolitis and fibrosis. RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry were used to detect the mRNA and protein expression of PLGF.
Hydroxyproline contents in lung tissue were significantly increased after PQ administration. Inflammatory cell infiltration and fibrotic scores were more prominent in the model group compared to the control group. Further study showed that PLGF mRNA on day 7, 14 and 28 (1.28 +/- 0.29, 0.80 +/- 0.07, 0.65 +/- 0.13) and positive index of protein expression (2.27 +/- 0.34, 1.78 +/- 0.41, 1.25 +/- 0.69) in the PQ group were all upregulated as compared with those of the control group.
The PLGF expression in the lung tissue in rats with paraquat-induced pulmonary fibrosis is upregulated.
To evaluate the protective effect of high dose ambroxol, a mucoactive drug, on acute lung injury caused by paraquat in rats.
One hundred and thirty-six healthy male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into three groups: control group (n = 24) injected with normal saline intraperitoneally, PQ group (n = 56) [(2% paraquat (25 mg/kg) injected into peritoneal cavity on the first day)] and AT group (n = 56) ambroxol 35 mg/kg was injected into peritoneum daily after paraquat intoxication once daily for 7 consecutive days. The arterial gas was determined and the extent of lung injury was assessed by measuring the ratio of wet to dry weight (W/D) and protein content in BALF, the WBC count, the percentage of PMN, the content of malondialdehyde (MDA) and the levels of superoxide dismutase (SOD) in the blood and BALF respectively. Left lung tissue was observed through both light microscope and electron microscope (TEM).
The white cell count and the content of protein in the blood and the BALF of PQ group were significantly higher than those of the control group (P < 0.05 or P < 0.01). On the 7th day, the content of MDA 9 [(8.12 +/- 1.12) nmol/ml] in the serum of PQ group was significantly higher than the control group and the GSH-Px activity [(1256.8 +/- 133.2) U/ml] was significantly lower than the control group (P < 0.01). The white cell count and the content of protein in the blood and the BALF of AT group were significantly lower than the PQ group (P < 0.05 or P < 0.01). On the 7th day, the content of MDA in the serum of the AT group [(4.86 +/- 0.75) nmol/ml] was significantly lower than the PQ group and the GSH-Px activity [(1509.5 +/- 183.0) U/ml] and the SOD activity [(3903.2 +/- 374.7) U/ml] were significantly higher than the PQ group (P < 0.01). Under optical and electronic microscopes, the injury of lung tissue was reduced after large dose of ambroxol was administered.
Treatment with ambroxol (35 mg/kg) could influence the status of oxidative stress in lung and alleviate lung injury induced by paraquat. Ambroxol has obviously therapeutic effect on paraquat poisoning.
A 22-year-old female with a history of developmental delay and seizures successfully treated with carbamazepine and levetiracetam developed fulminant hepatic failure and subsequently died. She had been admitted to the hospital following secondary generalized seizures of 35 min duration. A circulatory shock as well as intoxication was taken into consideration during the clinical course. Autopsy failed to reveal a macroscopically discernible cause of death. Significant findings on microscopic examination included acute tubular necrosis in the kidneys, pre-existing marked accumulation of neutral lipid within the hepatocytes as well as hyperacute liver damage with evidence of almost complete hepatocyte necrosis. Carbamazepine and levetiracetam were simultaneously determined from blood and tissues such as liver, lungs, muscle and kidneys by LC-MS/MS following addition of lamotrigine as an internal standard and liquid-liquid extraction. Validation data are given for levetiracetam. Both carbamazepine and levetiracetam were present in blood at concentrations within or below the therapeutic range, respectively. Moreover, tissue concentrations suggested long-term administration of anticonvulsant drugs, which is in accordance with the medical history. After excessive drug concentrations could be ruled out, the metabolic consequences of a prolonged carbamazepine therapy to cause severe hepatic injury in the present case are discussed. A mechanism of injury to the hepatocytes may be membrane damage by either an increased production of free radicals and/or a decreased free radical scavenging capacity. Following ischemia with reperfusion and during hyperthermia, large amounts of free radicals are formed. Induction of the mixed oxidase activity during longterm administration of carbamazepine may also increase production of free radicals, leaving the hepatic cell more vulnerable to oxidative injury.
Previous studies have demonstrated that the galanin system modulates responses to drugs of abuse such as morphine. The current study examined whether genetic deletion of galanin could affect the locomotor and reinforcing effects of cocaine in mice. We analyzed spontaneous motor activity and cocaine-induced hyperactivity in wild-type (GAL-WT) and knockout mice lacking galanin (GAL-KO) maintained on the 129/OlaHsd background. Our results indicate that cocaine enhanced locomotion (defined as moving more than 5 cm) dose-dependently in GAL-WT and GAL-KO mice. However, general activity (total beam breaks) was increased by cocaine only in GAL-WT mice. An additional experiment indicated that galnon, a nonselective galanin receptor agonist, did not affect cocaine-induced hyperactivity. In a second set of experiments, mice of both genotypes were trained to self-administer cocaine under a fixed ratio schedule, tested with various doses of cocaine and under different schedules of reinforcement. This set of experiments showed that cocaine self-administration did not differ markedly between genotypes. However, while GAL-WT mice acquired cocaine self-administration, a median split analysis showed that mice could be divided into large and small drug takers, whereas all GAL-KO mice behaved as small drug takers. Our results indicate that wild-type and galanin knockout mice on a congenic 129/OlaHsd background are responsive to the locomotor effects of cocaine and can acquire intravenous cocaine self-administration. However, the phenotype observed in GAL-KO mice does not support a major role for galanin in cocaine-induced hyperlocomotion and self-administration.
Serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SRI) antidepressants have been associated with sexual dysfunction, though there have been few prospective reports specifically examining this problem. The purpose of this study was to determine if three SRIs affected sexual function in patients with an anxiety disorder or major depressive disorder over a 3-month period. Sixty-one patients were evaluated for at least 2 months in a prospective study of the effects of fluoxetine, sertraline, and paroxetine on five aspects of sexual function: libido, erection/lubrication, orgasm quality, orgasm delay, and sexual frequency. Measurements were made at baseline and at each month on visual analog scales. For men and women, orgasm quality was lower and orgasm delay longer at Months 1, 2, and 3 compared with baseline (p < .001). Erection scores were lower over time (p < .02) but this change was less dramatic. Lubrication, libido, and sexual frequency were not appreciably changed over 3 months. Anorgasmia was significantly more common in women than men at Months 1 and 2. Orgasm appears to be a primary sexual function affected by SRIs.
We report two cases of massive hepatic necrosis associated with sulfasalazine. Both patients had underlying inflammatory bowel disease. One of the patients had a history of an ill-defined autoimmune disorder (Sjögren's syndrome). Symptoms and signs of a generalized hypersensitivity reaction were present in both patients. One patient died of a subarachnoid hemorrhage while awaiting transplant, the second died 2 weeks after transplant from disseminated aspergillosis. These two cases remind us of one of the potential hazards of sulfasalazine at a time when alternative therapies are now available.
Chloramphenicol is an antibiotic originally extracted from the fungus Streptomyces venezuelae, but it is now synthesized. It is a drug of choice for many of its toxicity in the blood-forming organs. The main objective of this study is to find out how to reduce the anemic effects of chloramphenicol and to increase its therapeutic efficacy using amino acid. In albino-rats infected with Salmonella typhi the results indicate that the rats became anemic after treatment with chloramphenicol. They also show that the combined treatment of chloramphenicol with amino acid yielded positive results in the management of anemia caused by chloramphenicol.
ATP2C1 is a calcium/manganese-ATPase localized in the Golgi apparatus and known as responsible gene for Hailey-Hailey disease. But its localization and roles in the epidermis are not fully elucidated.
To explore the localization and biological role of ATP2C1 in normal epidermis in terms of differentiation states.
We examined the immunohistochemical distribution of ATP2C1 in normal epidermis and measured the expression of ATP2C1 in cultured keratinocytes following forced detachment from culture dish or following treatment with high concentrations of calcium. Furthermore, we knockdown ATP2C1 expression in cultured keratinocytes by using RNA interference procedure to abrogate cation accumulation in cell organelles.
ATP2C1 is specifically localized at the basal cell layer in normal epidermis. Neither detachment of keratinocyte from culture dish nor treatment with high concentrations of calcium suppressed ATP2C1 expression, while both procedures induced differentiation markers, K10 keratin and involucrin. In contrast, knockdown of ATP2C1 induced these differentiation markers of cultured keratinocytes. Furthermore, treatment of keratinocytes with a calcium ionophore, A23187, did not up-regulate differentiation markers of keratinocytes, while a more manganese selective ionophore Br-A23187 up-regulated these differentiation markers.
Our results suggest that ATP2C1 plays an essential role for basal keratinocytes to keep in the undifferentiated state and that its reduction evokes differentiation and up-localization to suprabasal layers most likely via the manganese starvation in the Golgi apparatus of keratinocytes.
A woman developed peripheral neuropathy and optic neuritis while receiving ethambutol in the retreatment of drug-resistant pulmonary tuberculosis. There was prompt improvement in peripheral neuropathy and the ocular symptoms following the withdrawal of the drug. The clinical events in this case suggest that occasionally symptoms of peripheral neuropathy may precede the development of optic neuritis by several months, and thus serve as a warning for the subsequent development of the more serious visual toxicity.
Dapsone has been used in various dermatological disorders and in leprosy. One of the main side effects of dapsone therapy is anemia, mostly hemolytic. We aimed at finding the effect of dapsone therapy on serum haptoglobin levels which could be an indirect evidence for intravascular hemolysis, supported by secondary investigations such as liver functions (serum lactic dehydrogenase, alkaline phosphatase, bilirubin), blood hemoglobin levels, urinary excretion of urobilinogen, and erythrocytes. As in other infectious conditions, haptoglobins were raised in untreated lepromatous cases, compared to controls (p less than 0.05). Dapsone treatment of 100 mg daily for 14 days brought down the haptoglobin level significantly as compared to the untreated cases and the controls (p less than 0.05). An elevated alkaline phosphatase and lactate dehydrogenase indicate some liver dysfunction following dapsone therapy. A significant drop in blood hemoglobin level and a concomitant increase in serum bilirubin, urinary excretion of urobilinogen, and a significant fall in the serum hemoglobin binding capacity (haptoglobin level) following treatment with dapsone are quite suggestive of mild intravascular hemolysis.
A 23-year-old man had eight cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy including doxorubicin, cisplatin, methotrexate, and ifosfamide and radical surgery for biopsy-proved osteosarcoma of the right fibular shaft. Two years after the initial diagnosis, he noticed a mass in the medial aspect of his right knee. Magnetic resonance imaging scans revealed a soft tissue tumor measuring 2 x 2 cm in the pericapsular region of the right knee. Histologically, this soft tissue tumor was composed of spindle cells with occasional atypical mitoses and without matrix formation. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells were positive for vimentin, cytokeratin, and epithelial membrane antigen, and negative for alpha smooth muscle actin. A fusion gene, SYT-SSX was detected with reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. From the results, the secondary tumor was diagnosed as a synovial sarcoma. The current case of double sarcomas is rare. Both sarcomas were diagnosed accurately using immunohistochemical and molecular procedures. This case suggests a positive association between a second tumor and chemotherapy including intraarterial perfusion of doxorubicin.
Sprague Dawley rats, pretreated with nine daily injections of 20 mg/Kg cocaine or saline, were evaluated for aspects of their behavioral response to apomorphine, haloperidol, or cocaine, twenty-four hours after their last pretreatment injection. Data obtained from saline and cocaine pretreated animals indicated that: cocaine pretreated rats were more sensitive to haloperidol-induced catalepsy, less responsive to some of the stereotypic effects of apomorphine and similar in their responses to the anticataleptic properties of cocaine.
It was reported that there was a case of severe malaria patient with jaundice who presented with arrhythmia (premature ventricular contraction) while getting quinine infusion was reported. A man, 25 years old, was admitted to hospital with high fever, chill, vomiting, jaundice. The patient was fully conscious, blood pressure 120/80 mmHg, pulse rate 100 x/minute, regular. On admission, laboratory examination showed Plasmodium falciparum (++++), total bilirubin 8.25 mg/dL, conjugated bilirubin 4.36 mg/dL, unconjugated bilirubin 3.89 mg/dL, potassium 3.52 meq/L Patient was diagnosed as severe malaria with jaundice and got quinine infusion in dextrose 5% 500 mg/8 hour. On the second day the patient had vomitus, diarrhea, tinnitus, loss of hearing. After 30 hours of quinine infusion the patient felt palpitation and electrocardiography (ECG) recording showed premature ventricular contraction (PVC) > 5 x/minute, trigemini, constant type--sinoatrial block, positive U wave. He was treated with lidocaine 50 mg intravenously followed by infusion 1500 mg in dextrose 5%/24 hour and potassium aspartate tablet. Quinine infusion was discontinued and changed with sulfate quinine tablets. Three hours later the patient felt better, the frequency of PVC reduced to 4 - 5 x/minute and on the third day ECG was normal, potassium level was 3.34 meq/L. He was discharged on 7th day in good condition. Quinine, like quinidine, is a chincona alkaloid that has anti-arrhythmic property, although it also pro-arrhythmic that can cause various arrhythmias, including severe arrhythmia such as multiple PVC. Administration of parenteral quinine must be done carefully and with good observation because of its pro-arrhythmic effect, especially in older patients who have heart diseases or patients with electrolyte disorder (hypokalemia) which frequently occurs due to vomiting and or diarrhea in malaria cases.
Use of tamoxifen is associated with a 50% reduction in breast cancer incidence and an increase in endometrial cancer incidence. Here, we documented tamoxifen-induced gene expression changes in cultured normal human mammary epithelial cells (strains 5, 16, and 40), established from tissue taken at reduction mammoplasty from three individuals. Cells exposed to 0, 10, or 50 micromol/L of tamoxifen for 48 hours were evaluated for (E)-alpha-(deoxyguanosine-N(2)-yl)-tamoxifen (dG-N(2)-TAM) adduct formation using TAM-DNA (DNA modified with dG-N(2)-TAM) chemiluminescence immunoassay, gene expression changes using National Cancer Institute DNA-oligonucleotide microarray, and real-time PCR. At 48 hours, cells exposed to 10 and 50 micromol/L of tamoxifen were 85.6% and 48.4% viable, respectively, and there were no measurable dG-N(2)-TAM adducts. For microarrays, cells were exposed to 10 micromol/L of tamoxifen and genes with expression changes of >3-fold were as follows: 13 genes up-regulated and 1 down-regulated for strain 16; 17 genes up-regulated for strain 5, and 11 genes up-regulated for strain 40. Interferon-inducible genes (IFITM1, IFIT1, MXI, and GIP3), and a potassium ion channel (KCNJ1) were up-regulated in all three strains. No significant expression changes were found for genes related to estrogen or xenobiotic metabolism. Real-time PCR revealed the up-regulation of IFNA1 and confirmed the tamoxifen-induced up-regulation of the five other genes identified by microarray, with the exception of GIP3 and MX1, which were not up-regulated in strain 40. Induction of IFN-related genes in the three normal human mammary epithelial cell strains suggests that, in addition to hormonal effects, tamoxifen exposure may enhance immune response in normal breast tissue.
The tetracyclines are a group of widely used antibiotics that have been incriminated in causing adverse hematologic problems, including hemolytic anemia. This paper presents the third documented case of acquired hemolytic anemia and the first case of nonimmune-mediated hemolysis resulting from tetracycline hydrochloride. A review of the literature reveals the infrequency with which these side effects occur with the use of these agents.
Although erythropoietin (Epo) is a known stimulator of erythropoiesis, recent evidence suggests that its biological functions are not confined to hematopoietic cells. To elucidate the role of Epo and erythropoietin receptor (EpoR) in melanoma, we examined the expression and function of these proteins in melanocytes and melanoma cells. We found increased expression of Epo in melanoma cells compared to melanocyte in vitro. EpoR was also strongly expressed in all of the melanoma cell lines and two of the three melanocyte cell lines examined. Epo expression was significantly higher in melanoma than in benign nevi as determined by immunohistochemistry. Although melanoma cells secreted Epo in normoxic condition in vitro, hypoxia and CoCl(2) treatment increased Epo secretion. EpoR in melanoma cells was functional, because exogenous Epo increased melanoma resistance to hypoxic stress, pretreatment of melanoma cells with Epo significantly increased resistance to dacarbazine treatment, and Epo increased the phosphorylation of EpoR, RAF, and MEK. In conclusion, we demonstrated constitutive expression of Epo and EpoR as well as autonomous secretion of Epo by melanoma cells, indicating a novel autocrine loop of Epo in melanoma. The results suggest that the autocrine and paracrine functions of Epo might play a role in malignant transformation of melanocytes and in the survival of melanoma cells in hypoxia and other adverse conditions.
An extrahepatic human neutrophil collagenase complementary DNA (matrix metalloprotease-8) cloned in an adenovirus vector was used as a therapeutic agent in cirrhosis.
A high titer of clinical-grade AdMMP8 was obtained.
HeLa cells transduced with AdMMP8 expressed recombinant matrix metalloprotease-8 messenger RNA and matrix metalloprotease-8 protein. Matrix metalloprotease-8 in culture sups showed enzymatic activity against native collagen type I, which was inhibited by ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, 1,10-phenanthroline, and tissue inhibitor of metalloprotease-1. In vivo transduction showed matrix metalloprotease-8 activity, and studies to establish the efficacy of this characterized vector were performed in CCl(4) and bile duct-ligated cirrhotic rats. Transduction with 3 x 10(11) viral particles per kilogram resulted in hepatic detection of both messenger RNA and protein matrix metalloprotease-8. A consistent response in fibrosis reversal was observed in CCl(4) rats. Liver fibrosis in bile duct-ligated cirrhotic animals was decreased in 45%, along with diminished hydroxyproline content, after AdMMP8 treatment. The expression of matrix metalloprotease-2 and matrix metalloprotease-3 was up-regulated in AdMMP8 rats. Free tissue inhibitor of metalloprotease-1, as an indirect measurement of active uncomplexed matrix metalloproteases, was also increased in the AdMMP8 groups. Transforming growth factor-beta messenger RNA was diminished, and matrix metalloprotease-9 and hepatocyte growth factor increased. Treatment in both models correlated with improvements in ascites, functional hepatic tests, and gastric varices, indicating diminished intrahepatic blood pressure in animals injected with AdMMP8.
Therefore, therapy with the matrix metalloprotease-8 gene is promising for use in a clinical setting.
Trismus, or masseter hypertonia, that results from the use of succinylcholine during induction of anesthesia is a rare and dangerous phenomenon. It presents to the anesthesiologist the immediate problem of airway management but it also must be recognized by the physician as a harbinger of malignant hyperthermia. We report a case of induction trismus and discuss its association with malignant hyperthermia. The pathophysiology, diagnosis and treatment of malignant hyperthermia are reviewed.
Aggregation and fibrillization of the alpha-synuclein protein (encoded by the SNCA gene) may represent key events in the pathogenesis of Parkinson disease (PD). Variability in the length of a dinucleotide repeat sequence (REP1) within the SNCA promoter confers susceptibility to sporadic PD. Pesticide exposures may also confer susceptibility to PD. Our objective was to test possible joint effects of SNCA REP1 genotypes and pesticide exposures on the risk of PD.
This was a case-control study. Cases were recruited prospectively from the Department of Neurology of the Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, after June 1, 1996. The control subjects included unaffected siblings of cases and unrelated population control subjects. We assessed pesticide exposures by telephone interview and genotyped SNCA REP1. Odds ratios (ORs) and 95% CIs were determined using conditional logistic regression models.
There were 833 case-control pairs. We observed an increased risk of PD with increasing SNCA REP1 bp length (OR, 1.18 for each score unit; 95% CI, 1.02-1.37; p = 0.03). Pesticide exposures were associated with PD in younger subjects only (lowest quartile of age at study, <or=59.8 years; OR, 1.80; 95% CI, 1.12-2.87; p = 0.01 for all pesticides; OR, 2.46; 95% CI, 1.34-4.52; p = 0.004 for herbicides). In multivariate analyses, both SNCA REP1 score and pesticide exposures were significantly associated with PD in younger subjects, but there were no pairwise interactions.
Our findings suggest that SNCA REP1 genotype and herbicides have independent effects on risk of Parkinson disease, primarily in younger subjects.
Visceral leishmaniasis is a tropical disease caused by Leishmania donovani, an obligate intracellular parasite. Host cells of these parasites are macrophages. The conventional therapy of visceral leishmaniasis uses pentavalent antimony (Pentostam). To minimize the undesired side effects of antimony and to possibly reduce the therapeutical dose of antimony it was combined with interferon gamma (IFN gamma) and encapsulated both in multilamellar vesicles for treatment of murine visceral leishmaniasis. Using liposomes composed of one synthetic phospholipid and applying the freeze-thawing technique an encapsulation rate of about 30-70% of the offered antimony concentration was obtained. In the case of IFN gamma an entrapment of 20-30% was reached. Thus these liposomes were used to perform experiments in order to achieve pharmacological data about organ distribution of the encapsulated vs. free drug. For this purpose defined amounts of antimony were injected i.v. in B 10D2/n mice. At several time-points mice were sacrificed and lung, spleen, liver, kidneys and blood samples were assessed for antimony concentration. The results presented evidence that liposomal drugs were enriched in spleen and liver, organs mainly affected by visceral leishmaniasis. It has been shown previously that liposomes are phagocytozed by macrophages, the host cells of the parasites. Therefore treatment of L. donovani infected mice with liposomal antimony and IFN-gamma resulted in a nearly complete parasite reduction, while treatment with the free drug slightly reduced the parasite burden only in the liver. The aim of these studies was to minimize the undesired side effects of antimony and to possibly reduce the necessary dosage by 1 encapsulating it into multilamellar vesicles and 2, by combining the liposomal antimony with liposomal encapsulated IFN gamma, which is known to be a potent macrophage activating agent.
We have recently reported that the endogenous mGlu2/3 agonist N-acetylaspartylglutamate (NAAG) and the N-acetylated-alpha-linked-acidic dipeptidase (NAALADase, a NAAG degradation enzyme) inhibitor 2-PMPA significantly inhibit cocaine self-administration and cocaine-induced reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior by attenuating cocaine-enhanced extracellular dopamine and glutamate in the nucleus accumbens. However, the poor oral bioavailability of NAAG and 2-PMPA limits their practical use in humans. In the present study, we investigated the effects of the orally active NAALADase inhibitor GPI-5693 and its enantiomers on cocaine-taking and cocaine-seeking behaviours. We found that oral administration of GPI-5693 (15, 30, 60 mg/kg, p.o.) did not significantly alter intravenous cocaine self-administration under fixed-ratio (FR2) reinforcement, but significantly inhibited cocaine-induced reinstatement of the extinguished drug-seeking behavior. This inhibition was blocked by pretreatment with LY341495, a selective mGlu2/3 receptor antagonist. Pretreatment with the same doses (15, 30, 60 mg/kg, p.o.) of GPI-16476 or GPI-16477, two enantiomers of GPI-5693, also inhibited cocaine-induced reinstatement similar to GPI-5693. In contrast, GPI-5693 altered neither oral sucrose self-administration nor sucrose-triggered reinstatement of sucrose-seeking behavior. These data suggest that orally effective NAAG peptidase inhibitors deserve further study as potential agents for the treatment of cocaine addiction.
Among the various nervous systems and signaling components involved in the development of morphine withdrawal symptoms, sensitization of the brain dopaminergic nervous system and an increase in the cAMP levels in the locus coeruleus are believed to be the most important cellular events. This study tested the effects of (-)-epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG), a major compound of green tea, on the development of morphine-induced withdrawal symptoms. All the naloxone-precipitated withdrawal symptoms in morphine-dependent animals were inhibited by an EGCG pretreatment in a dose-dependent manner, being forepaw tremor, rearing, teeth chattering, urination, and wet dog shake were more sensitive than jumping and ptosis. In addition, EGCG showed moderate inhibitory effects on the morphine-induced increase in the cAMP levels in the locus coeruleus at 100 mg/kg and the signaling of the dopamine D2 receptor at 100 microM. Effects of EGCG on the sequestration of D2 receptor were inconclusive. These results suggest that EGCG has strong pharmacological activity against the development of morphine dependence, which can be partly explained by its inhibitory effects on the morphine-induced increase in the cAMP levels in the locus coeruleus and the signaling of the dopamine D2 receptor.
Antibiotic therapy is of clinical benefit in certain patients with acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis (AECB). In this randomised, investigator-blinded, multicentre trial, azithromycin (500mg once a day (qd) for 3 days) was compared with moxifloxacin (400mg qd for 5 days) for the treatment of outpatients with AECB (forced expiratory volume in 1s (FEV(1)) >35%). Of 342 patients randomised to either treatment, 169 received azithromycin and 173 received moxifloxacin. The mean age in the azithromycin and moxifloxacin groups was 56.4 years and 55.5 years, respectively. In the intent-to-treat analysis, clinical success rates for azithromycin and moxifloxacin were comparable at Days 10-12 (90% versus 90%, respectively) and Days 22-26 (81% versus 82%, respectively). Among patients who were culture-positive at baseline for Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, Moraxella catarrhalis or Haemophilus parainfluenzae, clinical efficacy for azithromycin versus moxifloxacin at Days 10-12 was 93% versus 84%, respectively, and at Days 22-26 it was 89% versus 73%, respectively. The incidence of at least one treatment-related adverse event (AE) in the azithromycin and moxifloxacin groups was 18.3% and 19.1%, respectively. The most common AEs were diarrhoea, nausea, abdominal pain and vaginitis. Most treatment-related AEs were of mild or moderate severity, with no serious treatment-related AEs. One subject in the moxifloxacin group discontinued treatment owing to a treatment-related AE (precordial pain and dry throat). Compliance with both regimens was >90%. Three-day azithromycin and 5-day moxifloxacin demonstrate comparable efficacy and safety for the treatment of AECB in outpatients.
An experimental rat hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) model was established using diethylnitrosamine and N-nitrosomorpholine to induce carcinogenesis in Sprague-Dawley rats. During hepatocarcinogenesis, seven rats were sacrificed at 0, 4, 8, 12 and 16 weeks and 10 rats were sacrificed at 20 weeks. The levels of hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) protein and mRNA were examined by immunohistochemistry, Western blot and semi-quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction at different stages in the rat HCC model. Twenty weeks after induction of hepatocarcinogenesis, the expression of HIF-1alpha and VEGF protein and mRNA significantly increased compared with week 0. Microvessel density (MVD) increased considerably once liver cancer developed. There was a significant positive correlation between MVD and both HIF-1alpha and VEGF, and between HIF-1alpha and VEGF levels. These results suggest that HIF-1alpha and VEGF play important roles in tumour occurrence and development during rat hepatocarcinogenesis, possibly through promoting tumour angiogenesis.
To evaluate the efficacy of a 36-month course of intravenous cyclophosphamide therapy for severe lupus nephritis in Thai children between October 1993 and December 2000.
Intravenous cyclophosphamide combined with oral prednisolone was given for 36 months to patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) who had severe renal involvement. Serum creatinine (Cr), creatinine clearance (CCr), urinary protein, C3, and complete blood count (CBC) were measured each visit for intravenous cyclophosphamide. Repeated measures ANOVA and Kaplan-Meier survival analysis were used.
Of 21 patients enrolled in the study, three died and two were lost to follow-up, leaving 16 patients who completed therapy (13 females and three males) with age at diagnosis 12.1+/-2.3 years (range 7.2-20.6 years). The follow-up period was 6.3+/-2.3 years (range 3.3-13.8 years). Fourteen patients had lupus nephritis WHO classification class IV and two had lupus nephritis WHO classification class II. Hypertension was detected in ten patients. Lowess smoothing curves and repeated measures ANOVA indicated no significant change in Cr and CCr [probability (p) > 0.05)], but significantly increased C3 and haemoglobin and significantly decreased urinary protein and white blood cell count (p < 0.001). Five patients had six episodes of acute renal failure; one died, renal function returned to normal in two patients, two continued to chronic renal failure, and one died of chronic renal failure. The 5-year survival and renal survival were 86.5% and 87.5% (95% CI 55.8-96.5% and 58.6-96.7%), respectively.
Intravenous cyclophosphamide in severe lupus nephritis in Thai children showed a satisfactory outcome with minimal complications. Further follow-up is needed.
