The antihypertensive and haemodynamic effects of labetalol were compared with those of prazosin both at rest and during bicycle exercise in 38 moderate to moderately severe hypertensive patients (supine DBP 95 to 119 mmHg when untreated). Following a two week open placebo phase to establish baseline BP and baseline exercise performance, patients were randomly and double-blindedly assigned to receive labetalol or prazosin. Drug dose was titrated from 100 to 400 mg labetalol twice daily, or from one to 10 mg prazosin twice daily at weekly intervals until BP was controlled (supine DBP less than or equal to 90 mmHg with at least a 10 mmHg decrease from baseline). Eighteen labetalol and twenty prazosin patients achieved BP control and were subsequently reexercised to fatigue on a bicycle ergometer. The mean changes from baseline for heart rate and rate pressure product (heart rate x SBP) were reduced only in the labetalol group; the difference between the labetalol and prazosin groups was significant (P less than 0.01) both at rest and during exercise. This haemodynamic profile of labetalol may be important in selecting a vasodilating antihypertensive for patients with concomitant ischaemic heart disease.
Myoclonus is a movement disorder of various etiologies. An alteration in CNS serotonin activity is hypothesized to be the underlying mechanism for several myoclonic syndromes. Myoclonus has been reported as a side effect of antidepressants, and the serotonin hypothesis has been advanced to include this syndrome. A case is reported of myoclonus induced by an antidepressant purported to have no effect on serotonin activity.
Sub-lethal exposure to sarin (GB), a potent chemical warfare agent, produces long-term neurological deficits in both humans and rodents. However, rodents express much higher levels of carboxylesterase (CaE) than humans and require a much higher dose of GB in rodents to produce neurotoxicity. In mice, the combination of the carboxylesterase inhibitor 2-(o-cresyl)-4H-1:3:2-benzodioxaphosphorin-2-oxide (CBDP) with the organophosphorus (OP) nerve agent GB renders mice more sensitive to OP poisoning. After the reduction in CaE, GB inhibits acetylcholinesterase at doses similar to those in human toxicity. A dose-response curve for GB was determined in male C57BL/6 mice after 1.5mg/kg CBDP. A functional observational battery (FOB) for behavior was used to determine the dose needed to elicit seizure activity but maintain a mortality of less than 50%. Neuronal cell death was evaluated at 4, 7, 10 and 14 days post-GB exposure. Multiple brain areas were examined using cresyl violet: CA1 and the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, amygdala and piriform cortex. GFAP staining was then measured as an index of cell death in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. The dentate gyrus and CA1 exhibited significant neuronal death indicated by both cresyl violet and GFAP staining. The treated animals also had a significant decrease in tissue and blood acetylcholinesterase, in addition to decreases in plasma CaE. CBDP renders mice more sensitive to the effects of GB exposure and mirrors a human symptomatic exposure dose.
Nephrotoxicity is one of the important side effects of anthracycline antibiotics. The aim of the study was to determine the protective effect of Solanum torvum on doxorubicin-induced nephrotoxicity in rats using biochemical and histopathological approaches. Oxidative stress is the main factor in doxorubicin (DOX) induced nephrotoxicity. Wistar rats received either DOX (67.75 mg/kg, i.v, 2 days before sacrifice) or S. torvum (100mg/kg and 300 mg/kg, p.o.) prior to DOX treatment or S. torvum (100mg/kg and 300 mg/kg, p.o.) extract alone for 4 weeks. Nephrotoxicity was assessed by measuring the abnormal levels of serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen (BUN). The anti-oxidant defence enzymes superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) of kidney tissue were also measured at the end of the treatment schedule. Treatment with S. torvum (100mg/kg and 300 mg/kg) significantly (p<0.05) decreased the levels of creatinine and BUN and significantly (p<0.05) increased the anti-oxidant defence enzyme levels of SOD and CAT. Histopathological changes showed that DOX caused significant structural damages to kidneys like tubular necrosis, renal lesions and glomerular congestion which was reversed with S. torvum. The results suggest that S. torvum has the potential in preventing the nephrotoxicity induced by doxorubicin.
The purpose of this study was to morphologically assess a possible mechanism for caffeine-induced ocular hypertension. Taking into consideration the relationship between the secretion of aqueous humor and the ultrastructure of the ciliary body, the time course of the morphological features in the ciliary epithelium when caffeine was administered intravenously to male Wistar rats was investigated by electron-microscopy. These morphological findings were also compared with the changes in the intraocular pressure (IOP). A significant increase in IOP was noted 15 min and 1 hr after a single dosing of caffeine alone. This change disappeared in all animals within 2 hr after dosing. The IOP in the animals receiving caffeine and the beta-blocker befunolol, which lowers the IOP by inhibiting aqueous humor secretion, decreased significantly from 15 min after dosing, and this change persisted 2 hr after dosing. In electron-microscopy 15 min and/or 1 hr after dosing with caffeine, a slight dilatation in the lateral intercellular spaces near the basement membrane of the non-pigmented ciliary epithelium was observed and the interdigitations between the non-pigmented epithelial cells were intact. Reversal of these changes was observed 2 hr after dosing. On the other hand, the lateral intercellular spaces between the non-pigmented epithelial cells were markedly dilated and the interdigitations were disorganized following dosing with caffeine alone and in combination with befunolol. These results described here indicate that the intravenous administration of caffeine causes ocular hypertension and also changes in the non-pigmented ciliary epithelium, suggesting an enhancement of aqueous humor transportation. This paradigm in the rat is considered to be useful to further assess caffeine-induced ocular hypertension and for use as an animal model in glaucoma research associated with an aqueous humor secretion.
Anticancer agents often cause bone marrow toxicity resulting in progressive anemia which may influence the therapeutic effects of erythropoietic-stimulating agents. The objective of this study was to develop a pharmacodynamic (PD) model to describe chemotherapy-induced anemia in rats. Anemia was induced in male Wistar rats with a single intravenous (i.v.) injection of 60 mg/kg carboplatin. Hematological responses including reticulocytes, red blood cells (RBC), hemoglobin, and endogenous rat erythropoietin (EPO) were measured for up to 4 weeks. A catenary, lifespan-based, indirect response model served as a basic PD model to represent erythroid cellular populations in the bone marrow and blood involved in erythropoiesis. The model assumed that actively proliferating progenitor cells in the bone marrow are sensitive to anti-cancer agents and subject to an irreversible removal process. The removal rate of the target cells is proportional to drug activity concentrations and the cell numbers. An additional RBC loss from the circulation resulting from thrombocytopenia was described by a first-order process. The turnover process of rat EPO and EPO-mediated feedback inhibition mechanism regulated by hemoglobin changes were incorporated. Reticulocyte counts decreased rapidly and reached a nadir by day 3 after administration of carboplatin and returned to the baseline by day 13. This was followed by a gradual increase and the rebound peak occurred at about day 15. The hemoglobin nadir was approximately 9 g/dl observed at about 11-13 days compared to its normal value of 13 g/dl and hemoglobin returned to the baseline by day 30. The increase in endogenous rat EPO mirrored inversely hemoglobin changes and the maximum increase was observed soon after the hemoglobin nadir. The carboplatin-treated rats exhibited progressive anemia. The proposed model adequately described the time course of hematological changes after carboplatin in rats and can be a useful tool to explore potential strategies for the management of anemia caused by chemotherapy.
This report compares the effects of progesterone and its metabolite, allopregnanolone, on the early injury cascade (apoptosis) and long-term functional deficits after TBI. Progesterone (16 mg/kg) or allopregnanolone (4, 8, or 16 mg/kg) were injected at 1 h, 6 h, and then for 5 consecutive days after bilateral contusions of the frontal cortex in adult male rats. Within one day after injury, progesterone and allopregnanolone reduced both the expression of pro-apoptotic proteins caspase-3 and Bax, and apoptotic DNA fragmentation. Progesterone and allopregnanolone also reduced the size of glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP)-positive astrocytes at the lesion site 24 h after injury. Compared to sham-operated controls at 19 days after injury, injured rats given either progesterone or any of three doses of allopregnanolone had equivalent numbers of ChAT-positive cells in the nucleus basalis magnocellularis. At 19 days post-injury, rats given progesterone or allopregnanolone (8 mg/kg) showed improved performance in a spatial learning task compared to injured rats given only the vehicle. These results provide evidence of the anti-apoptotic and anti-astrogliotic effects of progesterone and allopregnanolone and help to explain why better cognitive performance is observed after injury when animals are given either neurosteroid.
Twenty-nine schizophrenic patients showing therapeutic resistance to the conventional methods of treatment with psychotropic agents were subjected to the therapy with ketamine, a drug used as an anesthetic in surgery. The choice of the drug for treating mentally ill patients was determined by its capacity to bring about therapeutically expedient transient manifestations of drug-induced psychosis, therapy activating the central nervous system. Schizophrenics exhibiting manifestations of depressive inhibition and apathoabulic states benefited from ketamine treatment. The proposed method is technically simple and free of any side effects or complications.
We report two cases of irreversible sensineuronal hearing loss due to hydroxychloroquine treatment. The first patient was a 44-year-old woman with long-standing systemic lupus erythematosus and the second case was a 44-year-old man with clinical manifestations consistent with subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus. They both developed irreversible hearing loss after several years of hydroxychloroquine treatment. Sensineuronal deafness has previously been reported in connection with chloroquine treatment, but this is the first report of ototoxicity associated with hydroxychloroquine.
The ability of cannabinoids to suppress mechanical hypersensitivity (mechanical allodynia) induced by treatment with the chemotherapeutic agent vincristine was evaluated in rats. Sites of action were subsequently identified.
Mechanical hypersensitivity developed over the course of ten daily injections of vincristine relative to groups receiving saline at the same times. Effects of the CB1/CB2 receptor agonist WIN55,212-2, the receptor-inactive enantiomer WIN55,212-3, the CB2-selective agonist (R,S)-AM1241, the opiate agonist morphine and vehicle on chemotherapy-induced neuropathy were evaluated. WIN55,212-2 was administered intrathecally (i.t.) or locally in the hindpaw to identify sites of action. Pharmacological specificity was established using competitive antagonists for CB1 (SR141716) or CB2 receptors (SR144528).
Systemic administration of WIN55,212-2, but not WIN55,212-3, suppressed vincristine-evoked mechanical allodynia. A leftward shift in the dose-response curve was observed following WIN55,212-2 relative to morphine treatment. The CB1 (SR141716) and CB2 (SR144528) antagonists blocked the anti-allodynic effects of WIN55,212-2. (R,S)-AM1241 suppressed vincristine-induced mechanical hypersensitivity through a CB2 mechanism. Both cannabinoid agonists suppressed vincristine-induced mechanical hypersensitivity without inducing catalepsy. Spinal sites of action are implicated in cannabinoid modulation of chemotherapy-induced neuropathy. WIN55,212-2, but not WIN55,212-3, administered i.t. suppressed vincristine-evoked mechanical hypersensitivity at doses that were inactive following local hindpaw administration. Spinal coadministration of both the CB1 and CB2 antagonists blocked the anti-allodynic effects of WIN55,212-2.
Cannabinoids suppress the maintenance of vincristine-induced mechanical allodynia through activation of CB1 and CB2 receptors. These anti-allodynic effects are mediated, at least in part, at the level of the spinal cord.
Arsenic trioxide (As2O3) effectively induces remissions in relapsed acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL), but the safety of its long-term administration is unknown. The anthracycline idarubicin is highly active alone or in combination chemotherapy for the treatment of APL. To minimize arsenic exposure and based on the high sensitivity of APL cells to anthracyclines, we conducted a prospective study to evaluate induction with As2O3 followed by consolidation with idarubicin in the treatment of APL in relapse. Eight patients were treated with As2O3 at a daily dose of 10 mg until remission, followed by three monthly courses of idarubicin, at 6 mg/m(2)/day for 5 days in the first course and 6 mg/m(2)/day for 2 days in the subsequent two courses. All patients achieved morphological but not molecular remission after As2O3 treatment. During As2O3 therapy, an increase in white cell count peaking at a median of 17 days occurred in all the cases. Serial flow cytometric analysis of apoptosis, with mitochondrial APO2.7 antigen expression and the sub-G1 cell fraction on DNA histogram as markers, showed induction of apoptosis of APL cells in vivo. With both qualitative and real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction, all patients were shown to attain molecular remission after subsequent idarubicin treatment. With a median follow up of 13 months, seven of eight patients have remained in complete clinical remission, with six patients in molecular remission as well. One patient who was in third remission became PCR-positive after being transiently negative. One patient died from an intracranial extramedullary relapse after achieving marrow molecular remission. We conclude that As2O3 induction followed by idarubicin consolidation is an effective therapy for APL in relapse. This regimen avoids the possible long-term toxicities of As2O3 and mutagenicity of combination chemotherapy, a strategy that might be suitable for this potentially curable leukaemia.
The flavonoid quercetin suppresses cell proliferation and enhances apoptosis in vitro. In this study, we determined whether quercetin protects against colon cancer by regulating the protein level of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI 3-kinase) and Akt or by suppressing the expression of proinflammatory mediators [cyclooxygenase (COX)-1, COX-2, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS)] during the aberrant crypt (AC) stage. Forty male rats were randomly assigned to receive diets containing quercetin (0 or 4.5 g/kg) and injected subcutaneously with saline or azoxymethane (AOM; 2 times during wk 3 and 4). The colon was resected 4 wk after the last AOM injection and samples were used to determine high multiplicity AC foci (HMACF; foci with >4 AC) number, colonocyte proliferation and apoptosis by immunohistochemistry, expression of PI 3-kinase (p85 and p85alpha subunits) and Akt by immunoblotting, and COX-1, COX-2, and iNOS expression by real time RT-PCR. Quercetin-fed rats had fewer (P = 0.033) HMACF. Relative to the control diet, quercetin lowered the proliferative index (P = 0.035) regardless of treatment and diminished the AOM-induced elevation in crypt column cell number (P = 0.044) and expansion of the proliferative zone (P = 0.021). The proportion of apoptotic colonocytes in AOM-injected rats increased with quercetin treatment (P = 0.014). Levels of p85 and p85alpha subunits of PI 3-kinase and total Akt were unaffected by dietary quercetin. However, quercetin tended to suppress (P < 0.06) the expression of COX-1 and COX-2. Expression of iNOS was elevated by AOM injection (P = 0.0001). In conclusion, quercetin suppresses the formation of early preneoplastic lesions in colon carcinogenesis, which occurred in concert with reductions in proliferation and increases in apoptosis. It is possible the effects on proliferation and apoptosis resulted from the tendency for quercetin to suppress the expression of proinflammatory mediators.
MDR1, an ABC transporter that confers multidrug resistance in tumor cells, is constitutively expressed in normal liver canalicular membrane. Human MDR1-expressing multidrug-resistant cells display increased resistance to estradiol-17beta(beta-D-glucuronide) (E217G). MDR1 substrates/modulators inhibit adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-dependent transport of E217G in the rat canalicular membrane and protect against E217G-mediated cholestasis in isolated perfused rat liver. The present studies were designed to determine if E217G is a substrate for MDR1 using a baculovirus expression system and if other estrogen glucuronides interact with MDR1. ATP-dependent transport of E217G (10 micromol/L) was linear for up to 2 minutes and yielded a rate of 45.6 pmol/min/mg protein in membrane vesicles from Sf9 cells infected with MDR1-baculovirus. This transport was saturable (Km = 62 micromol/L) and occurred into an osmotically sensitive space. ATP-dependent transport of E217G (10 micromol/L) was inhibited 63% by 10 micromol/L daunomycin, but not by 100 micromol/L S-(2,4-dinitrophenyl)glutathione (GS-DNP) (a substrate for canalicular multispecific organic anion transporter [cMOAT]). Glucuronide conjugates of the estrogen D-ring (100 micromol/L), estriol-17beta(beta-D-glucuronide) (E317G) and estriol-16(beta-D-glucuronide) (E316G), inhibited MDR1-mediated E217G transport by 58% and 35%, respectively. In contrast, noncholestatic glucuronides, estradiol-3-(beta-D-glucuronide) (E23G) or estradiol-3-sulfate-17beta(beta-D-glucuronide) (E23SO417G), had no effect. E217G neither stimulated MDR1 ATPase activity nor inhibited verapamil-stimulated ATPase activity. Infusion of 1.5 micromol/L doxorubicin or 1 micromol/L taxol protected against cholestasis induced by E316G and E317G in isolated perfused rat liver. These studies identify E217G, and probably E316G and E317G, as endogenous substrates for MDR1.
To examine the demographic characteristics, circumstances, toxicology and major organ pathology of MDMA-related deaths in Australia.
Retrospective review of cases in which MDMA was a cause of death, as identified from the National Coronial Information System.
82 cases over a 5-year period were identified. The majority of decedents were male (83%), with a median age of 26 years. Deaths were predominantly due to drug toxicity (82%), with MDMA the sole drug causing death in 23% of cases, and combined drug toxicity in 59% of cases. The remaining deaths (18%) were primarily due to pathological events/disease or injury, with MDMA a significant contributing condition. Cardiovascular pathology, typically atherosclerosis, was detected in 58% of decedents, with moderate-severe atherosclerosis in 23% of cases. The prevalence of such pathology is higher than that expected among similarly aged members of the general population. Cerebrovascular pathology, primarily cerebral haemorrhage and hypoxic damage, was present in 12% of cases.
MDMA has contributed to a clinically significant number of deaths in Australia. The prevalence of cardiovascular pathology was similar to that among methamphetamine and cocaine fatalities. Whilst cardiovascular pathology may reflect the use of other stimulants, the cardiotoxic properties of MDMA have been well-documented. Future studies examining MDMA-related morbidity and mortality in the context of other risk factors are recommended. Overall, the current study highlights the need to educate users about the potential harms of MDMA use, particularly that in conjunction with other stimulants, opioids and alcohol, which are known to increase overall toxicity.
Loss of hearing in a 43 year old man during treatment with metoprolol was dose related and disappeared within a few months after the drug had been stopped. The hearing impairment was of mixed type, with an air bone gap without any disorder of the middle ear observable by conventional clinical methods. Similar scattered reports from international sources on loss of hearing during treatment with beta blockers are also presented.
Prolactin is associated with the development of mammary tumors in rats. The aim of the present study was to evaluate whether strain differences in susceptibility to the development of mammary tumors could be explained by genetic differences in the response of the pituitary to chronic stimulation by estrogens. Prolactin levels were measured in plasma from rats of the Sprague-Dawley, Wistar WAG/Rij and Brown Norway BN/BiRij strains before and at different times after subcutaneous implantation of estradiol-17 beta in cholesterol/paraffin pellets. In all strains plasma prolactin was elevated from the second week after implantation of the pellet, although there were quantitative differences between the responses. At 32 weeks after implantation of the pellets the plasma level of prolactin in Sprague-Dawley rats was 1247 +/- 367 ng NIAMDD prolactin RP-1/ml (mean +/- S.E.M), whereas Wistar WAG/Rij and Brown Norway BN/BiRij had plasma prolactin levels of 679 +/- 211 and 182 +/- 19 ng/ml respectively. Between 52 and 104 weeks after implantation these values rose to 4016 +/- 1116, 5004 +/- 1053 and 808 +/- 129 ng/ml respectively. The plasma concentration of prolactin of rats in this age group was strongly associated with the occurrence of pituitary adenomas in all three strains. In untreated rats, the concentration of prolactin in the plasma increased with age to only 200-400 ng/ml at 12-24 months of age but no significant differences were observed between the three rat strains. It is concluded that observed differences in spontaneous and estrogen-mediated mammary tumor development in these rat strains cannot be explained by genetic differences in the plasma concentration of prolactin.
Nafcillin is a semisynthetic penicillin that is generally well tolerated with few side effects. Hepatic complications are rare but have a potential for serious liver dysfunction. This unusual complication causes a predominantly cholestatic injury, which can persist for prolonged periods even after discontinuing the medication. The pathophysiology may include direct cytotoxicity or an immune-mediate hypersensitivity. Treatment is generally supportive, except for severely symptomatic patients who may require steroids. We report a case of nafcillin-associated hepatotoxicity and review the literature of this disorder.
The aim of this study was to assess the prognostic significance of reversible perfusion abnormalities in patients without angina during dobutamine stress technetium-99m sestamibi single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). The study comprised 224 patients (age 60 +/- 11 years, 144 men) with completely or partially reversible perfusion abnormalities during dobutamine stress sestamibi SPECT. Follow-up end points were hard cardiac events (cardiac death and nonfatal myocardial infarction). Angina occurred in 93 patients (42%) during the dobutamine stress test (symptomatic ischemia group). The 131 patients without dobutamine-induced angina represented the silent ischemia group. There was no significant difference between patients with and without angina with regard to summed stress perfusion score (5.3 +/- 2.5 vs 5.2 +/- 2.2, p = 0.9) or summed ischemic score (3.1 +/- 1.7 vs 3.2 +/- 1.4, p = 0.7). During a median follow-up of 7.2 years, cardiac death occurred in 14 patients (15%) with and in 21 patients (16%) without angina. Nonfatal myocardial infarction occurred in 8 patients (9%) with and in 13 patients (10%) without angina. In a multivariate analysis model of clinical and perfusion data, independent predictors of cardiac events were age (hazard ratio 1.02, confidence intervals [CI] 1.01 to 1.05 per year increment), diabetes mellitus (hazard ratio 1.9, CI 1.2 to 3.4), and ischemic perfusion score (hazard ratio 2.1, CI 1.3 to 3.8). Patients with silent ischemia defined as reversible perfusion abnormalities without associated angina during dobutamine stress sestamibi SPECT imaging had similar incidences of ischemia and similar cardiac event rates compared with patients with symptomatic ischemia. Therefore, the absence of angina in association with reversible perfusion abnormalities should not be interpreted as a sign of a more benign prognosis.
Cadmium (Cd) induces ventral body wall defects (VBWD) in the chick embryo, with adherens junctions (AJs) breakdown at 4h post treatment (4H). Signalling by which Cd disrupts AJs in this model remains unclear. IQGAP1 regulates AJs via binding to Cdc42 and Rac1, Rho-family GTPases. Activation of IQGAP1-Cdc42 interaction regulates AJs positively, whereas Rac1 activation inhibits AJs. We hypothesised that IQGAP1 and Cdc42 are downregulated and Rac1 is upregulated during embryogenesis in the Cd chick model. Chick embryos were explanted and treated with saline or Cd after 60 h incubation. Chicks were harvested at 1H, 4H and 8H post treatment and RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry were performed. Gene expression levels of IQGAP1 and Cdc42 were significantly downregulated and Rac1 was upregulated in Cd group compared to controls only at 4H. Immunoreactivity of IQGAP1 and Cdc42 was also markedly decreased, whereas Rac1 was increased in Cd group compared to controls at 4H. Alteration of IQGAP and Rho-family GTPases may cause VBWD in Cd chick model by inducing the dissociation of cadherin-mediated AJs.
Ifosfamide is an oxazaphosphorine analogue of cyclophosphamide with proven activity in breast cancer but substantial urotoxicity. The introduction of mesna as a uroprotective agent provided a stimulus for reexamination of ifosfamide for therapy of women with metastatic breast cancer. Twenty women with measurable (18 patients) or evaluable (2 patients) disease were entered into a phase II clinical trial of ifosfamide plus mesna as first-line chemotherapy. Ifosfamide was administered i.v. at a dose of 1,800 mg/m2 in 1 L D5W over 2 h on five consecutive days. Mesna was administered i.v. at a dose of 400 mg/m2 over 15 min immediately before and 1 h after ifosfamide, and then every 4 h for three more doses. The last three doses could be given either i.v. or orally. The planned cycle length was 28 days. Three patients (15%), all with measurable disease, achieved a partial response (95% confidence interval: 3 to 38%). Median time to progression was 137 days and median survival was 407 days. Toxicities included cumulative myelosuppression and substantial nausea and emesis. Four patients were removed from treatment because of toxicity alone and a fifth refused further therapy. We conclude that ifosfamide, plus mesna, as given in this protocol has definite but limited antitumor activity and poor tolerability.
Several reports demonstrated that maternal lipopolysaccharide (LPS) exposure at middle gestational stage caused neural tube defects (NTDs). This study investigated the effects of supplementation with vitamin D3 (VitD3) during pregnancy on LPS-induced NTDs. Pregnant mice except controls were ip injected with LPS (25 μg/kg) daily from gestational day (GD)8 to GD12. In LPS+VitD3 group, pregnant mice were orally administered with VitD3 (25 μg/kg) before LPS injection. As expected, a 5-day LPS injection resulted in 62.5% (10/16) of dams and 20.3% of fetuses with NTDs. Additional experiment showed that a 5-day LPS injection downregulated placental proton-coupled folate transporter (pcft) and reduced folate carrier 1 (rfc1), 2 major folate transporters in placentas. Consistent with downregulation of placental folate transporters, folate transport from maternal circulation into embryos was disturbed in LPS-treated mice. Interestingly, VitD3 not only inhibited placental inflammation but also attenuated LPS-induced downregulation of placental folate transporters. Correspondingly, VitD3 markedly improved folate transport from maternal circulation into the embryos. Importantly, supplementation with VitD3 during pregnancy protected mice from LPS-induced NTDs. Taken together, these results suggest that supplementation with VitD3 during pregnancy prevents LPS-induced NTDs through inhibiting placental inflammation and improving folate transport from maternal circulation into the embryos.
We studied 13 patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and a chronic pruritic folliculitis that was unresponsive to systemic treatment with bactericidal anti-staphylococcal antibiotics. The skin eruption was characterized by multiple urticarial follicular papules scattered on the trunk (100%), the head and neck (85%), and the proximal aspect of the extremities (62%). Absolute peripheral eosinophil counts were increased in six of 13 patients; a relative peripheral eosinophilia was present in 10 of 13 patients. Serum IgE levels were elevated in all seven patients tested (range, 88 to 9050 IU). Histopathologic features included a folliculitis with eosinophils. Pathogenic bacteria were not consistently found by routine bacterial skin cultures, cultures of skin biopsy specimens, or histopathologic evaluation. CD4 counts were decreased in all of the 12 patients tested (less than 300 cells per cubic millimeter) and were below 250 cells per cubic millimeter in 10 patients. A clinical response was noted to astemizole, to ultraviolet light in the B range, and to topical clobetasol propionate. These observations demonstrate that HIV-associated eosinophilic folliculitis is a unique HIV-related cutaneous disorder that is characterized by a culture-negative, chronic, pruritic folliculitis and a characteristic histopathologic picture. Of special importance, because it is associated with CD4 counts of less than 250 to 300 cells per cubic millimeter, eosinophilic folliculitis appears to be an important clinical marker of HIV infection and, particularly, of patients at increased risk of developing opportunistic infections. We suggest that the term eosinophilic pustular folliculitis (Ofuji's disease), previously used to describe this dermatosis in HIV-infected patients, should be discarded.
The abilities of captopril and niacin to protect against the lung toxicity of paraquat (PQ) were studied. The anti-oxidative action of captopril, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, appears to be attributable to the sulphahydryl group (SH) in the compound, which gives captopril the ability to scavenge reactive oxygen species. Niacin replenishes the NAD and ATP depletion caused by reactive oxygen species. PQ causes lung damage in man and in several species of laboratory animals. The damage is initially manifested by hemorrhage and edema, and later by consolidation of the lung and fibrosis development. In this study, the lungs of male Wistar rats (250-300 g in weight) were perfused by Krebs-Ringer buffer alone (control), niacin (150 microM), captopril (10 microM) and PQ (600 microM) in perfusion fluid, and the biochemical changes that occurred in isolated rat lung were examined within 1 h and compared to PQ alone. The results show that captopril significantly decreases the lung weight/body weight ratio when used as a pretreatment and a post-treatment to captopril (p<0.0001). The results also show that captopril (10 microM) and niacin (150 microM) significantly decreases PQ-induced lung toxicity. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity significantly decreased in treatment groups as compared to the PQ group (p<0.0001). This study suggests that paraquat causes increased lipid peroxidation and LDH activity and decreased glutathione (GSH) and total protein in isolated perfused rat lung. These effects are reduced under these experimental conditions by captopril and niacin.
We report a case of ST elevation in right precordial leads compatible with type 1 Brugada syndrome following administration of propafenone in a patient with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome who was receiving lithium at concentrations within therapeutic levels. The mechanism of the electrocardiogram changes was considered to be caused by the two drugs synergistic sodium channel blocking effects.
Soman, an irreversible organophosphorus cholinesterase inhibitor, induces status epilepticus and, in sensitive brain areas, seizure-related brain damage (e.g. brain edema and neuronal loss). The brain metabolic disturbances associated with these events are ill known. In the present study, we thus evaluated these changes in a murine model of soman-induced status epilepticus up to 7 days after intoxication. Mice, protected by HI-6 and atropine methyl nitrate, were poisoned with soman (172 microg/kg) and then sacrificed at set time points, from 1 h to 7 days. Brain biopsies from the piriform cortex (Pir) and cerebellum (Cer) were analyzed by 1H HRMAS NMR spectroscopy. Spectra were then analyzed using both a supervised multivariate analysis and the QUEST procedure of jMRUI for the quantification of 17 metabolites. The multivariate analysis clearly showed the metabolic differences between a damaged structure (Pir) and a structure with less prominent changes (cerebellum) and helped to globally assess the time course of metabolic changes. Analysis of the individual metabolites showed that the major changes took place in the piriform cortex but that cerebellum was not change-free. The most prominent changes in the former were an early (1-4 h) increase in alanine and acetate, a delayed increase in lactate, glycerophosphocholine and glutamine as well as a delayed decrease in myo-inositol and N-acetylaspartate. A week after poisoning, some metabolic disturbances were still present. Further research will be necessary to clarify what could be the involvement of these metabolites in physiological processes and how they might become useful surrogate markers of brain damage and repair.
