In locally advanced rectal cancer, neoadjuvant 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)-based long-term chemoradiotherapy leads to marked tumor reduction and decrease of local recurrence rate. Thymidylate synthase (TS), thymidine phosphorylase (TP), and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) are known to be important biomarkers to predict tumor response to 5-FU-based therapy. The aim of this study was to examine the correlation between TS, TP, and DPD protein expression and histopathologic tumor regression after neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy. The results were compared with the recently published mRNA data. Preoperative biopsies (n = 25) and resection specimens (n = 40) from patients with rectal carcinoma (clinical UICC stage II/III) receiving neoadjuvant 5-FU-based chemoradiotherapy were studied for TS, TP, and DPD protein expression by immunohistochemistry using three different scoring systems (intensity, pattern, intensity + pattern). Results were compared with histopathologic tumor regression. A significant correlation between protein expression and tumor response was only seen when both staining intensity and staining pattern were considered. With this method, a significant association was seen between high TS expression in tumor biopsies as well as resection specimens and nonresponse of the tumor to therapy (P = 0.04). Furthermore, low TP expression in the resection specimens was significantly associated with lack of response (P = 0.02). For DPD no significant correlations were found at all. In conclusion, these results suggest that immunohistochemistry like RT-PCR is a suitable method to determine the correlation between TS, TP, and DPD expression and histopathologic tumor regression. However, precise results can only be achieved if staining intensity as well as staining pattern within the tumors are evaluated.
We reviewed the clinical history and pathology material of 72 patients seen at the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center who developed malignant neoplasms of the uterine corpus after being treated for breast carcinoma with either tamoxifen or other therapeutic regimens. The purpose of this study was to investigate the type of malignant tumors seen in the uterus, their association with endometrial polyps or hyperplasia, and their possible relationship to tamoxifen treatment. This study shows that in patients treated for breast carcinoma, the uterine malignancies are characterized by several features: (a) a previously unreported high incidence of clear cell carcinoma (14 cases) and leiomyosarcoma (12 cases); (b) seven of 12 leiomyosarcomas with unusual features, such as epithelioid (5), tubular (1), and myxoid features (2); (c) a higher incidence of serous carcinoma (45% in patients treated for > or = 12 months); (d) endometrial polyps associated with carcinoma more often than endometrial hyperplasia.
Chlormethiazole positively modulates the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) receptor complex and is primarily used to treat certain life-threatening neurological events (e.g., refractory seizures and ethanol withdrawal syndrome). On account of several experimental and clinical studies reporting effectiveness against the toxic effects of heroin and methamphetamine, chlormethiazole was systematically tested in the present study for its effectiveness against cocaine-induced seizures and lethality in mice. The protective effects of chlormethiazole were evaluated against single, submaximal convulsive (75 mg/kg) or lethal (110 mg/kg) doses of cocaine. Chlormethiazole also was tested against the expression (anticonvulsant effect) and development (antiepileptogenic effect) of cocaine-kindled seizures, and against fully developed kindled seizures. Cocaine-kindled seizures were produced by a total of five daily treatments with 60 mg/kg cocaine. The inverted-screen test was used to assess behavioral side effects of chlormethiazole. Chlormethiazole protected against acute cocaine-induced convulsions (ED(50) = 7.0 mg/kg) and lethality (ED(50)= 21.8 mg/kg) with a robust separation [protective index (PI) = TD(50)/ED(50) = 22.3 and 7.2, respectively] from doses producing behavioral side effects (TD(50) = 156 mg/kg). Chlormethiazole suppressed the behavioral expression of cocaine-kindled seizures and prevented the development of sensitization to the convulsant effects of cocaine. It was also effective in suppressing fully developed kindled seizures. Relative to cocaine seizures in naive mice, chlormethiazole was equieffective, less potent (ED(50) = 22.3 mg/kg), and had a reduced protective index (PI = 3.7) against cocaine-induced seizures in kindled mice. The protective profile and protective index of chlormethiazole were superior to those of the benzodiazepines clonazepam and diazepam, which were of limited efficacy and had low protective indices (PI = approximately 1). The results of this study predict the potential utility of chlormethiazole for the treatment of life-threatening complications of cocaine abuse for which no specific treatment has yet been identified.
Clinical observations suggest that cocaine addiction often emerges with new patterns of use. Whether these changes are a cause of addiction or its consequence is unknown. We investigated whether the development of an addiction-like behavior in the rat is associated with the pattern of cocaine intake and with cocaine craving, a major feature of cocaine addiction.
To determine whether changes in the pattern of cocaine use and enhanced craving precede or parallel the onset of addiction, we used a rat addiction model that incorporates core features of human addiction. For this purpose, the pattern of inter-infusion intervals (a measure of pattern of cocaine intake), sensitivity to cocaine-induced reinstatement (a measure of cocaine craving), and addiction-like behaviour were assessed over several months of intravenous cocaine self-administration.
We found that, even at early stages of cocaine self-administration, both the pattern of cocaine intake and the intensity of drug-induced reinstatement predict the severity of cocaine use, measured after 75 days of self-administration.
Our results identify key predictors of cocaine addiction-intensified pattern of drug use and high drug-induced craving-that may help in the identification of subjects at risk for subsequent development of severe cocaine addiction.
Serial electrocardiograms (ECGs) were studied prospectively in 80 apparently healthy newborn infants; 30 infants exposed in utero to prolonged tocolytic therapy (21 to ritodrine and 9 to isoxsuprine) and 50 infants non-exposed in utero to drugs (control group) matched for gestational age, Apgar score, and birth weight. Duration of exposure to tocolysis was at least 30 days (30-180 days) with an oral dosage of 10 mg 3 times daily. ECGs were graded for changes suggestive of ischaemia using the arbitrary grading system described by Jedeikin et al. In all infants with ECG features of myocardial ischaemia, serum creatine-phosphokinase iso-enzyme (CK-MB) activity was measured. Six out of 21 infants to ritodrine and six out of nine infants exposed to isoxsuprine showed a degree of ECG ischaemia which persisted for several weeks. No control infant presented grade 2 or 3 ECG changes after the 5th day of life. The results of this study seem to show that prolonged tocolytic therapy with beta-sympathomimetics has side-effects on the fetal myocardium and suggest that this treatment be reserved only for selective cases and/or for short periods of time.
The present study was undertaken to investigate whether the relatively selective neuronal nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor, 7-nitroindazole (7-NI), protects against methamphetamine (METH)-induced neurotoxicity. Male Swiss Webster mice received the following treatments (i.p.; q 3 h x 3): (a) vehicle/saline, (b) 7-NI (25 mg/kg)/saline, (c) vehicle/METH (5 mg/kg), and (d) 7-NI (25 mg/kg)/METH (5 mg/kg). On the second day, groups (a) and (b) received two vehicle injections, and groups (c) and (d) received two 7-NI injections (25 mg/kg, each). Administration of vehicle/METH resulted in 68, 44, and 55% decreases in the concentration of dopamine, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, and homovanillic acid, respectively, and a 48% decrease in the number of [3H]mazindol binding sites in the striatum compared with control values. Treatment with 7-NI (group d) provided full protection against the depletion of dopamine and its metabolites and the loss of dopamine transporter binding sites. Administration of 7-NI/saline (group b) affected neither the tissue concentration of dopamine and its metabolites nor the binding parameters of [3H] mazindol compared with control values. 7-NI had no significant effect on animals' body temperature, and it did not affect METH-induced hyperthermia. These findings indicate a role for nitric oxide in methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity and also suggest that blockade of NOS may be beneficial for the management of Parkinson's disease.
Tobacco smoking has been reported to be associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease and cancer, particularly of the lungs. In spite of extensive research on the health effects of tobacco smoking, the substances in tobacco smoke exerting these negative health effects are not completely known. Nicotine is the substance giving the subjective pleasure of smoking as well as inducing addiction. For the first time we report the effect on the rat of long-term (two years) inhalation of nicotine. The rats breathed in a chamber with nicotine at a concentration giving twice the plasma concentration found in heavy smokers. Nicotine was given for 20 h a day, five days a week during a two-year period. We could not find any increase in mortality, in atherosclerosis or frequency of tumors in these rats compared with controls. Particularly, there was no microscopic or macroscopic lung tumors nor any increase in pulmonary neuroendocrine cells. Throughout the study, however, the body weight of the nicotine exposed rats was reduced as compared with controls. In conclusion, our study does not indicate any harmful effect of nicotine when given in its pure form by inhalation.
Genetic variations in human leukocyte antigens (HLA) are critical in host responses to infections, transplantation, and immunological diseases. We previously identified associations with non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) and the HLA-DRB1*01:01 allele and extended ancestral haplotype (AH) 8.1 (HLA-A*01-B*08-DR*03-TNF-308A). To illuminate how HLA alleles and haplotypes may influence NHL etiology, we examined potential interactions between HLA-DRB1*01:01 and AH 8.1, and a wide range of NHL risk factors among 685 NHL cases and 646 controls from a United States population-based case-control study. We calculated odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals by HLA allele or haplotype status, adjusted for sex, age, race and study center for NHL and two major subtypes using polychotomous unconditional logistic regression models. The previously reported elevation in NHL risk associated with exposures to termite treatment and polychlorinated biphenyls were restricted to individuals who did not possess HLA-DRB1*01:01. Previous associations for NHL and DLBCL with decreased sun exposure, higher BMI, and autoimmune conditions were statistically significant only among those with AH 8.1, and null among those without AH 8.1. Our results suggest that NHL risk factors vary in their association based on HLA-DRB1*01:01 and AH 8.1 status. Our results further suggest that certain NHL risk factors may act through a common mechanism to alter NHL risk. Finally, control participants with either HLA-DRB1*01:01 or AH 8.1 reported having a family history of NHL twice as likely as those who did not have either allele or haplotype, providing the first empirical evidence that HLA associations may explain some of the well-established relationship between family history and NHL risk.
Angioneurotic edema is a rare (0.1-0.2%) but potentially life-threatening side effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. It can result in serious respiratory distress, airway obstruction and death. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors associated angioedema is clinically poorly recognized and frequently underestimated condition. A case history of patient with angioneurotic edema due to treatment with ramipril is presented. A 51-year-old man has been sequentially treated for two years with atenolol, indapamide, enalapril, and fosinopril due to primary arterial hypertension. When the treatment was switched to ramipril 5 mg twice a day the fourth dose of the drug was followed by swelling of lips, tongue, and pharynx without symptoms of airway obstruction. Ramipril was discontinued, prednisolone 120 mg and loratidine 10 mg were given. Symptoms of angioedema gradually disappeared. Mechanisms of angioedema are not fully clear. Pharmacological action of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors on bradykinin and substance P, immunological mechanisms and disarrangements in complement system are discussed. Treatment includes immediate withdrawal of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and acute therapy with epinephrine 0.3-0.5 ml subcutaneous, 50 mg diphenhydramine s/c or i/v, 40-50 mg methylprednisolone. Future treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors is contraindicated.
Oxcarbazepine, a carbamazepine analog, was approved for use as an antiepileptic agent in the United States in 2000. A search of the United States Food and Drug Administration's Adverse Event Reporting System identified nine cases of oxcarbazepine-associated angioedema in pediatric patients aged 16 years and younger. We describe in detail the first U.S. case report, of a 4(1/2)-year-old boy who experienced angioedema during treatment with oxcarbazepine. The reporting rate for angioedema was calculated to be 9.8 cases per 1,000,000 pediatric patients. Oxcarbazepine-associated angioedema manifested by swelling of the face, eyes, lips, or tongue or difficulty swallowing or breathing (or both) is a rare but potentially life-threatening reaction for which early recognition and management are vital.
Restless legs syndrome (RLS) augmentation, defined as a kind of suppression of the circadian rhythm of the disease in which sensory and motor symptoms appear earlier during the day (and over previously unaffected body parts), with a progressive phase advance until, backwards, the symptoms may cover the entire day, has been described only after treatment with dopaminergic drugs. We report clinical and polysomnographic accounts of a patient developing RLS augmentation after long-term treatment with tramadol, an opioid agonist with selectivity for mu-receptor and added norepinephrine and serotonin reuptake inhibition properties. Polysomnographic measures showed an improvement of RLS and a disappearance of diurnal sensory and motor RLS symptoms after tramadol was stopped. Our case confirms a recent retrospective report of augmentation of RLS after treatment with tramadol, and begs the question whether augmentation is truly restricted to dopaminergic drugs.
14C-misonidazole was injected IP into BALB/C mice bearing EMT-6 tumours. Tumour and normal tissue levels of radioactivity were determined by liquid scintillation procedures for times up to 72 h after drug administration. At times longer than 8 h, levels of 14C in tumour were 2-6 times higher than 14C levels measured in other normal tissues, with the exception of liver. The levels of 14C from misonidazole retained in liver tissue were comparable to those retained in the tumours. The clearance of 14C-misonidazole from the tumours and all normal tissues could be characterised by two distinct phases: a rapid phase (0.7 h half-life) followed by a much slower phase (approximately 50 h half-life). The distribution of retained 14C from labelled misonidazole within tumour-bearing mice was also measured by whole animal autoradiographic techniques. This procedure confirmed the biodistribution of 14C-misonidazole determined by liquid scintillation procedures. To enhance binding to hypoxic cells in vivo, 14C-misonidazole was administered in multiple doses over a three-hour period, simulating a prolonged exposure to the drug. The 14C from labelled misonidazole retained in tumour tissue was 4-15 times greater than that retained in normal tissues, liver tissue being again an exception. Myocardial ischaemia was induced by isoproterenol treatment and a two-fold increase of 14C from labelled misonidazole was found in the heart tissue of mice treated by the drug compared to controls. The increased binding of 14C-misonidazole to tumour cells after prolonged exposure to the drug and the increased binding of 14C-misonidazole to ischaemic heart tissue suggests that hypoxia is a factor in sensitiser adduct formation in vivo.
Ethanol exerts effects on the brain noradrenergic system, and these are thought to contribute to the sedative/hypnotic (depressant) effects of ethanol. Recent studies suggest that the norepinephrine transporter (NET) plays an important role in modulating ethanol's depressant effects. The aim of the present study was to further characterize this role. Transporter blockers with varying affinity for NET versus the serotonin transporter (desipramine>fluoxetine>citalopram) were tested for their ability to alter ethanol's depressant effects, and for comparison, hypothermic effects. Effects of desipramine on another depressant, pentobarbital, were examined. Desipramine potentiation of ethanol's depressant effects was assessed following depletion of brain norepinephrine via N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine hydrochloride (DSP-4) treatment, or depletion of brain 5-HT via para-chlorophenylalanine methyl ester hydrochloride (PCPA) treatment. The effects of co-administration of either the selective alpha2-adrenoreceptor agonist (dexmedetomidine) or the selective alpha2-adrenoreceptor antagonist (atipamezole) on desipramine's effect on ethanol's depressant effects were examined. Given the close link between stress, ethanol and norepinephrine, desipramine potentiation of ethanol's depressant effects was tested following repeated forced swim stress. Results showed that desipramine, but not SERT-selective doses of citalopram or fluoxetine, strongly potentiated the depressant (not hypothermic) effects of ethanol. These effects were mimicked by dexmedetomidine and blocked by atipamezole, but not by depletion of either norepinephrine or 5-HT. Desipramine potentiation of ethanol's depressant effects was abolished following repeated stress. Present findings further support a major role for NET and the alpha2-adrenoreceptor in modulating the depressant effects of ethanol, with possible implications for understanding the role of noradrenergic dysfunction in stress-related alcoholism.
The pharmacologic parameters and toxicity of netilmicin (6 mg/kg/day) given once daily (qd) or thrice daily (tid) for the treatment of urinary tract infections were studied in a randomized prospective study of 60 cancer patients. The overall efficacy was 96%. Nephrotoxicity, assessed by the measure of urinary excretion of phospholipids, was lower for the patients receiving the qd regimen than for those receiving the tid regimen. Elevation of serum creatinine (20% over baseline) occurred in one patient receiving the qd regimen and in three receiving the tid regimen. Cochleotoxicity, assessed by pure-tone audiometry (250 to 18,000 Hz) occurred in one patient receiving the qd regimen and none receiving the tid regimen. Concentrations in sera were measured on days 1 and 5. No significant accumulation was observed in either group. Median serum bactericidal titers, expressed as reciprocal values (percentage of the sera with a titer greater than or equal to 8), were measured against 25 test organisms in samples collected 6 h after the administration of netilmicin and were, for the qd group, 16 (82%) against members of the family Enterobacteriaceae and less than 2 (8%) against Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and for the tid group, 4 (57%) against members of the Enterobacteriaceae and less than 2 (0%) against P. aeruginosa. The rate of killing in serum was rapid (2 to 3 log in 2 h against P. aeruginosa; 3 to 5 log in 2 h against members of the Enterobacteriaceae) and correlated with the sampling time and hence the concentration in serum of netilmicin. The duration of the postantibiotic effect in serum depended also on the strain and the sampling time of the serum.
Bromocriptine, a dopamine D(2) receptor agonist, is a therapeutic agent for patients with prolactinoma and hyperprolactinemia. In this study we demonstrated that bromocriptine induced activation of p38 mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase, with concomitant induction of apoptosis in rat pituitary adenoma cell line GH3 cells. Treatment of GH3 cells for 48 h with bromocriptine increased the p38 MAP kinase activity up to 3- to 5-fold and simultaneously increased the number of apoptotic cells. Inclusion in the medium of SB212090 or SB203580, specific p38 MAP kinase inhibitors, completely abolished the bromocriptine-induced activation of p38 MAP kinase and significantly reduced the number of apoptotic cells. The bromocriptine-induced p38 MAP kinase activation was not prevented by S(-)-eticropride hydrochloride, a specific D(2) receptor antagonist. Treatment with either epidermal growth factor (EGF) or thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH), which stimulates p44/42 MAP kinase, rescued cells from the bromocriptine-induced apoptosis, with concomitant inhibition of the bromocriptine-induced p38 MAP kinase activation. These results suggest that bromocriptine induces apoptosis in association with p38 MAP kinase activation, and that the p44/42 MAP kinase signaling through EGF and TRH receptors has an opposing effect on p38 MAP kinase activation as well as on apoptosis induced with bromocriptine in GH3 cells.
Ghrelin has been recently identified as an endogenous ligand for growth hormone secretagogue receptor that regulates growth hormone secretion, increases appetite and contributes to energy homeostasis. Although this peptide is predominantly produced by the fasted stomach, little is known about its influence on the gastric mucosal integrity. The aim of the present study was (1) to investigate the effect of acylated ghrelin on the formation and healing of acute gastric mucosal lesions induced by ischemia-reperfusion and gastric mucosal blood flow in rats; (2) to analyse the effects of the deactivation of afferent sensory nerves with capsaicin and of the inhibition of nitric oxide (NO)-synthase by NG-nitro-l-arginine (l-NNA) on the ghrelin-induced protection; (3) to examine the influence of ghrelin on nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB) activation and on release of proinflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha, (4) to assess the effect of ghrelin on the mRNA expression of constitutive nitric oxide synthase (cNOS), calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) and angiogenesis related proteins such as hypoxia inducible factor-1 alpha (HIF-1alpha) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and (5) to determine the effect of ischemia/reperfusion on the gastric mucosa expression of ghrelin in rats without and with administration of exogenous hormone. Wistar rats were exposed to 30 min of ischemia followed by 3 h of reperfusion. Ghrelin was administered in dose of 5, 10 or 20 mug/kg intraperitoneally (i.p.) 30 min prior exposure to ischemia/reperfusion and at 3 h after the end of ischemia, the mean lesion area was measured by planimetry and the changes in gastric blood flow were determined by hydrogen (H2)-gas clearance method. The healing of ischemia/reperfusion induced lesions was evaluated at 24 h or 6 days after the end of standard ischemia/reperfusion. The expression of cNOS, CGRP, HIF-1alpha, VEGF and ghrelin was evaluated by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction or Western blot. Ghrelin significantly attenuated the ischemia/reperfusion-induced gastric lesions and accelerated the healing of these lesions while significantly raising the gastric blood flow. Deactivation of sensory nerves with capsaicin or inhibition of cNOS by L-NNA significantly attenuated the protective activity of ghrelin and accompanying increase in the GBF. Exogenous ghrelin significantly inhibited the activation of NF-kappaB and plasma TNF-alpha levels. The ghrelin-enhanced acceleration of healing of ischemia/perfusion induced lesions was accompanied by enhanced expression of mRNA for HIF-1alpha and by diminution of the ischemia/reperfusion induced increase in mRNA expression for TNF-alpha. We conclude that ghrelin exerts a potent protective action on the gastric mucosa and accelerates the healing of ischemia/reperfusion-induced lesions and these effects depend upon activation of sensory nerves, hyperemia mediated by NO, increased angiogenesis due to expression of YEGF and anti-inflammatory properties of this peptide.
We compared the in vitro activity of telavancin with that of vancomycin, teicoplanin, linezolid, quinupristin/dalfopristin, moxifloxacin and ampicillin, penicillin or oxacillin as appropriate, by the NCCLS/EUCAST and BSAC methods.
The organisms (n = 401) included in the study were patient isolates from St Thomas' Hospital and were selected to include representatives of the clinically important Gram-positive aerobic species. Susceptibility testing was performed by agar dilution methods on Mueller-Hinton agar according to the NCCLS/EUCAST guidelines, in comparison with Iso-Sensitest agar according to the BSAC guidelines.
Telavancin was active against all the Gram-positive species tested and nearly 90% of isolates included in the study had telavancin MICs </= 1 mg/L. Vancomycin-resistant enterococci and lactobacilli isolates with vancomycin MICs > 64 mg/L had telavancin MIC ranges of 0.5-8 and 2-16 mg/L, respectively. There was no evidence of cross-resistance with other comparator drugs. The results for telavancin for the two susceptibility testing methods were mostly either the same or within one doubling dilution.
The susceptibility breakpoints for telavancin have yet to be established, but it would appear that telavancin has superior potency to the other tested glycopeptides, and on a weight-for-weight basis displays activity that is comparable to, or better than, that of the other agents tested.
The effect of the administration of pantothenic acid (PTA) on valproic acid (VPA)-induced teratogenesis was examined in ICR mice. VPA (300, 400, and 500 mg/kg, s.c.) or PTA (3 x 10, 3 x 100, and 3 x 300 mg/kg, i.p.) was injected on day 8.5 of gestation (plug day = day 0.5). Exencephaly was induced dose dependently by single injections of VPA. Three administrations of PTA alone at any dose levels showed neither embryocidal nor teratogenic effects. In combined treatment experiments, PTA (3 x 300 mg/kg) was injected 1 hr before, immediately before, and 1 hr after VPA administration. PTA significantly reduced VPA-induced exencephaly, while none of the other external malformations such as open eyelid or skeletal malformations such as fused, absent, or bifurcated ribs and fused thoracic vertebrae and fused sternebrae were reduced. The results suggest that PTA reduces the incidence of neural tube defect induced by VPA in mice.
The effects of the antimalarial drug chloroquine (CQ) and its enantiomers [(+)-CQ and (-)-CQ] on 9 1/2-day post-implantation rat conceptuses were studied by the whole-embryo culture technique over a 48 hr period. At a concentration of 500 ng/ml of culture medium (0.97 microM), which falls within serum levels attained during long-term CQ therapy, the drugs produced varying degrees of growth retardation and dysmorphogenesis in the conceptuses. These effects were most severe with exposure to racemic CQ (100%) and also to equimolar concentrations of the two enantiomers (90%). Dysmorphogenesis was least with (+)-CQ (30%) and intermediate in severity in those exposed to (-)-CQ (32%). In the CQ and combined enantiomer groups, there was significant reduction in yolk sac diameter to 81% and 73%, the crown-rump length to 77% and 71%, the number of somites to 76% and 74%, and the embryonic protein content to 64% and 49%, respectively, of control values. In the (-)-enantiomer group the only parameter significantly affected was the somite number which was reduced to 83% of control. The growth parameters of (+)-CQ-treated embryos did not differ significantly from controls. The commonest morphological abnormalities observed in all treatment groups were those of axial rotation. Unfused and underdeveloped cranial neural tube, microophthalmia and abnormal otic primordium also occurred frequently, especially in the CQ and enantiomeric combination groups. The results suggest that the commercially available form of chloroquine, CQ, is embryotoxic in doses comparable to serum levels reached during long-term therapy with the drug. It also appears that although the individual enantiomers show minimal embryotoxicity at the dosage used, they potentiate each other's effects in the racemic mixture.
The first step in poliovirus replication is binding of virus to a cellular receptor. Mouse L cells, which are resistant to poliovirus infection because they do not bear a poliovirus receptor, were transformed with HeLa cell (human) DNA to poliovirus sensitivity at a frequency of approximately 1 in 50,000 transformants. Monoclonal antibody directed against the HeLa cell poliovirus receptor site was used in rosette assays to identify poliovirus-sensitive L-cell transformants in a background of L-cell tk+ transformants. A cloned cell line, CM-1, was isolated that displayed a surface component recognized by the anti-poliovirus receptor antibody. CM-1 cells were susceptible to infection with all three poliovirus serotypes, and infection could be blocked by the antireceptor antibody. Poliovirus formed plaques in CM-1 and HeLa cells with equal efficiency. CM-1 and HeLa cells produced infectious poliovirus at a similar rate, although yield of virus in CM-1 cells was about 33% less than the yield in HeLa cells. These results suggest that DNA encoding the HeLa cell poliovirus receptor has been introduced into mouse cells, resulting in the expression of the receptor and susceptibility to poliovirus infection.
We developed prediction models for bone lead using blood lead levels and other standard covariates in a community-based cohort of older men.
Participants having bone lead levels measured by K X-ray fluorescence were included in the model selection process (n = 825). Predictors of each tibia and patella lead were identified in three quarters of the population and then predicted the bone lead levels in the remaining one quarter and in the Community Lead Study.
Eighteen predictors were selected for tibia (blood lead, age, education, occupation, smoking status, pack-years of cigarette, serum levels of phosphorus, uric acid, calcium, creatinine and total and high-density lipoprotein cholesterols, hematocrit, body mass index, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, and diagnoses of cancer and diabetes; R2 = 0.32) and 16 for patella lead (among the predictors included in the tibia model diagnosis of cancer, serum levels of calcium, and total cholesterol were not included in patella lead model, but diagnosis of hypertension was included; R2 = 0.34), respectively. The correlation coefficients between the observed and predicted values were 0.43 to 0.50 for tibia and 0.52 to 0.58 for patella lead in internal and external validation. We applied these predicted bone lead models to the Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES-III) to examine associations with hypertension and found relatively more significant associations compared with blood lead.
This study suggests that the prediction equations may be used to predict bone lead levels in other community-based cohorts with reasonable accuracy.
Cardiac arrhythmia and electrolyte disturbances can occur as a complication of toxic serum levels of lithium salts. In this report, the development of sinus bradycardia and idioventricular rhythm with severe hypokalemia following an overdose ingestion of lithium carbonate was presented. Possible mechanisms and precautionary measures were discussed.
Diazoxide, 300 mg as a single bolus injection, is widely used to treat severe hypertension. Although usually effective, this standard dosage may decrease the blood pressure too much, inducing hypotensive problems. In this study 32 patients with a diastolic blood pressure above 125 mm Hg were treated with smaller bolus injections, 105 or 150 mg, which were repeated every 5 minutes as needed to reduce the diastolic pressure to 110 mm Hg or less. Seven patients of the 32 patients needed only one injection of 150 mg; only one patient needed more than three injections. This individual titration with mini-bolus injections of diazoxide was effective and did not induce hypotension or other side effects.
Although glucocorticoid (GC)-induced hypertension has commonly been attributed to promiscuous activation of the mineralocorticoid receptor by cortisol, thereby promoting excess reabsorption of sodium and water, numerous lines of evidence indicate that this is not the only or perhaps even the primary mechanism. GC induce a number of effects on vascular smooth muscle (VSM) in vitro that may be pertinent to hypertension, but their contribution in vivo is unknown. To address this question, a mouse model with a tissue-specific knockout (KO) of the GC receptor in the VSM was created and characterized. Similar to control mice, KO mice exhibited normal baseline BP and, interestingly, showed normal circadian variation in BP. When dexamethasone was administered, however, the acute hypertensive response was markedly attenuated in KO mice, and there was a trend toward a decreased chronic hypertensive response. These data suggest that the GC receptor in VSM plays a critical role in the acute hypertensive response to GC in vivo.
Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) acts in the preoptic area (POA) of the mammalian hypothalamus to increase body temperature and heart rate. Chemical stimulation of the dorsomedial hypothalamus (DMH), a region richly innervated by neurons in the POA, evokes sympathetically-mediated increases in heart rate and body temperature. We tested the hypothesis that neurons in the DMH mediate hyperthermia and tachycardia resulting from the action of PGE2 in the POA. Microinjection of PGE2 150 pmol/15 nl into the POA in urethane-anesthetized rats caused increases in body temperature and heart rate that were sharply reversed after injection of muscimol 80 pmol/100 nl into the DMH but not after similar injection of saline vehicle. Therefore, thermogenic and tachycardic actions of PGE2 in the POA are at least in part a consequence of neuronal activity in the region of the DMH.
Gastric lesion was induced by the oral administration of acidified aspirin in rats with hepatic cirrhosis produced by N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDA) or carbon tetrachloride (CCl4). Gastric lesion by acidified aspirin was aggravated in NDA-induced cirrhosis, but not in CCl4-cirrhotic rats. To clarify this difference in the susceptibility of the gastric mucosa, gastric mucosal blood flow and gastric emptying were measured by the hydrogen gas clearance method and beads method, respectively. Gastric mucosal blood flow was lower and gastric emptying was significantly delayed in NDA-induced cirrhotic rats as compared with the controls, but not in CCl4-induced cirrhotic rats. Gastric mucosal blood flow in NDA-induced cirrhotic rats was significantly decreased by the oral administration of acidified aspirin as compared with the controls. Aldioxa dose-dependently inhibited the gastric lesion formation by acidified aspirin and inhibited the decrease of gastric mucosal blood flow in NDA-induced cirrhotic rats. These results suggest that aggravation of gastric lesion induced by acidified aspirin in NDA-induced cirrhotic rats would be due to the decrease of gastric mucosal blood flow and delay of gastric emptying. In addition, aldioxa showed a protective effect against gastric lesions induced by acidified aspirin in NDA-induced cirrhotic rats, suggesting that this compound would have an inhibitory effect on gastric lesions that are accompanied by hepatic cirrhosis.
Material-related effects of a brushite and a PLGA controlled release system loaded with two distinct doses of bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) (3.5 and 17.5 μg), pre-encapsulated in poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA), were investigated in an intramedullary femur defect model in rabbits. The systems were characterized in vitro and in vivo over 12 weeks in terms of morphology, release kinetics, porosity, molecular weight, and composition using scanning electron microscopy, mercury porosimetry, radioactivity counting, X-ray diffractometry, differential scanning calorimetry, and gel permeation chromatography. During the experimental period the investigated systems underwent significant changes in vitro as well as in vivo. It should be stressed that the two in vitro release patterns were similar, however in vivo parallel profiles were observed with a higher burst effect for BMP-2 in the PLGA system. The PLGA system degraded and disintegrated significantly faster than the brushite system, which suffered slowly progressing external erosion and, additionally, material resorption by osteoclasts in vivo. The consequences of this were reflected in the degree of bone regeneration. Although a sustained delivery of BMP-2 was achieved with both systems, the brushite construct, independent of the loaded growth factor dose, failed to consistently induce defect repair, a result attributed to its slow resorption rate. In contrast, the PLGA system resulted in complete regeneration with mature trabecular bone formation 8 weeks after implantation.
The aim of the present study was to examine the effect of angiotensin II type I receptor antagonist, CV-11974, on indomethacin-induced small intestinal injury in rats. Single administration of indomethacin provoked severe inflammatory lesions in the small intestine. The levels of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS), myeloperoxidase (MPO) activities and cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant-1 (CINC-1) in the intestinal mucosa significantly increased in the indomethacin-treated group compared with the sham group. In addition, the angiotensin II type I receptor was increased in the small intestine after the administration of indomethacin. The development of intestinal lesions in response to indomethacin was prevented by pretreatment with CV-11974 together with significant suppression of the increased level of TBARS, MPO activities and CINC-1. These results indicate that CV-11974 protected against the small intestinal damage elicited by indomethacin, which suggests that angiotensin II/AT1 receptor interaction is involved in the pathogenesis of the intestinal inflammation associated with oxidative stress.
