Dermatologists are often faced with the difficulty of evaluating drug reactions in patients receiving multiple medications. Unfortunately, few drugs produce distinctive lesions; many types of medications can produce identical eruptions. One common drug-induced eruption is urticaria. We report a specific eruption due to procainamide: urticarial vasculitis.
This report concerns the first case in Japan of interstitial nephritis induced by mesalazine, a new therapeutic agent for inflammatory bowel disease, such as ulcerative colitis. Twenty-two cases have already been reported in other countries. The patient, a 27-year-old woman, was treated with mesalazine for her ulcerative colitis at another hospital. At the beginning of her treatment, her serum creatinine level was within the normal range. After 12 months, this level increased up to 5.7 mg/dl. She was then referred to our hospital for renal investigation and therapy. A renal biopsy revealed that severe tubulo-interstitial nephritis had occurred. Her mesalazine treatment was withdrawn and prednisolone was administered. Her serum creatinine level decreased gradually. However, this level remained at about 2.8 mg/dl and stabilized at that level. She was then discharged from the hospital. Glomeruli appeared to have minor glomerular abnormalities except for one globally sclerosed glomerulus as observed by light microscopy. However, IgM and C3 deposition on glomeruli were also observed. Glomerular lesions were suspected from these histological findings. A similar case that showed IgM. C3 depositions in glomeruli has previously been reported. The possibility of glomerular lesions being induced by mesalazine should be further researched. From the summary of reported cases, a delay of diagnosis of interstitial nephritis induced by mesalazine has resulted in permanent irreversible renal failure. Intensive monitoring of renal function is required when a patient is treated with mesalazine.
To determine the impact of the expression of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) on disease-free survival (DFS) and on pelvic relapse in patients with advanced cancer of the cervix receiving concurrent chemoradiotherapy.
In 112 consecutive patients with advanced cancer of the cervix (11 stage IB2-IIA, 25 IIB, 63 IIIB, 13 IVA) treated with chemoradiotherapy between December 1994 and September 2004, the expression of EGFR using histoimmunochemistry was measured and used in univariate and multivariate analysis, along with variables such as age, International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics Staging System for Epithelial Ovarian Cancer (FIGO) stage, histology, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG), tumor size, and ganglia involvement diagnosed with computerized axial tomography, treatment with cisplatin to evaluate its impact on DFS and pelvic relapse.
Of the 112 biopsies, 32 (28.6%) were negative or slightly positive (EGFR±) and 80 (71.4%) were moderate or intensely positive (EGFR++/+++). The overexpression of EGFR (++/+++) was significantly associated with an epidermoid histology (P < 0.0001), with a higher rate of pelvis relapse and a decreased DFS (hazard ratio [HR]: 2.31 [1.08-4.96]; P = 0.03). Overall, treatment with cisplatin increased DFS (HR: 0.51 [0.26-0.97]; P = 0.04).
Patients with tumors of the cervix and overexpression of the EGFR++/+++ show a higher probability of pelvic relapses and a decreased disease-free survival. The poor prognosis of these tumors may be a consequence of an increase in radio-resistance.
A 16-year-old girl treated with isotretinoin at a dosage of 0.7 mg per kg each day experienced severe headaches and impaired night vision two months after the start of therapy. Bilateral papilledema and narrowing of the lateral ventricles of the brain were found. Pseudotumor cerebri and impaired night vision abated when isotretinoin was discontinued and systemic corticosteroids (dexamethasone) were administered.
The anaemia induced by 3'-azido-3'dideoxythymidine (AZT) is poorly understood. We have used a murine model of AIDS, infection of female C57BL/6 mice with LP-BM5 murine leukaemia (MuLV) virus, to determine if AZT-induced anaemia is due, in part, to decreased responsiveness of erythropoietic precursors (BFU-e) to erythropoietin (EPO). Mice in the early stage of LP-BM5 MuLV disease were given AZT in their drinking water at 1.0 and 2.5 mg/ml. AZT produced anaemia in both groups, in a dose-dependent fashion. Despite the anaemia, the number of splenic and bone marrow BFU-e in AZT treated mice increased up to five-fold over levels observed in infected untreated animals after 15 d of treatment. Colony formation by splenic and bone marrow BFUe was stimulated at lower concentrations of EPO in mice receiving AZT for 15 d than for infected, untreated mice. By day 30, sensitivity of both splenic and bone marrow BFU-e of treated animals returned to that observed from cells of infected untreated animals. The mean plasma levels of EPO observed in AZT treated mice were appropriate for the degree of anaemia observed when compared with phenylhydrazine (PHZ) treated mice. The numbers of BFU-e and the percentage of bone marrow erythroblasts observed were comparable in AZT and PHZ treated mice with similar degrees of anaemia. However, reticulocytosis was inappropriate for the degree of anaemia observed in AZT treated infected mice. AZT-induced peripheral anaemia in the face of increased numbers of BFU-e and increased levels of plasma EPO suggest a lesion in terminal differentiation.
Four patients with prosthetic heart valves suffered intracranial hemorrhage (cerebral hemorrhage in one patient, cerebellar hemorrhage in one, and chronic subdural hematoma in two) during long-term oral anticoagulant drug therapy (warfarin). In all patients, warfarin was discontinued and its effect neutralized by vitamin K, then surgery was performed after the thrombotest value exceeded 50%. No uncontrollable bleeding occurred at surgery. Warfarin was discontinued until 3-7 days postoperatively. Intravenous heparin administration was used to prevent embolic complications and the dose was modified based on the activated clotting time measured at the bedside. One patient, who could not receive heparin administration because of massive bleeding, developed myocardial infarction due to coronary artery thromboembolism 2 days after operation and died 4 days later. The other patients received heparin administration and were alive and well at the most recent follow-up examinations. Heparin administration monitored by activated clotting time is a useful method to prevent embolic and bleeding complications in the surgical treatment of intracranial hemorrhage in patients with prosthetic heart valves receiving long-term anticoagulant therapy.
Small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) is an aggressive lung tumor subtype with poor prognosis. We sequenced 29 SCLC exomes, 2 genomes and 15 transcriptomes and found an extremely high mutation rate of 7.4±1 protein-changing mutations per million base pairs. Therefore, we conducted integrated analyses of the various data sets to identify pathogenetically relevant mutated genes. In all cases, we found evidence for inactivation of TP53 and RB1 and identified recurrent mutations in the CREBBP, EP300 and MLL genes that encode histone modifiers. Furthermore, we observed mutations in PTEN, SLIT2 and EPHA7, as well as focal amplifications of the FGFR1 tyrosine kinase gene. Finally, we detected many of the alterations found in humans in SCLC tumors from Tp53 and Rb1 double knockout mice. Our study implicates histone modification as a major feature of SCLC, reveals potentially therapeutically tractable genomic alterations and provides a generalizable framework for the identification of biologically relevant genes in the context of high mutational background.
In the present investigation we address the question of whether one of the responses to increased neuronal activity is a modification of the expression of the different subunits of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA)-selective glutamate receptors (GluR-1, GluR-2, GluR-3). Thus, we used two different models of generalized status epilepticus, as widespread elevated neuronal activity, to study in vivo responses of the AMPA receptor mRNA expression in rat forebrain. By Northern blot analysis and in situ hybridization, we show that one of the delayed responses to LiCl/pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus is a dramatic change in the mRNA level of some subunits of AMPA-selective glutamate receptors. These effects, which appear between 6 and 12 h after the drug treatment, are subunit and brain region specific. The most striking example of differential expression of the three examined GluR mRNAs can be observed in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. In this specific brain subregion an increase of GluR-3 mRNA level is induced 12 h after LiCl/pilocarpine treatment, while a clear decrease in GluR-1 mRNA level and no significant change in GluR-2 mRNA level can be observed in the same area under these experimental conditions. Both the GluR-1 decrease and the GluR-3 increase are transient effects and a return to basal level can be observed after 48-72 h. In the CA1 layer of the hippocampus, a parallel decrease of both GluR-1 and GluR-3 expression is found 12-24 h after drug treatment, followed by a recovery of the expression to control values at 48 h. In kainate-induced epilepsy we could reproduce the late increase (12-24 h) in GluR-3 mRNA in the dentate gyrus; however, under this experimental condition, no clear decrease of GluR-1 expression can be observed in this area. A general decrease in mRNA level for the AMPA receptor subunits (GluR-1-3) in the hippocampal layers, in particular in CA3 and CA4 subfields, was also observed. In conclusion the results reported in the present paper reveal a specific regulation of GluR gene expression in the granule cells of the hippocampal dentate gyrus and stimulate further investigation on the functional role of the GluR-3 subunit in the receptor-channel complex.
Small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) is an exceptionally aggressive disease with poor prognosis. Here, we obtained exome, transcriptome and copy-number alteration data from approximately 53 samples consisting of 36 primary human SCLC and normal tissue pairs and 17 matched SCLC and lymphoblastoid cell lines. We also obtained data for 4 primary tumors and 23 SCLC cell lines. We identified 22 significantly mutated genes in SCLC, including genes encoding kinases, G protein-coupled receptors and chromatin-modifying proteins. We found that several members of the SOX family of genes were mutated in SCLC. We also found SOX2 amplification in ∼27% of the samples. Suppression of SOX2 using shRNAs blocked proliferation of SOX2-amplified SCLC lines. RNA sequencing identified multiple fusion transcripts and a recurrent RLF-MYCL1 fusion. Silencing of MYCL1 in SCLC cell lines that had the RLF-MYCL1 fusion decreased cell proliferation. These data provide an in-depth view of the spectrum of genomic alterations in SCLC and identify several potential targets for therapeutic intervention.
In two in vivo experiments, low doses of 5-methyl cytidine significantly suppressed the growth of urethan-induced lung tumours in strain A mice while higher doses were less effective. This inverse dose-response relationship mimics the previously reported effect of 5-methyl cytidine on mammary tumour growth in C3H mice. The finding that 5-methyl cytidine inhibits lung tumour growth as well as mammary tumour growth suggests this nucleoside may be an effective inhibitor of solid tumour growth in general. A study of the effect of 5-methyl cytidine on mouse lung tumour cell viability in vitro suggests that the direct cytotoxic effect of 5-methyl cytidine is dependent on the cell cycle. Since cell-cycle dependent agents do not inhibit lung tumour growth in vivo, 5-methyl cytidine probably inhibits mouse lung tumour growth indirectly by some effect on the host rather than by a direct cytotoxic effect on the lung tumour.
Dietary copper deficiency (CuD)(3) leads to cardiac hypertrophy in various animal models. We showed recently that heart failure develops after hypertrophy in FVB mice fed a CuD diet. The present study was undertaken to determine whether CuD-induced cardiac failure is reversible upon copper repletion (CuR). Dams of FVB mice were fed a CuD diet (0.3 mg/kg) starting from d 3 postdelivery; the weanling pups were fed the same diet until CuR with 6.0 mg/kg Cu in the diet at 4 or 5 wk of age. CuR at 4 wk of age prevented the body weight loss; at 5 wk of age, it resulted in the regaining of the lost weight caused by CuD. A significant regression of CuD-induced cardiac hypertrophy was observed in the CuR mice. Histopathological examination revealed that CuR eliminated CuD-caused lipid deposition in the myocardium, and electron microscopy demonstrated that CuD-induced ultrastructural changes such as mitochondrial swelling and organelle structural disarray were all reversed in the CuR mice. Hemodynamic analysis showed that the CuD-depressed systolic and diastolic parameters such as the maximal rate of left ventricular pressure rise (+dP/dt) and decline (-dP/dt), and the contraction and relaxation times were completely recovered in the CuR mice. Furthermore, the CuD-blunted myocardial responses to the beta-adrenergic agonist, isoproterenol, were also restored in the CuR mice. This study thus demonstrates for the first time that CuR results in the regression of heart failure induced by CuD as demonstrated by the reversal of depressed cardiac hemodynamic and contractile function and the restored responsiveness to beta-adrenergic stimulation.
A case of ticarcillin-induced hemorrhagic cystitis is presented, and the literature on drug-induced hemorrhagic cystitis is reviewed. A 12-year-old white boy with cystic fibrosis was hospitalized for an exacerbation of his pulmonary disease. Laboratory tests on admission showed an elevated white blood cell (WBC) count, 10-20 WBCs per high-power field (HPF) in urine, and normal BUN and serum creatinine. The patient was given ticarcillin i.v. (as the disodium salt) (final dosage of 320 mg/kg/day) in divided doses every six hours and netilmicin i.v. (as the sulfate salt) (final dosage of 4 mg/kg every eight hours). On day 7 the patient complained of painful urination, and urinalysis showed a 10-20 WBCs/HPF and 2-5 red blood cells (RBCs)/HPF. Two days later, the patient had gross hematuria, and urinalysis revealed 10-20 WBCs/HPF and 10-20 RBCs/HPF. Ticarcillin and netilmicin were discontinued and the patient's symptoms abated within 48 hours. Repeat urinalysis on day 11 showed no RBCs and 10-20 WBCs/HPF, with no casts or protein. Three months later, the patient was again hospitalized for an exacerbation of his cystic fibrosis. He was placed on tobramycin sulfate i.v. and ticarcillin i.v. (340 mg/kg/day). After the fourth dose of ticarcillin, the patient again complained of urinary pain and frequency and also reported gross hematuria. Urinalysis showed bacteria, 2-5 WBCs/HPF, and 5-10 RBCs/HPF; however, urine cultures were negative. Ticarcillin was discontinued and cefoxitin sodium i.v. was started. The patient's symptoms resolved within 36 hours, and a urinalysis on the fourth hospital day was normal.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Amantadine has found use primarily as an antiviral agent and in the symptomatic treatment of parkinsonism. However, the use of amantadine for the subjective alleviation of fatigue in multiple sclerosis and in the treatment of agitated aggressive behavior in the traumatic brain injured patient has also been described. Side effects of amantadine are primarily related to the central nervous system and include hallucinations, confusion, and nightmares. Toxic manifestations include acute psychosis, coma, cardiovascular toxicity, and death. Amantadine toxicity is a particular problem in patients with renal insufficiency because 90% of an oral dose is excreted unchanged in the urine. We present a case of amantadine-induced coma in a patient with multiple sclerosis and end-stage renal disease. Moreover, this degree of amantadine toxicity was profoundly apparent at a drug level usually not associated with such a severe presentation.
The need to consider myocarditis as one cause of flu-like symptoms in patients taking clozapine should be well entrenched. Suspicion should be heightened if the symptoms develop during the first 6-8 weeks of therapy. The FDA and the drug's manufacturer have strengthened warnings to include that a potentially fatal myocarditis may occur when taking clozapine. We aim to highlight the side effects of clozapine and increase awareness of this condition associated with the usage of the drug.
Rats sustaining unilateral near-complete 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the mesostriatal dopamine pathway received daily injections of 3, 4 dihydroxyphenyl-l-alanine (L-DOPA, 8 mg/kg plus 15 mg/kg benserazide) for 3 weeks. During this period, about 50% of the rats gradually developed abnormal involuntary movements, lasting for 2-3 h following each L-DOPA dose. Rats were killed 3 days after the last L-DOPA injection, and sections through the striatum were processed for in situ hybridization histochemistry. Within the L-DOPA-treated group, levels of preproenkephalin (PPE) mRNA, glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD67) mRNA, and prodynorphin (PDyn) mRNA in the dopamine-denervated caudate-putamen, as well as GAD67 mRNA expression in the globus pallidus ipsilateral to the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion, were higher in dyskinetic than non-dyskinetic animals, and positively correlated with the rats' dyskinesia scores. By contrast, striatal preprotachykinin mRNA expression and D2 receptor-radioligand binding were not significantly associated with dyskinesia. Among all these markers, PDyn mRNA levels showed the most pronounced treatment-dependence (three times higher in the L-DOPA-treated group than in saline-injected lesion-only controls), and the strongest correlation with the rats' dyskinesia scores (r2 = 0.82). However, a multiple regression equation including the three factors, GAD67 mRNA levels in the GP, GAD67 mRNA in the lateral CPu, and striatal PDyn mRNA, gave a better fit for dyskinesia scores than PDyn mRNA alone (r2 = 0.92). The results show that L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia is associated with overexpression of PDyn and GAD67 mRNA in the striatal projection neurons, and GAD67 mRNA levels in the globus pallidus. Due to its treatment-dependent expression, and strong correlation with the associated dyskinetic symptoms, striatal PDyn mRNA, in particular, may play a role in the mechanisms of behavioural sensitization brought about by the drug.
Loss-of-function mutations in SCN5A, the gene encoding Na(v)1.5 Na+ channel, are associated with inherited cardiac conduction defects and Brugada syndrome, which both exhibit variable phenotypic penetrance of conduction defects. We investigated the mechanisms of this heterogeneity in a mouse model with heterozygous targeted disruption of Scn5a (Scn5a(+/-) mice) and compared our results to those obtained in patients with loss-of-function mutations in SCN5A.
Based on ECG, 10-week-old Scn5a(+/-) mice were divided into 2 subgroups, one displaying severe ventricular conduction defects (QRS interval>18 ms) and one a mild phenotype (QRS< or = 18 ms; QRS in wild-type littermates: 10-18 ms). Phenotypic difference persisted with aging. At 10 weeks, the Na+ channel blocker ajmaline prolonged QRS interval similarly in both groups of Scn5a(+/-) mice. In contrast, in old mice (>53 weeks), ajmaline effect was larger in the severely affected subgroup. These data matched the clinical observations on patients with SCN5A loss-of-function mutations with either severe or mild conduction defects. Ventricular tachycardia developed in 5/10 old severely affected Scn5a(+/-) mice but not in mildly affected ones. Correspondingly, symptomatic SCN5A-mutated Brugada patients had more severe conduction defects than asymptomatic patients. Old severely affected Scn5a(+/-) mice but not mildly affected ones showed extensive cardiac fibrosis. Mildly affected Scn5a(+/-) mice had similar Na(v)1.5 mRNA but higher Na(v)1.5 protein expression, and moderately larger I(Na) current than severely affected Scn5a(+/-) mice. As a consequence, action potential upstroke velocity was more decreased in severely affected Scn5a(+/-) mice than in mildly affected ones.
Scn5a(+/-) mice show similar phenotypic heterogeneity as SCN5A-mutated patients. In Scn5a(+/-) mice, phenotype severity correlates with wild-type Na(v)1.5 protein expression.
A patient developing acute pancreatitis with pseudocyst formation after an uncomplicated bone marrow harvest is reported. The diagnosis was confirmed by elevated serum amylase and lipase, and by CT scan. We suggest that the pancreatitis may have been precipitated by spasm of the sphincter of Oddi secondary to opiates administered as premedication and for pain relief.
Chronic use of methamphetamine (MA) is associated with neuropsychological dysfunction and affective distress. Some normalization of function has been reported after abstinence, but little in the way of data is available on the possible added benefits of long-term sobriety. To address this, we performed detailed neuropsychological and affective evaluations in 83 MA-dependent individuals at a baseline visit and following an average one-year interval period. Among the 83 MA-dependent participants, 25 remained abstinent, and 58 used MA at least once during the interval period. A total of 38 non-MA-addicted, demographically matched healthy comparison (i.e., HC) participants were also examined. At baseline, both MA-dependent participants who were able to maintain abstinence and those who were not performed significantly worse than the healthy comparison subjects on global neuropsychological functioning and were significantly more distressed. At the one-year follow-up, both the long-term abstainers and healthy comparison groups showed comparable global neuropsychological performance and affective distress levels, whereas the MA-dependent group who continued to use MA were worse than the comparison participants in terms of global neuropsychological functioning and affective distress. An interaction was observed between neuropsychological impairment at baseline, MA abstinence, and cognitive improvement, with abstinent MA-dependent participants who were neuropsychologically impaired at baseline demonstrating significantly and disproportionately greater improvement in processing speed and slightly greater improvement in motor abilities than the other participants. These results suggest partial recovery of neuropsychological functioning and improvement in affective distress upon sustained abstinence from MA that may extend beyond a year or more.
We present a case of a bone marrow donor who developed rhabdomyolysis, acute renal failure and pulmonary edema following an apparently uneventful general anesthesia for bone marrow harvesting. Because malignant hyperthermia (MH) was suspected, he was treated with dantrolene, fluid loading, and continuous hemodiafiltration along with symptomatic supportive care. He made a full recovery and was discharged 3 weeks after harvest. Although the incidence of MH is low, marrow donation involves the risks of anesthesia as is seen in this case. Close monitoring is required to prevent life-threatening complications associated with the bone marrow harvesting procedure.
1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 has been used with success in the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism associated with chronic renal failure. However, frequently 1,25-(OH)2D3 induces hypercalcemia, especially in those patients ingesting large doses of calcium carbonate, precluding the administration of therapeutic doses of 1,25-(OH)2D3. In addition, control of serum phosphorus is a persistent problem in patients maintained on chronic hemodialysis and 1,25-(OH)2D3 treatment can aggravate the hyperphosphatemia. Thus, ideally an analog of 1,25-(OH)2D3 that can suppress PTH with minor effects on calcium (Ca) and phosphate (PO4) metabolism would be an ideal tool to control secondary hyperparathyroidism. We have shown that 22-oxa-1,25-(OH)2D3 (OCT), an analog of 1,25-(OH)2D3 with little calcemic activity, can suppress PTH mRNA in normal rats and in cultured bovine parathyroid cells with equipotency to 1,25-(OH)2D3. To further characterize the differential effects of 1,25-(OH)2D3 and OCT on Ca and PO4 metabolism we performed several experiments in intact and parathyroidectomized (PTX) rats. In metabolic studies in four groups of normal rats 1,25-(OH)2D3 treatment (8 ng/day) significantly increased the intestinal Ca absorption from 15.2 +/- 2.68% to 30.5 +/- 2.85% (P < 0.01), while the same dose of OCT had no effect. A dose of 200 ng/day of OCT increased intestinal Ca absorption similarly to the 8 ng/day dose of 1,25-(OH)2D3, from 10.6 +/- 2.49% to 24.8 +/- 2.35% (P < 0.01).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Adefovir has a potent antiviral activity as a rescue treatment against lamivudine-resistant strains. The aim of this study was to assess the patterns of lamivudine-resistant mutations and their influence on the virologic response to adefovir rescue therapy in patients with lamivudine-resistant chronic hepatitis B. Sixty-seven patients with lamivudine-resistant chronic hepatitis B were treated with adefovir monotherapy. Baseline blood samples were analyzed for lamivudine-resistant mutations via restriction fragment mass polymorphism. Virologic responses, ALT normalization and loss of HBeAg were assessed. Serum HBV DNA levels were measured using real-time PCR at baseline and 24 weeks of adefovir therapy. Of the 67 patients with chronic hepatitis B, 65 patients (97%) had lamivudine-resistant mutations in the YMDD motif [27 (41%) rtM204I, 22 (34%) rtM204V, and 16 (25%) rtM204I/V]. In addition to the YMDD mutations, the rtL180M, rtL80I, and rtV173L mutations were also present in 78%, 43%, and 11% of patients, respectively. The rtM204V mutation always accompanied rtL180M, and rtL80I was always observed in conjunction with rtM204I. Decrease in mean serum HBV did not differ between patients carrying the rtM204I versus rtM204V mutant at week 24 (-3.3 vs. -3.3 log(10) copies/ml, respectively; P = 0.303). The presence of the rtL180M, rtL80I, and rtV173L did not significantly affect viral load reduction during adefovir administration. These results demonstrate that the rtL80I mutant is co-selected with rtM204I as a compensatory mutation in the same manner as rtL180M with rtM204V, and that adefovir shows similar antiviral efficacy against all of the evaluated patterns of lamivudine-resistant HBV mutations.
Current antipsychotics have only a limited effect on 2 core aspects of schizophrenia: negative symptoms and cognitive deficits. Minocycline is a second-generation tetracycline that has a beneficial effect in various neurologic disorders. Recent findings in animal models and human case reports suggest its potential for the treatment of schizophrenia. These findings may be linked to the effect of minocycline on the glutamatergic system, through inhibition of nitric oxide synthase and blocking of nitric oxide-induced neurotoxicity. Other proposed mechanisms of action include effects of minocycline on the dopaminergic system and its inhibition of microglial activation.
To examine the efficacy of minocycline as an add-on treatment for alleviating negative and cognitive symptoms in early-phase schizophrenia.
A longitudinal double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled design was used, and patients were followed for 6 months from August 2003 to March 2007. Seventy early-phase schizophrenia patients (according to DSM-IV) were recruited and 54 were randomly allocated in a 2:1 ratio to minocycline 200 mg/d. All patients had been initiated on treatment with an atypical antipsychotic < or = 14 days prior to study entry (risperidone, olanzapine, quetiapine, or clozapine; 200-600 mg/d chlorpromazine-equivalent doses). Clinical, cognitive, and functional assessments were conducted, with the Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms (SANS) as the primary outcome measure.
Minocycline was well tolerated, with few adverse events. It showed a beneficial effect on negative symptoms and general outcome (evident in SANS, Clinical Global Impressions scale). A similar pattern was found for cognitive functioning, mainly in executive functions (working memory, cognitive shifting, and cognitive planning).
Minocycline treatment was associated with improvement in negative symptoms and executive functioning, both related to frontal-lobe activity. Overall, the findings support the beneficial effect of minocycline add-on therapy in early-phase schizophrenia.
clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00733057.
The AzimiLide post-Infarct surVival Evaluation (ALIVE) trial is a new clinical trial using an innovative design to examine the potential of azimilide, a novel type of antiarrhythmic, for improving survival in post myocardial infarction (MI) patients at high risk of sudden cardiac death. Azimilide is the first of a unique class of antiarrhythmic drugs that blocks both slow and rapid components of the delayed rectifier potassium currents in human myocardium. Preclinical studies have shown the drug to be effective in reducing cardiac tachyarrhythmias, even under ischemic conditions. Currently, azimilide is in Phase III trials for the treatment of supraventricular arrhythmias. The ALIVE study design is based on lessons learned from the Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trials (CAST), the Survival With Oral d-Sotalol (SWORD) trial, and the European Myocardial Infarction Amiodarone Trial (EMIAT) and identifies recent post-MI patients at high risk of sudden cardiac death. The hypothesis underlying this trial is that azimilide will improve survival in this patient population. The ALIVE trial is designed as a double-blind, placebo-controlled, multinational trial that will overcome the shortcomings of previous antiarrhythmic trials by using left ventricular ejection fraction and heart rate variability as predictors to target a post-MI patient population at high risk of sudden death. The major inclusion criteria for the study are adult patients of either gender with a left ventricular ejection fraction of 15-35% who have had a recent MI (within 6-21 days). Additional stratification will be based on patients with heart rate variability < or = 20 U (heart rate variability index). Exclusion criteria include factors that may predispose a patient to nonarrhythmia-induced death or to low risk of sudden cardiac death caused by arrhythmia. Sample size is based on the assumption that the all-cause mortality rate (the primary endpoint) for 1 year in placebo patients at high risk for sudden cardiac death (heart rate variability < or = 20 U) is 15% and that azimilide will decrease all-cause mortality by at least 45% in these patients. The trial consists of 3 groups-patients receiving 75 mg azimilide orally each day, patients receiving 100 mg azimilide orally each day, and patients receiving placebo. No dose adjustments for age, gender, renal or hepatic failure, or concomitant use of warfarin or digoxin are thought necessary with azimilide. Enrollment for the trial is expected to continue for 24 months, and treatment is scheduled to be administered for a 1-year follow-up period.
Adenosine is thought to participate in local regulation of coronary blood flow. However, competitive antagonists of adenosine fail to block myocardial active hyperemia. We examined the effect of locally administered theophylline on active hyperemia and myocardial adenosine production during intracoronary isoproterenol infusion in the dog heart. Isoproterenol decreased coronary resistance and increased myocardial adenosine production. Infusion of theophylline at a rate that attenuated the vasodilator response to exogenously administered adenosine failed to attenuate the increase in coronary blood flow produced by isoproterenol. However, theophylline plus isoproterenol produced greater increases in myocardial adenosine production than isoproterenol alone. The curves relating resistance and adenosine in the presence of theophylline fell to the right of those in the absence of theophylline. These findings suggest that the failure of theophylline to attenuate isoproterenol hyperemia in the dog heart results at least in part from an increase in adenosine concentration at the arteriole to a level beyond that blocked by this competitive antagonist and that adenosine may in fact play a role in isoproterenol-induced active hyperemia.
Adult C57BL/10Bg mice, normally resistant to audiogenic seizures, became susceptible when the mothers drank 10 per cent ethanol in water during pregnancy and for 14 days postpartem. Reserpine enhanced the incidence of seizures, and the effect was reversed by 5-hydroxytryptophan but not by dihydroxyphenylalanine. p-Chlorophenylalanine also enhanced the incidence of seizures, whereas alpha-methyl equals p equals tyrosine did not effect. Monsodium glutamate almost completely prevented seizures. These results are consistent with the interpretation that the serotonergic systems may be among those involved in the seizure mechanism induced by fetal and early exposure to ethanol.
In a test of Feingold's hypothesis that food additives trigger the hyperactive response, 26 hyperactive children were randomly assigned to treatment conditions whereby they were given active or placebo medications in combination with challenge cookies with artificial food colors or control cookies without the additives. The children were crossed over into each of the four treatment conditions and experimental procedures were employed, including double-blind assessments through the completion of behavior checklists, by teachers and parents. Stimulant medications were clearly more effective than diet in reducing hyperactive behavior. The parent ratings indicate strong drug effects and inconclusive diet effects. Drug effects are marked in teacher ratings as well. However, when the children were receiving placebos, their hyperactive behaviors in the classroom were greater when eating cookies with artificial colors than when eating cookies without artificial colors. According to the ratings, approximately seven children were no longer hyperactive. There is evidence to suggest that the behavior of three to eight children was diet-responsive, depending on the criteria used. There is evidence, particularly in teacher ratings, in support of Feingold's hypothesis if it is modified. Further research is required to specify which subtypes of hyperactive children respond to a diet free of artificial food colors.
A patient treated with valproic acid and phenytoin for complex partial epilepsy developed a stupor at therapeutic serum levels of the anti-epileptic agents. A few days after discontinuation of valproic acid, complete recovery occurred. The pathogenic mechanism involved is still obscure.
Despite advantages of induction and maintenance of anaesthesia with sevoflurane, postoperative nausea and vomiting occurs frequently. Fentanyl is a commonly used supplement that may contribute to this, although it may also improve analgesia.
This double-blind study examined the incidence and severity of postoperative nausea and vomiting and pain in the first 24 h after sevoflurane anaesthesia in 216 adult day surgery patients. Patients were randomly allocated to either receive or not receive 1 1 fentanyl, while a third group received dexamethasone in addition to fentanyl.
Omission of fentanyl did not reduce the overall incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting, but did reduce the incidence of vomiting and/or moderate to severe nausea prior to discharge from 20% and 17% with fentanyl and fentanyl-dexamethasone, respectively, to 5% (P = 0.013). Antiemetic requirements were reduced from 24% and 31% to 7% (P = 0.0012). Dexamethasone had no significant effect on the incidence or severity of postoperative nausea and vomiting. Combining the two fentanyl groups revealed further significant benefits from the avoidance of opioids, reducing postoperative nausea and vomiting and nausea prior to discharge from 35% and 33% to 22% and 19% (P = 0.049 and P = 0.035), respectively, while nausea in the first 24 h was decreased from 42% to 27% (P = 0.034). Pain severity and analgesic requirements were unaffected by the omission of fentanyl. Fentanyl did reduce minor intraoperative movement but had no sevoflurane-sparing effect and increased respiratory depression, hypotension and bradycardia.
As fentanyl exacerbated postoperative nausea and vomiting without an improvement in postoperative pain and also had adverse cardiorespiratory effects, it appears to be an unnecessary and possibly detrimental supplement to sevoflurane in day surgery.
