Cardiovascular disease is now well established as a multifactorial disease. In a given individual, the level of cardiovascular risk is due to the interaction between genetic and environmental components. The BIP cohort comprises 3000 patients with cardiovascular disease who were tested for the benefits of bezafibrate treatment. This cohort has the data for the lipid profile of each individual, fibrinogen, insulin, as well as clinical, demographic and lifestyle parameters.
To genotype up to 64 variable sites in 36 genes in the BIP cohort. The genes tested in this assay are involved in pathways implicated in the development and progression of atherosclerotic plaques, lipid and homocystein metabolism, blood pressure regulation, thrombosis, rennin-angiotensin system, platelet aggregation, and leukocyte adhesion.
DNA was extracted from 1000 Israeli patients from the BIP cohort. A multilocus assay, developed by the Roche Molecular System, was used for genotyping. Allele frequencies for some of the markers were compared to the published frequencies in a healthy population (the French Stanislas cohort, n = 1480).
Among the 26 comparable alleles checked in the two cohorts, 16 allele frequencies were significantly different from the healthy French population: ApoE(E3, E2, E4), ApoB (71ile), ApoC (3482T, 455C, 1100T, 3175G, 3206G), CETP(405val), ACE (Del), AGT (235thr), ELAM (128arg); P < 0001 and LPL (93G, 291Ser, 447ter); P < 005.
Although a comparable healthy Israeli population study is needed for more precise interpretation of these results, frequency differences in these polymorphic alleles--associated with lipid metabolism, renin-angiotensin system and leukocyte adhesion mechanism--between CVD patients and healthy individuals nevertheless implicate these candidate genes as predisposing for CVD.
Copper-induced toxicity is important in the pathogenic process of Wilson's disease (WD). Using Long-Evans Cinnamon (LEC) rats, an animal model of WD, the study was undertaken to identify proteins involved in the process of WD and to investigate their functional roles in copper-induced hepatotoxicity. In early stages, expression levels of mitochondrial matrix proteins including agmatinase, isovaleryl coenzyme A dehydrogenase, and cytochrome b5 were downregulated. As mitochondrial injuries progressed, along with subsequent apoptotic processes, expressions of malate dehydrogenase 1, annexin A5, transferrin, S-adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase, and sulfite oxidase 1 were differentially regulated. Notably, the expression of malate dehydrogenase 1 was downregulated while the annexin A5 was overexpressed in an age-dependent manner, indicating that these proteins may be involved in the WD process. In addition, pronounced under-expression of S-adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase in elderly LEC rats, also involved in monoamine neurotransmitter metabolism, indicates that this protein might be related to the development of neurological manifestations in WD. The results of our study help to understand the pathogenic process of WD in hepatic tissues, identifying the important proteins associated with the disease process of WD, and to investigate the molecular pathogenic process underlying the development of neurological manifestations in WD.
Organophosphate insecticides represent one of the most widely used classes of pesticides with high potential for human exposure in both rural and residential environments.
In the present study, we investigated the effects of pirimiphos-methyl (0, 2-diethylamino-6-methylpirimidin-4-yl O, O-dimethyl phosphorothioate), an organophosphothioate pesticide, on male rat reproductive performances.
A total of 24 adult Wistar rats were divided into 4 groups of 6 animals each and orally treated with 0, 41.67, 62.5 or 125 mg/kg of pirimiphos-methyl for 90 days.
Results from the study showed a significant increase (p<0.05) in feed consumption, body weight gain, relative testis and epidiydimis weights and intra-testicular cholesterol level in rats receiving the test substance at doses of 62.5 or 125 mg/kg whereas a significant decrease (p<0.05) in serum total protein, sperm density and motility, fertility and parturition indices and pups sex-ratio (M/F) was recorded in animals treated with 125 mg/Kg of pirimiphos methyl. Histological findings also indicated enlargement of interstitial space, inhibition of spermatogenesis, rarefaction of Leydig cells and oedema in testes compared to control animals.
It could then be concluded that pirimiphos-methyl (62.5 and 125 mg/kg) is detrimental to the reproductive potentials of male rats.
Female rats received N-nitrosomorpholine to produce altered cell foci (potential cancer pre-stages) in the liver, followed by phenobarbital (PB) for 2 weeks. As indicators of adaptive responses we measured DNA synthesis cumulatively by infusion of [3H]thymidine for the entire period of PB treatment, and cytochrome P450-PB by immunocytochemistry on histological liver sections. Altered cell foci were identified by expression of gamma-glutamyltransferase (gamma-GT), and/or altered morphology. The following results were obtained. In normal parts of the liver PB induced DNA replication only in association with expression of P450-PB; both responses were restricted to the pericentral area of the liver lobule. In foci, PB treatment led to enhanced DNA synthesis. Furthermore, PB caused a 3-fold increase in the number of foci expressing cytochrome P450-PB, gamma-GT or both. Cumulative determination of DNA synthesis showed that this increase did not result from selective proliferation of single initiated cells. It is concluded that in foci also PB can induce expression of the adaptive increases in cytochrome P450-PB and DNA synthesis. Foci show the responses to PB more readily than normal hepatocytes, and irrespective of their position within the liver lobule. These findings suggest that expression of adaptive responses to inducing tumor promoters is facilitated in altered foci.
Controversy still exists about the breast carcinogenic properties in humans of environmental xenoestrogens (organochlorines), justifying new investigations.
To compare the blood levels of total dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) and hexachlorobenzene (HCB) in samples collected at the time of breast cancer discovery, in order to avoid the potential consequences of body weight change (after chemotherapy or radiotherapy) on the pesticide residue levels.
Blood levels of HCB and total DDT (we calculated total DDT concentrations by adding all DDT and DDE isomers) were compared in 159 women with breast cancer and 250 presumably healthy controls. Risk of breast cancer associated with organochlorine concentration was evaluated.
Mean levels of total DDT and HCB were significantly higher for breast cancer patients than for controls. No differences in serum levels of total DDT or HCB were found between oestrogen receptor positive and oestrogen receptor negative patients with breast cancer.
These results add to the growing evidence that certain persistent pollutants may occur in higher concentrations in blood samples from breast cancer patients than controls.
Protamine reversal of heparin-induced anticoagulation causes thromboxane release followed by pulmonary vasoconstriction in sheep and pigs. The aim of this study was to determine whether heparin-protamine (H-P) complexes are causative agents of thromboxane release followed by pulmonary hypertension associated with protamine reversal of heparin.
We separated H-P complexes and non-heparin-protamine (non-H-P) complexes from heparinized defibrinated human plasma neutralized with protamine by chromatography and studied the changes in hemodynamics, airway pressure, and thromboxane B2 concentration after injection of H-P complexes or non-H-P complexes into seven goats. In addition, we studied whether these pulmonary responses were blocked in goats pretreated with cyclooxgenase inhibitor (Indomethacin, n = 5) or thromboxane synthetase inhibitor (OKY-046, n = 5).
A very small dose of H-P complexes increased pulmonary arterial and peak airway pressures and was followed by thromboxane B2 release (from 12 [5.5-23] to 28 [16-44] mmHg, from 9.0 [7.5-15] to 12 [8-19] cmH2O, and from 0.85 [0.34-3.2] to 16.4 [1.4-39.3] ng.ml-1, respectively). On the other hand, animals that received non-H-P complexes showed no significant changes. Indomethacin totally blocked and OKY-046 partially blocked the increases in pulmonary arterial pressure and thromboxane B2 concentration.
H-P complexes play a major role in pulmonary hypertension after protamine reversal of heparin, and thromboxane A2 is a main mediator of the pulmonary hypertensive response to H-P complexes in goats.
Seven cases of thromboembolism were found amongst 23 patients treated with thalidomide for myeloma over a total of 141.5 patient treatment months. Five thromboembolic events were venous (two severe) and two arterial. A historical control of 18 similar patients not given thalidomide had one thromboembolism over 289 months. We found no underlying thrombophilic tendency in the affected patients. We suggest that the thalidomide may predispose to thromboembolism at even lower doses than previously reported (mean dose 150 mg). The two most severe thromboses occurred on 100 mg thalidomide alone, not associated with chemotherapy or glucocorticoids. We raise the possibility that arterial thromboembolism may also occur in association with thalidomide. Some patients continued thalidomide after the event, together with warfarin, with no further thromboembolism.
Whether chronic cannabinoid consumption produces a dependent state comparable to that occurring with other drugs (e.g. the appearance of withdrawal signs when consumption is interrupted), and whether chronic cannabinoid consumption increases the risk of consuming other drugs of greater addictive power, are probably the two questions relating to cannabinoid addiction that provoke the most controversy. The present study was designed to further explore these two questions in laboratory animals. Firstly, we examined the effects of an acute challenge with SR141716 (an antagonist for the cannabinoid CB(1) receptor) in Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta(9)-THC)-tolerant rats. This antagonist has been reported to precipitate a cannabinoid withdrawal syndrome. Thus, the administration of SR141716 to Delta(9)-THC-tolerant rats reduced inactivity in the open-field test and enhanced responses as tremor, turning and retropulsion-these responses that were only slightly enhanced in control rats. The administration of SR141716 increased the plasma prolactin and the corticosterone concentration in controls, but these increases were much lesser in Delta(9)-THC-tolerant rats. In addition, CRF-mRNA levels in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus, while reduced in SR141716-treated controls, were significantly increased in Delta(9)-THC-tolerant rats. The analysis of endocannabinoids also revealed that the administration of SR141716, which was mostly inactive in control rats, was able to reverse the changes in anandamide or 2-arachidonoylglycerol concentrations found in Delta(9)-THC-tolerant rats, in the striatum, limbic forebrain, diencephalon, cerebellum and brainstem, but not in the midbrain and hippocampus. As a second objective, we evaluated whether Delta(9)-THC-tolerant rats were more vulnerable to morphine in a self-administration paradigm. The Delta(9)-THC-tolerant and control rats self-administered morphine to a similar extent, in concordance with the similar values of dopaminergic activity in limbic and motor regions. In summary, our data indicate that Delta(9)-THC-tolerant rats were not more vulnerable to the reinforcing properties of morphine. However, they responded to the blockade of CB(1) receptors by exhibiting slightly but possibly relevant differences in behavioral, endocrine and molecular parameters compared to the response in non-tolerant rats. This is indicative of the existence of a withdrawal syndrome in cannabinoid-tolerant rats that is mild compared with abstinence in opioid-dependent rats.
Primary aldosteronism is the most prevalent form of secondary hypertension. To explore molecular mechanisms of autonomous aldosterone secretion, we performed exome sequencing of aldosterone-producing adenomas (APAs). We identified somatic hotspot mutations in the ATP1A1 (encoding an Na(+)/K(+) ATPase α subunit) and ATP2B3 (encoding a Ca(2+) ATPase) genes in three and two of the nine APAs, respectively. These ATPases are expressed in adrenal cells and control sodium, potassium and calcium ion homeostasis. Functional in vitro studies of ATP1A1 mutants showed loss of pump activity and strongly reduced affinity for potassium. Electrophysiological ex vivo studies on primary adrenal adenoma cells provided further evidence for inappropriate depolarization of cells with ATPase alterations. In a collection of 308 APAs, we found 16 (5.2%) somatic mutations in ATP1A1 and 5 (1.6%) in ATP2B3. Mutation-positive cases showed male dominance, increased plasma aldosterone concentrations and lower potassium concentrations compared with mutation-negative cases. In summary, dominant somatic alterations in two members of the ATPase gene family result in autonomous aldosterone secretion.
Both arsenite and benzo(a)pyrene (BaP) are known human carcinogens. Studies on the mode-of-action of arsenite indicate that it can also act as co-carcinogen or as a cancer promoter, and that it can facilitate progression of cancers. Some studies on development of lung cancers have suggested a synergism between arsenite exposure and cigarette smoking. The mechanism of action for such an effect, however, remains obscure. In the present study, we investigated the effects of HIF-2α on arsenite- and BaP-induced cell malignant transformation as well as on signal transduction pathways in human bronchial epithelial (HBE) cells. The results show that arsenite accelerates the neoplastic transformation and migration of cells and enhances chromosomal aberrations induced by BaP. HIF-2α is involved in blocking the effects of arsenite in activating the ATM/Chk-2 pathway and in repair of DNA damage induced by BaP. Moreover, blocking of HIF-2α prevents the effects of arsenite on the neoplastic transformation, cell migration, and chromosomal aberrations caused by BaP. These results indicate that the repressive effect of HIF-2α on the ATM/Chk-2 pathway leads to genomic instability, which is involved in arsenite-accelerated, BaP-induced malignant transformation of HBE cells.
Tobramycin, gentamicin, sisomicin and amikacin are aminoglycoside antibiotics that are used clinically. A significant side effect of aminoglycoside antibiotics is the production of hearing loss. Our study was done to determine the relative ototoxic liability of these 4 drugs. All drugs were given in daily doses of 0, 50,100 or 150 mg/kg to guinea pigs subcutaneously for 4 weeks. In addition, 200 mg/kg was was given to the animals receiving amikacin and sisomicin. There were 10 animals in each dosage group. Seven animals were used for auditory study and 3 were used for pharmacokinetic study. Auditory damage was assessed by determining the Preyer pinna reflex, the ability of the cochlea to generate the AC cochlear potential, and the number of sensory hair cells missing from the organ of Corti. The concentration of aminoglycoside antibiotics is determined in the cochlear perilymph and plasma by a radioenzymatic assay. On a equal dose basis the ototoxic liability of gentamicin and sisomicin were very similar and tobramycin and amikacin being less ototoxic than the gentamicin and sisomicin. The pharmacokinetics of single 150 mg/gk doses of the drugs were similar. The exception was that tobramycin reached lower peak levels in plasma and perilymph and its time to peak level in perilymph was delayed relative to the other drugs. Analysis of plasma and perilymph following chronic administration revealed higher concentration of gentamicin and sisomicin than of tobramycin and amikacin.
While blockade of the renin angiotensin system (RAS) is beneficial in treating many patients with diabetic nephropathy, some patients show a poor response. We hypothesized that the poor response of RAS blockade is attributed to inability to stimulate endothelial nitric oxide. Recently, we reported that diabetic eNOS knockout (KO) mice develop advanced diabetic nephropathy similar to human disease. Here, we tested the hypothesis that blockade of the RAS would be less beneficial in this model than in diabetic wild-type mice. Both enalapril and telmisartan were less effective at reducing renal injury in diabetic eNOSKO mice compared with diabetic wild-type mice. Blood pressure was only transiently reduced by these treatments in diabetic eNOSKO mice and later returned to levels similar to that of untreated diabetic eNOSKO mice. Serum aldosterone tended to be paradoxically higher with enalapril or telmisartan in diabetic eNOSKO mice, whereas these treatments tended to lower aldosterone in diabetic wild-type mice. The pathogenic role of aldosterone was demonstrated by the evidence that spironolactone significantly reduced blood pressure and prevented renal injury. In addition, a higher dose of enalapril also failed to prevent hypertension and renal injury in diabetic eNOSKO mice. In conclusion, an impaired endothelial NO response could lessen the benefit of RAS inhibition in diabetic renal disease. Aldosterone blockade may provide superior protection in this setting.
Exhaust emissions from vehicles is a well known problem with both epidemiological and experimental studies showing increasing adverse health effects with elevating levels. Many of the studies concerning vehicle exhausts and health are focused on health outcomes where the proportion attributed to exhaust is low, while there is less information on early and more frequent subjective indicators of adverse effects.
The primary aim of this study was to study perceived annoyance in relation to vehicle exhaust concentrations using modelled levels of nitrogen dioxide outside the home as an indicator with high spatial resolution. Almost 2800 persons in a random sample from three Swedish cities (Umea, Uppsala and Gothenburg) responded to our questionnaire. Questions were asked to determine the degree of annoyance related to vehicle exhausts and also the prevalence of irritating and asthmatic symptoms. Exposure was described for each participants home address by meteorological dispersion models with a 50 meter resolution.
We found a significant increase of peoples' self-assessed annoyance with rising levels of NO2. The odds of being very annoyed by vehicle exhausts increased by 14% per 1 microg/m3 increase of the NO2 level (odds ratio (OR) = 1.14, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.11-1.18), and the odds of reporting the air as daily or almost daily irritating increased by 9% (OR = 1.09, 95% CI = 1.05-1.13). Also the odds of reporting asthmatic symptoms increased significantly with elevated NO2 levels (OR = 1.04, 95% CI = 1.01-1.07).
This study found the degree of annoyance related to vehicle exhaust and irritating and asthmatic symptoms to be significantly dependent on the levels of traffic related pollutants outside the home. The detailed exposure assessment lowers the degree of misclassification as compared to between-city analyses, which makes the results more accurate and applicable on the local scale.
Acute coronary syndromes (ACS) are associated with platelet activation. The aim of the present study was to study the protein expression level associated with glycolysis, oxidative stress, cytoskeleton and cell survival in platelets obtained during an ACS. Platelets from 42 coronary ischemic patients, divided into patients admitted within 24 h after the onset of chest pain (ACS group; n=16) and patients with stable coronary ischemic disease (CAD, n=26), were analyzed using proteomics. The expression levels of proteins involved in cellular cytoskeleton (F-actin capping, β-tubulin, α-tubulin isotypes 1 and 2, vinculin, vimentin and two Ras-related protein Rab-7b isotypes), glycolysis pathway (glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, lactate dehydrogenase and two pyruvate kinase isotypes) and cellular-related antioxidant system (manganese superoxide dismutase) and even the expression and activity of glutathione-S-transferase were significantly reduced in platelets from ACS patients compared to CAD patients. Moreover, reduction in the expression of proteins associated with cell survival such as proteasome subunit β type 1 was also observed in ACS platelets compared with CAD platelets. Principal component and logistic regression analysis suggested the existence of factors (proteins) expressed in the platelets inversely associated with acute coronary ischemia. In summary, these results suggest the existence of circulating antioxidant, cytoskeleton and glycolytic-"bewildered" platelets during the acute phase of a coronary event.
Recent studies on Alzheimer's disease (AD) have focused on soluble oligomeric forms of amyloid-beta (Aβ oligomer, AβO) that are directly associated with AD-related pathologies, such as cognitive decline, neurodegeneration, and neuroinflammation. Donepezil is a well-known anti-dementia agent that increases acetylcholine levels through inhibition of acetylcholinesterase. However, a growing body of experimental and clinical studies indicates that donepezil may also provide neuroprotective and disease-modifying effects in AD. Additionally, donepezil has recently been demonstrated to have anti-inflammatory effects against lipopolysaccharides and tau pathology. However, it remains unknown whether donepezil has anti-inflammatory effects against AβO in cultured microglial cells and the brain in animals. Further, the effects of donepezil against AβO-mediated neuronal death, astrogliosis, and memory impairment have also not yet been investigated. Thus, in the present study, we examined the anti-inflammatory effect of donepezil against AβO and its neuroinflammatory mechanisms. Donepezil significantly attenuated the release of inflammatory mediators (prostaglandin E2, interleukin-1 beta, tumor necrosis factor-α, and nitric oxide) from microglia. Donepezil also decreased AβO-induced up-regulation of inducible nitric oxide synthase and cyclooxygenase-2 protein and phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase as well as translocation of nuclear factor-kappa B. We next showed that donepezil suppresses activated microglia-mediated toxicity in primary hippocampal cells using the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay. In intrahippocampal AβO-injected mice, donepezil significantly inhibited microgliosis and astrogliosis. Furthermore, behavioral tests revealed that donepezil (2 mg/kg/day, 5 days, p.o.) significantly ameliorated AβO-induced memory impairment. These results suggest that donepezil directly inhibits microglial activation induced by AβO through blocking MAPK and NF-κB signaling and, in part, contributing to the amelioration of neurodegeneration and memory impairment.
Neuropeptide cholecystokinin (CCK) interacts with dopamine in the regulation of motor activity and motivations. Therefore, in CCK(2) receptor deficient mice the behavioural effects of repeated amphetamine administration and changes in dopamine-related gene expression were studied. Four-day amphetamine (1 mg/kg) treatment induced a significantly stronger motor sensitization in homozygous mice compared to their wild-type littermates. However, in the conditioned place preference test the action of amphetamine was more pronounced in wild-type animals. As opposed to wild-type mice, amphetamine (1-3 mg/kg) did not cause a significant conditioned place preference in homozygous mice. The expression of Tyhy gene was elevated in the mesolimbic structures and Drd2 gene was down-regulated in the mesencephalon of saline-treated homozygous mice in comparison with respective wild-type group. Four-day treatment with amphetamine induced a significant increase in the expression of Tyhy in the mesencephalon, striatum and mesolimbic structures of wild-type mice, whereas in homozygous mice a similar change was evident only in the mesencephalon. Also, the expression of Drd1 gene in the striatum and Drd2 gene in the mesolimbic structures of wild-type mice were up-regulated under the influence of amphetamine. In conclusion, the present study established differences in the behavioural effects of amphetamine in wild-type and homozygous mice. The increased tone of dopaminergic projections from the mesencephalon to mesolimbic structures is probably related to increased amphetamine-induced motor sensitization in homozygous mice. The lack of development of up-regulation of Drd1 and Drd2 genes after repeated treatment with amphetamine probably explains the reduced place conditioning in CCK(2) receptor deficient mice.
Reduced folate transport to the CNS was identified in two autism spectrum disorders, i.e., Rett syndrome and infantile low-functioning autism with neurological abnormalities. Twenty-five patients with early-onset low-functioning autism with or without neurological deficits, were evaluated for serum folate, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) 5-methyltetrahydrofolate (5MTHF), and serum FR autoantibodies of the blocking type to determine the significance of folate receptor (FR) autoantibodies with respect to folate transport across the blood-CSF barrier. In spite of normal serum folate, CSF 5MTHF was low in 23 of 25 patients. The reduced CSF folate in 19 of these 23 patients could be explained by serum FR autoantibodies blocking the folate binding site of the membrane-attached FR on the choroid epithelial cells. Oral folinic acid supplements led to normal CSF 5MTHF and partial or complete clinical recovery after 12 months. Serum FR autoimmunity appears to represent an important factor in the pathogenesis of reduced folate transport to the nervous system among children with early-onset low-functioning autism associated with or without neurological deficits. Early detection of FR autoantibodies may be a key factor in the prevention and therapeutic intervention among this subgroup of patients with autism.
Vascular complications after liver transplantation include occlusion or stenosis near the sites of anastomosis in the hepatic artery, portal vein, and vena cava. Balloon angioplasty of these stenoses carries little risk and is a useful procedure for the treatment of these problems. Here we describe the case of a liver transplant patient who underwent balloon angioplasty for stenosis of the hepatic artery and who developed spasms of the hepatic artery which were aggravated following intraarterial administration of Tolazoline.
The authors report on 6 cases of severe liver damage following clomethacin treatment. Three patients developed prolonged hepatitis, lasting more than 3 months, with biochemical and histological signs of activity; one patient committed suicide by overdosage and died of subacute necrotizing hepatitis; one patient died of chronic cirrhotic hepatitis after prolonged clomethacin-alpha-methyldopa combined treatment, and there was one case of active hepatitis on latent cirrhosis. Drug toxicity was suggested by the presence of jaundice with occasional fever, urticaria or pruritus and eosinophilia, and by the lack of any other cause. It was confirmed in 3 cases by relapse of the condition after re-introduction of the drug, in one case by the circumstances surrounding death (attempted suicide) and in one case by the deterioration observed with increased dosage. In one patient the responsibility of clomethacin was shared with alpha-methyldopa, a potentially hepatotoxic drug.
19 patients with metastatic gastrointestinal malignancy were treated with a regimen of 5-fluorouracil (FU) 500 mg/m2 intravenously and hydroxyurea (HU) 80 MG/KG orally administered on consecutive days weekly. Antitumor responses were not observed and an unusually high incidence of neurotoxicity (21%) was noted related to dose. It is suggested that the lack of therapeutic effect and the observed toxicity may be related to the biochemical interaction of FU and HU resulting in an inability to convert FU to the active metabolite and an accumulation of catabolic products with neurotoxic effects.
Aiming to know the incidence and evolution of major adverse reactions to propylthiouracil in patients with hyperthyroidism, we performed a retrospective analysis of 586 patients treated between 1982 and 1992. All known complications associated to the use of propylthiouracil were considered major adverse reactions, when other causes were discarded. Eight patients (1.4% of the sample) had major adverse reactions: three had agranulocytosis, 3 hepatitis, 1 cholestasis and 1 vasculitis. All had a good evolution after discontinuing the drug. The patients with agranulocytosis were treated with antibiotics and the patient with cholestasis received prednisone. We conclude that major adverse reactions to propylthiouracil are infrequent, that they occur preferentially during the first months of treatment, earlier after reexposure and that there was no associated mortality.
The chemokine CXCL12 and its receptor CXCR4 have been found to be associated with cancer metastasis. A single nucleotide polymorphism of CXCL12 G801A has been described and is regarded as a target for cis-acting factor that has the ability to up-regulate CXCL12 expression. Currently, there are no reports investigating the role of CXCL12 G801A polymorphism in prostate cancer (PC).
We genotyped CXCL12 G801A and p53Arg72Pro in 167 PC patients and 167 age-matched healthy subjects. Genotyping was done with PCR-RFLP and confirmed by direct DNA sequencing. To investigate the effect of the CXCL12 G801A polymorphism on CXCL12 and CXCR4 expression, immunohistochemistry was done in genotyped PC tissues.
A significant increase in the GA + AA genotype of the CXCL12 G801A polymorphism was observed in PC patients compared with healthy controls. The frequency of CXCL12 AA genotype was significantly higher in a group of patients with lymph node metastasis (23%) compared with those without metastasis (7%). The frequency of CXCL12 expression in AA + GA genotype carriers was significantly higher than that in GG genotype carriers. Among the carriers with CXCL12 GA + AA genotypes, CXCR4 expression was also significantly higher compared with those with the GG genotype. Moreover, among the groups with both CXCL12- and CXCR4-positive staining, the frequency of the CXCL12 GA + AA genotype was high. Although we did not find a significant relationship between the frequency of the Arg/Pro + Pro/Pro genotype of p53 Arg72Pro and susceptibility in PC, there was a combined effect of CXCL12 GA + AA genotype and the p53 72Arg/Pro + Pro/Pro genotype on the frequency of PC. These results indicate that the p53 codon 72 polymorphism may interact with CXCL12 G801A.
This is the first report showing that CXCL12 G801A polymorphism may be a risk factor for PC. Moreover, this study suggests that this polymorphism can be an important marker for detecting microinvasion and PC metastasis.
Between May 1990 and May 1993 we performed intravesical instillation of epirubicin hydrochloride (EPI) to 52 patients with superficial bladder tumor after transurethral resection. Indications of these instillations were classified into 3 groups. Group 1 was for carcinoma in situ (CIS) or the CIS other than the original tumor, group 2 was for multiple tumors, and group 3 was for pT1G3 tumor. Intravesical instillations of the drug were given weekly for 10 weeks and close follow-up examinations were performed routinely. Group 1 was treated for CIS, whereas group 2 and group 3 were prophylactic instillations. The disease-free rate in group 1 was 67%, and that in group 2 and group 3 was 77% at 12 months, and 42% at 24 months according to the Kaplan-Meier method. The major side effects of the instillations were bladder irritation, hematuria and pyuria. However, we experienced 5 patients with severe side effects; 2 of atrophic bladder and 3 of hemorrhagic cystitis. Although this study was conducted retrospectively, these findings suggest that intravesical instillations of EPI can be as effective as other drugs, such as mitomycin C, and doxorubicin, by adding the maintenance instillation or by elevating the drug density and shortening the instillation time.
NSAIDs can elevate blood pressure through mechanisms such as renal vasoconstriction and sodium retention. These effects are particularly evident in hypertensive individuals. Nitric oxide-releasing NSAID derivatives have been shown to have greatly reduced toxicity in the gastrointestinal tract and kidney. We therefore evaluated the effects of a 4 week treatment with either naproxen or its nitric oxide-releasing derivative (NO-naproxen) on systemic arterial blood pressure and gastric damage in rats in which hypertension was induced by L-NAME. Rats received either L-NAME dissolved in the drinking water (400 mg/L) or tap water (control). Vehicle, naproxen (10 mg/kg) or an equimolar dose of NO-naproxen (14.5 mg/kg) were administered orally each day. After 4 weeks, blood pressure was measured, blood samples were taken for measurement of thromboxane synthesis, and gastric damage was evaluated by blind, macroscopic scoring. Both naproxen and NO-naproxen inhibited systemic cyclooxygenase activity by >90%. NO-naproxen-treated rats exhibited no significant gastric damage. The gastric damage produced by L-NAME alone was potentiated by naproxen but prevented by NO-naproxen. L-NAME treatment significantly increased blood pressure. In the absence of L-NAME, the naproxen group had significantly higher blood pressure than both the control and NO-naproxen groups. In rats receiving L-NAME, the same conclusions apply, but the concomitant administration of NO-naproxen was able to significantly reduce the blood pressure compared to L-NAME alone. Based on these results, we conclude that NO-naproxen may represent a safer alternative to standard NSAIDs in the treatment of inflammatory conditions in hypertensive patients.
Propofol has been used to treat status epilepticus, but its use in patients with seizure disorders remains controversial, because of concerns that it produces paroxysmal motor phenomenon. Chemoconvulsants act by known discrete mechanisms and neurotransmitters, and therefore, they are useful tools for screening anticonvulsant activity. The main objective of this study was to characterize the effect of propofol pretreatment on convulsions induced by picrotoxin, bicuculline, and strychnine, all which decrease inhibitory neurotransmission, and by N-methyl-D-aspartic acid, kainic acid, and quisqualic acid, which enhance excitatory neurotransmission.
Groups of male Swiss Webster mice (n > or = 10/group) were given either vehicle (intralipid, 10 ml.kg-1, control groups) or propofol (50 mg.kg-1, test groups) injected intraperitoneally. Five min after injection, convulsions were induced with either bicuculline (1.36-5.44 nmoles), picrotoxin (0.21-1 nmol), N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (0.51-2 nmol), quisqualic acid (1-10 nmol), kainic acid (0.252-2 mole), or strychnine (1.35-10.78 nmol) injected intracerebroventricularly. The number of animals with convulsions after each dose was recorded. Analysis of statistical significance was based on the log-probit lines of the quantal dose-response for the respective control and test groups, calculated 50% effective doses (ED50), the potency ratios (ED50higher/ED50lower) and their 95% confidence limits.
Propofol pretreatment decreased the potency ratio of both bicuculline (0.47, 95% confidence interval = 0.23-0.94) and picrotoxin (0.61, 0.47-0.79), signifying an anticonvulsant effect. Conversely, propofol pretreatment significantly enhanced the convulsive potency of kainic acid (potency ratio and 95% confidence interval = 1.66, 1.21-2.29), quisqualic acid (3.17, 1.98-5.09), and strychnine (1.76, 0.79-3.89).
Current results suggest that propofol augments the paroxysmal motor phenomenon induced by kainic acid, quisqualic acid, and strychnine. This action may be, at least partly, responsible for the motor manifestations reported after propofol administration. These in vivo results on modulation of gamma-aminobutyric acid, glycine, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid, and kainate receptor-mediated transmission may be of significance in understanding the mechanism of propofol action at the excitatory and inhibitory amino acid receptors.
Prenatal exposure to cocaine has been associated with adverse developmental effects and current data suggest cocaine induced malformations are caused by ischemic-reperfusion injury. This study was undertaken to assess a new in vitro model which uses a routine rat whole embryo culture system that incorporates a change in oxygen status, and to examine the effects of altered oxygen status and pretreatment with ellagic acid (EA), an anti-oxidant, after cocaine exposure. Embryos were evaluated by determining a developmental score and by measuring tissue reduced glutathione (GSH) levels. Following re-oxygenation with 95% O2 for the last 6 h of culture, embryos treated with cocaine had reduced developmental scores and GSH levels. Embryos treated with cocaine and not re-oxygenated with 95% O2 did not have reduced developmental scores. EA blocked the effects of cocaine on developmental score and GSH level. These data support ischemia-reperfusion injury as the mechanism of cocaine developmental toxicity.
