Background. - Pulmonary dysfunction in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients treated with low-dose methotrexate is usually caused by bacterial infection and less frequently by an immunoallergic reaction to the drug (acute hypersensitivity pneumonitis). Opportunistic infections are a rare cause. We report a case of cytomegalovirus pneumonia during bone marrow aplasia in a patient with RA taking methotrexate and cyclosporine.Conclusions. - Cytomegalovirus infection is a rarely reported cause of pulmonary dysfunction. This diagnosis should be considered in immunocompromised RA patients with no other satisfactory explanation for pulmonary dysfunction.
The neurochemical changes underlying the convulsant effects of Lindane, an organochlorinated insecticide, are not known. Since electrophysiological and pharmacological data suggest the view that gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) plays an important role in controlling convulsive seizures, the effect of lindane on the GABAergic system, on different areas of the rat brain, has been evaluated. Lindane (100 mg/kg i.p.) induces a selective increase of GABA levels in the cerebellum after the onset of seizures. Non-significant increases were observed in the cortex and hippocampus. GABA turnover, as measured by the accumulation rate of GABA after blockade of its catabolism, was increased in all the brain areas examined. On the other hand, lindane does not significantly displace from their binding sites in vitro either 3H-GABA or 3H-Flunitrazepam. These findings show that convulsions elicited by lindane are not due to an impairment of the GABAergic system. Moreover, an increase of GABA functional activity takes place, in all brain areas examined, probably as a protective mechanism to counteract the seizures.
Effect of endothelin (ET) on clonidine induced cardiovascular effects was studied in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Clonidine (75 micrograms/kg, iv) produced significant decrease in blood pressure and heart rate. ET-1 (50 ng/kg, iv) pretreatment completely antagonized the hypotension and bradycardia induced by clonidine. ET-2 (50 ng/kg, iv) and ET-3 (50 ng/kg, iv) had similar antagonistic effect on clonidine induced hypotension and bradycardia. The antagonistic effect of ET lasted for several hours, however, 4 hours after ET pretreatment only partial blockade of clonidine induced hypotension and bradycardia was observed. This indicated that the antagonistic effect of ET was reversible. Initial hypertensive response induced by high dose of clonidine (750 micrograms/kg, iv) could not be antagonized by ET-1, ET-2 or ET-3, while phenoxybenzamine, an alpha adrenoceptor antagonist, blocked the hypertensive response of clonidine. Thus, ET has no antagonistic effect on the initial hypertensive response but antagonizes the hypotensive and bradycardic effect induced by clonidine. Clonidine induced hypotension and bradycardia are mediated through central alpha 2 adrenoceptors while hypertension is mediated through peripheral alpha 2 adrenoceptors. It is concluded that central alpha 2 adrenoceptors are different from peripheral alpha 2 adrenoceptors and ET antagonizes the effect of clonidine only on central alpha 2 adrenoceptors but has no antagonistic activity on peripheral alpha 2 adrenoceptors.
The nucleoside analogue, 2',3'-dideoxycytidine (ddC), an inhibitor of human immunodeficiency virus reverse transcriptase, mediates virologic and immunologic improvements in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome patients. However, in clinical studies ddC treatment is associated with a dose-limiting peripheral neuropathy. The purpose of this study was to characterize the ultrastructural features of the peripheral neuropathy induced in rabbits. Rabbits received 0, 10, 50, or 100 mg/kg/day of ddC for 18 weeks. A prominent ultrastructural change induced by ddC in sciatic nerve and ventral root was separation of myelin lamellae at the intraperiod line and vacuolation and fragmentation of myelin sheaths. Many demyelinated and remyelinated axons were observed. Although pathologic alterations in Schwann cells were evident by the presence of lipid droplets and myelin figures, their formation was not considered a primary event. Axons containing abnormal cytoplasmic components were occasionally observed. Other changes included redundance of Schwann cell basal lamina and the presence of lipid droplets and/or myelin figures within endoneurial fibroblasts and macrophages. The results of this study indicate that ddC induces a myelinopathy in rabbits characterized by myelin splitting and intramyelinic edema and an axonopathy that may be secondary to the myelin changes.
The nucleoside analog 2',3'-dideoxycytidine (ddC) is a potent inhibitor of the reverse transcriptase of human immunodeficiency virus and a DNA chain terminator. In clinical trials in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, ddC treatment has been associated with a dose-limiting and dose-dependent, painful, sensorimotor peripheral neuropathy. In search of an animal model for ddC-induced neurotoxicity we studied 36 New Zealand White rabbits (3 males/3 females/group) given 0, 10, 50, 100, 150, or 250 mg/kg/day of ddC, by oral intubation, for 13 or 18 weeks. Rabbits in the 150 and 250 mg/kg/day groups were sacrificed at 13 weeks because of hematopoietic toxicity. After 16 weeks, rabbits in the 50 and 100 mg/kg/day groups showed hindlimb paresis and/or gait abnormalities. Nerve conduction velocities and amplitudes in the 100 mg/kg/day rabbits were reduced by 30 to 50%. The most prominent pathologic changes in peripheral nerve and ventral roots of ddC-treated rabbits were (a) myelin splitting and intramyelinic edema, (b) demyelination and remyelination of axons, and (c) axonal loss. Treatment-related histologic lesions were not observed in spinal cord, brain, or retina. The pathology in these ddC-treated rabbits is consistent with a peripheral myelinopathy and axonopathy. This represents the first clinical, electrophysiologic, and pathologic description of an animal model of a peripheral neuropathy induced by a nucleoside analog.
This case report describes successful lithium treatment in a patient with long-standing periodic catatonia. Various medical treatments had been tried with meager results. Since 1955, a number of phenothiazines had been tried, also with little improvement. The institution of lithium treatment in 1964 caused a dramatic improvement in the patient's condition. For 9 years the patient remained totally asymptomatic. Lithium treatment was terminated in 1975 because of lithium intoxication with a diabetes insipidus-like syndrome. The patient then became psychotic again and has since experienced periodic phases similar to the previous illness. The diagnostic validity of the case is discussed, and some possible explanations of the favourable response to lithium are mentioned briefly.
Gangliosides participate in various cellular events of the central nervous system and have been closely implicated in many neuronal diseases. However, the precise molecular mechanisms underlying the pathological activity of gangliosides are poorly understood. Here we report that toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) may mediate the ganglioside-triggered inflammation in glia, brain resident immune cells. Gangliosides rapidly altered the cell surface expression of TLR4 in microglia and astrocytes within 3 hours. Using TLR4-specific siRNA and a dominant-negative TLR4 gene, we clearly demonstrate the functional importance of TLR4 in ganglioside-triggered activation of glia. Inhibition of TLR4 expression by TLR4-siRNA suppressed nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB-binding activity, NF-kappaB-dependent luciferase activity, and transcription of inflammatory cytokines after exposure to gangliosides. Transient transfection of dominant-negative TLR4 also attenuated NF-kappaB-binding activity and interleukin-6 promoter activity. In contrast, these activities were slightly elevated in cells with wild-type TLR4. In addition, CD14 was required for ganglioside-triggered activation of glia, and lipid raft formation may be associated with ganglioside-stimulated signal propagation. Taken together, these results suggest that TLR4 may provide an explanation for the pathological ability of gangliosides to cause inflammatory conditions in the brain.
Alzheimer's disease is a multifactorial, progressive, age-related neurodegenerative disease. In familial Alzheimer's disease, Abeta is excessively produced and deposited because of mutations in the amyloid precursor protein, presenilin-1, and presenilin-2 genes. Here, we generated a double homozygous knock-in mouse model that incorporates the Swedish familial Alzheimer's disease mutations and converts mouse Abeta to the human sequence in amyloid precursor protein and had the P264L familial Alzheimer's disease mutation in presenilin-1. We observed Abeta deposition in double knock-in mice beginning at 6 months as well as an increase in the levels of insoluble Abeta1-40/1-42. Brain homogenates from 3-, 6-, 9-, 12-, and 14-month-old mice showed that protein levels of manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) were unchanged in the double knock-in mice compared to controls. Genotype-associated increases in nitrotyrosine levels were observed. Protein immunoprecipitation revealed MnSOD as a target of this nitration. Although the levels of MnSOD protein did not change, MnSOD activity and mitochondrial respiration decreased in knock-in mice, suggesting compromised mitochondrial function. The compromised activity of MnSOD, a primary antioxidant enzyme protecting mitochondria, may explain mitochondrial dysfunction and provide the missing link between Abeta-induced oxidative stress and Alzheimer's disease.
Abnormal involuntary movements appeared in the mouth, tongue, neck and abdomen of a 64-year-old male patient after he took metoclopramide for gastrointestinal disorder in a regimen of 30 mg per day for a total of about 260 days. The symptoms exacerbated to a maximum in a month. When the metoclopramide administration was discontinued, the abnormal movements gradually improved to a considerable extent. Attention to the possible induction of specific tardive dyskinesia is called for in the use of this drug.
Oxidative stress is associated with various diabetic complications and taurine plays an important role in ameliorating those difficulties. In the present study we, therefore, investigated whether taurine plays any beneficial role against diabetes induced liver dysfunction and if it does, what cellular mechanism it follows during protective action. Induction of diabetes by alloxan (ALX) (at a dose of 120mg/kg body weight, i.p., once) reduced body weight and plasma insulin level, enhanced blood glucose and serum markers related to hepatic injury, accelerated ROS production, disturbed the intra-cellular antioxidant machineries and disintegrated hepatic cells near central vein. This pathophysiology leads to apoptotic cell death as evidenced from DNA fragmentation and TUNEL aasay. Studies on the mechanism of apoptosis showed that ALX accelerated the markers of mitochondrial dependent apoptotic pathway (enhanced cytochrome C release in cytosol from mitochondria, altered the expression of Bax, Bcl-2, Apaf-1, caspase-9, caspase-3). Treatment with taurine (1% w/v for three weeks) post-hyperglycemia, however, could restore all the alteration caused by ALX. Moreover, taurine activates hepatic PI3Kinase, Akt, hexokinase and augments the translocation of GLUT 2 to hepatic membrane in diabetic rats. Combining all, as a potential therapeutic, taurine may normalize the complications of diabetic liver injury.
We report a case of myasthenia gravis (MG) which became worse shortly after the administration of methimazole (MMI) for hyperthyroidism. The activation of immune responses was found during the worsening of MG. The findings suggests the possibility that the worsening of MG might be induced by MMI, presumably by its immunomodulatory property.
Status epilepticus, prolonged intermittent or continuous seizure activity lasting 30 min or longer, is associated with high morbidity and mortality. The longer a seizure persists, the more refractory to treatment it becomes. The pilocarpine model of status epilepticus in rodents develops refractoriness to many first-line treatments as seizure duration increases, rendering it a good model to study refractory status epilepticus. This study was initiated to study the development of refractoriness of pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus to diazepam. Early pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus responded rapidly to diazepam treatment, whereas status epilepticus of longer duration became increasingly less responsive to treatment. Dizocilpine maleate-pretreated animals responded rapidly to diazepam treatment, even after 60 min of status epilepticus. Animals administered dizocilpine maleate at 15, 30 or 60 min after the onset of status epilepticus also demonstrated a rapid response to diazepam compared to pilocarpine-alone-treated animals. The longer the status epilepticus progressed prior to dizocilpine maleate injection, the longer the status epilepticus lasted after diazepam treatment. However, in all cases where dizocilpine maleate was administered, one injection of diazepam was able to terminate the status epilepticus, in contrast to the animals that did not receive dizocilpine maleate, in which the seizure was only attenuated. The results indicate that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation plays a role in the seizure-induced refractoriness to benzodiazepines in status epilepticus, and blocking N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation converts refractory status epilepticus to a seizure responsive to benzodiazepine therapy. These findings offer insights into developing novel therapeutic interventions to improve the treatment of status epilepticus. Understanding the molecular mechanisms that mediate the effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation on the development of resistance to treatment in status epilepticus will provide rational insights into more rapid methods to terminate seizure activity in this condition.
Hypersensitivity to inulin (polyfructan) is a rare event; two cases of food allergy and some patients presenting with allergy and hypersensitivity after inulin infusion have been reported. An 11-year-old boy suffering from severe immunoglobulin (Ig)A nephropathy (IgAN) experienced both anaphylactic reaction and concomitant relapse of his nephropathy following inulin infusion, used for measuring glomerular filtration rate (GFR) 2 years after the appearance of his initial symptoms. Pruritus, wheezing and cough were observed during a first renal function test; results of prick and intradermal tests were negative for inulin. The patient presented with pallor, asthenia and oliguria when a second inulin infusion was performed under dexchlorpheniramine, leading to the immediate cessation of the infusion. He was readmitted 2 days later because of fatigue and nausea related to acute renal failure. A drug-induced acute interstitial nephritis was first suspected. However, due to the presence of macroscopic haematuria and proteinuria, a renal biopsy was performed and showed acute proliferative relapse of IgAN. The underlying mechanism of inulin hypersensitivity is not well known. We can hypothesize that inulin had activated the innate immune system. Inulin may, thus, have been the initiating event of the renal relapse, acting like an infection, in a patient with IgA-mediated immunological dysregulation.
Two cases of inadvertent intra-arterial injection into the anterior turbinates for treatment of allergic rhinitis resulted in retrograde flow of methylprednisolone acetate in the ophthalmic artery. Both patients demonstrated embolization of the retinal circulation, and one of the choroidal circulation as well. Visual outcome was favorable, although one patient showed a permanent paracentral scotoma. Fundus photographs clearly showed intra-arterial obstruction of arterioles that cleared within several days. Precautions can be taken for the prevention of this complication.
So as to assess the effects of lithium carbonate on peripheral leucocyte levels of hepatic cirrhosis patients, 10 cirrhotic patients were studied with less than 4,500 leukocytes per cubic ml and without contraindications for lithium salts that were administered for three weeks at a dose of 90 mg daily. At the end of each week total peripheral leukocytes, differential formula, platelet count and serum lithium concentration determinations were made. In the basal stage, total leukocyte average was 3,400 +/- 527 (X +/- DE) and granulocyte average was 2,090 +/- 341. After the first week of lithium treatment a significant increase was observed in total leukocyte and granulocyte levels whose averages at the end of the third week of treatment were 4,800 +/- 1,052 (p less than 0.01) and 3,694 +/- 1,003 (p less than 0.001) respectively. There was no correlation between the magnitude of leukocyte increase and serum lithium levels obtained that ranged from 0.28 and 1.32 mEq/l. Three patients showed transient gross tremor and two suffered hepatic coma. We can conclude that lithium carbonate increases peripheral leucocytes at the expense of neutrophilia in patients with secondary granulocytopenia and hypersplenism resulting in liver cirrhosis.
It was previously shown that haloperidol, but not clozapine, induced intense rat catalepsy when co-administered with delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol. The present study investigated whether similar alterations could be observed on striatal c-Fos immunoreactivity after administration of the same drug combinations. Western Blot and immunocytochemistry stereological analyses indicated that delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (0.5 mg/kg) increased striatal c-Fos immunoreactivity induced by haloperidol (0.1 mg/kg). Conversely, no significant alterations of striatal c-Fos immunoreactivity were observed after injections of clozapine (10 mg/kg)+vehicle, clozapine+delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol or vehicle+delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol. The present results indicate that the behavioral effects induced by delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol in haloperidol- and clozapine-treated rats are associated with different striatal c-Fos expressions.
Heavy metals are known to induce functional alterations in kidney mitochondria, this damage plays a central role in the mercury-induced acute renal failure. In fact, mercury causes rapid and dramatic changes in the membrane's ionic permeability in such a way that a supra load of mitochondrial Ca(2+) occurs. As a consequence, the phenomenon of permeability transition takes place. In this work we studied in vitro and in vivo the protective effect of the selective estrogen receptor modulator tamoxifen on the deleterious action of mercury-induced nonselective permeability in kidney mitochondria. Added in vitro tamoxifen inhibited membrane nonspecific pore opening, brought about by Hg(2+), as well as the oxidative damage of the enzyme cis-aconitase. In vivo the administration of tamoxifen prevented Hg(2+)-induced poisoning on mitochondrial energy-dependent functions. Permeability transition was analyzed by measuring matrix Ca(2+) retention, mitochondrial swelling, and the build up and maintenance of a transmembrane electric gradient. The pharmacologic action of tamoxifen on mercury poisoning could be ascribed to its cyclosporin-like action.
Unlike some thiazide diuretics, indapamide--a non-thiazide chlorosulphonamide derivative--has been shown to have a magnesium-sparing effect in normotensive subjects. This effect has not been studied in hypertensive subjects. In a randomised double-blind trial indapamide 2,5 mg and placebo were given daily to a group of elderly patients with mild hypertension, with and without supplemental magnesium chloride. Blood pressure and serum and red blood cell cations were measured. The significant antihypertensive effect of indapamide was confirmed. There was no effect of indapamide on serum and red cell magnesium concentrations compared with placebo, both with and without magnesium supplementation. Indapamide induced hypokalaemia with a shift of sodium into the red cells. In this group of elderly hypertensive subjects indapamide induced potassium but not magnesium loss.
We evaluated the preventive effect of caffeic acid (CA) on lysosomal enzymes in isoproterenol (ISO)-treated myocardial infarcted rats. Male albino Wistar rats were pretreated with CA (15 mg/kg) daily for a period of 10 days. After the pretreatment period, ISO (100 mg/kg) was subcutaneously injected to rats twice at an interval of 24 h. The activity of serum creatine kinase-MB and lactate dehydrogenase was increased significantly (P < 0.05) in ISO-induced myocardial infarcted rats. The levels of plasma thiobarbituric acid reactive substances and lipid hydroperoxides were significantly (P < 0.05) increased, and the level of plasma-reduced glutathione was significantly (P < 0.05) decreased in ISO-induced myocardial infarcted rats. The activities of lysosomal enzymes (beta-glucuronidase, beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase, beta-galactosidase, cathepsin-B and cathepsin-D) were increased significantly (P < 0.05) in the serum and heart of ISO-induced myocardial infarcted rats. ISO induction also resulted in decreased stability of membranes, which was reflected by lowered activities of beta-glucuronidase and cathepsin-D in different fractions except cytosol. Pretreatment with CA (15 mg/kg) to ISO-treated rats significantly (P < 0.05) prevented the changes in the activities of cardiac marker enzymes, the levels of lipid peroxidation products, reduced glutathione and the activities of lysosomal enzymes in the serum, heart, and subcellular fractions. Oral treatment with CA (15 mg/kg) to normal control rats did not show any significant effect. Thus, the results of our study showed that CA prevented the lysosomal membrane damage against ISO-induced myocardial infarction. The observed effects of CA are due to membrane-stabilizing, antilipo peroxidative, and antioxidant effects.
Previously, we reported that pyrogallol, an anti-psoriatic agent, causes hepatotoxicity in experimental animals and silymarin, an herbal antioxidant, reduces pyrogallol-induced changes [Upadhyay, G., Kumar, A., Singh, M.P., 2007. Effect of silymarin on pyrogallol- and rifampicin-induced hepatotoxicity in mouse. Eur. J. Pharmacol. 565, 190-201.]. The present study was undertaken to assess the effect of resveratrol against pyrogallol-induced changes in hepatic damage markers, xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes and oxidative stress. Swiss albino mice were treated intraperitoneally, daily with pyrogallol (40 mg/kg), for one to four weeks, along with respective controls. In some set of experiments, animals were pre-treated with resveratrol (10 mg/kg), 2 h prior to pyrogallol treatment, along with respective controls. Alanine aminotransaminase, aspartate aminotransaminase and bilirubin were measured in blood plasma and mRNA expression of cytochrome P-450 (CYP) 1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2E1, glutathione-S-transferase (GST)-ya and GST-yc, catalytic activity of CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2E1, GST, glutathione reductase and glutathione peroxidase, lipid peroxidation and reduced glutathione (GSH) level were measured in liver. Resveratrol reduced pyrogallol-mediated increase in alanine aminotransaminase, aspartate aminotransaminase, bilirubin, lipid peroxidation and mRNA expression and catalytic activity of CYP2E1 and CYP1A2. Pyrogallol-mediated decrease in GST-ya and GST-yc expressions, GST, glutathione peroxidase and glutathione reductase activities and GSH content was significantly attenuated in resveratrol co-treated animals. CYP1A1 expression and catalytic activity were not altered significantly in any treated groups. The results demonstrate that resveratrol modulates pyrogallol-induced changes in hepatic toxicity markers, xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes and oxidative stress.
The changes in the content of pyridine nucleotide coenzymes (NAD+ and NADH) in several models of experimentally induced hypertension, differing in mechanism (genetic spontaneous hypertension, renal one kidney Goldblatt hypertension, Adrenal-regeneration hypertension after INGLE-HIGGINS and Skelton, and NaC1 hypertension) were studied. An obvious difference between the changes in NAD+ and NADH in the various models of hypertension, was established: Thus in NaC1 hypertension a high level of the coenzymes in the kidneys and in the vessel wall was found, while the liver coenzyme content was in normal ranges. In ARH the coenzyme level was elevated not only in the kidneys and in the vessel wall, but in the liver as well. Treatment with hypotensive antilipolytic prostaglandin E1 decreased the coenzymes in ARH to normal values. Renal hypertension was characterized by a low content of oxidized NAD, an increased NADH, and a decreased NAD+/NADH ratio in the kidneys and the liver, while in the vessel wall the coenzyme level was moderately increased. The coenzyme changes in the kidneys of SHR were similar to those in renal hypertensive rats. However coenzyme level in the vessel wall of SHR was lower than in all the other forms of hypertension.
Carvedilol (CAR) is a vasodilating beta-blocker which also has antioxidant properties. CAR produces dose-related reduction in mortality in patients with congestive heart failure. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that CAR protects against doxorubicin (DOX)-induced cardiomyopathy in rats. Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with DOX, CAR, CAR+DOX, or atenolol (ATN)+DOX. DOX (cumulative dose, 15 mg/kg) was administered intraperitoneally, and CAR (30 mg/kg daily) or ATN (150 mg/kg daily) was administered orally. Three weeks after the completion of these treatments, cardiac performance and myocardial lipid peroxidation were assessed. Mortality was observed in the DOX (25%) and ATN+DOX (12.5%) groups. Compared with control rats, DOX significantly decreased systolic blood pressure (104+/-4 vs. 120+/-4 mmHg, P<0.05) and left ventricular fractional shortening (38.8+/-3.1 vs. 55.4+/-1.3%, P<0.01), and resulted in a significant accumulation of ascites (14.4+/-4.9 vs. 0 ml, P<0.01). CAR significantly prevented the cardiomyopathic changes caused by DOX, while ATN did not. The myocardial thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) content was significantly higher in DOX-treated rats than in control rats (80.4+/-7.1 vs. 51.5+/-1.2 nmol/g heart, p<0.01). CAR prevented the increase in TBARS content (48.8+/-3.0 nmol/g heart, P<0.01 vs. DOX group), whereas ATN had no significant effect (74.3+/-5.2 nmol/g heart). CAR also significantly prevented the increase in both myocardial and plasma cholesterol concentrations caused by DOX. These data indicate that CAR protects against DOX-induced cardiomyopathy and that this effect may be attributed to the antioxidant and lipid-lowering properties of CAR, not to its beta-blocking property.
Melatonin protects mice from lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced fetal death and intra-uterine growth retardation. Nevertheless, its molecular mechanism remains obscure. In the present study, we investigated the effects of melatonin on LPS-induced cellular stress in placenta. Pregnant mice were given with melatonin [5.0 mg/kg, intraperitoneal (i.p.)] 30 min before and 150 min after LPS (300 μg/kg, i.p.) on gestational day 15. Oxidative stress, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, hypoxic stress, and heat stress in placenta were analyzed at 4 hr after LPS. As expected, maternal LPS administration resulted in placental glutathione (GSH) depletion and up-regulated the expression of placental antioxidative enzymes. In addition, LPS significantly increased the level of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and enhanced the intensity of placental 3-nitrotyrosine residues. An ER stress, as determined by a decreased GRP78 expression, an obvious eIF2α and JNK phosphorylation, and an increased CHOP expression, were observed in placenta of pregnant mice injected with LPS. In addition, LPS significantly increased mRNA level of placental HIF-1α, VEGF, and ET-1, the markers of hypoxic stress. Heme oxygenase (HO)-1, a marker of heat stress, was also up-regulated in placenta of LPS-treated pregnant mice. Interestingly, LPS-induced placental oxidative stress, hypoxic stress, and ER stress were significantly alleviated when pregnant mice were given with melatonin, whereas melatonin had little effect on LPS-evoked placental HO-1 expression. In conclusion, maternally administered melatonin alleviates LPS-induced cellular stress in the placenta. Melatonin may be useful as pharmacological agents to protect the fetuses against LPS-induced intra-uterine fetal death and intra-uterine growth restriction.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a severe neurodegenerative disorder characterised by loss of dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra. The pathological hallmarks are cytoplasmic inclusions termed Lewy bodies consisting primarily of aggregated alpha-synuclein (alphaSN). Different lines of transgenic mice have been developed to model PD but have failed to recapitulate the hallmarks of this disease. Since treatment of rodents with the pesticide rotenone can reproduce nigrostriatal cell loss and other features of PD, we aimed to test chronic oral administration of rotenone to transgenic mice over-expressing human alphaSN with the A53T mutation. Initial assessment of this transgenic line for compensatory molecular changes indicated decreased brain beta-synuclein expression and significantly increased levels of the PD-associated oxidative stress response protein, DJ-1, and the E3 ubiquitin ligase enzyme, Parkin. Rotenone treatment of 30 mg/kg for 25 doses over a 35-day period was tolerated in the transgenic mice and resulted in decreased spontaneous locomotor movement and increased cytoplasmic alphaSN expression. The mitochondrial Parkinson's-associated PTEN-induced kinase 1 protein levels were also increased in transgenic mouse brain after rotenone treatment; there was no change in brain dopamine levels or nigrostriatal cell loss. These hA53T alphaSN transgenic mice provide a useful model for presymptomatic Parkinson's features and are valuable for study of associated compensatory changes in early Parkinson's disease stages.
To better study early events in glioma genesis, markers that reliably denote landmarks in glioma development are needed. In the present study, we used microarray analysis to compare the gene expression patterns of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-localized N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU)-induced tumors in rat brains with those of uninvolved contralateral side and normal brains. Our analysis identified osteopontin (OPN) as the most up-regulated gene in glioma. Using immunohistochemistry we then confirmed OPN expression in every tumor examined (n = 17), including those with diameters as small as 300 mum. By contrast, no OPN immunostaining was seen in normal brain or in brains removed from ENU-exposed rats before the development of glioma. Further studies confirmed that OPN was co-localized exclusively in intratumoral glial fibrillary acidic protein-expressing cells and was notably absent from nestin-expressing ones. In conjunction with this, we confirmed that both normal neurosphere cells and ENU-im-mortalized subventricular zone/striatal cells produced negligible amounts of OPN compared to the established rat glioma cell line C6. Furthermore, inducing OPN expression in an immortalized cell line increased cell proliferation. Based on these findings, we conclude that OPN overexpression in ENU-induced gliomas occurs within a specific subset of intratumoral glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive cells and becomes evident at the stage of tumor progression.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, a familial myocardial condition caused by sarcomere protein mutations, is usually recognized by early adulthood. Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy of the elderly has similar clinical features but, notably, a later age of onset and noncontributory family history. Causes of elderly-onset hypertrophic cardiomyopathy are unknown.
Eighteen women and 13 men diagnosed with late-onset hypertrophic cardiomyopathy were studied. Initial symptoms occurred at 59.3 (+/-12.3) years, and diagnosis was made at 62.8 (+/-10.8) years. None had family histories of cardiomyopathy. Echocardiography demonstrated maximal left ventricular wall thickness of 19.9+/-3.8 mm, systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve (58%), and, in 11 individuals, left ventricular outflow tract gradients (average, 63+/-42.8 mm). Sarcomere protein gene analyses revealed 8 sequence variants in cardiac myosin binding protein-C (1 nonsense, 1 splice acceptor site, and 3 missense), cardiac troponin I (2 missense), and alpha-cardiac myosin heavy chain (1 missense). Seven variants were not found in over 170 normal chromosomes; 1 variant (cardiac myosin binding protein-C Arg326Gln) also occurred in a healthy adult.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy of the elderly can be a genetic disorder caused by dominant sarcomere protein mutations. The distribution of mutations in elderly-onset disease is strikingly different (P<0.00001) from that of familial, early onset hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Whereas defects in beta-cardiac myosin heavy chain, cardiac troponin T, and alpha-tropomyosin account for > 45% of familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, none were found here. Rather, mutations in cardiac myosin binding protein-C, troponin I, and alpha-cardiac myosin heavy chain caused elderly-onset hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
Compared to steroids non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs offer comparable anti-inflammatory action without ocular side-effects.
To compare the anti-inflammatory effect and effect on IOP (Goldmann) of topical diclofenac 0.1% with dexamethasone 0.1% after strabismus surgery.
Prospective, randomized, double-blind, single-center, clinical trial.
Forty-three cases of constant horizontal strabismus, qualifying for standard uniocular recession-resection surgery on two horizontal rectus muscles were randomized to either the dexamethasone or diclofenac group. They were excluded if they had previous ocular surgery, recently used anti-inflammatory drugs and had a neurological, systemic or an ocular inflammatory condition. In addition all received ciprofloxacin 0.3% four times daily. Assessment was done on the first postoperative day and at two and four weeks. The inflammatory characteristics graded from nil (0) to severe (3) were: discomfort, chemosis, injection, discharge and drop-intolerance. Their sum provided the total inflammatory score (TIS).
Dexamethasone group (n=21) was comparable in age, gender, preoperative IOP, strabismus, anesthesia administered and baseline IOP, to diclofenac (n=22). There were no significant differences in the inflammatory characteristics and TIS. The dexamethasone group had IOP significantly higher at two weeks (95% CI 0.17 to 3.25) and four weeks (95% CI 1.09 to 4.24) compared to diclofenac group and the net change of IOP at four weeks (95% CI 0.60 to 3.14). Compared to the baseline IOP.
Topical diclofenac is comparable to dexamethasone in providing anti-inflammatory and analgesic effect with the advantage of significantly lesser IOP rise and should be preferred after strabismus surgery.
Estrogen improves endothelial function in the coronary conduit vessels of animals; however, its effects on the coronary microcirculation have not been studied completely in humans.
We measured myocardial blood flow (MBF) with a PET scan at rest, during cold pressor testing (CPT), and during dipyridamole hyperemia in 54 postmenopausal women without coronary artery disease. Of these, 23 were not and 31 women were taking long-term hormone replacement therapy (HRT) using estrogen either alone or with a progestogen. Each group was subdivided by coronary risk factors (RFs). Twelve young healthy women served as controls. In women not taking HRT, MBF measurements were repeated after 25 mg of conjugated equine estrogens IV. Neither short estrogen nor long-term HRT affected MBF at rest in women with and without RFs. Dipyridamole MBF was attenuated only in the women with RF who were not taking HRT. Short-term estrogen and long-term HRT did not reverse the abnormal response. MBF responses to CPT were abnormal in women not taking HRT, regardless of RFs (20+/-15% versus 32+/-21%) and remained unchanged after short-term estrogen administration. Long-term HRT normalized the response to CPT only in women without RF (53+/-22% versus 59+/-36% in the young women; NS). MBFs were similar for women on estrogen alone or estrogen plus a progestogen, regardless of presence or absence of RFs.
Menopause is associated with abnormal CPT (an indirect measure of endothelial function), which can be reversed by long-term HRT only when RFs are absent. Progestogens do not antagonize this effect. Long-term HRT may therefore be useful in the primary prevention of coronary artery disease in women without RFs.
Inhaled morphine has been used to treat dyspnea in a variety of clinical settings. There are, however, no reports of its use in treating patients with end-stage lung disease due to cystic fibrosis (CF). We report on the use of inhaled morphine sulfate in a 13-year-old boy with CF, advanced lung disease, and acute respiratory failure. Therapy was effective in reducing his subjective feeling of air hunger and improving his BORG score. His sole significant adverse effect was headache after 2 days of treatment at 4-hourly intervals.
