Hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) is an extremely reactive oxidoradical that is normally produced as a by-product of the mitochondrial activity and also under several metabolic stress conditions. Autophagy, a lysosomal degradation pathway, is triggered by oxidative stress as a defensive response. How autophagy and death pathways are coordinated in cells subjected to oxidative stress is still poorly understood. In human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells, 200microM H(2)O(2) rapidly induced the formation of LC3-positive autophagic vacuoles and of beclin1-Vps34 double-positive macroaggregates. Vacuolar LC3 and beclin1 aggregates did not form when oxidative stress was performed in cells pretreated with 3-methyladenine (3MA), an inhibitor of Vps34, or infected with a recombinant adenovirus expressing a dominant-negative mutant of Vps34. H(2)O(2) provoked the permeabilization of lysosomes (at 30 min) and of mitochondria, the concomitant oligomerization of bax, and eventually (at 2 h), cell death in about 50% of the cell culture. Inactivation of Vps34-dependent autophagy in oxidative-stressed cells abrogated lysosome leakage, bax activation, and caspase-dependent apoptosis and conferred protection for as long as 16 h. Inhibition of caspase activity (by ZVAD-fmk) did not trigger an alternative cell death pathway but rather afforded complete protection from oxidative toxicity, despite the ongoing generation of oxidoradicals and the cellular accumulation of autophagic vacuoles and of leaking lysosomes. On long-term (16 h) exposure to H(2)O(2), signs of necrotic cell death became apparent in LC3-positive cells, which could be prevented by ZVAD-fmk. The present data highlight the pivotal role of autophagy in H(2)O(2)-induced cell death in dopaminergic neuroblastoma cells.
A 36-years aged woman suffering from migraine used Ergosanol special-suppositories. An edema of the retina with star figure appeared in both eyes with only a few months distance. After putting away that drug visual acuity restituted completely in spite of a partial neuritic atrophy of the optic nerve in the first suffering eye. If Ergotamin containing drugs are not used for too long time the condition usually is getting better within a few days. Thereby the diagnosis can be confirmed clinically. The same results could be expected if DHE leads to Ergotismus which is not yet confirmed. In literature central scotomas as well as annular scotomas are reported. In Ergotamin induced angioneuropathies there is a large difference in individual response. Our observation showed that drugs taken for years are no more felt as a pharmacon by a patient and therefore are not reported to the examinating physician.
In this study, we recruited 49 subjects from one village close to an electronic waste (e-waste) site (exposed group) and another located 50 km away from the e-waste site (control group). We found that serum levels of polybrominated diphenyl ethers (median PBDEs, 382 ng/g lipid weight; range, 77-8452 ng/g lipid weight) and thyroid-stimulating hormone (median TSH, 1.79 microIU/mL; range, 0.38-9.03 microIU/mL) and frequencies of micro-nucleated binucleated cells (MNed BNC; median, 5% per hundred; range, 0-96% per hundred) were significantly higher in the exposed group than in the control group (158 ng/g, range of 18-436 ng/g, and p < 0.05; 1.15 microIU/mL, range of 0.48-2.09, and p < 0.01; and 0% per hundred, range of 0-5% per hundred, and p < 0.01, respectively). A history of working with e-waste was significantly associated with increased MNed BNC frequencies (odds ratio (OR), 38.85; 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1-1358.71, p = 0.044), independent of years of local residence, a perceived risk factor. However, there was no association between PBDEs exposure and oxidative DNA damage. Therefore, the exposure to PBDEs at the e-waste site may have an effect on the levels of TSH and genetoxic damage among these workers, but this needs to be validated in large studies.
The cases of a 43 years old-man with gout and a 24 years-old woman with severe back pain who developed dextro-propoxyphene addiction during pain treatment are reported. They had severe edema and fibrosis of skin, subcutaneous tissue and muscle involving the upper and lower limbs. ESR was elevated, CPK and LDH were normal. EMG in proximal muscles showed decreased duration and voltage of potentials, excess of short polyphasics and increased recruitment (BSAP), with positive waves and fibrillations; distal muscles had fasciculations, fibrillations, positive waves, normal voluntary potentials, decreased recruitment. Lymphography indicate delayed progression of contrast media and obstruction in the thighs. Muscle biopsy on fresh-frozen section and histochemistry showed extensive connective tissue proliferation with intense acid and alkaline phosphatase activity in the perimysial and endomysial area, infiltration of lymphocytes near and around small vessels and capillaries. There were perifascicular and type II fiber atrophy. After discharge the patients returned to propoxyphene addiction and the symptoms who subsided during drug withdrawal come back again. New admission, new drug withdrawal and they were discharged free of symptoms and pathologic changes.
Chronic arsenic exposure is associated with cardiovascular abnormalities. Prolongation of the QT (time between initial deflection of QRS complex to the end of T wave) interval and profound repolarization changes on electrocardiogram (ECG) have been reported in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia treated with arsenic trioxide. This acquired form of long QT syndrome can result in life-threatening arrhythmias.
The objective of this study was to assess the cardiac effects of arsenic by investigating QT interval alterations in a human population chronically exposed to arsenic.
Residents in Ba Men, Inner Mongolia, have been chronically exposed to arsenic via consumption of water from artesian wells. A total of 313 Ba Men residents with the mean arsenic exposure of 15 years were divided into three arsenic exposure groups: low (< or = 21 microg/L), medium (100-300 microg/L), and high (430-690 microg/L). ECGs were obtained on all study subjects. The normal range for QTc (corrected QT) interval is 0.33-0.44 sec, and QTc > or = 0.45 sec was considered to be prolonged.
The prevalence rates of QT prolongation and water arsenic concentrations showed a dose-dependent relationship (p = 0.001). The prevalence rates of QTc prolongation were 3.9, 11.1, 20.6% for low, medium, and high arsenic exposure, respectively. QTc prolongation was also associated with sex (p < 0.0001) but not age (p = 0.486) or smoking (p = 0.1018). Females were more susceptible to QT prolongation than males.
We found significant association between chronic arsenic exposure and QT interval prolongation in a human population. QT interval may potentially be useful in the detection of early cardiac arsenic toxicity.
Cocaine abuse is known to induce different types of brain-microvascular damage and many adverse cerebrovascular effects, including cerebral vasculitis, intracranial hemorrhage, cerebral infarction and stroke. A major physiological event leading to these pathophysiological actions of cocaine could be apoptosis. Whether cocaine can cause brain-microvascular pathology and vascular toxicity by inducing apoptosis of cerebral vascular smooth muscle cells is not known. This study, using several different methods to discern apoptosis, was designed to investigate if primary cultured canine cerebral vascular smooth muscle cells can undergo apoptosis when treated with cocaine. After treatment with cocaine (10(-6)-10(-3) M) for 12-24 h, the death rates of cerebral vascular smooth muscle cells increased in a concentration-dependent manner compared with controls. Morphological analysis of cerebral vascular smooth muscle cells using confocal fluoresence microscopy showed that the percentage of apoptotic cerebral vascular smooth muscle cells increased after cocaine (10(-6)-10(-3) M) treatment in a concentration-dependent manner. TUNEL assays also showed positive results for cerebral vascular smooth muscle cells treated with cocaine. These results clearly demonstrate that cerebral vascular smooth muscle cells can undergo rapid apoptosis in response to cocaine in a concentration-dependent manner. Cocaine-induced apoptosis may thus play a major role in brain-microvascular damage, cerebral vascular toxicity and strokes.
Administration of oxadiazon or oxyfluorfen (1000 ppm in the diet) to male BALB/c mice for 9 days resulted in experimental porphyria, resembling the acute phase of human variegate porphyria. Urinary concentrations of 5-aminolevulinic acid and porphobilinogen reached 1500 and 3000 mumol/L, respectively. Both herbicides caused a decrease of protoporphyrinogen oxidase activity in liver and kidney. Brain protoporphyrinogen oxidase activity was not altered. Liver and kidney porphyrin content increased to 11 and 17 nmol/g, respectively (control mice, 2 nmol/g). Over 50% of liver and kidney porphyrins were in the reduced (porphyrinogen) form. Bile of oxadiazon-treated mice contained 700 nmol/mL of protoporphyrinogen (control mice, 15 nmol/mL). Porphyrin content of the trigeminal nerve increased from 1 nmol/g in control animals to 11 nmol/g in oxadiazon-treated animals, suggesting a possible contribution of peripheral nerve porphyrins to porphyric neuropathy. Mice treated with 125 ppm of oxadiazon in the diet for 9 days excreted moderately elevated levels of porphobilinogen in urine (control mice, less than 50 mumol/L; treated mice, 330 mumol/L). Administration of phenobarbital or phenytoin (single injections on days 7, 8, and 9) increased the urinary porphobilinogen concentration to 3500 mumol/L. This response to porphyrogenic drugs resembles the response observed in human acute porphyrias.
4-Vinylcyclohexene diepoxide (VCD) destroys small preantral (25-100 microns) ovarian follicles after repeated dosing in mice and rats. A previous study determined this follicular destruction is via apoptosis (physiological cell death). The purposes of this study were to examine the effects of VCD on amounts of mRNA for several genes that might be involved in this ovotoxic response and to determine the specificity of this response for small preantral follicles. The genes of interest were bax, a cell death gene; three forms of the antioxidant enzyme, superoxide dismutase (mitochondrial manganese-containing or MnSOD, cytosolic copper/zinc-containing or Cu/ZnSOD, and secreted or secSOD); and microsomal epoxide hydrolase (mEH), involved in detoxification of VCD. Female Fischer 344 rats were administered daily doses (10 days) of vehicle control (sesame oil) or VCD (80 mg/kg, ip). Four hours after the last injection, livers and ovaries were removed. Small (25-100 microns) and large (100-250 microns) preantral follicles were separated from the ovaries by gentle dissociation and collected by mouth pipeting. Total RNA was extracted from all tissues, reverse transcribed into first-strand cDNA, and amplified by polymerase chain reaction using oligonucleotide primers specific for each gene. Relative levels of mRNA were visualized by agarose gel electrophoresis and autoradiography and quantified by densitometric analysis. Coamplification of ribosomal protein L19 (constitutively expressed in ovarian tissue) was used for normalization in each sample. Increased levels of mRNA for bax (172 +/- 20% of control, p < 0.05), MnSOD (248 +/- 70% of control, p < 0.05), and mEH (352 +/- 120% of control, p < 0.05) were measured in 25- to 100-microns follicles collected from VCD-treated compared with control rats. Unlike 25- to 100-microns follicles (the targets of ovotoxicity), in 100- to 250-microns follicles (nontargets) there were no changes (p > 0.05) in mRNA levels for bax or MnSOD in VCD-treated rats; however, mRNA levels for mEH were significantly decreased (79 +/- 4% of control, p < 0.05), compared with control. No changes in levels of mRNA for mEH were observed in liver from VCD-treated rats relative to control. Additionally, in liver VCD caused a significant decrease in mRNA levels for bax (31 +/- 5% of control, p < 0.05) and Cu-ZnSOD (56 +/- 17% of control, p < 0.05). In summary, dosing of rats with VCD enhanced expression of mRNA encoding several genes that might respond during the induction of ovotoxicity. The selective increase in bax in the population of follicles destroyed by repeated dosing with VCD may reflect their susceptibility to apoptosis.
To determine the platelet-activating factor (PAF) synthesis and its receptor expression in Kupffer cells in rat carbon tetrachloride-induced cirrhosis.
Kupffer cells, isolated from the livers of control and CCl4-induced cirrhotic rats, were placed in serum-free medium overnight. PAF saturation binding, ET-1 saturation and competition binding were assayed. ET-1 induced PAF synthesis, mRNA expression of PAF, preproendothelin-1, endothelin A (ETA) and endothelin B (ETB) receptors were also determined.
A two-fold increase of PAF synthesis (1.42 +/- 0.14 vs 0.66 +/- 0.04 pg/microg DNA) and a 1.48-fold increase of membrane-bound PAF (1.02 +/- 0.06 vs 0.69 +/- 0.07 pg/microg DNA) were observed in activated Kupffer cells of cirrhotic rats. The application of ET-1 to Kupffer cells induced PAF synthesis in a concentration-dependent manner in both cirrhotic and normal rats via ETB receptor, but PAF synthesis in the activated Kupffer cells was more effective than that in the normal Kupffer cells. In activated Kupffer cells, PAF receptor expression and PAF binding capacity were markedly enhanced. Activated Kupffer cells raised the [125 I]-ET-1 binding capacity, but changed neither the affinity of the receptors, nor the expression of ETA receptor.
Kupffer cells in the course of CCl4-induced cirrhosis are the main source of increased PAF. ET-1 is involved endogenously in stimulating the PAF synthesis in activated Kupffer cells via ETB receptor by paracrine. ETA receptor did not appear in activated Kupffer cells, which may exacerbate the hepatic and extrahepatic complications of cirrhosis.
In previous studies we reported that prolonged treatment of rats with subtoxic levels of mercury as methymercury hydroxide (MMH) elicited a two- to three-fold increase in renal glutathione (GSH) content and a three- to fourfold increase in the mRNA encoding the catalytically active heavy subunit of gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase (GCS), the rate-limiting enzyme in GSH synthesis. Since methylmercury is a potent neurotoxicant, we investigated the effect of methylmercury treatment on GSH synthesis and the distribution of GCS mRNA expression in the brain. Male C57B1/ 6 mice were treated for 3 consecutive days with MMH (3 mg/kg/ day,i.p.). GSH levels in whole brains were increased by twofold 24 hr following the first injection and remained elevated two to three times control levels after two subsequent MMH treatments. Concomitantly, whole brain GCS mRNA levels were increased 2.7-fold 24 hr after the third MMH treatment. Reverse transcription in situ PCR amplification of GCS heavy subunit mRNA in brain slices taken from MMH-treated mice showed that GCS expression was selectively localized to the cerebellum and hippocampal regions and, within these regions, to areas which are known to resist methylmercury toxicity. In contrast, no GCS mRNA expression was found in brain regions which are known to be highly susceptible to mercury toxicity. These findings suggest that resistance to methylmercury toxicity in the brain may reflect the ability of specific neuronal cell types to up-regulate GSH synthesis as a protective response to mercury-mediated cell damage.
DDB (dimethyl-4,4'-dimethoxy-5,6,5'6'-dimethylene dioxybiphenyl-2,2'-dicarboxylate) is a synthetic hepatoprotectant which has been widely used to treat chronic viral hepatitis B patients in China for more than 20 years. In this study, we evaluated DDB as a multidrug resistance (MDR) chemosensitizing agent.
A panel of sensitive and resistant cancer cell lines were treated with various concentration of DDB, and the effect on chemosensitivity and accumulation of anticancer drugs; promotion of apoptosis and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) expression were determined by MTT (Dimethyl thiazolyl-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide) assay, fluorospectrometry and flow cytometry respectively. Drug resistance reversal activity of DDB was also examined in BALB/c nude mice bearing both acquired MDR human nasopharyngeal carcinoma KBv200 and parental KB xenografts. The effect of DDB on the pharmacokinetics of Dox and hematological toxicity induced by Dox was measured in ICR and C(57)/BL mice, respectively.
DDB at nontoxic concentrations of 12.5, 25 and 50 microM partly reversed the resistance to vincristine, doxorubicin, paclitaxel in acquired MDR breast carcinoma MCF-7/Adr cells, KBv200 and intrinsic MDR human hepatocarcinoma Bel(7402) cells, whereas no chemosensitizing effect of DDB was observed in sensitive KB and MCF-7 cells. DDB increased the intracellular accumulation of doxorubicin and inhibited surface P-gp expression in MCF-7/Adr cells. Furthermore, it was found that DDB promoted doxorubicin-induced apoptosis of Bel(7402) cells through enhanced caspase-3 activation. Co-administration of DDB at 300 and 500 mg/kg orally to nude mice increased the antitumor activity of vincristine to KBv200 xenografts without a significant increase in toxicity. In contrast, Co-administration of DDB did not inhibit the growth of KB xenografts. DDB also markedly reduced the decrease of leukocytes in doxorubicin-treated C(57)/BL mice. Co-administration of DDB increased Dox concentration in ICR mice bearing S180 sarcoma, but no pharmacokinetical interaction with Dox was observed.
These results indicate that DDB has MDR reversal activity by inhibiting P-gp and when used in combination with anti-cancer drugs, it could potentially be used as a clinical treatment for P-gp-mediated MDR cancers.
The movement disorder investigated in these studies has some features in common with human idiopathic dystonia, and information obtained in these studies may be of potential clinical benefit. The present experimental results indicated that peptidergic stimulation of the LC resulted in a NE-mediated inhibition of cerebellar Purkinje cells located at terminals of the ceruleo-cerebellar pathway. However, it is not certain as to the following: (a) what receptors were stimulated by the ACTH N-terminal fragments at the LC that resulted in this disorder; (b) whether NE, released onto Purkinje cell synapses located at terminals of the ceruleo-cerebellar pathway, did indeed cause the long-term depression at Purkinje cell synapses (previously described by others) that resulted in the long duration of the movement disorder; (c) whether the inhibition of inhibitory Purkinje cells resulted in disinhibition or increased excitability of the unilateral cerebellar fastigial or interpositus nuclei, the output targets of the Purkinje cell axons, that may have been an important contributing factor to this disorder. These questions are currently being investigated.
The present report describes a patient with polycythemia vera who developed a severe arterial and venous thrombosis caused by systemically administered heparin. An immunologic implication has been proposed as pathophysiological mechanism of this heparin-associated thrombocytopenia and thrombosis syndrome. It is suggested, however, that a strong decrease in platelet count as occurred in this patient leads to a higher chance of developing this complication.
Therapy-related myeloid neoplasms (t-MN) include acute myeloid leukemias and myelodysplastic syndromes arising in patients who have been treated with chemotherapy, radiation therapy, immunosuppressive agents or after documented exposure to environmental carcinogen. t-MN are defined according to the primary treatment and the corresponding genetic and molecular lesions. Chromosome(s) 7 and/or 5 monosomies or deletions are typical of alkylating agent-induced AML, while balanced translocations involving chromosome bands 11q23 and 21q22 are associated to preceeding therapy with DNA-topoisomerase II inhibitors. Antimetabolites, and in particular the immunosuppressive agents azathioprine and fludarabine, have also been recently associated to t-MN. Leukemias developing after benzene exposure are similar to t-MN and are characterized by chromosomal aberrations, which have been also observed among otherwise healthy benzene-exposed workers. Individual predisposing factors, including polymorphisms of detoxification and DNA-repair enzymes have been identified. Two genetic variants in key metabolizing enzymes, myeloperoxidase and NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase, have been shown to influence susceptibility to benzene hematotoxicity. Combination of polymorphisms impairing detoxification and DNA repair may significantly increase therapy-related myeloid neoplasm risk. Among hematological malignancies, long-term survivors of Hodgkin's lymphoma are exposed to an increased t-MN risk, particularly when receiving MOPP-based and escalated-BEACOPP regimens, and when alkylators are combined to radiotherapy. Patients with lymphoma are at highest risk if total body irradiation followed by autologous stem cell transplantation is used as rescue or consolidation. The addition of granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) and radiotherapy plays a significant role in t-MN following treatment of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia. In solid tumors, treatment for breast cancer and germ-cell tumors has been associated with a 1-5% lifetime risk of t-MN.
To determine whether pergolide, a mixed D1/D2/D3 dopamine agonist, is efficacious and safe in the treatment of children with chronic tic disorders and Tourette syndrome.
Neuroleptics, which block dopamine transmission, are currently used to treat children with severe tics, but major side effects and limited efficacy reduce clinical utility. Prior open-label and crossover studies of pergolide suggest potential benefit.
The authors enrolled 57 children and adolescents, ages 7 to 17 years, randomizing them in a 2:1 ratio to either pergolide (0.15 to 0.45 mg per day) or placebo. Tic symptoms had to be >30 on the Yale Global Tic Severity Scale (YGTSS). The primary outcome measure was change in tic severity assessed by YGTSS.
Compared to placebo treatment, pergolide treatment was associated with lower tic severity scores (treatment effect 8.8, pergolide vs placebo; 95% CI 0.1 to 17.6; p = 0.05) and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder symptoms scores (treatment effect 3.8; 95% CI 0.7 to 6.8; p = 0.02). No patient had a serious adverse event and pergolide was well tolerated.
In this randomized, placebo-controlled trial, pergolide appeared to be an efficacious and safe medication for tic reduction in children, and may also improve attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder symptoms.
Aluminum phosphide (AlP), a widely used fumigant and rodenticide leads to high mortality if ingested. Its toxicity is due to phosphine liberated when it comes in contact with moisture. The exact mechanism of action of phosphine is not known. In this study male Wistar rats were used. The animals received a single dose (20mg AlP/kg body weight i.g.) orally. Basic serum biochemical parameters, activity of mitochondrial complexes, antioxidant enzymes and parameters of oxidative stress, individual mitochondrial cytochrome levels were measured along with tissue histopathology and immunostaining for cytochrome c and compared with controls. The serum levels of creatinine kinase-MB, lactate dehydrogenase, magnesium and cortisol were higher (p<0.01); the activities of mitochondrial complexes I, II, IV were observed to be significantly decreased in liver tissue in treated rats (p<0.01). The activity of catalase was lower (p<0.05) with a significant increase in lipid peroxidation (p<0.05) whereas superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase were unaffected in them. There was a significant decrease in all the cytochromes in brain and liver tissues (p<0.05) with the exception of cytochrome b in brain, the levels of which remained same. Histopathology revealed congestion in most organs with centrizonal hemorrhagic necrosis in liver. Ultra structural changes indicating mitochondrial injury was observed in heart, liver and kidney tissues. There was also a marked reduction in the cytochrome-c immunostaining compared to the controls. Toxicity due to AlP appears to result as a consequence of both-energy insufficiency and oxidative stress, with a possible and preferential interaction with the tissue cytochromes.
Cyclophosphamide is a valuable drug for the treatment of vasculitis and hepatic toxicity resulting from its use has been reported rarely. We describe four patients in whom cyclophosphamide was associated with liver injury when its administration had been preceded by azathioprine. Microscopy of hepatic biopsy material in three of these cases showed liver cell necrosis. In two of the patients, cyclophosphamide had been given previously without earlier azathioprine and hepatic damage had not been noted. An apparent interaction of cyclophosphamide with azathioprine to cause liver cell necrosis has important implications for the treatment of patients with vasculitis and related disorders.
To obtain insight into the hemodynamics of abnormal cardiac development, a chick embryo model was recently developed in which a spectrum of double outlet right ventricle was induced with all-trans-retinoic acid. In Hamburger and Hamilton (HH) stage 34 white Leghorn chick embryos, we simultaneously measured dorsal aortic flow velocities with a 20 MHz pulsed Doppler velocity meter and vitelline artery blood pressures with a servonull system. These measurements were performed in embryos treated at HH stage 15 with 1 microgram of all-trans-retinoic acid (n = 47), or with the solvent DMSO (n = 15), and in control embryos (n = 21). After the wave form recordings were collected, all embryos were examined histologically. Embryos treated with all-trans-retinoic acid showed in 15 cases hearts with a rightward positioned aorta with an additional subaortic ventricular septal defect and 32 cases without septation abnormalities of the heart. The hemodynamic data were correlated with the morphology. Statistical comparison was performed between control and experimental values. There was no significant discrepancy in hemodynamics of sham-operated and control embryos. Heart rate, peak systolic and mean velocities, peak systolic and mean blood flows, and peak acceleration and stroke volume were reduced in embryos treated with all-trans-retinoic acid (p < 0.01). Furthermore, in the presence of a subaortic ventricular septal defect the diameter of the dorsal aorta was reduced. Pressure readings were not statistically significant. Our findings suggest that the hemodynamic changes are the result of a decrease in cardiac contraction force.
Autistic disorder is a neurodevelopmental disorder with a complex genetic etiology. Observations of maternal duplications affecting chromosome 15q11-q13 in patients with autism and evidence for linkage and linkage disequilibrium to markers in this region in chromosomally normal autism families indicate the existence of a susceptibility locus. We have screened the families of the Collaborative Linkage Study of Autism for several markers spanning a candidate region covering approximately 2 Mb and including the Angelman syndrome gene (UBE3A) and a cluster of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA(A)) receptor subunit genes (GABRB3, GABRA5, and GABRG3). We found significant evidence for linkage disequilibrium at marker D15S122, located at the 5' end of UBE3A. This is the first report, to our knowledge, of linkage disequilibrium at UBE3A in autism families. Characterization of null alleles detected at D15S822 in the course of genetic studies of this region showed a small (approximately 5-kb) genomic deletion, which was present at somewhat higher frequencies in autism families than in controls.
A 59-year-old woman with rheumatoid arthritis was treated with prednisone and 250 mg of chloroquine diphosphate (CQ) daily. Though there was improvement in her joint symptoms, she began to notice progressive lower limb weakness, later extending to the arms and lasting for 2 months. Electromyography showed fibrillations, polyphasic potentials and high frequency discharges. Biceps brachii biopsy showed that virtually every muscle fiber and multiple small vacuoles surrounded by a basophilic rim. There was variation in fiber diameter and some fibers were atrophic and angulated. ATPase revealed type grouping. Electron microscopy showed, in each muscle fiber, numerous concentric membranous bodies, some with curvilinear profiles, beneath the sarcolemma or among the myofibrils. Some were also observed in endothelial cells of muscle capillaries. CQ was withdrawn, but no significant regression of symptoms had been observed at the time follow-up was discontinued. The patient died of cardiac insufficiency and bronchopneumonia. The case illustrates a rare complication of CQ therapy of rheumatic conditions. It is noteworthy because the drug was administered in therapeutic doses and only for a short period. CQ is known to interfere with lysosomal function, from which presumably the membranous bodies here described originate. Improvement of neuromuscular symptoms has been reported following withdrawal of the drug.
A fatal case of pulmonary edema is reported after prolonged treatment with beta-mimetics during pregnancy for threatened premature labor. The mother had received betamethasone in order to enhance fetal lung maturity. Myocardial failure occurred 5 days after discontinuation of betamimetics. The potential toxic effects of beta-adrenergic agents and their association with corticosteroids are discussed. Caution is recommended when high doses of betamimetics are to be delivered to prevent premature labor. No patient should be treated unless her cardiac condition is normal. Cardiovascular evaluation should be regularly performed during the course of treatment. No patient should be discharged after treatment without a normal cardiovascular check-up.
The effect of intracisternal pretreatment with opiate antagonists or antisera against various opioid peptides on the hypotension and bradycardia induced by cumulative intracisternal administration of clonidine (0.02-2.5 microgram) was studied in conscious Wistar-Kyoto rats and in spontaneously hypertensive rats. No effect of any pretreatment on basal values of blood pressure and heart rate was detected in either of these strains. In spontaneously hypertensive rats intracisternal pretreatment with naltrexone resulted in a dose-dependent inhibition of clonidine-induced hypotension and bradycardia. DL-naloxone also antagonized the hypotension but not influence the hypotensive and bradycardic response to clonidine. In Wistar-Kyoto rats naltrexone and the beta-endorphin antiserum B4 failed to affect the cardiovascular effects of clonidine. B4 and an antiserum against dynorphin(1-13) inhibited clonidine-induced hypotension in spontaneously hypertensive rats, whereas a [Met5]enkephalin antiserum had no effect. Use of antisera specifically recognizing the C-terminus of beta-, alpha-, and gamma-endorphin, respectively, revealed that only the beta-endorphin antiserum inhibited the fall in blood pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats after cumulative administration of clonidine. None of the antisera used affected clonidine-induced bradycardia. These results indicate that activation of stereospecific opiate receptors in spontaneously hypertensive, but not in Wistar-Kyoto rats, plays a role in the central hypotensive effect of clonidine. beta-Endorphin(1-31) and dynorphin(1-13) might be the endogenous ligands for these receptors.
Inorganic arsenic is a well-known human skin carcinogen. Chronic arsenic exposure results in various types of human skin lesions, including squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). To investigate whether mutant stem cells participate in arsenic-associated carcinogenesis, we repeatedly exposed the HaCaT cells line to an environmentally relevant level of arsenic (0.05 ppm) in vitro for 18 weeks. Following sodium arsenic arsenite administration, cell cycle, colony-forming efficiency (CFE), cell tumorigenicity, and expression of CD44v6, NF-κB and p53, were analyzed at different time points (0, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25 and 30 passages). We found that a chronic exposure of HaCaT cells to a low level of arsenic induced a cancer stem- like phenotype. Furthermore, arsenic-treated HaCaT cells also became tumorigenic in nude mice, their growth cycle was predominantly in G2/M and S phases. Relative to nontreated cells, they exhibited a higher growth rate and a significant increase in CFE. Western blot analysis found that arsenic was capable of increasing cell proliferation and sprouting of cancer stem-like phenotype. Additionally, immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated that CD44v6 expression was up-regulated in HaCaT cells exposed to a low level of arsenic during early stages of induction. The expression of CD44v6 in arsenic-treated cells was positively correlated with their cloning efficiency in soft agar (r=0.949, P=0.01). Likewise, the expressions of activating transcription factor NF-κB and p53 genes in the arsenic-treated HaCaT cells were significantly higher than that in non-treated cells. Higher expressions of CD44v6, NF-κB and p53 were also observed in tumor tissues isolated from Balb/c nude mice. The present results suggest that CD44v6 may be a biomarker of arsenic-induced neoplastic transformation in human skin cells, and that arsenic promotes malignant transformation in human skin lesions through a NF-κB signaling pathway-stimulated expression of CD44v6.
A series of omega-amino-2-hydroxy-p-fluorobutyrophenones have been synthesized to evaluate the influence exerted by a hydroxyl group in alpha-position to the carbonyl on the persistence of their neuroleptic and collateral properties. The new compounds generally did not show any neuroleptic activity while some of them were still hypotensive; this last effect, however, did not seem to be related to their alpha-adrenolytic properties.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the misfolding and plaque-like accumulation of a naturally occurring peptide in the brain called amyloid beta (Abeta). Recently, this process has been associated with the binding of metal ions such as iron (Fe), copper (Cu), and zinc (Zn). It is thought that metal dyshomeostasis is involved in protein misfolding and may lead to oxidative stress and neuronal damage. However, the exact role of the misfolded proteins and metal ions in the degenerative process of AD is not yet clear. In this study, we used synchrotron Fourier transform infrared micro-spectroscopy (FTIRM) to image the in situ secondary structure of the amyloid plaques in brain tissue of AD patients. These results were spatially correlated with metal ion accumulation in the same tissue sample using synchrotron X-ray fluorescence (SXRF) microprobe. For both techniques, a spatial resolution of 5-10 microm was achieved. FTIRM results showed that the amyloid plaques have elevated beta-sheet content, as demonstrated by a strong amide I absorbance at 1625cm(-1). Using SXRF microprobe, we find that AD tissue also contains "hot spots" of accumulated metal ions, specifically Cu and Zn, with a strong spatial correlation between these two ions. The "hot spots" of accumulated Zn and Cu were co-localized with beta-amyloid plaques. Thus for the first time, a strong spatial correlation has been observed between elevated beta-sheet content in Abeta plaques and accumulated Cu and Zn ions, emphasizing an association of metal ions with amyloid formation in AD.
Indinavir is a protease inhibitor used in the treatment of HIV with a lithogenic capacity as a urological side effect. The pathogenesis, diagnosis and treatment of indinavir urolithiasis are briefly reviewed.
A 37-year-old male, seropositive for HIV on treatment with indinavir, lamiduvine and zidovudine, consulted for colicky left lumbar pain, nausea, vomiting and dark urine for the past three days.
Patient evaluation showed a nonfunctioning left kidney and ureterohydronephrosis of unknown origin. URS showed a yellowish, friable material with a mucinous appearance that occupied the entire lumen of the ureter. Fragmentation was achieved with the lithotriptor probe. Six months later the patient had fully recovered and was asymptomatic.
The incidence of protease inhibitor-induced urolithiasis is increasing. This condition should be distinguished from uric acid calculi whose treatment will aggravate the indinavir urolithiasis.
