To assess the outcome of infants born to hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg)-positive mothers who received prenatal and infant care in a large, public health care system.
Follow-up of a cohort of infants born to HBsAg-positive mothers.
Large, urban hospital providing prenatal care and obstetric services to county health departments.
Forty-two infants born to HBsAg-positive women.
Prenatal testing of women and immunoprophylaxis of infants with hepatitis B immune globulin at birth and hepatitis B vaccine at birth and ages 1 and 6 months.
All 42 infants received hepatitis B immune globulin and the first dose of vaccine. Of forty-one infants (98%) who received the second dose of vaccine, 37 received it by age 4 months. Thirty-two infants (76%) completed the three-dose vaccine series by age 12 months, and 34 infants (81%) completed the series by age 18 months. The rate of completion of the hepatitis B vaccine series was comparable to that of infants receiving the third dose of diphtheria-pertussis-tetanus vaccine. Of 26 infants who completed the hepatitis B vaccine series and had follow-up serologic testing, 24 (92%) had adequate levels of antibody to HBsAg. Only one infant who did not complete the vaccine series had serologic evidence of hepatitis B virus infection. No infant was HBsAg-positive.
Public programs serving urban populations can effectively deliver hepatitis B immunoprophylaxis to infants born to HBsAg-positive mothers.
The corticosteroid therapy of multiple sclerosis was modified in relation to the biorhythms of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPAA). Prednisolone was prescribed per os in a dose of 1.5 mg/kg bw daily to be taken only in the morning once every three days for 30-45 days. In the control group, prednisolone was administered daily in a dose of 30-60 mg. In the test group, remissions were attained even in hormone-resistant forms of the disease and HPAA function was not seriously affected. Unlike control patients, no severe and persistent complications were observed in that group. The authors believe that the emergence of such complications following the corticosteroid treatment is partially related to the iatrogenic desynchronism of the regulatory biorhythmical processes in the HPAA with the suppression and perversion of adrenal function of steroidogenesis.
We report 19 episodes of hypercalcemia in three children treated with 13-cis-retinoic acid (13-cis-RA) as a post-consolidation therapy for high-risk neuroblastoma. There was no concomitant overload in 13-cis-RA blood levels. Blood calcium fell after arrest of 13-cis-RA intake. Half dosage retinoid treatment resumption did not prevent the recurrence of hypercalcemia. Concomitant biological values showed massive bone resorption. Hence, hypercalcemia seemed not secondary to 13-cis-RA overload but rather to inter-individual variability in its interaction with bone metabolism. Current guidelines in case of hypercalcemia are to reduce 13-cis-RA dosage. Instead we propose to maintain the therapeutic dosage, but to shorten the duration of courses.
Stridor developed in 2 children during vincristine therapy for malignancies. Indirect laryngoscopy revealed left vocal cord paralyses in both patients. One child had generalized neurotoxicity from vincristine including hypotonia, decreased gastrointestinal motility, and painful paresthesias while laryngeal nerve paralysis was the only neurotoxic manifestation in the other patient. Stridor resolved in both patients after discontinuing or decreasing the dose of vincristine. Visualization of the airway not only confirms the diagnosis, but also rules out treatable causes of stridor in the febrile, immunocompromised patient.
Recent studies suggest that environmental exposures to pesticides, tobacco, and other xenobiotic chemicals may increase risk of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). We sought to evaluate the role of genes involved in xenobiotic transport and metabolism in childhood ALL risk, both alone and in conjunction with household chemical exposures previously found to be associated with childhood ALL risk.
We conducted a population-based epidemiologic study of 377 cases and 448 controls in California, utilizing a haplotype-based approach to evaluate 42 xenobiotic transport and metabolism genes in conjunction with data on self-reported household chemical exposures.
We identified significant associations of childhood ALL risk with haplotypes of ABCB1, ARNT, CYP2C8, CYP1A2, CYP1B1, and IDH1. In addition, certain haplotypes showed significant joint effects with self-reported household chemical exposures on risk of childhood ALL. Specifically, elevated risks associated with use of paints in the home (ever) and indoor insecticides (pre-birth) were limited to subjects carrying specific haplotypes of CYP2C8 and ABCB1, respectively.
Our results provide support for a role of xenobiotic transport and metabolism pathways in risk of childhood ALL and indicate that genes in these pathways may modulate the risk of disease associated with use of common household chemicals. Additional studies are needed to confirm these findings and localize specific causal variants.
Phosphotungstic acid at low pH on glycolmethacrylate sections allows the detection of sialic acid groups in the lamina rara externa of the glomerular basement membrane. This staining procedure was used to study the alterations in puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis and adriamycin nephrosis. In both model systems defects were detected in the sialic acid content of the lamina rara externa and the epithelial cell coat was also affected. The possible role of sialic acid in glomerular filtration is discussed.
Twenty children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia who developed meningeal disease were treated with a high-dose intravenous methotrexate regimen that was designed to achieve and maintain CSF methotrexate concentrations of 10(-5) mol/L without the need for concomitant intrathecal dosing. The methotrexate was administered as a loading dose of 6,000 mg/m2 for a period of one hour followed by an infusion of 1,200 mg/m2/h for 23 hours. Leucovorin rescue was initiated 12 hours after the end of the infusion with a loading dose of 200 mg/m2 followed by 12 mg/m2 every three hours for six doses and then every six hours until the plasma methotrexate level decreased to less than 1 X 10(-7) mol/L. The mean steady-state plasma and CSF methotrexate concentrations achieved were 1.1 X 10(-3) mol/L and 3.6 X 10(-5) mol/L, respectively. All 20 patients responded to this regimen, 16/20 (80%) achieved a complete remission, and 20% obtained a partial remission. The most common toxicities encountered were transient serum transaminase and bilirubin elevations, neutropenia, and mucositis. One patient had focal seizures and transient hemiparesis but recovered completely. High-dose intravenous methotrexate is an effective treatment for the induction of remission after meningeal relapse in acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
Low dietary folate intake is associated with an increased risk for colon cancer; however, relevant genetic animal models are lacking. We therefore investigated the effect of targeted ablation of two folate transport genes, folate binding protein 1 (Folbp1) and reduced folate carrier 1 (RFC1), on folate homeostasis to elucidate the molecular mechanisms of folate action on colonocyte cell proliferation, gene expression, and colon carcinogenesis. Targeted deletion of Folbp1 (Folbp1(+/-) and Folbp1(-/-)) significantly reduced (P < 0.05) colonic Folbp1 mRNA, colonic mucosa, and plasma folate concentration. In contrast, subtle changes in folate homeostasis resulted from targeted deletion of RFC1 (RFC1(+/-)). These animals had reduced (P < 0.05) colonic RFC1 mRNA and exhibited a 2-fold reduction in the plasma S-adenosylmethionine/S-adenosylhomocysteine. Folbp1(+/-) and Folbp1(-/-) mice had larger crypts expressed as greater (P < 0.05) numbers of cells per crypt column relative to Folbp1(+/+) mice. Colonic cell proliferation was increased in RFC1(+/-) mice relative to RFC1(+/+) mice. Microarray analysis of colonic mucosa showed distinct changes in gene expression specific to Folbp1 or RFC1 ablation. The effect of folate transporter gene ablation on colon carcinogenesis was evaluated 8 and 38 weeks post-azoxymethane injection in wild-type and heterozygous mice. Relative to RFC1(+/+) mice, RFC1(+/-) mice developed increased (P < 0.05) numbers of aberrant crypt foci at 8 weeks. At 38 weeks, RFC1(+/-) mice developed local inflammatory lesions with or without epithelial dysplasia as well as adenocarcinomas, which were larger relative to RFC1(+/+) mice. In contrast, Folbp1(+/-) mice developed 4-fold (P < 0.05) more lesions relative to Folbp1(+/+) mice. In conclusion, Folbp1 and RFC1 genetically modified mice exhibit distinct changes in colonocyte phenotype and therefore have utility as models to examine the role of folate homeostasis in colon cancer development.
Hypoxia stimulates synovial hypoperfusion in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). TXNDC5 stimulates cellular proliferation in hypoxic conditions. We previously detected increased TXNDC5 expression in synovial tissues and blood from RA patients and demonstrated that the gene encoding TXNDC5 increased RA risk. The present study investigated the pathogenic roles of TXNDC5 in RA. Transgenic mice that over-expressed TXNDC5 (TXNDC5-Tg) were generated using C57BL/6J mice and treated with bovine collagen II to induce arthritis (CIA). Synovial fibroblasts from RA patients (RASFs) were cultured and incubated with TXNDC5-siRNA or CoCl(2), a chemical that induces hypoxia. CIA was observed in 80% of the TXNDC5-Tg, but only 20% of the wild-type mice (WT) developed CIA. The clinical arthritis scores reached 5 in the TXNDC5-Tg, but this index only reached 2 in the control mice. CIA TXNDC5-Tg exhibited clear pannus proliferation and bone erosion in joint tissues. A significant increase in CD4 T cells was observed in the thymus and spleen of TXNDC5-Tg during CIA. Serum levels of anti-collagen II IgG, IgG1 and IgG2a antibodies were significantly elevated in the mice. Increased cell proliferation, cell migration and TXNDC5 expression were observed in RASFs following incubation with 1 µM CoCl(2). However, this effect was diminished when TXNDC5 expression was inhibited with 100 nM siRNA. TNF-alpha, IL-1α, IL-1β and IL-17 levels were significantly increased in the blood of TXNDC5-Tg mice, but the levels of these cytokines declined in the supernatant of RASFs that were treated with TXNDC5 siRNA. The expression of adiponectin, a cytokine-like mediator, decreased significantly in RASFs following TXNDC5 siRNA treatment. These results suggest that TXNDC5-over-expressing mice were susceptible to CIA. This study also suggests that hypoxia induced TXCNDC5 expression, which contributed to adiponectin expression, cytokine production and the cellular proliferation and migration of fibroblasts in RA.
By means of a large-scale, case-control association study using 92,788 gene-based single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers, we identified a candidate locus on chromosome 6p21 associated with susceptibility to myocardial infarction. Subsequent linkage-disequilibrium (LD) mapping and analyses of haplotype structure showed significant associations between myocardial infarction and a single 50 kb halpotype comprised of five SNPs in LTA (encoding lymphotoxin-alpha), NFKBIL1 (encoding nuclear factor of kappa light polypeptide gene enhancer in B cells, inhibitor-like 1) and BAT1 (encoding HLA-B associated transcript 1). Homozygosity with respect to each of the two SNPs in LTA was significantly associated with increased risk for myocardial infarction (odds ratio = 1.78, chi(2) = 21.6, P = 0.00000033; 1,133 affected individuals versus 1,006 controls). In vitro functional analyses indicated that one SNP in the coding region of LTA, which changed an amino-acid residue from threonine to asparagine (Thr26Asn), effected a twofold increase in induction of several cell-adhesion molecules, including VCAM1, in vascular smooth-muscle cells of human coronary artery. Moreover, the SNP, in intron 1 of LTA, enhanced the transcriptional level of LTA. These results indicate that variants in the LTA are risk factors for myocardial infraction and implicate LTA in the pathogenesis of the disorder.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) have been implicated in regulating anxiety, stress responses, and the neurobehavioral effects of psychostimulants. The present study sought to determine whether group II mGluR activation by the potent mGlu2/3 receptor agonist, (-)-2-oxa-4-aminobicylco hexane-4,6-dicarboxylic acid (LY379268), antagonizes reinstatement of cocaine-seeking induced by cocaine-related stimuli and whether this effect extends to behavior induced by stimuli conditioned to a potent conventional reinforcer, sweetened condensed milk (SCM). Also, we tested whether the suppressant effects of LY379268 on conditioned reinstatement extend to the primary reinforcing effects of cocaine or SCM. Rats were trained to associate discriminative stimuli (S(D)) with the availability of cocaine or SCM versus non-reward and then subjected to repeated extinction sessions during which the respective reinforcers and S(D) were withheld. Subsequent reexposure to the cocaine or SCM S(D), but not the non-reward S(D), produced recovery of responding at the previously active lever. LY379268 (0.3-3.0 mg/kg, s.c.) dose-dependently attenuated recovery of cocaine seeking but reduced conditioned reinstatement by the SCM S(D) only at the highest dose. LY379268 did not alter responding reinforced directly by SCM, and only the highest LY379268 dose reduced cocaine self-administration. The results suggest that the effects of LY379268 are selective for behavior maintained by cocaine as opposed to palatable conventional reinforcers. More importantly, the results show that LY379268 suppresses behavior motivated by stimuli conditioned to cocaine or SCM more effectively than consummatory behavior maintained by the unconditioned effects of these substances. As such, the results identify group II mGluRs as a pharmacotherapeutic target for craving and relapse prevention associated with cocaine cue exposure.
Estrogen receptor alpha (ER alpha) is the most important endocrine therapy responsiveness predictor for women with breast cancer. The accuracy of the prediction of the response to endocrine therapy was thought to be affected by involving the estrogen receptor coregulatory proteins and cross-talk between ER and other growth factor-signaling networks. Nuclear corepressor 1 (NCOR1) is one of the ER a transcription repressor. The objective of the study is to investigate the expression of NCOR1 at the protein level and pursue its predictive value for breast cancer endocrine therapy.
In the present study, the level of expression of NCOR1 protein has been assessed by immunohistochemistry in 104 cases of invasive carcinoma of the breast. Associations between NCOR1 protein expression and different clinicopathological factors and survival were sought.
It was found that NCOR1 was expressed at significantly higher levels in responsive patients treated with endocrine therapy as first-line treatment on relapse. Responsive patients also had a significantly longer post-relapse survival and overall survival. No NCOR1 expression difference was found between patient by age, tumor size, lymph node status, different histological grade groups and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) status. Multivariate analysis showed that NCOR1 is an independent prognostic factor for over-all survival.
In breast cancer, NCOR1 protein expression level predicts response to endocrine therapy as first-line treatment for breast cancer patients on relapse and NCOR1 protein level assay may increase the accuracy in the endocrine treatment determination and, therefore, improving the patients survival.
Susceptibility of the injured brain to epileptic seizures depends on the developmental stage at which the injury had been inflicted (our previous paper published in Epilepsy Res. 53 (2003) 216-224). The present study was designed to examine whether neuroprotective agents applied following the injury can decrease the seizure susceptibility. In order to solve this problem, the left cerebral hemisphere was mechanically injured in 6- and 30-day-old Wistar rats. Neuroprotectants FK506 or Cyclosporin A (CsA) were injected 20 min and 24h following the injury. On postnatal day 60, all the animals received single i.p. pilocarpine injections to evoke epileptic seizures. During a 6h period following the injection, the animals were observed continuously and pilocarpine-induced symptoms were recorded and rated. The animals were sacrificed 7 days after pilocarpine injection. In rats injured on postnatal days 6 or 30 (P6 or P30, respectively) and injected with FK-506 after the injury, signs of amelioration in the course of epilepsy were observed. Generally, proportions of rats suffering from heavy seizures were lower and/or their survival periods were longer. Following treatment with CsA, proportions of rats displaying heavy seizures were greater. It was accompanied by extremely high mortality (in rats injured on P6) or a longer duration of seizures (in rats injured on P30). The results appear to point to age-dependent differences between the mechanisms of action of the two neuroprotectants.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) administered exogenously is anticonvulsant, and, NPY null mutant mice are more susceptible to kainate-induced seizures. In order to better understand the potential role of NPY in epileptogenesis, the present studies investigated the development of amygdala kindling, post-kindling seizure thresholds, and anticonvulsant effects of carbamazepine and levetiracetam in 129S6/SvEv NPY(+/+) and NPY(-/-) mice. In addition, susceptibility to pilocarpine- and kainate-induced seizures was compared in NPY(+/+) and (-/-) mice. The rate of amygdala kindling development did not differ in the NPY(-/-) and NPY(+/+) mice either when kindling stimuli were presented once daily for at least 20 days, or, 12 times daily for 2 days. However, during kindling development, the NPY(-/-) mice had higher seizure severity scores and longer afterdischarge durations than the NPY(+/+) mice. Post-kindling, the NPY(-/-) mice had markedly lower afterdischarge thresholds and longer afterdischarge durations than NPY (+/+) mice. Carbamazepine and levetiracetam increased the seizure thresholds of both NPY (-/-) and (+/+) mice. In addition, NPY (-/-) mice had lower thresholds for both kainate- and pilocarpine-induced seizures. The present results in amygdala kindling and chemical seizure models suggest that NPY may play a more prominent role in determining seizure thresholds and severity of seizures than in events leading to epileptogenesis. In addition, a lack of NPY does not appear to confer drug-resistance in that carbamazepine and levetiracetam were anticonvulsant in both wild type (WT) and NPY null mutant mice.
Published case reports of chloroquine retinopathy rarely include details of daily dosage, but 30 reports where this information was available included 78 patients who developed impaired visual acuity an 13 had received daily doses of 250 mg or less. Eleven cases of ocular toxicity attributed to chloroquine were reported to the Committee on Safety of Medicines but only 2 developed impaired vision on 250 mg daily. A postal questionnaire among 41 rheumatology and 33 ophthalmology centres showed 2 patients who developed impaired vision as a result of treatment with chloroquine in a daily dose not exceeding 250 mg. Serious visual impairment related to chloroquine rarely occurs if the daily dose does not exceed 250 mg.
The authors present a patient with carbamazepine-induced bradycardia-tachycardia syndrome, a rare type of drug-induced sinus node dysfunction. In this case, they established a clear-cut relationship between plasma carbamazepine concentration and the frequency of sinus arrests, following episodes of supraventricular tachycardia. As the pharmacological analysis of drug-induced sinus node dysfunction by concurrent ECG monitoring is very limited, the findings give an insight into the mechanism of this disorder.
The RASSF1A tumor suppressor is potentially the most important candidate gene identified in medulloblastoma to date, being epigenetically silenced in >79% of primary tumors. However, its functional role has not been previously addressed in this tumor type. Here, we demonstrate that expression of RASSF1A promotes the induction of cell death after activation of both the extrinsic and intrinsic apoptotic pathways in medulloblastoma cells. Treatment of UW228-3 cells stably expressing RASSF1A with an anti-CD95 antibody to induce extrinsic apoptosis and etoposide or cisplatin to activate intrinsic apoptosis augmented tumor cell killing in a caspase-dependent manner. This led to increased activation of the pro-apoptotic BCL-2 family member BAX. On the basis of this knowledge, we demonstrate how the loss of RASSF1A function in medulloblastoma cells might be overcome using the novel BH3-only mimetic ABT-737 in combination with chemotherapeutic agents to target the BCL-2 anti-apoptotic members. We show that ABT-737 increased susceptibility to apoptosis induced by DNA damage regardless of RASSF1A expression status through increased activation of BAX. Our findings identify the RASSF1A tumor suppressor as a promoter of apoptotic signaling pathways. Investigation of its mechanism of action has revealed that these pathways can still be promoted in its absence and how these potentially represent novel therapeutic targets for medulloblastoma.
The aim of this study was to determine the influence of dexamethasone in the decrease of cisplatin and etoposide-induced nausea and vomiting in patients treated for lung cancer during and after 2 chemotherapy cycles.
The analysis included 60 patients with histologically proven lung cancer, who were divided in two groups. Group A consisted of 30 patients who received cisplatin and etoposide with standard antiemetic drugs: ondansetron [serotonin receptor antagonist (5-HT(3) antagonist)] and metoclopramide (dopamine receptor antagonist). Group B consisted of 30 patients who received the same chemotherapy regimen with the previous antiemetic therapy plus dexamethasone 8 mg intravenously (i.v.) per day during the 3 days of chemotherapy. During and after the 3-day therapy, patients filled in a questionnaire issuing adverse effects of chemotherapy concerning many symptoms including nausea and vomiting. The results were statistically processed.
There was a significant decrease in the frequency and toxicity of nausea, acute and delayed vomiting in the group of patients who received antiemetic treatment with ondansetron, metoclopramide plus dexamethasone.
Dexamethasone administered with 5-HT(3) antagonists and dopamine receptor antagonists significantly decreases the chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting.
Gamma-glutamyl-Se-methylselenocysteine (GGMSC) has recently been identified as the major Se compound in natural garlic and selenized garlic. Our working hypothesis is that GGMSC serves primarily as a carrier of Se-methylselenocysteine (MSC), which has been demonstrated in past research to be a potent cancer chemopreventive agent in animal carcinogenesis bioassays. The present study was designed to examine the in vivo responses to GGMSC or MSC using a variety of biochemical and biological end points, including (a) urinary Se excretion as a function of bolus dose; (b) tissue Se accumulation profile; (c) anticancer efficacy; and (d) gene expression changes as determined by cDNA array analysis. Our results showed that like MSC, GGMSC was well absorbed p.o., with urinary excretion as the major route for eliminating excess Se. When fed chronically, the profile of Se accumulation in various tissues was very comparable after treatment with either GGMSC or MSC. In rats that had been challenged with a carcinogen, supplementation with either GGMSC or MSC resulted in a lower prevalence of premalignant lesions in the mammary gland, and fewer mammary carcinomas when these early lesions were allowed to progress. More importantly, we found that a short term GGMSC/MSC treatment schedule of 4 weeks immediately after carcinogen dosing was sufficient to provide significant cancer protection, even in the absence of a sustained exposure past the initial 4-week period. With the use of the Clontech Atlas Rat cDNA Array, we further discovered that the gene expression changes induced in mammary epithelial cells of rats that were given either GGMSC or MSC showed a high degree of concordance. On the basis of the collective biology, biochemistry, and molecular biology data, we conclude that GGMSC is an effective anticancer agent with a mechanism of action very similar to that of MSC.
Naphthalene makes up a substantial fraction of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in crude oil and is an important by-product of industry; however, few studies have investigated the toxicity of naphthalene to aquatic organisms. We examined the toxicity of increasing concentrations (0, carrier control, 130, 200 and 400microg/l) of naphthalene to adult rainbowfish (Melanotaenia fluviatilis) for 3 and 14 days to determine its potential to act as an endocrine disruptor. After exposure for 3 days, no changes in sex steroids were measured. After 14 days, a decrease of serum estradiol in females and an increase in serum testosterone in males was observed. These results suggest that naphthalene has the potential to act as an endocrine disruptor, although since no changes in plasma vitellogenin concentrations were observed in either sex, it is unlikely that naphthalene is acting as a xenoestrogen. There was a positive correlation between the incidences of deformities in larval offspring with increasing naphthalene concentrations, suggesting parental transfer of the toxicant. Egg production, hatchability and larval lengths remained unaltered, whilst few changes were measured in gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (GTP), an enzymatic indicator of spermatogenesis. Contrary to other PAHs, hepatic ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (EROD) activities declined with increasing exposure concentration, suggesting that naphthalene was either having a cytotoxic effect or disrupting enzyme synthesis.
To explore whether the mechanism of action of 4-hydroxyphenylretinamide (4-HPR, fenretidine), a synthetic retinoid, involves the functional activation of the nuclear hormone receptor class known as PPARs (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors). Also, to examine whether anti-proliferative effects of this agent in head and neck cancer cells occur at biologically relevant concentrations.
CA 9-22, NA, and UM SCC 11B cells were treated with 4-HPR during their log phase growth and functional activation of PPAR gamma was evaluated by plate luminometry. Cellular proliferation was analyzed by standard MTT cell proliferation assays and cell counting. Student's t tests were performed for all experiments.
Significant dose-dependent increases in PPAR gamma activation occurred in response to 4-HPR treatment. Proliferation was significantly inhibited by 4-HPR in a dose-dependent manner as judged by MTT and cell counting assays. These effects occurred at equimolar concentrations in both types of experiments within a range of clinically achievable doses (1-4 microM) of 4-HPR.
4-HPR can functionally activate PPAR gamma at clinically achievable doses. Decreased cancer cell proliferation secondary to PPAR gamma activation has been observed in other malignancies as well as upper aerodigestive cancer. PPAR gamma activation by 4-HPR represents another potential anti-cancer mechanism of action for this drug.
PPAR gamma activation represents a novel target for anti-cancer therapy for head and neck cancer and the current level of clinical toxicity of 4-HPR would be judged acceptable to utilize this agent alone or in combination chemotherapy.
Despite incomplete understanding to its mechanism of action, dexrazoxane (DEX) is still the only clearly effective cardioprotectant against chronic anthracycline (ANT) cardiotoxicity. However, its clinical use is currently restricted to patients exceeding significant ANT cumulative dose (300mg/m(2)), although each ANT cycle may induce certain potentially irreversible myocardial damage. Therefore, the aim of this study was to compare early and delayed DEX intervention against chronic ANT cardiotoxicity and study the molecular events involved. The cardiotoxicity was induced in rabbits with daunorubicin (DAU; 3mg/kg/week for 10 weeks); DEX (60mg/kg) was administered either before the 1st or 7th DAU dose (i.e. after ≈300mg/m(2) cumulative dose). While both DEX administration schedules prevented DAU-induced premature deaths and severe congestive heart failure, only the early intervention completely prevented the left ventricular dysfunction, myocardial morphological changes and mitochondrial damage. Further molecular analyses did not support the assumption that DEX cardioprotection is based and directly proportional to protection from DAU-induced oxidative damage and/or deletions in mtDNA. Nevertheless, DAU induced significant up-regulation of heme oxygenase 1 pathway while heme synthesis was inversely regulated and both changes were schedule-of-administration preventable by DEX. Early and delayed DEX interventions also differed in ability to prevent DAU-induced down-regulation of expression of mitochondrial proteins encoded by both nuclear and mitochondrial genome. Hence, the present functional, morphological as well as the molecular data highlights the enormous cardioprotective effects of DEX and provides novel insights into the molecular events involved. Furthermore, the data suggests that currently recommended delayed intervention may not be able to take advantage of the full cardioprotective potential of the drug.
A transgenic mouse line (TG.AC) created in the FVB/N strain, carries a v-Ha-ras gene fused to a zeta-globin promoter gene. These trangenic mice have the properties of genetically initiated skin and have been shown to be sensitive to 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA), a well-described promoter of skin papillomas in the two-stage mouse skin tumorigenesis model. It was of interest to determine whether the TG.AC mouse strain was also responsive to other known promoters. Groups of heterozygous or homozygous TG.AC mice were treated topically, 2x/week, for up to 20 weeks with benzoyl peroxide (BPO), 2-butanol peroxide (2-BUP), phenol (PH), acetic acid (AA), TPA and acetone (ACN), the vehicle control. Skin papillomas were induced in all groups treated with TPA, BPO and 2-BUP. Papillomas were observed in some treatment groups as early as 3 weeks. The relative activity of the promoters was TPA > 2-BUP > BPO > PH = AA = ACN. No papillomas were observed in any of the uninitiated FVB/N mice treated in a similar manner and which served as treatment control groups. Studies to determine the sensitivity of TG.AC mice to TPA, indicated that a total dose of 25-30 micrograms of TPA administered in 3 or 10 applications, was sufficient to induce an average incidence of 11-15 papillomas per mouse. The papilloma incidence continued to increase and was maintained up to 15 weeks after TPA treatment was terminated. The short latency period and high incidence of papilloma induction indicate that TG.AC mice have a high sensitivity to known skin promoters. The TG.AC line should prove to be a sensitive model for identifying putative tumor promoters or complete carcinogens.
Gonadal estrogen plays an important role in the differentiation of a female phenotype in birds. Exogenous compounds that interfere with estrogen signaling, for instance by binding to the estrogen receptors alpha and beta (ERα and ERβ), are therefore potential disruptors of sexual differentiation in birds. The ERα agonist propyl-pyrazole-triol (PPT), the ERα antagonist methyl piperidino pyrazole (MPP) and the ERβ agonist diarylproprionitrile (DPN) were used in the present study to explore the roles of the ERs in normal and disrupted sex differentiation in the chicken embryo. Activation of ERα by PPT caused disturbed differentiation of the reproductive organs in both sexes. In male embryos, PPT caused left-side ovotestis formation and retention of the Müllerian ducts. In female embryos, PPT caused retention of the right Müllerian duct (which normally regresses) and malformation of both Müllerian ducts. PPT also induced hepatic expression of mRNA for the estrogen-regulated egg yolk protein apoVLDL II. Notably, none of these effects were observed following treatment with DPN. ERα-inactivation by MPP counteracted the action of PPT but had little effect by its own. Our results indicate that ERα plays an important role in sex differentiation of the reproductive tract in female chicken embryos and show that ERα can mediate xenoestrogen-induced disturbances of sex differentiation.
The use of appetite suppressants in Europe has been associated with the development of primary pulmonary hypertension (PPH). Recently, fenfluramine appetite suppressants became widely used in the United States but were withdrawn in September 1997 because of concerns over adverse effects.
We conducted a prospective surveillance study on patients diagnosed with pulmonary hypertension at 12 large referral centers in North America. Data collected on patients seen from September 1, 1996, to December 31, 1997, included the cause of the pulmonary hypertension and its severity. Patients with no identifiable cause of pulmonary hypertension were classed as PPH. A history of drug exposure also was taken with special attention on the use of antidepressants, anorexigens, and amphetamines.
Five hundred seventy-nine patients were studied, 205 with PPH and 374 with pulmonary hypertension from other causes (secondary pulmonary hypertension [SPH]). The use of anorexigens was common in both groups. However, of the medications surveyed, only the fenfluramines had a significant preferential association with PPH as compared with SPH (adjusted odds ratio for use > 6 months, 7.5; 95% confidence interval, 1.7 to 32.4). The association was stronger with longer duration of use when compared to shorter duration of use and was more pronounced in recent users than in remote users. An unexpectedly high (11.4%) number of patients with SPH had used anorexigens.
The magnitude of the association with PPH, the increase of association with increasing duration of use, and the specificity for fenfluramines are consistent with previous studies indicating that fenfluramines are causally related to PPH. The high prevalence of anorexigen use in patients with SPH also raises the possibility that these drugs precipitate pulmonary hypertension in patients with underlying conditions associated with SPH.
The Burkholderia cepacia complex (Bcc) is a group of ten closely related species associated with life-threatening infection in cystic fibrosis (CF). These bacteria are highly antibiotic resistant, with some strains transmissible, and in a subgroup of patients, they can cause a rapid and fatal necrotising pneumonia. The Bcc organisms produce a range of exoproducts with virulence potential, including exopolysaccharide, proteases and lipases. Many members of the Bcc are also capable of epithelial cell invasion, although the mechanism(s) involved are poorly understood. This study investigates a role for Bcc lipase in epithelial cell invasion by Bcc strains. Lipase activity was measured in eight species of the Bcc. Strains that produced high levels of lipase were predominantly from the B. multivorans and B. cenocepacia species. Pre-treatment of two epithelial cell lines with Bcc lipase significantly increased invasion by two B. multivorans strains and one B. cenocepacia strain and did not affect either plasma membrane or tight junction integrity. Inhibition of Bcc lipase production by the lipase inhibitor Orlistat significantly decreased invasion by both B. multivorans and B. cenocepacia strains in a concentration-dependent manner. This study demonstrates the extent of lipase production across the Bcc and establishes a potential role for lipase in Bcc epithelial cell invasion.
