The primary objective of this study was to compare the safety, contraceptive efficacy, and menstrual cycle patterns in women using triphasic oral contraceptive pills, namely CTR-05, containing 50/100/150 micrograms desogestrel and 35/30/30 micrograms ethinylestradiol, and Orthonovum777 containing 500/750/1000 micrograms norethindrone and 35/35/35 micrograms ethinylestradiol.
Forty-six female volunteers, satisfying the selection criteria, were evaluated for six cycles, in an open-label, randomized study. Volunteers using CTR-05 were studied for 13 additional cycles for efficacy and safety.
No serious adverse effects were observed in either group. The incidences of other drug-related adverse effects, such as headache and nausea, were transient in both groups. CTR-05 did not lower levels of high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. This may be attributed to the lower androgenicity of its progestin component, desogestrel. No pregnancies were reported in either group. Clinical and laboratory parameters remained within normal limits in both groups. In the CTR-05 group, the lower dose of ethinylestradiol did not affect the safety, efficacy and acceptability of the product.
Desogestrel, with little estrogenic activity and only minimal androgenic activity, leads to lipoprotein changes, resulting in a favorable cardiovascular profile, as well as minimal androgen-related effects, such as hirsutism and acne.
The role of limbic-striato-pallidal circuitry in cocaine-induced reinstatement was evaluated. The transient inhibition of brain nuclei associated with motor systems [including the ventral tegmental area (VTA), dorsal prefrontal cortex (dPFC), core of the nucleus accumbens (NAcore), and ventral pallidum (VP)] prevented cocaine-induced reinstatement. However, only the VP proved to be necessary for food reinstatement, suggesting that the identified circuit is specific to drug-related reinstatement. Supporting the possibility that the VTA-dPFC-NAcore-VP is a series circuit mediating reinstatement, simultaneous unilateral microinjection of GABA agonists into the dPFC in one hemisphere and into the VP in the contralateral hemisphere abolished cocaine reinstatement. Although dopamine projections from the VTA innervate all three forebrain nuclei, the blockade of dopamine receptors only in the dPFC antagonized cocaine-induced reinstatement. Furthermore, DA administration into the dPFC was sufficient to elicit a reinstatement in drug-related responding. These data demonstrate that dopamine release in the dPFC initiates a dPFC-NAcore-VP series circuit that mediates cocaine-induced drug-seeking behavior.
Autosomal-dominant striatal degeneration (ADSD) is an autosomal-dominant movement disorder affecting the striatal part of the basal ganglia. ADSD is characterized by bradykinesia, dysarthria, and muscle rigidity. These symptoms resemble idiopathic Parkinson disease, but tremor is not present. Using genetic linkage analysis, we have mapped the causative genetic defect to a 3.25 megabase candidate region on chromosome 5q13.3-q14.1. A maximum LOD score of 4.1 (Theta = 0) was obtained at marker D5S1962. Here we show that ADSD is caused by a complex frameshift mutation (c.94G>C+c.95delT) in the phosphodiesterase 8B (PDE8B) gene, which results in a loss of enzymatic phosphodiesterase activity. We found that PDE8B is highly expressed in the brain, especially in the putamen, which is affected by ADSD. PDE8B degrades cyclic AMP, a second messenger implied in dopamine signaling. Dopamine is one of the main neurotransmitters involved in movement control and is deficient in Parkinson disease. We believe that the functional analysis of PDE8B will help to further elucidate the pathomechanism of ADSD as well as contribute to a better understanding of movement disorders.
The reproduction toxicity of lead acetate and 80% mancozeb containing fungicide formulation (Dithane M-45) were studied on rats. The lead acetate was applied in diet at the following dose groups: Control-1,000-5,000-10,000 mg/kg. Three treatment and a control groups were applied, 4,500 mg/kg Dithane M-45 was administered in all the dose levels simultaneously in diet. The basis of the method was the OECD Guideline for Testing of Chemicals No. 415. Clinical symptoms and mortality were not found in the parent generation. The body weight of female animals diminished significantly before the pregnancy period. This tendency was also seen on males after the combination treatment. Remarkable body weight growth of female animals was observed during lactation period at the two high dose levels. Diminished body weight data of offsprings were measured after treatment at the end of the lactation period. The histological examination showed a general tubulonephrosis in the trial. Summing up, it can be established the administration of fungicide Dithane M-45 did not increase the toxicity of lead acetate.
Central nervous system and cardiovascular toxicity are well-known side effects of bupivacaine. We report a case of bupivacaine-induced myocardial depression and cardiogenic pulmonary edema. A previously healthy woman developed soon after bupivacaine epidural injection of 5 mL 0.5% (25 mg) cardiogenic shock complicated with pulmonary edema. There were pronounced rales on auscultation with a butterfly sign on chest radiograph. A cardiac ultrasound showed reduced myocardial contractility, diffuse hypokinesia, left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) 25%, mitral and pulmonary insufficiency. Right heart catheterization showed increased pulmonary artery wedge pressure (34 mm Hg) and a pulmonary artery pressure of 48 over 33 mm Hg. These findings suggest myocardial depression owing to bupivacaine sodium channel blocking of myocardial nerve and tissue and subsequent reduction of myocardial contractility. The patient completely recovered with normalization of clinical, roentenographic, ultrasound, and hemodynamic findings and discharged 10 days later in good condition.
A randomized study was done to compare the efficacy of clarithromycin 250 mg or 500 mg b.i.d., vs. cefaclor 250 mg or 500 mg t.i.d. for 7-14 d in 197 evaluable patients with lower respiratory tract infection. Ninety-five patients received clarithromycin, 88 with acute bronchitis or exacerbation of chronic bronchitis, and 7 with pneumonia. One hundred and two patients received cefaclor, 86 with bronchitis and 16 with pneumonia. Ten patients (10.5%) in the clarithromycin group did not complete the trial, 5 (5.3%) because of adverse event, and 3 (3.2%) because of clinical failure. Similarly, 11 patients (10.8%) did not complete cefaclor, 2 (2%) because of adverse event, and 7 (6.9%) because of clinical failure. Clinical cure or improvement was observed in 90 (94.7%) of patients on clarithromycin vs. 92 (90.2%) on cefaclor, p = 0.66. Bacteriologic cure was seen in 26/36 patients (72.2%) on clarithromycin vs. 28/40 patients (70%) on cefaclor, p = 0.28. Clarithromycin is just as effective as cefaclor for lower respiratory tract infections and is well tolerated.
Penicillin-induced immune hemolytic anemia (IHA) is associated with immunoglobulin G antipenicillin detected by testing penicillin-coated red blood cells (RBCs). Antibodies to piperacillin, a semisynthetic penicillin, would be expected to react similarly; however, antipiperacillin can be detected by testing in the presence of the drug. Piperacillin is commonly used in combination with tazobactam, which causes nonimmunologic protein adsorption onto RBCs. In six cases of piperacillin-induced IHA, reactivity with piperacillin-coated RBCs was not similar to reactivity of antipenicillin with penicillin-coated RBCs.
Antipiperacillin was tested against piperacillin-coated RBCs prepared using different pH buffers. Plasma from blood donors and sera/plasma from patients were tested with piperacillin-coated, penicillin-coated, and uncoated RBCs. Hapten inhibition studies were performed using different concentrations of piperacillin. Donors' plasma were tested in the presence of piperacillin; sera from patients with IHA were tested in the presence of tazobactam.
Piperacillin required high pH for binding to RBCs. Agglutination of piperacillin-coated RBCs was observed in 91 percent of donors' and 49 percent of patients' plasma and was inhibited by piperacillin. In contrast to patients with IHA due to piperacillin, donors' plasma tested in the presence of piperacillin did not react. Tazobactam antibodies were not detected.
A high percentage of donors' and patients' plasma contain an antibody to piperacillin or a chemically related structure detected by testing with piperacillin-coated RBCs. A diagnosis of piperacillin-induced IHA should not be made solely on the reactivity of a patient's plasma/serum with piperacillin- or piperacillin/tazobactam-coated RBCs; testing in the presence of piperacillin is more reliable.
In a multi-centre, double-blind, cross-over trial comprising 38 patients with rheumatoid arthritis, ketoprofen was given at a dosage of 150 mg daily and phenylbutazone at a dosage of 300 mg daily, each for 2 weeks. On the basis of patient preference, general evaluation of the disease, morning stiffness, pain on movement and need for analgesics (dextropropoxyphene), it could be concluded that there was no significant difference between phenylbutazone and ketoprofene, although a tendency to more frequent and severe side-effects was seen with pehnylbutazone.
Sildenafil, a specific inhibitor of phosphodiesterase 5A (PDE5A), is currently tested as a treatment for severe Raynaud's phenomenon. Here, we tested whether sildenafil, alone or combined with local sodium nitroprusside (SNP) delivered through skin iontophoresis, increased forearm cutaneous blood conductance in healthy volunteers, and to assess how well this combination was tolerated.
Ten healthy volunteers were enrolled. Variations in cutaneous vascular conductance (CVC) following oral administration of 50 or 100 mg of sildenafil with or without SNP iontophoresis were expressed as a percentage of maximal CVC, and were monitored using laser Doppler imaging. SNP iontophoresis was performed on the ventral surface of the forearm, 1 h after application of lidocaine/prilocaine cream.
Sildenafil at 100 mg, but not 50 mg, increased overall responses (area under the curve) (44%) and peak responses (29%) to SNP iontophoresis. Sildenafil at 100 mg, but not 50 mg, increased baseline CVC (75%). Incidence of headache was not changed when SNP iontophoresis was combined with sildenafil. One episode of symptomatic arterial hypotension occurred in a volunteer given 50 mg sildenafil, 30 min after the beginning of SNP iontophoresis.
Oral sildenafil at 100 mg potentiated local skin hyperaemia induced by SNP iontophoresis, with no increased incidence of headaches. The combination of oral specific PDE5A inhibitor and nitrates administered through skin iontophoresis deserves further investigation in diseases such as severe Raynaud's phenomenon, with particular attention to the incidence of arterial hypotension.
Oxcarbazepine (Trileptal, Timox) is structurally related to carbamazepine and has anticonvulsant activity. Studies suggest that the anticonvulsant activity of oxcarbazepine is mediated via the blocking of neuronal ion channels. In patients aged <18 years, the efficacy of oxcarbazepine monotherapy was similar to that of phenytoin in children with partial onset or generalized tonic-clonic seizures in a 48-week trial. Additional supporting findings demonstrated that 43-71% of patients with partial onset, generalized or undetermined epilepsy were seizure free after oxcarbazepine monotherapy (mean dosage 27.7-50 mg/kg/day; duration 1-5 years). In contrast, one small nonblind trial showed more patients treated with oxcarbazepine monotherapy than with carbamazepine monotherapy had recurrent seizures during 16 months of therapy (although the conclusions that can be drawn from this trial are limited). As adjunctive therapy, oxcarbazepine was significantly better than placebo at reducing seizure frequency in children and adolescents with refractory partial onset seizures with or without secondary generalization: the median percentage change in partial onset seizure frequency was 35% vs 9%, respectively, during 16 weeks of therapy. In noncomparative trials of adjunctive oxcarbazepine (mean dosage of 34.5-56.7 mg/kg/day), 7-11% of patients with partial onset or generalized seizures were seizure free during treatment, and 20-54% had seizure reductions of > or=50%. Oxcarbazepine was generally well tolerated during monotherapy and adjunctive therapy; 2.5% and 10% of patients withdrew from well controlled trials of oxcarbazepine monotherapy and adjunctive therapy. Oxcarbazepine monotherapy was better tolerated than phenytoin and events observed in oxcarbazepine-treated patients were transient. Oxcarbazepine metabolism is largely unaffected by induction of the cytochrome (CYP) P450 system. However, oxcarbazepine can inhibit CYP2C19 and induce CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, thereby interfering with the metabolism of other drugs (e.g. phenytoin). In addition, oxcarbazepine decreases plasma levels of oral contraceptives and alternative contraceptive methods should be used. In conclusion, oxcarbazepine (as both monotherapy and adjunctive therapy) has shown efficacy in the treatment of partial onset seizures in children with epilepsy. Nevertheless, the generally favorable tolerability profile and relatively low potential for drug interactions of oxcarbazepine make it a valuable option in the treatment of childhood epilepsy.
N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)/glycine site antagonists were tested for their ability to prevent cocaine-induced convulsions and lethality in Swiss Webster mice. Pre-treatment of mice with the novel NMDA/glycine site antagonists ACEA-1021 (5-nitro-6,7-dichloro-1,4-dihydro-2,3-quinoxalinedione) or ACEA-1328 (5-nitro-6,7-dimethyl-1,4-dihydro-2,3-quinoxalinedione) attenuated cocaine-induced convulsions; these effects were pharmacologically antagonized with D-cycloserine. The structurally-related NMDA/glycine site antagonist DCQX (6,7-dichloroquinoxaline-2,3-dione) and the structurally-unrelated NMDA/glycine site partial agonist HA-966 (3-amino-1-hydroxy-2-pyrrolidinone) also attenuated cocaine-induced convulsions, with the R(+)-isomer of HA-966 being more effective than the S(-)-isomer. In contrast, the selective alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-proprionic acid (AMPA) receptor antagonist, NBQX (1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6-nitro-2,3-dioxo-benzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide) , failed to provide statistically significant protection although it shares the 2,3-quinoxalinedione structure of DCQX and the ACEA compounds. Pre-treatment with ACEA-1021, ACEA-1328, DCQX, or R(+)-HA-966 also attenuated cocaine-induced lethality in mice. Significantly, post-treatment with ACEA-1021, immediately prior to or after the onset of seizures, prevented death in up to 86% of mice receiving a lethal dose of cocaine; post-treatment with vehicle resulted in death of all mice. The results suggest the utility of targeting excitatory mechanisms for the treatment of cocaine overdose and offer a novel base structure from which effective pharmacotherapies can be developed.
The authors investigated the acute effects of nitroprusside on intrapulmonary shunt (Qs/Qt), cardiac output, and left ventricular function in dogs with normal lungs, and again after they developed oleic acid pulmonary edema. Before oleic acid, nitroprusside reduced pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP) and stroke volume, and there were no changes in Qs/Qt. Ninety minutes after oleic acid, PCWP, Qs/Qt, and systemic vascular resistance increased and stroke volume decreased. Then nitroprusside increased cardiac output by 35 per cent and increased Qs/Qt from 12 to 18 per cent. After oleic acid, stroke volume increased on nitroprusside from 18 to 23 ml (P less than 0.05) despite reduced preload, as PCWP decreased from 10.4 to 4.4 torr on nitroprusside (P less than 0.05). Increased stroke volume may be explained by the reduction in resistive afterload, as nitroprusside reduced systemic vascular resistance from 60 to 34 torr . l-1 . min. To the extent that canine oleic acid pulmonary edema represents low pressure edema in patients, nitroprusside is a potential treatment to reduce PCWP, pulmonary microvascular pressure, and pulmonary edema while maintaining cardiac output.
An infant developed anuric renal failure within 18 hours of starting therapy with Co-trimoxazole for otitis media. There was no prior exposure to Co-trimoxazole, sulfonamides or trimethoprim. A renal biopsy revealed acute interstitial nephritis with eosinophilic infiltration (AIN). The lymphocyte blast transformation test revealed increased proliferation of the patient's lymphocytes on exposure to Co-trimoxazole (Bactrim). Both parents have clinically demonstrated hypersensitivity to sulfonamides. The extremely short latent period between ingestion of the offending drug and the onset of AIN in the absence of prior exposure to the drug has been reported previously. It suggests that drug induced AIN may develop more rapidly in patients with a strong genetic hypersensitivity to the drug.
To distinguish whether early death from severe organophosphate (OP) poisoning with dichlorvos is mediated through peripheral or central nervous system (CNS) actions.
Wistar rats (n = 72) were randomized to pretreatment with either: normal saline (controls), peripheral anticholinergics (glycopyrrolate [low, medium, or high dose] or nebulized ipratropium bromide), or CNS + peripherally acting anticholinergics (diphenhydramine, nebulized atropine, or injected atropine). All treatments were given prior to a subcutaneous injection of 25 mg/kg dichlorvos (n = 8 per group). Survival was assessed at 10 minutes (early death) and 24 hours (delayed death). Kaplan-Meier (95% confidence intervals [95% CIs]) and chi-squared analysis was then performed to determine differences between treatments.
Regardless of treatment, all animals exhibited profound nicotinic effects (fasciculations) without obvious seizures within 2 minutes of poisoning. In rats pretreated with peripherally acting agents, the fasciculations were rapidly followed by reduced motor activity, sedation, and death. Mortality at 10 minutes for saline controls, glycopyrrolate, and ipratropium was 88%, 96%, and 100%, respectively. The single control animal surviving beyond 10 minutes went on to develop peripheral cholinergic manifestations, including hypersalivation, urination, and defecation. Only one of 24 animals treated with injected atropine, nebulized atropine, or diphenhydramine died during the early phase of poisoning; all others survived to 24 hours (p < 0.01).
Death in acute, severe OP poisoning is prevented by pretreatment with anticholinergic agents that cross the blood-brain barrier, but not by agents with only peripheral actions. Early death due to OP poisoning appears to be a centrally mediated process.
The aim of this open-labelled, randomised, parallel-group study was to evaluate the effect of long-term monotherapy with manidipine or lisinopril on albumin excretion rate (AER) and left ventricular mass index (LVMI) in hypertensive patients with type-2 diabetes and microalbuminuria.
After a 4-week wash-out period, 174 patients with essential hypertension [diastolic blood pressure (DBP) >80 mmHg and <100 mmHg], type-2 diabetes and microalbuminuria were randomised to manidipine 10 mg o.d. or lisinopril 10 mg o.d.; after 8 weeks, the dose was doubled in non-responders (DBP >80 mmHg); after 3 months, treatment was discontinued in the non-responder patients and in those complaining of side effects; the remaining 121 patients continued their therapy with manidipine or lisinopril, and 99 completed the 2-year study. At the end of the wash-out period, of the titration period and after 6, 12, 18 and 24 months of treatment, BP was measured, AER, creatinine clearance, glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) and body mass index (BMI) were evaluated and an echocardiographic evaluation was performed.
The 99 patients who completed the study were statistically analysed according to a per-protocol evaluation. Manidipine and lisinopril significantly reduced systolic blood pressure (SBP) and DBP levels (at 24 months, --22.3/15.5 mmHg, P<0.001 versus baseline and --21.4/15.7 mmHg, P<0.01 versus baseline, respectively). Both drugs provided a significant decrease in AER, but it was significantly more pronounced with lisinopril (at 24 weeks, --37.2 mg/24 h, P<0.001 versus baseline) than with manidipine (--29.9 mg/24 h, P<0.05 versus baseline) and became evident earlier in the lisinopril group (after 3 months versus 6 months of treatment). Manidipine produced a greater reduction of LVMI than lisinopril (--14.9 g/m(2) versus --10.8 g/m(2) at 24 months). The effect was more pronounced in patients with left ventricular hypertrophy at baseline (--19.8 g/m(2) versus --12.8 g/m(2), P<0.05).
These data suggest that, despite similar BP lowering, non-haemodynamic factors play an important role in the pharmacological reduction of AER and LVMI in diabetic hypertensive patients.
A sensitive and precise gas chromatography-mass spectrometry method with selected ion monitoring has been developed for identification and quantification of the phencyclidine derivative ketamine in human plasma. The assay is based on an alkaline extraction from aqueous to organic solvent from plasma and an efficient gas chromatographic separation on a DB-5 capillary column. The analytical procedure has a coefficient of variation of 0.7-6.2% and from 1.3 to 8.7% within-day and from day-to-day analysis, respectively. The low level of sensitivity was 10 ng/ml. It was used to measure low plasma concentrations in volunteers during ketamine-induced experimental psychosis. The method is not enantio selective.
Higher body and carcass (body - liver) weights in sodium phenobarbital (PB) treated mice correlate with formation of multiple hepatocellular adenomas in yellow Avy/A and agouti A/a (C3H x VY) F1 hybrid male mice. To assess differences in PB induction of hepatic drug metabolizing enzymes, yellow Avy/A (C3H x VY) F1 hybrid male mice were fed 0.05% sodium PB in NIH-31 diet for 7 months. Livers from the heaviest and lightest mice in the untreated and PB groups were assayed. Total cytochrome P450 content, cytochrome P450IA-selective 7-ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase and P450IIIA-selective testosterone-6 beta-hydroxylase activities were preferentially induced in the light mice. In contrast, P450IIB-selective 7-pentoxyresorufin-O-dealkylase activity was increased only 3-fold by PB in the light mice but 6-fold in the heavy mice. Testosterone UDP-glucuronyltransferase and gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase activities were induced in the light mice but not in the heavy mice. Glutathione-S-transferase N1:1-dependent activity was induced preferentially in the heavy mice. Significant differences also occurred in constitutive expression of P450IIIA-selective testosterone-6 beta-hydroxylase, P450IA-selective 7-ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase and testosterone UDP-glucuronyltransferase activities between the untreated weight groups. Thus, expression of constitutive and PB-inducible forms of hepatic drug metabolizing enzymes differs between heavy and light Avy/A (C3H x VY) F1 hybrid subpopulations. This suggests that differential susceptibility to PB promotion of hepatocellular adenomas among genetically identical mice is accompanied by differences in the regulation of gene expression.
This 70-year-old man experienced an episode of cholestatic hepatitis most likely due to an immunologically mediated reaction to amoxicillin-clavulanate. The episode occurred after cessation of the drug combination. Duration of illness was 16 weeks, and the patient recovered completely.
Effects of FKS-508 (AF102B; cis-2-methylspiro (1,3-oxathiolane-5,3')-quinuclidine), a novel M1-selective agonist, on central muscarinic responses in mice were examined in comparison with oxotremorine. FKS-508 was slightly less potent (6 times) in reversal of scopolamine-induced amnesia (passive avoidance failure), but far less potent (260 and 55 times) in producing hypothermia and tremor than oxotremorine. These results show that the selective M1 agonist FKS-508 differentiates highly between the central muscarinic effects.
Reactive oxygen species and lipid peroxidation play a role in the pathogenesis induced by the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug indomethacin. Melatonin (MLT) protection against indomethacin-induced oxidative tissue injury was investigated in gastric mucosa and testis of rats. MLT was administered intragastrically (i.g.) 30 min before the administration to fasted rats of 20 mg indomethacin/kg rat given i.g.. The area of gastric lesion as well as thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity were found to be significantly increased 4 h after administration of indomethacin in rat gastric mucosa and testis indicating acute oxidative injury. MLT pretreatment reduced gastric lesion area to 80% of the indomethacin-treated rats and reduced the rise in TBARS concentration. MLT treatment reduced the LDH activity increase in testis but not in gastric mucosa. In indomethacin-treated rats, both the cytosolic Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase (Cu,Zn-SOD) and mitochondrial Mn-SOD activities were significantly diminished in gastric mucosa as well as the total SOD activity in testis. In addition, glutathione (GSH) content in both tissues was markedly decreased following indomethacin treatment. Pretreatment with MLT significantly ameliorated both the inhibition of SOD activity and the decreased GSH content in both tissues. Thus, these results show the effective antiperoxidative and preventive actions of MLT against indomethacin-induced gastric mucosal damage and testicular oxidative injury and we propose that this action might be relevant for its use with other free radical generating drugs.
We evaluated the modulatory role of endogenous neurotensin (NT) in baroreceptor reflex (BRR) response in Sprague-Dawley rats anesthetized with pentobarbital sodium. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of NT (15 or 30 nmol) significantly reduced the sensitivity of the BRR response. Blocking the endogenous activity of the tridecapeptide with its specific antagonist, (D-Trp11)-NT (4 or 8 nmol) or antiserum against NT (1:20); or inhibiting the aminopeptidases with bestatin (200 nmol), on the other hand, promoted a potentiation of BRR response. When administered together with bestatin (200 nmol), the suppressive effect of NT (15 nmol) on the BRR response was further enhanced, as was the augmentative action of (D-Trp11)-NT (4 nmol). Upon microinjection into the bilateral nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS), NT (600 pmol) and (D-Trp11)-NT (150 pmol) respectively elicited a reduction and enhancement of the BRR response. These results suggest that neurons that contain NT may participate in central cardiovascular regulation by tonically suppressing the BRR, possibly via an action on the NTS where baroreceptor afferents terminate.
Four studies on ketoprofen [2-(3 Benzoylphenyl) propionic acid, 19583 R.P., Orudis, Profenid N.D.] have been carried out to establish whether it is well tolerated and effective in the treatment of patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Firstly a comprehensive open clinical and biological monitoring study was undertakin in 11 patients who received ketoprofen for an average period of 20 months without any serious or persistent adverse clinical reaction or adverse change in standard laboratory investigations. The second study involved the same patients who were also included in an ophthalmic screening study for drug toxicity. This established that no eye abnormalities attributable to ketoprofen occurred during this period of treatment. These tolerance studies were then followed by two comparative double-blind cross-over trials of ketoprofen in 117 patients with "definite" rheumatoid arthritis. One of them confirmed the significantly superior analgesic effect compared with placebo and showed that the incidence of adverse reactions was similar. The other trial showed that comparing ketoprofen 150 mg daily and indomethacin 100 mg daily the clinical effects of the two drugs were the same in 8 out of 10 indices. Only in severity of pain and rescue drug count was there a significant difference favouring indomethacin. Adverse reactions were more frequent with indomethacin despite prior exclusion from the study of patients known to be intolerant of indomethacin. It was concluded that on this evidence ketoprofen is a clinically active and well tolerated drug which should be valuable in the management of rheumatoid arthritis.
In a double-blind cross-over trial the clinical efficacy of ketoprofen (19.583 R.P., Orudis, Profenid N.D.), in comparison with that of indomethacin was investigated in 30 patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The two drugs were each given in a dosage of 150 mg daily for a period of 14 days. The clinical effects of ketoprofen and indomethacin were equal (p less than 0.90), but several side-effects appeared less often and to a milder degree during ketoprofen treatment. The study indicates that ketoprofen may prove to be a valuable drug in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.
Thirty rheumatoid patients participated in a 6-week double-blind cross-over assessment of ketoprofen (200 mg daily) and aspirin (3.6 g daily). Regular clinical and laboratory assessments were conducted and revealed that at the dosages employed, the two drugs exerted a statistically comparable therapeutic effect. Side-effects were more frequent with aspirin. Ketoprofen was preferred more often by the patients while the investigator found it acceptable as often as aspirin.
Endogenous nitric oxide (NO) inhibits the contractile response to beta-adrenergic stimulation, but its effect on cardiac hypertrophy mediated by beta-adrenoceptors remains unclear. The present study was designed to determine whether overproduction of endothelial NO synthase (eNOS) could inhibit cardiac hypertrophy induced by chronic isoproterenol (ISO) infusion (30mg/kg per day) using eNOS overexpressing (eNOS-Tg) mice and wild-type (WT) mice. In a separate group, WT mice were treated with ISO and hydralazine to decrease blood pressure to the same levels in eNOS-Tg mice. The eNOS expression, NOS activity, and cGMP levels in the heart were remarkably higher in eNOS-Tg mice than in WT mice. ISO increased both heart weight and the heart/body weight ratio, which were significantly attenuated in eNOS-Tg mice compared with WT or hydralazine-treated WT mice. Histological examination revealed that the extent of fibrosis was not significantly different among the 3 groups, and that the increase in myocyte size was more than 10% lower in eNOS-Tg than in the other groups. In addition, up-regulated expression of atrial natriuretic peptide mRNA associated with cardiac hypertrophy was significantly inhibited in eNOS-Tg mice during ISO infusion. These results indicate that endogenous NO might act as a negative modulator for the hypertrophic response to beta-adrenergic stimulation.
Preclinical evidence strongly indicate that adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonists represent a promising class of drugs for the treatment of motor deficits associated to Parkinson's disease. The effects of adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonists were here assessed in a rat model of parkinsonian tremor induced by cholinomimetic drugs by evaluating the counteraction of tremulous jaw movements. Systemic administration of the A(2A) antagonist SCH 58261 dose-dependently reduced the magnitude of perioral tremor induced by the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor tacrine (2.5 mg/kg). Furthermore, intrastriatal infusion of SCH BT2 (5 microg/microl), a water-soluble analogue of SCH 58261, antagonized tacrine-induced jaw movements with a maximal effect in the ventrolateral striatum. On the other hand, SCH 58261 (5 mg/kg) was ineffective in blocking tremulous jaw movements stimulated by the direct muscarinic agonist pilocarpine (1 mg/kg). Taken together, these results indicate that A(2A) antagonists reduce parkinsonian tremor stimulated in rats by tacrine and that the striatum is deeply involved in the observed effect. Moreover, the ineffectiveness of SCH 58261 in blocking pilocarpine-stimulated perioral tremor suggests that the antitremorigenic effects of A(2A) antagonists described here are not related to a direct action on muscarinic receptor. The prospective of providing additional antitremor benefits considerably enhances the therapeutic potential of A(2A) antagonists.
To examine the quantitative relation between exposure to isocyanates and occupational asthma, and to explore the role of atopy and smoking in occurrence of the disease.
A case-referent study was undertaken of cases from two manufacturing companies (A and B) from which referents without disease could be selected and reliable exposure measurements were available. In company A, 27 cases mainly attributed to toluene diisocyanate (TDI) were matched to 51 referents on work area, start and duration of employment, sex, and age. Exposures were estimated from existing measurements by job category. In company B there were seven cases attributed to 4,4'-diphenylmethane diisocyanate (MDI) in two areas of the plant; 12 non-cases from the same areas were used as referents. Personal exposure measurements were available for all cases and 11 referents.
No difference in peak exposures between cases and referents was found in either plant; but in both, time weighted average (TWA) exposures at the time of onset of asthma were higher for cases. In A, the mean TWA exposure for cases was 1.5 (95% confidence interval (95% CI) 1.2 to 1.8) ppb compared with 1.2 (1.0 to 1.4) ppb for referents. From a matched analysis, the odds ratio (OR) associated with 8 hour TWA exposure to isocyanates greater than 1.125 ppb (the median concentration for the referent group) was 3.2 (95% CI 0.96 to 10.6; p=0.06). Occupational asthma was associated with a pre-employment history of atopic illness (OR 3. 5, p=0.04) and, less strongly, with smoking (OR 2.1, p=0.14). In B, small numbers limited analysis, but three of seven cases had at least one TWA exposure measurement greater than 5 ppb compared with one of 11 referents (OR 7.5, p=0.09).
Asthma can occur at low concentrations of isocyanates, but even at low concentrations, the higher the exposure the greater the risk. By contrast with other studies, smoking and atopy seemed to increase the odds of occupational asthma due to isocyanates, but did not affect the estimate of risk associated with exposure.
Two cases of paraoccupational asthma caused by toluene diisocyanate (TDI) are reported. The first patient was a metal worker in a machine shop situated near a factory producing polyurethane foam. Symptoms at work were not explainable by any specific exposure to irritants or allergens in the work site. As the patient recalled previous occasional work in the adjacent polyurethane factory with accompanying worsening of respiratory symptoms, a specific inhalation (SIC) test was performed with TDI, which confirmed the diagnosis of TDI asthma. The second case was a woman working part time as a secretary in the offices of her son's factory for varnishing wooden chairs. TDI was present in the products used in the varnishing shed. The SIC test confirmed the diagnosis of TDI asthma, despite the fact that the patient's job did not present risk of exposure to the substance. In both patients, symptoms disappeared when further exposure was avoided. These two cases confirm that paraoccupational exposure to TDI must be considered when evaluating patients with asthma not mediated by immunoglobulin E. They also suggest the need for more prospective studies evaluating the health risk for the general population living near polyurethane factories or other firms that use TDI.
Polyfluoroalkyl chemicals (PFCs) have been widely used in consumer products. Exposures in the United States and in world populations are widespread. PFC exposures have been linked to various health impacts, and data in animals suggest that PFCs may be potential developmental neurotoxicants.
We evaluated the associations between exposures to four PFCs and parental report of diagnosis of attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
Data were obtained from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) 1999-2000 and 2003-2004 for children 12-15 years of age. Parental report of a previous diagnosis by a doctor or health care professional of ADHD in the child was the primary outcome measure. Perfluorooctane sulfonic acid (PFOS), perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA), perfluorononanoic acid (PFNA), and perfluorohexane sulfonic acid (PFHxS) levels were measured in serum samples from each child.
Parents reported that 48 of 571 children included in the analysis had been diagnosed with ADHD. The adjusted odds ratio (OR) for parentally reported ADHD in association with a 1-μg/L increase in serum PFOS (modeled as a continuous predictor) was 1.03 [95% confidence interval (CI), 1.01-1.05]. Adjusted ORs for 1-μg/L increases in PFOA and PFHxS were also statistically significant (PFOA: OR = 1.12; 95% CI, 1.01-1.23; PFHxS: OR = 1.06; 95% CI, 1.02-1.11), and we observed a nonsignificant positive association with PFNA (OR = 1.32; 95% CI, 0.86-2.02).
Our results, using cross-sectional data, are consistent with increased odds of ADHD in children with higher serum PFC levels. Given the extremely prevalent exposure to PFCs, follow-up of these data with cohort studies is needed.
Human acid sphingomyelinase (haSMase, EC 3.1.4.12) catalyzes the lysosomal degradation of sphingomyelin to ceramide and phosphorylcholine. An inherited haSMase deficiency leads to Niemann-Pick disease, a severe sphingolipid storage disorder. The enzyme was purified and cloned over 10 years ago. Since then, only a few structural properties of haSMase have been elucidated. For understanding of its complex functions including its role in certain signaling and apoptosis events, complete structural information about the enzyme is necessary. Here, the identification of the disulfide bond pattern of haSMase is reported for the first time. Functional recombinant enzyme expressed in SF21 cells using the baculovirus expression system was purified and digested by trypsin. MALDI-MS analysis of the resulting peptides revealed the four disulfide bonds Cys120-Cys131, Cys385-Cys431, Cys584-Cys588 and Cys594-Cys607. Two additional disulfide bonds (Cys221-Cys226 and Cys227-Cys250) which were not directly accessible by tryptic cleavage, were identified by a combination of a method of partial reduction and MALDI-PSD analysis. In the sphingolipid activator protein (SAP)-homologous N-terminal domain of haSMase, one disulfide bond was assigned as Cys120-Cys131. The existence of two additional disulfide bridges in this region was proved, as was expected for the known disulfide bond pattern of SAP-type domains. These results support the hypothesis that haSMase possesses an intramolecular SAP-type activator domain as predicted by sequence comparison [Ponting, C.P. (1994) Protein Sci., 3, 359-361]. An additional analysis of haSMase isolated from human placenta shows that the recombinant and the native human protein possess an identical disulfide structure.
