The efficacy of proton pump inhibitors in patients at high risk of gastrointestinal injury receiving non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs is currently debated.
To evaluate the effects of esomeprazole on the impairment of gastric ulcer healing associated with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug treatment.
Gastric ulcers were induced in rats by acetic acid. Four days later, animals were treated daily with equivalent acid-inhibiting doses of esomeprazole or famotidine, alone or in combination with indomethacin. At day 3 or 7 of treatment, ulcerated tissues were processed to assess: ulcer area; malondialdehyde; prostaglandin E(2); nuclear factor-kB; proliferating cell nuclear antigen and caspase-3 (Western blot).
In indomethacin-treated animals, esomeprazole was more effective than famotidine or the antioxidant melatonin in promoting ulcer healing. Malondialdehyde levels were increased by indomethacin, and this effect was counteracted by esomeprazole, but not famotidine. Esomeprazole and famotidine, given alone or in combination with indomethacin, increased proliferating cell nuclear antigen expression. Increased levels of prostaglandin E(2) were detected in ulcerated tissues. Ulcer prostaglandin E(2) production was reduced by indomethacin, alone or in combination with esomeprazole or famotidine, while it was enhanced when esomeprazole or famotidine were tested alone. The activation of caspase-3 was induced by indomethacin, and this effect was prevented by esomeprazole, but not famotidine. In the presence of indomethacin, esomeprazole, but not famotidine, enhanced nuclear factor-kB activation in gastric ulcers.
Esomeprazole counteracts the detrimental action of indomethacin on ulcer repair through both acid-dependent and acid-independent effects. The acid-independent actions are related to decrease in tissue oxidation and apoptosis and to enhancement of nuclear factor-kB activation.
Juvenile rat toxicity studies with the direct renin inhibitor aliskiren were initiated to support treatment in the pediatric population. In Study 1, aliskiren was administered orally to juvenile rats at doses of 0, 30, 100 or 300 mg/kg/day with repeated dosing from postpartum day (PPD) 8 to PPD 35/36. In-life, clinical pathology, anatomic pathology, and toxicokinetics evaluations were performed. In Study 2, single oral doses of aliskiren (0, 100 or 300 mg/kg) were given to 14-, 21-, 24-, 28-, 31- or 36-day-old rats; in-life data and toxicokinetics were evaluated. Study 3 was a single dose (3 mg/kg i.v.) pharmacokinetic study in juvenile rats on PPD 8, 14, 21 and 28. In Study 4, naïve rats were used to investigate ontogenic changes of the multidrug-resistant protein 1 (MDR1) and the organic anion transporting polypeptide (OATP) mRNA in several organs. Oral administration of aliskiren at 100 and 300 mg/kg caused unexpected mortality and severe morbidity in 8-day-old rats. Aliskiren plasma and tissue concentrations were increased in rats aged 21days and younger. Expression of MDR1 and OATP mRNA in the intestine, liver and brain was significantly lower in very young rats. In conclusion, severe toxicity and increased exposure in very young rats after oral administration of aliskiren are considered to be the result of immature drug transporter systems. Immaturity of MDR1 in enterocytes appears to be the most important mechanism responsible for the high exposure.
Hexavalent chromium [Cr(VI)], which is used for various industrial applications, such as leather tanning and chroming, can cause a number of human diseases including inflammation and cancer. Cr(VI) exposure leads to severe damage to the liver, but the mechanisms involved in Cr(VI)-mediated toxicity in the liver are unclear. The present study provides evidence that Cr(VI) enhances reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation by inhibiting the mitochondrial respiratory chain complex (MRCC) I. Cr(VI) did not affect the expression levels of antioxidative proteins such as superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase and thioredoxin (Trx), indicating that the antioxidative system was not involved in Cr(VI)-induced ROS accumulation. We found that ROS mediated caspase-3 activation partially depends on the downregulation of the heat shock protein (HSP) 70 and 90. In order to confirm our hypothesis that ROS plays a key role in Cr(VI)-mediated cytotoxicity, we used N-acetylcysteine (NAC) to inhibit the accumulation of ROS. NAC successfully blocked the inhibition of HSP70 and HSP90 as well as the activation of caspase-3, suggesting that ROS is essential in Cr(VI)-induced caspase-3 activation. By applying different MRCC substrates as electron donors, we also confirmed that Cr(VI) could accept the electrons leaked from MRCC I and the reduction occurs at MRCC I. In conclusion, the present study demonstrates that Cr(VI) induces ROS-dependent caspase-3 activation by inhibiting MRCC I activity, and MRCC I has been identified as a new target and a new mechanism for the apoptosis-inducing activity displayed by Cr(VI).
We present two cases of vitamin D-dependent rickets type II, a rare disease caused by a hereditary disorder of the receptor for 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D (1,25 (OH) 2 D). The first patient was seen for the first time at the age of 2 years with florid rickets, almost complete alopecia, and an elevated plasma level of 1,25 (OH) 2 D; there was no improvement following treatment with 1 alpha-hydroxy-vitamin D3). The second patient, a boy whose parents are first cousins, was seen at the age of 7 years with severe rickets, partial alopecia and an elevated serum level of 1,25 (OH) 2 D; the rickets disappeared after administering high doses of 1 alpha hydroxyvitamin D3 and vitamin D.
Genetic factors are considered to play an important role in drug dependence/addiction including the development of drug dependence and relapse. With the use of a model of drug self-administration in mutant mice, several specific genes and proteins have been identified as potentially important in the development of drug dependence. In contrast, little is known about the role of specific genes in enduring vulnerability to relapse, a clinical hallmark of drug addiction. Using a mouse model of reinstatement, which models relapse of drug-seeking behavior in addicts, we provide evidence that a partial reduction in the expression of the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) potentiates methamphetamine (METH) self-administration, enhances motivation to take METH, increases vulnerability to drug-primed reinstatement, and prolongs cue-induced reinstatement of extinguished METH-seeking behavior. In contrast, there was no significant difference in novelty responses, METH-stimulated hyperlocomotion and locomotor sensitization, food-reinforced operant behavior and motivation, or reinstatement of food-seeking behavior between GDNF heterozygous knockout mice and wild-type littermates. These findings suggest that GDNF may be associated with enduring vulnerability to reinstatement of METH-seeking behavior and a potential target in the development of therapies to control relapse.
The time course of profound hyponatraemia has been followed in a patient who developed this condition after 6 week's treatment with a thiazide diuretic, bendroflumethiazide. The case is related to the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone.
EMLA (eutectic mixture of local anesthetics) cream is used topically to provide local anesthesia for a variety of painful superficial procedures. Although the side effects of EMLA are usually mild and transient local skin reactions, potential life threatening complications can be encountered. We report a case of central nervous toxicity after EMLA application for curettage of molluscum contagiosum lesions in a pediatric patient. This complication was the result of a therapeutic misadventure that led to an excessive application of EMLA cream over an extensive area causing an overdose of lidocaine and prilocaine with their subsequent systemic toxicities.
A 20-year-old woman presented with an apparent acute dystonic reaction after only five doses of cimetidine (Tagamet). The patient was on no other medications with the exception of oral contraceptives. Emergency administration of IV diphenhydramine HCL brought rapid reversal of this acute dystonic reaction without any neurological sequelae. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of an acute dystonic reaction associated with cimetidine.
Methadone is a synthetic opioid that has been used successfully to treat heroin addiction and chronic pain. It is usually well tolerated and has few side effects. Recently, an association with torsade de pointes has been reported. We present 4 cases of torsade de pointes during methadone treatment.
Oestradiol-induced male Syrian hamster carcinogenesis is a well-known experimental model of human cancer of the breast, ovary and uterus. The pathomechanism postulated in this model is 4-hydroxylation of oestradiol and further free radical formation. The same process is suspected in human breast cancer. Dynamic changes in protein peroxidation were reported during the tumour induction. In this paper we try to correlate the protein peroxidation markers with the histopathological progression of the changes. The biochemical and histopathological evaluations were performed after 1, 3, 6 and 9 months of the hormone exposition. Significant protein peroxidation was observed as soon as after 1 month and increased further until the 6th month. After 9 months however, it was not significantly different from the control. The discrete histopathological changes after 1 month, progressed into tubular and interstitial hyperplasias after 3 and 6 months. After 9 months several dysplastic areas, sometimes with features of carcinoma in situ, were observed. The severe 9-month histopathological changes did not correlate with the protein peroxidation.
Intracranial hypertension complicating fulminant hepatic failure has a mortality in excess of 90% in the presence of renal failure if not rapidly responsive to mannitol and ultrafiltration. Based on data which suggest that barbiturates can be of value in controlling the intracranial hypertension of head injury, intravenous thiopental was assessed in 13 patients with fulminant hepatic failure. All had developed acute renal failure complicated by intracranial hypertension unresponsive to other modes of therapy and were likely by all published criteria to have little chance of survival. The dosage of thiopental was adjusted incrementally until intracranial pressure, measured by extradural transducers, fell to within normal limits or adverse hemodynamic changes occurred. The intracranial pressure was reduced, in each case, by 185 to 500 mg (median: 250 mg) thiopental given over 15 min, and in eight cases continuing infusion achieved stable normal intracranial pressure and cerebral perfusion pressure. Five of the patients made a complete recovery and there were only three deaths from intracranial hypertension. Side effects were few and included minor hypotension controlled by dose reduction. The response of otherwise intractable intracranial hypertension and the 38% survival rate was remarkable for a group of patients with such a poor prognosis.
Sixty-two patients with a heparin-induced thrombocytopenia are reported. Clinical manifestations of this disorder include hemorrhage or, more frequently, thromboembolic events in patients receiving heparin. Laboratory testing has revealed a falling platelet count, increased resistance to heparin, and aggregation of platelets by the patient's plasma when heparin is added. Immunologic testing has demonstrated the presence of a heparin-dependent platelet membrane antibody. The 20 deaths, 52 hemorrhagic and thromboembolic complications, and 21 surgical procedures to manage the complications confirm the seriousness of the disorder. Specific risk factors have not been identified; therefore, all patients receiving heparin should be monitored. If the platelet count falls to less than 100,000/mm3, while the patient is receiving heparin, platelet aggregation testing, using the patient's plasma, is indicated. Management consists of cessation of heparin, platelet anti-aggregating agents, and alternate forms of anticoagulation when indicated.
To evaluate injection-associated pain, safety, and efficacy with the isotonic contrast medium iodixanol (Visipaque 270 mg I/ml) compared with iopromide (Ultravist 300 mg I/ml) in femoral arteriography.
A multicenter, double-blind, randomized, parallel-group clinical investigation was carried out in 54 hospitals in Europe. Of the patients evaluated, 1225 received iodixanol and 1227 iopromide in conventional and/or digital subtraction angiography.
The iodixanol group reported statistically significantly less injection-associated pain (0.9%) than the iopromide group (9.5%) (p < 0.001). Further, 4.1% in the iodixanol group experienced pain and/or severe heat sensation vs 19. 8% in the iopromide group (p < 0.001). In the iodixanol group, 1.8% of the patients experienced contrast-related adverse events vs 2.4% in the iopromide group (p = NS). Overall diagnostic information was optimal for 94.1% in the iodixanol group and 95.3% in the iopromide group (p = NS).
Iodixanol 270 mg I/ml causes significantly less injection-associated pain during femoral arteriography and is as safe and efficacious as iopromide 300 mg I/ml.
Hemodynamic features of hypotension induced by nicardipine were studied in 18 mongrel dogs under 0.87% halothane in oxygen (1MAC). They were randomly allocated to one of two groups. Group C received no vasodilator therapy and served as control and group N received infusion of nicardipine. Mean arterial pressure decreased and was maintained at 60 mmHg for 60 minutes in group N. No change was noted in hemodynamic variables measured in group C throughout the experiment. During and after induced hypotension in group N, cardiac index (CI), stroke volume index (SVI), central venous pressure (CVP), and right ventricular stroke work index (RVSWI) increased significantly compared with the control values. On the other hand, systemic vascular resistance (SVR) was significantly reduced, reaching 25% of the control value at the end of hypotension period. Heart rate showed a progressive increase but not significantly. Left ventricular maximum dp/dt showed a moderate increase during hypotension, but then decreased gradually to the control value after induced hypotension. Left ventricular stroke work index (LVSWI) and pulmonary vascular resistant (PVR) were unchanged from the control value during and after induced hypotension. The data indicate that nicardipine is a potent systemic vasodilator with hyperdynamic hemodynamic effects in addition to significant increase in right ventricular function.
Saccharin is known to have a tumor-promoting effect on bladder cancer in rats, but its mechanism of action is unknown. We demonstrated that the increased agglutinability of isolated epithelial cells of the bladder in the presence of concanavalin A caused by a subcarcinogenic dose of bladder carcinogens disappeared shortly after the end of their administration. However, saccharin maintained the increased agglutinability when given continuously after administration of carcinogen. Moreover, the agglutinability of bladder cells previously exposed to a subcarcinogenic dose of bladder carcinogens increased again when saccharin was given after the agglutinability had disappeared completely.
Chemotherapy-induced alopecia is thought to result from cytotoxic and apoptosis-related damage to the hair follicle. This study was designed to confirm whether keratinocyte apoptosis is indeed induced in growing (= anagen) hair follicles of C57 BL/6 mice after the injection of cyclophosphamide, using improved methods for histologic detection of apoptotic cells in murine skin. More importantly, we asked whether topical calcitriol-analogs are able to modulate cyclophosphamide-induced apoptosis in vivo, because there are conflicting reports on the effects of calcitriols on apoptosis in vitro. Anagen was induced in telogen mice on day 0 by depilation. Starting on day 5 post-depilation, the back skin of mice was topically treated with either 0.2 microg 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3, 2.0 microg calcipotriol, 0.02 microg KH 1060, or vehicle (ethanol) only. On the last day of treatment (i.e., day 9 post-depilation), all mice received 150 mg cyclophosphamide i.p. per kg as a single dose to induce alopecia, or vehicle (aqua dist.). Analysis of the treated skin by in situ-end labeling (using a modified terminal UTP nucleotide end labeling technique suitable for murine skin), by Hoechst 33342 stain, and by DNA electrophoresis on days 10 and 14, revealed the induction of massive apoptosis in cyclophosphamide-treated anagen hair bulbs, which was most prominent on day 10, whereas controls showed no follicular apoptosis. The calcitriol-pretreated groups demonstrated a significant reduction of apoptosis, with a maximal inhibition seen on day 14. This confirms that cyclophosphamide indeed induces massive keratinocyte apoptosis in anagen hair follicles, and provides evidence that topical calcitriol-analogs can suppress epithelial cell apoptosis in vivo. The mouse model employed here offers an excellent tool for dissecting the as yet poorly understood controls of keratinocyte apoptosis in situ and its pharmacologic manipulation.
Delta opioid receptor (DOR) selective agonists hold promise clinically as analgesics, but their effects on seizures remain controversial. In this study we examined the effects of the DOR agonist, (+)-4-[(alpha R)-alpha-((2S,5R)-4-allyl-2,5-dimethyl-1-piperazinyl)-3-methoxybenzyl]-N,N-diethyl-benzamide (SNC80), on behavioral seizures and hippocampal histopathology in the pilocarpine model of temporal lobe epilepsy. Systemic administration of SNC80 (30 or 60 mg/kg) alone elicited brief seizures within minutes of injection in about half of all rats. When SNC80 (30 or 60 mg/kg) was given prior to pilocarpine administration, trends toward increased latencies to first seizure and status epilepticus (SE) were seen, which correlated with the incidence of a prior, brief SNC80-induced seizure. Significant dose-dependent effects of SNC80 also were observed. Prior administration of SNC80 (30 mg/kg) significantly decreased the number of rats exhibiting acute pilocarpine-induced seizures and overall seizure severity compared to rats given pilocarpine alone, suggesting that SNC80 was anticonvulsant. SNC80 (60 mg/kg) also decreased overall seizure severity. However, SNC80 (60 mg/kg) doubled the total seizure time and the number of rats exhibiting prolonged SE compared to pilocarpine alone, further suggesting that SNC80 has pro-convulsant properties. Significant effects of SNC80 on pilocarpine-induced seizures did not correlate with the occurrence of a prior SNC80-induced seizure. The degree of hilar neuron loss and mossy fiber sprouting correlated strongly with prolonged SE rather than dose of SNC80 (> or =60 min), suggesting that SNC80 did not dramatically alter pilocarpine-induced seizures in the absence of behavioral modifications. Our results demonstrate that the DOR agonist, SNC80, has complex, dose-dependent effects on pilocarpine-induced seizures.
Tissue factor (TF) and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) activity and/or expression are upregulated in nephrotic syndrome. Despite extensive research on antithrombotic effect of statins, little is known about their effects on TF and PAI-1 expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells in patients with primary nephrotic syndrome(PNS).
PBMCs were isolated by gradient centrifugation from 25 individuals with PNS and 25 healthy subjects. TF and PAI-1 mRNA were detected by RT-PCR. The activities of TF and PAI-1 were determined with ELISA and chromogenic substrate method, respectively. The patients with PNS were then treated with simvastatin 40 mg/day for 2 weeks. The activities of TF, PAI-1 and TF, PAI-1 mRNA of PBMCs were also measured.
Compared with controls, patients with PNS had increased TF, PAI-1 secretion by PBMCs at baseline (70.4 +/- 15.6 ng/l vs. 32.7 +/- 8.2 ng/l; 15.9 +/- 2.4 (x10(3) AU/l) vs. 3.9 +/- 1.5(x10(3) AU/l), P<0.01) and after stimulated by LPS (10 ng/mL) (89.2 +/- 13.4 ng/l vs. 49.5 +/- 10.3 ng/l; 23.8 +/- 3.3 (x10(3) AU/l) vs. 8.1 +/- 2.1, P<0.01). The simvastatin treatment resulted in a significant effect in decreasing TF and PAI-1 (69.1 +/- 14.6 ng/l vs. 89.2 +/- 13.4 ng/l; 16.5 +/- 4.8 (x10(3) AU/l) vs. 23.8 +/- 3.3 (x10(3) AU/l), P<0.05) secretion in PBMCs. Increased TF and PAI-1 mRNA expression in PBMCs from PNS (1.034 +/- 0.043 and 0.982 +/- 0.056, respectively) as compared to the control (0.221 +/- 0.015 and 0.221 +/- 0.015, respectively) (p<0.01). two-week simvastatin treatment resulted in significant decrease of TF (0.535 +/- 0.028, p<0.01) and PAI-1 mRNA (0.602 +/- 0.037, p<0.01).
TF and PAI-1 mRNA expression and activities in PBMCs were increased in PNS. Simvastatin reduced TF and PAI-1 expression and activity in PBMCs. These effects may partially be relevant to the clinical benefits of statins in the treatment of PNS.
The literature indicates that retinoids can influence the metabolism and actions of xenobiotics and conversely that xenobiotics can influence the metabolism and actions of retinoids. We were interested in understanding the degree to which hepatic retinoid stores, accumulated over a lifetime, affect xenobiotic metabolism, and actions. To investigate this, we induced liver injury through administration of the hepatotoxin thioacetamide (TAA) to chow fed wild type (WT) mice and lecithin:retinol acyltransferase-deficient (Lrat(-/-)) mice that are genetically unable to accumulate hepatic retinoid stores. Within 48 h of TAA-treatment, WT mice develop liver injury as evidenced by focal necrotic areas and increases in serum ALT activity and myeloperoxidase activity in hepatic parenchyma. Simultaneously, features of hepatic encephalopathy develop, as evidenced by a 25% increase in blood ammonia and a threefold reduction of blood glucose levels. This is accompanied by reduced hepatic glutathione, and increased thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, protein carbonyl and sulfhydryl groups, and increased cytochrome P450-catalyzed hydroxylation activity and flavin-containing monooxygenase activity in microsomes prepared from WT liver. Strikingly, none of these TAA-induced effects were observed for matched Lrat(-/-) mice. To confirm that TAA hepatotoxicity depends on retinoid availability, we administered, over 48 h, four oral doses of 3000 IU retinyl acetate each to the mice. This led to the development of hepatotoxicity in Lrat(-/-) mice that was similar in extent to that observed in WT mice. Our findings establish that endogenous hepatic retinoid stores can modulate the toxicity of TAA in mice.
Regulation of cellular copper (Cu) homeostasis involves Cu-transporting ATPases (Cu-ATPases), i.e., ATP7A and ATP7B. The question as to how these Cu-ATPases in brain barrier systems transport Cu, i.e., toward brain parenchyma, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), or blood, remained unanswered. This study was designed to characterize roles of Cu-ATPases in regulating Cu transport at the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and blood-CSF barrier (BCB) and to investigate how exposure to toxic manganese (Mn) altered the function of Cu-ATPases, thereby contributing to the etiology of Mn-induced parkinsonian disorder. Studies by quantitative real-time RT-PCR (qPCR), Western blot, and immunocytochemistry revealed that both Cu-ATPases expressed abundantly in BBB and BCB. Transport kinetic studies by in situ brain infusion and ventriculo-cisternal (VC) perfusion in Sprague Dawley rat suggested that the BBB was a major site for Cu entry into brain, whereas the BCB was a predominant route for Cu efflux from the CSF to blood. Confocal evidence showed that the presence of excess Cu or Mn in the choroid plexus cells led to ATP7A relocating toward the apical microvilli facing the CSF, but ATP7B toward the basolateral membrane facing blood. Mn exposure inhibited the production of both Cu-ATPases. Collectively, these data suggest that Cu is transported by the BBB from the blood to brain, which is mediated by ATP7A in brain capillary. By diffusion, Cu ions move from the interstitial fluid into the CSF, where they are taken up by the BCB. Within the choroidal epithelial cells, Cu ions are transported by ATP7B back to the blood. Mn exposure alters these processes, leading to Cu dyshomeostasis-associated neuronal injury.
Itai-itai disease is thought to be the result of chronic cadmium (Cd) intoxication. Renal proximal tubules are a major target of Cd toxicity. The whole mechanism of the adverse effects of Cd remains unresolved, especially how renal damage is related to the development of bone lesions. Fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23) is a bone-derived phosphaturic factor that regulates vitamin D and inorganic phosphate metabolism in the kidney. To clarify the role of FGF23 on Cd toxicity, we investigated the mechanisms of Cd-induced FGF23 production in the bone. Cd injection into mice significantly increased plasma FGF23 concentrations, but did not change FGF23 mRNA expression in bone. GalNAc-T3 is involved in secreting intact FGF23. To determine potential roles of GalNAc-T3 in Cd-induced FGF23 production, we examined the effect of Cd on GalNAc-T3 mRNA expression in vivo and in vitro. GalNAc-T3 gene expression was significantly increased in the bones of Cd-injected mice. Cd also enhanced the expression of GalNAc-T3 in cultured osteosarcoma UMR106 cells and primary osteocytes. Cd activated aryl hydrocarbon receptors (AhR) and AhR were required for GalNAc-T3 gene expression induced by Cd. In addition, Cd-dependent FGF23 production was completely inhibited by an AhR antagonist. AhR siRNA markedly suppressed the stimulation of transcriptional activity by Cd. Furthermore, Cd induced AhR activation via phosphorylation of Ser-68 by p38 kinase in the nuclear export signal of AhR. Thus, Cd stimulated GalNAc-T3 gene transcription via enhanced AhR binding to the GalNAc-T3 promoter. These findings suggest that the Cd-induced increase in GalNAc-T3 suppresses proteolytic processing of FGF23 and increases serum FGF23 concentrations.
The side effects caused by malaria prophylaxis with mefloquine (Lariam) are well known. We describe the case of a 42-year-old female Caucasian patient suffering from painless jaundice and showing elevated liver, cholestasis and inflammation laboratory findings 7 days after returning from Tanzania. Acute cholecystitis was diagnosed by ultrasound. Treatment with parenteral nutrition and antibiotic therapy did not show any beneficial effect. Excluding the possibility of infectious diseases, the elevated laboratory and ultrasound findings were normalized after the discontinuation of the malaria prophylaxis.
Two patients with acute immune haemolytic anaemia caused by diclofenac are described. Both patients had developed IgG drug-independent autoantibodies and drug-dependent antibodies. The drug-dependent antibodies in one patient reacted with red blood cells (RBC) only in the presence of urine from patients receiving diclofenac (ex vivo antigen) but not in the presence of the drug itself or its known metabolites. This antibody appeared to recognize a trace metabolite which has not yet been identified. The drug-dependent antibodies in the second patient reacted with RBC in the presence of urine as ex vivo antigen as well as in the presence of the drug itself and its main metabolites. Incorrect diagnosis of such cases often is due to the occurrence of autoantibodies and/or unusual drug metabolism and excretion.
A 54-year-old woman with recurrent episodes of syncope fainted on admission. An episode of torsade de pointes was registered on electrocardiographic monitoring. We assume that the combined effects of phenothiazine and of hypokalemia (2.6 meq/l) caused by chlorthalidone provoked the condition. Diuretics should be used with caution in patients on phenothiazines.
Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is characterized by mesangial cell (MC) expansion and accumulation of extracellular matrix proteins. TGF-beta is increased in MC under diabetic conditions and in DN and activates key signaling pathways, including the phosphoinositide-3-kinase/Akt (PI3K/Akt) pathway. FoxO transcription factors play roles in cell survival and oxidative stress and are negatively regulated by Akt-mediated phosphorylation. We tested whether phosphorylation-mediated inactivation of FoxO3a by TGF-beta can mediate MC survival and oxidative stress. TGF-beta treatment significantly increased levels of p-Akt (activation) and p-FoxO3a (inactivation) in cultured MC. This FoxO3a inactivation was accompanied by significant decreases in the expression of two key FoxO3a target genes, the proapoptotic Bim and antioxidant manganese superoxide dismutase in MC. TGF-beta treatment triggered the nuclear exclusion of FoxO3a, significantly inhibited FoxO3a transcriptional activity, and markedly protected MC from apoptosis. A PI3K inhibitor blocked these TGF-beta effects. It is interesting that p-Akt and p-FoxO3A levels also were increased in renal cortical tissues from rats and mice at 2 wk after the induction of diabetes by streptozotocin, thus demonstrating in vivo significance. In summary, TGF-beta and diabetes can increase FoxO3a phosphorylation and transcriptional inactivation via PI3K/Akt. These new results suggest that Akt/FoxO pathway regulation may be a novel mechanism by which TGF-beta can induce unopposed MC survival and oxidant stress in early DN, thereby accelerating renal disease.
The effect of a three-week fructose-rich diet (FRD) upon gene expression, protein and activity levels of liver antioxidant system and carbohydrate metabolism was studied.
Serum glucose (fasting and after a glucose load), triglyceride and insulin levels of normal male Wistar rats were measured. In liver, we measured gene/protein expression and enzyme activity of catalase (CAT), copper-zinc-superoxide dismutase (CuZnSOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GSHPx); reduced glutathione (GSH); protein carbonyl content; thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) content and microsomal membrane susceptibility to lipid peroxidation; glucokinase (GK), glucose-6-phosphatase (G-6-Pase) and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PDH) activity; and glycogen, pyruvate, lactate and triglyceride content.
Similar body weights and caloric intake were recorded in both groups. FRD rats had higher serum glucose, insulin and triglyceride levels, molar insulin:glucose ratio, HOMA-IR values and impaired glucose tolerance, whereas CAT, CuZnSOD and GSHPx relative gene expression levels were significantly lower. CAT and CuZnSOD protein expression, CAT activity and GSH content were also lower, while protein carbonyl content was higher. No differences were recorded in CuZnSOD, MnSOD and GSHPx activity, TBARS content and membrane susceptibility to lipid peroxidation. Glycogen, lactate and triglyceride content and GK, G-6-Pase and G-6-PDH activity were significantly higher in FRD rats.
In the presence of oxidative stress, the liver exhibits changes in the carbohydrate and lipid metabolic pathways that would decrease reactive oxygen species production and their deleterious effect, thus inducing little impact on specific antioxidant mechanisms. This knowledge could facilitate the design and implementation of strategies to prevent oxidative stress-induced liver damage.
We previously reported that chronic periodontal inflammation causes the accumulation of the transcriptional activator hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) in human gingival fibroblasts (HGFs) in vivo. Here, evidence is provided that bacterial lipopolysaccharides (LPS) and cellular hypoxia, both associated with periodontitis, can individually, or in combination, lead to the accumulation and activation of HIF-1 in HGF in vitro.
Primary gingival fibroblasts were cultured from human gingival biopsies. HIF-1α peptide from HGFs treated with Escherichia coli LPS under normoxia or hypoxia was detected by nuclear protein extraction, immunoprecipitation, immunoblotting, and immunocytofluorescence. HIF-1α transcripts were detected using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The transcript expression levels of vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGF-A), a downstream gene of HIF-1α, were assessed by quantitative real-time PCR.
Two HIF-1α splicing transcription variants were found to be constitutively expressed in HGFs. E. coli LPS induced a dose- and time-dependent nuclear accumulation of HIF-1α peptide in HGFs. This accumulation could be attenuated by treatment with a Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)-neutralizing antibody. Under hypoxia, LPS further increased HIF-1α accumulation in HGFs. VEGF-A transcript expression was upregulated by LPS under both normoxia and hypoxia but was downregulated by pretreatment with TLR4-neutralizing antibody or the specific HIF-1α inhibitor 3-(5'-hydroxymethyl-2'-furyl)-1-benzyl indazole.
LPS induces the nuclear accumulation of HIF-1α in HGFs and induces HIF-1 biologic activity under normoxia or hypoxia possibly through TLR4.
Arsenic in drinking water is known to be a cause of lung, bladder, and skin cancer, and some studies report cardiovascular disease effects. The authors investigated mortality from 1950 to 2000 in the arsenic-exposed region II of Chile (population: 477,000 in 2000) in comparison with the unexposed region V. Increased risks were found for acute myocardial infarction (AMI), with mortality rate ratios of 1.48 for men (95% confidence interval (CI): 1.37, 1.59; p < 0.001) and 1.26 for women (95% CI: 1.14, 1.40; p < 0.001) during the high-exposure period in region II from 1958 to 1970. The highest rate ratios were for young adult men aged 30-49 years who were born during the high-exposure period with probable exposure in utero and in early childhood (rate ratio = 3.23, 95% CI: 2.79, 3.75; p < 0.001). Compared with lung and bladder cancer, AMI mortality was the predominant cause of excess deaths during and immediately after the high-exposure period. Ten years after reduction of exposures, AMI mortality had decreased, and longer latency excess deaths from lung and bladder cancer predominated. With these three causes of death combined, increased mortality peaked in 1991-1995, with estimated excess deaths related to arsenic exposure constituting 10.9% of all deaths among men and 4.0% among women.
