Diabetes was induced by intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin (35 mg/kg bw) in all rats of five groups after being fed for 2 weeks high-fat diet. Type 2 diabetic Nerium-oleander- (NO-) administered groups received the NO distillate at a dose of 3.75, 37.5, and 375 μg/0.5 mL of distilled water (NO-0.1, NO-1, NO-10, resp.); positive control group had 0.6 mg glibenclamide/kg bw/d by gavage daily for 12 weeks. Type 2 diabetic negative control group had no treatment. NO distillate administration reduced fasting blood glucose, HbA1c, insulin resistance, total cholesterol, low density lipoprotein, atherogenic index, triglyceride-HDL ratio, insulin, and leptin levels. Improved beta cell function and HDL concentration were observed by NO usage. HDL percentage in total cholesterol of all NO groups was similar to healthy control. NO-10 distillate enhanced mRNA expressions of peroxisome proliferator-activated-receptor- (PPAR-) α, β, and γ in adipose tissue and PPAR-α-γ in liver. The findings from both in vivo and in vitro studies suggest that the considerable beneficial effect of NO distillate administration at a dose of 375 μg/0.5 mL of distilled water may offer new approaches to treatment strategies that target both fat and glucose metabolism in type 2 diabetes.
Exogenous retinoic acid (RA) administered during mouse embryogenesis can alter the pattern of the axial skeleton during two developmental periods: an early window (7 to 8.5 days post-coitum; dpc) and a late window (9.5 to 11.5 dpc). Treatment during the early window results in vertebral homeotic transformations (predominantly posteriorizations) concomitant with rostral shifts in Hox gene expression, while treatment at the later window results in similar transformations without detectable alterations in Hox gene expression patterns. Mice null for retinoic acid receptor gamma (RAR gamma) exhibit axial defects, including homeosis of several vertebrae, therefore establishing a role for this receptor in normal axial specification RAR gamma null mutants are also completely resistant to RA-induced spina bifida, which occurs in wildtype embryos treated at 8.5-9.0 dpc, suggesting that this receptor specifically transduces at least a subset of the teratogenic effects of retinoids. To further investigate the role of RAR gamma in RA-induced defects during the early and late windows of retinoid-sensitive vertebral patterning, RAR gamma heterozygotes were intercrossed, pregnant females treated with vehicle or RA at 7.3, 10.5 or 11.5 dpc and full-term fetuses assessed for skeletal defects. Relative to wildtype littermates, RAR gamma null mutants treated at 7.3 dpc were markedly resistant to RA-induced embryolethality, craniofacial malformations, and neural tube defects. Furthermore, while RAR gamma null mutants were modestly resistant to certain vertebral malformations elicited by RA treatment at 7.3, they exhibited more pronounced resistance following treatment at 10.5 and 11.5 dpc. Moreover, several of the vertebral defects inherent to the RAR gamma null phenotype were abolished by RA treatment specifically at 10.5 dpc, suggesting that RAR alpha and/or RAR beta isoforms may substitute for certain RAR gamma functions, and that RAR gamma may elicit its normal effects on vertebral morphogenesis at this developmental stage.
Mice with point-mutated alpha2 GABA(A) receptor subunits (rendering them diazepam insensitive) are resistant to the anxiolytic-like effects of benzodiazepines (BZs) in the conditioned emotional response (CER) test, but show normal anxiolytic effects of a barbiturate. We investigated the consequence of deleting the alpha2-subunit on acquisition of the CER with increasing intensity of footshock, and on the anxiolytic efficacy of a benzodiazepine, diazepam, and a barbiturate, pentobarbital. alpha2 knockout (KO) and wildtype (WT) mice were trained in a conditioned emotional response (CER) task, in which lever pressing for food on a variable interval (VI) schedule was suppressed during the presentation of a compound light/tone conditioned stimulus (CS+) that predicted footshock. The ability of diazepam and of pentobarbital to reduce suppression during the CS+ was interpreted as an anxiolytic response. There were no differences between the genotypes in shock sensitivity, as assessed by their flinch responses to increasing levels of shock. However, alpha2 KO mice showed a greater suppression of lever pressing than WT littermates in the presence of a compound cue signalling footshock. Diazepam (0, 0.5, 1 and 2 mg/kg) induced a dose-dependent anxiolytic-like effect in WT mice but no such effect was seen in KO mice. Similarly, although pentobarbital (20 mg/kg) reduced the ability of the CS+ to reduce lever pressing rates in WT mice, this effect was not seen in the KO. These findings suggest that alpha2-containing GABA(A) receptors mediate the anxiolytic effects of barbiturates, as well as benzodiazepines, and that they may be involved in neuronal circuits underlying conditioned anxiety.
Immunohistochemistry with monoclonal antibodies against neurofilament (NF) proteins of middle and high molecular weight class, NF-M and NF-H, was used to study axonal injury in the borderzone of focal lesions in rats. Focal injury in the cortex was produced by infusion of lactate at acid pH or by stab caused by needle insertion. Infarcts in substantia nigra pars reticulata were evoked by prolonged pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. Immunohistochemical staining for NFs showed characteristic terminal clubs of axons in the borderzone of lesions. Differences in the labelling pattern occurred with different antibodies which apparently depended on molecular weight class of NFs and phosphorylation state. These immunohistochemical changes of NFs can serve as a marker for axonal damage in various experimental traumatic or ischemic lesions.
To assess the likelihood of a sustained virological response (SVR) vs. the likelihood of anaemia in patients with chronic hepatitis C.
Data from 1732 patients treated with peginterferon alfa-2a (40KD) plus ribavirin in two randomized, multinational studies were pooled. Probabilities of SVR and anaemia were modelled using the generalized additive logistic model, with numerous clinical variables considered for entry into the model. Baseline haemoglobin was only considered in the analysis for anaemia.
The probability of anaemia increased from 6 to 16% as a function of the ribavirin dose kg(-1) (12-16 mg kg(-1)), whereas the relationship between SVR and ribavirin dose kg(-1) was influenced by hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotype. The probability of an SVR was not influenced by the ribavirin dose kg(-1) in patients with HCV genotype 2 or 3 infection, but increased as a function of ribavirin dose kg(-1) in patients with HCV genotype 1 infection (40-50% increase in probability of SVR for 12-16 mg kg(-1) dose ribavirin increase). The probability of an SVR in patients included with HCV genotype 1 decreased with increasing HCV RNA level to about 3 million copies ml(-1), but was relatively independent of increasing HCV RNA level thereafter. In addition, older age, a higher ribavirin apparent oral clearance and cirrhosis had a negative impact on achieving an SVR, but improved with increasing alanine aminotransferase (ALT) quotient. Sex and ribavirin dose kg(-1) were the most important prognostic factors for anaemia, followed by baseline haemoglobin, age, baseline ALT quotient and cirrhosis.
This study supports individualizing ribavirin dosages by HCV genotype and body weight, and highlights several clinical variables that influence the likelihood of an SVR compared with anaemia in chronic hepatitis C patients treated with peginterferon alfa-2a (40KD) plus ribavirin.
Recent studies indicate that an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor system in the rostral medulla is involved in opiate withdrawal. Although NMDA antagonists attenuate naloxone-precipitated opiate withdrawal, they can cause phencyclidine (PCP)like effects that contraindicate clinical use. Because NMDA channels contain sites for the glutamate coagonist, glycine, we assessed the effects of glycinergic agents on naloxone-precipitated opiate withdrawal in rats. The putative antagonist, felbamate (100, 300 mg/kg), attenuated overall withdrawal severity in a dose-related manner and reduced occurrences of chews, teeth chatters, and penile grooming. The partial agonist, D-cycloserine (3, 10 mg/kg), attenuated withdrawal severity, but not in a dose-related manner. Conversely, the low dose of the partial agonist, (+/-)-HA-966 (3, 10 mg/kg), heightened the occurrences of some withdrawal signs. These results support a role for glycine in opiate withdrawal and suggest that these agents, which do not cause PCPlike effects, may be potential treatment for agents for opiate detoxification.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effects of low doses of ketanserin, close to therapeutic ones, in conscious normotensive rats and to compare the different thresholds of 5-HT2- and alpha-antagonist properties and central sympatho-inhibitory activity. Male Sprague-Dawley rats (250-300 g) were used. Fourty-eight hr before experimentation, indwelling venous and arterial catheters were placed in each rat under light anaesthesia, and exteriorized through the interscapular skin. Drugs injected by i.v. route were ketanserin (50, 100, 200 micrograms/kg), serotonin (50 micrograms/kg), noradrenaline (1 microgram/kg), angiotensin (0.5 microgram/kg), nitroglycerin (200 micrograms/kg) and histamine (100 micrograms/kg). Ketanserin induced a short-lasting reduction in blood pressure and did not modify heart rate. At the dose of 50 micrograms/kg, this compound fully inhibited the pressor effect of serotonin, without modifying its hypotensive responses; after 200 micrograms/kg, ketanserin reduced by 50% the pressor effect of noradrenaline. Comparison of antagonistic activities on phenylephrine and noradrenaline pressor responses showed a selective blockade of alpha 1-adrenoceptors by 100 micrograms/kg ketanserin. In contrast, the angiotensin hypertensive response was unchanged. Reflex bradycardia after noradrenaline and angiotensin was reduced by 100 micrograms/kg ketanserin, whereas nitroglycerin and histamine effects were unaffected. In conclusion, administration of increasing low doses of ketanserin showed that blockade of 5-HT2-receptors appears in first, then a central sympatho-inhibitory effect and a selective alpha 1-adrenolytic activity occur. In addition, baroreceptor sensitivity seems not to be affected.
A 79-year-old woman with no history of myocardial ischemia presented with symptoms of pituitary apoplexy for which an urgent transsphenoidal resection of the pituitary gland was undertaken. The nasal passages were prepared with topical application of epinephrine followed by injection of what was presumed to be 1% lidocaine containing 10 microg/ml(-1) of epinephrine. After only 1.5 mL of the solution had been injected, she developed a hypertensive crisis, which was immediately treated. Postoperatively, she developed a myocardial infarction. The risks associated with the use of vasopressors are reviewed and suggestions for their safe use are presented.
Rosiglitazone is a peroxisome proliferators-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) ligand, which inhibits tumor growth by activating PPARgamma signaling pathways. Fluorouracil (5-FU) is one of the commonly used chemotherapeutic drugs. However, patients develop drug resistance of 5-FU over time. The aim of this study was to investigate whether rosiglitazone can enhance 5-FU-induced cell growth inhibition and to explore its potential mechanisms.
Cell viability was measured using MTT assay. Protein expression levels were detected by Western blot analysis. Small interference RNA was utilized to knockout PPARgamma and PTEN in Hep3B cells.
After 48 h of treatment with 10, 20, and 40 µmol/L rosiglitazone, the viability of Hep3B cells was (78.0 ± 2.7)%, (37.3 ± 8.1)%, and (19.8 ± 2.2)%, respectively (compared with control group, P values were all < 0.001). After 48 h of treatment with 10 µmol/L 5-FU, the viability of Hep3B cells was about (82.6 ± 3.9)%. When cells were treated with 10 µmol/L 5-FU in combination with either 10, 20 or 40 µmol/L rosiglitazone, the cell viability was (51.6 ± 5.4)%, (14.8 ± 4.2)%, and (8.5 ± 0.9)%, with corresponding q value of 1.36, 1.23, and 1.19, respectively. These data suggested that the two drugs had synergic effect in inhibiting Hep3B cell growth, which was further confirmed in an in vivo mice model. Subsequent investigations showed that rosiglitazone activated PPARgamma signaling pathways and increased the expression of PTEN.
Rosiglitazone enhances 5-FU-induced cell growth inhibition of Hep3B cells.
Urokinase gene is believed to play a key role in tissue degradation and cell migration under various normal and pathological conditions, including cancer invasion and metastasis. It may be responsible in the development of prostate cancer (CaP), although there is lack of genetic evidence. Our aim was to study single nucleotide polymorphism (C/T) in 3'-untranslated region to investigate the possibility. DNA was extracted from blood samples of 103 CaP patients and 107 normal controls. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) based restriction analysis was used to identify the C/T polymorphism of the urokinase gene. Significant difference in the frequency distribution of CT and TT genotypes in CaP patients as compared to normal was observed (p=0.04). Two folds risk for prostate cancer with T alleles in north Indian population was apparent. We also observed significant association for TT genotypes with higher Gleason score of tumors in CaP patients (p<0.05). A positive association was also evident in tobacco users having T alleles with risk of CaP. Our findings demonstrated a positive association of T allele of 3'UTR of urokinase gene with the risk of prostate cancer. We therefore hypothesize that C/T polymorphism may influence the etiology of CaP and is likely to become another new marker.
This study was conducted to demonstrate the involvement of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) in the early-phase isoflurane-induced hypotension and to ascertain whether this NOS is neuronal NOS (nNOS) or endothelial NOS (eNOS). Mean arterial pressures (MAPs) were directly measured from the femoral arteries of urethane-anesthetized rats. Isoflurane-induced changes in MAP were monitored in rats following pretreatment with vehicle or one of the following NOS inhibitors: L-NG)monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA), which is non-selective; L-NG)nitro arginine (L-NOARG), which is more selective for nNOS and eNOS; and 7-nitroindazole (7-NI), which is selective for nNOS. Exposure to 2% isoflurane in oxygen produced a triphasic reduction in MAP, including an early phase in which mean arterial pressure (MAP) fell by 25-30% during the initial 2(1/2) min. This early hypotensive response, but not subsequent phases, was abolished by i.v. pretreatment with either L-NMMA or L-NOARG. The early-phase hypotension was also significantly attenuated by i.p. pretreatment with 7-NI; however, the blockade was not as complete as with L-NMMA or L-NOARG. Cerebella and aorta were removed from vehicle- and 7-NI pretreated rats and assayed for NOS activity by determining the conversion of [14C]L-arginine to [14C]L-citrulline. The 7-NI pretreatment significantly reduced NOS activity in the cerebellum but not the aorta. These findings indicate that the early-phase isoflurane-induced hypotension may involve nNOS as well as eNOS. The nNOS may participate in regulation of isoflurane-induced neuronal release of endogenous opioid peptide, which produces a vasodilation that is dependent on NO derived from an action of eNOS.
The beneficial influence of dietary curcumin, capsaicin and their combination on the susceptibility of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) to oxidation was examined in an animal study. Individually, both dietary curcumin and capsaicin significantly inhibited the in vivo iron-induced LDL oxidation, as well as copper-induced oxidation of LDL in vitro. The protective effect of the combination of curcumin and capsaicin on LDL oxidation was greater than that of individual compounds. This protective influence of spice principles was also indicated by the relative anodic electrophoretic mobility of oxidized LDL on agarose gel. In another study, rats injected with iron showed hepatic toxicity as measured by an increase in lipid peroxides and elevated serum enzymes, alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase and lactate dehydrogenase. Dietary curcumin, capsaicin and their combination reduced the activities of these enzymes, and lowered the liver lipid peroxide level, indicating amelioration of the severity of iron-induced hepatotoxicity. In yet another study, a comparison of the extent of carrageenan-induced paw inflammation showed that both dietary curcumin and capsaicin moderately lowered inflammation, while the spice principles in combination were more effective. Dietary curcumin and capsaicin significantly decreased the activity of 5'-lipoxygenase activity in the polymorphonuclear lymphocytes in carrageenan-injected rats, the decrease being even higher in the case of combination of these two spice principles. Results suggest that dietary curcumin and capsaicin individually are protective to LDL oxidation both in vivo and in vitro, to iron-induced hepatotoxicity and to carrageenan-induced inflammation. This beneficial effect was higher when the two compounds were fed in combination.
Imipramine is a well-established tricyclic antidepressant which was first approved for the treatment of depression in the late fifties. Antidepressant effect of imipramine is attributed to inhibition of serotonin (5HT) and noradrenaline (NA) reuptake in brain. These monoamines have been implicated in a variety of neurological disorders including tremor. In the present investigation attempt was made to study the effect of imipramine on harmaline-induced tremor in rats. Male Sprague Dawley rats weighing 115+/-2.5 g were given harmaline (10 mg/kg, i.p.) alone or along with imipramine (30 min before harmaline) in doses of 60 and 90 mg/kg respectively. The latency of onset, intensity and duration of tremor and EMG were recorded. To substantiate the role of 5HT in aetiopathology of tremor the above experiment was repeated in the rats pretreated with P-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA), a potent 5HT depleter. The levels of 5HT and 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid (5HIAA) in the brain stem were measured using high performance liquid chromatography. Imipramine dose-dependently exacerbated the duration, intensity and amplitude of EMG following harmaline-induced tremor. Imipramine treatment further decreased harmaline-induced 5HT turnover in the brain stem. However, this was statistically insignificant. Depletion of 5HT produced a significant reduction in the intensity and duration of harmaline-induced tremor. In conclusion, this study suggests that imipramine exacerbates harmaline-induced tremor. Clinical use of imipramine for the treatment of depression in patients who also suffer from tremors may require a close monitoring.
Although the presence of profound cognitive disturbances in lithium-pilocarpine-induced spontaneous recurrent seizures (SRS) has been well documented, much less is known about changes in emotional behavior, in this model of temporal lobe epilepsy. To that end, a lithium-pilocarpine model of SRS was used to evaluate behavior of experimental animals (SRS, non-SRS and saline-treated rats) in different tests of anxiety (open field test, fear conditioning freezing and footshock-induced ultrasonic vocalization). Flinch-jump test, allowing determination of pain threshold, was employed to confirm specificity of data from anxiety tests. Moreover, neurotransmitters' (dopamine, serotonin and their metabolites) concentration was measured in selected brain structures involved in emotional and motor processing (hippocampus, frontal cortex and striatum). Finally, different brain structures were examined histologically in order to determine structures likely to be involved in behavioral changes. It was found that SRS rats, tested in a seizure free period, revealed an increase in motor activity, and a decrease in fear-related reactions (a freezing response to the aversively conditioned context, and a spontaneous, emotion-related ultrasonic vocalization). No changes in the pain threshold were present. The activity of dopamine and serotonin systems in examined brain structures remained unchanged. The neuropathological effects were widespread and involved a loss of neurons, proliferation of astroglial cells and the presence of activated ramified and ameboid microglial cells in the hippocampus proper, piriform cortex, amygdala and lateral posterior thalamic nuclei. The obtained results suggest a prevalence of disinhibitory effects on behavior in SRS rats, as shown by the results of contextual fear and aversive vocalization tests (i.e. a release of rat behavior controlled by fear). It is conceivable that the lesions to the limbic structures involved in the origin of emotions; the hippocampus, amygdala, and piriform cortex, may underlie changes in anxiety reactions in SRS rats. These results indicate that lithium-pilocarpine-induced SRS are also accompanied by profound alteration of animal emotional behavior.
Thrombin is a central enzyme in hemostasis, exerting potent procoagulant effects and activating platelets. Recently, several small molecule direct thrombin inhibitors (DTI's) with important clinical applications have been developed. Both lepirudin and argatroban are effective in treatment of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia resulting in rapid normalization of platelet counts and a reduction in thrombotic events. Because of differences in clearance mechanisms, argatroban is preferable in patients with renal insufficiency and lepirudin if there is hepatic impairment. DTI's have also been evaluated in treatment of venous thromboembolism. Small studies with recombinant hirudin have shown promise. Ximelagatran is a new DTI in late-stage clinical trials with advantages for treatment of venous thromboembolism including oral administration and fixed dosing, making it convenient for long-term treatment. A Phase III trial demonstrated that ximelagatran was superior to placebo for preventing recurrent thrombosis in patients who had undergone six months of standard anticoagulant therapy for venous thromboembolism. Another large trial compared ximelagatran to standard treatment with enoxaparin and warfarin for treatment of symptomatic deep vein thrombosis in a Phase III trial of 2,528 patients. The results showed that ximelagatran administered twice daily was as effective as standard treatment in preventing recurrence with no increase in bleeding complications. Ximelagatran has also been evaluated in two Phase III trials in patients with atrial fibrillation. The primary analysis of both showed that ximelagatran was non-inferior to warfarin for preventing stroke and other embolic events with no increase in bleeding complications. Unexpectedly, elevated serum transaminase levels were observed in 5-10% of patients receiving ximelagatran for over 1 month, and routine monitoring may be necessary. The introduction of DTIs represents an important advance in treatment of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. The oral direct thrombin inhibitor, ximelagatran, shows promise in providing simplified, effective therapy for venous thromboembolism and atrial fibrillation.
Surface-available iron (Fe) is proposed to contribute to asbestos-induced toxicity through the production of reactive oxygen species.
Our goal was to evaluate the hypothesis that rat models of cardiovascular disease with coexistent Fe overload would be increasingly sensitive to Libby amphibole (LA)-induced subchronic lung injury.
Male healthy Wistar Kyoto (WKY), spontaneously hypertensive (SH), and SH heart failure (SHHF) rats were intratracheally instilled with 0.0, 0.25, or 1.0 mg LA (with saline as the vehicle). We examined bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) and histological lung sections after 1 week, 1 month, or 3 months for pulmonary biomarkers and pathology. SHHF rats were also assessed at 6 months for pathological changes.
All animals developed concentration- and time-dependent interstitial fibrosis. Time-dependent Fe accumulation occurred in LA-laden macrophages in all strains but was exacerbated in SHHF rats. LA-exposed SHHF rats developed atypical hyperplastic lesions of bronchiolar epithelial cell origin at 3 and 6 months. Strain-related baseline differences existed in gene expression at 3 months, with persistent LA effects in WKY but not SH or SHHF rats. LA exposure altered genes for a number of pathways, including inflammation, immune regulation, and cell-cycle control. Cell-cycle control genes were inhibited after LA exposure in SH and SHHF but not WKY rats, whereas tumor suppressor genes were induced only in WKY rats. The inflammatory gene expression also was apparent only in WKY rats.
These data show that in Fe-overload conditions, progressive Fe accumulation occurs in fiber-laden macrophages within LA-induced lesions. Fe overload does not appear to contribute to chronic inflammation, and its role in hyperplastic lesion development requires further examination.
Several studies on opiates demonstrated that selected brain areas as cerebellum and limbic system have the greatest density of opioid receptors. Recently, few cases of severe cerebellitis following methadone poisoning have been reported in children. We present the case of a 30-month-old girl who developed a delayed encephalopathy after methadone intoxication. She was admitted to our emergency department in coma, and after naloxone infusion, she completely recovered. Five days after intoxication, she developed psychomotor agitation, slurred speech, abnormal movements, and ataxia despite a negative neuroimaging finding. A repeat magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) performed 19 days after the intoxication for persistent symptoms showed signal abnormalities in the temporomesial regions, basal ganglia, and substantia nigra. To our knowledge, this is the first report of these delayed MRI findings associated with synthetic opioid intoxication.
Transient trazodone-induced hypomanic symptoms occurred in three depressed patients. Trazodone therapy was continued or reinstated shortly after the hypomanic episode without further evidence of hypomania.
Increasing evidence suggests that substance P (SP) neurokinin-1 (NK1) receptors are involved in stress and emotional responses, representing a potential target for the treatment of anxiety and depression in humans. Given the important role of the amygdaloid complex in the regulation of emotional behavior, we examined the mRNA levels of preprotachykinin A [PPT-A, a precursor of both SP and neurokinin A (NKA)] and 3H-SP binding sites in the amygdala of patients affected by bipolar disorder, major depression or schizophrenia as compared with matched control individuals. By means of in situ hybridization, a significant reduction of PPT-A mRNA expression levels was detected in the three diagnostic groups, mainly in the basal, lateral and accessory basal amygdaloid nuclei, but not in the temporal cortical area proximal to the amygdala. Receptor autoradiography performed on adjacent sections showed no change in 3H-SP binding sites as compared with controls. No significant correlation was found between levels of PPT-A mRNA expression or binding sites and subject age, gender, hemisphere side, cause of death or history of substance misuse (marijuana, alcohol, cocaine/amphetamine). An inverse relationship between PPT-A mRNA expression levels and lifetime antipsychotic treatment (Fluphenazine) in the schizophrenic and bipolar disorder groups was found. Post-mortem delay was also negatively correlated with NK1 binding sites. The results confirm an involvement of the tachykinins in psychiatric disorders, suggesting there is a generalized impairment of the SP system in the amygdala in mood disorders and schizophrenia rather than this being a disease-related phenomenon.
Five patients with malignant hemopathies, including four treated by bone marrow transplantation, developed cyclophosphamide-induced hemorrhagic cystitis that failed to respond to the usual treatments. Each was treated by continuous irrigation of the bladder with potassium alum. Hematuria ceased in three patients followed up for 5 to 10 months. A review of the literature confirmed the 75% success rate of this treatment. No local side effects were recorded, but one patient had a single seizure.
Isolated rat hearts were perfused using a retrograde technique under constant pressure head or constant coronary flow. The addition of 1-epinephrine or 1-norepinephrine (1 microgram/ml) to the perfusion medium for 1 h caused visible and irreversible morphological changes which usually became apparent after 4 h of perfusion in the form of small, pale, opaque spots or streaks gradually enlarging on the surface or on the cross-section area of the myocardium. Light- and electron-microscopic examination showed a disintegration process analogous to that of myocardial infarction but without the infiltration with blood elements. The structural changes were preceded by an increased release of lactate dehydrogenase into the effluent, the most characteristic metabolic change accompanying myocardial injury. Nevertheless, the underlying mechanism of the cardiotoxic action of catecholamines remains to be clarified; several factors under consideration could be eliminated: hyperlipidemia, trombogenic process, acidity due to enhanced production of lactate, reduced total coronary inflow rate and toxicity of oxidation products of catecholamines.
Bisphosphonates inhibit osteoclastic bone destruction that may be stimulated by myeloma cells. By this way, bisphosphonates carry the potential to lower the number of new pathological fractures, of hypercalcaemic events, and of intensity of bone pain as was published earlier. Clodronate has been administered orally in most clinical studies so far despite of its poor bioavailability from the gastrointestinal tract. The aim of our study was to evaluate bone mineral density (BMD) changes in 34 newly diagnosed multiple myeloma patients regularly treated by 900 mg of clodronate in slow intravenous infusions on an outpatient basis in two-week intervals for at least 24 months. BMD was evaluated by CT scanning every six months. Initial values of trabecular BMD were only about 60 per cent of age- and sex-adjusted healthy population values. Clodronate therapy seemed to preserve BMD within the period of two or three years. This effect was seen not only in patients responding to chemotherapy but even in the small subgroup of patients with persisting active disease. We conclude that the long-term intravenous clodronate therapy may contribute to the preservation of BMD and thus calcium hydroxyapatite in bones in multiple myeloma patients concomitantly treated by chemotherapy. The administration of clodronate should start early in the course of disease, before BMD has been markedly reduced.
The effects of some GABAergic agents on seizures induced by quinine were studied in mice. Muscimol, AOAA, DABA and baclofen significantly protected mice against quinine-induced convulsions. Bicuculline effectively enhanced quinine-induced convulsions, and significantly attenuated the protective effects of muscimol, AOAA and DABA against convulsions induced by quinine. Diazepam and phenobarbitone significantly protected mice against convulsions induced by quinine. However, phenytoin did not affect quinine-induced seizures to any significant degree. These results indicate that the convulsant effect of quinine may be due to a disturbance in the status of the GABAergic system.
Enuresis is a common problem often treated effectively with imipramine hydrochloride. The usefulness of this therapy carries with it, however, the risk of accidental overdose by younger siblings of these enuretic patients. Traditional support measures are effective in the treatment of the mild to moderate overdose, while separate symptomatic treatment of seizures and cardiac arrhythmias is possible as outlined herein. Physostigmine offers a single alternate treatment which is effective in the full panorama of life-threatening manifestations of an imipramine overdose.
