Chronic treatment with cannabinoid agonists leads to tolerance. One possible mechanism for this is receptor internalization, but tolerance has also been reported with compounds that only cause internalization to a low degree. Furthermore, cannabinoid antagonist administration precipitates a characteristic withdrawal syndrome in tolerant subjects, accompanied by neuronal activation and enhanced release of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) in the central amygdala. The underlying molecular mechanisms are unknown. We examined the role of cannabinoid tolerance and withdrawal for the expression of the cannabinoid 1 (CB1) receptor and of CRH in rats. Tolerance was first established functionally. An acute dose (100 microg/kg) of the CB1 agonist HU-210 suppressed locomotor activity, and had an anxiogenic-like effect on the elevated plus-maze. Both effects were absent following daily treatment with the same agonist or a lower (40 microg/kg) dose for 14 days. Next, withdrawal was reliably precipitated by a single dose (3 mg/kg) of the CB1 antagonist SR141716A in rats treated subchronically with 14-day HU-210. Using in situ hybridization, a robust suppression of CB1 mRNA expression was found in the caudate-putamen, indicating a downregulation of CB1 expression levels as one mechanism for tolerance to the locomotor suppressant effects of HU-210. The CRH transcript was upregulated in the central amygdala in precipitated withdrawal compared to nonwithdrawn tolerant subjects, suggesting that increased gene expression contributes to the previously reported CRH release in withdrawal. Most importantly, this increase occurred from a suppressed level in tolerant subjects, and behavioral signs of withdrawal, presumably mediated by CRH, were seen at the CRH expression that had only returned to normal nontolerant levels. This suggests the possibility of an allostatic shift, as previously proposed on theoretical grounds. The expression of CRH-R1, CRH-R2alpha, NPY, and its Y1 receptor mRNA was analyzed in search of neural substrates for the allostatic shift observed, but did not seem to contribute to the dysregulated state.
A 94C>A missense mutation in the ITPA gene which encodes inosine triphosphate pyrophosphatase has been associated with adverse effects from azathioprine, specifically flu-like symptoms, pancreatitis and rash. We hypothesized that this association may also be present in a larger, population-based group of inflammatory bowel disease patients intolerant of thiopurine drugs. We performed genotyping for this polymorphism and TPMT*2 and TPMT*3 in 73 such patients and 74 patients with inflammatory bowel disease who have tolerated azathioprine. We could not demonstrate a significant association between the ITPA94C>A genotype and any adverse effects (Odds ratio (OR) 1.015, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.360-2.867, P = 0.593), flu-like symptoms (OR 1.547, 95%CI 0.368-6.496, P = 0.398), rash (no ITPA 94C>A polymorphism identified) or pancreatitis (no ITPA 94C>A polymorphism identified). We found no significant association between the ITPA 94C>A polymorphism and adverse effects to thiopurine drugs.
The use of gabapentin as an effective analgesic agent for neuropathic pain has expanded considerably. Its lack of both anticholinergic side effects and interference with the metabolism of drugs via the cytochrome P450 pathway make it especially useful for transplant recipients.
We describe the case of a renal transplant recipient with a long-term stable functioning allograft who developed reversible acute renal dysfunction after beginning gabapentin therapy for chronic pain due to diabetic neuropathy.
We suggest that gabapentin may cause acute renal dysfunction by a mechanism involving renal afferent vasoconstriction. Caution should be employed when considering the use of gabapentin in transplant recipients, especially when combined with other agents that may potentiate renal vasoconstriction.
Parkinson's disease is an environmentally influenced, neurodegenerative disease of unknown origin that is characterized by the progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta of the brain. Arsenic is an environmental contaminant found naturally in ground water, industrial waste, and fertilizers. The initial goal of the present study was to determine if a mixture of arsenite (As(+3)) and dopamine (DA) could cause enhanced degeneration of dopaminergic neuronal cells. Additional goals were to determine the mechanism (apoptosis or necrosis) of As- and DA-induced cell death and if death could be attenuated by antioxidants. The cell culture model employed was the SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cell line that has been shown to possess differentiated characteristics of dopaminergic neurons. The results demonstrated that a mixture of As(+3) and DA was synergistic in producing the death of the SH-SY5Y cells when compared with exposure to either agent alone. A mixture of 10muM As(+3) and 100muM DA produced almost a complete loss of cell viability over a 24-h period of exposure, whereas, each agent alone had minimal toxicity. It was shown that necrosis, and not apoptosis, was the mechanism of cell death produced by exposure of the SH-SY5Y cells to the mixture of As(+3) and DA. It was also demonstrated that the antioxidants, N-acetylcysteine, and Sulforaphane, attenuated the toxicity of the mixture of As(+3) and DA to the SH-SY5Y cells. This study provides initial evidence that As(+3) and DA synergistically can cause enhanced toxicity in cultured neuronal cells possessing dopaminergic differentiation.
Therapy for chronic atrial fibrillation (AF) focuses on rate versus rhythm control, but little is known about the effects of common therapeutic interventions on exercise tolerance in AF.
Six hundred fifty-five patients with chronic AF underwent maximal exercise testing at baseline and 8 weeks, 6 months, and 1 year after randomization to sotalol, amiodarone, or placebo therapy and attempted direct current cardioversion. Analyses of baseline determinants of exercise capacity, predictors of change in exercise capacity at 6 months and 1 year, and the short- and long-term effects of cardioversion on exercise capacity were made.
Age, obesity, and presence of symptoms accompanying AF were inversely associated with baseline exercise capacity, but these factors accounted for only 10% of the variance in exercise capacity. Patients most likely to benefit from cardioversion were those most limited initially, younger, not obese or hypertensive, and with an uncontrolled ventricular rate at baseline. Conversion to sinus rhythm (SR) resulted in significant reductions in resting (approximately 25 beat/min) and peak exercise (approximately 40 beat/min) heart rates at 6 months and 1 year (P < .001). Successful cardioversion improved exercise capacity by 15% at 8 weeks, and these improvements were maintained throughout the year. This improvement was observed both among those who maintained SR and those with intermittent AF.
Cardioversion resulted in a sustained improvement in exercise capacity over the course of 1 year, and this improvement was similar between those in SR and those with SR and recurrent AF. Patients most likely to improve with treatment tended to be younger and nonobese and have the greatest limitations initially.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) cause macromolecular damage and may play an important role in tumor development. Superoxide dismutase (SOD) and metallothionein (MT) serve as initial and final defense mechanisms, respectively, against ROS. We hypothesized that the inducibility of Mn-SOD and MT mRNA by paraquat, an intracellular superoxide generator, might be altered in lymphocytes of gastric cancer patients. The inducibility of Mn-SOD mRNA by paraquat in lymphocytes of 19 normal subjects and the 14 gastric cancer patients was 162.4 +/- 16.7% and 87.9 +/- 9.5%, respectively (P = 0.001). The inducibility of MT mRNA by paraquat in the normal subjects and the gastric cancer patients was 126.7 +/- 15.8% and 115.4 +/- 12.9%, respectively. This suggests that the failure of Mn-SOD mRNA induction by oxidative stress in peripheral lymphocytes may be involved in the development of gastric cancer and may be of value in predicting the future occurrence of gastric cancer. In addition, the wide variation in Mn-SOD and MT mRNA levels among normal subjects may reflect different susceptibilities to diseases including cancer.
Since the introduction of new recommendations for the treatment of latent tuberculosis infection (LTB1) disregarding age as a limitation, increasing numbers of older individuals are expected to undergo treatment with isoniazid for the prevention of tuberculosis, raising the potential for an increase in isoniazid hepatotoxicity.
To compare the frequency of hepatotoxicity requiring withdrawal of isoniazid therapy for LTB1 in patients under and over 35 years of age, managed according to current practice guidelines.
A retrospective analysis of 300 patients who underwent isoniazid therapy for LTB1 according to a protocol based on the current practice guidelines.
Public health clinic of Passaic County, NJMain outcome measures: The frequency of symptomatic isoniazid hepatitis in various age groups.
Of 165 patients < 35 years of age, 3(2%) patients developed hepatitis (AST > 3 times the upper limit of normal). Of 135 patients > or = 35 years of age, 4(3%) patients developed hepatitis. Statistical comparison between the two groups failed to show a significant difference (p = 0.705).
No difference was detected in the frequency of isoniazid hepatotoxicity between patients < 35 and > or = 35 years of age. Clinically monitored isoniazid therapy of LTB1 patients > or = 35 years of age may not predispose subjects to an increased risk of hepatotoxicity. Limitations of this work include the small sample size and the retrospective nature of the study.
Three relatively young patients, men aged 29 and 38 years and a woman aged 40 years, developed ischaemic stroke shortly after cocaine use. All three had used cigarettes or alcohol as well, and suffered from neurologic deficits with CT and MRI lesions. They recovered, but neurologic sequelae remained. Cocaine may induce haemorrhagic as well as ischaemic stroke. Different vascular complications of cocaine may be involved. The pathophysiologic mechanisms of cocaine-induced ischaemic stroke include vasoconstriction due to cerebrovascular spasms and serotoninergic action, and enhanced thrombocyte aggregation. Over the last years, the use of cocaine is rising, so that the number of cocaine-related stroke patients can be expected to increase. Cocaine use as a cause of ischaemic stroke is important to recognise because discontinuation of cocaine can prevent a recurrent stroke.
A double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter trial was undertaken to assess the antihypertensive efficacy and tolerability of a controlled-release (Coat-Core [CC] tablet) formulation of the second-generation dihydropyridine calcium channel antagonist, nisoldipine. Of the 208 patients with mild-to-moderate essential hypertension, two were excluded from the main efficacy analysis, and the rest randomized into one of four treatment groups, to receive either placebo, or nisoldipine CC at doses of 10, 20, or 30 mg once daily for 6 weeks, following a 4-week placebo run-in period. Blood pressure measurements (supine, standing, diastolic, and systolic) were taken at trough plasma levels, 24 h after previous dosing at 2-week intervals throughout the study. Adverse events and laboratory parameters (plasma lipid and glucose levels, and thyroid function) were monitored. All three doses of nisoldipine CC lowered blood pressure, as compared with placebo, 24 h after dosing. At endpoint (after 6 weeks) mean changes in supine blood pressure from baseline were (systolic/diastolic) 0.9/-2.3, -8.0/-5.5, -16.9/-9.0, and -15.0/-10.3 mm Hg for the groups assigned to placebo and nisoldipine CC 10, 20, and 30 mg, respectively. The response rates were 35%, 47%, and 63% for nisoldipine CC 10, 20, and 30 mg, respectively. Twenty-four-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring showed that nisoldipine CC effectively controlled blood pressure throughout the dosing interval. No change in heart rate was seen for all three doses of nisoldipine CC over the 24-h dosing interval. Nisoldipine CC was at least as effective in black patients as in whites. Generally adverse events were not increased, except for peripheral edema, with rates of 7% in placebo, and 6%, 9%, and 19%, respectively, in those receiving nisoldipine CC 10, 20, or 30 mg daily. There were no clinically significant changes in blood lipids, blood glucose, or thyroid function. In conclusion, once-daily nisoldipine CC at doses of 10 to 30 mg was an effective and well tolerated antihypertensive agent, providing 24-h control of blood pressure without any increase in heart rate.
Flavopiridol, a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, has promising clinical activity when combined with chemotherapy. Preclinical data indicate that flavopiridol enhances oxaliplatin- and fluorouracil (5FU)-induced apoptosis in a sequence-dependent manner.
We conducted a phase I trial of flavopiridol + FOLFOX (folinic acid, 5FU, and oxaliplatin) for advanced solid tumors. Flavopiridol was administered every 2 weeks with oxaliplatin before 5FU, based on sequence-dependent growth inhibition. Flavopiridol pharmacokinetics and p53 status were evaluated.
Forty-eight patients were treated on study. With dose escalation of oxaliplatin (85 mg/m(2)) and 5FU (2,400 mg/m(2)), dose-limiting toxicities included hyponatremia, thrombocytopenia, and neutropenia. 5FU was subsequently reduced to allow for dose escalation of flavopiridol. Dose-limiting toxicities with escalation of flavopiridol were nausea, vomiting, and neutropenia. The maximum tolerated dose was 70 mg/m(2) flavopiridol, 85 mg/m(2) oxaliplatin, and 1,800 mg/m(2) 5FU continuous infusion over 48 hours. Clinical activity was noted in platinum-refractory germ cell tumors: 3 of 9 (33%) evaluable patients showed a partial response on imaging and 7 of 10 (70%) had a decline in serum tumor markers. Responses were also observed in pancreatic, gastric, and sweat gland tumors. Flavopiridol pharmacokinetics had significant interpatient variability. At the maximum tolerated dose, tumor samples were p53 mutant (>30% positive cells) for responders and p53 wild-type for nonresponders.
Flavopiridol with FOLFOX is a safe and tolerable regimen. Promising clinical activity was seen across tumor types. Encouraging results in the platinum-refractory germ cell tumor population has prompted a phase II trial that is currently open for accrual.
Monitoring of renal function in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients is essential. The dosage regimen of amikacin is regularly modified according to the patient's glomerular filtration rate (GFR). The aim of the study was to evaluate the use of cystatin C (CyC) for monitoring amikacin therapy along with other markers of renal tubular and glomerular function, and damage [N-acetyl-beta-d glucosaminidase (NAG), creatinine level and creatinine clearance].
We compared the GFR, estimated from the serum concentrations of creatinine (Cockcroft-Gault formula) and CyC (Grubb's formula). Seventy-one patients (mean age 12 years; range 4-28 years) with CF were treated by intermittent intravenous infusion of amikacin. Tubular nephrotoxicity was investigated by measurement of urine NAG/urine creatinine ratio (U-NAG/U-creatinine). Concentrations of all markers were measured before starting amikacin therapy and at days 3, 5, 7, 10 and 12. Fluorescence polarization analysis, turbidimetry, enzymatic phototometric creatinine deaminase method and fluorimetry were used for determination of serum amikacin, serum CyC, creatinine and urine NAG activity. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was performed to assess the influence of GFR estimated from serum creatinine and serum CyC for the prediction of amikacin clearance during aminoglycoside therapy.
Significant differences in the rate of U-NAG/U-creatinine were noted before and after treatment with amikacin (P < 0.001). Serum creatinine levels and creatinine clearance at the end of amikacin therapy (12th day) did not show any significant differences in comparison with the levels measured before the start of therapy (0th day). At days 5, 7, 10 and 12, serum CyC levels showed a significant elevation (P < 0.001), and CyC clearance showed a significant decrease (P < 0.001) in comparison with the levels measured at day 0. The ratio of amikacin clearance/creatinine clearance decreased with therapy whereas the amikacin clearance/CyC and amikacin clearance/CyC clearance increased.
We showed that the rate of U-NAG/U-creatinine is a suitable marker for monitoring tubular nephrotoxicity in CF patients. Serum creatinine and estimated creatinine clearance are modest predictors of GFR in CF patients. CyC appears to be a better marker of GFR than serum creatinine concentration or creatinine clearance in our study. Serum CyC levels and CyC clearance showed greater ability to predict amikacin clearance during therapy than creatinine clearance.
Mutations of the tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 (TNFRSF1A) gene underly susceptibility to a subset of autosomal dominant recurrent fevers (ADRFs). We report on a two-generation six-member Dutch family in which a novel R92P mutation and reduced plasma TNFRSF1A levels were found in all the children, including two who are unaffected. However, only the daughter proband and father exhibited a typical TNF-receptor associated periodic syndrome (TRAPS) phenotype. PCR-RFLP analysis revealed that the mutation was not present in 120 control chromosomes from unaffected Dutch individuals. As this R92P mutation is present in two unaffected carriers it appears to be less penetrant than previously reported TNFRSF1A mutations involving cysteine residues in the extracellular domains.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a candidate as a causative molecule in migraine. We determined nitrite, total nitrate/nitrite, and cyclic guanosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cGMP) concentrations in platelets from 30 migraine without aura (MwoA) patients and 17 migraine with aura (MwA) patients. All migraine patients were studied during their migraine attacks. The control group consisted of 28 healthy volunteers. Concentrations of platelet nitrite and total nitrate/nitrite were determined using simple and sensitive nitrate/nitrite fluorometric assay techniques. High concentrations of platelet nitrite and total nitrate/nitrite were found in patients with MwoA and MwA when compared with healthy controls. High concentrations of platelet cGMP were also found in patients with MwoA and MwA. The levels of platelet total nitrate/nitrite significantly decreased in headache-free periods after treatment with oral propranolol. These findings suggest that NO is produced in platelets during migraine attacks. It may also be related to the migrainous pain and the changes in cerebral blood flow experienced during migraine attacks. These data may provide new strategies for the treatment of migraine.
To investigate prospectively serious adverse events associated with sumatriptan injection, we studied 12,339 typical migraineurs for up to 12 months each. This study imitated the ordinary clinical use of sumatriptan injection except that: (a) a short, written informed consent was required, (b) there was a centralized, automated dispensing service that audited each patient's product use, (c) patients were sometimes reviewed by telephone, and (d) drug supply and medical consultation were without charge. All adverse events were recorded regardless of etiology. There were 25 fatalities during the study, none being attributable to sumatriptan injection. Of six strokes in the study, two occurred soon after treatment of a migraine attack with sumatriptan injection; whether these were migraine-related or drug-related is discussed. None of the three myocardial infarctions was due to sumatriptan injection use. We conclude that sumatriptan injection is well tolerated when used in accordance with labeling.
Inbred mouse strains differ in sensitivity to a first dose of nicotine and in the development of tolerance to nicotine. The experiments reported here used six inbred mouse strains (A, BUB, C3H, C57BL/6, DBA/2, ST/b) that differ in sensitivity to an acute challenge dose of nicotine to determine whether differences in oral self-selection of nicotine exist. Animals were presented with solutions containing nicotine or vehicle (water or 0.2% saccharin) and their daily intake of the two fluids was measured for 4 days starting with a 10 micrograms/ml nicotine solution. This was followed by sequential 4-day testing with 20, 35, 50, 65, 80, 100, 125, 160 and 200 micrograms/ml nicotine solutions. The strains differed dramatically in their self-selection of nicotine and in maximal daily dose (mg/kg); the rank order of the strains was C57BL/6 > DBA > BUB > A > or = C3H > or = ST/b for both the tap water and 0.2% saccharin choice experiments. Correlations between nicotine consumption and sensitivity to nicotine, as measured by a battery of behavioral and physiological responses, were also calculated. Strain differences in nicotine intake were highly correlated with sensitivity to nicotine-induced seizures. As sensitivity to nicotine-induced seizures increases, oral self-selection of nicotine decreases. This finding may suggest that this toxic action of nicotine serves to limit intake.
The present study assessed alterations in mesolimbic enkephalin (ENK) mRNA levels after predator [2,5-dihydro-2,4,5-trimethylethiazoline (TMT)] and non-predator (butyric acid) odor encounter and/or light-dark (LD) testing in CD-1 mice immediately, 24, 48 and 168 h after the initial odor encounter and/or LD testing. The nucleus accumbens, ventral tegmental area, basolateral (BLA), central (CEA) and medial amygdaloid nuclei, prelimbic and infralimbic cortex were assessed for fos-related antigen (FRA) and/or ENK mRNA as well as neuronal activation of ENK neurons (FRA/ENK). Mice exposed to TMT displayed enhanced freezing and spent less time in the light of the immediate LD test relative to saline- or butyric acid-treated mice. Among mice exposed to TMT, LD anxiety-like behavior was associated with increased FRA in the prelimbic cortex and accumbal shell and decreased ENK-positive neurons in the accumbal core. Mice displaying high TMT-induced LD anxiety exhibited increased ENK-positive neurons in the BLA, CEA and medial amygdaloid nuclei relative to mice that displayed low anxiety-like behavior in the LD test after TMT exposure. In the BLA and CEA, 'high-anxiety' mice also displayed increased FRA/ENK after TMT exposure and LD testing. In contrast to neural cell counts, the level of ENK transcript was decreased in the BLA and CEA of 'high-anxiety' mice after TMT exposure and LD testing. These data suggest that increased FRA may regulate stressor-responsive genes and mediate long-term behavioral changes. Indeed, increased ENK availability in mesolimbic sites may promote behavioral responses that detract from the aversiveness of the stressor experience.
A single dose of CCl4 when administered to a rat produces centrilobular necrosis and fatty degeneration of the liver. These hepatotoxic effects of CCl4 are dependent upon its metabolic activation in the liver endoplasmic reticulum to reactive intermediates, including the trichloromethyl free radical. Positive identification of the formation of this free radical in vivo, in isolated liver cells and in microsomal suspensions in vitro has been achieved by e.s.r. spin-trapping techniques. The trichloromethyl radical has been found to be relatively unreactive in comparison with the secondarily derived peroxy radical CCl3O2., although each free radical species contributes significantly to the biological disturbances that occur. Major early perturbations produced to liver endoplasmic reticulum by exposure in vivo or in vitro to CCl4 include covalent binding and lipid peroxidation; studies of these processes occurring during CCl4 intoxication have uncovered a number of concepts of general relevance to free-radical mediated tissue injury. Lipid peroxidation produces a variety of substances that have high biological activities, including effects on cell division; many liver tumours have a much reduced rate of lipid peroxidation compared with normal liver. A discussion of this rather general feature of liver tumours is given in relation to the liver cell division that follows partial hepatectomy.
Neuropsychiatric changes during exogenous corticosteroid administration are well-recognized. However, reports of neuropsychiatric reactions to corticosteroid replacement for Addison's disease are distinctively rare. We report on a patient with primary adrenocortical insufficiency, initially presenting with depressive symptoms, who developed akinetic mutism followed by acute manic illness shortly after the initiation of steroid replacement. Both disorders occurred with physiological doses of hydrocortisone and resolved spontaneously. The pathogenesis of the above neuropsychiatric reactions is discussed in the context of glucocorticoid receptor-related brain effects of glucocorticoids. In addition, this report points to the need for accurate psychiatric assessment of patients with Addison's disease upon introduction of replacement therapy.
Five experiments designed for various purposes [mainly for the study of colon carcinogenesis in inbred F344 male rats given sc injections of 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB)] were reviewed as to the production and presence of neoplastic lesions of the prostate gland. The overall incidence of prostate proliferative lesions among 293 animals exposed to DMAB was 32% (95 animals). Early in situ carcinomas were present in 66 animals, larger intra-acinar carcinomas in situ in 28, and invasive carcinoma in 1. None of the control animals in these studies exhibited prostate neoplasms. The conclusion, therefore, is that DMAB can induce adenocarcinomas in the rat prostate gland.
The human CD4 molecule (hCD4) is expressed on T lymphocytes and macrophages and acts as a key component of the cellular receptor for HIV. At baseline, hCD4 transgenic mice expressed hCD4 on microglia, the resident mononuclear phagocytes of the brain, and showed no neuronal damage. Activation of brain microglia by peripheral immune challenges elicited neurodegeneration in hCD4 mice but not in nontransgenic controls. In post-mortem brain tissues from AIDS patients with opportunistic infections, but without typical HIV encephalitis, hCD4 expression correlated with neurodegeneration. We conclude that hCD4 may function as an important mediator of indirect neuronal damage in infectious and immune-mediated diseases of the central nervous system.
Cerebral angiopathy of the postpartum period is a rare entity, sometimes promoted by vasoconstrictives drug prescription. Its clinical presentation includes headaches, seizures and focal neurological deficits, which develop shortly after a normal pregnancy. The diagnosis is based on clinical findings and angiography, showing multiple narrowing of the intracranial cerebral arteries. This neurological feature is reversible and the clinical outcome is good. We report a case of benign cerebral angiopathy in a 20-year-old woman in the postpartum period, occurring after administration of sumatriptan and ergot derivates.
In this single-center study, we retrospectively analyzed incidence and risk factors for hepatic veno-occlusive disease (VOD) in 249 consecutive patients who underwent allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation between January 1990 and June 1995. Twenty-four of the 249 transplanted patients developed VOD. The probabilities of developing VOD were 17% among women and 7% in men (P =.01). In women treated with norethisterone, the incidence was 27% compared with 3% in women without this treatment (P =.007). One-year survival rates were 17% and 73% in patients with (n = 24) or without VOD (n = 225), respectively. The use of heparin prophylaxis (100 IE/kg/24 hours for 1 month) did not alter the incidence or 1-year mortality of VOD. In multivariate analysis, the following risk factors were significant: norethisterone treatment (P <.001), bilirubin >26 micromol/L before bone marrow transplantation (BMT) (P =.002), one HLA-antigen mismatch (P =.003), previous abdominal irradiation (P =.02), and conditioning with busulphan (P =.02). Our conclusion is that norethisterone treatment should not be used in patients undergoing BMT and heparin prophylaxis did not affect the incidence or mortality of VOD.
Benzodiazepines are drugs with a good tolerance that are widely used for the treatment of anxiety. Extrapyramidal side-effects are unusual. Diazepam is effective for the treatment of drug-induced dystonias, nevertheless there are some reports of Diazepam-induced dystonia. We report a case history of a patient who developed oromandibular dystonia after taking Bromazepam. The possible mechanisms that cause drug-induced dystonia are described.
Children undergoing selective dorsal rhizotomy (SDR) experience severe pain postoperatively; a pain related to both the extensive surgical exposure with multilevel laminectomy and nerve root manipulation. We sought to define an optimal dose of continuous intrathecal (IT) morphine and bupivacaine to treat this severe pain. The aim of this study was to compare two different concentrations of morphine in a fixed dose of bupivacaine with regard to the analgesic effect and survey if they differed in side effects.
Twenty-six children, aged 2.7-7.4 years undergoing SDR were included in this study. Postoperatively 11 children received a continuous infusion of morphine 0.4 microg x kg(-1) x h(-1) and bupivacaine 40 microg x kg(-1) x h(-1) (low-dose group) and 15, a continuous infusion of morphine 0.6 microg x kg(-1) x h(-1) and bupivacaine 40 microg x kg(-1) x h(-1) (high-dose group). The Behavioral Observational Pain Scale (BOPS) was used to evaluate pain.
Better pain relief was obtained in the high-dose group seen in lower BOPS score compared with the low-dose group [P = 0.03, Fisher's permutation test and P = 0.06 Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney (WMW) test]. The low-dose group received seven times as much ketobemidone 0.43 +/- 0.54 mg x kg(-1) 48 h(-1) compared with 0.06 +/- 0.09 mg x kg(-1) 48 h(-1) in the high-dose group (P = 0.0005 Fisher's permutation test, P = 0.0017 WMW test). There was no statistical difference in pruritus and postoperative nausea and vomiting between the groups. Respiratory and hemodynamic depression was not found.
This study shows that, compared with low-dose, the higher dose of continuous IT morphine combined with bupivacaine, significantly reduce pain score and postoperative intravenous analgesic requirements without increasing adverse effects.
The synthesis of C32-O-arylethyl ether derivatives of ascomycin that possess equivalent immunosuppressant activity but reduced toxicity, compared to FK-506, is described.
