Azotemia associated with the use of lenalidomide, a new and effective therapy for multiple myeloma, has not been reported in patients with multiple myeloma. We describe five patients with plasma cell dyscrasias and renal insufficiency (AL amyloidosis, monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance with Fanconi syndrome, and multiple myeloma) treated with lenalidomide and dexamethasone who developed progressive azotemia. Onset of azotemia after initiation of lenalidomide was variable (2 weeks to several months) and was irreversible in four patients. Four patients required hemodialysis after exposure to lenalidomide; two previously were untreated for their plasma cell dyscrasia. The mechanism of azotemia is unknown, but the combination of potentially nephrotoxic paraproteins and lenalidomide, which is immunomodulatory and anti-angiogenic, may underlie this process. We conclude that azotemia is an uncommon, but serious, potential complication of lenalidomide therapy in plasma cell dyscrasias with associated renal insufficiency. We advise careful monitoring of renal function after initiation of lenalidomide in this setting.
We performed a case-control study of Parkinson's disease (PD) in a population characterized by a high prevalence of pesticide exposure and studied the joint effect of pesticide exposure and CYP2D6. Although they are based on a small group of subjects with the joint exposure, our findings are consistent with a gene-environment interaction disease model according to which (1) pesticides have a modest effect in subjects who are not CYP2D6 poor metabolizers, (2) pesticides' effect is increased in poor metabolizers (approximately twofold), and (3) poor metabolizers are not at increased PD risk in the absence of pesticide exposure.
Analeptic-induced paranoid psychosis occasionally occurs in the treatment of narcolepsy. Two cases illustrate how analeptic abuse can contribute to the development of paranoid psychosis in narcolepsy and greatly complicate treatment.
After briefly recalling the professional pathology characteristics of workers exposed to nitro derivatives and the perplexities surrounding the actual pathogenetic mechanism of the "Withdrawal hazard", the AA report the results of an investigation carried out among the workers of a dynamite producing plant. In the study, the NG and EGDN environmental levels were checked and the workers were submitted to ECG tracings, ECG D according to Holter, and monitoring of postural pressure changes both during exposure to the substances and during time-outs. The results obtained showed that the concentrations found in the plant were practically within the recommended TLV values, with no pathological modifications of the parameters examined. The AA put forward a pathogenetic hypothesis based on these findings and analyzing epidemiologic data on coronary sudden death as well as the mechanisms regarded as responsible for the disorders described in the literature in professionally exposed subjects. According to such hypothesis, the "Withdrawal hazard" (if any) would not be due to the cessation of the vasodilation effect of the nitro derivatives but would be a "rebound" phenomenon following the NG - and EGDN - inhalation induced stimulation to the production of endothelial prostaglandins, and of EDRF in particular, in exposed workers. The withdrawal of nitro derivatives inhalation would thus eliminate a vascular and coronary protection mechanism in the case of pathogenetic noxae at cardiovascular level. Such an interpretation would at last account for the time elapsing between cessation of work and occurrence of the disorders, which would not be justified by the cessation of the mere vasodilating action, since this wears out within a few hours.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effect of the new vasodilator, minoxidil, on blood pressure and plasma renin activity was studied in 21 hypertensive patients: 12 patients with essential and 9 with renal hypertension. The average maximum dosage of minoxidil was 27.9 +/- 6.0 mg/day (M +/- SD). Average duration of treatment was 84.5 days. During the observation period the average systolic blood pressure fell from 195 +/- 18 to 159 +/- 7 mm Hg (M +/- SD), and the mean diastolic blood pressure fell from 120 +/- 8.3 to 92.5 +/- 8 mm Hg (p less than 0.01). These patients had been treated earlier with other antihypertensive agents, such as reserpine, saluretics, hydralazine, alpha-methyldopa, and clonidine, without any significant reduction in blood pressure. Before treatment, plasma renin activity after resting was 59 +/- 6.4 ng/ml/16 h (M +/- SE) and after saluretics and orthostasis 89 +/- 12.7 ng/ml/16 h. After treatment, the decline in renin value after resting was statistically significant: 42.7 +/- 3.3 ng/ml/16 h (p less than 0.05), and the stimulated renin had fallen to 70 +/- 3.4 ng/ml/16 h (p greater than 0.1). A comparison of the renin stimulation values of patients with renal hypertension also revealed a significant reduction (p less than 0.01). Side effects which appeared at a daily dose of 15 to 30 mg consisted mainly of tachycardia and fluid retention and could be controlled by the administration of propranolol and chlorthalidone. In 5 women and in 1 man was observed a cosmetically disturbing, reversible hypertrichosis. Orthostatic hypotension was observed in one patient. Minoxidil is an effective antihypertensive agent. However, because of its side effects, it generally must be administered with beta-receptor blocking agents and saluretics. It is possible that its blood pressure lowering effect is due, at least in part, to a suppression of the plasma renin activity.
Statins are used clinically for cholesterol reduction, but statin therapy is associated with myopathic changes through a poorly defined mechanism. We used an in vivo model of statin myopathy to determine whether statins up-regulate genes associated with proteasomal- and lysosomal-mediated proteolysis and whether PDK gene expression is simultaneously up-regulated leading to the impairment of muscle carbohydrate oxidation. Animals were dosed daily with 80 mg kg(-1) day(-1) simvastatin for 4 (n = 6) and 12 days (n = 5), 88 mg kg(-1) day(-1) simvastatin for 12 days (n = 4), or vehicle (0.5% w/v hydroxypropyl-methylcellulose and 0.1% w/v polysorbate 80; Control, n = 6) for 12 days by oral gavage. We found, in biceps femoris muscle, decreased Akt(Ser473), FOXO1(Ser253) and FOXO3a(Ser253) phosphorylation in the cytosol (P < 0.05, P < 0.05, P < 0.001, respectively) and decreased phosphorylation of FOXO1 in the nucleus after 12 days simvastatin when compared to Control (P < 0.05). This was paralleled by a marked increase in the transcription of downstream targets of FOXO, i.e. MAFbx (P < 0.001), MuRF-1 (P < 0.001), cathepsin-L (P < 0.05), PDK2 (P < 0.05) and PDK4 (P < 0.05). These changes were accompanied by increased PPARalpha (P < 0.05), TNFalpha (P < 0.01), IL6 (P < 0.01), Mt1A (P < 0.01) mRNA and increased muscle glycogen (P < 0.05) compared to Control. RhoA activity decreased after 4 days simvastatin (P < 0.05); however, activity was no different from Control after 12 days. Simvastatin down-regulated PI3k/Akt signalling, independently of RhoA, and up-regulated FOXO transcription factors and downstream gene targets known to be implicated in proteasomal- and lysosomal-mediated muscle proteolysis, carbohydrate oxidation, oxidative stress and inflammation in an in vivo model of statin-induced myopathy. These changes occurred in the main before evidence of extensive myopathy or a decline in the muscle protein to DNA ratio.
A prospective, randomized, double-blind study was performed in 62 patients (ASA Classes I and II) treated with either 0.15 or 0.25 mg/kg cisatracurium or 0.15 mg/kg vecuronium administered as a rapid bolus. We wished to determine whether the muscle relaxants caused cutaneous, systemic, or chemical evidence of histamine release. Six minutes after induction of anesthesia with thiopental, patients received one of the muscle relaxants over 5 s. Plasma histamine levels were measured by radioimmunoassay after thiopental administration and 3 and 5 min after the administration of the relaxant. Additionally, plasma was assayed for tryptase, a marker of mast cell release. Cutaneous manifestations to both thiopental and the muscle relaxant were graded by an independent observer. Arterial blood pressure and heart rate were measured every minute. Although systolic and diastolic blood pressure decreased and heart rate increased significantly after thiopental administration (P < 0.0001), there were no further hemodynamic changes after either cisatracurium or vecuronium. One patient who received 0.25 mg/kg cisatracurium exhibited a slight elevation in plasma histamine level 5 min after hemodynamic changes. Cutaneous signs of histamine release were noted in five patients after thiopental administration (flush in four, erythema in one), but no further cutaneous reactions were observed after administration of either cisatracurium or vecuronium. We conclude that cisatracurium and vecuronium do not cause systemic or cutaneous histamine release. Tryptase levels showed no evidence of mast cell degranulation.
Diagnosis of glycogen storage disease (GSD) type 1a currently is established by demonstrating the lack of glucose-6-phosphatase (G6Pase) activity in the patient's biopsied liver specimen. Recent cloning of the G6Pase gene and identification of mutations within the gene that causes GSD type 1a allow for the development of a DNA-based diagnostic method. Using SSCP analysis and DNA sequencing, we characterized the G6Pase gene of 70 unrelated patients with enzymatically confirmed diagnosis of GSD type 1a and detected mutations in all except 17 alleles (88%). Sixteen mutations were uncovered that were shown by expression to abolish or greatly reduce G6Pase activity and that therefore are responsible for the GSD type 1a disorder. R83C and Q347X are the most prevalent mutations found in Caucasians, 130X and R83C are most prevalent in Hispanics, and R83H is most prevalent in Chinese. The Q347X mutation has thus far been identified only in Caucasian patients, and the 130X mutation has been identified only in Hispanic patients. Our results demonstrate that the DNA-based analysis can accurately, rapidly, and noninvasively detect the majority of mutations in GSD type 1a. This DNA-based diagnosis now permits prenatal diagnosis among at-risk patients and serves as a database in screening and counseling patients clinically suspected of having this disease.
The combination of indomethacin, caffeine, and prochlorperazine (hereinafter IndoProCaf) represents an effective antimigraine drug available on the Italian market. The aim of this study was to test the efficacy of the three active principles alone and in combination in reverting hyperalgesia. Hyperalgesia was induced by morphine withdrawal in mice treated with morphine for 15 days and then made hyperalgic by morphine substitution with water. This study showed that indomethacin 0.3 mg kg(-1), i.p.; caffeine 0.1 and 0.3 mg kg(-1), i.p.; and prochlorperazine 0.1 mg kg(-1), i.p.; as well as the combination of the three active principles, were able to revert morphine withdrawal induced hyperalgesia, causing a statistically significant increase of pain threshold in hyperalgic mice. In a second model, hyperalgesia was induced by the i.p. injection of a 0.3% solution of acetic acid in mice and was evaluated counting the number of abdominal constrictions. Indomethacin (0.1 mg kg(-1), i.p.), caffeine (0.3 mg kg(-1), i.p.), and prochlorperazine (0.1 mg kg(-1), i.p.) reduced the number of abdominal constrictions, while the combination of the three active principles was able to abolish almost completely the abdominal constrictions, with a significantly higher efficacy compared to the single active principles. In both models, indomethacin, caffeine, and prochlorperazine reverted hyperalgesia at dosages 10 times lower than the corresponding analgesic ones. These data provide the pharmacologic evidence of the efficacy of IndoProCaf in reverting hyperalgesia, a condition of reduction of pain threshold similar to that occurring in migraine.
Monotherapy of hypertension with acebutolol in diabetics in daily dose of 200-400 mg for 6 weeks induced only non-significant and practically not acceptable hypotensive effect in groups of patients with hypertension and diabetes type I or type II without nephropathy. No therapeutical effect was observed in hypertension in diabetics type I with nephropathy. Administration of acebutolol to hypertensive diabetic patients with nephropathy resulted in tendency to increase in albuminuria. Values of creatinine clearance did not change at the same time. Also no effect of acebutolol on glycemic or lipid indices was observed. The lack of clear hypotensive effect under studied conditions of acebutolol in diabetic patients contrasted with its significant action in comparative group of hypertensive non-diabetic subjects.
Amphotericin B may cause acute reduction in renal function. N-acetylcysteine (NAC) has a renoprotective activity in several nephrotoxic renal insults, but its effect on amphotericin-induced renal failure has not been investigated yet.
Acute renal failure was induced in 30 Sprague-Dawley rats by a single intraperitoneal injection of amphotericin B (50 mg/kg). NAC (10 mg/kg) in isotonic saline or isotonic saline alone were administered daily for 4 days, starting 1 day before the amphotericin B injection. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was assessed using 99m-technetium diethylene triaminepentaacetic acid. Before and following amphotericin B administration, a 24-hour urine collection was performed for sodium, potassium and magnesium determination. The kidneys were preserved for pathologic examination.
Amphotericin B induced a significant decrease of GFR in both groups. Four days after amphotericin injection the GFR in the NAC-treated group was significantly higher than in the control group (0.62 +/- 0.20 vs. 0.46 +/- 0.14 ml/min, p = 0.042). Histologic signs of acute tubular necrosis were attenuated in the NAC-treated group. There were no significant differences between the groups in sodium, potassium and magnesium urine excretion after amphotericin injection.
NAC treatment exerted a renoprotective effect on deterioration of GFR in a rat model of amphotericin-induced renal failure. No functional protection on tubular function, as obviated by similar polyuria and urine losses of potassium and magnesium in both groups, was observed.
Heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90) serves as an ATP-dependent molecular chaperone for numerous cell signaling proteins, including many oncogenes and clinically validated cancer targets that are involved in cell proliferation and survival. Recent studies have shown that the Hsp90 inhibitor, SNX-2112, effectively inhibits tumor cell growth and angiogenesis in hematological and solid tumors. However, little is known about the effects of SNX-2112 on leukemias that are resistant to chemotherapy, which is emerging as a major clinical problem. In this study, the effects of SNX-2112 on the multidrug-resistant human chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) K562/ADR cell line were investigated. We observed that SNX-2112 exhibited dose- and time-dependent inhibitory activities against K562/ADR cells. These effects included the induction of apoptosis and secondary necrosis in addition to cell cycle arrest at the G1 and G2 phases. Furthermore, SNX-2112-induced apoptosis was predominantly mediated by the mitochondrial pathway, initiated by the release of cytochrome c and the participation of Bcl-2 family proteins. SNX-2112 also induced the activation of the caspase-3, -8 and -9 cascade and the subsequent cleavage of PARP in K562/ADR cells. Moreover, the inactivation of the Akt and NF-κB signaling pathways may be involved in SNX-2112-induced apoptosis. The expression levels of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and several chaperons related to drug resistance and apoptosis were also shown to be inhibited, including the Grp78 and Hsp90 isoforms, Grp94 and Trap1. Taken together, these results provide a possible molecular mechanism for the anti-cancer effect of SNX-2112 on K562/ADR cells and provide new insights into the future application of SNX-2112 as a therapeutic agent for anti-multidrug-resistant leukemias.
To illustrate the possible role of cell differential agent-II (CDA-II) in the apoptosis of hepatoma cells induced by arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)).
Hepatoma cell lines BEL-7402 and HepG2 were treated with As(2)O(3) together with CDA-II. Cell surviving fraction was determined by MTT assay; morphological changes were observed by immunofluorescence staining of Hoechst 33,258; and cell cycle and the apoptosis index were determined by flow cytometry (FCM).
Cytotoxicity of CDA-II was low. Nevertheless, CDA-II could strongly potentiate arsenic trioxide-induced apoptosis. At 1.0 g/L CDA-II, IC(50) of As(2)O(3) in hepatoma cell lines was reduced from 5.0 micromol/L to 1.0 micromol/L (P<0.01). The potentiation of apoptosis was dependent on the dosage of CDA-II. FCM indicated that in hepatoma, cell growth was inhibited by CDA-II at lower concentrations (<2.0 g/L) primarily by arresting at S and G(2) phase, and at higher concentrations (>2.0 g/L) apoptotic cell and cell cycle arresting at G(1) phase increased proportionally. The combination of two drugs led to much higher apoptotic rates, as compared with the either drug used alone.
CDA-II can strongly potentiate As(2)O(3)-induced apoptosis in hepatoma cells, and two drugs can produce a significant synergic effect.
Abnormal glycinergic neurotransmission has been implicated in the pathophysiology of DDT-induced myoclonus. To examine the role of glycine receptors in the DDT model, was measured [3H]strychnine receptor binding in brainstem and spinal cord in the rat after acute administration of DDT. The highest dose of DDT tested significantly increased both Bmax (20%) and Kd (57%) of glycine sites in spinal cord but not brainstem compared to vehicle-treated controls at 4 h. Lower DDT doses, which also induced myoclonus, had no significant effects on [3H]strychnine specific binding. In vitro, 10(-7) DDT did not displace [3H]strychnine binding in naive rat spinal cord, but higher doses could not be studied due to poor solubility of DDT under the assay conditions. These data suggest that only a maximal dose of DDT has significant though mixed effects on parameters of [3H]strychnine binding in spinal cord which are not correlated with the onset of myoclonus.
The description of a syndrome similar to the neuroleptic malignant syndrome but occurring after levodopa withdrawal in a parkinsonian patient is reported. The imputation of levodopa withdrawal is analyzed according to the method of assessment of unexpected drug reactions used by the French centers of pharmacovigilance. This case is compared to 8 other published ones.
This study investigated the anti-cancer effect of combined quercetin and a recombinant adenovirus vector expressing the human p53, GM-CSF and B7-1 genes (designated BB-102) on human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cell lines in vitro.
The sensitivity of HCC cells to anticancer agents was evaluated by 3-(4,5- dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay. The viability of cells infected with BB-102 was determined by trypan blue exclusion. The expression levels of human wild-type p53, GM-CSF and B7-1 genes were determined by Western blot, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and flow cytometric analysis, respectively. The apoptosis of BB-102-infected or quercetin-treated HCC cells was detected by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT) assay or DNA ladder electrophoresis.
Quercetin was found to suppress proliferation of human HCC cell lines BEL-7402, HuH-7 and HLE, with peak suppression at 50 micromol/L quercetin. BB-102 infection was also found to significantly suppress proliferation of HCC cell lines. The apoptosis of BB-102-infected HCC cells was greater in HLE and HuH-7 cells than in BEL-7402 cells. Quercetin did not affect the expression of the three exogenous genes in BB-102-infected HCC cells (P>0.05), but it was found to further decrease proliferation and promote apoptosis of BB-102-infected HCC cells.
BB-102 and quercetin synergetically suppress HCC cell proliferation and induce HCC cell apoptosis, suggesting a possible use as a combined anti-cancer agent.
Resveratrol (RS) exerts a large number of cell-protective and anti-tumor effects, among them the induction of tumor cell apoptosis. Since the bioavailability of ingested RS at distant organs is low and apoptosis induction often requires relatively high RS levels (above 20 micromol/l), this polyphenolic food ingredient might be particularly effective as a chemopreventive in the digestive tract. Previous studies have suggested that chemoprevention by non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) is blunted by the loss of a single component of the apoptotic machinery - the Bax protein. Here, we report that RS efficiently provokes apoptosis in human colorectal carcinoma cells deficient for Bax, although at a reduced rate compared to the parental cells, through the activation of the mitochondrial death pathway. Knockdown of pro-apoptotic Bak by RNA interference reduced the apoptotic response to a similar extent as Bax deficiency in the parental cells and completely abolished apoptosis in Bax-null cells. Notably, although negative for RS-induced, mitochondria-mediated apoptosis, Bax+Bak double-deficient cells were sensitized by RS to ligand-induced, death receptor-mediated apoptosis. Thus, in contrast to NSAIDs, RS may remain effective as a pro-apoptotic chemopreventive as long as Bax and Bak have not both been inactivated during clonal selection.
In lifespan studies, outbred male and female Wistar rats were given either technical DDT mixed into the diet at a dose of 500 parts per million (ppm) or phenobarbital-sodium dissolved in drinking water at a dose of 500 ppm. Liver-cell tumors developed in treated animals but not in controls. The incidence of liver tumors was 45% in the DDT-treated group and 44% in the phenobarbital-sodium-group. When evaluated by sex, DDT-treated females and males had incidences of 56% and 35%, respectively, while in the phenobarbital-sodium group, the respective incidences were 32% and 59% in females and males. These data show a varying susceptibility between the sexes, with regard to induction of liver-cell tumors by the two compounds. In both treated groups, the number of nodular tumors per rat and the average size increased with age and were greater in females. None of these tumors and metastasized. Histologically, the liver tumors were nodular growths, which compressed surrounding parenchyma did not infiltrate it. The total incidence of extrahepatic tumors was higher in controls than in treated animals. In this connection, we must mention the apparent, but not significant, reduction of adrenal tumors in treated rats compared to the controls.
The receptor for the hepatocyte growth factor/scatter factor (HGF/SF), c-Met, plays a role in tumour promotion, progression and metastasis. In this study, we analysed chemically induced hepatocarcinogenesis in mice lacking a functional HGF receptor in their liver. Control and c-Met deficient mice were injected with a single dose of N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN, 90 mICROg/g b.wt.) at 6 weeks of age and mice were subsequently kept on a phenobarbital (PB) containing diet (0.05%) for 35 weeks or on control diet. At the end of the experiment, the carcinogenic response in liver of the animals was monitored. Conditional c-met knockout (KO) mice showed a higher prevalence of macroscopically visible liver tumours and of glutamine synthetase positive and glucose-6-phosphatase deficient lesions in liver. Tumour promotion by PB led to significant increases in the number of preneoplastic and neoplastic lesions in liver of both wild-type and c-met knockout mice, with only minor differences in response. Our results indicate that a defect in c-Met-mediated signaling increases chemically induced tumour initiation in liver but does not significantly affect PB-mediated tumour promotion.
Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is a major public health problem. Identifying novel risk factors for CVD, including widely prevalent environmental exposures, is therefore important. Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) is a manmade chemical used in the manufacture of common household consumer products. Biomonitoring surveys have shown that PFOA is detectable in the blood of more than 98% of the US population. Experimental animal studies suggest that an association between PFOA and CVD is plausible. However, this association in humans has not been previously examined. We therefore examined the independent relationship between serum PFOA levels and CVD outcomes in a representative sample of Americans.
We examined 1216 subjects (51.2% women) from the 1999-2003 National Health and Nutritional Examination Survey. Serum PFOA levels were examined in quartiles. The main outcomes of interest were self-reported CVD, including coronary heart disease and stroke, and objectively measured peripheral arterial disease (PAD), defined as an ankle-brachial blood pressure index of less than 0.9.
We found that increasing serum PFOA levels are positively associated with CVD and PAD, independent of confounders such as age, sex, race/ethnicity, smoking status, body mass index, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and serum cholesterol level. Compared with quartile 1 (reference) of PFOA level, the multivariable odds ratio (95% CI) among subjects in quartile 4 was 2.01 (1.12-3.60; P = .01 for trend) for CVD and 1.78 (1.03-3.08; P = .04 for trend) for PAD.
Exposure to PFOA is associated with CVD and PAD, independent of traditional cardiovascular risk factors.
To establish whether patients taking famotidine 10 mg to treat an episode of heartburn were protected from a recurrence of symptoms after a subsequent test meal.
Frequent heartburn sufferers (n = 366) were randomized to receive double blind treatment with famotidine 10 mg or 2 x 250 mg chewable alginate tablets within 30 min of a spontaneous episode of heartburn. After 4 h, patients with no or slight residual symptoms consumed a meal likely to induce heartburn. Over the next 4 h patients recorded the severity of heartburn and any consumption of 'rescue' antacids. At the end of this time they rated the global efficacy of their treatment in controlling meal-induced symptoms.
Study groups were well matched for all baseline characteristics. Of the 366 randomized patients, 276 took study medication and data from 269 patients (132 famotidine, 137 alginate) were analysed for efficacy. Compared to the alginate control group famotidine treated patients reported better global efficacy following the test meal (P < 0.001; relative odds for a more favourable response: 2.26 [95% CI: 1.45-3.53]). Fewer patients receiving famotidine resorted to antacid rescue (P = 0.038; relative odds for a more favourable response: 2.24 [95% CI: 1.04-4.79]) and peak heartburn was significantly less severe with famotidine treatment (P < 0.001: relative odds for a more favourable response: 2.90 [95% CI: 1.85-4.53]). Eleven famotidine-treated patients (8%) and 13 alginate patients (9%) reported adverse events.
Compared to patients receiving an alginate preparation, patients self medicating with famotidine 10 mg for heartburn are better protected against a recurrence of their symptoms when they next eat. This suggests that the duration of acid control (9 h) previously demonstrated with this dose translates into a similar duration of measurable symptom control during the day.
Barrett's oesophagus is thought to be a complication of severe gastro-oesophageal reflux.
To determine whether the proton pump inhibitor, lansoprazole, is effective in healing erosive reflux oesophagitis in patients with Barrett's oesophagus.
An 8-week, randomized, double-blind study was conducted using patients with both erosive reflux oesophagitis and Barrett's oesophagus. Erosive reflux oesophagitis was defined as grades 2-4 oesophagitis; Barrett's oesophagus, as specialized columnar epithelium obtained by biopsy from the tubular oesophagus; and healing, as a return to grade 0 or 1 oesophageal mucosa (complete re-epithelialization). One-hundred and five (105) patients from one centre were randomized to receive either lansoprazole 30 mg daily or ranitidine 150 mg twice daily. Unhealed or symptomatic lansoprazole patients at week 4 were randomized to receive the same 30 mg dose daily or an increased dose of 60 mg daily. Endoscopy was performed at baseline and at weeks 2, 4, 6 and 8.
The treatment groups were similar in regards to baseline characteristics, erosive reflux oesophagitis grades and length of Barrett's oesophagus. At each 2-week interval, lansoprazole patients had significantly greater healing rates and less day and night heartburn and regurgitation than ranitidine patients. There were no significant differences between treatment groups in antacid use, quality of life parameters, or rate of reported adverse events. Median values for fasting serum gastrin levels remained within the normal range for both groups.
In patients with both Barrett's oesophagus and erosive reflux oesophagitis, lansoprazole is significantly more effective than ranitidine in relieving reflux symptoms and healing erosive reflux oesophagitis.
Three point mutations in the SNCA gene encoding α-synuclein (aSyn) have been associated with autosomal dominant forms of Parkinson's disease. To better understand the role of the A30P mutant aSyn, we compared two transgenic mouse strains: a knock-in mouse with an introduced A30P point mutation in the wild-type (WT) gene (Snca(tm(A30P))) and a transgenic (Tg) mouse overexpressing the human A30P aSyn gene under the prion promoter [tg(Prnp-SNCA A30P)]. The brain aSyn load, motor performance, brain dopamine (DA) and sensitivity to 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) were studied in these mice. aSyn was evidently accumulating with age in all mice, particularly in tg(Prnp-SNCA A30P) Tg mice. There were no robust changes in basal locomotor activities of the mice of either line at 6 months, but after 1 year, tg(Prnp-SNCA A30P) Tg mice developed severe problems with vertical movements. However, the younger Tg mice had a reduced locomotor response to 1mg/kg of d-amphetamine. Snca(tm(A30P)) mice with the targeted mutation (Tm) were slightly hyperactive at all ages. Less 6-OHDA was required in tg(Prnp-SNCA A30P) Tg (1 μg) than in WT (3μg) mice for an ipsilateral rotational bias by d-amphetamine. That was not seen with the Snca(tm(A30P)) strain. A small dose of 6-OHDA (0.33 μg) led to contralateral rotations and elevated striatal DA in Tg/Tm mice of both lines but otherwise 6-OHDA-induced striatal DA depletion was similar in all mice, indicating no A30P-aSyn-related toxin sensitivity. 3,4-Dihydroxyphenylacetic acid/DA-ratio was elevated in tg(Prnp-SNCA A30P) mice, suggesting an enhanced DA turnover. This ratio and homovanillic acid/DA-ratio were declined in Snca(tm(A30P)) mice. Our results demonstrate that the two differently constructed A30P-aSyn mouse strains have distinct behavioral and biochemical characteristics, some of which are opposite. Since the two lines with the same background were not identically produced, the deviations found may be partially caused by factors other than aSyn-related genetic differences.
