Many studies have examined the association between air pollutants (including sulfur dioxide [SO2], carbon monoxide [CO], nitrogen dioxide [NO2], nitric oxide [NO], ozone [O3], and particulate matter < 10 μm [PM10]) and lung cancer. However, data from previous studies on pathological cell types were limited, especially for SO2 exposure. We aimed to explore the association between SO2 exposure from outdoor air pollutants and female lung cancer incidence by cell type specificity.
We conducted an ecological study and calculated annual average concentration of 6 air pollutants (SO2, CO, NO2, NO, O3, and PM10) using data from Taiwan Environmental Protection Administration air quality monitoring stations. The Poisson regression models were used to evaluate the association between SO2 and age-standardized incidence rate of female lung cancer by two major pathological types (adenocarcinoma [AC] and squamous cell carcinoma [SCC]). In order to understand whether there is a dose-response relationship between SO2 and two major pathological types, we analyzed 4 levels of exposure based on quartiles of concentration of SO2.
The Poisson regression results showed that with the first quartile of SO2 concentration as the baseline, the relative risks for AC/SCC type cancer among females were 1.20 (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.04-1.37)/1.39 (95% CI, 0.96-2.01) for the second, 1.22 (95% CI, 1.04-1.43)/1.58 (95% CI, 1.06-2.37) for the third, and 1.27 (95% CI, 1.06-1.52)/1.80 (95% CI, 1.15-2.84) for the fourth quartile of SO2 concentration. The tests for trend were statistically significant for both AC and SCC at P = 0.0272 and 0.0145, respectively.
The current study suggests that SO2 exposure as an air pollutant may increase female lung cancer incidence and the associations with female lung cancer is much stronger for SCC than for AC. The findings of this study warrant further investigation on the role of SO2 in the etiology of SCC.
Androgen effects on hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remain controversial and androgen ablation therapy to treat HCC also leads to inconsistent results. Here we examine androgen receptor (AR) roles in hepatocarcinogenesis using mice lacking AR in hepatocytes.
By using the Cre-Lox conditional knockout mice model injected with carcinogen, we examined the AR roles in hepatocarcinogenesis. We also tested the possible roles of AR in cellular oxidative stress and DNA damage sensing/repairing systems. By using AR degrading compound, ASC-J9, or AR-small interference RNA, we also examined the therapeutic potentials of targeting AR in HCC.
We found AR expression was increased in human HCC compared with normal livers. We also found mice lacking hepatic AR developed later and less HCC than their wild-type littermates with comparable serum testosterone in both male and female mice. Addition of functional AR in human HCC cells also resulted in the promotion of cell growth in the absence or presence of 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone. Mechanistic dissection suggests that AR may promote hepatocarcinogenesis via increased cellular oxidative stress and DNA damage, as well as suppression of p53-mediated DNA damage sensing/repairing system and cell apoptosis. Targeting AR directly via either AR-small interference RNA or ASC-J9 resulted in suppression of HCC in both ex vivo cell lines and in vivo mice models.
Our data point to AR, but not androgens, as a potential new and better therapeutic target for the battle of HCC.
RPE65 is essential for isomerization of vitamin A to the visual chromophore. Mutations in RPE65 cause early-onset blindness, and Rpe65-deficient mice lack 11-cis-retinal but overaccumulate alltrans-retinyl esters in the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE). RPE65 is proposed to be a substrate chaperone but may have an enzymatic role because it is closely related to carotenoid oxygenases. We hypothesize that, by analogy with other carotenoid oxygenases, the predicted iron-coordinating residues of RPE65 are essential for retinoid isomerization. To clarify RPE65's role in isomerization, we reconstituted a robust minimal visual cycle in 293-F cells. Only cells transfected with RPE65 constructs produced 11-cis-retinoids, but coexpression with lecithin:retinol acyltransferase was needed for high-level production. Accumulation was significant, amounting to >2 nmol of 11-cis-retinol per culture. Transfection with constructs harboring mutations in residues of RPE65 homologous to those required for interlinked enzymatic activity and iron coordination in related enzymes abolish this isomerization. Iron chelation also abolished isomerization activity. Mutating cysteines implicated in palmitoylation of RPE65 had generally little effect on isomerization activity. Mutations associated with Leber congenital amaurosis/early-onset blindness cause partial to total loss of isomerization activity in direct relation to their clinical effects. These findings establish a catalytic role, in conjunction with lecithin:retinol acyltransferase, for RPE65 in synthesis of 11-cis-retinol, and its identity as the isomerohydrolase.
This paper describes a set of simple methods for comparative light and electron microscopy studies on tissue cultured tumour cells derived from both noninvasive and invasive carcinogen-induced rat urinary bladder carcinomas. Cells are grown on Thermanox plastic coverslips and fixed in situ. Each plastic coverslip is then divided with scissors into four parts: the first is processed for light microscopy, the second for thin-section electron microscopy, the third for freeze-fracture electron microscopy, and the fourth for scanning electron microscopy. In some experiments, portions of the culture which have first been examined by light microscopy are subsequently prepared for electron microscopy. In this way, the culture conditions are kept constant and comparison of structural features (i.e. intercellular junctions) by several preparative techniques is possible. Noninvasive and invasive rat bladder tumour cells, characterized by numerous pleomorphic microvilli, have normal zonulae occludentes at the apices of lateral surfaces of tumour cells in all cultures. In some areas of invasive tumour cells, occludens junctions are focally attenuated, consisting of only one or two strands, and occasionally the strands are discontinuous. Gap junctions, type PF-1, as well as numerous demosomes are present in all cell lines. Thus, intercellular junctions in noninvasive and invasive rate bladder epithelial cell lines bear a striking resemblance to those previously described in the comparable solid primary tumours. These culture systems may be useful for studying factors which influence the formation of intercellular junctions during malignant transformation.
To report the association between the protease inhibitor indinavir and the development of urolithiasis.
Case reports of three adult patients infected with the human immunodeficiency virus who developed surgical renal stones while being treated with indinavir are presented.
Of the 3 patients requiring surgical intervention, stone analyses were available in 2. One stone revealed an inner core of an unidentifiable crystal surrounded by calcium oxalate, and another was found to have indinavir components as determined by thin-layer chromatography and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Metabolic evaluation of all 3 patients identified significant hypocitraturia as an isolated finding.
The widely used protease inhibitor indinavir is associated with the development of urolithiasis and may act as a nidus for heterogeneous nucleation leading to the development of mixed urinary stones. Surgical intervention may be necessary in some cases. Underlying metabolic abnormalities may contribute to the increased incidence of stone formation. Urologists and other health care providers should be aware of this association, as combined medical and surgical intervention may be necessary.
To describe protease inhibitor-induced urinary stone disease in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) who are taking indinavir sulfate (Crixivan), a protease inhibitor, for the treatment of AIDS.
Patients with HIV/AIDS and symptomatic renal colic temporally related to the initiation of indinavir sulfate therapy were prospectively identified. Seven patients (mean age 42 years; all men) with HIV and renal colic who were taking indinavir were identified. Retrospective chart reviews and patient interviews were performed.
Indinavir therapy averaged 5.7 months prior to presentation with renal colic. All patients had microscopic hematuria. One patient presented with acute azotemia from bilateral urinary obstruction. Six patients had no history of urinary stones prior to initiating indinavir. The median number of symptomatic urinary stone episodes after initiating indinavir was two stones per patient. All patients had moderate- to high-grade urinary obstruction from radiolucent calculi. Abdominal computed tomography (CT) demonstrated hydronephrosis without urinary calcifications. Three patients spontaneously passed stones and 4 required intervention. Yellow debris and/or brown matrix-like material was seen endoscopically. Stone analysis revealed pure protease inhibitor. Six patients (86%) eventually discontinued protease inhibitor therapy.
Protease inhibitor-induced urinary stones are radiolucent and can cause high-grade ureteral obstruction. Protease inhibitor-induced urinary stones were not identified on unenhanced abdominal CT scans. The radiolucent gelatinous nature of such stones makes lithotripsy a poor choice of treatment. Ureteral stenting may allow spontaneous stone passage if symptomatic obstruction occurs. Urologists may encounter a greater number of patients with symptomatic protease inhibitor-induced urinary calculi as these medications become more popular.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is the collective term for a fatal motoneuron disease of different etiologies, with oxidative stress as a common molecular denominator of disease progression. Melatonin is an amphiphilic molecule with a unique spectrum of antioxidative effects not conveyed by classical antioxidants. In preparation of a possible future clinical trial, we explored the potential of melatonin as neuroprotective compound and antioxidant in: (1) cultured motoneuronal cells (NSC-34), (2) a genetic mouse model of ALS (SOD1(G93A)-transgenic mice), and (3) a group of 31 patients with sporadic ALS. We found that melatonin attenuates glutamate-induced cell death of cultured motoneurons. In SOD1(G93A)-transgenic mice, high-dose oral melatonin delayed disease progression and extended survival. In a clinical safety study, chronic high-dose (300 mg/day) rectal melatonin was well tolerated during an observation period of up to 2 yr. Importantly, circulating serum protein carbonyls, which provide a surrogate marker for oxidative stress, were elevated in ALS patients, but were normalized to control values by melatonin treatment. This combination of preclinical effectiveness and proven safety in humans suggests that high-dose melatonin is suitable for clinical trials aimed at neuroprotection through antioxidation in ALS.
CFL1 encodes human non-muscle cofilin (n-cofilin), which is an actin-depolymerizing factor and is essential in cytokinesis, endocytosis, and in the development of all embryonic tissues. Cfl1 knockout mice exhibit failure of neural tube closure at E10.5 and die in utero. We hypothesized that genetic variation within the human CFL1 gene may alter the protein's function and result in defective actin depolymerizing and cellular activity during neural tube closure. Such alterations may be associated with an increased risk for neural tube defects (NTDs).
Having re-sequenced the human CFL1 gene and identified five common single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in our target population, we investigated whether there existed a possible association between the genetic variations of the CFL1 gene and risk of spina bifida. Samples were obtained from a large population-based case-control study in California. Allele association, genotype association and haplotype association were evaluated in two different ethnicity groups, non-Hispanic white and Hispanic white.
Homozygosity for the minor alleles of the SNPs studied (rs652021, rs665306, rs667555, rs4621 and rs11227332) appeared to produce an increased risk for spina bifida. Subjects with the haplotype composed of all minor alleles (CCGGT) appeared to have increased spina bifida risk (OR = 1.6, 95% CI: 0.9~2.9), however, this finding is not statistically significant likely due to limited sample size.
The sequence variation of human CFL1 gene is a genetic modifier for spina bifida risk in this California population.
Latanoprost, a new prostaglandin analogue, was compared with timolol for ocular hypotensive efficacy and side effects.
In a multicenter, randomized, double-masked, parallel group study, 268 patients with ocular hypertension or early primary open-angle glaucoma received either 0.005% latanoprost once daily or 0.5% timolol twice daily for 6 months. All except ten patients from each group successfully completed the study.
Intraocular pressure (IOP) was significantly (P<0.001) reduced and maintained by both medications without evidence of a long-term drift over 6 months. Comparing 6-month with baseline diurnal IOP values, the IOP reduction (mean +/- standard deviation) achieved with latanoprost (-6.7 +/- 3.4 mmHg) was significantly (P<0.001) greater than that produced with timolol (4.9 +/- 2.9 mmHg). Four patients treated with timolol and none treated with latanoprost were withdrawn from the study because of inadequate IOP control. Pulse rate was significantly reduced with timolol, but not with latanoprost. Slightly more conjunctival hyperemia appeared in latanoprost-treated compared with timolol-treated eyes. Fewer subjective side effects occurred in latanoprost-treated eyes. Both eyes of a patient with a characteristic, concentric iris heterochromia (darker centrally) at baseline showed a definite, photographically documented increase in pigmentation during latanoprost treatment, making the irides uniformly darker. Three additional patients treated with latanoprost were suspects for this color change. Otherwise, no significant difference between treatment groups occurred visual acuity, slit-lamp examination, blood pressure, and laboratory values.
Latanoprost has the potential for becoming a new first-line treatment for glaucoma.
This study investigated the effects of moderate doses of caffeine on ambulatory blood pressure and heart rate, urinary excretion of epinephrine, norepinephrine, and cortisol, and subjective measures of stress during normal activities at work and at home in the evening.
Healthy, nonsmoking, habitual coffee drinkers (N = 47) participated in 3 days of ambulatory study. After a day of ad lib caffeine consumption, caffeine (500 mg) and placebo were administered double-blind in counter-balanced order on separate workdays. Ambulatory blood pressure and heart rate were monitored from the start of the workday until bedtime. Urinary excretion of catecholamines and cortisol was assessed during the workday and evening.
Caffeine administration significantly raised average ambulatory blood pressure during the workday and evening by 4/3 mm Hg and reduced average heart rate by 2 bpm. Caffeine also increased by 32% the levels of free epinephrine excreted during the workday and the evening. In addition, caffeine amplified the increases in blood pressure and heart rate associated with higher levels of self-reported stress during the activities of the day. Effects were undiminished through the evening until bedtime.
Caffeine has significant hemodynamic and humoral effects in habitual coffee drinkers that persist for many hours during the activities of everyday life. Furthermore, caffeine may exaggerate sympathetic adrenal-medullary responses to the stressful events of normal daily life. Repeated daily blood pressure elevations and increases in stress reactivity caused by caffeine consumption could contribute to an increased risk of coronary heart disease in the adult population.
The molecular mechanisms underlying the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) are not yet fully understood. Preneoplastic foci of altered hepatocytes regularly precede HCC in various species. The predominant earliest type of foci of altered hepatocytes, the glycogen storage focus (GSF), shows an excess of glycogen (glycogenosis) in the cytoplasm. During progression from GSF to HCC, the stored glycogen is gradually reduced, resulting in complete loss in basophilic HCC. We have previously shown that in N-nitrosomorpholine-induced hepatocarcinogenesis, insulin receptor substrate (IRS-1) is strongly expressed in GSF and reduced during progression to HCC, thus correlating with the glycogen content. In the present study, we observed increased levels of insulin receptor, IGF-I receptor (IGF-IR), IRS-2, and mitogen-activated kinase/extracellular regulated kinase-1 in GSF, following the same pattern of expression as IRS-1. We conclude that the abundance of IRS-1, IRS-2, and mitogen-activated kinase/extracellular regulated kinase-1 coincides with a concerted upregulation of both IR and IGF-IR induced by the hepatocarcinogen. Our data suggest that in early hepatocellular preneoplasia, the upregulation of IR elicits glycogenosis through IRS-1 and/or IRS-2, whereas the increased level of the IGF-IR may lead to the increased cell proliferation previously reported in GSF. Therefore, the concerted upregulation of both IR and IGF-IR may represent initial events in hepatocarcinogenesis.
In 1980, the incidence of malaria among Southeast-Asian refugees arriving in South Australia rose substantially to 22.0 cases/1000 arrivals. All these cases were caused by Plasmodium vivax, and the majority occurred in the small proportion of refugees who had arrived by way of Indonesian camps of asylum (59.2 cases/1000 arrivals). The commencement of an eight-week prophylactic regimen with primaquine (22.5 mg/week) and chloroquine (300 mg/week; 600 mg first dose) by 1388 refugees proved significantly effective in reducing the incidence of malaria among this population. The regimen was administered without the assessment of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase levels, and a transient haemoglobinuria occurred in only one refugee. Other side-effects were minimal when the administration of drugs was delayed until several days after the arrival of the refugee in Australia.
Histological and immunohistochemical studies using specific monoclonal antibodies were made to evaluate the severity of the chronic cardiomyopathy and the quantitative changes in interstitial dendritic cells (antigen-presenting cells), T helper lymphocytes, T cytotoxic/suppressor lymphocytes, and macrophages in the hearts of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) treated with doxorubicin at 1 mg/kg per week for 3, 6, 9 or 12 weeks. In addition, an assessment was made of the modifications of the responses of these cell populations by pretreatment of the SHR with ICRF-187, which protects against doxorubicin cardiotoxicity. The number of interstitial dendritic cells/mm2 of section of left ventricle was similar in saline-treated control SHRs (76 +/- 6) and in those treated with ICRF-187 alone (75 +/- 2) but increased markedly (319 +/- 33) in animals receiving a total cumulative dose of 12 mg/kg doxorubicin. Treatment with ICRF-187 prior to each administration of doxorubicin attenuated in a dose-dependent manner the increase in numbers of dendritic cells induced by doxorubicin (231 +/- 47, 174 +/- 11, and 100 +/- 16 cells/mm2) after treatment with 6.25, 12.5, and 25 mg of ICRF-187, respectively. Doxorubicin also induced increases in the numbers of T helper lymphocytes and macrophages but not of T cytotoxic/suppressor lymphocytes. These increases were also attenuated by pretreatment with ICRF-187. These data were interpreted as indicating that doxorubicin cardiotoxicity results in the release of substances that initiate immune reactions involving the antigen-presenting cells of the heart and that such reactions are attenuated by pretreatment with ICRF-187.
To investigate the effect of allitridin on murine cytomegalovirus (MCMV) induced regulatory T cells (Treg) amplification in vitro.
A co-culture system of T cells and MCMV infected mouse embryo fibroblasts (MEF) was established. A maximum tolerance concentration (MTC) of allitridin was added into the co-culture system. After 3 days, the change of Foxp3 mRNA was measured by real-time PCR. And the percentages of Tc1 (CD3(+)CD8(+)IFN-γ(+)), Tc2 (CD3(+)CD8(+)IL-4(+)), Th1 (CD3(+)CD8(-)IFN-γ(+)) and Th2 (CD3(+)CD8(-)IL-4(+)) were analyzed by flow cytometry. The production of IL-10 and TGF-β in supernatants was detected with double-antibody sandwich ELISA while the viral load of culture quantified by plaque assay. All results were compared with those of the placebo group.
The MTC of allitridin was 9.83 µg/ml in MEF. The treatment of 9.83 µg/ml allitridin could partly block the MCMV induction of Foxp3 mRNA expression [(87 ± 5) vs (114 ± 8), P < 0.01]. The percentages of Tc1, Tc2 and Th1 significantly increased to the levels of (12.42 ± 1.23)%, (4.28 ± 0.56)% and (13.25 ± 0.68)% respectively. They showed statistic differences with those of placebo controls [(6.85 ± 0.92)%, (2.34 ± 0.42)% and (9.32 ± 0.86)%; all P < 0.01]. Meanwhile, the levels of IL-10 and TGF-β1 in supernatants also significantly decreased to (29.98 ± 3.15) pg/ml and (3.48 ± 0.23) ng/ml by allitridin treatment as compared with placebo controls [(38.21 ± 4.02) pg/ml and (5.31 ± 0.59) ng/ml, all P < 0.05]. In addition, the MCMV plaque assays showed that allitridin significantly suppressed the viral loads by one order of magnitude.
Allitridin can partly retrieve MCMV-induced Treg expansion and Treg-mediated anti-MCMV immunosuppression so as to enhance the specific cellular immune responses against CMV.
This report describes a case of accidental intravenous administration of codeine phosphate (1 mg.kg-1) to a previously healthy five-year-old boy, who was undergoing strabismus surgery. Hypoxaemia (SpO2 85% with FIO2 of 1) and hypotension (systolic BP 65 mmHg) resulted, which responded to resuscitation with lactated Ringers' (20 ml.kg-1) and phenylephrine (2 micrograms.kg-1). The degree of hypoxaemia observed in this case was severe, but was not associated with clinical evidence of bronchospasm. Possible mechanisms for this reaction might have included direct myocardial depression and histamine release. This case adds further support to the recommendation that codeine phosphate should never be administered intravenously.
Nebivolol is a cardioselective beta-blocker (BB) currently used for the treatment of hypertension. It has mild vasodilating properties attributed to its interaction with the L-arginine/nitric oxide pathway, a property not shared by other BBs. Carvedilol is a nonselective ss-adrenergic receptor antagonist that also blocks alpha1-adrenergic receptors and is a potent antioxidant. Anthracyclines (ANTs), daunorubicin and doxorubicin, are commonly used in the treatment of several tumours, but their cardiac toxicity prevents their use at maximum myelotoxic doses, representing an important problem. In this study, we have evaluated the role of these BBs administered in combination with ANTs (daunorubicin and doxorubicin) on a reduction in cardiac toxicity. The combination of BB and ANTs has reduced the release of GSSG and GSH; in particular, co-treatment with nebivolol to ANTs has shown a significant reduction. The total integrated creatine kinase and troponin T activities were improved by BB and ANTs co-treatment. A significant reduction of their release was observed when hearts were treated with nebivolol. Cardiac tissue activity of gluthatione reductase was not significant and similar among experimental groups. In contrast, gluthatione peroxidise, Mn-superoxide dismutase and nitrite/nitrate release were increased after co-treatment with nebivolol. Finally, three parameters have been used to evaluate the cardiac toxicity of ANTs: the left ventricular pressure developed under a constant perfusion pressure (LVDP), the rate of variation of this parameter during systole (contractility) (LV/dt)max and during diastole (relaxation) (LV(dP/dt)min. Combination with BB has shown a reduction in cardiac toxicity; in particular, nebivolol has exerted the most significant cardioprotective effect.
A zinc-induced signaling pathway leading to extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) activation and subsequent neuronal death has been investigated. We find that an extracellular zinc application stimulates biphasic phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and p38 MAPK in rat cultured neurons. The activation of ERK1/2, but not p38, is responsible for zinc neurotoxicity as only U0126, a MEK inhibitor that blocks ERK1/2 phosphorylation, significantly protects cortical neurons from zinc exposure. Over-expression of a dominant negative Ras mutant blocks zinc-induced Elk1-dependent gene expression in neurons, indicating the involvement of Ras activation in the zinc pathway leading to ERK phosphorylation and Elk1 signaling. We also find that zinc treatment results in neuronal mitochondrial hyperpolarization. Importantly, both U0126 and bongkrekic acid, an inhibitor of the mitochondrial adenine nucleotide translocase, effectively reduce zinc-triggered mitochondrial changes. As bongkrekic acid also prevents zinc-triggered neuronal death but not ERK1/2 phosphorylation, activation of MAPK signaling precedes and is required for mitochondrial dysfunction and cell death. These results provide new insight on the mechanism of extracellular zinc-induced toxicity in which the regulation of mitochondrial function by the Ras/MEK/ERK pathway is closely associated with neuronal viability.
Cyclin D1 and its binding partners CDK4/6 are essential regulators of cell cycle progression and are implicated in cancer progression. Our aim was to investigate a potential regulatory role of these proteins in other essential tumor biological characteristics. Using a panel of breast cancer cell lines and primary human breast cancer samples, we have demonstrated the importance of these cell cycle regulators in both migration and stem-like cell activity. siRNA was used to target cyclin D1 and CDK4/6 expression, having opposing effects on both migration and stem-like cell activity dependent upon estrogen receptor (ER) expression. Inhibition of cyclin D1 or CDK4/6 increases or decreases migration and stem-like cell activity in ER-ve (ER-negative) and ER+ve (ER-positive) breast cancer, respectively. Furthermore, overexpressed cyclin D1 caused decreased migration and stem-like cell activity in ER-ve cells while increasing activity in ER+ve breast cancer cells. Treatment of breast cancer cells with inhibitors of cyclin D1 and CDK4/6 (Flavopiridol/PD0332991), currently in clinical trials, mimicked the effects observed with siRNA treatment. Re-expression of ER in two ER-ve cell lines was sufficient to overcome the effects of either siRNA or clinical inhibitors of cyclin D1 and CDK4/6.   In conclusion, cyclin D1 and CDK4/6 have alternate roles in regulation of migration and stem-like cell activity. Furthermore, these effects are highly dependent upon expression of ER. The significance of these results adds to our general understanding of cancer biology but, most importantly, could be used diagnostically to predict treatment response to cell cycle inhibition in breast cancer.
Thalidomide (Thal) can overcome drug resistance in multiple myeloma (MM) but is associated with somnolence, constipation, and neuropathy. In previous in vitro studies, we have shown that the potent immunomodulatory derivative of thalidomide (IMiD) CC-5013 induces apoptosis or growth arrest even in resistant MM cell lines and patient cells, decreases binding of MM cells to bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs), inhibits the production in the BM milieu of cytokines (interleukin-6 [IL-6], vascular endothelial growth factor [VEGF], tumor necrosis factor-alpha [TNF-alpha]) mediating growth and survival of MM cells, blocks angiogenesis, and stimulates host anti-MM natural killer (NK) cell immunity. Moreover, CC-5013 also inhibits tumor growth, decreases angiogenesis, and prolongs host survival in a human plasmacytoma mouse model. In the present study, we carried out a phase 1 CC-5013 dose-escalation (5 mg/d, 10 mg/d, 25 mg/d, and 50 mg/d) study in 27 patients (median age 57 years; range, 40-71 years) with relapsed and refractory relapsed MM. They received a median of 3 prior regimens (range, 2-6 regimens), including autologous stem cell transplantation and Thal in 15 and 16 patients, respectively. In 24 evaluable patients, no dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) was observed in patients treated at any dose level within the first 28 days; however, grade 3 myelosuppression developed after day 28 in all 13 patients treated with 50 mg/d CC-5013. In 12 patients, dose reduction to 25 mg/d was well tolerated and therefore considered the maximal tolerated dose (MTD). Importantly, no significant somnolence, constipation, or neuropathy has been seen in any cohort. Best responses of at least 25% reduction in paraprotein occurred in 17 (71%) of 24 patients (90% confidence interval [CI], 52%-85%), including 11 (46%) patients who had received prior Thal. Stable disease (less than 25% reduction in paraprotein) was observed in an additional 2 (8%) patients. Therefore, 17 (71%) of 24 patients (90% CI, 52%-85%) demonstrated benefit from treatment. Our study therefore provides the basis for the evaluation of CC-5013, either alone or in combination, to treat patients with MM at earlier stages of disease.
Most anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-positive non-small cell lung cancers (NSCLCs) are highly responsive to treatment with ALK tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). However, patients with these cancers invariably relapse, typically within 1 year, because of the development of drug resistance. Herein, we report findings from a series of lung cancer patients (n = 18) with acquired resistance to the ALK TKI crizotinib. In about one-fourth of patients, we identified a diverse array of secondary mutations distributed throughout the ALK TK domain, including new resistance mutations located in the solvent-exposed region of the adenosine triphosphate-binding pocket, as well as amplification of the ALK fusion gene. Next-generation ALK inhibitors, developed to overcome crizotinib resistance, had differing potencies against specific resistance mutations. In addition to secondary ALK mutations and ALK gene amplification, we also identified aberrant activation of other kinases including marked amplification of KIT and increased autophosphorylation of epidermal growth factor receptor in drug-resistant tumors from patients. In a subset of patients, we found evidence of multiple resistance mechanisms developing simultaneously. These results highlight the unique features of TKI resistance in ALK-positive NSCLCs and provide the rationale for pursuing combinatorial therapeutics that are tailored to the precise resistance mechanisms identified in patients who relapse on crizotinib treatment.
Patients with relapsed or refractory lymphoma often require treatment with aggressive chemotherapy. At McGill University, a combination of high dose VP-16 and cyclophosphamide (VP-CY) is commonly used as a salvage regimen. In recent years, cytogenetic abnormalities of the long arm of chromosome 11 at band 23 (11q23) have been linked to the use of VP-16, and may be associated with secondary myelodysplastic syndrome or acute leukemia. Therapy related 11q23 anomalies have not been widely studied in lymphoma patients. We have identified and reviewed the course of 107 patients who have been treated with VP-CY. Thirty-five patients remain alive and 21 consented to participate in our study. Patient bone marrows were studied morphologically, cytogenetically and molecularly, to identify any new changes that may have developed over the course of their treatment, with a special emphasis on the search for 11q23 rearrangements. Mean time between VP-CY treatment and marrow evaluation was 3.6 years. Of the 21 patients, 5 had Hodgkin's disease (HD) and 16 had non Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). They received a total of 30 cycles of VP-CY. Response rate was 100%, with 16 complete and 5 partial responses. Eighteen patients later underwent autologous stem cell transplantation. At the time of study, 19 of the patients were disease free and 2 were in relapse. On morphological analysis, 12 marrows appeared normal and 6 showed mild dyserythropoiesis. Standard cytogenetics was done to examine for any new chromosomal translocations or deletions. All cytogenetic studies yielded normal results. Molecular analysis by Southern blot was done on 15 patients in a search for 11q23 rearrangements, including the partial tandem duplication of ALL-1. All molecular studies were normal. We conclude that the use of VP-CY, given in our treatment schedule, does not appear to be associated with an increased risk of developing 11q23 rearrangements.
: Oxidative stress has been implicated in a large number of human degenerative diseases, including epilepsy. Levetiracetam (LEV) is a new antiepileptic agent with broad-spectrum effects on seizures and animal models of epilepsy. Recently, it was demonstrated that the mechanism of LEV differs from that of conventional antiepileptic drugs. Objectifying to investigate if LEV mechanism of action involves antioxidant properties, lipid peroxidation levels, nitrite-nitrate formation, catalase activity, and glutathione (GSH) content were measured in adult mice brain. The neurochemical analyses were carried out in hippocampus of animals pretreated with LEV (200 mg/kg, i.p.) 60 min before pilocarpine-induced seizures (400 mg/kg, s.c.). The administration of alone pilocarpine, 400 mg/kg, s.c. (P400) produced a significant increase of lipid peroxidation level in hippocampus. LEV pretreatment was able to counteract this increase, preserving the lipid peroxidation level in normal value. P400 administration also produced increase in the nitrite-nitrate formation and catalase activity in hippocampus, beyond a decrease in GSH levels. LEV administration before P400 prevented the P400-induced alteration in nitrite-nitrate levels and preserved normal values of catalase activity in hippocampus. Moreover, LEV administration prevented the P400-induced loss of GSH in this cerebral area. The present data suggest that the protective effects of LEV against pilocarpine-induced seizures can be mediated, at least in part, by reduction of lipid peroxidation and hippocampal oxidative stress.
Based on studies in multiply transfused dogs showing that cyclosporine (CsA) pregrafting reduced the incidence of rejection, we treated 11 multiply transfused patients with severe aplastic anemia with CsA, 12.5-20 mg/kg/day i.m. on days -6 to -1, and cyclophosphamide, 50 mg/kg/day i.v. on days -5 to -2, followed on day 0 by a marrow graft from an HLA-identical sibling donor. Patients were not given additional infusions of buffy coat cells from their marrow donors. As postgrafting prophylaxis for graft-versus-host disease 10 patients were given CsA, 12.5 mg/kg/day orally, and one patient was given a standard regimen of intermittent methotrexate. Among 10 evaluable patients, 2 rejected their marrow grafts. Eight patients had sustained engraftment. Two of these developed severe veno-occlusive disease of the liver, a complication previously observed only in patients conditioned with total-body irradiation but not in more than 200 patients with aplastic anemia conditioned with cyclophosphamide without the addition of CsA. These data indicate that conditioning of patients with cyclophosphamide and concurrent CsA does not uniformly prevent graft rejection and can result in severe hepatic toxicity.
We evaluated the effects of weekly short infusions of paclitaxel (PAC) on the development of a peripheral neuropathy (PNP) as primary endpoint. Patients with advanced cancer were randomized to a weekly regimen of PAC (100 mg/m2) infused over 1 versus 3 h. PNP was evaluated by a clinical score including sensory symptoms, strength, tendon reflexes and vibratory sense (range 0-12; PNP >3 points). Kaplan-Meier-type curves were calculated. In total, 22 study centers enrolled 121 patients, 92 assessable for analysis. The probability to exceed a PNP score of 3 increased from 0.20 versus 0.30 after six to 0.68 versus 0.47 after 12 administrations (1 versus 3 h: p = 0.66). After 12 weeks of therapy only a quarter of assessable patients were free of PNP. Cox analysis yielded a relative risk of 1.10 for 1-h infusions (p = 0.80). We observed a rapid increasing risk of PNP manifestation in the course of weekly PAC administrations without significant differences between 1- and 3-h infusions. This is in contrast to pharmacokinetic observations indicating that a shortening of infusion time might enhance neurotoxicity by increasing the AUC of Cremophor. A majority of patients experiencing neurotoxic effects require the investigation of potential nerve protectors in future clinical trials accompanying PAC therapy.
Although the activation of the renin-angiotensin system has a major role in the development of chronic renal failure, little is known about the effect of angiotensin receptor blockers on tubulointerstitial injury. To evaluate the renoprotective effect of telmisartan, we measured urinary protein excretion, urinary liver-type fatty acid binding protein (L-FABP) excretion, and urinary collagen IV in 30 hypertensive patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). These patients were randomly assigned to receive 40 mg/day (n = 15) or 80 mg/day (n = 15) of telmisartan before the initiation of treatment and 6 and 12 months after treatment. Both doses of telmisartan reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure after 6 (p < 0.001) and 12 (p < 0.001) months compared with baseline levels. Blood pressure reduction rate were similar between both doses. Urinary protein, urinary L-FABP excretion, and urinary collagen IV levels declined significantly 6 (p < 0.001) and 12 (p < 0.001) months after telmisartan treatment in both doses. The reduction rate in parameters was more pronounced in patients receiving 80 mg/day compared with those taking 40 mg/day telmisartan at 12 months (p < 0.001). Telmisartan reduces proteinuria, urinary L-FABP excretion, and urinary collagen IV levels in hypertensive CKD patients.
To observe the effect of Bawei Xilei powder on CD3, CD4, CD8 T-lymphocytes in peripheral blood and colonic mucosa of rat with ulcerative colitis.
Sixty SD rats were randomly divided into 6 groups, normal group, model group, low, middle and high dosage Bawei Xilei powder group, Sulfasalazine group. Ulcerative colitis was induced by immunization with rabbit 's colonic mucous emulsified with completely Freund's adjuvant in all rats. Rats in low, middle and high dosage Bawei Xilei powder group were administered with 0.05, 0.1, 0.2 mg Bawei Xilei powder for 18 days by enema respectively. While rats in Sulfasalazine group were enema administered with 100 mg Sulfasalazine, and the rats in other group were administered with equal volume of saline enema as control. We analyzed expression of CD3, CD4, CD8 T-lymphocytes in peripheral blood by flow cytometry and in colonic mucous by immunohistochemistry.
In peripheral blood, compared with normal group, in model group, the increased of CD4 T-lymphocytes and CD4 /CD8 ratio, the reduced of CD8 T-lymphocytes, these results were significant discrepancy (P < 0.01). Compared with model group, after treatment with Bawei Xilei powder, CD8 T-lymphocytes increased, but only high dosage Bawei Xilei powder group had discrepancy (P < 0.05). But low dosage Bawei Xilei powder group, other treatment groups' rats showed CD4/CD8 ratio were reduced significantly (P < 0.05). In colonic mucous, compared with normal group, in model group, Rats showed that expression of CD3, CD4 T-lymphocytes reduced and CD8 T-lymphocytes increased obviously (P < 0.05, P < 0.01). Compared with model group, expression of CD8 T-lymphocytes reduced significantly in all treatment groups (P < 0.05, P < 0.01).
Bawei Xilei powder may regulate their balance between T-lymphocytes subgroup, consequently relieve inflammatory injury in favor of ulcer reparation and tissue regeneration.
Chronic injection of d-galactose can cause gradual deterioration in learning and memory capacity, and activates oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction and apoptotic cell death in the brain of mice. Thus, it serves as an animal model of ageing. Recent evidence has shown that mild cognitive impairment in humans might be alleviated by treatment with piogliatzone (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) agonists). To continue exploring the effects of piogliatzone in this model, we focused on behavioural alteration, oxidative damage, mitochondrial dysfunction and apoptosis in d-galactose-induced mice. The ageing model was established by administration of d-galactose (100 mg/kg) for 6 weeks. Pioglitazone (10 and 30 mg/kg) and bisphenol A diglycidyl ether (15 mg/kg) were given daily to d-galactose-induced senescent mice. The cognitive behaviour of mice was monitored using the Morris water maze. The anti-oxidant status and apoptotic activity in the ageing mice was measured by determining mito-oxidative parameters and caspase-3 activity in brain tissue. Systemic administration of d-galactose significantly increased behavioural alterations, biochemical parameters, mitochondrial enzymes, and activations of caspase-3 and acetylcholinesterase enzyme activity as compared with the control group. Piogliatzone treatment significantly improved behavioural abnormalities, biochemical, cellular alterations, and attenuated the caspase-3 and acetylcholinesterase enzyme activity as compared with the control. Furthermore, pretreatment of BADGE (PPARγ antagonist) with pioglitazone reversed the protective effect of pioglitazone in d-galactose-induced mice. The present study highlights the protective effects of pioglitzone against d-galactose-induced memory dysfunction, mito-oxidative damage and apoptosis through activation of PPARγ receptors. These findings suggest that pioglitazone might be helpful for the prevention or alleviation of ageing.
