Er Xian Decoction (EXD), a traditional Chinese medicine formula, has long been used for the treatment of osteoporosis and menopausal syndrome in China. The present study was designed to investigate the antiosteoporotic constituents of EXD, and evaluate their antiosteoporotic effects in ovariectomized rats.
Osteoblasts in neonatal calvaria cultures and osteoclasts derived from rat marrow cells were used to bioactivity-guided screen the active constituents. The proliferation of osteoblast was assayed by MTT methods. The activity of ALP and TRAP was measured by p- nitrophenyl sodium phosphate assay. The antiosteoporotic effects of icariin (1), anemarsaponin B II (8) and berberine (6) were verified by using OVX rats model. The bone mineral density (BMD) was measured by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry using the small animal scan mode. The undecalcified longitudinal proximal tibial metaphysical (PTM) sections were cut and stained for the bone histomorphometric analysis.
Bioactivity-guided fractionation has led to the successful isolation of antiosteoporotic constituents, i.e., icariin (1), icariside I (2), baohuoside I (3), mangiferin (4), neomangiferin (5), berberine (6), anemarsaponin B (7), anemarsaponin BII (8), anemarsaponin C (9), anemarrhenasaponin I (10), rubiadin-1-methyl ether (11) and obaculactone (12) from EXD. Further study showed that icariin (1), anemarsaponin BII (8) and berberine (6) increased the BMD in ovariectomized rats, and icariin (1) not only increased the bone formation, but also inhibited bone resorption; anemarsaponin BII (8) mainly increased bone formation and berberine (6) only inhibited the bone resorption in ovariectomized rats.
Our findings demonstrate that multiple ingredients are responsible for antiosteoporotic activity in traditional Chinese medicine formula Er-Xian decoction.
Bilateral injections of adrenaline (0.01-10.0 microgram) into the anterior hypothalamic (AH) region, in urethane-anaesthetised spontaneous hypertensive (SH) rats, elicited dose-dependent falls in blood pressure and heart rate. The bradycardia was immediately in onset while the hypotension was preceded by a short-lasting rise in blood pressure. Bilateral injections of adrenaline into the anterior preoptic area (POA) and areas surrounding the AH had little or no effect on blood pressure and heart rate, while injections into the posterior hypothalamus (PH) induced tachycardia and hypertension followed by a smaller fall in blood pressure. Pretreatment with dl-propranolol (25-100 microgram bilat. AH) appeared to potentiate the hypotension induced by adrenaline (1 microgram bilat. AH) in a dose-dependent manner, but did not affect the falls in heart rate. On the other hand, pretreatment with metoprolol (25-100 microgram bilat. AH) effected a dose-dependent antagonism of the adrenaline-induced hypotension and bradycardia. Pretreatment with 1-propranolol (25 microgram bilat. AH) also antagonised the adrenaline-induced cardiovascular depressor effects, while pretreatment with d-propranolol (25 microgram bilat. AH) abolished the initial hypertensive effect. Pretreatment with piperoxan (25-100 microgram bilat. AH) antagonised adrenaline (1 microgram bilat. AH) induced hypotension and bradycardia only at the highest dose used. The results give further support to the concept that hypothalamic adrenaline receptors may be involved in the central regulation of blood pressure and heart rate. Furthermore, while an involvement of hypothalamic alpha-adrenoceptors cannot be ruled out, it is suggested that hypothalamic beta-adrenoceptors may be involved in mediating the cardiovascular depressor effects of adrenaline injected into the AH.
Nephrotoxicity of daunorubicin in rats and effect of tocopherol and ascorbic acid on lesions induced in kidneys by daunorubicin were examined. Daunorubicin induced nephrotic syndrome with proteinuria and hypoproteinemia. Histological changes in the glomeruli appeared as a dilatation of capillary loops and enlargement of the urinary space. The glomerular basement membrane showed minimal thickening. In tubuli protein casts were noticed. No beneficial influence of tocopherol and ascorbic acid on daunorubicin related nephrotoxicity was observed.
Pretreatment of rats with pregnenolone-16alpha-carbonitrile (PCN) completely prevented the osseous lesions produced by vitamin A overdosage, whereas pretreatment with phenobarbital or with phenytoin (diphenylhydantoin) provided only partial prophylaxis. These microsomal enzyme inducers also decreased vitamin A concentration in the liver and seemed to protect against hypervitaminosis A by enhancing the metabolism of the vitamin. Electron microscopy of the liver showed large, vitamin A-storing perisinusoidal cells. The number, size, and lipid content of these cells were decreased in rats treated simultaneously with vitamin A and PCN, but not in rats pretreated with phenobarbital or phenytoin. Vitamin A, given alone, produced moderate accumulation of smooth endoplasmic reticulum (SER) in hepatocytes, without accelerating microsomal drug-metabolizing enzyme activity; phenobarbital, phenytoin, and PCN also elicited SER accumulation, particularly when administered with vitamin A.
Human case-studies have reported an association between green tea-based dietary supplements and hepatotoxicity. Studies have demonstrated the hepatotoxicity of high-dose oral bolus dosing with the tea polyphenol (-)-epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) in mice and dogs. We examined the effect of pretreatment with dietary EGCG on the hepatotoxicity and bioavailability of acute oral bolus dosing with EGCG in CF-1 mice. EGCG (750 mg/kg, i.g., once daily for 3 days) increased plasma alanine aminotransferase by 80-fold, decreased both reduced (by 59%) and total (by 33%) hepatic glutathione, and increased hepatic levels of phosphorylated histone 2AX. Pretreatment with dietary EGCG (3.2 mg/g diet) for 2 weeks mitigated hepatotoxicity. Acute oral EGCG also decreased mRNA expression of glutathione reductase. Dietary pretreatment prevented these decreased and increased glutathione peroxidase (Gpx)2, Gpx3, Gpx5, and Gpx7 expression. We found that dietary EGCG reduced the plasma (57% reduction) and hepatic (71% reduction) EGCG exposure following oral bolus dosing compared to mice that were not pre-treated. Overall, it appears that EGCG can modulate its own bioavailability and that dietary treatment may reduce the toxic potential of acute high oral bolus doses of EGCG. These data may partly explain the observed variation in hepatotoxic response to green tea-containing dietary supplements.
The hepatic morphological findings in 3 patients treated with amiodarone, a potent and effective antiarrhythmic drug, are reported. An enlarged liver and mild elevation of hepatic enzymes were the most important clinical findings. Fibrosis, cholangitis, mixed inflammatory infiltrate, and cytoplasmic granularity of the hepatocytes were the main histologic changes common to all cases. In 2 of the cases the presence of Mallory bodies was confirmed by electron microscopy. In 1 of these 2 cases, Mallory bodies were also confirmed by immunostaining. Ultrastructurally, numerous cytoplasmic inclusions with a membranous or lamellar structure identical to those described in phospholipidosis were the most striking features seen in hepatocytes, biliary epithelial cells, Kupffer cells, and endothelial cells.
Tacrolimus is known to potentially lead to adverse events in recipients with diarrhoea and/or calcium channel blocker (CCB) co-administration. We report a renal transplant recipient who suffered from severe nephrotoxicity related to a toxic tacrolimus trough concentration in both conditions, diarrhoea and CCB co-administration, and with genotyped CYP3A system and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) polymorphisms. To our knowledge, this is the first case to be investigated for such polymorphisms. Clinicians should be reminded of the possibility of highly increased levels of tacrolimus in situations of diarrhoea and/or co-administration of CCBs. It also highlights the key role in tacrolimus pharmacokinetics of the CYP3A system and P-gp polymorphisms, and their influence in high-risk situations when enzyme activity is already affected by enterocyte damage due to diarrhoea and CCB competition.
In 1998, a prospective multicenter pilot study of the 'Late Effects Surveillance System' (LESS) was started to investigate late effects of patients with Ewing, osteo- or soft-tissue sarcoma.
Two hundred thirty patients were included in this pilot study. The patients were treated between 1/1/1998 and 6/30/1999 according to the sarcoma protocols COSS-96, CWS-96, and EICESS-92, the median cumulative doses of the focussed drugs were for cisplatin: 360 mg/m(2), for doxorubicin: 270 mg/m(2), and for ifosfamide: 24 g/m(2). The patients were investigated using an organ related standardized screening methodology. We report on toxicities in the first year after cessation of therapy-the beginning of the patient follow-up-and the feasibility of LESS.
Cardiotoxicity: 16/129 (12%) patients treated with doxorubicin exhibited a reduced systolic heart function (fractional shortening (FS) <29%). Altogether three patients required cardiac drug therapy. Ototoxicity: In 5/73 (7%) patients treated with cisplatin a hearing deficit <4 kHz (>20 dB) was found. One patient needed a hearing aid. Nephrotoxicity: 2 of 214 (1%) patients treated with ifosfamide suffered from a tubulopathy, which required supplementation therapy. 10/50 (20%) showed a reduced fractional phosphate reabsorption. Incidence of hypomagnesemia was significantly increased in patients additionally treated with cisplatin.
Some relevant impairments are noted in the first year after antineoplastic therapy. We expect to detect more major late sequelae in our prospective study during the increasing posttherapeutic interval. Our pilot study shows the feasibility of the methodology.
The effect of tamoxifen on calcaemia and framework was studied, both in normal and ovariectomized rats. Tamoxifen caused hypercalcaemia. Only in one of seven animals hypercalcaemia due tamoxifen was accompanied by radiological changes although no structural modification was histologically evident. In ovariectomized rats, tamoxifen dit not produce either hypercalcaemia or radiological changes. These data suggest that the antioestrogenic activity of tamoxifen is involved in the hypercalcaemia it produces.
Sudden hearing loss (SHL) can be caused by vascular disorders favoring impaired cochlear perfusion. Several inherited prothrombotic risk factors have been considered in the pathogenesis of vascular impairment, and the possible role of genetic alterations has recently been suggested. Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene mutations at nucleotides 677 and 1298 cause reduced MTHFR enzyme activity, which leads to increased homocysteine and reduced serum folate levels that are known to be involved in vascular impairment. We studied the relationship between SHL and MTHFR C677T and A1298C gene polymorphisms in 67 patients with SHL and 134 controls. Wild-type MTHFR CC677/AA1298 was significantly more frequent in the controls (P = .05), and gene mutations were significantly more frequent in the patients (P = .001; P = .001 for trend). Fifty-three patients (79.1%) and 56 controls (41.8%) (P = .012) had a double mutation (homozygosis 677TT or 1298CC; compound heterozygosis for both polymorphisms). Homocysteine levels were significantly higher and serum folate levels significantly lower in the patients than in the controls (P < .0001). These data suggest that MTHFR gene polymorphisms may be involved in the pathogenesis of SHL.
We report the case of a 43-year-old schizophrenic who sustained, after 12 days of treatment including olanzapine (20 mg.day-1), carbamazepine, levomepromazine and alprazolan, a severe shock with bradycardia (HR: 40 b.min-1), circulatory collapse (SAP: 60 mmHg), hypothermia (T: 27 degrees C), coma and disseminated intravascular coagulation. A significant improvement was obtained with high doses of intravenous glucagon, whereas the normalization of central temperature, atropine, adrenaline and volume loading had been inefficient. Olanzapine, alone of associated with other psychotropics, could cause severe circulatory collapse with hypothermia and coma responding to a treatment including glucagon.
To describe the genetic basis of an autosomal dominant vitreoretinopathy in a large French-Canadian kindred.
A clinical cohort study followed by laboratory-based genetic and molecular analysis. Thirty-two affected and 22 unaffected members of the kindred were examined. Candidate genes/regions for Wagner's disease and Stickler syndrome were tested for genetic linkage. Mutation analysis was carried out with direct PCR-based sequencing.
Funduscopic examinations of 32 affected patients revealed optically clear vitreous, vitreous veils, and radial perivascular pigmentation. Spondyloarthropathies or craniofacial abnormalities were notably absent. There was a 53% rate of retinal detachments that required surgical intervention. Genetic linkage was obtained to COL2A1, the candidate gene for Stickler's type I. A frame shift mutation in exon 2, leading to early truncation of the protein (Cys57Stop), was detected.
Wagner's disease in this large kindred has had devastating visual consequences. In affected individuals, we found a novel COL2A1 frame shift mutation in exon 2. The mutation arises in an exon that is selectively present in vitreous collagen mRNAs, but absent in cartilage mRNAs through tissue-specific alternative splicing. Tissue-specific alternative splicing of COL2A1 mRNAs thus provides an elegant biochemical mechanism for a clinical phenotype of Wagner's disease in this kindred.
Probucol is a clinically used cholesterol-lowering drug, with pronounced antioxidant properties. The chemoprotective effect of probucol during the early steps of DENA and CCl4-induced hepatocarcinogenesis was studied. Treatment of animals with a single lethal dose of CCl4 (2ml/Kg, i.g.) after two weeks of DENA initiation, induced a significant increase in hepatic gamma-glutamyl transferase and liver content of glutathione and lipid peroxides five weeks later. On the other hand, a significant decrease in hepatic glutathione peroxidase activity was also observed after five weeks of CCl4 injection. Moreover, there was a significant decrease in hepatic blood flow manifested by decrease in indocyanine green elimination rate constant and increase in its half-life and area under the curve. The pharmacokinetic of antipyrine (a marker for hepatic metabolizing capacity) was altered due to decrease in the metabolizing capacity of damaged liver. In addition, haemorrhagic centrilobular necrosis and multifocal neoplastic lesions were microscopically detected. Treatment of animals with probucol (10 mg/Kg) three times/week for six weeks during DENA and CCl4-induced hepatocarcinogenesis counteracted significantly the alteration in hepatic blood flow and the hepatic metabolizing capacity. Moreover, probucol treatment restored the hepatic gamma-glutamyl transferase and liver content of glutathione and lipid peroxides. In addition, histopathological examination of liver specimens showed minimal centrilobular necrosis without any evidence of neoplastic lesions. The result of this study suggest that probucol may be useful as a chemopreventive agent, in addition to being a cholesterol-lowering drug with low toxicity.
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are persistent organic pollutants found as complex mixtures in the environment throughout the world. Therefore, humans are ubiquitously and simultaneously exposed to TCDD and PCBs. TCDD and PCBs alone have been linked to atherosclerosis. However, the effects of interactions or synergism between TCDD and PCBs on atherogenesis are unknown. We investigated the possible enhanced atherogenesis by co-exposure to TCDD and PCBs and the potential mechanism(s) involved in this enhancement. Male ApoE(-/-) mice were exposed to TCDD (15 μg/kg) and Aroclor1254 (55 mg/kg, a representative mixture of PCBs) alone or in combination by intraperitoneal injection four times over six weeks of duration. Our results showed that mice exposed to TCDD alone, but not Aroclor1254 alone, developed atherosclerotic lesions. Moreover, we found that atherosclerotic disease was exacerbated to the greatest extent in mice co-exposed to TCDD and Aroclor1254. The enhanced lesions correlated with several pro-atherogenic changes, including a marked increase in the accumulation of the platelet-derived chemokine PF4, and the expression of the proinflammatory cytokine MCP-1 and the critical immunity gene-RIG-I. Our data demonstrated that co-exposure to TCDD and Aroclor1254 markedly enhanced atherogenesis in ApoE(-/-) mice. Significantly, our observations suggest that combined exposure to TCDD and PCBs may be a greater cardiovascular health risk than previously anticipated from individual studies.
This study was designed to use comparative proteomics technology to find the differentially expressed proteins between human lung adenocarcinoma and paired normal tumor-adjacent lung tissues. The total proteins of 20 human lung adenocarcinoma tissues and paired normal tumor-adjacent lung tissues were separated by means of immobilized pH gradient-based two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) and Coomassie Blue staining. The differentially expressed proteins were analyzed with image analysis software and then identified by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS) and quadrupole time of flight mass spectrometry (Q-TOF-MS/MS). (1) Well-resolved, highly reproducible 2-DE patterns of human lung adenocarcinoma and paired normal tumor adjacent lung tissues were obtained. (2) PDQUEST 2D image analysis software was used to analysis 20 cases of lung adenocarcinoma and paired normal lung tissues, 1006 +/- 54 spots were matched among tumor tissues and normal lung tissues. Twenty-eight differentially expressed spots were screened. (3) Twenty non-redundant differentially expressed proteins were identified by mass spectrometry, thirteen proteins were up-regulated, and seven proteins were down-regulated, some proteins were involved in the regulation of cell signal transduction or metabolized enzyme of cell. (4) To validate the results screened by proteome research, immunohistochemistry was used to validate several lung adenocarcinoma differentially expressed proteins including 14-3-3 sigma, annexin 1, and manganese superoxide dismutase. The results showed that these three proteins were really differentially expressed between lung adenocarcinoma and paired normal lung tissues. These results will provide scientific foundation and new clue for the research of human lung adenocarcinoma.
Three transgenic mouse lines carrying v-Ha-ras (TG-SH), c-myc (TG-M) or c-neu (TG-NK) oncogenes under regulatory control of mouse mammary tumor virus (MMTV) long terminal repeat (LTR) sequences were evaluated for responses to two chemical carcinogens. p-Cresidine, a mutagenic urinary bladder carcinogen, increased the incidence of urinary bladder carcinomas in males and females in all three lines, and these tumors occurred at comparable incidences and grade in transgenic and non-transgenic mice. p-Cresidine did not affect the rates of mammary or salivary gland neoplasms in transgenic mice; these tumors did not occur in non-transgenic littermates. No other tumor types were observed in exposed or control animals. Reserpine, a non-mutagenic mammary gland carcinogen, was administered under the same protocol, but the high control rates of mammary gland adenocarcinomas in the TG-M and TG-NK strains made it difficult to detect any tumor-enhancing effect of reserpine. However, the incidences of multiple mammary gland tumors were significantly increased in dosed females from both lines. The incidence of mammary gland adenocarcinomas was significantly increased in TG-SH females receiving 5 p.p.m. reserpine. Reserpine did not induce any carcinogenic effects in non-transgenic mice. These results indicate that the transcriptional regulation of these three transgenes is a major determinant in the response to p-cresidine and reserpine. The use of transgenic models for the general detection of carcinogens may require lines in which appropriate genes are targeted for expression in many tissues, or lines in which critical genes have been inactivated.
Phenytoin hypersensitivity syndrome (PHS) is a rare delayed hypersensitivity reaction which occurs following exposure to phenytoin sodium. Pulmonary involvement is uncommonly described. Herein is reported the first case of histopathologic bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia (BOOP) found on open-lung biopsy in a patient with severe PHS. New onset, clinically significant, cold agglutinin disease was also documented. Hemodynamic parameters mimicking sepsis were present in the absence of significant clinical infection. Rapid, dramatic improvement followed high-dose steroid therapy.
Zn(2+) is thought to modulate neurotransmission by affecting currents mediated by ligand-gated ion channels and transmitter reuptake by Na(+)-dependent transporter systems. Here, we examined the in vivo relevance of Zn(2+) neuromodulation by producing knockin mice carrying the mutation D80A in the glycine receptor (GlyR) alpha1 subunit gene (Glra1). This substitution selectively eliminates the potentiating effect of Zn(2+) on GlyR currents. Mice homozygous for Glra1(D80A) develop a severe neuromotor phenotype postnatally that resembles forms of human hyperekplexia (startle disease) caused by mutations in GlyR genes. In spinal neurons and brainstem slices from Glra1(D80A) mice, GlyR expression, synaptic localization, and basal glycinergic transmission were normal; however, potentiation of spontaneous glycinergic currents by Zn(2+) was significantly impaired. Thus, the hyperekplexia phenotype of Glra1(D80A) mice is due to the loss of Zn(2+) potentiation of alpha1 subunit containing GlyRs, indicating that synaptic Zn(2+) is essential for proper in vivo functioning of glycinergic neurotransmission.
Paclitaxel and platinum combination is the standard chemotherapy regimen for patients with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer. The dose-limiting toxicity effects of this combination are myelosuppression and neuropathy. Herein, we report a case of a 71-year-old female with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer who developed bilateral total loss of hearing and acute renal failure related with paclitaxel- and carboplatin-based chemotherapy. Acute renal failure accompanied by complete loss of hearing in patients treated with carboplatin and paclitaxel combination has not been previously reported. This uncommon adverse effect of carboplatin and paclitaxel combination was discussed, and all the literature in English related with the toxicity of paclitaxel and carboplatin were reviewed.
The authors present a case of probable amphetamine-induced cerebral arteritis in a 31-year-old man with AIDS, testicular carcinoma, and recurrent pneumocystis pneumonia. MR enhancement was demonstrated in areas of focal arterial ectasia, presumably due to slow flow. CT, MR, and angiographic findings were strikingly confirmed postmortem. Angiography remains essential in the diagnosis of cerebral arteritis.
The effects of fish oil (FO) on immune complex nephritis induced by bovine serum albumin (BSA) were studied in female B10.Br mice. The mice were fed an experimental fat-free diet composed of either 10% FO, safflower oil (SO), or beef tallow (BT) as a lipid source throughout the study. Proteinuria was observed in 84% of the FO group (n = 19), 53% of the SO group (n = 19) and in 48% of the BT group (n = 19; p = 0.0217 vs. FO). The FO group showed a tendency toward more severe renal histologic changes than the SO and BT groups. The levels of anti-BSA antibody and circulating BSA-anti-BSA immune complexes were significantly higher in the FO group than in the SO and in the BT groups. Avidity of the anti-BSA antibodies showed a lower tendendy in the FO group. Prostaglandin E2 and thromboxane B2 productions by the renal cortex were much lower in the FO than in the other two groups. The ratios thromboxane B2/prostaglandin E2 were higher in the FO than in the BT group. These results suggest that FO oil supplementation leads to the deterioration of BSA-induced immune complex nephritis in mice due to the altered immune responses in association with suppressed prostanoid production.
Manganese (Mn) is an essential metal for development and metabolism. However, exposures to high Mn levels may be toxic, especially to the central nervous system (CNS). Neurotoxicity is commonly due to occupational or environmental exposures leading to Mn accumulation in the basal ganglia and a Parkinsonian-like disorder. Younger individuals are more susceptible to Mn toxicity. Moreover, early exposure may represent a risk factor for the development of neurodegenerative diseases later in life. The present study was undertaken to investigate the developmental neurotoxicity in an in vivo model of immature rats exposed to Mn (5, 10 and 20 mg/kg; i.p.) from postnatal day 8 (PN8) to PN12. Neurochemical analysis was carried out on PN14. We focused on striatal alterations in intracellular signaling pathways, oxidative stress and cell death. Moreover, motor alterations as a result of early Mn exposure (PN8-12) were evaluated later in life at 3-, 4- and 5-weeks-of-age. Mn altered in a dose-dependent manner the activity of key cell signaling elements. Specifically, Mn increased the phosphorylation of DARPP-32-Thr-34, ERK1/2 and AKT. Additionally, Mn increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and caspase activity, and altered mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes I and II activities. Mn (10 and 20 mg/kg) also impaired motor coordination in the 3(rd), 4(th) and 5(th) week of life. Trolox™, an antioxidant, reversed several of the Mn altered parameters, including the increased ROS production and ERK1/2 phosphorylation. However, Trolox™ failed to reverse the Mn (20 mg/kg)-induced increase in AKT phosphorylation and motor deficits. Additionally, Mn (20 mg/kg) decreased the distance, speed and grooming frequency in an open field test; Trolox™ blocked only the decrease of grooming frequency. Taken together, these results establish that short-term exposure to Mn during a specific developmental window (PN8-12) induces metabolic and neurochemical alterations in the striatum that may modulate later-life behavioral changes. Furthermore, some of the molecular and behavioral events, which are perturbed by early Mn exposure are not directly related to the production of oxidative stress.
