Mesalazine or 5 aminosalicylic acid (5 ASA) is currently a first choice drug in the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease. It has been shown that it crosses the placenta and is excreted into breast milk in small quantities.
We present the case of a four month old breast fed infant, with a thrombosis of the superior sagittal sinus secondary to a severe thrombocytosis (1,124,000/mm3). The only interesting antecedent we would draw attention to, is that breast feeding had been suddenly stopped the week before. The mother, suffering Crohn s disease, had been receiving treatment with oral mesalazine throughout her pregnancy and during lactation.
Once other causes of the thrombocytosis had been eliminated, we based our approach on the hypothesis that it was due to prolonged intake of 5 ASA by the mother.
Since 1995, 11 adult patients with oxacillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (ORSA) meningitis have been identified at Chang Gung Memorial Hospital-Kaohsiung, in Kaohsiung, Taiwan. The 11 patients were 8 men and 3 women, aged 17-78 years. A postneurosurgical state was an underlying condition for all, and fever and disturbances in consciousness were the most common clinical manifestations. Infection with S. aureus only was found in 8 patients, and mixed infection was found in the other 3. The 8 patients with meningitis caused by S. aureus only were mainly treated with intravenous vancomycin, 2-4 g/day; 4 of these patients died. Although ORSA meningitis is uncommon among adults with culture-proven bacterial meningitis, its incidence has been increasing in recent years. The diagnosis of adult ORSA meningitis can be confirmed only with a positive culture of cerebrospinal fluid, and the choice of initial empirical antibiotics must be guided by the accumulated data concerning the relative frequency of the implicated pathogens found at each institution. Despite the high rate of mortality associated with ORSA meningitis, intravenous vancomycin therapy seems to be one of the best choices for management of this condition in adults.
To report four cases of optic nerve neuropathy in three children treated with periocular carboplatin injections for unilateral or bilateral intraocular retinoblastoma.
Retrospective, observational case series.
University-based Ophthalmology Practice.
Four eyes of three children with retinoblastoma enucleated after nonsuccessful multimodality treatment including periocular carboplatin injections.
The enucleated eyes were routinely processed and evaluated by light microscopy. A retrospective chart review of all four cases was performed.
Three enucleated eyes (Reese-Ellsworth groups III and VB) were obtained from two children with bilateral multifocal retinoblastoma, and one eye (Reese-Ellsworth group IIB) was harvested from a child with unilateral retinoblastoma. All affected eyes underwent three to seven periocular carboplatin injections before enucleation. Additional treatment modalities included systemic chemotherapy, transpupillary thermotherapy, transscleral cryotherapy, and external beam radiotherapy. Histopathologic evaluation of the enucleated eyes revealed focal areas of ischemic necrosis or atrophy of the optic nerve along with dystrophic calcification and mild inflammation in the surrounding fibrovascular adipose tissue.
Periocular injections of carboplatin may be a useful treatment approach in the management of patients with advanced intraocular retinoblastoma and may minimize systemic side-effects. However, ophthalmologists and pediatric oncologists should be aware of potential marked local complications with periocular carboplatin delivery, including ischemic optic neuropathy. Modifying the injection site/location (for example, subtenon space) or adding other delivery routes adjuncts (for example, fibrin sealant) deserves further study.
A 2:1 atrioventricular block developed during treatment with the tricyclic antidepressant imipramine in a 74-year-old man with a three-year history of right bundle-branch block. Serial cardiographic studies and determinations of blood imipramine concentrations showed that the heart block was directly related to the plasma concentration of the drug and occurred below the atrioventricular node in the His-Purkinje system.
The effects of intracisternally (i.c.) administered neurotensin (NT) on locomotor responses to scopolamine and caffeine, two psychomotor stimulants which do not depend on an intact mesolimbic dopamine (DA) system, were compared with the effects of the peptide on locomotion induced by d-amphetamine, which does depend on this DA system. Adult rats were injected intracisternally with 30 micrograms of neurotensin or vehicle. Immediately following these injections, the rats received intraperitoneal injections of either d-amphetamine (1, 2 or 3 mg/kg), scopolamine (0.25, 0.5, 1.0 or 2.0 mg/kg), caffeine (5, 15, 30 or 50 mg/kg) or the appropriate vehicle. After a 10 min recovery period, interruptions of photocells by ambulatory and non-ambulatory behavior were recorded every 30 min for 2 hr. Analyses of variance indicate that d-amphetamine and caffeine significantly elevated locomotor and non-locomotor activity at every dose tested. Scopolamine elevated locomotor activity at every dose and non-locomotor activity at 0.5, 1.0 and 2.0 mg/kg. Statistical analysis revealed that neurotensin significantly suppressed the locomotor response to 2 and 3 mg/kg of d-amphetamine but did not suppress the locomotor responses to any dose of scopolamine or caffeine or the non-locomotor responses to any of the three stimulants tested. Behavioral ratings of stereotyped responses indicated that neurotensin altered none of these responses to any stimulant tested. These findings are consistent with previous behavioral and biochemical data which indicate that neurotensin modulates the activity of the mesolimbic, but not nigroneostriatal, DA system and moreover, demonstrate that neurotensin does not simply induce a non-specific impairment of locomotor activity.
A total of 21 patients with hematologic malignancies were given thiabendazole for treatment of strongyloidiasis. Fifteen patients were cured. Since there were no relapses, it is unlikely that maintenance therapy has a role in the management of strongyloidiasis in this population of patients.
Thirty-nine evaluable patients with squamous cell lung carcinoma were treated with combination chemotherapy consisting of doxorubicin, oncovin, bleomycin, cytembena and cis-platin. Objective responses were seen in 46 per cent of the patients. Patients with limited disease had a response rate of 56 per cent. Two of the four complete responses were endoscopically and histologically verified. The median survival time was 37.6 and 26.3 weeks for patients with limited and extensive disease, respectively (p less than 0.05), and 29.9 weeks for the whole group. Hematologic and gastrointestinal toxicities were moderate. There was one drug-related death due to septicemia and 2 reversible acute renal failures. The chemotherapeutic combination appears to be relatively effective. It causes some tumor regression and may extend the survival of responding patients with acceptable quality of life. Maintenance chemotherapy with CCNU, cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, procarbazine alternating with vinblastine, nitrogen-mustard, methotrexate, procarbazine, frequently had to be discontinued because of severe toxicity.
The antigen non-specific release of histamine by synthetic neuromuscular blocking agents is well known, though our review of thirty-two cases reported in the literature of anaphylactoid reactions to succinylcholine, shows that there is insufficient evidence to determine whether the signs are due to anaphylactic or to anaphylactoid reactions. We have examined thirteen cases in whom evidence of anaphylactic sensitization was examined by direct skin tests (in eleven cases) Prausnitz--Küstner tests (in five), rabbit basophil degranulation, Shelley test (in twelve) and human basophil degranulation (in seven). These tests were done on two to four occasions, and the optimal period for the first test ascertained to be 6 to 12 weeks after the episode. All eleven patients examined by direct skin tests showed evidence of anaphylactic sensitivity, and in three of five cases the sensitivity could be transferred by the Prausnitz--Küstner procedure. In one of these P--K tests there was evidence of both IgE and of IgG S-TS antibodies (heat-stable antibody conferring sensitivity for 2 hr). Particular susceptibilities to adverse reactions of this drug appear to be prior drug allergy (in 50% of cases), several previous anaesthetics, and atopy.
Raloxifene is the first Selective Estrogen Receptor Modulator (SERM) approved for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women. Acting as an estrogen agonist in the skeleton and on lipid metabolism, raloxifene maintains bone mineral density (BMD) and prevents new vertebral fractures while improving the lipid profile in postmenopausal women. In an osteoporosis prevention study, 601 women without osteoporosis, aged 45 to 60 years, were assigned to receive a placebo or raloxifene 30, 60, or 150 mg/day. All women received calcium (400 to 600 mg/day). Raloxifene 60 mg increased BMD by 2.4% at both the lumbar spine and hip compared with the placebo at 36 months. More importantly, however, raloxifene significantly reduced the risk of new vertebral fractures in Multiple Outcomes of Raloxifene Evaluation (MORE), a placebo-controlled, double-blind randomized trial of 7705 postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. The women, with a mean age of 66.5 years, and with hip or spine T-score <-2.5 and/or prevalent vertebral fractures, were assigned to receive either a placebo or 60 mg or 120 mg of raloxifene. All women were provided supplemental calcium (500 mg/day) and vitamin D (400 IU/day). After 36 months, raloxifene 60 mg/day and 120 mg/day, reduced the risk of new vertebral fractures by 55% (RR 0.45, 95% CI 0.3, 0.7; p<0.001), and 40% (RR 0.60, CI 0.4, 0.9) in women without prevalent baseline fractures, respectively; and by 31% (RR 0.7, 95% CI 0.6, 0.9; p<0.001), and 49% (RR 0.5, CI 0.4, 0.6) in women with prevalent baseline fractures compared with the placebo. There was no difference in the proportion of women reporting non-traumatic, non - spine fractures among women receiving raloxifene compared to the placebo-treated women. Compared with placebo, BMD increased after 36 months by 2.1 and 2.6% at the femoral neck and spine, respectively, in the 60mg raloxifene group, and by 2.4 and 2.7% at the femoral neck and spine, respectively, in the 120mg raloxifene group. By 40 months of follow-up, there was a higher rate of deep venous thrombosis (38 cases) and pulmonary embolus (17 cases) in the combined raloxifene groups than in the placebo group (5 and 3 cases,), with a relative risk of 3.1, (CI 1.5-6.2). By 40 months, 54 women had a confirmed diagnosis of breast cancer with a relative risk compared to placebo of 0.35, (CI, 0.21-0.58). Raloxifene therapy for 3 years maintains BMD in healthy postmenopausal women and significantly reduces the risk of new vertebral fractures by about half in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. Raloxifene also reduces the risk of breast cancer by 65% in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis thus providing a new choice for addressing postmenopausal health concerns.
The administration of naloxone 2, 10, 50, or 250 mg/kg intravenously did not alter halothane requirement (MAC) in Sprague-Dawley rats (12 per group). Two rats convulsed when given 50 mg/kg while anesthetized with halothane. In a separate group of awake rats, seven of nine animals convulsed when given naloxone, 100 mg/kg. It is concluded that any effect of naloxone on anesthetic requirement must be small (not significant in our study), and that if an effect exists it is the result of a nonspecific analeptic action of naloxone rather than a specific action at opiate receptors.
After the 12- and 14-month administration of the preparation gricin to ten white and two bare (nunu) mice in hepatic tissue in addition to diffuse and nodular hyperplasia hepatomas developed. The ultrastructural changes of tumour cells were not typical and involved above all GER, nuclei and nucleoli. They corresponded to findings of experimental carcinogenesis and human hepatomas.
Prostacyclin (PGI2) is a potent vasodilator, an inhibitor of platelet aggregation, and a membrane stabilizing agent with beneficial effects in ischemia and shock. We studied defibrotide, a new agent which enhances PGI2 release from vascular tissue, to determine its effects in a murine model of hemorrhagic shock. Hemorrhaged rats treated with defibrotide maintained post-reinfusion mean arterial blood pressure (MABP) at significantly higher values compared to rats receiving the vehicle (final MABP, 100 +/- 3 vs. 69 +/- 7 mm Hg, p less than 0.01). Defibrotide attenuated the release of the lysosomal hydrolase cathepsin D (p less than 0.02), and the plasma accumulation of free amino-nitrogen groups (p less than 0.02). The plasma activity of a myocardial depressant factor (MDF) was significantly lower in defibrotide treated shocked rats than in the vehicle group (29 +/- 4 vs. 61 +/- 8 U/ml, p less than 0.01). Moreover, plasma i6-keto-PGF1 alpha concentrations increased 3-fold above haemorrhaged rats receiving only the vehicle. This, as well as the improved MABP, was abolished by indomethacin. Additionally, defibrotide exerts an anti-proteolytic action in pancreatic homogenates, and a lysosomal stabilizing effect in large granule fractions of rat liver homogenates. Moreover, defibrotide enhanced the recovery from norepinephrine induced vasoconstriction in rat aortic rings having an intact endothelium (p less than 0.01 from vehicle), and augmented the release of i6-keto-PGF1 alpha, the stable metabolite of PGI2, from isolated rat aortae. Our results indicate that enhancement of endogenous vascular PGI2 release coupled with direct, or PGI2 mediated antiproteolytic and membrane stabilizing actions may be important physiological mechanisms counteracting the deleterious effects of hemorrhagic shock.
Mitomycin is a cytotoxic antibiotic that was first introduced into clinical use in 1958. Not until twenty years later was it recognised that haemolytic uremic syndrome could develop after treatment with mitomycin. It can be asked whether this condition was undiagnosed in previous years, since its frequency is now reported to be 4-15%. The disease appears to be dose-related, since it rarely occurs in patients who have received mitomycin < 30 mg/m2. No effective therapy has been established. We describe two patients with breast cancer in remission after treatment with mitomycin in combination with 5-fluorouracil. Both developed haemolytic uremic syndrome with fatal outcome.
To determine the risk factors for aminoglycoside toxicity in the elderly.
Prospective observational study.
Acute care teaching hospital serving predominantly veterans.
Consecutive patients aged 70 years and over receiving aminoglycosides.
None.
Thirteen (15%) of 88 patients developed aminoglycoside-related nephrotoxicity and 3 (3.4%) developed otovestibular toxicity. Multivariate analysis showed that increasing duration of aminoglycoside therapy was the only factor significantly associated with development of toxicity. Elevated baseline serum creatinine level (p = .02) and use of allopurinol (p = .03) were risk factors specifically for nephrotoxicity. Only 2 (3.9%) of 51 patients receiving aminoglycosides 7 or fewer days developed nephrotoxicity, as compared with 11 (30%) of 37 receiving the drugs for 8 to 14 days and 4 (50%) of 8 treated for more than 14 days.
Although toxicity is common in elderly patients treated with aminoglycosides, limiting the duration of aminoglycoside therapy to less than a week can substantially reduce risk of toxicity.
A patient with acute erythroleukemia secondary to polycythemia vera was treated iv with high-dose cytarabine at a dose of 3 g/m2 every 12 hours. After the fourth dose, he developed an expressive (Broca's type) aphasia and somnolence, which progressed until after the treatment was stopped at the seventh dose. The somnolence cleared partially during the next 2 weeks but recurred after cytarabine was restarted at a dose of 100 mg/m2 daily for 7 days. The patient died 5 days later of refractory extreme thrombocytopenia and bleeding. The normal spinal fluid obtained during life and the postmortem findings were consistent with previously reported findings with central nervous system toxicity from high-dose cytarabine. Three unusual aspects of this case are early onset of symptoms, expressive aphasia as the dominant manifestation, and exacerbation of symptoms with standard doses (100 mg/m2/day).
Twenty-four patients with measurable metastatic renal cell carcinoma were treated in a phase I-II trial with alpha (human leukocyte) interferon (alpha IFN) and vinblastine (VBL) in combination. Patients received 3 X 10(6) IU/day of alpha IFN im 5 days/week and VBL iv weekly (at a starting dose of 0.15 mg/kg), with doses modified for toxicity. All patients were evaluable for toxicity; 23 patients were evaluable for response. An objective response rate of 13% was observed (three partial responses). An additional 22% of patients had minimal responses (five patients). The occurrence of nausea, vomiting, thrombocytopenia, hepatic dysfunction, and fever was comparable to that seen in previous studies of alpha IFN alone. Granulocytopenia, neurotoxicity, and malaise, however, occurred with increased frequency and severity. alpha IFN and VBL administered in combination in this dose schedule demonstrated activity similar to but toxicity greater than that seen in previous trials of alpha IFN alone.
A 73-year-old woman with bipolar disorder was stable on lithium. After long-term use of lithium, she developed chronic renal failure. We stopped her lithium and tried alternatives but this was not successful and resulted in poor quality of life for the patient including long hospital admissions. We respected patient's wish and capacity to make decision and retried lithium. This case report gives key points in managing such cases.
Hormonal side effects of antidepressants are infrequent, and galactorrhea is seldom mentioned among tricyclic antidepressant (TCA) and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI)-related side effects. Antidepressants can directly stimulate postsynaptic 5-HT receptors in the hypothalamus or indirectly inhibit the tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic neurons through 5-HT, which may increase prolactin levels and later cause galactorrhea. We describe a case of euprolactinemic galactorrhea in a postmenopausal woman, induced by imipramine and escitalopram. This report highlights the presence of unidentified novel mechanisms of antidepressant-induced galactorrhea and other possible contributors.
Neoadjuvant treatment strategies have been developed to improve the survival of patients with locally advanced esophageal cancer. Since patients with major histopathological response are the ones who mainly benefit from this therapy, we are looking for causes of nonresponse. The multidrug resistance protein ABCB1 belongs to the ATP-binding cassette superfamily of membrane transporters. By exporting positively charged drugs it plays a role in the acquisition of resistance in anticancer therapy. We examined the ABCB1 gene polymorphism C3435T to predict response and prognosis to neoadjuvant radiochemotherapy (cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil and 36 Gy) in locally advanced esophageal cancer patients.
A total of 262 patients (216 male; 46 female; median age: 62 years) with locally advanced esophageal cancer (squamous cell cancer: n = 116, adenocarcinoma: n = 146) were included in this study. All patients received a neoadjuvant radiochemotherapy (36.0 Gy, 5-fluorouracil, cisplatin) followed by surgery. Histomorphologic regression was classified according to the Cologne Regression Grade with major response being classifed as having less than 10% vital tumor cells (n = 107) and minor response when 10% or more vital tumor cells (n = 155) were detected in the surgical specimen. Genomic DNA was extracted from paraffin-embedded tissues of all study patients. Allelic genotyping was performed for ABCB1 rs1045642 by real-time PCR using two allele-specific TaqMan(®) probes in competition. Allelic genotyping was correlated with therapy response and prognosis.
Allelic discrimination revealed a TT genotype in 27%, a CC in 19% and a CT genotype in 54% of the study patients. This SNP was not predictive for response of the primary tumor to neoadjuvant radiochemotherapy. The ABCB1 genotype CC was associated with lymph node formation (p = 0.012) and distant metastases (p = 0.019). Patients with a TT genotype exhibited a significantly less positive lymph node status (ypN1 35%) after chemoradiation compared with patients with a CC (ypN1 = 60%) or CT (ypN1 = 46%) genotype. Moreover, patients bearing the TT genotype exhibited no distant metastasis, while five patients with a CC and two patients with CT genotype had distant metastases. In Kaplan-Meier curves, adenocarcinoma patients with a CC genotype showed a worse survival rate than patients with TT or CT (p = 0.048).
Our data supports the impact of ABCB1 on effectiveness of esophageal cancer treatment. SNPs of ABCB1 could be helpful in predicting lymph node regression in the multimodality treatment of locally advanced esophageal cancer.
Eight patients who were infected with human immunodeficiency virus, and who had each sustained an adverse drug reaction while following a regimen including nevirapine, were switched to a regimen including efavirenz. None of the patients experienced adverse events identical to that which necessitated discontinuation of nevirapine. This study demonstrates that adverse events related to nevirapine are not a class-specific effect.
Allergic diseases are influenced by both genes and environment. A 70-kb haplotype block in the G protein-coupled receptor for asthma susceptibility gene (GPR154; alias GPRA) on chromosome 7p was recently identified to influence susceptibility to asthma and elevated total serum IgE levels in adults.
To assess the impact of GPR154 on childhood allergic disease, including allergic sensitization, asthma, and rhinoconjunctivitis, in study populations with diverse environmental backgrounds.
We studied farm children, Steiner school children, and two reference groups from five Western European countries in the cross-sectional PARSIFAL (Prevention of Allergy Risk factors for Sensitization In children related to Farming and Anthroposophic Lifestyle) study and a sample of children from the Swedish birth cohort study BAMSE. DNA samples from 3,113 PARSIFAL and 800 BAMSE children were genotyped for 7 GPR154 polymorphisms and haplotypes were inferred. The proportions of alleles and haplotypes (H1-H7) were compared in affected children with their healthy counterparts.
Data indicate a global association of the haplotype block to sensitization (allergen-specific serum IgE > or = 0.35 kU/L, p = 0.022), with significant haplotype-specific associations for H1, H5, and H6. Haplotypes H1 and H5 were also significantly associated with childhood allergic asthma (p = 0.045 and p = 0.023, respectively), and H5 to asthma regardless of sensitization. A broader involvement of GPR154 in allergic diseases was further supported in allergic rhinoconjunctivitis (H3: p = 0.046). The associated haplotypes could be allocated into risk (H5/H6) and nonrisk (H1/H3) groups, a pattern supported by allelic association of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) rs324384 and rs324396.
Our results indicate that polymorphisms and haplotypes in the haplotype block of GPR154 are associated with asthma, rhinoconjunctivitis, and sensitization in European children.
We reported a case of motor neuropathy with pyramidal sign following prolonged administration of a high dose of muscle relaxant, pancuronium bromide (Myoblock). A 40-year-old male was admitted to our hospital with acute episode of pancreatitis. He was treated with artificial ventilation and Myoblock to manage delirious state, disseminated intravascular coagulation and multiple organ failure. Total dose of 823 mg (24 mg/day) of Myoblock was given intravenously over 36 days. After Myoblock was discontinued, he regained his consciousness and marked muscle weakness with atrophy was noted in both limbs, more severe in distal lower limbs, without any noticeable sensory and sphincter disturbances. Motor nerve conduction studies showed normal nerve conduction velocities with markedly decreased amplitude of compound muscle action potentials. Repetitive nerve stimulation studies revealed decrement response after tetanic stimulation, which disappeared later. Needle EMG showed active denervation potentials and marked polyphasic motor unit potentials. Muscle biopsy revealed neurogenic muscle atrophy with fragmented acetylcholine esterase-positive postsynaptic sites. Sural nerve biopsy showed slight to moderate degree of axonal degeneration of myelinated fibers. Clinical, electrophysiological, and pathological studies above indicated that the main affected sites were neuromuscular junctions including the terminal twigs of motor neurones and postsynaptic membrane, and pyramidal tracts, predominant in lower limbs. About one month after the recognition of the muscle weakness, his muscle strength improved gradually, however, spasticity with hyperreflexia and pathologic reflexes of both legs were found, and became more prominent thereafter. Intensive physiotherapy and rehabilitation led improvement to the point that he became able to ambulate with walking-aids about 7 months later, but marked spasticity persisted.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To assess the risk of serious liver disease in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) taking methotrexate (MTX).
We surveyed members of the American College of Rheumatology to determine previous use of MTX in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and to identify cases of cirrhosis and liver failure. Cases were confirmed by review of pathology specimens, findings from diagnostic testing, and clinical presentations. A case-control study was then conducted to ascertain prognostic factors. Case and control medical records were reviewed for information on MTX therapy as well as other possible determinants of serious liver disease.
Twenty-four cases of cirrhosis and liver failure were identified, giving a 5-year cumulative incidence of approximately 1/1,000 treated patients. Six of the 24 patients had died: 4 died of the initial liver disease, 1 of hepatic complications of another illness, and 1 of unrelated causes. Two patients continue to have active liver disease. Late age at first use of MTX and duration of therapy with MTX were independent predictors of serious liver disease.
Serious liver disease is an uncommon, age- and dose-related complication of low-dose MTX therapy for RA.
Resveratrol (RESV), a polyphenolic natural compound, has long been acknowledged to have cardioprotective and antiinflammatory actions. Evidence suggests that RESV has antioxidant properties that reduce the formation of reactive oxygen species leading to oxidative stress and apoptotic death of dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons in Parkinson's disease (PD). Recent literature has recognized hyperglycemia as a cause of oxidative stress reported to be harmful for the nervous system. In this context, our study aimed (a) to evaluate the effect of RESV against high glucose (HG)-induced oxidative stress in DAergic neurons, (b) to study the antiapoptotic properties of RESV in HG condition, and c) to analyze RESV's ability to modulate p53 and GRP75, a p53 inactivator found to be under expressed in postmortem PD brains. Our results suggest that RESV protects DAergic neurons against HG-induced oxidative stress by diminishing cellular levels of superoxide anion. Moreover, RESV significantly reduces HG-induced apoptosis in DAergic cells by modulating DNA fragmentation and the expression of several genes implicated in the apoptotic cascade, such as Bax, Bcl-2, cleaved caspase-3, and cleaved PARP-1. RESV also prevents the pro-apoptotic increase of p53 in the nucleus induced by HG. Such data strengthens the correlation between hyperglycemia and neurodegeneration, while providing new insight on the high occurrence of PD in patients with diabetes. This study enlightens potent neuroprotective roles for RESV that should be considered as a nutritional recommendation for preventive and/or complementary therapies in controlling neurodegenerative complications in diabetes.
We have previously identified a set of breast cancer antiestrogen resistance (BCAR) genes causing estrogen independence and tamoxifen resistance in vitro using a functional genetic screen. Here, we explored whether these BCAR genes provide predictive value for tamoxifen resistance and prognostic information for tumor aggressiveness in breast cancer patients.
mRNA levels of 10 BCAR genes (AKT1, AKT2, BCAR1, BCAR3, EGFR, ERBB2, GRB7, SRC, TLE3, and TRERF1) were measured in estrogen receptor-positive breast tumors using quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. Normalized mRNA levels were evaluated for association with progression-free survival (PFS) in 242 patients receiving tamoxifen as first-line monotherapy for recurrent disease, and with distant metastasis-free survival (MFS) in 413 lymph node-negative (LNN) primary breast cancer patients who did not receive systemic adjuvant therapy.
Concerning tamoxifen resistance, BCAR3, ERBB2, GRB7, and TLE3 mRNA levels were predictive for PFS, independent of traditional predictive factors. By combining GRB7 (or ERBB2) and TLE3 mRNA levels, patients could be classified in three subgroups with distinct PFS. For the evaluation of tumor aggressiveness, AKT2, EGFR, and TRERF1 mRNA levels were all significantly associated with MFS, independent of traditional prognostic factors. Using the combined AKT2 and EGFR mRNA status, four prognostic groups were identified with different MFS outcomes.
The majority of BCAR genes, which were revealed to confer tamoxifen resistance and estrogen independence in vitro by functional screening, have clinical relevance, and associate with tamoxifen resistance and/or tumor aggressiveness in breast cancer patients.
Between 1984 and 1997, six cases of urothelial cancer and 14 cases of renal cell cancer occurred in a group of 500 underground mining workers in the copper-mining industry of the former German Democratic Republic, with high exposures to explosives containing technical dinitrotoluene. Exposure durations ranged from 7 to 37 years, and latency periods ranged from 21 to 46 years. The incidences of both urothelial and renal cell tumors in this group were much higher than anticipated on the basis of the cancer registers of the German Democratic Republic by factors of 4.5 and 14.3, respectively. The cancer cases and a representative group of 183 formerly dinitrotoluene-exposed miners of this local industry were interviewed for their working history and grouped into four exposure categories. This categorization of the 14 renal cell tumor cases revealed no dose-dependency concerning explosives in any of the four exposure categories and was similar to that of the representative group of employees, whereas the urothelial tumor cases were predominantly confined to the high-exposure categories. Furthermore, all identified tumor patients were genotyped by polymerase chain reaction, using lymphocyte DNA, regarding their genetic status of the polymorphic xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes, including the N-acetyltransferase 2 and the glutathione-S-transferases M1 and T1. This genotyping revealed remarkable distributions only for the urothelial tumor cases, who were exclusively identified as "slow acetylators." This points to the possibility of human carcinogenicity of dinitrotoluene, with regard to the urothelium as the target tissue.
