A case of sulfinpyrazone-associated acute renal failure is reported. Sulfinpyrazone can cause reversible acute renal failure from acute tubular necrosis in patients with volume depletion. Brown tubular casts on urine microscopy and a fractional excretion of sodium greater than 1 are helpful in the diagnosis. Uric acid nephropathy and allergic interstitial nephritis should be included in the differential diagnosis of sulfinpyrazone-associated acute renal failure. Acute reduction of renal blood flow due to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis and kallikrein activity by the drug is a possible mechanism. Treatment of sulfinpyrazone-induced acute tubular necrosis consists of intravascular hydration, supportive care, and withholding sulfinpyrazone. The patients at risk for acute renal failure due to sulfinpyrazone are those who have intravascular volume depletion as sensed by the kidneys.
1. DFU (5,5-dimethyl-3-(3-fluorophenyl)-4-(4-methylsulphonyl)phenyl-2(5H)-furan one) was identified as a novel orally active and highly selective cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor. 2. In CHO cells stably transfected with human COX isozymes, DFU inhibited the arachidonic acid-dependent production of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) with at least a 1,000 fold selectivity for COX-2 (IC50 = 41 +/- 14 nM) over COX-1 (IC50 > 50 microM). Indomethacin was a potent inhibitor of both COX-1 (IC50 = 18 +/- 3 nM) and COX-2 (IC50 = 26 +/- 6 nM) under the same assay conditions. The large increase in selectivity of DFU over indomethacin was also observed in COX-1 mediated production of thromboxane B2 (TXB2) by Ca2+ ionophore-challenged human platelets (IC50 > 50 microM and 4.1 +/- 1.7 nM, respectively). 3. DFU caused a time-dependent inhibition of purified recombinant human COX-2 with a Ki, value of 140 +/- 68 microM for the initial reversible binding to enzyme and a kappa 2 value of 0.11 +/- 0.06 s-1 for the first order rate constant for formation of a tightly bound enzyme-inhibitor complex. Comparable values of 62 +/- 26 microM and 0.06 +/- 0.01 s-1, respectively, were obtained for indomethacin. The enzyme-inhibitor complex was found to have a 1:1 stoichiometry and to dissociate only very slowly (t1/2 = 1-3 h) with recovery of intact inhibitor and active enzyme. The time-dependent inhibition by DFU was decreased by co-incubation with arachidonic acid under non-turnover conditions, consistent with reversible competitive inhibition at the COX active site. 4. Inhibition of purified recombinant human COX-1 by DFU was very weak and observed only at low concentrations of substrate (IC50 = 63 +/- 5 microM at 0.1 microM arachidonic acid). In contrast to COX-2, inhibition was time-independent and rapidly reversible. These data are consistent with a reversible competitive inhibition of COX-1. 5. DFU inhibited lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced PGE2 production (COX-2) in a human whole blood assay with a potency (IC50 = 0.28 +/- 0.04 microM) similar to indomethacin (IC50 = 0.68 +/- 0.17 microM). In contrast, DFU was at least 500 times less potent (IC50 > 97 microM) than indomethacin at inhibiting coagulation-induced TXB2 production (COX-1) (IC50 = 0.19 +/- 0.02 microM). 6. In a sensitive assay with U937 cell microsomes at a low arachidonic acid concentration (0.1 microM), DFU inhibited COX-1 with an IC50 value of 13 +/- 2 microM as compared to 20 +/- 1 nM for indomethacin. CGP 28238, etodolac and SC-58125 were about 10 times more potent inhibitors of COX-1 than DFU. The order of potency of various inhibitors was diclofenac > indomethacin approximately naproxen > nimesulide approximately meloxicam approximately piroxicam > NS-398 approximately SC-57666 > SC-58125 > CGP 28238 approximately etodolac > L-745,337 > DFU. 7. DFU inhibited dose-dependently both the carrageenan-induced rat paw oedema (ED50 of 1.1 mg kg-1 vs 2.0 mg kg-1 for indomethacin) and hyperalgesia (ED50 of 0.95 mg kg-1 vs 1.5 mg kg-1 for indomethacin). The compound was also effective at reversing LPS-induced pyrexia in rats (ED50 = 0.76 mg kg-1 vs 1.1 mg kg-1 for indomethacin). 8. In a sensitive model in which 51Cr faecal excretion was used to assess the integrity of the gastrointestinal tract in rats, no significant effect was detected after oral administration of DFU (100 mg kg-1, b.i.d.) for 5 days, whereas chromium leakage was observed with lower doses of diclofenac (3 mg kg-1), meloxicam (3 mg kg-1) or etodolac (10-30 mg kg-1). A 5 day administration of DFU in squirrel monkeys (100 mg kg-1) did not affect chromium leakage in contrast to diclofenac (1 mg kg-1) or naproxen (5 mg kg-1). 9. The results indicate that COX-1 inhibitory effects can be detected for all selective COX-2 inhibitors tested by use of a sensitive assay at low substrate concentration. The novel inhibitor DFU shows the lowest inhibitory potency against COX-1, a consistent high selectivity of inhibition of COX-2 over COX-1 (>300 fold) with enzyme, whole cell and whole blood assays, with no detectable loss of integrity of the gastrointestinal tract at doses >200 fold higher than efficacious doses in models of inflammation, pyresis and hyperalgesia. These results provide further evidence that prostanoids derived from COX-1 activity are not important in acute inflammatory responses and that a high therapeutic index of anti-inflammatory effect to gastropathy can be achieved with a selective COX-2 inhibitor.
An important application of model organisms in neurological research has been to identify and characterise therapeutic approaches for epilepsy, a recurrent seizure disorder that affects > 1% of the human population. Proconvulsant-treated rodent models have been widely used for antiepileptic drug discovery and development, but are not suitable for high-throughput screening. To generate a genetically tractable model that would be suitable for large-scale, high-throughput screening for antiepileptic drug candidates, we characterized a Drosophila chemical treatment model using the GABA(A) receptor antagonist picrotoxin. This proconvulsant, delivered to Drosophila larvae via simple feeding methods suitable for automated screening, generated robust generalised seizures with lethality occurring at doses between 0.3 and 0.5 mg/mL. Electrophysiological analysis of CNS motor neuron output in picrotoxin-treated larvae revealed generalised seizures within minutes of drug exposure. At subthreshold doses for seizure induction, picrotoxin produced an increased frequency of motor neuron action potential bursting, indicating that CNS GABAergic transmission regulates patterned activity. Mutants in the Drosophila Rdl GABA(A) receptor are resistant to picrotoxin, confirming that seizure induction occurs via a conserved GABA(A) receptor pathway. To validate the usefulness of this model for in vivo drug screening, we identified several classes of neuroactive antiepileptic compounds in a pilot screen, including phenytoin and nifedipine, which can rescue the seizures and lethal neurotoxicity induced by picrotoxin. The well-defined actions of picrotoxin in Drosophila and the ease with which compounds can be assayed for antiseizure activity makes this genetically tractable model attractive for high-throughput in vivo screens to identify novel anticonvulsants and seizure susceptibility loci.
In March 2004, we resected a giant retroperitoneal liposarcoma and the transverse colon, spleen and left kidney in a 58-year-old woman. In July, recurrence was detected in the right pelvis and left upper abdomen; therefore, we resected the tumor. In September 2004, computed tomography (CT) revealed multiple recurrences in the right lower abdomen, left upper abdomen, front of the left lobe of the liver, and at the back of the stomach. In October 2004, we started mesna, doxorubicin, ifosfamide, and dacarbazine therapy (MAID); however, after 1 course, the disease progressed, and the patient developed edema in the bilateral legs due to inferior vena cava (IVC) compression. In November 2004, we started weekly paclitaxel therapy (100 mg/m(2), once a week for 3 weeks followed by 1 drug-free week). CT revealed no change as a result of chemotherapy; however, IVC compression had improved, and leg edema had decreased. In August 2005, chemotherapy was stopped; therefore,the patient's condition worsened. She died in September 2005. We performed weekly paclitaxel therapy for the patient with recurrent liposarcoma. This improved her symptoms and quality of life (QOL). Therefore,we consider weekly paclitaxel therapy to be effective for liposarcoma treatment.
Clopidogrel and ticlopidine are structurally very similar. In patients with an allergic or hematologic adverse reaction to either one of these drugs, the likelihood that an allergic or hematologic adverse effect will develop to the other is unknown. It is also unknown whether a reaction to the second thienopyridine is likely to be life threatening.
Medical records from 2 academic institutions were reviewed to identify patients who had an allergic or hematologic adverse reaction to either of the 2 currently commercially available thienopyridines and who were subsequently prescribed the other thienopyridine. Patient demographics, details of the adverse reactions, and subsequent clinical course were reviewed. A total of 76 patients were identified with an allergic or hematologic adverse reaction to clopidogrel or ticlopidine who had also received the other thienopyridine. Fourteen (27%; 95% CI, 16 to 41) patients who had an allergic or hematologic adverse reactions to clopidogrel had a similar reaction to ticlopidine; none developed a life-threatening reaction. The most common reaction was a rash (93%).
In patients with an allergic or hematologic adverse reaction to one thienopyridine, there seems to be an increased frequency of such reactions to the other thienopyridine. However, no patient had a life-threatening reaction after exposure to the alternative thienopyridine.
A single dose (1.75 mg/kg SC) of diisopropyl phosphorofluoridate (DFP) was given to rats living continuously in modified activity cages in which wheel running, lever pressing and feeding were monitored twenty four hours per day. The first twenty four hours following DFP injection was characterized by a marked reduction in all monitored activities. Within a few days, food intake and lever pressing had recovered to pre-injection levels, but running remained suppressed throughout the remainder of the experiment. A comparison of the circadian distribution of activities for individual subjects showed phase shifts and a reduction in amplitude of all three monitored activities, persisting well beyond the initial reductions in the daily totals.
Sulfasalazine (SASP) has been reported to depress the fertility in men and experimental male animals, but the fundamental mechanisms of infertility caused by SASP are still unknown. This study was designed to investigate the mechanisms of infertility in rats treated with SASP at a dose of 600 mg/kg for 28 days, including monitoring of sperm motility using computer associated sperm analysis system and acrosome reaction by FITC-concanavalin A lectin staining. The sperm motility and acrosome reaction, which are important for fertilization, were significantly reduced by SASP. Furthermore, to investigate the molecular mechanisms of infertility induced by SASP, mRNA expression analysis in the testes was performed using cDNA microarray as a first screening. It was revealed that CD59, which is located on the acrosomal membrane and is known to be important for the reproductive function of sperm, was affected in the testes; this was also confirmed by real-time PCR analysis, but the spermatogenesis-related genes examined in this study were not affected. Therefore, we focused on CD59 and two other acrosome membrane related-genes: MCP and DAF. CD59, MCP, and DAF in the epididymides of SASP-treated rats were significantly decreased as assessed by real-time RT-PCR analysis and additionally, the expression of CD59 protein was found to be decreased by Western blotting. These results allowed us to hypothesize that the suppression of epididymal acrosomal membrane proteins synthesis with their consequent reduced incorporation to the sperm membrane leads to a depressed sperm motility and acrosome reaction, and thereby leads to infertility in SASP treated male rats.
Low-dose thalidomide therapy (median dose 100 mg/day, 50-200 mg/day) in chronic discoid lupus erythematosus was studied with regard to efficacy, tolerance, and toxicity in 22 patients. Intense contraceptive precautions were taken in women patients of childbearing age.
An open uncontrolled trial was conducted. Age, the total drug intake, disease duration, extent/severity, and adverse reactions were studied with regard to the final clinical outcome. The follow-up duration was 1.8 years (range 1 month to 3 years).
With the exception of age (inverse correlation, P < 0.01), the parameters studied did not influence the final clinical amelioration: complete responders numbered 54.5%, partial responders 22.7%, and 13.6% were withdrawn from the trial with complaints of intolerance. The initial (first month) clinical response correlated significantly with the final one (P < 0.01). Drowsiness (40.9%) and somnolence (18.2%) were the most common side-effects, without affecting seriously the daily life of the participants. No case of real neurotoxicity was confirmed. Relapses occurred within 39.4 +/- 21.4 days after drug withdrawal, presenting a milder clinical picture.
In the context of a predictable final outcome, low-dose thalidomide therapy is effective as an alternative choice in cases resistant to the usual treatment.
1. FK 506 (Tacrolimus, Prograf) is a novel immunosuppressant which is effective in solid organ transplantation and autoimmune diseases. The lack of a suitable animal model has hindered the study of the nephrotoxicity of the drug which has emerged as a common adverse effect in clinical trials. We report both acute and chronic nephrotoxicity with tacrolimus (FK) in which renal structure and function are worsened by sodium depletion. 2. Pair fed male Sprague-Dawley rats were given FK (3 or 6 mg/kg, p.o.) or vehicle for 7, 21 and 42 days on low salt or normal diet. The FK whole blood trough levels achieved (3-10 ng/mL) were similar to those observed in FK treated transplant patients. 3. In salt depleted animals treated for 7 days, FK (6 mg/kg) decreased renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate (1.8 +/- 0.1 and 0.2 +/- 0.1 mL/min per 100 g vs 2.9 +/- 0.2 and 1.1 +/- 0.1 mL/min per 100 g in the vehicle group, P < 0.01). 4. After 21 days of treatment of FK on low salt diet but not normal salt, FK induced focal collapse and vacuolization in proximal tubules and discrete or confluent zones of tubulointerstitial oedema and mononuclear cell infiltration. 5. After 42 days in salt depleted rats, there was significant tubulointerstitial scarring that was associated with an increased plasma renin activity (PRA) (64 +/- 10 vs 30 +/- 4 ng AI/mL per h in the vehicle group, P < 0.05). Animals given normal salt diets did not develop significant histological lesions even up to 42 days.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Acetaminophen (APAP) is a widely used analgesic and antipyretic drug, but at high dose it leads to undesirable side effects, such as hepatotoxicity and nephrotoxicity. The present study demonstrates the comparative hepatoprotective and nephroprotective activity of hesperidin (HD), a naturally occurring bioflavonoid against APAP induced toxicity. APAP induces hepatotoxicity and nephrotoxicity as was evident by abnormal deviation in the levels of antioxidant enzymes. Moreover, APAP induced renal damage by inducing apoptotic death and inflammation in renal tubular cells, manifested by an increase in the expression of caspase-3, caspase-9, NFkB, iNOS, Kim-1 and decrease in Bcl-2 expression. These results were further supported by the histopathological examination of kidney. All these features of APAP toxicity were reversed by the co-administration of HD. Therefore, our study favors the view that HD may be a useful modulator in alleviating APAP induced oxidative stress and toxicity.
A 7-year-old boy had a left-sided cerebrovascular accident 48 hours after beginning intranasal desmopressin acetate (DDAVP) therapy for persistent secondary nocturnal enuresis and approximately 2 weeks after varicella infection. A possible connection between desmopressin therapy or varicella infection (or both) and the patients neurologic symptoms is discussed, as is the relationship of desmopressin with hypercoagulability, Suggestions for patient/parent education, medical history taking, and patient surveillance are offered to prescribing physicians.
New strategies for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) are shifted from dopamine (DA) replacement to regeneration or restoration of the nigro-striatal system. A cell therapy using human retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells as substitution for degenerated dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons has been developed and showed promising prospect in clinical treatment of PD, but the exact mechanism underlying this therapy is not fully elucidated. In the present study, we investigated whether the beneficial effects of this therapy are related to the trophic properties of RPE cells and their ability to synthesize DA.
We evaluated the protective effects of conditioned medium (CM) from cultured RPE cells on the DAergic cells against 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)- and rotenone-induced neurotoxicity and determined the levels of glial cell derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) released by RPE cells. We also measured the DA synthesis and release. Finally we transplanted microcarriers-RPE cells into 6-OHDA lesioned rats and observed the improvement in apomorphine-induced rotations (AIR).
We report here: (1) CM from RPE cells can secret trophic factors GDNF and BDNF, and protect DAergic neurons against the 6-OHDA- and rotenone-induced cell injury; (2) cultured RPE cells express L-dopa decarboxylase (DDC) and synthesize DA; (3) RPE cells attached to microcarriers can survive in the host striatum and improve the AIR in 6-OHDA-lesioned animal model of PD; (4) GDNF and BDNF levels are found significantly higher in the RPE cell-grafted tissues.
These findings indicate the RPE cells have the ability to secret GDNF and BDNF, and synthesize DA, which probably contribute to the therapeutic effects of RPE cell transplantation in PD.
Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) are promising for regenerative medicine applications, such as for renoprotection and repair in acute kidney injury (AKI). Erythropoietin (Epo) can also exert cytoprotective effects on various tissues including the kidney. We hypothesized that MSCs gene-enhanced to secrete Epo may produce a significant beneficial effect in AKI. Mouse Epo-secreting MSCs were generated, tested in vitro, and then implanted by intraperitoneal injection in allogeneic mice previously administered cisplatin to induce AKI. Epo-MSCs significantly improved survival of implanted mice as compared to controls (67% survival versus 33% with Vehicle only). Also, Epo-MSCs led to significantly better kidney function as shown by lower levels of blood urea nitrogen (72 ± 9.5 mg/dl versus 131 ± 9.20 mg/dl) and creatinine (74 ± 17 µmol/l versus 148±19.4 µmol/l). Recipient mice also showed significantly decreased amylase and alanine aminotransferase blood concentrations. Kidney sections revealed significantly less apoptotic cells and more proliferating cells. Furthermore, PCR revealed the presence of implanted cells in recipient kidneys, with Epo-MSCs leading to significantly increased expression of Epo and of phosphorylated-Akt (Ser473) (P-Akt) in these kidneys. In conclusion, our study demonstrates that Epo gene-enhanced MSCs exert significant tissue protective effects in allogeneic mice with AKI, and supports the potential use of gene-enhanced cells as universal donors in acute injury.
In this study, the effects of fucoidan on aspirin-induced ulcers in rats were evaluated: both biochemical and immunological parameters were taken into consideration. The status of stomach tissue glycogen storage and histological changes were also examined. Examination of basic biochemical parameters showed significant (p<0.01) alterations in aspartate (AST) and alanine (ALT) transaminases in ulcer-induced rats. Also, moderate alterations (p<0.05) were observed in the levels of cholesterol and blood urea nitrogen (BUN). Histopathological examination showed neutrophil infiltration and inflammation in oxyntic cells with altered glycogen storage. Analysis of serum cytokines of aspirin-induced rats showed a moderate decrease in interleukin-10 (IL-10) with considerable increase of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and interferon-gamma (INF-gamma) when compared with control. Administration of fucoidan showed considerable (p<0.05) protection against ulceration by inhibiting the acute alterations of AST, ALT, cytokines and stomach glycogen. However, aggravated serum INF-gamma was observed in the fucoidan-pretreated group. These findings suggest that the anti-ulcer property of fucoidan might contribute in protecting the inflammatory cytokine-mediated oxidative damage to gastric mucosa.
Cetirizine, a human metabolite of hydroxyzine, is a selective H1-receptor antagonist currently approved for the treatment of seasonal allergic rhinitis, perennial allergic rhinitis, and chronic urticaria. In U.S. clinical trials, transient reversible hepatic transaminase elevations were observed in <2% of patients during cetirizine therapy. We report a case of cetirizine-induced cholestasis in a 28-year-old man with no previous hepatobiliary disease after a 2-year period of taking cetirizine on a daily basis. The treatment of this patient included the use of ursodeoxycholic acid, as well as hydroxyzine, for symptomatic relief of pruritus. In light of the patient's clinical and biochemical improvement while using hydroxyzine, it appears that the hepatic metabolism of hydroxyzine to metabolites, including cetirizine, is not involved in the pathogenesis of this particular case of drug-induced hepatotoxicity. Cetirizine should be considered as a potential cause of drug-induced cholestasis.
Methyl iodide (MeI), an intermediate used in the manufacture of some insecticides and pharmaceuticals, is under review for U.S. registration as a non-ozone-depleting alternative to methyl bromide in the pre-plant soil fumigation market. Guideline (OPPTS 870.3700) developmental toxicity studies in New Zealand White (NZW) rabbits showed dose-dependent increases in the litter proportions of late fetal deaths and postimplantation loss and/or decreased fetal body weight following inhalation exposure of pregnant rabbits to MeI during gestation days (GD) 6-28. A subsequent phased-exposure study was performed to pinpoint the critical window of gestational exposure that produced the rabbit fetotoxicity. Artificially inseminated NZW female rabbits were exposed to 20 ppm MeI vapors by whole-body inhalation (6 h/day) throughout major organogenesis and fetal development (GD 6-28), during early gestation (GD 6-14) or mid-gestation (GD 15-22) only, or during 2-day intervals late in gestation (GD 23-24, 25-26, or 27-28). No maternal or developmental toxicity was elicited from maternal exposure during GD 6-14, 15-22, or 27-28. However, MeI-related fetotoxicity, including increased litter proportions of late fetal deaths with or without corresponding decreases in fetal body weight, were observed for females exposed during GD 6-28 (p < .01), 23-24 and 25-26. Although the increase in late-stage fetal death for each of the 2-day exposures on GD 23-24 and GD 25-26 was not statistically significant, as noted for the combined total of fetal deaths during the GD 6-28 exposure, it can be deduced that the gestational window of GD 23-26 was the most susceptible window of exposure for eliciting developmental toxicity in rabbits exposed to MeI vapors.
We describe a case of a 72-year-old woman who presented with two episodes of abdominal pain, vomiting, and diarrhea. Abdominal computed tomographic scans done during each episode demonstrated edema of the small bowel. Review of the patient's history revealed that she had been started on a treatment of lisinopril for hypertension 1 month before the first episode and had her prescribed dose increased 24 hours before each presentation. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor-associated angioedema was suspected and the medication was discontinued. The patient has remained symptom-free while not taking the ACE inhibitor for 1 year. Review of the literature reveals only nine similar cases. All cases, including ours, occurred in women. Angioedema of the small bowel associated with ACE inhibitors is rare and often is not recognized before surgical exploration. Angioedema of the gastrointestinal tract should be considered in symptomatic patients taking ACE inhibitors.
Methyl iodide (MeI) induces fetotoxicity in New Zealand White (NZW) rabbits when maternal exposure occurs during a susceptible window late in gestation (gestation days [GD] 23-26). To identify the possible mode of action, comprehensive maternal and fetal bioanalysis and thyroid structure/function assessments were conducted in MeI-exposed (25 ppm by whole-body inhalation) and unexposed time-mated NZW rabbits (10/group) during GD 21-27. Key developmental events were observed within this window in unexposed fetuses, including the appearance of colloid in the thyroid follicular lumen and the detection of serum T(3) beginning on GD 22. Fetal T(4) and T(3) levels were diminished following maternal MeI exposure compared to baseline values. Fetal TSH was significantly increased following 4 days of maternal MeI exposure. MeI-induced changes in the fetal thyroid included reduced colloid formation, epithelial follicular hypertrophy, and epithelial cytoplasmic vacuolation. Time-course investigations using 20 ppm MeI revealed highly concentrated levels of iodide in fetal versus maternal serum. Direct maternal administration of sodium iodide by intravenous infusion during GD 23-26 induced similar effects on fetal thyroid structure and function as MeI, identifying iodide as the putative agent. Elevated S-methylcysteine adduct concentrations were noted in fetal hemoglobin, indicating that some unreacted MeI may be delivered directly to the fetus. However, the weight of evidence from these studies suggests that late-stage fetal death following maternal exposure to MeI during GD 23-26 is the result of preferential accumulation of iodide in the fetal compartment causing disruption of the fetal hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis at a critical time in the development of the rabbit fetal thyroid.
Semicarbazide (SEM) is a by-product of the blowing agent azodicarbonamide, present in glass jar-sealed foodstuffs mainly baby foods. The pleiotropic in vivo SEM toxicological effects suggested to explore its possible role as endocrine modulator. Endocrine effects of SEM were assessed in vivo in male and female rats after oral administration for 28 days at 0, 40, 75, 140mg/kg bw pro die during the juvenile period. Vaginal opening and preputial separation were recorded. Concentration of sex steroid in blood, the ex vivo hepatic aromatase activity and testosterone catabolism were detected. The in vitro approach to test SEM role as (anti)estrogen or N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDARs)-(anti)agonist included different assays: yeast estrogenicity, MCF-7 proliferation, stimulation of the alkaline phosphatase activity in Ishikawa cells and LNCaP-based NMDAR interference assay. In vivo SEM-treated female rats showed delayed vaginal opening at all tested doses, whereas in males preputial separation was anticipated at SEM 40 and 75mg/kg and delayed at 140mg/kg, the latter effect probably due to the significantly decreased body weight gain seen at the higher dose in both sexes. Serum estrogen levels were dose-dependently reduced in treated females, whereas dehydrotestosterone serum levels were also decreased but a clear dose-response was not evidenced. Testosterone catabolism was altered in a gender-related way, aromatase activity was increased in treated males at 75 and 140mg/kg and in females in all dose groups. In the three estradiol-competitive assays, SEM showed a weak anti-estrogenic activity, whereas in the LNCaP-based NMDAR interference assay SEM activity resembled MK-801 antagonist effect. SEM appeared to act as an endocrine disrupter showing multiple and gender specific mechanisms of action(s). A possible cascade-mechanism of SEM on reproductive signalling pathways may be hypothesized. Such in vivo-in vitro approach appeared to be an useful tool to highlight SEM activity on endocrine homeostasis.
Survival for heart transplantation (HTx) patients is limited by nephrotoxicity of the calcineurin inhibitors cyclosporine and tacrolimus. To determine whether genetic factors are involved in the development of renal dysfunction under immunosuppressive therapy, we screened various genes for sequence variations.
In a case-control study we analyzed in parallel polymorphisms within the transforming growth factor-beta1 gene (TGF-beta1; L10P, R25P), the multidrug resistance gene MDR 1 (A893T/S) and the CYP3A5 gene (CYP3A5*1/*3 allele). In total, we included 53 cardiac allograft recipients with renal insufficiency (serum creatinine >or=1.8 mg/dl and glomerular filtration rate <50 ml/min/1.73 m(2)) and 53 patients with normal renal function as controls. The controls were matched with patients for age, gender and post-HTx time. The polymorphisms were assessed by denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography (dHPLC) and direct sequencing. We performed univariate and multivariate logistic regression analysis to assess the association between different gene variants and renal dysfunction.
No significant (p > 0.05) relationship was found between the polymorphisms investigated and the susceptibility of renal insufficiency under immunosuppressive therapy.
Our data do not justify genotyping of the investigated single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) to assess the development of renal dysfunction post-HTx.
We conducted a phase II randomized trial of recombinant granculocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) administered before topotecan chemotherapy to determine whether it could prevent myelosuppression and to determine the antitumor activity of this topoisomerase I inhibitor in 53 patients with metastatic malignant melanoma and renal cell cancer. All patients received GM-CSF after topotecan at a dose of 250 microg/m(2) daily for at least 8 days. Patients randomly assigned to receive GM-CSF priming were treated with GM-CSF at 250 microg/m(2) twice daily for 5 days before treatment. Twenty-five patients were randomly assigned to receive GM-CSF priming and 28 to receive topotecan without priming. The primary analysis was restricted to the protective effects seen during the first cycle of therapy. Grade 4 neutropenia occurred in 8 of 23 patients (35%) and grade 3 neutropenia in 5 of 23 patients (22%) randomized to GM-CSF priming, whereas 18 of 26 (69%) and 5 of 26 (19%) patients experienced grade 4 or 3 neutropenia, respectively, without GM-CSF priming (P =.0074). The mean duration of neutropenia was reduced by GM-CSF priming: grade 3 neutropenia from 5.2 +/- 0.7 to 2.8 +/- 0.7 days (P =.0232) and grade 4 neutropenia from 2.7 +/- 0.6 to 1.1 +/- 0.4 days (P = 0.0332). The protective effects of GM-CSF extended to the second cycle of treatment. The incidence of febrile neutropenia was also reduced. Chemotherapy-induced anemia and thrombocytopenia were similar in both groups. One partial response was seen in a patient with melanoma, and one patient with renal cell cancer had complete regression of pulmonary metastases and was rendered disease-free by nephrectomy. (Blood. 2001;97:1942-1946)
To investigate the participation of aldosterone in the vascular inflammatory process associated with hypertension, as well as the possible involvement of the NFkappaB/IkappaB system.
Male spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR; 20-22 weeks old) untreated or treated with either the aldosterone receptor antagonist, eplerenone (100 mg/kg per day) or triple antihypertensive therapy (HHR: hydralazine + hydrochlorothiazide + reserpine; 20 + 7 + 0.15 mg/kg per day) were used in the study. Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY) were used as a normotensive reference group. Aortic mRNA expression and plasma levels of interleukin (IL)-1beta, IL-6 and tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) were measured. Likewise, the aortic expression of the nuclear factor kappaB (NFkappaB) p50 subunit precursor, p105, and its inhibitor (IkappaB) were measured.
SHR showed higher aortic expression of IL-1beta, IL-6 and TNFalpha than WKY (P < 0.05) and higher plasma levels of IL-1beta and IL-6 than WKY (P < 0.05). Moreover, SHR also presented increased aortic expression of nuclear transcription factor NFkappaB p50 subunit precursor (p105), and a reduction of its inhibitor IkappaB. Both eplerenone and HHR decreased blood pressure to a comparable extent (P < 0.05). This effect was accompanied by a reduction in plasma levels of IL-1beta and IL-6 and aortic mRNA expression of IL-1beta, IL-6 and TNFalpha. However, the effect of eplerenone was more marked, since eplerenone-treated rats showed significantly lower inflammatory parameters than SHR receiving HHR. In addition, both antihypertensive treatments increased IkappaB mRNA expression in a similar manner, but only eplerenone reduced NFkappaB mRNA expression.
Aldosterone, as well as an increase in haemodynamic forces produced by hypertension, participate in the vascular inflammatory process associated with hypertension in SHR. This effect seems to be mediated by enhanced vascular expression of cytokines through a modification of the NFkappaB/IkappaB system.
The aim of the present study was to examine a potential beneficial effect of the blockade of metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGluR5) by the selective non-competitive antagonist, 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine (MPEP), in models of parkinsonian symptoms in rats. Haloperidol, 0.25, 0.5 and 1mg/kg ip, was used to induce hypolocomotion, catalepsy and muscle rigidity, respectively. The locomotor activity was estimated by an open-field test, the catalepsy -- by a 9-cm cork test. The muscle rigidity was measured as an increased resistance of a hind leg to passive extension and flexion at the ankle joint. Additionally, increases in the electromyographic activity were recorded in the gastrocnemius and tibialis anterior muscles. MPEP (1.0-10mg/kg ip) inhibited the muscle rigidity, electromyographic activity, hypolocomotion and catalepsy induced by haloperidol. MPEP administered alone (5mg/kg ip) did not induce catalepsy, nor did it influence the muscle tone or locomotor activity in rats. The present results suggest that blockade of mGluR5 receptors may be important to amelioration of both parkinsonian akinesia and muscle rigidity.
Exposure of humans to inorganic arsenic can cause skin cancer. The epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and acquisition of cancer stem cell (CSC)-like properties are essential steps in the initiation of human skin cancers; however, the mechanisms of action remain obscure. We have found that, during the neoplastic transformation induced by a low concentration (1.0 μM) of arsenite in human keratinocyte HaCaT cells, the cells undergo an EMT and then acquire a malignant CSC-like phenotype. With longer times for transformation of HaCaT cells, there were increased activations of IκB kinase β (IKKβ), inhibitor nuclear factor-kappa B alpha (IκBα), and nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) RelA and increases in the level of Snail. Further, during the transformation of HaCaT cells, the activation of NF-κB RelA up-regulated Snail levels. Inhibition of NF-κB RelA blocked the arsenite-induced EMT, acquisition of a CSC-like phenotype, and neoplastic transformation. These observations show that EMT, along with acquisition of a CSC-like phenotype mediated by IKKβ/IκBα/RelA signal pathway via Snail, contributes to a low concentration of arsenite-induced tumorigenesis.
Bradykinin is believed to be the main mediator of symptoms in hereditary (HA) and acquired (AA) angio-oedema due to C1 esterase inhibitor deficiency, as well as in angio-oedema that complicates treatment with inhibitors of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE). Difficulties in the measurement of kinin concentrations, however, have so far precluded the demonstration of an incontrovertible change in plasma bradykinin concentrations in these disorders. By developing a reliable assay we have been able to follow bradykinin concentrations during attacks and during remission in HA and in AA, and also in a patient treated with an ACE-inhibitor.
Liquid-phase extraction, high-performance liquid chromatography, and RIA were used for specific measurement of plasma bradykinin concentrations in 22 patients with HA and in 22 healthy volunteers of similar age and sex distribution. Four patients with AA and one hypertensive patient treated with the ACE inhibitor captopril were also studied.
Among the healthy volunteers plasma bradykinin concentration was inversely proportional to age. The geometric mean plasma bradykinin concentration in the healthy volunteers was 2.2 fmol/mL (SD 2.2), compared with 3.9 fmol/mL (3.7) among patients with HA during remission (p=0.095). Bradykinin was also high in the patients with AA (10.4 fmol/mL [1.6]). During acute attacks of oedema, in both HA and AA, plasma bradykinin rose to two to 12 times the upper limit of normal. Infusion of C1-esterase inhibitor (the deficient factor in both HA and AA) immediately lowered bradykinin concentrations. In the patient receiving the ACE-inhibitor captopril, bradykinin concentration was very high at 47 fmol/mL during an acute attack of angio-oedema, but normal at 3.2 fmol/mL in remission after withdrawal of the drug.
A sensitive method for measurement of plasma bradykinin provided the means to show that concentrations of this peptide decrease with age in healthy people. Although the differences between patients in remission and healthy controls did not reach statistical significance, there were substantial rises in bradykinin during acute attacks of hereditary, acquired, or captopril-induced angio-oedema.
An 83-year-old male was admitted with pulmonary tuberculosis. He was started on rifampicin, isoniazid, and streptomycin (SM). The hematological data at 12 weeks after the treatment showed pancytopenia (RBC: 2.14 x 10(6)/microliters, Hb: 7.2g/dl, Plt: 1.8 x 10(4)/microliters, WBC: 700/microliters). All the above medicines were discontinued and he received bolus methylprednisolone (bmPSL) and recombinant human granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (rhG-CSF). After 3 cycles of bmPSL, red blood cells and platelets gradually increased. White blood cells also increased in response to rhG-CSF. Bone marrow aspirate and biopsy specimens showed normocellularity, indicating recovery from aplastic anemia. Drug lymphocyte stimulation test was positive for SM.
In a recent study, we showed that the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib sensitizes human bladder cancer cells to IFN-induced cell death. Here, we characterized the molecular mechanisms underlying the antitumoral effects of the combination in more detail. Bortezomib synergized with IFN-alpha to promote apoptosis via a tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand-associated mechanism but did not inhibit production of proangiogenic factors (vascular endothelial growth factor, basic fibroblast growth factor, and interleukin-8) in human UM-UC-5 cells. In contrast, exposure to the combination did not increase the levels of apoptosis in human UM-UC-3 cells but did inhibit the production of basic fibroblast growth factor and vascular endothelial growth factor. Studies with tumor xenografts confirmed that combination therapy with bortezomib plus IFN-alpha was effective in both models but that the effects were associated with differential effects on tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand-associated apoptosis (predominant in UM-UC-5) versus inhibition of angiogenesis (predominant in UM-UC-3). Together, our results show that combination therapy with IFN-alpha plus bortezomib is effective but can work via different mechanisms (apoptosis versus angiogenesis inhibition) in preclinical models of human bladder cancer.
