Derogation of the p53 pathway is a hallmark in human malignancies but its implication in melanomas remains unclear. p53 is frequently accumulated in melanomas despite protein stabilizing mutations being rare. For a panel of six melanoma cell lines we performed transcript sequence analysis of the entire coding region and determined p53 protein stability and messenger RNA stability by western blot experiments and quantitative reverse-transcription-PCR, respectively. Transcript levels of p53 modifying genes as well as p53 target genes were investigated after ultraviolet irradiation, interferon-α-2b, and chemotherapy (cisplatin or dacarbazine) by quantitative reverse-transcription-PCR. Transcript sequence analysis identified three aberrations in three of six melanomas. Four of six melanomas showed high-constitutive p53 protein levels. p53 transcripts remained stable in four of six melanomas. All p53-expressing melanomas displayed high p53 protein stability. Constitutively, and after ultraviolet irradiation, mouse double min-2 expression was reduced in melanomas. We detected high homeodomain-interacting protein kinase-2 level in melanomas-expressing mutant p53. Most experimental conditions resulted in lower expression of p21, GADD45A, and PUMA, and a higher expression of CDC2 in melanomas. Altogether, accumulation of p53 protein is due to posttranslational modification or aberrant expression of p53 modifiers. p53 is functionally disrupted although the p53 upstream signaling pathway remains inducible.
Schizophrenia is a severe mental illness affecting around 1% of adults with a high degree of morbidity and mortality. Affected individuals are at increased risk for unemployment, handicap, obesity, diabetes mellitus, hearth attack and suicide. Antipsychotic drugs are the best treatment for this disease, but about 20% of patients display drug resistance, or refractoriness, and may receive a special neuroleptic named Clozapine. Despite its superiority from other neuroleptics, only 30-60% of drug-resistant patients are responsive to clozapine. Clozapine's action results from interactions between dopaminergic and serotonergic neurotransmitter systems and since clozapine appears to exert its effect strongly through the serotonergic systems, alterations in serotonin synaptic levels may influence antipsychotic response. The serotonin transporter (5-HTT) is responsible for pre-synaptic re-uptake of serotonin, making this transporter a logical candidate gene for prediction of clozapine response and to increase understanding about mechanisms of refractoriness. Therefore, we investigated the influence of two polymorphisms in the 5-HTT gene (HTTLPR/rs25531 and VNTR Stin2) in clozapine response in a sample of 116 schizophrenic individuals of European descent from South-Brazil. Significant differences between responders and non-responders to clozapine were observed for the HTTLPR/rs25531 polymorphism. Nonresponders to clozapine showed a higher frequency of S'-allele (P = 0.01) and also were more likely to be S'/S' homozygous or S'/L' heterozygous than those who did respond (P = 0.04). After controlling for confounding variables, logistic regression analyses confirmed this association (OR = 3.15; 95% CI: 1.13-8.80). The observed association suggests that increased availability of extracellular serotonin concentrations at all synapses may reduce clozapine effect.
Isotretinoin therapy and its alleged adverse psychiatric effects have received considerable media attention during the past years. The aim of this pilot study was to investigate whether there was any association between isotretinoin therapy and anxiety, depression or suicidal ideation.
Forty-five patients with severe recalcitrant acne were enrolled in this study. Isotretinoin was administered at a dose of 0.5-1 mg/kg per day in two divided doses with food for 16 weeks. All patients received a complete dermatological examination and the severity levels of their acne were scored according to the Leeds Revised Acne Grading system at baseline (before isotretinoin treatment) and follow-up assessments at weeks 4, 8 and 16 of the treatment. Severity of anxiety and depressive symptoms were assessed with the Clinical Anxiety Scale and Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale before and upon completion of the 16-week isotretinoin treatment.
Twenty-three patients completed the final assessment. There was a statistically significant decrease in anxiety scores. Depression scores also decreased but were not statistically significant. No patient committed or attempted suicide.
This pilot study was unable to detect an association between the use of isotretinoin and an increased risk for anxiety, depression, or suicidal thoughts.
The effects of moderate-dose vasopressin on gastric mucosal perfusion and its relation to global and hepatosplanchnic hemodynamic and oxygen transport variables were investigated in patients with severe sepsis.
Vasopressin was administered at a dose of 0.04 IU · kg⁻¹ · h⁻¹ over 4 h in 12 patients with severe sepsis who were receiving norepinephrine. During the study period, the norepinephrine infusion rate was reduced to keep mean arterial blood pressure constant. Hepatosplanchnic blood flow, oxygen delivery, and oxygen consumption (via hepatic venous catheterization using the Fick principle and continuous indocyanine green infusion technique), global hemodynamics (transpulmonary thermodilution method), and the difference between the gastric mucosal and arterial carbon dioxide tension (Pco₂-gap) were measured at baseline and 4 h after the start of the vasopressin infusion.
The administration of 0.04 IU · kg⁻¹ · h⁻¹ vasopressin over 4 h was associated with minimal changes in global hemodynamics. Heart rate decreased slightly from 99 [81-115] (median [interquartile range]) to 96 [74-109] beats/min (P = 0.016) and cardiac index from 3.7 [2.8-4.7] to 3.5 [2.7-3.6] L · min⁻¹ · m⁻² (P = 0.003). Global oxygen delivery index decreased significantly from 461 [375-637] to 419 [352-551] ml · min⁻¹ · m⁻² (P = 0.002), whereas hepatosplanchnic blood flow and oxygen uptake remained unchanged. Gastric mucosal Pco₂-gap increased significantly from 13.3 [8.0-16.7] to 17.1 [10.3-28.7] mmHg (P = 0.002), suggesting that blood flow may have been redistributed away from the gut mucosa.
Vasopressin at a dosage of 0.04 IU · kg⁻¹ · h⁻¹ may impair gastric mucosal perfusion with minimal global hemodynamic effects.
Studying chemical disturbances during neural differentiation of murine embryonic stem cells (mESCs) has been established as an alternative in vitro testing approach for the identification of developmental neurotoxicants. miRNAs represent a class of small non-coding RNA molecules involved in the regulation of neural development and ESC differentiation and specification. Thus, neural differentiation of mESCs in vitro allows investigating the role of miRNAs in chemical-mediated developmental toxicity. We analyzed changes in miRNome and transcriptome during neural differentiation of mESCs exposed to the developmental neurotoxicant sodium valproate (VPA). A total of 110 miRNAs and 377 mRNAs were identified differently expressed in neurally differentiating mESCs upon VPA treatment. Based on miRNA profiling we observed that VPA shifts the lineage specification from neural to myogenic differentiation (upregulation of muscle-abundant miRNAs, mir-206, mir-133a and mir-10a, and downregulation of neural-specific mir-124a, mir-128 and mir-137). These findings were confirmed on the mRNA level and via immunochemistry. Particularly, the expression of myogenic regulatory factors (MRFs) as well as muscle-specific genes (Actc1, calponin, myosin light chain, asporin, decorin) were found elevated, while genes involved in neurogenesis (e.g. Otx1, 2, and Zic3, 4, 5) were repressed. These results were specific for valproate treatment and--based on the following two observations--most likely due to the inhibition of histone deacetylase (HDAC) activity: (i) we did not observe any induction of muscle-specific miRNAs in neurally differentiating mESCs exposed to the unrelated developmental neurotoxicant sodium arsenite; and (ii) the expression of muscle-abundant mir-206 and mir-10a was similarly increased in cells exposed to the structurally different HDAC inhibitor trichostatin A (TSA). Based on our results we conclude that miRNA expression profiling is a suitable molecular endpoint for developmental neurotoxicity. The observed lineage shift into myogenesis, where miRNAs may play an important role, could be one of the developmental neurotoxic mechanisms of VPA.
The safety and efficacy of intravenous Propafenone, in the treatment of atrial fibrillation (a.f.) or flutter (A.F.) of recent onset (15 days), were assessed. Propafenone (2 mg/kg) was administered to 36 consecutive patients (mean age 60.8 years), 28 with a.f. and 8 with A.F. Nineteen patients (52.7%) reverted to sinus rhythm within 85 min (mean 27.2 min): 17 of 28 (60.7%) with a.f. and 2 of 8 (25%) with A.F. The efficacy of the drug was significantly influenced by the time elapsed from the onset of the arrhythmia: 14/21 (66.6%) patients with the arrhythmia lasting less then 48 hours and only 5/15 (33.3%) of those with the arrhythmia lasting more than 48 hours or of unknown onset, were converted (p less than 0.05). 18 patients underwent echocardiographic control: mean left atrial dimensions were 41.4 +/- 11.4 mm in converters and 47.4 +/- 11.2 mm in non converters (p = NS). Mean QRS lengthening observed was 16% (from 89 +/- 35.1 to 103.5 +/- 48.8 msec) (p = NS); QTc interval increased from 390 +/- 64.3 to 403 +/- 36.2 msec (p = NS). Arterial blood pressure showed significant changes only in two patients in whom a serious hypotension developed, needing infusion of adrenergic drugs. Non converters showed a reduction of the ventricular rate from 141.8 +/- 29.4/min to 101.8 +/- 18/min (p less than 0.01) meanwhile the shortest RR interval increased from 359.5 +/- 60.8 to 450 +/- 81.5 msec (p less than 0.01).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Olesoxime is a small cholesterol-like molecule that was discovered in a screening program aimed at finding treatment for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and other diseases where motor neurons degenerate. In addition to its neuroprotective and pro-regenerative effects on motor neurons in vitro and in vivo, it has been shown to have analgesic effects in rat models of painful peripheral neuropathy due to vincristine and diabetes. We used a rat model of painful peripheral neuropathy produced by the chemotherapeutic agent, paclitaxel, to determine whether olesoxime could reverse established neuropathic pain. In addition, we determined whether giving olesoxime during the exposure to paclitaxel could prevent the development of the neuropathic pain syndrome and the accompanying degeneration of the terminal arbors of sensory fibers in the epidermis. Olesoxime significantly reduced established mechano-allodynia and mechano-hyperalgesia. There was no indication of tolerance to the effect during five days of dosing and the analgesia persisted for 5-10 days after the last injection. Giving olesoxime during the exposure to paclitaxel significantly and permanently reduced the severity of mechano-allodynia and mechano-hyperalgesia and significantly reduced the amount of sensory terminal arbor degeneration. Olesoxime targets mitochondrial proteins and its effects are consistent with the mitotoxicity hypothesis for paclitaxel-evoked painful peripheral neuropathy. We conclude that olesoxime may be useful clinically for both the prevention and treatment of paclitaxel-evoked painful peripheral neuropathy.
Dietary supplementation of n-3 PUFAs, containing docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), modulates the symptoms of colitis. Hence, we investigated the effects of oral administration of pure DHA and the therapeutic agent sulfasalazine (SAL) on chemically induced colitis in mice, and analyzed the expression levels of DHA-responsive genes in colonic tissue using cDNA arrays.
Colitis in BALB/c mice was induced by feeding 5% dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) in drinking water for 7 days. DHA (30 mg/kg/day, DHA) or SAL (100 mg/kg/day, SAL) was administered orally throughout the treatment along with DSS. The DHA-treated group showed significant reduction of the weight loss and colon shortening compared to the DSS-treated colitis group. In contrast, SAL treatment was effective in reducing colon shortening, stool consistency and bleeding scores. DHA and SAL treatments also significantly reduced the changes in inflammation of the colon, and reversed the increase in myeloperoxidase activity induced by DSS. Among DSS-responsive genes, those for inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, CD14 antigen and tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily, member 1b), membrane remodeling genes (matrix metalloproteinase-3, -10 and -13) and acute phase proteins (S100 calcium-binding protein A8), which were increased by DSS, were downregulated by DHA or SAL treatment.
DHA was effective in alleviating DSS-induced colitis in mice, partly by modulating the expression levels of genes involved in colitis.
Antibodies to the acetylcholine receptor and HLA antigens have been studied in patients with myasthenia gravis occurring in association with penicillamine treatment. The properties of the antiacetylcholine receptor in these patients differed from those in patients with idiopathic myasthenia gravis in terms of specificity and affinity. These patients had an increased prevalence of HLA Bw35 and DR1 compared to controls and a decreased frequency of B8 and DR3 compared to patients with idiopathic myasthenia gravis. Likewise, they had a decreased frequency of DR4 compared to patients with rheumatoid arthritis. These data provide supportive evidence for a role for penicillamine in the induction of myasthenia gravis in genetically predisposed individuals.
In recent years, sympathomimetic drugs, including ephedrine, amphetamine and phenylpropanolamine, have been increasingly associated with cerebral haemorrhage and infarction. We report a case of intracranial bleeding in a 37 year-old woman with mononucleosis who took therapeutic doses of phenylpropanolamine. Cerebral CT on admission showed a left-sided intracerebral hematoma. Angiography was normal. Late bleeding occurred on the fourth day. She survived but developed a right-sided cerebral infarction with persistent epilepsy. Her mononucleosis was of moderate severity without bleeding diastesis. We conclude that the intracranial bleedings were secondary to taking phenylpropanolamine.
The 5-hydroxytryptamine-receptor agonist almotriptan was found to be well tolerated and efficacious when administered orally in clinical trials of migraine treatment.
The primary objective of this study was to assess the efficacy and tolerability of 3 different doses of subcutaneous almotriptan in the treatment of acute migraine attacks.
This was a Phase II multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, dose-finding study conducted over 7 months at 13 practice-oriented centers and 1 larger research-focused center. Patients experiencing moderate to severe migraine with or without aura, as defined by International Headache Society criteria, were randomly assigned to receive a single subcutaneous dose of almotriptan 2, 6, or 10 mg or placebo. The primary end point, pain relief at 2 hours, was self-assessed on a 4-point scale (severe, moderate, mild, or no pain). Patients indicating mild or no pain were considered responders. The analysis was performed on an intent-to-treat basis.
A total of 123 patients were enrolled (23 men, 100 women). Overall, almotriptan 6 and 10 mg were significantly more effective than placebo (P < 0.05, Fisher exact test). Response rates for the 6- and 10-mg doses were 96.5% and 90.3%, respectively, compared with 50.0% for placebo (P < 0.05, Fisher exact test). The proportion of patients with pain relief at 2 hours was not significantly different between almotriptan 2 mg and placebo. The response profile for the secondary end points was also better with almotriptan 6 and 10 mg than with placebo. Administration of almotriptan was well tolerated; the most frequently observed drug-associated adverse event was transient local irritation at the injection site.
Almotriptan was well tolerated and significantly more effective than placebo in relieving moderate to severe migraine pain when administered as a single 6- or 10-mg subcutaneous dose.
Patients with acetaminophen-induced fulminant hepatic failure (FHF) who meet the King's College Hospital criteria have a high mortality risk (>90%) if they do not undergo liver transplantation. We have developed a treatment strategy for these patients based on the use of an extracorporeal bioartificial liver (BAL) support system. In this study, we report the results of the clinical application of BAL support in patients with acetaminophen-induced FHF. All patients were admitted to a dedicated surgical intensive care unit. They were evaluated for urgent liver transplantation and received the standard medical measures, including N-acetylcysteine administration and intracranial pressure monitoring. Moreover, they underwent daily 6-hour BAL treatments. Eight patients were treated. Three patients were bridged to liver transplantation, and five patients recovered without a transplant. All patients experienced neurological and metabolic improvement after treatments with the BAL support system. The BAL support system seems to improve the outcome of high-risk patients with acetaminophen-induced FHF, even in the absence of liver transplantation. Avoiding liver transplantation is particularly important in an era of organ shortage and high cost of transplants.
Controlling hypertension by angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) or angiotensin receptor blockers (ARB), mechanisms that inhibit later pathway steps in the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), have clinically afforded protection against cardiac and renal disease.
In order to determine if blocking the RAS rate-limiting step of angiotensin II generation via renin inhibition could afford similar end organ protection in a human-relevant preclinical model, this study investigated the cardiac and renal effects of a nonpeptide, piperidine renin inhibitor (RI; 100 mg/kg/day PO) in double transgenic mice (dTGM) which express both human renin and angiotensinogen genes. RI was compared to the ARB, candesartan (3 mg/kg/day PO), and to the ACEI, enalapril (60 mg/kg/day PO) in a 4-week dosing paradigm. These doses of RI, ACEI and ARB were previously found to normalize mean blood pressure (MBP) to 110 + 3, 109 + 7 and 107 + 6 mmHg, respectively, after 1 day of treatment.
In the dTGM, PRA, plasma aldosterone, GFR, microalbuminuria and left ventricular free wall thickness (LVH) were higher than in the wild type C57BL/6 mice. Microalbuminuria and LVH were significantly reduced by 93% and 9% for the RI, 83% and 13% for enalapril and 73% and 6% for candesartan, respectively. PRA and aldosterone were reduced by the RI 56% and 23%, respectively. These results suggest that the RI provides protection against cardiac and renal disease, similar to ARB and ACEI.
The effects of intraperitoneally injected ferrous chloride and iron-dextran on lipid peroxidation in vivo were assessed. Peroxidation was estimated by measuring ethane, a volatile autoxidation product of omega-3-unsaturated fatty acids. Rats supplemented with 0.1 ppm dietary selenium and rats supplemented with 0.1 ppm selenium and 200 IU vitamin E/kg diet were injected with ferrous chloride at 30 mg iron/kg, or with sodium chloride, or left uninjected. In both dietary groups ferrous chloride increased ethane production while sodium chloride did not, but the iron-caused ethane increase was 8 times greater in the low E group. Iron-dextran injected at 500 mg iron/kg was fatal to rats fed a basal diet deficient in selenium and vitamin E or diet supplemented with 0.5 ppm selenium; supplemental vitamin E at 200 IU/kg diet prevented this mortality. Iron-dextran quadrupled ethane production in rats fed the basal diet and tripled ethane production in rats fed the selenium-supplement diet. Vitamin E supplementation prevented the iron-dextran-caused rise in ethane production. A histological examination of rats killed by iron-dextran showed severe generalized necrosis of the diaphragm and severe focal necrosis of thigh muscle. Vitamin E protected more effectively than selenium against iron-dextran-caused peroxidation as well as against acute iron-dextran-caused mortality.
Contrast nephropathy (CN), a well-known complication of intravascular contrast medium, is associated with dense cortical nephrograms. These may be detected on unenhanced computed tomography (CT). We report the initial findings of a series of patients at risk for CN who received contrast for coronary arteriography or aortic arch angiography. Unenhanced CT scans were performed 22-26 h after contrast, and the mean cortical attenuation measured. These results were correlated with serial blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and serum creatinine measurements. The patients in this study, all of whom had either elevated baseline creatinine values, were over 73 years or both, had a high incidence of cortical contrast retention and contrast nephropathy.
Human paraoxonase1 (hPON1) is a potential therapeutic against the toxicity of organophosphorus (OP) pesticides and chemical warfare nerve agents. We tested whether PON1 gene transfer using adenovirus provides protection against the toxicity of the OP diazoxon. Using an adenovirus construct containing hPON1 gene, we showed elevated levels of recombinant hPON1 in vitro in 293A cells and in vivo in mice. The recombinant enzyme was secreted by 293A cells into culture medium and into the systemic circulation of mice. Western blotting revealed that the virally expressed hPON1 had the expected molecular weight of 45 kDa. Recombinant hPON1 in mice was in complex with mouse high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and migrated more slowly than endogenous hPON1 in the human HDL complex. Mice injected with adenovirus expressed PON1 at 600-3480 U ml(-1) on day 5 post-treatment, which is 8-50-fold above endogenous. Six mice expressing hPON1 survived 2LD(50) doses of diazoxon. Four of the six mice survived a second dose of diazoxon (for a total of 4LD(50)) administered 24 h later. In contrast, none of the three mice in the control group survived one 2LD(50) dose. These results show that hPON1 in mice functions as a prophylactic and offers significant protection against lethal doses of diazoxon.
To assess whether valvular lesions are associated with the use of dexfenfluramine in Chinese patients with type 2 diabetes.
Case-control study.
Thirty-six obese Chinese patients with type 2 diabetes and a history of dexfenfluramine use during the period January 1992 and September 1997 were recruited into the study, while another 43 age- and sex-matched Chinese patients with type 2 diabetes were recruited as controls. The mean age for the cases was 44.1 years (standard deviation, 11.2 years; median, 42.5 years; range, 20-64 years). The 43 control subjects were age- and sex-matched, and had a mean age of 48.5 years (standard deviation, 10.9 years; median, 51.0 years; range, 16-63 years; P>0.05). The male-to-female ratio was confirmed as similar between the two groups (10:26 versus 12:31; P>0.05). All patients were clinically free from cardiovascular disease. Patients with a history of underlying valvular disease from any cause were excluded from the study. All patients underwent echocardiographic assessment, and the presence of any valvular lesions was documented.
The mean duration of dexfenfluramine use by the cases was 21.8 weeks (standard deviation, 29.0 weeks; median, 18.0 weeks; range, 1-160 weeks). Subjects with a history of dexfenfluramine use had higher rates of significant aortic regurgitation, tricuspid regurgitation of any severity, and of any valvular regurgitation, compared to controls (11.1% versus 0%, P<0.05; 30.6% versus 4.7%, P<0.01; and 61.1% versus 34.9%, P<0.05, respectively). Logistic stepwise regression analysis to predict the risk of valvular lesion was conducted, with age, sex, history of dexfenfluramine use, body mass index, waist-hip ratio, blood pressure, fasting plasma glucose, lipid profile, and duration of diabetes as independent variables. A history of dexfenfluramine use was the only significant parameter entered into the model (significant aortic regurgitation: beta=9.19, standard error=46.6, P<0.05; any tricuspid regurgitation: beta=2.76, standard error=10.8, P<0.05).
In Chinese patients with type 2 diabetes, a history of dexfenfluramine use is associated with heart-valve regurgitation, particularly aortic regurgitation.
Photoreceptor mitochondrial oxidative stress is the initial pathologic event in experimental autoimmune uveitis. In this study, the authors determined alterations in retinal mitochondrial protein levels in response to oxidative stress during the early phase of experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU).
Retinal mitochondrial fractions during early EAU were prepared and subjected to two-dimensional difference in gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE). Protein spots showing differential expression were excised and subjected to matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) for peptide identification. Levels of these proteins were also confirmed by Western blot analysis. mRNA expression of these proteins was confirmed by real-time PCR. TUNEL staining was performed to detect apoptosis.
2D-DIGE analysis revealed differential expression of 13 proteins. Ten proteins were overexpressed, including manganese-SOD, alphaA crystallin, beta crystallin, and four proteins were downregulated, including adenosine triphosphate (ATP) synthase, malate dehydrogenase, and calretinin. Increased levels of alphaA crystallin, betaB2 crystallin, MnSOD, and aconitase and decreased levels of ATP synthase were confirmed by Western blot analysis. qPCR also confirmed the increased expression of alphaA crystallin, betaB2 crystallin, MnSOD, and Hsp70. Apoptosis was absent during this phase.
The presence of mitochondrial-specific oxidative stress-related proteins in the early EAU retina along with the downregulation of ATP synthase provides early evidence of stress-related retinal damage. The presence of high levels of alphaA and betaB2 crystallin in the mitochondria may prevent cell death during early EAU.
The precise transcriptional regulation of gene expression is essential for vertebrate development, but the role of posttranscriptional regulatory mechanisms is less clear. Cytoplasmic RNA granules (RGs) function in the posttranscriptional control of gene expression, but the extent of RG involvement in organogenesis is unknown. We describe two human cases of pediatric cataract with loss-of-function mutations in TDRD7 and demonstrate that Tdrd7 nullizygosity in mouse causes cataracts, as well as glaucoma and an arrest in spermatogenesis. TDRD7 is a Tudor domain RNA binding protein that is expressed in lens fiber cells in distinct TDRD7-RGs that interact with STAU1-ribonucleoproteins (RNPs). TDRD7 coimmunoprecipitates with specific lens messenger RNAs (mRNAs) and is required for the posttranscriptional control of mRNAs that are critical to normal lens development and to RG function. These findings demonstrate a role for RGs in vertebrate organogenesis.
The role of epinephrine in eliciting myocardial ischemia was examined in patients with coronary artery disease. Objective signs of ischemia and factors increasing myocardial oxygen consumption were compared during epinephrine infusion and supine bicycle exercise. Both epinephrine and exercise produced myocardial ischemia as evidenced by ST segment depression and angina. However, the mechanisms of myocardial ischemia induced by epinephrine were significantly different from those of exercise. Exercise-induced myocardial ischemia was marked predominantly by increased heart rate and rate-pressure product with a minor contribution of end-diastolic volume, while epinephrine-induced ischemia was characterized by a marked increase in contractility and a less pronounced increase in heart rate and rate-pressure product. These findings indicate that ischemia produced by epinephrine, as may occur during states of emotional distress, has a mechanism distinct from that due to physical exertion.
The case is described of a 20 year old pregnant woman with clear cell adenocarcinoma of the vagina who had been exposed to diethyl stilboestrol in utero. This is the second of three cases known to have occurred in Britain. The importance of radical treatment is discussed. Neither cervical nor vaginal intra-epithelial neoplasia were seen histologically, although squamous metaplasia was widespread, and in some areas was immature and showed atypical features which could be misinterpreted as intra-epithelial neoplasia. An area of atypical adenosis was noticed, a hitherto rarely observed feature.
To investigate the role of nitric oxide (NO) in spinal regulation of lower urinary tract function and bladder nociceptive behaviour, cystometry was performed in conscious rats. The effects of intra-arterial and intrathecal administration of the NO synthase (NOS)-inhibitor, L-NG-nitroarginine methyl ester (L-NAME), were studied on volume- and capsaicin-induced micturitions. The incidence of nociceptive behaviour after intravesical capsaicin was investigated in the absence and presence of L-NAME. Intrathecal L-NAME (0.5 mg) had no effect on the normal, volume-induced micturition. Intravesical capsaicin (30 microM) increased the micturition pressure (p < 0.01), the basal pressure (p < 0.01) and decreased the bladder capacity (p < 0.01) and the micturition volume (p < 0.01). Administration of L-NAME intrathecally (0.5 mg) or intra-arterially (25 mg/kg) had no effects on the capsaicin-induced bladder activity. During capsaicin-infusion, the rats showed signs of distress such as licking and head-turning directed toward the abdomen. This nociceptive behaviour was shown during 31 +/- 3% (n = 6) of the observation period. The capsaicin-induced nociceptive behaviour was markedly reduced by intrathecal and to a less extent by intra-arterial, administration of L-NAME. The percentage time spent licking and head-turning was reduced to 11 +/- 2%, n = 6 (p < 0.001) and 18 +/- 3%, n = 6 (p < 0.05) in rats treated with intrathecal and intra-arterial L-NAME, respectively. The results suggest that NO is not involved in the spinal regulation of the volume- or capsaicin-induced micturition. In contrast, the nociceptive behaviour evoked by intravesical capsaicin seems to involve spinal NO.
When quaternary-chlorpromazine (Q-CPZ) was administered intraventricularly (ICV) to rats, it induced a lateralized dystonic reaction, which progressed to head-to-tail barrel rolling. The syndrome persisted for approximately 10 minutes, was not antagonized by pretreatment with drugs used to treat extrapyramidal movement disorders, and could not be mimicked by ICV administration of dopamine antagonists. Unlike known dopamine antagonists, Q-CPZ does not alter dopamine turnover, cause prolactin release in vivo, or bind to dopamine/neuroleptic receptors in vitro. These data suggest that Q-CPZ differs substantially from CPZ in pharmacologic action, and that it elicits a behavioral syndrome of potential use for studying dystonias.
In the present study we analyzed the mechanisms of simvastatin toxicity for the PC3 human prostate cancer cell line. At 10 microM, simvastatin induced principally apoptosis, which was prevented by mevalonic acid but not by cyclosporin A, the inhibitor of calcineurin and mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT). At 60 microM, simvastatin induced the necrosis of PC3 cells insensitive to mevalonic acid. Cell necrosis was preceded by a threefold increase in cytosolic free Ca(2+) concentration and a significant decrease in both respiration rate and mitochondrial membrane potential. Both mitochondrial dysfunction and necrosis were sensitive to the compounds cyclosporin A and bongkrekic acid, as well as the calcineurin inhibitor FK506. We have concluded that simvastatin-induced PC3 cells apoptosis is dependent on 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme-A reductase inhibition and independent of MPT, whereas necrosis is dependent on mitochondrial dysfunction caused, at least in part, by calcineurin.
Methylmercury (MeHg) is a common environmental pollutant due to both natural and anthropogenic sources. Although the central nervous system (CNS) is considered the critical organ for the toxic effect of MeHg, it has recently been suggested that the immune system might be at least as sensitive as the CNS. We have examined the effects of MeHg on the immune system in genetically metal-susceptible mice. Subcutaneous (sc) injections of 2 mg MeHg/kg body weight (bw) every third day (internal dose ca. 540 microg Hg/kg bw/day) to A.SW mice of the H-2(s) haplotype, caused during the first week a 47 and 9% reduction of B- and T-cells, respectively, which indicates immunosuppression. Subsequently, an autoimmune syndrome developed which shared certain features with the syndrome induced by inorganic mercury in H-2(s) mice, including antibodies targeting the 34 kDa nucleolar protein fibrillarin, increased expression of IL-4 mRNA, increase of Th2-type of immunoglobulins (IgE and IgG1), and increased MHC class II expression on B-cells. However, the response using MeHg was attenuated compared with even lower doses of Hg in the form of inorganic mercury, and specifically lacked the increased expression of IL-2 and IFN-gamma mRNA, the polyclonal B-cell activation (PBA), and the systemic immune-complex (IC) deposits which are induced by inorganic mercury. Increasing the dose of MeHg increased the titre of anti-nucleolar antibodies and shortened the induction time, but did not lead to stronger immunostimulation or systemic IC-deposits. The kidney and liver selectively accumulated MeHg, while the blood, spleen and lymph nodes showed lower levels of MeHg. The accumulation of MeHg and Hg(2+) increased throughout the 30-day period. The fraction of Hg(2+) in the kidney varied between 4 and 22%, and the lymph nodes showed a maximum of 30% Hg(2+). We conclude first that MeHg has quantitatively different effect on the immune system compared with inorganic mercury, and secondly that an initial immunosuppression induced by a xenobiotic does not preclude subsequent immunostimulation and autoimmunity.
Misoprostol (200 micrograms) has been shown to acutely counteract the indomethacin-induced renal dysfunction in well compensated cirrhotic patients. The aim of this study was to determine if the prophylactic value of misoprostol was dose-dependent. Parameters of renal hemodynamics and tubular sodium and water handling were assessed by clearance techniques in 26 well compensated cirrhotic patients before and after an oral combination of 50 mg of indomethacin and various doses of misoprostol. The 200-micrograms dose was able to totally abolish the deleterious renal effects of indomethacin, whereas the 800-micrograms dose resulted in significant worsening of renal hemodynamics and sodium retention. These changes were maximal in the hour immediately after medications and slowly returned toward base-line levels thereafter. These results suggest that the renal protective effects of misoprostol is dose-dependent. However, until this apparent ability of 200 micrograms of misoprostol to prevent the adverse effects of indomethacin on renal function is confirmed with chronic frequent dosing, it would be prudent to avoid nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory therapy in patients with cirrhosis.
