Previous studies have evaluated prostate cancer in farm-working populations and most, although not all, have found an elevated risk of this cancer in farmers and farm workers. Specific occupational risk factors have not been identified. A nested case-control study of prostate cancer was conducted within a large cohort of a predominantly Hispanic labor union in California, the United Farm Workers of America. By conducting an electronic record linkage between a roster of the union members and the California Cancer Registry for the years 1988 through 1999, newly diagnosed cases of prostate cancer were identified within the union. Age-matched controls were randomly selected from the remainder of the cancer-free cohort. Risk for prostate cancer was examined by examining the type of crops and commodities cultivated by the farm workers as well as by the date of first union activity and duration of union affiliation. In addition, the risk of prostate cancer was evaluated in association with use of several pesticides recorded by the California Department of Pesticide Regulation. Between 1988 and 1999, 222 newly diagnosed prostate cancer cases were identified for analysis and 1110 age-matched controls were selected. The risk of prostate cancer was not associated with patterns of employment in any crop/commodity. Increasing duration of union affiliation was associated with decreasing prostate cancer risk. Although risk was not associated with total pounds of pesticides applied in the years and counties where farm workers were employed, risk was increased with specific chemicals, including simazine, lindane, and heptachlor, and suggestive increases were observed with dichlorvos and methyl bromide. We concluded that Hispanic farm workers with relatively high levels of exposure to organochlorine pesticides (lindane and hepatachlor), organophosphate pesticides (dichlorvos), fumigants (methyl bromide), or triazine herbicides (simazine) experienced elevated risk of prostate cancer compared to workers with lower levels of exposure.
Cyclooxygenase (COX) 2-derived prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) promotes colorectal carcinoma growth and invasion, and inhibition of COX2 by non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs is known to inhibit these processes. There is controversy regarding the effect of ligand activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-beta/delta on colon carcinogenesis, although collective evidence from independent laboratories suggest that ligand activation of PPARbeta/delta leads to the induction of terminal differentiation coupled with inhibition of cell growth in a variety of models. The present study examined the hypothesis that ligand activation of PPARbeta/delta and inhibition of COX2 attenuate colon cancer through independent mechanisms and that combining these two mechanisms will enhance this inhibition. Colon cancer was induced by administering azoxymethane to wild-type and PPARbeta/delta-null mice. Cohorts of mice were treated with GW0742 (a PPARbeta/delta ligand), nimesulide (a COX2 inhibitor) or a combination of GW0742 and nimesulide. Inhibition of COX2 by nimesulide attenuated colon cancer and ligand activation of PPARbeta/delta by GW0742 had inhibitory effects. However, the combined treatment of GW0742 and nimesulide did not cause an enhancement in the attenuation of colon cancer. Mechanistically, the effects of these compounds occurred through independent mechanisms as increased levels of differentiation markers as a result of ligand activation of PPARbeta/delta were not found with COX2 inhibition, and a reduction in PGE(2) levels resulting from COX2 inhibition was not observed in response to ligand activation of PPARbeta/delta. Results from these studies effectively dissociate COX2 inhibition and PPARbeta/delta activity during colon carcinogenesis.
A 48-year-old female silk-screen printer had worked in the manufacture of circuit boards for 12 years before she got the first symptoms of dermatitis on her wrists and lower arms. On the 1st patch test session, epoxy resin and the remainder of the standard series were negative, while a plastics and glues series gave an allergic reaction to 4,4'-diaminodiphenylmethane (DDM). The 2nd test session revealed allergic reactions to several acrylics, several epoxy compounds and 3 ink components. According to the material safety data sheets, 1 ink hardener contained DDM, but the causative agent in 1 ink and 1 ink hardener remained uncertain. The manufacturers of the 2 inks kindly provided us with their components for further patch tests. 2 of these components gave allergic reactions: triglycidyl isocyanurate (TGIC) and 2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate (2-HEMA). Our case report shows that the manufacture of circuit boards involves exposure to highly sensitizing chemicals. DDM, TGIC and 2-HEMA should be remembered as silk-screen printers' potential contact sensitizers in the manufacture of circuit boards.
We report positron emission tomographic measurements of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in a male patient with war and torture related post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) during symptom provocation. The subject was exposed to war related sounds before and after treatment with a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI; Fluoxetine; Fontex((R))). Therapy reduced PTSD symptoms, provoked anxiety and heart rate. Before treatment trauma reminders resulted in decreased rCBF in the insula, prefrontal, and inferior frontal cortices. Increased activity was evident in the cerebellum, precuneus and supplementary motor cortex. This was normalized after SSRI administration. Prefrontal and cingulate rCBF correlated with heart rate. Hence, the anxiolytic effect of SSRI for PTSD could be mediated by prefrontal and paralimbic cortices. Data suggest that SSRI treatment normalize provocation induced rCBF alterations in areas involved in memory, emotion, attention and motor-control.
To determine if visual function loss from vigabatrin use recovers after the drug is discontinued.
Vigabatrin is an effective antiepileptic drug, but it is known to cause a variety of changes in visual function, including reductions in the visual field, visual acuity, color vision, and in electroretinogram (ERG) and electro-oculogram amplitudes. It is not known whether these changes are reversible.
Measurements of static and kinetic visual fields, visual acuity, color vision, and the ERG were recorded while patients were taking vigabatrin and again in 13 patients who had discontinued the drug because of lack of efficacy or reductions in visual field. Most of the patients had been off the drug for 3 to 6 months, although two patients had been drug-free for almost 1 year.
Although ERG cone implicit time improved, most of the patients did not show improvement in either clinical measures of visual function (i.e., visual acuity, color vision, visual fields) or in ERG amplitudes. However, several patients who showed minimal visual field loss while on the drug had substantial recovery of ERG amplitudes. There was no statistical association between recovery of function and either duration of treatment or cumulative dosage. The multifocal ERG showed a diffuse loss of function that was not isolated to the periphery.
Although the visual deficits in patients taking vigabatrin tend to be mild, most patients do not show improvement after they stop taking the drug. Visual field loss resulting from vigabatrin was not reversible. Visual acuity, color vision, and ERG amplitude loss may be reversible in patients with minimal or no field loss.
Streptokinase and alteplase are established therapies in acute myocardial infarction. Reteplase is a new thrombolytic agent that can be given as a double bolus. This trial was designed to determine whether the effect of reteplase on survival was at least equivalent (within 1% of fatality rate) to that of a standard streptokinase regimen. Patients from 208 centres in nine countries (n = 6010) with symptoms and electrocardiographic criteria consistent with acute myocardial infarction were randomised to receive double-blind either streptokinase 1.5 MU intravenously over 60 min or reteplase two boluses of 10 MU given 30 min apart. Treatment could be started up to 12 h from onset of symptoms. All patients received intravenous heparin for at least 24 h. The primary endpoint was 35-day outcome. There were 270 deaths (9.02%) in the reteplase and 285 deaths (9.53%) in the streptokinase group, a non-significant difference (95% CI -1.98% to 0.96%). Among patients who received treatment (98.8%) there were 263 deaths (8.90%) in the reteplase compared with 279 deaths (9.43%) in the streptokinase group (a difference of -0.53%). Because the upper limit of the 90% CI for this difference is 0.71%, this result shows that reteplase is at least as effective as streptokinase. In-hospital stroke rates were 1.23% for reteplase and 1.00% for streptokinase. Bleeding events were similar in the two treatment groups (0.7% reteplase, 1.0% streptokinase). The incidence of recurrent myocardial infarction was similar, but there were significantly fewer cases of atrial fibrillation, asystole, cardiac shock, heart failure, and hypotension in the reteplase group. We conclude that reteplase is an effective drug in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction. It is clinically safe, its administration is simple, and it will be a useful addition to the range of thrombolytic agents available.
This analysis aimed to explore whether low-dose irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) has superior blood pressure (BP)-lowering efficacy over low-dose valsartan/HCTZ in the elderly and across both genders. This is a post-hoc analysis of data from a multicenter, parallel group, open-label, blinded-endpoint study in patients with hypertension uncontrolled with HCTZ monotherapy. The reduction in systolic BP (SBP)/diastolic BP (DBP) and rate of BP control achieved following 8 weeks of treatment with irbesartan/HCTZ 150/12.5 mg or valsartan/HCTZ 80/12.5 mg were analyzed for older (≥65 years) vs. younger (<65 years) patients and for men vs. women. Blood pressure measurements were by home BP monitoring (HBPM). In the age and gender subgroups, both treatments significantly decreased home SBP and DBP (p < 0.0001). The reduction in home SBP and DBP was numerically greater with irbesartan/HCTZ compared to valsartan/HCTZ for all subgroups: the difference in DBP was significant for all except the elderly (p < 0.05), and the difference in SBP was significant in the elderly and in men (p < 0.03). In all subgroups, more patients achieved BP control (HBPM ≤135/85 mmHg) in the irbesartan/HCTZ arm (range 45%-58%) than in the valsartan/HCTZ arm (range, 23%-39%; p < 0.02). Both combination therapies were well tolerated and safety parameters were similar in both age and gender subgroups. More patients with mild or moderate hypertension, uncontrolled in HCTZ monotherapy alone, had their BP controlled with irbesartan/HCTZ 150/12.5 mg than with valsartan/HCTZ 80/12.5 mg, irrespective of age or gender.
We have genotyped 14,436 nonsynonymous SNPs (nsSNPs) and 897 major histocompatibility complex (MHC) tag SNPs from 1,000 independent cases of ankylosing spondylitis (AS), autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD), multiple sclerosis (MS) and breast cancer (BC). Comparing these data against a common control dataset derived from 1,500 randomly selected healthy British individuals, we report initial association and independent replication in a North American sample of two new loci related to ankylosing spondylitis, ARTS1 and IL23R, and confirmation of the previously reported association of AITD with TSHR and FCRL3. These findings, enabled in part by increased statistical power resulting from the expansion of the control reference group to include individuals from the other disease groups, highlight notable new possibilities for autoimmune regulation and suggest that IL23R may be a common susceptibility factor for the major 'seronegative' diseases.
This work examined the effects of nicotine on mean arterial pressure and heart rate in non-anesthetized spinal rats. Nicotine (200 mg/kg) was administered as a single bolus, as infusions lasting 7.5, 15 or 30 min, and as a post-infusion bolus. A nicotine bolus increased pressure and rate. These effects were less marked as the rate of infusion decreased. The infusions affected differentially the effects of a subsequent bolus. Thus, while tachycardia was decreased, the blood pressure rise was increased. An initial transient bradycardia was observed after bolus administration, but not during infusions; this effect was unchanged after post-infusion boluses. Pharmacological analysis indicated that tachycardia and bradycardia were predominantly due to ganglionic stimulation, while adrenal and sympathetic nerve catecholamine release played a major role in the pressor response. These results indicate that slow nicotine infusions do not induce tachyphylaxis for all of the cardiovascular effects of a subsequent bolus, and that development of acute tolerance appears to depend on the mechanism of action of the response.
The potential for convulsions induced by the coadministration of ciprofloxacin (CPFX) and foscarnet (PFA) may be due not to a change in the distribution of CPFX to the brain but to a potential CPFX-induced inhibition of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-GABA(A) receptor binding in the presence of PFA.
Community-aquired pneumonia caused by atypical bacteria or viruses was studied in a double-blind trial comparing fleroxacin 400 mg od and doxycycline 100 mg bd for 10 days. The aetiology was confirmed in 258 of 411 cases (66%), of which 133 were caused by Mycoplasma spp., Chlamydia spp. or Legionella spp.; 30 patients had viral infection, nine had pneumococcal or Haemophilus influenzae infection and 93 had mixed aetiology. In intention-to-treat analyses clinical response rates in fleroxacin-treated patients were 86% (157/182) and 75% (137/182) 2-8 days and 3-5 weeks after therapy, respectively. Corresponding results with doxycycline were 93% (177/191) and 85% (162/190), respectively. Differences between treatments seemed to be due to the lower activity of fleroxacin compared with doxycycline against mycoplasma and pneumococci. Drug-related adverse events were reported in 39% of 204 fleroxacin patients and in 34% of 207 doxycycline patients. The null hypothesis that fleroxacin was <15% inferior to doxycycline was accepted at early follow-up but rejected at later review.
To determine the effect of CYP2D6*10 genotype on propafenone pharmacodynamics in Chinese patients with ventricular arrhythmia.
Seventeen Chinese patients with ventricular premature contractions (VPC> or =1000/d) were recruited. They were normal in routine laboratory testing and administered propafenone hydrochloride 450-600 mg per day in three divided doses. Twelve lead cardiogram and 24 h Holter monitoring were performed before and after 7 d treatment of propafenone. Steady-state peak and trough concentrations of propafenone were measured by HPLC method. CYP2D6*10 genotypes of patients were assayed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP).
Total inhibitory rate of VPC was 79.9 % in 17 patients with ventricular arrhythmia after propafenone treatment. PR interval prolongation was increased from 0.146 s+/-0.018 s to 0.161 s+/-0.022 s (P<0.05). CYP2D6 genotypes played an important role in plasma levels and effects of propafenone. In 450 mg/d group, patients with homozygous mutant of CYP2D6*10 not only had a Cmax of propafenone two times as high as those of wild-type genotype, but also showed a two fold higher inhibitory rate of VPC compared with those with homozygous CYP2D6*1 (P<0.05).
CYP2D6*10 genotype is relevant to decreased activity of CYP2D6 enzyme in Chinese patients. Elevated plasma concentration is consistent with better efficacy of propafenone in patients with ventricular arrhythmia.
Sublingual buprenorphine, a long-acting, partial mu-opioid agonist, is as effective as methadone in the treatment of heroin dependence, with a better safety profile due to its antagonist activity. However, the safety of therapeutic doses (8 to 16 mg) that might be diverted for intravenous (i.v.) use has not been demonstrated. To evaluate the safety and possible ceiling effects of buprenorphine administered i.v. to experienced opioid users, buprenorphine was administered to 6 nondependent opioid abusers residing on a research unit; the doses tested, in separate sessions, were 12 mg buprenorphine sublingual, i.v./sublingual placebo, and escalating i.v. buprenorphine (2, 4, 8, 12, and 16 mg). Physiologic and subjective measures were collected for 72 hours post-drug administration. Buprenorphine minimally but significantly increased systolic blood pressure. Changes in heart rate or oxygen saturation among the 7 drug conditions were not statistically significant. The mean maximum decrease in oxygen saturation from baseline was greatest for the 8-mg i.v. dose. Buprenorphine produced positive mood effects, although with substantial variability among participants. Onset and peak effects occurred earlier following i.v. administration: peak i.v. effects occurred between 0.25 and 3 hours; peak sublingual effects occurred at 3 to 7 hours. Duration of effects varied among the outcome measures. The dose-response curves were flat for most parameters, particularly subjective measures. Side effects were mild except in one participant who experienced severe nausea and vomiting after the 12-mg i.v. dose. Buprenorphine appears to have a ceiling for cardiorespiratory and subjective effects and a high safety margin even when taken by the i.v. route.
Transient hypotension has been observed in patients after rapid intravenous administration of mannitol, 25 per cent, in clinical doses. These studies were conducted to determine the mechanism for the hypotension, to determine dose and rate of injection response curves in rabbits, and to determine which vascular beds were most reactive. Studies in six patients showed mean decreases in blood pressure of 23 +/- 6.0 per cent (+/-SE) and in total peripheral resistance of 38 +/- 7 per cent after infusion of mannitol. Studies in 18 patients during cardiopulmonary bypass with mechanically fixed cardiac output demonstrated decreases in mean blood pressure of 30 +/- 5 to 40 +/- 3 per cent, depending on dose and rate of administration of mannitol. Patients not on bypass compensated for large decreases in total peripheral resistance by increases in cardiac output (3.6 +/- .4 at baseline to 4.4 +/- .4 l/min) during mannitol-induced hypotension with no change in heart rate. Serum osmolality increased as blood pressure decreased. Significant but clinically unimportant decreases in sodium and potassium ions, hemoglobin, pH, and base excess values were observed. Studies in 18 rabbits showed that the greater the dose or rate of injection of mannitol the greater the decrease in blood pressure. Injection of radiolabeled microspheres in rabbits demonstrated a near doubling of blood flow to skeletal muscle tissue during the hypotension. This occurred with both equiosmotic hypertonic glucose (17 +/- 3 to 32 +/- 7 per cent) and mannitol (17 +/- 1 to 31 +/- 5 per cent), but not after isotonic saline solution. Changes in blood flow to other organ beds were variable and unimportant. The results suggest that hypotension following the intravenous administration of hyperosmotic solutions is due primarily to vasodilation in skeletal muscle.
N-(2-Hydroxypropyl)methacrylamide (HPMA) copolymer-bound doxorubicin has showed greater potency than free doxorubicin in the treatment of ovarian cancer in vivo and in vitro. The promising activity of the conjugate demonstrated in clinical trials has generated considerable interest in understanding the mechanism of action of this macromolecular therapeutic. In this study, the involvement of the mitochondrial pathway in HPMA copolymer-bound doxorubicin-induced apoptosis in the human ovarian cancer cell line A2780 was investigated. Through a series of in vitro assays, including confocal microscopy, flow cytometry, and spectrofluorimetry, a significant decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential in A2780 cells treated with HPMA copolymer-bound doxorubicin was found. The most dramatic changes in mitochondrial membrane potential were observed between 2 and 12 h of continuous drug exposure. The potential of the mitochondrial membrane remained collapsed when drug treatment continued up to 24 h. For the first time, it was shown that HPMA copolymer-bound doxorubicin induces apoptosis in ovarian cancer cells by simultaneous activation of both caspase-dependent and caspase-independent pathways of DNA damage. This was determined by monitoring the translocation of the mitochondrial proteins cytochrome c and apoptosis-inducing factor to cytosol. The altered balance between anti-apoptotic and pro-apoptotic members of the Bcl-2 family of proteins was responsible for the mitochondrial function distraction. HPMA copolymer-bound doxorubicin induced a time-dependent decrease in the expression of the anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL proteins, which control cell survival. At the same time, the expression level of pro-apoptotic members (Bax, Bad) of the Bcl-2 family was increased under the chosen experimental conditions. Altogether, these results indicate that HPMA copolymer-bound doxorubicin induced apoptosis in ovarian cancer cells through the mitochondrial pathway.
We sought a correlation between site and morphology of colonic polyps by labeling with neoplastic and general Paneth cell markers, monoclonal antibodies Adnab-9 and anti-alpha-defensin 5, respectively. Proportions labeled by Adnab-9 and anti-alpha-defensin 5 were, respectively, 42 and 85% for adenomas, 39 and 63% for early tubular adenomas, 41 and 44% for serrated, 34 and 20% for mixed, and 11 versus 2.7% for hyperplastic polyps. Compared with hyperplastic polyps, the proportion of other polyps labeled by Adnab-9 or anti-alpha-defensin 5 was higher but this difference was more significant for distal (P = 0.008 for Adnab-9 and P = 0.0001 for anti-alpha-defensin 5) than proximal (P = 0.645 and P = 0.154, respectively) polyps. While increased labeling of all proximal polyps compared to distal ones mirrored the colonic distribution of Paneth cells, distal adenomas tended to have a higher proportion labeled by Adnab-9, suggesting that Adnab-9 labels Paneth cells associated with increased neoplastic potential.
We report a case of ibuprofen-induced meningitis in an otherwise healthy individual. This is the 1st case documenting intrathecal IgG synthesis and immune complex formation in this disorder. The immunopathogenesis remains obscure, but is suggestive of an antigen-specific process requiring the presence of or exposure to ibuprofen.
The authors present a case of a patient treated with valproic acid for seizure disorder who presented with acute mental status changes consistent with encephalopathy. Notably, her serum ammonia level was 3 times the upper limit of normal, despite an only mildly elevated aspartate aminotransferase and normal bilirubin. Her serum valproic acid level was in the therapeutic range. Her symptoms resolved with discontinuation of valproic acid and supportive care. The authors review the possible mechanisms of valproic acid-associated hyperammonemia with encephalopathy and propose clinical practice modifications to minimize the incidence of this adverse reaction to this generally well-tolerated and clinically important psychotropic medication.
Two psychiatric patients whose illnesses were in remission became hyperactive, euphoric, and agitated following the use of cimetidine. Both patients obtained relief from these symptoms when the drug was discontinued, and one had a recurrence of symptoms when cimetidine treatment was resumed.
The objective of this study was to compare the effect of cholesterol feeding of rats and rabbits. The levels of lipid peroxidation products and oxysterols in the plasma of the two species plus the antioxidant enzyme activities in the liver and erythrocytes were measured to explain their different susceptibilities to atherosclerosis. Our study showed that rats are less susceptible than are rabbits to the atherogenic effect of a cholesterol-rich diet because of differences in lipid peroxidation products as well as antioxidant enzymes activities in their livers. In rabbits, cholesterol feeding produced severe hypercholesterolemia (43-fold increase) and increased plasma and liver lipid peroxidation. Total as well as the individual oxysterol contents of 7alpha-, 7beta-hydroxycholesterol, alpha-epoxy, beta-epoxycholesterol, cholestanetriol, 7-keto, and 27-hydroxycholesterol significantly increased in the plasma of hypercholesterolemic (HC) rabbits. Erythrocyte glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) activity significantly decreased whereas catalase activity significantly increased in HC rabbits. In rats cholesterol feeding increased the plasma cholesterol only twofold and had no effect on plasma or liver lipid peroxidation. Only 7alpha- and 7beta-hydroxycholesterol increased and no change was observed in any of the antioxidant enzymes activity in the erythrocytes. Although cholesterol feeding caused a 10-fold increase of liver cholesterol as ester in both rats and rabbits, the antioxidant enzyme GSH-Px and catalase activities in the liver significantly increased in rats but significantly decreased in rabbits. The increase of GSH-Px and catalase activities in the liver of cholesterol fed rats could have a protective role against oxidation, thus preventing the formation of lipid peroxidation and oxysterols.
The present study of metronidazole in perineal Crohn's disease includes 26 patients, and is composed of 17 of 21 patients who were previously reported and 9 additional consecutive patients. The course of these patients was evaluated to determine if the drug could be reduced or stopped, whether or not it continued to be effective for prolonged periods, and what long-term side effects were encountered. Dosage reduction was associated with exacerbation of disease activity in all patients, but in all, the perineal manifestations of disease healed promptly when the full dosage of metronidazole was reinstituted. The drug could be successfully discontinued in only 28% of those in whom cessation was attempted; in those patients whose perineal disease worsened with cessation of therapy, rapid healing was achieved if the drug was reintroduced. Sixteen patients received metronidazole for at least 12 mo including 7 for 18-36 mo. Eight of these 16 patients, including 4 on and 4 off the drug, remain healed; the other 8 patients had advanced healing. The only major side effect observed was paresthesias. These occurred in 50% of the patients and developed in the patients at a mean of 6.5 mo after the onset of treatment. They appeared to be dose related and nonprogressive but tended to persist for prolonged periods even after discontinuance of the drug.
The present report describes a 7-year-old girl with a de novo 3 Mb interstitial deletion of chromosome 14q12, identified by oligo array-CGH. The region is gene poor and contains only five genes two of them, FOXG1B and PRKD1 being deleted also in a previously reported case with a very similar phenotype. Both patients present prominent metopic suture, epicanthic folds, bulbous nasal tip, tented upper lip, everted lower lip and large ears and a clinical course like Rett syndrome, including normal perinatal period, postnatal microcephaly, seizures, and severe mental retardation. FOXG1B (forkhead box G1B) is a very intriguing candidate gene since it is known to promote neuronal progenitor proliferation and to suppress premature neurogenesis and its disruption is reported in a patient with postnatal microcephaly, corpus callosum agenesis, seizures, and severe mental retardation.
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) are two incurable B-cell lymphoid neoplasms characterized by distinct clinical presentation and evolution. Bendamustine hydrochloride is a multifunctional, alkylating agent with a purine-like ring system that exhibits activity in multiple cancer models, including CLL and MCL, but whose mechanism is only partially described. Our aim was to analyze the apoptotic pathways activated by bendamustine in CLL and MCL together with the relevance of p53 mutation in determining the response to this drug.
Thirteen CLL/MCL cell lines and primary tumor cells from 8 MCL and 25 CLL patients were cultured for up to 24 h with bendamustine followed by cytotoxic assays, flow cytometry, immunofluorescence, and Western blot analysis of p53 response pathway and apoptosis-related factors.
Bendamustine displayed cytotoxic activity on most CLL and MCL primary cells and cell lines irrespective of ZAP-70 expression and p53 status. Bendamustine was found to act synergistically with nucleoside analogues in both CLL and MCL, this combination being effective in p53 mutated cases resistant to standard chemotherapy. Bendamustine cytotoxicity was mediated by the generation of reactive oxygen species and triggering of the intrinsic apoptotic pathway involving up-regulation of PUMA and NOXA, conformational activation of BAX and BAK, and cytosolic release of caspase-related and caspase-unrelated mitochondrial apoptogenic proteins.
Our findings support the use of bendamustine as a therapeutic agent, alone or in combination, for CLL and MCL with p53 alterations and describe the molecular basis of its activity in these entities.
To determine whether treatment with protease inhibitors (PIs) is associated with male sexual dysfunction, we conducted a retrospective, cohort study of 254 adult male PI recipients who received care from the staff-model division of a large managed care organization in New England between 1993 and 1998. After a median of 5.0 years of observation, 80 incident cases of sexual dysfunction were observed. Relative to unexposed individuals, the rate of sexual dysfunction adjusted for confounding was most elevated with use of ritonavir (hazard ratio [HR], 2.83; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.34-5.97; p =.006) followed by indinavir (HR, 1.69; 95% CI, 0.84-3.37; p =.14), nelfinavir (HR, 1.53; 95% CI, 0.66-3.54; p =.32) and saquinavir (HR, 1.25; 95% CI, 0.53-2.96; p =.60). We conclude that PIs, especially ritonavir, appear to increase the risk of sexual dysfunction.
1. The influence of hypertension and treatment with the dihydropyridine-type Ca2+ antagonist, nicardipine, on the structure of the kidney was assessed in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) of 12 weeks of age. Treatment went for 8 weeks with a daily oral dose of 1 mg/kg of nicardipine. 2. Control SHR exhibited hypertension and microanatomical vascular and glomerular changes. Vascular changes consisted of a thickening of the tunica media and decreased luminal area of medium- and small-sized intrarenal artery branches. Glomerular changes included glomerulosclerosis and atrophy of varying degrees. 3. Administration of nicardipine significantly reduced blood pressure. The drug also decreased the thickening of tunica media and luminal narrowing of renal artery branches as well as the degree of glomerular injury in SHR. 4. These data indicate that nicardipine treatment is able to control elevated blood pressure in SHR, and to counter hypertension-dependent microanatomical impairment of the kidney. This suggests that the compound exerts a protective effect on hypertensive kidney.
Patients with allergic rhinitis may be abnormally sensitive to stimulation of the ion channel transient receptor potential vanilloid-1 (TRPV1).
To examine effects of various TRP ion channel activators on sensory symptoms in allergic rhinitis prior to and during seasonal allergen exposure.
Nasal challenges were carried out with the TRPV1-activators capsaicin, anandamide and olvanil. Moreover, challenges were performed with mustard oil (allylisothiocyanate) and cinnamaldehyde as well as menthol, activators of TRPA1 and TRPM8, respectively. Nasal symptoms were monitored after each challenge and compared with symptoms reported following corresponding sham challenges. Symptoms recorded after challenge prior to pollen season were also compared with challenge-induced symptoms during pollen season.
The TRPV1, TRPA1 and TRPM8-activators produced sensory symptoms dominated by pain and smart. During seasonal allergen exposure, but not prior to season, TRPV1-activators also induced itch. Furthermore, the seasonal challenge to the TRPV1-activator olvanil was associated with rhinorrhoea.
Patients with allergic rhinitis feature an increased itch response to TRPV1 stimulation at seasonal allergen exposure. We suggest that this reflects part of the hyperresponsiveness that characterizes on-going allergic rhinitis. Intervention with the TRPV1-signalling pathway may offer potential treatments of this condition.
Malignant mesothelioma (MM) is a rare, highly aggressive tumor, associated to asbestos exposure. To date no chemotherapy regimen for MM has proven to be definitively curative, and new therapies for MM treatment need to be developed. We have previously shown in vivo that piroxicam/cisplatin combined treatment in MM, specifically acts on cell cycle regulation triggering apoptosis, with survival increase.
We analyzed, at molecular level, the apoptotic increase caused by piroxicam/cisplatin treatment in MM cell lines. By means of genome wide analyses, we analyzed transcriptional gene deregulation both after the single piroxicam or cisplatin and the combined treatment. Here we show that apoptotic increase following combined treatment is mediated by p21, since apoptotic increase in piroxicam/cisplatin combined treatment is abolished upon p21 silencing.
Piroxicam/cisplatin combined treatment determines an apoptosis increase in MM cells, which is dependent on the p21 expression. The results provided suggest that piroxicam/cisplatin combination might be tested in clinical settings in tumor specimens that express p21.
Tacrolimus (FK) and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can cause acute nephrotoxicity. The expanding use of tacrolimus and the intense consumption of NSAIDS increase the chances of their simultaneous use.
Rats receiving a nonselective COX inhibitor (diclofenac, D) and FK or a selective COX-2 inhibitor (rofecoxib, RO) and FK were treated with FK (2 mg/kg/day), D (10 mg/kg/day), RO (3 mg/kg/day), FK+D, FK+RO and vehicle for 7 days on low-salt diet.
Both associations significantly impaired glomerular filtration rate (GFR; 0.63 +/- 0.06 ml/min/100 g in FK+D, 0.83 +/- 0.06 ml/min/100 g in FK+RO) which did not occur with single drug therapy (0.98 +/- 0.03 ml/min/100 g in D, 1.06 +/- 0.04 ml/min/100 g in RO, 0.99 +/- 0.05 ml/min/ 100 g in FK) or vehicle (1.10 +/- 0.05 ml/min/100 g). GFR decrease was significantly higher with FK+D. GFR impairment occurred without RBF or RVR major changes. Mild tubular vacuolization and dilatation and acute degenerative changes were observed in tubular cells. FK+D animals showed a marked weight loss, not observed in the other groups. FK+NSAIDs association decreased FK blood levels (1.73 +/- 0.3 ng/ml in FK+D, 1.8 +/- 0.3 ng/ml in FK+RO, 3.2 +/- 0.4 ng/ml in FK, p < 0.05).
The association of FK and nonselective or COX-2 selective NSAIDs in salt-depleted animals caused a significant GFR impairment and decreased FK blood levels.
