Cancer cells rely on angiogenesis for growth and dissemination, and small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is a highly angiogenic tumor. We evaluated thalidomide, an anti-angiogenic agent, when combined with chemotherapy and as maintenance treatment.
A total of 724 patients (51% with limited and 49% with extensive disease) were randomly assigned to receive placebo or thalidomide capsules, 100-200 mg daily for up to 2 years. All patients received etoposide and carboplatin every 3 weeks for up to six cycles. Endpoints were overall survival, progression-free survival, tumor response rate, toxicity, and quality of life (QoL). Hazard ratios (HRs) for comparing thalidomide against placebo were estimated using Cox regression modeling. Statistical tests were two-sided.
The median overall survival was 10.5 months (placebo) and 10.1 months (thalidomide) (HR for death = 1.09, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.93 to 1.27; P = .28). Among patients with limited-stage disease, there was no evidence of a survival difference (HR for death = 0.91, 95% CI = 0.73 to 1.15), but among patients with extensive disease, survival was worse in the thalidomide group (HR for death = 1.36, 95% CI = 1.10 to 1.68). Progression-free survival rates were also similar in the two groups (HR = 1.07, 95% CI = 0.92 to 1.24). Thalidomide was associated with an increased risk of having a thrombotic event, mainly pulmonary embolus and deep vein thrombosis (19% thalidomide vs 10% placebo; HR = 2.13, 95% CI = 1.41 to 3.20; P < .001). There were no statistically significant differences between treatments in hematological and nonhematological toxic effects, except more patients in the thalidomide group had rash, constipation, or neuropathy. Overall, QoL scores were similar in the two treatment groups, but thalidomide was associated with less insomnia and diarrhea and more constipation and peripheral neuropathy.
In this large randomized trial, thalidomide in combination with chemotherapy did not improve survival of patients with SCLC but was associated with an increased risk of thrombotic events.
Three patients with ankylosing spondylitis developed renal papillary necrosis. All had received prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors including phenylbutazone, indomethacin, or ibuprofen. One patient had sickle trait. These drugs are not commonly associated with papillary necrosis in man, but may adversely effect renal medullary blood flow. An underlying renal vascular abnormality related to ankylosing spondylitis is also considered. Patients with ankylosing spondylitis who are taking prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors should be routinely screened for hematuria.
A new synthetic retinoid, Am80, is effective in treating acute promyelocytic leukemia relapsed from all-trans-retinoic acid-induced complete remission (CR). We report here the long-term clinical outcomes of patients who achieved second CR with Am80. Of 24 evaluable patients, 14 achieved a second CR by Am80 therapy. Of those patients, 4 relapsed within 6 months, despite subsequent consolidation chemotherapy. Six patients underwent sibling or unrelated HLA-matched allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT), and 4 are alive without relase for more than 49 months after achieving second CR. Four of 8 patients who did not receive BMT are alive without relapse for more than 49 months. Promyelocytic leukemia-retinoic acid receptor alpha (PML-RAR alpha) fusion transcript was undetectable by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction in all living patients. Therefore, if patients achieve second CR with Am80 and HLA-matched donors are available, BMT is the treatment of choice. However, it is noteworthy that CR was maintained for more than 49 months in half of the patients who did not receive BMT.
Trimethadione was compared with chlordiazepoxide for anti-anxiety activity in two behavioral tests known to predict the anxiolytic action of drugs. In the drug-discrimination test, male hooded rats were trained to discriminate the anxiogenic action of pentylenetetrazol from saline by responding for food reinforcement on one of two levers after treatment with pentylenetetrazol (1450 mumol/kg) and on the other lever after injection of saline. Pretreatment with either chlordiazepoxide (2.8-33 mumol kg) or trimethadione (559-2236 mumol/kg) prior to the injection of pentylenetetrazol, produced a dose-dependent antagonism of the anxiogenic stimulus. In the other test, male Wistar rats were trained to respond for milk reinforcement in a conflict procedure in which some of the reinforced responses resulted in the delivery of footshock. Treatment of these rats with chlordiazepoxide (17-67 mumol/kg) or trimethadione (1118-2236 mumol/kg) antagonized the footshock-induced suppression of responding. In a receptor binding study, trimethadione failed to inhibit flunitrazepam binding. These data suggest that trimethadione is an effective anxiolytic agent whose action does not directly involve benzodiazepine receptors.
Among drugs recently introduced into Canada for treatment of gastrointestinal disease are carbenoxolone sodium (used in treating gastric ulcer) and metoclopramide hydrochloride (which modifies upper gastrointestinal tract motility). A third drug, lactulose (useful in treating hepatic encephalopathy), will soon be available. Clinical experience with these drugs has been most extensive in Europe. In a new class of agents are histamine H2-receptor antagonists, which are currently under clinical trial. These drugs are the most potent inhibitors of gastric acid secretion yet investigated, and are potentially the most exciting agents to appear in many years. Part I of this paper is a review of the actions, clinical use, side effects, and dosage and administration of these new drugs.
The ontogeny of tolerance to mu opiate antinociception and the behavioral and endocrine profiles of the opiate withdrawal syndrome were studied in rats. Animals were treated with saline or an increasing dose regimen of morphine for 5 days (5-25 mg/kg b.i.d. s.c.) and were tested 36 hr later for morphine or sufentanil antinociception in the hot-plate paw-lift test, or withdrawal was precipitated with 5 mg/kg of naloxone 12 hr after the last chronic morphine dose. Twenty-seven-, 20- and 15-day-old rats all developed tolerance as indicated by a rightward shift of the dose-response curve after chronic morphine. Animals treated on days 4 to 8 and tested on day 10 did not develop tolerance to the same chronic dose regimen used in older animals. In contrast to the observed developmental difference in tolerance, both neonatal and weanling rats developed physical dependence after morphine treatment, as evidenced by the presence of withdrawal symptoms after naloxone administration. Withdrawal in weanling rats was characterized by ptosis, piloerection, abnormal posture, forepaw treading, vocalization on touch and mastication. In addition, both serum corticosterone and adrenocorticotropic hormone secretion were increased during passive withdrawal. The behaviors constituting the withdrawal syndrome precipitated in neonates were distinct from those in weanling rats. Spontaneous vocalization, wall climbing, tremor, mouthing and increased locomotion were all observed. As in the older animals, both serum corticosterone and adrenocorticotropic hormone secretion were elevated during passive withdrawal. Tremor also was induced in opiate naive neonates when naloxone (5 mg/kg) was administered 2 hr after a single 25-mg/kg morphine injection. Brain and serum morphine levels and the time course of antinociception were not altered by chronic morphine treatment at any age. Saturation binding assays in brain homogenates indicated that chronic morphine did not produce changes in receptor number or affinity for the antagonist. The shift induced by the guanine nucleotide Gpp(NH)p (10 microM) from high to low affinity on days 27 and 10, respectively, was not altered by chronic morphine treatment. These data indicate that 10-day-old rats are refractory to developing tolerance relative to older animals, and that changes in receptor number or coupling to guanine nucleotide proteins do not accompany tolerance to this regimen.
We investigated the effects of tempol (4-hydroxy tempo), a membrane-permeable radical scavenger, on gentamicin-induced renal failure in rats. The rats were given gentamicin (100 mg/kg/day, i.p., once a day); and gentamicin (100 mg/kg/day, i.p.) and tempol (3.5, 7 or 14 mg/kg/day, i.p., once a day). At the end of 7 days, the gentamicin group produced the remarkable nephrotoxicity, characterized by a significantly decreased creatinine clearance and increased serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and daily urine volume when compared with controls. In control the BUN value was 21.2 +/- 0.07 (mg/100 mL); in comparison, it was 96.9 +/- 6.03 in gentamicin group (P < 0.05). Renal histopathologic examination confirmed acute tubular necrosis in this group. In rats treated with gentamicin and tempol a partial improvement in biochemical and histologic parameters was observed. BUN values were 96.9 +/- 6.03 and 36.3 +/- 2.39 in gentamicin, and gentamicin plus tempol (14 mg/kg) treated groups, respectively (P < 0.05). These results suggest that the administration of tempol may have a protective effect on gentamicin-induced nephrotoxicity in rats.
Impaired flow-mediated dilation (FMD) occurs prior to clinical disease in young cigarette smokers. We investigated two potential biomarkers of FMD: serum aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) activity and RBC omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids in healthy young Hispanic cigarette smokers. We recruited never (n=16) and current (n=16) Hispanic smokers (32 ± 7 years old), excluding individuals with clinical cardiovascular disease. We measured FMD with duplex ultrasound, RBC fatty acids and serum AHR activity using a luciferase reporter assay. FMD was significantly impaired in smokers (5.8 ± 4%) versus never smokers (12.3 ± 7.4%, p=0.001). Serum AHR activity was significantly increased in smokers (1467 ± 358 relative light units (RLU)) versus never smokers (689 ± 251 RLU, p<0.001), and correlated positively with FMD only in smokers (r=0.691, p<0.004). RBC percentage of α-linolenic acid (ALA%) was significantly increased in smokers (0.14 ± 0.03%) versus never smokers (0.11 ± 0.03%, p=0.018), and correlated inversely with FMD only in smokers (r=-0.538, p=0.03). The combination of serum AHR activity, ALA%, and systolic blood pressure significantly correlated with FMD in a multivariable regression model (r=0.802, p<0.008). These results suggest that serum AHR activity and RBC ALA% could serve as biomarkers of FMD in healthy, young Hispanic cigarette smokers.
Critical hemodynamic changes that are observed with the reduction of blood pressure in shock and the use of vasopressor agents as a temporary measure for maintaining arterial pressure so that irreparable tissue damage can be prevented are considered in this review of the use and efficacy of vasopressor agents in shock. Indications for adrenergic stimulators include severe hypotensive episodes, in which case an alpha-beta stimulator such as metaraminol or norepinephrine is the therapy of choice; hemorrhagic shock, in which administration of an alpha-beta stimulator will help maintain essential cerebral and cardiac function by shunting blood to these areas while volume is being replaced; cardiogenic shock, in which vasodilators may reduce cardiac work by reducing diastolic blood pressure but coronary blood flow will also be reduced, counteracting the effects of decreasing the cardiac load; and endotoxic shock, in which the circulating blood volume decreases and venous return and cardiac output also decrease. Prolonged use of these agents in any of these shock situations is ultimately deleterious. Vasopressor drugs are best used to treat acute hypotension that occurs in myocardial infarction; in such cses, vasopressors are used to keep the blood pressure within normal range, but only as adjunctive therapy. In hemorrhagic shock, though norepinephrine administration may increase blood pressure, the only lasting treatment is to replace the blood as rapidly as possible.
Despite the significance of cigarette smoke for carcinogenesis, the molecular mechanisms that lead to increased susceptibility of human cancers are not well-understood. In our present study, the oncogenic transforming effects of cigarette smoke condensate (CSC) were examined using papillomavirus-immortalized human bronchial epithelial cells (BEP2D). Growth kinetics, saturation density, resistance to serum-induced terminal differentiation, anchorage-independent growth and tumorigenicity in nude mice were used to investigate the various stages of transformation in BEP2D cells. Illumina microarray platforms were used to explore the CSC-induced alteration of global mRNA expression profiles of the earlier period and the advanced stage of CSC-treated BEP2D cells. We showed here that a series of sequential steps arose among CSC-treated immortalized human bronchial epithelial cells, including altered growth kinetics, resistance to serum-induced terminal differentiation, and anchorage-independence growth. In the earlier period of CSC treatment, 265 genes were down-regulated and 63 genes were up-regulated, respectively, and in the advanced stage of CSC treatment, 313 genes were down-regulated and 145 genes were up-regulated, respectively. Notably, among those genes, the expression of some of imprinted genes such as IGF2, NDN, H19 and MEG3 were all silenced or down-regulated in CSC-treated cells. These genes reactivated after 5 microM 5-aza-2-deoxycytidine (5-aza-dC) treatment. These results demonstrated that long-term treatment of human bronchial epithelial cells with CSC may adversely affect their genetic and epigenetic integrity and lead to further transformation.
Cadmium (Cd) is an embryotoxic and teratogenic metal in a variety of animal species, but data from humans are limited.
The aim of the present study was to assess the effects of maternal Cd exposure in pregnancy on size at birth.
This prospective cohort study was nested in a population-based nutritional supplementation trial in pregnancy conducted in rural Bangladesh. We selected women recruited from February 2002 through January 2003 who had a singleton birth with measurements of size at birth and had donated a urine sample in early pregnancy for Cd analyses (n = 1,616). Urinary Cd was measured with inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry and adjusted for specific gravity.
Multiple linear regression analyses adjusted for sex and other potential confounders showed that maternal urinary Cd (median, 0.63 μg/L) was significantly negatively associated with birth weight [unstandardized regression coefficient B = -31.0; 95% confidence interval (CI): -59, -2.8] and head circumference (B = -0.15; 95% CI: -0.27, -0.026). However, associations appeared to be limited to girls, with little evidence of effects in boys. A 1-μg/L increase in Cd in maternal urine was associated with a 0.26-cm (95% CI: -0.43, -0.088 cm) and 0.24-cm (95% CI: -0.44, -0.030 cm) decrease in girls' head and chest circumferences, respectively, and a 45-g (95% CI: -82.5, 7.3 g) decrease in birth weight. Quantile regression analyses indicated that associations with maternal Cd were similar for girls of smaller (25th percentile) and larger (50th and 75th percentiles) sizes at birth.
We found evidence of a sex difference in the association between maternal Cd exposure and birth size, which was apparent only in girls. Results add support for the need to reduce Cd pollution to improve public health.
Several cases of cardiac adverse reactions related to vinorelbine (VNR) have been reported in the literature. In order to quantify the incidence of these cardiac events, we performed a meta-analysis of clinical trials comparing VNR with other chemotherapeutic agents in the treatment of various malignancies. Randomized clinical trials comparing VNR with other drugs in the treatment of cancer were searched in Medline, Embase, Evidence-based Medicine Reviews databases and the Cochrane library from 1987 to 2002. Outcomes of interest were severe cardiac events, toxic deaths and cardiac event-related deaths reported in each publication. We found 19 trials, involving 2441 patients treated by VNR and 2050 control patients. The incidence of cardiac events with VNR was 1.19% [95% confidence interval (CI) (0.75; 1.67)]. There was no difference in the risk of cardiac events between VNR and other drugs [odds ratio: 0.92, 95% CI (0.54; 1.55)]. The risk of VNR cardiac events was similar to vindesine (VDS) and other cardiotoxic drugs [fluorouracil, anthracyclines, gemcitabine (GEM) em leader ]. Even if it did not reach statistical significance because of a few number of cases, the risk was lower in trials excluding patients with cardiac history, and seemed to be higher in trials including patients with pre-existing cardiac diseases. Vinorelbine-related cardiac events concern about 1% of treated patients in clinical trials. However, the risk associated with VNR seems to be similar to that of other chemotherapeutic agents in the same indications.
This study evaluated the association between negative affective symptoms during initial abstinence and euphorigenic response to experimentally administered cocaine. Cocaine-dependent individuals achieved 5 days of abstinence in a hospital setting. Forty milligrams of cocaine was given intravenously on the fifth day of abstinence, and participants were asked to rate the subjective effects produced by the drug. The associations between irritability, self-reported depression, and the subjective "high" produced by cocaine were evaluated. Increased levels of irritability and depression both correlated positively and statistically significantly with heightened response to experimentally administered cocaine as indexed by self-reported subjective "high." The positive association between irritability and subjective "high" remained after controlling for self-reported depressive symptoms. The opponent process model predicts that increased levels of negative affect should be associated with diminished euphoric response to cocaine; however, the opposite was observed. If these findings are replicated in a larger sample, then it may be necessary to reconsider the applicability of the opponent process model to cocaine addiction in humans.
We present a patient with tremor-dominant hemiparkinsonism after a focal lesion to the substantia nigra. An excellent response to levodopa was complicated by rapid development of motor fluctuations and disabling dyskinesias. Stereotactic thalamotomy resulted in a persistent extinction of parkinsonism and of dyskinesias along with stopping dopaminergic treatment.
We evaluated the efficacy of piperacillin-pefloxacin as a non-nephrotoxic antibiotic combination in febrile neutropenic cancer patients treated with nephrotoxic chemotherapy. 40 patients: 34 with solid tumours and 6 with non-Hodgkin lymphoma, were treated during 55 episodes with: piperacillin 4 g intravenously every 8 h and pefloxacin 400 mg intravenously every 12 h. If the patient remained febrile after 72 h, 1 g vancomycin intravenously was added every 12 h. The mean duration of neutropenia was 7 days (range 3-13). Infection was microbiologically documented in 13 episodes (8 gram-positive cocci and 7 gram-negative bacilli). Temperature became normal in 38 patients with piperacillin-pefloxacin and 12 further episodes were resolved by the addition of vancomycin. 2 patients had an early change of antibiotics because of clinical deterioration, there were 2 protocol violations and 1 patient's temperature became normal after the addition of amphotericin. Neither septic death nor toxicity were observed. We conclude that this empirical treatment is active and safe and warrants further comparative trials.
To compare the effects on sexual functioning and the antidepressant efficacy of once-daily bupropion extended release (XL) and escitalopram in adults with major depressive disorder (MDD).
Adult outpatients with moderate to severe DSM-IV-defined MDD and normal sexual functioning were randomly assigned to receive bupropion XL (300-450 mg/day; N = 276), escitalopram (10-20 mg/day; N = 281), or placebo (N = 273) for up to 8 weeks in 2 identically designed, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group studies (study 1 conducted from February 6, 2003, to June 10, 2004; study 2 conducted from January 21, 2003, to June 15, 2004). Data were analyzed prospectively for each study individually, and pooled data were analyzed retrospectively.
In both the individual studies and the pooled dataset, the incidence of orgasm dysfunction at week 8 (primary endpoint) and the incidence of worsened sexual functioning at the end of the treatment period were statistically significantly lower with bupropion XL than with escitalopram (p < .05), not statistically different between bupropion XL and placebo (p > or = .067), and statistically significantly higher with escitalopram than with placebo (p < or = .001). The percentages of patients with orgasm dysfunction at week 8 in study 1, study 2, and the pooled dataset, respectively, were 13%, 16%, and 15% with bupropion XL; 32%, 29%, and 30% with escitalopram; and 11%, 8%, and 9% with placebo. The respective percentages of patients with worsened sexual functioning at the end of the treatment period were 18%, 22%, and 20% with bupropion XL; 37%, 34%, and 36% with escitalopram; and 14%, 16%, and 15% with placebo. Mean changes in Changes in Sexual Functioning Questionnaire scores for all domains at week 8 were statistically significantly worse for escitalopram compared with bupropion XL (p < or = .05). Separation from placebo could not be established at a statistical .05 level for bupropion on 17-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D-17) total score. However, escitalopram showed statistical superiority to placebo on HAM-D-17 total score in one of the 2 studies and in the pooled data. Bupropion XL did not statistically differ from escitalopram with respect to mean change in HAM-D-17 total score, HAM-D-17 response or remission rates, percentage of patients much or very much improved on Clinical Global Impressions-Improvement scale scores, or mean changes in the Hospital Anxiety and Depression (HAD) scale total score or Clinical Global Impressions-Severity of Illness scale score at week 8.
Bupropion XL had a sexual tolerability profile significantly better than that of escitalopram with similar HAM-D-17 remission rates and HAD total scores in patients with MDD.
Renpenning syndrome represents a prototypic X-linked mental retardation condition with full expression of the phenotype in males and little or no expression in females. The predominant clinical findings are microcephaly, long narrow face, short stature with lean body build, and small testes. Mental retardation, usually of severe degree, occurs in 95% of cases. Less than 20% of cases have major malformations, the most common being cardiac defects and cleft palate. Subsequent to the description of mutations in the polyglutamine tract binding protein 1 (PQBP1) in Sutherland-Haan syndrome, Hamel cerebropalatocardiac syndrome, MRX55, and two small XLMR families, a single nucleotide insertion has been found in the original family with Renpenning syndrome and an AGAG deletion in a second family with the Renpenning syndrome. Mutations have also been found in Golabi-Ito-Hall syndrome, Porteous syndrome, and an additional small family. It is now demonstrated that five named XLMR syndromes (Sutherland-Haan, Hamel cerebropalatocardiac, Golabi-Ito-Hall, Porteous, and Renpenning), one nonsyndromic family (MRX55), and three small XLMR families have PQBP1 mutations and are thus allelic XLMR entities. In acknowledgement of the historical importance of the original report of Renpenning syndrome [1962], we propose that the entities with PQBP1 mutations be combined under the name of Renpenning syndrome.
The global rise in prevalence of obesity is not fully explained by genetics or life style factors. The developmental origins of health and disease paradigm suggests that environmental factors during early life could play a role. In this perspective, perinatal exposure to bisphenol A (BPA) has been indicated as a programming factor for obesity and related metabolic disorders later in life. Here we study early life programming by BPA using an experimental design that is relevant for human exposure. C57BL/6JxFVB hybrid mice were exposed during gestation and lactation via maternal feed to 8 non-toxic doses (0-3000 μg/kg body weight/day (μg/kg bw/d)) of BPA. After weaning, offspring were followed for 20 weeks without further exposure. Adult male offspring showed dose-dependent increases of body and liver weights, no effects on fat pad weights and a dose-dependent decrease in circulating glucagon. Female offspring showed a dose-dependent decrease in body weight, liver, muscle and fat pad weights, adipocyte size, serum lipids, serum leptin and adiponectin. Physical activity was decreased in exposed males and suggested to be increased in exposed females. Brown adipose tissue showed slightly increased lipid accumulation in males and lipid depletion in females, and ucp1 expression was dose-dependently increased in females. The effects in females were more reliable and robust than in males due to wide confidence intervals and potential confounding by litter size for male data. The lowest derived BMDL (lower bound of the (two-sided) 90%-confidence interval for the benchmark dose) of 233 μg/kg bw/d (for interscapular weight in females) was below the proposed BMDL of 3633 μg/kg bw/d as a basis for tolerable daily intake. Although these results suggest that BPA can program for an altered metabolic phenotype, the sexual dimorphism of effects and diversity of outcomes among studies similar in design as the present study do not mark BPA as a specific obesogen. The consistency within the complex of observed metabolic effects suggests that upstream key element(s) in energy homeostasis are modified. Sex-dependent factors contribute to the final phenotypic outcome.
A 10-year-old girl was treated for an acute asthmatic attack with ventilation and a high-dose steroids regimen. An areflexic paralysis of the four limbs was noted when artificial ventilatory support was withdrawn. Electromyography and a muscle biopsy revealed marked myopathic features. We discuss the unusual presentation of an acute steroid-induced myopathy in an asthmatic patient.
We report on a patient who developed acute intravascular immune haemolysis while receiving carbimazole. Serological studies revealed a strongly (3+) and a discretely positive (1+) direct antiglobulin test due to C3d and IgG respectively, and a very weak IgG autoantibody in the eluates. Serum from the patient contained specific carbimazole-dependent red blood cell (RBC) antibodies which reacted with all normal human RBC in the presence of free carbimazole as well as with RBC coated with the drug either in vitro or in vivo, although carbimazole itself is not detectable in plasma after oral administration. The results provide direct evidence for the sequence of the drug-RBC-antibody interaction and show that the RBC (and not plasma proteins) function as 'carrier-like' macromolecules in the immune response.
Prompted by recent demonstrations that all-trans-retinoic acid (all-trans-RA) had efficacy in acute promyelocytic leukemia, a phase I trial of all-trans-RA was conducted to establish the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) before phase II testing.
Forty patients with a histologic or cytologic diagnosis of malignancy other than leukemia were treated with single daily oral doses of all-trans-RA ranging from 45 mg/m2 to 200 mg/m2. Doses of all-trans-RA were escalated in the next cohort of patients until the MTD was determined if the preceding dose level was not associated with significant toxicity.
Lung cancer was the most common type of tumor included in the study (26 cases) followed by head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (three cases), and squamous cell carcinoma of the skin (two cases); other miscellaneous solid tumors were also represented. Toxicities included cheilitis, skin reactions, headache, and nausea and vomiting, as well as transient elevations of liver enzymes and triglyceride levels. Skin toxicities, consisting of erythema with desquamation and paronychia, were considered to be the dose-limiting toxicity, and were observed in two of six patients who received 175 mg/m2/d, and in two of five patients who received 200 mg/m2/d. Of the 30 patients with assessable lesions, response was evaluated in 26 patients and no major objective tumor response was observed. Two patients were able to receive the drug for longer than 1 year without significant toxicities. There was considerable variation in individual patients' peak plasma all-trans-RA levels, and a decrease in the area under the curve of all-trans-RA plasma concentration was observed in all four patients evaluated.
For phase II study of adult patients, we recommend 150 mg/m2 of all-trans-RA administered orally once a day. However, for better optimization of drug administration schedules, further studies are needed.
This (1)H nuclear magnetic resonance metabonomics study was aimed to determine urinary biomarkers of cholestasis resulting from inhibition of biliary secretion of bile or obstruction of bile flow. To inhibit biliary secretion of bile, cyclosporine A was administered to male Sprague-Dawley rats. Obstruction of bile flow was induced by administration of 4,4'-methylene dianiline, alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate or bile duct ligation. Clinical pathological and histopathological examinations were performed to confirm cholestatic injury and (1)H nuclear magnetic resonance spectral data for urine samples were analysed to determine similarities and differences in profiles of metabolites using the Spotfire. In cyclosporine A-treated groups, serum total bilirubin and bile acid were significantly increased but no remarkable hepatic histopathological-changes were observed. In 4,4'-methylene dianiline-, alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate- and bile duct ligation-treated groups, serum alkaline phosphatase, gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase and total bilirubin levels increased significantly, and hepatic histopathological-changes were observed. On urinary (1)H nuclear magnetic resonance spectral analysis, area intensities derived from 0.66 to 1.90 ppm were decreased by cyclosporine A, whereas they were increased by other treatments. These metabolites were identified using the NMR suite as bile acids, branched-chain amino acids, n-butyrate, propionate, methyl malonate and valerate. These metabolites were further investigated by K-means clustering analysis. The cluster of these metabolites is considered to be altered by cholestasis. We conclude that bile acids, valine and methyl malonate have a possibility to be urinary cholestatic biomarkers, which distinguish a difference in mechanism of toxicity. (1)H nuclear magnetic resonance metabonomics thus appears to be useful for determining the mechanisms of toxicity and can be front-loaded in drug safety evaluation and biomarker discovery.
With puromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephrotic syndrome (NS) in rats, twofold elevated levels of lipoproteins were observed. These levels were not related to proteinuria or to plasma albumin levels. Ultrastructural lesions induced in the kidneys by puromycin aminonucleoside were consistent with NS, while there was little or no hepatic involvement. Apolipoprotein B (apo B) kinetic measurements using homologous 125I-labeled low density lipoproteins (LDL) demonstrated a higher synthetic rate in nephrotic rats relative to controls (6.18 +/- 1.86 micrograms x g-1 x d-1 v 3.94 +/- 0.66 micrograms x g-1 x d-1 respectively, P less than .005), while the fractional catabolic rate was only marginally reduced (1.64 +/- 0.28 pools x day-1 in NS v 1.83 +/- 0.37 pools x day-1 in controls, P less than 0.4). These results indicate that in rats with experimentally induced NS, the expanded apo B-LDL pool results from increased synthesis of this apoprotein while no significant role can be ascribed to alterations in its catabolism. These data are consistent with our preliminary findings in NS in humans.
Cardiovascular (CV) toxicity is a leading contributor to drug attrition. Implementing earlier testing has successfully reduced human Ether-à-go-go-Related Gene-related arrhythmias. How- ever, analogous assays targeting functional CV effects remain elusive. Demand to address this gap is particularly acute for kinase inhibitors (KIs) that suffer frequent CV toxicity. The drug class also presents some particularly challenging requirements for assessing functional CV toxicity. Specifically, an assay must sense a downstream response that integrates diverse kinase signaling pathways. In addition, sufficient throughput is essential for handling inherent KI nonselectivity. A new opportunity has emerged with cellular impedance technology, which detects spontaneous beating cardiomyocytes. Impedance assays sense morphology changes downstream of cardiomyocyte contraction. To evaluate cardiomyocyte impedance assays for KI screening, we investigated two distinct KI classes where CV toxicity was discovered late and target risks remain unresolved. Microtubule-associated protein/microtubule affinity regulating kinase (MARK) inhibitors decrease blood pressure in dogs, whereas checkpoint kinase (Chk) inhibitors (AZD7762, SCH900776) exhibit dose-limiting CV toxicities in clinical trials. These in vivo effects manifested in vitro as cardiomyocyte beat cessation. MARK effects were deemed mechanism associated because beat inhibition potencies correlated with kinase inhibition, and gene knockdown and microtubule-targeting agents suppressed beating. MARK inhibitor impedance and kinase potencies aligned with rat blood pressure effects. Chk inhibitor effects were judged off-target because Chk and beat inhibition potencies did not correlate and knockdowns did not alter beating. Taken together, the data demonstrate that cardiomyocyte impedance assays can address three unmet needs-detecting KI functional cardiotoxicity in vitro, determining mechanism of action, and supporting safety structure-activity relationships.
Abnormalities in glutaminergic neural transmission have been suggested to be involved in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. A recent study reported that alterations in the 5-HT2A-mGluR2 complex may be involved in neural transmission in the schizophrenic cortex. In addition, methamphetamine-induced psychosis is thought to be similar to schizophrenia. Therefore, we conducted a case-control study with Japanese samples (738 schizophrenia patients, 196 methamphetamine-induced psychosis patients, and 802 controls) to evaluate the association and interaction between GRM2, HTR2A and schizophrenia.
We selected three 'tagging SNPs' in GRM2, and two biologically functional SNPs in HTR2A (T102C and A1438G), for the association analysis.
We detected a significant association between methamphetamine-induced psychosis and GRM2 in a haplotype-wise analysis, but not HTR2A. We did not detect an association between GRM2 or HTR2A and schizophrenia. In addition, no interactions of GRM2 and HTR2A were found in methamphetamine-induced psychosis or schizophrenia. We did not detect any novel polymorphisms in GRM2 when we performed a mutation search using methamphetamine-induced psychosis samples.
Our results suggested that GRM2 may play a role in the pathophysiology of methamphetamine-induced psychosis but not schizophrenia in the Japanese population. A replication study using larger samples or samples of other populations will be required for conclusive results.
Human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the major causes of death worldwide. Targeted uptake of therapeutic agent in the cell-, tissue- or disease-specific manner represents a potential technology for the treatment of HCC. A new docetaxel-loaded hepatoma-targeted solid lipid nanoparticle (tSLN) was designed and prepared with galactosylated dioleoylphosphatidyl ethanolamine. The cellular cytotoxicity, cellular uptake, subcellular localization, in vivo toxicity, therapeutic effect, biodistribution and histology of tSLNs were investigated. The tSLNs showed the particle size about 120nm with encapsulation efficiency >90%, a low burst effect within the first day and a sustained release for the next 29 days in vitro. Cytotoxicity of tSLNs against hepatocellular carcinoma cell line BEL7402 was superior to Taxotere and non-targeted SLNs (nSLNs). The tSLNs also showed better tolerant and antitumor efficacy in murine model bearing hepatoma compared with Taxotere or nSLNs. The studies on cellular uptake and biodistribution indicated that the better antitumor efficacy of tSLNs was attributed to both the increased accumulation of drug in tumor and more cellular uptake by hepatoma cells. The histology demonstrated that tSLNs had no detrimental effect on both healthy liver and liver with fibrosis. These results implied that this targeted nanocarrier of docetaxel could enhance its antitumor effect in vivo with low systemic toxicity for the treatment of locally advanced and metastatic HCC.
