Alterations of norepinephrine transporter (NET) function by chronic inhibition of NET in relation to sensitization to seizures induce by cocaine and local anesthetics were studied in mice. Daily administration of desipramine, an inhibitor of the NET, for 5 days decreased [(3)H]norepinephrine uptake in the P2 fractions of hippocampus but not cortex, striatum or amygdalae. Co-administration of lidocaine, bupivacaine or tricaine with desipramine reversed this effect. Daily treatment of cocaine increased [(3)H]norepinephrine uptake into the hippocampus. Daily administration of desipramine increased the incidence of appearance of lidocaine-induced convulsions and decreased that of cocaine-induced convulsions. Co-administration of lidocaine with desipramine reversed the changes of convulsive activity of lidocaine and cocaine induced by repeated administration of desipramine. These results suggest that down-regulation of hippocampal NET induced by chronic administration of desipramine may be relevant to desipramine-induced sensitization of lidocaine convulsions. Inhibition of Na(+) channels by local anesthetics may regulate desipramine-induced down-regulation of NET function. Repeated administration of cocaine induces up-regulation of hippocampal NET function. Desipramine-induced sensitization of lidocaine seizures may have a mechanism distinct from kindling resulting from repeated administration of cocaine.
To compare the effects of intravenous ibuprofen and indomethacin for treatment of patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) on urinary antidiuretic hormone (ADH) excretion, as a cause of oliguria.
Forty-four respiratory distress syndrome prematures (<or=34 weeks' gestation) with PDA received either ibuprofen (n = 22) in an initial dose of 10 mg/kg followed by two doses of 5 mg/kg each after 24 and 48 h or three doses at 12-hour intervals of indomethacin (n = 24), 0.2 mg/kg, both infused continuously over a period of 15 min. Urinary ADH excretion, diuresis, serum creatinine, urinary sodium, fractional excretion of sodium, and urinary osmolality were measured before and after treatment.
Indomethacin treatment caused a significant decrease in urinary ADH excretion (21.8 +/- 20.8 vs. 13.8 +/- 12.9 pg/ml; p < 0.05), along with a significant reduction in urinary sodium (92.1 +/- 36.1 vs. 64.8 +/- 35.6; p < 0.05), fractional excretion of sodium (68.5 +/- 37.1 vs. 45.6 +/- 37.1; p < 0.05), and urinary osmolality (276.2 +/- 103.9 vs. 226.4 +/- 60.3; p < 0.05). Ibuprofen treatment did not modify urinary ADH excretion and caused a statistically insignificant decrease in urinary sodium and in fractional excretion of sodium.
Compared with ibuprofen, indomethacin caused a significant reduction in urinary ADH excretion and a significant decrease in urinary sodium and osmolality.
A fatal incident during combined anticonvulsive therapy with ACTH and Dexamethason prompted us to reevaluate our treatment results in 19 children suffering from infantile spasms. We followed Doose's recommendation using Clonazepam as a means of first choice. Failing that, than Dexamethason and Primidone was used. A combination of ACTH, Dexamethason and Primidone was administered to patients failing both treatment courses. Our results question the necessity, the tolerance limit and the efficacy of this treatment schedule. Therefore we propose a prospective multicentric study to reinvestigate the therapeutic guideliness for infantile spasms.
Iron perturbations are frequently observed in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). We aimed to investigate a potential association of copper status with disturbances of iron homeostasis in NAFLD.
We retrospectively studied 140 NAFLD patients and 25 control subjects. Biochemical and hepatic iron and copper parameters were analyzed. Hepatic expression of iron regulatory molecules was investigated in liver biopsy specimens by reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction and Western blot analysis.
NAFLD patients had lower hepatic copper concentrations than control subjects (21.9 +/- 9.8 vs 29.6 +/- 5.1 microg/g; P = .002). NAFLD patients with low serum and liver copper concentrations presented with higher serum ferritin levels (606.7 +/- 265.8 vs 224.2 +/- 176.0 mg/L; P < .001), increased prevalence of siderosis in liver biopsy specimens (36/46 vs 10/47 patients; P < .001), and with elevated hepatic iron concentrations (1184.4 +/- 842.7 vs 319.9 +/- 451.3 microg/g; P = .020). Lower serum concentrations of the copper-dependent ferroxidase ceruloplasmin (21.7 +/- 4.1 vs 30.4 +/- 6.4 mg/dL; P < .001) and decreased liver ferroportin (FP-1; P = .009) messenger RNA expression were found in these patients compared with NAFLD patients with high liver or serum copper concentrations. Accordingly, in rats, a reduced dietary copper intake was paralleled by a decreased hepatic FP-1 protein expression.
A significant proportion of NAFLD patients should be considered copper deficient. Our results indicate that copper status is linked to iron homeostasis in NAFLD, suggesting that low copper bioavailability causes increased hepatic iron stores via decreased FP-1 expression and ceruloplasmin ferroxidase activity thus blocking liver iron export in copper-deficient subjects.
We describe an unusual, and probably underrecognized manifestation of intramuscular narcotic abuse. Fibrous myopathy is a deforming, fibrous infiltration of the muscles used for injection over a prolonged period. It is usually associated with pentazocine or meperidine injections, and to our knowledge, this is the first report of butorphanol causing the entity.
Electron microscopic features of muscle biopsies from 13 human immunodeficiency (HIV)-positive patients who had myopathy while receiving zidovudine (AZT) were compared with biopsies from five patients with HIV-induced myopathy who were not treated with AZT. All specimens showed disorganization of the myofibrillar structures, along with a varying degree of nemaline (rod) bodies, vacuolization, inflammation, and endothelial tubuloreticular profiles. One untreated and all AZT-treated patients had cytoplasmic bodies, which in the latter were abundant, large, and irregular. Two untreated patients had a peculiar osmiophilic destruction of the muscle fibers, with numerous tubuloreticular profiles in the endothelial cells and brisk inflammation that included lymphoplasmatoid cells. The AZT-treated group had ubiquitous abnormal mitochondria that complemented the presence of ragged red fibers seen by light microscopy. There was subsarcolemmal proliferation of mitochondria, with marked variation in size and shape and proliferation or disorganization of their cristae. Paracrystalline inclusions were seen in one patient. Blind re-examination of the electron micrographs showed abnormal mitochondria that readily distinguished patients with AZT-associated myopathy from those with untreated HIV-induced myopathy. Immunocytochemistry using antibodies to single- and double-stranded DNA revealed severe reduction of mitochondrial DNA compared with the normal nuclear DNA. Although the myopathies associated with HIV and AZT share common myopathologic features, the mitochondrial abnormalities are unique to the AZT-treated patients. Since mitochondrial DNA is specifically reduced, the structural changes noted on electron microscopy are probably associated with mitochondrial dysfunction. Zidovudine, a DNA chain terminator that inhibits the mitochondrial gamma-DNA polymerase, is toxic to muscle mitochondria.
To explore the inducing method for hepatic carcinoma in rats and the operative technique in establishment of orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) model in rats with induced hepatic tumor.
Hepatic carcinoma was induced by diethylnitrosamine (DENA) in rats. Then OLT was performed, using a two-cuff vessel anastomosis method modified from that introduced by Kamada, with reconstruction of hepatic artery.
At the observation time point (18 weeks) after the initiation of carcinogenesis, the one-month survival rate in OLT group was higher than that in non-OLT group, 56.3% and 21.4% respectively, P < 0.05. The operative successful rate in tumor rats group and control group was 87.5% and 90.0%, respectively. In OLT rats with hepatic carcinoma group, metastasis mainly occurred in lung and abdomen, while only 2 cases of intrahepatic recurrence were observed. There was significant difference between the tumor rats group and control group in cum survival rate.
DENA can wholesale induce stable rat model for hepatic carcinoma. OLT can markedly elevate survival rate in rats with liver cancer. In rats with induced hepatic tumor, OLT model, suggested by the author, was established with hepatic arterial reconstruction and it offers a satisfied method with more similar pattern of physiological setting and carcinoma development situation.
In a 48-years old woman, intermittent rifampicin treatment induced an immunoallergic reaction with digestive disorders, haemolysis, acute renal failure and prolonged prothrombin time. The reintroduction of rifampicin, 17 days later, resulted in a similar, though more severe, reaction associated with diffuse haemorrhages from disseminated intravascular coagulation, this association being exceptional. The responsibility of rifampicin was demonstrated by the chronological relationship between clinical symptoms and administration of the drug, and by the presence in the patient's serum of anti-rifampicin antibodies. The antigen-antibody reaction with complement activation and haemolysis probably explains the disseminated intravascular coagulation.
Chronic ingestion of high concentrations of hexavalent chromium [Cr(VI)] in drinking water induces intestinal tumors in mice. To investigate the mode of action (MOA) underlying these tumors, a 90-day drinking water study was conducted using similar exposure conditions as in a previous cancer bioassay, as well as lower (heretofore unexamined) drinking water concentrations. Tissue samples were collected in mice exposed for 7 or 90 days and subjected to histopathological, biochemical, toxicogenomic, and toxicokinetic analyses. Described herein are the results of toxicokinetic, biochemical, and pathological findings. Following 90 days of exposure to 0.3-520 mg/l of sodium dichromate dihydrate (SDD), total chromium concentrations in the duodenum were significantly elevated at ≥ 14 mg/l. At these concentrations, significant decreases in the reduced-to-oxidized glutathione ratio (GSH/GSSG) were observed. Beginning at 60 mg/l, intestinal lesions were observed including villous cytoplasmic vacuolization. Atrophy, apoptosis, and crypt hyperplasia were evident at ≥ 170 mg/l. Protein carbonyls were elevated at concentrations ≥ 4 mg/l SDD, whereas oxidative DNA damage, as assessed by 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine, was not increased in any treatment group. Significant decreases in the GSH/GSSG ratio and similar histopathological lesions as observed in the duodenum were also observed in the jejunum following 90 days of exposure. Cytokine levels (e.g., interleukin-1β) were generally depressed or unaltered at the termination of the study. Overall, the data suggest that Cr(VI) in drinking water can induce oxidative stress, villous cytotoxicity, and crypt hyperplasia in the mouse intestine and may underlie the MOA of intestinal carcinogenesis in mice.
The major pathological lesion of Parkinson's disease (PD) is the selective cell death of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in substantia nigra (SN). Although the initial cause and subsequent molecular signaling mechanisms leading to DA cell death underlying the PD process remain elusive, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is thought to exert neuroprotective as well as neurotrophic roles for the survival and differentiation of DA neurons in SN. Addressing molecular mechanisms of BDNF action in both primary embryonic mesencephalic cultures and in vivo animal models has been technically difficult because DA neurons in SN are relatively rare and present with many heterogeneous cell populations in midbrain. We have developed and characterized a DA neuronal cell line of embryonic SN origin that is more accessible to molecular analysis and can be used as an in vitro model system for studying SN DA neurons. A clonal SN DA neuronal progenitor cell line SN4741, arrested at an early DA developmental stage, was established from transgenic mouse embryos containing the targeted expression of the thermolabile SV40Tag in SN DA neurons. The phenotypic and morphological differentiation of the SN4741 cells could be manipulated by environmental cues in vitro. Exogenous BDNF treatment produced significant neuroprotection against 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium, glutamate, and nitric oxide-induced neurotoxicity in the SN4741 cells. Simultaneous phosphorylation of receptor tyrosine kinase B accompanied the neuroprotection. This SN DA neuronal cell line provides a unique model system to circumvent the limitations associated with primary mesencephalic cultures for the elucidation of molecular mechanisms of BDNF action on DA neurons of the SN.
The aim of our studies was to evaluate the effect of acute treatment in hypertensive emergencies and of chronic and acute treatment in uncomplicated hypertensives with calcium antagonists on blood pressure (BP) and cerebral blood flow (CBF). Ten patients with high blood pressure requiring emergency reduction were randomized to treatment with oral nifedipine or intravenous clonidine. The effect on CBF was investigated using xenon-133. Twenty-one patients with mild to moderate hypertension were randomly assigned to nitrendipine (n = 10) and to verapamil treatment for 4 weeks. After 14 days of washout, all patients received chlorthalidone for 4 weeks. CBF was measured before calcium antagonists, after 4 weeks, after washout, and after 4 weeks of chlorthalidone. Until now, five patients with mild to moderate hypertension entered in an ongoing study. After 14 days of placebo, CBF and BP reduction were measured 2 h and 6 weeks after nitrendipine. In hypertensive emergencies, nifedipine and clonidine lowered BP significantly, whereas CBF increased after nifedipine and decreased after clonidine. After chronic treatment with nitrendipine and verapamil and after chlorthalidone, the BP-lowering effect was significant whereas CBF remained unchanged. Two hours after nitrendipine, BP decreased and CBF remained unchanged. The reason for increasing CBF in hypertensive emergencies after nifedipine is due to its spasmolytic effect on cerebral vessels. The unchanged CBF after short- and long-term treatment with nitrendipine is due to the fact that in these patients the autoregulatory mechanism is intact.
L-DOPA is the most widely used treatment for Parkinson's disease. The anti-parkinsonian and pro-dyskinetic actions of L-DOPA are widely attributed to its conversion, by the enzyme aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC), to dopamine. We investigated the hypothesis that exogenous L-DOPA can induce behavioural effects without being converted to dopamine in the reserpine-treated rat-model of Parkinson's disease. A parkinsonian state was induced with reserpine (3 mg/kg s.c.). Eighteen hours later, the rats were administered L-DOPA plus the peripherally acting AADC inhibitor benserazide (25 mg/kg), with or without the centrally acting AADC inhibitor NSD1015 (100 mg/kg). L-DOPA/benserazide alone reversed reserpine-induced akinesia (4158+/-1125 activity counts/6 h, cf vehicle 1327+/-227). Addition of NSD1015 elicited hyperactive behaviour that was approximately 7-fold higher than L-DOPA/benserazide (35755+/-5226, P<0.001). The hyperactivity induced by L-DOPA and NSD1015 was reduced by the alpha(2C) antagonist rauwolscine (1 mg/kg) and the 5-HT(2C) agonist MK212 (5 mg/kg), but not by the D2 dopamine receptor antagonist remoxipride (3 mg/kg) or the D1 dopamine receptor antagonist SCH23390 (1 mg/kg). These data suggest that L-DOPA, or metabolites produced via routes not involving AADC, might be responsible for the generation of at least some L-DOPA actions in reserpine-treated rats.
We aimed to compare the effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors captopril (containing thiol group) and enalapril (without thiol group) on the development of spontaneous hypertension and to analyze mechanisms of their actions, particularly effects on oxidative stress and NO production. Six-week-old SHR were divided into three groups: control, group receiving captopril (50 mg/kg/day) or enalapril (50 mg/kg/day) for 6 weeks. At the end of experiment, systolic blood pressure (SBP) increased by 41 % in controls. Both captopril and enalapril prevented blood pressure increase, however, SBP in the captopril group (121+/-5 mmHg) was significantly lower than that in the enalapril group (140+/-5 mmHg). Concentration of conjugated dienes in the aorta was significantly lower in the captopril group compared to the enalapril group. Captopril and enalapril increased NO synthase activity in the heart and aorta to the similar level. Neither captopril nor enalapril was, however, able to increase the expression of eNOS. Both ACE inhibitors increased the level of cGMP. However, cGMP level was significantly higher in the aorta of captopril group. We conclude that captopril, beside inhibition of ACE, prevented hypertension by increasing NO synthase activity and by simultaneous decrease of oxidative stress which resulted in increase of cGMP concentration.
We report on 10 cases of bladder wall calcification after mitomycin C instillation. The cystoscopic and microscopic features of these lesions are described. In our view, these lesions can be ascribed to the use of mitomycin C instillation therapy immediately after TUR. Because they are asymptomatic and occasionally present features of tumor recurrence, biopsy is advocated to determine the true nature of these lesions.
This study evaluated the safety and efficacy of recombinant human intestinal trefoil factor (rhITF) administered as topical oral spray for prevention and treatment of chemotherapy-induced oral mucositis (OM).
Ninety-nine patients with colorectal cancer who had moderate to severe OM (WHO grade >or= 2) in the first cycle of chemotherapy were randomly assigned to receive either placebo, rhITF 10 mg/mL (ie, low dose), or rhITF 80 mg/mL (ie, high dose) by oral spray (300 microL, eight times each day) for 14 consecutive days in the second chemotherapy cycle. Patients were assessed on days 1, 3, 5, 7, 10, 12, 14, and 21 (+/- 2 days for the last assessment) for safety and for OM incidence and severity.
Treatment of patients at high risk for developing OM with low- or high-dose rhITF significantly reduced the amount of incidence (75% to 81%; low-dose rhITF P < .001; high-dose rhITF P = .002). Frequencies of WHO grade >or= 2 OM in the placebo, low-dose rhITF, and high-dose rhITF groups were 48.5%, 9.1%, and 12.1%, respectively. Assessment of the area under the curve revealed statistically significant reductions in OM severity in the rhITF-treated groups versus placebo. Only a minority of patients (6.1%) reported treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs), all of which were mild to moderate in intensity and resolved without sequelae. The incidence of TEAEs was not significantly different among treatment groups.
rhITF oral spray formulation was safe and effective when used for the reduction of chemotherapy-associated OM in patients with colorectal cancer. Patients exhibited high compliance in dosing administration. Future clinical study is planned to develop this drug for use in OM management in patients with cancer.
During the past decade, several patient risk factors have been identified as contributing to the development of aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity. Sawyers et al. recently published a method for estimating the probability of aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity on an individual patient basis. The present work represents a refinement of previous publications and has not been tested with the common variations used in aminoglycoside dosing. The purpose of this study was to determine both the qualitative and quantitative value of this method in predicting aminoglycoside induced nephrotoxicity. Eighty-three patients (47 male, 36 female) meeting the inclusion criteria of Sawyers et al. were entered into the study. Patient risk factors (age, sex, initial 1-h postinfusion aminoglycoside serum level, initial calculated creatinine clearance, duration of therapy, and presence of liver disease) were entered into a logistic regression analysis to determine the individual patient's risk of developing nephrotoxicity. These calculated probability scores were then compared with the observed nephrotoxicity in specific groups within our patient sample to see how effectively the model quantitatively performed. Twelve patients (14.5%) developed nephrotoxicity. The model predicted only 5 of the 12 patients developing nephrotoxicity (sensitivity or true positive = 42%). In the nonnephrotoxic group, the model accurately predicted only 38 of 71 patients (specificity or true negative = 54%). These data suggest that the model may accurately quantitate the number of patients likely to develop nephrotoxicity from a specific group but is unable to discriminate specific patients at risk of developing aminoglycoside-induced nephrotoxicity.
Dipeptidyl peptidase (DPP) II (E.C. 3.4.14.2) is an intracellular protease that releases, preferably at acidic pH, N-terminal dipeptides from oligopeptides with Pro or Ala in the penultimate position. The natural substrates and the physiological role of DPPII remain unclear. The aim of the present study was to investigate the involvement of DPPII activity in different forms of cell death (apoptosis, necrosis and autophagy) in human leukocytes. We determined specific DPP activities in leukocytes. Compared to other subpopulations of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), we observed relatively high DPPII specific activity in monocytic cells, opening new perspectives for further investigation of the DPPII functions. A second intriguing finding was that DPPII specific activity increased during necrosis, whereas induction of apoptosis or autophagy did not affect any of the dipeptidyl peptidase activities. Finally, we showed that inhibition of DPPII (>90%) using the in vitro applicable, highly potent (K(i) of 0.082+/-0.048 nM) and selective DPPII inhibitor UAMC00039, did not induce any form of cell death in leukocytes. These data are of importance for a more precise interpretation of the in vitro and in vivo effects of other dipeptidyl peptidase inhibitors.
To investigate the mechanism of vincristine-induced pain in humans undergoing chemotherapy we have established a model of vincristine-induced hyperalgesia in rat. Vincristine (100 micrograms/kg) was administered daily over a period of two weeks. An acute dose-dependent decrease in mechanical nociceptive threshold and an increased response to non-noxious mechanical stimuli ("hyperalgesia") occurred after the second day of administration. Chronic lowered threshold and increased response to stimuli (determined 24 h after each injection) was first noted during the second week of vincristine administration. Responses gradually returned to baseline during the two weeks following discontinuation of treatment. Vincristine also increased sensitivity to heat stimulation. At a dose that produced hyperalgesia (100 micrograms/kg), vincristine did not cause a significant motor deficit. Peripheral administration of a mu-opioid agonist did not reduce vincristine-induced acute hyperalgesia. Hyperalgesia induced by vincristine in the rat provides a good model for the experimental study of painful peripheral neuropathies in human patients receiving vincristine as a chemotherapeutic agent.
The antiarrhythmic profile and cardiohemodynamic effect of a novel Ca(2+) channel blocker, 4-(5H-Dibenzo[a, d]cyclohepten-5-ylidene)-1-[(E)-3-(3-methoxy-2-nitro)phenyl-2-p ropeny l]piperidine hydrochloride (AH-1058), were analyzed using the epinephrine-, digitalis- and two-stage coronary ligation-induced canine ventricular arrhythmia models. Intravenous administration of AH-1058 (100 microg/kg) effectively suppressed each of the ventricular arrhythmias accompanied by weak hypotensive effects. The results contrast well with those of a typical Ca(2+) channel blocker, verapamil, which suppresses only the epinephrine-induced ventricular arrhythmia with severe hypotension. These results indicate that AH-1058 may possess a more selective inhibitory action on Ca(2+) channels in the heart than on those in the vessels. Furthermore, the antiarrhythmic actions of AH-1058 were slower in onset and longer-lasting, than those in our previous studies using other antiarrhythmic drugs, including Na(+) and Ca(2+) channel blockers. The antiarrhythmic effects of AH-1058 did not correlate with its plasma concentrations when administered either intravenously or orally. These results suggest that AH-1058 can become a long-acting Ca(2+) channel blocker with unique antiarrhythmic properties, and that AH-1058 may be used in certain pathological processes, for which selective inhibition of the cardiac Ca(2+) channels is essential.
The therapeutic effects of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, lisinopril, on puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced nephrosis were investigated using unilaterally nephrectomized rats. Lisinopril showed potent dual effects on PAN nephrosis. Lisinopril treatment (50 mg/l in drinking water) from day 5 or day 9 reduced urinary protein excretion and suppressed the development of glomerular sclerosis at 8 weeks after PAN injection (150 mg/kg, i.p.), indicating a therapeutic effect on the nephrosis. Recovery of decreased anionic charge sites on the glomerular basement membrane was involved, at least in part, in the therapeutic action of lisinopril against proteinuria. On the other hand, oliguria and progressive azotemia derived from continuous deterioration of the renal function was induced if the treatment of lisinopril was started on the same day as PAN injection. The renal dysfunction induced by simultaneous administration of lisinopril with PAN could be abolished by combination dosing with sarcosine, an angiotensin II (AII)-receptor agonist. These results indicate that lisinopril treatment attenuates proteinuria by ameliorating the anionic charge barrier on the glomerular basement membrane and that it also protects against the development of chronic renal disease with segmental glomerular sclerosis, although AII depletion during the acute nephrotic stage exacerbates the renal damage in PAN nephrosis of unilaterally nephrectomized rats.
The MINE regimen (mitoguazone, ifosfamide, vinorelbine and etoposide) is a salvage chemotherapy for relapsed and refractory Hodgkin's disease.
We report the cases of a 16-year-old girl and a 17-year-old boy who had Hodgkin's disease and developed painful and massive subcutaneous inflammatory edema after MINE chemotherapy. Morphine was unable to control pain leading to major functional disability of joint movement. One patient had an elevated creatine kinase level, hypoalbuminemia, hypodermic and muscular edema at magnetic resonance imaging and diffuse hemorrhagic hypodermic edema at skin biopsy. The other patient was found to have only hypoalbuminemia. The clinical course was favorable in both cases within a few weeks, but with recurrent episodes of pain and localized areas of fat necrosis five months later in one case.
This side effect of MINE chemotherapy - subcutaneous inflammatory edema, myalgia and skin pain - has not been described previously for the different components of the regimen. Three clinicopathological hypotheses could be put forward: capillary leak syndrome, panniculitis, toxic fasciitis. The causal drug remains undetermined, but the most likely would be vinorelbine because of the chronology of the eruptions during the first and last days of chemotherapy and because of the known vascular toxicity of vinorelbine which could explain a capillary leak syndrome.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs selective for inhibition of COX-2 increase heart failure and elevate blood pressure. The COX-2 gene was floxed and crossed into merCremer mice under the alpha-myosin heavy-chain promoter. Tamoxifen induced selective deletion of COX-2 in cardiomyocytes depressed cardiac output, and resulted in weight loss, diminished exercise tolerance, and enhanced susceptibility to induced arrhythmogenesis. The cardiac dysfunction subsequent to pressure overload recovered progressively in the knockouts coincident with increasing cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and interstitial and perivascular fibrosis. Inhibition of COX-2 in cardiomyocytes may contribute to heart failure in patients receiving nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs specific for inhibition of COX-2.
Estrogen is known to affect hepatobiliary function; however, it is unusual for high serum levels of estrogen to actually result in clinically detectable hyperbilirubinemia. Women affected by cholestatic jaundice during pregnancy share this genetic susceptibility with two Cricetulus hamsters, the Armenian hamster (Cricetulus migratorius) and the Chinese hamster (Cricetulus griseus). Nevertheless, the pathophysiologic process responsible for this estrogen induced icterus may be different in women and hamsters. The present study compares various facets of estrogen-induced icterus in these two closely related hamsters.
Hamsters were injected with various estrogens and the acute and chronic effects on liver were monitored by measuring changes in serum constituents and by observing changes in hepatic structure as seen grossly and by light and electron microscopy.
In previous studies, hepatic tumors developed in most Armenian hamsters after chronic estrogen treatment, but in the present study, the livers of Chinese hamsters were remarkably free of neoplastic change under similar conditions. Also, when compared with the responses in the Armenian hamsters, signs of hepatic destruction and regeneration were less prevalent in estrogen-treated Chinese hamsters, and they were less susceptible to the effects of estrogen (because larger doses of estrogen were required to produce icterus and the bilirubin levels were lower and of shorter duration). In contrast to the findings in Armenian hamsters, bile canaliculi were severely affected in livers of estrogen-treated Chinese hamsters, and hepatic microvesicular steatosis, indicative of an unusual lipodystrophy caused by estrogen, was prominent. An additional lesion peculiar to the Chinese hamster was striking sinusoidal dilatation, which may be analogous to the oral contraceptive-induced sinusoidal dilatation in humans.
Although these two hamster species are genetically similar, the genes activated by the estrogen receptor show remarkable heterogeneity when their respective livers are examined. Comparisons within these species may provide information about the specific gene activation responsible for particular pathologic events.
The purpose of the study was to compare blood loss and cardiovascular side-effects in the course of the vaginal part of laparoscopically-assisted vaginal hysterectomy (LAVH) or single vaginal hysterectomy (VH) [1]. Blood loss was evaluated in relation to local application of two haemostatic agents, e.g. adrenalin as a gold standard versus terlipressin. The investigation was designed as a prospective randomised study. A prospective group of 40 patients selected for LAVH or VH was randomised into two groups, e.g. 20 patients in each group. In both of these groups, the blindly selected haemostatic agent was applied locally immediately before circular colpotomy, the surgeon not being aware which agent was being used. Because of the claimed delayed effect of terlipressin a third group of another 20 patients was randomly selected. For comparison in this group terlipressin was locally already applied before the laparoscopic part of LAVH, e.g. 20-25 minutes before performing circular colpotomy. Thus, this particular group could not be made blind to the surgeon. The study confirmed a significantly superior haemostatic effect of adrenalin. On the other hand after the adrenalin application a higher frequency of hypertensive reactions and mild arrythmias were observed but without any clinical seguelae.
Hexachlorobutadiene-N-acetylcysteine (HCBD-NAC), adriamycin and 2-bromoethanamine hydrobromide are three renal toxins that have shown in vivo a highly selective target cell toxicity--to the proximal tubules, the glomerular epithelial cells and the medullary interstitial cells, respectively. To study some aspects of the mechanisms of this selective toxicity, the three types of target cell were isolated from the kidneys of Wistar rats, and cultures of the cells or tissue fragments were exposed to various concentrations of the three toxins. Using fluorescence microscopy combined with enzyme and histochemical probes, the selective target-cell toxicity of the three compounds already established in vivo was demonstrated also in vitro. Moreover, the in vitro toxic effect of HCBD-NAC was ameliorated by probenecid, as is the case in vivo. Several functional characteristics specific to each of the target cells, such as the selective uptake of a toxin, the presence of lipid droplets and the level of peroxidative enzyme activity, have been identified as probable factors in the occurrence of the target cell necrosis.
Since 1984 25 cases of enalapril induced angioedema have been reported to the Netherlands Center for Monitoring of Adverse Reactions to Drugs. Two patients with enalapril induced angioedema are described. The pathophysiological mechanism of this potentially life-threatening adverse effect is probably not a direct allergic response to the drug itself. Enalapril inhibits angiotensin converting enzyme, which not only metabolizes angiotensin I but also bradykinin and 'substance P'. Bradykinin and 'substance PH may then accumulate and cause angioedema in a direct or indirect way. It is of great importance that instances of oropharyngeal swelling are considered a possible result of an adverse reaction to ACE-inhibitors.
A prospective, randomized and double blind study was undertaken to determine the incidence and a possible dose- or age-dependence of hiccups in children premedicated with rectal midazolam and to investigate the treatment of hiccups by intranasal ethyl chloride spray application. Two hundred ASA physical status 1 and 2 children, weighing 3.0 to 15.0 kg, scheduled for minor surgery, were randomly assigned to be given either 0.5 mg.kg-1 midazolam(n=100) or 1.0 mg. kg-1 midazolam (n=100) administered rectally. If hiccups were observed during a period of 20 min after premedication with midazolam, these children were treated after 3 min of hiccups with two short intranasal applications of ethyl chloride spray. Hiccups occurred in 22% of children in the 0.5 mg.kg-1 group and 26% in the 1.0 mg.kg-1 group (n.s.). The intranasal application with ethyl chloride was successful in 100% in both groups. The mean age levels between children with or without hiccups were 5+/-9 months vs 21+/-19 months (P<0.01) in the 0.5 mg.kg-1 group and 6+/-7 months vs 20+/-14 months (P<0.01) in the 1.0 mg.kg-1 group. Intranasal application of ethyl chloride spray seems to be an effective therapy for midazolam induced hiccups in paediatric anaesthesia. The incidence of these hiccups is highly age significant, but not dose dependent.
Female C3HeB/FeJ mice were fed diethylstilboestrol (DES) at a dietary concentration of 100 ppb beginning at 6 wk of age. Several oestrogen-sensitive target organs (uterus, vagina, bone and mammary gland) were removed and examined histologically when mice died, became moribund, were killed at scheduled intervals or were removed because of presumptive mammary tumours (palpable mass having a 1-cm diameter). Oestrogen-sensitive histological observations for which there was less than a 100% prevalence and/or severity included uterine fibrosis and glandular hyperplasia, vaginal mucoid stroma and keratinization, mammary adenocarcinomas and osseous trabecular proliferation or marrow fibrosis. Mice from this treated population were grouped according to the specific grade of uterine glandular hyperplasia. Each mouse having a given grade of hyperplasia was matched with a mouse that failed to develop glandular hyperplasia and was fed the 100 ppb DES diet for approximately the same time period. This procedure provided three sets of matched pairs (no hyperplasia v. grade 0; no hyperplasia v. grade 1 and no hyperplasia v. grade 2). Pairwise comparisons were then made in these groups for each of the other oestrogen endpoints. Within each set of matched pairs, mice with glandular hyperplasia had a greater prevalence and/or severity of uterine fibrosis and vaginal mucoid stroma and vaginal keratinization than those without hyperplasia and differences within matched sets were greater as the severity of hyperplasia increased. In contrast, the prevalence of osseous trabecular proliferation or marrow fibrosis were equivalent across all grades of glandular hyperplasia and the prevalence of mammary adenocarcinomas was inversely related to the severity of glandular hyperplasia. These data suggest the existence of a subpopulation of inbred mice that is especially sensitive to DES exposure for uterine and vaginal endpoints and highly insensitive to mammary tumour induction.
